

"Dr. Dolittle 2" is pretty much what you would expect out of a family
comedy, only a tad more crude.  We could've done with maybe one less gag
about animal urination.  The plot is a pious, predictable one involving the
preservation of an endangered species of bears.  You know, one of those
storylines that's supposed to deliver a "message" to all the young ones out
there.

Like usual, we have the talking animals voiced by a variety of celebrities.
Steve Zahn lends his voice to one of the lead animal characters.  He's
actually quite funny at times, as a bear/circus performer who's overcome by
stardom, and now that he found out he's part of an endangered species he
has
to learn how to live like a normal bear:  start hibernating, eating fish,
etc.  Lisa Kudrow is the voice of his love interest.  Michael Rapaport is
funny as a racoon who's the henchman of an alleged animal Mafia.

Since the Dolittle's daughter (Raven-Symone) is all grown-up, we have to
expect the obvious romantic subplot in which she hits puberty and engages
in
an active dating life.  Her father, naturally, has doubts about her new
supposedly rebellious boyfriend (Lil' Zane).  So we're dragged through that
unnecessary subplot, which pretty much serves as filler to complete a
running time of 100 minutes.

Lately, Eddie Murphy has been tackling PG projects like this and "Shrek."
A
few years back, he took a try at cleaning his act when doing a voice-over
for Disney's "Mulan."  Then again, in the flop "Holy Man."  I have to
admire
him for showing his more sanitized approach to comedy.  Despite his
inability to use the "f" word, he proves he's still a multi-talented
comedian and not a talented comedian whose act is totally watered-down and
dull because of being forced to clean up his mouth.  Though he pretty much
plays the straight man (I also have to admire him for his discipline, in
remaining subdued and in character rather than viewing the movie as no more
than a showcase for his comedy), he still belts out some witty one-liners
and proves to be just as funny as his animal companions.

I don't really have any strong opinions about this movie.  It's harmless,
but it could've used a major rewrite.  It's funny at times, but could've
been a lot funnier (and less crude).  Don't worry, you won't be seeing any
gags involving birds crapping into people's mouths or a thermometer getting
stuck into a dog's behind.  The film has just enough crudeness to achieve
the PG rating, but we still could've done without it.  Your kids will be
rolling in the aisles, while the adults may want to take a few popcorn and
bathroom breaks.  Not bad (especially for a sequel), but forgettable and
even somewhat dull.  You're better off catching this one on video.

My score:  6 (out of 10)       
<|_=00=_|>

If you like these kind of movies, then its funny.  My wife loves these
kinds
of movie, and enjoyed this.  Its amazing how well they can train bears,
some
of the stunts are incredible.  The voice overs couldn't be done better.  My
opinion of the film is its cute, but not many surprises in this one.  I
laughed at this film, and comedy is the hardest thing to do, but I did not
find this better the average comedy.  Its funny, but not p**s your pants
funny.
<|_=00=_|>

If you love eddie murphy, you will love this movie. Take it for what it is
a
very funny silly comedy. We laughed and laughed at the adult humor and the
pure fun of it. To hell with the critics. If you want a good time for your
money, go and see it. It is very very funny.
<|_=00=_|>

Yes, it's full of jokes based on body fluids (both gaseous and liquid), but
even those can be funny.  Not here.  This movie delivered almost no laughs.

The unfunny script offers no relief from the other irritations in "Dr.
Doolittle 2":  the obnoxious older daughter character and the preponderance
of closeups.  Seeing what appears to be the cast from "The Cosby Show" on
screen so tight that the image cuts off just above the eyebrows and below
the chin is not fun and not entertaining.

The script comes off like a sixth grade class's presentation on ecology.
Disappointing.
<|_=00=_|>
I am pretty surprised at the low scores for this film, as I thought for
a family comedy it achieved its goals quite well. Plus, I usually hate
these sort of schmaltzy films, and so the fact that I liked it is a bit
unusual and says something about it. I think the biggest reason was
that they did NOT attempt to recreate the famous Doolittle novels or
re-create the Rex Harrison film but boldly took the character in other
directions in both Doolittle films. Plus, unlike Murphy's first
Doolittle film, this one had a very nice infusion of humor--and I
THOUGHT, incorrectly, that I would hate all the talking animal nonsense
(just like I hated LOOK WHO'S TALKING). While this little film won't
change your life, it's a decent film that won't insult your
intelligence and will give you a few good laughs.

Also, while I have seen enough of "That's so Raven" because of my kids,
Raven Simone did a lovely job in the film--proving she's not just a
cute flash-in-the-pan child actress.
<|_=00=_|>

SPOILER's!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

I loved the first movie.  It's one of my favourite movies.  So when I heard
about the sequel I couldn't wait for the DVD.  I shoulda waited even
longer.
There is so many things wrong with this movie that I'm amazed anyone would
say this is better than the first.  Only one thing saved this movie from
total destruction.  And that's the character of Charisse.  Who we learn is
beginning to have this thing called Dr. Dolittle's talent.
It saved it from being a total waste of time.  I'll probably go buy it now.
(Thank God for online rentals!!)  Some of the humor I liked of course,
but.....

The bad is really bad.  First..continuity.  Okay.. Dr. Dolittle has ended
and number 2 starts.  Did I miss something here?  They don't explain what
happened to Rodney (the Guinea Pig) or how bout the baby Gator.  Hmmm
perhaps the Gator ate Rodney and they deemed it not to the liking of family
entertainment.  Two... they shift the focus off the fact that Dolittle is a
doctor.  There's a time for an environmental movie and there's not a time
for it.  This wasn't the time.  Imagine ER suddenly became a tv show about
what George Clooney does in his spare time.  Eddie shoulda been doing what
he does best.  Doctoring.  At least have it so the bear needed physical
help, instead of the instructional video on bear mating.

Finally.. at the end of the first movie we are left knowing that it doesn't
take riches to get places in one's life.  Great moral feeling here.  The
bad
guys were rich.  So guess what... The second movie  Dr. Dolittle is now a
rather rich doctor.  Lives in a mansion with a push button gate.

This movie doesn't even try to be a family movie.  It's doesn't try
anything.  It takes the old lets do an environmental movie to save face
trick.

PS: We really needed to rely on the fact that Charisse has bigger (ahem)
than Britney Spears.   Which reminds me.  they cared more about bringing
the
old actors in for continuity.  But I think they forgot this movie is about
animals first and foremost and totally forgot about the first movie.  If
the
first movie didn't exist maybe I'd like this more, but it does and so I
really don't like this movie all that much

4/10
Quality: 5/10
Entertainment: 4/10
Replayable: 5/10
<|_=00=_|>

"Dr. Dolittle 2" is a better film than the first, I really liked the first
and this film improves upon it, Eddie Murphy is restrained in his
performance and it only helps the film. The plot is similar to that of the
first one, a big corporation wants to take over, and Murphy again uses the
animals to win. This is fun for the whole family adults and children will
enjoy it.
<|_=00=_|>
A few months ago, I saw "Doctor Dolittle" (the 1998 remake) for the
first time in years. I liked it when I was twelve years old, so I was
curious to know what I would think after growing up, despite having low
expectations. My expectations were surpassed slightly, but if I had
never seen "Dr. Dolittle 2" before, its predecessor wouldn't have been
enough to make me interested in seeing it, but I did see it about four
years ago, and enjoyed it. I was seventeen, past this movie's targeted
audience, but didn't tend to watch a lot of movies at the time. I just
watched this sequel again, and my once again low expectations were not
surpassed at all.

Dr. John Dolittle has become famous for his ability to communicate with
animals, but lately, he has also been having trouble with his family.
One day, he is brought to the forest to see the Godbeaver, and learns
that the forest is rapidly being cut down. The animals who live in this
forest are counting on Dr. Dolittle to save their habitat, and in order
to do so, the doctor must attempt to get a female Pacific Western bear
in the forest named Ava together with a male so he can save the
species! He gets a male bear of this species named Archie from a
circus, and begins his attempt to get him adjusted to life in the wild
and teach him how to win Ava's heart, both of which are easier said
than done! It doesn't help that Archie has to compete with a Kodiak
bear named Sonny, and logging company owner Joe Potter is determined to
get his way! 

Although I found no huge laughs in "Doctor Dolittle", I did find some
minor ones. However, in this sequel, I found none. I smiled at times,
but VERY rarely and briefly. Like its predecessor, "Dr. Dolittle 2"
contains some juvenile excretion jokes, though it is a TAD cleaner, for
better or worse (since it was aimed at kids, many would probably say
it's for the better). These jokes are usually lame, if not always, a
good example being the scene where Archie has diarrhea. There are also
some embarrassing lines in the script, such as the one Dr. Dolittle
has, humiliating his daughter, Charisse by telling her boyfriend how
she tried to get out of diapers early and made messes around the house.
Fortunately, the movie isn't totally filled with these problems, but
most of the film is basically average and forgettable in my book.

Both Dr. Dolittle films starring Eddie Murphy are rather cheesy, and
would definitely appeal to kids more than anyone else, but this one
more so than the original. If you don't like the 1998 film, then you
probably wouldn't like this one, either, but if you do, then you STILL
might not like this sequel. "Dr. Dolittle 2" may have a slightly better
plot than its predecessor, but overall, it is inferior, not that I'm
saying the original is really that good. If you ask me, 1998's "Doctor
Dolittle" is very close to being strictly for kids, and this sequel is
right there. Remembering the film's targeted audience, I guess it
deserves some credit, but if you're not part of that audience, and are
not a parent of anyone who is, I wouldn't say there's any need to
bother. After watching this, I definitely won't be watching the
straight-to-video "Dr. Dolittle 3".
<|_=00=_|>
The day I first saw this, I was with a friend of mine, and in my
opinion, DR. DOLITTLE 2 is a very hilarious and fresh movie. One of the
quotes that made me laugh the most was, "Bring me a bone!" Another was,
"And flies! Supersize!" Oh, man! Those quotes were really funny!
Another funny part was when Lucky (Norm Macdonald) made John (Eddie
Murphy) beg when he came back to the house to get his keys when he
forgot them. There were lots of other parts that made me laugh, too. In
conclusion, if you liked DOCTOR DOLITTLE or are a fan of Eddie Murphy,
I highly recommend this film! You're in for a lot of laughs, or your
money back.
<|_=00=_|>

Long ago, I enjoyed the original "Dr. Dolittle," with Rex Harrison.  Eddie
Murphy made a remake some years ago, and his version wasn't so bad. 
Although his version was set in more modern times.  For some reason, I can't
see Dr. Dolittle outside of the Victorian Era.  Yet, Eddie's new take on the
man who can talk to animals spawned a sequel.  I found Part 2 a bit better
than Part 1.  The funniest lines come from the animals.  But still, this
movie wasn't perfect.  I think maybe the producers of the movie tried a
little too hard, giving it an environmental theme.  Eddie Murphy has been an
enjoyable comic, but I think he deserved better than this.  He doesn't need
to be upstaged by flatulent and neurotic animals.
