

I saw Chocolat again last night. I had forgotten how lovely a movie it is!
People need stories like this these days.

Some other viewers have complained about the predictability of the plot. I
don't think it's any more predictable than an average Hollywood film; I
find
most action films much more predictable and shallow.

The most beautiful thing about the movie (as about Hallström movies
generally) is the wise, warm-hearted story about things that matter: love,
sincerity, tolerance, standing up for the things you believe are righteous
and good, and enjoying the simple pleasures in life, like a good dinner
with
friends, or like chocolate :) And Hallström tells his stories so
delicately,
in his very own style, with fine nuances and a twinkle of humour in his
eye.
Binoche, Dench, Depp, Molina, Thivisol etc. are fantastic.

I'm so glad I saw the movie. It always makes me think and feel a
lot.
<|_=00=_|>

Chocolat

****  out of  ****

Chocolat gives new meaning to one of my favorite film phrases… eye
candy.
As the title would suggest it is a very sweet film, and not only for the
gobs and gobs of luscious, mouthwatering, little morsels.  There are parts
of the film that look like they could belong to a particularly delectable
episode of `Martha Stewart Living', but if you can get past the pangs of
hunger it will certainly inflict, you will find there is a lot more to this
seemingly charming and simple story.

The film plays in the style of all whimsical children's fairy tales,
while at the same time blending in a series of very serious adult themes.
It chronicles the exploits of single mother Vianne Rocher, played as usual
to a wonderful effect by Juliette Binoche, and her sugary but confused
6-year-old daughter Anouk (Victoire Thivisol), who blow in on a forceful
winter wind to the small rural French town of Lansquenet-sous-Tannes.
There
they open a small chocolate shop.  Now this seems innocent enough but the
people of the town have different views.  For one the shop has been opened
at the very unwelcomed time of Lent (a religious fast), during which new
temptations certainly aren't invited.  Secondly the town's new residents
refuse to attend the Sunday morning worship service.  Vianne soon finds
herself to be the center of the town gossip and distaste, led by the mayor
(Alfred Molina).  The battle heats up between allegedly pagan Vianne, and
the highly conservative, stuffed-shirt townspeople.  At start it seems the
Rochers are losing, but the fight soon turns as the townsfolk begin to
discover the mouth-melting effects of Vianne's wonderful taste-teasing
treats.

Misadventure after misadventure occur as the couple come in contact with
a wide array of colorful characters (just when you think he must be an
extra
in comes Johnny Depp), solving their problems while at the same time
selling
their chocolates.  The moral is left fairly open, and can be interpreted in
many ways.  My personal views are these:  That to be good and righteous,
doesn't mean you can't be different, you should accept everyone, not
necessarily for who they are, but for what they are, human beings.
Everyone
deserves a proper chance.  In the end all characters  realize the error of
their ways and live together happily and harmoniously.

Chocolat has opened to mixed reviews.  Some critics find it to be overly
simple, but I think that it is the movie's simplicity that drives it to
become so charmingly enthralling.  Granted at times it does become at bit
silly, but it all ends to a good warm effect.  Apparently the Academy of
Motion Picture Arts and Sciences share my views as the film was nominated
for five academy awards, Best Picture, Best Actress (Binoche), Best
Supporting Actress (Judi Dench), Best Adapted Screenplay, and Best Original
Score.

Chocolat is a mouthwatering piece of movie magic.  Definitely worth a
look!  It has it's flaws but they are easily covered up by it's great
performances (particularly by Binoche), beautiful scenery, giddy musical
score, and delightful story.  Oh,… and those wonderful chocolates.


<|_=00=_|>

I had heard all the rave reviews, saw the number of Oscar nominations this
flick received but still wasn't convinced it was a movie I'd like.  I want
to kick myself now for waiting this long to see it!  Yes, I forsook the
big
screen for the video but I wasn't disappointed a bit.

Chocolat is a wonderful movie.  It deals with real issues that people
face.
The characters are believable because they have flaws.  They've got inward
struggles which makes this film even better.  It's a story of the human
condition and how even deep prejudices can be overcome by the simple act
of
kindness and the willingness to strive for individuality.

I have to admit the only reason I wanted to watch this movie at first was
because of Johnny Depp.  I have to say I loved his performance as Roux.  I
wished the writers would've done more with his character but what we did
get
to feast on was incredible.  Juliette Binoche was also incredible as
Vianne
and the chemistry between all the actors was great.

I would recommend Chocolat.  If you haven't seen it, what are you waiting
for?  It's great to see there are still film makers out there that have a
sense of humanity.  Chocolat is all of that and more.

Chocolat was indeed Mmmm, Mmmm, good!!
<|_=00=_|>

	A film to awaken the senses and stimulate the sweet tooth, `Chocolat,'
directed by Lasse Hallstrom and starring Juliette Binoche. is both a
sensuous and sensational delight.  In the mid ‘50s, as if borne on the winds
of fate, a somewhat mysterious woman arrives in a small town in France, with
a young daughter, Anouk (Victoire Thivisol) in tow and a special talent that
soon has the townsfolk in quite a stir.  Binoche is Vianne Rocher, a woman
who uses her exotic recipe for chocolate to unlock the repressed
sensibilities of the predominately Catholic citizenry, heretofore kept under
the rigid and righteous thumb of the Mayor, Comte de Reynaud (Alfred
Molina), with no respite or help, even from the town's young and
inexperienced priest, Pere Henri (Hugh O'Conor).  And because Vianne has the
audacity to open her chocolate shop during Lent, when of course her
sumptuous treats are forbidden, she quickly runs afoul of the Mayor and a
battle of wills between the two ensues.  Her chocolates are irresistible,
but the Mayor has tradition and religion on his side, and it puts the
free-spirited Vianne-- who has something of the gypsy in her-- to the
test.
	As a director, Hallstrom has just the right touch that brings out the best
this story has to offer, which is to say, quite a bit.  It's an affecting
and funny movie that will touch you emotionally as it involves you with the
characters; Hallstrom knows what buttons to push and when, and it works
splendidly.  There's a touch of mystery surrounding Vianne that underscores
the sensitivity of the story, and Hallstrom never allows it to become
maudlin, which successfully maintains the integrity of the drama.  And there
are moments throughout the film that evoke an almost dream-like sense of
pacification that draw you in as you indulge in the mouth watering visual
pleasures of the chocolate.  Be forewarned, though, it's a tough one for
diabetics to watch.
	What Hallstrom also has going for him in this one is an absolutely
exquisite cast, many of whom give Oscar worthy, memorable performances,
beginning with the superb Juliette Binoche.  There's an earthy, enigmatic
and classic sense of beauty about her that make her presence on screen
captivating; she's simply a joy to behold.  Judi Dench (Amande), meanwhile,
does a terrific character turn as a mother whose daughter, Caroline
(Carrie-Anne Moss), deems her an embarrassment and a bad influence on her
son, Luc (Aurelien Parent-Koening), and Lena Olin (Josephine) is outstanding
as well, as an unhappy woman who finds hope in Vianne's undaunted spirit. 
Three extraordinary performances from gifted actresses that should be
recognized with Oscar nominations.  And Molina, too, as the narrow minded
Comte, gives possibly the best performance of his career, while Johnny Depp
(Roux) lends some charm as the leader of a roving community of river people.
 
	Rounding out the supporting cast are John Wood (Guillaume), Peter Stormare
(Serge) and Leslie Caron (Madame Audel).  Possibly the `sweetest' film of
the year, as well as one of the best, `Chocolat' is a visual and emotional
triumph that will warm your heart and make your taste buds salivate, with a
story and characters as rich and satisfying as the candy they embrace.  It's
a film with a human touch whose images and sensitivity will remain with you
long after the screen has gone dark; an uplifting, entertaining movie that
proves that the answers to the mysteries of life just may be found in that
box of chocolates, after all.  I rate this one 10/10.
	
	      
	       
<|_=00=_|>
I have only seen this movie for the first time today. I have to admit
that I hesitated somewhat as I did not believe I would like it because
it was described to me as a 'chick flick', a genre I do not subscribe
to even though I am a girl. How wrong was that description. I loved the
film, the story, the scenery. Such genuine & diverse characters. The
actors chosen were perfect for their roles, I cannot imagine anyone
else playing the parts. The DVD I had was borrowed, but I intend to buy
a copy for myself as it would fit into my small library of movies. I
have to see it again & this time I will share the experience with my
partner as I know he will appreciate the story. Lida
<|_=00=_|>
Beautiful movie from master-director Lasse Hallström (The Cider House
Rules, The Shipping News, What's Eating Gilbert Grape) with wonderful
performances by Juliette Binoche, Judi Dench, and Hallström's wife Lena
Olin. "Chocolat" is a very beautiful and touching movie about a single
mother with a daughter who decides to open a "chocolaterie" in a very
conservative village during Lent. What follows almost looks like a
fairytale: the characters, the story, the music, the whole idea of an
old conservative French village… 

I liked the movie a lot. It has everything: a laugh, a cry, a wonderful
story and some amazing acting performances. Juliette Binoche is made to
play this kind of caring and sensitive women. Although Johnny Depp had
a very small part in this movie, he was excellent as always. I
personally think that Judi Dench gave one of her best performances in
"Chocolat", truly great acting! Maybe not Hallström's best; I liked
"What's Eating Gilbert Grape" and "The Cider House Rules" more; but
certainly worth watching.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>

 We all have our vices.  Vices make us complete human beings.  We can
surpress them and deny them, but we can't quite run away from them.  Does it
not strike you as a little humorous when someone looks at a menu, knows
exactly what they want, but then decides not to get it for fear they will
not only offend their God, but offend their own nature?  Lasse Hollstrom's
latest film, Chocolat, knows all about that person.

Juliette Binoche stars as Vianne Rosher, a chocolate shop owner who not only
gets people to talk about their forbidden fruits, but also has the ability
to make people happily indulge in them.  She, along with her daughter, Anouk
(Victoire Thivisol), moves into a quiet French village during Lent and opens
her chocolate shop. The townspeople look in the window, admire the
confections for a moment, then walk on by.

 One diabetic woman, Amande (Judi Dench), decides to stay for a little
while.  Vianne puts a colorful ceramic plate on the table and spins it
around.  She asks what Amande sees in the image. Amande tells her and Vianne
presumes to know exactly what kind of confection Amande would like the best.
We could only dream of such customer service this time of year.

Amande's young grandson, Luc, an aspiring artist, also can't seem to stay
away from the chocolate store, in spite of the wishes of his churchgoing
mother (Carrie-Anne Moss).  Actually, the whole town goes to the same church
and it doesn't take long before the Mayor (Alfred Molena) has his say
against the shop, since many of the chocolates have been carved into the
shapes of naked women and have names such as Nipples of Venus.  The
chocolates also seem to be changing people's behavior.  A sexless, joyless
married couple all of a sudden can't keep their Butterfingers off each
other.

The non-churchgoing Vianne eventually becomes the center of the town's
controversy, but she soon has company after the arrival of the river rats, a
group of Irish merchants who travel by boat to pawn off whatever they can,
much to the dismay of the townspeople.  Here, Vianne meets Roux (Johnny
Depp), and they become fast friends and, well, you know the rest.

The story of Chocolat could be described in one sentence-Footloose, only
instead of dancing, it's chocolates.  However, in this film we have some
magic realism to deal with.  Unfortunately, the film does not quite develop
its own `magical' ideas.  It gets bogged down by the usual story elements an
d sub-plots we often see with this kind of story.  We get the battered wife
who finds solace in Vianne's shop and we get the burning of a
particular place (here, a boat) to further drive home the point that
outsiders will not be tolerated.  I would have liked a little more `magic.'

On the other hand, we do get some magic in the form of the performances.
Juliette Binoche actually smiles and acts charming, as opposed to the
sorrowful and pensive roles in which we usually see her.  What a relief to
finally see her carrying a picture with warmth, confidence and wit, as well
as beauty.  The guitar-twanging Johnny Depp (reuniting with his Gilbert
Grape director), with a ponytail and an Irish accent, compliments her with a
rugged look and easygoing charm that makes his fly-by-the-seat-of-his-pants
character a perfect soulmate for Binoche.

I recommend stopping by the candy counter or sneaking in some Fannie May
confections before the movie starts.  This film does for chocolate what Big
Night did for Italian food. In spite of its flaws, Chocolat makes for a far
more rewarding and satisfying film experience than Hollstrom's last
feel-gooder, the over-rated Cider House Rules.  In the end, something about
this film won me over.  It could have been the irrisistable theme of great
food being as close to Godliness as one could get.  It could have been the
sights of chocolates being created and turned into glorious, statuesque
works of art.  It could have been the enjoyable cast, each member dealing
with their hidden anguish and repression.  Or it could have been all of the
above, combined with the captivating and alluring grace of Juliette Binoche.

We all have our vices.

<|_=00=_|>
First I borrowed this movie from videostore And loved it so much that
soon I bought the DVD so I could watch it again. That's how much i love
it. I truly regret not watching it, while it was in the cinemas, it
would have been great to see it on the big screen. This movie has
everything: humanity, love, magic (and gorgeous cinematography),
comedy, sadness, great acting. There is depth and strength to the
characters in the movie. The costumes and special effects are great
too. I loved the acting and how all these story lines were woven into a
beautiful, delightful fable. This movie has got the heart. The music is
beautiful too, it is so enchanting. It is so wonderful and bittersweet,
like chocolate for the soul :) I strongly recommend it
<|_=00=_|>
This movie starts being a comedy, and finishes with drama and romance
genre. And it's one of the greatest movies I already saw, with such a
good atmosphere and also one of the most appetizing scenes ever.(It's
really hard watching this movie while you are on a diet!) (Juliette
Binoche is terrific as Vianne Rocher and Johnny Depp as Roux is so
sexy!)

Viane Rocher is the owner of a chocolaterie in a small Town of France;
She and her daughter Anouk are always traveling to different places to
live,following the Maya's tradition, since Viane herself is daughter of
a Mayan woman.In the small town, Viane makes new friends, and tries to
help the people there with her cacao recipes and her talent to guess
the deep desires and the favorite chocolates of everybody who talks to
her. Her problems start to complicate when the Comte De Reynaud tries
to boycott her store, and a sexy foreigner named Roux come to the small
town with his group,making Vianne attracted to him and for the first
time not guessing what is his favorite chocolate and what is behind the
mysterious guy.
<|_=00=_|>
What a pure delight Chocolat is. Gentle, Beautiful and heart warming.
That could describe many films but unlike others it displays no clichés
or tired ideas. It is refreshing and pure. The cast is superb, Binoche
is a wonder who glides effortlessly through the part of the mysterious
and beautiful Vianne. Molina is excellent as the repressed yet lustful
Comte Renauld. Depp is as eccentric and wonderful as always.In fact the
whole cast is fantastic. The story has all the elements of a wonderful
fairy tale yet the perfect direction and the delightfully authentic
french setting makes it serious movie. You really care about the
characters and the many inter-twinned story lines keep you watching
with joy.It also has a wonderful score and excellent costumes and sets,
in fact in writing this review I cannot think of any criticism I could
make. It is that rare thing : a truly perfect movie.
