

If one were to place too great an emphasis on many of the smug and
self-serving views expressed by various contributors here, it may well
appear somewhat of an enigma that HART'S WAR still rates 6.3 overall.
Obviously many who have voted have not posted a review. Equally obviously,
to offset its many detractors...a significant number of people must have
liked it. I'm one of them! 

Let us agree immediately, anyone looking for a sequel to THE GUNS OF
NAVARONE can expect to be disappointed. A screen adaptation of John
Katzenbach's excellent novel, this late WW2 flick tackles racism, POW life
and honor...and not necessarily in that order. A re-hash of the plot is
unnecessary as every second reviewer has covered this aspect. It is a film
to LISTEN to and to take from it what you are able. Negative comments such
that the events portrayed are "unlikely," that Bruce Willis isn't the
"star," that "nothing happens except lots of people keep talking," are a sad
indictment of viewers with a limited attention span. A lot of what is
uttered during the "court-room" sequences has great relevance in all facets
of life - IF you care to listen. Farrell is excellent as is Willis in what
admittedly IS a far smaller role. Willis' presence however is felt
throughout the movie in much the same way as was Jack Nicholson's in A FEW
GOOD MEN. (Another military court room flick)

Yes its longish and it would be fair to say it is extremely dark for the
greater part of the film. It is ultimately though a worthwhile addition to
other POW films. You could do a lot worse.
<|_=00=_|>

Having grown tired of the typical action packed glorified war films (Pearl
Harbor for example), I sought out more of a human interest story.  I
wanted
something that delved past the cliché romances, battle wounds, and graphic
violence we have become accustomed to.  To me, Hart's War exemplified
exactly what others have failed to do.  It was an inside glimpse into the
lives of a WW2 POW camp, but more so.  It dealt with the struggle for
power,
respect, and honor in an unlikely situation.  The stellar performances by
Bruce Willis and Marcel Lures stole the show away from the title
character,
Lt. Hart (played well by Colin Farrel).  There are times when you don't
know
who the token hero or villain is, just by the way that each commands their
region.  If you missed this movie in theaters (as I am guilty of), easiest
way is to catch it is on pay per view - it's still going to be running for
a
while. Enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>

I'm so glad I didn't miss this one - ordered it on pay-per-view the other
day.  Not only does Bruce Willis give the performance of a lifetime, but I
was able to be introduced to the talented Marcel Iures.  He was phenomenal
as the sometimes you like him, sometimes you hate him as the German
Colonel
of the POW camp.  Both performances are intense and emotional.  And it was
interesting to see a movie delve into the issues of honor and respect
within
war times, racism, and the courtroom drama story line.

<|_=00=_|>

If you're looking for action in your war film skip this one. But if you
don't mind an interesting drama about prejudice among Americans in a German
POW camp, which although slow at times, leads to an interesting pay-off
with
a twist that (kinda) makes the whole thing worth it, then check it out. I
especially enjoyed the subdued though "grizzled" looking Bruce Willis as
Colonel McNamara and Marcel Iures as the camps' German commander.

<|_=00=_|>
"When the most likable character in your film is an evil nazi, you've
got problems," one reviewer noted of this film. He was wrong.

Honestly some critics have been doing his for so long and so dourly
that they find it impossible to appreciate a story for what it is.
Hart's War is an engaging story about the battle for a man's soul, and
is a story told exceptionally well.

Tommy Hart, played believably by Colin Farrell is forced to defend a
black man, Lincoln Scott in a court martial after he is accused of
killing Vic Bedford (another effortlessly emotive performance from
Terrence Howard). Tommy finds himself caught in a chess game between
Col McNamara (Bruce Willis) and Werner Visser (a remarkable performance
from Marcel Lures) which turns into a battle for Hart's decency and in
the end his life.

Some scenes fall flat, but it's not hard to look past them and see the
bigger picture. As well as being a story about becoming, it is also a
story of betrayal, friendship and respect, the type of movie that would
have starred John Wayne or Charles Bronson in the McNamara role back in
the day.

Shunned by critics and audiences upon its original release, but
deserves reappraisal and a second look now.
<|_=00=_|>

For what it's worth, I appreciate the film medium interpretation of a
book's
story, and not try to compare or expect how detail or more poignant the
book's descriptions were. Viewing a film, audio and visually taking in the
collaborative efforts of a film production is not the same as someone
reading a novel. Reading also depends on the environment that you're in:
while traveling with people around you, or being quietly by yourself.
Reading is very much one person's own interpretation - as one reads, one
can
conjure up the possible sight and sound in one's mind and imagination.
While
in a cinema viewing a movie, we are exercising our senses - visual and
audio
- of what's presented on the screen. The experiences are uniquely
different.

In HART"S WAR, Colin Farrell who portrayed Lt. Hart is very much front and
centered, while Bruce Willis' role of Col. McNamara, his (humane)
attributes
are more subtle and from within - his aching insides from the years of war
and isolation. There is the struggle/conflict of the war veteran vs. the
clean cut affluent background of young Hart. We see Willis' McNamara's
treatment with Farrell's Hart more evidently, but for McNamara himself,
say
the quiet scene where he visited the flyer in isolation waiting for
trial -
more imminent of death, we simply see him giving Lt. Scott a book; when
Scott opens it, it's the New Testament. It is later while Hart's talking
with Scott outside the trial room just before the closing arguments, that
we
learned the book was Scott's own, with a picture of him and wife and child
kept within the Bible's pages. So off camera, we may gathered that
McNamara
must have silently gone through Scott's belongings and took that New
Testament to Scott, with the understanding that Scott may find solace in
seeing the family picture again and as most soldiers would, felt duty
above
all else.or would he? And Hart, representing Scott as his defending
lawyer,
would he let him? Such are the subtle layers to the storyline.

Director Gregory Hoblit's previous films were no simple Hollywood plots.
They all require some mind stimulating thinking: 1996's "Primal Fear," the
crime and lawyers film with Richard Gere, Laura Linney, and the
fascinating
debut 'hell' of a performance from Edward Norton; 1998's "Fallen", one
devil
of an intriguing storyline where Denzel Washington, along with Embeth
Davidtz, tackling the many faces (Elias Koteas included) of the elusive
Lucifer (music was by Tan Dun of "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon"; 2000's
"Frequency" was the mind-twisting time-bending drama of son and father
team,
Jim Caviezel and Dennis Quaid. Here in HART'S WAR again, there are no
simple
answers to the questions raised: moral dilemma, military honors, ravage
and
trying times of war and being POWs - no escape of endurance tests. It's a
well produced film with fine cinematography of stark snowy scenes from
Alar
Kivilo (who also did "Frequency" with director Hoblit); score to this war
film was complemented (unexpectedly) by British composer Rachel Portman;
and
performances by a talented cast. I did see "Stalag 17" and "The Great
Escape" again, but my sense is "Hart's War" stands on its own, it's not
really a humor filled "17" not an action packed "Escape" movie, it's more
of
a humane story at its core, offering an aspect of life's outlook, military
or not.

<|_=00=_|>

This film is absorbing because you are kept guessing until the very end. 
Hart, the lead character, isn't exactly an angel; and the Nazi Kommandant
conjures up a measure of sympathy, with other motives of characters such as
Col. MacNamara (Willis) truly unclear until the end.  

Thus, it's enough to keep you watching, although I wish I'd read the book
first.  Also, it's not an "action" film in the Schwarzenegger sense, but it
is fast-paced and holds your attention, as the plot keeps twisting and
turning.  

Contrary to what others thought, I found HART'S WAR to be reasonably
historically accurate.  It's frequently pointed out that by late 1944 /
early 1945, the Germans were reeling, desperate and disorganized, while
HART'S WAR portrays them firmly in control.  This is a fair criticism, but I
would respond as follows:

1.  HART'S WAR coincides with the Ardennes offensive (Battle of the Bulge),
which was the last major German offensive of the war and which came
perilously close to succeeding.  Puffed up from that near-victory, not
knowing (as we know today) that this was the last gasp of a dying reich and
not a turning point towards victory, and now holding hundreds if not
thousands of Allied POW's to boot, it's no surprise that the Germans are
still confident of victory.

2.  Also, HART'S WAR takes place in a short period of time (I would guess
2-3 weeks between Hart's capture and the end of the trial, which itself is
only a week).  The story does not drag into the spring of '45, at which
point the Germans knew they were losing.

3.  The Nazi Kommandant epitomizes this German confidence, yet because he
was educated in the US, he has at least a measure of sympathy for his
American prisoners and treats them with an equal measure of military
courtesy, with a few exceptions.  Other Kommandants during this time may not
have been as "humane," but, because of his background, Visser's lack of
brutality (again, with exceptions) is understandable.

Bruce Willis is clearly a supporting actor in this film, but I felt he had a
strong and important role and was, arguably, the CENTRAL character while
Colin Farrell is the LEADING character.  However, Willis gets top billing
for one simple reason -- TO SELL TICKETS.  It worked for me, at
least.
<|_=00=_|>

I don't know what y'all are complaining about: this is a good movie! It
has
fallen pray to mismarketing like so many good films before. Farrell is
good
(he'll be BIG soon, mark my words), Marcel Iures fills the screen with
his
presence and performance. Willis however, I must admit, play Willis. But
hey; I like him for what he is.

The plot is well thought out, intelligently blending the lines between
the
war- and the courtroom genre. Don't tell me you anticipated every twist
in
the plot.

For all it's worth; the movie was very different in a great way from all
war
movies in last couple of years. Different in quite a smart way,
too.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>

This film has its moments.  But, to buy into it, you have to suspend any
knowledge about WW2, Nazi POW stockades or likely situations.  The action
focuses on Willis as the brooding leading officer in a POW camp, Colin
Farrell is the law student pressed into becoming a defender for a Black
Pilot wrongly accused of murder.  What transpires is a Machiavellian game
with the Commandant, well played by Rumanian Actor, Marcel Iures, with plots
and subplots, motifs and counterplots.  But, it really does not go anywhere.
 There are some nice twists at the end but the ending before the final
credits I found to be cheesy and unsatisfying (I've always found it
irritating to switch to an ending narrative when there was none to introduce
the story).  Viewers who like Willis will not be disappointed and Colin
Farrell is sure to delight the ladies with his Irish good looks, dark
"little boy" eyes and expressions.  Cole Hauser, back from getting eaten by
an alien in Pitch Black, makes a wonderful sleazy villain but the rest of
the cast seems to walk through their parts.  Also, Look for Joe Spano from
NYPD in a bit part in the opening, but don't expect a lot from the rest of
the show.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a very solid war film, that's quite engaging, with a good story
and fantastic performances!. All the characters are great, and
extremely likable, plus Bruce Willis is simply amazing in this!. The
ending is very powerful, and quite sad, and it had a pretty cool
unexpected plot twist as well, plus Colin Farrell surprised me here
once again by giving another top notch performance!. The court scenes
are actually pretty interesting, and this one works more on story then
War action, plus it's very well made and written as well. Don't expect
Bruce to be the main star in this film,granted he does have a fair
amount of screen time, but Colin Farrell is definitely the star in this
movie, plus Terrence Howard is especially good in his role as Scott!. I
did find it a little strange that the Nazi's were so nice to the
soldiers, and it did drag in certain spots, but it was never boring,
and quite engaging most of the way, plus it will keep you guessing
throughout. This is a very solid war film, that's quite engaging, with
a good story and fantastic performances, I highly recommend this one!.
The Direction is great!. Gregory Hoblit does a great! job here, with
very good camera work, solid angles and keeping the film at an engaging
pace for the most part. The Acting is top notch!. Bruce Willis is
amazing as always and is amazing here, he is intense, very likable a
very honorable man, and while he is not the star in this film, he still
put on a very powerful performance, and the scenes involving him and
Farrell were especially good! (Willis Rules!!!!!!!). Colin Farrell is
in top form here, he is very emotional, focused, had some standout
scenes with Willis, had a great character, and this was his film, he is
seriously beginning to grow on me!. Terrence Howard is very impressive
here as Scott, he was really likable, and had some very good lines, I
liked him a lot. Cole Hauser is very good as the asshole Bedford and
did his job very well. Marcel Iures is good as the main villain. Rest
of the cast do fine. Overall I highly recommend this one!. ***1/2 out
of 5
