
A man suddenly finds himself able to read women's minds and actually
know what women want from men.Now,what guy doesn't want to be in that
position? This was a terrific idea for a film and it was executed to
perfection.Who better than Mel Gibson to represent us in this
situation? He's the one man women probably wish understood them.At any
rate,Gibson really turns on the Gibson charm here and there's not a
better film in which to do that.Helen Hunt makes a great leading lady
and is her usual charming self.Also,from the supporting cast,it's
always great to see Alan Alda,one of the most underrated actors of our
time.This film starts with a very unique,funny idea,and it does not
disappoint in terms of how good it can be executed.Well casted,well
directed and very funny film.
<|_=00=_|>

This is pretty much the typical romantic comedy, but with an interesting
twist; the main character has the ability to hear womens thoughts. The
important thing was that for it to work, the character would be placed in a
lot of interesting comical situations, where you could laugh at it, without
it being too mocking of womens thoughts, or too far-out to enjoy. It
succeeds pretty well, however the way the character gains and loses the
ability were handled somewhat poorly. The humor is good, and there is plenty
of it, throughout the entire runtime.
The characters were believable, and the main character eventually grew to be
likable. The plot was good, and the acting likewise. The only thing that
brings the movie down, is the poor execution of the gain/loss of the ability
to hear womens thoughts, and the sugar-sweet ending, that was too
predictable and plain boring, as anyone who's seen one of the
hundreds(possibly thousands) of romantic comedies out there. No actual new
stuff brought to the table, apart from the interesting and original concept
of a man being able to hear what women are thinking. OK for a romantic
comedy. 7/10
<|_=00=_|>

Mel Gibson is known as sort of a macho action hero, and stereotyped into his
Mad Max/Martin Riggs persona.  But I've noticed (except for "Braveheart" and
"The Patriot") he injects comic relief into almost anything he does.  So
doing a straight comedy doesn't seem like much of a stretch, and as you
watch in a movie like this Gibson's timing and delivery is impeccable.  On
and off the camera, he has an incredible sense of humor, and he probably
improvised some featured gags.

The premise is very original and interesting.  A guy who can hear a woman's
every thought?  That's pretty much every man's fantasy.  And the premise is
used wisely.  I laughed the whole way through!  It's hilarious to watch
Gibson emasculating himself by the minute, and the joke never runs dry. 

I was laughing so much that I was able to tolerate the film's corny ending. 
I mean, when is a romantic comedy going to come along that doesn't feature a
formulaic ending that is supposed to make people leave the theater and go
"Awwww"?

The supporting cast is full of big stars.  Bette Midler has an amusing cameo
as a chain-smoking shrink.  I only wish she could've had some additional
scenes.  

"What Women Want" is an original, feel-good comedy that will have you on the
floor!  This not a "chick flick."  If you want to laugh--this is the movie
to see!  No questions asked!

My score:  8 (out of 10)   
<|_=00=_|>

The film What Women Want is about a man, Nick Marshall (Mel Gibson),
who has been characterized as a 'man's man,' a male who is the type of
guy that other men look up to. Darcy Maguire (Helen Hunt) also stars
and sends Marshall into a male power trip when she is offered a job
position that he was trying so hard to get. Marshall is known for his
ability to seduce women and fornicate with them. Most of the women in
his life think that he is a self centered jerk, because of the way he
objectifies them. Even his fifteen year old daughter feels as if they
are not related because of his poor communication skills with women.
But an unexpected twist took place one day while blow drying mousse in
his hair. While he was going about his business, Marshall tripped, and
fell into his bathtub full of water, being electrocuted severely. Oddly
enough, what would kill a normal human being did not harm Nick in any
way, rather than it mysteriously gave him the power to hear what women
are thinking. So, equipped with his new skill, he goes about his day,
not knowing he has this amazing ability. Throughout his random
encounters with women, particularly at work, he comes to realize that
all the women are not very fond of him.

In all movies, there is always a message of some sort that the director
is trying to express. In this particular film, I believe there is more
than one message. One of the dilemmas the movie expressed was women do
not know what they want. Throughout the movie, women were constantly
complaining about men, or their hair, or their outfit. The truth is
that women do not know what they do want; only what they don't want.
Another message it displayed is a world renown problem: the concept
that men do not have a clue about women. They communicate differently
as men, and want different things as well. Is reading women's minds the
only way for men to understand? I sure hope not.

The technique of this movie is nothing to throw a fit over. The average
cinematography isn't dazzling, but it is good enough to keep the viewer
interested. The sound track was well thought out, with many famous
songs helping out in several scenes and strongly assisting in setting
the mood. A few things stand out in the movie that question reality.
For example, Gibson falls into a full bathtub, gets electrocuted by
thousands of volts, and only wakes up with a headache. At a different
point in the movie he gets shocked again, but not by a household
utensil. The second time it's by lightning, and again, just a headache.
No singed eyebrows or fried shoelaces were to be found.

What Women Want is an entertaining movie at the least. Mel Gibson, as
always, does an excellent job portraying his character, as well as
Helen Hunt. The cast did a well-rounded job, and no one was out of
place. I enjoyed the movie thoroughly and enjoyed the humor. The film
was filled with talented acting, laughs, and lighthearted suspense. It
would be a good recommendation for anyone who is bored and desires a
humorous, fun movie. The idea of a man being able to read women's minds
is clever and amusing. Should this ever happen, would it be classified
as a gift, or a nightmare?

<|_=00=_|>

	Here is a movie that, to be sure, is part fantasy, part wacky comedy; but
to call `What Women Want,' directed by Nancy Meyers, `just' a comedy would
be not only inaccurate, but would be doing an injustice to the film as well.
 Because-- while there are plenty of laughs to be had (especially early
on)-- in the end, there is a lot more bite and substance to it than first
meets the eye.  Enough to definitely raise it far above the `fluff' piece
many will perceive it to be, if only due to some shallow reviews and the
theatrical trailer currently being shown, which gives only the vaguest
notion of what this movie is really all about.  In fact, once most of the
`cute' stuff is out of the way (about a third of the way through), the film
really starts to get good,with a message about decency that is worthwhile,
if only it can penetrate the formidable barrier of the viewer with an
attention span barely able to accommodate an episode of `Friends.'  Beyond
the humor, there is a story here about a man named Nick Marshall (Mel
Gibson) who literally receives the shock of his life, and afterwards must
deal with who he is by coming to terms with his past, realizing the truth
about himself in the present, and understanding what his future will be if
he does not change his ways .  It's something of a contemporary take on `A
Christmas Carol,' with Nick an egotistical, self-centered, witty (In his own
eyes) Scrooge; a veritable legend in his own mind, which is not-- as he
comes to find out-- necessarily the way he is perceived by many of those
around him, especially the women in his professional life.
	The screenplay, written by Cathy Yuspa and Josh Goldsmith, is extremely
insightful and brought to the screen with equal acuity by director Meyers,
who goes to great lengths at the beginning of the film to explain Nick's
exaggerated chauvinism, what made him the `Man's man' he has become.  And
while it is clever and effective, closer scrutiny in the editing room may
have benefited the overall film, as his character is somewhat `overly'
established.  But just about at the point when you're saying to yourself,
`All right I get it!' Meyers grabs the helm with both hands and suddenly the
ship is at full mast and on course, where she keeps it for the rest of the
journey.  The turning point comes after Nick's visit to a marriage counselor
(a terrific cameo by Bette Midler) with whom he had had business some years
before.  It's as if not only Nick, but Meyers as well, had heeded Bette's
advice.  
	Mel Gibson does a good job of getting into Nick Marshall's skin, and he's
to be commended for going out on a limb and taking on a character that may
not be immediately embraced by even die-hard Gibson fans.  It's a testimony
to his ability as an actor, though, because he does make Nick the epitome of
chauvinism, and except for the few throw-back Neanderthals (women as well as
men) still in existence who subscribe to the `Man's man' theory of
de-evolution, Nick will effect the same response from the audience that he
does in the minds of many of the women who surround him in the movie.  It's
only when you've had a chance to consider Gibson's performance at arm's
length that you will realize how good he is in this film.  On the other
hand, the real saving grace of this movie is immediately discernible, and
that is the performance of the wonderful Helen Hunt.  As Darcy McGuire, the
professional hired to lead the ad agency for whom Nick works into the
Twenty-first Century, Hunt is nothing less than sensational.  One of the
most gifted, expressive actors in the business, she raises the level of the
drama (not to mention the comedy) by succinctly conveying the strength--  
and at the same time the vulnerability-- of Darcy, while exhibiting a depth
of emotion that adds so much to the impact (and the success) of the film. 
And, in a notable supporting role, Judy Greer is memorable as Erin, a lonely
young woman who works at the ad agency.  It's the `Tiny Tim' role of the
film, and though a small part, it figures prominently in revealing Nick's
inner-most feelings at a pivotal moment of the film.
	Rounding out the supporting cast are Alan Alda (Dan), Marisa Tomei (Lola),
Ashley Johnson (Alexandra), Mark Feuerstein (Morgan), Lauren Holly (Gigi),
Delta Burke (Eve), Valerie Perrine (Margo) and Sarah Paulson (Annie).  What
Meyers has created here is a mixed-bag, sleight-of-hand bit of entertainment
that is so much more than what it seems to be on the surface that it is
bound to evoke an equally mixed-bag of reactions (positive and negative)
from the audience.  It's amusing-- downright funny at times-- but also
exasperating.  To receive the full rewards offered by `What Women Want,'
you're going to have to give it something as well.  If you do, you'll be
pleasantly surprised by what you get in return.  And that, my friends, is
the magic of the movies.  I rate this one 8/10. 
	                  
<|_=00=_|>

When this movie started, I didn't know if I would like it, although it had
a
very powerful beginning. But eventually (around the part I mentioned) I
realized that it's very funny. And you've gotta love the
romance!

Mel Gibson is Nick Marshall, a womanizer who at the same time doesn't
understand women at all. When the womanliest of all women, Darcy Maguire
(Helen Hunt), starts to work with his company, she assigns everyone to
think
of advertising ideas for at least one feminine item in the boxes she gives
them (pantyhose, lipstick, mascara, a wonderbra, nail polish, etc.). Nick
tries to think, but instead gets drunk and paints his nails, tries on the
mascara and pantyhose, and yes, waxes his legs. That night, a freak
accident
occurs in his apartment, and then he can hear what women are thinking. He
uses this asset to steal Darcy's ideas, and at the same time falls in love
with her.

Besides Gibson and Hunt's performances, there are three other reasons I
love
this movie. One, Marisa Tomei, who is perky and cute as Nick's previous
uninterested love interest, a coffee-shop girl named Lola. But just when
Nick gets less desperate for her and more so for Darcy, Lola discovers
that
she really does like him. Two, Ashley Johnson, who is demanding but
lovable
as Nick's teenage daughter from a previous marriage. He can hear her
thoughts, too, and finds out that she's planning to lose her virginity on
prom night. Although he tries to stop her, she eventually learns the
lesson
on her own. Three, it has an awesome soundtrack. Frank Sinatra, the
Temptations, Nancy Wilson, and Bobby Darin sing old classics, while
Christina Agulera and Meredith Brooks perform fairly new
hits.

Anybody who likes comedy, romance, or just a great movie should see "What
Women Want." I think it's one of the few unisex romantic comedies (not
chick
flicks) there are, so it's a great date movie.  
<|_=00=_|>

A new creative director (Helen Hunt) is hired by an ad agency (run by Alan
Alda) to bring it up to date by appealing to the women's market. Mel Gibson,
an account executive and a real man's man, was slated for that position, and
he wants to get rid of Hunt. At her first staff meeting, Hunt gives each
person a package of various women's products, and each must come up with a
campaign for at least one of the items. 

At home, Gibson tries out the products in a tour de force of cross-dressing.
Funny, if not roll on the floor hilarious, and he does it with an aplomb
that makes it look so easy that you at the very least have to admire his
skill. In the process, Gibson falls into a tub, followed by a live hair
dryer, and receives a shock that alters his brain so that he can hear the
thoughts of women. As a result, he bowls everyone over, especially Hunt,
with his creative insight into the women's market. Now he's got her right
where he wants her...or so he thinks. But creative insight turns out to be a
two-edged sword.

I liked this one a lot more than I thought I would. It reminded me of one of
those late 50's early 60's romantic comedies, at least in
its
earlier scenes. In fact, I liked it so much that it made me feel sorry for
Woody Allen. His "Curse of the Jade Dragon" suffers by
comparison. I mention it, because Allen's film also stars Helen Hunt and,
interestingly, has a similar situationa woman is hired on
to
bring a company up to date, and she threatens to disrupt the man's career.
Even mind-alteration is involved, although of a different
kind.

I think the mind-reading premise is brilliant and is set in just the right
context, and Hunt and Gibson played off each other very well.
I've
seen Mel Gibson on a couple of Jay Leno shows, and he seemed ill-at-ease and
sometimes a little abrupt, as though he were either very shy, not too
bright, or for some reason just didn't want to be there. But what a
difference when he's on screen and playing a role that in bygone days would
have been filled by Jack Lemmon or Tony Randall or Rock Hudson. Ok, maybe
he's not the all-round actor that Lemmon was, but he fit that particular
role perfectly. And he even does a bit of a Gene Kelly routine!

<|_=00=_|>
"What Women Want" has a unusual plot which also makes us (men) think:
what do women really want? The final conclusion is that they want
happiness, just like men.

Despite being a predictable movie and nothing extraordinary, at least
it teaches to us (men) some valuable lessons about women. It's a good
way to understand and know them better.

The first hour of this movie is great fun, very entertaining and pure
comedy. During the first hour we have some moments to give us good
laughs. Mel Gibson has never been this funny before. He plays a
hilarious character: Nick Marshall, a typical "macho men" or a "men's
man". The kind of man that other men admire and want to be like him.
The kind of man who doesn't understand a thing about women (although
seen as a "God's gift" to women). Nick is proud, rich, chauvinistic,
single and loves to hear Frank Sinatra.

After an accident with the hairdryer, he suddenly has the power of
hearing what women think and what they think of him isn't what he
expected. He sees this as a curse, but after being convinced by a
psychologist that he could take advantage of this gift, he uses it to
manipulate Darcy McGuire.

However, in the second half, the movie fails, becoming predictable and
somehow lame, losing all its comical side. Some ridiculous and silly
things happen in the second half. Also, I rather the "old" Nick than
the "good" Nick, because the "old" Nick was much funnier. He becomes
the "good guy" in the second half, losing his sense of humor.

This movie has some nice songs, such as "I Won't Dance" (performed by
Frank Sinatra), "I've Got You Under My Skin" (performed by Frank
Sinatra in a duet with Bono) and "Bitch" (performed by Meredith
Brooks).

Mel Gibson is great and charming as Nick Marshall, while Helen Hunt is
okay and pretty in the role of Darcy McGuire.
<|_=00=_|>
Yeah-yeah. I know that laughs and "comedy" were the intended goal of
this film here, but, all the same, aren't us men supposed to be the
"shallow" gender of the 2 sexes? I mean, aren't we? 

Like, maybe I've been all wrong about the female gender, all along -
'Cause if women really do want what this movie says that they want,
then what women want seems to be exactly what men want. Which is, sad
to say, fairly predictable stuff. And, so, with that in mind, I'd say
that this movie pretty much renders women as being just as shallow, if
not more, than us men.

I find it really amazing that not only was "What Women Want" directed
by a woman, but half of the screenplay credit goes to a woman, as well.
With the shallow, pretentious, and petty way in which women are
portrayed in this film, I was certain that not even one single woman
had been consulted in any way, shape, or form to find out what they
really want.

Anyways - In a non-specific gender nutshell, here's "What Women Want"
is all about - Mel Gibson, that big-mouthed bigot, plays Nick Marshall,
a vain, womanizing S.O.B. (Hey! You know, that sounds an awful lot like
Mel Gibson just playing Mel Gibson to me) 

One fine morning Nick gets all of his brain-circuits fried, big time,
when he falls into a bathtub full of water while in the midst of
blow-drying his pretty-pretty hair.

One could only hope that being electrocuted in this fashion would kill
Gibson/Nick instantly. But, no, unfortunately, it doesn't. And, so, for
the sake of the movie, what electrocution does to Nick, instead, is it
enables him to hear the thoughts of women. (Now, does that make sense
to you?) 

Naturally, being the slimy prick that he is, Nick uses this amazing
ability to his full advantage (of course, who wouldn't?) by
manipulating women as best he can. Especially his new female boss,
played by Helen Hunt, who just happened to land this very job position
that he (being the scoundrel that he is) figured was solely entitled to
him.

Anyhow - To make a long story, short - If you can believe it, or not,
there's actually a "romance" of sorts that transpires in all of this
thought-reading nonsense that is even more far-fetched than you can
ever imagine.

In conclusion - If what women want really is this movie, then, all I
can say is, THEY CAN BLOODY-WELL HAVE IT!! - 'Cause, being a man, I
sure as hell don't want it! No way, Jose!
<|_=00=_|>
This was the most fun I've had movie-watching in at least a year. It
had me laughing, talking to the characters (mainly "Oh, no!" and "Watch
out!"), and eager to see what would happen next. I guess it's true that
women are difficult for men to understand because what we're are
thinking often contradicts what we're saying. What DO women want? The
casting was wonderful, the acting was superb, and the direction was
perfect. I heard that Tim Allan had been considered for the lead role.
He would've been a great choice, but so was Mel Gibson. Bravo to one
and all! Now how about doing a similar movie with a woman hearing men's
thoughts, hmmmm? Just as Shirley Temple helped distract grateful
Americans from the Great Depression, we need more comedies like this to
distract us from equally-distressing things.
