

You really have to admire Brian DePalma as a director. He's directed some
of
the finest thrillers in the last 30 years and even his misfires are
interesting to watch like "Snake Eyes". I really enjoyed how well made
this
film is. If you don't like the story, thats your business. But this film
is
so finely detailed and shot that I put it in the same boat as "Mulholland
Dr." and "Blackhawk Down". Interesting films that some viewers had mixed
reactions to but the direction of these films was so expertly crafted that
even the most ardent critics had to admit to the talent of the director.
This film starts out at the Cannes Film Festival where a group of thieves
are attempting to steal some diamonds off of a model by having Laure Ash
(Rebecca Romijn-Stamos) seduce her in a lesbian encounter in the ladies
bathroom. Things go wrong and Laure takes off with the diamonds. Seven
years
later Laure is married to an American diplomat and is in Paris with her
husband when a papparazzi named Nicolas (Antonio Banderas) takes a picture
of her. She doesn't want to be photographed because the former members of
her gang are still looking for her. What I have just mentioned is just
scratching the surface. This is a psychological thriller that has so many
twists and turns that the casual film viewer will probably be in over
their
head. But this is a film that gives many hints along the way as you watch
it. You have to pay attention to this film and one key scene takes place
when Laure and Nicolas are having coffee in a cafe. Laure is sitting next
to
the window. Outside, a poster is being put up for a film called "Deja Vu"
and the reflection of Laure on the glass is centered in the middle of the
poster. DePalma uses many overhead shots to allow the viewer to get full
view of certain scenes. Some viewers and critics have said they were
disappointed with the casting but I admire the job that Rebecca did for
this
film. Okay, she's not Jodie Foster as far as being an actress is concerned
but Foster couldn't exude sexuality like this if her life depended on it
either. I thought it was believable that her character could manipulate
Nicholas the way she did. How could he not? She was a combination of
sexuality and vulnerability inside a very smart and devious mind. And for
a
film called "Femme Fatale" you had better find an actress that is smart
and
utterly beautiful at the same time. I found her performance to be bold and
brave. DePalma uses each shot to send signals relating to the story. It
sounds like a very difficult shoot because each scene has so much meaning.
He doesn't have cameras following characters for nothing. Each shot has a
reason. The details to this filming are enormous and difficult. DePalma
again shows us the attention to details of his complex artistry. If your
one
of those shallow film watchers that only views films from the incredible
mediocrity of Hollywood than your probably going to be lost watching this
film. For the viewers that remember and care about risk taking when making
movies, than you can appreciate the effort made by DePalma. If you don't
like it, thats okay. But you should appreciate his effort and nerve as a
director.
<|_=00=_|>

Mr. De Palma is not a critics' darling, and as such his latest, Femme
Fatale, has come in for his usual roasting.  Is it deserved?  Not if you
love a film that embraces the visual splendour and techniques that make
cinema a unique art form.

Femme Fatale sees De Palma returning to his forte: the suspense thriller.
It is a welcome return considering his recent fare have seen him straying
to
more mainstream efforts - Mission to Mars, Mission: Impossible - that were
shells of his virtuoso films of the late 70s and early 80s.

The film leads off with a stunning 20-minute Jewel heist sequence that
takes
place during the Cannes film festival of 2001.  Completely bereft of
dialogue, a la Topkapi, Rebecca Romijn-Stamos's character has the enviable
task of lifting a diamond dress from Rie Rasmussun in a bathroom
encounter.
His first original screenplay in 10 years, De Palma writes a
tightly-plotted
tale that certainly does not lead the audience by the hand, and the
resulting twists it provides will allow different perspectives on the
film's
events with repeat viewings.

Antonio Banderas - usually lost without cause if not working with Robert
Rodriguez - does what he needs to do with efficiency; Romijn-Stamos, the
Femme Fatale of the title, provides the eye candy.  The acting is not top
drawer, but it does not need to be: we're here to see an auteur in his
element: De Palma delivers.  Cinema is more than a stage with a camera -
De
Palma uses his camera and cinema technique to brilliant effect.  Huge
swooping camera movements, split-screen, slow motion sequences, no
dialogue
and an enveloping orchestral score; De Palma's signature is prevalent.
And
that is good: a director should never be an autonomous entity, happy to
turn
out derivative drivel that get the masses in and out - directors for hire
are too commonplace in Hollywood today - and that is something that De
Palma
could never be accused of.

Femme Fatale is a great example of a director working in a genre he loves
and understands, and given the freedom to create.  Total cinema?  Its
smell
is sure intoxicating.  Welcome back, Mr. De Palma.  
<|_=00=_|>

As I read the comments I can't help wonder how is it possible nobody thought
this movie is an essay on cinema as well as a re-read of De Palma's own
creations and obsessions. The questions on the board suggest that almost
nobody pay attention even to the plot.
21 years before, "Blow Out", De Palma's most transparent reference to cinema
craftsmanship and the relations between cinema and reality, and, what is
most important, to cinema as knowledge (or even revelation), merged from an
almost hopeless vision of the world: at the end of the film, Jack Terry, the
character played by Travolta, had found the truth, but the price he paid for
it is loneliness and madness maybe (just like Hackman at the end of
Coppola's "The Conversation"); revelation is for him a sort of curse as he
lost his second chance (one of the director's recurrent themes) as far as
reality made the grade with its web of lies and corruption.
"Femme fatale" shows that De Palma get older and wiser: even though reality
is as corrupted and plenty of lies as two decades before, his faith on
cinema as knowledge (what is cinema but a dream?) is stronger than
then.
He also has change his point of view about women. This turn, that started
with "Carlito's Way" and even more on "Snake Eyes", is evident here, as he
shows his own change of mind through a character that goes from his old kind
of female character to the new one. (And those who wonder about the snake,
read the Bible --Genesis.)
At the very beginning of the movie, Laure's reflection on the tv screen
reunites she and Barbara Stanwyck as the summa and the evolution of the
femme fatale kind of character. That "DOUBLE indemnity" starts a game of
doubles along the movie. Later, when the character of Lily appears, there's
a choice to be made: Laure (of course, the reference is to Preminger's
"Laura" though the film pays clearer homage to Hitchock's "Vertigo") has to
decide to became Phyllis Dietrichson or to became Lily.
The "dream strategy" is full of risk; in fact, when a writer/director uses
it as a solution, the task is condemned to failure. But De Palma uses it
masterfully, because dream is not a solution but a way: there are ten
minutes of movie left after it to give that "dream strategy" a new sense and
a justification that any film ever gave.
As I wrote before, that dream is built as a movie watch by both audience and
Laure. But the collage made by Banderas character is also a movie: a frame
by frame (or scene by scene) construction of a reality that is out-of-time
of that reality. De Palma, at the end of the film, tell us: that is what
cinema is made of -different scenes shot under diverse lights in separate
times, joined under one look and put together to make sense. We, as
spectators, are the ones that can contemplate that work finished, and this
final revelation, as the one at the end of "Citizen Kane", ask us to be able
to join the pieces and reach knowledge cinema can give.
There is a lot to write about this movie; these are only silly notes
compared to the type of study "Femme Fatale" deserves.
For those who are not interested on analysing a movie and just want to know
if they will have fun watching it, I can only say that you can enjoyed the
movie, with its twists and its suspense, even if you don't notice what I am
talking about.
"Femme Fatale" is an underrated masterpiece. Long live Brian De Palma (even
if he has to live in France).

<|_=00=_|>
Brian De Palma's 'Femme Fatale' is pure movie-making. In fact, it is
done so well you almost forget it is all close to nonsense. But who
cares, 'Femme Fatale' is an exercise in style drenched in twists and
turns. Instead of cheating De Palma gives us a lot of little hints,
easily missed the first time you see it. Explaining the story could
ruin a lot and is probably useless anyway.

I can tell the film opens with a heist, probably one of the most erotic
ones out there. Laure Ash (Rebecca Romijn-Stamos) is the one who goes
away with a very expensive artifact betraying a whole lot of people.
This event is what drives her the rest of the movie, but in what way I
can not reveal. I can say that we move forward to seven years later and
that Laure has changed her identity, more by mistake than on purpose.
Another important thing I can tell you is that we meet a photographer
named Nicolas Bardo (Antonio Banderas). He takes a picture of Laure
while she is still Laure and he is the one who takes a picture of her
seven years later, a photo that could spoil everything for her.

I should stop talking about the story. You have to see it for yourself,
collecting clues and try to make something out of it. I love a movie
like this. 'Memento', 'Mulholland Dr.' and 'Donnie Darko' are other
examples. Maybe you can figure them out, if that is the filmmakers
intention, maybe you can not. But it is not so much the conclusion I
enjoy, it is the ride that brings us there. De Palma does it in a
terrific way with a lot of love for the movies.
<|_=00=_|>

`Femme Fatale' is Brian De Palma's latest foray into the challenging, but
artful world of  contemporary film noir. The genre is not new to De
Palma's
repertoire, but this one was a particularly difficult undertaking, due to
its complex mix of cinematography, genre interplays, character profiles,
and
plot development. I have extremely mixed feelings about the film because
where it succeeds, it does so extraordinarily well, but where it fails is
too important to the overall quality of the film.  I felt more saddened
that
De Palma, who wrote and directed it, didn't just choose less loftier
goals
and come out with a much stronger piece.

The plot revolves around an alluring seductress, Rebecca Romijn-Stamos,
who
leads a life of crime, but leaves it abruptly and unintentionally when
circumstances give her a new lease on life as a respectable married
woman.
All's well, till her identity is revealed when a two-bit paparazzi,
played
by Antonio Banderas, brings her past and present together again, making
for
an explosive interplay of human character and dramatic plot
twists.

I confess that the above plotline is grossly oversimplified, but I stop
short of apologizing for it, because the plot itself is the least
important
aspect of `Femme Fatale.' Logistics are loose at best, but as the final
scenes play out, the plot seems relatively unimportant compared to the
much
stronger elements of the film. The movie blends styles ranging from
French
independent films' European use of female personas and erotic sensuality,
to
American cult genres, such as Pulp Fiction or Twin Peaks, with its use of
musical counterpoint. There are intensely mature scenes involving more
explicit sexual innuendo, as well as sophisticated cinematic photography
that plays with color, shadow and texture. Much of the production
involved
such intimate attention to this stylistic detail, it carries the film.
Most
well-versed film-goers are sure to appreciate and relish in the varied
themes presented here.

The characters in the film are compelling, although two-dimensional,
through
and through. At first, I considered this a weak point, but when the
filmmaker's intentions of style and mood became more clear, I reluctantly
acknowledged that stronger characters would have drawn the focus away
from
the film's more abstract aesthetic qualities. Noire films are often more
about style than plot, and the characters are often frustratingly
under-explained, not that I necessarily support this aspect of this
otherwise fine genre. It's the `contemporary' part that adds the
additional
dimension of abstraction that demands less from the characters than what
we
think we want to see. This odd paradox is exactly why I felt the plot was
too strong, despite its logistical problems. Had the sequence of events
been
even less important, I would have found it much easier to bathe in the
visual, audible and other aesthetic qualities of the movie.

To that end, `Femme Fatale' is clearly form over substance, which may not
appeal to the more casual viewer looking for something reminiscent of
previous De Palma mainstream blockbusters, such as `Mission: Impossible.'
This film cannot be critiqued with a simple view, and I wish I had hours
more to discuss its more intricate nuances, but even still, to recommend
for
or against seeing it is something I find more difficult than reviewing
it.

<|_=00=_|>

This film was idiotic.  Some people tell me I shouldn't dislike films if
they don't make any sense.  They tell me I should just enjoy the ride.
Sorry, I can't turn my brain off.  It is particularly important in a
caper
film that the film make some sort of logical sense.

MAJOR SPOILERS BELOW

We have to believe that the guys planning the heist at the beginning of
this
film are willing to risk a huge amount of money, not to mention their own
personal safety, on the premise that a female photographer is absolutely
certain to be able to lure a complete stranger into a toilet stall for a
round of hot lesbian sex.  Now it turns out at the end of the film that
the
stranger isn't a total stranger after all - but this is a big surprise to
the guys who planned the heist.  They actually planned the heist based on
the premis that their photographer would absolutely, without doubt, be
able
to lure a stranger into a toilet stall during a film premiere.

How stupid is that????

And don't tell me I shouldn't expect logic because it's all a dream.
That
wasn't part of the dream.  And here's another moment that wasn't part of
the
dream.  We learn at the end that the woman lured into the toilet stall
kept
the real diamonds, but told the police they were the fake subsitutes.
You
think the police wouldn't want to examine whatever she had for
clues?????

Sorry, I can't turn my brain off -and this was an IDIOTIC
film.
<|_=00=_|>
"Femme Fatale" is best understood as a game played by Brian De Palma
and appreciated by knowing cineastes. It's not about story or
characters, but about the construction and manipulation of art.

Antonio Banderas plays Nicolas Bardo, a photographer who has turned his
back on photographing celebrities. He now spends his time living in an
apartment, making huge composite images by arranging tiny photographs.
The Bardo character, in many ways, is Brian De Palma. At war with
Hollywood storytelling (which is fuelled by celebrity) De Palma takes
these multiple images and weaves them into a tapestry until a final
image is made. The point is that the final image is not reality. It is
the artists recreation and completely false.

At the end of the film, Bardo completes his masterpiece by inserting a
little white figure (of Laura, a name which itself alludes to Otto
Preminger's classic) onto his wall. The figure doesn't belong, Bardo
simply chooses to put it there. Thematically, "Femme Fatale" ends on
the same note. Noir fatalism is thwarted by a completely arbitrary,
totally ILLOGICAL and cosmically IMPOSSIBLE moment of editing whereby
De Palma redeems his hero and kills off her opponents.

Critics call this sequence implausible. But De Palma's point is that it
doesn't have to be plausible. Bardo puts the white figure on his wall
because he wants to. Similarly, De Palma ends the film as he does,
because he wants to. He shows us Laura's fatalistic noir dream and then
rescues her from it. He makes it clear that he is redeeming her and
willing this positive ending into existence solely because he as
artist, but more importantly, as noir God, has the power to do so.

This flips the usual noir logic. If Kubrick's "The Killing" highlights
the deterministic law of the universe (Clay's plan crumbling to pieces
all because of a random poodle), De Palma's "Femme Fatale" highlights
the power of the artist, able to do recreate a universe entirely devoid
of cosmic law.

This theme is also highlighted by the use of the name "Bardo", a
Tibetan word meaning "intermediate state". A state between life and
death. Over the course of the film, Bardo will be caught between life
and death, as De Palma toys with killing him. Bardo's existence or
artistic merit is down to an artist's mere whim.

Everything else about De Palma is present in "Femme Fatale": the voyeur
and his object, the representation inside the representation, the
original and its fake copy, the doubled characters, key episodes built
from multiple points of views, the elaborate camera work...

Watch as De Palma's camera continuously misleads our eyes, giving the
hidden predominance over the shown, until we are forced to separate in
our minds the real from its representation and to connect the different
pieces into a "sense". This technique comprises the film watching
experience as a whole, and is what De Palma's films are essentially
about, from Jack Terry's reconstruction of truth with the aid of
montage in "Blow Out", to Santoro's investigations of a crime from
partial testimonies in "Snake Eyes".

This theme, the division between reality and image, has grown
increasingly important for De Palma. The majority of his films are
concerned about how we see and watch movies, the director obsessed with
reminding us that information is not the same thing as knowledge.

Consider "Snake Eyes", which opens with an unbroken tracking shot that
essentially lays out the film's plot. The rest of the movie then
becomes a demonstration of why everything we had seen in that sequence
was a lie. Likewise, the opening sequence of "Mission: Impossible"
showed us Tom Cruise's crew of agents being picked off one by one. We
had already seen each of those murders, though, in nearly subliminal
blips during the movie's credit sequence (information without
knowledge). "Black Dahlia" and "Redacted" similarly deal with a search
for truth amongst an image bank of lies.

"Femme Fatale" begins with a long heist sequence. Throughout this
sequence, allusions are made to "Snake Eyes" (the literal "serpent
camera" and the object of the heist, a snake shaped piece of gold), De
Palma effectively saying: "The camera is a snake and not to be
trusted." Note too the film "Est-Ouest" showing as the heist goes on.
Like "Femme Fatale", this is another stream-of-consciousness film with
an unreliable narrator.

And so the rest of "Femme Fatale" takes a "dream within a film"
approach (foreshadowed in opening shot). Watch how De Palma sets this
dream sequence up with careful details: the storm, the clock (the time
3:33 will appear on clocks throughout the dream), the water running,
Laura sinking, and by having the actors from before her dream taking on
different roles within it.

These signifiers, and others, will emerge throughout the film,
emphasising the surreal atmosphere of Laura's adventure. Everything
becomes disconnected, dialogue makes no sense (at some points it's
dubbed without even following the actors' lips!), time jumps back and
forth etc etc. 

Indeed, during her dream (like "Mulholland Drive"), Laura herself will
embody different female archetypes, all traceable in film history and
particularly in De Palma's films. She's Kim Novak in "Vertigo" and also
Melanie Griffith's prostitute of "Body Double" and so on and so on.

The majority of De Palma's films have dream sequences. Even a "serious"
film like "Casualties of War" ends with a character waking up on a
train, realising that the whole film was a nightmare. Why does De Palma
feel the need to insert this? My guess is that he doesn't want his
films to be seen as "real". They exist in a wholly metaphysical space.

8.5/10 - As usual with a De Palma film, critics and audiences rejected
"Femme Fatale".
<|_=00=_|>

Brian De Palma made a return to the thriller genre in which he made his name
after the gigantic blip that was Mission to Mars, which he suffered two
years earlier. But is his return to the genre a hit or another misfire?
Neither, actually; it's decent.

The plot follows the escapades of a young lady that screws the mob out of a
heist of diamonds, stolen during a thrillingly executed heist at the Cannes
film festival. After assuming a new identity, she later returns to Paris
where she must evade her past by any means necessary.

Brian De Palma obviously has a talent for filmmaking; this is evident in the
majority of his works, particularly the earlier ones. It's not as abundant
in this film as it is in some of his others, but that flair is still shown
to a certain extent. He does, however, seem to spend a lot of the movie
piling on the style, when he would have been better served building
character and giving the audience something to care about. Anyone that knows
De Palma, knows that he is the man that "does Hitchcock". Here, he doesn't
tribute Hitchcock, but rather the melodramatic noir thrillers of the 40's
and 50's. This is clearly shown at the start of the movie from the shot
where Rebecca Romijn Stamos is sat on a bed, watching the classic noir;
Double Indemnity. 

Having only seen Stamos previously under heavy make-up in the delicious
X-Men films, it was nice to see her here in a 'normal' role, especially as I
was one of the people that saw her sex appeal, even under all that attire.
De Palma teases the viewer with her at first; he keeps her face hidden
behind various objects and camera movements, but when she finally appears;
she doesn't disappoint; Rebecca is one beautiful woman. Especially when she
dons that brown wig. Starring alongside Stamos, is Antonio Banderas. I like
Antonio a lot; I rate him as an actor, and not just for his role in the
spectacular Desperado series. However, he isn't at his best in this film. In
a role that requires him to don a silly gay accent at certain points,
Banderas doesn't quite look at home. Maybe it's just because I'm used to
seeing him flying round shooting bad guys, but he struck me as being a
little bored.

It may or may not be a good thing that the film is done partly in French, as
on one hand it makes it more realistic, and firmly places us in France; but
on the other, we have to read subtitles in an American film, and when I
watch an American film; I'm not expecting to read subtitles. Especially not
ones that disappear before you have a chance to read them fully, as they
often do here. Another thing about Femme Fatale is that it never manages to
be as sexy as it pretends to be. Despite making almost full use of the
lead's assets, it is ultimately more tease than strip. This could be seen as
a nod to the classics to which the film owes itself, but for a film that
states itself as being a 'steamy thriller', I was expecting slightly more
steam.

The film boils down a final and surprising twist. Throughout, the film keeps
you guessing, despite being largely hinged on coincidence; and the twist
does come as a surprise, but it is that awful, clichéd twist that everyone
dreads. However, to De Palma's credit; he does almost make it good. To pull
off a twist like the one in this film, the storyteller needs to be talented
enough to not make the audience demand their money back when the movie
finishes. When the twist first hit, my eyes were starting to role but credit
has to be given to De Palma because even though the twist he's working with
is silly, he manages to bring the film to a close which wraps it up, and
does tie all the loose ends together. And although I'm still not sure if
that was the right route for the film to take, it is well
done.

Overall, Femme Fatale is an enjoyable thriller that is bound to keep most
audience members on the edge of their seats throughout. It doesn't echo the
brilliance of Dressed to Kill, Carrie, Sisters or most of De Palma's earlier
oeuvre in the thriller genre; but it is the best film that the man has made
since The Untouchables, and is therefore recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
If you've never seen Femme Fatale, this is probably not the review to
use in deciding whether to see it or not. Usually I don't like to give
away plot elements, much less give away a key point in the movie;
however, to give an honest opinion on how I feel regarding this movie I
have to reveal a critical point that the entire film rests on. You have
been warned.

SPOILER: I loved and hated this movie. I loved the vast majority of
this film, even the use of the split screen (which typically irritates
me in De Palma films). We're moving along nicely in this slick film,
great on a technical level and interesting on a plot/character level to
the point that I'll forgive the unprecedented degree of chance that the
story rests on . . . and then . . . and then . . . De Palma basically
gives me the middle finger by climaxing with my single greatest pet
peeve of all time in all cinema – main character wakes up, and its only
a dream. My jaw dropped and a stream of thoughts entered my head,
utilizing language that would be inappropriate for an IMDb review.

Dare I say that *that* moment was more disappointing than Uwe Boll's
House of the Dead? At least Boll's film never resembled anything good,
and never got me to the edge of my seat, I never got into that lousy
film. But De Palma, Femme Fatale rocked! I loved the opening scene, the
whole first heist, which for some reason resonated with a Kubrickian
vibe for me (probably due to the choice of music over the action.)
Kudos for taking your sweet time. It was appreciated.

And never before had I loved and hated (in a good way) a character as
much as I did Rebecca Romijn Stamos' character. She was so evil, but at
the same time hilarious and fun with how she played Antonio Banderas',
how she manipulated everyone around her. Let's not forget the dialogue
between the two when they first meet - the hilariously awesome scene
where Antonio has made it into her hotel room with the fake story of
losing a 'floppy disk.' This film was so freakin' good . . . and then
to be given an "It was all for nothing" dream ending? Leading up to the
end of the film, I thought I might, just might, actually see a film
where Laure gets away and continues to be a plotting evil little witch,
or maybe she'd get what's coming to her and end on a downbeat, and I
thought to myself, "I don't really like De Palma, but I have to admit
if anyone has the artistic integrity and the balls to go against
Hollywood formula and uninformed preview audiences . . . it is Brian De
Palma." How is it gonna end? How are they gonna get out of this bind?!
You're killing me with suspense De Palma . . . and . . . and . . . aw,
crap.

In the De Palma's defense, he was aware that the move would split his
audience down the middle, and he did give numerous clues that it was a
dream. I can't stress enough that the bulk of the movie worked so
wonderfully in grabbing my attention, keeping my attention, and keeping
me on the edge of my seat. In that respect, it is a damn good movie.
Also in the film's defense, the degree of which the film worked really
set up my expectations, but its resolution just happens to be my
ultimate narrative pet peeve . . . .

Ah well, as they say en français, "C'est la vie."
<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers Ahead:

First, the movie approaches the Bollywood classic, No Smoking, for its
contrived characters, supernatural time traveling ending and the
unlikely narrative. Please, it is not nearly as bad as Body Double, he
keeps the tone nice and serious. Yet, here are a few of the many
problems: 1. She marries the ambassador to France without his massive
staff vetting her and discovering that she is a criminal? 2. She looks
just like the daughter of a French couple who have a suicidal daughter
whose identity she can luckily pass for? 3. There are no emergency
lights in an opulent theater? It goes completely dark even inside of
the cinema? 4. Her history was so unresearched that some guy hires
Banderas to photograph her? 5. Her friend is not warned about the
dynamic duo of death pursuing Lily? She goes about town dressed in
camouflaged hot pants? Be warned, like No Smoking, DePalma uses a piece
of surrealistic time travel to effect a happy restorative, redemptive
ending, while morally wonderful, is silly within a movie that claims to
be Noir? Don't agree with me? Find me another Noir with a supernatural
time traveling ending? What I love about people who don't collect Noir
is their lack of grasping the core: Shadows as existential metaphors
(Body Heat), all the characters are Evil / corrupt except for the moral
protagonist. Who is the moral protagonist in this movie? Lily? Photo
Boy? Where are the shadows? 

The movie follows Lily, on the run from two partners she screwed over
on a heist at a swanky theater, during what appears to be the Cannes
Film Festival. She is mistaken as the suicidal daughter of a couple,
where, after she offs herself, Lily can conveniently assume her
identity. Unfortunately, the ensuing concatenation of events lead to
her demise. Banderas plays a loathsome paparazzi who she enlists as an
unwitting partner in her own kidnapping. Are you ready for this? On the
plane, she just happened to be bumped from coach to first class where
she miraculously sits next to the American ambassador (without wife,
find one of these), of course, it is love at first sight. Hey, it gets
worse, after her time travel return, she gifts a truck driver with her
reflective necklace which, with a little God imagery, saves the day and
kills both of the Dyad Of Death. Look, I love purely surreal movies
like the original Solaris or No Smoking. This is supposed to be an
attempt at Noir, the contrivances of the movie will insult your
intelligence, the marriage to the ambassador, alone, is enough to
really irritate you. DePalma seems to be pursuing her saving her
sapphic partner, after the heist, shows this deep 'goodness' inside of
Lily. Stamos does the best acting job in the movie, but her character
is so loathsome and nasty it is impossible to identify with her. 

She betrays her partners, allows a young woman to blow her brains out,
sets Banderas up with the police and then tries to plan her own
kidnapping obviously planning on killing both the ambassador and
Banderas. As if this wasn't enough, DePalma throws in a strip tease and
bar behavior typical of the lowest type of human being. See, the reason
we need a moral protagonist is that everyone else in Noir is a corrupt
slime. Now, if Lily did all those aforementioned things, do you give a
crap what happens to her? Even the surreal temporal restoration doesn't
work because we remember all the people Lily drove over like a human
bulldozer. Body Heat may be Neo-Noir but Racine was never this nasty,
many of us felt sorry for him. Also, that movie was almost all at night
with constant shadows during the few day scenes. Color is not the
problem (Party Girl, Black Widow), this movie has not one feature from
classic Noir. The plot contrivances, with the split screen / God's eye,
are DePalma's usual thriller homage to Hitch's style. He has simply
transposed them to do an alien genre: Noir. Find me another Noir,
including Body Heat, which has this much contrivance in the characters
and the narrative. The movie leaves you with such a artificial feeling;
that would be my one word review: Unreal. 

Stamos actually deserved better, she carries this movie on her
shoulders. Banderas, while worshiped by the ladies, was always a
terrible actor. Stamos has to hold him up in all of her scenes, which
she does well. I always felt sorry for her, what could have become of
her career if she had a better script to work from. If you want
surreal, make the whole movie like that, not just the ending. The
Grafting of the thriller genre onto Noir was not an artful transfer. He
has all kinds of vestigial pieces of an utterly antithetical form of
movie from Noir. I love Blow Out and Dressed To Kill, this was a
mediocre attempt at Noir which was succeeded by an even worse one: The
Black Dahlia, truly the nadir. A One Showing Movie: Do Not Buy This,
Not Bonfire Of The Vanities, But Commensurately Just As Far From Blow
Out. Q.E.D.
