

I am a fan of rap music, the only type of music I listen to so I know
Dr.Dre and Snoop Dogg very well, I have seen their previous movies.
Before watching the movie, I knew it was going to be a horrible one,
but not as bad as expected. 

The synopsis of the story is about two friends, Sean (Dr.Dre) and Dee
Loc. Sean gets fired from his previous job and has no money and they
also have a three day notice before they get evicted out of their
house. With no job and desperation of money, Dee Loc insists that Sean
comes to his work and try to get a job there, a car wash called "The
Wash". The Wash is a type of place worked by dumb people who only steal
from customers, smoke weed, chase girls, etc. As Sean goes there and
takes opening assistant manager job from the owner of The Wash,
Mr.Washington (George Wallace). At the same time, Mr.Washington is
going through a hard time at The Wash getting threatening phone calls
from a previous employee at The Wash who was recently fired, Chris
(Eminem). The employees at The Wash cant believe Mr.Washington had
fired Chris because they all knew Chris was crazy.

The plot of the story was kind of stupid, but the actors did what they
could to not make it as horrible as it would've been, except Snoop
Dogg. And didn't like his acting like in all of his other movies,
because almost at least 50% of the time, hes always a gangsta sort of
type of person and it doesent seem to work in the movie. But there are
some upsides to the movie. It actually delivered some okay humour
especially from a character named "Slim" (DJ Pooh). His jokes are
idiotic but has to make you laugh. But there are other jokes in the
movie that don't execute due to it being played out. There are a lot of
cameos such as Ludacris, Kurupt, Eminem, Xzibit and Shaquille O'Neal.

After watching the movie I was at least pleased it wasn't that bad. The
only thing for next time, don't make Snoop Dogg play the same role for
a different movie again. 

6/10

<|_=00=_|>

The Wash is like hip-hop eye candy- it looks cool and even tempting, but
when you try and hear the jokes it registers that it's stupid a lot of the
time.  The Wash, from co-writer of Friday, also did 3 strikes which was
interesting some of the time but not totally as funny as it should've been. 
Pooh's new film is like that, yet instead of being interesting it's hip and
flashy.

Snoop Dogg and Dr. Dre star here (not there first film together, the better
film Training Day comes to mind) as two guys who usually have what most
young urban professionals want- weed, hoes and uh, bling bling.  But the
money well has run dry and a 3 day notice has just been put up and in order
for dre to pay his half of the rent he gets a job with the car wash Snoop
Dogg works.  He starts to realize Snoop at work is a complete slacker as
tensions start to build between the two, but this changes when their boss
(played mostly dead-pan by George Wallace) gets kidnapped. 

Sometimes it's laugh out loud, other times it's so quiet in the theater
after a bad joke you can actually hear crickets chirp.  In other words, it's
stupid, low brow fun with many cameos- Tommy Chong, Eminem, Shaquille
O'Neil, Pauly Shore, Tiny Lester, writer/director Pooh as one of the
kidnappers and a couple of minor characters from Friday and 3 strikes. 
Between B- and C+
<|_=00=_|>

Now I know many people might not agree with me but then again, I don't
give
a s**t. This movie had me laughing at nearly every scene, especially Slim
Shady who played this mentally deranged prank caller. I laughed so hard at
everything. Some parts left me in wonder but whatever, I couldn't help but
laugh. I liked it and honestly I would watch it again and
again.
<|_=00=_|>

watching "the wash" is kind of an odd experience. you laugh, you like the
characters, but you wonder what the plot is really supposed to be. the
jokes
are there, so "the wash" is definitely a funny movie. in that respect, i
enjoyed it. it seems that when d.j. pooh co-wrote the classic "friday"
with
ice cube, he definitely knew how to create hilarious situations and funny
roles. but when he's on his own ("3 strikes" was his previous solo
effort),
something doesn't quite come off right. my main problem with "the wash" is
the VERY ABRUPT ending. everyone will be like, "okay...it's over". they
don't even bother to really wrap things up. it's just BAM...credits. the
ending is weak, it could have been better. they set it up like the end of
"next friday", where a couple different antagonists are brought into one
situation at the same time. but the audience doesn't get much of a payoff.
as chris rock might put it, "the wash" will take your clothes off, but
will
not f*** you.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a good movie that is purely funny. It Stars Snoop Dogg and Dr.
Dre with George Wallace,Bruce Bruce,Tommy "Tiny" Lister and DJ Pooh.
This is a very west coast movie. If you loved "Friday" then you will
love The Wash. Good acting and funny script. And it's refreshing to see
Snoop and Dre hating each other. I almost forgot that they are friends
in real life. This movie is really underrated. All the comedians play
their parts well and Eminem's character is hilarious. The soundtrack is
also great. My only complaint is that the ending didn't have much
closure. All in all The wash is a great Comedy that's laid back and
filled with cameos by Ludicrous,Xzibit,Pierre,Kurupt,Shaq,Pauly Shore,
and Tommy Chong.
<|_=00=_|>

There is an abundance of potential and talent in this movie. Dj Pooh can
set
up some serious comedic moments, but he fails to gel anything together for
more than a few scenes.

Watching scene after scene, you wonder what the exact point of each
sequence
is. Sure you will chuckle, Snoop Dogg's one of a kind dialogue is really
something that needs to be heard to be believed. Unfortunately, that nor
anything else can redeem this movie. I feel worse after viewing it. Like i
said, DJ Pooh has talent in that he can deliver great set ups (as seen in
Friday). But when it comes to the punchline he recycles jokes we've all
seen
and umm heard before.

2/10
<|_=00=_|>

This movie still makes me laugh every time I watch it on video! Snoop is
at
his comedic talkin the talk finest and Dre makes a great straight man. For
some good giggles, check this one out.
It's worth a rental.

<|_=00=_|>
Dre, Snoop, Corrupt, and Eminem, what a lineup,, the wash was a pretty
decent movie about a pair of guys who get hired at a Car Wash so they
can make some legitimate dough. the brothers are hired, without the
owner knowing that they were brothers, and one brother is put in charge
of the other one,, he has to keep him on the straight and narrow, and
at one point geth the other brother suspended from his job. later on
the boss keeps getting death threat phone calls and is kidnapped from
the car wash, the rest of the boys at the wash must team up and get
their boss back from the maniac who has taken him,, special appearance
by Emenim at the end was hilarious.
<|_=00=_|>

CONTAINS SPOILERS!!
I must admit, I laughed twice in the 90 minutes I was in the theater. That
breaks down to one laugh every 45 minutes. At $8.25 a ticket each laugh had
a cost of about $4. Factor in that when I wasn't laughing I was insulted by
the ridiculous storyline and I think you will agree that I paid too much
for
those two laughs.

The plot, (which I believe they wrote as they went along) was missing one
very key element: LOGIC. It made absolutely no sense!!  There were too many
characters, the majority of whom contributed nothing to the story. There
seemed to be no discrimination by the casting department as to who would
make a cameo appearance in this film. Apparently, they didn't have to be
funny, just willing. (C'mon Shaq, you had nothing better to do?)

Sean (Dr. Dre) was an unemployed loser who obtained an Assistant Manager
position at Mr. Washington's (George Wallace) car wash where anarchy
reigned. His least favorite employee, Dee Loc (Snoop Doggy Dogg) kept his
own liberal work schedule,  had sex on the job, sold drugs on the job, and
stole from his employer. In addition to Dee Loc there was C-Money and L'il
Dee who stole money out of cars, and of course we can't forget the token
Hispanic and ex-con.  At the beginning of the film, Snoop made the comment
that the white man didn't care about the black man. As if the white man was
the reason this group of losers existed.

So what's this movie about? That's what I asked myself up until the last 20
minutes of the movie. The owner of the carwash, (Wallace) is kidnapped by
two bumbling criminals, one of whom Slim, (DJ Pooh) provided my second
laugh. The kidnappers ask Sean to get the ransom money. That's when Dee Loc
saves the day with a scheme worthy of Goldie the Mack himself.

Let's talk about the acting. In Snoop's case I'll call it reenacting,
because he seems to play the same guy in every film. Ironically the same
guy
he plays in all of his interviews as well. I hate to quote Ice Cube but,
`Yo
Dre stick to producing.' An actor, you ain't. I think it is sad when the
St.
Ides spokesman (DJ Pooh) is the best character actor in a film.

I can't even recommend this as Blockbuster pick because $2.00 a laugh is
still too much in my opinion.

Dre, the next time you want to make a film.don't.

<|_=00=_|>

One of the main reasons I saw this film is because I love Dr. Dre and Snoop
Dogg and this looked interesting. But it was anything BUT that. It had no
humor at all. Basically, the whole film Dre was trying to get laid and Snoop
was smoking weed all day at the car wash where he worked. Eminem is only in
the film for one scene, where he comes out at the end with an AK-47 and
shoots up his boss's car (who had fired him from the car wash where he
worked). So the whole film they are in the car wash hanging out (nothing
funny happens) and then two thugs kidnap their boss at the end, demanding
$50,000 for his release. So of course, Dre and Snoop break into the
kidnappers' house and rescue their boss, and Dr. Dre gets a major cash
reward from his boss and finally pays his bills that he needed to pay. If
you would like a stupid and not-funny-at-all movie about a bunch of retards
hanging around a car wash and getting in fights and smoking pot, then by all
means see this film. But if you are a normal person who likes Dre and Snoop
and would like to see this just because they are in it, DO NOT!!! This is a
complete waste of 2 hours of my time and I should storm up in the theater
and demand my eight dollars back, even though I saw the film two years ago.
HORRIBLE!!!
