

Similar, yet different, from his other films ("The Brother's McMullen"
and
`She's the One'), writer/director/producer/actor Edward Burns, with his
typical minuscule budget, broaches on Woody Allen territory this time as
he
explores the ooohs, aaahs and owwwws (mostly the owwwws) of the marriage
and
dating game.  The sights and sounds of New York is in the air as the
movie
zeroes in on six disparate Manhattanites, all of whom trying their
damnest
to find the no-real answer to happiness.  No belly-laughs here, but a lot
of
knowing smiles.

This brash, perceptive, ultimately winning cyclical comedy first
introduces
us to good-looking, nice-guy Tommy (Ed Burns) who has just split up with
his
girlfriend and has been thrown out of her apartment.  Tommy takes a
sudden
interest in evasive school teacher Maria (Rosario Dawson), whom he meets
in
a video store.  Maria is divorced from small, tough-talking schlmiel Ben
(David Krumholtz), a doorman and rock musician wannabe who cheated on
her.
Ben, still pining for Maria, finds a welcome distraction  in edgy
student/waitress Ashley (Brittany Murphy), who is having an affair with a
much older and married dentist, Griffin (Stanley Tucci), whose suspecting
wife Annie (Heather Graham), a real estate agent, has her eye on one of
her
customers, Tommy (back to Ed Burns again), who is (remember?) looking for
a
new pad since his girlfriend kicked him out.  So much for the Kevin Bacon
six degrees of separations and divorces angle.

To punch up the thought processes of our six relationship-minded
specimens,
Burns has given his film a documentary/reality TV feel.  Each of our
protagonists express their own individual and personal philosophies on
the
meaning of love and sex with a `man on the street' interviewer.  These
telling bits are conveniently spliced here and there into each of their
ongoing stories, which are not only a biting commentary on the social
scene,
but often humorously contradict their actions and intent.

Burns, a native New Yorker, gives us a passionate, authentic,
down-to-earth
vision of his 'hood.  No picaresque postcard images are to be found here.
No tourist-like views of Rockefeller Center, the Statue of Liberty, Times
Square, etc.  And just as dressed-down and down-to-earth is his solid
ensemble cast.  The stories are evenly laid out with no one performance
getting short shrift.  Burns, Dawson, Tucci, Murphy, Klumholtz, and
Graham
all have meaty roles here and each of their stories are well-presented
and
attention-grabbing.  The philandering Tucci character, the least
sympathetic
of the bunch, still manages to drum up some pity, if not sympathy, for
his
subsequent actions.  What's more, the outside circle, the peripheral
friends/instigators/colleagues, etc., add immeasurably to the humor and
atmosphere of the piece, particularly Aida Turturro as a worldly wise
teacher/friend of Dawson's, Dennis Farina as Burns' overt male chauvinist
boss, Michael Leydon Campbell in dual roles as a rocker and male half of
a
bickering married couple, and Callie Thorne as the bickering
wife.

No one treats New York better than Woody Allen.  With "Sidewalks of New
York" Edward Burns pays tribute to this fair city, and he pays homage to
Mr.
Allen -- 1992's "Husbands and Wives" in particular.  Notice Burns'
analytical approach to his characters, the hand-held camera work and
jump-cut style of editing (which is actually smoother and less jolting
than
in Allen's above-mentioned film), the pneumatic jazz score, the
reflexive,
conversational-like bantering between his characters, the episodic
storylines, and, most importantly, the obvious devotion he has for NY.
It
all but spells out W-O-O-D-Y.  But, in this case, imitation is the
sincerest
form of flattery.   He's learned well from the master.


<|_=00=_|>

Edward Burns once again shows that he's an excellent writer and this is a
pretty good film about the relationships of several people. Each character
is well drawn out and the dialogue is especially good. Burns has the
characters look into the camera and talk about what's going on with them and
what they are feeling like its a documentary. I'm not a big fan of this
technique but it does work okay here. Brittany Murphy is very good and shows
a lot of natural charm and Rosario Dawson has an interesting role. The only
part that doesn't quite ring true is Stanley Tucci as the cheating husband.
Why would anyone cheat on Heather Graham? But for the most part its an
extremely well written film and all the actors are very good. Nothing
elaborate but very honest. You have to appreciate it for
that.
<|_=00=_|>
Tommy (Edward Burns) is a television production man in Manhattan. His
girlfriend has just given him the heave-ho from their joint apartment,
stating she doesn't want kids and sees no future for them. Tommy is
miffed because he gave up his own digs to move in with her, at her
request. He temporarily bunks with his boss (Dennis Farina). The boss
man is womanizer, boasting that he's slept with 500 women and left most
of them "baying at the moon". Nevertheless, Tommy wants his own place
so he gets in touch with NY realtor, Annie (Heather Graham). They begin
at search for a suitable habitat, becoming friends in the process.
Annie is married to a dentist named Griffin (Stanley Tucci). Annie
wants children but, unknown to her, Griffin is having a fling with a 19
year old transplant from Iowa (Brittany Murphy) and he has been
neglecting Annie in a big way. The young lady, Ashley, detests meeting
Griffin in hotel rooms but has fallen for Griffin's lying promises.
There is an attractive young doorman interested in her, too. Meanwhile,
the doorman's beautiful ex-wife, Maria (Rosario Dawson) has met Tommy
at the video store. Although she has dated no one since her stinging
divorce, she begins a brief affair with Tommy. How will things shake
down on the sidewalks of Manhattan? This is a great film and a tour de
force for Burns, who wrote and directed it. Certainly, he is one gifted
movie maker, as evidenced by his earlier films, including The Brothers
McMullen and She's the One. In Sidewalks, he again probes relationships
in the modern era, when sex can be around every corner and the more
traditional marriage of an earlier age is absent. In doing so, Burns
shows his brilliance for a balanced dissection, for he presents
differing viewpoints in the course of the flick. All of the players
here, from the scumbags Tucci and Farina, to the lovely Dawson to the
very attractive Graham, Murphy, and Burns himself, are simply great.
Add on a nice NYC setting, some terrific costumes and some great
production values and you have a fine looking film as well. The story
and direction are faultless, as Burns uses many interesting techniques
to tell his tale, including testimonies and flashbacks. Watch out for a
bit of rough language and sexual conversation, if that is important to
you. However, there are truly no cracks in this Sidewalk, it is one
wonderful film. Get your hands on a copy soon, very soon. And, here's
hoping Burns will continue to make many more films.
<|_=00=_|>

In a year that has brought much terror to this great city, it is good to see
a film that celebrates love and single life in New York- `Sidewalks of New
York'. This one is writer-director Edward Burns' new movie. Steady Eddie has
done it again! `Sidewalks of New York' is one of the best films of the year!
You should `park' yourself to your nearest `central' located  theatre, and
go see this gem! The film is centered around six characters who are in an
'empire state' of romantic delusion in New York. At various times, an unseen
interviewer asks them questions about their romantic lives. This is very
effective because it bring us closer to the characters and helps set the
scenes with a more direct approach. `Sidewalks of New York' stars Heather
Graham, David Krumholtz, Brittany Murphy, Stanley Tucci, Rosario Dawson,
Dennis Farina, and Burns. I hope I am not being too `broad' and going out of
my `way' when I say that their performances is the best ensemble acting I
have seen in a film this year. The acting `queen' here though is Heather
Graham. Her work as the romantic free-spirited wife reminded me much of the
`Annie Hall' character from Woody Allen's great film of the same name. 
Also, I think the `stocks are rising' on the chances of Stanley Tucci
getting a Best Supporting Actor Oscar nomination. His performance as the
cheating husband who is always in a `sexual new york state of mind' is one
of the best of the year. However, the best part of the film is Burns'
realistic-witty screenplay. It is about time that academy voters realize
that Eddie Burns is one of the most talented screenwriters around. I
guarantee you will love this New York film. So be a part of it and go see-
`Sidewalks of New York' `Sidewalks of New York'.
***** Excellent

<|_=00=_|>

Edward Burns latest film shows us the inhabitants of the island of Manhattan
in all their splendor. We know a lot of the people that inhabit this movie
since, at one time, or another, we have known people just like
these.
The sidewalk interviews are a lot of fun to watch, as we're always guessing
where they were shot. All the interviews pale in comparison with the one
where the director, is photographed with the World Trade Center as a
background in all its majesty and glory.
Stanley Tucci keeps getting better all the time, being the actor, as he is
seen here, or the director in his own film. His interpretation of the creepy
dentist whose own masculinity is put into question by the same person he is
trying to use and won't let go. Heather Graham plays against type and the
result is excellent. Rosario Dawson was a revelation. Her character makes a
painful and necessary decision, although, perhaps, we are not prepared for
it, when she breaks away from a situation that will only bring her
unhappiness, in the long run. Brittany Murphy keeps getting better all the
time. She's a natural with a winning smile. The only trouble was that Dennis
Farina's character doesn't have a bigger role to play.

<|_=00=_|>

Heather Graham, in one of her better performances, and Dennis Farina as
comedic relief, provide much of this film's minor merits.

 Otherwise, it's a pretty cynical exercise, and the device of having the
characters talk to an unseen interviewer is made doubly annoying by the fact
that the characters' observations are banal and uninteresting (the device
was used to great effect in a French movie A Pornographic Affair).

 I found all the male characters to be thoroughly unsympathetic, ranging
from pathetic (the doorman), totally lacking in introspection (Burns), and
venal (Tucci). While I'm sure Burns would say the point was to show how
screwed-up men can be, I don't think it does anybody any favours to
repeatedly depict men stalking and showing up unannounced to exes and
flames' apartments/houses. Reinforces that this is somewhat understandable
and normal behaviour.

 And, aside from the one couple (perhaps), these characters' dwellings are
preposterous given their station in life, unless we're to believe they all
have large trust funds.

<|_=00=_|>

Edward Burns is the kind of writer/director whose movies make you feel
like you definitely could be one of the characters. 

The feelings, insecurities, confidence, etc. of the characters you can
see and make connections throughout the movie because of the way it was
filmed, as if it were a documentary. It gave the audience a more unique
perspective than most romantic films. There was much less of the "meant
for each other" bull that you see in most romantic comedies. The
characters were believable without tending towards cynical. The best
facet of the movie is that it allows the audience to draw their own
conclusions about love, sex, and these relationships without pushing
too hard the director/writer's ideals. 

A good film, refreshingly real, but without the big important moments
(transformation, change, when characters learn something, etc.) it is
ultimately forgettable. This movie doesn't teach an audience anything
it doesn't already know, it simply confirms/denies our own viewpoints
on relationships. Edward Burns seemingly takes a camera to real life
people and shows the all encompassing exterior of their relationships
with their lovers.

<|_=00=_|>

Like many other commentators here, I got that Woody Allen feeling while
watching this movie.  "Sidewalks of New York" had some likeable and some
dislikeable elements.  It did provide plenty of interesting commentary on
the rather sad state of modern relationships, but at the same time, this
relationship banter included a preponderance of sex talk, to the point where
I wanted to yell at half the characters, "All right, we get it! Stop whining
already."  The acting was fairly good, even from Heather Graham,
surprisingly enough.  Brittany Murphy, as well.
  The "documentary" feel, despite jittery camera shots, gave the film a
refreshingly different atmosphere, that saved it from descending even
farther into the depths of melodrama.  My final complaint is one that I have
about a lot of movies, so it isn't entirely specific to this one: Why New
York? Why is it always New York? Of course, I understand the budget concern
here, but the story would have worked in any city of appreciable size.  Let
me say, I would lay down my money at a theater if I knew a movie was set in
a place such as Denver, St. Louis, Kansas City, Dallas, Atlanta, Chicago,
Detroit, Seattle, or practically any city outside of L.A/S.F or the
Boston-DC region.  
(For movies set in NYC, though, I liked "The Bone Collector" because it
showed the seedy, older sides of the city, not just the glitzy Manhattan
Skyline)  
<|_=00=_|>

In the DVD commentary, Ed Burns says he wanted to make a movie that was
"completely different." Who is he kidding? It's so close to Woody Allen
that if it were released as a Woody Allen movie people would accept
that Woody had made it. The mannerisms (e.g., people stammering and
saying "you know" a lot, the jokes, the hand-held camera)... now don't
get me wrong, it's done well, and beautifully filmed and acted ($1
million dollar budget, shot in 17 days? Hard to believe). I hope to see
more of lovely Rosario Dawson - omigod, those lips! - and Brittany
Murphy's star is rising as we speak. Stanley Tucci needs a toupe. He is
an OK actor, nothing special, but I don't want to see this man's ugly
bald head.

<|_=00=_|>

This is a very funny movie.  The subject matter is near and dear to
everyone's heart: Dating and relationships, marital or otherwise.  The story
centers around 6 main characters that are made to look like they're just
regular people on the streets of New York.  Each one is `interviewed' on the
street about topics ranging from sex, dating and relationships.  Then we see
what each person's dating or marital life is like. Each of the 6 people's
lives are intertwined somehow throughout the movie.  A well done, well acted
cross-section of the 6 people's love lives.  Also, look for Dennis Farina's
character.  This guy had me rolling on the floor laughing; everything he
said and did was funny to me.  An enjoyable hour and a half.  Highly
recommended.
