

I saw this when I was a small child and I laughed and cried and enjoyed! I
saw it again and now that I'm a musician I was able to appreciate the
music
and more so, the plot and the character study! But as always, this one's
well for kids, but the kid in the older audience can't help but enjoy as
well. Felix the Cat is one of the most likable characters in cartoon
history
and this adventure was one of his best!
<|_=00=_|>
I remember watching this on VHS as a kid, and even then, it seemed odd.
So, when I got the chance to watch it again, I had to take it and
confirm that, yes, even before I developed any sort of taste, there was
a reason 

You've got: 

Colliding art styles: Felix retains some of the start-stop jerkiness
often found in old cartoons, while the princess shows some (but not
quite enough) fluidity. The rest of the characters are bouncing,
flailing, late-'80s style messes. Ugly as sin, and made worse by
repeated scenes, which only get uglier the second time through. 

For a kid's movie, why the heck is there a scene with mutant seahorses
trying to attract the attention of a pair of legs by flouncing their
boobs about, and a gag where a young fox is straining to pee on Felix's
magic bag?

There's almost no plot. It's more like a series of events that just
kind of happen, but never once feels tied together. It doesn't make
sense, not in a surreal and zany way (cf. Yellow Submarine), but in a
wholly pointless one. There's no depth of character, either; they're
all just things moving around on a screen, without motivations or logic
or plot.

Presumably, the Professor and Poindexter characters are a tie-in to the
old show, but they add absolutely nothing to the movie. In fact,
there's a number of scenes that don't seem to do anything besides take
up time.

The audio frequently fails to match up with the animation, from the
music scenes to voices. And voices are regularly obscured beneath the
score and sound effects. But that's okay, because voice acting ranges
from apathetic to obnoxious to hammy and overblown. Not that there's
much to say. If there's not a groan-worthy line exposition occurring,
there's a constant babble of lame puns instead.

It's watchable as an animated train wreck or distraction for kids with
undemanding tastes, but an animated classic it is not. Oh, the songs
are kind of catchy, in an embarrassingly cheesy manner, though.
<|_=00=_|>
Felix the cat is a cartoon from the 1920's. It was very good and pretty
funny. But some Idiot in Hollywood thought that this would transfer
well into film. That person should have their brain examined.

The film is about Felix the cat who travels to the land of Oriana to
help Princess Oriana to fight off her evil uncle after a science
experiment and wants to rule the land of Oriana. There is also a
sub-plot about how Felix's Magic bag keeps getting stolen by this mad
scientist.

This is a loud and obnoxious film filled with bad characters, stupid
story and the sound mixing with characters is awful. Sometimes you
cannot understand what the characters are saying. Felix is very dull
and kind of sick at times because he sees corpses and starts laughing.
Stay away from this awful film and stick to the classic cartoon.

Rated G.

1hr 22min/82min.

BOMB/****
<|_=00=_|>
This is the most annoying animated movie from I have ever seen. It
never lets up for a second. The only way I can describe this movie is a
bunch of kids jumping up and down on a bed yelling.

The film was made in 1989 and it's opens with an introduction by Felix
the cat. However this intro is a CGI head that might scare people out
of the theater. The rest of the film, however, is rendered in
hand-drawn animation. So the CGI Felix head is compliantly pointless.
the rest of the film is a just a noise, noise, noise that insults your
intelligence.

There have been many movies based of of other cartoons but they mostly
suck. 

Such as Speed Racer(2008) Scooby Doo(2002) Garfield(2004) Yogi
Bear(2010) Alvin and the Chipmunks(2007) Underdog(2007 The Smurfs(2011)

My advise to you is to keep away from this one and stay with the
cartoons.
<|_=00=_|>
I will be fair with this movie. Even though it's one of my more beloved
movies I would watch when I was a kid, I will admit that the movie's
not the best. Shoddy animation and inconsistent character designs
(Princess Oriana, for example, looks like she belongs in a different
movie altogether.) go hand-in-hand with hauntingly beautiful music and
rather clever ideas that, for lack of a better term, are pretty
bizarre. Especially keep an eye out for Wack, a reptilian ringleader
with a lisp and a sentient scepter armed with a long tongue.

The movie starts out alright. Introducing almost all of the cast right
from the get-go and immediately presenting the beautiful world of
Oriana captures the audience's attention very quickly. In just thirty
minutes, the viewer watches a Felix explores a mine, enters another
dimension, escapes a giant shark/manta ray monster, travels through a
swamp, and gets captured and placed as an attraction for a circus.
There's more attention to detail in the first half than in the second
half of the movie. Strangely enough, the ringleader Wack has a lot more
show time and personality than the main villain himself. The escape
from the circus is more thrilling than the final battle against the
Duke of Zill.

Sadly, this movie has a very strange case of misplaced climax. Once
Wack's circus is destroyed, the movie really seems to slow down. It
almost feels like the movie makers were setting up for a very
complicated final showdown against the Duke of Zill, only to find out
that the deadline they had to meet was a lot sooner than they realized.
You watch as Felix builds acquaintances with characters like the
Mizzards and Tim, only to see them rendered useless in the later
scenes. (Especially with the Mizzards, who disappear into a suitcase
and "conveniently" show up five minutes before the credits) Instead of
actually fighting the Duke of Zill, Felix throws a book at one of the
Duke's strongest robots to "conveniently" destroy the entire army and
the Duke of Zill "conveniently" disappears with a "I'll be back". If
you look closely, you can even see some animations from the previous
act cycled to fill in for lost time.

It's a good movie, but for limited audiences. If you love Felix, by all
means, buy the movie for you or for your children. Few people aside
from children, people who grew up with the film, or avid fans of Felix
will enjoy this movie. Once you get past the shoddy exterior, one will
discover a fun and enjoyable experience for their children.
<|_=00=_|>

In general, this was an interesting movie, using some of the world's first
computer animation for special effects.  Made right after Czechloslovakia
was ridding itself of Communism, this production had a wonderful team of
voice actors playing a diverse cast of characters.  Overall, the movie was
good, although Felix himself, his personality, and his voice can all get
really annoying.  The animation was quite interesting, as well as the
artwork gone into it.  It may not be the best movie for everyone, but has
always been one of my favorites.  I suggest you at least try to see
it.
<|_=00=_|>
I think this film wasn't actually meant to be a film at theatres, nor
was it meant to be a kids film at all, but in fact was meant to be an
American Torture weapon for captured Soviet Spies who suffered from
epilepsy. In fact, I don't think you need epilepsy to suffer some
really rotten memories from this one. Let me put it this way, its
cheaply made, its poorly animated, the dialogue is crass, the sound
management sounds like it was done by a 3 year old banging away at the
console, the movie never knows when to stop making noise for a few
moments, the images seen are enough to leave children mentally scarred
and the story is practically non-existent.

Let me break it down. First things first, the problems with this film
can be found within the first 2 minutes. 

One, the animation is a joke, with the dialogue and the lip movements
never matching up, as well as it not having any rhythm, like every
other frame was left out to save on cost, so it makes the whole thing
rather jumpy. 

Two, the sound management is totally unmanaged. There is too much
speaking and most of the time its pasted over someone else's dialogue
whilst that other person's dialogue is much more important. It's like
it's afraid that if the noise stops for a second the viewers will lose
all interest. Also, background noises are for some reason given
priority over the dialogue as most words can't be heard over a trivial
sound in the background.

Three, the characters are just stupid. The Princess is a complete Bimbo
who disbanded her army even though the threat of invasion by her uncle
loomed over them. Felix is mentally sick, laughing at the dead and
talking to himself. And everyone else is just there to make noise and
make this movie justifiable, with none of them really making any
pivotal points in the story.

As for the story, I don't even want to go there, you folks can try and
figure it out, as for me, I have much better things to waste my time on
rather than fathoming out what some idiot in Broadmoor could have
written in half an hour.

Overall, its a miserable excuse for a film, it's just a waste of
animation and film time. I don't think any child would find this
enjoyable, and if they did, I'd have them see a Psychiatrist pronto!
<|_=00=_|>
I'm sorry, but I never heard of Felix the Cat. And when I watched the
movie, it's as if Hannah-Babara hated kids and decided "Hey, let's make
this movie and make millions of children cry"! 

When Princess Oriana(Maureen O'Connell) gets kidnapped by a crazy
scientist named Zill(Peter Newman), the princess' tear(?!) takes an
alternate dimensional travel and finds Felix(Chris Phillips). When
Felix follows the tear(?!!!) to the strange land of Oriana, he
encounters a variety of beings. He is followed by the Professor and his
nephew, Poin Dexter, and.... All right! That does it! I am not going to
tell you the story, but I'll tell you why I hate this movie! 

The songs: why do we need a song for a group of foxes looking at a bag?
Is that really necessary?!

The animation: It's probably done by the same idiot who did those
god-awful cut-scenes for the Zelda CD games. 

The character design: Why does the villain look like a rip-off of Darth
Vader from Star Wars? This movie's ripping off Darth Vader from Star
Wars! 

Felix the Cat: Is it just me or did I just witness Felix the Cat
laughing at a skull and making faces at it? What the Flying Flip?! What
is he, a sadist?! Is laughing at dying or dead people and making faces
at them his personal hobby?! And I don't suppose that if I see a
funeral, there'd be tons of people laughing their freaking heads off
and making faces at the deceased while their loved ones are lowered
into their graves after they die! 

And last, the name of the villain. Zill? That's the best name for a
villain you can come up with?! Zill?!! Seriously! Boy oh boy, this
movie disgusts me. 

This movie is so bad, it drove the Nostalgia Critic to the breaking
point. All the characters are loathsome beings, the animation looks
like an obnoxious Zelda CD-i game, the music is generic, the songs are
idiotic, the story makes no sense, and the main character is a sadist.
I'm starting to notice that this movie is like a rejected Zelda CD-i
game. In fact, this whole movie is a rejected Zelda CD-i game!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie, ever since i was a kid, was strange to me. I never really
understood this film, but i loved it anyway. I liked the way they
ACTUALLY put an interesting villain (Duke of Zill) and good yet simple
enemies (the Cubes and Cylinders). And last summer i found the VHS tape
for a few dollars, so i bought it and watched it again. This time i
understood the story, a princess in danger i knew that, i just didn't
know why or how Felix ended up in Oriana, but now that i understand the
story more, i give the story a solid 8 out of 10. Just a few small
adjustments and fix up the script a little, but thats about it. This is
my only favourite cartoon movie that i can watch over and over again
because of the characters, originality, use of effects and animation
(The Cylinder and Cube lights) and i like the way they put their own
music in. Songs like the one you hear at the circus "Who is The Boss"
by the Duke of Zill? Ya, that always made me want to watch it. A reason
why the Duke of Zill is a good villain is that the movie actually
explained and told you about his history, that he is the princess's
uncle and why he became a robot, doesn't leave the audience hanging.
And so, i give this movie a perfect 10/10.
<|_=00=_|>
I think I see where the creators were trying to go with this weird
melange of mixed story elements and bland artistic choices. But for me,
it didn't work at all. 

First, the story itself. I don't remember much of Felix from my younger
days, but I have half-remembered images of an irrepressibly cheerful
kitty who pulled amazing things out of his "Bag Of Tricks" and tickled
my younger self with his magical "anything can happen" existence. And
it's obvious that's what the film makers are trying to do here. But to
me,now, it feels forced and phony and annoying. 

I found some of the original Felix cartoons on YouTube to see if my
adult tastes and sensibilities were to blame...nope, those old cartoons
are still weird and goofy and incredibly creative. 

But you know what else they were? They're SHORT. 

And there's the problem. Felix is a character meant to show up, do
something outrageous and tricky, and LEAVE. If you keep him around for
90 minutes plus, you have to try to flesh him out, and add to his
backstory...and the creators just don't have the ability to do this
convincingly. Now Neil Gaiman or Terry Pratchett (from this generation)
or Theodore Sturgeon, or even R.A. Lafferty...THOSE guys could have
come up with a way to fill things out and come up with a story that
justified this much time with the character without exhausting our
patience. 

I might have been able to live with a poor story if the actual
animation quality had been better, but to me, that's where the film
really falls down. You'd expect this level of animation for a weekly
kids cartoon on TV, not a feature release. 

The character designs were generic and undistinguished, and the
animation was pure hack work. I understand that good animation is hard,
hard work; it takes time, talent, money, and inspiration. "Felix" was
completely lacking in inspiration and talent. Or else the talent didn't
have any time or money. Once every 3-4 minutes, there would be a nice
flash of something decent, but if you blinked, you'd miss it. 

Also, the sound was mixed and synched so badly that half the time I
couldn't make out what the characters were saying. The voice acting
appeared to be the stuff from the first couple of takes from actors who
spoke English as a second language. And there were musical numbers that
were neither funny or charming. 

A kid might like this. A LITTLE kid, who hadn't grown up with Warner
Brothers, Ralph Bakshi, Disney, Don Bluth, and Pixar and didn't have
any taste for "the good stuff". Or an adult who saw this as a kid and
has fond memories of it. 

I wasn't expecting much, and I got even less. File this one with
"Grandma Got Run Over By A Reindeer" and "The Magic Voyage": animated
bologna that does nothing to make you believe in the power of animation
to tell stories that live action can't.
