

I saw the original "101 Dalmatians" 3 times while en route from England
back
home to the USA and I loved it. So when I saw there was a new dalmatians
movie, "102 Dalmatians," I was elated and when I saw it, I was NOT
disappointed. In fact, I liked this version even better than the first.
Glenn Close's performance as "Ella" who has been imprisoned for 3 years
for
dognapping but who received behavioral modification but reverts to
"Cruella"
when Big Ben's chimes go off, is delightfully dastardly. And the
performance
by Gerard Depardieu as the loathsome LaPelt is extraordinary. But the
best
performances, the ones who "take the cake" are those by the Dalmatians,
real
or created, especially Oddball, the spotless dalmatian puppy who is
obsessed
with "S-P-O-T-S." The scene where she goes berserk when she sees a black
and
white sweater on a puppet in a Punch & Judy show is hilarious. There were
scenes in which it looked like the puppies were in real danger but the
magic
lies in the fact that, when you read the credits, you realize those
scenes
were created; no puppy was ever in danger. I recommend this movie highly
and
I should; I've seen it at least 7 times and I also have the video.

<|_=00=_|>
My take: Not as good as the first, but decent family fun nonetheless.

Yes we know, it's kid's stuff compared to the original, which is an
enjoyable film, no less. This one follows where the original left off.
Cruella "Ella" DeVille is kept in prison, and a group of scientist have
altered her mind, turning her from evil to a good. Sadly, when the Big
Ben rings its chimes, compassionate little Ella turns back to evil
Cruella, with plots to capture more puppies for her "Poppy Coat" and
for vengeance.

Of course, this one adds one more puppy to the 101 others. Sadly only
one of the puppies from the first makes it here (of course, he's
full-grown now), it's none other than Dipstick. Besides the dog,
Cruella and her stuttering butler Alonzo (Tim McInnerny), no other
character from the first film returns for this sequel. The plot, if you
removed some elements, is basically similar to the first film. Making
this a formulaic sequel, but let's not get to harsh in reviewing this.
You got to admit it still has some entertainment value, despite the
flaws. The puppies are cute, as always, and some of the laughs are well
enjoyable for the kiddies.

So overall, not a brilliant flick, but a fun one for the family.

Rating: *** out of 5.
<|_=00=_|>

I decided that this was going to be the first movie that I took my young
daughter to see. Seeing as how she is a dog lover and is riveted to the TV
screen every time she sees a commercial or TV show with a puppy, I figured
how could I go wrong?

I was sadly disappointed.  I found that the movie tried too hard to be
dark
and sinister....Cruella got way too much screen time and the puppies, too
little.  The movie just wasn't much fun.  Amazingly, my daughter got an
hour
or so of entertainment from this film, and then got horribly bored.  We
ended up leaving before the movie was finished, so I'm not even sure how
it
ended.

The movie was cute, but it ran way too long for the younger set who have a
reduced attention span.  More time should have been devoted to the puppies
and their antics, and less to Cruella and her scheming.  I don't believe I
was the only one who felt this way....as my daughter and I were leaving
the
theatre, I noticed two youngsters fast asleep.  Not a good testimonial for
a
children's film.

Save this one for a video rental so your kids can fast forward through the
boring bits before they, too, fall fast asleep.  
<|_=00=_|>

Enormous fun for both adults and children, this film works on numerous
levels:  there is everything from car crashes and cake in the face to some
very good (yet subtle) jokes for adults.

Glenn Close is at her sublimely evil best as Cruella (`call me Ella') De
Ville.

After three years in Dr. Pavlov's Behaviour Modification Clinic she is cured
of her desire for fur – even the puppy-skin fur she had so intensely
desired.  She even has all of her fur coats placed in the dungeon of the
extraordinary castle she inhabits.

But it wouldn't be a ‘Dalmatian' movie without the subterfuge and
machinations of Cruella and you know that something will change her
behaviour modification. And now she needs one extra puppy (hence 102
Dalmatians) to complete her nefarious scheme this time
round.

Ioan Gruffudd is instantly appealing as the hero of the film that runs the
`Second Chance' dog shelter.  Though he was in `Titanic' and in last year's
television version (as Pip) of `Great Expectations' I didn't recognize him;
well, he was ‘Fifth Officer Lowe' in `Titanic' and I didn't see `Great
Expectations' so I am not terribly surprised.

Gerard Depardieu does a delightful turn as the furrier-pawn of Cruella.  He
prances and postures in the most outlandish and outrageous of fur clothing
you have ever seen – and does it well.  His 'Wicked Witch of the West'
homage is hilarious.

Tim McInnerny is superb is Cruella's not-so-evil henchman – he was also
‘Alonzo,' Cruella's butler, in `101 Dalmatians' and you may also recognize
him from all of the `Black Adder' Brit-Coms.  He plays his usual bumbling,
good-hearted, somewhat dim-witted character to great effect.

Oscars for costuming are generally given for the entirety of the costuming
in a film.  This is unfortunate as the clothing worn by Glenn Close is
amazing – it is incredibly detailed (note her handcuffs when she is being
released from the Behaviour Modification Clinic) and worthy of such an
over-the-top character.  Her clothing alone deserves at least an Oscar
nomination.

Animation holds a special place in my heart – but comparing this film to the
original animated film is like comparing apples to orangutans:  it can't be
done.  Suffice it to say that `102 Dalmatians' is even better than the film
version of `101 Dalmatians' that came out in 1996.  There is a lot to like
here:  from the sight gags, the dialogue, and the costumes to the casting -
it is a good film for the whole family.

<|_=00=_|>

I knew "102 Dalmatians" would become one of my favorite films as soon as it
started because it was filled with dogs and was clear plot was very
important to those involved. My love for dogs attracted me and my instincts
were not as I wasn't disappointed in the result of this
movie.

"102 Dalmatians" was simply one of the smartest and funniest films I have
seen. One thing that I found interesting was the director's drive and
motivation to complete the project without quiting. 

Glenn Close has done another incredible job portraying Cruella De Ville. Her
performance was so incredible that she made me angry everytime she did
something evil to one of the dalmatians; when this happens, you know you
have a good actress on your hands. 

Kudos to newcomers Ioan Grufford and Alice Evans as they pull off
performances, which make them look like veterans. There performances were so
great I could mistake them for naturals. These two have a lot to offer and
are here to stay. 

I'm so glad I saw this film because it allowed me to forget the outside
world and let me relax with my popcorn and soda pop. "102 Dalmatians" is
such a delightfully light-hearted comedy that will warm your hearts and spur
you into action at the same time.
<|_=00=_|>
Cruella has been in jail and in her time there a doctor has worked with
her and made her change and become a brand new person. She now loves
puppies and hates fur and comes out a brand new woman. She tires her
best but for stupid reason, which never gets explained in the movie,
the ticking of Big Ben (the London tower clock) she goes mad and goes
back to her evil self. After she had gotten out of jail, and before she
turned back to her old self, she helped organize a puppy "safe house".
After she goes back she once again wants more dalmatians and although
different in action, same in story as far as her getting them stolen
and all attempts are captured in goofy glory as we see a less funny
version of part one over again.

Production was bad in this one, definitely a lower budget, and no where
near the time and effort and talent devoted into this one. The music
was bad, the acting was bad (for the most part) and its just a waste of
time. Sequels often suck, so its not that big of a deal, you should
know what you are getting.

Glenn Close did a great job again, but her character was written badly
here, so her acting couldn't save it. Most of the acting was mediocre
at best. Ben Crompton did a good job as Ewan and thats about the only
person that stood out. Eric idle as the voice of that stupid bird was
annoying too.

This movie is something you might shut your "youngins" up with for an
hour and a half but it's a truly inferior film to its predecessor. Was
hard for me to set through. 2 out of 10 stars.
<|_=00=_|>
unfortunately,this second live action film is a pale imitation of its
predecessor.it's a lot slower,and the story feels contrived.it almost
seems like filler to me.there are a few comic moments,though not as
many as its predecessor.i think they should have left it at the first
one,101 Dalmatians.Glenn Close returns as Cruella De Vil,and is
good,but has much less to do this time around.plus,her two henchmen
form th preventions film are not in this one,and they added some comic
relief.Gerard Depardieu is in this one,in a completely ridiculous
role,and he looks quite silly,to be polite.despite its problems its
still watchable.my vote for 102 Dalmations is a 5/10
<|_=00=_|>
In 1996's "101 Dalmatians," Cruella De Vil was arrested by the London
Metropolitain Police (God bless them) for attempting to steal and
murder 101 puppies - dalmatians. All covered in mud and hay, she spent
the next 4 years in the "tin can." Now, 4 years later, she,
unfortunately, was released from the jail. I say, that's about 28 years
- in dog years!!!!!

So, in 2000, Disney decided to release a sequel to the successful
live-action version of the classic film and it is hereby dubbed "102
Dalmatians." In it, there is a 102nd dalmatian added to the family
(Oddball is the name, I think; I should know this since this was just
shown on TV recently), and the puppy had no spots!!!!! Also, while
Cruella (again played by Glenn Close) has escaped again, she wanted a
bigger, better coat - made once again out of the puppies!!!!!

I especially liked the theme song - I'm sure everybody loves the
"Atomic Dog" song from the 70s or so. And now, we hear a bit of it in
this movie!!!!!

"102 Dalmatians" is such a great film that I keep on wondering - WHEN
WILL THERE BE A "103 DALMATIANS?????" LOL

10 stars
<|_=00=_|>
A sequel to (actually a remake of) Disney's 1996 live-action remake of
101 Dalmations. Cruella deVil (Glenn Close) is released from prison
after being "cured" of her obsession with fur by a psychologist named
Dr. Pavlov (ugh!). But the "cure" is broken when Cruella hears the toll
of Big Ben, and she once again goes on a mad quest to make herself the
perfect coat out of dalmation hides.

This movie is bad on so many levels, starting with the fact that it's a
"Thanksgiving family schlock" movie designed to suck every last
available dime out of the Disney marketing machine. Glenn Close
over-over-over-over-acts as Cruella. With all that she had to put up
with in this movie -- the lame script, the endless makeup, getting
baked in a cake at the end -- I hope they gave her an extremely-large
paycheck.

(Speaking of which, where in the world are you going to find a fur coat
factory, a bakery with a Rube Goldberg assembly line, and a candlelight
restaurant all located within the same building -- as you do in the
climax of this film?) Of course, the real stars of the movie are
supposed to be the dogs. They serve as the "Macaulay Culkin's" of this
movie, pulling all the stupid "Home Alone" gags on the villains.
(Biting them in the crotch, running over their hands with luggage
carts, squirting them with icing, etc., etc., etc., ad nauseum.) I have
to admit, the dogs were fairly good actors -- much better than the
humans.

Gerard Depardieu is completely wasted in this movie as a freaked-out
French furrier. The two human "dog lovers" -- rehashed from the earlier
film, but with different actors -- are completely boring. When they
have a spaghetti dinner at an Italian restaurant, the movie cuts back
and forth between the two lovers, and their dogs at home, watching the
dinner scene from "Lady and the Tramp." I thought to myself, "Oh
please, don't go there!" I half-expected the humans to do a satire on
the "Lady and the Tramp" dinner scene -- as Charlie Sheen did in "Hot
Shots: Part Deux" -- doing the "spaghetti strand kiss," pushing the
meatball with his nose, etc.

And don't get me started on the annoying parrot with Eric Idle's voice.

The costumes were nominated for an Oscar, and the costumes in the movie
*are* good. But they are the only good thing in the movie. The rest of
it is unbearable dreck.
<|_=00=_|>
Disney goes for a cash grab with 102 Dalmatians. Cruella de Vil is
released from prison after being rehabilitated by cutting edge
treatment and expensive lawyers. If she ever kidnaps puppies again she
would lose her fortune. Her probation officer Chloe has a dalmatian and
is also dealing with The Second Chance Dog Shelter owned by Kevin which
has financial problems that Cruella buys in order to repair her
reputation.

The doctors that treated Cruella discover that the sounds of Big Ben
undoes all the therapy and the subject reverts to their former
behaviour which is exactly what happens as Chloe's office is near Big
Ben and when the bells ring Cruella reverts to her former bad self and
enlists the help of French fashion designer to steal 102 Dalmatian
puppies for a new fur coat.

Glenn Close is less hammy here at first as she has to appear calm and
cured. Gerard Depardieu certainly camps it up as the cruel fashion
designer whose staff in the sweatshop pay him for work.

The film continues well from the live action 101 Dalmatians with the
two romantic leads replaced. It is cartoonish violent, silly and fun
for the kids with a messy finale.

The movie is made with style, there are comical chase scenes, animals
escaping from their pursuers. There is a wonderful scene where Cruella
sees everything in Westminster in dalmatian dots.

The young romantic leads are rather bland though and the movie offers
little new from the original.
