

No contest, I will say this marks the best of the Farrelly Brothers.  Not
because this film is laugh-out-loud funny--it's funny, but not
hilarious--but because it has a great heart and delivers a beautiful
message
without any corny Hollywood pretentions.  Sure, the premise is funny--a
shallow guy gets virtually hypnotized into thinking all the unattractive
women he sees are foxes and ends up going out with a 500-pound woman who he
also thinks is a fox.  It's a great premise, but the Farrellys don't fixate
on that premise alone, preventing it from turning it into a lame, one-joke
slapstick comedy.  This is a comedy with heart--a rare finding.  In between
laughs, you really get wrapped up in the characters and storyline.  The
gags
flow quite naturally, without the Farrellys forcing any humor onto the
screen.  If a comic opportunity comes along, they take advantage, but
there's no random acts of slapstick.

I am pleasantly surprised with Jack Black, who has proved in this movie
that
he doesn't only have what it takes as a comic actor, but also as a serious
actor and a romantic lead.  I've always enjoyed seeing him on screen, but
he
usually plays the same wound-up, hyperkinetic characters.  Basically, he's
funny, but you still know you're watching Jack Black on screen.  This time
he exercises his ability as a method actor, he succeeds well.  Gwyneth
Paltrow is adorable and sweet, capturing the audience's sympathy with her
winning smile.  Joe Viterelli is amusing as her overweight Irish father,
and
actually pulls off a fairly convincing Irish accent.  The sizzling hot
Brooke Burns makes a few appearances.  And Jason Alexander is always a joy
to watch.

I think "Shallow Hal" does the best job at conveying the message that
beauty
is on the inside.  It has been conveyed before in films like "The Nutty
Professor," but I feel this film conveyed it best.  This could've easily
been a 105-minute fat joke, but it doesn't travel that route.  There are no
crude or mean-spirited gags.  Could it be that the Farrelly Brothers
matured?  Even of the films of theirs that I liked (ex.:  "Dumb and
Dumber,"
"There's Something About Mary") are a little uneven and contain a few gags
that are just plain cruel.  Like in "Mary," Cameron Diaz's brother is
mentally ill and the butt of a few jokes.  Here, we have a character that
walks on both his arms and legs, but he's portrayed as a normal character,
and not as a gimmick for some cheap laughs.  There are moments that really
tugged at my heartstrings.  The "burn victim" scene brought quite a few
tears to my eyes.  The story is solid, with no boring lulls.  And the
soundtrack is pretty good--I have criticized the Farrellys in the past for
using crappy music in their sountracks.

If you're looking for a good romantic/date movie with some good laughs and
a
good message, "Shallow Hal" will be an absolute delight.

My score:  8 (out of 10)
<|_=00=_|>

I loved this movie and thought Jack Black was at his best in it.  He
carried
the whole
movie along with Gwyneth Paltrow and they both did an excellent job
filling
roles unlike
any they have done before.  Many people will like this non traditional
comedy that has a
strong moral message.  If you are someone who enjoys a lighthearted
meaningful story
than definitely see this movie.  Don't be fooled by reviews that say it
makes fun of
overweight people (only) because it's message is that size doesn't and
shouldn't matter.
Yes, the main characters are shallow and say some awful things, but their
main purpose
is to represent those of us who need to change the way we view and treat
other human
beings.  I've always like Jack Black as a comedian but never pictured him
as
a "boyfriend"
character until seeing this movie.  He was able to transform the very
shallow
unappealing Hal into a very likeable person. See it for Gwyneth if
anything,
she is very
cute in it.
<|_=00=_|>

"Shallow Hal" is the best film about love, dating, and being shallow that I
have seen since "The Tao Of Steve".  This is also the best Farrelly Brothers
film I have ever seen.  It even beats out "There's Something About Mary". 
Jack Black rocks as 'Shallow' Hal Larsen, a man who wants the perfect woman
but ends up falling for the perfect woman.  Gwyneth Paltrow did very well as
Hal's overweight but big-hearted girlfriend.  Not only were the characters
well-written, the story was well executed and well plotted.  It was
unexpected in several ways and I really liked it.  The Farrelly Brothers
score a critically-acclaimed in-park home run with "Shallow Hal".  I give
this film 10 out of 10!
<|_=00=_|>

I know many complain it wasnt as funny as past farelly movies such as
"Something about Mary" or "Kingpin".  But it wasnt supposed to be.  It
was
intended to be a comedy, and it was extremely successful, and it was very
funny, however it wasnt supposed to be non-stop, grossout laughs like
their
past efforts.  I always liked the Farelly Brothers's movies because while
hilarious, they always had an underlying sweetness to them.  I think this
one prevailed the most in that department-  I think 'Shallow Hal' is an
incredibly sweet, and even more upon second viewing, just a charming,
great
movie-watching experience.  I think if people give it another chance and
cut
it some slack in the non-stop jokes department, they will see it for the
great, enjoyable movie with a message that it really is.
<|_=00=_|>
Do you judge a person - particularly a woman - by her outward
appearance? If you do, you're "shallow" and that's the message played
out in this comedy. 

The humor in here is good, very funny in spots. There are plenty of
jokes and sight gags. If you are obese and very sensitive, then skip
this film because you won't appreciate some of the humor in this film.
But, if you can laugh at yourself, you'll enjoy it too - and especially
the message this film brings.

Jack Black was pretty much of an unknown actor when this came out, but
he's well-known now after School Of Rock, King Kong and other films.
Gwyneth Paltrow everyone knows. She looked very pretty in here, maybe
the best I've ever seen her. Jason Alexander and Joe Viterelli provide
good supporting help. By the way, it was strange hearing Viterelli with
an Irish accent. This is a guy who almost always plays Mafia types.

The only thing offensive to me was the beginning with some irreverent
humor that was not needed, not part of the story, just a cheap shot
against ministers. Also, for a lightweight comedy, the profanity could
have been less. Can't someone make a modern-day comedy without language
and sex issues? I wish someone would at least try. It can be done -
just look at the classics!

Anyway, this is still a pretty funny story with, of course, a good
message about judging a book by its cover.
<|_=00=_|>

Part comedy, drama, and romance this one was a rather good little movie to
watch.  Black and Paltrow were great and Jason Alexander was hilarious.  The
movie is about a guy named Hal who is a rather decent guy, but he has a
problem.  When picking women he only looks at the outer beauty of a
woman...this is explained in the opening scene.  Hal gets trapped in an
elevator with a guy who opens Hal's mind to the inner beauty of women.  Hal
then suddenly finds the more unattractive girls perfect for him and this
leads to some funny scenes.  This also leads him to Rose Mary a gal he finds
perfect, but everyone else sees a 300lb gal.  This movie says a lot about
how shallow our society is and does a good job of it.  Though I don't think
every unattractive or fat gal is beautiful on the inside and every
attractive gal is ugly on the inside as the movie implies.  The movie also
could have been more clear that people Hal already knows would still look
the same.  I just wish ladies were as open and approachable as the movie
portrays.
<|_=00=_|>
I could not stop watching this film because I was desperate to know
exactly how the Farrelly brothers could possibly get themselves out of
the huge pit they had dug for themselves. This film claims to be
challenging what is considered beautiful in our society. In one section
a character expresses the moral heart of the film by saying that
"beauty is in the eye of the beholder" and by suggesting that we are
hypnotised into believing what is and is not beautiful by the media
etc. Fair enough! However, all representations of inner beauty are
portrayed in clichéd and predictable stereotypes of female beauty in
exactly the same way you would find in any Hollywood blockbuster. Thus,
the film reinforces the same notions of beauty that it claims it is
trying to undermine. Also, all fat people are not nice with a "good
sense of humour", this is as HUGE stereotype. I am fat, unpleasant and
not funny.
<|_=00=_|>
The Farrely Brothers, these are very odd film makers, they have such
hits like There's Something About Mary, Dumb and Dumber and Me, Myself
and Irene. I wasn't too thrilled with There's Something About Mary
after all the hyped reviews, I was thinking that their other movies
would be like that. Especially with the touchy subject of obesity in
our world that usually big people are not attractive, making it into a
comedy is tricky. But somehow I really loved Shallow Hal. Even though
it was a bit hypocritical, it's still really funny and I think it's
mainly due to the cast. Jack Black made for a great male lead going
from a total jerk into someone that the audience absolutely adored in
the end.

Hal, a superficial man, and his equally shallow friend Mauricio, share
an interest in beautiful women, and try to act cool and hip when around
them, but most women find them obnoxious and want nothing to do with
them. Hal wants to see women for their inner beauty, but his fixation
on physical beauty gets in the way. By a twist of fate, Hal meets the
famous American life coach Tony Robbins while stuck in an elevator.
Robbins, understanding Hal's situation, hypnotizes him into seeing
people's inner beauty, not their external selves. Subsequently Hal
meets and is smitten by Rosemary, the daughter of his boss. Rosemary
appears to him as slender and beautiful due to her kind, generous
nature, but is, in actuality, morbidly obese. Rosemary, who is used to
being overlooked by men due to her appearance, initially interprets
Hal's interest in her as mocking and insulting, but later realizes his
feelings for her are genuine. Mauricio becomes worried about Hal's new
taste in women, especially when he finds Hal is in a relationship with
Rosemary. One night, while Hal is on a date with Rosemary, Mauricio
catches him and says the trigger phrase, "Shallow Hal wants a gal,"
which breaks Hal's hypnosis. Now Hal has to learn on his own that the
woman that he loves may not have been all that in the looks department,
but is everything that he actually wants in a woman.

My main problem with Shallow Hal is it's shallow message, unfortunately
Hal, if he wasn't hypnotized, would have never gone for a girl like
Rosemary. Even though he learns his lesson, not every shallow man or
woman is going to be hypnotized into seeing what true beauty is. But
there are some really great laughs that Shallow Hal provides, it's also
just a heart warming romantic comedy. It's something different and the
cast really made up for what could have been a disastrous movie. I
would recommend this movie to anyone who has an open mind to a
different kind of comedy with some good laughs.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
Guys, let me hand you one piece of advice. If you have a girlfriend or
S.O. of another designation who has self-esteem issues, sit down with
her and introduce her to this movie. I can't recommend it enough. It's
the kind of romantic comedy that you can both enjoy evenly, without one
of you or the other gritting their teeth and trying to make it look
like a smile. Yes, it shows people being shallow, callous, and
sometimes mean, but it also portrays some of those same people growing,
maturing, and taking on depth. The casting is great. Gwyneth Paltrow is
cute and sweet, and Jack Black walks the line between comedic goofball
and serious romantic very well. Sure, there's a predictable happy
ending, but the most popular romance stories tend to have that in
common. Romeo and Juliet isn't everyone's cup of chai, after all. There
are laughs, but this movie has heart, too. 10 out of 10. Both thumbs
way up.
<|_=00=_|>

A frustrating film in a way. I was hugely disappointed in it for a long
while, but as the film progressed I kept wondering if my disappointment
was
merely a product of my unfair expectations. That's probably the case. I
expect a daring comedy from the Brothers Farrelly, but Shallow Hal is
surprisingly low-key. It doesn't go for easy laughs, as it easily could
have
done. The plot concerns a looks-obsessed guy (Jack Black) who is
hypnotized
into seeing the inner beauty of others. He falls in love with a fat woman
who appears to him as Gwyneth Paltrow. When the film came out, a lot of
people complained that this was terrible; he only loves her because he is
attracted to Gwyneth Paltrow, not the fat incarnation that appears in
only a
couple of shots in the first 90 minutes of the film. But these people
didn't
really stick around for the payoff in the third act. What's so surprising
about this film is how emotionally involving it is. A lot of this is due
to
Gwyneth Paltrow, who actually gives one of her best performances. But
fans
of the Farrelly Brothers, as I am myself, will not be shocked to find
that
emotional center. It was there in both Kingpin and There's Something
About
Mary. It's just as fun when the Brothers are mean-spirited, however, as
they
were in Me, Myself, & Irene and, even better, the unfairly maligned Dumb
and
Dumber. The serious themes are really on full display here, though. The
Brothers have a true and touching affection for physical outsiders. I
still
wish that they wouldn't have forsaken comedy so much, though. I suppose
the
only jokes would have been fat jokes, but maybe not. Jason Alexander
provides almost all of the good laughs. We wonder why he and Jack Black
are
so mean about the looks of others when they aren't especially gorgeous
themselves. Some people are still asking how such a man as Jason
Alexander
can be so shallow in this film, but they, as I've said before, didn't
stick
around until the end. This film may improve on repeat viewings, as it was
bothering me for a long while. 7/10.
