

MEET THE PARENTS / (2000) *** (out of four)

By Blake French:

	The main character in "Meet The Parents" is a Chicago-based male nurse,
Greg Focker (pronounced just how it is spelled) who realizes how unlucky a
person can be. He is about to propose to his schoolteacher girlfriend, Pam
(Teri Polo), when her sister Debbie (Nicole Dehuff) calls and explains that
her new fiancé, Dr. Bob Banks (Tom McCarthy), received a blessing from her
father before he asked the question. This information makes Greg reconsider
his method of choice, and instead jumps at the opportunity to meet Pam's
overprotective parents when they fly to the east coast two weeks later to
arrange Debbie's wedding. 

	At the airport, the attendants loose Greg's parcels. Thus he arrives
without any luggage. Once at Pam's parent's house, they exchange greetings
and aquatint themselves with each other. Pam's parents, Jack and Dina Byrnes
(Robert De Niro and Blythe Danner) learn about Greg's unusual last name,
that he does not like cats, and is a male nurse, all facts that do not
settle well with Pam's father. Greg does manage to gift Jack with a pleasant
supply of rare flowers. However, even though Pam explained to Greg  that her
dad is in the hobby of rare flowers, he does not seem too impressed.

	Even More complications ensue, especially when Greg learns of Jack's
peculiar behaviors and suspicious gadgets, such as a polygraph and hidden
cameras placed in every room of the house, as well as meeting Pam's brother,
Denny (Jon Abrahams), and Debbie's soon to be in laws, Larry (James
Rebhorn), and Linda Banks (Phillis George), and Pam's wealthy ex-fiancée,
Kevin Rawley (Owen Wilson). Soon, Greg's chances of receiving Jack's
permission to wed his daughter become less and less probable as his bad luck
only manages to increase. 

	The film introduces Greg and Pam with silly quirks that come up later in
the story. Pam's parents are also quite the treat; the movie does not go
over the top but portrays them with serious humor and charismatic wit. It is
De Niro and Stiller who make the movie, however. They form an very effective
comedic chemistry, even more amusing than the likable shtick between De Niro
and Billy Crystal in "Analyze This." The filmmakers take advantage of the
phenomenal tension between Greg and Jack, and place them in one hilarious
situation after another. 

	While outrageous and at times explosively funny, director Jay Roach takes
the plot seriously. His previous films, including the Austin Powers films
and "Mystery, Alaska," have had trouble with taking anything seriously. But
"Meet The Parents" has emotional connections, develops solid empathy for
Greg, and we really believe he has something precious that can be lost: Pam.

	The movie does not completely develop romantic chemistry between Ben
Stiller and Teri Polo, thus there were times when I simply did not believe
the two were really in love. The relationship sometimes feels trite and
contrived. There are also important plot nuggets left only partially
examined: Jack's pot-head son, who could have contributed a lot more to the
drug related material, is left as a plot device to provide another string of
conflicts within Jack and Greg. 

	I really enjoyed the whimsical performances and opportune casting. Ben
Stiller reprises his "There's Something About Mary" role, with cute charm
and the obscured zany flippancy. Robert De Niro is perfect in a role he was
born to play, with serious attitude that results in the main portion of the
film's funny moments. Blythe Danner is also charming in a kind of role that
is becoming all too usual for her.

	"Meet the Parents" is one of the funniest movies of the year. It gives
audiences with a solid story that does not interfere with the comic
material, but contributes to it. The top notch performances and lively
direction also raise the film to a higher level. During a year in which
effective comedies are an endangered species, "Meet The Parents" is a
landmark achievement in light entertainment. 

<|_=00=_|>
Our story begins when a male nurse named Greg Focker (Stiller) is about
to propose to his girlfriend, Pam (Teri Polo); unfortunately, things
come to worst and before Greg can say, "Will you marry me?" he finds
out that Pam's father, Jack (Robert De Niro) approved of Pam's sister's
fiancé because he asked Jack's permission to marry her first. Taken
aback, Greg decides to wait until tomorrow, whence they are going to
meet Pam's parents, and ask Jack for approval before proposing to Pam.
Should be a piece of cake, right? Wrong. Pam's mother (Blythe Danner)
is very nice, but herein lies the problem: Not only is it apparent from
the start that Pam's plant-expert father is not really a plant-expert
(as Greg learns after Jack doesn't seem to recognize a plant Greg gives
to him--one of the rarest plants in the world), but it turns out Jack
is really in the CIA and was a "human lie detector," as Pam herself
puts it. In fact, Jack even gives Greg a lie detector test in one scene
to see if he liked the dinner earlier in the evening. "Yes," Greg
replies, to see the needle jumping. "Well, it was a little rare for my
tastes, maybe." Greg, desperately seeking approval (and nervous as
ever), seems to unintentionally cause mayhem in his possible
parents-to-be's home. Nerves shot like a drug addict, Greg is the
definition of a nervous wreck, and all his problems seem to escalate
more and more until a funny-if-sappy comedic showdown.

You know how sometimes you are really nervous, but try to hide the
fact? You seem to keep your cool, until you do something, then all your
nervousness explodes and you start knocking over things, saying stupid
things--single-handedly DOING stupid things that you just never do? And
then you look around and everyone is looking at you like you are some
sort of freak? Well, that's how it is with Greg's character in "Meet
the Parents"--he is so easy to identify with. Just like all of us, we
want to keep our cool and impress people--but once we lose it, the
coolness seems to slip farther and farther away from our grip until we
are klutzes on feet. For Greg's character, small things turn bigger and
bigger and bigger--from knocking over the remains of Jack's mother (and
having a cat go to the bathroom on the remains), to setting the house
on fire and busting the septic tank. Situations seem to escalate
farther and farther out of control and they just keep getting worse and
worse.

In one scene, Greg tries to impress everyone while playing volleyball
in a pool. His team is losing because of him. "Get up and hit the
ball," Jack says to him. So the next time the ball comes around to
Greg, he jumps up and smacks the ball with all his might, sending it
flying towards...Pam's sister (whose wedding is the next day),
shattering her nose. Greg lands back in the pool and seems to be happy,
until he realizes he smacked his sister-in-law-to-be in the nose. Then
everyone looks at him like he's an insensitive idiot.

Things like that have happened to me countless times, and that is why I
can so easily identify with Greg. People are yelling at Greg to do
something, and when he finally does it, it backfires and everyone looks
at him like he's stupid, even though he did exactly what he was told.

That's the kind of thing that makes this movie so great--not only is it
extremely funny, but we can easily identify with the main character
countless times throughout the film. That is, perhaps, the best thing
about this comedy.
<|_=00=_|>
Greg Focker (Ben Stiller) is a male nurse, poised to propose to the
woman he loves, Pam (Teri Polo) but the right thing to do would be to
ask her father's permission first. During a weekend of getting to know
them, he manages to make a strong impression; for all the wrong
reasons. Her father (Robert De Niro) isn't quite what Greg has been led
to believe, and right from the start he seems to have it in for his
daughter's partner.

De Niro and Stiller play off each other brilliantly, and both of them
give fine comic performances, with a surprising level of depth for
comedy characters. This film is packed with slick gags, hilarious
scenes and it has a really fun story; it's a comedy film that you don't
want to miss.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>

With a hero called Gaylord M. Focker, you might expect this to be a film
of
snickering silliness.  It IS snickeringly silly - the soon-to-be-immortal
champagne/urn scene; the cat-milking discussion; the skimpy swimming
trunks;
the volleyball bloodbath; the flushing cat; the wooden altar
conflagration;
the septic tank spray etc.; all good, healthy, daft, slapstick, prurient,
scatalogical stuff.  And while I in no way condone Greg's vile rage
directed
at the air-stewardess, it is very funny.

But, 'Meet the Parents' has the emotional truths that turn it from being
merely a funny film into a comedy classic.  Anyone who has ever been
married
or about to will recognise the horrible accuracy of this film.  My own
father-in-law is remarkably like Jack Byrnes here; not that he is an
ex-CIA
spycatcher (at least, I don't think so); but in his ability to intimidate,
humiliate, terrorise, impose his power.

My point is that Jack's profession is only a comic exaggeration of what
all
fathers- or mothers-in-law are like, figures terrified of losing their
children, defending them like animals in the wild, convinced that a
prospective so-and-so will never be good enough for our baby, not even
thinking that neither might they have been; refusing to admit they are
getting old, that they are losing power and control.

It's only logical that the monster in-law from hell should be obsessive
about power and control.  His domestic panopticon is a superb metaphor for
extended family life, the idea of being judged, marked on 'success' or
'suitability' ratings, your every personal, financial, health etc. problem
a
matter for family investigation.  Bitter, moi?  Greg should be lucky Jack
isn't married to Monica Geller's mom.

But the film doesn't simplistically pit Capraesque good guy Greg against
shady CIA man Jack.  If Jack is all about control, then so is Greg.  The
film has one of the best musical openings in recent memory ('if you're
gentle and sweet, you're an idiot...'), but the opening montage is more
sinister, as a faceless cameraman takes home movies of a pretty blonde.
Pam
is the true victim of this film, the prize in a macho battle of wits, the
female bystander in the great masculine generational conflict, as Jack
proves he's not past it, and Greg proves he's not a loser.  Those
voyeuristic home movies echo Jack's surveillance cameras and perform the
same function, to watch, to control, to limit (just as Kevin remembers Pam
by his photographs and his erotic memories).

One is heartened by the ironies of the ending, not just Jack breaking his
word, determined to keep up his power games as he watches his CCTV's
filming
the most private places, where people are at their most vulnerable and
exposed (revealing, truthfully, that the in-law struggle never ends)

The film also
has some cutting things to say about the lingering anti-semitism in
WASPish
society; nothing much has changed since 'Auntie Mame'.

It is wonderful to see Robert de Niro finally getting a decent comedy.  He
has always been hilarious in 'straight' roles ('Mean Streets', 'Taxi
Driver', 'Raging Bull' etc.), but his comic vehicles have spluttered to a
halt.  He is genius here, his menace, his gestures, facial contortions,
way
of throwing out a line like he's garrotting it - bliss.  If 'Parents'
finally lacks the pull of a film like 'There's Something About Mary', then
it's probably the nature of the plot.  'Mary' had an active plot, it was a
quest, necessitating narrative and character development, and thus more
audience commitment.  'Parents' is purely destructive, as Jack tries to
destroy a love that's already been built up.  Sadly, this scenario is much
truer.
<|_=00=_|>
Meet the Parents is one of the funniest films this decade and it is not
a spoof. I was laughing so hard, soda came bursting out of my nose.
Robert De Niro and Ben Stiller did such an amazing job. I was not bored
of this movie at all. Gaylord Focker and his girlfriend, Pam are set to
become engaged. But to do so, they must travel to Pam's parents. It
turns out that Pam's father, Jack is a CIA agent and dislikes Gaylord a
lot. Gaylord did many hilarious things which includes losing a rare
cat. The ironic thing is that Pam's sister got engaged and will be
married....when and if Gaylord can get his act together. The acting is
wonderful. You usually don't see De Niro doing movies like this. He did
absolutely amazing. Ben Stiller did just as good. If you want to see
this movie, get ready to laugh. This movie is full of laughs! I rate
this movie 10/10.
<|_=00=_|>

Most of the funny moments in 'Meet the Parents' involve painful scenes with
Ben Stiller. He plays Greg Focker, a male nurse who loves Pam Byrnes (Teri
Polo). He wants to marry her with her father's permission. He hasn't met her
parents yet. The movie shows us the weekend where Stiller meets the parents.
Pam's father is Jack (Robert De Niro) and her mother is Dina (Blythe
Danner). The more Greg tries to impress the parents, especially Jack who is
a former CIA-agent, the more he humiliates himself. Not only with his
actions, also with his words and stupid lies to look better.

Stiller is perfect in this kind of role. We already saw that, especially in
'There's Something About Mary'. The more he gets in trouble, the more
painful it gets, the better Stiller gets and the more we laugh. There is
also a fine little part from Owen Wilson as Pam's former lover. Stiller and
Wilson have made a lot of films together and for some reason their scenes
always work, they at least make you smile. De Niro doesn't try very hard to
be a strict person who doesn't give Greg a chance and therefore succeeds
even better. The way he slowly gets harder and harder on Greg is good for a
new laugh every time. 'Meet the Parents', directed by Jay Roach who also
directed the 'Austin Powers' trilogy, is a fine comedy with a lot of
sequences where you might feel a little uncomfortable.
<|_=00=_|>

Funny as well as touching, `Meet the Parents' blazes forth as one of the
outstanding comedies of recent years.  

Co-writers Greg Glienna and Mary Ruth Clarke, along with director Jay Roach,
have managed to make a film that is often laugh-out-loud hilarious without
ever becoming overbearing or obnoxious, the style of choice for far too many
other comedies made in this day and age.  Although the film overflows with
madcap situations and even outright slapstick at times, these comic elements
are always tethered to the reality of the premise and to the emotional
states of the characters involved.  

The foundation for any great comedy must, first and foremost, be its ability
to connect with its audience on a personal level.  `Meet the Parents' does
so from the very start by tapping into the universal dilemma we all face at
one time or another of desperately trying to make a good impression on
someone we feel holds nothing less than the fate of our lives in their own
two hands.  For some of us this person might come in the form a boss or a
potential employer or, as in poor Greg Focker's case, those most dreaded
figures of all – the prospective in-laws.  The comedy arises from seeing the
chain of ever more preposterous events and circumstances that come along to
sabotage his efforts.  Greg is a goodhearted, well-meaning nebbish who wants
nothing more out of life than to marry Pam, the girl he loves.  First,
however, he must climb over the rather formidable barrier of her eccentric
father, Jack Byrnes, played to perfection by Robert De Niro, who certainly
has his own offbeat way of looking at the world.  

The triumph of this film is that it never overdoes anything.  The people in
Pam's family and in their coterie of friends are all twisted it's true, but
twisted in sly, subtle ways that knock both Greg and us slightly off our
balance.  Like Greg, we never quite know where these people are coming from
and this greatly enhances the comedic quality of the film.  Tone is
everything in comedy and here the tone is just right.  Byrnes can seem at
one moment to be a reasonable loving father, then turn immediately around
and make the most unbalanced comments about the most trivial matters.  Even
when the movie is at its most outrageous in terms of plot complications and
slapstick, it never veers off the scale into incredibility.  Part of the
reason is that we feel so much empathy for Greg, the best Everyman character
I have seen in a movie in a long time.  Ben Stiller gives a beautifully
understated comic performance in the main role.  Greg's completely
understandable feelings of nervousness, intimidation and growing frustration
help to keep the film anchored in reality, even as the story threatens to
spiral off into undisciplined absurdity.  Luckily, the filmmakers never let
this happen.  They are also blessed with the genius of Mr. De Niro, who
never makes a false move as the seemingly crazy ex-CIA agent who may or may
not be harboring a few secrets of his own. Above all, De Niro never lets us
bank on the extent of his character's eccentricity, which brilliantly
enhances this `weekend from hell' scenario.   For crazy and maddening as he
can be at times, we can't help loving this character.

Finally, unlike in many other romantic dramas and comedies, the relationship
between the young couple in this film is both believable and touching.  Greg
and Pam are so likable - and the odds against them seem so staggering - that
we find ourselves rooting them on from first moment to last.  Their moments
together are genuinely touching at times, particularly in the film's closing
stretches.

Kudos go out to everyone involved for making `Meet the Parents' one of the
slyest, wittiest and flat-out funniest movies to come our way in a long,
long time.  

<|_=00=_|>

Warning: Spoilers ahead

This film was a real disappointment. It had a good premise and a good cast
but, apart from one or two amusing set-pieces, mainly failed to
deliver.

The plot partly relied upon mistaken identity due to the main character
having changed his name. His real name was Gaylord Foker (oh my aching
ribs!). The name was unnecessarily vulgar bearing in mind that it's
main
task was to set up the confusion of identity scenario (and hey, I
liked
the dialogue in Goodfellas and Casino so its not a sensibility issue). The
name was used at intervals throughout the film to get cheap
laughs
in a way that was more suited to the "Carry on" films. It wouldn't
be
worth mentioning, except that so many scenes in the film seemed to
rely
on it for laughs (even before his 1st name was revealed to be
"Gaylord").

Although one or two of the set-pieces were funny, every single one
of
them was telegraphed way ahead. De Niro gets all emotional about
his
Mothers ashes - Greg breaks the urn, Greg floods the lawn with s**t - his
girlfriends ex drives up in a truck and sprays them with it, the ex carves
a
beautiful altar for her sister's wedding -  Greg burns it down. And so on
and so on - you get the picture? All we were missing was Greg leaving a
rake
for someone to step on and wack themselves in the eye

Imagine a comedy that combines the intelligence and sophistication of
"Frasier" or the "Phil Silvers Show" with the slapstick of the
Marx
Brothers - well you ain't imagining this film. Mixing slapstick/farce
with a bit of sophistication is fine when done well ("The Producers"
for
example) but here the comedy never got sophisticated enough to provide
a
counterpoint to the -adequate- slapstick. The only low gag they
missed
was not having the Thai honeymoon destination being Phuket!

This was a film that intermittently promised to develop into
something
good (De Niro's poem to his dead mother for instance), and the cast
did
their best with thin material. In the end though it couldn't build
on
it's few bright spots - it could have been much, much better with a
bit
more effort.
<|_=00=_|>
Sorry, but I just don't see how anyone can find this movie funny. I put
the spoiler warning on this comment since I am about to give away the
biggest comedic device in the movie. As unbelievable as it sounds, the
protagonist in the movie has a last name that rhymes with a naughty
word. His last name is Focker! Why is this piece of information a
spoiler? Because joke after joke after joke after joke is made on this
simple premise. In fact, it's so hilarious that they felt the need to
put it in the title of the next movie! In addition, the scenarios in
this movie were so far fetched that instead of being able to enjoy it,
I spent the entire time wondering why the writers were so lazy that
instead of coming up with reasonable plot scenarios, they just passed
off ridiculous decisions in order to force supposedly humorous scenes.
Case and point - Ben Stiller's character loses his luggage while on the
way to meet his fiancée's parents. The first morning he wakes up in his
fiancée's family's house, he wants to change clothes but doesn't have
any. His fiancée suggests that he borrow some of her brother's clothes.
So far, this all seems reasonable. Stiller's character then asks her to
go get some of these clothes. Instead, she tells him it would make more
sense that even though he has yet to meet her brother, he should walk
into his room unannounced and feel free to root through his bureau
until he finds something he wants. Would any person in their right mind
ever suggest such a thing? Needless to say, her brother then catches
this man he doesn't know going through his underwear drawer. That's it!
That's the big joke! And that is supposed to be funny! I could go on
with numerous examples just as ridiculous as this that litter this
movie, but I've wasted enough time. If I can convince just one person
not to waste the 2 hours of his or her life on this abomination of a
film, I will consider this exercise worth while.

1 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>

Fresh from a lackluster summer full of sophomoric films, I was quite happy
to have found myself in the theatre watching a sneak preview of the
Universal/Dreamworks picture Meet the Parents.

I remember the weekend that I first met my husband's parents. Joe and I
were
not even engaged yet. I spent the entire weekend stressed and worried that
I'd offend them (they're Jewish and it was Passover weekend) or make an
idiot of myself.

I need not have worried. In the movie Meet the Parents, Ben Stiller's
character, Greg Focker (yes, that *is* his last name) breaks all
previously
held records for making an ass of one's self and sets new, unattainable
ones, albeit, through not much fault of his own.

The premise of this movie is simple. Greg wants to marry his girlfriend
Pam
Byrnes (played by Teri Polo). However, he has yet to meet her family.
Pam's
sister Debbie is getting married and so Greg goes along, wanting to ask
the
father's permission since that is what Jack (Pam's father) would expect.

Greg even packs a gorgeous two Carat ring in his carry-on. Unfortunately,
his bag is deemed too big and it must be checked. You *know* at this point
that they WILL lose his bag. What you don't know is all the ensuing comedy
that will stem from this one incident.

The humor in this film reminds me of the TV show Seinfeld. It all
connects.
Jerry loses luggage. However, in this luggage is something that Kramer put
in there that will cause...yada yada yada....which has a domino effect and
POW! The audience is loving it.

As was the audience that saw this sneak preview. There were many times
when
the movie could not be heard because people were *still* laughing over the
last hilarious scene. They didn't give you time to catch your breath.
People
were laughing like I haven't heard people laugh in a theatre in a long,
long
time. Big, gigantic, full body laughs. I know, because I was one of them.

Greg and Pam, sans Greg's luggage (which was lost) arrive and "Meet the
Parents." Robert De Niro plays Jack Byrnes, Pam's ex CIA interrogator
father
who Greg thinks is a retired rare flower dealer. Pam's mother is played
with
the appropriate level of ditzy dryness by Blythe Danner.

Pam hurriedly tells Greg to get rid of his cigarettes because her father
thinks smoking is a sign of weakness. The cigarettes are thrown to the
roof.
Don't forget about those, because later, they'll be the falling domino for
future scenes that you will LOVE. Our audience was losing it.

The supporting characters here are well cast. Owen Wilson has a great turn
as Pam's ex, Kevin. Kevin is *everything* that Greg is not, and Pam's dad
doesn't hesitate to remind everyone of that fact non-stop. I haven't
laughed
this much in a too long of a time. I would recommend this film without
hesitation. It's smart and funny and just plain FUN. And make sure you pay
attention to the last scene. It had me giggling *all* the way home.


