

	Obsession, combined with jealousy, was the impetus for an incident that
occurred in November of 1924, aboard the yacht of media mogul William
Randolph Hearst, and which in the years since has become the stuff of
Hollywood legend and lore.  The story has many versions, but the `whisper
told most often,' is the one recounted in `The Cat's Meow,' directed by
Peter Bogdanovich, a dramatization of what may or may not have happened
during that extended weekend birthday-party cruise in honor of pioneer film
director, Thomas Ince, which included an eclectic guest list of the rich,
famous and powerful.  What is known, is that the party ended with the death
of one of the guests, and that foul play and an ensuing cover-up have long
been suspected, but never proved.  And one thing is certain:  Not a single
person aboard the yacht at the time has ever spoken of what happened, at
least not publicly; but there are those who believe to this day, that
someone just may have gotten away with murder.

	Once a powerful force in a young Hollywood, Thomas Ince (Cary Elwes)-- who
had formed Triangle Films with D.W. Griffith and Mack Sennett, and later
founded Paramount Studios with Adolph Zukor-- has fallen on hard times. 
Once responsible for forty pictures a year, he now struggles to get a single
film made.  And, his birthday aside, he has decided to mix business with
pleasure during this cruise, pitching an idea to Hearst (Edward Herrmann),
to combine their resources and make movies together.  Hearst, however, has
other things on his mind; rumor has it that his mistress, Marion Davies
(Kirsten Dunst), is being courted by Charlie Chaplin (Eddie Izzard), and he
has brought them together, here, to observe and decide for himself if
anything untoward is going on between them.  Hearst is not only in love with
Davies, but is obsessed with her, as well as the course of her career, and
he's not about to let this baggy-pants comic actor interfere.  And Hearst, a
powerful and controlling man, always gets what he wants-- and what he wants
right now is for this business with Chaplin to disappear.  So it is, that in
the midst of celebration, paranoia overtakes the host of the party, and it's
about to cast a pall over the proceedings and ultimately involve everyone
aboard in one of the greatest unsolved mysteries ever to come out of Tinsel
Town.  It's a story that Hearst keeps out of the papers, making sure in his
own way that dead men, indeed, tell no tales.

	Bogdanovich successfully captures the era, as well as the mendacity of this
rich assortment of characters, who are all the more intriguing for the fact
that they are real people rather than the product of imagination; and it
proves that fact is often more bizarre than fiction.  The excesses and
overindulgences of many within the Hollywood community during this period
rivals anything happening today, and one of the most telling scenes in the
film is when novelist Elinor Glyn (Joanna Lumley) offers her take on what
Hollywood really is and what it does to those who dwell within.  Glyn is
also the narrator of the film; a wise choice, as it adds a balanced
perspective to the events as they unfold, and are summarily grounded by her
often wry and incisive observations.  The final words of the film are hers,
in fact; a final observation that encompasses so much in so few words, that
it provides an impact that makes it the perfect ending.  And it makes you
realize what a terrific job Bogdanovich did with this film, and how well he
brought this material (screenplay by Steven Paros, which he adapted from his
own play) to life.

	The film is highlighted by a number of excellent and memorable
performances, beginning with Herrmann as Hearst.  This is possibly the best
work he's ever done in his career, perfectly capturing the many facets of
this extremely complex man.  There's a depth to his performance that conveys
not only the bravura of a powerful individual-- and one who delights in
using it-- but the vulnerability, as well.  He also makes you cognizant of
the fact that Hearst is a man capable of almost anything, including creating
his own reality, and maintaining it with his limitless resources.  It's one
of the subtle, underlying nuances that Herrmann brings to his portrayal,
which is altogether convincing and believable.

	Kirsten Dunst also rises to the occasion, turning in a remarkable
performance as Marion Davies.  It's a concise reflection of a young actress
caught up in a situation that is at once enviable and undesirable, who
manages to tactfully negotiate the sensitive issues with which she is faced
with a sensibility and maturity beyond her years.  And through Dunst, we see
the many layers of Davies' personality; the fun-loving girl, as well as the
responsible woman, who finds herself in a perpetually tentative environment
and selflessly refrains from playing the prima donna or attempting to act as
if she is the center of the universe-- something to which too many others
who have been swallowed up by the Hollywood lifestyle over the years are
prone.  It's a comprehensive and convincing performance that proves that
Dunst has the stuff to fulfill the promise made by her work in previous
films.  

	The performance that surpasses them all, however, is turned in by Eddie
Izzard, as Chaplin.  Izzard captures the very essence of Chaplin, physically
and emotionally, with a detailed portrayal of the man, created through
expression and astute introspection.  This is not the on-screen persona, the
`Little Tramp,' but Chaplin the complex individual and artist who is
presented here.  Izzard brings him to life with singular nuance and depth,
and it's a performance that should, by all rights, earn him an Oscar
nomination.  Skillfully acted and presented, `The Cat's Meow' is a memorable
film that offers some insights into a town and lifestyle that few have ever
experienced.  9/10.                 

	

	     
<|_=00=_|>

`The Cat's Meow' is a mildly enjoyable telling of a notorious tall story
that has been told in Hollywood for nearly eighty years.

Super-magnate William Randolph Hearst (Edward Herrmann) invites a diverse
mix of Hollywood biggest names and its oddest fringe dwellers to celebrate
the birthday of famed director Thomas Ince (Cary Elwes) aboard his luxury
yacht. Things begin to fall apart when Hearst suspects a guest - none other
than Charlie Chaplin (Eddie Izzard), the most famous man in the world - of
having an affair with his actress girlfriend, Marion Davies (Kirsten
Dunst).

Although the film is entertaining, there is something underwhelming about
it. Its stage origins are obvious - characters perambulate from plot point
to plot point, spouting exposition, never appearing much more than
caricatures, and thus failing to evoke much sympathy.

The casting of Eddie Izzard in the pivotal role of Charles Chaplin is a
grave mistake, though the script saddles him with a most unsatisfactory
characterisation of Chaplin to work with. Chaplin was not a serial romancer,
as is implied in the film, but a serial seducer. He would have been the last
person to urge a woman to run away with him on the basis of undying love. He
spent his most famous years running from women who suggested exactly that,
freely admitting to them that while sex was a pleasant diversion, his work
came before any woman. It's a casting decision that is an obvious attempt to
distance us from the Little Tramp as opposed to Chaplin the real man, but we
never get a true sense of either. Ironically, Izzard actually resembles the
real Thomas Ince far more than does Cary Elwes, and as a real-life cabaret
performer could conceivably have brought the flamboyance and eccentricity of
the real-life director to life better than Elwes does.

The film also takes an annoyingly facile view of women, perpetuating the
dull cliche that all women spent the 1920s with a bad case of St Vitus'
dance and addicted to laughing gas. The grating performances of Claudie
Blakley and Chiara Schoras in particular throw the beautifully understated
efforts of Kirsten Dunst into high relief. Dunst feels like the only real
person in this cast of cartoon characters - beautiful, funny, and vital, she
is the best thing in the film. Yet there is never any moment in the movie to
suggest the true depth of her dedication and passion for Hearst (portrayed
as a roly-poly father figure rather than the hard nosed businessman he was),
nor any justification for leaving him for the roguish but uncharismatic
Chaplin. Unfortunately, the more interesting conflicts in Marion's  life,
such as her growing alcoholism and her dissatisfaction with Hearst's
insistence on casting her in leaden romances rather than the comedy to which
she was so obviously suited, are only touched on lightly.

Though it could have been a thought-provoking and complex experience, as
Joanna Lumley's poignant final statements imply (and like `Gosford Park' to
which it has been compared), in the end `The Cat's Meow' doesn't feel much
more substantial than your average game of Cluedo.
<|_=00=_|>
I have to say, I thought the Cat's Meow was the cat's pajamas. Peter
Bogdanovich has made a story out of an event whose outcome is still
unexplained. What's more, it feels like it actually could've happened.
The interactions between the characters leading up to the act are given
much more screen time than the actual act itself. So when it happens,
it doesn't seem preposterous at all.

The story concerns newspaper honcho William Randolph Hearst (Edward
Herrmann) and company celebrating the birthday of Hollywood producer
Thomas Ince (Cary Elwes) on Hearst's yacht. That company includes
Hearst's lover/actress Marion Davies (Kirsten Dunst), Charlie Chaplin
(Eddie Izzard), author Elinor Glyn (Joanna Lumley), gossip columnist
for Hearst's newspaper Louella Parsons (Jennifer Tilley), and Tom's
lover. Tom hopes to negotiate a contract with W.R. Hearst for Marion to
star in his next few films, but Hearst is more concerned about the
attraction between Marion and Chaplin. Elinor is nearby to dispense
advice, while Louella unsuccessfully attempts to mingle. There's also a
pair of party girls on board attempting to have a raucous time as
possible.

The Cat's Meow has an eclectic ensemble with a Robert Altman-esquire
taste to it. Edward Herrmann's role may be the most challenging,
because he has to juggle eccentric, warmth, and jealousy as W.R.
Hearst. Joanna Lumley is wonderfully dry. And for those like me who
only remember Eddie Izzard for his droll stand-up work, he's surprising
in this film. He's quite good as Charlie Chaplin. Kirsten Dunst is the
biggest name on the cast. She's very fetching in the Cat's Meow, and
this represents a change of pace from her dearth of Hollywood-oriented
films.

As good as the cast is, this is really just as much Peter Bogdanovich's
film. After the excellent Last Picture Show, he sort of faded away and
made smaller films (The Thing Called Love, for example). Although The
Cat's Meow will not make him a household name, hopefully maybe his work
will garner more attention again. His direction is very good here.

Oh, I should also mention the costume design and music here. The
production values in general are excellent in imitating the feel of
that era. I was reminded a little of Woody Allen's Bullets Over
Broadway (and not just the Jennifer Tilly connection). Anyways, The
Cat's Meow is a good movie with interesting characters and thoughtful
direction.
<|_=00=_|>

The Cat's Meow is a semi-true story of a murder that occurred on William
Randolph Hearst's yacht one evening in 1924.  While much of the screenplay
is presumably speculation, it is interesting to see the effects the murder
on some of his other guests, like Marion Davies, Hearst's mistress, Charlie
Chaplin and Luella Parsons, among others.

This film couldn't fail for me – its subject matter involves William
Randolph Hearst, a foe of my main obsession Orson Welles, and it contained
one of my favorite entertainers in the cast, Eddie Izzard as Charlie
Chaplin.  However, while watching the film I had to consider whether the
movie was a well-written drama or simply too slow in its development, making
the climax more of a let-down than anything.  If the film wasn't book-ended
by compelling writing that made you both look deeply into the subject matter
from the beginning, then reflect on the past events at the conclusion, I
would have said the latter was true.  And while Eddie Izzard was fantastic
as Chaplin, and Kirsten Dunst wasn't her usual irritating self as Davies, it
was Joanna Lumley who I thought was the breakout star of the film.  Her role
was small, but integral to the progression of the film – acting as narrator,
analyst and the film's conscience.

While not a fast paced, action filled film, The Cat's Meow is pleasant to
experience based on its dramatic merits.  Bogdanovich is more of an actor as
of late than a director, but this film's character-driven dramatic elements
harkens back to his best known classic, The Last Picture Show.  If you are a
fan of film history as I am, you will find this film interesting and
thought-provoking.

--Shelly 

<|_=00=_|>

This film, from reclusive director Peter Bogdanovich, traces one of
Hollywood's Urban legends.. the rumor that mogul William Randolph Heart
(effectively played by Edward Herrmann) accidentally shot movie producer
Thomas Ince (Cary Elwes, shedding his trademark smirk) while trying to kill
Charlie Chaplin (an excellent Eddie Izzard) who was having an affair with
Heart's mistress, actress Marion Davies (Kirsten Dunst, mesermizing as
always).  The setup and the performers are excellent and the depiction of
Hollywood in the late 1920s is well done and the murder and resulting
cover-up are believable. While perhaps a bit too much of an "inside
Hollywood legends" tale for the mainstream.. the film is well done and
entertaining enough that I would definitely recommend it. GRADE:
A
<|_=00=_|>

I am abhorred that the Oscars could ignore this film for all the categories
it so well deserved:

Best Actress (Kirsten Dunst)
Best Actor (Edward Herrmann)
Best Costume Design
Best Cinematography

And those are just the obvious ones!

Peter Bogdanovich is one of my favorite Directors. He has an amazingly vast
Encyclopedia of knowledge about Hollywood during this time. He was good
friends with the master Orsen Wells and even did the Commentary for Citizen
Cane in Wells' place. He was unquestionably the perfect Director for putting
this story to screen.

Kirsten Dunst is remarkable playing 24 year-old Marion Davies at only 18.
She does a superb job in the role and deserved a lot more attention than she
was awarded.

I strongly disagree with comments that the supporting cast was bad.
Everybody was perfect for their role! The sax player WAS a sax player (not
an actor) from Berlin (where most of the movie was filmed) and he did
fantastic! (He only had one line for goodness sake!)

Though I would concur that Jennifer Tilly played Louella Parsons a bit
unlike we would expect, I support her decision to treat her this way for the
sake of this film. She lightened up the film with her bumbling silliness. So
what if Lolly wasn't like that in real life? It worked well for the
movie.

My only (slight) complaint was the decision to have one of the flappers
briefly flash us (show her chest) during a party scene with her, the other
flapper, the sax player and Chaplin. It was unnecessary and felt out of
place with an otherwise clean movie. My guess is this was the reason for the
PG-13 rating.

There is hardly any language - in fact Bogdanovich changed the film's only
F-word to "screw" to clean it up even more than the original script. This
works much better for the period than filling it with 21st century
language.

Anybody interested in the 20's, William Randolph Hearst or 'The Golden Age
of Hollywood' MUST see this movie!

8½ out of 10. (I can't decide between 8 and 9!)
<|_=00=_|>
"The Cat's Meow" contains a few scenes that boast intelligent dialogue,
and some fine performances, a few of which surprised me. Eddie Izzard
is more effective than I expected as Chaplin (partly thanks to an
excellent hair and makeup job by some talented designer); Joanna Lumley
is compelling as novelist Elinor Glyn; and Kirsten Dunst is winning as
Marion Davies (though why movies never use her real-life stutter is
difficult to explain). But these elements don't add up to a successful
whole. The screenwriter seems to have worked very hard on certain
scenes--the meetings between Davies and Chaplin are particularly well
crafted--but not so hard on the big picture. Several minor characters
don't need to be there, and don't behave consistently. The basic plot
is full of illogic (e.g., why does Thomas Ince think it's a good idea
to tell Hearst something he really doesn't want to hear?), and the
party scenes are repetitive and tiresome. I'd like to think a trip on
Hearst's yacht was more fun than the movie indicates. Davies is
characterized as a standard bubbly Flapper type, which isn't really
accurate, and the screenwriter's ideas about Chaplin and love are
implausible. 

Strangely, Bogdanovich, who seemed so connected to the Thirties in
"Paper Moon", lacks a similar affinity for the Twenties. He insisted
the excellent costume designer use only black and cream, which gives
the party guests a very artificial look, and plays only the most
stereotypical songs of the period (e.g., "Yes, We Have No Bananas").
When Hearst insists everybody "Charleston, Charleston!" it looks as if
the actors had a ten-minute dance lesson just before the scene was
shot. 

The lives of silent film stars can make fascinating movies, I'm sure,
but not this time.
<|_=00=_|>
It begins with a funeral, for whom you don't know except who ever it
is, he or she is getting quite a send-off to the tune of Aloha Nui
played by a pair of musicians strumming ukuleles. Now if you have a
photographic memory and can remember the faces of the hundreds of
mourners, then perhaps it won't be a mystery as to who will be in the
casket. You do know however, that someone invited to a lavish any thing
goes party aboard William Randolph's Hearst's yacht the Oneida in the
flash back that follows the funeral will. The movie seems to go nowhere
for a while,mostly just watching fun and games of those lucky enough to
be invited, even though you know the price one aboard that yacht is
destined to pay for this trip. You almost forget the funeral and the
mystery of what this movie is about – who is in that casket, but it is
well worth the wait. Like any good mystery, the unlucky victim is one
you'd least expect, though you'd think it would have been Charlie
Chaplin , but we know he lived to a ripe old age. Until it gets to that
point, you get to see another take on what William Randolph, child-like
but likable and with some pretty quirky flaws, making one wonder how he
ever became so rich. As most people have seen Citizen Kane, we already
know about infatuation with Marion Davies bordering on an obsession,
but probably don't know that a competition for her existed between
Charlie Chaplin and Hearst and how this competition creates the mystery
as to whoever is in the box got there.

The epilogue of this film was probably the most interesting of any film
I ever seen. Secrets had to be kept and Hearst was willing to pay any
price to see they were kept, granting all who cooperated, and
apparently all did, whatever wish (and he could do it) as any genie in
any bottle. If you are looking for something different and willing to
give this movie a chance, this movie is for you. This movie deserves
better than the 6.5 of the IMDb and I give this movie a 7.5/10.
<|_=00=_|>

Kirsten Dunst is terribly overrated as an actress. You can tell always
she's
just "acting".  I like Izzard though. Plot is awfully boring. The viewer
has
no real connections to the characters, never knowing who to really
sympathize with, or even care about. Slow, dull movie, with some laughs,
but
few and not very funny anyway. Plot is not engaging or suspenseful in the
least. You can see each plot turn coming a mile away. What is this movie
supposed to be? Comedy? Drama? Who cares? You won't by the end of this
film.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, this film is based on a fascinating real-life tale that's
been a part of Hollywood folklore for decades and one that I,
amazingly, am hearing of now for the first time. 

In November of 1924. media tycoon, movie producer and one of the
richest and most powerful men in America at the time William Randolph
Hearst organized a lavish private cruise on his yacht with many
important Hollywood players invited on board. Among them: movie
producer Thomas Ince with his mistress actress Margaret Livingston in
tow, Hearst's own mistress - actress Marion Davies, Charlie Chaplin,
writer Elinor Glyn, gossip columnist Louella Parsons, etc.. 

Unfortunately, not all guests made it back on terra firma in the same
condition they left it as Thomas Ince died two days later from the
effects of whatever it is that happened to him on that boat. Because of
wealth and social status of the people on board at the time of Ince's
end, his death was hushed up without proper investigation leading in
the years since to many wild rumours as to what exactly occurred.
Fuelling these further was the fact that possible foul play witness
Louella Parsons, up to that point a mere Hearst columnist in New York,
soon after the events got a lucrative lifetime contract with his
corporation.

In "The Cat's Meow" Peter Bogdanovich, himself not a stranger to
Hollywood entanglements involving good looking young fame-seeking
starlets, jealousy, murder, and desperation induced by lack of money,
takes one version of the events ('whispers heard most often' as the
movie tagline puts it) and runs with it. His movie will inevitably draw
comparisons to Bob Altman's "Gosford Park" - a vastly superior
experience, but "The Cat's Meow" is still worth seeing, though largely
on the basis of what it covers rather than how it covers it. If these
were completely fictitious events I don't think I'd recommend it.
Altman's film is much more enthralling, its script is better and as a
result actors end up looking more convincing. Joanne Lumley, whose
portrayal of Elinor Glyn seems to be an impression of Jackie Collins,
was particularly annoying here. Though it has its good moments, "The
Cat's Meow" with its overall hokiness too many times feels like
watching dramatization sequences on 'E! True Hollywood Story'.
