
I've owned this movie for a while, and only needed to see it once
before deciding to run to the store to buy it. As a matter of fact, I'm
watching it right now, but I got on here and looked it up because I
wanted to see what other movies the writer had written
(unfortunately---it's the only one.) After looking at the ratings and
comments I had to voice my own opinion.

"The Wedding Planner" has everything you could ask from a romantic
comedy. Predictability is always a factor, but come on! Do we really
watch these types of movies expecting to be surprised at the ending?
This film is quirky; all the actors and actresses don't miss a beat and
they keep it real. No matter how many times I watch it, I still find
something to laugh or smile at.

I haven't yet met a MAN that likes this movie, but if you're a girl
that wants something sweet, funny, entertaining, and the "romantic
dream"..... in other words: a flick you watch with a pint of ice cream
( =P ) then this is the one for you.

The directing is great, the dialog is entertaining, the acting is
enjoyable, the movie over-all is fantastic. It's just sweet...even my
mom likes it! O_O

Honestly, stop judging the movie like you're some kind of almighty
critic, and watch it for what it is. If you don't like the genre, then
pick something else to watch ^_^ Me? I'll stick with "The Wedding
Planner".
<|_=00=_|>

The Wedding Planner tells an identifiable story about falling in love and
failing to recognize it. 

The Wedding Planner stars Jennifer Lopez as Mary Fiore, a hardworking,
beautiful, single woman of Italian descent, who has made a reputable career
as a wedding planner.  Fully dedicated to her work, Mary successfully
coordinates all the details of her wealthy clients' weddings. She even acts
as a kind of therapist, transmitting to the brides and grooms-to-be the
optimism that relieves them of their "second-thoughts", and that allows them
to fulfill their true dreams of marrying. Yet one day, a literal "faux pas"
turns Mary's orderly life upside-down: she walks across a street and gets
her shoe stuck in a manhole. Just then, a dumpster menacingly rolls down the
steep San Francisco street, towards her. Noticing that the dumpster is
rapidly gaining speed, a young man rushes to help Mary out of her dilemma.
The two are instantly enveloped by the rush of the moment, falling victims
to love at first sight. Soon, however, fate shows its cruel side, proving
that the handsome Steve Edison (Mathew McConaughey) is tied to Fran Donelly
(Bridgette Wilson-Sampras), one of Mary's most promising clients. In the
meantime Salvatore (Alex Rocco), Mary's concerned father, tries to inspire
her to consider her childhood inamorato Massimo (Justin Chambers), who just
arrived from Italy. Torn between acting sensibly and fulfilling her long
suppressed dreams of marrying, Mary must first determine which love is the
one destined for her.

The Wedding Planner exploits the physical beauty of its star (Lopez) and
emphasizes her character's style and professionalism at work, while defining
her personality as that of a free-spirited, down-to-earth person who enjoys
dancing and playing Bingo with her father and his elderly friends.
Similarly, her costar (McConaughey) is depicted as a good-looking, sensitive
man who enjoys his work as a pediatrician. However, the film's secondary
characters, especially Mary's family, friends and coworkers, are sketchy and
mostly inconsequential. Thus, The Wedding Planner creates a story that
solely revolves around the coupling of its two main characters; a choice
which makes The Wedding Planner's plot extremely predictable, although at
times amusing. While the plot complications are limited to the
unavailability of either of the two main characters (where Steve is unable
to abandon his prior commitments and Mary is ready to take up new ones), The
Wedding Planner is most enjoyable when it creates romantic settings for its
lovesick characters.


<|_=00=_|>

The only thing more baffling than how movies this bad could ever be made is
how movies this bad could go to #1 in the box office. I despair for humanity
at times. The Wedding Planner features a rehashed and unoriginal plot, poor
acting, no funny moments, and a ridiculous scene where Jennifer Lopez is
prepared to risk getting flattened by a runaway dumpster in order to pull
her shoe out of a hole in the street. riiiiiight!
<|_=00=_|>

True, "The Wedding Planner" does have its share of cinematic conceits.  Just
watching the previews, you pretty much have a good idea what's going to
happen in the end.  But unlike many romantic comedies, this is not
predictable by the minute.  The characters are likable and charming, and you
get quite engrossed in them.  The actors are charming as well.  Jennifer
Lopez and Matthew McCoughnahey are equally good and have a fine chemistry. 
The scenes, in general, are handled in a sweet-natured fashion without
becoming nauseatingly sentimental.  The opening scene is very original and
made me laugh.  In the first scene, we get an idea of how Mary (Lopez) plans
her weddings, staging them like a secret service operation, strapping wires
to the bride and groom, feeding them suggestions as they walk down the aisle
and making sure all the guests are in order pronto.  There are certain
moments of "sitcom stupidity."  There's a scene where Steve (McCoughnahey)
gets his hand stuck to a statue's privates.  The comedy was badly timed and
the scene appeared quite lame.  A similar joke was used in Rodney
Dangerfield's "Meet Wally Sparks," but was done in a much more structured
manner and spawned hilarious results.  About the member of the cast who I
felt was a little hammy was Alex Rocco as Mary's Sicilian father.  His
accent comes and goes, and in some scenes he struggles so much with it that
he starts talking like someone with down syndrome.  Fred Willard has a short
but funny, scene-stealing role (when hasn't Willard stolen the show?) as a
ballroom dance teacher.  There are some moments in the plot that are forced
and created simply to move the film along, so we can quickly arrive at the
"juicy climax."  One of the subplots involves Mary's father trying to fix
his daughter up with this silly, thick-accented Sicilian cassanova.  He
wants her to get married to him, but she refuses.  Throughout the film, they
don't seem to have any more than a friendly bond.  Yet later in the film, he
makes a sweet proposal and Mary actually agrees to marry him.  The ending is
far-fetched and over-the-top, and though I can't discuss it you've probably
seen this ending before.  One thing I have to credit the writers for is
refusing to make Fran (Bridgette Wilson-Sampras--Man, is she sooooo
beautiful!!!) a total b**ch, like they would in most films of a similiar
plot.  The way the formula goes is the guy's engaged this girl, while
another girl captures his heart.  But the girl he's engaged to is usually so
unlikable that you wonder why he wanted to marry her in the first place. 
I'm glad they didn't take that cheap route.  Even Fran has a certain charm
to her character.  The charming characters and the charming actors are
really what makes this movie worth seeing.  Yes, it's pretty much (though
less than usual) a formula romantic comedy, but a likable one because of the
way we're captured by the people on screen.  This is not a great film, it
has its dull moments, it has its silly moments, but it's often a fun and
pleasant movie experience.  You'll fall in love with "The Wedding
Planner."

My score:  7 (out of 10)        
<|_=00=_|>
Jennifer Lopez is right at home playing the strong, intelligent
professional, Mary, and despite her inability to properly tell a joke
("What, you think Kissinger wrote his own stuff?) or properly
communicate strong emotion (like despair), she does well in the cutesy
moments. Matthew McConaughey is charming as the conflicted Steve, and
expertly plays both his character's dry, cynical side and his boyish
joyfulness. The two play against one another well, unlike the boring
Fran, whose idea of the perfect wedding song is Olivia Newton-John's "I
Honestly Love You," and who can't seem to find one legitimate reason
why she wants to marry Steve in the first place.

As there are no other true funny characters, Massimo is perhaps
intended to provide the film's comic relief, but his "humor" flows less
from witty screen writing and masterful delivery and more from the
director's mistaken assumption that every line a character delivers in
broken English must be funny. Overall, "The Wedding Planner" does a
good job of fulfilling audience expectations and creating characters
that, while likable, are simply rom-com archetypes. The true romantic,
unsatisfied with paltry declarations of love and empty representations
of it, hopes for a bit more.

Read my full review here:
thecorrelationfilmblog.wordpress.com/2013/01/29/my-best-friends-
weddingthe-wedding-planner/
<|_=00=_|>
"The Wedding Planner" is just another romantic comedy, and just another
one starring Jennifer Lopez, and just another one starring Matthew
McConaughey. As I have said before, Jennifer Lopez has such a beautiful
feminine figure that I would prefer to see her as the romantic lead as
opposed to most other Hollywood actresses working today. McConaughey is
of course sexy with a laid-back charm, but that's just who he is.

This particular romantic comedy isn't all that funny, but the writers
did seem to know which elements were necessary and included them. We
find out McConaughey's secret the same time Lopez does, which is good
because it helps us identify with our main heroine and we don't have to
sit uncomfortably before the characters do. They also gave us another
man - he's supposed to provide comic relief, and I did at least enjoy
him. We also need to dislike the fiancée. Cast Bridgette Wilson and
make her a stuck-up snob, so that is easily accomplished.

One thing that I found that "The Wedding Planner" has over lesser
romantic comedies, is genuine chemistry between the leads. Although
it's certainly lacking in the comedy, I found the romance tangible.
<|_=00=_|>

Seriously, this movie gets about a negative 20.  Jennifer Lopez has
always
been a mystery to me, why does she do acting?  She's obviously awful at
it.
The characters are pretty flat, the story is painfully predictable and
upsettingly trite.
<|_=00=_|>

When I got to watch this movie I thought it would really suck, but I got
disappointed.
This movie is by no means great, actually I think it is quite bad, BUT it
has it´s qualities. The story - while not very subtle - has a few
interesting points. The acting is not great, but it is not that bad,
either.

There is even a scene which I consider quite funny (the dancing thing, I
do
not want to include a spoiler on a movie that does not provide that much
of
a tension, so I am keeping this statement vague).
I would not recommend to watch this, but if by some means you are being
pushed to watch it, it will not mean that much pain.

<|_=00=_|>

I really do love romantic comedies, but this one was so stupid, so simple,
so naive, that it made me feel sick.
The chemistry between the main couple - or any of the couples - was so
superficial! An other same kind of movie, My Best Friend's Wedding (Julia
Roberts film), is not my favourite either, but it has at least some sense
and moral. Comparing to this -- piece of junk.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Wedding Planner" is a comedy and romance movie which has to do
with a woman who is a wedding planner and she fell in love with a man
who finally will be the groom of the most important wedding in her
entire carrier. We watch her being in a dilemma and this has to do with
what is she going to do, is she going to help the groom with his
wedding or is she going to be his bride.

In this movie we have a simple romance story between a simple woman
with an important and rich man, a simple plot and direction by Adam
Shankman. Also in this movie we have some good interpretation by
Matthew McConaughey who plays as Steve Edison and I am sure that he
want to forget this movie as fast as he can and Jennifer Lopez who
plays as Mary Fiore.

If you are a fan of romance movies then "The Wedding Planner" is a
movie which I am sure that you will love it. If you are not fan then
just do not watch this movie and do not lose your time on it.
