
I liked this better than the original, and that''s a high compliment
because I thought highly of the original film: Stuart Little. As good
as that was, I just thought this was even better.

All the voice-overs are excellent with Nathan Lane having the best
lines as "Snowball," the cat. He was simply hilarious, line after line.

The film once again features great colors, a virtual rainbow of them,
especially with some of the inventive rooms in the Little house. The
parents, once again, are super nice. It's a treat to watch Geena Davis
and Hugh Laurie play an old- fashioned "Leave It To Beaver"-type
couple. The film has no objectionable material and leaves you with a
nice feeling. There are animated films or animated/real life
combinations like this, that advertise "family-friendly viewing" but
don't really deliver, instead sneaking in sexual innuendos and the
like.

Not here. This one is pure, morals-wise, except for one scene near the
end when the mom (Geena Davis) tells Stuart and their son she's still
proud of them even though they just got caught in a big lie. (Inferring
that the lie was okay since everything turned out okay.) Other than
that, nothing but good messages were heard and seen all around and this
is a funny movie, to boot. Highly recommended for the family, and
that's no cliché.
<|_=00=_|>

Some cartoons, even those aimed primarily at children, are still well
worth
seeing for adults.  I was hoping Stuart Little 2 would be one of those,
but
it falls just a little short of the mark.  It's cute, and it's funny
enough
to have kept me from turning it off, but it's a kid's movie all the way.
If
you're a parent who wants to watch something with your kid this is a good
choice because it's fairly entertaining, but I wouldn't recommend it to
adults without kids.  But it's darn cute.
<|_=00=_|>

While less isn't always more, the makers of "Stuart Little 2" resisted the
temptation to pad it out from its shorthand running time, meaning it goes by
quickly and painlessly. Not that the actual plot of this followup to the
original charmer is hard to take in itself (Stuart is starting to feel a bit
left out, and when Margalo the wren literally drops into his life he gets a
new dimension).

In terms of technical levels it's only slightly easier to fault (Margalo
looks a bit too cartoonish to be real, unlike Stuart Little himself and the
falcon that's the movie's villain - but then again, Melanie Griffith [the
voice of Margalo] always seems like a cartoon anyway), but the story by
screenwriter Bruce Joel Rubin and the movie's producer Douglas Wick is what
makes this ultimately inferior to its predecessor; what helped drive "Stuart
Little" was our hero's wish to be accepted by his human brother and by the
cat - sneer all you want, but the family message was hard to ignore. For the
sequel it's more standard - the friend who's acting out of ulterior motives
at first but then turns out to be a real friend, etc. Stuart isn't so much
the protagonist this time, and it hurts a little.

So the freshness is reduced, but this still isn't stale - the charm and
humour of the first movie remains, Michael J. Fox and Nathan Lane are as
adept as ever as Stuart and Snowbell ("This better be important." "Margalo
is missing." "I'd better be more specific - I meant important to ME."), and
the human Littles remain just right - loving but not without making you want
to slit your own throats. HBO Family has recently aired an animated version
with all the principals except Hugh Laurie absent - it'll have to go a long
way to live up to the two movies. (In-joke for score fans: Alan Silvestri
slips in a quote from his "Back to the Future" theme in the
climax.)

But I can see why this didn't do as well at the box-office as it should have
- having a soccer match plus including Gilbert O'Sullivan AND Celine Dion on
the soundtrack was asking for trouble...
<|_=00=_|>
As of present (May 2010), I have never read the E.B. White classic
"Stuart Little," however I have had the delightful privilege to see the
two films based loosely upon its content. The first "Stuart Little,"
released in 1999, was a very sweet and charming little family picture
that I enjoyed immensely as a kid and still do to this day. I remember
I also enjoyed the sequel, "Stuart Little 2" when I was younger, but
now having re-watched the film for the first time in a long time, I
discover that a rare instance has occurred: I enjoy the movie more now
as an adult than I did when I was eleven. Perhaps it's because I now
understand the adult humor and Snowbell's hilarious lines better, but
overall, "Stuart Little 2" is a very good picture.

In the sequel, Stuart Little (voiced by Michael J. Fox) now has a
quintessential relationship to his family. His human brother George has
accepted him as a sibling and the cat Snowbell is now his pal instead
of his enemy. However, poor Stuart feels a little left-out in the world
because of his small size and his lack of real friends. That is until a
little bird named Margolo (voiced by Melanie Griffith) literally drops
into his life (from the sky), pursued by a vicious falcon. When they
are clear of the evil bird's talons, Stuart and Margolo develop a very
strong, very heart-warming friendship while teaching to the younger
audience members very important lessons about life and friendship.

Those messages were communicated to be very well when I was younger and
they still are today. I'm not exactly sure why I like "Stuart Little 2"
more as an adult than I did as a kid, but maybe it's because I can
understand the full extent of it. The filmmakers made the right choice
to film it as a family picture, incorporating elements that children
can understand but leaving in great moments of comedy to keep the
adults interested. More so than in the first one, the picture is kept
upbeat by the hilarious presence of Snowbell the cat, voiced by Nathan
Lane, who has one terrific one-liner after another. A favorite moment
of mine is when Snowbell is serving as a tool so Stuart can speak into
a payphone. Their time runs out and he asks Snowbell for more change.
The cat looks at the mouse standing on his head and cackles out: "What
do I look like? A fanny pack?" "Stuart Little 2" is a real treat to
look at with some gorgeous cinematography and a deliberately
over-painted New York City with everybody in the movie wearing
extravagant outfits. The special effects used for Stuart, Margolo,
Snowbell, the falcon, and the other animated characters in the film is
very good, best exemplified by the eyes of Stuart and Margolo. Their
eyes are solid black with no visible pupils, but the animators
carefully manipulate the characters' expressions to mirror every
emotion that could be asked for from a real-life performer.

Perhaps the best element of "Stuart Little 2" is the change of
point-of-view from the first one. In the original film, most of the
plot involved the Littles' difficulties in adopting a talking mouse as
a child and a great portion of the film was people looking down upon
little Stuart. Here, the story takes place on Stuart's level, from his
point-of-view, and we come to associate and identify more with him this
time around. I also really like Hugh Laurie, Geena Davis, and Jonathan
Lipnicki as Stuart's adoptive family, who do a really good job at
maintaining the illusion that they are communicating to a two-inch
mouse adopted as their son and treating him with loving affection.

But the best scenes are the scenes of Margolo and Stuart, particularly
a little scene where they are on a date at a makeshift drive-in movie
theater: sitting in Stuart's model car in front of a television,
watching Alfred Hitchcock's marvelous 1958 film "Vertigo" which we
later learn is a poignant choice as there are some parallels in the
relationship between Stuart and his avian companion.

"Stuart Little 2" is a wonderful family film. Some may question my
judgment and wonder if I exaggerate just a little in shelling out my
highest rating for this film. You may ask: maybe it's good, but is it
*that* good? Well, maybe not on some critical scales. But the way I
review movies, dissecting and analyzing but more or less reporting how
I personally responded, than no, not in the least. I enjoyed "Stuart
Little 2" so much, every little second of it was a gem for me, and I
more than enthusiastically award it ten stars.
<|_=00=_|>
Stuart Little 2 is one of those children's films that appeals to both
the children and those who must pay the ticket price. I thought those
kinds of films only existed with the name "Pixar" stamped on them or
the occasional "Dreamworks." The film largely compiles odds and ends
from the first film to try and lift the sequel off its feet but its
sweet, good-natured charisma and kinetic warmth make the seventy-eight
minute endeavor worth it.

The "Little" family are still happy, vibrant, and warm in their quest
to give their new mouse sibling, Stuart (voiced by Michael J. Fox) a
home he can be proud of. Yet the mother (Geena Davis) still worries
that Stuart's small stature gives him the unfair advantage in sports
and life itself, while the father (Hugh Laurie) is more of an optimist
and feels that if a Little applies himself, he can be quite the
character.

The main themes Stuart Little 2 tries to explore, however, are not
about doing anything you want to do and proving that being small isn't
a limitation but a welcomed challenge, like the first film, but more
about siblings that drift away from each other. Stuart's older brother,
George (Jonathan Lipnicki) is beginning to spend more time with his
friends rather than Stuart, and while this is a natural part of life,
it is nonetheless heartbreaking to the mouse himself, who begins to
view himself as just a pest (no pun intended).

Stuart begins to befriend a small yellow canary named Margalo (Melanie
Griffith), who he rescued after seeing her being pursued by an ominous
falcon in the sky. It turns out, Margalo is in cahoots with the falcon
to steal valuables from homes all across New York City, but little
Margalo keeps that secret away from Stuart when she discovers how kind
and gentle he really is.

Stuart Little 2 isn't particularly compelling or a very life-affirming
film, but it's a genial, warm picture, with great computer effects,
wonderful yet subtle themes on sibling relationships, and a plethora of
jokes that kids and adults will find pleasing and joyful.

Starring: Geena Davis, Hugh Laurie, and Jonathan Lipnicki. Voiced by:
Michael J. Fox, Melanie Griffith, and Nathan Lane. Directed by: Rob
Minkoff.
<|_=00=_|>

While I thoroughly enjoyed this movie, I hold with the minority opinion
that
it isn't up to the standards of the original.  The first movie succeeded in
being sweet and charming without being the least bit sugary.  Alas, the
sequel doesn't entirely avoid this pitfall (that "little high, little low"
business is just a little gagging). Also, the plot is too predictable,
although that probably won't matter much to children, who are, after all,
the film's target audience.

These are really minor quibbles, though.  "Stuart 2" is a fine movie, both
for kids and adults.  The special effects are well-done, all the actors do
a
good job in their roles, and the dialogue has some real gems.  Particularly
noteworthy is Snowbell, the cat (voiced to hilarious perfection by Nathan
Lane).  He gets all the best lines, and steals every scene he's in--he even
upstages Stuart himself!
Verdict: Good movie. Go see.
<|_=00=_|>

We liked the first one so much that we went to see this one without our
grandkids. It was spectacular. The technology is amazing, the story is
cute,
Nathan Lane is just the funniest and best as is Michael J Fox, Geena Davis
and James Woods.  A can't miss great summer movie, even better than the
first one. Kudos to the people who put this together!
<|_=00=_|>

'Stuart Little 2' is a nice and sweet sequel with the same charms as the
first movie. The mouse Stuart (voice by Michael J. Fox) has an adventure in
the big city together with the house cat Snowbell (voice by Nathan Lane)
because the bird he loves (voice by Melanie Griffiths) is taken by Falcon
(James Woods). Of course the family Little (with Geena Davis, Hugh Laurie
and son George played by Jonathan Lipnicki) is looking for
Stuart.

A movie like this is allowed to be predictable. You know it will end happy
and that is the way it should end. A movie like this needs some charming,
sweet and funny moments and 'Stuart Little 2' has those moments. Every
moment between Margalo the bird and Stuart is sweet and charming and
especially the moments with the real characters are sometimes very funny.
Another nice thing is the creation of the mouse and bird itself. Since
Stuart or Margalo is in almost every scene in the movie there is always
something nice to look at. This is a perfect movie for the whole
family.
<|_=00=_|>
First off, I enjoyed this movie immensely.

Not only does this movie family-friendly - with absolutely zero content
that are controversial, too high-end, derogative or political, but
,most of all, it inspired me a lot. Quite frankly, this story caused my
mind to explode - with a bit of imagination Stuart and Margalo opened
up a whole new universe. 

Flashbacks from the first film reminded me that first we saw Stuart was
in an orphanage - and that's that, and all Mrs. Keeper mentioned about
Stuart's "parents" was that they were smashed by falling cans, which,
in certain aspects, raised me a flag about this little mouse: There's
more to this character... WAY more. 

Then questions started flooding into my head: Who exactly is Stuart?
What's his history? Who WAS Stuart? Where and when's he from? How come
his mouse-form able to speak languages that is understandable to
humans? Was he once a human-like creature, then somehow got turned or
reincarnated into a mouse(hopefully reincarnation)? If so, what
happened, and who is or was his biological parents? If his
reincarnation into a mouse grant the mouse power to communicate with
humans, then what's his heritage? Stuart sailed beautifully in the
first film and here he flies like an ace combat pilot - did he carry
those on from his previous life? Stuart and Margalo hit it off pretty
fast - like old flames: was there past connection rekindled, and
Margalo was actually his girlfriend or fiancée from his previous life?
Were there stories to that previous life? What happened? What happens
next? ...

A lot of these questions overwhelmed my thoughts and I rarely see that
happen even in these days' big-budget films(not even Avengers movies
can spark that kind of inspiration), so believe me when I say I wanted
to give a ten for this film. Though sadly, the ending's pretty harsh:
Even when they are pretty much in love, the canary's still restricted
by her migrant habit to the south or else she'll freeze to death in
winter. 

Really wish they had not been that hasty to cut off this movie that
soon: turning it into a high-level sci-fi fantasy romantic drama might
even explain a lot of things. Master White wrote the original script,
but he didn't made preparations to my questions should they arise...
and now that he's gone those questions became exploitable loopholes,
don't they? Maybe instead of all the pointless Disney remakes that
could potentially ruin the once-classic tales they could spare some
efforts to make Stuart Little great again? And maybe the next one to
make a Stuart Little film would answer my questions, if he or she ever
exist?
<|_=00=_|>
Stuart Little 2 (2002): Dir: Rob Minkoff / Cast: Hugh Laurie, Geena
Davis / Voices: Michael J. Fox, Melanie Griffith, Nathan Lane: Major
improvement after the pathetic film that preceded it. This one is
broader in its themes and contains a simplistic plot yet detailed
structure and exciting climax. Hugh Laurie and Geena Davis return as
Mr. and Mrs. Little and they are as plain and cardboard as they were in
the first film where they seemingly adopt a mouse that wears clothes
and not bat an eye at the absurdity. Here we accept it and Stuart joins
George Little, the son of the parents, at school. He scores a new
friend in the form of a bird named Margalo. She lands in Stuart's
miniature car to escape a falcon but the real story is that she is a
thief under threat by this falcon. She is forced to steal Mrs. Little's
wedding ring. She disappears and Stuart is determined to locate her and
face the falcon. Directed by Rob Minkoff who made the horrible first
film as well as the Disney masterpiece The Lion King. Michael J. Fox
voices Stuart, the mouse determined not to be outdone by his small
stature and face odds larger than life. Melanie Griffith voices the
soul searching Margalo who discovers friendship and a life outside
crime and oppression. Nathan Lane steals scenes voicing Snellbell the
fluffy cat with an appetite for food but shies away from danger. Strong
themes for families regarding making a difference regardless of one's
size. Score: 7 ½ / 10
