


If you're the type of movie goer who gets uptight hearing countless F Bombs
and explicit sexual discussion, then please move along and let others get
in
line to see one of the Funniest movies I have seen in my recent
memory.

"Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back" is a movie that has so much going on, that
one screening is not enough for me to all that was thrown at me in 90 plus
minutes.

Writer/Director/Co-Star, Kevin Smith (Silent Bob) has without a doubt
created if not his best movie, then it would have to be his funniest.  A
fitting conclusion to his "New Jersey Trilogy" (that now consists of five
films instead of the originally planned three) forgoes the serious
religious
overtones of "Dogma" and the Sexuality issues brought forth in "Chasing
Amy"
to go for pure Laughs...............and it succeeds.

The film's main plot revolves around the familiar duo of Jay (Jason Mewes)
and his "Heterosexual Life mate" Silent Bob and their attempts to thwart a
movie based on a comic book about Jay and Bob.  It's essentially a road
picture as the guys make their way from Leonardo, New Jersey to Hollywood.
Along the way they meet international Jewel Thieves, Steal a Monkey,  Meet
The Scooby Doo gang,  Try and Beat up Ben Affleck and Matt Damon, and much
more.

As Silly as all this sounds it's done in such a way that's smart, witty,
and
still has a touch of class about it.  And that's pretty hard to do
considering I can't even tell you some of the content of the movie without
being censored heavily.

If you are at all familiar with Smith's movies (Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing
Amy, and Dogma) you will get a kick out of the countless cameos and
connections to his other films.  For Example, Jason Lee reprises two roles
(one from "Mallrats" and one from "Chasing Amy") as does Ben Affleck.  Matt
Damon appears as himself playing "Will Hunting" in a fictitious sequel to
"Good Will Hunting" entitled `Good Will Hunting II: Hunting
Season".
There are two highlights of this movie that I need to talk about.  First
Being Jason Mewes as "Jay".  This guy is for real, by far and away he has
put in the best performance of all his five film appearances  as "Jay"  He
carries the picture and is side splittingly funny.  It is my hope that he
can now get other roles in movies besides the loveable Dope smoking
"Jay".
Secondly I want to address Kevin Smith's Directing.  To all the people who
say Smith can't direct need to see "Jay and Silent Bob". His use of motion
should silence everyone who claims there are no moving shots in a Smith
film!!!  It's almost become fashionable to blast Smiths direction because
that's the Thing to do. With all the great action and movement in "Jay and
Silent Bob'  Smith can finally shrug off all the criticisms of the
past.

What can I say to sum up? It's a brilliant movie for everyone, not just
Smith fans. You will laugh and laugh some more. Do yourself a favour and go
see it as soon as you can!

<|_=00=_|>
''f*ck,f*ck,f*ck'' when these words are said by a two year old version
of Jay before the film switches to present day Jay doing his
rap(''drinkin beers beers beers,rollin fatties,etc)the tone of the film
is firmly set.But did you expect anything else?The heroes of Kevin
Smiths Jersey film series finally get the screen time,and sadly the
send off,they deserve.This film is JOKES from start to finish,the
dialogue is funny and in places very rude, especially from Jay.|The
cast is full of brilliantly chosen cameos,featuring many people having
a tongue in cheek pop at themselves.The Good Will Hunting 2:Hunting
season section shows Ben affleck and Matt Damon can laugh at
themselves,which in a film like this they would need to!Jason Mewes is
on top form as is Kevin Smith,especially when Bob is finally driven to
an uncharacteristic outburst of more than a few words.BOUT TIME!!!The
continuity of this in relation to the previous Jay and Silent Bob
outings is superb,and although it is a funnier film if you have seen
Kevin Smiths other Jersey films,there are still plenty of jokes for the
uninitiated.This is mostly down to a fantastic supporting cast of some
great comedic performers.Will Ferrells WildLife Marshall is funny as
f*ck as Jay would say!The movie is not just full of jokes at previous
Jersey films expense,but it takes a few good shots at other films and
even the film industry itself...could Movie Poopshoot.com be a
reference to IMDb.com?who knows?.The 2 disc DVD is WELL worth getting
if you like the movie,the outtakes are worth the money alone.And one
particular extra ''Ham Affleck'' is worth checking,with Ben showing his
real cheese skills(which he would perfected in Pearl Harbour,only that
time he was trying to be serious).Also the introductions to the many
deleted scenes are worth watching,with Affleck again taking some
lighthearted ripping from Mewes and Smith.LOL.Rude,fun poking,loud and
very very funny.....just like Jay.9/10
<|_=00=_|>

Whether or not you enjoy `Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back' is going to depend
a lot on whether or not you enjoy director Kevin Smith. I, for one, think
the guy is a genius.  If you don't mind my lauding his name, read on. First,
a little background for the uninitiated.

Kevin Smith's movies (Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy, Dogma, and now JSBSB)
are a world created by the director himself, in the sense that all are
interconnected by characters, plot points, and subtle references. The one
constant, though, is the entity known as Jay and Silent Bob, a pair of pot
dealers who have more or less spent their entire lives standing in front of
the Quik-Stop convenience store.  Jay (Jason Mewes) is the long-haired guy
we all knew in high school, his endless stream of four-letter epithets
almost endearing because the goofy guy just doesn't know any better.  Silent
Bob (played by director Kevin Smith), Jay's self-described `hetero
life-mate' stands by without speaking a word and provides some sort of moral
counterpoint for the duo.

 In Smith's `Chasing Amy,' Banky and Holden (Jason Lee and Ben Affleck,
respectively) created a comic book entitled `Bluntman and Chronic,' based on
their real-life buddies Jay and Silent Bob.  Fast-forward to `Jay and Silent
Bob Strike Back.'

Banky has sold the rights to his comic to Miramax pictures, leaving Jay and
Silent Bob in the dark about the business deal.  Jay and Bob, with help from
Holden, discover via the Internet (`What's the Internet?' asks Jay) that a
movie based on them is about to start production. Realizing that they won't
see a dime of the money, and even more upset by their defamation on Internet
message boards, they decide to truck across the country to stop the film
from being produced.

It's important to note that while the comedy is crude, slapstick, and even
resorts to fart jokes, it's not dumb comedy, it's satire at it's finest,
reminiscent of such self-deprecating masterpieces as `Pee-Wee's Big
Adventure' and `Blazing Saddles.' After the fairly serious `Chasing Amy' and
the spiritually overtoned `Dogma,' we see that Smith has decided to get
together with his buddies and put together one big inside joke.
Fortunately, he's decided to let a few of us in on it.  The viewer's
enjoyment of the movie is going to depend completely on his or her knowledge
of Smith's previous films and characters.

 Smith's friends show up in cameos, from Chris Rock to Will Ferrell to
Alanis Morrissette to Carrie Fisher to Mark Hamill (Smith is an infamous
Star Wars fanatic). You can literally see a man's childhood dream coming
true when at one point, Smith's Bob gets to carry on a lightsaber duel with
Hamill.

Local interest: In one of the many subplots, a group of female jewel thieves
bring Jay and Silent Bob to our very own Boulder, Colorado, to steal a
monkey from a medical testing facility. `Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back' is
a comedy, and doesn't try to be anything else.  The only thing I felt was
missing was one of Jason Lee's  inspired monologues bitterly bemoaning the
state of society.  Some of Shannon Elizabeth's screen time could have been
cut, I felt, in favor of some trademark Smith dialogue.

Smith now intends to focus his time on more dramatic pursuits, and we are
given this as the fifth and last film in his so-called `Jersey Trilogy.'
The bottom line is, Smith loves his fans, and this film was created for the
loyal.  A fitting send-off for Jay and Silent Bob, this film gets an `A-.'

<|_=00=_|>

Writer/director/co-star Kevin Smith bids farewell to the Jay and Silent
Bob
characters in "Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back," the first of the five
movies
featuring them in which they are the stars. He couldn't have come up with
a
better send-off for them. True, there's no big ideas behind this film like
there were in "Dogma" or "Chasing Amy," but really, the grand ideas in
those
movies came from the main characters, not Jay and Silent Bob. They were
there for comic relief mainly. Therefore, it makes sense that "Jay and
Silent Bob Strike Back" would be pure slapstick comedy. Think about it, do
you really want a foul-mouthed, over-sexed stoner telling you how to live
your life?

So anyway, it's a pure slapstick humor road movie. But unlike most
slapstick
comedies of late, this one's actually funny...extremely funny. Jay and
Silent Bob find out that a movie is being made from a comic book (Bluntman
&
Chronic) that was based on them. They set off for Hollywood intending to
stop it. Kevin Smith manages to pack so many jokes into what could have
been
another predictable, boring road comedy, that it's head and shoulders
above
the competition. I'm gonna have to go see it again, to make sure I didn't
miss any jokes. Smith once again is showing off his incredible writing
skills. Some people may not believe that any movie full of crude, R-rated
humor is well written, but it is. Not only is it incredibly funny, but
there's an intelligence and wit behind it that is unmistakably Kevin
Smith's.

I was also pleased with the quality of acting in the movie, especially
Jason
Mewes (Jay). In past View Askew movies, Mewes has been funny, despite not
doing a particularly good job of acting. The one thing I was worried about
was whether or not he'd be able to carry a film mostly by himself (since
Silent Bob is mostly, well, silent). But he definitely proved that he has
grown enough as an actor to be able to head up a movie. Kevin Smith
(Silent
Bob) does his usual decent job. Since he doesn't say much, mainly just
reacts, he can't to a great job, but he's still very funny. He's the
perfect
companion (or should I say, "hetero life mate" for Jay, who's the complete
opposite. There are no real other big parts in the movie, but there are
tons
of little cameos. Really, I think it'd be easier to list the people who
DON'T appear in it. Some of the highlights include a scene with Ben
Affleck
and Matt Damon playing themselves, on the set of "Good Will Hunting 2:
Hunting Season," a scene with Jason Biggs and James Van Der Beek, as
themselves, playing the stars of the Bluntman and Chronic movie, and a
scene
with Mark Hamill parodying Star Wars. But really, almost all of the jokes
are highlights.

For people who have seen the other films in Smith's New Jersey Chronicles
series ("Clerks," "Mallrats," "Chasing Amy," & "Dogma"), there are quite a
few in-jokes that you will find hilarious. In addition to playing himself,
Affleck also reprises his role as Holden from "Chasing Amy," Jason Lee
reprises his roles from "Chasing Amy" and "Mallrats," and Jeff Anderson
and
Brian O'Halloran reprise their "Clerks" roles. Many others from the View
Askewniverse appear as well. However, this movie is not only for fanboys.
I
saw it with a friend who hadn't seen any of the other four movies, and he
thought it was hilarious too. The majority of the jokes will be understood
by anyone. The in-jokes are like a little bonus from Smith to his fans,
but
they are not the focus of the movie.

Kevin Smith also does a good job directing. Lately, it seems to have
become
popular to attack Smith's directing ability, but I think he did a good
job.
In his earlier movies, his directing was simply decent, not good, not bad.
But he has made a lot of progress. This is one of the better directed
comedies I've seen. Not Academy Award stuff, but most other comedy
directors
are pretty boring it seems.

I want to briefly comment on the GLAAD protests of the film, citing large
amounts of homophobia. I am gay, and I didn't find the film offensive. I
think a lot of people are just taking the film way to seriously. It's not
a
serious film. People forget that Jay is, basically, a moron, so you can
exactly take everything he says as the truth. Smith has said it's supposed
to be a satire, and it works. Especially considering that in past films,
Jay
has admitted to sometimes fantasizing about guys. It's a satire, lighten
up
people. There's actually a funny scene where James Van Der Beek chastises
Jason Biggs for calling something "gay," and also there's a funny
disclaimer
at the end.

Which reminds me, stay for the credits. There's plenty of funny stuff, and
Alanis Morissette shows up at the very end. All in all, "Jay and Silent
Bob
Strike Back" is an extremely funny movie, plain and simple. Just don't
take
it seriously, because again, it's not a serious movie. There's still a few
months to go, but I think this will prove to be the funniest movie of the
year...actually, of the last many years. Quit reading this and go see
it!

Rating: 10/10
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of the funniest movies I have seen in a long time. I say
this because it is the only movie I have ever laughed out loud at in a
theater. I know a lot of people complain because the movie is toilet
humor, vulgar language, and sex jokes. But so what? Kevin Smith took on
serious topics before, this is his chance to kick back. If you go into
this movie expecting to be enlightened, then there is something
seriously wrong with you.

In the film, Jay and Silent Bob discover that Miramax will be making a
movie based on "Bluntman & Chronic", the comic based on themselves.
Soon after discovering the insults people are slinging about the movie
on the internet, Jay and Silent Bob head to Hollywood to shut the movie
down and protect their "good" names. This movie ties together all of
Smith's other Jersey crew films, with appearances by characters from
"Clerks" through "Chasing Amy".

While it is true that you won't get all the jokes unless you've seen
Smith's other movies, that won't stop a person from enjoying it if they
haven't. When I first saw "Jay & Silent Bob Strikes Back" in theaters,
I had only seen "Dogma" beforehand and I thought it was hilarious.
Everyone in this movie puts on an awesome comedic performance, though I
think my favorite comes from Will Ferrell as an inept wildlife marshal.
If you don't mind some distasteful humor, you've got to see this movie.
<|_=00=_|>

Kevin Smith proved with J.S.B.S.B. that he is no longer just a glorified
independent film maker.  In past films, Kevin Smith seemed to have a limited
appeal, mostly among arm-chair directors (such as myself)who had become
jaded with the Hollywood film industry, but with his slap-stick-like middle
finger to the movie industry he seems to have branched out and struck a note
with the "MTV audience" (10 to 16 year olds).  Smith's grade-school humor,
delivered mostly by Jay, is nothing new to previous movies, but with  the
focus on Jay & Silent Bob this humor became more evident AND more inviting
to a younger audience.

Nonetheless, Smith has not alienated his core audience who are, "...over and
underweight guys who can't get laid." (See Holden McNeil in "Chasing Amy").
The simple visual affects, as in his past movies, are FAR  overshadowed by
the fantastic dialogue he writes which has Hollywood stars chomping at the
bit to deliver.  If anything, the only disappointment was a  very thin plot
(OK, Mallrats: Had a plot, no one ever said it was a good one).  But as he
did in Mallrats, for what J.S.B.S.B. is lacking in plot, Smith sure as hell
made up for it in laughs.

This movie junkie gives "Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back" a 9 out of 10..
.let's just hope what Chris Rock says in the movie doesn't come true.  See
the movie and you'll get what I mean.
<|_=00=_|>

For the record, I have not seen Kevin Smith's previous works, Clerks,
Mallrats, Chasing Amy, or Dogma, which, I'm almost positive, affected how I
saw the movie, since Smith puts in so many in-jokes and references to his
previous movies, I didn't get them, except for the blatantly obvious
ones.

Jay (Jason Mewes) and Silent Bob (Kevin Smith) hang out in front of a
convience store selling weed. When the get a restraining order, they find
out that the comic starring their likenesses Bluntman and Chronic is being
turned into a Miramax movie. However, they aren't being paid for it, so what
to do? Travel cross-country to Hollywood from New Jersey to stop the movie
from getting made, what else?

Crude, inappropriate, and extremely funny. If there's ever a movie that you
should watch with your drinking friends and not with a date or family, this
is the one! It has jokes about genetalia, bodily functions, innuendoes, and
more, and I haven't laughed this hard at a movie for a long time. Call me
immature, but I like this type of stuff, ones that actually have substance
behind the crude jokes (not like Old School).

Mewes was f-ing hilarious, when he f-ing say the f-ing f-word every f-ing
word. It has over 230 f-words along in this movie, with the total number of
curses probably around 300. I have never heard so many, but I laughed. I'm
not ashamed to admit it: Mewes cracked me up, with his stylish arrogance and
foul mouth. Smith, who was laconic for almost the entire film, expressed
everything with his eyes, which were funny. There were more cameos than a
movie of The Simpsons, with Ben Affleck, Matt Damon, George Carlin, Jamie
Kennedy, Chris Rock, Tracy Morgan, Joey Lauren Adams, and many, many
more.

There were many pot-shots of American movies. For instance, when Jay and
Silent Bob meet a drug dealer played by Tracy Morgan, he says that Miramax
accounts for about 75% of his income. Also, everyone on-screen looks at the
camera when they mention, `No one would pay to see a Jay and Silent Bob
movie,' and when Ben Affleck says that one reason you do a picture is
because you owe a friend a favor. As the Bluntman and Chronic movies
premieres, someone says, `Well, it was better than Mallrats.'

Are you easily offended? Does the mention of various body parts upset you?
If you answered yes to either question, Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is
not your movie. If you answered no, sit back and enjoy the
ride!

My rating: 7/10

Rated R for nonstop crude and sexual humor, pervasive strong language, and
drug content.
<|_=00=_|>
Kevin Smith's previous movies always seemed to be something of a mixed
bag. Whether ambitious thematically, ("Dogma", "Chasing Amy"), or
outright comedy, ("Mallrats"), the movies as a whole were less
satisfactory than their many very funny parts. The sporadic appearances
of the second string character duo of Jay and Silent Bob were always a
welcome event.

The big question was whether this 2001 styled Laurel and Hardy, when
promoted to center stage, could carry a movie. The answer much to my
surprise was a resounding yes. Smith outdoes himself, producing an
exceptional comedy. It's consistently inventive, with surprises, in
jokes and many cameos from Smith regulars, all who seem to be genuinely
having a ball. Never has irreverence and bad language been done with so
much charm.

Those who disliked Smith's previous works would do well to stay away,
they are unlikely to be converted. But for fans, Smith really does
deliver the goods, in a big way.

I was totally baffled by reading that certain gay groups took offence
to this movie. It would seem to me a total misreading as well as a
great deficiency in the humor department. Apart from the fact that
Smith lampoons all and sundry, it actually struck me as a particularly
gay friendly movie. The fact that a gay character sums the movie up as
one big gay joke should be taken as a compliment more than anything
else.

It's clear that this brings Smith's cycle to a close. He couldn't have
wished for a better ending.
<|_=00=_|>

Having seen every Kevin Smith film but MALLRATS, I went in to J & SB SB
with
fairly high expectations.  Coming out of the theatre last night, I was very
disappointed with what I had just seen.  Some of the gags and spoofs
worked,
but there were more hits than misses.  This movie is especially weak
considering that it followed CHASING AMY and DOGMA--2 of the best (and
funniest) American films of the past five years.

If this flick was something that Kevin Smith just had to get out of his
system, then I'm willing to forgive him.  I think he's got a lot more to
offer than fart and stoner jokes.  There's little proof of that in this
film, though.  If you're a Smith fan, you can wait for this movie to hit
the
discount theatres (or video).  If you haven't seen any previous KS films,
by
all means skip J & SB SB.  I couldn't imagine a worse intro to the Jersey
"trilogy."

Rating:  5/10
<|_=00=_|>

This film will hold a special place in the hearts of all Kevin Smith fans. 
It is nothing more than his very own greatest hits reel.  Now I kind of dig
the man myself, liked a few of his films-hated a few more, but I entered the
theatre as more of a impartial film fan rather than Kevin Smith nut.  Keep
that in mind as I say these words: Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is one of
the most horrible pieces of nonsense ever put to film.  It was so bad I
expected Pauly Shore to have a few lines.  The titular characters are really
not interesting enough to carry an entire movie, especially seeing that one
is silent.  After 90 minutes the voice of Jay was an inch away from giving
me a seizure.  Crude and stupid, in all of the bad ways, this film puts a
black mark next to the name of a filmmaker who really isn't all that
talented in the first place.  Luckily these characters are being retired,
hopefully a forced change of scenery will force Smith into making a film
that isn't horrible.  
