

A lot has been said about this movie, as is the case with many recent
Hollywood comics adaptations. While I truly respect everyone's opinion, I
really don't see the point in some criticisms brought up against this
movie.

(Definitely NO spoilers ahead.)

First of all, we must realize that X-men comics have been around for
decades. They existed before many of you were born. Still, the producers
had
to assume that the average audience had little or no idea about the
mutant
phenomenon, but Bryan singer did a very good job (as always) in the first
film, and introduced the audience. Besides, adapting such a story with so
many characters to the screen is no easy job, and is also risky,
considering
it's Hollywood and it must return all those millions. So the mutant
phenomenon was well explained, the characters and their abilities
introduced, and the plot (which actually had a story, unlike many action
flicks) was carried out smoothly. All in the running time of one film.
good
job.

The second film, however, had to concentrate (naturally) on more
characters
and a more thorough story. This is why I object (in the title) to people
criticising this film for "lack of character development" etc. Many of
the
characters WERE developed in the first film. If you never read x-men
comics,
and did not even see the first movie, and see this one right away and
still
expect the director/writer to spell things out for you, well, you'll be
disappointed. "Where did Colossus take the kids during the attack?"
someone
asked. To hide them somewhere, THAT'S where he took them. I don't think
people would like to see the director spell out everything, such as
Colossus' inner voice saying, "Well, let me take these kids somewhere
beneath this multimillion dollar facility, to hide them from the bad
guys."

And the newly-introduced characters were introduced well enough. You see
their abilities, you see whose side they're on, you even learn more about
their personalities as the movie progresses. What else do you need to
learn?
Which team he supports?

The highlight of the film was definitely Mystique's transformation
scenes,
very well done.

The movie had many shortcomings, of course, the pace slowed down more
than
once, some main characters, especially Cyclops, were almost lost, but the
plusses were way more than minuses. Especially Nightcrawler, who almost
stole the lead from Wolverine. I must also add that Wolverine is much
more
violent in this film than the first, much more like the original comic
character.

As for the people who complain about the abundance of characters. Well,
bad
news for you. X-men is not a story of a couple of guys and their
girlfriends. There are much more characters, hopefully to be seen in the
next sequel(s). Jubilee, Pyro and Colossus were all hinted in this one.
Though I'm eager to see Gambit also, I can't wait to see how they will do
the Beast. Of course, I can see the "no character development" people
asking
each other, "Who is Beast?"

In short, this movie does what it's supposed to do: Gives us
entertainment,
and shows us our favorite characters on screen. 
<|_=00=_|>

Absolutely happy! That is the only word I can use to describe my feelings
after spending my hard-earned money to see X-Men 2. It was worth every
penny.

Firstly, the makers of superhero films such as this have an unenviable task.
They have to please hardcore comic fans and casual movie fans which is no
easy task. And The X-Men-with their forty years of history and
continuity-are perhaps the hardest heroes to put on the big screen. Well,
I've spoken to many hardcore X-fans and casual movie fans and they all
enjoyed it too.

I won't go into great detail about the plot. Let's just say that The X-Men
and their enemy Magneto have to join forces to combat an even bigger threat.
I enjoyed this movie so much because for the first time in years, I didn't
read ANYTHING about the plot or any reviews prior to viewing it. That is why
I'm not going to go into great detail about the plot. Just enjoy
it.

All the favourites are back including my personal favourite Hugh Jackman as
Wolverine (I hope Wolverine gets his own movie franchise one day). The
makers of this movie have done a great job in making sure various characters
get the right amount of screen time. We'd all love our favourites to get
more screentime but with so many X-Men (and women), the producers have to do
the best they can; and they do indeed.

There are a few really great special effects in this movie but unlike some
special effects laden movies, the plot is more important in this movie.
Furthermore, the movie is much deeper and really makes you think. Marvel
comics (and movies) have always been deep and many of the issues have
reflected real life. This movie is about persecution and intolerance of
mutants and reflects many issues from the past and the present such as
Hitler's treatment of the Jews and the different ideologies of Martin Luthor
King and Malcom X. In fact, many longtime X-fans have compared the X-Men's
Professor X to Martin Luthor King and the evil Magneto to Malcom X. Seeing a
movie like this cannot only provide a couple of hours of entertainment but
make you view society in a totally different way.

This is the best superhero film since the 70's (when we saw gems such as
Superman The Movie) and the 80's (when we saw Tim Burton's Batman). It was a
fantastic film but it begs one question-how are they ever going to top this?

<|_=00=_|>
This was a great sequel to the first X-MEN movie which was also good
but could've been a lot better. Many of the shortcomings of the first
movie are annihilated in this one, and the sequel makes a lot of
important plot setups for the third movie to cover. The acting was
excellent from everybody, the script was well done, and more action
scenes were added to make the movie more exciting. The only complaints
that I had from this movie was the short screen times for Halle Berry,
Patrick Steward, and James Marsden. I hope that for X-MEN 3 Matthew
Vaughn will find a way to add new characters,and give these three more
screen time than they got here. Overall, a great second entry that
knocks the crap out of the first movie.
<|_=00=_|>
They've done a hell of a lot right. That's my response to Singer's
X-Men films; they're slick, funny, emotive and a real blast to watch.
Without overdrawn character introductions and explanations, X2 launches
right into seventh gear and doesn't let up.

Admirably, the film allows the majority of its characters a genuinely
engaging storyline amongst the bigger picture, and although the story
is not without its fault (using Cerebro as a major plot point two films
in a row is like building the second Death Star in Return of the Jedi;
been there, seen it before) it is certainly worthy of high praise. It's
amazing that in just two films we already have a real appreciation for
the relationships between such a considerable group of characters, and
it is for the continued development of these relationships - and not
the cool story line and action sequences - that makes me look forward
to another X-film.

I would love to say that it's the casting that makes the films so
brilliant - and it's true, the casting is great - but a couple of these
characters have been woefully miscast. Iceman stood out for me,
bringing an uncomfortable Backstreet Boy vibe to the role, and although
his role in X2 is small, James Marsden just doesn't seem to have it in
him to hold a commanding and authoritative position among the X-sters
as Cyclops. In the first X-film he managed to at least stand beside the
Wolverine with some great gags, but he's been left in the gutter for
X2, and in the single scene toward the end of the film where Marsden is
allowed to genuinely act, his emotional response feels awkward and
forced. I am sure he is capable of more than this, and hopefully when
X-Men 3 comes around he'll have more to work with. I've never been
happy with Halle Berry as Storm, and she looks bored out of her skull
in this film. I hope not to see her return.

Thankfully, most of Singer's new cast are admirable. The recast Pyro is
great and Nightcrawler is fantastic. In fact, Alan is the only actor in
the film who comes close to matching the quality of Jackman's Wolverine
and McKellen's Magneto. These wonderful actors all appear to genuinely
revel in portraying their characters. Janssen steps her performance up
a notch too and it helps the film no end. I really hope to see her in
the next film.

Ultimately, there are just a few slip-ups here in an otherwise classy
and supremely entertaining film. With such an established canon of
characters everyone is going to have their own opinion on how
particular character should be portrayed, and for the most part X-2
does the job. Hopefully the bugs will be ironed out and we'll see a
sequel of equal or greater quality in a few years. I'm certainly
excited at the prospect.
<|_=00=_|>

With all the hype surrounding this summers blockbuster sequels, not
the
least of which is The Matrix Reloaded, as well as having to fight the
ghost
of Comic-book-movie-bombs-from-summers-past, it goes without saying that
a
lot of hopes and dreams were riding high on the shoulders of everyone
involved in Fox's second big screen outing for everyone's favorite team o
superheroes.  Brian Singer himself must've been sweating adamantium
bullets,
not only being held under the gun by the studio to lead their next big
moneymaker, but most importantly and fortunately for us because of his
deep
and honest desire to make the most accurate and cohesive comic
book-to-film
adaptation in the history of cinema.  Well Brian I am thrilled to say
that
that is precisely what has been achieved with your amazing film X2: X-Men
United!

It has become rarer and rarer to find a film that has the ability to
grab your senses and lock your attention so firmly, not ever letting up
until the credits role, such as this film does.  One might only be able
to
count a handful of films where a sequel takes all of the good elements
form
it's predecessor, completely eliminates the things that didn't work or
fit
in the original, then goes on to not only exceed the expectations and
hype
surrounding it, but completely redefines and elevates it's genre.  From
this
day forward let it be known that all other Comic Book films will hereby
be
judged and held up the new level of excellence set by Brian Singer's
brilliant X-Men 2. And if ya' can't already tell, I kinda' like this
flick!
; )

I am sure many of you would love to know exactly what makes this
film
worth spending your money on?  Well, to try and sum it up the characters,
their struggles, their dreams, their relationships, they all MATTER
because
infused throughout this entire production and at isn't core lies HEART!
And
at the same time the film can be both touching as well as possess a
gritty
and visceral quality, giving each in attendance license to participate in
the action as an outlet for their frustrations and monotony of their
everyday lives.  Just as I felt as if I was part of the Fellowship in
Lord
of the Rings, so here again I feel like I am part of the X-Men
team.

But what really drives my excitement is Brian Singer's seemingly
boundless ability to correctly interpret the true spirit of the X-Men
comics.  Individually, as a team, hero and villain alike, he has somehow
tapped into the heart of these books and like the title says, united them
in
a film that defied my highest expectations and ignites my imagination.
This
is however not to say that he hasn't altered things from the comics.  But
unlike other directors from the past who have butchered comic book
adaptations, Singer's interpretation of the characters lets you
understand
that any changes that were made were for the best.  Prime examples of
this
can be found in how deftly he handles Jean Grey and the silent discovery
of
her Phoenix powers.  Understanding that it would be totally impossible
for
him to try and take the Phoenix Saga and directly translate that to film,
Singer has rightly decided to do what lesser directors would have cowered
at; to re-interpret this change, still showing Jean Grey inherit this
power,
but to use it to build on her character, and realize HER potential more
than
most writers of the comics have done in recent memory.  At the same time
treating the character with respect as well as both we the audience and
the
dedicated fans of the comics with that same respect and maturity.
Another
example of his skills in character interpretation is the way in which he
has
taken the religious zealot that was William Stryker in the comics and
turned
him into a much more menacing zealot shill clinging to the original
characters' self righteous justifications.  But by giving him the
military
background and simultaneously making Mastermind his son, as well as
merging
the scientists who created Wolverine and Deathstryke, Singer serves up an
extremely multilayered and more well rounded Stryker with a very clear
agenda.  Brian singer accomplishes all of this at the same time he is
sewing
up crucial sub-plots and characters that are ingeniously and potently
utilized.

To illustrate the difference between how Brian Singer and the
writers/producers for X2 utilize the material and do so intelligently
making
us pay more attention to the details, and alternately how so many of us
have
gotten used to dumbed down films that lead us deliberately, treating most
of
us like children, to their obvious conclusions, I bring up a subject of
much
debate.  Now some have pointed out that in the ending of X-Men 2 where
Jean
Grey goes out of the plane to sacrifice herself was unnecessary obviously
did not follow what was occurring to Jean throughout the film.  What I
saw
was her character going through the anguish and realization that
something
inside of her was reaching far beyond her capabilities to control and
after
seeing what she was capable of in her battle with Cyclops that at the mom
ent
she saw that everyone in the team was in danger on the plane, she used
this
as self justification to sacrifice her life for everyone and at the same
time stop the force inside of her which she feared was a growing danger
not
only out of her control but could eventually threaten or hurt all those
who
she loved.

What other director can you name has so responsibly adapted
something
like this to film?  I can think of only one off hand, Peter Jackson and
his
diligence to The Lord of the Ring books.  I dare say the Brian Singer has
accomplished more than even Mr. Jackson, because Singer has taken a Comic
Book, something the majority of people and press disregard as children's
books or even geek literature, and has transformed it into a very HUMAN,
very poignant, very real experience, and can only hope that he will
continue
on what he has accomplished.

* * * * *
(5 stars)

<|_=00=_|>
Some people would tell you that X2 is more conventional and mainstream
than the first movie and to that I can only say: What a load of
rubbish! Not only does X2 continue in the style set by the first film
but it also improves on it greatly. This is achieved by adding more
characters, making a deeper story and making the ever expanding
universe even more chaotic so as better to capture the essence of the
comic book. Two thumbs way up! The story picks up after the events of
the first film in a way that pleases the viewers of the first film and
is satisfactory to new viewers. The story is still well written and the
pacing has improved a lot from the first film. There are no real slow
points during the movie and the director takes special care to cram
many of the scenes with breath taking visual effects so the audience
will never lose interest. The dialog is once again both very sharp and
witty and intelligent and allows for adequate character development.
The character development is something some people have seen fit to
criticize as they claim there isn't enough of it and except for only
two characters I whole heartedly disagree. The character development of
the main characters happened pretty much in the first film and
therefore it is only necessary to add a bit more depth to the
characters instead of repeating the character development from the
first film. I did feel, however, that the film seemed somewhat rushed
at times and that is a shame as it definitely had potential to be a 2½
hour film.

The acting is still sublime and I, of course, have to emphasize Hugh
Jackman who is still absolutely brilliant as Wolverine. Both in
bringing out the animal sides during the fight sequences but also in
keeping the character human like in the comics. Ian McKellen returns as
well and further fleshes out his character of Magneto and makes the
character every bit as devious and charismatic as in the previous film.
Patrick Stewart returns as well and does what he did in the first film
and he is still the only one who could play Xavier. Among the new
actors are Brian Cox and Alan Cumming. Cox does what he does best and
plays the new villain with the exaggerated style he usually does.
Cumming on the other hand shows remarkable depth as Nightcrawler and is
in spite of his appearance one of the most human characters in the
film. I will miss him in the third film. Lets hope Beast is any bit as
good as in the comics. Some have had their characters lessened in the
sequel. Most notably James Marsden while Famke Jansen's character is
developed further. Halle Berry's character Storm is still kept in the
background but I'm sure she will get more screen time in the third
film. Aside from the ones I have now mentioned the acting is quite good
all round.

Action wise the film took a major step up from the first film and many
of the action scenes are quite simply awesome. We get to see more of
Wolverine's feral rage which is always worth a look. All fights scenes
with Wolverine are awesome and some of the most entertaining I've seen.
Also we get a brief glimpse of Collosus kicking some ass and he does
look cool I must say. In fact many of the individual mutants' powers
are fleshed out in X2 and like in the original X-Men film they look
absolutely beautiful. My only concern regarding the effects and action
scenes is how on earth they are going to top them in the coming third
X-Men film.

In regards to music and sound the film improved upon the first film
with a much more catchy soundtrack and more audible effects. For
example the sounds of Wolverine's claws shooting out and retracting
have been amplified making him even more menacing than he was in the
first film. Very well done.

All in all X2 is an excellent continuation of the original film and we
are nearing something that is more like a saga than a series of films.
I'm really beginning to see Bryan Singer as a master director after
these two brilliant films and I am a little sad he opted to do Superman
Returns rather than finish what he started with the X-Men films.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
2000's smash hit X-Men certainly deserved a sequel (or two, or three),
especially with all the cash it made and how the first one ended. Now
the X-Men are back together once again, and this time they've got some
new friends, including Nightcrawler and Pyro, and as well as some new
enemies like William Stryker and Lady Deathstrike (his personal mutant
"assistant"/slave). This time the X-Men find themselves locked in an
unlikely alliance with Magneto and Mystique (their nemeses from the
first film) against an evil military scientist named William Stryker,
whose main goal is to eradicate the world of mutants once and for all.

X2: X-Men United is in many ways an improvement over the first film.
It's more psychological, it's longer, there's more action, more
mutants, more of Wolverine slicing it up and like the first film it's
never boring or drags, right from the get-go X2 is fierce and exciting.
In fact, X2 is almost the perfect comic book film almost. The one
little, weak link in X2, for me at least, was Nightcrawler. Now, I like
the character of Nightcrawler, but I honestly didn't care that much for
Alan Cumming, he came off as a bit weak, and kind of "dorky". The
character of Nightcrawler really just seems like a huge convenience to
the plot; like the scene where he rescues Rogue in the X-Jet, which was
oh so very convenient. But the one thing I liked about Nightcrawler,
besides that awesome opening sequence in the White House, was his
religious side, which I thought was interesting and made me sympathize
with the character a little more.

Pretty much everything in X2 works perfectly fine, which I attribute
all that success to the amazing cast (Jackman, McKellen, Stewart,
Marsden, Janssen, Berry, Paquin, Cox, Romijn), and the fact that the
film was written and directed by the same people who clearly knew what
they were doing back in 2000, and here they show us once again they
still know what they're doing, and they aren't afraid to up the ante
and take it up a notch. If you liked the first X-Men there's really no
reason at all why wouldn't enjoy or like X2 as much, or maybe even more
than the first film. It still has those surprising moments of humor,
and plenty of action, maybe even more so than the original. And like
the original, X2 sets itself up for a third film; let's just hope it
turns out (at the very least) as good as the first two films, if not
better.
<|_=00=_|>

The film begins. We are shown a tour guide leading students and adults
through the White House in Washington, DC. It seems normal enough. A
security guard notices someone straying off the path and asks if he is lost.
The man raises his head, and a tail flicks out from behind him. Before the
security guard can do anything he is down on the ground, alerting all
security in the area of a mutant attack. 

The blue creature, known later as Nightcrawler, teleports past dozens of
guards and kicks and whips them with his tail and fists. Finally the action
dies down with the creature being shot (not killed), and we are left to
catch our breaths. Reader, I'll tell you, it took me a few moments to catch
mine.

It sure looks as if "X2" is on the right track for a sequel, and if
anything, it seems better. The budget is obviously bigger as we see the
truly amazing special effects in the beginning of the film, and though the
action never quite again reaches its high-point as in the beginning, it sets
the film up for other non-stop action sequences, just like the James Bond
movies are known for doing.

But that's not all "X-Men 2," or "X2" as the posters abbreviate, is all
about. It has an important human element that adds to the pure, non-stop,
full-blooded action-spectaculars throughout the film. The cast is bigger,
the budget is bigger, the story is bigger, and the action is plentiful.
Teenagers will enjoy the action side, and adults will probably enjoy the
human side to the story. It seamlessly combines both these two
elements/techniques even more than the original film did. I didn't expect to
enjoy this film more than the first, but I must say I did.

It reunites the old cast for a continuation of the struggle for mutants and
humans to live together in the same world.

The film begins with an assassination attempt on the president's life,
carried out by a teleporting mutant. This act upsets the entire world, and
the president is about to begin the mutant-human war predicted by Charles
Xavier (Patrick Stewart) in the first film. In an effort to get to the
bottom of the attack on the president's life, and prevent world-wide war,
Xavier sends out Storm (Halle Berry) and Dr. Jean Grey (Famke Janssen) to
search for the teleporting mutant and discover the truth behind the
assassination attempt.

Meanwhile, Logan "Wolverine" (Hugh Jackman) has returned to Xavier's mansion
after searching for any signs of his past. He has found none. He is greeted
by Rogue (Anna Paquin) and her new boyfriend Bobby "Iceman," who was briefly
seen in the first film and is given a deeper character backdrop in this
film. 

But soon things start to turn for the worst as an attack on Xavier's mansion
is led by Stryker (Brian Cox), the man behind the assassination attempt, who
wants all mutants to be killed off. He kidnaps Charles Xavier, and reveals
that he wishes for Charles to kill all mutants.

How? By focusing Xavier's psychic powers/telepathy on a particular group of
people, Xavier can actually kill them. So Stryker plans to use his disowned
mutant son (who also has psychic powers) to control Xavier's mind (sort of)
and focus on all the mutants in the world, automatically killing
them.

With this plot in motion, Mystique (Rebecca Romijn-Stamos) has little time
to free Eric "Magneto," which results in a truly amazing escape sequence
which I will not spoil for you.

Now, in an ironic moment, old enemies must fight together to bring down
Stryker before his plan follows through. But the band of X-Men are far from
solving their problems, as a new mutant, Lady Deathstrike (Kelly Hu) may
stand in their way of defeating Stryker. And Wolverine may also find the key
to his past in this mess.

"X-Men 2," unlike other sequels, improves upon itself. Tragic sequels go to
the dogs when the filmmakers are either too proud to try and surpass the
original, or are too arrogant to even attempt it. "X-Men" was an excellent
comic-book adaptation, in more ways than one, and "X-Men 2" is only better.
It contains more action than "Spider-Man" and its human factor is even more
active than it was in the original, which is ironic, since the original was
praised for having both action and human attributes.

The cast is first-class, but the real scene-stealer, just like in the
original, is Hugh Jackman as Wolverine. The Aussie actor disguises his
accent with a rough American one, just like British chap Bob Hoskins did in
"Who Framed Roger Rabbit?".  If the filmmakers want a new James Bond after
Pierce Brosnan, they need look no farther, because though he may not look
the part in this film, Jackman can look very suave and proper (see "Kate and
Leopold"), and is my top choice for the next Bond.

Comic book films are usually hit-or-miss. They're never in between. "X-Men"
was an unexpected hit, but more than that, a good unexpected hit. It wasn't
all hype. It was smart, action-packed and hat a great character side to it.
Like I said before, "X-Men 2" improves upon all this and is the rare sequel
that is better than its predecessor.

I expect "X-Men 2" to break some box office records, and unlike other films,
I can honestly say that it deserves it.

4.5/5 stars -

John Ulmer

<|_=00=_|>
X2: X-MEN UNITED (2003) ***1/2 Patrick Stewart, Hugh Jackman, Ian
McKellen, Halle Berry, Famke Janssen, James Marsden, Rebecca
Romijn-Stamos, Brian Cox, Alan Cumming, Bruce Davison, Anna Paquin,
Kelly Hu, Aaron Stanford, Shawn Ashmore, Cotter Smith. Superlative
sequel and a boost of hyperactive energy in the franchise's arm in the
second chapter of the Marvel Comics' cult classic this time with good
mutants teaming with bad to stop a bent human military advisor
(hissable Cox) out to wipe out both types at any cost. Far-out special
effects, new characters (particularly winning is Cumming as the
blue-skinned Night Crawler) and non-stop action packaged with kinetic
infectious giddiness. Jackman continues to amaze as the tormented
Wolverine, Berry is given more to do as the tempestuous Storm,
Janssen's Jane Grey is perhaps the most nuanced in her suddenly advance
telekinetic skills and McKellen is wellmagnetic as Magneto. Fun
tongue-in-cheek screenplay by Michael Dougherty and Dan Harris (w/
David Hayter, Zak Penn and director Bryan Singer getting story credits)
keeps up with the multi-layered storyline encompassing class welfare,
social strata and in general to accept one for who they are and not
what they are. Well done!
<|_=00=_|>

The X-Men has always been my favorite comic book, without a doubt. 
Spider-man is probably in second place, but The X-Men take the cake.  Ever
since I heard a sequel was going into the works and Bryan Singer was still
on board as director, I had faith that he would do the sequel justice...of
course I couldn't help but have that looming fear that something would go
wrong.  In the end, the film was released and of course, I wasted no time in
getting to the theater to see it on opening day.

After seeing the film, I can definitely say it's been a long time since I've
come out of a movie theater as happy as I did for this film.  The story was
absolutely brilliant and was told in the perfect manner to keep you
interested.  ...And of course, there are plenty of new characters and action
to keep the audience in awe as well.

Nightcrawler was a truly brilliant character to bring into the sequel of the
film.  Nightcrawler (Kurt Wagner) has always been one of favorite X-Men
characters, perhaps even more than Wolverine...but that's up for debate. 
Teleportation has GOT to be one of the coolest and most interesting ideas
for a mutant ability!  I was incredibly stoked to see him brought to life on
the big screen, Bryan Singer and Alan Cumming did a FANTASTIC job!  Next to
Wolverine, Colossus has also got to be one of my favorite characters.  I
can't even begin to express how happy I was to see him in the
film...although not NEARLY enough was done with him when there was so much
potential for his abilities in the film.  Oh well, there's always X-Men 3
right?  The other two new characters, Pyro (John Allerdyce) and Lady
Deathstrike (Yuriko Oyama) were very well done as well, although not much of
their character histories were explained...which is ok, there is only so
much time in a film.  The rest of the characters already had a firm basis
from the previous film and were all executed extremely well in this sequel,
my hat is off to Mr. Bryan Singer, "Keep up the good work!"

The entire cast was absolutely perfect for the film.  Ian McKellan, Patrick
Stewart, Hugh Jackman, Halle Berry, Famke Janssen, James Marsden, Rebecca
Romijn-Stamos, Brian Cox, Alan Cumming, Bruce Davison, Anna Paquin, Kelly
Hu, Aaron Stanford, Shawn Ashmore, and Daniel Cudmore all did incredible
jobs with their roles and should be proud of their work, truly
fantastic.

The story in this sequel is great.  I love the idea of the good and the bad
having an equal threat and being forced to work together in order to save
them all.  The chemistry and the relationship between Erik Lehnsherr
(Magneto) and Professor Charles Xavier is so bizarre and interesting...and
very thought provoking.  There are so many interesting and well done
relationships between characters in the film: Logan (Wolverine) - Scott
Summers (Cyclops), Rogue - Bobby Drake (Iceman), Jean Grey - Scott Summers
(Cyclops) and Jean Grey - Logan (Wolverine) to name a few.  I love just
watching them all interact with each other.

What it all boils down to is this, if you liked the first film, then you
should definitely like this film.  I'm not sure I could say I liked X2
better than the original, but I'd definitely feel comfortable saying it was
just as good...and better in certain aspects (but not as a
whole).

I would definitely recommend seeing this film in the theater or at least
rent it when it's released, it's well worth your time.  This film isn't all
about super-heroes, action and fantasy, there is a lot more to it than just
that and I hope you can see and appreciate that.  I do hope that you enjoy
the film as much as I do and thank you for reading my review, be sure to
read my review for the first "X-Men".

-Chris

P.S.  They better start crackin' on a X3 right away!

Also..here's some interesting trivia for ya.  In the scene where Mystique is
finding out where Magneto is being held she is scrolling through a bunch of
names, the name above Lensherr, Erik (Magneto) is LeBeau, Remy...aka
"Gambit"...nice little touch there, I didn't get a look at the other names
there, but there might be more allusions there.  Another cool thing is in
the scene where the security guard is in the bar, there is a TV on in the
background with a guy named Hank McCoy talking...Hank McCoy later becomes
known as "Beast".  Pretty cool huh...
