

whenever she launched into one of her favorite themes, "American women hate
their bodies."  "Lovely & Amazing" takes us into the appearance-based
self-image of females from eight to slightly past mid-age whose concern
about their bodies is one major part of their complex, sometimes wacky and
always interdependent lives.

"Lovely and Amazing" takes its place along "Kissing Jessica Stein" as a
sharp, inspired view of women's lives as seen through a female director's
vision brought to life by an outstanding cast.

Director Nicole Holofcener, who also wrote the script, projects a sense of
balance that brings each character's life into sharp and absorbing focus. 
Jane, (Brenda Blethyn) the long-divorced matriarch, adopted a young black
girl, Annie (Raven Goodwin). No reason given and...none needed.  Jane is
both wise and vulnerable, warm and vain.

Her two grown-up (entirely chronologically and partially emotionally)
daughters, Michelle (Catherine Keener) and Elizabeth (Emily Mortimer) lead
different lives but express much mutual love for each other and with Annie.
No sibling rivalry and repressed anger from a pantheon of past slights in
this flick.  Michelle is a caring mother of a little girl married to a guy
who obviously is tired of the union but Michelle can't figure out why.  Her
husband may be bored and disposed to philandering but she never figures out
that his complaint that she won't work but only devotes herself to creating
odd objets d'art that no one wants to buy has some merit.

Elizabeth is a stray pooch-collecting film actress teetering on the edge of
dwindling starletdom.  Described as neurotic, she really has a basis for her
career insecurity which is exacerbated by a boyfriend whose unsupportive
manner borders on clinical anhedonism.  Woody Allen's frequent neurotic film
persona is unbounded joy compared to this guy.

Weaving through the sisters' and mom's various dilemmas is a constant
concern about body contours.  The rigors of liposuction (the mom's expensive
treat for herself) are realistically shown - no sugar-coated subliminal push
for surgical sculpting here.  The scene where a naked Elizabeth demands a
post-coital appendage-by-appendage evaluation by her cautious lover wryly
comes close to a truth many women admit to but only amongst themselves (I
assert that Upon Information and Belief, a useful lawyer's
escape).

Annie, born a crack baby, now has to deal with baby fat as her important
life issue. Whether she wants to or not.  She's sharp and funny and the
genuine ease by which her two siblings refer to her as their sister does not
displace references to the reality of growing up black in an affluent white
family but it does put that dimension in perspective.  This is a very lucky,
loved kid and the affection between the three sisters is believable. Also
welcome.  And just plain nice.

All four share the trait of being able to hurl four-letter expletives at the
drop of a slight.  It's very funny.

The men in the movie aren't so much irrelevant as they are accessories:
useful, often annoying, sometimes immature but never dangerous. Or even
worth looking at too closely.

Catherine Keener and Emily Mortimer shine as complex characters not wholly
aware of why their lives play out as they do.  Neither can repress a
refreshing optimism that surfaces time and again.  Ms. Keener is an amazing
actress!

Director Nicole Holefcener has a lot to say and I'm look forward to her next
film.


<|_=00=_|>
The thing that makes this movie so - I have to say it - lovely &
amazing is what it doesn't do: it doesn't attempt in any shape or form
to be commercial, it doesn't compromise its integrity or the integrity
of its characters in any way, and it doesn't try to be cute or clever
or witty or deep. It simply invites us into the characters' lives and
lets us share them for a couple of hours. No judgment, no big overblown
speeches, no hystrionics. No car crashes, no dead bodies, no funerals.
No artifice, no heavy-handedness, no contrivances. 

Nicole Holofcener achieved the same effect in Walking & Talking, which
had the same 'effortless' feel to it, and the always-wonderful
Catherine Keener is in both, as well. The cast also includes Brenda
Blethyn, Emily Mortimer and Jake Gyllenhaal (Donnie Darko himself!) and
everyone is superb, creating beautifully nuanced and subtle
characterizations that ring entirely true.

I trust Holofcener (even though I can't pronounce her name yet) - she
doesn't seem like she's going to sell out and make anything remotely
commercial anytime in the future, her vision is far too pure for that,
which makes her lovely & amazing in my book.
<|_=00=_|>


Few directors have a firm grip on creating comic works which while making us
laugh or smile, also move us deeply.  Chaplin's genius was founded on this
blend of emotions. When Time magazine's cover labeled Wood Allen "comic
genius" it was this same principle they were commending, though his films
over the past 20 years would largely disprove this assumption.

Nicole Holofcener's small output prevents making any kind of assumption as
yet, but in "Lovely and Amazing" she displays remarkable ability in dealing
with the pain people (mostly female) experience in grappling with the issue
of self esteem. Throughout the movie and without any lapse, she reveals the
comic side of human frailty. We laugh at the characters with compassion
rather than derision. It's a feat of great skill and much
promise.

Holofcener clearly works well with actors, Brenda Blethyn, Catherine Keener,
Dermot Mulroney, Emily Mortimer and Jake Gyllenhaal, all are spot on with
their characters. She also elicits a lovely underplayed performance from
inexperienced child actor Raven Goodwin.

Holofcener has produced a genuinely lovely film; one that portends amazing
things yet to come.


<|_=00=_|>

When I first saw Walking and Talking, Nicole Holofcener's
previous film, I didn't realize at first what a brilliant piece of work
it
was.  My experience with Lovely and Amazing was exactly the
same.  It is only later that it becomes clear how expertly the
relationships between the characters are illuminated and with
what originality she has constructed a story.  Lovely and Amazing
is an examination of a family of women and their complex
relationships with themselves and the men in their lives. The
women in Lovely and Amazing are real people.  They are frequently
horrible to each other and sabotage themselves just like real
women.  They are also capable, like real women, of moments of
intimacy and insight with each other.

I believe Nicole Holofcener is the most talented indie filmmaker
out there at the moment.  Walking and Talking is one of my all time
favorite films, and Lovely and Amazing just confirmed her status in
my eyes as an insightful storyteller.   Audiences deserve more
films that achieve this level of excellence, and I hope Nicole
Holofcener has the chance to deliver them.
<|_=00=_|>

I was really impressed with this film.  It manages to avoid all of the
cliches you frequently see in Hollywood films about women and present an
honest and often amusing picture of the characters' lives.

Catherine Keener is a real stand-out and I can't say enough about Raven
Goodwin's performance.

This film isn't just about women.  It's about the way we all see
ourselves.
<|_=00=_|>

Stanley Kubrick's line, to me, sums my impression of this movie up
completely.

It was real, but it wasn't interesting.

In all fairness, all of the lead actresses in the movie engaged me at one
point or another, at least briefly.  But the integral thing about their
characters was that they were shallow, and remained shallow at the
end.

Which is real, there are certainly people in the world who are shallow and
remain shallow.

But it isn't especially interesting.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is about the daily struggles for happiness of a mother and
her 3 daughters.

The story is captivating from the start. The mother, played by Brenda
Blethlyn, is insecure and wanted a liposuction. The eldest daughter,
played by Catherine Keener, has a painfully distant husband. The middle
daughter, played by Emily Mortimer, is a struggling actress with high
levels of insecurity. The youngest daughter is an adopted daughter of
African heritage, and she is spoilt to bits.

The dysfunction between the family is portrayed very well, due to
excellent character developments. I get to understand every character's
thoughts and feelings. Catherine Keener and Emily Mortimer act well,
and brings the characters to life. There are few films that can make
the characters so vivid and alive.
<|_=00=_|>

I was enjoying this film thoroughly until the ending when some very
important plot developments are left unresolved! The acting is excellent and
the dialogue sharp and even though I recommend this film to everyone, I
think everyone will have the same reaction as I did. It can't end now! I
don't want to give the ending away (Or the lack of an ending)but Catherine
Keener's character is about to lose her marriage and has a statutory rape
charge hanging over her head and her husband is threatening to take away her
daughter! Then the movie ends? I don't hate this film. I liked it. But it
leaves the viewer in an unsatisfying way. These are not loose threads, but
empty holes! Anyway, go see it!
<|_=00=_|>

I was really impressed by the solid characterizations and the comfort
Holofcener has with the story and the script, even among the uncomfortable
issues it raises.   Finally, a feminine anti-hero film that does not
attempt
to make any statements about Women or Men, but just gives roles to women
that are refreshingly human.  The characters are often unsympathetic, but
that makes it work so much the better.  Shooting in HD video is the best
choice over regular DV, and it is almost believable to be film.  A solid
film and worth seeing!
<|_=00=_|>

Blah.

There's just not much to this movie.  I really enjoy Catherine Keener and
Jake Gyllenhall normally, and this film was no different.  Other than them,
there's really nothing remarkable about this film.

One major grumble- the plot is stretched so thin as to be nonexistent.  In
fact, I might even go so far as to say that this film has no plot.  No
character development, no resolution of conflict, no nothing.  I would say
it's nihilistic but I think that a film has to at least _try_ in order to be
considered nihilistic.  It's like watching a weird kind of reality show that
gets sentimental about its subjects.  Maybe that's the tone the movie was
trying for.  Even if that's the case, I'm wildly unimpressed.

I will say that the trailers before this film were extraordinary,
though.
