
I live with a Vietnam Vet who served in the late 1960s with 1st Cav.
Medivac. During service he earned two Purple Hearts, the Distinguished
Flying Cross, and the Air Medal. Since WE WERE SOLDIERS concerns the
1st Cav., Randy wanted to see it. I reluctantly agreed; I am not
partial to war films and I dislike Mel Gibson, and Randy is very hard
on Vietnam War films. He dismisses PLATOON as a Hollywood 8x10 glossy;
says APOCALYPSE NOW is an interesting movie that captures the paranoia,
but all the technical details are wrong; and describes DEER HUNTER as
excellent in its depiction of the strangeness of coming home but so
full of plot holes that he can hardly endure it. And about one and all
he says: "It wasn't like that."

He was silent through the film, and when we left the theatre I asked
what he thought. He said, "They finally got it. That's what it was
like. All the details are right. The actors were just like the men I
knew. They looked like that and they talked like that. And the army
wives too, they really were like that, at least every one I ever knew."
The he was silent for a long time. At last he said, "You remember the
scene where the guy tries to pick up a burn victim by the legs and all
the skin slides off? Something like that happened to me once. It was at
a helicopter crash. I went to pick him up and all the skin just slid
right off. It looked just like that, too. I've never told any one about
it." In most respects WE WERE SOLDIERS is a war movie plain and simple.
There are several moments when the film relates the war to the politics
and social movements that swirled about it, and the near destruction of
the 1st. Cav.'s 7th Battalion at Ia Drang clearly arises from the top
brass' foolish decision to send the 7th into an obvious ambush--but the
film is not so much interested in what was going on at home or at the
army's top as it is in what was actually occurring on the ground. And
in this it is extremely meticulous, detailed, and often horrifically
successful. Neither Randy nor I--nor any one in the theatre I could
see--was bored by or dismissive of the film. It grabs you and it grabs
you hard, and I can easily say that it is one of the finest war movies
I have ever seen, far superior to the likes of SAVING PRIVATE RYAN,
which seems quite tame in comparison.

Perhaps the single most impressive thing about the film is that it
never casts its characters in a heroic light; they are simply soldiers
who have been sent to do a job, and they do it knowing the risks, and
they do it well in spite of the odds. Mel Gibson, although I generally
despise him as both an actor and a human being, is very, very good as
commanding officer Hal Moore, and he is equaled by Sam Elliot, Greg
Kinnear, Chris Klein, and every other actor on the battlefield. The
supporting female cast, seen early in the film and in shorter scenes
showing the home front as the battle rages, is also particularly fine,
with Julie Moore able to convey in glance what most actresses could not
communicate in five pages of dialogue. The script, direction,
cinematography, and special effects are sharp, fast, and possess a "you
are there" quality that is very powerful.

I myself had a criticism; there were points in the film when I found
the use of a very modernistic, new-agey piece of music to be intrusive
and out of place. And we both felt that a scene near the end of the
movie, when a Vietnamese commander comments on the battle, to be
improbable and faintly absurd. But these are nit-picky quibbles. WE
WERE SOLDIERS is a damn fine movie. I'll give Randy, who served two
tours of duty in Vietnam, the last word: "It may not be 'the' Vietnam
movie. I don't think there could ever be 'the' Vietnam movie. But they
pretty much get everything right. That's how it looked and sounded, and
that's what I saw, and this is the best movie about Vietnam I've ever
seen." Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer
<|_=00=_|>

It's quite sad to read some of the reviews of this film. "full of clichés"
"typical weak war film" etc.
I would like for the writers of such comments to look at the film they
"coughed up their reddies" for, and ask what they were really
after?
Do they know what the film was about?
The director's aim was to create an honest depiction of a real life event.
To tell the story of a battle and war in a way that would make people who
weren't there understand what it may have been like.
To bring home the stark realisation of how scary the battlefield would be,
and explore the wider picture of how families, and even the enemy were
affected by events too.
Many of the words used by the dying men are documented as being the actual
words. In the editors commentary, he explains "these were the true dying
words 'tell my wife I love her'. In that situation, it is the reality of
what is on people's minds. I'm sorry they couldn't have come up with
something more melo-dramatic for the theatre audience."
The line that really bought it home for me though was that soldiers who
had
fought in that battle thanked the director. They said he had managed to
show
the realities of an event in their lives that they had, to that point,
never
managed to fully explain to their families.
If the people who were there say this is a realistic account of events and
emotions, then that's the best accolade a film can have.
I was scared and moved by it and would recommend it highly.
PS. to the plot critics out there... would you rather they sexed up a true
story? Surely that would be a grave tragedy.
<|_=00=_|>

I was privileged to see a preview of Mel Gibson's new film "We Were
Soldiers" based upon the book written by his real life character, Lt. Col.
Harold Moore, along with Joe Galloway. I attended a showing along with
numerous other Viet Nam vets and it would seem that there were as many
opinions about the movie as there were viewers.  Like the war itself, each
person in attendance probably had some personal experiences that the movie
brought back from that deep, and sometimes distant, place we have put
them.

The movie was almost overwhelmingly graphical, but afterwards I realized
this was instrumental in the telling of the story.  For the movie is truly
about the leadership that Col. Moore brought to his men of the 1st of the
7th, and his determination that they would not suffer the fate of the
French
in Viet Nam, nor his own unit's most infamous battle, that of Custer's
Stand
at Little Big Horn.

It was his determination and commitment that his men be as highly trained,
as strongly molded as a unit, and most importantly as well lead as
possible
that stands out. This determination is obviously rooted in his deeply
abiding belief that military leaders shall never forget that when they
lead
men into war, many of those men will never come back alive, but that those
who lead shall never abandon them, even in their shared darkest
hours.

And while the movie highly succeeds in conveying the horror and tragedy
that
war is....has been...and always shall be, it was more difficult for me to
realize that our War Department and Army could have been so callous as to
have delegated the responsibility of notifying next-of-kin of the death of
their loved ones to the local Yellow Cab company. Then I realized that in
late 1965 it was all so new and no one knew that this war was going to
grow
and consume so many young American lives over the next nine
years.

The two most significant scenes in the movie for me were firstly, the
scene
when the course of the battle teeters on the brink of either disaster or
success and the most important communication that Col. Moore's superiors
have to convey is that General Westmoreland would like for him to leave
the
battlefield and fly to Saigon so the general can have a briefing. This
more
than anything pointed out how tragically we were doomed to failure in Viet
Nam due to the political will, not the military will, being in control.
The
second most significant scene was in the airport where one soldier is
pushing his buddy through the concourse and the voice over says..."They
did
not fight for God.....country.....right. They fought for each other", a
fact
that every Viet Nam vet would attest to.

This a movie worth seeing. It is another testament, with a worthy
cinematographic effort, to the futility and absurdity of war, and how that
among madness can be greatness. It is a movie that will unlikely leave the
viewer devoid of emotion.  What those emotions may be are as likely to be
as
highly personal, as the strength of their feeling.
<|_=00=_|>

`Saving Private Ryan' redefined the war genre and opened the floodgates to
a
new generation of war movies.  It pushed the boundaries of acceptability
by
frankly showing war in all its grisly glory.  As such it gave us a better
understanding of how terrible and frightening war is.  `Black Hawk Down'
took the graphic violence to a new level, with an intensity that matched
the
beach landing of SPR, but of a duration that was almost
unbearable.

`We Were Soldiers' is the latest big budget war offering from Hollywood.
In
many ways, I consider this to be the most complete of the three.
Writer/Director Randall Wallace (who wrote "Braveheart", "Pearl Harbor"
and
the screenplay for this film), takes the understanding of war to the next
level, by offering more than one perspective to the events.  Of the three
films, this film has the best workup, the best character development, and
the most nuanced look at the battle.  He brings all the sustained
intensity
of BHD in the action sequences, but introduces the NVA perspective, the
wives' perspective and a far more charismatic and heroic central figure in
Lt. Col. Hal Moore.

Based on real events, this film shows war as being horrendous and
heartless
to both sides.  It expands outside the combat zone to visit the
ramifications on the families as well.  The scenes with the wives getting
the telegrams are poignant reminders of how war reaches beyond the
battlefield.  Wallace's treatment grabs us on an emotional level and
shocks
the senses.  Unlike BHD, which presented the characters in a very
anonymous
way, we come to know these characters and their families and identify with
them.

Of course, the film lacks the hard edge that would make it starkly
believable.  It is after all a Hollywood production and not a documentary.
However, Wallace pours enough realism into the depictions to assure that
this doesn't turn into another sappy melodrama like `Pearl Harbor', which
was really nothing more than a romance with a long battle scene in the
middle.  Wallace finds the optimal balance between engaging storytelling
and
the brutality of combat.

The acting is excellent.  Mel Gibson offers the right combination of hard
nosed officer and father figure (both to his children and his men).
Gibson
is steadfast and courageous without being harsh.  His portrayal of Moore
is
so well played, so charismatic and heroic, that it is impossible to
believe
that such a person could actually exist.

Sam Elliot follows an outstanding performance in `The Contender' with this
gem as Sergeant Major Plumley, the tough as nails warhorse who serves as
Moore's non commissioned adjutant.  Elliot plays the intransigent career
soldier to the hilt, where nothing including life itself is more important
than honor and discipline.  Barry Pepper also turns in a fine performance
as
Joe Galloway, the photo journalist who hops on a helicopter to take
pictures
in the center of the battle and finds himself with a rifle in his hands
fighting for his life.

This is among the best war films in recent memory and probably the best
film
on the Vietnam War film since `Full Metal Jacket'.  I rated it a 10/10.
This film is not for everyone.  It contains graphic violence and
disturbingly realistic battle scenes.  It is a gripping and distressing
film
that should be required viewing for statesmen and generals
alike.
<|_=00=_|>

I should never be surprised that people, who wouldn't recognize Principle,
much less Honor, Duty, or Country if it introduced itself, see virtue as
vice.  As one who served in that war, I found the movie to be factual to
the
point of pain.  Those who call this movie racist, lack vocabulary. or an
understanding of racism.  I don't know which is sadder.  This movie tells
a
part of a soldier's story very well.  Soldiers march to a different
drummer,
how tragic that so many, today, still refuse to honor those who protected
them.

The millions in Indo-China murdered at the hands of the Communist cry that
our "racism" was so poorly lead at the highest civilian levels that we
abandon them.  Their blood is not on my hands or on the hands of my fellow
soldiers.  It is on the hands of those who are so blind they refuse to
see.
A valid case could be made that that there are errors in the story,
certainly it doesn't tell the rest of the story, or of the next part of
this
battle where US casualties were 40%.  What it does tell it tells very
well.
Those men were volunteers, and their nobility shows in this movie.  I
recommend it, especially for any who would want to understand those who
served at that time.

<|_=00=_|>

This film is so different from the traditionally cynical (and rightly so)
Vietnam War movies.  While it goes without question that this film depicts
the bloody and gruesome horrors of the tragedy of the first major conflict
of the war, it does so while juxtaposing the story with that of stories of
the home front and the enemy.  The enemy in this film is not the
animalistic, silent enemy we are used to.  We hear this enemy speak, we
see
his love for his family and his devotion to his cause.  While being
bombarded with images of death and destruction on the battlefield, we are
brought back home to see the wives as they face the death themselves.

While of course not a flawless movie, it was without a doubt moving, and I
highly recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>
I for one am someone who was inspired to read the book "We were
Soldiers Once and Young" after seeing this movie. WWS is about a
distinct event that actually happened. SGM Plumley was a soldier's
soldier, with five combat jumps in three wars and an astounding three
combat infantry badges. LTC Moore was the sort of leader who could keep
his head and lead his troops through the worst of battle. People who
complain of clichés in this movie might as well complain that people in
18th century movies wear three-cornered hats.

To those looking for an anti-war message, it is there. When Moore goes
to Division headquarters and gets his mission, he asks about projected
enemy in his area of operations. The staff officer standing next to the
general says "a manageable number." To this Moore responds with words
to the effect of "which means you have no idea." It turns out that
Moore's battalion gets dropped on top of a vastly larger enemy force
(if I remember correctly, they get dropped right next to an NVA
brigade). Ordinarily, it order to assure success in attack, you want to
have three times the numbers of your enemy. In this case, the ratio was
4:1 going the other way. Then the battle is about how artillery and air
support makes up the difference in numbers.

The obvious criticism here is that the command was fumbling around in
the dark. At the end of the movie, the names of the 70+ men who died
are prominently displayed on the screen. A military mind is not
treasonous and will not disrespect its superiors, but it will let facts
speak for themselves.

The next comment is only tangentially related to this movie. However,
many voices here have taken the opportunity to vent their views on
Vietnam, so I feel compelled to put things in a broader historical
context. 

There was a war that did not take place between 1945 and the fall of
the Berlin wall. It would have been called WWIII. The Soviet Union and
the US stood eye-to-eye for 40+ years, but did not blink. It was an
ideological conflict with an evil that meant death to 50+ million
people in communist countries in this century. It was conflict with a
system that vastly constrained freedom. Fortunately for the world, the
US finally prevailed. The struggle fought between communism and the
west was fought in a variety of ways: in public relations, in sports,
in propaganda, and in a series of proxy wars. In Korea, Greece,
Vietnam, Afghanistan and a variety of smaller stages, East contested
with West. To the people caught up in these local conflicts, these wars
were absolute tragedies. However, in the grand scheme of things, these
conflicts pale to insignificance when compared to the 500,000,000 who
would have died in WWIII.
<|_=00=_|>

Ever since 1970 when I finished my third tour of combat duty with
the Marines in Viet Nam I have been waiting for a film that reflected
the American Fighting Man in the Viet Nam war as an American
Fighting Man; not a drugged-out, anti-war whiner. Well this is it.
The movie is non-stop action after the first fifteen minutes of
character development is finished. Having experienced what it is
like to be over-run by the NVA during the third week of my first VN
tour I can tell you that this movie does an excellent job of showing
the excitement, tension, exhaustion, chaos, and courage of an
extended battle. While this is by no means the best war movie I
have ever seen, it is the first Viet Nam war movie which has
provided me with a sense of satisfaction after leaving the theater.
Mel Gibson turns in a good performance, Sam Elliot is a bit stiff.
The wives of the soldiers are believable. Including a bit of the
NVA's attitude about the war adds a balanced flavor to the film.
Overall I would say that you will experience at least a small part the
intensity of war if you go to this movie. I took my female companion
and she was shocked, touched, and thrilled with it. As Americans,
we need to remember that freedom is not, and never has been,
free. It is always paid for with the blood of those who fight to get it,
sustain it, or expand it. The politically correct may not like this film,
but then who cares what they like. Thanks for making this film Mel.
I've been waiting over 30 years to see it.
<|_=00=_|>

Behind even a forgotten war lies the memory of the fallen...This movie is
definitely among the top 10 films ever made. It places the viewer right in
the middle of the Vietnam War, grabs their emotions and sets them free.
This
movie commemorates the memories and makes heroes of each and every
husband,
brother, and son involved in a forgotten war- a war that was dismissed and
frowned upon by the American nation as a whole. The film also takes the
viewer into the home of the soldier. It invades the private life of the
loved ones at home. We feel as though we are a part of the family in one
scene, and the buddy of a fallen soldier in the next. A wife, child,
friend
of a soldier gone to war to fight for an ungrateful nation one minute, and
the next the brave and loyal soldier. This moving and true story will take
its viewer and bestow upon them a closer understanding, and a greater
respect and gratefulness for our nation's true heroes.
<|_=00=_|>
In the tradition of such war film classics as The Bridges at Toko Ri,
To Hell and Back well as John Wayne's The Green Berets is this
seemingly out of place epic with the amount of cynical pestilence
abound.

The pace is lightning fast once the scenes transfer into the early
period of the Vietnam war before the public grew impatient. The score
of the film is often overlooked but in this case it provides plenty of
emotion especially as the 7th Regiment assembles for the trip to South
Vietnam beneath the radio towers late at night.

Of a forgotten battle with unknown heroes for both forces this is a
great war movie that should be a lesson for future productions.
