
'Exit Wounds' begins explosively with a terrorist raid on the Vice
President, who is surrounded by an array of police escorts

When renegade Detroit detective Orin Boyd (Seagal) takes on the whole
Michigan militant group to save the man's life, in true action hero
fashion, he is punished for his lack of respect for authority and
procedure and sent to one of the toughest precincts in the city of
Detroit, the 15th

Once there, Seagal begins his usual habit of investigating things he's
not assigned to, and quickly begins to suspect police corruption
involving a major heroin operation 

Seagal plays a super tough cop who stays in trouble for complaints
filed against him for excessive force

He lands in a bad dangerous precinct and before you know it finds
himself in nonstop furious action, trying to clean up the streets while
taking on drug dealers and dirty cops pretty much all by himself

Seagal is accompanied in this film by rapper DMX and a few other
familiar faces including Anthony Anderson who is absolutely hilarious
<|_=00=_|>

Anybody should know when you're getting ready to see a Steven Seagal movie
you're not getting ready to see a Greek tragedy.  What makes "Exit Wounds"
special is it's all in good fun.  There's no pretentions whatsoever.  In
fact, it even leaves a good share of the running time for comic relief.  You
have spectacular action in one corner...you have hilarious comedy in the
other...what the hell more can you ask for?  

Seagal hasn't made an action flick in a while, so it was great to see him
again on the silver screen.  He takes a lot of flack for gaining a little
weight.  OK, so he's heavier than normal.  So maybe him and Sammo Hung been
hanging out in the same buffet.  But Seagal can still kick butt like he did
back in "Above the Law" and "Hard to Kill."  His action scenes are always
fun to watch.  As I tell people, I'm not easily aroused by action scenes.  I
can be just as bored by an action scene as one would get bored during an
episode of "Masterpiece Theater."  But Seagal's action scenes have a sense
of originality and flare.  Big deal.  He's not the best actor.  Does his
work require great dramatic acting?  Would a dramatic monologue be
appropriate during one of HIS movies?  Let's be sensible.  I think people
are way too hard on the man.  He's still cool with me.

In the comedy department, we have the uninhibited Tom Arnold.  Arnold plays
the stereotypical cheesy talk show host, who takes anger-management classes
with Seagal.  There's a hilarious scene where Seagal loses his temper and
throws a fit, yelling to the teacher "I'm a happy person!" with anger in his
eyes.  Then Arnold decides that Seagal would be a perfect guest for his
show.  Also, we have Anthony Anderson of "Me Myself and Irene" fame.  He was
one of the foul-mouthed African-American brothers in the Farrelly Brothers
comedy.  He gets an even bigger opportunity to flaunt his comic chops in
this flick.  In fact, him and Tom Arnold have a hysterically funny
conversation at the end credits, so PLEASE don't be so quick to walk out the
theater.  

DMX is not a terrific actor, but he's fairly good.  He proves his discipline
as an actor in a more restrained role than his starring role in Hype
Williams' "Belly."  In that film, he pretty much portrayed a character out
of all his rap videos.  So that wasn't a big stretch.  "EW" gives him more
to work with.  Not the role of a lifetime, but meatier than a drug-dealing
"gangsta."  And did I mention Jill Hennesy is in the cast?  Oh...mannnnn! 
She is an absolute knockout!  Perfect eye candy!  Throw in a gratuitous
strip club scene(which this film has), and we have the ultimate guy flick. 

With DMX in the lead, naturally we have to expect some of his songs on the
soundtrack.  And he provides some good stuff.  One--which was used in the
previews and thankfully was used in the movie too--is a remix of "Ain't No
Sunshine When She's Gone."  It's quite innovative how they insert an
artist's songs into a movie's soundtrack.  There's also a scene where DMX is
picking out a car and blasts on the stereo his song "Why Do Good Girls Love
Bad Guys."  

There isn't much depth to "Exit Wounds."  In fact, I don't know if there's
any depth.  But a film like this is meant strictly for exhibition.  And in
that department, it really really delivers!  It's exciting!  It's funny! 
It's rousing!  It's a thrill a minute!  You won't be bored for a second!  An
hour and thirty minutes of sheer, uninhibited fun!  "Exit Wounds" won't have
you heading to the exit.  In fact, you probably won't even want to go out
for popcorn you'll be having such a great time!  Strap
in!

My score:  7 (out of 10)  


<|_=00=_|>

I went into this movie with the no expectations, except to see a cheesy
action flick. This means I desired high-flying, over-the-top action that
includes lots of cool martial arts, mushroom cloud explosions, high speed
car chases and catastrophic crashes, and ultra-violent death scenes. Boy
does this movie deliver!

I've been reading some of the other user reviews here on imdb and many are
saying this is Seagal's best flick. I would probably agree that it is close.
His stiff under-acting makes him perfect for this Dirty Harry type part.

The plot is nothing new. Seagal is a strung-out lone ranger cop who plays by
his own rules...well you know the type, this character has been used in
countless movies. Basically, Seagal's character finally goes too far (by
throwing the Vice President off a bridge no less!) Thus, Seagal gets demoted
down to the most dangerous precinct in town. Once there, he begins to
discover crooked cops and internal conspiracies. With no one to trust and
people trying (emphasis on "trying") to kill him left and right, Seagal
starts kicking ass and taking names.

Yes I know, this storyline is as old as they come, but I maintain that
cheesy action flicks aren't about great or novel plot lines. No, cheesy
action flicks are about great action with all the things I listed above, in
which, this movie delivers the goods with a bang. 

This movie also stars DMX, who is surprisingly competent as one of the main
and most interesting characters of the movie.  Generally good performances
all around. I never noticed any laughably bad acting. Flashy directing and
nice production design are also bonuses. This tired plot even still manages
a few interesting twists (I won't reveal anything for those who haven't seen
the movie, but lets just say everyone is not how they seem, including the
bad guys). 

FINAL RATING: 7/10 - As good as a cliched action flick can be.
Semi-interesting characters, a few plot twists here and there, steady,
interesting action, flashy directing, decent performances, plenty of cool
explosions, exciting car chases, and numerous excellent violent death
scenes. This movie is truly the creme de la creme of cheesy action flicks!
Recommended for all action lovers!

Noob Aalox

<|_=00=_|>
Despite Fire Down Below being a No. 1 hit in America, it went straight
to video here in the UK and killed Seagal's career for four years. But
then veteran action producer Joel Silver thrust Steve back in the
limelight, put him on the Slimfast diet gave him slightly better
material to work with. After all, an actor can only do as good as the
script.

From a novel of the same name by John Westerman (but bearing minimal
resemblance to it) the plot centers on Orin Boyd, a cop busted down to
patrolman after a rough encounter with the Vice-President. Once on the
streets Boyd's suspicious nose can't keep him out of trouble with
undercover cops who are trying to bust local Drug Boss Latrell
Walkeror so it seems.

There are many attempts at irony throughout the movie and surprisingly
enough most of them work. Boyd is forced to attend rage control classes
in which he meets eccentric TV host Henry Wayne (Tom Arnold) who
becomes his wannabe partner. But sadly enough the classes don't work as
Boyd continues to uses violence first, ask questions later. And there
is a public service announcement too; Seagal survives a car wreck by
airbag. A later car crash victim doesn't have one and dies.

Dozens of cop movie clichés staple the flimsy script together. And the
bad guys are obvious from the moment they appear on screen.
Bartkowiak's direction is better than in his debut Romeo Must Die, and
adds a heavy dose of frenetic rush to such a fast-paced film. However
the set-up and execution of the story is so dull you'll forget about it
half an hour after the credits roll.

Seagal has learned a little, just a little, more in the acting area but
still doesn't know how to express himself much. There's too much
frowning and not enough other emotions from Boyd. We do want to feel
more from him but he won't allow us. I guess this is just how Seagal
is. He just can't get away from himself no matter what role he plays. I
wish Seagal would try harder, but he just never bothers with making an
effort.
<|_=00=_|>

Pretty straightforward action flick that is absolutely ridiculous and yet I
can forgive it. You see there was nothing I loved more as a child than
watching the movie heros fight the bad guys and ultimately take them out to
restore peace to the free world. However, somewhere in the mid-90's, these
kind of films (which I have appropriately labelled "The Big Dumb Action
Movies") became a lost art and gave way to newer more complex action
thrillers. In some instances this was for the better and in other instances,
let's just say you were left longing for the days of old when Johnny Rambo
dashed acrossed a battlefield in the jungle with his extra powerful M-60
machine gun and mowed down some Commie scum. One of the men at the frontline
of the old action genre movies was Steven Seagal. His older movies were an
action fan's wet dream. They had lots of shooting, lots of brutal fight
scenes, and the occasional trademark Seagal staredown. Nevermind the fact
that the man couldn't act well even if his children were kidnapped and one
of the ransom demands from the kidnappers was for not only $5 million
dollars but also for Seagal to play at least one scene in a new movie with a
different tone of voice and a different facial expression.

But the entertainment was there and when I saw "Exit Wounds," I was
automatically thrown back into the mind of a young boy all over again.
Here's a movie that gives an old fan of action exactly what they could ever
hope for. Lots of martial arts, lots of great shootouts, and over the top
stunts (maybe with a little bit of help from those damn cables and CGI but
let us ignore this for the time being). This movie is a lot of fun and I was
glad to see Seagal make a return to the kind of movie that people actually
will pay to see him in, even if this is just a one time deal for the pony
tail sporting Aikdo artist. If it is simple minded action you crave, then
you can't go wrong with "Exit Wounds," which is really more of a throwback
than anything. When you see the legendary action film veteran Bill Duke on
the screen with those crazy eyes, you know you're officially watching a "Big
Dumb Action Movie."

<|_=00=_|>

`There are good cops and bad cops,' says Steven Seagal when asked about why
he chose to star in the film.

The need for such a question, however, is unnecessary. Seagal will forever
be known as one of our generation's top action stars. He's been on trains,
submarines, and over speeding cars. His ability to dazzle his audience with
every punch, kick, and flip earns him the title of one of our generation's
most memorable action stars. Seagal is modest about his action power,
however, and prefers to be thought of as a professional martial
artist.

Whatever the case, his latest effort in Exit Wounds is another film in
Seagal's library of adrenaline-rushing, macho-type films. Produced by
Hollywood honch Joel Silver, Exit Wounds is a high-kicking, edge of your
seat thriller that tells the story of a cop named Orin Boyd, sent to
another
precinct in the rough streets of Detroit, where nothing seems the same.
Corruption, deceit, and betrayal lay only three lockers
away.

Much like Seagal's enjoyment for his work in the martial arts field, Orin
Boyd is a person who is genuinely proud of what he does for a living. All
of
his anger and frustration is a result of his disappointment with how little
his job means. In one of the most powerful scenes of the movie, Boyd is
shown hanging up his whistle after his demotion to a traffic director. A
cop
in Detroit is everything Boyd lives to be, and when his occupation becomes
meaningless, so does his life.

Boyd isn't alone in his stance, however. When $5 million dollars worth of
heroin disappears, there is an underlying truth to everything, but nothing
seems to make sense. All fingers seem to point at Latrell Walker (DMX), a
supposed drug dealer and one of the best.

DMX delivers the most engaging performance in Exit Wounds. Much like Boyd,
Walker is a character that is typical in most cop films, but also one that
the audience can identify with. As every actor should, DMX gives as much
personality to Latrell as needed. DMX, as Latrell, shows genuine emotions
for his family, his colleagues, and for what stands to be right. A
perplexing character with his actions, Latrell definitely serves to grab
the
audience's attention.

Unlike traditional cop films, DMX and Steven Seagal are able to both grab
hold of the spotlight of the film, but with their own unique charismas.
Seagal and DMX's chemistry does not involve holding hands and dancing into
the sun-setting horizon. It is a tense relationship between Latrell and
Boyd, and as the movie progresses, the truths about one another are
unraveled, with each character prepared to either fight, or work together,
for whatever cause each one has.

Joel Silver is known for setting the bar with his films, both in the action
and story sense. Some of the most incredible action sequences in Exit
Wounds
will forever be embedded in the Joel Silver legacy. Along with Silver's
knack for blood rushing sequences, he is also known for pulling shocks and
surprises in his pictures. Exit Wounds is the type of film where one must
really keep his eye open, for he might miss an unexpected, but crucial,
turning point in the movie.

As Steven Seagal's comeback film, he should be grateful that his first
picture in the new millennium will forever remind his audiences and fans
that he is, indeed, one of the best on-screen heroes of this past decade.
As
old clashes with new, his counterpart, DMX, has displayed his fresh talent
on-screen and sets a challenge for him to take on new film's, with more
demanding roles. In an age where hip hop and kung fu can co-exist in
entertainment, Exit Wounds proves that films nowadays still have the
potential of attracting just about anybody.


<|_=00=_|>
I took in this movie in the theater, in 01' surprised that Seagal was
back with Warner Bros. after departing for a while. The first scene was
kind of the beginning joke for the rest of the story. I was laughing
when he took matters into his own hands and to avoid allowing the
'Vice" President to be killed in a firefight on the bridge with the
impostor police officers that were there for a killing 'contract'. The
'Vice' Prez sort of looked like a cross between Al Gore and then
'future' now former Vice Presidential hopeful John Edwards all rolled
into one. I laughed because the best expression that this 'Vice' Prez
had on the bridge was...-clueless. 

And from the exotic cars and the crazy players that brought game to the
screen, this was a breath of fresh air, that year. I think that Steven
Seagal played himself, as he always does but just like John Wayne and
other big icons, that's what people generally go to see, these stars
being the stars they are. I strongly felt that the action and
confrontation between Seagal and DMX was a favorable match-up.
Corruption in the heart of the downtown precinct. A couple of
'hood-ole'' boys to fight against and expose it. It's an age old tale,
but they pulled this one off very well. 

I recommend to action and martial-arts fans. This one is a lot of
fun...(***)

Thx--IMDb.com
<|_=00=_|>

Steven Segal makes a great action comeback in this movie. His last good
movie was Under Siege was his last okay movie was The Glimmer Man. This
movie is about dirty cops and Segal is trying to bring them down. DMX who
is
one of the best rapper/actors is also a good co-star. The only let down
for
me was the fact that Steven and Micheal Jai White didn't have a longer
fight
scene. All in All this is one of Segal's best.
<|_=00=_|>

Segal has been here for years and he has a lot of unfair critics becouse he
is an unabashed liberal.He is a Budhist as well which ticks a lot of
conservative USA's buttons.But with the growing open mindedness in the US
population,Segal does not fade away.This action hero epitomises discipline
and heroism.This movie was an average action movie but could have been a
classic if the martial arts choreography was done better.There were a lot of
cartoonish martial arts sequences that did not belong like DMX holding his
own too much against Segal,DMX's shotgun trigger tied to belt sequences,and
the like.The movie was very entertaining though and the comic relief was
done well.Not the best Segal movie but certainly not the worst.Recomended
for Segal fans,hiphop fans,action fans and cop movie fans......
<|_=00=_|>

If there`s one thing I love about Steven Seagal it`s the hope he gives to
humanity , no matter how untalented you are every man , woman and child on
the planet can watch a Seagal movie and say " Wow , what a guy . A man whose
talent has no beginning and he became a movie star . God bless the American
dream " 

***** SPOILERS *****

And what a comeback by Steven . EXIT WOUNDS opens with some fascist militia
types trying to blow away a politician standing on an anti gun ticket , only
to have our hero ride into the firefight and save the day . Ah but don`t be
fooled into thinking this is another holistic PC thriller with ecological
overtones because the rug is pulled from under our feet with Steven going
after a bunch of drug dealing homeboy gangsters . Wow , what a change of
pace for a man who makes ecological statement thrillers . Even more of an
earthquake is the fact that EXIT WOUNDS contains a lot of humour at the
expense of Steven Seagal . Has our hero found sophisticated post modernism ?
Will he realise the irony of his initials being SS who `s made umpteen films
where he blows away lots of fascists ? I`m telling you after seeing this
film Mr Seagal has gone up in my estimation and Vin Diesel wins my vote as
the worst action star Hollywood has ever produced   
