
If you go into this movie hoping to see Academy Award caliber acting or
a dramatic plot that's going to move you emotionally, then you're going
to the wrong movie. However, if you're looking for a movie that's a lot
of fun and is going to keep you entertained, then this is exactly what
you're looking for.

The visual effects in this movie are, simply put, amazing. Ghost Rider
is just one of those movies that's cool to look at. As I said before,
the acting sometimes falls a bit flat, but Nicolas Cage does exactly
what's expected of him for the role. It's a bit cliché and humorous at
times, but this is a movie based on a comic book, so you have to expect
that sort of thing.

Sam Elliot and Peter Fonda provide the best acting in the movie, while
Wes Bentley does a solid job as Blackheart and Eva Mendez is just a
very beautiful actress who fits in well as Roxanne.

There are a lot of little gripes about this movie if you look too hard
and overthink it, but as a die-hard Ghost Rider fan, I didn't mind
these things so much. It stayed relatively true to the original series,
while borrowing elements from the 90's series to help make the movie
more visually impressive, which I felt worked really well.

I've been waiting for this movie since they started trying to make it
over eight years ago and overall, I'd have to say I really enjoyed
seeing my favorite comic book character finally make it onto the big
screen.

If you want to go see a movie where you can just sit back, relax, and
enjoy the ride; then go see Ghost Rider without any worry of
disappointment.
<|_=00=_|>
First off, I'd like to say that I really enjoyed this movie. I have
read a lot of the bad hype that the flick has receieved, and I believe
that this is partly due to the fact that people go into these types of
movies expecting amazing advances in cinematography as well as a
gripping and dramatic plot. Well, I hate to burst everybody's bubble,
but that is really not the purpose of this type of movie. These bad
reviews make me wonder just how serious you have to be (or just how
snobby a critic) going into the theater to hate this type of movie
making.

Far be it from me to say that this movie was perfect. It had its flaws
and there were times when I found myself snickering at the silliness of
it all, but that to me is good entertainment. The scenes where Cage
turned into ghost rider for the first time were fairly intense, and I
found myself marveling at the coolness of his transformation and
powers. I also enjoyed the battle scenes including one involving ghost
rider and a helicopter (I won't tell you what happens there, but it is
pretty amusing). I also felt that the movie was pretty well-acted
overall, and the entire flick maintained an aura of fun throughout
(which I believe was the main purpose of the whole thing) while flowing
smoothly through a simple plot.

If you are the type of person to over-analyze plots, scrutinize special
effects, whine about some cheesy acting or if you get offended when a
movie doesn't have a deep and philosophical meaning behind it, this is
definitely not a movie you should waste your time or money on.

If, however, you are the type of person who enjoys some good laughs,
some over the top (and at times cheesy) comic book acting, cool battle
scenes, action and adventure, or if you simply just like to see some
guy with a flaming skull, this is worth the 8 bucks to get into a
theater seat.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay, this movie has taken a lot of heat (ohhhh) but in fact, it's good
at what it is. You can't criticize a Snickers Bar for not being Creme
Brulee. This is not High Art. It's a movie based on a comic book, and
it does a great job of bringing that comic book to life, and of keeping
the comic book nature of the story intact. This isn't a bad thing-- it
is what it is. It's not a chick flick, it's not clever and witty, it's
not deep and mysterious. It's a comic book brought to life on the big
screen with nice fx and a decent score and appropriate acting. It's
fun. It's a hoot. The bad guys are bad, the good guys are good-- and
the end isn't a cop out which is nice. If you are not the audience for
which this movie is intended, you will not like this film. If you are,
you won't be disappointed. Is it as strong a movie as Spiderman? No.
But the story isn't as strong either. It is, however, a good yarn,
something my kids liked-- something I liked, and I'm not even a comic
book guy.
<|_=00=_|>
Ghost Rider is hilarious. Unspeakably, hysterically funny. Sadly,
though, it's all unintentional humor. The movie manages to pack in
every comic book and action movie cliché imaginable, laughable casting,
an illogical script, wooden acting, and jarring direction for
straight-faced amusement.

Johnny Blaze is a 17-year-old tyro who works in a circus as part of a
daredevil motorcycle act with his father. When he learns his dad's got
cancer, Johnny makes a literal deal with the Devil (played by a
cardboard cutout of Peter Fonda) to save his dad's life. That lasts
about one day, because the next evening Johnny's dad dies during a
performance. "Nooooooooooooo!" shouts Johnny. Which is kind of what
you'll be yelling when you watch the movie.

Johnny has a girl, too, Roxanne. The night before the fateful
performance, she tells him she's moving away - her dad, skeptical about
Johnny's ability to stay alive in such a dangerous line of work, is
sending her to live with her mother. Roxanne informs Johnny of this the
very moment he's done carving an elaborate "Johnny + Roxanne Forever"
mark into a huge, old tree. Apparently she didn't want to ruin his
concentration before dropping the bombshell. The two decide to run away
together anyway, but then Johnny's pop dies, and Johnny runs off on his
own to become the World's Awesomest Motorcycle Dude.

Meanwhile! Elemental angels in league with the Devil's son, Blackheart,
are trying to get a contract giving them control over the souls of some
long-dead town. With these souls, Blackheart can rule the world, or
something. (It's unclear how all of the souls of one tiny town in the
middle of nowhere would give anyone the power to rule anything bigger
than a hamburger stand.) And, it seems, when Johnny made his deal with
the Devil he became the Ghost Rider, responsible for transporting the
contracts of souls to the Devil; Blackheart wants to intercept the
contract so he can usurp power from his dad.

Fast forward one year later. Yes, one year. Johnny has changed from
being 17 to being... Nicolas Cage. Cage is 43 years old. This makes no
sense. Oh, and of course he runs into old flame Roxanne, too, now
played by Eva Mendes. Or, more accurately, played by Eva Mendes' chest,
which is prominently on display whenever possible. Mendes is 32 years
old. She is, ostensibly, playing an 18 year old. Even more amusingly,
Roxanne is now a television reporter. At 18, it's more likely she'd be
assistant gopher to the producer. Ever the professional, even when on
the air Roxanne wears low-cut tops, the better to distract the viewer
from her inane questions.

One gets the impression that Cage signed on to this role merely because
he sports a Ghost Rider tattoo, which, ironically, had to be covered up
for the movie. It's kind of as if Jerry Seinfeld were tapped to play
Superman. You get all of Cage's mannerisms - the tics, the hangdog
expression, the mouth-agape gaze, the laconic attitude. Not really what
you expect from a comic-book hero. Mendes is fun to look at, but her
delivery is paradoxically flat. Rounding out the cast are a couple of
old timers - Sam Elliot plays Caretaker, a wily old coot as only Sam
Elliot could play him. Elliot's a fantastic actor, and he's a much
better fit for his role here than anyone else in this sludgy claptrap,
but he can't save the movie. He's not even on screen until around the
halfway point of the movie. Peter Fonda, looking weathered and sort of
beaten-down, is The Devil; he's sort of aloof and unconvincing. Oh
yeah, and Wes Bentley, who once was in American Beauty, is Blackheart,
sans Joan Jett. Geez, they could have gotten any gothy-looking nitwit
to play this role, it was so over-the-top. Bentley does not make a good
villain.

Let's be clear here. This isn't supposed to be a funny movie. It's a
straightfaced, comic-book tale of a haunted young man. And yet the
movie's so ineptly presented, one can't help but laugh. Questions
abound: Why does Ghost Rider not even show up until a good way into the
movie? Why are we told Johnny's jumping 300 feet (a football field)
when the distance is longer than that (360 feet)? Why, when Johnny asks
the Devil if he's the one responsible for keeping Johnny alive through
all his death-defying feats, does the Devil say, "No, that was all you,
Johnny"? (Was it? If you're the Devil and you NEED this guy to be your
Ghost Rider, and your guy is in a line of work in which he's constantly
in harm's way, wouldn't you help him so he doesn't, you know, die?)
When Johnny stops his cycle on a busy freeway so he can chat with
Roxanne, blocking traffic, how come no one drives around his bike and
her van? There are two lanes. Why, if Blackheart's a supernatural (and
presumably immortal) being, does Caretaker toss Johnny a kick-ass
shotgun with which to attack Blackheart? Why is the church where
Caretaker lives and works sacred, hallowed ground that Blackheart
cannot trod upon, but other churches - including the one in the tiny,
middle-of-nowhere village - are not? Why, when Ghost Rider races
through the city one night, inadvertently causing destruction, does
exactly one car flip up and smash into a window, despite there being
dozens of other vehicles around it? How come Ghost Rider can be hurt if
you stab him in the shoulder blade, but you can't wound him by shooting
him? (Some of these questions may have actual answers, but I didn't get
them from the movie.)

So the movie's pretty much useless, and in a week or so we'll have
forgotten it ever existed. It's poorly acted, directed, and written and
offers little in the way of solid entertainment - unless, of course,
you're looking for some unintentional laughs.
<|_=00=_|>
There won't be any Academy Awards for "Ghost Rider," and deservedly so.
Great cinema it ain't. It is fun stuff, though, and very much in the
spirit of the Marvel comic book of the same name. Nicolas Cage works
well in the role; his dead-pan humor is well suited to the role of
motorcycle stuntman Johnny Blaze, and the scene in which he attempts to
explain himself to his long-lost girlfriend is classic stuff, full of
awkward pauses and an eyebrow put to good use.

Granted, things get a little melodramatic from time to time, but that's
as it should be. This is, after all, a movie based on a comic book
hero, and what superhero worth his heat-vision doesn't indulge in a
dose of the melodramatic every so often? It comes with the territory.
Still, there's a sense of humor at work here, something that didn't
play out well in the "X-Men" franchise and led to that abysmal third
installation. There are a good number of laughs in "Ghost Rider." This
isn't a movie that takes itself too seriously, which is a nice benefit
considering how heavy the subject matter could become. It's rough
around the edges, no doubt, and isn't quite up to the same level as the
Spiderman movies to date.

I saw an early (11:45 AM) show and the theater was still nearly full.
The audience laughed at points that were intended as humorous and even
jumped at a couple of scenes. All in all, everyone looked like they
were having a good time, from the six year olds with their parents to
the older folks like me who were fans of this comic as kids. If you're
looking for something fun, "Ghost Rider" isn't a bad bet at all.
<|_=00=_|>
Ghostrider is a brilliantly designed character . The chain ,the bike ,
the flaming skull for a head -he's just plain cool. In fact hes TOO
cool - it seems that in any comic , cartoon or game hes involved with,
he always comes out as the most interesting thing.

It works the same way with the movie: seeing ghost rider in action
provides almost all of the films entertainment value. Watching him ride
down buildings , fight villains and flip the bird to the police is a
cool sight to behold. When hes not on screen though ,things aren't that
interesting. Nicholas cage is funny and quirky as johnny blaze and eva
mendes is impossibly sexy (as per usual)but for the most part its all
very cheesy and feels rushed and episodic.Also, the villains are
frustratingly lame , including black heart who's severely downgraded
from his comic book incarnation.

When sitting through ghostrider , your best bet is to wait for the
flaming skullhead to show up- watching him do his thing is tons of fun.
Sadly the same cant be said about the rest of the movie.While its not
bad it doesn't quite do ghostrider justice . Why ? Because hes TOO
cool..........
<|_=00=_|>
The idea to do a film of Ghost Rider actually came after Nicholas Cage
had his head skinned and his skull set on fire by critics, as a
punishment for Knowing. The scenes where Johnny Blaze apparently has
Cage's old facial features are the only CGI effects in the entire film.

Seriously though, if you like Marvel comics, and/or superhero films
it's a great romp, that doesn't waste a character that could so easily
have been wasted by the Hollywood machine. Sure there's a few clichéd
set pieces, but there aren't many superhero movies (or Nicholas Cage
movies) that don't have them, and fans of the Ghost Rider comics will
see all the scenes and set pieces they'll be hankering to see done in a
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I got to see Ghost Rider at a sneak recently in Los Angeles and I was
pleasantly surprised. Johnson has said in his interviews that he didn't
believe in taking it too seriously and I think that was the right way
to go because the film is a lot of fun. It balances humor and horror
and adventure in a way that I haven't seen since Army of Darkness, the
3rd in the Evil Dead Trilogy. Nicolas Cage is hilarious. He has a face
that is like a silent movie actors and I kept thinking about movies
like Nosferatu or Phantom of the Opera. He's been waiting for years to
play this role and you can really feel how much fun he's having just
going crazy, especially in the first scene when Johnny Blaze turns into
the Ghost Rider. The movie just borders on the edge of campy but always
manages to pull itself back before going to far. And Sam Elliott. It's
got Sam Elliot. What more could you ask for?
<|_=00=_|>
I am still in awe of this movie. There are scenes that will make you go
"how did they do that?" and some scenes that are just cool. At the
beginning when Johnny Blaze first figures out his powers / curse as the
GhostRider he lays both hands on his motorcycle and it begins to
transform itself into a really cool bike.... Almost like it goes to
'just bones' which is the point. There are a lot of cool action scenes
in the movie but the best part is that there is actually a good
storyline as well!!!! I was not very happy with the fact that he
doesn't end up with the girl, but at least we know that she does love
him and he loves her, so that's something! I am very impressed. Also
Nicolas Cage is one of my favorite actors!!!
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see this film in the process of my work and so didn't pay and
was just able to sit back and enjoy it for what it was.

I would probably not have paid to see this film anyway because it just
did not look like something that i would be into, however, i am glad i
have seen it and i really did enjoy most of it.

Sure, some parts just made me want to get up and leave, and the film as
a whole seemed to be carried by the fact that cage was in it(i am sure
it would have been a straight to DVD/video if he had not been) but the
acting was of a good standard, it had comic undulations that probably
only appeared to those with shall we say a more 'eccentric' attitude to
comedy, and it had some moments that made you twitch a little in your
seat.

Funny, scary, pathetic, bad can all be used to describe this film, and
it will probably be slated for all its worth.

All i have left to say is this:

To all the dads out there, get your kids, take them to see this film.
They will enjoy it for its scares and fantasy, you Will enjoy the fact
that Raquel Alessi and Eva Mendes are in it. Just do it!
