

Come back George, all is forgiven:  At lease "On Her Majesty's Secret
Service" was recognizable as a Bond film.  The latest installment in the
franchise, the 20th installment in fact, should have been a cause for
celebration.  Instead, I have to rate it a solid 1, and that only because
the system won't let me rate it lower.  When did James Bond morph with
Rambo?  What happened to the wit and charm that was evident in the best of
the series, films like 'Goldfinger" and "The Spy Who Loved
Me"?

There is nothing in this film that feels original or fresh.  And the John
Woo influenced cinematics have no place in a Bond film.  And what's with
the
use of CGI in place of real stuntmen doing the impossible, as they did in
every other film?  Sure, it may look "super cool" in concept, but in fact
it
looks fake and out of place.  They didn't use CGI to make trucks act like
race cars in "License To Kill".

I'm afraid that on his 40th anniversary, the cinematic James Bond is
looking
every bit his age, dressed up like a 70 year old hustler trying to pick up
teenagers.  Forget the snazzy trappings and the flashy action scenes and
get
back to the basics.
<|_=00=_|>
Pis*-poor, Ill-conceived, soulless, mindless, horrifying - and thats
just the title track in this 40th Anniversary defunctular - proof
positive that the series is in terrible terrible trouble. In fact,
based on the this exercise in self-parody (even the title sounds like a
parody), devoid of any new or exciting elements, it might be worth
pondering whether its time for the super-spy to take a sabbatical while
all concerned contemplate a wholesale reinvention of the Francaise; a
full-scale rebuilding from the ground up with absolutely no return to
the cut and paste methodology that rots this one from the inside out.
It isn't even worth discussing the story to this anniversary entry
because there isn't one but it might be worth pointing out the contrast
between this and the last anniversary story The Living Daylights (1987)
for therein lies the clues to what's gone wrong with 007's exploits.
Whereas Dalton's film used the anniversary as a sort of reaffirmation
of principles and a throw back to the series dramatic and literary
roots, a new dawn if you like (and frankly even if you don't), Die
Another Dies goes the other way and represents the zenith of the
Pervis/Wade era of Brosnan Bonds that has seen the action and budgets
scale upward while the substance has conversely dipped and with the
arrival of an invisible car, evaporated. This is about a trillion miles
away from the 25th anniversary Bond in which familiar elements made the
odd cameo appearance - the Astin Martin for example. Here the familiar
is everything - in fact its the building blocks of the story (such as
it is) and the characters and, well everything really. The tone is pure
fantasy - deadly lasers in space, an evil ice palace lair for the
villain, Madonna etc... Characters with silly names trade puns and
insipid dialogue while Brosnan goes through the motions. If it was the
intention of all concerned to make a companion piece for Austin Powers
then they should consider DAD a roaring success. For those of us
expecting a serious Bond movie however, its a minor travesty - Bonds
have been lazy before (Moonraker, naturally) but this one completes the
post-Goldeneye trajectory toward total self-parody and in doing so
arguably takes its place along other genre greats such as Rocky 4, Star
Trek: Nemesis and Batman and Robin in the 'film that crashed the
series' category. Bond films have also been looking down the business
end of oblivion before but 'tis no exaggeration to say that this time
the martini loving super-spy is fighting for his life. Bond is a great
character but unless the powers that be start to take him seriously
again and refrain from this derivative fluff, they might as well call
it a day.
<|_=00=_|>
Creating new, exciting adventures for 007 after 20 feature films in
forty years is a difficult task at best, particularly as public tastes
change, and the character of James Bond has to maintain at least a
degree of the 'persona' created by Ian Fleming. While the heirs of
Albert Broccoli, his daughter Barbara and son-in-law Michael G. Wilson,
have done a remarkable job in keeping the series 'fresh', if DIE
ANOTHER DAY is any indication, the creative forces surrounding them
seem to be losing 'touch' with James Bond, and his world.

After an astonishing pre-title sequence, climaxing with Bond being
captured by the North Koreans, the film offers a horrendous montage of
torture, with Bond only surviving due to a timely prisoner exchange
(with an unsympathetic M remarking, "If it had been up to me, you'd
have stayed in North Korea...", obviously forgetting that 007 had saved
her life in THE WORLD IS NOT ENOUGH). Pierce Brosnan, at fifty, is
superb in this sequence, vulnerable yet defiant, and to this point, DIE
ANOTHER DAY has all the makings of a first-class Bond entry.

Then Bond jaunts off to find the agent who betrayed him, becoming
involved in an investigation involving diamonds, solar power, and a
'too-good-to-be-true' industrialist (smarmy Toby Stephens), and all of
the creativity of the opening is lost, with the film becoming an uneasy
mix of references to past films and silly, unbelievable situations,
sets and gadgets (culminating with an 'Ice Palace' and an 'invisible'
Aston Martin).

As she had won an Oscar prior to filming DIE ANOTHER DAY, sexy Halle
Berry, 36, was publicized extensively as Bond's latest leading lady,
CIA agent 'Jinx'. Unfortunately, after a spectacular 'rising from the
waves' introduction (borrowed from Ursula Andress, in DR. NO), and a
few nicely choreographed fights, she spoke...and lost all of her
credibility in the role. While much of the problem was certainly in the
script, she was never believable as Bond's 'counterpart' in the
American intelligence community. On the other hand, Rosamund Pike, 23,
was both sexy and duplicitous as British double agent Miranda Frost, as
chilly as her name, but capable of igniting under 007's gaze. In a part
equally poorly written, she made far more of her scenes than the
writers gave her. 

The most interesting character in the film was certainly Rick Yune, as
Graves' 'enforcer', Zao. Charismatic, ruthless, and nearly unstoppable,
Zao was nearly a primal force, far more menacing than Graves at his
worst.

While a sword-fight sequence between Bond and Graves provided a rare
film highlight, and certainly ranks as one of the film series' more
memorable sequences, much of the rest of the production was silly, with
the story set at a break-neck pace to 'hide' the absurdities. The
climax, as a solar 'ray' destroyed the minefield between North and
South Korea, allowing an 'invasion' to occur, as 007 and Jinx attempted
to commandeer the aircraft controlling the 'ray', stands as one of the
most ludicrous finales to a Bond film since MOONRAKER.

Although DIE ANOTHER DAY would become Pierce Brosnan's highest-grossing
Bond, to date, the film, despite heavily promoting Halle Berry's
presence, failed to crack the 'Top Ten' box office attractions in the
U.S., and disappointed many fans, worldwide.

With the purchase of MGM by Sony, which has wanted to produce a Bond
film for years (the studios were entangled in a legal suit that ended
just as DIE began production), surprising changes were in
store...CASINO ROYALE, the only Fleming title NOT owned by Eon
Productions was named as the next 007 adventure...and Pierce Brosnan
was FIRED (a sad finish for an actor who'd worked so hard to make 007
viable in the new millennium!) While Broccoli and Wilson are still 'in
charge' of Bond productions, they have to answer to new bosses, with
definite opinions of their own on where the franchise should go...Can
007 survive THIS? 

We can only wait and see!
<|_=00=_|>

On a mission in Korea, James Bond is captured and tortured for 18 months. 
He is swapped with Korean agent Zao for his freedom.  However M has swapped
him not to save him, but because she believes Bond has cracked and is giving
away information.  However Bond knows there is another mole in the area and
escapes to uncover what Zao is up to and to uncover his Western
ally.

I looked forward to this film because I like Bond and easily get caught up
in the hype. I think it is just down to the success of the formula and the
fact that it feels comfortable to know you're getting a slightly different
version of reliable product. For me, familiarity has yet to breed contempt
in this series. I wanted to like this film more, although I did enjoy the
vast majority of it. It's biggest problem is simply that it tries too hard
and wants to do too much. The plot is OK and is a brave start showing our
hero broken and in prison, but from there it does try and do way too much.
It was good to relate the pre-credits scene to the rest of the film but the
film seems restless unless it is having a major bit of plot happening - too
many little twists or new bits of plot that stopped the film flowing. The
plot is OK at heart but the little additions of diamonds, ice palace,
weapons in space, DNA alteration, electrical suits all gets a bit much.

The film's direction is also a bit frantic. A little bit of Matrix creeping
in and sudden rushing cameras etc. It isn't needed, indeed they make the
cake feel over egged, like the director didn't trust himself enough to a
good job and needed gimmicks etc. On top of this there are three or so cgi
shots that are really poor (and I mean Mummy Returns poor). It doesn't help
that the theme song is one of the worst ever but I could get past that as
the action under the credits helped distract from it. The action is all good
on the whole but there didn't seem enough room for them and all that plot -
also everything was overdone. We don't need matrix type effects in Bond -
all we need is a certain amount of flair and well designed shots etc. I
sound negative but I still enjoyed this despite the weaknesses cause at the
end of the day the formula still works even with the monkeying
around.

One of the main reasons is Brosnan himself. he is getting better every film.
He does some bad puns but never to the mocking extent of Moore and he also
does the dangerous element of Connery. Even when the film starts to get
silly he remains strong in the lead. Berry is wasted and is a distraction
more than a good addition. From the cringe worthy first scene with Bond
(trading smutty one liners) onwards she has no character worth speaking of.
Her dialogue is innuendo and not lines, her acting is all in the twitch of
her lips as she flirts and that's it. To look at, she does the job, but i
thought we'd gotten past Bond girls that are eye-candy and nothing more.
Pike is given a more frosty role and does pretty well despite being very
cold when viewed beside the flirtatious Berry. Stephens hams it up as
Graves. He starts well but the plot spin on his character (esp. the electric
suit stuff) takes away from his credibility as a bad guy and he ends up as a
cartoon type rather than a real threat. Yune on the other hand is a real
good villain - a gimmick (his face) but also presence and real menace
without hamming it up. I had hoped he would be the focus but alas no. Dench
is good and Madsen is an interesting addition - but perhaps he wasn't the
best choice for the head of NSA given the type of roles he is best known for
- how many other people could only see Mr Blonde? Cleese does well as the
new Q and brings his comedy into the role well, making it similar to the
spirit of Q without being a copy. Madonna's cameo is as bad and as pointless
as her theme song.

Overall let me stress I enjoyed this film but couldn't help but see the many
flaws. It simply tries too hard in almost every area - plot, writing,
action, direction. The formula is all there but it feels like they want to
up the ante in every way, only at the basic level does the film feel
comfortable in it's own skin and relaxes, for most of the time you'd think
this was a new film desperately trying to start a franchise as opposed to a
long running series.
<|_=00=_|>
It's the 20th Bond film and premiered on the 40th anniversary of the
series, and, in many ways, it is really a tribute to the entire series
itself. This film's strength and its weakness both lie in the fact that
it is a blend of the classic Connery films, the outlandish Moore films,
and the grittiness of the Dalton films. It's rolling the entire series
into a single two hour adventure and the result is actually pretty
entertaining. The first half is definitely stronger than the second; a
more serious adventure with a classic feel to it, before taking a nose
dive down into utter camp territory. I didn't mind the idea of making
some scenes a little over-the-top, but I think they went overboard at
times. Throughout the movie, the filmmakers toss in little references
to previous Bond films. I suppose it's a fun idea to stop and consider
how far these films have come over the last 40-something years, and a
long time Bond fan can find amusement in finding these subtle, but long
remembered treasures that poke their head in this film for one last
time. As for the technical aspects of the film: The special effects are
a little too ambitious and don't always come across convincing. The
dialogue goes back and forth from excellent to atrocious. The ensemble
of actors is pretty strong, except for Halle Berry, who in my opinion
was completely wrong for a Bond movie. The villains are a little more
dynamic. The action sequences are an improvement, in my mind. Granted,
there are some instances where the filmmakers push the envelope a
little too far, as mentioned above. However, they also show a certain
amount of creativity that seemed to be lacking in the previous two
films. Overall, this film is really a mixed bag. At moments there is
potential for one of the greatest Bond adventures. At other moments
you're thinking, "What the heck am I watching." Personally, I feel the
positives balance out the negatives, but if anything, this film is a
good popcorn movie. All in all, it wasn't a bad way to close out the
series before rebooting it again with Casino Royale.
<|_=00=_|>
DIE ANOTHER DAY is a unique Bond film for me because I had seen the
other entries in the franchise before I discovered the IMDb . In other
words my only knowledge of its reputation is down to the comments I
have read on these pages and because many commentators are so loud in
their condemnation ( Bad CGI , awful title track etc ) I was expecting
a really bad movie never mind a really bad Bond movie , but DIE ANOTHER
DAY wasn't as bad as I was expecting 

It's interesting to note that the Bond series never really concerned
itself with painting communists as bad guys . OCTOPUSSY ties in with
the cold war very much as does THE LIVING DAYLIGHTS to a lesser degree
but in no way can the series be criticised as being right wing or
reactionary with GOLDENEYE wearing its heart on it's sleeve that
Russian gangsterism is more of a worry than Russian communism so it's
something of a shock seeing Bond battle Stalinist commies in North
Korea . That is in no way a criticism either .

We're then treated to a bizarre title sequence composed of a torture
montage with quite simply the worst theme tune ever devised for a Bond
movie . I don't know what is about the Pierce Brosnan Bonds but they
all have very poor title songs despite having all round superb
production values and DIE ANOTHER DAY continues the high production
values , a lot of people complain about the CGI and I must admit the
cartoonish jet at the end does look like a cartoon but compare this
sequence to all the action scenes in the 1980s which were composed of
Roger Moore standing in front of some back projection and no matter how
much you don't want to say it you must confess we've come a long way
since then 

Some people have also let rip that the film is ruined by post modernist
self reference but I disagree . Come on chaps when you've seen one Bond
movie since the late 1960s you've seen most of them . Plot wise DIE
ANOTHER DAY is very , very similar to GOLDENEYE with a " British "
villain in charge of a death ray in outer space with a fair amount of
LICENSED TO KILL thrown in . It should be remembered both YOU ONLY LIVE
TWICE and THE SPY WHO LOVED ME had the same identical plot with serious
hardware being stolen from the USSR and America in order to start a
nuclear holocaust . There is a ridiculous amount of humour though
involving John Cleese as Q . I know you shouldn't take James Bond
movies seriously but did we need an invisible car ?

The other thing I disliked was Jinx . Think about it , she's tough and
kills without hesitation so how come she needs rescuing from Bond ?
She's just a cypher there to create a love interest and it's amazing
that the producers seriously considered starting a spin off series with
Jinx as the heroine . It would have been as successful as CATWOMEN .
There is a problem with a plot twist involving both Gustav Graves and
Miranda Frost , the twist is good but unfortunately the surprise only
works once which means on second viewing the shock value of the plot
revelation is gone therefore DIE ANOTHER DAY doesn't have the same
enjoyment second , third or fourth viewing unlike classic Bond movies 

I'm not a big Bond fan but have been fairly impressed with the
standards of the franchise from GOLDENEYE to DIE ANOTHER DAY , they've
really come leaps and bounds from the Roger Moore debacles like
MOONRAKER and VIEW TO A KILL . One aspect that is over looked in the
series is the character interaction between Bond and M ( Convincingly
played by Judi Dench ) and I hope to see this abrasive relationship
continue when the series returns with a new actor in the lead role
<|_=00=_|>
After being captured, imprisoned and tortured in North Korea for 14
months, Bond (Pierce Brosnon) is released in exchange for a recently
captured Zao Unfortunately, MI6 and the American NSA believe the
mission was compromised They think their super agent has cracked under
torture So Bond's license to kill is rescinded along with his freedom
by M (Judi Dench) and is ordered to be send to an evaluation center in
the Falklands 

Determined to clear his name and find out who really betrayed him in
North Korea, Bond soon escapes and tracks Zao to Cuba, who was
undergoing a 'D.N.A. transplant,' in a strange clinic, to heal his
ravaged face There, he finds someone else after the Korean, a capable
secret agent, called Jinx... 

After having proved himself to MI6 and to the NSA, Bond returns to
London and has a spirited fencing match with Graves at the Blades Club
There he meets his publicist the gorgeous Miranda Frost 

In "Die Another Day," Brosnon is wild, and ready to light the fuse on
any explosive situation His methods are to provoke and confront His
Aston Martin is loaded with high tech gadgetry that renders his vehicle
invisible to Zao's sporty Jaguar There's an amazing chase between the
two across the frozen waters of Iceland There's also an interesting
battle inside Graves' treacherous fortress; and two battles to the
death aboard Graves' airplane  

Halle Berry is one of the Bond girls who looks so stunning especially
when she emerged from the Cuban waters in her bright orange bikini
This Oscar-winning beauty matches 007 in intelligence, sophistication
and toughness, leaving Bond in the island in an explosive situation 

Toby Stephens as the psycho billionaire Gustav Graves appears
determined to use his unique satellite the Icarus using its power to
'bring light and warmth to the darkest parts of the world or to clear
the minefield creating a highway for his North Korean's troops
Rosamund Pile plays the fencing master with breathless beauty Miranda
Frost 

Rick Yune plays Zao, the dangerous Korean arms dealer and sports-car
aficionado who works for Colonel Moon (Will Yun Lee), the renegade
North Korean army officer who was determined to invade the south 

Michael Madsen plays Damian Falco, NSA spy master and Jinx's boss who's
tough on Bond

The comical British character actor John Cleese takes over the role of
Q... 

Madonna was hired to record the title tune and appeared in a cameo role
as a fencing instructor

"Die Another Day" is the 20th in the series, and is arguably a fun
movie to watch delivering a great sword fight so don't miss it!
<|_=00=_|>

Look, let's be clear about it...it's the year 2002, not 1962.  This
franchise of movies has evolved over the years from a cool and clever spy
series to an over-the-top slam bang action series.  When you go to see a
James Bond film, you should EXPECT any or all of the following:
1)  A completely unrealistic, contrived plot
2)  Unbelievably cheesy and corny one-liners (almost all of which are
sexual
in nature)
3)  A supervillain seemingly brilliant and mad enough to quest for world
domination, but is somehow stupid enough to let Bond get close enough to
spoil the whole thing
4)  A female counterpart (or several) that looks good, gets captured, and
ultimately gets saved by our hero
5)  Gadgets, cars, and weapons that do fantastic, unbelievable
things
6)  Action sequences and stunts that defy fundamental laws of physics and
logic

Having said all of that, and knowing what I knew, I was so excited to see
this movie, and I loved it.  Why?  Because I got to escape for a couple of
hours in a fantasy-spy world.  Because I've seen the other 19 movies and I
got to see what other directions they went with the characters.  Because I
love the characters and have gotten to know them over the course of the
last
19 movies.  Of course it has its shortcomings (the CG was weak in parts)
but
it has everything that makes the franchise successful.  It pays homage to
the older films while pleasing younger fans with it's incredible action
sequences.

Like it or not, this is what the series has evolved to.  Personally, I
like
it, but having seen Dr. No, From Russia With Love, etc, I know that the
newer movies don't really appeal to many of the fans of those movies (my
dad
hates the new movies) because they have completely moved away from reality
(not to mention the novels).  So understand that before you go and see
this
movie.  If you can just sit back and enjoy the ride, you will.  But if
you're looking for the magic of 1962 to return, than you might be
disappointed.  But I will bet on this...judging by the reaction of the
theater I was at, James Bond isn't going away anytime soon.

Oh by the way, what's with the comment "Look out Bond, xXx is taking
over."
Huh?  When xXx has 20 successful movies under his belt, then we can start
comparing the two.  
<|_=00=_|>
To its credit, "Die Another Day" starts out reasonably well, even the
much maligned title song actually isn't terrible. Then it gets worse,
and worse, and worse. You know, there's ridiculousness that's
enjoyable, like in "GoldenEye", then there's "Die Another Day", a movie
so caught up in its complete silliness it forgets to realize it,
thinking its overzealous use of gadgetry, its hilariously bad
Robo-villain (cut me some slack, I couldn't think of a better
nickname), and Halle Berry. Miss Berry is easily among the very worst
Bond girls, and the fact that she's alongside Rosamund Pike, who
manages to do such a good job with what little she's given, doesn't
really help at all.

In "Die Another Day", there's not a second of humor that works. All the
one-liners will have you cringing, albeit less than any attempt at
actual serious dialogue this pathetic mess makes, as the script is
completely ludicrous from start to finish, which is a continuation of
the 'good writers writing terribly' theme in Bond history, where
genuinely good writers write horrible messes like this, mainly because
it seems they're lazy. I do find it humorous that the biggest fans of
"Casino Royale" who claim it is by far the best Bond film conveniently
ignore the fact that it was written by the same writing crew (with the
addition of script-polisher Paul Haggis) which gave us the last three
installments of the Bond franchise. Writers do what they're asked to
do, and my guess is that "Die Another Day" is as much the producers'
fault as the writers'.

Lee Tamahori is a completely bizarre choice for director, and a
terrible one at that, seeing how he has never made an especially good
film. David Arnold's score is again very good but he can't save the
film and though I really like Brosnan's Bond the direction the series
was going in at this point was truly dangerous and could've resulted in
the end for Bond if allowed to go on. There was no reason to stop- "Die
Another Day" was a massive financial success, the highest grossing of
Brosnan's films and actually about as well-reviewed by major critics as
the last two films in the series, but audience feedback and hopefully
common sense led to the reinvigoration of the franchise in "Casino
Royale". Thank heavens for that.

3/10
<|_=00=_|>
There is one of the widest cluster of spectators ever possible for a
franchised movie. There is its own fans. For almost half a century from
the old generations to the youth it is always advised that the 007-Bond
movies are the best action & thriller of all. Yet to watch Die Another
Day there are so many other reasons! Relying on the protection of its
confidence and splendour, Die Another Day sight sees some of the
larger-than-life and glamorous centres of the earth. In "You Only Live
Twice" and "The Man with the Golden Gun" Bond has visited Hong-Kong
several times; and he does once more in Die Another Day. We are going
to see Cuba for the second time after "Golden Eye", and again for the
second time we will be in Bond's top-secret MI6 office in London,U.K
after "On Her Majesty's Secret Service". We also have a chance to see
unforgettably spectacular views from Hawaii's virgin hills and from
Iceland. In fact, wherever it says it's North Korea, it's location is
still Hawaii. Some of the North Korean scenes like the elaborate
hovercraft chase scene were shot in U.K. as well.

It is joyful to catch homage moments in respect to the previous Bond
movies like the conspiracy plot at the presidential suite in the Hong
Kong hotel with the Chinese masseuse beauty, and Halle Berry's first
appearance moment where she wore an orange bikini with a white belt
attached to an army knife. Best of all -the most alluring of all- were
the gadgets and equipments used throughout the movie: 

* Hovercrafts

** Electromagnetic ring 

*** Bounding mines

**** Laser cutting watch 

***** Giant Space Laser Mirror named "Icarus"-a satellite weapon that
directs a blazing ray of heat at its landed or aerial global targets 

****** Switchblade Jet Gliders

******* The Invisible Aston Martin 

If you liked the movie, you'd better see the Special Edition D.V.D that
includes very very precious and confidential technical details:
-DataStream's trivia track with video streaming, storyboard comparisons
from scratch to the shot,the advisory details on how to choose the best
suitable FPS adjusted camera giving samples of multi-angle camera
explorations, the visual effects featurette transcribes the odds-and
-ends differences between make-ups and models and non-computer based
visual effects and CGI based virtual effects, and finally Madonna's
original uncut edition of 007-Nightfire music video that has been
banned in some countries of Europe at its time of screening. It is as
good as an HD-DVD of today's.

Die Another Day is Brosnan's fourth Bond movie. Director Tamahori, who
has gained recognition in his film "Once Were Warriors", is an
award-winning commercial director; and in my opinion he has been
influenced by Paul Verhoeven a lot. Die Another has some snoops from
Verhoeven, mostly Robocop and Total Recall.

The title has taken from an A.E.Housman poem. In Housman's poem, it is
the coward who runs away from battle so that he may die another day.
Die Another Day is a perfect choice for a wonderful evening with family
and friends,neighbours,relatives,colleagues and with all types of
crowds.

Film: 7/10 DVD: 10/10(one of my favourite DVDs of all-time)
