
The picture talks upon a dealer (John Leguizamo) with a lot of success
on south Bronx who loved for his girlfriend (Dalilah Cotto) develops an
economic relation with a Wall Street yuppie financier (Peter Saasgard)
and his fiancée (Denise Richards).

In the motion picture , shot in 22 days , there are tension , a love
story , thriller , emotion , intrigue and a little bit of violence .
The movie is fast moving and is enough amusing but happens many events
. The pic obtained moderated success and didn't attain the box office
that the producers wanted . The suspense movie is correctly narrated
but there're some storyline gaps and the twisted plot makes it a few
ridiculous . The film is classified ¨R¨ for violence and some sex and
isn't apt for little boys , being for + 18 years' viewers . John
Leguizano's fine interpretation as a drug dealer who becomes involved
dark issues , he is good but plays as Latin stereotypes . Director
Franc Reyes originally wanted John Leguizamo to play Jimmy , he liked
the part of Victor so much that he got the filmmaker to give him that
part . Leguizamo used his star power to help bring bigger names to the
project . Dalilah Cotto and Denise Richards are attractive and
enjoyable and Peter Saasgard as a hotshot business manager is
magnificent . Isabella Rossellini as a Colombian drug lord is miscast
and the veteran Sonia Braga hands a role very secondary as the
starring's mother . The musical score by also actor Ruben Blades is
nice and the movie is rightly directed by Fran Reyes .
<|_=00=_|>

A little gem of a gangster film. Not totally original, it could be seen as a
homage to many of its predecessors, yet it delivers and keeps you interested
right until the very end.

John Leguizamo plays local drug dealer Victor Rosa who sees the opportunity
yo "branch out" into other areas and let his drug money work for him in the
stock market when he meets, through his girlfriend, a up and coming wall
street executive. Problem is that he finds it harder and harder to move away
from his dangerous life on the streets, and still ends up having to deal
with his crew of trigger happy homeboys, rival drug dealers and drug
kingpins - which turns out to be a hell of a lot harder than
before.

Leguizamo is brilliant in the lead role and has good support from the likes
of Peter Sarsgaard, as his new wall street chum, and Vincent Laresca as his
best friend from childhood. Its also good to see old stagers Isabella
Rossellini and Sonia Braga again.

Denise Richards (not really having to act here, which suits her fine) and
unknown Delilah Cotto are good eye candy, and do well as the sexy female
leads.

An A for effort to all involved.
<|_=00=_|>

Despite its poor box office performance and multitude of bad reviews from
major critics, I found the movie to be quite good.  John Leguizamo gives a
powerful performance, exhibiting that same dramatic power he did in Spike
Lee's "Summer of Sam."  This is writer/director Franc Reyes' first film, and
it's no masterpiece, but he definitely shows signs of talent.  Not to
mention the film was made on a low budget, yet it's just as effective, if
not more, than urban gangster movies twice its budget.  The film is flashy,
but not too flashy.  There is one shot, inspired by John Woo, in which Fat
Joe flips a shotgun up in the air and it's played in slow-motion.  Moments
like that have their charm, "moment" being the key word.  Too many scenes
like that and you've got yourself the stereotypical, hare-brained, MTV music
video disguising as a motion picture ala "Charlie's Angels."  Reyes used an
interesting lighting technique, making the ghetto scenes appear more golden
and the uptown scenes a darker, blue-ish color.  In most movies of this
type, the ghetto scenes would be much more darkly lit, but Reyes wanted to
break from the mold.  

The story is predictable, except for one moment at the very end, but at the
same time it's inspired and realistic.  There are a few contrived,
you-asked-for-it moments like Leguizamo's girlfriend catching him cheating
on her with Denise Richards, but I didn't make a big fuss out of them. 
Reyes himself grew up in the South Bronx, so some of the scenes and
characters are inspired from his childhood, and that inspiration really
shows.  Also, I always condone films with predominantly Latin-American
casts, whether they're good or bad, because Hispanics are still very much
snubbed in the world of media.  So this is a film from a real Latin-American
perspective, and not the perspective of a white man who did some research on
their barrios and starring white actors with cheesy Latin accents (i.e.:  Al
Pacino in "Scarface").  

Even though I'm all for minorities getting their art out there, that doesn't
mean they have to diss the majorities.  What I wasn't too thrilled about was
the way the white characters were written.  They're portrayed as the usual
stuck-up, Armani-wearing fools they are in most films with a cast
predominantly consisting of minorities.  The climax involves the Peter
Skarsgard character yelling out a racial slur.  That seemed like a cheap
device to elicit huge reactions from the young Hispanics in the audience. 
And the Denise Richards character is a ditsy floozie.  What else is new? 
However, I've seen worse Caucasian stereotypes in African-American films. 
At least in this case, the whites weren't complete objects of ridicule. 

The only member of the cast who I felt was out of place was Isabella
Rossellini, who for some reason just seems like she walked onto the wrong
movie set and never seems comfortable with her role.  But the rest of the
cast is superb.  God knows I don't condone rappers venturing into acting, as
a general rule, but the rappers who are in the film (Fat Joe and Treach from
Naughty By Nature) are effective in their small roles, the key word being
"small."  If they had more major roles, my opinion would probably be a lot
more negative.  

"Empire" is a good, solid, well-acted, entertaining, action-packed joyride
with great elements of truth.  In a way, it's like an inner-city film noir. 

My score:  7 (out of 10)  

           
<|_=00=_|>

Empire stars John Leguizamo in a fairly decent role this time, as Victor
Rosa. He is a drug dealer who is living life at a good pace. But as
sucessful as his buisness is, he finds that he should get out while he still
can and settle down. He sees his chance as he meets a wall street stock
broker named Jack. He has a propasition for Victor that involves millions of
dollars in which Victor needs to borrow from his drug dealing allies. It
soon turns out that Victor is screwed out of the deal and Jack has made off
with the money! Victor soon discovers he has no choice but to seek out Jack
and have his revenge.
 What starts out with all the characteristics of a flop movie soon turns
into something interesting. Leguizamo portrays Victor well, with smarts,
feelings and charisma. It's not the greatest gangster flick out there (say
Goodfellas blows it out of the whole movie making buisness) but this is
surely worth a look. Empire provides insites into the crime world and keeps
interest for a lot of the time (except the flat beginning). There are
sometimes surprises that you wouldn't expect, good gun fights, and the
ending is really something else. Overall not bad, do not judge the cover by
all the bad things everyone says about it. Give it a shot! you may be
surprised. 7.0/10
<|_=00=_|>

Just caught up with this film on cable. I never saw it when it was released,
and frankly, it was my loss. Franc. Reyes has directed a surprising first
feature that has a glossy noirish look. It speaks volumes for a new director
to have a style that's easy on the eye as well as for the
mind.

John Leguizamo is a huge talent. I have seen him on stage in almost all of
his solo presentations and can tell anyone that this man is a dynamo. He
never stops surprising; he has a range that few others have and he uses it
to his advantage. Mr. Leguizamo's Victor makes a deep impression. We never
let our eyes leave Victor for a moment; this man is the product of the
streets, but he proves to have a mind of his own and a sophistication that
are not easy to match.

The idea of casting Peter Sargaard as Jack was pure genius. This actor is
about one of the best working in films at the moment. In the movie he is the
suave Jack who has a hidden agenda. Mr. Sargaard perfectly balances the
action. His character is the product of the best schools. Victor is
impressed because Jack accepts him from the beginning without apparent
reservations or prejudice.

The problem with the film is that we know how it's going to end, and we
weren't wrong. It was predictable, but the director and the two principals
made the film a joy to watch.

The rest of the cast was fine, especially Denise Richards, a beautiful
Delilah Cotto, who can give JayLo a lot of competition in the looks
department, and Isabella Rosellini, who is perfect as La Colombiana with her
big hair and furs.
<|_=00=_|>

I really enjoyed this film, I am a John Leguizamo fan and finally watched
this and got what I expected, I wasn't disappointed at all. Leguizamo
gives
a awesome performance as drug dealer Victor Rosa, the selection of
characters was superb and I found fit well. Empire is a good film, good
story, and pretty good cast, I would recommend this movie for a rental, I
was happy I rented it and hopefully you will be also.


<|_=00=_|>
'Empire' is a film that had a lot of potential but due to the bad
writing, several plot holes and weak direction, the film fails. I mean,
is Victor Rosa really that stupid to not put anything on paper when
making a business agreement with a stranger, which involves so much
money? Was Jack really stupid enough to give his mother's telephone
number to Victor and to continue using the same name? The ending (well,
most of the film actually) is downright predictable.

John Leguizamo tries his best to bring out the main character but it
suffers due to the bad writing. His voice-over starts well but as the
film proceeds towards the end, the monologues/dialogues get worse. The
actor is no doubt talented and one couldn't have done more with such a
role. Yet, his acting shines in several scenes. Newcomer Cotto does
well even though she merely plays the 'typical' girlfriend who's
against his 'job'. Sarsgaard and Rosselini (miscast) are wasted and
Richards adds some comic relief. The characters of the Caucasians were
very much caricatures.

On the whole, it still wasn't a completely terrible flick. Just one
that could have been way better. For me, it was John Leguizamo's acting
that made it worth the watch.
<|_=00=_|>
Empire (2002)

Not knowing much about the drug world, or about the Latino drug world
in Brooklyn in particular, I was fascinating on the basic level of
curiosity. And some amazement, I suppose.

This isn't a badly made movie. The leading actor, John Leguizamo, is
subtle enough as Victor Rosa and has an inner core of decency to keep
you identified enough to watch. The plot needs that because there's a
lot of the well worn drug violence to wear you out. There is also,
however, a second plot element that you don't quite expect—Rosa finds
an opportunity to invest his drug earnings into high yield stock deals
through a very non- Latino Wall Street man.

So there is a big twist or two to come, and this really makes the movie
more of a fictional bit of creativity. Written and directed by Franc
Reyes, "Empire" is about all kinds of rivalries. It's also wants to be
about love and is thin there. You wish he had taken the slightly
different tack the script offered him and tilted away from the shooting
and strutting (lots of cocks hanging out here) and more into the minds
and hearts of these people, who start to become real for us.

No such luck. Somehow they managed to get Isabella Rossellini in for a
small but good part—if you're a fan you'll enjoy that. And Leguizamo
adds some tenderness (real or not) to larger scene. And location
shooting, frankly, is really nice, showing not the usual sides of New
York (or LA) and not the romanticized ethnic neighborhoods (like the
Italian or Jewish sections of old), but the regular, rough-edged
reality of Brooklyn now. Or at least in 2002. Things keep changing down
there really fast.

I don't recommend or not this movie—it's purely about whether you like
this kind of world and want to get immersed in it. Nothing really
special happens, but it's got a steady interest that might keep you
going.
<|_=00=_|>

There's probably no point in discussing the plot of "Empire," since the
whole movie is all but divulged in the trailers, but it's not in my best
interest to leave people in the dark. Victor Rosa (John Leguizamo, also
providing voice-over narration) is a South Bronx drug dealer who wants to
get out of the business and lead a normal life with his pregnant girlfriend
(Delilah Cotto), who is expecting their first child. Victor believes Wall
Street investment banker Jack Wimmer (Peter Sarsgaard) is his lifeline to
quick – and legal – financial freedom. It's not long before his alliance
with Wimmer begins to alienate relationships with his friends and partners,
which in turn yields serious consequences. This solid storyline is lost in
the abyss of director Franc. Reyes' world of near-pitch black sets, endless
gunplay, flat dialogue that's composed mainly of colorful metaphors, and
rappers playing trigger-happy drug dealers (in this case, Treach and Fat
Joe; at least they're a major improvement over stiffs like Ja Rule and DMX).
The third act collapses under the weight of its predictability; a field
guide and binoculars won't be needed to spot twists that can be seen from a
country mile away. Denise Richards pops up in the egregious role of Wimmer's
sexpot girlfriend, but don't let that deter you from seeing an otherwise
fairly entertaining movie. It's difficult to argue, though, that Leguizamo's
talents were better put to use in "Ice Age."  7/10
<|_=00=_|>

"Empire" is all about a streetwise drug dealer (Leguizamo) in South Bronx,
NY who self-narrates his take on how to work your way out of the ghetto
and
go legit. A slick shoot with a bunch of trite recycled street crime and
gangland snippets pieced together for a screenplay, this predictable and
contrived flick never really gets where it's trying to go. Chock full of
plot holes and nonsequiturs, the auteur asks us to care enough about a
thug,
murderer, and drug pusher to sit through 1.5 hours of
all-sizzle-but-no-steak
nonsense about his life. A so-so no brainer action/drama for Leguizamo
fans
and crime buffs only. (C+)
