
The days of Airplane and Naked Gun are over. Nowadays, we have the
Scary Movies, Spy Hard, Date Movie, Not Another Teen Movie, etc....of
all of these, Teen Movie is quite easily the best one. The point of
spoofs and satires, to me, are not just to take familiar scenes and do
something retarded and gross with them, but instead to actually make
fun of all the things in the original movies that, while watching them,
we all turned to our friends and said "wait a minute, thats kind of
stupid". Teen Movie does this extremely well. How many of us lucky
movie fans who saw She's All That had trouble seeing why everyone in
the movie thought the lead actress was ugly just because she had
glasses and a ponytail? She was still a babe! How many of these teen
movies give the main lead actress a friend who is clearly into her, but
she always seems to ignore any possibility of romance between them,
instead pursuing another character and asking for her friend's
help/advice? How many people thought the characters in Cruel Intentions
were just sexually over the top to the point of being absurd? Teen
Movie pokes great fun at all of these flaws. It is, unlike many other
movies that attempt to be like it, a true satire, taking characters and
not just doing stupid things with them, but exaggerating the traits of
their serious counterparts and, when it comes down to it, just making
fun of them. It has surprisingly good plot cohesion while still making
fun of a variety of teen movies. I suppose the best way to distinguish
this movie from all other modern spoofs is that this one is truly
intelligent. Sure it has some stupid jokes, and toilet humor (that I
admit I chuckled at in disgust like the diarrhea scene and the lesbian
kiss with the old woman), but it also has some very clever jokes, like
when is it appropriate to start a slow clap, why do these teen movies
seem to only have one black character, and how silly is it that things
slow down for emphasis when the beautiful female lead enters the room.
Please, give this one a chance. If you've seen the other modern spoofs,
I'm confident you will appreciate the noticeable and subtle differences
between them and Teen Movie that make the latter much more enjoyable
and palatable to watch.
<|_=00=_|>

I believe that perhaps a lot of the criticisms of this film come from
90's-00 teens because THEY JUST DON'T GET IT! Most of the comedy in
this film spoofs 1980's movies, with a few current barbs thrown in from
more recent films. I am an 80's child, and I laughed so hard during
this movie! I saw it with younger kids from the mid-to-late 90's, and
they didn't get half of the jokes. The school cafeteria is named "The
Anthony Michael Dining Hall." The school is "John Hughes High School."
There are send-ups of "Risky Business," "Ferris Bueller's Day Off,"
"Pretty In Pink," "Sixteen Candles," and an absolutely priceless scene
that spoofs "The Breakfast Club," along with the original "Breakfast
Club" principal, Richard Vernon, spouting almost exactly the same
dialogue. Sure, there are much more recent films that are skewered,
such as "Varsity Blues," (which was HORRIBLE) and "She's All That,"
(Which was EVEN WORSE.) There's an hilarious running gag spoofing
"Cruel Intentions," in which the slutty sister will stop at nothing to
bed her brother, high school football hero Jake Wyler, who makes a bet
with his team members that he can turn plain-jain, boy-hating Janie
Griggs into the prom queen. Sex jokes and excrement jokes run rampant,
all hilarious. Jamie Pressly, who you might remember from Jerry
Springer's movie "Ringmaster," is a total riot as head cheerleader
Priscilla, who schemes to copy cheers from a rival school's all-black
cheerleading squad, spoofing "Bring It On." And the siamese twins who
win Homecoming Queen(s) is an absolute riot, especially when homecoming
king Jake has to share a dance with them and the band sings "Put your
heads on my shoulder...." TOO FUNNY! A hilarious movie, especially if
you're high or drunk, and you KNOW what they are spoofing.

<|_=00=_|>
The IMDb ranking for this film is quite harsh in my opinion. OK, this
film was never going to win an Oscar, but it's enjoyable throughout and
has some very good laughs in it. I'm not a big fan of teen movies but I
saw this and was impressed. It's light-hearted and not afraid to appear
ridiculous (infact most of the time it does this deliberately) and it
doesn't pretend to be "Just another teen movie", indeed it IS "Not
another teen movie", it's a very enjoyable laugh at the expense of
those films.

Don't expect your life to be changed by this film, but if you want
simply a fun film to watch then you won't go far wrong seeing this one.
<|_=00=_|>
I have to say, I didn't expect much from this film. Basically "Scary
Movie" spoofing teen classics instead of horror films. I watched it and
actually liked it. Yes, this film could possibly be qualified as one of
the silliest movies of the decade, but that's sort of the point. This
movie had laughing so hard I was gasping for breath. The humor is
juvenile, but FUNNY. The plot is stupid, but HILARIOUS. It's really fun
to stop and say "Hey, that 10 Things About You!" or "Oh, they're doing
Can't Hardly Wait". This film is probably one of the funniest films
I've seen in a long time, it's not for everybody, but it's a good
movie.
<|_=00=_|>

While it fails almost as often as it succeeds, there's so much going on
here
I couldn't help but like it. You REALLY have to be familiar with the
material being spoofed, though.  And part of the fun is ticking them all
off
in your mind if you're a movie geek like me.

NATM has two levels and target audiences. For teens who have seen all the
recent flicks, it's a direct, Mad magazine style parody. For 30 somethings
like me, it's an homage to the 80's flicks. The opening scene is an
obvious
"American Pie" spoof, but in a much more subtle way, it's drawing on
"Sixteen Candles". To top it off, the scene is still funny even if you
haven't seen either targets. Bruce (Sam Levine from Freaks & Geeks) is a
parody of Seth Green's character in "Can't Hardly Wait", but he's also an
homage to Long Duk Dong.

Several people have mentioned that kids probably haven't seen the old
flicks and older people haven't seen the new ones. Well, if you're a kid,
you don't need to have seen the old flicks to appreciate it as a broad
parody. The 80's jokes tend to sit in the background- like the signs on
the
walls and the musical cues in the Molly Ringwald scene (which actually was
a
weak point IMO). And I've found that most people my age HAVE seen most of
the newer teen movies. They came out just about the time we were starting
to
get married, buy houses, have real jobs. And they were a nice bit of
nostalgia for our youth. Even if we didn't go pay $7.50 to see them, we've
seen them on USA on saturday afternoon.

It's no accident the that soundtrack is almost entirely new, young bands
doing covers of 80's songs.

As far as the gross-out factor goes, it's really not that bad. The filthy
opening scene is forgivable because it's so dang funny. There is one gory
joke on the football field. (A "Lucas" homage inside a "Varsity Blues"
parody.) A sick unfunny scatalogical joke at the beginning of the movie
pays
off with a big laugh when it's turned around at the end. And the mother of
all "poo" jokes is tempered by the fact that the victim is a delivering a
tirade against "poo" jokes. And then there's granny's kiss- unfunny and
nasty. But it's nowhere near the level of "Scary Movie". It's also nice to
see a movie like this without any gay jokes or fat jokes. (There is a fat
guy, but being fat isn't the joke.) Under the filth, this is a pretty
gentle
movie.

I avoided this when it came out, but another 30-something friend
recommended
it to me recently. I'd recommend it to anyone who old enough to have seen
"Sixteen Candles" in a theatre...as long as you've seen most of the newer
flicks as well.

Oh...LOVED the slow clap guy!

<|_=00=_|>
Not Another Teen Movie, like Scary Movie, this is a parody of what the
1990's had to offer us, the romantic teen comedies! How many of them do
we loathe? But how many were also great? Not Another Teen Movie makes
fun of movies from the 80's to the 90's and is very clever. I saw this
movie with a friend and honestly, while there are a few parts that were
a little too much for me, I don't exactly dig potty humor, but there
are some really funny scenes. It was fun to see someone finally make
fun of the all the clichés that were rubbed in our faces: the nerdy
girl turning into the hot girl, clichéd characters that would never be
friends but somehow are, the best friend in love with the other friend
who's in love with the popular kid, you get the drill.

In the stereotypical high school community of John Hughes High sexy
Priscilla, a popular cheerleader, separates from her boyfriend, Jake
Wyler. After Jake discovers that Priscilla is now dating strange and
socially inept Les just to spite him, one of Jake's friends, Austin,
suggests seeking retribution by making Janey Briggs, a "uniquely
rebellious girl", the prom queen. Jake attempts to court Janey's love,
but faces adversity from his own sister Catherine, who is sexually
attracted to him, Janey's unnoticed admirer and best friend Ricky, and
memories from his past football career. Catherine eventually helps her
brother by slightly altering Janey's appearance, ultimately making her
more attractive to the other characters. Meanwhile, Janey's little
brother, Mitch, and his friends, Ox and Bruce, make a pact to lose
their virginity by Graduation even though they are still in their
Freshmen year. Making fun of movies like: She's All That, Cruel
Intentions, American Pie, The Breakfast Club, Ferris Bueller's Day Off,
Drive Me Crazy, American Beauty, and Pretty in Pink , Not Another Teen
Movie leaves no film left alone to show us the utter cliché that came
with every teen movie out of the 90's.

Like I said, there are some moments that are a little much, this is a
pretty raunchy comedy, but I think it's just making fun of the in your
face movies with the sick humor as well. I mean there's potty humor and
hard core nudity, but I digress. There are some really funny moments in
this movie, wither it was the random song the cast breaks into about
their excitement for the prom or the whole introduction of the clichéd
characters. The cast looked like they had a blast making this movie and
I had a lot of fun watching it as well. I would recommend it for those
who love satire and parodies, I did warn you though about the
raunchiness, so if you have a weak stomach, you may wanna fast forward
through a few parts.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
This is a great movie! It out does even the best of Mel Brooks films!
Name one other movie that manages to make fun of over 12 teen movies at
the same time and maintain plot cohesion. The only reason I wouldn't
give it a 10 out 10 is because none of the story line is original to
the film. All the stereotypical characters are well acted and the
script keeps you laughing throughout the entire film. It is the best
teen movie out there, even though it is making fun of all the rest of
them. It is filled to the brim with tramps, hotties, jocks, hormone
driven underclassmen, high school jargon and all the other things we
have come to enjoy and loathe about teen movies.
<|_=00=_|>

I can't understand why this film got such bad reviews. This is a
knee-slapping riot! I have just about memorized the script. I was a
teen in the 80's and grew up with John Hughes movies..."Breakfast
Club," "Sixteen Candles," "Pretty In Pink," etc. "Not Another Teen
Movie" is absolutely hilarious. The high school in the film is "John
Hughes High," complete with the cafeteria named "The Anthony Michael
Dining Hall." Most all of the dialogue is priceless. There's an
undercover narc who is a 70 year-old woman. The foreign exchange
student is always completely nude; she explains to the principal that
she is not in America to study, she just wants to be "an object of lust
for nerds who can not get American pussy." There are many classic bits,
such as when the popular school jock, Jake, tries to woo nerdy Janie
Briggs by belting out "Janie's Got A Gun" by Aerosmith. Jake means
well, but cops attack Janie with a stun gun and scream at her to
surrender her weapon. There's also a hilarious spoof of "Grease" in
which all of the characters sing and perform a highly choreographed
dance to "Prom Tonight!" ("I'm gonna get pussy no matter what..even if
it's with dirty slut!") In a wicked parody of "Cruel Intentions," Mia
Kirshner, as Catherine, is always trying to have sex with her brother
Jake. (She wails "So what if we have the same mother! Tonight I'm gonna
f**k my brother!) No teen film is spared. This hilarious movie lampoons
all of the classic teenage films. Slutty Catherine gets tipsy at the
prom, slugging booze out of her flask, while kids look at her and say
"Does she go to this school?" Catherine hooks up with one of the nerds
and she cries as she exclaims that "all she wants is for a guy to take
a dump on her chest." The nerd tells her that he is shocked that no guy
has ever taken a dump on her chest and tells Catherine that he would be
honored to do so. I could go on and on, but trust me, NOT ANOTHER TEEN
MOVIE is HILARIOUS! Deleriously funny! And watch for Randy Quaid as an
alcoholic father who loves to have sex with pies. A COMEDY CLASSIC!

<|_=00=_|>

This is the type of movie that people instantly judge because of it's
popularity. Teen movies have always been considered awful by a lot of
critics and a lot of movie fans. Several people are annoyed to death by
teen
movies and dislike the overused stereotypes that they contain. Is it that
annoyance that created this movie? Most people would say it isn't, and
that
it's just another reason to make another blockbuster teen movie.
Personally,
I think we'll never know.

What I know is that I went to my usual trip to the video store and picked
three random movies without looking what they were. One of them were "Not
another teen movie". I was expecting something horrible, but it wasn't so
horrible after all.

I think the reason why people complained so much about this movie is that
it
appears to be a teen movie itself. It's very clear that the movie is made
for young people who have seen the popular 80's and 90's movies. It is a
parody, but certain people will tell you that it makes fun of certain
classics that don't deserve this treatement. Also, they left out many
other
obviously bad 80's teen movies. Also.. Yes, it has bathroom humor. Yes, it
has a lot of sex-related jokes.. And yes, it's full of actresses in their
late 20's with big boobs pretending to be teenagers.

However, I think this movie's purpose is of course NOT to be intellectual
and to bash movies in a smart way. It's just meant to be funny and
entertaining. Even though some of the jokes are very vulgar, it is a funny
movie and it does make fun of the most popular stereotypes that you can
find
in teen movies.
<|_=00=_|>
I have seen this movie quite a few times, and it was great to watch
every time.Surely there are some scenes which can be termed corny, but
they are few and invariably counterbalanced by the absolutely great
ones, which are the majority.After seeing it so many times, I have come
to realize that the script is the product of many years of work, and
'ripe' for making a movie of. Also, the makers of this movie have had
the courage to dive into the Absurd, which is one of the most
productive, though harder to understand(for some people) types of
humor. This is why there are folks who didn't like it; and it's also
why the title is wholly appropriate, because it has taken all the
Absurd it could find in teen movies, and put it into one great work,
that laughs at traditional teen movies. Excelente!
