
it could be just me but i really love this movie. i don't know one girl
who doesn't have it in their DVD collection and i'm proud to be one of
them....the movie is funny, stupid, and all around a good time. so its
not gonna win any awards or looked upon as "superior" but come on,
don't you remember what its like to watch a movie just for the sake of
entertainment? i have a section of my movie collection devoted to those
chick flicks that while embarrassing to have are my guilty pleasures
and i can't feel bad for that. what more do you want out of a
stupid/funny movie? please don't pull some critical analysis on this
movie people cause it is what it is. take it for face value and
relax...
<|_=00=_|>

I really enjoyed this movie, as did my wife.  We loved the comedy, the
acting, and the plot.  Granted, it's not oscar material.  But it is a feel
good movie with some great scenes.

It's about three girls and their fear to commit to a man because they'll
get
heartbroken.  They learn together and cry together, but most importantly,
they laugh together.  The whole movie is one long string of comedy, and
the
musical number will be in my top ten of all time.  You'll know it when you
see it.

Check this movie out for a fun night with your wife.  It's not for young
viewers, however.  Not a family movie.  It's meant more for the
dirty-minded, if you will. :)
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is very funny.I laughed out loud a lot.A lot of people here
criticize it as if it was supposed to be some serious movie.Its a silly
and
sexy comedy with a lot of adult language.If you are offended by sex jokes
its not the movie for you.I think Diaz and Applegate were great in it and
its soooo refreshing to see actresses not being afraid to make fools of
themselves on screen.   
<|_=00=_|>
I cannot express in words how bad this movie is but I'm going to try.

First, I can't imagine what demographic this movie was supposed to
appeal to. Or are there enough superficial shallow bimbos in their very
late twenties whose brains are made of cotton candy walking this earth
to actually have caused someone to think this movie could make money?

Christina Applegate and Cameron Diaz in this film are not sexy, not
funny, they're simply annoying beyond comprehension. They were what I
would imagine their real life counterparts would be like, more so
Cameron Diaz. I'm sure she didn't tap into her "acting talent" one bit
to perform this role. She just showed up on set and somehow memorized
her lines.

I can imagine the executive in Hollywood who approved this script is
some old, horny, fat, repulsive swine with a huge cigar in his mouth
and whiskey on his desk. Wheezing with laughter as he read the script
while his fat lips watered at the thought of either of the two leads
getting naked. I'm sure he was incredibly disappointed to find neither
of them actually got naked in the film, which in a desperate sort of
way, would have been the only thing that could have even remotely made
this film worth watching.

I can't remember very many details from this film, probably my
subconscious protecting me from mental trauma, but I do remember
feeling all the more stupid for having watched this.

Christina Appelgate's character meets Thomas Jane's character in a
nightclub which instantly annoyed me. Who the hell goes to a nightclub
to meet the man of their dreams? She becomes fond of him, in the only
way a superficial tramp can become fond of someone, and decides to
chase him down via a road trip to stop his imminent wedding and profess
her crush/lust whatever to him. 

Thomas Jane is cool though, he starred in a movie called "Thursday",
which is a great sleeper of a film. However having him in the film was
like putting a band-aid on a gunshot wound, that just wasn't enough to
fix it.

You won't enjoy this unless you're a stupid, self centered, shallow,
ditsy yet sarcastic and fairly heartless bimbo. Even then if you watch
this movie and like it there is absolutely no hope for you, you know
who you are.

You've been warned.
<|_=00=_|>

This is the best film I have seen in a long time. Is is completely
hilarious. I loved this film. 

Cameron Diaz (Christina) and Christina Applegate (Courtney) seemed like they
 were friends since they were 2 years old. They definatly had charisma. They
were completely hilarious together. 

I recommend this movie to anyone looking for a good laugh and good
time.

I set design was great. Very colourful.

I loved the trendy outfits all 3 ladies wore. A fashionable Charlies
Angeles. 

10 out of 10 for comedy easily. Go, go now.... 
<|_=00=_|>

The Sweetest Thing was something I would not have rented - it looked more
like a 'chick flick' than a true comedy.  Luckily it was on HBO one night
when nothing else was on and I tuned in.

So glad I did!  It is absolutely hilarious.  Sort of a more adult version of
Charlie's Angels.  Loud.  In your face.  Colorful.  Sorta like an old
Vaudeville show.  Spicey and racey - the 3 girls are excellent dead panning
while dropping sexual innuendo and cursing like truckers.

I am having a tough time comparing it because it is like a bunch of films
rolled into one.  The one major difference is that the major players are
women.  Think Animal House, Road Trip, American Pie, Swingers, History of
the World Part I, Something about Mary, AND even Monty Python!  The penis
song is a classic.  And the fact that its done full scale muscial like
(think Grease) yet the topic is about the size of a man's member - you've
never seen anything like this before!  

You'll be telling your buds about the Dry Cleaner scene.  Think classic
'young male purchasing condoms in family pharmacy mayhem' and maybe you'll
have an idea what's to come - but they pushed the envelope to the edge. 
(There are 2 versions, make sure you get the unrated one).

Daring Cameron Diaz has really set herself apart from the rest of
hollywood's boring actresses.

Be ready for a goofy, raucous, and fun film - and you won't be
disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>

It is nice to see a movie that is totally woman's humor that is based on 
the male role.  Women can be just as bad as their male counterparts.  This
movie had a lot of toilet humor.  Males will find this movie funny also.  I
think you  had to be a woman through to understand some of the jokes or
sayings.  Overall, it was a great comedy.  7/10
<|_=00=_|>
Although this film has only had the occasional thumbs up, i am happy to
say that this is one of the funniest films in my DVD collection. it
truly is a perfect film to watch with the girls on a night in. with
lovable characters and hilarious situations that Christina(Diaz)and
Courtney(Applegate) have to go through to find Mr.right. i just love
both Diaz and Applegates performances in the movie which really gives
the feeling that they have been the best of friends since they were
kids which really helps you to relate to their relationship. and then
there's the brilliant performances from Thomas Jane and Jason Bateman
who really show an amazingly convincing 'brotherly love' between the
two. with great jokes,beautiful stars,romance, comedy, and not
forgetting 'the penis song' this truly is a great movie. A definite two
thumbs up.
<|_=00=_|>

If you keep your expectations low, it's more likely to be positively
surprised... but seriously, even with somewhat higher expectations, this
one
is worth watching. I saw it as a "filler" on a flight, trying to save some
of the "better" movies for the return trip. This movie actually turned out
to be much more entertaining than all those I saved...
;))
<|_=00=_|>
Okay, the important thing to note here is that this type of movie
(silly, goofy) is not intended to create a new world order. If you are
seeking a film with deep social meaning, or an underlying message of
hope and inspiration, pick something else to watch. 

It is not a film for everyone and hey by now you should know what type
of flicks you enjoy... if its not your style don't watch it! 

It's a story of ultra modern, aggressive, women who are warriors of the
singles scene. This film is really more suited to women and will likely
irritate a lot of men because the characters are women that act like
men when it comes to relationships and sex. Yeah, its the whole double
standard thing in all its glory.

Some of the scenes are really stupid, and I laughed out loud, because
hey I like stupid once in awhile.

Bottom line if you have been there and have done the singles thing, and
especially if you have ever been, or currently are, a "playa" in the
game then you will enjoy the intended absurdity of this film.

If nothing I have referred to sounds familiar to you don't bother to
watch this flick... I can guarantee that you wont get it and wont enjoy
it.

Best, JS
