

The strangest point in this film is a point, about a half hour through, when
all of the seemingly normal camp counselors go out in to the city.  In a
montage shot, they slowly go from reading books at the library, to smoking
cigarettes, to smoking joints, to buying cocaine from a guy on the street,
to becoming prostitutes, then becoming strung out heroin-addicts at the
local crack house.  This is not your parent's parody movie.

From this point on, the film is never the same.  Seemingly normal character
development goes out the window, and characters jump from one complete
different personality to another within seconds.  We get brilliant lines of
dialogue that could only be brought from members of The State, like: "Hey,
there's a problem.  I've got something I need to tell you." "Oh no!  You
have crabs."  "No.  Well, yeah, but that's not the problem."  "Oh
good."

Pure genius!!!  Why don't more comedies have lines of dialogue like
this?

Some other great points: "There is a way we could save everyone's lives. 
Well, no that couldn't work.  In order for it to work, we would need to have
a device that could randomly generate numbers between 1 and 20." "That's
impossible.  That would take some sort of highly advanced supercomputer to
work."  "Not necessarily.  No dungeon master goes anywhere without his...20
sided die."

I sort of wish I had known what films were being parodied in this movie.  I
saw strands that sort of matched what I had seen from old Summer Camp movies
I had seen back in high school during the wee hours in the morning during
comedy central.  But, there were many things here that seemed like they must
be references to other films.   Oh well.  It's just all
crazy.

Anyway, I guess I should say that this isn't a really good...movie, per se,
but...well, I have no excuses for it.  Wet Hot American Summer rules! 
Dolphins suck it!!!
<|_=00=_|>

Wet Hot American Summer is without question, the funniest movie to come
out
in years, and certainly among the funniest I've ever seen. The reason you
might not have heard of it is because it isn't as advertised as other
movies, because it doesn't have the type of budget to advertise itself. It
breaks my heart that horribly made, unfunny, unoriginal movies, such as
American Pie 2, were in more theaters and are more available to rent or
buy.

The humor in WHAS is not comparable to humor in any other movie that comes
to mind. The humor is a lot like the what you would see on The State
(because it was written/directed by State cast members). Many scenes are
just so ridiculous that you have to laugh, and if you don't, its because
you
are taking the movie too seriously.

The day this movie came out on video, my friends and I watched it as many
times as we could manage to, in one day. Every time we watched, we noticed
something new, and still laughed hysterically at the stuff we noticed the
first time. It has the type of replay value that should make you go out
and
buy it, rather than rent it. 
<|_=00=_|>
"Wet Hot American Summer" is an overlooked comic gem and an absurdest
spoof of those god-awful summer camp movies from the 1980's. If you
enjoy "Monty Python" style sketch humor or were a fan of "The State"
(many of the players are employed here) or "Kids in the Hall," then
this is the ticket for you. People who enjoy humor more in line with
the Farelly Brothers or the "American Pie" films probably just won't
"get this." It's all a matter of taste and your sense of humor. But
seriously, how can you go wrong with a movie that has a pep talk from a
talking can of vegetables or an overly dramatic chase scene where the
person doing the chasing is thwarted by a single barrel of hay in the
middle of a wide open road? My personal favorite is when the guy is
driving the van singing along to "Danny's Song" and then out of nowhere
screams bloody murder as he slams into a tree. Oh, and who can forget
the hilariously rapid decent into the underworld of drugs and despair
by the kids spending an hour away from camp in town? This is also a
must see for people who appreciate Janeane Garafalo's comic timing and
Molly Shannon's bizarre brand of humor. This film was grossly
overlooked when it hit theaters, but I think there is a cult following
waiting for this movie. I hope these people are allowed to collaborate
on another comedy. If they are, then we may have a new dawn of "Monty
Python" style humor infecting the barbarian hordes.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, I am pretty forgiving and can enjoy a lot of stupid movies. But I
REALLY don't get what it is people like about this movie! I like a lot
of the actors, but the jokes were NOT funny. I mean maybe 5% of the
jokes worked. It was like a long bad SNL skit or something. I just
really rally don't get it. I would rather watch Weekend at Bernie's 2
three times in a row than see this again. This movie was flat, unfunny,
and just a complete waste of time. I am sorry, I really wanted it to be
good, but I think I laughed once the entire time. 

Molly Shannon was good, but still not that funny. I imagine when
reading the script it may have seemed funnier than it was. Someone said
it was going to be a classic and be quoted form like Caddyshack!
PLEASE!!

Skip it.
<|_=00=_|>
I can only assume the high ratings and stellar reviews for this film
were bought and paid for. I registered for an account for the sole
purpose to warn others what a complete waste of time this movie was. I
tuned in because the cast contained so many actors and actresses I have
enjoyed in other roles and expected at least a modicum humor.

Ugh... no. I'm sure someone wrote a script for this film. I think it
was flushed out on piece of bathroom tissue that was then heavily used.
Some of the performances seemed strained in a
how-did-I-get-myself-into-this manner. The multiple sub-plots were weak
and the idea that this movie was a spoof of past camp films, like
"Meatballs" et. al. is laughable. About the only laugh I got out of the
film.

I tried to like it, but it as the credits started rolling I realized no
amount of replay was going to uncover a missed gem of hilarity. Please
stay away.
<|_=00=_|>
I've been wanting to see this movie ever since I read an article in
Entertainment Weekly about how funny it was and included many
comedians, that were unknown in 2001, that are well known now. I was
completely set to see a movie about camping in the early 80s and when I
saw it on Netflix I knew it was time. Then splat, I couldn't believe
the garbage I was seeing. Yeah it was cool to see some of my favorite
comedians and actors in one of their earlier films, like Paul Rudd, but
I didn't laugh once. I saw it as a dramedy trying too hard to have some
comedic value but failed miserably. Maybe it was my expectations or
maybe you had to have experienced camps similar to this to understand
it. Whatever the reason I can safely say that I am glad I never watched
this film when it came out or I might not have risked seeing some of
the actors' later films.

A lot of people seemed to like it though so despite the fact that I
didn't I wouldn't say don't waste your time. Watch it yourself and make
up your own minds about it, but I will say this: lower your
expectations, you just might enjoy it because of that.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie made me so happy.  The performers are so gifted.  The details
in
the art direction and characterizations were pretty spot-on too.  Amy
Poehler in particular delighted me.  That girl rocks my world.  Everyone
has
their moment though.  In this time when parodies are almost more common
than
original ideas, this movie stands out as one of the best.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie defintely has its high and low points, the plot concerns the last
day of camp in 1981 at a small Jewish summer camp in Maine.  It's meant as a
parody of all those late 70s, early 80s teen sex romps like Porky's and
Meatballs, and while some of the parodies are dead on, others fall rather
flat.  Perhaps the funniest moment concerns some of the counselors
"hour-long" trip into town which starts out innocently but then degrades
into a drugged-out parody where the kids start out smoking cigarettes and
quickly go to robbing old ladies to feed their newfound cocaine and heroin
addictions.  Other high points include the Vietnam veteran cook, the loony
arts & crafts instructor, and even the children deciding not to play
baseball against the anonymously evil-rival camp because they just don't
feel like it.  A lot of the movie seems more like a bunch of strung together
sketches, which adds to its weakness.  However, it is fun to see the return
of the bad haircuts, too-short shorts, and high socks that made up that era,
along with some great early 80s rock hits.  
<|_=00=_|>

Wet Hot American Summer is one of the funniest movies I have seen in a
long
time. It has an excellent cast, including: Janeane Garofalo, David Hyde
Pierce, Michael Showalter, Paul Rudd, Chris Melloni, Amy Poehler and
Michael
Ian Black. This spoof of summer camp movies from the 70's and 80's does a
great job of recreating the implausible and predictable plots of the
movies
of the ear while still staying incredibly funny and fresh. WHAS touches on
all the old themes, such as the nice guy trying to get the hot girl, the
director awkwardly trying to find love, and the outcast who saves the day.
Some of the funniest scenes in the movie are the ones that are so random
and
unexpected-Andy and the kids in the van, the trip into town, etc.-that you
just have to laugh. I have no idea why it didn't receive more attention.
It's a shame that a movie this good hasn't received the attention that it
deserves. 
<|_=00=_|>
I checked this movie out based on the recommendation of a local movie
critic. He mentioned all of the young actors (mostly unknown at the
time) and how the movie was underrated. Well he was dead wrong! There
are a couple of good laughs involving Paul Rudd, but mostly this movie
is just terrible! There's a reason most people have never heard of this
film. Halfway through this film I kept checking the clock, thinking "is
this over yet!?" The only redeeming feature of this movie is to play
"name that star". Some are young enough that they are hardly
recognizable (i.e. Bradley Cooper). Save yourself the wasted time and
go rent "Meatballs", an actual fun and funny camp movie.
