

I can't believe some of the nonsense I've read here. People are
complaining
that Redford looked too old in the flashback scenes -- for one, I thought
he
looked believable. Secondly, Hollywood hasn't cloned Redford in a vat yet
so
we'll just have to live with scenes like this. So get over it. Others
complain that the movie is somehow BORING, which blows my mind,
considering
it's non-stop, fast paced action and dialogue. If you're attention span is
too short for this movie I'm sure you'll enjoy crap like "XXX". Others
complain about messy plot logic (how did a CIA operative get into a
Chinese
prison? Huuu duhh, I dunno! It's a popcorn flick you morons! It's not a
900
page novel or a documentary). The plot takes a few leaps here and there,
but
a Snake Eyes or Face/Off this film is not. I read complaints about the
'arty', flashy 'MTV' style editing and filming techniques -- I actually
thought the movie was filmed and edited superbly and the contemporary,
TV-commercial style actually complemented the film. It's crisp, tight,
taut
and entertaining. You get the feeling this is a high-quality production,
whereas with something like "Mission Impossible 2" the same type of style
is
implemented but it comes off feeling cheap. Not here, not with this movie.
As with Enemy of the State, it works. I have a feeling some of the people
that thought it was boring simply couldn't follow what was going on. The
plot does make sense if you have the attention span to keep up.

<|_=00=_|>
I made the mistake of only watching this film once the first time
around. I did end up buying it, though I was never sure why. Then,
years later, I got around to watching it again... and again... and
again... While Spy Game is so fast-paced that it's difficult to keep up
the first time around, I think that's what makes it such a great DVD.

There are performances in this movie that defy description. You almost
get a sense that if you were to meet him in the street, you'd get
someone named Nathan Muir playing the part of Robert Redford - the
transformation is that complete. In several scenes, but especially the
scene on the Berlin rooftop, Redford gives a performance that is unlike
almost anything I've ever seen in cinema. It's that perfect. Brad Pitt
also does an amazing job, but Redford steals the whole movie.

I had to re-watch Spy Game three times before I felt I got a complete
understanding of everything going on. There is almost nothing given
away for free in this movie - none of the standard Hollywood
"shove-it-in-your-face-so-you're-sure-to-get-it" fare. Every decision,
most plot points, and a lot of what would normally be called
"meaningful looks" are written on Muir's face for a split second, then
they're gone.

This is one of the few movies that's intellectually challenging to
watch. It takes patience and a quick assessment of each scene to
understand and keep up. None of the acting is over the top or explicit;
most everything is controlled, subtle, and delicately handled.

All in all, Spy Game is an exceptional movie, IMO, to watch and in some
ways to study.
<|_=00=_|>

Spy Game is everything we're not supposed to expect from a major Hollywood
movie: engrossing, intelligent, well written, acted and directed.  But
that's just what it is and more, this is definitely the best thing I've seen
since Memento.  Although Pitt is really good and Redford plays himself as
well as he has in years, I think the most credit should go to Tony Scott. 
In the hands of a lesser director this could have been something more like
Mission Impossible.  But Scott stays right on target, keeping us interested,
developing the characters, and keeping the pacing nearly perfect.  Scott
also shows us that he's stayed with the times: he employs the full array of
modern camera tricks like fast motion, reverse zooms and funky lenses but in
a way that actually makes the film better instead of being an annoying
distraction.  The dialogue feels natural, all the actors do good work, no
one tries to steal the show or be the star.  The story is interesting and
almost never lapses into the kind of hyper violence or sappy sentimentality
one has come to associate with modern studio pictures.  You get a feeling
this is pretty close to how the CIA really operates, a place with fantastic
technology at its disposal but who's ultimate effectiveness is determined by
the fallible people who run the missions and take the chances.  I really
enjoyed this film, I hope it's a sign of things to come and not a
rarity.

<|_=00=_|>
There are many reasons why we like a movie or not. For me, this is the
case in witch small things were enough to like it: the two main actors,
the places in which the action occurs, and the fact that it has more to
do with a love affair, in a tragic atmosphere than about spies. Well,
of course this is about spies - two of them - and mostly about the
relation between them; if they are similar enough to understand each
other, they are also different enough to generate some tension in the
relation. 

Maybe this is more about how the characters move around each others
than about action or intrigue. In fact this is so obvious that the way
in which the story is told is mostly in flashback, with Muir (Robert
Redford) introducing all of them and narrating part. So, the story is
the story and the spy game is what Muir does within the CIA, in 24
hours or so. The distinction is important because if you think of this
as a traditional spy movie (maybe like the Bourne Identity or
Supremacy) it has two obvious flaws for the genre: the plot is very
simple (maybe predictable) and there's no bad guy, no one to kill or to
revenge; there's also almost no genuine action, and, as far as I can
remember, Bishop (Brad Pitt) only fires one weapon in the whole movie.
Maybe what mislead most of the people was the title of the movie, and
maybe that's why most of them didn't like it. However, in my opinion,
this is a very good movie, with strong leading roles and a compelling
story. 

No gadgets, no arms, no villains, no action...oh, no,this is a whole
different game, and it's a serious and a dangerous game: the game of
people and their relations.
<|_=00=_|>

SPY GAME / (2001) *** (out of four)

Tony Scott is known for his big budget, fast-paced, action-packed
extravaganzas. His latest film, "Spy Game" is no exception. He takes
advantage of a massive budget, but loses sight of human comprehension. It's
difficult to grasp his moral when it's awash in a superficial style where
individual shots seldom last more than thirty seconds, and where dialogue
never exceeds the length of a short paragraph. There's not much time to
introduce characters, situations, or even locations-datelines appear on the
screen to identify times and places.

Yet, it doesn't just feel as if we are in another movie by Tony
Scott-everything feels very real. The danger is real. The characters are
real. Many action films are about the action, special effects, and car chase
sequences. "Spy Game" does contain those things, but they are in a focused,
tight, evocative thriller. This movie is about the characters, not the
action. It never forgets that. 

"Spy Game" contains a complex structure. We begin in 1991. Veteran CIA
officer Nathan Muir (Robert Redford) prepares for retirement. On his last
day, he learns that his one-time protégé, Tom Bishop (Brad Pitt), has been
captured in a foreign prison on a charge of espionage and will be executed
in 24 hours. Fearing international crisis, the CIA decides it would be too
risky to save him. But with a new generation in control of the agency,
Nathan is no longer an insider. He must outsmart his own agency in order to
save his old friend.

Most of the film plays out in flashbacks as the CIA digests valuable
information from Muir. The movie spans from the Vietnam war to the end of
the Cold War, with years ranging from 1965 to about 1991 (although the
characters don't seem to age much). We learn Nathan chose Tom as a
sharpshooter in Vietnam. He trained with Bishop. They formed a close bond,
until something came between them-a woman.

The forty-year span in time poses no problem for "Spy Game." The engaging
screenplay, by Michael Frost Beckner and David Arata, focuses on only the
necessary characters. The soundtrack, by Harry Gregson-Williams, masterfully
captures the various time periods, spicing the scenes with a slick sense of
style and intrigue. The cinematography by Daniel Mindel makes the
differences in location clear. Christian Wagner's editing gives the movie a
frenzied, almost rushed emotion, that puts us right in the middle of the
race against time.

Pitt and Redford retain their ground, despite a thick style. Redford creates
a character out of nothing. We know little about him at the beginning, and
we know little about him at the end. But he somehow gives his character a
conscience, human values, and a lot of interest. We care about him because
we do not like the black and white CIA operatives. Thus, we care about
Pitt's character as well. Pitt gives his character an immature nature. He is
in a stereotypical young hotshot role that might have fit him better a few
years ago, but he still creates a grave sense of panic and
fear.

With a structure like this, we expect subplots to evolve from the
flashbacks. There is an intriguing terrorist story. A love story. Themes
about betrayal, trust, position, friendship, commitmentbut "Spy Game" never
slows down and allows us to absorb these important details. By the end, we
feel exhilarated, and we know we just watched a very smart, well-crafted
film, but the most we can take from it is that it is a very smart,
well-crafted film. I think, beneath all the style and surface, there is a
little more to the movie than that.

<|_=00=_|>


STYLE, SUBSTANCE AND CLASS! Spy Game will blow right over the heads of most
audiences and it obviously has. It's an underrated, taut masterpiece that
gets everthing right -- the writing, directing, editing, acting is all Oscar
caliber. Not to mention it's one hell of an ambitious production. Spy Game
is what happens when professionals in the business come together to make an
intelligent, masterfully crafted thinking man's actioner that as a viewer
you can have complete confidence in while viewing -- that's a rare thing
these days in Hollywood. It's a rare gem that reminded me of Clear and
Present Danger. Let's hope we see a lot more of this, and a lot LESS of
X-Men, Mission Impossible, Rush Hour, Pearl Harbor, Lord of the Rings and
other utter boring trash passed off as action fare.  
<|_=00=_|>

This is a very neat and intelligent movie. Everything about is
perfect, no flaws really. Pitt shines better than in Fight Club here! But
what really makes it even better than it is, it is the soundtrack which is
absolutely stunning. You could feel european quality approach...Highly
Recommend! 
<|_=00=_|>
Spy Game will probably never be considered among the best spy movies to
come out of Hollywood, however, it is a really entertaining movie with
quite a few surprises.

The movie is set in the early 1990's. Nathan Muir (Redford) is a
retiring CIA officer who learns that his former protégé Tom Bishop
(Pitt) has been captured while attempting a prison rescue in China and
will be executed shortly. CIA brass want to know what motivated Bishop
to attempt this unauthorized action and they interview Muir to find
out. Muir tells the story of how he met and trained Bishop: from
Vietnam to Berlin to Beirut. While Muir is setting the background, he
is also working secretly behind the scenes to free Bishop. Will Muir's
cloak and dagger antics be discovered before he has a chance to free
Bishop? Overall the movie is not as good as other spy genre films such
as Three Days of the Condor, Spy Who Came in From the Cold, or Hunt for
Red October. I think Redford does well in the role of the retiring,
slightly jaded CIA officer Muir. Pitt does well with what he's given,
though I think his character suffers from poor writing, especially near
the end of the film. Think of Spy Game as a more sophisticated Mission:
Impossible (that's no knock on M:I) and you'll be pleasantly surprised.
<|_=00=_|>

Spy Game is funny,interesting and action of first category.The story is
about the rescue of Tom Bishop(played by Brad Pitt)a spy who is in jail in a
prison in China.Everything happens in a terrible time when the US is in
negotiations of peace with China.So the CIA doesn't mean to save the body of
the agent, who is ward, of Nathan Muir(Redford,the best in the picture).So
Muir has to rescue Bishop in 24 hours so he's going to be executed by the
chineses.

The story is all told in flashbacks.But Tony Scott was very competent
telling the story in a very modern way,as usual!He is used to do a very
interesting game with the cameras.Showing quick scenes and a fast
rythman.The story is incredible and you won't be disapointed!If you liked
Enemy of the State which was made by the same director you'll like a lot
this motion picture.Two thumbs up!!!

<|_=00=_|>
Top notch thriller. Engrossing, though typical plot/subplot (two men
develop friendship, woman comes between them, but buddy helps out and
saves couple) and great character development considering characters
are supposed to be mysterious spies and very little is told about their
background.

Robert Redford is a cynical, yet warm mentor, and Brad Pitt is a
hotshot moralist as well as being the best assassin in the "business".
Redford is an old-school operative who uses his 'tradecraft' to out-wit
the technology the modern CIA now relies on, to bust his protégée out
of a Chinese prison after Pitt's character, a rogue agent, uses CIA
resources to rescue his girlfriend, fails and ends up in prison himself
facing execution in less then 24 hours for being a spy . The
relationship between the two men is told in a series of flashbacks that
span a time-line of about 20 years starting during the Vietnam war to
the cold war in Berlin and the mean streets of Beruit as Redford's
character stalls for time during a debriefing into the rescue failure
on his last day of work before retirement. In the meantime, between
breaks of debriefing, he mines for information about why the CIA won't
save one of their own as well as setting up a covert operation to get
Pitt and his girlfriend out of prison before they are executed.

Cinematography is reminiscent of brother Ridley (grainy, washed-out
imagery in tones of brown and blue), and editing and camera movement is
more like recent films from Woo or Ang Lee. The action is realistic
without being over the top. There are no fancy gadgets or impossible
stunts.

Compared to stuff like XXX (or worse, XXX-2), Mission Impossible 1 & 2,
or any number of action thrillers about secret agents (such as the most
recent crop of James Bond films or Charlie's Angels), this movie seems
to tell it the way it is or the way you might think reality might be.
The "tradecraft" actually makes way more sense then, say, a watch with
a laser cutter built in or a car with missiles an ejection seat. All in
all, a very watchable and believable film.
