
Dwayne Johnson plays a natural-born hero called Mathayus He starts off
as an Akkadian mercenary crossing the ancient lands looking for his
brother who is slain before his blazing eyes by a Nordic barbarian
horde whose name is Memnon 

What has kept the vicious tyrant as the absolute conqueror of the land
is the fact that he has a visionary sorceress by his side who knows
when he should attack his enemies Mathayus finds out that she's a sexy
gorgeous woman who looks amazingly beautiful (Surely the audience is
teased ceaselessly by her cleavage-revealing). So Mathayus forgets his
commission to kill her, and a kind of romance begins to flourish
between the two as he tries to carry out his assignment 

Kelly Hu plays Cassandra, the female sorcerer who had beauty, charisma,
cleverness, and enigma In the beginning of the film, we're not quite
sure where she stands But when she first sees Mathayus, she's
interested in the well-mannered warrior who's strong, brave, loyal and
sincere She realizes that he might me the future king who can save her
from her power-mad jailer 

As the ruthless conqueror, Memnon (Steven Brand) has got all of the
skills needed to attain global domination He has also got the force
and the will to accomplish it The combination was pretty scary 

Michael Clarke Duncan plays the fearsome Balthazar, the Nubian King,
the strong ally of Mathayus 

Chuck Russell's "The Scorpion King" is a visual feast, and an
entertaining action film It has sexy harem girls, poison arrows,
quicksand, an army of red ants, black scorpions, cobras, explosions,
and a lot of fun So don't miss it!
<|_=00=_|>
Okay, I'm confused. The Mummy Returns portrays the Scorpion King as
some evil tyrant who wants to take over the world by smiting any and
all civilizations in his way. But that's exactly the opposite of the
same character in his very own movie. In fact he struggles to overthrow
an evil ruler for those very reasons.

So when, and why, did he become bad? I'm afraid I'm not following this.
The movie, however, is entertaining, if rather short and silly. Chuck
Russell tries to cram in loads of fighting and hokum as he can. It
works and The Rock is very cool as said King (or Mathayus) and former
Jason victim Kelly Hu is gorgeous as the scantily-clad Cassandra. Grant
Heslov and Michael Clarke Duncan fill out their usual roles as ethnic
comic-relief and big, muscley guy.

The film has slightly less integrity to it than the Mummy movies. This
is evident with the fun and lively, but completely inappropriate, score
by John Debney. I'm not expecting anything like his Passion of the
Christ score but blaring death metal guitars seem kinda out of place in
a movie set 3000 years BC.

But this movie is a cheeseburger, not a 17-course dinner. So why bother
complaining. After all it's a prequel of a sequel of a movie that was a
re-make of a movie that was made in the 30's. But it's well made and
loads of fun so just go along with it and you'll enjoy.

Filmed in Panavision the DVD is in perfect 2.35:1 anamorphic widescreen
with very loud and thrilling Dolby/DTS 5.1 sound. The extras are fluff,
but that's to be expected.
<|_=00=_|>
To put it short, "The Scorpion King" is not a bad movie - for the
genre. Just don't expect it to be realistic or have some deep plot.

If you have ever seen "Conan" movies, you probably know the setting:
early ages, a bunch of "lost" civilizations, some "emperors" whose
armies march the world and a lonely hero who tries to stop him. Blend
in a touch of magic (old technologies, paranormal, whatever - just to
taste), add some "slashnig" sequences - and - voilà - you get the
movie.

Well, it sounds quite simple, but since "Red Sonja" I can't remember
anything worth watching. Now this is the film: reasonably bad, quite
cliché and not very imaginative. Still, it has quite a bit of
eye-candy, and, in some sense, it's superior even to the famed
"Gladiator" as it doesn't pretend to be any more than it is. Probably,
it could have been at least 20 minutes longer, but let's blame it on
the rising cost of production. Worth watching if you know perfectly
well what you want. 7/10.
<|_=00=_|>

Firstly, there were many great things about The Scorpion King. The Rock
played a real good part and he certainly has a bright future in the acting
industry. The beautiful Kelly Hu showed that she can be good on the big
screen and the ever reliable Michael Clarke Duncan played a great part as
well. The action scenes were hard hitting and brutal and the scenery was
fantastic as well.

The only thing that spoiled the film for me was the fact that it was not an
original idea. The plot has been done in so many movies before. Sometimes in
the movie world, certain plots are churned out time and time again and you
just get that feeling of deja vu. The plot for this film has been done in
dozens of movies and countless TV shows.

I saw this film with a friend of mine and he really really enjoyed it.
However, he usually likes cop movies and hasn't seen many fantasy adventure
movies so watching this was a first for him. I have seen dozens of movies
like this and whilst it was very good, I did get that feeling of
familiarity.

But anyway, I still recommend it. The fight scenes are awesome and there are
some funny scenes in it. And again, the Rock does have a future as an actor.
I just hope that his next project is a fresh idea.

I'm going to really be awkward here but there's three other things that
bothered me about this movie. There was a short scene with an Indian
elephant in. Did ancient Egypt have elephants? I'm no wildlife expert but I
didn't think they did. Secondly, wasn't it amazing that there was such a
variety of accents in the film. Lastly, gunpowder in ancient Egypt? No
way!

I'm just getting old though-watch and enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>

"The Scorpion King" is a prequel from the "Mummy" franchise.  However, fans
of the previous "Mummy" movies may be in for a disappointment.  Granted, the
imagery may be impressive, and the action is exciting, but apart from a very
few details, "Scorpion King" may as well be a completely different movie. 
In quality, it fares about as well as the average sword-and-sandal epic. 
There is a camp factor that hangs over the story, that you feel when
listening to some passages of dialogue.  Also noticebale are Grant Hislov's
comic relief role as Arpid, and Kelly Hu as the belly-baring sorceress
Cassandra.  Wrestling fans may enjoy this vehicle for the Rock, but I don't
think many others will.
<|_=00=_|>

Stephen Sommers, who wrote and directed "The Mummy" 1999 and "The Mummy
Returns" 2001, also co-wrote the story and the screenplay, and co-produced
"The Scorpion King" this year! 

The Mummy energy, practically a trademark of Sommers, is definitely
encompassed in this entertaining action/legend movie of "The Scorpion King."
Led by Dwayne Johnson "The Rock" as Mathayus the Warrior with a heart,
lovely Kelly Hu as Cassandra the Sorceress and object of beauty, sought by
Steven Brand as Memnon the convincing evil menace of it all, and Michael
Clarke Duncan as the equally brave ally Balthazar to Mathayus, this is your
basic good vs. evil story splashed with fun and suspense - almost like an
animated Disney film but with real live actors. An action packed myth/legend
of a story, with humor/laughter sprinkled here and there at good pacing,
along with special/digital effects, I almost felt at times it feels like the
epic animation "Princess Mononoke," where they have the villagers (tribes
here) rounding up and backing the heroine (Mathayus here) and fighting to
get rid of the evil source (Memnon here.) 

Other films have similar themes before: an earlier endeavor of Stephen
Sommers, who wrote and directed "Rudyard Kipling's The Jungle Book" 1994,
with Jason Scott Lee, Sam Neill, Cary Elwes, Lena Headey and John Cleese;
director Xavier Koller's (received Oscar's Best Foreign Film "Journey of
Hope" 1990) "Squanto: A Warrior's Tale" 1994; not forgetting director
Richard Donner's "LadyHawke" 1985 with Matthew Broderick, Rutger Hauer,
Michelle Pfeiffer, and Alfred Molina.

If you want to escape and have an enjoyable action movie, to forget your
stress and strains beyond the world of cinema, go for it!


<|_=00=_|>

Just bring it. This movie was fantastic. It had everything about "The Rock"
that I love. The eyebrow the campy humor, his kick-ass in your face dont
mess with me or I'll shine my boot turn it sideways and shove it straight up
your candy-ass mentality. I thought the fight scene he had with Michael
Clarke Duncan rates up there among the best. Ok so "The Rock" isnt winning
the Best Actor Oscar for this one, but give me a break it was his first
starring role. Even Tom Hanks & Nicolas Cage weren't brillant in their first
movies either. And speaking of Tom Hanks, he has the unfortunate distinction
of being in "the burbs". I loved this movie and hope to see more in the
future. I would also like to see "The Rock" take on some other roles. "The
Rock" the action adventure superstar of the 21st century. Oh on a side note
the breathtakingly gorgeous Kelly Hu was the sorceress in this movie and
shows an ample amount of flesh always a bonus if you ask me. Well folks
thats the end of this review "IF YOU SMELL WHAT THE ROCK, THE SCORPION KING
& CRAZYC24 ARE COOKING!!", A perfect 10 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
......................................................from
Pasto,Colombia...Via: L.A. CA., CALI, COLOMBIA and ORLANDO, FL

In the '80s and '90s, Arnold Scharzennegar was the King of Hollywood
action films. But nothing is forever. With the The Scorpion King, there
seems to be a new pretender to the throne ...The ROCK! More charismatic
and certainly a better actor (but then again, who isn't?) Than "AHNULD"
was 20 years ago, The Rock, here appearing in his first title role, has
had the good fortune that the film, and his participation in it, seems
to have been relatively successful in every sense of the word!

"Scorpion" from beginning to end, is a roller coaster of action,
adventure, intrigue, romance, magic and beautiful women. A Hollywood
capsule of pure adrenaline. If there is anyone in the family who does
not like movies of this genre, hard not to be entertained by this minor
gem. But Be forewarned! Scorpian may not be the most suitable of films
for kids under 9 or 10..... 

7.5*STARS*....ENJOY/DISFRUTELA! 

Any comments, questions or observations, in English or Español, are
most welcome!
<|_=00=_|>

The Scorpion King was a well put together screen and script.  It was more
than what was anticipated!  The Rock was fantastic in his debut.  There
were
a lot of rumors about this film, but I am glad I watched it and learned for
myself.      
<|_=00=_|>

"The Scorpion King," The Rock's film debut, after "The Mummy Returns," is an
excellent movie.  It was exciting from beginning to end.  Great story, great
characters, great action, and great special effects make it all into one
wild ride of a movie.  It's so good to see Chuck Russell (director of "A
Nightmare On Elm Street 3," "The Mask," and "Eraser") back in the director's
chair after his disappointing 2000 film "Bless The Child."  The Rock (The
People's Champion) is going to be the next action hero in the future, but,
right now, he's concentrating on his wrestling.  After all that, I'll be
glad to see him back on the big screen.  If you're a big fan of The Rock,
then check out "The Scorpion King."  He rocks!  Rocky, Rocky, Rocky,
Rocky!!!!

A+ ****** (out of ****** stars) 13/13
