

After enjoying some success with the surprisingly enjoyable & cheesy "Spy
Kids,"  Director (and all around good guy) Robert Rodriguez now brings forth
a sequel, "Spy Kids 2: The Island of Lost Dreams" which is far less
enjoyable and far more cheesy.   As a matter of fact, you'd be hard pressed
to find more cheese anywhere outside of a Wisconsin dairy
farm.

Juni and Carmen Cortez (Daryl Sabara and Alexa Vega) are back, now
officially a part of OSS, and officially recognized as Spy Kids.  But the
OSS, just like every other government bureaucracy, cannot resist expanding
upon a good thing, so now there is an entire army of "spy kids" at their
disposal; but Juni and Carmen are, of course, the most renowned. 

Within in the first opening minutes of the film, which takes place in a
truly inspired theme park, we quickly discern that Juni and Carmen have
rivals: the Giggle kids (Matthew O'Leary and Emily Osment) who dearly covet
the Cortez' fame and status.  With help of their conniving father (Mike
Judge), the Giggles do what they can, not only to surpass the Cortez family,
but to humiliate them as well.

Once again, we find the greatest threat to the OSS is the OSS itself, along
with the internal politics and treachery which played a small but
significant part in the plot of the first film.   It seems as if the OSS is
more of a threat to world peace than a help, and one wonders why Uncle Sam
doesn't just shut the operation down and call it a day.  Perhaps it would
prevent the making of any more "Spy Kids" movies, which I'm beginning to
think would be a very good thing.

The plot revolves around a device known as a "transmooker"  -- which can be
best described as the ultimate cloaking device, even able to cloak entire
islands off the map.  It also has the wonderful ability to render all
electronic devices useless, which is quite a thorn in the side of the
intrepid Spy Kids, who's reliance on James Bond style fancy gadgets is only
a shade less than an alcoholic's dependence on his next drink.  Of course
the transmooker itself is an electronic device, but somehow is immune to its
own nasty effects.  (Only in Hollywood....)

So our two heroes, Juni and Carmen, locate the cloaked island, where the
stolen transmooker was taken, and attempt to find it before their rivals,
the Giggles kids, do.  The island turns out to be a retirement resort for
every single monstrous creature ever created by Ray Harryhausen ("Jason and
the Argonauts," "7th Voyage of Sinbad," etc.).  Except we are told that they
were created by the socially insecure and somewhat troubled scientist "Dr.
Romero" (Steve Buscemi) who was looking for some companionship, and a
portable zoo.  But of course those of us who've seen a few movies in our
time know better.  

During the same time, there is a completely boring and totally unnecessary
sub-plot involving Carmen & Juni's parents and grandparents.  The only
reason the subplot exists is to cloak this poor homage to Harryhausen as a
"family film."  Yeah, right.  I certainly fell for it.

Hollywood films, especially action-adventures and sci-fi flicks, often  ask
the audience to suspend logic and rational thought while the plot thickens. 
It is the price we pay, beyond the ticket price, for the pleasure of being
"entertained."  But Spy Kids 2 doesn't just ask for a suspension of belief,
but a wholesale slaughter of anything remotely resembling intelligence. 
That's a big price to pay, and one I was unable to justify. 

If Daniel Rodriguiez is such a fan of Harryhausen, then he should make "The
8th Voyage of Sinbad" or some such thing, rather than trying to find a way
to incorporate Ray's creatures into a movie allegedly about espionage.  The
CGI recreations of Harryhausen's monsters was one of the more enjoyable
aspects of this horrid film, but not enough to pull it out of the slimy pit
in which very poor writing knocks it into.  

The dialogue is stupid, even for kids to listen to.  Most of the jokes fall
as flat as the acting.   Much of the cuteness and fun of the first Spy Kids
film is completely lacking in the sequel.  Instead, we have a very
disjointed plot, an adventure that leads to nowhere, and a subplot that
should have been locked in the submarine where it mostly takes place. 

My Rating: 4/10

<|_=00=_|>

After reading some of these user reviews (especially the one about the
Latino vs. White.... you have to be kidding me), I felt compelled to write
one of my own.   Spy Kids 2 had everything I expected - a whole new
adventure with characters from first that is fun, exciting, humorous, and
still manages to teach about doing the right thing.  I also appreciated
the
references to the original ^_^ , and the special effects were even better
than the first.

The hardest people to please in this case would be my 2 daughters (4 & 7)
who own the first Spy Kids on DVD and have seen it so many times they can
act out the scenes down to the facial expressions and body motions.  When
they saw Spy Kids 2 this past weekend they were transfixed and left the
theater excited about seeing Carmen and Juni in their latest
adventure.

A great movie for adults and kids... I cannot recommend this sequel highly
enough! 
<|_=00=_|>

To its credit, "Spy Kids 2" does indeed display a lot of creativity and
imagination, and that makes it a lot better than most family movies
Hollywood makes. However, while the first "Spy Kids" was a fun romp that
kids AND adults would enjoy, this sequel isn't as much fun.

I think the biggest flaw is that this sequel is missing heart. We don't feel
the warmth between the family members as we previously did. (Yes, the
youthful siblings did fight and disagree a lot in the first movie, but you
could still sense a solid bond between them.) There's no sense of the
characters feeling danger, excitement, and a sense of adventure as they did
the first time around. Instead, there is a coldness, a mechanical feeling
this time, like they are very familiar (and almost bored with) with what
they are experiencing, even with each other. The presence of two snotty and
selfish rival child spies just furthers this somewhat sour
tone.

While kids might not mind this too much, I think even they will agree with
the second problem I found - the story here is VERY confusing at times. For
one thing, the movie seems to start at chapter two, jumping ahead of itself
before the audience is set and ready. Then after that, there are a number of
moments where we keep thinking "Huh? How did (this character) get there all
of a sudden?" and "Huh? What on earth happened off-screen to make (what we
are now seeing) happen?" Very annoying. It's all made worse by a pace that
is MUCH too fast, even for an adventure of this nature.

Note to Robert Rodriguez: I understand you will soon start "Spy Kids 3".
Please not only take notice of what I've said above, but take note of Daryl
Sabara ("Juni"). Though not a bad actor, there were a number of instances
where he didn't enunciate his dialogue clearly enough, which lead me to
rewind back a few seconds and use captions. Please take care of this on set,
or at the very least, patch it up during post-production
looping.
<|_=00=_|>

Carmen and Juni Cortez are official Spy Kids, working for an organization
called OSS (which probably stands for something, but I'm not sure what). In
the opening scenes we see the President's daughter, Alexandra (Taylor Momsen
from "How the Grinch Stole Christmas"), as a special guest at a futuristic
amusement park. When Alexandra gets herself in trouble on a ride called the
Juggler (which actually juggles the cars containing the passengers!), Carmen
and Juni are dispatched to help her. But then a backup Spy Kids team of Gary
(Matt O'Leary from "Frailty") and Gerti (Emily Osment, sister of Haley Joel)
Giggles are sent in as well. The situation becomes competitive, with the
Cortezes rescuing Alexandra while the Giggleses retrieve the dangerous
device (the Transmooger) that she had stolen from her father's
office.

As in the first film, Carmen and Juni's parents are Gregorio (Antonio
Banderas) and Ingrid (Carla Gugino), who are also spies working for OSS.
Gregorio is up for a major promotion, but like his children, he is also
competing with the Giggles family. The dinner at which the winner of this
promotion is announced is the launching pad for the heart of the
film.

Other key characters returning from the first film are uncle "Machete"
Cortez (Danny Trejo) and Felix Gumm (Cheech Marin). And then there is Doctor
Romero (Steve Buscemi), who is a very interesting character.

The "film" was actually shot using high definition video, which looked good
enough to never be a distraction. It had been transferred to film for
exhibition, so the normal film wear and tear issues applied, especially
since I saw it near the tail end of its theatrical run.

Besides using digital video, the director (Robert Rodriguez) also used
another trick to save money: he did almost everything himself. He was the
writer, cinematographer, editor, production designer, and visual effects
supervisor, and also helped produce and score the film. Apparently he did
much of this work in his garage in Austin, Texas.

The first film was very fun and unexpected. This one feels a *little* too
much like more of the same, and it also adds a touch more gross humor than I
think it needed to. It's still fun and definitely worth at least a rental,
but it's not *quite* up to the level of the first film.

Seen on 10/9/2002.

<|_=00=_|>

The first "Spy Kids" is an incredibly over the top but entertaining film for
younger audiences and even though I still recommend this sequel I think that
its just a little too over the top. Story is of course about Carmen (Alexa
Vega) and Juni (Daryl Sabara) who have become top spies for their agency but
now they are in competition for the best jobs by another brother/sister spy
team. A gadget called the Transmooger that can shut down any defense system
is stolen from the President and Juni is blamed for his carelessness. The
Agency sends Gary (Matthew O'Leary) and Gerti (Emily Osment) who are the
children of Donnagon (Mike Judge) who is in charge of Operations so Carmen
hacks into the computer and has the mission changed so that she and Juni are
sent instead. They travel underwater to an island that is invisible and
inhabited by strange looking creatures but they have to hurry because Gary
and Gerti will be showing up eventually to get the Transmooger that they are
trying to find as well. The meet Romero (Steve Buscemi) who is hidden
underground because he was the one that created all the creatures and he
thinks they want to kill him. Meanwhile, Gregorio (Antonio Banderas) and
Ingrid Cortez (Carla Gugino) are in pursuit to find their children along
with the help of Grandfather (Ricardo Montalban) and Grandmother (Holland
Taylor). 

Not only did Robert Rodriguez direct this film but he also wrote, edited,
produced, scored and did the production design. I'm sure he did other things
as well and this shows that he remembers his days as a poor independent
filmmaker with this type of self reliance. Rodriguez has a wild imagination
and its not uncommon in his films for him to throw everything at an audience
but the kitchen sink. This film is chock full of digital effects and at
times it bordered on being more animated than live action. As much as I
enjoyed the first film I always told people that I thought it would be even
better if the story was more simplified. Have the kids in more realistic
situations like James Bond but instead we got a cartoonish film with walking
thumbs and gadgets that even Bond himself would laugh at. Here in this
sequel it goes even more over the top with such outlandish situations that
even Indiana Jones would be clueless. I couldn't decide which was more
incredible, the giant monsters on the island or the fact that parents were
sending their small children out on dangerous missions to save the world!
Another thing I noticed was the sister of Haley Joel Osment who plays one of
the other spy kids. It may be too soon to judge her but after watching Emily
Osment's performance in this film she should beg her brother for acting
lessons. She has an eternity to go. I am recommending this film for its wild
imagination and high tech energy and their are some nice tributes to the
great Ray Harryhausen but if they continue to make these sequels they might
want to think about simplifying the stories.
<|_=00=_|>

Another winner in Robert Rodriguez' budding `Spy Kids' franchise, equally as
good as the first and showing real potential for the future. Rodriguez is
perhaps the only filmmaker of kids' movies that seems to actually listen to
what kids want and in the process delivers something every family member can
indulge in--it's as delicious as chocolate, with plenty of giggles aimed at
the seven to ten crowd and dazzling ideas and humor that parents can
appreciate. Rodriguez has an extremely fertile imagination and while his
visuals sometimes can't keep up (the digital effects are an occasional
letdown) the concepts themselves are so ambitious and delightful that it's
easy to look past the brief technological shortcomings. As in the first
film, there are plenty of references to family films of the past (most
notably `Willy Wonka & The Chocolate Factory' and the stop-action animation
of Ray Harryhausen) and the overall design of both films is very similar.
(Rodriguez seems to prefer shooting at twilight, giving everything an orange
hue.) But it does seem more expansive, perhaps because he's creative enough
to incorporate welcome new characters, such as the kids' grandparents
(played with relish by Ricardo Montalban and Holland Taylor) and another
brother-sister spy team (Emily Osment and Disney Channel favorite Matthew
O'Leary) as well as fresh retakes on characters from the first film (Steve
Buscemi takes on the Alan Cumming role). Rodriguez' screenplay once again
takes on the theme of family but this time it's carried poignantly
throughout (it got dropped rather quickly in `Spy Kids') and the result,
coupled with his extraordinary vision, is a film that will thoroughly
satisfy just about everyone. 
<|_=00=_|>
I have seen some bad movies, but this has to be in the top 5. The
Special effects were the worst I have ever seen (recently), and the
acting is even worse. I think a 10 year old could have wrote a better
script. Like 80% of the movie looked like it was a green screen. The
only movie worse than this is Jaws: The Revenge. I think you should
avoid this movie. I would rather watch jaws 3 than have to watch this
movie again. The original was a okay movie, but this movie is not worth
your time. the fight scenes are the worst I have ever scene. The jokes
fell flat every time. I can not think of one good thing about this
movie. Avoid this movie.
<|_=00=_|>

(spoilers)

Spy Kids was simply a treat. It was a total surprise. Alexa Vega was
just this cool person. The movie was clearly cut good and evil. Kids vs
adult weirdo's.

Unfortunately, Tipper Gore got hold of Spy Kids 2 and added a morality
statement to it. Not that this movie is bad, but as with a lot of
cartoon in the 90's, some moral is gleened from this. Montleban is
completely useless in his role and I'm not sure of the role of the
grandparents. It reminded me of the movie Lost in Space. 

the director quoted on the DVD as saying that he made the first movie
so he could make the second. I had to laugh at this. Then why spend all
the good parts of the series on the first movie.

Some of the movie is a bit on the embarrassing side of ... ick don't
watch. 

Will kids watch it? Probably. But I think the plot is just way to
complex for this kind of movie.

And now Uncle Felix is the bad guy. Figures. Almost ruins the first
film. But Spy Kids was so good, I doubt that'll happen.

4/10

Quality: 6/10 (good direction and cinematography) but bad editing. And
why'd they have to squish that fun loving bug. Sheesh.

Entertainment: 8/10 Replayable: 3/10

<|_=00=_|>
Like I said the only thing stopping me from giving this a 4/10 is
nostalgia. It really brings back memories watching this. CGI is pretty
bad, but what do you expect from a kids movie. I really did like the
creatures in this movie. Kids and Adults will like this movie. It's
pretty entertaining just don't expect anything mind-blowing.
Considering this is a sequel it does make sense that this wouldn't be
as fresh as the first. The acting is pretty cringe-worthy at points;
mostly with the scientist character. He played it a little too over the
top. But kids will think he is hilarious while adults will laugh at how
bad it is.
<|_=00=_|>
Sibling secret agents Carmen (Alexa PenaVega) and Juni Cortez (Daryl
Sabara) rescue the President's bratty daughter Alexandra. Siblings Gary
(Matt O'Leary) and Gerti Giggles (Emily Osment) are competing fellow
OSS agents. Donnagon Giggles (Mike Judge) is promoted to director of
OSS over Gregorio Cortez (Antonio Banderas). Juni is blamed for losing
the Transmooker device and fired. The device is tracked to a mysterious
island off of Madagascar. Gary and Gerti are assigned by their father
to go to the island. Carmen and Juni arrive on the island on their own.
They discover their gadgets don't work and the island is filled with
weird creatures. Their parents Gregorio and Ingrid (Carla Gugino) set
off to rescue their kids with Ingrid's parents (Ricardo Montalbán,
Holland Taylor) as stowaways.

Robert Rodriguez continues his kiddie franchise with everybody
returning for the sequel. I continue to like the arguing Cortez
siblings. I also like the Giggles as their foil. Rodriguez stays with
his wild CGI style. There are some Ray Harryhausen-like touches such as
the creatures and the warrior skeletons. I think some Rodriguez fans
judge this franchise too harshly for being kids movies. This franchise
exists as its own thing and should be enjoyed as such.
