

Let's see...you're watching a movie starring and co-written by Rob
Schneider.  You're obviously not expecting something with depth and
plausibility.  But he is a talented comedian, and anyone who is an avid SNL
fan has seen Rob perform some very funny skits.  He's not Milton Berle, but
he has that mindlessly funny comic energy that frequently works. 

"Deuce Bigalow" is a film almost aimed at ticking off critics.  Not all
audiences will find the crude gags funny, but others--preferably those who
can let go of their inhibitions for an hour and a half--will have tons of
laughs.  The subplot involving Deuce's father as a bathroom attendant is
pretty cheap.  It's an obvious setup for scatological gags.  One of them
involving a scene in which Deuce is having a pleasant man-to-man talk with
his Dad while you can hear the groans of someone in one of the stalls
loudly...relieving himself made me roll with laughter.  I wouldn't call it a
priceless gag, but you don't always have to aim high with comedy.  If it's
funny, it's funny.  If you laughed, you laughed.  

Just like any Farrelly Brothers movie, there are gags involving physical
handicaps like obesity, narcolepsy and Turrett's Syndrome.  However, the
jokes are executed in such a broad manner that no one--even ones with any of
those disorders--shouldn't be offended.

Naturally, some will hate this movie, some will like this movie, some will
love this movie.  In my mind, if it's a comedy and I'm laughing--what other
factors should I be looking for?  

My score:  7 (out of 10)
<|_=00=_|>
I hate to admit this but I liked this movie, at least the first time I
saw it. Yes, it's crass, crude, stupid and whatever but it's generally
likable and a funny movie in many spots.

Rob Schneider does a fine job playing this amiable loser. Several
scenes are just laugh-out-loud funny. The female interest, Arija
Bareikis, is not someone I was familiar with but I liked her wholesome
looks. William Forsythe plays the villain and, of course, he's
over-the-top. The film had a nice soundtrack, a lot of familiar rock
tunes.

As with most modern comedies, this gets carried and a little stupid at
the end but, overall the film is good low-grade fun (and I mean "low
grade!")
<|_=00=_|>

… which is as much a commentary on the state of American cinema as it is on
the quality of this surprising film.  Thoroughly enjoyable as long as you're
not looking for One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest.  Deuce Bigalow provides a
deft blend of juvenille humor and inventive verbal humor and situational
gags.  I have to say that it has one of the funniest "reconcilation" scenes
in a romantic comedy that I have seen in a long time.  But the great thing
about this movie is that Rob Schneider has created a couple of really
memorable and unique characters.  On top of that, there are many wonderful
and touching moments hidden beneath the more obvious jokes and the many
throwaway gags.
<|_=00=_|>

While watching `Deuce Bigalow: Male Gigolo,' you may well find yourself
laughing out loud from time to time – and hating yourself for it afterwards.
 For this lame brained comedy, beyond being incredibly juvenile and silly in
its comedic temperament, also manages to be as politically incorrect as
possible, using as its targets the obese, the handicapped and an assortment
of social outcasts and misfits.  And, although the ribbing is generally
quite good-natured and even affectionate at times, one can't help but feel a
little guilty about laughing.

The formula for the film adheres very closely to the one employed by
virtually all "Saturday Night Live" or "Second City" alumni in their initial
forays into big screen comedies.  Once again we have the usual bumbling nerd
trying to win acceptance as a `cool dude,' making a shambles of everything
he touches, yet ultimately managing to garner the respect of his peers and
the love of a beautiful woman.  Rob Schneider plays the title role, a
professional fish tank cleaner who, through a complicated series of
circumstances, finds himself delving into the realm of `man whore' in order
to earn some much needed money.  The stupidity of the premise and the
situations cannot be underestimated as Schneider is put through a series of
pratfalls, misunderstandings and verbal slugfests that are often quite
amusing almost in spite of themselves.  It takes either a certain amount of
daring or a shocking degree of insensitivity (or perhaps a little of both)
to line up a series of jokes and sight gags aimed at people who suffer from
obesity, Tourettes Syndrome, Narcolepsy, blindness and limb amputation  -
but this film does it.  Somehow, though, the film manages to treat its
characters with such a genial fondness that it never seems particularly
harsh or mean spirited.  Whether or not that mitigates the feeling of guilt
resulting from one's laughter must, finally, be a matter of personal
conscience I suppose.

Schneider plays the lead in a nicely relaxed fashion, not succumbing to the
hyperbolic mugging that so many comics are prone to indulge in when faced
with similar roles.  And what a pleasant surprise to encounter Marlo Thomas
of all people in an uncredited cameo appearance – and still looking like a
knockout in her sexy lingerie.  

`Deuce Bigalow' may not sit well with the easily offended or with those who
prefer their comedy to be of a bit more - um, shall we say - cerebral
nature.  Still, unabashed silliness makes for a fun time every now and then
and, in that spirit, this film deserves to be seen.


<|_=00=_|>

Rob Schneider is not known for his acting but he proved that he can
perform with the rest of them in "Deuce Bigalow: Male Gigolo." This
might be his best film to date because he is what makes this film come
alive along with the rest of his castmates.

I liked this movie so much that it hurt me every time I laughed. This
was a film that should be used as a model for true laughter and comedy
because the jokes were clean and funny at the same time. Schneider
co-wrote this film that introduced a plot that was so funny, which had
a sweet underlying plot that I found to be very enjoyable to watch.

My favorite scene in this whole movie involved the blind date with the
woman who could not control her mouth. You will have to watch the movie
to understand what I'm talking about.

The whole cast was incredible as they all turned in superb
performances. It also seemed they were having fun with one another on
the set and it showed in their performances, which is one thing I look
for in a good film.

"Deuce Bigalow: Male Gigolo" cracked me up and should be watched by
everyone.

<|_=00=_|>

Duece Bigalow cleans fish tanks for a living and by a contrived set of
circumstances finds himself looking after the home of male gigolo
Antoine Laconte who is very house proud and a bit of a psycho . What's
the odds of Laconte coming home to find his house a bit of a mess ?

There you go a very simple predictable premise featuring someone who's
got a rude sounding name . I lost count of how many times people
mispronounced the name " Laconte " but I will be honest in saying I did
like some aspects to this film no matter how predictable and unlikely
they were : " Hey Deuce it's Antoine . If I come back to find out
there's any mess I will kill you " . I also liked the not so unsubtle
references to THE MATRIX and American GIGOLO 

Of course I can understand why some people don't like it . It's a very
unsophisticated movie that feels like it's trying to be a Farrelly
brothers comedy but failing and even I became very fed up with the cop
showing Deuce his thingy in every scene they appeared in together along
with the running gag about sea snails , but come on it's a low brow
comedy and I knew before I sat down to watch it that it wasn't an Oscar
contender . Try FREDDY GOT FINGERED or GET OVER IT if you want to see a
really bad comedy

Six out of Ten

<|_=00=_|>
Rob Schneider(Deuce Bigalow),"The Hot Chick",'02, had me laughing
through out the entire film. Bigalow starts out as a very simple guy
who cleans fish tanks and other details, like plunging a toilet bowl.
He meets up with a guy who lets him use his home while he goes on a
trip and things start to happen. As the picture progresses, Bigalow
finds himself having to service all kinds of women with very crazy
personalities and wild desires. One gal has such bad language he takes
her to a baseball game where she can use all kinds of filthy words and
be applauded by the crowd. However, Deuce Bigalow does meet up with a
gal Arija Bareikis and falls madly in love with her, however, he pulls
her leg too much and gets her very hot and bothered. Deuce eventually
goes to trial and you will have the view the film to find out how it
ends. Great Comedy and a fantastic performance by Rob Schneider.
<|_=00=_|>
This has to be the greatest movie of Rob Schneider's career. Everything
else that he has done has been crap crap crap.

I like this movie. It finally is a different type of movie. Gigolo
Comedy is what I call it. When they made Deuce Bigalow European Gigolo
it sucked, but this one it much better.

I caught this on regular television towards the end of the middle, then
I decided to rent it and give it a try. It was funny.

The part when he is dancing on the pole is priceless. Rob Schneider is
funny but this has to be his best work. He didn't even do that You Can
Do It thing.
<|_=00=_|>

I had waited a long time to watch this film after seeing the hilarious
trailers that were shown on tv when this first came out on the
cinema.
I'm glad to say i wasn't disappointed as this film is very funny
indeed.
Rob Schneider stars as Deuce Bigalow a fish tank cleaner who stumbles into
the male prostitution through cleaning a gigalo's fish
tank.
While looking after his apartment he accidently smashes the very expensive
tank. the only way to pay for a new one is to do his own stint of of being
a
male madame!the problem is it is at the very bottom end of the market. He
rents his body to the strangest of female clients ,who really are the stars
of the film,with the funniest of consequences.
Some of the film is a bit silly and not funny, the blind woman bit of the
movie is just not funny and really plays no part in the film also i think
the woman with tarets syndrome could have been played by someone with a bit
more personality but apart from that a very,very funny
film.
8 out of 10.

<|_=00=_|>

Deuce Bigalow: Male Gigolo is far from an original or subtle comedy,
but I don't think that is what the director had in mind when doing this
movie. All in all it is quite a good movie, even though it is a real
no-brainer.

Deuce Bigalow used to work as a tank cleaner in SeaWorld, but got fired
because he was cleaning the tanks in the nude in front of a lot of
people. Since than he cleans domestic fish tanks for a living. This job
brings him into contact with Antoine Laconte, who works as a male
escort and owns a gigantic apartment, filled with all kinds of
precious items. One of these is a tank full of very expensive fish.

When one of the fish gets sick Deuce is asked to help and, since
Antoine is going to Europe for 3 weeks, he has to check in on the
apartment daily to look at the fish. But instead of checking in on
Antoine's home, Deuce takes the opportunity to move into the flat. He
accidentally sets fire to the toaster and breaks the fish tank. Knowing
that Antoine will kill him for that when he sees it, Deuce has to make
sure everything is exactly the way it was. But that will cost a lot of
money... which he doesn't have. To raise enough money in that short
period of time he decides to start working as a low-budget male gigolo.

As you can expect in this kind of movie, he doesn't meet any normal
women who want to make use of his services. It is a real freak show,
filled with a 500 pound woman, a woman who's about 8 feet tall... The
movie is full of this kind of predictable facts, but when you are
prepared for it, it really doesn't bother. Don't expect to see a highly
sofisticated movie, but it isn't as bad as you might expect. One of the
scenes that I really liked were the parodies on other movies like The
Matrix.

I would recommend this movie to everybody who doesn't mind laughing
about older and predictable jokes. It's an excellent movie when you
came home from a hard day at work, when you are tired and looking for a
good laugh without having to think too much. I reward it with a 7/10.

