

Only having seen "Manhunter" once, years ago, and not
remembering much about it, I won't attempt to compare that film to
it's remake, "Red Dragon". I've also never read any of the Thomas
Harris novels that they are based on, so I won't compare them to
the books either. But I will compare it to the other, more recent
films in the Hannibal Lecter series, "Silence of the Lambs" and
"Hannibal".

I think most would agree that, "Silence..." is a classic. It's one of
those movies where everything came together beautifully. The
director, the actors, the story, etc. It's to serial killer, suspense
films as "The Godfather" is to mafia movies. I feel the only other
movie of it's type to have even come close after "Silence of the
Lambs"' release was "Se7en" with Morgan Freeman & Brad Pitt.
So, it was with a lot of disappointment that I left the theater after
seeing the long awaited sequel to "SOTL",  "Hannibal". Jodie
Foster didn't return to play the part of Clarice Starling, Jonathon
Demme didn't direct, and worst of all, Sir Anthony Hopkins'
portrayal of Dr. Hannibal "The Cannibal" Lecter was almost
cartoonish. On top of that, the film was just "ugly". It felt nastier and
dirtier than it's predecessor. More concerned with gore and blood
than telling a decent story.

Well, I'm happy to report that "Red Dragon" has put the series back
on track. This time around, Hopkins plays Hannibal, more as we
first remember seeing him in "SOTL". meaning more subtlety and
slyness and less of the scenery chewing and over-acting that went
on in "Hannibal". Edward Norton is just fine as FBI agent, Will
Graham, who puts Lecter behind bars and then comes out of
retirement to help solve the case of "The Tooth Fairy". Ralph
Fiennes gives a very creepy and effective performance as Francis
Dolarhyde, so good is he IMHO, that I expect him to get an Oscar
nomination for best supporting actor next year. It helps that his
character is more fleshed out, pardon the pun, than Ted Levine's
serial killer in "SOTL".

The director, Brett Ratner, has done a fine job of ending,
(hopefully), this series on a high note. I say, hopefully, because as
much as I enjoyed "SOTL" and now, "Red Dragon", one more trip
to this well, will probably produce nothing but mud.

The only thing that stands in the way of higher praise on my part, is
that it's a sequel, er prequel, to a well loved and admired film.
We've seen some of these characters and situations before. The
meetings between Graham and Lecter are good, but they don't
enthrall me the way they did between Starling and Lecter.
All in all, a  fine job on everyone's part. It may not be as
groundbreaking as the original "SOTL", but it has helped to wash
away the "bad taste", sorry, left behind by "Hannibal".

<|_=00=_|>
This is a very good "remake" of Manhunter" which was the first Hannibal
Lecter movie but didn't get the press the others did because it didn't
have Anthony Hopkins as the famous criminal. After "Silence of the
Lambs" became so popular, and the sequel, "Hannibal," it was decided to
re-do that first film and this time obtain Hopkins' services.

It worked because not only do you have the incomparable Hopkins at Dr.
Lecter but you have one this generations best actors, Edward Norton, as
the leading character "Will Graham." Norton, as always, gives a solid
performance. And - look at the backup cast: Ralph Fiennes, Emily
Watson, Harvey Keitel, Mary Louise Parker and Philip Seymour Hoffman.
Not bad.

This is one of those movies that gets better and better with each
viewing. On my first look, I was disappointed Hopkins didn't have a
bigger role but, after I knew what to expect, subsequent viewings made
me appreciate the film's effort as a whole, and it's an underrated
flick and a fine addition to the "Lecter" series.
<|_=00=_|>

The movie going public is obviously well acquainted with the most famous
serial killer, cannibal, in cinematic history, Hannibal Lecter.  In 2002's
'RED DRAGON,' Hannibal is back with force and vengeance, thanks to the
brilliant portrayal of Sir Anthony Hopkins and inspired writing of
screenwriter Ted Tally.  He's got some of the best lines in the business.
'RED DRAGON,' for the most part is a remake of Michael Mann's 1986
'Manhunter.'  Obviously there isn't a lot of variation between the two
since
they are both adaptations of Thomas Harris' book 'RED DRAGON.'  But that
is
were the simularity ends.  Sure, some scenes are structed the same, but to
be fair this latest installment is closer and more true to the novel.  For
those that read the book or saw 'Manhunter,' it's no surprise that
Hannibal
had a rather small role.  Ted Tally took some license and beefed up the
character for some crucial scenes, adding a very interesting and inventive
twist.  From the onset, we see the capture of Hannibal by FBI Agent Will
Graham, played flawlessly this time around by Edward Norton.  We are also
privy to a rather more intense Lecter, anger and resentment for being
caught
and put away.  Hopkins doesn't need to do much to convey his distaste for
Graham, the true talent of an excellent actor.  Lecter is not over the top
as many say he was in the third film 'HANNIBAL.'  But this is really not a
Lecter story.  It is focused more on Graham and the new killer on the
block,
Francis Dolarhyde (played to an eeriely perfection by Ralph Fiennes).  One
not of advisement, if 'The Silence Of The Lambs', or 'Hannibal,' gave you
nightmares, you may not be prepared for 'Dragon.'  It is absolutely brutal
in it's visuals and psychological mind games.  Dolarhyde, aka the 'Tooth
Fairy' is a brutal serial killer who has killed two families and may be on
the hunt for a third.  It is this that brings Jack Crawford (Harvey
Keitel)
on the quest to seek out a retired Graham.  Reluctantly, Graham decides to
help with the investigation.  Graham does possess a certain gift, he can
think like the killer.  But it does cause a dilemma.  The one person that
could really give our detective the insight he needs is the one man who
tried to kill him, Lector.  As Clarice in 'Silence' Graham must once again
delve into Lecter's world of the asylum.  Frederick Chilton is back as the
head of the asylum, again played by Anthony Heald
(the 'old friend for dinner' guy).  Heald is an absolute delight in a
awkward sort of way.  He's definetly a one off.  Basically, he's not
nearly
as smart as he thinks he is.  Possibly the most disturbing character of
the
film is played by Fiennes.  He is essentially a sympathetic killer, and
yet
you really want to see this guy go down.  Fiennes is stunning in this role
and adds his own spark to the role.  Emily Watson plays Fiennes uninformed
love interest who happens to be blind, lucky for her.  Philip Seymour
Hoffman is the sleazy tabloid reporter who in time is destined to get his
comupance.  It is really unfortunate that the Academy Awards does not hand
out status to ensemble casts.  If they did, 'RED DRAGON,' would probably
be
the only nomination in the catagory.  There hasn't been a cast like this
in
many years.  There is an equal balance between the three main characters,
Lecter, Graham, and Dolarhyde.  Lecter was in it just enough to keep it
constantly fresh and on edge.  Dolarhyde takes it over the edge and Graham
brings it subtly back.  Brett Ratner as the director did an excellent job
in
setting the scenes, the creepy atmosphere, and letting the actors do what
they do best.  This film is a winner all the way around.  If any thriller
were put up against 'Silence,' this may be the one that could surpass it
in
regards to thrills, chills and just plain excellent storytelling.  Though
the 4 movies are destined to be lumped together, 'Manhunter,' 'The Silence
Of The Lambs,' 'Hannibal,' and now 'The Red Dragon,' which is completely
understandable, 'Dragon' stands on it's own.  And does so extremely well.
This movie is obviously not for everyone.  There is graphic violence that
is
disturbing.  Yet in this vehicle it is not overplayed as say, your average
slasher movie.  If you're going to plunk down your hard earned cash for a
movie, 'Red Dragon,' is the one.  It is a good solid interesting movie
that
never lets go.  Once it's got you, it's got you.  And that ride starts as
the lights in the theater go down.  There's not too many movies that can
boast that.

T. Mrazik
<|_=00=_|>
This was a fantastic film, but it slipped under many people's radar for
three reasons: 

1) The critics said (and rightly so) that it is not as good as the
Silence of the Lambs. However, I find it difficult to compare the
films, largely because Will Graham (Norton) is completely different to
Clarice Starling (Foster). The different dimension they bring to the
investigation is enough, by itself, to distinguish them beyond
comparison.

2) This was the third film in the series. The problem with the
Hollywood pumping out an absurd number of sequels and prequels (even
when the original film was terrible to begin with) is that it alters
the public's attitude towards them. People are usually happy to see the
"part 2" but beyond that, you're usually down to loyalists. In fact,
this situation has been made worse due to the fact that many of the
sequels made are shockingly bad (eg, the American Pie sequels, the
Highlander sequels). Some are so terrible that they can actually
tarnish the memory of the original (eg... Matrix Revolutions). So a
third Hannibal film was always going to be an uphill battle. 

3) This followed an awful sequel: Hannibal. People who thought Hannibal
was terrible (and there's no shortage of them) are likely to turn their
nose up at any further sequels or prequels. That's what Hollywood
always overlooks - once you pump out one bad sequel (eg, Ocean's Twelve
2004), fewer people will even consider seeing the next sequel, unless
it receives almost unanimous critical acclaim.

I did not like Hannibal either and I think that many stars in Hollywood
would have turned it down after reading the script. Jodie Foster, with
the offer of reprising her academy awarding winning role, and Jon Demme
(director of Silence of the lambs) walked away from the Hannibal after
disagreements with author (Harris) over the character directions.
Hopkins nearly left when Foster and Demme walked, but was persuaded to
stay (probably with a nice salary increase!). In any case, key elements
were gone and in my view, they ultimately failed to attract a strong
supporting cast. 

By contrast, I think many actors would have been falling over
themselves to land one of the roles in Red Dragon after reading the
script. Accordingly, we ended up with Hopkins (reprising his academy
award winning role to absolute perfection), Norton (who is the rightful
winner of the academy award for American History X in my view, even
though the academy went to someone else that year), Harvey Keitel,
Ralph Finnes and the brilliant, but under-rated, Phillip Seymore
Hoffman. They combine to breath tremendous life into this
investigative/thriller. And the opening 5 minutes is magnificent.

However, I have two criticisms that cost it a star. First, it wasn't
quite dark enough. Perhaps that masterpiece, the Silence of the Lambs,
used up all the visceral attributes that were so pathetically contrived
in Hannibal and present, but not powerfully present, in Red Dragon.
There certainly was a dark edge, but it just didn't get under my skin
the way Silence of the Lambs did (if you'll forgive the pun). 

Second, I felt that there were a few off-shoots to the main plot that
could have been worked around or seemed to play no real role in the
film whatsoever. For example, the tense relationship between Norton and
the reporter (Hoffman), Finnes taking the blind girl to listen to the
sedated tiger (or lion or whatever it was), Norton teaching his wife to
shoot ... and many others. Most of the time, I felt that they should
have been left on the cutting room floor as they were of little
interest, had little (if any) role in the context of the story and
accordingly, unnecessarily bulked out the running time of the film.

Otherwise, terrific viewing. Don't be dissuaded by Hannibal - this
sequel achieves where that one so dismally failed.
<|_=00=_|>
On paper, it looked a bit uncertain. The long-awaited prequel to 'The
Silence of the Lambs' and 'Hannibal' was to be directed by Brett
Ratner, most famous for the two 'Rush Hour' movies (1998, 2001).

However, the final result is pleasantly surprising. 'Red Dragon' opens
with a wonderfully suspenseful prologue detailing the infamous Dr.
Hannibal Lecter's (Anthony Hopkins) capture, and the unbearable tension
rarely lets up for the remainder of the film.

Lecter's capturer, Will Graham (Edward Norton), is coaxed out of
retirement by Jack Crawford (Harvey Keitel) to help track down a
ruthless serial killer nicknamed the Tooth Fairy (Ralph Fiennes), who
is murdering seemingly-random families in their sleep. Graham believes
that Lecter may hold the key to capturing this killer, and, in order to
prevent any further murders, he must revisit his old demons.

The acting performances are first-rate. Hopkins is good (as always) as
the cold, calculating serial killer Lecter. Norton handles a demanding
role exceedingly well. Throughout his career, Fiennes has excelled at
portraying loathsome villains (i.e. Amon Goeth in 'Schindler's List,'
1993), and here he turns in perhaps his greatest performance. The
facially-disfigured, mentally-unstable Francis Dolarhyde is shown not
to be an inherently evil killing machine, but an emotionally-troubled
young man who is still battling the overwhelming demons of an abusive
childhood.

Strong supporting performances from Emily Watson ('The Proposition,'
2005), Harvey Keitel ('Pulp Fiction,' 1994) and Philip Seymour Hoffman
('Capote,' 2005) round off a terrific thriller, and one for which
widespread recognition is long overdue.
<|_=00=_|>

Having seen the disappointing Hannibal, I was a bit reticent about seeing
this.  The original Manhunter film was simply on the edge and excellent, and
another prequel could have gone either way.

Prequels are the fashion of the moment aren't they?

This was actually very good, and most enjoyable.  Fiennes and Norton added
much to the story, and were both absolutely excellent.

Hopkins gave the performance you'd have expected from him in his role, and
this was also notable for a fine performance as Fiennes' blind girlfriend of
the bird that appeared in the ever-so-nauseating and vomit enducing Angela's
Ashes [which gave a whole new meaning to stereotypical grim
films].

Don't be put off by Hannibal, definitely see this one.
<|_=00=_|>
Red Dragon takes place just before the events of The Silence of the
Lambs. In this movie, a deranged serial killer is killing entire
families every month on the night of the full moon. Jack Crawford of
the FBI calls in retired agent Will Graham to help catch the killer.
Graham left the FBI after being critically wounded while capturing the
cannibalistic Hannibal Lecter. Now, Graham must interview Hannibal, to
see if he can shed any knowledge on the case. Meanwhile, the killer
struggles with himself when he begins to fall in love with a fellow
employee. This movie is closer to Silence of the Lambs than Hannibal in
quality and style, and therefore is more entertaining.

This movie is basically a reworking of the film Manhunter, except with
Anthony Hopkins as Hannibal, so it connects better with the others.
This movie sticks closer to the book than Manhunter did, which will
please fans, except that it ads way more Hannibal Lecter interview
scenes than were in the book, most likely to bank on Anthony Hopkins'
name. The movie has the same suspenseful style as Silence of the Lambs,
making up for the fact that Hannibal hardly had any suspense at all.
The dialogue and overall fast paced style of the movie made it really
worth watching, and if this movie had been released a year before
Silence rather than a year after Hannibal, they would be great
together. The characters are great and engaging. They seem more
realistic than they were in Manhunter. I'm glad this movie managed to
be far more successful than Manhunter, because I don't think I could
deal with two bad Red Dragon adaptations.

The acting is superb. I was kind of annoyed with Anthony Hopkins in
Hannibal, because he played the role way too differently than the way
he played it in Silence. Now, in this movie, he gets back to basics.
Edward Norton is great as Will Graham. The role of the Red
Dragon/Francis Dolarhyde was made for Ralph Fiennes. He takes the role
and makes it his own. Whenever I think Ralph Fiennes now, I think Red
Dragon.

Overall, this is an awesome psychological thriller, and any fan of
Silence of the Lambs should definitely see this movie.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>

But it was pretty damn close. "Red Dragon" was a great movie to watch.
I have to admit that I had my doubts. I heard some bad things about
this movie from my friends. I had bought the movie for my mom, and she
said just to give it a shot. I'm glad I did. "Red Dragon" goes back
into the roots that "Silence of the Lambs" did. It had high action and
drama. I was very impressed. And Anthony Hopkins does a great job as
his most famous role as Hannibal Lector. I really have to say that I
didn't stick to my friend's opinions. This was a great movie. I would
recommend for the "Silence of the Lambs" fans.

9/10

<|_=00=_|>
After the return of the infamous Hannibal Lecter to our screens in 2001
with Ridley Scott's film version of the best novel in Thomas Harris's
Lecter trilogy, it's not surprising that a new version of the first
novel in the series got an update a year later considering that it's
previous screen version, Michael Mann's Manhunter, doesn't fit in with
the other two films in the series. I do have to say that this version
is both more true to Harris' novel and an overall better film than
Manhunter; though it does have numerous shortfalls and has nothing on
the masterpiece 'Silence of the Lambs'. The plot is quite similar to
the one in Silence of the Lambs, and features a cop on the hunt of a
serial killer and receiving help from the incarcerated Hannibal Lecter.
FBI Agent Will Graham, the captor of Hannibal Lecter, is called out of
retirement to help catch a serial killer dubbed "The Tooth Fairy" by
the media. The killer has already slaughtered two families and the FBI
believes that another one is soon to join them; meaning that Will
Graham has no choice but to ask Hannibal Lecter for help with the case.

The casting is one of the things that many critics pick up on, and
that's not surprising. Anthony Hopkins effortlessly slips back into the
role that he will always be associated with; although he's far more
comical here than in previous Lecter films. As anyone who has read the
book will tell you, Edward Norton is completely wrong for the role of
Will Graham as the role needed a grittier actor. Harvey Keitel is a
great actor, but Scott Glenn from Silence of the Lambs fit the role of
Jack Crawford much better. There's nothing wrong with the rest of the
supporting cast, however, with Ralph Fiennes, Emily Watson and Philip
Seymour Hoffman all fit into their respective roles well. There's not a
great deal wrong with the plot pacing, although the film is a little
slow at times and the book is much more exciting on the whole. Certain
parts of the plot could have been cut out to streamline the film for
the screen, although Ted Tally's screenplay is good in that it does
encompass most of the important parts of the book. Obviously this film
is always going to come under criticism for not being as great as
Silence of the Lambs and it does have nothing on the book, but overall
Red Dragon is a decent enough thriller in it's own right and I cant say
I dislike it.
<|_=00=_|>

 Well I finally saw Red Dragon, and having the book be one of the best I've
ever read, I was wary of seeing it. I never really cared for Manhunter, but
boy did I get a surprise with this version, a version that actually cared
enough about the original work to call it by that name, obviously Red
Dragon. I also thought that they would change it around to put more of
everybody's favorite cannibal in, which they really didn't. So he's in the
beginning more, but that was what basically happened in flashback in the
book, they only drew it out more in the movie. And the other scenes with
Hannibal that were added helped to cover all the ground they needed to do
with the story, and they worked perfectly. Let me explain.

 Who woulda thunk it that Ed Norton would be the perfect fit for Will
Graham? I didn't, but he was. I think he's such an incredible actor, and he
more than proves it here, bringing the character to a great and realistic
life. Of course we need not say anything about Anthony Hopkins, who is more
than the brillant fit for Hannibal Lector. But Ralph Fiennes as Dolarhyde? I
thought that was a really bad choice-- I was proved wrong there again. He
gives such a performance as the Tooth Fairy that I now believe he was
perfect, and did perfect in, for the part. Emily Watson as Reba was also
incredible, as was all the other supporters. The actual shots of the movie
were incredible, and along with the rather brillaint script it worked
perfectly. Of course some things were changed, but little things, and not
much. And not a single changed thing took away from the original story, I am
astounded at how good an adaption this turned out to be. (And I usually am
very unforgiving with film versions of great books). 

 In conclusion, Red Dragon is a great film. Brilliant performances and an
excellent adaption of a screenplay play out perfectly in this incredible
film. Did the novel it's very deserved justice in my opinion. And the
ending, the final part, of course it wasn't in the book, but that was
incredible! Loved what they did there! 
