

"Analyze That" is proof the critics can be wrong. Which probably means you
shouldn't be listening to me, either. But you are, oh well. I guess I'll
have to review the movie, now.

The Boss and The Shrink are back in therapy: Paul Vitti (Robert De Niro) has
been locked up in Sing-Sing for 850 days. Ben Sobel (Billy Crystal) has just
lost his father. That's when he gets the call from Vitti. Vitti gives him
the low-down: Someone is trying to kill Vitti in jail. Sobel hangs up, Vitti
gets mad, so he fakes crazy, and Sobel gets called in (since he is Vitti's
psychiatrist). Sobel believes Vitti is cuckoo in the slammer, as he sees him
singing tunes from "West Side Story" (one of the funniest parts in the
film). So Vitti is released into the custody of Ben Sobel. But on the ride
to Sobel's house, Vitti snaps out of it, only to reveal that he is not
crazy, but, in fact, quite well. Now Vitti must start a new life and get a
real job - that involves working "from 9 to 5!" - and find out who is trying
to kill him...and why.

Perhaps I am mistaken, but "Analyze That" is funnier than "Analyze This."
Maybe it's just me, but I found it quite funny. I didn't think it was a
"rip-off" sequel, there for "no artistic reason." Sure, it's a sequel. Of
course it's not going to be an Oscar-winner for originality; I don't ask for
that in a comedy. Honestly, can you think of any sequel (other than the rare
"Godfather Part II" film) that is as good as the original in terms of
reasons for being there? All I know is that I think "Analyze That" had some
very funny moments. Take, for instance, the scenes where Vitti is trying to
get a new job. He becomes a car salesman for a day, and leads around a
couple, showing them a nice car. "Look at that trunk - you could fit three
bodies in there!" he says. When they say they're going to think about it:
"What's there to think about? You've been busting my b@lls for the last hour
over this thing, asking me all these stupid questions, taking it for a test
drive...so why don't you buy it?"

Scenes like these are hilarious. And while there are somewhat long sequences
without any laughs, the laugh-out-loud scenes more than make up for those
lacking.

The only thing about this film that makes me drop the rating a notch is the
execution of the last half hour. Just like the first movie, they set up a
ridiculous "action" ending, that isn't action at all. Its ending is overlong
and goes way too long without any laughs.

But that is the only thing I didn't like about the movie. De Niro and
Crystal have a real chemistry, even more so here than in the first film. De
Niro steals the scenes he is in, and Crystal steals the scenes he is in, and
when they are both on screen, you're not sure who to look
at.

I find Robert De Niro's latest journeys into comedy quite funny. He made a
few comedies here and there in the past, but in the last three years he's
coughed out some funny movies. "Analyze This," "Meet the Parents," "Analyze
That," and to a certain degree (it was okay), "Showtime."

Perhaps I am confused. Maybe I need to see the first again. But having seen
the original about twice, and "Analyze That" once, I can honestly say that I
laughed more in "Analyze That" than I did watching "Analyze This." And if
that's not a good sequel, I don't know what is.

Here's to "Analyze This, That, and the Other Thing"!

3.5/5 stars -

John Ulmer
<|_=00=_|>

All the revues said this was just o.k. but I have to tell you different.
This film had me in stitches from the start. I am amazed how Robert
DeNiro
can be so strong in serious roles and yet he does comedy as good as any
one.
People like Robin Williams are trying to cross over to serious roles as
is
Jim Carrey and this guy makes it look like anybody could do it. Unreal !!
Two
thumbs way up for this one. 
<|_=00=_|>

Analyze This had an element of novelty and a generous dose of humor. 
Lacking the novelty due to its sequelhood, Analyze That tries to compensate
by making forays into the psyche of Dr. Ben Sobol (Billy Crystal) as well as
a little more (very little) analysis of mobster Paul Vitti (Robert De Niro).
 The psychology angle is not given much time or emphasis, but I suppose
director Harold Ramis should get a couple of points for making a token
effort.

The film is pretty funny and worth seeing, but doesn't really offer us
anything new.  This is forgivable, though, because Crystal and De Niro are
entertaining enough to carry the picture.  Overall, I'd recommend it -- it's
funny and watchable and the two leads are very good.
<|_=00=_|>

The rise of the producing team of Don Simpson and Jerry Bruckheimer (Top
Gun, Flashdance and sundry other subtle works exploring the deepest secrets
of the human heart) in the 1980s introduced the High Concept movie - one
whose premise and entire raison d'être could be summed up in a single
sentence, preferably referring to other hit movies – for example Days of
Thunder was `Top Gun with cars.' 1999's Analyse This may have been a High
Concept movie – Mafia Don Sees Shrink With Hilarious Results – but it had a
lightness of touch that made it seem less like a focus-group product and
more like an offbeat little comedy. 

Unfortunately for Analyse That, the success of The Sopranos has made
Mafioso-psychiatrist relations almost as much a cliché as two cops, one
steady and by the book and the other an impulsive maverick, who initially
hate each other but bond over the course of several gun battles. More
fundamentally, the concept of Analyse This hasn't been taken any further.
There could be some entertainment to be had when Robert de Niro's character
takes a job as an advisor on `Little Caesar', a Mafia-themed TV drama, but
the main joke is that the actor playing the Don is an Australian. It struck
me that both actors who played Don Corleone in The Godfather series have now
taken the mickey out of the mafia – Brando in The Freshman and now de Niro
in the Analyse This and That series (if there's a sequel, what will it be
called? Analyse The Other?)

Lisa Kudrow is grossly underused – one gets the feeling that much of her
part ended up on the cutting room floor. Both Crystal and de Niro are pretty
good (this is called `damning with faint praise' in the trade, if you're
wondering) There are some pleasing shots of New York, and David Holmes'
soundtrack has its moments (although is nothing to his work for Ocean's
Eleven or Out of Sight) Analyse That is not a bad film, just a rather
forgettable one. Puts the `sleep' into `sleeps with the
fishes.'

<|_=00=_|>

Another sequel on the market, another disappointment. It is not something
totally new, but the fact that De Niro keeps playing in such movies is quite
sad. I don't think he is really made for comedies, and if he is, then for no
more than one. His type of character is quite clear and I wonder now how
another sequel, to a good comedy, "Meet the Fockers" will be like. I
sincerely doubt it will be good. 

Spoilers

The story is quite predictable...There is De Niro, a mobster (the one we
know from the first film- Paul Vitti) who has to spend some time behind
bars...but it so happens that he escapes with the help of his doctor, Ben
Sobol( Billy Cristal), and exactly as in the first movie he gives him a very
hard time. And so the story starts...

The movie hasn't got an interesting plot, but it should've had many funny
moments. Unfortunately these were quite missing, not totally, but I didn't
laugh as much as I should've. The humor is dry, and not funny. The only
question really was, how much they could squeeze out of all the mafia
parodies. The answer: not much. 

The actors lost their charm too, and neither De Niro, nor' Crystal gave the
movie an exciting tempo. It was slow, despite lasting around one hour and a
half, and the rest of the characters where poorly modeled on the screen.
There were much to few interesting moments in this film.

If you want to see a good parody about the mafia, I would recommend "Mickey
Blue Eyes", which I personally enjoyed very much! Or you could watch the
first part to this sequel if you haven't seen it, because it is definitely
better. Or if you want a comedy with De Niro just watch "Meet the Parents".
All of these movies have more charm than this one. a cold
5.5/10
<|_=00=_|>

I wasn't laughing as much as I did in the first movie. But there are some
pretty funny scenes in "Analyze That". I think I am in love with Robert
DeNiro. It's official. :D Just kidding. He's just so funny in the movie.
Once again he steals the show. Especially with him singing songs from "West
Side Story". The plot isn't as interesting as the fist movie of course, but
they keep up with the same goofs. Over all, it's a good film. But don't
expect another "Analyze This". It's not as funny. But it's good for a couple
laughs.

And since I am so in love with Robert, I'm going to be
nice.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
I don't usually write reviews, but I remember watching this stinker,
and wanted to throw in my two cents.

This film is about Paul Vitti pretending to be insane to get out of
jail, thereby driving his psychiatrist insane. How idiotic a premise is
that? "Analyze This" was a good film. But "Analyze That" is bad. The
plot is empty and chaotic. Apart from the beginning few scenes, there
is almost nothing related to madness. The film tries so hard to be
funny, by doing the exact opposite of "Analyze This". This time round,
the psychiatrist gets crazy and the mobster has to cheer him up. And it
is Ben who bugs Paul all the time. I feel that they try too hard to be
funny. The end result is that the film ends up not being funny, and
sometimes becomes just plain silly. "Analyze That" is a disappointing
sequel. Don't waste your time on this.
<|_=00=_|>
Sequel is mostly not a reputable thing in Hollywood. In one week I was
reviewing sequels to memorable comedies like (Arthur 2: On the Rocks -
1988), (The Odd Couple II - 1998), and now (Analyze That - 2002) to
have a bad result all the way. I think the commercial exploitation
reached its explosion at the 2000s. Away from that, just look at this
example : Director (Brad Bird) after the smash success of his
Oscar-winner (The Incredibles - 2004) refuses to make any sequel,
prequel, spin-off and dedicates himself to make totally another movie,
another Oscar-winner (Ratatouille - 2007). This is wise creative person
with bold decisions to make. 

Unlike Mr. Bird, here, after the genius simple (Analyze This) they
produced (Analyze That) ! First off, the concept of this (That) was
weak. I mean it could have been prettier idea to see some reversal as
the mob man treats the doctor this time, or something like that. But
unfortunately what we've seen was muddled, semi-pointless, and less
funny compared to the first one. 

Basically the situations were on shaky ground. The sense of
credibility, which was smartly coherent at the first (Analyze), is
lost. And to hide that they made all the possible comic lines they can
do, however none was well enough ! The best of this movie is its first
half, where (De Niro) is a mad singing man or undesirable guest or
failing at many jobs. As the second half was the best of perturbation;
the wholly unfunny matter of the TV show (strange how they missed to
produce any laughs out of it), some car chase, a sudden unbelievable
heist, and one genuine fabricated happy end where (De Niro) must look
as the criminal with the heart of gold, and everything finishes fine. 

(De Niro) seems rare as finally Mr. Hollywood; who's making the
obligatory empty sequel, what a pity to hire a great comedian like him
(who didn't have the chance much to express his talent at that area)
just to be in a nice sketch or two. I'm sorry to say it, but (Billy
Crystal) makes outrageously his Razzie-worthy role and movie, if you
looked closer you'd find that the script gave him nothing to do, so he
had to manage with what appeared as his most ridiculous performance
yet. (Harold Ramis) turns to remakes (Bedazzled - 2000), and sequels
(Analyze That - 2002) after years of his "original" masterpiece as a
writer, producer, and director (Groundhog Day - 1993). It's nearly the
perfect case for what Hollywood does with its people at the insolvent
boring 2000s ! 

This movie is in disarray made it look poor. And after the success of
the previous one, it's disappointing. What can I say? The hasty dealing
and the absurd plot did it. The only good thing to be said about those
couple of movies is that they're way better and more watchable than De
Niro's other candy bars of the same time (Meet the Parents - 2000) and
(Meet the Fockers - 2004) which were horrible.

More often than not.. The shadows of good movies, which they call
sequels, can shadow effectively.
<|_=00=_|>

As sequels go, this was above average. Which translates into a so-so+
movie.
I gave it a 7 out of 10, instead of a 5 or a 6, because there ARE some
great
laughs in it. Although it pains me to say it, overall, as a movie,
"Analyze
That" was a bit flaccid, a bit pale, and certainly not as good as the
original. It seemed tired and faded, somehow--- kind of like the recent
"Men
in Black II" sequel to MIB. However, if you are a Billy
Crystal-hitting-old-age fan, and if you are a Robert DiNiro fan (and who
isn't???--- and if you are gracious enough to be willing to be
entertained
for a couple of hours, go see it. You'll probably have a pleasant
evening!
<|_=00=_|>
Analyse This had a freshness and uniqueness of concept that carried
right through the film and made it an enjoyable fluffy comedy. Analyse
That falls very adeptly into the stereotype of the sequel that tries to
emulate the original and fails miserably. The jokes are the same but
somehow less funny, the new characters add nothing notable, Robert
DeNiro seemed lost and unsure of his character, Billy Crystal was just
plain annoying at times and the story was alternately ridiculous and
pedantic. Are we really supposed to be curious about whether or not
he's going straight? And in the end, did he? 

6 is actually a bit generous, consider it a 5.5 rounded up.

But that's just my two scents. ;)
