

So it's by Nickelodeon. So,It's animated. So, I'm 25 with a 3 year old. I
love this movie! Maybe I'm one of the few lucky people to be born with a
healthy sense of humor, but when my son and I can sit down together and
laught at the same parts of the movie, it's definitley worth it's wieght
in
gold. Don't you people remember being kids? What would you do if you found
out there were no parents anywhere around? Yep-the same thing they did,
party until you're constipated.THEN wonder where your parents are. Kids
like
burp and fart jokes because they're kids. How many times can you recall in
your childhood when a well-timed burp would disrupt a class for the
remainder of the day? And just to add my son't two cents: the part where
Poultra is conked on the head by the getaway ship and is going to fall on
the audience... my son finds nothing funnier than the thought of a chicken
with butt cheeks. Why don't you people see the movie for the entertainment
that it is and not pick it apart like some Oscar Nominations Panel?  I
have
two words for you people... UN PUCKER. 
<|_=00=_|>

I saw the trailers for Jimmy Neutron and was not at all impressed. The
premise sounded way too kiddy and the fact that it was going to be a TV show
made the whole thing scream, "Marketing!" Thankfully I just caught it on
video and was wonderfully surprised. The animation is very good and nicely
detailed, the humor is simple and G-rated for kids, which will please
adults, and the story is fast-paced and creative. I liked all of the
characters, from the whipped-cream hair sporting Jimmy to his nerdy friends
and the evil booger aliens. There were some genuinely cool touches too, like
the fight between a tiny teacher and the deadly apple worm or the detailed
alien chicken. My only real complaint is the fact that the soundtrack is
packed to the brim with dumb pop songs that pop up at the weirdest times and
basically interrupt the flow of the whole movie. Also, any movie with Aaron
Carter singing in it quickly gets a few points demoted from it.  You can
stick around after the video's credits for some music videos, one with the C
arter kid and another with some girls singing "We're the Kids In America."
They are not spectacular extras, which makes me yearn for a DVD player even
more, now. All in all, though, Jimmy is a pleasant, short flick that won't
keep adults in a coma and will definitely get the kids quiet for an hour. It
may not be up there with the Pixar films or Shrek, but it is decent
nonetheless. 3/4 stars.
<|_=00=_|>
There are lots of funny lines in this animated movie and some funny
characters, at least for adults. I laughed and thought it was great but
when I played it for the second time, with a couple of little kids in
the audience I was disappointed that most of the humor went over their
heads. All of a sudden, the film wasn't as great as I had remembered
(and told them it was). So.....what you think of this film, I guess
might depend on your age, for one thing.

There's a nice message here for the kids, though: you can't do without
your parents. Speaking of kids, the nerdy-looking fat kid obviously was
the funniest in here. Everyone in the audience likes him.

One bit of warning to the older folks: keep the audio remote handy.
This gets very loud in spots and needs to be turned down here and
there.
<|_=00=_|>

There's not too much that can really be said about "Jimmy Neutron" as far as
films go. A previous reviewer described it as something to watch on a rainy
Sunday afternoon and that sounds like an adequate description. There are a
few reviews on this website of the film though which feel a bit harsh.
Ultimately, theres no denying that "Jimmy Neutron: Boy Genius" is a kids
film, that's what it was meant to be, that's what it is. That's not a bad
thing though. Whilst it may not have the adult humour of other animations
(mainly the greatest animation of them all, "Shrek"), it does still have the
occasional funny joke that will make people of all ages laugh. Whilst the
plot is a bit wafer thin and the animation a bit simplistic at times, I'd
like to see most of the reviewers on this website try and do
better.
Ultimately, I can understand that to some people, this film may not be their
cup of tea, and for a long time I avoided trying to watch it. Once you sit
down and give it the time of day though, you'll be pleasantly surprised. Not
the best animation of the last few years, but definately worth a
viewing.
<|_=00=_|>

Computer-animated cartoon about Jimmy who, inadvertently, has all the
parents in his neighborhood kidnapped by aliens.  It's up to Jimmy and his
classmates to follow the aliens through outer space to save their
parents.

Silly but lots of fun.  There's some incredible computer animation,
hysterically funny lines (for kids and adults) and a VERY quick pace that
make up for a few dull moments and a really silly script.

A perfect family movie.  Adults--turn off your brain and
enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>
The film and movie soundtrack are excellent. This is the best
nickelodeon film I have ever seen and this is better than the series
that was built on its foundation. Wait a tick, Isn't Steve Oddekerk the
guy who played the chosen one in the hilarious Kung Pow: enter the
fist. The 3-d animation is great and this is hilarious thanks to the
fantastic scriptwriters and actors who provided the voices. If There
was an award for best nick movie my vote would go to Jimmy Neutron for
a great project in filmaking. Go rent or buy the movie if you haven't
seen it yet and if you like the film, get the soundtrack as well. Jimmy
Neutron Rocks!
<|_=00=_|>

An elementary school student has to save his parents from evil space aliens
with the help of his classmates (who all had their parents kidnapped as
well) in this fun and overall enjoyable animated feature from the
Nickelodeon Studios. "Jimmy Neutron: Boy Genius" was a surprise Best
Animated Feature nominee in 2001 (the category's first year). It seemed to
be the oddball production in a group which included "Shrek" and "Monsters,
Inc." (there were only three films nominated in that category that year).
Overall though "Jimmy Neutron: Boy Genius" is on par with "Shrek" (one of
the more over-rated films of the past few years) and stands tall with the
superior "Monsters, Inc.". Admittedly the movie is excellent for children,
but only fair for hardened adults. It lacks the charm for wide audiences
that most other animated features have these days. Still, "Jimmy Neutron:
Boy Genius" serves its purpose to the paramount and continues to be a
money-maker for Nickelodeon (there is a regular series airing now on that
network). First-rate animation (that has that striking aquarium-style appeal
to it) and good voice characterizations (Martin Short and Patrick Stewart in
particular as the comical aliens) make the movie one of the better films of
2001. 4 stars out of 5.  
<|_=00=_|>

I am sure glad that I have gone to see one of the most witty family films
in
`Jimmy Neutron: Boy Genius'.  The film does not have an ingenious plot:
Jimmy and his friends must save their family who have been abducted by
aliens. But boy o boy!  It sure does have a very witty screenplay and
one-liners that were sure the bomb! It will be very dumb for you not take
your family to see `Jimmy Neutron: Boy Genius'.
**** Good

<|_=00=_|>
Jimmy Neutron: Boy Genius isn't the best movie I have ever seen, in
fact, it is very rare that I deem any film with those words, but it was
worth an hour and a half of my time. What stood out immediately was the
animation, the coloring, the bold attention to detail, and the fact
that none of it was lost on the DVD. Occasionally, you find yourself
watching an animated film wondering how many drinks the animators may
have had while attempting to create artwork, which suddenly becomes
even more visible in the comfort of your own home. There has been, in
my time reviewing these films, one film that has been animated
flawlessly. That was The Incredibles, and while Neutron is not that
film, the two do stand very well together. Aside from the standing
ovation animation, the rest of the film is actual a fun watch. Going
into this film with no knowledge of the character Jimmy Neutron or his
history, I found myself eager to enjoy more of his adventures and
further deeper into his world.

One of the enjoyable elements of this film has to be the pacing. While
some will argue that you cannot judge a film by the mere merit of time,
for Jimmy Neutron you can. I didn't want to get bogged down, I didn't
want to loose my attention span, and thankfully – with the skilled
penmanship of one Steve Oedekerk – I learned to sit back and thoroughly
enjoy what Jimmy had to offer. I wasn't distracted by small,
insignificant plot alleys or forgettable characters; with Neutron what
you see is what you get. For approximately 82 minutes we are packed
with one exciting element after another without getting sidetracked.
From the opening "pull" sequence to the center amusement park
transformation, all the way to the final climactic scene which
incorporated all the themes and elements from earlier in the film,
Neutron honestly didn't let you down. The humor was crisp, the
characters were actually enjoyable to watch, and unlike other films of
this genre, you knew what was going to happen, but you weren't quite
sure how. I think that is what kept my attention the longest, with the
brain power of Neutron; I was never quite sure what he was going to
combine next. The opportunities were endless, and I enjoyed seeing them
unfold right before me. Laugh all you want, but Jimmy Neutron: Boy
Genius was an enjoyable experience.

Why is it that women can do pre-pubescent boy voices better than anyone
else? I loved the voices in this film mainly because it didn't focus on
trying to give you the "who is that voice" quiz game, but rather employ
unknowns and allow the film to do the talking. While I have to give the
entire cast excellent marks on their work with this film, it was
Patrick Stewart and (I can't believe I am saying this…) Martin Short's
comical combination that did it for me. They aren't big stars, so I
didn't hear the voice and immediately see the actor, I saw the Martian
counterparts that they were trying to portray! Coupled with the fact
that they looked hysterical (humorous physical depictions of alien
life), I found myself laughing at this pair more than I imagined.
Stewart controlled his voice and delivered (with ease) some of the best
one-liners of this film, while Short added the final punch needed to
make the kiddies in the audience laugh. For me, the two worked
brilliantly together and could honestly carry a show of their own
together. Short wasn't over the top, and the two created a strong
balance which coupled well with the seriousness of Neutron's quest.

Alas, I cannot give it the full five stars, mainly because of an issue
of redundancy. Perhaps that isn't the right word, but what I am trying
to say is that this is a show that prides itself on the genius of the
main character, Jimmy. What makes this show work is that he is by far
the smartest child on the Earth, yet his parents keep him grounded
(which creates likability for the viewers) by making him do chores, get
in trouble, and create boundaries. Yet, for all the inventions that
Jimmy creates, for all the tests that he passes in school, he seems to
forget that there is no air in space and therefore the entire
plausibility of all the children in his town flying to this obscure
planet is debunked. I realize that this is a cartoon, a-hem, an
animated feature and that I should just accept the fact that in this
world there is air in space, but I couldn't buy it. Without the masks
or helmets, I felt cheated and was pulled away from the truth, thus
forcing me to realize I was watching a film. Make sense? I was deeply
involved with this film until the kids rallied together and shot into
space, because of the fake nature of it. I couldn't move past it, and
was a discouraging element to the film.

Overall, I would strongly suggest this film to families, and in fact,
friends. I thought this was a very funny, very smart, and exceptionally
well animated film, especially during the age of Pixar. The voices were
perfect, the pacing (as mentioned before) was a slice of perfection,
and the overall molding of this film was nearly flawless. Outside of
the scientific elements that should have been caught (due to the
intelligence of our main character), there were moments of pure
Oedekerk that made me grin from ear to ear. I liked Jimmy Neutron, and
while it may get me laughed at on the playground, I thought that for
what it was worth, it gave a good 92% -- and that is still an A isn't
it? Check it out – you will be happy! 

Grade: **** out of *****
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of the greatest cartoons ever to hit television. It is all-
around well-written and plotted out. I watch it now and my jaw drops at
the things I used to miss when I was younger. There are subtle moments
that would go right over a kid's head but those moments make the show
unmistakably original. Complete with real scientific explanations
behind the mishaps in the plot, James Bond parodies, and vocab words
like "quip, pedantic, perspicacity," one must wonder how differently
the writers think from the creators of the mindless filth we pump into
our children's brains now. The first two seasons were clever and well
thought-out, but the third isn't even worth a watch. Presumably, this
is because their award-winning production company, DNA Productions,
went defunct at the end of the third season. Hopefully, there will be a
Jimmy Neutron revival, as said studio has been reformed out of the
ashes.
