

Ten out of ten. One of the greats, with memorable characters you'll think
about for days. This great film got caught in MGM/UA distribution
purgatory.
If it could have busted out of the indy circuit from day one and gotten
into
general release, it would have been favorably compared with "The Graduate"
and Kieran Culkin's performance with Dustin Hoffman's debut performance in
that Mike Nichol's classic. MGM/UA blew it.

Culkin is a great young player with a look and resources evoking both
Hoffman and Robert Downey. He's naturalistic and great to watch. Smart,
funny, urbane writing by first time director Steers is never "on the
nose".
Yet underneath the evasive, sarcastic stripped down dialogue he pulls hard
hitting emotions from his ensemble.  Not a false or wasted scene and more
than a few really powerful ones. Every player is at the top of their game,
from Kieran Culkin to Amanda Peet, Jeff Goldblum to Susan Sarandon, Bill
Pullman to Claire Danes to Ryan Phillippe. They're obviously guided by a
director who knows how to work with an ensemble to get an overall
tone.

Igby is the anti Ferris Beuhler - a smart wanna be who's wise mouth and
attitude usually piss off those around him - his mother, his brother, his
godfather. Torn between those who don't get him and those who do (Peet,
Danes), Igby paints all his relationships with the same sarcastic brush,
his
vulnerability only busting out when he's pushed to the limit. Culkin's
perfomance is not to be missed. The key women, Sarandon, Peet and Danes
all
play fully formed characters. Goldblum is perfect for his role, his usual
facile acting style well suited to the South Hampton prince he plays; his
best turn in years.

Seers has style and flow, and his final cut is aided by the excellent
music
choices he and his music supervisor, Nick Harcourt arrived at. Cameron
Crowe
couldn't do better. The Igby soundtrack is tres alt moderne and every cut
is
great.

Warning: Actors are blocked (brilliantly) for wide screen format. So this
film will suffer from TV / video screen ratios as the Graduate does.
Either
go see it in the theater NOW or wait for letterbox!


<|_=00=_|>

My first thought when I finished watching this film was, `I can't believe I
really enjoyed a film that starred a Culkin.'  My subsequent conclusions
about the film were not as easily reached.

When I decided to watch this film, I was expecting The Royal Tennenbaums:
Part 2.  Rich family, the story takes place in a big city, eccentric
characters.  While both films share these elements, they are very different
in that I considered The Royal Tennenbaums to be mostly a comedy; while
Igby's few comedic moments are so dark one almost feels badly for chuckling.
 What this film is really about is family, but not just in the traditional
sense. (What is more traditional than a disapproving mother who is more
concerned about herself than anyone else in the family, a clinically
schizophrenic father, and two brothers: the elder a narcissist (if not
practical) and the younger, a rebellious 16 year old who is forced to change
schools more often than most of us change our Glade Plug-Ins.) It is about
family in any sense: Friends, strangers, anyone Igby encounters and tries to
gain acceptance from.  

Culkin's Igby, who looks like a waifish Harry Potter without the `imp
factor', is an extremely conflicted character.  We have seen rebellious
types portrayed ad nauseum in films for decades, but it is a rare occasion
when this person is both sympathetic and extremely intelligent.  The
character draws you in enough that you actually want to know why he acts the
way he does, and you truly want him to find happiness.  Unfortunately, it
appears that when a door opens, it slams just as quickly.  Culkin is truly
fantastic in this role.  He shoulders a character that is both intelligent
enough to defend himself, yet vulnerable enough to give the impression of
fragility.  The rest of the cast is also decent, particularly Jeff Goldblum
as D.H., a larger than life character who is conflicted in his own right. 
The story was just complicated enough to keep me very interested, while
endearing and thought-provoking enough for me to reflect on it long after it
was over.  

I'm not entirely sure who I would recommend this film to, but if you are
looking for a thought-provoking drama with some great acting, dialogue and
story line I would definitely check this movie out.  It has received some
rave reviews and I believe they are well-deserved.

<|_=00=_|>

This film was amazing. The acting, the characters, the plot and the visual
story were all so refined. This was a film that defines the new adage
'Quiet
is the new loud' and sets a new standard for coming of age films. Much
like
The Royal Tenenbaums, this film was full of a dysfunctional family that
although unlike anything in most viewers' experience, was real and honest
and touched a part of all of us. Also like the aforementioned film, this
movie's soundtrack was so well picked and so well executed, I was
overwhelmed.

Burr Steers, a first time screenwriter and director?  Is he perhaps
channeling his uncle, Gore Vidal, to write and direct this amazing tale?
I
can't wait to see more from him.  Kieran Culkin is equally as promising.
He
acted the part with such a surreal mix of sullen intelligence, backwards
bravery and touching empathy that Igby came to life the moment he hit the
screen. Jeff Goldblum and Susan Sarandon were also perfectly cast and were
outstanding... I can't mention each of them as there was too much to gush
about.

I highly recommend that you run out and see this, but bring a tissue and
plan to go celebrate the irony of life and all it's imperfections after
you
go!

<|_=00=_|>

There's no question aspects of this are quite brutal. But the theme of the
story dictates they would be so.

Igby Goes Down is about a kid in nowhere's land. He doesn't know where he's
going in life and responds to this by being a rebel in
everything.
Add to this his parental instability with a schizophrenic father and a
tyrannical mother and you can understand why he'd be a little mixed
up.

In many ways it is a coming of age story, but in others it is too dark to be
that. Indeed there is an ambivalence of themes with hope and despair
featured in equal measure. 

As Igby, Kieran Culkin excels. He's outstanding, the best thing in the movie
- which given the quality of his peers, such as a sinister and agenda-ridden
Jeff Goldblum, a monstrous and hierarchial Susan Sarandon, a confused and
tortured Bill Pullman and a squeaky clean upstart in Ryan Phillippe, is no
mean feat at all.

Performances are uniformly excellent, the story involving, and the themes
well explored.

Well done all round.
<|_=00=_|>

I had to drive to effin Antwerp, Belgium to see this movie, because it was
taken out of Dutch cinemas after running just for one week.
And that is something that I don't understand, or maybe I do, because this
is not the typical Hollywood feel-good movie. The story could have been
based on a early nineties novel by Jay McInerney or Bret Easton Ellis, but
it is an original screenplay by writer and director Burr
Steers.
The mood is very dark, the acting is top shelf and the oneliners are sharp
as razorblades. Kieran Culkin and Ryan Philippe are perfectly (type)casted
and the choice of music is plain wonderful. The scene where Igby runs off
through Central Park accompanied by Coldplay's Don't Panic is close to
perfection.
I enjoyed this movie very much and I think it paints a very accurate picture
of the lives of spoiled, rich kids.
Go see it!
<|_=00=_|>

I'm very pleased to see other reviewers comparing Kieran Culkin's character
Jason/Igby to The Catcher in the Rye's Holden Caulfield - while watching the
film I was thinking the same thing, much to writer/director Burr Steers'
credit.  This is THE Social Commentary movie I have been waiting to see for
a long time now - fearless, witty, arch, poignant without being sentimental,
and, best of all, the characters are not one-dimensional, they all live and
breathe and we feel the agony they are suffering behind their socially
privileged masks.  

Culkin is especially brilliant (and so sad, with his Harry Potter scarf - a
young wizard without any magic), but everyone shines here - Sarandon,
Pullman, Danes, Amanda Peet, Ryan Phillippe, Jeff "how-can-I-be-any-creepier"
 Goldblum, and of course Jared Harris, who positively reeks eccentricity
without even having to open his mouth (but when he does, it's always good
too).  A fine first film from a director/writer who definitely bears
watching.
<|_=00=_|>

I was very impressed by the movie and all the actors taking part in it.
The
story is very
rich and allows the spectator to get emotionally involved in multiple
ways.
There is a
good thing about a movie that finishes and leaves you with the feeling of
wanting to
know more about many of the characters in the movie. I particularly love
all
the
unexpected moments, lines and situations in the movie without being
exagerated or out
of place. Excellent, for people who wants to see something different and
still
mainstream.
<|_=00=_|>
This film doesn't make us feel for any of its characters, but it's so
full of memorable vignettes, it's hard to forget about this. It's dark
and depressing but at the same time consistent in tone and so full of
wonderful performances it just sticks in your memory.

Igby's life consists of one disappointment after another. We soon meet
his ruinantly self-absorbed mother (Susan Sarandon), who treats her
boys like full-grown adults. 'I call her Mimi because 'Heinous One'
would be a bit cumbersome,' Igby remarks. And there's his schizophrenic
dad (Bill Pullman) who has long since been confined to a 'home for the
befuddled'. Igby's and his preppy brother Oliver (Ryan Phillippe) have
nothing but contempt for their mother. When Igby has just been kicked
out - again - of his latest prep school, he is sent to a military
academy by his mother, but he swipes her credit card and absconds to an
airport hotel in the Midwest. Soon he is dishonorably discharged and
sucks his way in by his mother's new wealthy friend D. H. Baines,
wonderfully played by Jeff Goldblum, who almost seems to play himself.

Two women play a crucial role in his life, both of them he meets at a
cocktail party at "D.H."'s lavish Hamptons home. There's Rachel, a
memorable role by Amanda Peet, truly astonishing. I knew her face, but
I cannot recall other roles of her. And there is Sookie Sapperstein
(Claire Danes), a waitress at the party and couple of years older
college student, with whom Igby falls in love. But his brother is
becoming a romantic rival or Sookie and when Igby crashes in D.H's
fancy Manhattan apartment, in which Rachel is taking residence, he
becomes entangled in an ever more downward spiral.

First-time director Burr Steers, who also scripted, filled this one
with some very smart, observative and acidic dialog, and Kiera Culkin
shows he can carry a film with a very good performance. And where has
he been the last four years? Since this one he hasn't appeared in any
other films. On the IMDb message boards there are some hilarious
speculations about how he is supposedly "on weed". I don't know about
that. He's probably going through some rough times, but I hope he'll be
back soon. It would be a shame to lose an actor like him.

Camera Obscura --- 8/10
<|_=00=_|>

Because of the faulty review I read I feel I must submit another giving a
better picture of the film then the other reviewer provided. All those
things he said that weren't clear to him seemed very clear to me. Yes, Susan
Sarandon's character did give birth to both of the boys; except that one was
illegitimate by Jeff Goldblums character, and the other was her real son
from her husband who was driven crazy by her meddling. Whereas the other
reviewer felt that Igby was a mess of a movie and compared it to The Royal
Tennenbaums (which I agree was an utter mess and thoroughly unenjoyable), I
felt that Igby was a refreshing black comedy. Which is exactly what you get
when you cross comedy and drama. It has a lot of heart, excellent and
insightful direction, real wit and sharpness in it's approach to the
material... I thoroughly enjoyed it. It came across as a cerebral experience
for me. Highly recommended. 
<|_=00=_|>
Kieran Culkin astounds in "Igby goes down". While the supporting cast
(Jeff Goldblum, Susan Sarandon, Ryan Phillipe and Claire Danes) are
predictably good, he turns in an electrifying performance. The script
is simply superb and the backdrop of New York is wonderful. The master
stroke is the use of Rory Culkin as a younger Igby which lends an
authentic air of continuity. The only disappointment is Amanda Peet
who, as usual, overacts and hams it up as the highly-strung on/off
girlfriend. Jeff Goldblum is surprisingly sexy in a role which he seems
very comfortable with while Bill Pullman is surprisingly weighty in a
minor yet key role which he pulls off extremely well.
