
They went one-too-many in the Crocodile Dundee series with this third
film. The sequel (Dundee II) was very good and that should have been
the end of it. By the time this third one was made, Paul Hogan was
putting on the wrinkles fast (although still in shape) and co-star/wife
Linda Kozlowski had put on a few pounds.

The movie didn't fare well, maybe because the humor dominated instead
of a balanced mix of it with drama, humor and romance as the other two
films emphasized. Also, this story had done before in the first movie,
with the Australian coping with America in New York so we didn't a
replay of that in Los Angeles.

One thing nice about this film: it was nice in a mellow sort of way.
There is a gentleness to it, a nice tone which you don't often see in
today's R-rated dominated film industry....and it still was
entertaining, for the most part. It's just too much familiar ground and
added very little to what the first two films showed.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is what people want out of Paul Hogan. Personally, I loved
"Almost an Angel" and "Lightning Jack." But for those of you who don't
quite get Paul Hogan's humor, why would you even bother watching the
third installment of the Crocodile Dundee saga? The character of
Michael J. "Crocodile" Dundee is someone to be adored by any child of
the 80's. And I, for one, am so thankful Paul decided to give us one
more. Its a story, again, about a "fish out of water" scenario but he
pulls it off with astonishing bliss. Its been over a decade since we
were graced with the comedy of Crocodile Dundee II but the magic and
love and simplicity of the character is still apparent in Paul's
portrayal of Dundee. I'm so glad Linda Kozlowski reprises her role as
the sexy, Sue Charlton as well. Movies forget the aspect of
"characters" and "story" nowadays and focus on hype, special effects
and "epic-ness." I'm so glad there are still movies I can shed a tear
to simply because of its kindness, simplicity and down-to-earth quality
of its characters that I grew up with. Crocodile Dundee is Los Angeles
is a wonderful finale for anyone who loves the first two. Paul Hogan
did the world a wonderful thing when he created the character, so why
not come back around by one final wonderful installment. At least check
it out....
<|_=00=_|>

Paul Hogan's knive-tossing, hand-slapping Outback legend skipped the whole
of the 90's so his 2001 comeback came as something of a big surprise. 
Unfortunately, audiences had of course moved on and the critics didn't
hesitate in drowning the film.  Indeed, you don't have to be an expert to
realise that this belated third caper isn't exactly accomplished
film-making; there's an uninvolving and considerably underdeveloped plot
whilst the comedy itself (consistently spot-on in the original) is pretty
much hit-and-miss here.  

Still, if its clean, fun, enjoyable entertainment you're looking for, Dundee
in LA serves the purpose well and is satisfying for the family or younger
ones.  The character himself is still interesting and enjoyable to watch as
he once again returns to the USA, this time acting detective when he
suspects a shady movie company of smuggling.  Not by no means a classic but
harmless and pleasant entertainment nonetheless.
<|_=00=_|>

It's been a very long time since I've seen a movie with my children that did
not have to rely on gross-out humor just to get a laugh. "Crocodile Dundee
in Los Angeles" is a FUN movie.It's fun to let go and get in on the
silliness of the jokes. Critics should not be comparing it to the first or
even the second Dundee movies. This film is wonderfully different than both
of them, and uniquely funny and endearing all on its own. Yes, Paul Hogan's
Mick Dundee is still the same--still sweetly naive. Why critics feel the
need to rip the character up for that just goes to show how jaded our
society has become when people can't appreciate and embrace a quality like
that in a film character. I, for one, love that my children can sit and
watch a character who is moral, who is loving and attentive to his wife and
child, who seeks out new things and learns from them and for the most part
who sees the good in people. What's wrong with sending our children THOSE
messages?
<|_=00=_|>
I admit it is not a very good movie but at the other hand it is a light
and mostly enjoyable comedy. The minor disappointment for me is that
Paul and Linda had lost some of their charm from 80-s, they are just
too old now. But the biggest problem with Crocodile Dundee in L.A. is
the thing that this movie is too similar to previous old Crocodile
Dundee movies. One idea very rarely can work twice but third time it's
simply too much. So if you like the first two Crocodile Dundee movies
most likely you will enjoy this little movie or at least you'll
tolerate it. The story was a bit primitive (can anybody explain to me
what's going on with screenwriters?) but young Serge Cockburn had
brought a bit of fresh magic to the movie, though overall acting was
pretty average.

It is also obviously that now it is much harder to surprise or
entertain anyone with wild Aussies. Despite that this sequel had enough
funny moments and jokes, including one very surprising cameo
appearance. In my opinion the third Mick Dundee movie is slightly above
average, not annoying light comedy. At least it is not worse (to be
honest it is much better in my opinion) than Crocodile Hunter movie,
that had been released next year after this sequel.

My grade 6 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this in Germany on "surprise" night. That means, you go to the
theater and pay only four or five bucks, get to see something new, but
you don't know what you're going to see. On top of that, its always in
the original language without subtitles. Problematic if its a French or
Chinese movie - but they were *always* in English.

When the curtains came up, one always had those moments of dreadful
anticipation. And DAMN if the last thing I EVER expected was Crocodile
Dundee in LA. I didn't even know they had made another one...

My German comrades didn't get as big a kick as I did out of it -- but
this is just a fun, fun movie -- and if you've had a few beers and grew
up with the originals you'll enjoy it tremendously. The story is pretty
weak, mostly an excuse to get Paul hogan cracking jokes, but any excuse
is good if it means Paul hogan is cracking jokes...

You'll get a big kick out of it or you'll be miserable. I thought it
was awesome.

ps: Mike Tyson!
<|_=00=_|>

I just saw this movie it was like a timemachine, I was back in the 80's.
That was positive.  The movie has the same charm and humor as in the first
Dundee.  So if you like Crocodile Dundee you must see this movie.. this is
a good oldfashioned movie without any big special effects.  See
it...


<|_=00=_|>
This is a perfect Sunday afternoon film, when you're stuffed with roast
and vegging on the sofa.

The plot is nowhere to be seen, but the film ambles along in a series
of sketches and setpieces usually involving Dundee being amazed by the
crazy Americans and coming up with some Australian saying to sum up the
situation.

'Gay, well I am kinda happy' Yay Mick, you show those Americans who's
boss.

In summary, a ludicrous film, but I really enjoyed it. And I agree with
crocodile dundee about coffee enemas. 'Don't order a coffee here, you
might not like how they serve it'
<|_=00=_|>

Even though its been awhile since we last seen Crocodile Dundee this movie
didn't disappoint, same Paul Hogan adjusting to city life this time in LA
this time with his son Mikey. Well, this third film may not be the best of
the series, but still was entertaining and funny, lots of cool gags, and
nothing too bad so the whole family can enjoy this one. Crocodile Dundee in
L.A. wasn't bad considering it was a third sequel, I guess it was the long
wait between the second and third movies that we forgot what the Crocodile
was all about.
<|_=00=_|>
Personally I have never been a fan of the crocodile Dundee series. I
find the humor to be childish and the action to be less than sub-par.
But my mind sure was changed after viewing this one! I found myself
delightfully entertained throughout the entirety of the movie. I was
either laughing hysterically or on the edge of my seat at all the crazy
mishaps Dundee managed to get himself into. I figured he'd have a
difficult time with the culture change, but not do such crazy things
like he did! LOL absolutely nuts!! The best part has got to be when
they are trying to save the skunk on the express way! OMG I though for
sure I was going to faint from laughing so hectically hard. I mean they
stopped the entire freeway just for a skunk. Can you imagine if that
really happened in LA!?! People would absolutely freak about it! Either
way this is a must see film, I hope they come out with another witty
installment as good as this!!!
