
I loved this movie!!! My father is Tongan and my mother is Samoan (the
first island Elder Groberg landed at the beginning of his journey).
Even though I was born and raised here in the US, I have been exposed
to my Polynesian roots and love and embrace both cultures of who I am
(Polynesian side and American side).

I have to say that my family and I LOVED this movie. It is refreshing
to watch a beautiful movie without all the sex, violence and vulgar
material that permeates our society today. This movie is about True
Love on so many levels - the love between Elder Groberg and his future
bride Jean, the love between the Tongan people and Elder Groberg and
the love between Our Lord and his children. No, I'm not Mormon, I'm
actually an Assembly of God Christian, however that does not overshadow
my appreciation for this movie.

The depiction of the people of Tonga is accurate. They are a
lighthearted and loving group of people who love to laugh and find joy
in the simple things of life. They are all about respect and honoring
one's family. The scene of the first funeral brought back memories for
me as it illustrated exactly how these kind people handle the departing
of a loved one. When my dear Grandmother Siu passed away in 1994, my
family and I traveled back to Vava'u (an island within the Kingdom of
Tonga) to lay her to rest. The unmasked grief and crying as depicted in
the movie was exactly how my grandmother's funeral was. The crying and
grieving took place for 1 full day (24 hours - day and night) while
different groups of people from all the villages on the island, came to
pay their last respects.

Hats off to Disney for going out on a limb to bring the story of one
young man's journey of faith and trials and tribulations of his mission
to the big screen! Well done!
<|_=00=_|>

Considering that this movie was neither made by, nor endorsed by, the LDS
church, The Other Side of Heaven is an endearing, uplifting movie that
celebrates and pays respect to Mormon missionaries without going too deep
into LDS philosophy or beliefs.  Produced in part by the same producer who
brought us such cinematic gems as Schindler's List and Jurassic Park,
Heaven
is refreshingly devoid of many "blockbuster"-style elements and is a very
low-key presentation of a young man's struggle to survive, adapt, and
succeed in a world far far away from his familiar hometown in
Idaho.

In the early 1950's Elder John Groberg from Idaho Falls accepts a call to
serve a three-year LDS mission to Tonga.  Although he is thrilled and
dedicated to his mission call, he is understandably concerned about
leaving
Jean, the love of his life, in Utah for fear that she will marry somebody
else.  Yet his faith and determination to do what he believes is right are
shown throughout this movie as his motivation to stay through the
hardships,
the loneliness, and the difficulties that are faced during his
mission.

The Other Side of Heaven is essentially a chronicle of Elder Groberg's
true
life mission.  At times spiritual, humorous, frightening, and uplifting,
the
movie is a tribute to a young man who faced overwhelming odds and setbacks
to continually overcome some of the most difficult situations ever beset a
young missionary.  Throughout the film, Elder Groberg's letters to Jean
and
her letters back to him keep the film centered on it's true message, that
of
a man out of place . . . loving where he is, but wishing at the same time,
to be home with the others that he loves.  And it is this internal
struggle
which, I am sure, has been faced by every other missionary in history,
that
gives the movie its depth and emotional quality.

My only criticism of the movie comes from the very brief explanation of
the
traditions and culture surrounding LDS missionaries and the way in which
they receive their calls.  For those who are familiar with LDS missions,
this should be no problem, but for those viewers who have not been exposed
to the process of a Mormon mission, the first 15 or 20 minutes may seem a
bit confusing.  There is another bit of Mormon tradition which is very
poorly explained, but I can't tell you what it is without giving away a
fairly poignant moment of the film's ending.

Nevertheless, The Other Side of Heaven is not just a Mormon movie.  It is
a
movie that can be enjoyed and appreciated by people of all faiths (and
even
those of no faith).  Because in the final analysis, this is a movie about
the triumph of the spirit and the joys and rewards of fighting for, and
doing something, you truly believe in.
<|_=00=_|>

My one liner says that this is an inspiring movie.  Unfortunately, some of
the other reviewers feel pretty uninspired by it.  I guess their "a priori"
hatred for the protagonist and his religion are the predicate for these
feelings.  This film is based on true events.  It is not " Mormon
propaganda" as suggested by many.  The missionary happens to be a Mormon but
the story would be as moving despite the denomination.   It is the story of
a young man on a religious mission to the Tongan people.  His companion is a
native and his mission is characterized by a love for this people, not
condescension to them.  How anyone could watch this film and come away with
bad feelings is beyond me.   The whole point of the film is about loving our
fellow man and giving them due consideration.  The protagonist has his
detractors in the film also that he eventually wins over with his sincerity
and goodness. If some one does not like this film--fine--but to use these
pages as a canvas for painting one's hatred demonstrates the need for films
of this kind.  There is a lot of hatred and bigotry in the world that needs
to be done away with.  This film demonstrates one example of how
understanding and respect develops between people.  I'm sorry members of the
"new inquisition" missed this point.  I give it an 8 out of 10. 

<|_=00=_|>

I'm sorry that the adolescent ravings of the previous reviewer appear
first.
His profound failure to "get it" is an embarrassment.

First of all, this is about a young man of "white-bread" heritage casting
aside all he has and all he is, even leaving the love of his life for two
and a half years, in order to immerse himself in a culture about which he
is
totally ignorant so that he can offer them the greatest gift he has to
offer: His faith.

Rather than "looking down" on the people he has come to SERVE, he bears
great hardships, and exerts himself in ways he could never have conceived,
in order to connect with these people. He comes to love them,
profoundly.

And their love for him in return, even those who have reason to be
suspicious of him, is a testament to his sincerity.

Please recall that this is a TRUE STORY. Whatever you might think of John
Groberg's religion, or his motives, the fact is that these things actually
happened in just this way. He DID travel from Idaho to Tonga, he did live
among the people there, he did come to gain their trust, he did bring to
them a precious gift of faith, and he did return often throughout the rest
of his life, with his wife and family, to be among these people whom he
loved.

That anyone could be so callously dismissive of this truth is a sad
commentary on our "post-Christian" society.

But I found this film to be deeply moving and very satisfying, and I
recommend it highly to those who enjoy inspiring film.
<|_=00=_|>
Exceptional artistic and historic care blend with charming
cinematography, to render a visual experience that transcends into an
emotional one. Not just one church's story. A universal story. Youth
against the world. Virtue against violence. Anyone can relate to this
film. It combines all the elements.

You get a light-hearted view of one young man's experience in a remote
and unusual part of the world, at a time when the world was just about
to start shrinking. There are family values. Individual challenges.
Real-life stresses hurled from nature and cultural contrast.

The photography is utterly charming in its balance. It is not a slow
film, any more than "Castaway" was a slow film. The difference between
these two films is that one pits a single man against the world and
against himself, while the other pits a young man against an utterly
alien life which he manages to blend into his own. The "slowness" of
the Pacific island life is micro-viewed to reveal that there are
actually exciting and humorous details of daily life; while
macro-viewed to show the occasional punctuation of extreme chaos and
challenge,change and redirection.

Everyone wins in this film. Conflicts range from mutual culture and
social shock, to static compromise, and eventually up to complete
resolution.

See a South Pacific adventure that is, for once, totally based on real
life and real historic occurrences.
<|_=00=_|>

I really did enjoy this film, although it is certainly no cinematic
masterpiece, however I do think it would be of fairly limited appeal to a
non-Mormon audience. It is a fairly slow and simple story, done fairly
simplistically, but not without its charms. To really appreciate it I
suspect one would need to have some background knowledge of the key elements
of the movie. I was certainly surprised to see it as a Disney movie and was
mortified to see other posters suggesting that the advertising for the film
was less than forthcoming on the true nature of the storyline. For what it
is, its very entertaining and uplifting, but I would strongly suspect that
this film will not appeal to a wide audience.
My Vote 7/10 (although I unashamedly admit my own bias)
<|_=00=_|>
I am not a Mormon but thought this movie was a fine example of a good,
clean, wholesome, interesting, and very enjoyable film. Time and time
again we have watched--or started to watch--a highly proclaimed movie,
only to be turned off by the language, violence, and sexual inferences.
The Other Side of Heaven was a refreshing change and is proof that
Hollywood can do it when they want to. Would love to see many, many
more films of this quality. I saw this movie two days ago...and this
weekend we are inviting relatives over to see it. Incidentally, we have
friends who are (non-Mormon) missionaries in a location very much like
Tonga, and they have experienced many, many of the same things
portrayed in the film...even the rats!
<|_=00=_|>

First of all I wanted to say that if you watched the movie and walked
away from it without feeling emotionally moved (in a positive way) you
might be emotionally dead. Even if you don't believe in the miracles
that occurred in the film, you can appreciate the poignant message
behind the story of a young man and his struggles to help the people he
fell in love with. I sense that there are a number of "Mormon-phobics"
that ended up "getting lured into" seeing this movie somehow and end up
screaming "Propaganda!" It's actually quite amusing that these people
are so afraid of this religion that they make such unreasonably absurd
efforts to avoid anything to do with the religion or people who are
members of it. The religious doctrine in this movie was portrayed in
such a benign manner that it is nearly indiscernible.

It's kind of like saying that "The Sound of Music" was Catholic
propaganda (although some antagonists will probably feel that way
anyway).

This movie was deeply moving and it was one of the few movies that had
the effect of permanently affecting me in a positive way. If you're
looking for the usual Hollywood style of over-embellishing a story to
the point of making it unbelievable, or trying to concentrate on some
spectacular story line or special effects you'd probably best move on
to the fiction section and leave this one alone. This is a real story
about real people with real feelings - written and produced for real
people.

<|_=00=_|>
I have yet to catch all of the movie on TMC but I have seen about
7/8ths of it. It's funny, sharp, very interesting and easy to watch. I
found myself laughing and crying with the character. Being based on a
true story makes it even more fun to watch. The movie sure does explain
more about what a missionary goes through. What a life this man had! He
was truly blessed. This movie was a great find. The main actor was
magnificent in the role and his portrayal made the movie even greater.
The locations were like heaven on earth. The main character had to
overcome local prejudice against missionaries, his total removal from
worldly possessions, his fears of becoming an elephant (see the movie
he explains this) and his loneliness for his wife to be are just a few
of his challenges. According to his church elders he must first finish
his missionary role before he can marry his true love. This is one rule
he is determined never to break. The fellowship and eventual closeness
he enjoys with the natives proves to be a grand learning experience for
both him and his new friends. "The Other Side of Heaven" is a must see
for anybody.
<|_=00=_|>
Normally LDS subject films like The Other Side Of Heaven are usually
produced in Salt Lake City by Mormons. But this film, the true life
adventure of a missionary in the South Pacific island kingdom of Tonga
was done by the Disney Studios. That being said it is perfectly within
the Disney parameters of family entertainment.

John Groberg as played here by Christopher Gorham is a kid who likes
his faith with a little rock and roll in the Eisenhower Fifties. He
plays a mean trumpet and is awaiting his mission assignment. It turns
out to be the exotic south seas certainly with enough temptation that
few can withstand. Still it's something if not required, expected of
him to do his two year bit before he marries Anne Hathaway.

Stories about Mormon Missionaries and I've reviewed a few of them now
have one common thread, it's the culture shock. No matter whether it's
Tonga, Tenafly or Buffalo these kids leave a cocoon like existence in
their Mormon communities to go out into the big world to do their
thing. That's what films like God's Army, The Best Two Years and this
film have in common.

The Pacific Islands have always held special interest for the LDS
church. They have charge of the Polynesian Cultural Center in Honolulu
and I give the church credit for helping to preserve the Polynesian
Culture of several peoples. 

Young Gorham doesn't preach and baptize, he makes real contributions to
the daily lives of this remote region. With disease and tidal waves to
battle among other things, the Magic Kingdom did a great job with the
special effects in The Other Side Of Heaven.

Anne Hathaway does appear in the film, but it's her voice in the
letters they exchange that is her real contribution. In fact it was
touching to see these two young people, deeply in love speaking their
letters in voice over. In this age of electronic mail, a film like this
showing the romance and poetry between Gorham and Hathaway is a
depiction of a sadly bygone age.

Disney Studios recognized that this film would have a wider appeal than
just among Mormons and it does. It's a fine family film, but LDS
audiences will appreciate it most of all.
