

Yeah, sure, you can say that this film is stereotypical.  But being Italian
myself, and coming from an Italian family, I have to say that this film was
not stereotypical - atypical maybe.  But if you want to bemoan this film for
it's racial designations and characters, you might want to see "My Big fat
Greek Wedding" first.  You want stereotypical? That film will give it to
you.  It covered each and every cliche' possible, and everyone laughed.  So
what?

TBMS is a good film.  It's lighting can be off at times, and the camera work
is slightly jumpy, but I still believe it's better than a lot of boring
hollywood productions I have seen as of late.  The story is original, and if
anyone wants to say that the acting was "wooden", you might want to take a
look at the performance by Rosemary Prinz; it's impressive, and is not
cliched like Greek Wedding; she actually seems like she's from Italy.  Scott
Baio is impressive in a role that only he could play, and at least he's
Italian, dammit!  How many more films do I have to see with someone playing
an ethnicity they know nothing about?  Baio thankfully jumped into this
role, adding a touch of flavor to a role that probably would have been
occupied by someone boring and overblown.  

The rest of the supporting cast is well-played, with the exception of
"Sister Grace", who was probably pulled off the street and thrown into a
Nun's uniform.  John Seitz plays Massimo beautifully; he reminds me of oh so
many old Italians I have known. 

And finally, this film does for me what many never accomplish; it made me
feel like I was in the environment it took place in.  If you want Italians
to be "touchy-feely" all the time, go see something else.  Italians are
gruff, loud, and self-centered, but inside most all of us have big hearts
and want to take care of those around us.  This film portrays that
characteristic well, and if you didn't cry, tough luck, I guess you really
are wooden.  I'm going to go eat some Biscotti.  


<|_=00=_|>
I had hoped this would be a light romantic film and the critic's
reviews were certainly encouraging. Still it seemed like it might be a
made for television movie, simple and sweet but nothing extraordinary.
It was wonderfully surprising though. I thought the scheme to marry to
make the mother happy would be unbelievable but they pulled it off. It
actually had a very realistic touch to the writing. And the direction
was superb, very subtle, again keeping the character's realistic. All
of the cast were terrific but Scott Baio, Kristen Minter and Rosemary
Prinz were incredible. Definitely a sleeper, very heartwarming and
incredibly well done! One of the greatest unknown romantic gem's you'll
ever find.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was not that good. The high user rating and the comments
make you think that this movie would be extremely good and it didn't
even rate in the average category. After reading through the comments I
am guessing that many reviewers knew the people who made this movie and
wanted to give it a favorable review. 

Although I enjoyed Scott Baio and Kristin Minter's characters,
everything else in the movie made this a movie I wish I hadn't taken
the time to watch. The parents definitely overacted just about every
one of their lines and the retarded brother's performance bordered on
the insulting many times. Scott Baio's character's work life was not
realistic (when exactly was he working so hard at his other job that he
warranted a promotion to Senior VP). The thing is, I enjoy movies with
concepts similar to this one - unrealistic, but nevertheless romantic
and predictable story lines- the problem is that this movie was just
poorly executed. 

It was suggested that you have to enjoy or appreciate ethnic movies to
enjoy this one, well I love movies involving ethnicity but showing
Italian culture in the form of extremely bad accents, overacted but
nonetheless authentic family interactions, and good food doesn't save
this movie.

Save your time and your money and pass on this movie, you'll only be
disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
I really liked this film. It has a small, character-driven feel of an
indie, but with a sweet core. It makes me wish I had a family bakery
like that near my house - and it reminds me that inside every little
room there is a story playing out. Real life isn't filled with
explosions, easy sex and Barbie-shaped women. Life is about the
relationships we have with the people around us. While this movie is
nothing like the TV show Northern Exposure, it still reminds me of that
show. If you enjoy that sort of character/relationship-type story - one
that has a happy soul - you'll probably like this story too. It's not a
blockbuster-type movie. It's probably not even a Saturday night date
movie. But if you are in the mood for a simple story about members of
an urban family and how their lives interconnect, this might be one
you'll enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>

First of all, make sure you eat before seeing this film.  Preferably a loaf
of homemade bread dipped in olive oil and a slice or two of brachiole.
Follow with a desert of assorted biscotti and a slice of berry pie, and
wash
it all down with several glasses of homemade wine.  Okay, now we can begin.

Like a fine meal joyfully prepared by hands that love you and shared with
those whose company you most enjoy, this film will make you feel warm and
connected -- to the earth, to humanity, to the one place in all the wide
world that is yours and yours alone.  Be prepared to laugh, be prepared to
cry.  Be prepared to leave the movie theater with a persistent urge to run
to those you love and hug them for a long, long time.  They may be
imperfect, they may (occasionally or often) drive you crazy.  But they are
what keeps you from spinning off into the cold, dark, impersonal world.
They are your reflection, your heart, your soul.  Savor their company while
you are together, and even when they are gone you will always have them
with
you.

And, whatever you do, follow your heart.  It is so much wiser than your
head.  Or, better yet, follow your stomach.  Let it lead you
home.


<|_=00=_|>

I watched this movie on account of having an interest in movies with
baking
or
cooking in it.  The most authentic part of this movie involves the scenes
where
food is being prepared, and yet, like everything else in the movie, it
reeks
of
shoddy, TV-movie production.  The editing was jumpy, the dialog was
dreadful,
and the accents defied belief.  No one from anywhere speaks like "me want
this,
me no want that".  Bleckh.  
<|_=00=_|>
OK usually I am a horror,action,adventure, comedy, and drama kinda
girl. Throw in a mafia movie shake and you have a perfect date
especially if there is a lot of action ,voilence or murder, but this
movie was one I rented on the sole reason of Scott Baio who I love when
I was younger on Charles In Charge. I normally rent the lepercan series
or something of the like and was never found in the romance section
unless one of my boyfriends(there have been many over the years looking
for a more romance night I guess you know why) dragged me over to get
what they called a "chick Flick" . I could never understand what the
appeal for those movies was . I was the anti-Chick when it came to
movies but after seeing this movie with its simple Italian family and
their kind neighbor downstairs in a bakery appealed to my family side
especially since I am half Italian . It is the kind of movie that was a
fairy tale in my Nonna's view before she died when I was three . Her
idea of a fairy tale for me was to get married to a nice Italian boy
and have a nice family .So this movie pulled at my heart strings. Rent
it and keep an open mind. You never know you might love it.
<|_=00=_|>


Spoilers herein.

On its face, this is a pretty clumsy setup. We have the mystical gypsy on
the sidewalk (whose 
role seems to have been mostly edited out); the fantastic notion of a
baker's life combined 
with that of A NYC VP of Mergers and Acquisitions (and that the job has
something to do 
with firing people); the maudlin exercise of the retarded brother; the blunt
metaphor of real 
versus junk food.

It is all a jumble of uncoordinated pieces. But it is a food movie, and that
almost always 
works for me (well, except for `Tortilla Soup') because food memories
stretch the cinematic 
experience.

And this has a particularly charming Bella. Sure it is a cheap shot, and not
that hard to do. 
But this old woman was easy to want to please.

Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3: Has some interesting elements.

<|_=00=_|>

I saw this film at a local film festival.  The story for the most part is
true.  I had the opportunity to talk to some of the cast and director.
They
were all great and the film itself was amazing.

Kristin Minter and Scott Baio brought the characters to life and showed
great emotion.  I loved seeing Minter in a different element than that of
ER, and it was nice to see Baio again.

The story brought tears to my eyes and laughter to the room.  It's a story
of life, loyalty, love , and the importance of family.

This film is a must see.
<|_=00=_|>

THIS film racked up a 7.3? No way, IMDB voters! The film is a mess from
start to finish. Baio and his female co-star's supposedly "passionate"
acting are wooden, cold, and utterly unmoving--as if they'd lose their
salaries if they displayed a true emotion. The cinematography is worse than
film school quality, with chopped heads and too-close closeups in full
abundance. "Bread" (stupid title, BTW) is grossly manipulative, tugging as
hard as a 2-year-old on your heartstrings. Yet for all its designs on making
me cry, I didn't come anywhere near it, and only derived one mild chuckle
out of the whole supposed-to-be-amusing affair. The characters are
incredibly stereotyped Italian-Americans, complete with speeches about the
"Old Country,"--a cheap ripoff of Moonstruck or any other ethnic comedy
you've seen lately. The gruff Italian male with the heart of gold, his
doting wife who has an intuitive understanding of life sputtered through
broken English, the iconoclastic daughter "who don't need no husband" and is
whispered to be--gasp!--bisexual. And the guy who is a baker--gee, could we
borrow from Nic Cage's role in Moonstruck any more?

Save your money--$7.50 will buy you plenty of biscotti and Gallo burgundy
for an evening at home. Movies made with this degree of stereotype and
cliche deserve to be boycotted.
