

First of all, once again I think the critics have got it wrong. Like Blade
Runner and 2001, this is a film that will be properly judged in 10/20
years
or maybe more. Its way ahead of its time, the combination of Kubrick and
Spielberg is unique, its unlikely we will ever see anything like this
again.

Did I like it? The answer would have to be yes, the mix of styles will put
many people off, but I found it to be unlike anything I have ever seen,
and
all the better for it. The story is by no means original but everything
else
about the film is so different that this can be forgiven. To get one thing
straight, Kubrick decided Spielberg would be the better man for directing
it, and I think this was a very wise decision, many of the ideas are pure
Kubrick, but Spielberg has the neccassary attributes to direct such a
film,
and great credit has to go to Kubrick for handing it to
him.

Haley Joel Osment is amazing, the robot/human emotion must be amazingly
difficult to pull off effectively, but Osment does it with such relative
ease to the point where you do believe he is a robot, not that he is just
acting as a robot. Jude Law is excellent, and so to is Frances O'Conner.

As for the ending, as brave as an idea it may of been to end on a downbeat
note at "the first ending" I think the slightly upbeat ending is much more
appropriate.

All in all I would say A.I is a wonderfully unique film that should be
judged for what it is, a film. Forget everything about the
Spielberg/Kubrick
"issue" and just sit back and take in a truely amazing film. You may hate
it, you may love it, but no matter what, it will effect your emotions in
some way and you will discuss the film afterwards.

This film will be truely judged in 20 years or so, when it can be assessed
purely as a film, as with 'Blade Runner', '2001', and even 'The Thing', it
will get better with age.
<|_=00=_|>

Steven Spielberg's latest movie A.I.: ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE, which he took
up at the encouragement of the late, great Stanley Kubrick, has caused
widely divergent comments.  And I can't help wondering if the most
scathingly negative reviews of this movie aren't just an open desire to see
Spielberg crash, as he had with "1941" and HOOK.

For my money, Spielberg has done it again with this futuristic science
fiction drama, regardless of what the negative reviews say.  Its story of a
robot boy (Haley Joel Osment) who desires to be a real boy in a far future
in which humans (Orgas) and machines (Mechas) exist side-by-side but not
always in harmony is very much modeled on the Pinocchio story, though it is
actually based on a 1969 short story by Brian Aldiss.  It raises some
interesting and sometimes unsettling moral dilemmas that few films of late
have done.  Can a parent love a child, even if that child is not real?  What
might happen if that child desired to be real?  How will Man and Machine be
able to co-exist?

Like all intelligent science fiction, such as Kubrick's own 2001: A SPACE
ODYSSEY and Spielberg's own CLOSE ENCOUNTERS, A.I. forces us to ponder where
we've been and where we might be going.  It's an incredible combination of
Kubrick's icy intellectual and clinical mind and Spielberg's emotional
heart; and I think it works exceedingly well.  But it forces the viewer to
not leave their heart and brains at the door, which I think is why it is
being so negatively received in this season of mindless summer movie fare.
It may be too intelligent for its own good, and many don't have the 145
minutes of patience needed for the movie.  I did, however; and I would call
this an absolute masterpiece.  Out of ten stars, give this one a
10.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie has SO many angles, so much information... I was completely
blown
away by it and will definitely go see it many more times in the cinema.
This
is one of the classic movies of all time and I was appalled by the complete
lack of understanding by many of the other user-comments.

If you like Tomb Raider or Disney Movies...just don't bother. This is so
far
removed from the Hollywood-style of scripting that many would just be bored
to death by the surrealism and impressionism Kubrick uses in all of his
films.

If you are looking for a Spielberg action-flick...also stay away. Don't
bother. I can only guess Spielberg finished this 'Kubrick' with the proper
respect for one of the greatest directors of all time.

This is not a movie, this is pretentious art. Pretentious, but actually
making GOOD on its pretense. From my point of view, not in the negative
sense of the word. Questions are asked and possible answers given, letting
the viewer decide for themselves. Mindbogglingly, impressive camera-action.
Brilliant soundtrack. Absolutely perfect acting by all players. Superb
casting.

One of the greatest movies of all time. High in the list, together with
"2001, A Space Oddyssee".
<|_=00=_|>

AI - ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE / (2001) ***1/2 (out of four)

By Blake French:

	"AI - Artificial Intelligence" is the hardest kind of movie to review-but
it's also the most enjoyable kind of movie to watch. It's been over three
weeks since my screening of Steven Spielberg's emotionally harrowing epic
about a robot boy.  Before writing my review, I wanted to let its themes,
content, and characters sink into my head and make a solid impact. The film
was based on an idea by Stanley Kubrick, but when he died in 1999, Speilberg
took charge of the project. I could spend pages discussing the techniques of
Kubrick's intentions and Spielberg's decisions, but I will not. Stanley
Kubrick and Steven Spielberg are two of the greatest directors American
cinema has to offer; it's pure pleasure watching their ideas clash and
flow.	
I am not going to examine each individual theme here, either. That would
ruin the movie for you. 

"AI - Artificial Intelligence" presents many themes on screen, but it's
important to take what you get out of it. Whenever I read a review of
Kubrick's "A Clockwork Orange" or "2001: A Space Odyssey" I feel influenced
by the reviewer's interpretation of the movie's themes. Every time I watch
either of those movies I get something new out of it. I hate it when other
critics state the movie's themes on paper as if it's a fact. There is far
too much room for interpretation to reveal this movie's message, or the
message of any Kubrick film for that matter. Ask 100 people, and you might
get 100 different answers. "AI - Artificial Intelligence" is that kind of
movie-one of the year's best.

Critics and audiences alike have torn apart this movie's ending-a clear
miscalculation by Spielberg. If Kubrick were in charge, the movie would have
called it quits about twenty minutes earlier in an unsettling sequence that
takes place in the ocean. But Speilberg, who always seems entranced by
science fiction, injects an additional segment into the mix that does not
work quite as well, but isn't so completely awful that it deserves such
harsh criticism. It still leaves us with an open, startled emotional
disorientation. I left the theater with tears in my eyes. The movie before
the conclusion is so complex, moving, and involving in so many different
ways the last twenty minutes didn't even come close to spoiling the movie
for me.

	"AI" transpires sometime in the near future after the polar ice caps have
melted and flooded coastal cities and reduced natural resources. Mechanical
androids have become popular since they require no commodities. Reproduction
has also become highly illegal. Machines provide sexual services and if
anyone wants a child, they will purchase a robot. However, the difference
between a robot child and a living child is that robots cannot love. That's
the task professor Hobby (William Hurt) of Cybertronics Manufacturing has
solved. He has made a robot child that can love. 

	We can separate "AI" into two separate segments.  I do not want to reveal
too much about each plot because the pleasure of watching this movie evolves
from the revealing of the connecting plots. I will, however, briefly say the
first details a robot child's interaction within a family, and the second
deals with the robot's estrangement from its family and the quest to regain
the mother's love. 

I can imagine the material in Kubrick's hands. The movie's opening scene has
a female robot begin to undress in a public office. Speilberg cuts the
action before she reveals any explicit nudity. Kubrick would have had
various shots of full frontal nudity. Spielberg, never comfortable with
sexual material, leaves out much of the motivation behind Kubrick's ideas.
One of the biggest problems in "AI" is the lack of edge with the sexual
content. Jude Law plays a robot gigolo who lives in a sex fantasy called
Rouge City where people from everywhere come to seek sexual satisfaction.
The central character, a robot boy played by Haley Joel Osment, motivates
every action in the story except for the scenes in Rouge City. Why contain
such a perverse character and setting when his entire existence simply
displays a mood that has already been well established.  Obvious, the
filmmakers toned the aspects of "AI" down to warrant a gutless PG-13
rating-but why? The movie isn't appropriate for children anyway, and it's
far too complex. Undoubtedly if Kubrick were in charge "AI" would have to be
re-cut to avoid an NC-17 rating. Spielberg should have either taken
advantage of the perverse material or completely eliminated it.

	Here I am, doing exactly what I said that I wouldn't do, and at nearly 900
words, I still have not clearly expressed my own opinions on the film. I
have many notes in front of my that display my reaction as I watched the
film, but I am not going to use them-they reveal too much about the movie. 
"AI" is a very personal film, a deeply moving, scientific, careful, and
harrowing motion picture that displays startling talent on screen and behind
the scenes. The special effects are extraordinary. The performances are
alarming-the immensely talented Haley Joel Osment may once again be up for
an Academy Award nomination. Go see the movie, then talk about it with
others. It's the kind of film that you can spend hours thinking about, then
go see it again.  

 

<|_=00=_|>

I loved this film. It isn't one of the greatest films ever made, but it's a
personal favorite of mine. I cried at the two sad points, I laughed at the
mannerisms of Gigalo Joe and Teddy, the super-toy, my heart pumped faster at
the action, suspense, and horror, but overall, I really enjoyed the film on
a whole. I didn't find an ounce of it boring at all. It's practically the
same as observing an extraordinary life and extraordinary tale of a boy who
just wants his mommy. But the boy is not a boy, and rather a robot. But the
way he acts can pass for a human any day.

The look of the film was dazzling and amazing. From the facilities in the
underwater Manhatten, to the curvy, sensual architecture of Rouge City. I
really felt as if I were really going along for a great ride and once I
stepped out of the theater, I wanted more.

The film is from Steven Spielberg based on Brian Aldiss' short story,
"Super-toys Last All Summer Long" which was doctored up by Stanley Kubrick.
The film is a tribute to the legendary filmaker, but it is not his film, but
rather Spielberg's. Sure it sometimes tries to mimic his styles, but that's
practically the same as a filmmaker paying homage to a great. It's more or
less the same as somebody making his adaptation of a novel or maybe graphic
novel, since Kubrick supplied some of his artwork through designs. The story
is Kubrick's, but the film is Spielberg's.

Although it may seem ridiculous to some at some points, it's a future, not
THE future, but a rendition of it and somethings may happen in THIS future
that may seem unrealistic. The film has a great score, but it just doesn't
stand out like some of John Williams's other scores. The end could be
considered a homage to Spielberg's "Close Encounters Of the Third Kind" or
it could be something different, something more along the lines of the
film's title, Artificial Intelligence, but only a far more advanced form of
it.

The acting in this film is great along with the emotions, visions, humor,
and fright. I found this film to be extraordinarily superb, but whether you
think it's as good, is up to you.
<|_=00=_|>

It is fitting that A.I., Steven Spielberg's monument on film to Stanley
Kubrick, is a shoe-in for Best Picture in 2001. A.I. is cinematically
beautiful, and tells a wrenching emotional story of a child's quest for
maternal love.

In A.I., Spielberg masterfully adopts Kubrick's hard, bare-essentials style
of direction, letting the photography tell the story, rather than the
dialogue. This style allowed Kubrick to develop an enormous scope of ideas,
stories and emotions in his movies. But it often left casual movie goers
behind.  He had difficulty finding the right treatment for A.I. so he handed
the project to Spielberg before Kubrick's death last year.

Spielberg textures A.I. with obvious dollops of his own
soft-as-whipped-cream touch.  It is Spielberg's great skill that blends the
two styles together with mesmerizing results.  This blend allows the
emotional story of a young robotic boy to come to life, and Kubrick fans
will be able to enjoy one last film made by the master -- with the
respectful help of another great artist.

The Kubrickian style demands the very best from actors, who must appear
unapologetically real, and must, in long sequences with no dialogue, convey
strong feelings and emotions. The A.I cast, especially lead actor Haley Joel
Osment, meet every measure of the demands. Despite his youth, Osment will
surely receive a nomination for Best Actor.

A.I. will rank high among the best movies ever made, but viewers should come
prepared for an intense emotional and intellectual work-out. If you want to
take in a quick flick to escape life for a couple of hours, this is not your
movie. If you want to explore the cinematic depth of a master artist like
Spielberg, A.I. will take you places you've never been before.


<|_=00=_|>

Wow!  That was all I could say when I walked out of the theatre after my
first helping of A.I.  I wasn't sure whether I loved the movie or was
disappointed by it, I just knew it had had a huge effect on me.  Having seen
it a further three times at the cinema, I still find fault with it, but I
keep returning to it, thinking about it, discussing it, and it has left me
with a feeling that, five months later, I've still not shaked.  In many
regards, this movie reminds me of Fight Club, not in terms of theme or
emotional content, but due to it's level of craft, the daring nature of it's
execution and the fact that I keep re-evaluating it.  All the things that
are possible to comment objectively on (if anything ever is) are handled
expertly.  The performances are top-notch, especially Haley Joel Osment as
David, the little robot child that longs to be human.  The effects are not
only very impressive, but are integrated into the story rather than calling
attention to themselves.  Januz Kaminski's photography is, as one has come
to expect, impressive, and the movie is unusually unpredictable for such a
big-budget experience.

 In my opinion, John Williams' score is among his most impressive.  I
listened to it on CD for three weeks before seeing the movie, and thought it
was fantastic, but once the movie started rolling I completely forgot about
the music.  That says a lot about both the score and the film itself.  I
also liked the three-act structure, in which the tone and feel of the movie
changes drastically as the story progresses.  Part one, as one reviewer
noted, feels like a cross between E.T. and The Shining, an odd, but very
effective combination.  The second part of the movie is awash with
Spielbergian imagery, but with the darkness and coldness of a Kubrick movie.
And the last part is a head-scratcher that has the intellectual resonance of
most Kubrick-films, and the emotional tone of something like Cinema
Paradiso.  I purposely refrain from saying that it is as emotional as
Spielberg-films, because I think the director's complexities, the dark
aspects of his style, and the occasional subtleties of his work are often
overlooked by critics.

 It's difficult to discuss the themes of the movie without spoiling it, but
while many people criticised the movie from having several false endings, I
felt that each continuation added layers of though and complexities that the
movie would have lacked had it ended sooner.  I have come to the conclusion,
over the past months, that I do love the movie and that it is my favourite
film of 2001, even ahead of The Fellowship of The Ring and Amelie.  In other
words, buy it on DVD, it's more than worth it.  
<|_=00=_|>

The "literalists" are clearly not happy with A.I. So now is a good time to
recall that "2001: A Space Odyssey" was greeted upon release with derision,
confusion, dismissive reviews, public consternation, and, oh yeah, some
thought it was an absolute masterpiece. Beyond the monolithic influence of
that film (think of Han Solo's jump to lightspeed, etc.), the symbols of
"2001" -- TO THIS VERY DAY -- cannot be decoded using anything but the most
personal, interpretive language. The obelisks, the message of the obelisks,
the Star Child, Cosmonaut Dave's "room", HAL-9000's true motivation – all
these things remain in our collective subconscious as indelible images that
refuse to be concretely defined between or among viewers. WHAT CAUSES THIS
CONFLICT OF PERCEPTION? IS IT INTENTIONAL? Again and again, Kubrick's films
take us to a No-Man's Land of narrative and moral ambiguity, stranding us,
forcing us to make decisions, demanding interpretation (or we can judge the
surface, walk away, hate the film). To my perception, Kubrick is the only,
true "Brechtian" film director. The device Brecht proposed is "Alienation
Effect", or put simply, Leading the audience down two, divergent paths at
once. My favorite example is "Barry Lyndon". Being the adventures of a young
man, handsome, virtuous, well-meaning, ambitious, full of promise. Yet in
every scene, the camera "pulls-back" revealing Barry (but never to himself)
to be womanizing, self-absorbed, criminally inclined, socially inept, not
very bright, morally bankrupt, and at last, a broken shell of a man. Or
let's consider "Strangelove": Did Kubrick really create a headbanger,
slapstick comedy about nuclear proliferation, mass destruction, and
military/political incompetence? The real question is "Who else could have?"
Well, that's my take on Kubrick's artistic sensibility, and, without daring
to presume Spielberg's motivation, it's what drew them both to "A.I."
Pinocchio, the Blue Fairy, cuddly Teddy Bears on one hand, but on the other
hand – social institutions are faltering forever -- parenthood, childhood,
science, industry, sexuality -- all distorted beyond repair. And Humans, the
ultimate A.I. protagonist, seem blissed-out, in denial, more interested in
creating "Davids", "Darlenes" and "Gigolo Joes" than in rising water levels
and the imminent threat of extinction. Therefore, I believe A.I. is getting
precisely the response all Kubrick films "INITIALLY" get. Spielberg's
reputation and career can withstand anything that public perception might
bring to his films, but I keep thinking that A.I. is the riskiest moment of
his artistic life.
<|_=00=_|>

I thought A.I. was a very good film.  I'm sure it is somewhat different
from what Kubrick had thought but he and Spielberg had worked
on it for a long time.
I liked the questions that it posed about such as what does it
mean to be a being?  Does the boy robot have genuine feelings or
are they programmed?  But we as people do we have genuine
feelings or are they "programmed" in our genetic code, by society,
and by other factors?  Intriguing questions from an intriguing film. 
Definitely a thinking persons movie.
The acting by Haley Joel Osmet was outstanding and the
supporting cast was equally good, too.  The portrayal of the future
was somewhat frightening but also extremely fascinating. 
Especially the ending of the film.  I saw this film with my brother
who's first word when the film ended was "Wow!"  He only
expresses that for films he really likes.  Those who like science
fiction and those who like films that make them think definitely see
this film.  Even if you are not as impressed as I am you will find
parts of the film fascinating.
<|_=00=_|>
I won't say people will either love this movie or they will hate it.
I'm sure it breaks down that way to some extent, and the range of
opinions expressed about the movie support that notion, but I'm
nevertheless also sure there are those out there who are ambivalent or
indifferent about it, neither loving or hating it. That's because I'm
one who was ambivalent about it after I first saw it in 2001. There was
much to like about the movie. Film makers par excellence, Stanley
Kubrick and Steven Spielberg. Does it get any better than that? The
cast was good too, all of it. Especially Haley Joel Osment. Production
values galore. The film is beautifully rendered. But even with all that
there was something about it that bothered me, even annoyed me, and
whatever it was it got in the way of my enjoyment of it. So I dismissed
this movie and didn't even think about again it for years. Recently it
popped up on HBO. I took the opportunity to watch it again. I found
myself not being as bothered by the movie as I was before. HBO being
HBO, I watched it again. And then again. Now there is nothing about the
movie I dislike or that bothers me. I now like this movie without
reservation. I also figured out why I reacted the way I did in the
initial viewing.

My suggestion to those who don't like the movie is watch it again, and
give it your thorough attention. Your opinion may change. For a couple
of reasons.

First, this is a very complex movie. There's a lot to take in,
visually, cognitively, philosophically. I've now seen it four times and
I don't believe I've yet absorbed all there is. We're talking Kubrick
AND Spielberg here. That alone tells you this movie contains much to
behold. I'm not of the school who believes that Spielberg mucked this
up after Kubrick died. Yes, Kubrick nursed this project along for over
20 years, from initial writing and treatment through rewrite after
rewrite. But it was Kubrick who hand-picked Spielberg to direct it,
years before it finally was made, Kubrick leaving his indelible
imprimatur, but Spielberg likewise leaving his too was always
anticipated, including by Kubrick. Kubrick wanted Spielberg's touch on
this movie. Nor do I believe the movie is "20 minutes too long". Those
last 20 minutes are not just Spielberg schmaltz, they are important to
the resolution of the story. Throughout the first 126 minutes of the
movie we are asked in myriad ways to care about David. The last 20
minutes gives meaning to that caring. Without that conclusion there is
no meaning, just a cold void.

Which leads directly to the second reason why I recommend repeated
viewings, and the explanation for my initial reaction. The story is
about a robot designed and programmed to be just like a little boy, who
wants to be a real little boy, and who literally spends thousands of
years seeking the return of love from his human "mother" who he was
programmed to bond with and love. That's the basis from which all
manner of questions are asked and explored, about the meaning of love,
humanity, and of existence itself. I submit that this storyline told
that way --about a child-- ultimately overwhelms the emotional senses.
It more than tugs at the heartstrings. It yanks at them. While we might
care about the android Data on Star Trek, or about the robot Robin
Williams plays in Bicentennial Man, both of which also want to be
human, our caring for those "adult" robots is nothing compared to the
caring we feel for the child David here. With an innocent child seeking
his mother's love it all goes way over the top. Add to the mix that
Haley Joel Osment played the role masterfully. With this recipe the
movie bluntly manipulates our emotions, something it does too well. It
becomes distracting and difficult to watch, let alone to process
analytically. Think Bambi, but on steroids. Many of us just shut it
down, saying to ourselves, "I don't need this maudlin stuff in my
life." Thus affected, the viewer never appreciates the movie's rich
themes because the shutdown blocks all that. What I found, however, is
that subsequent viewings lessens the distracting effect, and the movie
becomes much easier to watch and fully appreciate. Oddly, it appears
that Kubrick and Spielberg knew exactly what they were toying with in
this respect, and they did it intentionally. It is embedded in the
story itself. The flesh fair's barker, as he was getting ready to
destroy David, has to keep reminding the audience that David is only a
machine, not a real boy, and he implores the audience to not allow
their emotions to be manipulated by the machine's child-like
appearance. As David tearfully pleads for his life the audience is
swayed, giving David an opening to escape. The inner audience, the
audience within the story, is is being manipulated the same way we in
the outer audience, were being manipulated. This must be a conceit by
intent and design.

As a child actor Haley Joel Osment was nonpareil. The Sixth Sense told
us that. This was his last role as a child, and after this he became a
different actor (see e.g., Secondhand Lions). Puberty did that. His
career as an adult actor is just now beginning, and what that holds in
store remains to be seen. But as a child he was very very good. Maybe
the best ever. And this is him at his best

If you haven't seen it, be prepared to see it more than once. If you
have seen it, see it again. This is a movie that gets better each time
you see it.
