

I saw this on a plane. You know, you are strapped to a chair and forced to
watch whatever garbage they put up there.

And I have to say I actually had fun. Some scenes are sugary and over the
top but the kid's performance is above average for children actors. Casting
was perfect. 

One thing though: the music is inappropriate, heavy-handed and sometimes
ruins the scenes. It is like asking Richard Wagner to write for an intimate
comedy. Very weird.

But I strongly recommended the movie to my mom. It is that kind of
movie.
<|_=00=_|>

The Kid - At 39 years old Russel Duritz has a life that most men would
envy
- he has a great job, is respected (and feared), has a beautiful house and
makes buckets of money.  But everything comes at a cost, in this case no
social life, no conscience and a fear of spending the rest of his life
alone.   He just needs someone to show him the way.

As I watched the movie, I kept wondering why Disney didn't pass this film
on
to Miramax - not because it's particularly daring or edgy, but because it
is
clearly a movie for adults.  This is exacerbated by the marketing campaign
which is clearly targeting children - it is lumped in with trailers for
"Rugrats the Movie", and "Pokemon 2000" (aren't they passe yet?).   But I
quibble.

I was impressed by the sensitive treatment of the subject matter - rather
than the typical male midlife crisis that involves some pathetic sap
buying
a Porsche convertible and acting like a moron, Willis' character
undertakes
some serious introspection and takes stock of his life.  His guide on this
journey of self-discovery is himself at age 8 (they never explain how
Rusty
arrives and frankly, I didn't care).   Young Rusty's innocence and
unbridled
optimism give him a distinct advantage in divining the truth - he sums up
Russell's job as an image consultant thusly, "You teach people how to lie
and pretend to be something they aren't".    In order for a good script to
succeed, however, you need actors to bring it to life.  Not a problem
here.

Although Willis has thrice ignored W.C. Fields' warnings about starring
with
children or animals he has lucked out once again, meshing as well
comedically with Breslin as he did dramatically with Osment. Willis
manages
to balance Russell's cutthroat powerbroker traits with vulnerability and
confusion, without becoming ridiculous.  Breslin meanwhile gives a dead on
portrayal of a kid from everyone's childhood - the one that always stuck
out
for some reason and got picked on.   We also get two bonus performances:
Lily Tomlin is great as Russell's levelheaded assistant and Jean Smart is
perfect as an insightful charming anchorwoman (I loved her in
"Guinevere").

The Kid is charming, heavy, and real.  And it will appeal to adults of all
ages.

<|_=00=_|>

When the first trailer for this film was viewed by myself, I was curious as
to what angle the storyline would take.  After all the plot of having one's
childhood self return to the present leaves open many options.  Bruce
Willis
however does a superb job in the role he was given.  I was surprised to see
just how well he could act in this part.  This is also a good career move
as
many others have said but after seeing it I now agree.  This film is mainly
about remembering the kid you used to be, and coming to the realization
that
you aren't the adult you planned to be.  This is a wonderful story and a
gripping tale that makes us all think.  Usually we scorn at "What if..."
movies.  For example, Waterworld attempted to answer the question "What if
the world were to be covered with water and...?"  But truthfully, nobody
cared.  This movie however effects everyone in the theatre.  True, young
children may not fully grasp the idea of growing up and having all your
dreams fizzle away, but it leaves a great impact on the adults and parents
of those children.  This movie is definitely worth seeing.  Although, it
will be better the second time around because you won't be thinking so much
(about how the kid got there, and why and all that stuff)  Just relax and
have fun.  And take something with you when you leave that cinema.  Take
that piece of your childhood you've forgotten and enjoy
it.
<|_=00=_|>

The Kid is a really good family movie about a stuffy image consultant, Russ
Duritz, who has lots of money, a good job, nice house, etc. The only problem
is he doesn't have much of a social life as nobody seems to like him as he
isn't always very nice. One day though things are about to change when an
eight year old version of himself magically appears. This gives Russ a
second chance to make things right. Bruce Willis plays the lead role here
and he gives a really good performance. The Kid is a nice, heart-warming
movie for everyone.
<|_=00=_|>
When this movie was shown on television, it wasn't announced as
"Disney's The Kid", but just as "The Kid", a movie with Bruce Willis,
and that's probably a good thing. I'm pretty sure I would never have
taped it if I knew this was a Disney movie, fearing that all the syrupy
nonsense would be too much for me to handle. Still, I don't know what
made me decide to give this movie a try when I saw the title in the
beginning of the movie, but in the end I was glad that I watched it,
because it certainly wasn't as bad as I feared it would be.

Bruce Willis is Russ Duritz, a wealthy L.A. image consultant who's
about to turn forty. He's a cynical workaholic who has estranged from
his father, who has no memories of his childhood and who doesn't have a
girlfriend, a family or even a dog. One night he surprises an intruder,
who turns out to be an almost 8 years old kid. But there is something
strange about him. The chubby kid is named Rusty and has a lot of
similarities with Russ. Soon they find out that Russ and Rusty are
actually the same person. Together they make a journey into Russ's past
to find the key moment that has defined who Russ is. How this is
possible, what it all has to mean and how it will affect both their
futures will only be clear at the end of the movie.

In a way this is a very typical and predictable Disney movie with it's
rather innocent and naive look on life, but I guess it can be enjoyable
for adults as well. It is all very recognizable and it is a nice fairy
tale about losing touch with your inner child. It certainly isn't the
best movie ever, but it is some decent and heart-warming family
entertainment that offers some nice acting and a good story. I would
say: watch it with an open mind and you'll see it isn't as bad as you
feared. I give it a 6/10.
<|_=00=_|>

From a perspective that it is possible to make movies that are not offensive
to people with strong moral values, this one is definitely worthwhile.  This
is the second Bruce Willis film in a row that manages to tell its story with
no nudity, off-color humor, profanity, or gratuitous violence. (I refer of
course to The Sixth Sense.) Both movies are engaging on more than one level.
This one is appropriate for children as well, although as others have
pointed out, it isn't a flick FOR kids. 

I was bothered that the time travel device that drives this plot is never
explained, except that we know Russell himself initiates it as a 70 year
old.  Also, why does his dying mother have to come to school to get him when
he wins the fight; why, if as his older self says, he has to fight that kid
again and again for the next few years does his mother not have to come and
get him every time, and why he doesn't learn to kick butt in the process. I
also found the score rather annoying and not always appropriate to the
action on stage. 

Good use of the red plane as metaphor, however. 
<|_=00=_|>
Now for sure, this is one of the lightest-hearted stories that Bruce
Willis has been in to date and yet,-- it is still touching. I really
like Bruce's style and persona, I haven't loved everything he has ever
been in, but he brings it to the 'Big-time' for me in most all his film
endeavors.

The story begins..... He is power, confidence and style with a capitol
'S' . He drives a Porshe he lives well, in a palatial estate with a
grand view of the fair city. That's Russell Duritz. He is an image
consultant to those who are on the top or rising to it. His acclaim, he
is Russell Duritz, he knows what it takes to make it. It just seems
that as life is going along swiftly and foundation-ally set, there is a
problem, an intruder at his home, the alarm has been activated! 

Russell can't seem to figure out (for the moment) what is happening to
him. It's different and yet it is somehow familiar. A small boy, who
looks exactly like....-- him. As their lives run smack dab into each
other, there seems to be a reason that is screaming out to him, "You
have unfinished business to take care of, now!"

Amy the supporting young lady of the story is probably the best balance
that he has seen and has in his life. She works with him, puts up with
his 'ego' and yet, she is smitten with Russell. Very much so. With
Rusty his past 'self' now in the picture and talking a mile a minute,
singing too late at night, everything that was foundational is becoming
like jelly! 

Willis is fun, egocentric and at times out of his head in this lovable
Disney modern times classic 'The Kid' and to add his little heavy-duty
side kick Spencer Breslin is a perfect addition to this sparkling story
of childhood to adult and back to childhood adventure. Chi McBride is
an inspirational supporting character, as he is the heavy-weight champ,
teaching 'little' Rusty how to box to defend himself against the
bullies on the playground. 

All in all this is a real winner of a movie with even Lillie Tomlin as
the secretary and aide to Russell. I originally saw this back in 2000'
and then again years later, with equal enjoyment. This is a shiny
family comedy that has a super ending that will warm the hearts of any
Disney fan Recommended highly (*****)
<|_=00=_|>

I have been always wondering "Can one truly explain the meaning of life in
less than two hours?" And here I got the answer after watching this movie
for 3 times. This is certainly one of the greatest films I've ever seen.
Disney tries to make the film in an interesting and lovely way so it can
appeal to both the kids and the adults. But what lies behind the film by
far
beyond the comprehension of a normal kid.
Here, let's first look at how other comments put it: `The movie starts by
completely neglecting even an attempt at explaining how 8-year-old Rusty
shows up on 40-year-old Rusty's doorstep" But this is not true. Actually
the
film made a hard work demonstrated how Russ (Willis) --a successful image
consultant and a rich jerk was haunted by the hallucination of a flying
plane which was actually the same kind of a model given to him by his
father
as a present. Here Audey Wells present all the viewers a question as a
shrimp in the later plot suggested it: you're having hallucination for a
reason and you need to figure out what that reason is.But at that time, the
film is not in a hurry to explain the reason.
Later on Ross's hallucination got stronger and he even imagined a boy
intruded into his house. Even more the hallucinated boy lead him to an old
drome. From there Ross's dream or more accurately the psychiatric journey
of
exploring himself began. That exploration filled most of the film till the
8-year-old Rusty disappeared on the same drome (notice only at that time
Russ's clothes changed back to the sleeping pajama).
The main part of the film (that's what I called the exploration) centered
on
the questions that had puzzled Russ these days: What's wrong with him? Why
he always said somebody call the Ouaaaaaaaaambulance? Why he had a twitch?
What happened from being little Rusty and becoming Russ? What will be
supposed to do with the relation with Amy? And finally what he will be
doing
in the later time of his life?
The film did an excellent job in explain all these questions. Evenmore it
raised another question: Is Russ really a loser? Here Jean Smart said
something very inspiring: I mean how many of us grow up to be astronauts or
prima ballerina? We just all do the best we can.
This film presented the normal theme of midyear crisis in a swift and
clever
way without lacking of provoking thought.The main character especially
Bruce
Willis and Jean Smart worked very well to helped achieve visual effect as
well as the profound theme.Russ got the answer and know what to do next,
what about us?

<|_=00=_|>

While my kids enjoyed the movie (and announced afterward that they want to
buy it later) I think I got more out of it that they did.  The scene in the
airport shop at the beginning is real life (I did not use the cutting
comment aloud, but I thought it).  It is a feel good mid-life movie, a bit
sappy and some scenes work less well than others (why does the kid stay
with
Bruce Willis after he knows his Mom is dying?), but all in all and good
time.  It also gave our family something to talk about - did my kids think
my life was boring?  What do they expect at 40? How can you not like a
movie
that gets a good conversation going with your kids?
<|_=00=_|>
Like a lot of movies involving little kids, this starts off "real cute"
and likable...and then, after about a half hour or so, becomes the
reverse.

That's certainly the case here in this time-travel story (which I
usually love) where an adult meets a kid who his really him at the age
of eight! Great premise and a great lead actor in Bruce Willis,
but.....

The kid "Rusty" is a smart-aleck and whiny brat and Willis Rusty grown
up now as "Russell" gets abrasive with his constant yelling. That is
entertainment? No, thanks.

Young Breslin has gone on to become a very good child actor, being
involved in a number of films including "The Cat In The Hat" opposite a
more famous child actor: Dakota Fanning. 

Overall, a disappointing film, especially with all the good press this
movie got when it was released.
