

I cannot understand why so many 
people did not like this film. Robert 
De Niro was on top of his game, 
delivering his lines with such aplomb, 
one has to believe this is his everyday 
demeanor. Granted, the film seemed 
to take on many buddy-film conventions 
while trying to make fun of the concept, 
it goes without saying this film was 
genuinely funny. From the police dog, 
to the fact Eddie Murphy didn't annoy 
the heck out of me, this film is a real 
keeper. Rene Russo also evened out 
the rest of the cast perfectly, establishing 
her role so it does not interfere with the 
budding relationship between De Niro 
and Murphy.
<|_=00=_|>

I don't care what some of the reviews said, this movie was funny.  The thing
with this film is that you can't expect anything else except to be
entertained.  This is not some intellectual comedy, this is a clever popcorn
movie.  The three main cast members are great and work very well with each
other.  Shatner is a standout in the supporting cast as himself, a former TV
cop, brought in by Russo's character to coach the cops on how to be "TV
cops."  Those are by far the funniest scenes.  If you want to be entertained
and just sit back for a laugh, then watch this movie.  

<|_=00=_|>

Robert De Niro and Eddie Murphy star in Showtime as a couple of cops- a
quiet, efficient Dirty Harry-like cop and a cop who is deep down an actor,
respecively, who are brought together by an accident and forced to take
part
in a cop-buddy reality TV show for a hungry for ratings producer (Rene
Russo).  For the first two acts, it delivers a good time in parodying old
cop/buddy movie cliches and shows how De Niro and Murphy have some
intelligent chemistry in a comedy, but the third act dips by leaving the
parody and becoming what it's making fun of.  In all, a conventional and
surely enjoyable escape on a weekend day.  B+
<|_=00=_|>

This is a funny movie.  The Bob & Eddie Show feel of it could lead to
a
sequel but I doubt it will make enough money.  

Deniro proves he can be a great Straight man again with some
hilarious
and spontaneous moments.  Eddie was fun to watch working with people instead
of CGI animals and rodents.  Rene Russo- well she's just
fun
to watch anyway and she's played her part excellent.

Some wild and unusual stunts, especially the garbage truck
scene.
This was worth seeing in the theater.  We needed a good laugh
and
got many from the movie and the great out-takes at the end.  DO
NOT
LEAVE at the start of the credits!

At least a 7.
<|_=00=_|>
I put down this vehicle from Robert De Niro and Eddie Murphy, and
Murphy in particular the first time but having seen it again, recently,
I can see that it does have some very funny bits.

This is by no means to say that this is the greatest buddy comedy of
all time, but really what can you do to the already exhausted subgenre?
What director, Tom Dey, has tried to do is make it a satire of the
clichés of buddy comedy and the media. Early in the movie the executive
of a cable network asks: "How is this different from Cops?", when Chase
Renzi is pitching the idea of a reality show dealing with De Niro's
character, Mitch Preston (hilariously boring name by the way). That's
when I saw it in a new light that I hadn't previously noticed.

The idea is to show all the elements of the buddy comedy and put a
twist on them. De Niro's reluctance to star in the show and to partner
up with Murphy is right out of every cop film you can think of. You can
say that De Niro is actually playing himself asking: "Why would I do
another movie playing a cop?" Chase Renzi is portrayed to be a
Hollywood phony but if you look at her opening scene again, she is
merely doing it to save her job. She somehow sees the ridiculousness of
what she is doing but she wants to succeed despite that. One line says
it all: "Who doesn't want to be on TV?" Maybe this is reading too much
into what is essentially a lightweight film, merely set to entertain,
but it does give it a little spin that I hadn't noticed before.

As for Murphy. You got to applaud him for looking this ridiculous. Trey
wants to be a star so bad that he is willing to sell out everything he
comes in contact with. Murphy was a big star and maybe it struck a
nerve that it is all so fleeting.

The plot with the gun is of course pretty boring. The action sequences
are nothing special, except the end which required a lot of effort both
from cast and crew. One thing that I noticed about the villain is that
he is dressed like an 80's pop star. George Michael comes to mind and
that adds to the whole media spin.

So, I trashed it the first time around but what the heck; if you are
gonna do this, why not point out how ridiculous it really is and De
Niro and Murphy took a big chance doing this.
<|_=00=_|>

I went to see this movie not expecting much, but was pleasantly surprised
by
the teaming of Robert De Niro and Eddie Murphy.  It was a fast paced movie
and the hour and a half went by fast.  This one certainly won't win any
Academy Awards but it was a change of pace for Mr. De Niro.  He is good in
comedy.  Overall I enjoyed it.
<|_=00=_|>

About the best thing that can be said for `Showtime' – a throwaway cop buddy
comedy starring Robert De Niro and Eddie Murphy – is that it demonstrates
that an inferior script can be at least partially overcome by first-rate
performances.

You can't go too wrong when you have acting talent of this caliber working
for you.  De Niro and Murphy portray two LAPD officers who are recruited to
be the central `characters' for a new `Cops'-type reality TV show, wherein a
camera crew will follow the two on their appointed rounds as they chase
suspects, round up criminals and, all in all, make the streets of LA safe
for the common, decent citizens who reside therein.  De Niro's Mitch Preston
is a reluctant participant in the series, while Murphy's Trey Sellars is a
wannabe actor with stars in his eyes who sees this as his golden opportunity
to make it big in show business.

The initial problem with `Showtime' is that it feels more like a `high
concept' exercise than an actual movie.  Despite the fact that there are a
number of funny moments in the film, too many of the scenes fall flat both
as comedy and as action drama.  The saving grace is that De Niro's
understated cynicism provides an effective counterpoint to Murphy's
over-the-top enthusiasm, resulting in just enough comic tension to wring
laughs out of even the weakest of material.  It is a joy to watch these two
pros at work and they are nicely complemented by Rene Russo as the driven TV
producer whose brainchild serves as the excuse for the story.  William
Shatner, playing himself, also generates some laughs, often at his own
good-natured expense.

Yet the film itself is a failure.  One of the prime dictums of the
screenplay is to try to show the discrepancy between police work as it is
portrayed on the screen and police work as it really is.  In fact, the film
opens with veteran De Niro instructing a class of elementary school children
about the mundane realities of life on the job.  Yet, the film betrays its
own theme by itself indulging in all the inane shoot-em-up and car chase
scenes it is supposed to be satirizing (the scenes are not exploited for
comic effect, which might have lent some much needed satirical bite to the
proceedings).  Even worse, the `serious' side of the story, involving drug
deals and gun running, fails to generate any interest or suspense.

Oh well.  De Niro and Murphy are such likable comic actors that the movie,
for all its many weaknesses, manages to whiz by without inflicting too much
boredom and pain.  `Showtime' is a completely forgettable and innocuous
little time waster, but fans of these particular actors will at least
appreciate their efforts.

<|_=00=_|>


SHOWTIME(2002) (3/5stars)

Starring
ROBERT DE NIRO
EDDIE MURPHY
RENE RUSSO
And WILLIAM SHATNER

In the new cop-buddy film Showtime, Robert De Niro plays Mitch Preston,  a
tough NYC cop, who in the opening credits distinctly points out that being
a
cop is nothing like the movies portray with their clichés . Eddie Murphy
plays Trey Sellers, a cop who dreams of acting in films. After Mitch shoots
out a TV camera at a crime scene, a network executive (Rene Russo) decides
that they will sue the police department, unless Mitch agrees to be part of
their new reality based cop show. When Mitch is forced to become part of
the
show, he ends up getting Trey Sellers as a partner. Trey is nothing like
Mitch. Trey is goofy, doesn't follow standard police procedures, and
doesn't
take his police work seriously. Mitch is the exact opposite. So here comes
the average cop-buddy film, right? Two opposites, forced to work together,
who in the end patch everything up and become best friends? Not exactly.

What makes Showtime different from the rest of the cop-buddy films in the
genre, is that the whole situation is different, and is not exactly what
you'd expect. Never before has a cop-buddy movie had the officers followed
around with a camera. So with this in mind, this movie might be great,
right? Again, not exactly.

The problem with Showtime is, it could have been so much better. The
camera really could've gotten some funny stuff. But in this film, instead
of
focusing more on the fact that they're constantly being filmed, most of the
film we don't see the camera man following them. We see them at home, or
talking about things, doing things. We never see the camera man with them.
The film focuses more on what it's like to be followed by a camera, instead
of WITH a camera. What I mean by this, is that we are shown footage of how
Mitch and Trey react AFTER filming. It's like a celebrity bio. We see them
behind the camera, their ordinary lives, and how they cope with paparazzi
and spotlight. However, in Showtime, that's not what we want to see. We
want
to see the camera chasing them the whole way through the movie. We want to
see Mitch and Trey react on the spot, dealing with the camera THERE and
THEN, not later. It would be so much more of a fun movie, if we could just
see Mitch and Trey, the whole time being followed on the street, getting
into funny situations instead of what Showtime gives us-a look at how Mitch
and Trey deal with it after their work day is over, and the cameras stop
rolling. I'll admit, this happened a few times in the film, but it
should've
been more. The director really missed out on a funny movie here, by not
portraying it the right way, and not taking it in the right direction.

We find the plot in this film, to not really be taken seriously at all.
No
one really cares. At one point, Mitch and Trey get a big lead, and the
camera doesn't show them react at all to it. They just go off, and we see
them joking around driving in the car again.

The acting in Showtime was good, but the chemistry between the characters
wasn't all that special. Nothing jumped out at me with DeNiro and Murphy.
I've seen much better chemistry between actors. It wasn't horrible
chemistry, but it wasn't great, either.

All in all, what Showtime could've been, it isn't. It more or less
forgets the cameras are following these cops, and just leads us away from
caring about anything going on. Showtime is like a mix between Lethal
Weapon, Beverly Hills cop, COPS, and Turner and Hootch. It may sound like a
weird combo, but it's true. Some of those films/shows are great, but if you
combined them the wrong way, with wrong directing style and progression,
what would you get? Showtime.

So, do I recommend this film to you? Believe it or not, yes, I do. Because
though it wasn't great, and wasn't half of what it could've been, it's
still
got some funny moments, and Robert DeNiro gives us the ‘ol tough guy cop
image like some of his other films, and Eddie Murphy redoes his `Break all
the rules/procedures, goof off and triumph!' attitude. So though Showtime
isn't great, a one time viewing isn't going to hurt. DeNiro's expressions
throughout the movie help a lot. That's why I recommend renting and viewing
the film once. 3/5 stars, enjoy!


<|_=00=_|>
Watching Showtime I got the impression that the producers got the idea
to put Robert DeNiro and Eddie Murphy just for the sake of having a
film that co-starred the two of them. Other than that I can't think of
a reason to justify the film's existence. Not that it isn't amusing in
spots, it certainly is, but the concept is so completely ludicrous that
the laughs are somewhat muted.

The thing that really got me was Eddie Murphy's character. I can't seem
to wrap my mind around the concept of someone being a police officer as
strictly a day job. When I was working person at New York State Crime
Victims Board I had to deal with all kinds of cops and they ran the
gamut between the really dedicated and some real slugs, but I can't
think of one who thought that this was just something I do until I get
my career going in an area far afield. I mean, can you really see Eddie
Murphy or anyone else going through the rigors of the real Police
Academy, not the screen version, just to get a day job?

Anyway DeNiro is your basic hard working detective who's on the trail
of a major gun dealer. He's undercover and Murphy is part of his
backup. So what does the showboating Murphy do, he calls a reality
based TV series like COPS to film the action. 

So DeNiro's bust gets blown sky high, but the producer of the show gets
some good footage of Murphy and DeNiro and decides on a new reality
based television series. So these unwilling partners get joined and try
to continue working DeNiro's case with all the TV cameras around.

Eddie Murphy's a funny guy, I loved him in Beverly Hills Cop and in the
Doctor Doolittle movies, but he's done better things than Showtime and
Robert DeNiro certainly has. 

I guess Murphy wanted a chance to work with DeNiro and DeNiro must have
gotten one hefty paycheck to do this film.
<|_=00=_|>
This was a pretty good modern-day comedy with straight man Robert De
Niro doing a good job with comedy and Eddie Murphy just playing his
normal whacked-out character. You get a good combination of humor and
action in here. It had the normal cliché the ending, the kind you can
see coming a mile away, but it's okay; it didn't hurt the film.

William Shatner was very entertaining in a supporting role and I think
that was De Niro's real-life daughter playing Rene Russo's TV sidekick
in the movie.

A decent cop-buddy film that isn't memorable an entertaining way to
kill an hour-and-a-half.
