

It's another Madonna film: does anyone really need to know
more?

The only thing worse than Madonna trying to be funny is Madonna trying to be
serious. 

The only thing worse than being trapped on a desert island with Madonna is
being trapped on a desert island with Madonna and a film
crew.

In 2002, the only thing worse than Madonna in SWEPT AWAY was Robin Williams
in DEATH TO SMOOCHY.

The only thing worse than watching Madonna in any movie is trying to come up
with new ways of saying she can't act.
<|_=00=_|>

I really wanted to like this movie because the critics have been unkind

to it (to say the least)... but it was terrible. Really terrible. Badly

acted, a witless script, cack handed direction... Watching this film was

like watching a car crash- you want to look away but you keep staring

because you want to see how messy it's going to get. Well, the car is

wrecked and there are no survivors. On the plus side, the cinematography

was nice, made me want to go on holiday, if only to cleanse myself from

this unholy
<|_=00=_|>

I almost saw this at an actual movie theatre (an art-house theatre, no
less!) but couldn't make it there in the one whole week it played, but
yesterday I finally saw it on cable and...well...I wasn't disappointed,
that's for sure! Madonna has done it again: YET ANOTHER BOMB! When will this
woman learn? When will the studios learn? (Or perhaps they already have,
since this film was largely dumped, with little fanfare and deadly
word-of-mouth.) One would hope that being directed by her talented husband,
who's created some interesting and/or terribly entertaining work, would
bring out the same quality Madonna showed in "Desperately Seeking Susan";
alas, it just isn't meant to be, for here she is, at her very worst:
singularly convinced of her own greatness, the smugness permeating every
frame she's in, made all the more unbearable by her wavering faux-British
accent, an accent that only underscores the fact that her speaking voice is
immature in quality and not especially pleasant. This may sound
unnecessarily cruel but LISTEN to the woman, and LOOK at her films of, say,
the past decade: like a latter-day Bette Davis, there is an unmistakable
brittleness to not only her carriage but to her very face and body, which
here, despite the warm photography displayed throughout the film (perhaps
its only saving grace), are done no favors. To her credit, the entire affair
is so misbegotten that one wonders if the world's greatest actress on her
best day could do anything with this mess. No one involved escapes unharmed:
Bruce Greenwood actually seems pained to be on-screen, though poor Jeanne
Tripplehorn seems to carry herself as if she's actually in something good,
which had me thinking all the while, "Denial ain't just a river in Egypt!"
Adriano Giannini, son of Giancarlo Giannini, star of the Italian original,
"Swept Away...", is, like his father before him, immensely attractive, and
isn't altogether bad (despite winning a Razzie nomination for "Worst
Actor"), but, like almost everything else about this production, it all
comes back to Madonna, on whose shoulders rest the blame. Why her? Why not
her husband, director Guy Ritchie? Just who do YOU think was behind this
remake? What actress wouldn't want nearly every shot of a movie to be
centered on her, with only a relative nobody sharing the screen? Oh sure,
Ritchie deserves some blame: surely he - or someone - ANYONE! - should have,
and could have, taken his lead aside and insisted on something bordering on
ACTUAL FEELING in her line readings (for her performance is so wooden it's a
surprise the rest of the cast didn't get splinters), or at least display a
semblance of warmth...but she seems resistant to be anything but a cinematic
black hole. Above and beyond anything else, this is strictly a vanity
project for its star so she is ultimately accountable for it. A film like
this, an "Odd Couple"-ish, war of the classes, should be light and fun, with
leads who can bounce off one another with witty, even romantic, dialogue,
for what else can a film whose plot involves two disparate people stranded,
really be? Honestly, I don't think anyone involved knew exactly the tone
they were trying for; it succeeds neither as comedy (I defy you to laugh
even once) or romance (Madonna's ice-princess routine precludes ANY
chemistry). It's not even bad enough for us bad-movie lovers to enjoy. A
real shame...
<|_=00=_|>

This was visually a very pretty movie. The color of the ocean was so BLUE
and the white sand beaches were so PRISTINE. The cinematography and
tableaus
created were so BREATHTAKING that the only pleasure one can derive fom
this
mess is an appreciation of the beaches in Sardinia. But all of that does
not
make up for a lack of plot or mischaracterizations of the protagonists.
Madonna, who gets marooned on an island with a macho Italian steortypical
guy reminded me of a petulant teenager. She related to her husband and
Italain macho guy as a naughty teen would. No real depth of anything. The
"funny" scenes were merely embarrassing. How could Guy Ritchie make
something this bad? It doesn't make any sense after seeing Snatch and
Lock,
Stock. IT IS STOMACH CHURNING AWFUL people! I felt queasy with the slow
motion fake-tears-chasing and the accompanying vertiginous piano: ping!
ping! ping! This film was a romp on the beach with adults acting acting
like
thirteen year old dominant/submissives. (Madonna kissing macho's foot
after
she submits to him - bleh.)Most of the island scenes between these two
adults were filmed like a home movie with the light shining on a worn out
looking Madonna: "Look at me! See how buff and pretty I am! I can do push
ups and dancie dance, and see how big my biceps are?" Oh my God. This was
bad. Madonna doesn't act, she just plays herself. Just because she can cry
on cue doesn't mean she is an actress.
<|_=00=_|>
and forget this. Completely. If you really need to see Madonna act,
rent "Body of Evidence", at least Willem Defoe is in that one.

In this film, while the sets are beautiful, you may want to mute the
dialog. You won't miss anything. Bruce Greenwood is wasted, Jeanne
Tripplehorn is a prop, and Madonna is so awful, it becomes amusing. Why
they had to butcher the original film into this mess, I will never
know; guess they thought it was "bankable". Madonna, as an actress,
certainly is NOT.

If you rent the original film from 1979, though, you will enjoy it, and
the actors in it can actually act. 1/10.
<|_=00=_|>

No doubt, when Madonna and Guy Ritchie married, it was because they both
thought it would help their movie careers. If you've been through the ordeal
of watching "Swept Away," then you know at that level it was a match made in
hell. After nearly 20 years of trying to become a respected actress (or
"octress" as she might have pronounced it in "The Next Best Thing"), she
still can't get out of herself long enough to turn in a performance that
anyone with taste could even call decent. And that's the thing that makes
people dislike her so much on the screen: that gut feeling that her ego is
so inflated that it prevents her from being able to just let go and connect
with her audience. If there's any justice in this universe, she just blew
her last chance.
<|_=00=_|>

I had the (mis)fortune to see this film at a showing in the US. Having
reluctantly sat through the entire abysmal thing, I am shocked to have seen
so many good reviews here on IMDB. 

The original film was a turkey, but an interesting one. It fitted into that
early seventies, post 1969 revolution thing; this film just stinks of....... , well, nothing really. It's that bad.

Imagine a badly done perfume commercial - see what I mean
?

Madonna never could act, and has been an embarrassment on the big screen for
years. She looks worse and worse with every one of those years, increasingly
coming to resemble a skinned meerkat.

Guy Ritchie, who has built his "reputation" on Lock Stock, could never
direct either - his movies are shallow, badly cut, fashion shows. He doesn't
disappoint here either; he wisely cast his wife as the star of this
debacle.

Please people, take little heed of the good reviews this movie has received
from other posters below. They are quite obviously business
plants.

Don't encourage Ritchie to humiliate himself further by giving him
money.

  
<|_=00=_|>
I watched Swept Away having little else to do, and part of me wished I
had read a magazine or an opera DVD instead. Swept Away has few, if any
at all, redeeming qualities at all, and there were times where I wished
I could turn off the television but reminded myself that is not a fair
way to judge a movie.

Guy Ritchie's direction for starters is very unimaginative, and the
camera work and editing don't have any real charm to them, the camera
work is not amateurish as such but shows nothing out of the ordinary,
and the editing could've been smoother at times.

The script is very hackneyed, the comedic elements are forced and the
romantic elements sappy. Also it has the feel of a bad 70s TV drama.
The concept has been done to death but that wasn't necessarily a turn
off, but the pace is turgid and the story itself doesn't have any
interest at all.

Likewise with the characters. They don't feel like characters or real
people at all, just overdone caricatures. Jeanne Tripplehorn gets the
worst of it, and her overdone performance suffers from it. Madonna only
so far has impressed me in Evita, but her performance here is lifeless
and disengaged here.

Only two things have any real spark. One is the striking scenery and
the other is the earthy charm of Adrianno Giannini. However these two
are not enough to salvage the movie from being an insipid bore. All in
all, not recommended. 1/10 Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>

I don't know what some of you are smoking, but i suspect it's
potent.

To call Swept Away awful would be an insult to the very concept of
terribleness. The acting is hideous and i'm not picking on Madonna here,
we
all know she's useless, but someone should have warned everyone else that
her ailment is contagious. My back literally hurts from cringing so much
at
poorly delivered lines. The editing is so sloppy, it beggars description.
The photography and composition (which in this era, competence should be
a
GIVEN for any film with a budget) are astonishingly inept, even the
lighting
is horrid and unnatural looking. These are BASIC elements of filmmaking,
if
you can't get them right, you should seek another line of work. It's as
contrived as a grade 3 production of Snow White, except nowhere near as
well
made or interesting.

The original film by Lina Wertmueller is a wonderful satire and metaphor,
superbly acted and written, featuring breathtaking visuals - you can
practically taste the sea salt and feel the windswept sand in your hair.
The
sexual tension feels real and immediate...those of you who found Guy
Ritchie's version deplorable, should see it, it really is one of the
landmarks of world cinema.

Those of you who thought the remake is some kind of masterpiece should
have
your heads examined.
<|_=00=_|>
Not for a moment did I think, as I slid the DVD into my player, that I
would think this was a good film. I mean, it stars Madonna and, ten
years later, even *I* had not seen it, so clearly I knew it was bad.
However, I could not have prepared myself for how truly bad this film
is. I mean really, really bad.

About a rich woman and a migrant Italian fisherman getting stranded on
a deserted island and inexplicably falling for each other, this film
has absolutely no redeeming features at all. I have never heralded
Madonna's acting skills, but in films like "Who's that Girl" and
"Shanghai Surprise," she was not as bad as critics have made her out to
be. But in this film, she did herself no favours...her performance here
is absolutely the worst she has ever done. Watching made me cringe from
the moment she appeared on screen to the moment the credits rolled,
allowing for a sigh of relief. And, to be fair, Adriano Giannini's
performance was not much better.

I cannot begin to understand how in the world Guy Ritchie directed such
a monumental pile of crap. And why did, Bruce Greenwood and Elizabeth
Banks even sign on to appear in this? Just by reading the incredibly
idiotic script, anyone associated to this film should have dropped it
faster than a Kardashian's underpants at a basketball game.

A monumental fail of epic proportions, even if you are a fan of
Madonna, do not waste your time on this film. It made me lose any and
all respect for her as an actress, despite her exquisite turn in
"Evita." Ritchie would have been better off divorcing Madonna
immediately than agreeing to make this ridiculous film. All copies of
the film should be swept away and forgotten forever.
