

First of all, let me make one thing crystal clear.  When I paid my money
to
see this movie, I didn't walk into the theatre expecting something worthy
of
Academy Award consideration.  However, what I did expect was a story that
had some semblance of logic (and perhaps a few cheap thrills).  I also
expected a film that in some way dealt with the often avoided issue of
Black
sexuality.  But once again like several recent Black "thrillers," I was
left
disappointed.  What's the deal with these independent filmmakers?  You
make
a film that presents itself as a steamy erotic thriller, but with PG-rated
sex and no nudity to speak of.  What's the point?  Audiences would have
been
better served by renting an old copy of FATAL ATTRACTION or even SHE'S
GOTTA
HAVE IT, than paying their hard earned money to see basically the same
thing
that you could catch for free on a network daytime drama.  An erotic
thriller without any steamy sex or nudity is like a western with no
gunfight
or a romantic comedy with little romance and no comedy.  On another level,
the poorly structured story makes absolutely no sense.  Without giving
away
the ending, the writers set up things that don't pay off later in the
script
and "pay off" with things that were not properly set up.  By doing so,
they
break a cardinal rule of any type thriller or mystery story by not playing
fair.  Also, the scenes are not arranged for maximum dramatic effect.  It
lacks the escalating tension that made FATAL ATTRACTION so effective in
its
examination of infidelity.  There are also several subplots in the film
which serve to trivialize important issues (e.g., physical abuse, child
care).  Additionally, the film relies too heavily on stereotypes,
particularly as they relate to the lesbian/bi-sexual character of Jade.
In
terms of acting, Gretchen Palmer stands out with her over-the-top
performance as Jade, which occasionally gave the film some much needed
camp
appeal.  On the other hand, Gary Dourdan as Jermaine was weak.  He's so
cold
and insensitive, one wonders how his wife, Jasmine (Kenya Moore in a
typical
B-movie performance) agreed to his "indecent proposal" in the first place.
If independent filmmakers are going to compete with big budget studio fare
such as FATAL ATTRACTION, they must be willing to "push the envelope."
Instead, TROIS along with a series of other recent independently produced
sexual thrillers insist on playing it safe by toning down the sex and the
more provocative elements in their films.  For what reason, who knows?
Hopefully, some other filmmaker will "step up to the plate" and really
deal
with Black sexuality rather than skirt around it. On a positive note,
despite it's many flaws, TROIS is still better than Rob Hardy's anemic
first
feature, CHOCOLATE CITY.  The film is also to be commended for its small
scale, but reasonably effective grass-roots marketing champaign.  As a
gesture in support of Black independent films, I have delayed submission
of
this critique until the film has all but left the theatres.  For those who
haven't seen it, check it out on video and express your own
views.
<|_=00=_|>

This is absolutely the worst film I've ever seen. Not only does it

contain some of the worst acting, dialogue and directing ever

burned onto celluloid, it is nothing but pure trash.
It amazes me that money was actually used to fund this
project.
I can't imagine how anybody thought this was something worth

making based on the horrendous script and premise. 
Soloman K. Smith delivers probably the worst performance in

history as does Gretchen Palmer. This is embarassing. 
NEVER EVER watch this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
First, the bad: 1) The movie is mis-marketed by the packaging. There is
a lot more to Trois than just the complications arising from the
forbidden three-way tryst. The movie becomes a
mystery/thriller/suspense and the shift is almost disconcerting if all
you have to go on is the box art.

2) The lighting sucks and the camera work is simplistic. The filmmakers
are young and had a small budget and it shows in these two areas. The
lighting often makes the viewer feel they've mistakenly changed
channels to a daytime soap opera and the camera work (with the
exception of the excellent opening "home video" scenes) is nothing to
boast about.

3) There are about three times in the film that the delivery of a
certain line fails completely, and is so bad that it nearly sinks the
entire scene in which it appears.

4) Is the number of sets used. Literally. Two houses, an office, and a
bar. Four sets. That's about it.

Now, the good: 1) Excellent acting. The lead for this role does a
fantastic job playing a young, ambitious, newlywed husband. All of the
additional characters are strong. Every main character has at least one
chance to really shine dramatically and they all step up to the
challenge. A lame performance never ruins a scene, and the dialogue is
(for the most part) delivered convincingly in a natural way.

2) Superb production value: "but wait a minute, you just said there
were four sets and the lighting sucked!" True, but the budget for this
film was $200k. If you handed $200k to the Steven Spielberg or James
Cameron, I'm willing to bet they couldn't have managed half of the
things this movie does on a shoestring. It's an excellent effort and
the results they got for their money are astounding.

3) An intriguing, original plot. The story, which starts out relatively
simple, takes a couple of twists and turns that actually create a
complex web of confusion and deceit that makes the story work.

4) An excellent, tasteful sex scene. If you bought this movie hoping
for porn, you'll be let down. The sex shots are tight, sensual, and
mature. They propel the story forward and do justice to the topic
without glamourizing it or taking the focus off the story to focus on
the sex.

In short: if you feel like lately you've sat through one too many
summer 'blockbusters' with the same old hackneyed plots, huge effects,
and zero heart, this might be the movie you're looking for. Or if you
laughed all the way through "Love and a Bullet" and thought it was
excellent, you might like this one.
<|_=00=_|>

Trois is a sexy thriller about the before and after-math of a threesome
(two
girls and a guy). The participants are a young Black married couple in
Atlanta who seek to spice up their love life and an openly bisexual woman
who wants to keep custody of her son. This film admirably attempts to
explore the complex dynamics of monogamous sexuality, from sexual
preference
to sexual power.  The gravest downfall is the attempt to combine too many
twists and turns that don't pay off or gel well with the story's initial
tone.    
<|_=00=_|>

One of my friends rented this movie last year.  Honestly, being an NC-17,
we
naturally expected more than what we saw.  The scenes in this movie
weren't
enough to get an R rating.  The plot was good, and it was a good script.
However, the performances were poorly executed.  The actress who played
the
wife was dull and dry with the delivery of her lines.  However, the ending
had a great twist, and this was a good film, especially being on such a
low
budget, but some of the acting was low budget as well.  A 5 at
most.
<|_=00=_|>

I seen Trois last summer and I thought the movie was pretty good.The
acting
wasn't Academy Award winning,but somewhat suitable.This movie contained
one
too many spoilers.First the not so raunchy love scenes could have been
worked on more to make it look realistic and at the same
time,steamy.Next,Kenya Moore's role was so stupid.Why in the hell would
she
except an offer like that from her husband and then gets mad when she
finds
a videotape of her husband and some other woman in her car doing it?Her
character was so unrealistic and unconvincing.Next,the role of the husband
played by Gary Dourdan was so cold,Gretchen Palmer's character was okay
and
Solomon K. Smith's character was probably the most dumbest of them all.He
was so wacky and just as unrealistic and unconvincing as Kenya Moore's
character.And the twist.There were way too many twist in the story.The
characters,the sex scenes,and the confusing twist could have been more
complex.Would I recommend this to anyone?WATCH AT YOUR OWN RISK!!!! 5 OUT
OF
10
<|_=00=_|>

Very badly made film in terms of directing,screenplay,script and acting.It
does not even have much originality as it is a rip off of FATAL
ATTRACTION.Still,it could have been much better in it's promise to be a
good
sexual thriller but   alas,the movie was just handled poorly.Yes,the lead
actors were very good looking but they had very amateurish skills,just like
the poor skills of the movie makers around them.Avoid this one at all
cost......
<|_=00=_|>

Despite going into this movie with reasonable expectations, this is got
to
be one of the worst movies I have ever seen in my life.  This was the
first
time I actually considered asking for my money back.  Even though I knew
a
few people associated with the film, that still did not make it any
better.
Everything about this movie, from the acting to the writing to the
directing
was just plain bad.
<|_=00=_|>

I must admit that when I sat down in the movie theater to see "Trois" I
didn't quite know what to expect. What with a title like "Trois"  which is
short for ménage à trois, I was preparing myself to both be shocked and a
little thrilled at the love scenes. While I did get that thrilling love
scene that I was expecting I also got much more, the chance to see black
folk in a complex movie role.
I have grown tired of us always being cast as the comedian or the bad
person
on the silver screen and this movie is a breath of fresh air in that it
explores one on one relationships between black folk. While this movie
left
a lot to be desired in the area of cinematography and acting, it is the
right step toward more black dramas. We've got to start
somewhere.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie was so painfully bad, that despite all my better judgment I
actually made it through to the end. All that can go wrong in a movie did-
utterly terrible acting, predictable ending, discontinuity, did I mention
that my dog can do a better performance? Finally, for a movie whose title
is
quite obvious in meaning, the actual "trios" is over in about 30 seconds,
shot in what seems like soft focus and barely warrants the rating the film
got.

I highly recommend this film if you have obnoxious family members visiting
(or friends), who refuse to leave your home, as a last ditch effort to
retain your sanity.

2 out of 10.
