
"The Believer" contains rare insights into Jewish identity, and it's a
shame that the film was withheld from mainstream audiences due to
ongoing controversy. But it deals with an ugly subject, and it handles
that subject in an ambiguous way that makes many people, including many
Jews, uncomfortable. Make no mistake about it, though: the film is
uncompromisingly pro-Jewish, and the director, himself a Jew, has said
that he became more religious because of his work on the film.
Ironically, the film is likely to resonate the most with Jews, though
it also contains universal themes familiar to anyone who has ever
struggled with faith.

The idea of a white supremacist who's secretly Jewish is not new to me.
I've long known about Frank Collin, who caused a national controversy
in the 1970s when he planned to have his neo-Nazi group march in a
predominantly Jewish suburb of Skokie, Illinois. It was later
discovered that Collin's father was not only Jewish but a Holocaust
survivor. This case is so bizarre that it leads one to assume the guy
was simply insane. While there may be some truth to that assumption, it
isn't a satisfactory explanation. What would possibly lead a Jew to
join a group that believes in the inherent evil of all Jews? What is
such a person thinking? How does such a person live with himself,
rationalize his own actions?

What "The Believer" accomplishes is to go inside the head of one such
person and provide a compelling, believable explanation for how such a
person could exist. The film is based loosely on a 1960s incident in
which a high-ranking member of the KKK was discovered to be Jewish. The
movie updates the story to modern times and depicts the young man,
Danny, as a skinhead rather than a Klansman. His characterization is
speculative but reveals a deep understanding of human nature.

What's truly bizarre about this story is that Danny never abandons his
Jewish roots entirely. After attending a neo-fascist meeting, he goes
home to his family, whom he treats with respect. He even performs
Jewish rituals in private. Yet he terrorizes a Jewish kid on the
subway, tells his neo-Nazi buddies that he wants to assassinate a
prominent Jewish diplomat, and spouts what sounds on the surface like
typical white supremacist ideology. But he's not, as we might suspect,
a hypocrite saying things he doesn't believe, or a two-faced lunatic.
His philosophy is surprisingly coherent. Sure, he's a walking
contradiction, but so are many other people who have a love-hate
relationship with their religious background.

His anti-Semitic beliefs all revolve around a single idea: he thinks
Jews are too weak and passive. Sometimes he adopts a macho outlook,
since he doesn't want to be associated with a people stereotyped as
brainy intellectuals. On a deeper level, he dislikes the persecution
theme in Jewish history and culture. But is this theme a sign of
weakness or strength? Danny isn't sure. He eventually decides that Jews
gain strength from their persecution; they seem to grow stronger the
worse they're treated, and the biggest threat to their survival is not
those who want to destroy them but those who don't care. This is a far
more Jewish idea than an anti-Semitic one. Several Jewish holidays,
including Passover, Purim, and Chanukah, commemorate events where Jews
grew strong after periods of persecution. Many Jews today believe that
assimilation into the culture is a greater danger than genocide,
because it could signal the disappearance of Jews as a distinct people.
As Irving Kristol once remarked, "The problem is that they don't want
to persecute us, they want to marry us."

The implication is that Danny actually admires Judaism, and that his
anti-Semitism is his own warped way of affirming his Jewish identity in
a world where, he fears, Jews are increasingly seen as irrelevant--not
loved or hated but simply ignored. His ambivalent feelings escalate as
the movie progresses. When he has his neo-Nazi buddies deface a
synagogue, he can't bring himself to damage the Torah scroll, and he
secretly takes it home with him. His intimate knowledge of Jewish
beliefs and practices looks strange to his fellow skinheads, to say the
least. He tells them that he studies these things in order to know the
enemy, pointing out that Eichmann did the same thing. Do they buy this
explanation? Apparently they do, but Danny's girlfriend is a little
smarter than that, and she finds herself strangely drawn to the
religion he's running away from.

Like "American History X," this movie contains disturbing scenes where
the protagonist articulately expresses his bigoted ideas. There are
other intelligent characters who argue back, but not everything he
spouts gets answered, so I can understand why this movie makes some
viewers uncomfortable. In one particularly distasteful scene, Danny
mocks Holocaust survivors, and while they do answer him eloquently for
the most part, his raising of the old "sheep to the slaughter" canard
is left open.

Nevertheless, this a powerful and compelling film, with a lead
performance by Ryan Gosling that manages to rival Ed Norton's
Oscar-nominated performance in "American History X." We see early on
that Danny is capable of doing appalling things, but his moral
conflicts are then presented so persuasively that we cannot help but
empathize with him. The climax is painfully ambiguous. Those who are
looking for easy answers may want to skip this film. But they will be
missing out on what is easily the most authentic and profound
exploration of Jewish self-hatred ever portrayed on screen.
<|_=00=_|>

I found myself alone in an small theater yesterday watching "The
Believer".
The absence of a crowd didn't have any impact what so ever on my
experience
with this film.

Daniel Balint is a promising new right wing extremist who, with his
radical
ideas and eloquence, wins over the minds of a small group of neo-Nazis. At
first he expresses that he wants Jews dead because, as he states,
anti-semitism is a human instinct. But Daniel is a Jew himself. He denies
his roots, But as the movie progresses he must come to terms with who he
is.
And that's not always easy.

Ryan Gosling who plays Daniel is a frightening good actor, who almost
manages to persuade the audience of his anti-semitic views. I really can't
praise Ryan Gosling enough! He could be one of the great new actors to
come.
The interesting aspect of this movie is the mental struggle in Daniels
mind
whether he's a Nazi or a Jew. Or both? It's about finding out who you are.
The films poses some very intelligent questions, and provokes at times,
and
this is the films force. This movie is brilliant! Go see
it!
<|_=00=_|>

The Believer is the kind of film that has social relevance beyond the
contents of
the actual film. Highly-censored through corporate teamwork, The Believer
was
never picked up by a major distribution house because of its provocative
subject
matter. The film demands a re-examination of beliefs and a discussion.
Isn't
this
the kind of provocative free-thinking that the medium is
about?
The Believer is one of the top 5 films i've seen in the last few years,
in
regards
to disturbing consciousness. It is the kind of movie that can help us
understand
one another a little better. A MUST SEE!
<|_=00=_|>
Antisemitism has come a long way since "gentleman's
agreement"(1947).Kazan's attempt seems rather timid and tame today."The
believer " sets the record straight.It's one of the most convincing
works in the field.

It's all the more disturbing as the hero is a Jew joining the
neonazis.And his behavior stems from his own education,his rebellion
against the Torah:Abraham did really kill his own son,the Jew was made
to comply with God's commandments;the hero finds similarities between
the Nazis's and the Jews's beliefs ;both are the Chosen ones .What
puzzles me is the fact that he wants to annihilate the Jews ,but he
stills reads (and respects) the Bible(One shall not be naked in front
of it for flesh is impure).

His arguments are sometimes disquieting (hints at Marx,Freud and
Einstein) but finally it boils down to "we hate the Jews because we
have to".

Danny is definitely a complex character,caught in a web of
contradictions.One of the strongest scenes shows former victims of the
Nazis during WW2;it's of course with them that we side ,and whatever
Danny says about how he despises their passivity ,his protected life
makes him incapable of true grit.

Spoilers Danny's final sacrifice is revealing:if God's wrath had killed
him as pharaoh's tribe drowned in the tide (eg if he had accidentally
been killed during one of his terrorisma acts or sentenced to death by
a human court),the movie would have been a religious one (God's victory
on evil).Danny chose the other way out.They will be speaking for a long
time of the final sequence :it resembles an atheist version of that of
"Jacob's ladder".The stairs and the teacher's sentence have something
of Borges.End of spoilers.

To say that "the believer" is unique is to state the obvious.Even more
intriguing,the most celebrated names (Theresa Russel and Billy Zane)
are only supporting actors.At a time when graveyards are often
profaned,when the far right wing's bad moon is on the rise almost
everywhere ,this kind of film has become a necessity.Henry Bean is a
very clever director and I hope to see more of his films in the future.
<|_=00=_|>

I think I first saw Mr. Gosling in Murder by Numbers, in which he played
half of a modern-day Leopold and Loeb murder team.  In that
good-but-not-great thriller, he did a fine job with an easy role: the smarmy
manipulator who's convinced his Intellect is so superior to everyone else's
that he has the right -- no, the obligation -- to kill those inferior to
himself.

In The Believer, Gosling plays the young fascist who really seems to believe
the antisemitic vitrol he spews.  His skinhead punk is just as scary,
believable and *common* as Edward Norton's in American History X -- with the
added layer of being from an Orthodox background.  He has apparently
convinced those around him that his fascination with all things Judaic is
only an effort to "know his enemy thoroughly" -- nothing
more.

Gosling is nothing short of astounding in this role.  He richly deserves all
the honors bestowed upon him.  If he continues to only get roles like Murder
by Numbers, it will be a waste of a wonderful natural resource, kind of like
strip mining in Yellowstone.
<|_=00=_|>

Inspired by real events, The Believer tells the story of a young Jewish
man
who is contradicted by his beliefs in neo-nazism.  Ryan Gosling (Remember
the Titans) plays Danny Balint, a Jew by birth and upbringing, who's ideas
about the religion lead him into a world of denial and hate.  Flashbacks
show the viewer how Danny struggled with his early teachings of the faith
and his lack of understanding would result in his decision to be a
practicing, race-hating skinhead.

Along the way, Danny meets up with Lina and Curtis played graciously by
Theresa Russell and Billy Zane who want to recruit Danny and use his
persuasive talents to advance their cause as fascists.  It is in his first
meeting with this couple that Danny also meets Carla (Summer Pheonix), a
confused young girl who eventually befriends Danny and soon begins her
quest
to best understand the Jews through their language and
traditions.

In a later scene, Danny finds himself at a white supresmist training camp
and meets other skinheads with the same hatred and desire to rid
themselves
of the Jewish population.  Danny befriends the group and garnishes their
respect with his fighting tactics, and on one fateful night, the group
land
themselves in jail after initiating a fight with two blacks on the
street.

It is here that the most disturbing and challenging scene of the movie
takes
place where the group is forced by the courts to enter counselling for
their
crime.  This counselling would include Jews who survived the holocust who
tell their story to the unappreciated skinhead audience.  While the others
argue that the Holocost never occurred, Danny is haunted by the story of
an
elderly man who tells of a German Soldier who stabbed and killed his son
with a bayonette during World War II.

This then leads Danny down two separate paths.  On one side, he is a race
hating monger, who begins to build bombs for the purpose of blowing up a
synagogue.  The other, a conflicted man of the Judaism faith who teaches
Hebrew to his girlfriend and still practices the basics of the religion
(don't light the candles at Yom Kippur before eating).

Director/writer Henry Bean does a masterful job of keeping the pace of the
movie going, while not being preachy or dumbing down to the audience.
The
director crafts the film and does not shy away from religious
interpretations (why can Jews have cheese with meat, but they can have
chicken with milk), without giving us his version of the answers.  Dannys
scene with the reporter from the New York Times is both honest and
gripping
in its language and its portrayal of a man trying to justify his racist
views.

Portrayed as an articulate and intelligent youth, Ryan Gosling sparkles on
the screen and gives a commanding presence that is award winning material.
He reveals the character to be someone of higher intelligence who hates
his
religion because he just can't understand all its principles.  When Danny
is
first confronted with an opportunity to kill a Jew, he can't bring himself
to promote the results that he preaches.

In short, the movie has powerful moments, great acting and tells an
unbelievable story of one man's quest to understand the world he was
brought
up in.  B+


<|_=00=_|>

When I read a description of this film, I thought it would go overboard in
the violence and "shock sequences."  I was relieved and impressed that it
left most of the violence to the imagination.  The shock value comes from
other places--the content, the dialogue.  This is a very thought-provoking
and smart movie, not at all preachy (and it easily could have been preachy).
 The acting is unforced and its story does not fall into the "American
History X" trap:  Its main character does not become an "all race loving"
good guy.  The protagonist in "The Believer" is a tortured soul, and his
fate (although somewhat predictable) is fitting after the events in the
film.  This movie is another example that cable movies occasionally surpass
theatrical movies in their subject matter and execution.  Very well
done.
<|_=00=_|>
I am amazed how little this impact this film has made. It looks like
its distribution around 2001/9/11 events and the fact that some
American Jewish circles feared that it can be mis-interpreted led to a
limited distribution. However, the directing of Henry Bean, the acting
of Ryan Gosling, and the strong treatment of a difficult subject should
have led to more respect than this movie received.

'The Believer' is the story of a young Jewish boy in today's America.
Raised in a religious environment he is asking questions that are not
unusual for a young Jewish person two or three generations after the
Holocaut. Where was God during the Holocaust, and why did the Jewish
people did so little to resist their oppressors? He is obviously giving
the wrong answers, and not only loses his faith, but falls into the
trap of self-hate, becoming a neo-Nazi and a Jew-hater, a self-hater in
other words.

There are many things that can be said and discussed around this theme.
The character may seem paradoxical, but it is not impossible. The fact
that the story is loosely inspired by a true character is not that
relevant, what is important is that we can believe the motivations of
the character and understand his evolution. Certainly a film to watch
and think about.
<|_=00=_|>
It is almost a sort of shame that the ever-hot topic of
racism/anti-Semitism nearly outshines the more central struggle with
spirituality and religion that Danny is going through. Many
fascist/skinhead types seem to confuse or blend race and religion when
considering Jews and Judaism. Danny certainly seems confused in this,
but comes around toward the end of the film when he suggests to the
fascist big-wigs that the way to eradicate Jews is to love them, absorb
them (because, he believes, Judaism thrives on being hated, separate).
My notion of Judaism has long been the same as that of Christianity and
Islam: ALL adherents thrive on being hated, on being an underdog, and
lose their power when they are most widely accepted and tolerated
(Christians seem to have gotten more of being thrown to the lions than
the Romans did, and Islamic pride seems to get stronger the worse the
rest of the world treats its disciples). These religions are like three
awful, brutish brothers, always at each other's throats, and, in the
end, essentially nihilistic individually. Because of this, I can
understand Danny's spirituality problem (but am left wondering why he
did not consider religions outside of the three great desert religions
of the middle east). Danny has few anchors to the earth (pagan?) world,
a pair of kind old friends (from youth, the most pagan time in life),
his weird but spiritually hungry lover (who seems to be looking for
anything to fill a hole in her soul ...which is where Christians get so
many of their converts); but there are many more negative influences
present in the film, and these absorb him. Add to this the fact that he
considers his god a bully, and Judaism more about doing things than
believing (which is true with many Christians and Muslims), and you've
got a foul spiritual mix. Once ousted in the papers, Danny would
clearly not find a home in either of the two worlds he is a part of,
and so suicide seems an easy solution (a physical solution, just like
pumping iron and beating up kids in the street). Danny's fatal flaw
seems to be that he keeps questioning and cannot just accept faith and
submit to god (which works within the box of the film, though
thankfully not in the universe outside of the three desert religions!).
The final sort of afterlife scene was my favorite of the film and shows
this clearly: Danny's former teacher stands in the stairwell, trying to
get him to engage in a discussion on a religious argument while Danny
keeps running up the stairs. "There's nothing up there," says the
teacher, but Danny keeps going. A rather frightening image when you
think about it ...and one adherents to the religion can keep for
themselves.
