
...but usually in that circumstance we didn't subject the world to that
knowledge.

This film has known folks in it who just did not have to do this film -
for the rent or otherwise. I think there was an idea...over an apple
martini or something...that someone said, "Hey - we can make a real
funny movie about that!" They were wrong.

First of all....you could tell this is yet another Wayan's "inside
joke". Here's some advice for the Wayans - stop joking and just be
serious and or honest about it. Come out with it - whatever you want to
say. Maybe your "ironic" days are over and its time to go right in and
do what is exactly on your minds.

Then you have to ask what possessed Richard Benjamin, Christine
Baranski and Lisa Kudrow to do this...? Rent? Taxes? A new stuffed
animal they saw at Wal-Mart? Let me not trash the film - for a minute -
and look at what the INTENT could have been...what this seemed to want
to be was an expose of the music industry stereotypes. Okay, done not
trashing and here's my truth: I've had just about enough of stereotypes
in feature films to last decades. Don't get me wrong, there can be a
way to do something of this nature which can be entertaining, thought
provoking..maybe even satirical...the bottom line is that this is NOT
the film - not the script - not the actors - not worth the time of
anyone.
<|_=00=_|>
When I saw this movie 3 years ago I was surprised at how awful it
really was. I mean why the hell would you make this movie into a
musical when none of the actors in it can sing? I thought this movie
would be about Lisa Kudrow trying to act black, which would have been
funny since she is the whitest girl I have ever seen, but the director
decided not to go that route, like the title entails, and decided to
make it into a romance musical which had a total of ONE funny moment.
When Wayne's character starts singing "I wanna love you IN THE BUTT, IN
THE BUTT, IN THE BUTT!!!" and all the backup singers had red targets
painted on their rear ends. Thats about the only funny part of the
movie, and you only laugh for a few seconds. Anyone who rated this
movie a 10 either is a HUGE Waynes brother fan, or they love the
smooth, sensual voice of Lisa Kudrow when she sings (FUBAR!)
<|_=00=_|>

For what it purported to be, a musical comedy, it did ok.  I'm no great fan
of rap, so this had to be light.  Of course, the courtroom scene was way
over the top, but if you go back and look at some of those old Jane Powell
musicals, they burst into song in the strangest places and any "spontaneous"
dance is choreographed and well rehearsed, as are all the "numbers" in this
one. 

Of course, it's much easier and the motivation is stronger [I spent money
for that!]to write a bad review than a good one, so trashing it is expected.
 Too bad the-powers-that-be at IMDB can't sort these into two headings
instead of one generic because usually the bad reviews get in first. 
This'll be #29 and probably will never be read.  "Que sera sera, y'all, I
reckon," as they say in southern Italy.
<|_=00=_|>

yeah, it's that bad. it's horrible. i can't even waste the words to explain
it. 

don't watch it, don't even consider watching it.  if your hair's caught on
fire and you go screaming through your building, and your neighbour with a
bucket of water, says "watch Marci X or you're not getting this on your
head" tell him to sod off. if you fall from an 8 story building break both
your legs and have your ribs stuck in your heart, and the doctors in the
hospital tell you "watch Marci X or no surgery" tell them to kiss your butt,
because it's less painful. Believe me. And if you get abducted by aliens and
they "watch Marci X or it's probin' time" tell them to watch it themselves,
cause it's the worst thing you could wish for somebody.

You DON'T want to see this tasteless, mindless, pointless, substanceless
piece of s**t.
<|_=00=_|>
I read the comments before watching the movie, and just like with the
"famous critics" who critique movies, that was the wrong move. I think
it really depends on the mindset of the person who is watching and also
it depends on the type of movie the person is looking for. So if you
are looking for fun, this is a fun movie, it is not to be taken in all
seriousness, just take it for what is - just plain fun. I can't
complain about the language, because although I don't like rap for all
of the disrespectful language, I knew this movie would have aspects of
it but it was funny in spots. Everyone should form their own opinions
as everyone would find different things funny.
<|_=00=_|>
While delivering an award to her humanitarian father Ben Feld (Richard
Benjamin), the stylish wealthy Jewish Caucasian Marci Feld (Lisa
Kudrow) is surprised by the attack of the conservative senator Mary
Ellen Spinkle (Christine Baranski) to her father in the media. The
motive is the lyrics of the rap "Shoot Ya' Teacha " sing by Dr. S
(Damon Wayans) and released by the hip-hop record label Felony Assault
that belongs to Ben. He has a heart attack, and his daughter decides to
assume the problem and negotiate a public excuse of Dr. S in the MTV
Award. However, the bad boy sings a polemic song on television to
humiliate Merci that gives senator Sprinkle the chance to promote the
"Buttgate".

"Marci X" is a silly but hilarious movie with the charming, elegant and
gorgeous Lisa Kudrow. Surprisingly it is ranked in the "Bottom 100#73",
in my opinion a tremendously unfair position. Lisa Kudrow is an
excellent comedian, and I am still laughing with her rap challenge on
the stage with "The Power is in the Purse". The rude Damon Wayans is
also funny with no surprises in his role, and Christine Baranski is
specialized in performing villains and is also great. This is another
movie that will never be nominated to the Oscar that some intellectuals
spend their precious time seeing it to write bad reviews in IMDb,
misleading those that expect to see an entertaining light and silly
comedy. Fortunately I do not read reviews before watching movies. My
vote is six.

Title (Brazil): "Marci X – Uma Loura Muito Louca" ("Marci X – A Very
Crazy Blondie")
<|_=00=_|>

"this is the funniest movie starring lisa kudrow yet. damon wayans and her
are the perfect match. its a wonderful off beat comedy with some great
hip-hop jokes :"i know tai-boi"-"six bills on the white chick" I THINK
PEOPLE WILL FIND THIS MORE ENJOYABLE THAN ANY OTHER DAMON WAYANS MOVIE. a
summer comedy that actually works.I WOULD COMPARE IT TO "AMERICAN PIE!"

Who ever wrote this is seriously distrubed or making a joke, this movie
could not have satisfied me less. There was not one funny part, it was
steriotipical crap. From start to finish there was nothing entertaining.
IT
was a little unbelievalbe that Lisa Kudrow could be A paris hilton type,
because shes twice her age! Worst movie ever, don't waste your
time.
<|_=00=_|>

Saw this yesterday after work because I thought the story had a chance to
be
funny, boy how wrong I was.  I have NO IDEA how Paramount actaully thought
this was a good movie.  I've seen better films at work about safety
training.  If you think about going to see this movie don't waste your
time
take the 90 minutes and go down to a local charity and volunteer your
time.
Mark this down this film will be on the list as one of the worst films of
2003, if not at the top of the list.  Terrible, unfunny
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
This is so nice comedy. Few times when I watch a movie and feel so good
about it to the extent that I wish, while watching, that it keeps
itself the way it is till the end. This time this high feel it gives
kept present but maybe not to the very end.

I wasn't satisfied with the climax at the court; being very short,
unconvincing, and not that hilarious. In fact the third act of the
movie was nothing but recycling all the possible uses of "in the butt"
as a song, a joke, whatever.. endlessly! 

But. There are so many good points in here. (Damon Wayans) looks great
as Dr. S, parodying so many pop icons (did you notice the voice of
Snoop Dogg ?). (Lisa Kudrow), the real comic talent out of Friends'
cast, is nearly playing her character from that TV show, but it worked
finely. Unlike many blind reviews, there was some chemistry between the
2 leads, I hated every scene that didn't have them both. The rest of
the characters were so funny, cartoonish and satiric (the 3 girl
friends, the Boys R Us boy band, the jail's rap producers, the Latino
young Diva,..).

And when it comes to the songs then we're talking about the most
brilliant element. The song's lyrics were extremely smart, enjoyable
and will live long indeed. This could've been so memorable musical. Or
maybe it is yet in spoofing sort of way. (The Power in Purse) or the 2
different versions of the Boys R Us' song,..etc. I don't run into this
bright spirit much. 

The dialog wasn't less good. The droll lines are many (..It was his
birthday !!). Plus, there is a scene where Dr. S asks his love about
something she doesn't tell to anybody as secret she'd expose to the
dearest one, like her weight, and when she refuses he convinces her
that she can tell him only because one clear reason: he's the one who
doesn't care. This is a very delicate dialog people. Rarely when we
hear anything like it in any comic movie, or rather a movie, nowadays!

What I really love about this movie is its way of dealing with its
subject. It exploits the modern pop scene to produce laughs. And its
cleverness wasn't in the way of producing laughs out of it inasmuch as
being neutral. It'll find viewers who love the "butt" thing, and others
who hate it, and you know what ? It is capable of satisfying both! It
wouldn't analyze why the rap songs are so lewd and violent, or is it
the white foundation, or the black one, that wants and invests that,
because it just lampoons everybody.

I don't know about being in the IMDb's 100 bottom movies ?!!!! It's
shameful, and I do mean the IMDb's reviewers and their taste ! Maybe
it's a war between companies and they hired hundreds of people to curse
it everywhere!! It sure doesn't hit high as (It's Mad Mad Mad World),
or hit lower like (Dude, Where's My Car). It's something in between.
Well, something good as a light romantic comedy, with a lot to show as
well about a culture that loves to be in the butt of all things.
However that doesn't apply to the movie itself! 

Finally, I don't know at all how in god's name the producers wanted
(Chris Rock) in the role of (Dr. S) ??!! He's totally unfunny and so
unsexy (so how to handle a scene where he dazzles the women only by his
sexual charisma ?!). Aside from that, this unbearable comedian said in
an interview with Entertainment Weekly "It's the worst script I've ever
gotten... I'd have been happier getting an envelope full of anthrax."
..Well, I'd have been happier myself!
<|_=00=_|>

Rarely are we treated to a new class of cinema.  Most things done in
Hollywood are rather easy to classify.  Most of the "stuff" made in
Hollywood these days is garbage, dreamed up by lord knows who, to meet some
formula that is supposed to make money. Making movies as art has been dead
for decades but we old timers still hope.

And that is how I got trapped into going to a...I really hate to call this a
movie but I will for clarity...a movie called Marci-X.

Scott Rudin has produced over the years many things I thought were not much
but for the most part his name associated with an effort usually meant the
effort, be it off center or misguided, would still deserve an honest look.
It would in the end be well presented work with a touch of
class.

Well folks, this..."abomination" fits a mold but not that mold. Marci-X is
so bad it needs a class all of its own. To call it simply bad is a
desecration to some really all time Hollywood stinkers. This...gross theft
of any viewers time and money ought to be banned forever!!   That is the new
class.  The banned forever to a nuclear waste site so no unsuspecting fool
like me might accidentally see it.

But I'm on the case here so let me mention a few things.

Lisa Kudrow is better than this kind of role.  Or at least I think she is. 
She isn't funny, she isn't even a good stereo-type. Come to think of it she
hasn't done anything good since "Friends" and that is a decade ago.  Maybe
the biology degree will come in handy after all?

Daymon Wayans as Doctor S. is about as funny as a train wreck. I think the
guy actually has some talent but he is always portrayed as an idiot of some
sort.  And even as an idiot he seems to reflect a unused ability that in a
proper director's hands and the right part might shine
through.

Richard Benjamin is not that director and as the director of this "thing" he
could justifiably be stood against the wall and given his last cigarette. He
also has a supporting role and is very much like Margaret Rutherford in
drag.

But the true villain in this is Scott Rudin.  He put up the money and as
such gave the go ahead to this garbage heap and we who have trusted his work
in the past will be much more careful in the future.

Want to know what is wrong in Hollywood, go see this thing.  It has all the
bad in what will seem like several days of torture for one to see, but
perhaps it might have value as a test of one's grit.  Stand this and you can
stand anything!
