
I'll be first to admit that I hate teen comedies in general and
typically frown upon most of them - I didn't even like "There's
Something About Mary" too much, although I'm not sure it's really a
"teen" film.

I own all three "American Pie" films on DVD because they are one of the
few teen series whose characters seem real and you actually feel
empathy for. They're not awkward characterizations of real people
without emotions - the movie takes time setting up their personalities,
quirks, etc., and then places them in embarrassing situations. For
example, the movie "Swingers." That telephone call Favreau makes is a
painful experience for the viewer. Would it have been so painful if we
hadn't gotten to know him throughout the movie? "American Pie" is kinda
like that. It works well because of the characters. It's crude, yes.
It's crass, very. It's sexist, maybe. But that's how guys are. It
doesn't exploit these elements as many teen sex comedies do - some are
moderately entertaining (like the Johnny Depp film "Private Resort")
but unbelievable and basically just lots of skin. "American Pie" is
better, one of the best of its genre.

Everyone seems to hate the first sequel, which was released in 2001, a
couple years after the original. Jim (Biggs) returns from college and
hangs out for the summer at a beach house with his best pals. But with
Stiffler (Seann William Scott) there, it's not too easy because they
soon end up in more embarrassing situations.

This movie is very similar to the original and normally I have a
problem with this. Basically all the scenes are "updates" on scenes
that existed in the original. E.g. the lesbian strip over the
walkie-talkies, the incident with the glue, the whole thing with
Stiffler's mom and Finch.

Nevertheless it is effective, entertaining and funny. The characters
are given more room to develop and believe it or not, I think I like
this better than the first film. (The third is probably my favorite, if
only for the focus on Stiffler and the introduction of Fred Willard,
one of the great character actors of our time.) "American Pie 2" is
somewhat recycled and some people may find it one of those "pointless"
sequels, but I liked it, and this is coming from a guy who typically
loathes these films - so considering I'm giving this seven stars, that
says quite a lot. Either I'm out of my mind or there's something about
these films that's just more accessible and likable than others in
their genre.
<|_=00=_|>

To make things blunt, I laughed my butt off.  I went and saw the movie
downtown Seattle the night it opened at the Cineplex Odean at
midnight...that was the best crowd I've ever seen a movie with.  I could
usually tell what was coming, but I was still shocked when it actually
happened.  I'm usually pretty conservative when it comes to movies, but the
American Pie movies have been two of my favorite movies ever.  The second
movie takes over at the end of the first year of college.  The first scene
can be figured out by seeing the previews, but there were still a lot of
surprises in the movies.

There are a lot of great scenes at Stifler's party, and I was surprised to
see that not only were the main characters back, but most of the supporting
characters were back as well (remember the two guys from the M.I.L.F.
scene?....they were in the second movie as well).  Even Stifler's brother is
in the movie.

The movie is pretty shocking, but still very funny, I think my favorite part
involved Petey.  I think everyone needs to see this movie, from junior high
aged and older...its destined to be a classic.
<|_=00=_|>

I saw the movie in theaters and laughed out loud.  Now, I rented the DVD.
I
can't say I got as many laughs as the first time, though, and I started to
notice more flaws.  At first I thought this movie was better than the
original.  Now I'm not sure.  They both have great redeeming qualities
that
pretty much balance the scale.

The two films movie at a similar rhythm.  In the original, we opened with
Jim's Dad walking in on him while masturbating.  In the sequel, he walks
in
on him while he's having sex, only it's taken to the next level with the
girlfriend's parents walking in as well.  And we have the keg party, with
a
Steadicam shot following Stiffler around, who yet again gets into a mishap
with bodily fluids.  And of course, in homage of the famous Nadia scene
from
the original, we have the guys walking in on two lesbians.

The laughs are still there, and there are some genuinely funny moments.  I
don't want to give them away, though the previews and some of the other
reviewers probably already did.

The cast still got it.  Eugene Levy steals the show yet again as Jim's
Dad.
I do have to say, Stiffler's character got a little too obnoxious at
times.
It's often funny to hear his foul-mouthed insults, but by the hundredth
time
you hear him use the word "f**kface" it gets kinda old.

I'm always going to hold the "American Pie" movies several notches above
the
standard gross-out teen comedies, because they have zest and originality.
Not to mention they're done in a professional manner.  The gags are as
intelligent as they are crude, and delivered with exquisite timing.  And
to
top it off, it's a heartfelt film that is not literally all about getting
laid.  I thought the original had more heart to it, but the sequel also
has
its heart in the right place.

The music is great.  The soundtrack is full of really cool songs,
including
"Smooth Criminal" by Alien Ant Farm.  And be sure to check out the unrated
DVD special edition.  The commentary is cool and--unlike with the first
"American Pie" unrated edition--there is some bonus footage worth checking
out.  The lesbian scene is extended significantly.  In the theatrical
version, there was only a brief nudity, but you get to see much more in
this
version.

I'm still not sure if I would consider this movie better than the first,
but
it is one sequel that lives up to the original--and that's saying a
lot!

My score:  7 (out of 10)    
<|_=00=_|>
I don't think this movie would work, if you haven't seen the first. It
relies too much on characters and story from the first encounter set
one year earlier. 

This said it is a great sequel that simply picks up where the last film
left off, it retains all the characters from the first film and places
them in equally embarrassing and hilarious situations.

Slick, funny and entertaining

If you've missed it, then check it out, but see American Pie first

If you like it then see 'Road Trip' and 'Old School' as well

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
Well here we are, back for more of the same antics we got in American
Pie. There may be a sense we've seen this all before but somehow
American Pie 2 really works. All the characters we know and love (or
hate) from the original are back and they're constantly being placed
into outrageous situations which will inspire gut-busting laughs. Even
though we're going back over much of the same territory, the sequel is
more consistently and explosively funny than the original. What could
have easily been a pointless, unnecessary sequel actually manages to be
something fresh, funny and appealing.

As with the original the Jason Biggs character of Jim is the glue
holding the film together. Everything revolves around him in one way or
another. Where in the original film each of the main male characters
came with his own romantic storyline this time around Jim takes center
stage. Most of the female characters have been shunted to the sidelines
here with Shannon Elizabeth, Tara Reid, Mena Suvari and Natasha Lyonne
being mere bit players. Their absence doesn't hurt at all and may
actually help by making the story more focused. This one's all about
the boys with Jim and friends renting a summer home following their
first year of college. Back for more hilarity are Chris Klein as Oz,
Eddie Kaye Thomas as the increasingly bizarre Finch and Thomas Ian
Nicholas as the comparatively dull Kevin. And even though none of the
others like him the script finds a way to contrive to get Seann William
Scott's juvenile, vulgar, obnoxious Stifler tossed into the mix. Where
the other guys might go to the edge of what is appropriate Stifler is
always willing to go careening over the edge and his antics are a hoot.

If you thought nothing could be more embarrassing than what happened to
Jim in the original film, just wait. And along to heighten the
embarrassment is Jim's father, played wonderfully by Eugene Levy, who
in trying to help inevitably just makes things worse. And the one
female from the original who actually has a major role here, Alysson
Hannigan as Michelle, also does a great job. Oh, the wacky things that
go on at band camp. With a slew of familiar characters moving from one
hilarious situation to the next, all backed by a winning soundtrack,
American Pie 2 succeeds in equaling and even surpassing the original.
<|_=00=_|>

I liked this movie and got a lot of laughs out of it. It wasn't as good as
the original, but then again, most sequels aren't.   This movie is
basically
several funny skits all thrown together.  And some of the jokes are just
repeats from the original, but others are new. So, that's why this comedy
works.

But, why did they even bring the girls back from the original except for
Michelle.  Vicky, Nadia, Heather, Jessica added nothing to this movie. Each
one of them only had a couple of lines.  The guys are what makes it work.
Jim and Stifler are the funniest of them all.  And Jim's dad is great
too.

FINAL VERDICT: It's funny. It's raunchy. Its got lesbian and porn scenes.
What more could you ask for from a comedy! 
<|_=00=_|>

First of all, this is (of course) a film for people who want to laugh
(mainly at others screwing up). Especially Jim (Jason Biggs) seems to get
himself in the most embarrassing situations over and over again. But there
are other funny moments too, with the Stifmeister (Sean William Scott), Ozzy
(Chris Klein), Kev (Thomas Ian Nicholas) and Finchy (Eddie Kaye Thomas).
Mainly the film is about what moves people my age and any other age most,
the opposite sex. All that obsessing and wondering about the other (does he
/ she like me, do I love him / her?) is really greatly portrayed and
realistic. Of course the people in the film are all not too shabby looking
and there are some sick and perverted moments in the film, but you really
have to look at the bigger picture. You have to look past the babes, the
booze and the parties. You have to look past that ‘every guy's perfect
summer' and see that this film is not about sex, it is not about being sexy
and cool. This film is about being whoever you are, being true to yourself
and your friends, but most of all it is about love. I mean the latter thing
may not be true for all characters in the film (e.g. Steve Stifler), but it
sure concerns the ‘main characters' life (Jimbo's life). The rest of the
film is however pure fun and freedom, that any college student hopes to get.
I sure hope my first summer of being in college will rock like that. Can't
wait to see the sequel. And again, I do not think I have to force someone to
make a sequel.

8 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>

Caution: spoilers.

Before I begin, a few points about taste and suitability. Firstly, this
film is crude, childish, and by many people's standards obscene: it
features bare breasts, swearing and numerous attempts at pre-marital
sex. Secondly, if you were expecting Citizen Kane, they you have bought
the wrong video. Direction and cinematography are not the main aims of
this work of art. Humour, however, is.

And it is funny. Puerile, base, vulgar and unkind, but funny.
Characters get things jammed up their bottoms, glue hands to genitals,
and more. It is like a Donald McGill seaside postcard, enlarged and
moved to America.

The plot is simple: five friends sit in a beach-house planning a party,
each with his own girl problems to solve come party time. Next door are
two pretty, tactile ladies who might be lesbians. Comedy ensues.

The film divides itself between our hero, Jim, preparing for the
arrival of a Russian girl who he believes to be a "sure thing", and the
others in the house. There are two serious subplots: one of the friends
has a girlfriend who lives far away, and another is trying to get back
with his ex.

Much of the comedy relies on whether you can stand the characters and
stomach what happens to them. The odious Stifler, for instance, seems
too much a bully to be likable, and the scenes where he is humiliated
gain something from this. Jim, on the other hand, is basically decent,
and whilst laughable, we want him to succeed.

I found the two serious subplots of little interest: I am older than
the ideal age-group, and they don't really seem very applicable to me
now. Were I 18, they might well do, although they do weigh the comedy
down. Also, perhaps deliberately, the character chasing his ex appears
simply wretched rather than likable. Still, viewers may learn
something.

Which brings me onto the fact that this film is, basically, moral.
Forget the sex and farting jokes: at base, the film is broadly correct
about the way men and women behave, and falls on the side of decency.
The central relationship between Jim and Michelle (an excellent turn
from Alyson Hannigan, at once weird, funny and sympathetic) is
sweetness with a thin veneer of crudity, and shows the real heart of
the film. Excellent also is Eugene Levy as Jim's Dad, embarrassing and
hilarious, but protective and sincere. 

For silly, throwaway entertainment, this scores highly. If you are a
vicar or Pauline Kael, don't bother, but if you are looking for a film
that is simple fun, this does well. The characters and subplots make it
uneven - I often ended up waiting for the action to switch to better
characters - but there are moments of real hilarity so long as you can
tolerate the rudeness that comes with them. 

This film will inevitably offend and disgust more prudish viewers, but
for someone willing to watch silly vulgarity without throwing all moral
sense to the wind, it is one of the classics of its type. Besides,
morality is what you make it. To my mind, compared to the gross,
gloating, sado-masochistic excess of The Passion of The Christ, it
seems wholesome indeed.

<|_=00=_|>
they always say sequels are worse than there originals and i will
definitely agree with this one. i think because they had made a
blockbuster out of the first one that they quickly put together a
second without really thinking about it

the film is still very funny but just doesn't have the vibe of what the
first one had. plus the whole band camp part was boring. the cast are
still pretty good, seann william scotts character "stifler" still makes
me laugh. he's the saviour of this film i think.

everyone still should watch this because it is still an OK
film............. 5/10.........j.d seaton
<|_=00=_|>
The first film was a big box office hit and a highly successful teen
movie, and many of the fans must have been thrilled that every member
of the cast of the original were coming back for a sequel, from
director J.B. Rogers (Say It Isn't So). Basically Jim Levenstein (Jason
Biggs), Chris 'Oz' Ostreicher (Chris Klein), Kevin Myers (Thomas Ian
Nicholas) and Paul Finch (Eddie Kaye Thomas) have all returned to their
hometown in East Great Falls, Michigan after finishing their first year
of college, and naturally they attend the party hosted by still
oversexed Steve 'Stifmeister' Stifler (Seann William Scott), but this
is cut short by the police. With nowhere to party because of the police
Kevin finds out that there is a beach house in Grand Harbor, Michigan,
so the four friends, plus Stifler for rent, pack their bags and make
themselves comfortable, finding work as painters and decorators to pay
the rent and prepare for the big party. Kevin is feeling awkward with
ex-girlfriend Victoria 'Vicky' Lathum (Tara Reid) back in town and he
feels may want to get back with her. Oz is missing girlfriend Heather
(Mena Suvari) who is away in Spain and they keep their relationship
going with attempted phone sex. Finch have discovered the sexual art of
Tantra to keep in his desires as he waits patiently for the opportunity
to possibly get with his goddess, Stifler's Mom (Jennifer Coolidge).
Jim is worried because Nadia (Shannon Elizabeth) will be returning, and
he feels his lack of sexual experience will put her off, so he seeks
sex tips and advice from his prom date Michelle Flaherty (Alyson
Hannigan). Stifler is fascinated to see that the painted house owners
Danielle (Denise Faye) and Amber (Lisa Arturo) may be lesbians, and
with Jim and Finch he breaks in to find his proof, and they return and
catch them they decide to mess with the boys, giving them homosexual
acts in exchange for them doing it, e.g. the girls kiss if the boys
kiss, and for a while they go with it. Jim's confidence problems only
get worse when Stifler provides him lubricant, and distracted by
pornography he unintentionally grabs super glue he used earlier to
masturbate, and he ends up with his hand glued to his penis, the other
to the porn video, at hospital, supported by his Dad (Eugene Levy) he
is told there will be swelling for a while, and he is shocked to see
Nadia arriving early. While preparations for the big party get
underway, Jim has Michelle pretend to be his girlfriend until
everything is ready and he has all the tips he needs, and with his
penis back to normal they fake breaking up on the day of the party. So
the party gets underway, Kevin is crushed Vicky has a boyfriend, Finch
disappointed earlier that his goddess was not coming spends his time
talking philosophically to various women, Oz has Heather surprise him
having taken an early flight, and Jim lets Nadia down saying that he
realises he has feelings for Michelle. The party is a big success, all
the guests drinking and dancing with joy, with Jim and Michelle
becoming boyfriend-girlfriend, Kevin and Vicky happy as friends, Oz and
Heather still happy together, and Stifler ecstatic in bed with Danielle
and Amber who turned out to be bisexual, even Chuck 'The Shermanator'
Sherman (Chris Owen) scoring with Nadia. The end sees the boys packed
and ready to go home, promising that if they can they will do the same
again every summer, and Finch is happy to say Stifler's Mom, real name
Janine, pop by and pick him up to go and have sex again. Also starring
Natasha Lyonne as Jessica, Molly Cheek as Jim's Mom, Justin Isfeld as
Justin - 'MILF' Guy #1, John Cho as John - 'MILF' Guy #2, Eli
Marienthal as Stifler's Brother, Casey Affleck as Tom Myers, Joelle
Carter as Natalie, Bean's Larry Drake as Natalie's Dad, Lee Garlington
as Natalie's Mom and Austin Powers' Kevin Cooney as Doctor. The cast
are still as likable as ever, Biggs more foolish than before, Thomas
weirder with his holding in of an orgasm, Scott much more foul-mouthed
and sex-obsessed, and Levy in his moments still amusing and
embarrassing. The story is simple, just teens getting back together to
drink a lot, have sex and party hard, but the slapstick and dialogue
jokes still work when they need to, the highlights are Stifler being
peed on, the terrible trumpet playing, the phone sex scene, the lesbian
fun and the super gluing, it is a fun comedy. Good!
