

Martin Lawrence is often trusty in the world of comedy.  Maybe I'm just
overcoming his awful "Blue Streak," but I felt this comedy--though saggy at
times--was quite funny.  The premise is undoubtedly implausible.  How's a
whole neighborhood going to believe that this undercover cop with a latex
body that looks somewhat like Big Momma is actually Big Momma?  There's a
lot of disbelief to suspend.  But the gags often worked and I can say I
laughed about 75 percent of the time.  Some are predictable, like when Big
Momma takes a karate class and starts beating the teacher--played by Anthony
Anderson--to a pulp, but they still work due to the way they're handled. 
And Lawrence turns in yet another fine comic performance, with a script that
could've used a rewrite but was nowhere near as bad as the crackerjack
script he had to work with in "Blue Streak."  The talented comic helps keep
the movie togehter, with a little assistance from the supporting cast.  Paul
Giamatti, who was great as Pig Vomit in the acclaimed "Private Parts," is
funny as Lawrence's partner.  We also have "Me Myself and Irene's" Anthony
Anderson and Cedric the Entertainer.  

The plot is chaotic, sometimes predictable, and becomes more and more
implausible by the minute but the comedy works and because of that we're
able to excuse the script's shortcomings.  "Big Momma" doesn't deliver the
biggest laughs, but it's good, fun entertainment on a lonely weekday
afternoon.  

My score:  7 (out of 10)
<|_=00=_|>
This was a surprisingly good comedy, despite the predictability of it
and the typically-sappy Hollywood ending. Nevertheless, this film has a
bunch of laugh- out-loud scenes and jokes and Martin Lawrence is a
likable guy. He has the ability to make us laugh just by making goofy
faces. His best were when he was trapped in the bathroom behind the
shower curtain when the real "Big Momma" (Ella Mitchell) was taking a
dump a few feet away! The looks of Lawrence's face during that period
were hilarious! 

Lawrence eventually dresses as a big fat woman and provides laughs
doing so. Ever since the early days of television and Milton Berle,
people have laughed at men dressing up imitating women. Pretending to
be a 300-pound woman makes it even funnier.

Throw in a pretty female lead (Nia Long) and a little drama to go along
with the yuks and it winds up being a decent movie.
<|_=00=_|>

Why did I rent this movie? I don't really appreciate Martin Lawrence, not
his old TV show nor his stand-up routine. But I did rent it nonetheless,
fearing that I'd wasted my $2.99 after returning home.

My fears were ungrounded. This movie is actually funny, hysterically so in a
few scenes. Not to mislead the reader, I have to state that this movie is
nothing great; it's actually just a trifle. Just suspend all belief as
Lawrence portrays an FBI agent who dons a fat-suit in order to impersonate
the 350-pound aunt of the lovely young suspect Lawrence and his partner are
tailing. Of course, no one, not even the aunt's suitor, can tell the
difference. If you can get by this absurd premise, "Big Momma's House"
contains some really rib-tickling slapstick. When Lawrence, while
impersonating Big Mama, is required to mid-wife a birth...that scene alone
is worth the $2.99.

<|_=00=_|>

Think of a Mrs. Doubtfire meets the Nutty Professor hybrid, with a
smattering of Kindergarten Cop thrown in for good measure, and you've
pretty
much got Big Momma's House.  Except the former three are all reasonable
films, and, unfortunately, Big Momma's House just isn't.

When dangerous convict Howard Laster (Terrence Dashon) escapes from
prison,
undercover cop Malcolm (Martin Lawrence) is sent with fellow FBI agent
John
(Paul Giamatti) to track down Laster's ex-girlfriend Sherry (Nia Long), in
the hope of luring the armed robber back in the direction of the slammer.
This involves staking out the house of Sherry's Southern grandmother 'Big
Momma', but when the latter leaves town Malcolm feels compelled to take on
her guise, with the help of a few prosthetics and some extra padding.
Things take a complicated turn, however, when Malcolm begins to fall for
the
beautiful, yet unknowing, Sherry.

The film bounds along like an enthusiastic dog, with the script acting as
little more than a vehicle for Big Momma's 'hilarious' antics and various
escapades.  The action often degenerates into uninspired gross-out comedy
and toilet humour as Big Momma stumbles from one rib-tickling predicament
to
the next, with Malcolm often only being saved by the former's reputation
as
a lovable and outlandish character.  Big Momma attends a self-defence
class.
Big Momma has nasty moments on the toilet.  Big Momma plays basketball.
And Big Momma delivers a baby.  Cue many moments of roll-in-the-aisles
hilarity.  Or not.

Unfortunately, convict Howard is soon forgotten as the film focuses almost
solely on Lawrence, and seriously begins to grate as Big Momma's Southern
screeches make up about 95% of the dialogue.  The slowly developing
romance
between Malcolm and Sherry is also guaranteed to make audiences cringe
with
it's predictability.

Lawrence and Giamatti make the best of a bad job, although the audience
are
left wondering exactly why they took on the roles in the first place,
whilst
Dashon is convincing as Evil Criminal on the Loose.  Predictably, all
characters are shockingly two-dimensional, but to be fair, Big Momma's
House
does at least generate some laughs along the way.

It is difficult to see specifically who this film is aimed at, but there
must be some attraction, judging by a high-grossing opening weekend in the
States.  However, non-existent plot and character development will ensure
that many of the audience leave disappointed.  Only to be seen by those
who
know what they're letting themselves in for.
<|_=00=_|>
Martin Lawrence goes undercover in a suburb of Georgia as an overweight
southern grandmother in "Big Momma's House". It's up there with "Black
Knight" and "Blue Streak" as a ridiculous, predictable and stupid yet
charmingly funny Martin Lawrence vehicle. Some of the dialog is almost
non-sensical and seems to rely on Martin Lawrence's improvisational,
uh... skills. Of course, why nobody recognizes that their friend/mother
(Big Momma) is being impersonated horribly, I don't know. But that sort
of adds to the movie I guess.

The story here doesn't matter that much. Really, it doesn't. Paul
Giamatti plays the signature goofy white partner, who occasionally gets
pushed around by the neighborhood locals to much comedic success (it is
actually pretty funny, if predictable, like everything else here). Nia
Long reprises her typical role as the love interest, and then a bunch
of goofy physical stunts are taken from "Mrs. Doubtfire" and given a
slightly different flair -- playing on southern black stereotypes (deep
fried home cooking, going to church, etc.).

This movie is cheesy and ridiculous. I don't think you even need to
watch the whole thing, nor watch it twice (though there is a sequel,
and seeing that would basically be watching this movie twice). But for
what it is, it's pretty goofy and entertaining.

4.5
<|_=00=_|>
Big Momma's House is directed by Raja Gosnell, written by Darryl
Quarles and Don Rhymer, and stars Martin Lawrence, Paul Giamatti, Nia
Long & Terrance Howard. Lawrence plays FBI Agent Malcolm Turner who
goes undercover as "Big Momma" Hattie Mae Pierce (Ella Mitchell), so as
to hopefully snare escaped convict Lester Vesco (Howard). "Big Momma"
is the aunt of Vesco's ex-wife, Sherry (Long), who is on her way to
"Big Momma's" to hide out after hearing of Lester's escape.

In spite of baffling critics-and not finding many casual film viewers
willing to say they enjoyed it! the film was a surprise hit and opened
as the number two movie in North America. It went on to gross over $117
million at the box office and subsequently ensured that a sequel would
follow down the line (it arrived in 2006). The film isn't pretending to
be anything other than the mindless comedy it is. If viewed on those
terms then it can be enjoyed. Sure some of the gags are puerile, and
Lawrence is an acquired taste, tho his energy and comedy timing are
first rate here. But it does work to a degree. It's been done better in
the likes of Tootsie and Mrs. Doubtfire, and the plot, with it's
boorish romantic strand, is merely an excuse for "Big Momma" to get
into daft scrapes. Yet the action is nicely staged and the pace of the
piece never sags. There's also fun to be had in watching Giamatti &
Howard looking like they just know they should be doing better stuff
than this!.

Forgettable juvenile fluff for sure, but likable enough; in that brain
at the door-bucket of popcorn-way. 6/10
<|_=00=_|>
J. Edgar Hoover would spin in his grave if he saw how the Federal
Bureau of Investigation nabs their nemesis in director Raja Gosnell's
"Big Mama's House." This boisterous but barely original drag comedy
thriller casts comedian Martin Lawrence as a streetwise, gung ho FBI
agent who disguises himself as a rambunctious 325-pound
African-American grandmother in Georgia so he can capture an escaped
murderer out to recover $2-million in missing loot from a bank robbery.
Although not nearly as exciting as "Blue Streak," "Big Momma's House"
is a hundred times funnier. When Martin Lawrence transforms himself
with prosthetics and padding into obese grandmother Hattie May Pierce,
"Big Momma's House" makes up for all its lapses in logic with loads
(and lards) of laughter.

When Sherry Pierce (Nia Long of "Soul Food") learns that her deadly
ex-boyfriend, convicted bank robber Lester Vesco (suave Terrence Howard
of "Pride"), has bluffed his way out of prison and is on the prowl, she
packs up her young son Trent (Jascha Washington of "Three Strikes"),
and they leave Los Angeles. Lester wants to retrieve the $2-million in
cash that he stole from the bank. The authorities have suspected for a
long time that Sherry may have helped him, but because they never found
the loot they have left her alone. Meanwhile, the FBI has anticipated
Sherry's move to contact her grandmother in Cartersville, Georgia, so
they dispatch agents Malcolm Turner (Martin Lawrence) and his white
partner John (Paul Giamatti of "Sideways") to set up an
around-the-clock surveillance on Hattie May Pierce (Ella Mitchell of
"Lord Shango"). Just as Sherry rolls into town, Hattie May rolls out to
tend a sick friend. Desperately, afraid they will lose their only
chance to catch Lester, Malcolm mimics Big Momma on the phone and
encourages Sherry to visit her. Feverishly, Malcolm and John whip
together an unconvincing replica of Hattie May that Malcolm wears to
hoodwink the gullible Sherry.

Martin Lawrence is the whole show in "Big Momma's House." If you love
Lawrence (toned to a PG-13 rating), you'll laugh your ribs raw at his
amusing antics. Most of "Big Momma's" humor springs from her rotund
physique. The bathroom humor may offend some, but the scene where
Malcolm's Hattie May delivers a baby with Cisco and a toilet plunger is
alone worth watching. "Big Momma" proves that a crowd-pleasing comedy
need not bow to logic. Hattie May on the basketball court trouncing two
tough street kids at hoops; defeating a bumbling self-defense
instructor; and give a sermon in church is funny but not for a moment
believable. Martin Lawrence's energetic performance (as Martin again)
overshadows these glaring mistakes.

"Never Been Kissed" director Raja Gosnell milks "Big Momma's House"
strictly for laughs. Some scenes will split your sides if you aren't
careful. Gosnell refuses to indulge himself on the action scenes.
Further, he gives short shrift to Terrence Howard's felonious escapee.
Howard hovers on the periphery but never makes a deep impression.
Although the Feds classify Lester as a cold-blooded killer, he spares a
rent-a-cop's life. Repeatedly, Lester embraces adversaries with
uncharacteristic charity. As a result, "Big Momma" emerges as a slick,
sympathetic, one dimensional screwball comedy with only the stretch
marks of serious drama. No antagonism burns like a fuse between Lester
and Malcolm, and their showdown brawl is absurdly brief. Ostensibly,
since this lackluster villain poses a minimal threat to either heroine
or hero, the film lacks any dramatic catharsis. At best, as a director,
Gosnell is efficient; at worst, he is a hack. Happily, he keeps this
formulaic fracas moving at a brisk clip and confines it to a trim 97
minutes.

The romance between Malcolm and Sherry sputters until he dons latex
thighs and flour sack breasts. They make a generic couple, and their
romance seems like supplemental fodder to flesh. Of course, while it
adds depth, the filmmakers fail to make something out of it. Moreover,
Malcolm breaks character, showing an interest in Sherry. John warns
Malcolm that he is treading thin ice in his dealings with Sherry. For
somebody who refused to be tied-down to a family, Malcolm appears
hell-bent on courting Sherry and impressing Trent. Naturally, since
Malcolm loves Sherry, any doubts in anybody's mind about the issue of
Sherry's guilt should disappear. Any relationship with a character
other than "Big Momma," however, takes second place, so Malcolm lusts
after Sherry in disguise. Sounds rather perverted, doesn't it? The
flashlight scene in bed between them (prominently featured in the
film's trailers) gets a chuckle.

Clearly, scenarists Darryl ("Soldier Boyz") Quarles and Don Rhymer
derived inspiration for "Big Momma's House" from cross-dressing
cinematic classics, such as "Chris Columbus' "Mrs. Doubtfire" (1993),
Billy Wilder's "Some Like It Hot" (1959), and Sydney Pollack's
"Toostie" (1982) as well as romantic shoot'em ups like John Badham's
"Stakeout" (1987) and F. Gary Gray's "Set It Off" (1996). Like the
Richard Dreyfuss cop in "Stakeout," Malcolm is determined to help
Sherry, even if it intrudes on his ethics. Sherry's relationship with a
notorious bank robber recalls a similar conflict in Vivica A. Fox's
relationship with a bank robber and her subsequent firing in "Set It
Off." Sadly, despite the best efforts of Quarles and Rhymer, "Big
Momma's House" amounts to little more than a series of cleverly staged
vignettes a la Flip Wilson's Geraldine of Lawrence dodging into and out
of character as a mammoth matriarch. Quarles and Rhymer stretch "Big
Momma" beyond the bounds of anybody's credibility to accommodate some
of the most absurd premises. A blind man could easily distinguish
Martin's Hattie May from Ella Mitchell's Hattie May. Ella is bigger
than Martin. Essentially, the filmmakers ask us to believe that Big
Momma's lifelong friends would not be able to spot an imposter on the
spot.

Again, if you hate Martin Lawrence, don't enter "Big Momma's House."
Despite all of the obvious narrative flaws, especially in its flaky
logic, Martin Lawrence's wide-eyed, rude humor and his prosthetic
posturings redeem this crime comedy.
<|_=00=_|>
I was in my early teens when this was released ten years ago, and I
never heard of it at the time. In early 2006, I went to the theatre
while this movie's sequel, "Big Momma's House 2", was playing, but
since I had never seen the original by this point and could see that
the sequel was widely hated, it was obviously not the movie I was going
to see. Instead, I went to see "The Matador" on that particular trip to
the movie theatre. It took me over four years after that to get around
to watching the original "Big Momma's House", and just before seeing
it, I had low expectations, thinking it would probably be a very
unfunny comedy, even if it wasn't absolutely terrible. However, while
it's unsurprisingly not that great, I did laugh.

Malcolm Turner is an FBI agent who is very skilled in disguising
himself for undercover operations. After it is announced that a
murderer and robber named Lester Vesco has just escaped from prison,
where he was serving his life sentence, Malcolm and fellow FBI agent
John Maxwell are sent to catch him. The FBI believes that the
criminal's ex-girlfriend, Sherry Pierce, was also involved in criminal
activity, but they haven't been able to prove it. Malcolm and John go
to the neighbourhood in Georgia where Sherry's morbidly obese
grandmother, Hattie Mae Pierce (a.k.a. Big Momma) lives, and begin to
spy on her. Sherry is on her way to her grandmother's house with her
son, Trent, but before they arrive, Big Momma leaves town unexpectedly,
so Malcolm decides to pose as the feisty elderly woman! He takes on her
lifestyle while trying to get the truth from Sherry, and also finds
himself falling for the criminal's ex-girlfriend! 

Before it is announced that Lester has escaped from prison and Malcolm
and John go to spy on Big Momma's house, the film begins with the two
FBI agents busting a dog fight, and I guess parts of this sequence are
somewhat funny, but no more than that. The film continues to be mostly
straight-faced after this, as we learn about the escaped prisoner, the
two agents are sent on their mission, and Malcolm disguises himself as
Big Momma. The early part where Malcolm has to hide in the shower while
Big Momma defecates is memorable, but not in a good way. For a while,
it didn't seem like I would be able to give "Big Momma's House" a
rating higher than 5/10. I frequently snickered, but it didn't look
like I would ever find any BIG laughs in the film. However, that
eventually changed. While it's still not that consistent later on, it
certainly can be funny with the things Malcolm has to do while in
disguise, including a baby delivery. The scene with Sherry seeing
Malcolm as himself and the FBI agent claiming to be a handyman is also
a really funny part. The story and characters can also be interesting.

This 2000 release is definitely not generally considered one of the
great modern-day comedies, and after seeing it, I can understand why,
but I've seen much worse excuses for comedy. I wouldn't have been too
surprised if I had thought "Big Momma's House" was really lame when I
watched it, but while I'm sure many people think it is, I can't say I
do. It is uneven, but sometimes funny. Also, there isn't nearly as much
juvenile toilet humour in the movie as that one defecation scene
suggests! Martin Lawrence plays the lead role here. I haven't seen him
in any other film and have only seen a bit of his stand-up comedy, so
I'm not that familiar with his work, but think he does a pretty good
job with his performance here. This film is a little cheesy and doesn't
have the most original plot, and more thought could have been put into
the ending as well, but if you want a silly, raunchy comedy, this
particular one might work, at least in some parts.
<|_=00=_|>

The plot is extremely stupid, but some of the comical elements are pretty
decent. This is an example of one of those movies where everyone doesn't
understand the humor, which may explain why some didn't like it. Not a
great
movie, but not necessarily unwatchable. 1/4
<|_=00=_|>

All you people who don't have a sense of humor don't even bother with this
movie! It was so hilarious! You have to see it. It was the best. One of
those movies that you have to see at least one more time! I just hate the
people who have no sense of humor that say that this movie was lame
because
people need to lighten up and relax and enjoy the movie. Grab a friend and
go see it and have fun. Don't be a tightwad and critize every little
thing.
If you are looking for a funny, comic movie then go see it. Also all you
little uptight critics can just take your stuffy selves and go jump off a
bridge or something. Don't ruin everyone else's opinion of it cuz some
people do have senses of humor unlike yourselves! GO SEE THE
MOVIE!!!!!
