
For plot, xXx rates a 1.

For acting, a 0.

For action, a 10.

This movie is unbelievably stupid, but somehow people (including me)
like it. Just watch it, take it for what it is, and go with the flow.
Vin Diesel plays an "extreme protester" recruited by "The Man" to
accomplish some vague mission. Don't get too concerned about the
mission, or anything else for that matter. Anything resembling a plot
is present only to justify the explosion or parachute jump or whatever
impossible physical challenge the stunt-masters have come up with. Just
be happy you rented this instead of paid to see it in a theater. Invite
your friends over, have a few beers, and enjoy!!!
<|_=00=_|>

I don´t understand all the commotion in the user opinion section. Is Van
Diesel a decent actor or is he not.  Can somebody shoot a gun while flying
through the air or not? Are the Beatles better than the Stones or is Wet
Wet
Wet a better band than the Backstreet Boys? It´s entertainment, nothing
more. James Bond uses devices not yet invented and Frodo has hairy feet.
If
you want to comment on the contents and value of a movie I think you must
take another movie like Schindler´s List (10+ !), not a movie that was
produced purely for the fun. Sit back, enjoy the ride, don´t expect any
deep
going conversation and just have fun. 
<|_=00=_|>
Look, I'm not going to pretend that this is some sort of masterpiece.
Though it is basically another "generic action flick", the twists that
they add to it make it worth watching. The way they incorporate their
"recruitment program" into the movie is fun and original, and though
Vin Diesel doesn't really "act" in it, it's a lot of fun to watch. It
has a few suspenseful plot elements, and the way they incorporate his
status as an extreme sports star (not a spoiler, it's in the previews)
into the way he conducts himself as a secret agent makes it more
believable. Ever think about some of the stunts that go on in an action
movie and wonder, "Okay, exactly WHY would this particular person know
how to do that?", because it seems completely unlikely that there would
be some sort of training program for the stunt they just pulled off?
This movie doesn't have that, because whether he's on a motorcycle,
skis, or whatever, you can believe that an extreme sports star would be
able to pull off what he's doing. Though the plot is as unrealistic as
most movies of this genre, the stunts are a lot more believable than
you'll find in most.
<|_=00=_|>
Vin Diesel is a pretty good guy to play these new action-heroes. Like
"The Rock," he's a big, muscular macho guy who men can look upon with
some respect and the ladies can fall for. Unfortunately, a number of
these testosterone-filled action films, including this one, are
somewhat moronic in nature. However, they are undeniably entertaining.

You can always depend on one thing in these type of movies, from the
"biker movies" of the '50s to today's films: the hero will always be a
rebel against authority and any laws of the land. Also, an even
more-recent theme is to have the government actually employ the rebel
to get the job done because their men are unable to accomplish what
this ultra-tattooed macho man can do! It's so much garbage, but it has
its moments and Diesel still is a likable hero of sorts. Like Arnold
Schwarzenegger before him, and Steven Seagal, Jean-Claude Van Damme,
Chuck Norris and then "The Rock," these kind of muscle-men have fairly
clean mouths and at least some ideals. 

For pure action, the movie succeeds because, in the end, it does
entertain which is the name of the game.
<|_=00=_|>

Let there be no doubt: The acting sucks. Even Samuel L. Jackson's
performance is mediocre and definitely unexpectedly so. The plot is
ludicrous, the characters unbelievable and the acting (oh, I mentioned this
already) dilettante. Effects had gone overboard and factualities of science
wildly disregarded. Yet! Yet, this movie was quite the entertaining one.
Subtly (purposely?) funny at places completely overshadowing the
dysfunctional slapstick that absolutely didn't cut it, and above everything
else - it didn't hesitate. The action was brilliantly choreographed and
impressively implemented.

- Thomas Nielsen

p.s. Samuel L. Jackson should really not have been here. He should've been
sitting at a table in a bar talking to Quentin Tarantino over a cup of
coffee about a prequel to Pulp Fiction or what not. He definitely should not
have been here. Definitely not.
<|_=00=_|>

Have you seen the trailer for this film??? Then forget about reading my
review or anybody else's for that matter!  It doesn't take 2 brain cells
rubbing together to know what you are going to get here, and you get PLENTY
of it!  This was not a typical movie choice for me (my guy's turn to
choose), but I had some idea what to expect and I think you do too. Having
said that, here is a BIG SURPRISE - this was one of the MOST FUN, simply
enjoyable movies I have seen in months, maybe a couple of years!!!  This
film is wonderfully unpretentious.  It doesn't take itself too seriously,
and we shouldn't either.  Does XXX provide deep intellectual insights, an
elegantly constructed production with soul-searching performances, an
air-tight plot with masterful dialog, gritty realism, completely
true-to-life action scenes, brilliant editing?  Although the answer is
obvious (in case you haven't seen the trailer, the answer is NO), a much
better question is, WHO CARES?!  This movie is all about fun!  Crazy,
mind-blowing, awesome (and in some cases,of course, obviously impossible)
extreme stunts!  Diesel is charismatic and charming, the girl is sexy and
engaging and the bad guy is appropriately nuts.  The plot is good enough.
The way they take out a communications tower doesn't make much sense, but
otherwise we'd miss out on another amazing stunt scene so once again, who
cares!  (Hey, check out 'Signs', a supposed new masterpiece by a supposed
great director, if you want to see a film that really makes no sense!)
There's some humor and a few decent one-liners, too.  One of the Bond
spoofs
is even smartly hilarious (a car stuffed Bond-style with gadgets that end
up
being virtually useless).  The way this film is NOT extreme is also
refreshing.  There is just basic shoot-em-up and action stuff - no extreme
violence/gore, no extreme profanity, no extreme sexual content, and no
extremely 'important' artistic message.  In other words, nothing to detract
from the great fun of a fast-paced, amazing stunt-fest that is light,
refreshing, and visually awesome.  The perfect summer action flick!

<|_=00=_|>
This film is fun, with an easy plot to follow and a great soundtrack.
the film is basically a 2hour long stunt. the one major criticism i
have is that Asia Argento should stick to letting Daddy chop her up in
his movies instead of trying to be a serious actress. The film is made
all the better on a personal level in the fact that Rammstein make a
live appearance at the beginning of the film. Vin Diesel has the
charisma and potential to be the next big action movie star and has a
really cool voice. Samuel Jackson gets to play his typical gruff
shouting role that he has made his own and there are several stunts
that are truly breathtaking, it is just sad that one of these led to
the stuntman performing it's death.
<|_=00=_|>
Then again, when it's bad, it's overlong, faintly chauvinistic, and
most definitely thicker than two short planks.

But don't get me wrong. xXx has a lot to recommend it. From an action
point of view, this movie's about as much fun as you can have with your
pants still on. Buildings explode, bullets fly by and Vin Diesel grins
and goofs about like any self-respecting action star should. I mean
okay, the movie doesn't give it's audience any credit for intelligence,
utilising a paper-thin plot to lead us about like a blind man, and the
entire female cast, even Asia Argento (who trust me is very good when
she's GIVEN SOMETHING TO WORK WITH...), are really just left to sit
around and look pretty while all the exploding goes on, but I can't
hold that against it too much. It just must be explained first.

Given the way of the Hollywood blockbuster, i.e. the hideously PC
lacklustre uninvolving pap we're getting force-fed these days that you
instantly forget when you leave the theatre, it's nice to see a film
that doesn't care if you like it or not. xXx is this movie. It knows
it's not big, clever or funny, but it doesn't care and it gets on with
it's exploding wares with admirable effort. In fact xXx is much like
it's star Vin Diesel. He, and the film, may not be the greatest in
their field but damn it they're gonna try as hard as possible to keep
your bum on the seat.

They succeed. You won't be forgetting xXx in a hurry. You might not
enjoy it as much as I did, but if none of this film leaves a gawping
'wow, they actually went and did that' expression on your face, you may
well be dead. My only real criticism other than the movie's
stereotypical nature (which is a given anyhow given it's director and
publicity) is it's running time. I watched the extended special edition
cut and it's about 2 hours 10 minutes. Either way you cut it that's a
long time to sit through a movie that boils down to 'get girl, kill
baddies'. Minor gripe though. Check it out, it's worth your time.
<|_=00=_|>

xXx is as big as Pinocihos nose after he has read a statement written by
Jeffrey Archer and as dumb as a person with no tongue. It is designed for
the kind of people who think that Bond movies have too much of that
talking
stuff between explosions and use this strange music that doesn't seem to
have distorted electric guitars or rapping on it. It is also a lot of
fun.

After losing another spy on the trail of ultra stupid terrorist anarchy
99,
whose plan for world domination involves building a boat in a landlocked
country, the NSA decide they need a new breed of agent. Therefore they
kidnap extreme sports enthusiast and counter culture hero Xander Cage, aka
xXx, aka Vin Diesel playing virtually the same character he did in Pitch
Black and The Fast And The Furious. After watching him do Evil Kineval
impersonations around a Colombian cocaine plantation whilst the army try
to
blow it off the face of the Earth they cut him a deal. Either save the
world
or go to jail. Unsurprisingly he chooses the former.

For the first 20 minutes it looks encouragingly like the they have just
allowed the stunt team to make the entire movie. However before long we
have
scenes developing the love interest set in swanky restaurants and a lush
orchestral score creeping in. This wouldn't be a problem if the writer
didn't think the phrase "one liner" referred to the amount of decent
dialogue he had to include in the entire film. As it is your mind starts
wandering as soon as things stop exploding.

However xXx's action sequences are more than enough to compensate the
viewer
for their patience during the more laboured elements of the film. The
stunts
are by turns ambitious, outrageous and just plain improbable, however it
seems unlikely that the film will be causing the James Bond producers too
many sleepless nights. In fact before long they will be making films to
appeal to people who think the xXx movies have too much dialogue and not
enough nu-metal. They'll probably call them Jackass Bond.


<|_=00=_|>
This starts with a man wearing a tux getting killed by some Slavic
gangsters at a Nu-Metal gig . It's never mentioned on screen but the
implication is that the dead man is Bond, James Bond and throughout the
movie where treated to an alternative universe where the world is no
longer saved by sophisticated suave secret agents but saved by a loud
crass extreme sports loving American 

Did I use the word " treated " in the above paragraph ? Maybe that's
too much of a strong word because XXX isn't much of a treat . Okay I
disagree with many of the people claiming this was the worst movie of
2002 but Rob Cohen is a very shallow director while Vin Diesel is a
laughably bad actor who makes Sylvester Stallone look like Anthony
Hopkins in comparison . What compounds this problem is the amount of
homage the movie pays to the Bond series . Isn't this movie trying to
do away with Bond ? So why does Xander Cage borrow lines like " The
things I do for my country " which sounds a lot like " The things I do
for England " from YOU ONLY LIVE TWICE . all throughout the movie we're
treated ( Again that's maybe not the right word ) to little nods and
winks to Fleming's superhero which makes the movie end up being a 21st
century homage to JB and I doubt if this was the original intension .
The story structure mirrors that of the franchise of cramming in
several different locations because it seemed like a good idea at the
time , so much so you find yourself forgetting what the original plot
was , there's a femme fatale and the bad guy wants to start effectively
world war three . Seen it all before 

XXX is dumb , loud and spectacular when it needed some wit and a better
leading man . If your only requirement in a movie is stunts and
explosions you'll no doubt enjoy it but I do prefer substance in a
movie
