

Secretary is the first of its kind - a very dark love story.
First of its kind in that it deals with themes never seen before seen in
mainstream Hollywood cinema - S&M, sexual dominance and
submission.

Maggie Gyllenhaal is outstanding in a potential minefield of a role - she
handles it with dignity and even provides some effective dark humour.

The story here is that her character, Lee, applies for a job as a secretary
for the firm owned by James Spader's brilliant Mr Grey.
However, Lee has a history of self-harm and masochism and Grey has a
dominance complex along with a very sadistic streak. Combine these 2 in
theory and you have 2 very happy people. But this is no ordinary love
story...

Spader, as stated, is brilliant. He brings an icy steel to the troubled
Grey, but also provides a touch of black humour which comes at some great
moments to 'release the tension'.

For the themes supplied here you'd probably expect a lot of raunchiness -
well there are sexual moments, of course, but there is nothing gratuitous,
which is in itself an achievement and well handled.

Overall it's quirky, off-beat, and a little bit different.

Worth a view.
<|_=00=_|>

Maggie Gyllenhaal deserves an Oscar nomination for her brilliant portrayal
of borderline psychotic, self-mutilating Lee Holloway, a former mental
institution patient seeking to sustain herself - vocationally and
emotionally - in a challenging world where she has few safe harbors.  She
comes from a messy family background although that alone can't explain her
illness.

Learning typing, she gets a secretary's job with lawyer E. Edward Grey
(James Spader, who also turns in a first-rate, nuanced performance).  Grey
refuses to have any computers in his very smart, expensive law office. Like
many lawyers he's a perfectionist who abhors typographical errors but his
obsession with perfection reflects more than an anal personality hitched to
a law degree.  His solo practice seems to thrive better than his
self-control of a suppressed sexuality, awakened by Maggie at first
unknowingly.

This is a film about what many consider to be deviant behavior
(sado-masochism and bondage-discipline, not your usual Hollywood romantic
fun and games) that most will concur is uncommon in the workplace.  Director
Steven Shainberg and his cast - and Gyllenhaal and Spader carry the film,
forget the supporting actors - show Lee and Grey's rocky and developing
relationship with candor, without condemnation and without exploitation. The
lawyer and his secretary are sexualized in a way few have experienced and
those who have don't talk to folks outside their circle.

This is a black comedy/a black drama.  It either grabs or repels the viewer:
there's no in-between.  The resolution?  Is it realistic or a cop-out?  I'd
love to hear from those able to comment from experience on IMDb's discussion
board.  But I have a feeling few will post reactions.

A very different film that I rate 8/10 on a personal scale where I value the
deep and tortured acting projecting the absorbing conflict of this
sexualized working (initially) relationship.  
<|_=00=_|>
A self abusing mentally unstable girl finds herself a job as a
secretary in a law firm owned by mysterious Spader. The two start a
kinky relationship and their lives change dramatically in the process.

This is really a beautiful love story. It's quite unusual subject
matter (the nature of their relationship) may cause some viewers to
discard the film, which is a shame 'cause this film is really nothing
but a romantic little story about two people, who feel alienated and
alone, who find each other. The need to find a kindred spirit is
something we all want, no matter how different we feel we are from the
rest. In some ways, the charming ending, when they finally get
together, reminded me in some ways of the ending in "An Officer and a
Gentleman". Hope someone will relate to that.

The acting is superb. James Spader is fantastic as the troubled lawyer
and Maggie Gyllenhaal is perfect as well. This is a well written, well
directed and moving film that is sure to delight all those who are open
minded to some unusual twists in an otherwise universal love story. 

9 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>

Those Gyllenhalls, they sure can act.  Maggie, like her brother Jake, turns
in great performances like they're routine - she makes it look easy.  In
'Secretary', she delivers a layered, complex performance as Lee Holloway, a
disturbed young lady who deals with stress by cutting herself - the pain
pushes away everything else that's bothering her.

As she's released from an institution back into the world, she takes her
first job as secretary to lawyer E. Edward Grey, played by James Spader. 
From then on, the movie explores their relationship and how it affects Lee,
taking her from the quiet, self-damaging wallflower into the determined and
strong woman she becomes.  

The film's use of S&M in the relationship between Lee and Mr. Grey makes it
a bit controversial, but it's not really the focus here.  The idea of Lee as
the submissive and Mr. Grey as the dominant have little to do with their
sexuality and everything to do with their personality issues.

Lee can't handle extreme emotion without resorting to pain, because she
can't take control of her own life.  What she sees in Mr. Grey is love -
absolute love, the likes of which she can't find with her fiance Peter
(Jeremy Davies).   That love allows her to give him the power of her pain -
by doing that, she's finding something worthy to focus on instead of the
nothingness of her sewing kit and iodine.  

Mr. Grey, for his part, is a man who can't deal with anything except in his
own ordered, regimented way.  He cares for his orchids but little else, and
the steps he takes with Lee open up his wary heart.  He's slower to develop
than she is, and to take the final steps towards a real, lasting
relationship, he has to be dragged there by the force of Lee's own
will.

The key to this film - and S&M relationships in general - is that Lee (the
submissive) has all the power, not Mr. Grey (the dominant).  She sets the
terms by which the relationship will be conducted, seemingly for the first
time in her entire life (including the relationships with her family).  Lee
finds love and desire in Mr. Grey, and pursues it while healing her own
shattered psyche in the process.

Maggie Gyllenhall is luminous here.  She can say more with a facial
expression than most can in a Shakespearean soliloquy.  She gives herself
completely over to the part, without a wink or a nudge that she's just
kidding, or thinks any part of this is silly.  She becomes Lee Holloway,
which is the best compliment you can give an actor.  Spader, for his part,
follows in a long string of oddballs, but doesn't go over the top, as he
could have been tempted to do.  This is Maggie's movie, and he supports it
and plays off it well.

Rating: 8/10, based on the strong performance of Maggie Gyllenhall and the
character of Lee Holloway, but nocked down due to a poorly-constructed
finale that just doesn't fit with the rest of the film.  Highly
recommended.
<|_=00=_|>

I may be a jaded old cynic but from time to time a contemporary movie knocks
me off my seat. Recently there's been quite a few -'May', 'Sympathy For Mr.
Vengeance' and 'Auto Focus' immediately spring to mind. 'Secretary' is
another recent gem. This is the most original romantic comedy (very black,
mind you) I've seen in YEARS! And for something which deals with a lifestyle
alien to me (dominance and submission) it's surprisingly touching, and even
managed to get me to shed a tear or two. I had previously enjoyed Maggie
Gyllenhaal's supporting roles in 'Donnie Darko' and John Waters' 'Cecil B.
Demented' (she played Raven, the make up artist - "Pain is pleasure! Slavery
is freedom! Suicide for Satan!' remember?), but her performance here is
first class and is guaranteed to turn her into a major cult figure if not an
actual genuine STAR. I confess that I now have a major crush on her to boot
(I'm sure I'm not alone!). James Spader is also very, very good. While I
admired him appearing in Cronenberg's 'Crash' a few years ago most of his
other film choices have been safe ones and to be honest I'd pretty much
given up on him as an actor. But it just goes to show what an actor is
capable of with an innovative script and a supportive director. It's really
difficult imagining any other two actors playing these roles any better. In
the supporting cast Jeremy Davies also surprised me. I'd been getting a bit
tired of his crazy shtick in previous roles, especially his extremely
irritating performance in 'The Million Dollar Hotel', but he did a much more
subtle job in this movie, and it really worked for me. This is my first
experience with director Steven Shainberg but I was impressed. I now want to
try and see his previous movie, the Jim Thompson adaptation 'Hit Me'. I also
look forward to his next movie, because if 'Secretary' is any indication of
his talent then he's sure to come up with something very special. Highly
recommend.
<|_=00=_|>


The word "originality" has been overused, especially by me, so much that
it
has almost been beaten to a pulp.  After all, how can one really tell if
something in a film hasn't been done before?  Well, I can confidently say
that Steven Shainberg's "Secretary" may be the most inventive, and yes,
even
original, film this year.  I can confidently say that in all of my time of
watching and reviewing films, I have never seen anything like it.

Lee Holloway (Maggie Gyllenhaal) has just been released from a mental
institution due to the fact that she constantly would cut herself when
tension started to build up around the household.  After she is released,
it
is clear that the habit has not been broken, but cuts or no cuts, she
needs
a job.  She goes to typing school and gets some of the highest grades in
her
class, making her perfect for the position of secretary at a nearby
lawyer's
office.  She goes for the interview, and after seeing the previous
secretary
run out in tears and hearing the questions in the interview, it is
apparent
that the lawyer, E. Edward Grey (James Spader), is a bit of a creep.

Soon enough, Lee begins to cut herself at work, and needless to say, Grey
catches her in the act.  He doesn't take any sort of disciplinary action
towards her.  Instead, it seems that he can relate.  He tells Lee, very
inspiringly, that she will never cut herself again.  Lee is uplifted, but
has no real inclination as to just why he said what he did.  However, she
still continues to make mistakes in her writing, and after a while, it
simply drives Grey nuts.  He invites her into her office and tells her to
"Lean over, put your elbows on the table and read the letter outloud".
She
does as he asks, but in a strange turn, he spanks her every other word.
She
runs into the bathroom hurt and embarrassed, but interestingly enough, she
loved it.

I'm a bit surprised that even by this time, there has been little
controversy over "Secretary".  I had images in my head of feminist groups
rallying for the film never to reach the screens, or possibly screams of
NC-17 from everyone's favorite censors, the Motion Picture Association of
America (MPAA).  Thankfully though, it's gotten this far unscathed.  Maybe
that is because audiences at preview screenings and film festivals are
realizing that although loaded with thick layers of kooky (but not that
kinky) S/M, the situation is a deeply and fundamentally human
one.

Basically, if S/M was ever shown in a film before, it would usually be in
the context of a villain torturing a hero against their will, and usually
such scenes weren't in anything that wasn't some cheap exploitation film.
"Secretary" is a brave endeavor, but it knows where it's going.  This
isn't
a gimmick, S/M sequences in the film are not the least bit perverted (the
same can't be said about some segments in several Larry Clark films).
These
scenes are essential to understanding the characters.

What is so great about "Secretary" goes beyond its offering insight as to
why anyone would find being tied to a pole and spanked while holding a
carrot between their teeth even remotely attractive.  Despite pretty
morbid
subject matter, "Secretary" flies off the screen with energy and wit,
offering some of the funniest, most surprising dark comedy I have seen
since
"Fargo".  Several scenes in the film have already become classics in my
repertoire of movie moments that will stay with me forever, including one
hilarious incident involving a worm.

Even with all of this, there is no way that "Secretary" would have pulled
it
off without Maggie Gyllenhaal and James Spader.  Spader is creepy and
oddly
pathetic; his performance is such that at one moment we are sympathetic,
the
next we are booing him, then we're intrigued again.  Maggie Gyllenhaal is
equally brilliant; she gives us complete access into the mind of Lee
Holloway, and it's close to impossible not to feel for her.  Also, take
into
account how courageous she is; you try and find me another actress her age
who would be willing to do half of the things she does in the
film.

Spader and Gyllenhaal have such chemistry that everything clicks.
Director
Steven Shainberg lets us truly understand the complexities of their
relationship without letting the energy lag or any of the subtle comedy
fly
past the audience.  "Secretary" is invigorating, touching, hilarious, and
often all at the same time.  With too many romantic comedies trying too
hard
to try something new when they are in fact only going backwards,
"Secretary"
is a truly unique specimen.  
<|_=00=_|>

'Secretary' deals with a daring and original subject and does this in an
effective and funny way. Its subject is sadomasochism, its genre is a
romantic comedy. The secretary is Lee Holloway (Maggie Gyllenhaal), who
suffers from self-mutilation, her boss is Mr. Grey (James Spader), who seems
the coldest man alive. When they are in the same room you feel that there is
something there, they both feel it too. Since the movie opens with a certain
S/M scene we already know that there is a point in the movie where the two
must find each other and start the sadomasochism activities. I will not
reveal how and when it happens, but the moment is great.

Saying too much about the story would spoil things. We laugh at the right
times, which is a good thing. Considering the subject it is even hard to
accomplish that since people who are not familiar with it laugh very easy
when they see strange things. For most audiences the events will be strange.
The original approach of the movie, the performances perfect for this movie,
the funny moments and an ending that plays exactly as it should this is a
good movie and one of the most original romantic comedies I have
seen.
<|_=00=_|>

What is the path to love?  For every person, it's different.  The
superficial circumstances are similar... you meet someone at work, at
school, in a singles bar.  And, usually, the emotional pathways are similar.
 Eyes meet.  We talk.  We dance.  We communicate about ourselves to each
other.  Then begins the sexual part, so we parry and thrust, take signals
from each other, and, over time, we feel each other up together.  But what
about the path to love through the back door (so to speak)?  What about a
love story where she's a young, neurotic woman, just out of a mental
hospital back to a family where Dad's a serious drunk and Mom's a serious
nervous fruitcake.  And what about a man, an attorney, who's emotionally
closed off and can only get in touch with orchids, inserting long
stainless-steel tools into their waiting organs.  Yes, these two find each
other in one of the most bizarre cinematic love stories ever. 

I loved this movie.  I pilgrim around, searching through books and movies
for secret pathways to and circumstances of the human heart.  This movie
transcends its gentle S&M to reveal yet another way to love. 

Our heroine, the fresh-faced (and magnificently moon-like) Maggie Gyllenhaal
is brilliant as the new secretary to a lawyer who goes through so many
secretaries, he has a "secretary" vacancy sign he lights up outside his
office.  As our heroine tries to re-enter the world by getting her first job
with this man, it becomes apparent that the boss is anything but normal.  He
is demanding yet insistent that his new charge break away from her stifling
past and be herself.  But what or who is she?  And who in the hell is
he?

The movie is sexy.  There's no denying it.  Gyllenhaal is radiant and
sinuous, and we feel that she's truly experiencing the wonder of it all for
the first time.  Spader is type-cast a bit, but his world-weary sexiness
fits well with Gyllenhaal's naiveté.  And, let's face it, Gyllenhaal is
grippingly sexy, and we see her in hose, panties, tight skirts and in the
nude.  And as far as I'm concerned, she's fabulous, darling.  And in one of
the movie's sexiest, most endearing scenes, we see Spader carry her off in
her urine-soaked wedding dress as he finally assumes his responsibilities as
her loving "dom".  She is totally tired, subservient and radiant in total
surrender, rescued from a voyeurizing world.  What a hunk of sexy cinema
that was with her arm languidly draped around Spader's neck as he carried
the bride over the threshold to love and dominance.  Wow.

This movie explores and explodes sexual myths.  The director has
successfully created a dark comedy layered with nuance in a stew of social
commentary.  This movie is not for everyone.  Stay away if you're
conventionally wrapped, conservative, or lacking in a certain joy of
exploration.  But if you're ready for a most untraditional-traditional love
story, Spader and Gyllenhaal give Oscar worthy performances... but of course
the subject matter nixed that.   

<|_=00=_|>
WARNING this review contains SPOILERS:

This film is beautiful in so many ways; Maggie's portrayal of a
submissive was just pure delight. She did SUCH an incredible job in
every scene involving her and James Spader. I mean the part where he
first starts spanking her...her eyes...they were just so expressive!
Even though she didn't really talk you could totally understand
everything that was going on in her head through her eyes. Just
beautiful!

And James Spader! wow...I've always been impressed by his acting and
have always found him incredibly attractive and sexy, but after viewing
this film...I fell completely in love with him all over again.

Even though the movie really centers around Maggie's character and her
battle with sexuality and cutting and what not...I found James'
character's battle to be more intriguing and actually bigger. He's
become completely intimate with her and every time he even looks at her
he wants to bang the sh*t out of her. So his way of dealing with that
is through exercising. And his whole obsessive complusiveness was, well
to me, kind of funny.

Some of my most favorite scenes in this film was when James fires
Maggie yet she doesn't want to leave. He sits down in a chair and she
comes up to the side of him and starts running her fingers through his
hair. The expression on his face while she does that is just so
enthrawling! I mean just the touch of her makes him go into an orgasmic
bliss! I also love the scene where She is lying naked on the grass and
he is rubbing his hand over her stomach touching every cut and scar.
And you hear her voice over talking about how she used to be shy about
having sex because she didn't want anyone to see her cuts; she was so
ashamed of herself, yet he didn't care at all about them and loved her
for everything she is. She felt beautiful when with him and wasn't
ashamed anymore. It was just fantastik! And my 3rd favorite scene was
when James starts kissing maggie and works his way down her body, and
while he's doing this she starts asking him questions like "I wanna
know when your first love was, when you had your first kiss, what your
favorite color is, where you were born..." and he had worked his way
back up and stops right above her face and answers her question about
where he was born. She then gets this big smile on her face right
before he leans closer and kisses her deeply. I don't care what anyone
else says, but that scene had my heart racing a mile a minute, it was
so sweet.

Despite all of the things that had happened in the past these 2 found
acceptance in each other and because of that will love one another
forever. I HIGHLY recommend seeing this film. You will become so
attached to it I swear! my rating is 9/10.
<|_=00=_|>

`Secretary' is an odd little sadomasochistic fantasy in which a lawyer and
his secretary establish a kind of master/slave relationship in the office.

Lee Halloway is a deeply disturbed young woman who has just been released
from a mental institution where she has been recuperating from a nervous
breakdown.  Lee copes with her severely dysfunctional family - her father is
an alcoholic who beats his wife, while her mother is a passive victim of
abuse who overprotects her daughter - by cutting, gashing and burning
herself regularly.  Now, back on the outside, Lee finds employment as
secretary to a paralegal, E. Edward Grey, an equally neurotic man who turns
out to be a full-blown `dominator' behind closed doors.  Together the two
forge a bizarre sexual alliance so all-consuming in its nature that one
wonders how this small office ever gets any work done at
all.

Writer Erin Cressida Wilson and director Steven Shainberg have fun with the
many ironies and paradoxes inherent in the offbeat world they are exploring.
 For instance, Grey, by restricting Lee's freedom of choice, is actually
liberating her by getting her to channel her self-abusive tendencies and
desire for pain into a `healthier,' more `productive' direction.   Lee also
discovers that men with unconventional sexual tastes may be no more willing
to `settle down' and `commit' with a likeminded partner than many a man with
more traditional sexual proclivities.

In many ways, `Secretary' turns out to be almost a recruiting poster for the
sadomasochistic lifestyle.  The S&M scenes are kept relatively tame in tone
and the film displays a wickedly funny sense of humor for most of its
duration.  Moreover, the decidedly upbeat ending of the film could easily
have garnished any Doris Day-Rock Hudson romantic comedy - had standards 40
years ago allowed them to explore this type of topic, that
is.

As Lee and Grey, Maggie Gyllenhaal and James Spader turn in terrific
performances.  They manage to capture the quirky nature of their respective
characters without ever making them appear off-putting or grotesque.   Their
performances go a long way towards purging the material of the kind of
sleaziness and smarminess one might expect to find here.

The early scenes in the film may be a bit disturbing for some in the
audience, mainly because we feel a bit like voyeurs peering in on the
couple, almost as if they were zoo animals or subjects in some sort of
psycho-sexual experiment.  But then, as we get to know the characters and
come to like them, we become absorbed in their story and find ourselves
actually cheering them on and wanting them to find some measure of meaning
and happiness in their relationship and lives.   

The makers of `Secretary' have taken a potentially `touchy' subject and
injected it with warmth, humanity and insight.  It's hard not to feel
uplifted by this film. 

