

K-19 is a unique entry with a poignant portrayal of the other side of the
Iron Curtain, showing the rest of the world the courage and the honour of
the Russians to their mother land. Those who think of Russians, usually
think of blood thirsty killing beasts who drink Vodka all day, but
clearly
this is just propaganda. I have Russian background and I have grown up
around ethnics, and Russians are no different than the general public. It
is
American propaganda that has taken the rest of the world from
understanding
the Russian people. In K-19, the Russians are finally portrayed as human
beings in the most harshest of all circumstances. This is not an action
movie and it was not intended to be one. Most of the American comments
shown
here on Imdb are ridiculous. They clearly show the American expectations
in
a movie: It has to be a blow up, explosion filled, guns and bullets, kill
your enemy blockbuster to make it into their best films ever list. K-19
however did not want to impress the Americans with special effects (it
seems
to the general American public that special effects are all that make
quality movies these days) but instead wanted to show the world that
Russian
soldiers were not cold blooded murderers and were not war thirsty, but
were
soldiers under extreme circumstances - to show the struggle on the other
side and to show the fear of death and the courage and heroics in
preventing
nuclear war, subsequently sparking World War III.

I was really impressed that at least some of the American comments were
realistic, for anybody who understands cinema would classify this as a
"masterpiece". I have come across many hilariously stupid and ridiculous
American comments where they think they know what they are talking about
and
the thing is, they don't. Harrison Ford and Liam Neeson pulled off a
brilliant realistic performance. In my opinion, their accents were very
well done (I am Russian, so I would know) and the direction was splendid
(a
benchmark in sub film history with its claustrophobic sense and close
direction). I felt really sorry for the characters, especially for the
Nuclear Reactor Officer. The Kirov Orchestra pulled off one of the
greatest
soundtracks that I have ever heard (really powerful and striking pieces)
and
the general Russian feel throughout the film was "Authentic".

I was truly struck by this film. It sent shivers down my spine. The
settings, the story telling, the performances, the direction, the music,
the
tension, the interaction and chemistry between the characters, the
authenticity and best of all the cast truly made this film a
"masterpiece".
Thank you to one great "American" film director (Kathryn Bigelow) for
waking
up and seeing the Russians in a different light.

This movies is certainly a 10/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Based on a true story, K-19: The Widowmaker tells of the Soviet Union's
attempt in 1961 to not fall behind the United States in the Cold War.
The United States had just launched the Polaris-class nuclear
submarines. K-19 was a Russian sub retrofitted for nuclear
capabilities. The Soviet crew's assignment was to take the sub into the
Arctic and test fire an Intercontinental missile. The Americans would
monitor the test as a part of routine surveillance--the test was done
relatively close to a NATO outpost for one, and it would notify them
that the Soviets had equal capabilities to the American Navy, helping
to either stave off war, sustain the Cold War, or both, depending on
your interpretation.

As the film begins, K-19 Captain Mikhail Polenin (Liam Neeson) is
running his crew through a routine simulation. The nuclear reactor ends
up having a problem, as it had on previous simulations. Polenin says
they're not ready to run the mission yet. Instead of listening to him,
the Soviet military powers that be install a new Captain--Alexei
Vostrikov (Harrison Ford). Vostrikov is a hard-ass, which doesn't help
him go over well with the K-19 crew, who were used to being chummy with
Polenin. To make matters worse, Vostrikov has a questionable
reputation--many believe that he's only in his position because of
familial influence, and this despite the fact that his military father
ended up in the gulag. After a number of bad portents, the sub is off
on its mission and Vostrikov tries to get the crew into respectable and
responsible shape so they can complete their task and get back home. As
foreshadowed by the prologue, the K-19 eventually has a crisis with its
nuclear reactor. The bulk of the film tells of this dilemma, attempted
solutions, and various problems it causes.

K-19 is incredibly suspenseful and emotionally poignant. But it's
perhaps amazing that it creates such nail-biting tension when we
consider that on the surface level, it is simply a drama about a piece
of machinery. Most of the plot is about trying to fix a broken gadget.

That might not sound very exciting, but there's much more to the film
that a superficial glance at its plot would indicate. Director Kathryn
Bigelow makes K-19 a combination of extended character
portraits--primarily of Vostrikov, but also of a handful of other K-19
crewmembers, and a subtextual exploration of formal organizations and
hierarchies in general.

Of course, the film is also a tribute to the real-life sacrifices and
heroism of the K-19 submarine crew, who couldn't tell their stories for
many years due to the Soviet government's official squelching of the
incident. And on that end, the film is also a remarkable and perhaps
somewhat controversial (politically and even
artistically/philosophically) attempt to tell a serious, "balanced"
historical story from a perspective "within" another culture.

Ford's performance is top-notch. He easily coaxes viewers to first hate
him, even if they can understand his motivations, then he gradually
layers complex nuances of character until we finally turn our opinions
about Vostrikov around and empathize with him--but after not a little
skepticism, which lingers for most of the central portion of the
film--finally rooting for him against those government meanies who just
can't understand his decisions because they weren't there. The whole
arc easily takes film viewers on the same emotional journey the K-19
sub crew would have had.

Neeson has a similarly complex arc, but much more subtle--fitting for
his supporting role. He goes from being your best buddy to someone to
be suspicious of, then someone to be disliked for being a hard-ass of a
different sort, then finally he surprises the audience with a saving
grace action just about the same time that we realize that Ford as
Vostrikov was right all along.

The film would be worth watching for just these two fine performances.
But the crewmembers featured are just as sympathetic, especially when
they make their mind-boggling sacrifices.

The progression of the matrix of dynamic personalities, their
judgments, reservations, disputes, and suspicions, their pressing on
despite less-than-perfect circumstances, and their relation to edicts
from on high resemble what is probably more the norm for any complex,
formal organization--not the least of which is the film-making
enterprise, and more than likely, wherever you earn your daily keep.

Most of us have been involved with vocation-oriented projects or tasks
that have had to progress despite the fact that a lot of people
(involved or not) thought there were problems with the project or task
at a fundamental level. This happens in films all the time. Studios and
producers demand that a film begins production, maybe because it has to
meet a particular release date, maybe because of marketing tie-ins and
on and on, yet there still might not be a finished script, or we still
don't know who is going to be cast as the villain, or any number of
potentially disastrous situations. Vostrikov is like a film director
being told to turn in a product on a tight deadline. He's doing the
best he can to get the film rolling, and that means getting the crew to
stop goofing off so they're ready to shoot, especially if the pressure
becomes greater. It's probably a good thing that films don't run on
nuclear reactors.

Of course the more literal political dilemmas that arise later on in
the film are equally fascinating. But the humanizing elements of the
characterizations and the universalizing elements on the story are what
make K-19 hit home so hard. They add to the intriguing historical
drama, the great direction and the good cinematography, score and other
technical elements to easily push K-19 up to a 10.
<|_=00=_|>

Forget the critics, forget about the whiney 
Russian sailors: this film is worth watching. 
This just goes to show how idiotic the general 
viewing public has become. Critics have 
become nothing but a bunch of "good review" 
whores who work for commission and free gifts. 
It just goes to show idiotic they are, embracing 
schlock like Spider-man but putting down 
audacity like this film. For shame. With a good 
cast, excellent tension and Harrison Ford, they 
still want more action and silly exposition. 

Maybe it is the subject matter, or maybe it's the 
fact Harrison Ford isn't killing anyone and trying 
to act sexy, but I cannot understand why anyone 
would put this film down. I don't think this film 
is detrimental to the reputations to the Russian 
sailors, who were portrayed with gusto and 
bravado not exhibited in most submarine films. 
Also, the claustrophobic nature of the film must 
have been difficult to film, considering the close 
quarters the characters had to work with. Overall, 
the film probably could have used some fine tuning, 
but the way it is, it is still quite a film to watch. 7.2/10
<|_=00=_|>
This was a pretty solid supposed true story of a Russian submarine and
its captains during the early 1960s. It's memorable, story-wise, for
the radiation victims among the crew members. There are some really
dramatic scenes involving that horrific event. Otherwise, it's a story
of the sub's problems and the conflict between two captains.

The story starts slowly so you have to stick with it as it gets better
and better as it goes on and rewarding enough to make you glad you hung
in there for the whole 137 minutes. 

Profanity is minor and the Russian accents are handled well by the lead
actors, led by Harrison Ford, Liam Neeson and Peter Sarsgaard.

It's not a great film, but it's good and interesting enough to
recommend a rental, but not something I'd watch numerous times. Those
radiation scenes would be a little too grim to watch numerous times.
<|_=00=_|>

I rented this DVD for a little diversion, in spite of the bad buzz and the
word "flop" attached.  I thought it was a very good movie, very suspenseful
and interesting.  I don't nitpick about things like accents with films, just
try to enjoy them.  I agree with the majority of posters here, it is well
worth your time.
<|_=00=_|>

All right this is not the most historically accurate film of all time.  That
is true.  But there are a good number of historical accuracies not to
mention tremendous suspense in this great film.  Harrison Ford plays Alexi
Vostokov a controversial Russian Submarine captain in the 1960's who is put
in charge of Russia's first nuclear sub.  There is a tremendous amount of
controversy especially considering the fact that the previous captain played
by Liam Neeson is now the second in charge.  

The movie is extremely suspenseful.  There are a lot of thrills a lot of
tense moments with the sub and with the people on the sub.  The special
effects in the move were phenomenal but unlike many movies today the special
effects do not attempt to make up for the lack of a bad script or acting
job.  Some of the movie was not so accurate but there is so much that
is.

Harrison Ford was not a very good captain and in a ship they do not put the
previous captain second in command at least in America because of the
attachment you have to the leader.  I know this because my father was in the
navy and telling me all of this.  The only thing that surprised me was that
the movie did so bad at the box office.  This had a great cast a lot of
suspense.  I can't figure out why people didn't watch it but I do have an
idea.

This movie was released the same week that the Toby Keith song we'll put out
boot up you're a%^ it's the American way came out.  Since the Russians were
once considered the sworn enemies of America not to mention most of the free
world I don't think in this time of ultra-patriotism that people were too
willing to watch it.  I live in one of the most conservative areas in the
country.  A lot f what I heard as well was that this movie was too intense
despite the PG-13 rating.

This was an all around great movie.  This is one of Harrison Ford's best
roles and him and Liam Neeson were stiffed at the Oscars in 2003. They both
did that good.  If anyone tells you this is a stupid movie don't listen to
them.  This is an entirely too underrated movie that will keep you on the
edge of you seat for over two hours.  This is a very well done movie Kathryn
Bigelow the director did a great job.

<|_=00=_|>

This film reminded me more of "Glory" than of "Hunt for Red October" or
"Das
Boot."  The men sacrificed themselves not for The State or some ideology,
but for each other, their fellow men & their leader.  You know, most of us
can't change the world.  In a million years, whatever we do won't make a
bit
of difference anyway.  It's the small things--one person, one moment, one
action--that really count.  That's what this story said to me.  Besides
it's
more exciting than all the shooting, car crashing, exploding movies out
there.
<|_=00=_|>

In an attempt to break from his usual sympathetic every man bit, Ford
plays
a
blunt, powerful, hard working Russian Naval officer who is given command
of
a
nuclear powered sub from its well liked, almost fatherly captain played by
Liam
Neeson. Harrison and Liam clash as only two strong willed alpha males can
when they take the sub out for a spin and fight to keep it from blowing
up
and
causing a world wide tragedy.

Based on a true story.

Ford and Neeson give solid performances to this long, murky, cold, and
ultimately detached action drama that proved to be one of 2002's lesser
box
office endeavors. As stated before, the film suffers from a feeling of
disconnection, even as numbers of brave men are sent into the nuclear
reactor
with improper protection ("They might as well be wearing rain
coats!")

Could have been better, and it  could have been a lot worse. Rent and
judge
for
yourself. Probably mostly for fans of Ford and Neeson.

<|_=00=_|>
K-19 has a massive cast, especially in the two lead characters of
Mikhail Polenin (Liam Neeson) and Alexei Vostrikov (Harrison Ford). My
understanding is that Ford wanted to take on a role different than ones
he had taken in the past to prevent type-casting, and while he does a
good job in his role (as does just about everyone involved), the movie
does slip up a little bit by having an almost nonexistent Russian
presence in what is supposed to be the story of a Russian submarine.

Comparisons to the far superior Hunt for Red October are inevitable,
and it is interesting to note that that movie was also about a Russian
submarine but was presented all in English, but it doesn't lose
credibility the way K-19 does, probably because it at least maintained
a Russian accent, while Ford is speaking an unmistakable American
accent and Neeson, well, Neeson is just Neeson and that's always good.
He makes a great German but is less convincing as a Russian. I don't
know why.

Nevertheless, as a story about an extremely important submarine mission
rife with problems the movie succeeds brilliantly. K-19 is basically
Russia's protection again nuclear war, which they fear the Americans
might start at any moment. They hope to deter attack by showing
evidence that they can issue destruction in return, and it is because
of this that the sub is commissioned and sent on a mission to the polar
ice caps to launch a test missile. There is a great scene where all of
the crew and many other people are witnessing the launch of the
submarine, and a woman swings a bottle of champagne on a rope to smash
against the hull, but it bounces off unbroken. "We're cursed," one of
the dismayed crewmen says. That woman must have felt terrible.

There is an immediate rivalry between Polenin, who understands the
ship's limitations and wants them corrected before beginning the
mission, and Vostrikov, who also understands the ship's limitations but
also understands how important the mission is and so outranks Polenin's
protests. One of the best things about the movie is that the dramatic
action is pushed along by genuine concerns. The movie would have
suffered terribly if they were ignoring such important problems with
the submarine without good reason.

One of the best things about the movie is that it is able to create so
much dramatic tension, even though it takes place during peacetime.
There was a huge amount of political tension in the air, but there
wasn't a war going on. This is why there is not a lot of concern shown
when an American destroyer is sighted near the submarine, because one
of the goals of the mission is for the Americans to see what they're
doing.

Instead, a small leak aboard the nuclear sub becomes a problem big
enough to potentially start a war. Incidentally, one of the crewmen
noticed something wrong with one of the dials at least twice before the
leak was discovered (once before the ship left port). Had he reported
that problem when he first noticed it, he could have saved the lives of
everyone who died because of the radiation and prevented the entire
thing. At any rate, once the leak is discovered, the options are to
abandon ship and surrender the crucial technology to the Americans (a
single concession which could dramatically alter the futures of the two
nations, and thus rendering it unacceptable), try to repair the reactor
without sufficient protection against the radiation, or scuttle the
ship (also unacceptable because of the boat's importance).

There is a tense scene where Vostikov orders the ship to dive to almost
crush depth, one of the obligatory scenes in submarine movies where the
hull creaks and groans and everyone stares at the ceiling, like there's
something to see there, and then he orders the ship to ascend at
breakneck speed, surfacing through a layer of ice. Vostrikov intends to
push the boat and the men to the limit so that they all know what the
limit is, but unfortunately it culminates in a hugely disappointing
display of digital effects as the ship breaks through the ice in
something that looks more like it belongs in a cartoon than a serious
film like this (I was reminded of the unfortunate Scrat's efforts to
save an acorn from a splitting glacier in Ice Age).

The film requires an extra bit of suspension of disbelief to accept a
story about a Russian submarine but without any Russian actors. I'm
curious to know how it was received in Russia. I imagine it was a hit,
despite the lack of Russian presence in the film, because it
illustrates their courage and dedication to their country in the most
difficult of times. But nonetheless, it is hugely effective and never
lets up once it gets going. The ending strikes me as the part where the
most creative liberties were taken with the original true story,
leaving you with the feeling of a Hollywood ending imposed on a true
story from Russian and American history. But if nothing else, the movie
is a fascinating look at how close we came to widespread destruction
during one of the most tense times in modern history.
<|_=00=_|>
There is a scene early on in this film that pretty much sums up the
risk that the crew of the new submarine of record will be taking. The
officers are sitting around enjoying some vodka and one of them brings
up the cosmonaut hero Yuri Gagarin. He offers the rumor that Gagarin
was not in fact the first man sent into space. He was simply the first
guy who made it back alive. And the crew of this brand new nuclear sub
will face similar danger as their hastily prepared vessel will be
pushed to the limit in order to impress both the politburo, and make
the Americans take note of its existence. The boat has not even left
the dock before it has claimed a handful of lives, most notably the
ship's doctor who is hit by a truck just before departure. The top
nuclear engineer on board is also hastily replaced when he is
discovered drunk on duty. And of course, the champagne bottle doesn't
break during the dedication ceremony on the first hit. This is a
uniformly bad omen in anyone's navy! K-19 stars two wonderful actors in
Harrison Ford, and Liam Neeson. Neeson plays the boat's original
captain who strongly objects to how hastily the new vessel was thrown
together. Ford, who has higher political connections is put in charge
of the K-19 with Neeson being demoted to executive officer. Both men
are stubborn, be generally respectful to one another. Trouble is, as
the film later points out, a ship can only have ONE captain. One man
that the crew looks to and respects. Two such men only create tension.
Once the boat leaves port, things generally go pretty well. Despite a
leak or two, the boat initially holds together. Ford orders a very deep
descent, and of course we are treated to one of those scenes which
every submarine movie has where the entire crew looks on nervously as
the boat may or may not implode under pressure. Anyway, it holds up.
The K-19 then breaks through a patch of ice and has a successful test
firing of a missile. Everything looks like it is going great. The crew
even stops to pose for a happy picture atop the ice after a game of
soccer. Of course, things begin to fall apart from there on.

First off, the nuclear reactor pretty much goes kaput. Radiation levels
rise rapidly, and for a while it looks like the whole sub might
explode. Making things even more drastic is the presence of an American
destroyer ship that would theoretically be taken out if the sub went
nuclear. Tensions between the two nations were never really much higher
than they were back then, so this may have been a real possibility.
Once things start going badly, the tensions between Ford and Neeson
begin to magnify. A mutiny is even attempted by those loyal to Neeson.
Worst of all, the attempt to fix the reactor takes the lives of a
handful of the crew in a particularly gruesome fashion. The film
becomes more tense as things keep getting more and more dangerous for
all involved. The conclusion is somewhat logical, but it might seem a
little contrived. The entire movie is loosely based on real events, but
the film has too many clichés for it to really be taken too seriously.
Since there is no outright warfare going on here, the script has to
pretty much recycle just about every tense moment from every other
submarine movie not actually involving live combat.

The acting is good, but Harrison Ford is a bit tough to swallow as a
Russian. His accent needs a little work, but other than that his
performance was as good as he could have done for such a part. Neeson
is terrific as usual. Peter Sarsgaard also shows great promise in this
early effort of his. Hats off to director Kathryn Bigelow for using the
claustrophobic environment of the submarine to her advantage. It must
have been a difficult shoot, but she makes it work as well as you could
hope. The film lost a small fortune at the box office for whatever
reason. Maybe the absence of an American lead character was too much to
overcome. Anyway, it is a shame that more people have yet to see this
very good film. 7 of 10 stars.

The Hound.
