

This movie is truly enjoyable. I can watch it may times. My wife and I are
great fans of Winnie the Pooh and particularly Tigger. He can bounces and
can talk really fast. The way that Tigger was looking for his family made
it
really fun!

I recommend that movie to everybody that have babies and/or
toddlers.

<|_=00=_|>

But it should have been a bit longer. 77 minutes is not enough. I have
always loved Disney's animation of the Winnie the Pooh TV show and I was way
excited when I first learned of this movie. 100 acre wood looks as magical
as it always has done and is presented very well in this feature.

The story itself is a bit childish but still manages to have balls when it
has Tigger FAIL to find his family. Although I would have liked him too I
respect the ending they went for.

Although this film isn't to everyone's tastes (I know it seems a little
fruity a guy of 20 can like this film) I say you should see this movie,
preferably with kids. It's perfect child fodder and good entertainment. Not
just family entertainment. Should be longer though.

<|_=00=_|>

 In this film, Tigger (voiced by Jim Cummings -- one of the least known yet
well deserved voice actors) basically thinks he has a family, and is elated
when he hears they're coming to the Hundred Acre Woods.

 One knows everything that is going to happen in this film, but who didn't
know Pooh would get out of Rabbit's hole in the classic "Pooh" film? I for
one found that though predictable, "The Tigger Movie" is a film with a
message, and it can be enjoyed by all ages. It isn't "rated PG for brief
language." It doesn't have small print. It's harmless family fun, and I
praise the film on that account. Tigger swearing or aiming a gun at Roo's
head just wouldn't do for me (though it would be funny to see on "The Late
Show," or something that can twiddle with the animation
:)

 I give "The Tigger Movie" 3/5 stars -- it has the Disney magic in
it.

John Ulmer 
<|_=00=_|>

I thought that this movie was darling.  The characters were cute.  The
story
was very good.  Everyone who worked on this movie did a wonderful movie.  I
highly recommend this movie for people of all ages to watch because it was
so good.  
<|_=00=_|>
Starting with a lament from Tigger that all the Winnie the Pooh movies
are about - well - Winnie the Pooh, this movie goes on to meet his
complaint and crafts a story about Tigger, who suddenly decides that
being the only one isn't the most wonderful thing about Tiggers.
Frustrated because he can't get any of his friends to go bouncing with
him, Tigger becomes convinced that there must be a whole family of
tiggers somewhere out there in the Hundred Acre woods, and he sets out
to find them, leading to a series of adventures for all the gang and
disappointment for Tigger, until he suddenly realizes that he didn't
need to go looking for his family - they were right there all the time.
Having adopted my daughter from China a few years ago (at 5, she loves
this movie, by the way) I thought the message was so important: Pooh
and Eeyore and Roo and Kanga and Owl and Piglet and Rabbit were
Tigger's family - because family doesn't have to look like you or even
be the same as you. Family are the ones who care about you and love
you, no matter what. 

The movie includes some nice songs and a few laughs (although it isn't
really "funny" and also includes a few sad scenes as well.) It's fun
for kids and pleasant viewing for adults, too. 9/10
<|_=00=_|>

 If you liked Tigger and crew as a child, then go back and see them again.

The kids will enjoy it, and the adults will, too.  One can't help but become
involved with the characters, and eyes will become misty no matter how hard
you fight it.

The songs are original and funny, and even have subtle references that older
viewers will catch (they are NOT inappropriate in any way) and younger ones
will miss, which allows many age levels to enjoy it.

You have to be quick, though, because Tigger sings faster than he
bounces.
<|_=00=_|>

The Tigger Movie: With everyone preparing for winter, Tigger (spell that
T-I-double GRR) can't find anyone who will bounce with him.  He decides
that
what he needs to do is find the other Tiggers so he'll have someone to
bounce with whenever he feels the urge.  But isn't, the wonderful thing
about Tiggers is that Tigger's the only one?

As you may have already guessed, unlike the previous Pooh adventures this
is
a Tigger vehicle (and it's about time I say).  It has been a long while
since I watched the originals, and it felt strange to hear the characters
voiced by different people, most notably Eeyore and Rabbit.  And did they
have so many songs ?  I stopped counting at four.  Also, I found the
inconsistent animation a bit distracting.  But whose kidding whom?  It was
a
fun movie, with humor, action, pathos, and resolution, and I bet more than
a
few people will leave this movie with a tear in their eye.

Take the kids, or just tell them you're one at the wicket.


<|_=00=_|>

Cast:Jim cummings(Who framed roger rabbit),Kath Soucie(Rugrats),Peter
Cullen(Transformers the movie),Ken sansom(Transformers),John Fielder(Fox
and
the hound)

Genre:Animated,children

MPAA rating G(although it had an intense avalanche scene in it)

Star rating:5 out of 5 stars(Excellent)

Summary:Its kinda like "Muppets from space" it stars Tigger(Jim cummings)
who is starting to get tired of his "I'm the only one" reputation. And
then
he tries to find his family while Pooh (Jim cummings) and piglet (John
fielder) and kanga (Kath soucie) and roo (noptika hopkins in her 1st
performance) and owl (andre stojka) and eeyore (Peter cullen) help tigger.
While rabbit
(ken sansom) isn't all that thrilled with that idea while he is preparing
for winter.

Well the cast is very good.The movie is very thrilling.This movie did the
original one justice. (It almost surpassed the original)

Its basically the finest animated film featuring Peter cullen ever since
"Transformers the movie" (He was optimus prime and ironhide in
Transformers
the movie).

The sight gags are truly a treat because with "tiggerish" parodies of art
pictures like "american gothic","venus de milo" or even things like Jerry
Springer. (Don't worry parents it is still a good kids movie
anyways).

Its a great treat for all those who remembered the first film & then some.
I
admit it was quite tear-jerking. It has very fine simplistic animation.
And
those are just some things I could say. Not too mention that this is one
of
the finest movies featuring Kenny Loggins music ever since Top Gun.

And there are only 2 disappointments. While cummings did a great job as
tigger it was kinda sad that the original voice of tigger (paul winchell)
wasn't in the film. Because this could've
surpassed the original. What happenend to gopher how come he wasn't in the
film? I know its a small question but still.

Quote:Yes you bounced me many times-Pooh 
<|_=00=_|>

The Tigger Movie is a good movie for kids, but for people who expect the
original film (The Classic: The Many Adventures of Winnie the Pooh) should
just stay home.  The film is worth seeing if you are a rabid Winnie the
Pooh
fan, a kid who likes it, or are just a movie buff.  The songs are not as
creative as last time and the story line isn't as good as the last
one(also,
you may notice John Fiedler is the only original voice from the first film
in this one), but if you are looking for similar characters, some of the
same animation techniques, and some new surprises, this film is for
you.
<|_=00=_|>
This is the first movie I saw in theaters, when I was 2 years old. I
loved anything Winnie the Pooh as a little girl, so the franchise is
very near and dear to my heart. I watched this movie so many times
during my childhood, but then kind of let it go. A few years ago,
though, I was really sad that I wasn't a child anymore (teenage
crisis), and so I remembered this movie and popped in the old VHS. I
cried like a little wussy.

The movie begins with Tigger telling us that he wants to hear a story
about HIM for a change instead of that "silly old bear". He then
proceeds to bring us into his story. Tigger started to feel helpless
and distraught at being the only Tigger. Thinking he must have come
from somewhere, he sets out to find his family tree, and thus, the
other Tiggers. All the while, his friends help him out, from writing a
sweet-as-hell note from his "family" to dressing up as Tiggers to
surprise him. When Tigger runs away in a snowstorm, the group, led by
Roo, go after him to help, leading Tigger to discover that family is
not always bound by blood, but by those who care the most.

This movie, while not quite as good as the original Pooh film, is a
dang good movie. The story is simple enough for children, and it is
great fun for children to see where Tigger goes to find his family, but
this may be the most intense Pooh film, in terms of action. Of course,
it all ties up with a happy ending. To my knowledge, this was the first
time Tigger was NOT voiced by Paul Winchell, but by Jim Cummings, who
continues it to this day (as well as Pooh Bear). I was delighted to
find out that the movie's narrator was wonderfully voiced by my
favorite actor, John Hurt. The atmosphere is great, and you really feel
for all of the characters.

All nostalgic bias aside, this movie makes me feel now the way I did
then. I couldn't put my finger on the one specific emotion that was
constant throughout. There was happiness, sadness, anger, loneliness,
but the prevailing emotion is love. No other way to describe it. Check
it out and see for yourself!
