

Military training films are becoming so common that they are becoming a
genre unto themselves.  Among the more prominent we have, `Officer and a
Gentleman', `Top Gun', `GI Jane', and now `Men of Honor'.  The fact that
this one happened to be true doesn't change the fact that the formula is the
same.  This film is probably most like `GI Jane' since it focuses on the
desegregation angle.

The story is actually quite inspirational and is probably the best
human-interest story among those mentioned above.  Carl Brashear (Cuba
Gooding, Jr.) is unquestionably a man of great courage and principle, and
his strength of character shines through brightly in this film. 
Unfortunately, director George Tillman has tunnel vision in presenting the
characters and eschews character development of various characters other
than Brashear in favor of showing Brashear in a constant state of adversity.
 Billy Sunday (Robert De Niro) is a central figure, and except for the
initial scene, the fistfight and a couple of scenes with his wife, we don't
know much about him.  For instance, Brashear sees the scars on Sunday's
palms and we are to assume that he worked a plow, but there is no follow-up
on that point.  Mr. Pappy (Hal Holbrook) gets only one short scene by which
we can judge him.  The rest of his screen time shows him pacing around and
ranting.  If a director is going to make a human-interest story, he needs to
humanize the characters.

Cuba Gooding Jr. gives an outstanding performance as Brashear.  This is
probably the best I've seen him.  This is a role and a character that is far
more complete than any part he has played before, and he rises to the
occasion.  In `Jerry Maguire', Rod Tidwell was a fascinating, but
one-dimensional character with the depth of a rain puddle.  Brashear is much
more complex and grounded, and the issues he faces are life crises, making
the part far more challenging.  This is an excellent recovery from Gooding's
last role in `Chill Factor', a film so dreadful that it was almost an act of
professional suicide to take the part.

After a stint trying his hand as a comedian (`Analyze This', `The Adventures
of Rocky & Bullwinkle', `Meet The Parents'), Robert DeNiro is back to his
dramatic roots with an outstanding performance.  DeNiro isn't a bad
comedian, he is just such a great dramatic actor that it seems like he
shouldn't waste his time doing comedy.  DeNiro endows Billy Sunday with a
rock hard personality belying a tortured soul.  It is a pleasure watching
him work.  

It seems every film I watch lately has Charlize Theron in it.  I saw `The
Legend of Bagger Vance', `Men of Honor' and `The Yards' right in a row and I
was beginning to wonder if she had a part in every film in 2000 (actually,
she only did five).  This was a minor role for Theron, but she carried it
off well and managed to stay with DeNiro step for step.  David Keith, who
co-starred with Richard Gere in `Officer and a Gentleman', has a cameo
here

The DVD has some interesting special features, including reflections by the
real Carl Brashear and some deleted scenes.

I enjoyed this film despite the hackneyed plot and the one-dimensional
presentation.  I rated it a 7/10.  I'm a sucker for underdog stories and I
have a fondness for stories where strength of character is the central
theme.  This film is particularly strong in both areas and brings us two
memorable acting performances that compensate for some of the director's
shortcomings.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is an excellent military movie. It may not be an excellent
Hollywood Movie, but that does not matter. Hollywood has a reputation
of sacrificing accuracy for good entertainment, but that is not the
case with this movie. Other reviewers have found this movie to be too
slow for their taste, but – as a retired Soldier – I appreciate the
pace the movie crew deliberately took to tell their story as completely
as possible given the two hours and nine minutes allotted. The story
itself has been told and retold several times over, but it remains for
a professional soldier – and an African American at that – to report on
the story as presented by the movie crew, and as it presents the US
Navy to the world. The story of Brashear's work to become a Navy Diver,
and his life as a Navy Diver beyond his graduation, is not the only
story that is presented. There I also the story of how Master Chief
Petty Officer Sunday defied the illegal order of his Commanding Officer
that Petty Officer 2nd Class Brashear not be passed in his test dive no
matter how well he did, and paid the price of a loss of one Stripe and
a change of assignment. It also told the true story how Brashear found
the third Hydrogen Bombs lost in the Atlantic Ocean off the coast of
Spain in the 1950's, and how he saved the life of another seaman who
was in the line of the snapped running line that would have snapped him
in two if Brashear had not shoved him out of the way and took the shot
himself. This was a complex story that was worth telling, and I will
admit that two hours and nine minutes was not enough to tell the full
story, and I can tell from the deleted scenes on the DVD that the crew
tried their best to tell a story as full as possible. As a professional
soldier, I was proud to see such a great story told in such a
comprehensive manner, and to see the traditions and honor of the navy
preserved in such a natural and full manner.
<|_=00=_|>

"Men of honor" - true story about a proud and persistent black navy diver
(fabulous Cuba Gooding Jr.) is definitely a great movie that both touches
and entertains and it's part of the absolute cream of the new millennium
cinema. Wonderful acting is the main reason to make this movie something
truly special and pretty enjoyable, splendid experience. Charismatic Robert
De Niro is marvelous as rough, fierce and pitiless chief Billy Sunday - role
is practically written for him. This film alongside with fantastic "15
minutes" (2001) are two of the latest proofs that he's still one of the very
finest actors of our time. On the other hand "Men of honor" includes a fine
performance from Cuba Gooding Jr. who has been one of the most promising
young black actors since "Boyz n the hood". "Men of honor" goes straight
into the company of "Jerry Maguire", "As good as it gets" and "Instinct".
Cuba Gooding Jr. is a skillful and fantastic actor and I'm prepared to get
lots of more terrific movies from him. "Men of honor" has also quite an
excellent story-line and probably the most exciting diving sequences of the
movie history. This is a great, fascinating movie and I can only recommend
it.
<|_=00=_|>
This one is a great one! Robert De Niro and Cuba Gooding have teamed up
to make a powerful and very influential film. This is the true story of
the first black US Navy diver and the obstacles he faced in attaining
his certification at the hands of a racist Master diver. Along the way,
he must also face plain old bigotry from all of his classmates, none of
whom want him in their class. They move out of the barracks when he
arrives. Ultimately, he becomes certified and goes on to have a great
career as a US Navy diver. Watch this one! It's a great tale of courage
and honor. As the story unfolds, we get to watch racism slowly
dissipate and everyone begins to respect men one at a time.
<|_=00=_|>

This well-acted story of the end of segregation in the military is told
through the true experiences of Carl  Brashear. Ultimately it is a story
of
human honor and dignity triumphing over smallmindedness, bureaucracy, and
prejudice. Some of the scenes are deliberate attempts at crowd-pleasing,
but
they are nevertheless effective.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved this movie. It is a definite inspirational movie. It fills you
with pride. This movie is worth the rental or worth buying. It should
be in everyones home. Best movie I have seen in a long time. It will
make you mad because everyone is so mean to Carl Brashear, but in the
end it gets better. It is a story of romance, drama, action, and plenty
of funny lines to keep you tuned in. I love a lot of the quotes. I use
them all the time. They help keep me on task of what I want to do. It
shows that anyone can achieve their dreams, all they have to do is work
for it. It is a long movie, but every time I watch it, I never notice
that it is as long as it is. I get so engrossed in it, that it goes so
quick. I love this movie. I watch it whenever I can.
<|_=00=_|>

Men of Honor stars Cuba Gooding Jr., as real life Navy Diver Carl Brashear
who defied a man's Navy to become the first African American Navy Diver.
Sometimes by his side and sometimes his adversary there was one man who Carl
Brashear really admired. His name was Master Chief Billy Sunday (Robert
DeNiro). Sunday in a lot of ways pushed, aggravated and helped Carl become
the man he wanted to be. 

I loved Cuba in this film. His portrayal here is as liberating and as
powerful as Denzel Washington was in The Hurricane. Through every scene we
can see his passion, motivation and stubbornness to achieve his dream. We
can see the struggle within in him as he embarks to make his father proud. I
also loved how the director created and brought forth a lot of tension in
some of the key diving scenes. Brashear's encounter with a submarine during
a salvage mission is heart-stopping and brilliant. 

The only fault I could see would have to lie in the supporting cast. Cuba
and DeNiro's characters are very intricate and exciting to watch. Which does
make you a little sad when they have to butt heads with such two-dimensional
supporting characters. The evil Lt. Cmdr. Hanks, Sunday's wife (Charlize
Theron), the eccentric diving school colonel (Hal Holbrook) and Cuba's love
interest are the characters I found to not have very much depth. What could
have made these characters more substantial and more effective was a little
more time to develop them. Why was that colonel always in his tower? How
come Sunday's wife was so bitter and always drunk?

Another curious question has to be this. What happened to Carl Brashear's
wedding? I mean if this film is chronicling this man's life wouldn't his
wedding be an important event? Maybe it's just me.
Men of Honor, however, is a perfect example of the triumph and faith that
the human spirit envelops. This film will inspire and make you feel for this
man's struggle. Which I do believe was the reason this powerful story was
told. My hat goes off to you Carl Brashear. I really admire your strength.


<|_=00=_|>
TIllman Jr.'s drama about the first African American Navy Master Diver
(Gooding Jr.), who defies all odds and achieves his goals despite a
strict embittered trainer. The screenplay is not bad, a bit extreme at
times, but the direction and acting is first-rate, and this film is
inspiring and achieves what its supposed to do. I liked DeNiro in the
lead, although its not on par with his masterful works (taxi driver,
godfather and all the others) it is as good as his other good
performances such as in King of Comedy or Angel Heart. DeNiro is always
convincing and believable here, very good performance, Gooding Jr. is
not bad, definitely one of his better performances. --- IMDb Rating:
6.6, my rating: 9/10
<|_=00=_|>

The inspiring story of Carl Brashear (Cuba Gooding, Jr.), a black man who
grew up in poverty in Kentucky and then joined the US Navy, aspiring to be
the first black Master Diver in Navy history. We are shown the series of
struggles from boyhood on that Brashear has to overcome to make his dream
come true (and then to keep it alive.) Not the least of the challenges was
Master Diver Bill Sunday (Robert DeNiro), the head trainer at the diving
school the Navy sends Brashear to, who is not especially sympathetic to
Brashear's goals, but who ultimately becomes an unlikely friend and
supporter.

This is a good movie; fast paced and with a lot of action, although not an
"action" pic in the normal sense of the word. There's a very human story
here as well, and an interesting study of racism and the struggle to
overcome it; there's also a sense of the struggle that took place in the
1960's between older and younger naval officers (the "old navy" vs the "new
navy.") The performances are quite good - particularly Goodings'. I thought
DeNiro was perhaps a bit over the top in his portrayal of Sunday (although,
who knows, Sunday might well have been this extreme kind of loose cannon)
and the portrayal of Sunday's wife Gwen (by Charlize Theron) also made me
question whether these parts were "jazzed up" to provide entertainment
value.

A good movie, though.  I never once wondered if it was worth tuning
into.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
Familiar but triumphant true story set in the 1950s about a man and his
determination to defy the odds. Gooding gives a rock solid performance
as an ambitious Navy diver whose iron will leads him to fight
discrimination and try to become the first ever colored master diver.
Along the way he matches wits with—and eventually gains the respect
of—his belligerent, hard-nosed superior (De Niro). Considering the
film's definite Rocky formula you'll probably be a step ahead of the
story at every turn, but it's well-directed, acted with such great
conviction, and has a finale so powerful and moving that you almost
have to go along for the ride. A compelling and gripping story of will
and determination. ***
