

I usually don't write reviews on imdb.  But I wanted to in this case after
reading so many
user comments for "Session 9".  I think it's a shame that film audiences
today have
become so lazy.  Here is a film that displays artistry, subtlety, and
intelligence, relying
on the viewer to actually use their brain instead of be bombarded by
useless
imagery.
This truly is a horrifying movie.  And so many people have problems with
it... people say
it's the "worst piece of crap" they've ever seen, but then go and
high-five
each other
while watching "The House on Haunted Hill" or "Jeepers Creepers 2".
Movies
like this are
rare, but making a come-back.  The horror is psychological, and the
director's handle
on atmosphere is intimidating.  I found this film to be one of the most
disturbing
movies I'd seen in a long time.  Another great independent horror film,
"May", is also
suffering from poor reviews by people who don't seem to really understand
what they're
watching, and react angrily to that.  If you are a serious movie fan, who
likes to use your
brain and be challenged by a film, watch this movie.  It's fantastic.  If
you'd rather just
see what the latest computer effects wizards are dreaming up, there a
number
of other
films where things pop out at you and teenagers get killed by something.
Stick to
those.

Session 9: 10/10
<|_=00=_|>

Seeing a film like Session 9 just reaffirms that there are truly great
films
still being made.

While many (including the filmmakers) will find comparisons to Don't Look
Now, The Shining, and even a nod to The Changeling, Session 9 still stands
on its own as a most effective, brooding experience of dread -- and that's
a
good thing!  I found the style and tension more genuine than the grandiose
The Shining, and Session 9 relies mostly on real fears and no gratuitous
material to entertain.  This film wants to creep you out and that's its
soul
purpose.  No pretty young GAP models, no trendy MTV-influenced rap/metal
soundtrack, no breasts, no giggle-inducing decapitation effects.  If you
want those, by all means go watch something else as there are plenty other
films that offer that to those with short attention spans. If you want to
be
drawn INTO a film, a place of fear, and THINK as well, Session 9 is like a
therapy session of nightmares.

The story is simple and complex at the same time, as workers removing
asbestos from the massive Danvers Mental Hospital slowly unravel along
with
secrets from taped audio recordings of a former patient.  I never saw the
characters' backgrounds as "underdeveloped" as some have complained -- you
don't need to know EVERYTHING about these guys and besides, more
information
about them would have slowed the film down even more, and its nice,
brooding
pace is just right as it is.  And don't worry if some of the things that
seem like "clues" are left unresolved, that's part of the fun.  Just like
I
still say many of the weird "clues" in David Lynch's works like Twin Peaks
and Mulholland Drive are just there to be weird and draw you in, not that
they actually have any direct connection to the main story.

The actual Danvers Hospital is an amazing setting as the whole structure
is
a character all it's own and will disturb you without it having to do much
but just BE there in the film.  The minimalistic soundtrack is unsettling
and downright perfect (I even bought it on CD and am still trying to
figure
out why it attracts me so much, playing it in the background while, say,
typing away something like this....).

Each actor does a fine job -- yes, even David Caruso (some of you need to
get off his back!) as a guy who seems to get a bit impatient yet
maintaining
a sense of calm.  Peter Mullan, Steven Gevedon, Josh Lucas, and Brendan
Sexton III seem like real, regular blue collar guys. It's refreshing to
see
a film not insecure in having a mature, rough-edged cast.  By giving you a
sense that these guys are real (yes, even though they tend to be slacking
off quite a bit in places when they're supposed to get the job done in a
week), the quiet dread of the story will draw you in and you'll be
absorbed
completely.  Of course, if you appreciate less flashy films like this,
you'll agree it's damn near perfect. Oh, to those here on IMDb who
criticized the scene with a jar of peanut butter left on the floor,
welllll,
think about this: considering the state of its consumer, do you think that
whoever left it there cared where the container was disposed?  Man, do you
people get picky over the strangest things!  Whatever may seem implausible
in the story or the characters' actions really doesn't wreck the film, as
it
is to be appreciated much for its atmosphere and story.  I didn't find the
ending to be so hard to understand at all, those that had their mind set
that they didn't like this film were too busy being angry to just sit back
and let everything present itself quite clearly.

If this film is categorized as horror then it's one of the best I've ever
seen, definitely one of the best in years.  It takes a LOT to scare me,
and
there's one specific scene with Josh and his experience in the basement
that
caused a wave of tingling goosebumps all over my body.
It was exhilarating to be scared that effectively by a single scene!

Folks, you can't trash this film because it doesn't give you easy
explanations or allows you to have some cheap voyeuristic thrills.  Many
of
you who didn't like Session 9 seemed to know from reading its summary that
it wasn't offering slam-bang entertainment.  If you like your mind to be
stimulated and love being absorbed in mysterious and wondrous
storytelling,
Session 9 is by my definition a flawless piece of work. For anyone else,
I'd
just say........."What are YOU doing here....?"
<|_=00=_|>

Everything about this movie impressed me. The script was lean and inventive,
the direction stylish without being overblown, the acting top notch. Even
the shot-on-video cinematography looked great (with the exception of one or
two exterior shots that had a hint of video look to it, most everything else
was "filmic" and artistic).

I also appreciate any horror movie that can generate real tension and
suspense from imagination and suggestion rather than relying on lame and
lazy tricks that populate most horror movies (if something as limp as Urban
Legends can be called a horror movie).

First rate film and I recommend to anyone who appreciates a thinking-man's
horror film.
<|_=00=_|>
I work at a video store and when customers ask me what's a good horror
movie that will actually get to them, I don't suggest any of the Freddy
or Jason movies. Those are for fans, and I don't consider them to be
genuinely frightening. Session 9 is, most definitely, genuinely
frightening. It takes place at a mental hospital that is legend where I
live. So most people know what I'm talking about when I say Danvers
State Mental Hospital. It is one of the few psychologically affective
movies that I've ever seen. It takes the audience on a ride through a
building that seems alive to it's visitors, and forces the audience to
resolve for themselves why things are happening to each character. If
you want a movie that is challenging and thought-provoking, this is the
one. I always tell my customers to watch this movie in the dark, but
not to watch it alone. Just be aware that if there is any distraction
during the movie you'll have many questions about it. I hope you enjoy
it as much I as do every time I watch it!
<|_=00=_|>

No point in mincing words: Brad Anderson's Session 9 is the best horror
movie I've seen in a long time. It's intelligent, well-written, it's
completely unpredictable, it looks great (I didn't really notice until the
second viewing how well the editing and the photography work together), and
the soundtrack is downright creepy. Until recently only two films had
managed to make me lie awake at night: Dario Argento's "Opera" and Tobe
Hooper's "Texas Chain Saw Massacre". Well, now the list includes three
films. Honestly, there is no excuse not to see this one, folks. Horror
doesn't get any better than this.
<|_=00=_|>

With a brilliant premise, "Session 9" is a slow build of genuine
atmospheric
creepiness. More akin to Nicolas Roeg's classic "Don't Look Now" than more
recent horror fare with high body counts, director Brad Anderson
effectively
builds tension in layers of voiceovers and (mostly subtle) foreshadowing
to
build to a climax of madness, with sparing use of the cheaper horror
devices. Unfortunately the characters are not as fleshed out as one would
have hoped, so we are left with some unanswered questions (we would have
liked to have met Gordon's family and Hank's girlfriend. Why did Mike drop
out of law school?). Though the subtle horrors of this film may fail to
grasp the short attention spans of younger moviegoers who consider "I Know
What You Did Last Scream" to be the de facto standard of the genre, this
is
a very cleverly executed, if imperfect, thriller. 
<|_=00=_|>

Session 9 is the creepiest horror film I've seen in years.  Brad Anderson
has made a movie that is subtle, and features actors playing everyday
people
who not only act and talk like real people (which means none of the usual
horror atrocities of going off in the dark alone, etc), but also aren't
killed off one by one according to their billing in the credits.  The
tension builds slowly, without a cheap shock scene in sight, until it is
almost unbearable.  Towards the end, the plot runs out of steam and the
twists are a bit anti-climatic.  However, everything is so well-crafted
and
executed in this picture, from the writing, cinematography and acting to
the
use of sound and digital film, that it's a moot point.  Anyone with an
ounce
of interest in the horror genre should rent this little known gem.

<|_=00=_|>

Made on a low budget, this brilliant horror film succeeds because it doesn't
fall back on any cheap gimmicks, like special effects or "shock" moments,
but instead provides an eerie, forbidding atmosphere and genuine,
three-dimensional characters. Writer-director Brad Anderson allows each of
the characters to be an individual, to develop and play off each other, so
we become genuinely interested in who these guys are, and then he allows the
horror to grow out of their personalities and the world that they inhabit.
This is a genuinely effective approach that recalls some of the more
brilliant horror films of the past (The Shining, The Exorcist) before they
were replaced by cheesy slasher movies and self-mocking teen horror
flicks.

The plot in a nutshell: five men are hired to remove the asbestos from a
condemned mental hospital (the movie was filmed on location at Danvers State
Hospital, a place so disturbing that many of the actors reported hearing and
seeing strange things during filming). As the week continues, they each
begin to be affected by the place, and it's clear there's a presence of some
kind there... 

Each of the five main actors has a distinct style; Mullan is sullen and
unsettled, Caruso is dark and intense, Sexton is hyperactive and talkative,
Lucas is loud and cocky, and co-writer Gevedon is quiet and introspective.
Their distinct styles allow these men to emerge as having very different
personalities, and they play off each other wonderfully, with friendly
banter at the beginning and as they argue and conflict with each other as
the plot wears on and fear gradually sets in for each of
them.

As far as the film's ending goes, let this much be said- Anderson deserves
credit for willingness to follow his dark vision to the intense and
unsettling end. It was probably necessary for this to be an independent
film, because any major studio would have forced the filmmakers to abandon
their brilliant style and add a contrived, Hollywood-style ending. Like the
great horror films of yesteryear, Session 9 powerful, frightening, and most
of all uncompromising.
<|_=00=_|>

I had read a lot on Session 9 before going to see it and had certain
expectations.  Although it started out slowly, the story was good.  The
"scary" parts were fewer and farther between than I expected and there was
some mild gore at the end.  The psychology and personalities were what I
found most interesting.  As the days passed after seeing the movie, I
found
myself remembering what I had thought to be insignificant things, and
putting more of the subtle "creepy" things together.  
<|_=00=_|>

Session 9 is a welcome return to the type of film whose horror relies not
on
cheap-thrill multi-decibel glissandos, jump-cuts and viscera (although it
has its share of that), but on strong interplay between characters, and
the
gradual realisation that the worst things you can imagine are not "out
there", but inside your own mind.

The characters are true to life, with Gordon, the head of the
asbestos-clearing team (played by Peter Mullan, who also shone in the
excellent My Name is Joe) being especially well-drawn. His stressful
situation at home intrudes more and more into his working day. From the
start we know he has to take this job to stay in business, and this means
the team only has one week to clear the building.

Work at the asylum begins normally enough, but as the truth about what
happened in the mental asylum comes slowly to light (through the archive
tapes of "Session 9"), the team begins to fall apart. One worker discovers
a
hoard of coins and valuables, and then goes missing. Paranoia runs rampant
among the remaining characters, and accusations fly. At this point, we
don't
know who to trust. To some extent, all the characters become possessed by
the atmosphere of the asylum.

It's clear there's evil at work. However, as disturbing as the backstory
is,
it doesn't tie in well enough with present events to tell us for certain
where this evil originates. Is it something dormant in the asylum,
awakening
with the team's intrusion? Or is it a potential for harm within all of us?
Whichever it is, the conclusion is horrifying and effective.

In a sense, there are two stories here, both told intelligently, but the
connection between them isn't quite strong enough, and you're left feeling
only mildly cheated. That said, this is still a disturbing, powerful film
with scenes which will stay with you for a long time.

