

It's a shame that "Star Trek" is having a tough time surviving in a market
that's glutted with bigger budget, "sexier" stuff like The Matrix, Lord of
the Rings, Harry Potter...

Compared to those blockbusters, Nemesis appears almost quaint, with its
heavy reliance on computer graphics that were state of the art - several
years ago.  Paramount simply isn't investing enough money in these films to
keep them looking up-to-date, which is a shame, because Star Trek still has
plenty of relevant things to say.

Or does it?  You could look at Nemesis as a triumphant return to form,
filled with all the action and humanism we've come to expect from these
films, or you could look at it as a clumsy rehash of plot elements from "The
Wrath of Khan" (revenge! space fight! dramatic death!) and "The Undiscovered
Country" (peace with our moral enemies!).  I have trouble deciding if this
movie is good enough to justify continuing the franchise; I've got nostalgic
feelings for the Next Gen crew, even though I prefer the originals, and
maybe those feelings are acting in the same capacity as beer
goggles.

So what works?  Stewart, Frakes, Spiner.  The battle is fun.  Some of the
"deep" questions raised about identity, cloning, and nature vs. nurture got
me thinking (although, in the end, they were largely irrelevant - the whole
thing devolves into a fight!).  What doesn't work?  Stilted dialogue. 
Techno-babble.  Boring sets (particularly for the Enterprise).  Trying to
pass off California filmed through a filter as an alien planet.

Final verdict?  First, Star Trek needs a rest.  Then, it needs more money. 
That's what happened to Doctor Who in the last decade, and Godzilla and
James Bond went through similar trials in the 1980s.  It's bound to happen
to any long-running franchise.  When it comes back, it does need to be
better than Nemesis, not because Nemesis is terrible, but because it's a bit
tired.  New creative blood revitalized the original crew's films - Nicholas
Meyer and Harve Bennet, who knew nothing of Star Trek, managed to give the
series the jolt it needed to remain popular for a decade.  Another dose of
outsiders, with outside perspectives, will be needed to get Star Trek up and
running again, sometime in the future...  
<|_=00=_|>

This was a very different Star Trek film mainly due to its dark tone.
Despite mainstream belief, I think 'Insurrection' was a beautifully written
film and despite the simple story, it worked nicely as the characters were
having fun.

This film is very serious and although I don't like action films,  this
movie was pretty intense thanks to its villain. The characters aren't having
fun at all which I think detaches the audiences a little cause it's not a
fun adventure. The stakes in this film are more personal to the characters
so there's no time for the regular jokes once the story kicks in as there's
too much at stake.

That aside, this film is handsomely produced with a great production design
and has some exciting conflict between Picard (Patrick Stewart) and his
nemesis, Shinzon (Tom Hardy). The face off between the two characters in the
final 30 minutes is very exciting.

The performances where all brilliant in the film and I hope to see the full
version of the film on DVD as I think the mind rape suffered by Troi (Marina
Sirtis) could have been further explored.

Why this film failed at the box-office was the timing. You don't release a
Star Trek film 5 days before Lord of the Rings. L.O.T.R. is more popular
than Star Trek right now but this film could have re-ignited the franchise
if people went and saw it. Delaying its release in Australia was a good idea
as this has given it a no. 1 spot on opening weekend which it deserves
despite an almost non-existent marketing campaign here.

It wasn't a bad film by any means and I think the critics didn't like it
because it was so dark and that there's little sense of
fun.

I think 'Nemesis' is a very worthy chapter in the Star Trek franchise. It
took a while to reach Australian audiences but most of us believe it was
well worth the wait. 8 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
Now there has been great debate raging about this particular movie.
It's hard to have perspective when there is no measure, so with that
said I can say safely without a shadow of doubt in my mind that Star
Trek II: Wrath of Kahn is the greatest of the Star Trek Movies ever
made, period. There has never been a movie prior or post this movie
that has engaged, excited or enthralled a Treker. If you want to know
why exactly, read my review on it.

Now during this era of Star Trek movies they never muddled with the
plot killer dimension, time, except one, Star Trek IV: Return Home. All
of the other movies where, how would 'Q' put it, linear. Honestly,
anything that has a plot where someone goes back into time and tries to
change it or prevents its change, well lets say, it kills the plot by
putting a plot hole the size of ablack hole. 

I was never a real fan of the time travel as a script concept simply
because if it was possible at all, everybody and anybody would
eventually try to go back in time and change things to a more favorable
outcome for themselves. Basically if you were able to go back in time,
wouldn't you pick the winning lottery ticket numbers? So if you can do
that why can't I? The next thing you know, you've got a million winning
tickets. Star Trek: Nemesis, gets one gold star for having a plot that
does not change time on a clock.

In fact it's pretty good. There are flaws and incongruities especially
in regards to the Generations episodes and there is no justification
for some of the oversights, but the movie shines where it should. A
real attempt was made to develop the villains character Shinzon of
Remus, Picard's clone. He isn't just a villain, he is a Picard, an
alternate version.

So what's new? Picard embodies the perfect Starfleet officer. But take
that uniform off and replace it with tattered clothes and remove that
individual form his starship and place him in the deep recesses of a
sunless world mined by slaves, tortured by Romulans and you get the
picture.

What I think people missed in this movie was the big question, are
Picard and the clone so different. Shinzon even asks Picard that in the
movie. Could Picard have changed or convinced the clone had he had more
time? Could the original Picard in a similar situation become evil?
Either way, it is the human element and conflict within each of the
Picard's and is what will intrigue an audience and is what I especially
liked about this movie.

The special effects are good and really enhance a situation not nearly
explored enough in Star Trek, the tactics of starship combat. This and
only a few other instances has there been such an emphasis on strategy
and tactics in starship combat.

Jean-Luc Picard ( Patrick Stewart) and his clone Shinzon of Remus (Tom
Hardy) are both at the top of their game and fluently exercise their
Shakespearean acting talents. Especially Hardy, who convinces us that
he is Picard's clone, and then convinces us he's nothing like Picard.
The Enterprise crew is at their best and Stuart Baird's direction gave
Nemesis a movie like feeling rather than TV mini-movie feeling.

In closing, who wants to be an ensign when you can be a captain? In the
end Trekers have to realize that Star Trek and its stories are about
its captain. It is the captain who gets to say those cool lines like:
'Energize', and 'Fire', 'Divert Warp Power' 'Meet me in my ready room'
and Picard's trademark lines 'Make it so!'.

A must see for Sci-Fi buffs and open-minded Trekers.
<|_=00=_|>

STAR TREK: NEMESIS was doomed before it ever reached theaters. When four
long years passed between INSURRECTION and NEMESIS, and Paramount (always
skittish about the expensive series) chose to advertise the film as THE
END
OF TREK ("A Generation's Final Journey..."), you knew that not only the
film, but the entire franchise was in serious trouble. Certainly Rick
Berman's growing indifference was a factor in the demise of the legendary
series of films, but other factors were involved, as well. First, the
'Next
Generation' crew was facing the same obstacle that had destroyed the
credibility of the original cast; they were getting too old for their
roles.
With the youngest 'regular', LeVar Burton, now 45, and series favorite,
Brent Spiner, 53 (and getting pretty 'long-in-the-tooth' for the
'ageless'
Data), the youthful edge of the 'Next Generation' had settled into
middle-aged complacency. The only cast members who seemed believable
reprising their TV roles were Patrick Stewart (at 62, still the 'father
figure' he'd always been), and Michael Dorn, 49, as the Klingon, Worf
(heavy
makeup made him unrecognizable, anyway). The 'age' issue made NEMESIS
feel
more like a TV 'Reunion' special, created to tie up 'loose ends' than a
'cutting edge' Science Fiction film.

Second, competition both on TV and in film had not only 'caught up' with
'Trek', but passed it, in terms of originality and excitement. 'Babylon
5'
had given 'Deep Space 9' all it could handle during their TV runs, and
'Voyager' and 'Enterprise' had everything from 'Stargate 1' to
'Farscape',
'Andromeda', and other SF series vying for, and capturing their
audiences.
At theaters, a crop of FX-heavy SF features exposed a 'Trek' series that
had
become 'quaint', and even the object of parody (GALAXY
QUEST).

Of course, had NEMESIS been as dynamic as THE WRATH OF KHAN or FIRST
CONTACT, none of these factors would have become issues. Sadly, it
wasn't.

The premise, that a youthful 'cloned' Picard, Shinzon (Tom Hardy),
leading a
Remus rebellion that conquers the Romulan Empire, decides to attack the
Federation to 'get back' at the Enterprise captain, defies logic or
believability. "Years spent in the mines" as an explanation for his
irrational behavior and variation of appearance are ridiculous (and
brings
up the question, 'Was Picard ALWAYS bald?', as it seems to be the only
common trait Shinzon and Picard share). As a villain, Shinzon lacks the
menace of the Borg Queen or the pathos of Khan, and seems more petulant
than
threatening.

There is a sense of desperation in NEMESIS, of trying to find some
'gimmick'
to make the film memorable. Certainly the most flagrant case of this was
falling back on the WRATH OF KHAN climax, and having Data die, to save
the
crew (conveniently after another 'Prototype' Data has received a copy of
his
memory chip). What was noble in Spock's gesture seems, in NEMESIS, to be
nothing more than an excuse to give Spiner a 'big' scene, and to stir up
loyal 'Trek' fans, when all else had failed.

With Patrick Stewart enjoying the worldwide success of the X-MEN films,
it
is unlikely he will don a Federation uniform, again (at least at a salary
that won't break Paramount), which most likely finishes off the 'Next
Generation' films. With no plans at present to move another 'Trek' TV
series
to the big screen ('DS9' lacked the wide appeal or ratings of 'The Next
Generation', 'Voyager' concluded their 'mission', returning to Federation
space, and 'Enterprise' is only barely holding it's own on the small
screen), an era has come to an end. Perhaps an 'original' concept film
can
be produced (STARFLEET ACADEMY has long been discussed), but unless
visionaries like Gene Roddenberry can be found to return the excitement
to
'Trek', it will never get past the 'talking' stage at Paramount.

As the dying James Kirk said, in GENERATIONS, "It was...fun..." Certainly
there is a legacy in the best of the 'Star Trek' films that those of us
who
grew up on them will always cherish...

<|_=00=_|>
Oh that it should end like this. After four years of reflection the
producers of Star Trek finally realised that they should hire an
experienced movie director and writer, one imagines in an attempt to
finally give the Next Generation a chance to enjoy a truly cinematic
adventure, divorced from the production methodology of the T.V series.

The budget had been upped dramatically and writer John Logan (co-writer
of the not especially good Gladiator) made encouraging soundings about
an epic, grandiose finale with a brooding revenge story at it's heart.
Sounds good doesn't it? But Nemesis is not a good movie, in fact its a
fitting epitaph for the way the series had progressed and sheds light
on the how and why of its ultimate failure. 

Producers Rick Berman and Brannon Braga have consistently affirmed that
its franchise fatigue that caused the film to die at the box office - a
contributory factor perhaps but not the most important reason. In some
respects the film's failure was set in stone prior to it's production
because the three previous Trek's had been simply so average. You can
blame the television shows but frankly, if you've been doing your job
right there should be an audience out there looking forward to the new
movies because its the kind of event story and spectacle that they
can't get on the small screen. 

Nemesis had come during a period in which successive Treks both on and
off the small screen simply hadn't cut the mustard and this was bound
to catch up with Paramount sooner or later. It's ultimate failure
though is, as ever, the script. 

Logan's story is clearly based on his favourite - The Wrath of Khan and
you can see where he's coming from. Khan has it all. The perfectly
recreated spirit of the T.V series, the emphasis and development of
character, excellent action set pieces and the perfect, solid storyline
that mixes the personal and the epic. Nemesis however does none of
these things. 

It's funny it should be a story about doubles because it's Khan's
poorer clone, a sort of a B-4 to the 2nd film's Data if you like, which
desperately needs to assert itself an a big-budget action spectacle but
in doing so looses the subtly and the character dynamics that produced
the best of the T.V series. Stewart and Spiner were given story input
and huge salaries to effectively add-testosterone to their
characterisations and unsurprisingly place the story emphasis on
themselves but in doing so managed to alter both characters so as to
divorce from their small screen counterparts. They'll claim they have
the right of course but such self-indulgence only points to the general
loss of grip exhibited here. 

In turning Star Trek into some kind of action-franchise, phaser rifles
and the like, the shows heart is gradually lost. In fact the general
contempt for the show's history is there everywhere from the way in
which Wesley Crusher is relegated to a non-speaking background part
(his return warranted explanation), the Romulans are carelessly
neutered and Data is needlessly dispatched for for the sake of plot
rather than logic. A really awful way to end the series but frankly, if
this the kind of thing we're going to get then perhaps it's for the
best. Star Treks II, III and IV sure seem a long time ago now...
<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers Ahead:

After Insurection went down in flames, the big P fired Riker and sent
him to director's school. They remembered action, occasionally amidst
the humanism, wake the audience up with some action. The Romulans have
some faction led by the lower caste Remens who have a cloned version of
Baldy, only a pygmy. No wonder he is so hostile; hey, all the maniacs
were short: Hitler, Napoleon. They kill the Romulan High Council and
lure Baby No Tears to Romulus; I don't know, maybe dresses were on
sale? Shinzon, I know, I ordered a set of those knives myself, says he
wants a truce with the Federation. I wouldn't trust him if he's seen
your movies with you crying like a little girlie. Picard gets there,
spends half the film, brunching, kibitzing with him: finally, Thank
God, some action breaks out. Testicle boy wants Picard gone, evidently
he saw Highlander too many times, he keeps yelling,"There can be only
one!!" Before this, in a miracle, we found an identical Data, who is
dumb enough to be the screenplay writer. Now, people who read books
only, show of hands? Who thinks they are going to kill Data off at the
end of the movie? Gee, what a freaking surprise; yes, it is to people
who think Jupiter Ascending is a masterpiece. 

Baldy Sr. escapes from Testicle boy and they make a run for it.
Unfortunately, he has a ship that looks like it was built by Dick
Cheney; he catches up with them and blows the living crap out of the
Enterprise. Of course, weepy tries negotiating with him with
heartwarming speeches right out of The Sound Of Mucus. No, Testicle boy
will not tolerate Picard, come over or I turn on the green mood light
and your crew will trip the light fantastic. His ship, the Crapatar,
has these spider legs that come out and spray green bug spray all over
you. The Dress has to stop him from getting to earth with the green bug
spray; It occurs to Chrome Dome that Testicle boy would never notice if
he rams his ship with thrusters. If the ship came any slower, he could
have knitted a rug. He rams and does to Testicle Boy's ship what the
movie will do to your brain. Yes, F's it up big time. Baby No Tears
beams over and tries to overpower Testicle Boy, yes, good luck, Picard
couldn't take his mama. Data has to space jump over, get in there and
serve as surrogate gonads for Baldy Sr. 

There is the requisite tragedy, they had the sequel all ready with Data
Jr. unfortunately the movie made less money than selling sand to desert
people. There is this wonderful epiphany where they all reminisce about
Data, talk about hilarious. I cried too, they were not tears of
sadness. I remember him flushing my toilet. Suffice to say, unless you
worship TNG, do not watch the movie. Yes, it has action along with the
Data plot hole you could fit a super-massive Black Hole within. The
action is interpolated with insufferable, self pleasuring speeches
about the nobility of Baby No Tears in specific or the human race in
general. Yes, you know, when there aren't 40 wars going on constantly
around the world, how freaking noble we are? Please, use more hand
creme, if you take my meaning. The acting, especially Baldy Jr., is
just awful. The opening scene with Picard giving that wedding speech, I
swear, the next time the doctor says you must vomit to live: I have the
scene I need, just have Data sing Irving Berlin. Trust me, if Irving
were alive he would be looking for these people and not to thank them.
<|_=00=_|>
Star Trek: Nemesis has gone through the mill. At first it had the
pressure of being an even numbered Trek film, usually a tell tale sign
that it would be good. Then it has the pressure from fans who were not
happy with Insurrection. So let's first put all things into
perspective. Insurrection was not as good as First Contact but it
certainly wasn't a bad film. It had a tight plot, developed the
characters and was well paced. In fact all the Next Generation films
are very watchable films, even Generations which seemed to think it
needed William Shatner to prop it up.

I really can not see how people can complain about this film. Again it
develops the characters further, has plenty of decent actions
sequences, which includes by far the best space battle of all the
films. The story moves along nicely and I find it thoroughly enjoyable
to watch. Jerry Goldsmith gives it a dark edge with his score and so
much so that it ends up being darker at times than First Contact.

However, for all the story it has, the reason Nemesis is a fine finale
to the Star Trek films is the epic battle at the end. People can moan
about its similarities to Wrath of Khan and The Undiscovered Country
but they were great battles and why not take elements that work and
build on them? I have to admit I sat in the cinema, loving Picard's
desperate move, gripped in anticipation. That was something we had
never seen. In all other space battles, the enemy had a little trick up
their sleeve to beat our heroes. This time, they were out gunned and
overpowered, yet sheer bravery and determination win the day, not a
fancy homing torpedo or a tricky move. Sheer guts was all that they had
left.

It's a good action film and a good Star Trek film. Not the best but
still a fine finale
<|_=00=_|>

After the wedding ceremony of Riker and Troi, the Enterprise ventures near
to the Romulan neutral zone in response to a signal - a signal they find
is
coming from an uncharted planet where they find a prototype of Data.  As
the
nearest ship, the Enterprise is sent to Romulus to supposedly negotiate
peace with the new government of the planet.  On arrival Picard discovers
that the head of the Reman is his clone.  The Enterprise quickly finds
that
the peace talks are no more than the start of a planned attack on
Earth.

Given that the evens are always the better films when it comes to Star
Trek
films, I had reasonable hopes for this film, most of which were met
adequately (note the choice of word).  The plot is where both the
potential
and the weaknesses lie.  The film has the `discovery' of a Data prototype
on
an uncharted planet, and then the discovery of a Picard clone, and then
kicks off into a bigger plot where the Enterprise must stop the Reman from
attacking Earth with a powerful, outlawed weapon.  The various touches of
the film are both good and bad.  The discovery of B4 sits awkwardly with
the
rest of the film and never really makes complete sense.  Shinzon being
Picard's clone works quite well and allows for a greater level of
involvement in the plot than if he had been just another bad guy out to
destroy the world.  However I did think the film still had room to really
go
for it and push the emotional conflict a lot better.

Part of the problem was Shinzon himself; I never really ever felt that he
was Picard's match where I should have felt like I was watching two titans
in battle.  That said, when it comes to the battles, they are all pretty
enjoyable and the effects are good.  Some of them are genuinely quite
exciting, although the film struggles to have a consistently tense
mood.

The cast are all pretty comfortable in their well-worn roles.  Stewart is
always good as Picard, but I didn't feel that either Frakes or Sirtis were
allowed to do much with their material.  With no solo material Dorn,
McFadden and Burton do their best and they do well to make an impression
regardless.  Spiner co-wrote this film and that says a lot.  His usual
Data
role is as good as always, but his B4 just smacks of his self-serving hand
in the script; the film would have been better without this character and
could have driven the plot in other ways without him.  Perlman is almost
totally unrecognisable under his makeup but projects menace nonetheless.
Hardy is a bit too calm and polished for the role - I didn't get the
feeling
that he had any of Picard's passion or gutsy mentality, he should have had
that AND been a lot more aggressive due to his environment - having a
shaved
head and an English accent just didn't cut it, even if he was good in
earlier scenes.

Overall this is an even-numbered Star Trek, so it is fated to be enjoyable
and, on the most part it is.  The plot has one good concept that works
(the
clone) and one concept that really doesn't at all (B4) and would have been
dismissed were it not for Spiner's hands on the script.  The action is
good
and Stewart is as good a central point as ever, making for an enjoyable if
unexceptional entry in the long running series.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this movie again for the first time since seeing it in the
theater more than a decade ago. It holds up quite well. If you're a
Star Trek fan, and especially if you're a TNG fan, this movie will sit
well with you. It has some interesting plot devices... one of which is
what would you be like if your environment growing up was different
from the one you experienced? You can judge a criminal for their acts,
but what if you were in their shoes? An interesting idea fleshed out
nicely in this film. Highly recommended! I grew up with TOS, but TNG is
probably my favorite iteration of Star Trek. The cast and writing is
top notch. The movie is well acted, well written, and satisfies. I was
surprised the TNG movies generally received average reviews. They're
great Star Trek movies!
<|_=00=_|>

Although the movie has its corny moments, Nemesis is a very powerful film,
due in no small part to Shinzon, perhaps the best villain in the franchise
after Khan. Shinzon is a complex, human character, and Tom Hardy brings
him
to life better than most Star Trek villains. Another reason for any
success
this film achieves is that it borrows elements and themes from the
original
Star Trek film series and applies them well. The action scenes are well
conceived and not excessive, compared to the fight sequence in the recent,
second Star Wars movie, which suffered from overkill. Several scenes, in
particular, were very powerful and when the movie ended, I continued to
sit
for several minutes, speechless. 
