

Freshly released from jail Danny Ocean begins to recruit key players to put
together a job as daring as it is dangerous - the safe that holds the money
for 3 casinos belonging to Terry Benedict.  As well as splitting the $150
million between the gang, Danny also plans to steal back his ex-wife Tess
who is currently dating Benedict.

The first movie wasn't exactly brilliant - only really interesting because
it brought the whole rat pack together onscreen for the first time.  This
could have easily fallen into the same trap - trading purely on the stars'
names rather than an intrinsic entertainment value.  However it manages to
take what worked from the original and give it a great modern shine.  The
story is daft of course, but it moves forward with a sort of slick illogical
cleverness that appears wonderfully clever but is, of course, highly
unlikely!  The story unfolds in an entertaining manner, the build up is
great with no dull moments as we meet the characters and find out the
details of the job bit by bit.

The job itself is well handled.  It is so slick that you don't mind that it
couldn't possibly work in real life, but instead it just appears so clever! 
The romantic subplot I found to be a little redundant and I didn't think
that Clooney and Roberts had good chemistry - compared to Clooney and Lopez
in another great Sodenberg film `Out of Sight' where the screen crackled! 
However it takes up little screen time and compliments the heist quite well.
 Sodenberg handles the film well and doesn't allow his direction to be slick
without substance - the editing is clever and Las Vegas internally and
externally looks great.

Clooney is fantastic in the lead - his strength is that he has great
charisma which means he doesn't have to ham it up.  Instead he does his
stuff but allows others to try and shine while he is comfortable with a
constant warm glow.  Pitt does likewise - he doesn't try to hog the glory
but hangs around being smooth for most of the time.  This allows Pitt and
Clooney to be the two leads without taking away from the ensemble feel -
they also have a good relationship going here.  Roberts is OK but didn't
convince me that Clooney would risk so much for her.  Affleck and Cann are
good in a sort of comedy double act role - they don't have a lot of scenes
but they are funny.  Old hands Gould (so good to see him on the big screen)
and Carl Riener effortlessly steal all their scenes and Matt Damon seems
happy to be on a smaller part than the other stars and has a rookie sort of
role.  Andy Garcia has a poor role as the bad guy and doesn't manage to
bring him to life - although he does make him unlikeable when next to
Clooney.  However, Don Cheadle, a great actor, needs a real kicking for
ruining things with a terrible cockney accent that makes Dick Van Dyke sound
genuine.  Happily he doesn't actually have that many lines - and he only has
two scenes where he has to say more than 2 sentences at a time - but really
he is just terrible.  Someone please explain - why his character is English?
 Then someone explain - why they just didn't get an English star to play
it?

Overall any criticisms against this are minor and are missing the point. 
It's not meant to be a classic or get Sodenberg more Oscar nominations. 
Instead it's a slick little package that is kept afloat by a starry cast, a
cool soundtrack and a nice (if silly) plot.  Sit, watch, chill, enjoy,
forget.
<|_=00=_|>

Ok, so maybe the original 1960s film was just an excuse for Frank and his
buddies to hang out and make some money out of it, but it was still a
smash
hit. Lets face it, if they had all just been sitting there doing nothing
it
would still have been a highly successful film. People would have paid to
see them organise their sock draws. However, this time around with a brand
new script and an immensely prosperous cast and crew we have ended up with
a
film ten times better than the original.

In the case of this adaption we are safe in the knowledge that the actors
at
least wanted to be there and that they all had fun making it. Firstly
because of the fact that they all took pay cuts so that it could happen
and
secondly because it comes across on screen. The easy friendship between
Clooney, Pitt, Roberts et al shines throughout the film and seems to draw
the audience in to their inner circle. We know they had a good time
filming
it just as we are having a good time watching it.

It is easy to say that this is THE coolest film of the year. From the
phenomenal script and direction from Steven Soderbergh to the impeccable
easy going performances of the 'stars' - yes every single one of them!
With
so many big names you would expect some rivalry yet there is no scene
hogging in sight. It is clear to see that they are all willing to share
the
limelight. The fact is that there is no main character or personality.
They
are all in it together - reflecting the sense of the film in real life.
This
is the first concept the audience sees from the poster. The names are
printed in alphabetical order. Nobody is given priority. Clooney plays
Danny
Ocean with the same self - confidence, composure and unmistakable coll
that
hasn't been seen since Sinatra himself. All the other characters are brand
new, that is except for the character of Tess Ocean (Julia Roberts). In
the
60s original Tess, played by Angie Dickinson, is Ocean's defender (to some
extent). However, Roberts' re-vamped character is more self assured and
unmoved by Ocean's charm. Rusty (Pitt) is rarely seen without snack in
hand
and the suit are certainly something to look at. He may be a new character
but he is still played in the carefree manner typical of the Rat
Pack.

It is refreshing to sit and watch a film such as this and not have to
suffer
the usual barrage of swearing and violence. The lack of such profanities
only increases its wide appeal. It just goes to show that it can be done
and
that films do not neccessarily need it.

Ocean's Eleven is not your typical heist movie. To start with there are
eleven people working together all with specific, indispensable jobs to
do.
Yet the mood is still light hearted which makes it even more compelling to
watch. The inspired direction and flowing script assure that there is
never
a dull moment and that every scene is important, as is every character.
There are also a couple of cameo appearances from some other big names to
look out for.

Admittedly there is a bad side as there is in every film. In this instance
it is Don Cheadles's cockney accent. Nice try but not quite
right!

This is a film that will keep you fascinated the entire time you are
watching. It does not conform to the conventional values of the genre that
we have come to expect. The twists and turns guarantee that by the end you
will be sitting there thinking 'that was really clever'. Perhaps it isn't
quite what you would expect from such a star studded cast and an Oscar
winning director. But that is why it is so much better than the archetypal
Hollywood blockbusters that we have come to expect.

This is no run of the mill film. It was not about money or self promotion.
It was about having fun and enjoying the job. Ocean's Eleven is not a film
that will be forgotten seconds after you have seen it. It will live
forever
as the epitome of cool for years to come.
<|_=00=_|>

Steven Soderbergh's remake of `Ocean's Eleven' is a stylish heist picture
featuring some of the brightest stars in moviemaking today.  The cast
includes George Clooney, Brad Pitt, Julia Roberts, and Matt Damon from the
A-list, as well as such established veterans as Andy Garcia, Elliot Gould
and Carl Reiner in there playing along with them.  Coming right off the
heels of two highly acclaimed, award-laden serious dramas (`Traffic' and
`Erin Brockovich'), it's understandable that Soderbergh might have been in
the mood for something a little lighter in tone right about now.  Well, he
has certainly found it with this property, which sails along smoothly like a
well-oiled machine, with no angst-filled messages or heavy-handed themes to
gum up the works. 

Taking the basic premise from the original 1960 film (which featured a
who's-who of Hollywood stars of its own day), Soderbergh has updated it to
reflect the advanced technological realities of the 21st Century.   In this
film, recently paroled Daniel Ocean (Clooney) has decided to mastermind the
robbing of not one but three major Las Vegas casinos all owned by the
nefarious Terry Benedict (Garcia).  The rub is that Benedict has also
recently added Ocean's ex-wife, Tess (Roberts), to his list of assets, which
gives Ocean additional incentive to take Benedict for everything he's got.
One of the amazing things is that the filmmakers use an actual casino as
their target (the Bellagio) rather than devising a fictional one for their
story's purpose.  One might think it could give certain audience members the
wrong ideas.  Be that as it may, the director does a fine job exploiting the
Vegas setting, taking us right into the heart of casino
operations.

A film like `Ocean's Eleven' stands or falls on the charisma of its stars,
the intricacy of its plotting and the plausibility of its actions.  Luckily
for the audience, the film pretty much succeeds on all three counts.  
Scenarist Ted Griffin does a fine job gathering together the men who will
participate in the heist, allowing each a moment or two to define his
character and to become part of the team.  The details of the plan itself
are explained in very clear terms so that we rarely feel as if we are not
able to follow the action.   There is even an inspired use of `Clair de
Lune' near the end of the picture to lend an air of romanticism to the
accomplishment, for who would deny that such large-scale thievery has often
carried with it a certain element of idealism and romance?  After all, look
how many books and films have featured robbers as heroes.  It perhaps
explains why Tess can go from being a principled, law-abiding citizen at the
beginning of the film to being an accomplice in crime at the end, all for
the love of a man – and we cheer her for it.   

Unlike in Soderbergh's other films, we do not find hidden depths lurking
beneath the shining handsome surface of this movie, and we certainly carry
no nutritious food for thought away with us from this film as we did from
the others.  In fact, `Ocean's Eleven' is all ABOUT shining handsome surface
and it makes no pretension of being about anything else.  It's cinematic
junk food of the highest order, but, then, since when has junk food not been
satisfying? 

<|_=00=_|>
A rarity--a remake that's better than the original. 11 men led by Danny
Ocean (George Clooney) prepare to rob a vault linked to 3 casinos in
Las Vegas. His partners in crime include Brad Pitt, Carl Reiner, Elliot
Gould, Casey Affleck, Matt Damon and Scott Caan. Also, the casinos are
owned by Tery Benedict (Andy Garcia) who is romancing Ocean's ex-wife
Tess (Julia Roberts). Fun, engrossing, just simply the most enjoyable
film of 2001. It moves smoothly, the entire cast plays it cool and easy
and Steven Soderbergh directs it with flair and intelligence. Yes, it's
light; yes, it's a trifle but it's so FUN! I really loved this film.
Affleck and Caan are hilarious as bickering brothers. My only
complaint--Julia Roberts (the only woman in the cast) is shot very
cruelly. She's beautiful so why does she look so bad? Aside from that
this is a fun movie. Just sit back and enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>

What a tasty prospect for a film: George Clooney, Brad Pitt, Matt Damon,
Andy Garcia, Julia Roberts and for the young at heart amongst us, Joshua
Jackson of 'Dawson's Creek' fame in a cameo role -all directed by the
Oscar
winning Steven Soderbergh!

George Clooney plays Danny Ocean who soon after being released from
prison,
puts together a team of eleven to undertake a robbery of the three biggest
casinos in Las Vegas in an attempt to bring in a reward of $150 million.
What soon becomes clear is that it's not the money which will give Danny
the
ultimate satisfaction, but the opportunity to get revenge on the owner of
the three casinos he is robbing -Benedict (Andy Garcia) who just happens
to
be the new beau of Danny's ex, Tess (Julia Roberts).

Some of the gang of eleven are more memorable than others -especially the
Chinese acrobat, the explosives expert with a dodgy cockney accent and the
medallion wearing Reuben -aka Monica Gellar's dad!  The cast are brilliant
at acting cool -even if all Brad Pitt is doing is snacking on the screen
(he
does this a lot!), you are still transfixed by him because he looks so
good on screen.

What makes the story so intriguing is the fact that Danny's mission seems
so
impossible: security in the casinos is paramount and the route to the
reward
is littered with obstacles.  The number of close calls that the gang is
faced with is great fun and one can't help but root for these crooks
throughout the film.  It is also refreshing to watch a film which is
dominated by male stars and is not filled with macho swearing.  Instead,
we
have a banter between the stars which is indicative of their
camaraderie.

'Ocean's Eleven' is a welcome option in the choice of movies available at
the moment which is dominated by Oscar nominees that are not going to be
everyone's cup of tea.  With this film, it's simply a case of sit back and
enjoy the fun!

<|_=00=_|>

There is just something about this movie that makes it so great.
There's nothing truly outstanding about any one aspect of the movie;
nothing that will blow you away. However, everything is put together
perfectly.

Personally, I have a theory that any movie that absolutely blows you
away the first time you see it, will lose its entertainment value very
quickly. Not necessarily because the movie was not good, but because it
just seems to get old too fast. This is NOT one of those movies.

This is the kind of movie that will be enjoyed countless times. The
dialogue is slick, and always to the point. There are few (if any)
overdone scenes and/or lines that tend to become annoying over time.

This movie flows exceptionally well. Personally, I couldn't quite
figure out why until I watched the "behind the scenes" footage on the
DVD. I didn't really notice all of the work they put into using as few
shots as possible. The extra features on the DVD really explain it all.
Almost every scene uses considerably less shots than you would think it
takes to convey all of the activity going on. The music punctuates the
flow of the movie and the shots extremely well.

The cast is almost all big names. It's great to see actors like Pitt
and Clooney and Damon come together in a movie and interact so well,
without having to be the pretty boys or bad-ass heroes of the movie.

<|_=00=_|>

Ocean's Eleven is a very easy-going and purely fun movie to watch. The
film is loaded with celebrities such as George Clooney, Brad Pitt,
Julia Roberts, Andy Garcia, and Matt Damon. Ocean's Eleven is very
"loosely" based on the original Ocean's Eleven starring Frank Sinatra.
Steven Soderbergh did a fabulous job directing this movie and having
all the characters to connect to Danny Oceans group of 11. The plan is
to steal 160$ million dollars from three Las Vegas Casino's. Sounds
wacky? The planning time took up most of the movie, and you almost
believe that it could be done after you see this. Andy Garcia did a
fabulous job playing Terry Benedict, the owner of the Casino's where
Ocean (Clooney) plans to rob. Brad Pitt plays and interesting role as
Danny Ocean's sidekick. The plot flows quickly and some parts leave you
laughing on the floor. Each one of the eleven characters had its own
story behind them and it is seen when Rusty Ryan (Pitt) and Danny Ocean
(Clooney) first go to recruit them to plan this heist. I have to say
Julia Roberts didn't have a flexible character but nonetheless her
presence in this film as Tess, Danny Ocean's ex-wife, is apparent.
Ocean's 12 is due out in December with the same old cast and it
promises to be a hit. This movie is one of my favorites because the
premise is great and the actors are great.

**** out of *****

<|_=00=_|>
Ocean's Eleven contains one of the best casts ever in my opinion. It's
got comedy, romance, played, clever tricks and more. Soderbourgh
directs and shows why he got 2 Oscar nominations in 2001. I'm skipping
on the plot because most of us already know about this great film.
Let's meet the eleven shall we?

1- Danny Ocean (George Clooney). The leader of the gang. Had quite a
grudge on Terry Benedict (Andy Garcia) after stealing his ex-wife
(Julia Roberts) while he was in New Jersey prison.

2- Rusty Ryan (Brad Pitt). One of the main leaders. Plays as a great
con-artist and at one point during the film did a fine act in front of
the gang.

3- Linus Caldwell (Matt Damon). Another con-artist and made a living
off of pulling off cool ways of pick-pocketing the public.

4- Frank Catton (Bernie Mac). Con-artist and hired as a casino black
jack dealer during Ocean's stay in jail.

5- Yen (Shaobo Qin). Someone who didn't talk much English until the
end. He's the acrobatic extraordinaire for stunts that could only be
pulled off by someone as small as him.

6- Virgil Malloy (Casey Affleck). Him and Turk have always annoyed each
other for the longest time. Con-artist.

7- Turk Malloy (Scott Caan). Him and Virgil have always annoyed each
other for the longest time. Con-artist.

8- Basher Tarr (Don Cheadle). Plays as the hilarious English-accented
explosives specialist. Early in the movie, we see a hilarious bank
heist gone wrong.

9- Reuben Tishkoff (Elliott Gould). The money source. 

10- Livingston Dell (Eddie Jemison). The computer/electronics
specialist. At one point, he needs to overpass security cameras with
his skills.

11- Saul Bloom (Carl Reiner). A great con-artist who can play a guy his
age but as a different culture and such.

Together, they all form a heist to steal $160 Mil and the whole story
is very entertaining. Andy Garcia plays the rich guy who owns his own
casino and steals Ocean's ex-wife, played by Julia Roberts.

Being so impressed by Ocean's Eleven, I wanted there to be a sequel. I
must have seen this movie about 20 times. It turns out the day I bought
the DVD, I found out that they would be making Ocean's Twelve three
years later. Now in 2004, we only have to wait a few more weeks for
Ocean's Twelve. The sequel looks promising and is definitely the #1
movie I must see this winter.

My Rating: 10/10

Eliason A.
<|_=00=_|>

Throughout the past 6 months, heist films have been protruding our
screens at a sporadic rate.  'The Score' starring Robert De Niro was one
of
the first out the gate last July, while David Mamet's highly praised
'Heist'
was just released last month. Now, the Holiday season plays host to one of
the most enjoyable films this year 'Ocean's 11'.
Steven 'Do No Harm' Soderbergh's latest opus in a nutshell is
absolutely fantastic. Watching the film I could see Warner Bros. tagging
the
lines for upcoming promos from all the reviews such as 'the most fun
you'll
have at the movies' and 'the year's best film'. For once, I would agree
with
those promos.  This is an absolute great piece of film. That is not to say
that Soderbergh has not included a couple of clichéd crowd pleasing
segments, but that takes hardly anything away from a superbly acted,
written
and directed film.
George Clooney stars as Danny Ocean, who after just released from
prison
plans to concoct a daring caper to rob 3 Casinos for more than 150$
Million
in cold cash. He therefore sets out to recruit, train and execute the plan
which these three verbs respectively describing each of the film's three
acts. First for recruitment is Brad Pitt who plays Dusty Ryan, a
food-obsessed criminal who leads the plan with Clooney as they recruit
Matt
Damon, Carl Reiner, Don Cheadle, Casey Affleck and many more. Hence the
title; 'Ocean's 11'.
With his newest film, Soderbergh seems to return to his roots with
his
'Out Of Sight' style he created when Jennifer Lopez and Clooney
collaborated
on that film in 1998. From the opening sequence when the camera tracks
Clooney out of the prison gates, to the cutthroat dialogue in the same
vein
as 'out of Sight', I knew Soderbergh was onto something. The result is a
great, fun, fast paced film that moves so fast at some parts that if you
blink, you'll miss it. The opening 20 minutes have Danny and Rusty
recruiting all over the U.S. with great scenes that prove to be the some
of
most memorable. Who can forget Elliot Gould's character Rubin Tischikoff
as
he tries to talk the men out of the heist by providing examples of the
most
successful Casino heists ever achieved - which turned out all to be
unsuccessful.
Those who saw the film know that the aforementioned scene is just one
of the many scenes that work. If we look at the film in a dissecting
fashion, we can clearly see that the film works on many levels. The first
act quickly, easily and 'non-challantly' introduces us to our characters
in
a subtle detailed manner while simultaneously mocking the teen cover boys
acting industry. Pitt is first approached from Clooney while he teaches
teen
stars on how to play cards. None other than Joshua Jackson, Holly Marie
Combs and Topher Grace appear in this scene.  While the stars' presence
can
actually detract from what is another great scene in the film, just when
you
finish digesting that memorable scene, the film takes off a mere minutes
after it starts with the recruitment of the Danny's 11 man-crew.

The 'training' act explores several sub plots including the
introduction of the Julia Roberts character Tess Ocean. She plays Ocean's
ex-wife who is currently dating one of the Casino owners they are trying
to
rob. The incredibly underrated Andy Garcia plays the film's unconformist
villain with suave sophistication who seems to convey the notion of fear
with his droopy-eyed close ups. Tense scenes between Garcia and Clooney
while rare, are simply a treat to watch. Furthermore, romantics will
certainly enjoy the love subplot that is truly predictable that as clichéd
as it is, is still effective as only Soderbergh can create it to be.

The third act is completely mind-blowing as the 'execution' of the
robbery is filmed in such a dizzying, comedic yet suspenseful manner that
makes this film stick out from all the other heist movies. The film's
robbery sequence set during a Lennox Lewis fight is epic, grand and
deserves
to be viewed more than once to take it all in. While some might say the
film
ends in a clichéd, predictable ending; I ask you, what did you expect? You
are not going to get a sad ending with one of the best ensemble casts ever
assembled for a motion picture.
Furthermore, as a testament to Soderbergh's craftiness; witness the
second to last closing scene. After all the frenzy, after all the comedy,
and after all the intensity, Soderbergh assembles his cast right in front
of
the casino. The whole crew watches in a perverted sense of pride and
accomplishment as they study the Casinos they just robbed with nostalgic
music playing in the background; glamorizing their illegalities as only
pure
Hollywood magic can. They all take one last look at the Casinos, and
slowly
walk away one by one, each with a gaze of joy as they separate themselves
from the 'job'. Truly an incredible scene that I played back in my mind
repeatedly while writing this review, that one scene captures the true
essence of the film.
It still has to be seen as to whether or not any other film this year
will come close to its' suaveness, its' look, its' style or its'
satisfying
effect it gives you when exiting the theatre. Pardon my colloquialism, but
this film was damn cool. Notable mentions include the outstanding
wardrobe.
Seems as if Soderbergh simply wanted to make a film, put his actors in
lavish sets and dress them up as good as he can. While some costumes may
be
outlandish to fit the character, Pitt's and Clooney's are simply stunning
and had me looking through my GQ when I got home. Therefore, see it on the
big screen and see it more than once to take in all the great elements
this
absolutely fantastic film had to offer.

Giancarlo's Rating: ***1/2

<|_=00=_|>
George Clooney, Brad Pitt, Matt Damon, Bernie Mac, Elliot Gould, Carl
Reiner, Casey Affleck, Scott Caan, Shaobo Qin, Miguel Perez, and
Livingston Dell make up "Ocean's Eleven," a 2001 film directed by
Steven Soderbergh. The film also stars Andy Garcia and Julia Roberts.
This is a remake of the rat pack "Ocean's Eleven," which I've never
seen so I can't make comparisons. I suspect that this version has more
emphasis on plot and the older one has more emphasis on the pack.

The mastermind of a plot to rob Las Vegas' Bellaggio Hotel vault of
$160 million is Danny Ocean, a very recent ex-con who had lots of time
on his hands in prison to plan it. With the help of his buddy, Rusty
Ryan (Pitt) he recruits 9 people who specialize in a particular
expertise to carry out the elaborate heist. Problems come in when
Ocean, obsessed with his ex-wife (Roberts), approaches her, to the
annoyance of her present boyfriend, the owner of the hotel, Terry
Benedict (Garcia). He "makes" Danny by sending out a bulletin with
Danny's photo to the hotel staff, which puts him out of his own plot at
the insistence of Rusty. But Danny isn't one to exit easily, in either
marriage or robberies.

This is a fast-paced, tension-filled, exciting movie that's highly
entertaining. The plot is completely improbable so you have to take it
for what it is - fantastic fun. And you never know whether something is
going wrong or if it's part of the plan. The chemistry between the
actors, particularly Clooney and Pitt, is great, and there is some
wonderful acting. Clooney is solid as Ocean, a passionate man of quiet
determination; Damon is terrific as an insecure participant; Don
Cheadle, sporting a Cockney accent, is hilarious as an explosives
expert; Elliot Gould is outrageous as their financial backer; Carl
Reiner is excellent as an older con man who can do accents. Just as
they all contribute their different talents to the heist, they do so in
this movie. This includes the acting in the smaller roles played by
Bernie Mac et al - everyone is perfect. Andy Garcia is fabulous as
Benedict - both elegant and scary, he whispers instead of shouts and
stays in control for the most part. Megastar Roberts is wasted - she
doesn't have much to do.Any actress could have done the role, but I
guess the producers wanted an all-star cast.

Highly recommended for blockbuster entertainment value and star power.
Just don't look for it to be realistic.
