
This was an involving story of a military man accused of murdering
civilians 15 years earlier and then going A.W.O.L. The whole story
revolves around one question: did he do it or is he innocent?

That question keeps the viewer guessing for much of the film and
provides some very good suspense. It's another film, however, in which
there is a strong anti-U.S. military flavor, so typical in films since
the 1960s. 

Also, once you know the ending, I doubt if this would be a movie you
would watch more than once. However, it's definitely worth a look and
will entertain you for about two hours. Ashley Judd, Jim Caviezel and
Morgan Freeman are three attractive lead actors, all interesting to
watch, as usual.
<|_=00=_|>

Because "High Crimes" sticks Judd in front of the camera in almost every
scene as its contrived formula story full of cliche characters  wells around
her. Fortunately, Judd manages to hold this less than sterling film together
as it worms and squirms its way through the story of a happy wife and trial
lawyer who finds her husband might not be who she thought he was and has to
try to wrest him from the clutches of a military courtmartial, a possible
death sentence, and a coverup conspiracy. "High Crimes" is busy enough to
hold interest through endless plotholes and implausibilities making for an
okay no-brainer couch potato watch. A must see for Judd fans and a so-so
watch for all others. (B-)
<|_=00=_|>

Morgan Freeman and Ashley Judd (`Kiss the Girls') team up again in this
courtroom thriller, which is entertaining despite its worn plot and obvious
ending.  The reason it doesn't descend to a level consistent with the
screenplay's unoriginality is the superior acting by the three principal
performers.

Claire (Ashley Judd) and Tom (James Caviezel) are living an idyllic and
romantic married life, trying hard to have a baby.  Everything is going
swimmingly until one day Tom is arrested and charged with murder and war
crimes dating back to his military service and raid in El Salvatore years
earlier.  It seems Tom's entire identity is a lie and his name is really Ron
Chapman, a former Special Forces commando.

Claire, who is conveniently a prominent defense lawyer, takes up his case
determined to prove he is innocent, choosing to believe his denials despite
the fact that everything she knows about him is a fabrication.  She hires
Charlie Grimes (Morgan Freeman) to assist her because until he became a
broken down alcoholic, he was once one of the top lawyers in the
military.

The film is paced well and balanced between courtroom drama and other
related storylines like constant death threats, a dirty general and a
mystery man.  It is fairly standard fare, but the presentation is
engaging.

Morgan Freeman is such a terrific actor, that even a trite script can't keep
him down.  He is wily and insolent as the washed up lawyer with a few tricks
left up his sleeve.  Freeman projects an unassuming power in his work, full
of dynamism yet highly amiable.  His interaction with Judd is wonderful,
treating her with avuncular kindness and intellectual respect.

Ashley Judd is a fine dramatic actor, who returns to serious drama after an
ill advised detour into romantic comedy (`Someone Like You').  Judd is razor
sharp in this film, coming across as bright, energetic and passionate.  She
is tough as nails and doesn't back down to pompous military officers or
thugs trying to intimidate her.

Jim Caviezel rounds out the cast with a strong performance as the accused. 
This is a tough character because he is so mysterious and duplicitous. 
Caviezel delivered a strong portrayal of an enigmatic character in `Angel
Eyes', so he had some experience with this type of role.  He handles the
part well, appearing utterly sincere whether his character is telling the
truth or not.

Amanda Peet gives her standard performance as Claire's hair brained and sex
obsessed sister.  Peet is no serious dramatic talent, but she has this
character down and comes across as believably ditzy and concerned about her
sister despite their obvious sibling rivalry.

This film doesn't fool anyone with its surprise ending, but it does deliver
good suspense, a tried and true formula and some excellent performances.  I
rated it a 7/10.  It's worth a look for viewers who like
mysteries.

<|_=00=_|>
I had little expectations for this film but I was pleasantly surprised
when I was sitting in the middle of it. The film is yes perhaps
predictable and we've seen it all before but something about it is full
of high energy and scares and thrills and it's the perfect night at the
movies. Ashley Judd plays a high profile attorney who's life is turned
upside down when her carpenter husband is arrested for murder years
earlier while in the army. The twist is she didn't know he was ever in
the army and everything from her husbands name to where he was during
the murder is all new to her. Still she manages to trust him as best
she can and offers to help the young, naive army attorney who has been
assigned to her husbands case. To help them both with this heavy case
that could bring the death penalty to her beloved husband they hire
former Army Lawyer Charlie Grimes (played by Morgan Freeman.)

Freeman is...well he's Morgan Freeman he doesn't really have to BE
anything...but as usual he churns out a wonderful performance as the
alcoholic lawyer who was discharged for dishonourable conduct. The case
unfolds like a perfect mystery as the team of three along with Judd's
sister played by Amanda Peet (who turns out can actually act...who
knew) tries to find the truth behind the military cover up that ended
up with the deaths of nine innocent civilians. All the pieces fit
together and you're following the film on the edge of your seat and
rooting for Judd's character. Everyone in this film plays a part and
they play it just wonderfully. This movie is a real nail biter, with
plenty of cheap scares and drama. Morgan Freeman, who during the course
of the movie goes from recovered Alcoholic to re-newed Alcoholic is
interesting enough to hold the whole movie but he doesn't have to.

Unfortunately as with some good things...there is always a downside.
The ending is a cheap, ridiculous thrill that is more of a let down
than anything. After collecting all these facts that add up perfectly
in everyone's mind including the audience, every single one of those
facts are forgotten and tossed aside in order for a ridiculous supposed
"surprise ending" which is not a shock or surprise or even a "oh my"
ending. Such an enormous let down for such a fantastic film. Why they
thought they had to end it like this is ridiculous. However...in saying
that don't let that stop you from checking out this movie because it's
well worth your ten bucks at the theatre, you won't be disappointed. I
give this film a strong 8.5/10 but easily...without the ending could be
taken as a 10/10 movie.
<|_=00=_|>

KISS THE GIRLS stars Ashley Judd and Morgan Freeman reunite in HIGH CRIMES,
a movie that turned out to be a lot better than I was expecting. The
previews made this movie look like a high powered suspense thriller, but I
was weary about the plot and I was suspecting a thousand different plot
holes. But, I was wrong. This movie is executed wonderfully. Yes, there are
the usual thriller cliches, but once you get past all that, this movie is
really entertaining. The acting is not all that bad either. Judd is great
and Freeman is perfect as always (the only thing about him is that I am
still a little hazy as to the gold earring that he totes on his right ear).
The supporting cast includes Jim Caviezel, Adam Scott, the very hott Amanda
Peet, Bruce Davison and Tom Bower. All of whom do an exceptional
job.

This may look like just another one of those 'trial' movies, but this isn't.
It is actually quite good if you just look past the typical plot and watch
it. Other recommendations include A FEW GOOD MEN and RULES OF ENGAGEMENT.
They are both a little different, but still go along the same lines.

This film is for people who appreciate good, old-fashioned suspense
thrillers. These kind of movies are the kind people need to show us that
looks can be deceiving and that people are not always what they appear to
be.

HIGH CRIMES: 5/5.
<|_=00=_|>

Let me see. Ashley Judd is married to this guy who is arrested and
charged with massacring innocent civilians in Central America as a
special ops agent in the Marine Corps. She's a lawyer and decides to
defend him herself but, knowing nothing of Courts Martial, she hired
ex-drunk Morgan Freeman to help her. Some shady stuff follows, the
charges are withdrawn, and hubby turns out to be guilty after all and
tries to off her. That's about all I understood.

I used to teach classes to Marines at New River Air Station and every
other class or so, one of them would show up with a black eye. I
finally mentioned this one night and a student asked, "What does that
tell you about the Marine Corps?" The students told me a lot more about
the Marine Corps than this movie does. According to the movie the Corps
is made up of beefy ugly bruits with haircuts you wouldn't believe,
blustering and pompous, but they melt away like Wusses before Ashley
Judd's fierce determination.

I really like Ashley Judd, by the way. She has a trim figure and a
plump, pretty, asymmetrical and highly expressive face. Her left
eyebrow is always cocked in disbelief. She has dark greenish irises
that have a tendency to roll heavenward when she's exasperated. And
she's a competent actress too when given the chance to act. I like
Morgan Freeman too. His face is made of lumps, in profile his nose
seems lopped off at the end, and in this film his hair is long and
wooly and combed crazily backward, as befits a recovering alcoholic.
And he's the soul of reliability. If I wanted a doctor or a lawyer I'd
look him up in one big jiffy. He can even be a credible drunk. Amanda
Peet is properly sluttish but not really necessary. Paul Caveziel as
the husband looks the part of the tough Marine but doesn't carry his
weight, or maybe it's partly that the role doesn't give him a chance.

But -- well, then there's the plot. Forget about any sociopolitical
comments on Special Ops in Central America. It's a murder mystery. All
along we're led to believe along with Judd that the military is made up
of a bunch of conniving morons and heavies. Dark cars and pickups
follow Judd around. A gang of unidentified thugs jump out of nowhere
and try to beat Freeman's brains out. (Between the two of them, Judd
and Freeman spend half the movie with braces, black eyes, and
bandages.) In the end, or so it seems, the bad guys aren't the bad guys
after all, but the good guy is a bad guy, or else maybe the bad guys
and the good guy were both bad guys, or -- well, you get the picture,
even if I didn't. The climax is just another
woman-who-discovers-her-trusted-partner-is-a-murdere-and-is-now-going-to-murder-her
scene. He trusses her up and is about to kill her, although his
expectations are unclear. 

What I mean is, hubby has just had charges of mass murder withdrawn. He
hasn't been acquitted so he's still chargeable and under suspicion. And
Morgan Freeman has just uncovered evidence that hubby is guilty.
Freeman calls Judd and gives her the dope. Now hubby is about to shoot
his wife in their own home because she knows he's a murderer, right?
But meanwhile Freeman knows too. And there will be blood all over the
place if he shoots his wife. What does he have to gain by killing her?
Absolutely nothing. It's as if, at this point, the writers had thrown
away the rest of the script and said, "Let's stick in a
woman-in-jeopardy climax. The audience is too stupid to notice that it
doesn't belong."

Judd and Freeman aside, this movie really doesn't have much to
recommend it.

It's doubly disappointing because the director was also responsible for
the far superior, "One False Move." 

Well, maybe some other time.

<|_=00=_|>

In High Crimes, director Carl Franklin shows us an ideal life gone wrong.
Claire Kubik is one of them. She's happily married to husband Tom (Jim
Caviezel). In fact, he's such a great husband that we don't find out his
occupation. Claire, who is played actually well by Ashley Judd, couldn't
love Tom more. Until he gets arrested for something that he supposedly
didn't do. Did he or did he not? An hour and a half is spent contenplating
the fact.

The acting is surprisedly well, especially by Caviezel. I didn't understand
why he had that "outburst" at the end, but that's a minor detail. Judd is
equally good as Claire, except she seemed to be too slow at some parts. So
did the pacing. It seemed to drag on a little, and the genre seemed to be
more like a courtroom drama instead of a crime thriller.

Morgan Freeman is OK as the lawyer Claire hires. His acting seemed a little
forced at times, though. The plot, though nothing new, was one of those that
were predictable, but I was enjoying it too much to care. It's very
entertaining if you just sit back and watch it instead of scrutinizing every
little detail of it.

But, at the end, after the final court scene, it seems to continue on for a
little long after spending an hour and a half leading up to that part. The
running time was a little long. And the ever-lovable Amanda Peet plays a
role where she could have gotten more time and shown off her acting ability.
If you sit back for two hours and leave your mind on hold, it's a very
entertaining yarn.

My rating: 7/10

Rated PG-13 violence and some language.

<|_=00=_|>
Claire Kubrik (Ashley Judd) is an attorney whose relationship with her
husband Tom (Jim Caviezel) is turned on its head. Tom is arrested for
the murder of innocent civilians during a covert army operation 15
years earlier. Claire has been kept in the dark about her husbands
past, but despite her doubts she still believes his innocence and takes
it upon herself to act as his defence attorney with the help of a
disgraced military lawyer (Morgan Freeman) 

The film is both suspenseful and intriguing, with very fine performance
from all the cast. Most of the film is quite interesting and even
compelling at times, as the mystery builds and then as it begins to
unravel. The surprise ending however, lets the movie down; when with
more attention to detail it could have been quite impressive and really
could have made the movie.

By the end you are left feeling a bit unfulfilled, mainly due to all
the smoke and mirrors used to make the ending a shock.

6/10 should have been better, but it's watchable
<|_=00=_|>
I show absolutely no hesitation in recommending any movie with Morgan
Freeman (Million Dollar baby, The Shawshank Redemption, Se7en), and
this is no exception. The fact that I am an Ashley Judd (Double
Jeopardy, Kiss the Girls) fan makes this a double pleasure.

Let's just ignore the fact that this film is a cliché, and sit back and
enjoy it. It has enough actors that we love that there is something you
will enjoy.

Besides Judd and Freeman, it has Jesus (James Caviezel) as the husband
who is hiding his past, Amanda Peet (The Whole Nine Yards) as the
slutty sister, and it is directed by Carl Franklin (Out of Time, Devil
with the Blue Dress).

Anyone who has watched more than a dozen movies can easily predict what
comes next as the film unfolds, maybe even the ending, although that is
the most illogical part for me, so it's not going to tax your brain.
It's just another good opportunity to see Judd and Freeman. That's
enough for me.
<|_=00=_|>

Carl Franklin's High Crimes, based upon Joseph Finder's novel of the same
name, could just possibly be interesting if it didn't try so hard to do so.
Instead of building a complex web of a storyline, the story instead reverts
to reaching at the most impossible and improbable to further the intrigue,
and thus lessens it instead. The film draws many parallels with Robert
Zemeckis's What Lies Beneath, but lacks both the subtle art and spirited
nature of that movie.

Claire Kubik (Ashley Judd) is a high-profile lawyer who lives as part of an
idyllic marriage. One day her husband Tom Kubik (James Cavizel) is arrested
by the FBI for a war crime and a secret past-life of his begins to unravel.
Suddenly Claire finds herself defending her husband in a military tribunal
that she is not familiar with, along with the help of maverick Marine
lawyer
Charles Grimes (Morgan Freeman). As expected, everything that could ever
possibly go wrong does go wrong, which gives the film an strange pacing in
which every time one thinks that the movie is over, it isn't. The story
goes
to extremes to show how lopsided the odds are by bringing in conspiracies
that reach up to Generals, by having the prosecutor be the Marines' top
lawyer, by having the defense lawyer be an inexperienced loser, and yada
yada.

The characters are all flat stereotypes, and ultimately we don't really
care
about any of them, from the ugly-as-a-dog mad Marine Major Hernandez (Juan
Carlos Hernandez), to the seemingly prepubescent young Marine lawyer Lt.
Terrence Embry (Adam Scott) assigned to defend Tom, to Claire herself, a
caricature of the cool-headed modern female lawyer who, because of her
inner-warmth, desperately wants to have a baby. Near the end the crudely
typical vengeful South American character stands valiantly at a doorway,
reversing his role from throughout the film, and you almost expect him to
say ‘que pasa?'

Dialogue in the movie is unoriginal and contrived, but is not poor enough
that it stands out, and overall is utterly unremarkable, Ashley Judd
exhibits an excellent performance in playing a confused, loving, strong
woman, and in her skill highlights the lack of acting ability in James
Cavizel, who is ill-matched with her. Morgan Freeman plays the same lovable
outcast character we've often seen from him, and he does it
well.

Theo van de Sande's photography, while neither innovative nor artistic, is
wonderfully polished and alternately expresses claustrophobic terror
through
close shots or dizzying confusion through a twirling, dancing lens at the
appropriate times. As is seen often in today's films, Sande uses the color
blue very heavily, and also employs a shallow depth of
focus.

The original score by Graeme Revell is professional enough, but is very
generic and boring. In the movie, particularly in the beginning and end,
the
music awkwardly bounces back and forth between dramatic world music and
R&B.

When the movie closes, the viewer has gained nothing, but has also lost
nothing to this glossy but formulaic movie. Despite its faults, it is an
entertaining ride, and the surprise ending (so necessary to complete the
movie that it is half-predictable) will act as redemption in the eyes of
those who would otherwise leave with a bad taste in their
mouths.

`High Crimes' is rated PG-13. It contains blurry footage of corpses,
conspirator's intimidating violence, humorous prostitutes, and adorable
grandfatherly drunkenness.

