

Finally there is a movie where the previews don't show the funniest parts
of
the movie.  Take it from me-the previews are less than half as funny as the
movie is!  But, if you're not into sick and perverted humor, then you
probably won't enjoy most portions of this movie.  However, if you do, I
recommend it highly.
<|_=00=_|>

One of the grossest and funniest films ever made.

Heavily Underrated.
Great simple love storyline,
Classic dirty sick humour

For fans of Teen Comedy movies such as Not another Teen Movie and Theres
Something About Mary.
<|_=00=_|>

I thought that this movie was hilarious! Jerry O'Connell did a really
great
job, and the music is awesome. It was an original movie, that had a great
plot. I think that everyone, that has a sense of humor, should see this
movie. 
<|_=00=_|>

By some lucky (?) chance, I watched this movie a few days after watching
"Flesh Gordon 2", so I was able to easily tell the difference between a
likable moronic and tasteless sex comedy and a painful moronic and
tasteless
sex comedy. Granted, "Tomcats" has more energy than laughs, and the story
is
predictable in the extreme; however, it works by mixing in some sweetness
along with the vulgarity, and it certainly helps that Jerry O'Connell and
Shannon Elizabeth have a nice chemistry together - you get the feeling
they
would make a likable pair. Now, if only they had given a larger role to
Jaime Pressly....(**1/2)
<|_=00=_|>
Firstly, I may well be slightly biased- because I really truly enjoyed
this movie. However, seeing it with a score under 5- and then looking
at the reviews, there is a notable trend. The good reviews are
predominantly well punctuated and articulate, with such things as
(gasp) accurate spelling and grammar. Conversely, most of the bad
reviews tend to be short blurbs with not a capital letter to be found.

My take on this: Despite being a dumb comedy, Tomcats is to nuanced for
the average consumer of dumb comedy. So, it's a smart-dumb comedy. The
timing of jokes is impeccable, the pace is excellent, and the actual
material is above average- with some of it even fresh! This leaves it
in a bad place for reviews though- because it means a small segment of
people love it, while big segments of the population (the pretentious
smart and the uncultured dumb, we'll call them) will always pan this
movie. So, if you're smarter than the average bear- but still
appreciate dumb comedy romps, go for it- this one is a keeper.
<|_=00=_|>

I saw this movie the other night and I couldn't stop laughing.

Yes, the movie had a very stupid plot.

Yes, the movie could have been a little better.

But still, I found this movie to be very funny and was more than what I
personally expected. I can see where other people found it to be stupid.
This movie was on the lines of Dumb & Dumber in the way of s tupid comedy.
But I enjoyed every minute of it. It is a little disgusting at times but I
recommend that fans of comedy go see this movie.
<|_=00=_|>

** Here might be spoilers **
This movie is kind of a enigma to me. No, be serious, I got the plot, the
whole predictable plot. At a wedding the remaining bachelors makes a bet
that whoever is the last bachelor will win a bundle of money. One after one
they marry and finally there are only two left, Michael, the cartoonist and
Kyle, the playboy. 
Suddenly life gets complicated for Michael as he loses lots of money in a
Las Vegas casino, and only one month to pay. He sees only one solution, he
must win that bet.

This film is juvenile. No doubt about it. It is completely filled with very
nice-looking women, some of them wearing very little (but actually
surprisingly little nudity). The jokes are mostly about sex or cruel ones
like falling over cliffs. Sure, they makes you laugh a little, but not that
much. There are some really good jokes here and there however, some nice
spoofs or some rather funny detail. And this makes the whole movie much
better than expected. 
7/10
<|_=00=_|>

Is "Tomcats" as tasteless as you think?  Definitely!  This is not a smart,
intellectual comedy.  The gags are often pretty cheap.  But I laughed a lot!
 I wouldn't put this movie down in comedy history, but if you want to spend
a whole hour and thirty minutes croaking with laughter--I can't say you'll
be disappointed.  If you can't handle this lewd brand of comedy, please
don't bother with "Tomcats."  However, there is one joke involving the
consumption of a human testicle (Yes, you heard right) which I felt was one
of the MOST disgusting gags I've ever seen!!!  Better yet, one of the most
disgusting moments in the history of motion pictures.  I have to say, I
almost gave up on the film at that point.  Luckily, the copious laughs made
up for the extreme crudeness.  So if you decide to rent this movie, make
sure you fast-forward to the next scene when the testicle scene comes up. 
As long as you skip through that one scene, you should be able to leave this
movie unharmed.  The plot is sitcom material, and no more than a bunch of
setups for hysterical, outrageous gags, but I was laughing so hard I ignored
the throwaway plot.  

Other things to anticipate are Bill Maher's portrayal of the ruthless
crimelord Carlos and Garry Marshall's cameo appearance.  Of course, Shannon
Elizabeth is in the cast ('Nuff said).  Can you get much hotter than
Shannon?  Not to sound shallow, but I really expected to see tons of
nudity--judging by the ads including one with that hot blonde chick (I
forgot her name) about to take her top off.  Don't expect to see any female
nudity (though there's one breast shot used for comic purposes).  Lots of
scantily-clad babes, but none of them get naked.  And for the ladies out
there, there is some brief male nudity (For all feminists who think this
comedy is degrading to women--Shut up!  You got your share of male nudity. 
We're even).  However, I don't know if anyone--male or female--would want to
anticipate seeing Jake Busey in a thong.  

"Tomcats" is not the best of the gross-out comedies, but it delivers.  The
jokes are sitcom material, but it's funny sitcom material.

You might want to stop the tape or DVD during the outtakes, though.  Many
people said the outtakes were hilarious, but I thought they were the worst
outtakes I've ever seen.  The kind of stuff that can only be funny to those
working in the cast or crew.  Luckily, they're at the very end of the film,
so watching them is optional.    

My score:  7 (out of 10) 
<|_=00=_|>
Life moves on...

I avoided this like the plague when it came out as it got so panned by
the critics but got it on TV.

It really is a pretty good way to waste 90 minutes.

I have to say there is NO nudity; the grossness is mild, and the timing
on the comedy is pretty good. 

Yes, it's a guy's film in the main, yes, it's vaudeville; but overall
it actually has a little wisdom to impart, a sweetness to it, and
enough silliness to make it fly.

Much better treat than expected and if you liked Something About Mary
or American Pie you will enjoy...
<|_=00=_|>
I had expected a fairly straightforward R-rated graphic, sexual, crude
teen-comedy when I sat down to see this... it turned out to be fairly
accurate... only it was far more sick and disgusting than I would have
thought. I don't know if the director/writer Gregory Poirier is sick or
deeply messed up sexually, but I doubt that a normal person could have
made a movie like this. I could probably have taken it if it was just
that, if the only thing that was wrong was it was that it required a
tough stomach... but it isn't. The film is also horribly mean-spirited
and disturbing... every single character that has more than one full
second of time on-screen is an extreme... sexually, mentally or
physically. I don't know if this is just the director's sense of humor,
but I just found it to be... wrong. Just wrong. Even in a comedy, there
is supposed to be some seriousness. The plot is stupid. The acting is
bad. The characters are inconsistent and poorly written... all of them.
There isn't one single likable character in the film. The humor is
disgusting and goes way too far. The film is just so incredibly poorly
done that I really don't think it's worth anyone's time. If you like
R-rated, crude comedies with plenty of sexual innuendo and graphic
stuff, watch The Groomsmen, or, better yet, American Pie... or Road
Trip, my personal favorite. But don't watch this. I can't possibly
describe to you how bad it is... you would have to experience it for
yourself. However, this is one of those times where I'll say that
you're better off wondering. That way you can just imagine that this
film goes very close to the bottom... without knowing that it goes
through it, and far lower than that. This movie most of all looks like
a group of horny teenage guys got together, put together a film crew,
and every-time one of them got an idea, they filmed it, and later put
the entire thing together. It lacks structure, consistency and taste. I
recommend this only to horny teenage guys who have seen every single
other R-rated crude teen comedy and who don't care about quality.
Everyone else... do the sensible thing; avoid this. It's not even worth
it to see the booty. Believe me. 1/10
