
As a fan of the novels and the movie Interview with a Vampire, I spent
a good half hour yelling at the screen before realizing the following:

1. These are not Anne Rice's vampires. Every character is different,
despite their names (The only one to nail a character was Vincent
Perez, the highlight of the movie as Marius. Good job.) 

2. The plot of the movie is not based on the books. It as if someone
picked up a copy of The Vampire Lestat and Queen of the Damned, opened
to random pages, made assumptions, got bored and stopped reading, then
wrote a screenplay.

3. The vampiric rules adhered to in the books are not followed in the
movie. The vampires just do whatever is coolest. A certain vampire
can't fly? Why not? And why not give him a trail?

Once you have acknowledged all these things, you can watch the movie.
Have fun. This is not heavy stuff like Interview with the Vampire.
Watch Stuart Townsend dance around in a mesh shirt and tight pants, and
applaud when his shirt disappears, or, if you like it better, watch
Aaliyah gyrate in a scanty metal bra contraption. It's what these two
do best. 

Embrace its plot holes and stupid dialog (which lends itself to random
quoting), sing along to the entertaining rock songs. Try and figure out
what each of the ancients are named. Pride yourself if you can provide
any explanation for what happens at the end of the movie, because
"trimming to help the pace" leaves the ending fairly incomprehensible,
especially to those who have read the books.

Be sure to watch the extra features, the gag reel for laughs and the
deleted scenes if you want to know what happened in the movie. Also try
the various documentaries, which are entertaining when they throw in
weird special effects while people are speaking.

Perfect for a loud, popcorn-filled Friday night with the friends!

Prindora (Eibzesii)
<|_=00=_|>

Combining The Vampire Lestat and the Queen of the Damned novels into one
screenplay was, ahem, damned to suffer massive story cuts because of the
intricate and detailed background of a dozen or so characters involved.
The
amount of detail always was the strength of the Vampire Chronicles, in my
opinion, and they were certainly worth the read.

That said, the question remains, without the detail and extra characters,
can the basic story of Lestat's re-awakening of the Queen of all vampires
be
entertaining and sufficient enough to sustain itself?  While I can not
answer the question with a glowing appraisal, I will certainly admit that
it
did a decent job of combining all of the basic elements into a stand alone
movie.  The fact that this movie can stand on it's own without any ties to
the prequel, Interview with the Vampire, is one of it's assets.  You do
not
need any fore-knowledge of the characters, books, or prequel movie in
order
to watch this.

Even though it fits into it's own little package does not mean it was
packed
very well.  There were some plot holes, some of which could have been
filled
by simply restoring the "Ancients" scenes that were on the dvd.  I
understand, as the dvd points out, that they were left out because it
introduced another subplot and characters that would add unnecessary
confusion.  While I agree with their reasoning, I do think they should
have
somehow salvaged the scene so that while the introductions of the ancients
would have been left out, Maharet's few lines about Akasha's reign of
destruction and the vampire's responsibility should have remained.  They
would have added a needed sense of urgency and motivation that would have
made the final confrontation with Akasha and the ancients a bit more
reasonable and satisfying.

The character of Jessie is supposed to be the human link for the viewer to
empathize through as they are taken into the world of vampires.  In some
scenes, this works adequately, but on the whole, Jessie's motivations,
while
they are explained, seem kind of empty.  I am not sure if I can fault the
actress or script, but when the movie was over, I still felt ambivalent
about the character's experiences.

There were other elements that were not as fleshed out as they could be.
The paranormal Talamasca needed a bit more background about their vampire
tracking as did the character of Maharet and her family tree.  Like
Jessie,
they were given some explanation, but I think a couple more lines of
dialogue would have helped.

As I mentioned, the movie did a decent job of the basic story, but massive
changes were made from the source material.  Characters were dropped
completely, or merged together, and huge sections of character history
were
removed.  Most notably, Lestat's history is extremely compacted and
revised.
Nonetheless, there are some things that remained that I thought were done
pretty well.  The character of Lestat in this picture is rebellious and
reckless which is more true to the character than he was portrayed in
Interview.  Lestat's re-awakening and concert scenes were exactly like I
had
envisioned when I originally read the book.  The character of Akasha was
also as I pictured and a very good casting choice.

If you are a fan of the books, and you need the twins, Gabriel, Magnus,
and
crew, you are going to have difficulty sitting through this.  If, on the
other hand, you can set that aside and view this as a vampire movie of
it's
own, unrelated to the chronicles, you will probably enjoy this for the
stand-alone vampire flick that it is.

In summary, worth the rental.

<|_=00=_|>

This might have been a good movie it they hadn't of associated it with the
book.  Any reader of the Vampire Chronicles knows what I mean.  They
changed
so much of the story that they will be unable to make any of the other
books
into movies without changing them completely also or remaking this one.

They totally trivalized the debate between Akasha and her 'children'.

Marius (who did not make Lestat btw) in the chronicles is the great
reasoner
of the Vampires.  In the book he had a long argument for Akasha.  In the
movie all he says to her is "Akasha, please".  He was never jealous of
Lestat drinking from Akasha (he himself had many many times) and didn't
try
to hide Enkil and Akasha from Lestat.
They turned the Vampires from sad and beautiful creatures of the night who
only kill the evil-doer into blood hungry wanna-bes who eat whatever
mortal
wanders by.
Maharet's twin, Mekare, isn't even in the story.  Mekare crawling out of
the
jungles after thousands of years, insane and single minded, to fufill the
curse she spoke to Akasha in her court in ancient times was a major plot
point.
Anyway, my point is that a very well thought-out and seductive story was
turned into a joke of a movie.  Honestly, don't bother seeing the movie,
read the book.
<|_=00=_|>
This film was basically set up for failure by the studio. One, Anne
Rice (author of the book) offered to write the screen play but was
refused by the studio. Two, they tried to stuff 2 in depth novels in to
a 2hour movie.

I maintain the only way for these two books -Vampire Lestat and Queen
of the Damned- to work in a live action form would be through a
mini-series. First off the the Vampire Lestat alone takes place from
the 1700's to the 1980's and has a plethora of character vital to the
plot understanding of the main character, Lestat. The entire book
Vampire Lestat sets up the events of the second part Queen of the
Damned. Without that full understanding the premise of a movie is
destroyed.

Lestat was not cruel and vicious to all, he was not wanting to go along
with Akasha's plans, Marius did not make Lestat, Lestat did not love
Jesse or make her, Lestat could not go remain unscathed by the light,
Marius was not after David nor the other way around, every character
was completely represented wrong, BASICALLY same names different story.

If they wanted to make a vampire movie, fine. Even if you wanted to be
inspired by these novels, fine. But don't piggie back into the theaters
off the success of Rice's great novels and characters just to destroy
what her loyal readers have come to love.

If you haven't read the books you won't understand the film really, if
you have read the books you will be insulted. That being said, I am
such a huge fan I had to see the movie knowing full well this was going
to be the case and still went for it. Catch 22, must see it, will hate
it.
<|_=00=_|>
I should have known when I heard Anne Rice left the project that the
movie would disappoint me. I couldn't have predicted that years after
it's release just thinking about the movie still makes me angry. The
novels are amazing, and while I understand much gets lost in the
translation to screen, this movie was a great big middle finger to her
original work. I hope one day someone tries again, the right way,
starting with The Vampire Lestat. They change the roles and looks of
major and minor characters alike for no good reason. They destroy
Lestat's history. The acting of the Queen is exaggerated to the point
of comedy, but I just can't bring myself to laugh. The charm and allure
of the novels just isn't there. The movie is a bad excuse to cram as
many musicians and "dark" imagery as possible into one movie, hoping
the teeny Goths of America would lap it up. Part of the appeal of the
first movie, of Louis' story, is that he is caught between his humanity
and his curse. Lestat is supposed to take over and display the magic
and excitement of the vampire world. Thank goodness I read the books
first, or I'd have never touched them after this movie.
<|_=00=_|>

I've seen this movie countes times now and still can't get sick of it.  It's
like a frickin' drug.  I know a lot of people don't like it but there's
something about it that just draws me in.  Every single performance is
spectacular, but Aaliyah is the one who steals the show.  She not only
played the role of Akasha she became it.  Her body movement and beauty was
captured exceptionally well.  It's also nice to see that a black girl was
chosen for the role of an Egyptian Queen (No, I'm not predjudice against
white people, I am one).  True it's not known what color the ancient
Egyptians really were but this was a nice change.  Stuart Townsend
completely made me forget about Tom Cruise's portrayel of Lestat and
Marguerite was striking once again.  All in all it was a good time at the
movies.  For those who haven't seen it, be sure to watch it with an open
mind and not take it too seriously.  I mean, it's a movie about a vampire
who becomes a rock star.  Take it as that.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was horrendous, and is definitely not worth your time, nor
money. I must admit, this movie had potential, but in the end some
major factors made this movie rot.

First of all, aside from probably the names of the character, this
movie respected nothing of Anne Rice's enthralling book. Oh yes I
know,to those who haven't read the book it doesn't matter much. But you
see,it does because those who haven't read it are deprived of the depth
of the characters, and their powerful inter-relations with each other
and the whole 'human' aspect of the book. All of which made the book so
appealing. The whole point of the book! Some characters were excluded
from the movies, characters that carry import to the plot, such as
Mekare, Maharet's twin and the sorrowful Legend of the Twins, Armand,
Daniel, and Louis and Gabrielle, both Lestat's fledglings and lovers.
Akasha had a whole maddened plan to bring peace on Earth. You see,
Akasha isn't evil. She is simply single-minded and selfish, lost in her
own reasoning. So many characters had so much to offer. And the movie
failed to deliver that, which made the characters utterly
one-dimensional, and not ones the audience can relate to. It stripped
so much of the book, which saddens me, because believe me the book was
wonderful. I find some scenes were completely irrelevant, and that they
could have been replaced with some decent book-respecting ones. There
were a considerable amount of factual errors.

Second of all, the acting and faulty accents was enough to make me want
to cringe.

Also, the movie was too fast-paced. I know, I know, a movie cannot last
eight hours to fully capture the profoundness of a character or action,
but honestly! The whole Jesse/Lestat love affair could have blossomed
if only they had some decent dialog and a little more time! It was like
everything had to be hurried. A two-minute scene with Jesse and boom!
He has a soft spot for her. Give me a break. Make it believable at
least!

By the way, Lestat's singing was horrible. He sounded tone-deaf.

So I leave you with one advice: go to the library, loan the book and
read it. Well I would advice you to start from the first tome
("Interview with the Vampire"). It is such a worthwhile experience to
discover Anne Rice's awing piece of literature.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie was a good book turned into a brain dead vampire movie aimed at
teenagers. First of all it's based on half the story (the book before it
in
the series "The Vampire Lestat" ended with the beginning of "Queen of the
Damned") They left out main characters, omitted the histories, and even
changed how Lestat became a vampire, what was left out of "Interview With
The Vampire" felt like they just needed to fit into some time constraints,
what they did with "Queen of the Damned" was a hack and slash job. Even
taking it separately from the book, it was at best mediocre. The
characters
were two dimensional, and bland, and the plot was boring and unconnected.
This movie's only redeeming qualities were the mood the lighting and the
sets added, and the costumes, which both were wonderful, but besides that,
read the book instead.
<|_=00=_|>
The soundtrack for this movie, made by Korn's Jonathan Davis, is
fantastic! But that's all that's good about this film. From a purely
film point of view there are a bunch of under-developed characters,
plot holes, and it just doesn't make a whole lot of sense. It's not
really surprising, since the director (Michael Rymer) has done nothing
but 'B' movies, as have the two writers (Scott Abbott and Michael
Petroni). I'm truly surprised that Anne Rice supposedly liked this
film. If the screenplay had followed the book in any real way, the film
would have been EPIC. No matter what the producers say on the official
website, it could have been done right, as with The Vampire Lestat, if
they had found the right writers and had actually wanted to work at it.
But they were more interested in making a money maker, and so ended up
with a movie on the threshold of 'B' movie, with a story that makes no
sense, and actors that are only so-so. And some may say that the
effects are cool, but I say they could have been a hell of a lot
better. Especially given the fact that the film was made in 2002.

Now here are my biggest pet peeves about the movie: 

1. MAHARET IS A TWIN! In the book she has an identical twin sister,
Mekare, and they can both see and speak to ghosts. This is a very
important fact as to how Akasha is made into a vampire. The Story of
the Twins in the book would have translated fantastically into the
movie. They are also very important as to how Akasha is killed. Both of
them kill her, not just Maharet. And Maharet does not turn into a
statue afterwards. She just goes on living.

2. AKASHA IS NOT African! Don't get me wrong, Aaliyah was very
beautiful, was a good singer, and may have become a wonderful actress,
but Anne Rice's Akasha was not African. Despite what the producers on
the official site say is historical accuracy, it is not. Akasha was a
princess from the historic city-state of Uruk, located in what is now
Iraq. THIS is historical fact. Akasha would have looked Middle-eastern.
Her husband, Enkil (who was sadly under-represented in the movie
compared to the book), may have been African, since he himself was from
Kemet (very ancient Egypt before it was known as Egypt). But Akasha was
not. And I don't understand how in the movie Akasha and Maharet knew
each other in the movie, since it is never explained. In the book, they
meet in the ancient times, when they are both mortal, along with
Maharet's twin sister, Mekare, Enkil, and Khayman, who was Enkil's
steward. (Khayman was another destroyed character in the movie. He is
also an important part to the creation of vampires.) 

3. MARIUS DID NOT CREATE LESTAT! It was a vampire called Magnus, who
kidnapped Lestat when he was a young man living in Paris. (This is in
The Vampire Lestat.) Magnus then burns himself to death after creating
Lestat, leaving Lestat on his own, with no idea what is going on.
(Which is why Lestat says what he does in the movie version of
Interview with the Vampire.) Marius does play an important role in
Lestat's life, and IS the keeper of Akasha and Enkil, but he is not
Lestat's maker.

4. JESSE IS NOT A 'COOL, HIP' TWENTY-SOMETHING THAT IS MADE INTO A
VAMPIRE BY LESTAT! Yes, she is made into a vampire, but by a vampire
called Mael, who lives with Maharet. Yes, she is a member of the
Talamasca, because she can see ghosts like Maharet, but she is in her
thirties, not twenties. Also, she is a direct descendant of Maharet and
Khayman through about thirty generations. Confused? Well, in the movie,
Maharet mentions something about the Great Family. Some may have
interpreted that to mean the whole human family. Not so. In the book,
the Great Family are the descendants of a child that Maharet had right
before becoming a vampire, whose father was Khayman. Maharet protects
ALL of them, which is why Jesse ends up with her at times when she is a
child. Another cool fact about Jesse from the book: She goes to New
Orleans and sees the ghost of Claudia from Interview with the Vampire.

5. AKASHA DOES NOT GO AROUND JUST KILLING ALL KINDS OF HUMANS. Yes, she
does kill a lot of people, (and just about every vampire), but the
humans she kills are MEN. And she doesn't kill them just for their
blood. In the book, Akasha, while sitting on her throne like a statue,
has come to believe that she is some type of goddess, and wants to rid
the world of vampires (who can try to destroy her again as they tried
to in the vampire wars of the ancient world), and of men, so that she
can rule a peaceful society of women. She believes that all of the
worlds problems will be solved that way. She takes Lestat to be her
lover, and together they rid a couple of islands of all but a few men
(for breeding purposes).

I have a bunch more pet peeves, but I'm running out of room. All in
all, if you like the movie, fine. But do not assume that the movie is
based on the book in anyway other than title, and the characters names.
The actual book by Anne Rice is sooooo much better, and I highly
recommend anyone who has seen the movie to read the book. With the book
you will NOT be disappointed. (And for those who may have tried to read
Interview with the Vampire after seeing the movie, and found it
tedious, all the other Vampire Chronicles are a lot more entertaining.
They don't read like Interview with the Vampire. Give them a try!)
<|_=00=_|>
I'm notorious among my loved ones for my love of movies that most
people wouldn't like. I'm blessed with a gift to appreciate them, I
guess. And I'm also blessed with the ability to take movies as totally
separate from their book counterparts. Die hard Ann Rice fans might not
like this movie because it slams two books (The Vampire Lestat and The
Queen of the Damned) into one to make a relatively short film. So,
obviously, a lot of the story was changed or left out. Which makes it
understandable why some were upset. I mean, come on, Interview With the
Vampire was over two hours long, and it was the movie version of just
one book.

However, taken as it's own story, the movie is actually very good.
Well, in my opinion. Stuart Townsend's portrayal of Lestat is
wonderful. And it doesn't hurt that he takes off his shirt quite a bit
(he has a really nice, defined, if lean, body) and wears leather pants
quite a bit. He also has the rock star quality that is often missing
when most actors play musicians. You can see how into the music he is.
He also is able to project Lestat's arrogance and loneliness very well.

Vincent Perez, who plays Marius, also does a wonderful job. Though
quite popular in Europe, he is sadly under-appreciated in the U.S. I
can't honestly say that his portrayal was dead on (so to speak) because
I haven't read any of the books the character appears in, but I thought
he was quite good. (Another one that is good-looking, ladies.)

Akasha, unfortunately, displays very few emotions, so Aaliyah didn't
get a chance to really showcase her acting talents in her final
performance, but she did play the evil vampire convincingly. Since she
was said to be quite pleasant in real life, I'd say her performance was
excellent.

Most of the remaining cast were also enjoyable, if not impressive in
their performances.

There are also interesting special effects.

I loved this movie.

If nothing else, you should at least check out the soundtrack. The
songs are well penned and preformed by a number of talented musicians.
My advice? At least give this movie a chance. Despite the bad reviews,
you may find yourself pleasantly surprised.
