

It's been done before in "Friday", and  "Up in Smoke." There's no great plot
line. There's no moral plea. There's no character development, cool
graphics, intense cinematography or internal conflict. And yet.

 This movie defies all the rules of story writing and film making. The
absolute preposterousness of the storyline alone is intellectually
offensive. And yet.

It was hilarious. From beginning to end, I laughed.

 Warning: This is what my mother would call "ignorant humor". The things
that in the opinion of the majority degrade and offend, but for some reason
are funny.

 Rappers Method Man (Wu Tang Clan) and Redman play two "potheads" (for lack
of a better term) who through the use of a magical herb attain brilliance
and gain acceptance to Harvard University. There is a scene that spoofs the
old Reese's Peanut Butter Cup commercial where Method's character Silas sits
in his car with a bag of contraband and no blunt. In the next car Redman's
character Jamal sits in his car with blunt and no contraband. And thus a
friendship is born. The two Ivy Leaguers wreak havoc along the Eastern
Seaboard Cheech and Chong style.

 You can tell by watching his MTV Cribs special that he has a funny bone.
But who knew Redman was a bonafide comedian. Method Man was more or less the
straight man but the rest of the ensemble cast provided enough laughs to
split your sides.
 Especially notable was Mike Epps who portrayed Babypowder the Pimp. Can you
imagine a pimp at Harvard? The alumni will no doubt write many letters.

 Parents: The subject matter of this film is questionable. This film may not
be suitable for children. Unless you smoked a lot of "grass" back in the
70's. Then you can't trip because  you'll be hypocrite if you do.

 There's more marijuana in this film than "Friday" and "Next Friday" put
together. If that's a turn on for you then by all means see the film.

 If it's a turn off for you go see it anyway. The Harvard Pimp is worth it.

Don't tell my mother I laughed.


<|_=00=_|>
Firstly I want to say: I have to comment this film as reaction to
negative commentaries. I found that people who have written attacking
commentary must have a bad experience with drugs (I mean light, I count
alcohol in this group), or are hypocritical and never taste it. Most
people are enjoying talking (and writing) about things that they don't
know and that they don't understand. I vote 9 because it is great
comedy even I know that most people will not understand 90 percent of
jokes. But every voting is subjective, isn't it? So for people who did
not see this film ever and maybe they will: don't expect anything,
because expectation will make deformation of your feelings and
understanding. And If you are apriori of anti-drugs intence: do not see
it rather. It is very easy to give it bad evaluation but it is very
difficult to make good comedy. Keep it in mind and vote if you like it.
And if you liked it, watch it again: you will find another jokes.
<|_=00=_|>

Being a proud fan of lowbrow humor and a fan of Method Man and Redman, "How
High" seemed like a no-brainer comedy, and I was right! This movie can only
do harm to people who get offended easily at racial stereotypes, pot smoking
and more pot smoking. The movie pokes fun at everyone; class and race. One
glance at How High would make you think they're trying to make another
"Animal House". Well, I think it's up there. It's got everything except the
fraternities. From childish pranks to goofy humor, Meth and Red carry the
movie to its predictable conclusion. Many people will write this off as
another "Black comedy", but it really is a comedy for everyone. It just
"happens" to star two charismatic rap artists. Director Jesse Dylan (yes,
Bob's son) knows how to set up a joke and pull the punchline. This film is
far funnier than the last two "Friday" films combined (Yes, let's just
compare it to other pothead comedies).  The supporting cast is terrific as
well, including the clueless Fred Willard and uptight Obba Babatunde. The
only downside is Mike Epps' pimp character, done much better by Eddie
Griffin in "Deuce Bigalow." 

The bottom line: Rent it, have a few beers and some good laughs without
taking it too seriously.
<|_=00=_|>
I understand the fact that everyone has got their own taste when it
comes to a movie genre and therefore some might feel that a "comedy" is
based on a particular set of principles, essentially going into humour.
But there are different ways in which many people perceive humour, some
believe it's all about the jokes, some enjoy the swearing involved and
others might love the typical Woody Allen script.

This movie isn't set to achieve an Oscar or any kind of prestigious
award. I am pretty sure that that was the last thing that came through
the writer's and director's minds. The only thing they intended to do
was to make a film that could be enjoyed by the audience that loves the
stereo-typing comedy films, which to be honest is growing faster and
faster. And they nailed it.

The story is hilarious, the acting, well method and redman are
hilarious at what they do best, which is fool around. Don't expect any
intelligent sophisticated humour or satire. I'm not implying that the
movie is full of dumb humour, on the contrary, its loaded with
brilliant funny situations and loads of jokes. If you liked soul plane,
then you're going to love this one.

So don't vote negatively just because it wasn't your cup of tea and try
to understand that there's a different generation out there that really
appreciates a good fun entertaining movie to watch as they also
appreciate the other styles of "comedy".
<|_=00=_|>
For everyone who doesn't like movies about weed,stop reading this is
not your movie. Some non pod smokers will think the movie is OK. But
this is the 'CULT' movie of smoking weed. From the 1st scene till the
last scene,this movie does not stop. There are none not funny scenes to
built up the story. You could see is as one funny sketch after the
other. The story basically is a guy Silas, who grows weed,and one day
his friend dies. He puts his ash in his next plant,that he names after
him(The Ivory,still want to smoke that one day). He meets another pod
head at THC's(test for higher learning) and with the help of Ivory they
get the highest score. And they choose the Ivy League atmosphere of
Harvard. They turn Harvard up side down. You have to smoke one before
you watch this movie,it's still funny if you don't,but its meant to be
seen stoned!!!! I've seen this movie about 20 times,and I'm from the
country where the realest smokers be(Holland) and we all dig this
movie,you HEARD,this is the smokers bible!!!! What are you doing get
some grass and watch this movie!!!
<|_=00=_|>
5.2??? I saw this film was rated 5.2 so I went to watch it expecting a
pretty poor film...

I WAS VERY WRONG! This film is hilarious!!Method man and Redman
(suprisingly) made me laugh so much and soooo often!! Especially in the
"get him" scene! It may a good movie but its definitely aimed at all
you hip-hop/comedy lovers.

Essence Atkins looks HOOOT too!!!

GOOD MOVIE-great fun for all those wanting a movie...lacking a great
story line but filled with loads of laughs.

8/10 is a very fair score-give the movie a try. you'll like it
<|_=00=_|>

How High is just what Amercia needed in this year, a funny flick that
doesn't take itself seriously. The plot is good and the acting by Method
Man
whose always good is great. Redman and Mike Epps both steal every scene
their in as does I Need Money. My only problem with the film was the lack
of
nudity. But I still give it a 5/5.
<|_=00=_|>

Jesse Dylan's (yes son of Bob Dylan if that's and indication) How High is a
concoction of weed, more weed, college and sheer belly laughs.  There is
something about marijuana used in comedies that makes the comedy better,
though it depends on if the jokes are delivered right and with the right
zing.  Cheech and Chong had that to a T and comedies like Half Baked and
Friday got pretty close to that tradition, as does this movie which is
surprising since this is Method Man and Redman's first comedy together and
is co-produced by Danny DeVito.

Method Man here is a mass weed grower who grinds the ashes of his departed
friend into his plant which helps him and his new friend played by Redman,
score high on exams that get them excepted into Harvard university.  This
kicks off the usual lot of characters you would expect in a college comedy-
the losers, the jock, the overly harsh teachers and dean, the nice girl the
lead gets and other girls.  

From the looks of that plotline it looks pretty standard and it is if you
take the film as seriously as you would Up In Smoke and Animal House, but
the film's big kick comes from the charm (did I just say that?) and humor
from the two stars, the gags they encounter and the supporting characters
input as well.  In other words, if you mind the grass, this isn't for you,
but for people who are fans of the stars or just want a high comedy time,
this is for you.  Hector Elizondo, Jeffrey Jones have small parts; Cypress
Hill appears unbilled.  A-
<|_=00=_|>

I seen this movie this weekend and I about died laughing! Method Man and
Redman are histarical together. Half-Baked doesn't even compare to this
movie...Actually I can't think of any movie that can!  I suggest this movie
to anyone looking for a good laugh! 
<|_=00=_|>
How High knows it is simply a vanity project to give a couple rappers a
day job and an IMDb credit. The two being: Method Man as Silas: A smart
cookie and renowned local weed-chemist who would rather be developing
new strains of powerful weed than furthering his education.

Redman as Jamal: A street smart but not very book smart young guy who
wants to get into college only because his Mum demands it.

When the ghost of Silas's deceased friend helps them ace the entrance
exam with perfect scores – yep it's that easy folks – they decide
Harvard is the place for their further education.

Both guys nab hotties in quicktime, Meth the cute egghead and Red the
crazy skank from esteemed parentage.

The usual "cool but frankly inappropriate guys getting up to stuff
while the squares gasp" ensues.

Fred Willard is the oblivious old white guy in a senior role who thinks
these two guys are just super. Hector Elizondo is the old white guy in
a senior role who suddenly thinks he is black and ends up acting
thusly, and the film ends with a formal gathering in which the boys get
everyone stoned and the staid old white people getting fonkay in
impromptu fashion. (If you're a stoner and fret that this will ruin
your enjoyment thanks to the spoiler don't worry, you'll forget in just
a minute anyway.) In between are various parties, pranks, white people
not understanding and such. In answer to the obvious question of How
High? The two guys are perpetually stoned and therefore very high, the
movie unfortunately never scales any such heights.

Final Rating – 5 / 10. About what you think it will be. A couple of
charismatic guys spouting slang and cracking wise at those in the
"establishment" (Damn You Establishment!).

The moral of the story here is that stoner comedies are made for
stoners. In 20 years of watching films I can recall only one that made
me laugh, Harold and Kumar go to White Castle… and even that wasn't
great.

But who am I to hate: Toke on mediocre film makers!
