

I just watched this movie for the first time and decided to check out what
others thought.  I was SOMEWHAT surprised by the 5.3 user rating (what it is
at the time I'm writing this), but I was even more surprised by the number
of awful reviews people have written for it!  Seriously, at least half of
them on here are ones saying it is "the worst movie" or some nonsense like
that.  That is highly untrue.  Granted, as with almost every other romantic
comedy bar a select few, the plot of this movie isn't the most original ever
written.  However, this movie is quite fun and entertaining.  It was silly
and cute, and made me laugh a lot.  The acting is all pretty decent, and
Jason Lee does an excellent job in his role.  I'm not saying this is the
best movie ever invented, but it was definitely a fun, cute, funny and
entertaining movie that I would recommend to anyone in need of an hour and
forty minutes of entertainment.  The only thing I hate about the plot (and
other movies like this) is that the innocent fiance gets mildly screwed
over.  I hate when that happens in movies.  Poor girl.  Haha, anyway, rent
this movie for a laugh and a fun time.  Enjoy!  6.5/10, 7/10
maybe
<|_=00=_|>
There were times when this movie was absolutely hilarious. Even if most
of the funniest lines and situations involved toilets, STDs, or
pornography. I don't recommend this for kids.

Paul didn't remind me of Earl Hickey that much of the time, but
sometimes his manner of speaking was similar. Paul wasn't that great a
character, but he was likable enough.

I didn't care for Karen. She wasn't pretty and had an abrasive
personality, and then there was that annoying fake smile. Though on the
right woman, her haircut could have been cute.

Becky, on the other hand, was absolutely adorable. Good-looking with a
sweet personality, even if she could get riled when she had to. In the
first scene where she showed she had a brain, she was justified in not
being the cute chick. I knew what I wanted to happen.

There were plenty of good acting performances, considering the
material. And while the writing wasn't on an Oscar level, that's not
necessary here. It just needed to be funny, which it often was.

I had a bad day--in fact, a bad week--prior to the night this movie
aired. But the movie made me feel good, at least while I was watching
it. That's the most important thing I can say.
<|_=00=_|>
Typical chick flick that should be enjoyed only by teens. There is not
much to comment about this effort that could easily pass as a b-movie
effort.

The plot tries to be different from some other efforts of it's time but
to be honest I didn't think it was a genre definer or a movie that
should be kept in order to show it to anyone else!.

The acting by Julia Stiles is wooden but it helps that she's pretty.
Selma Blair is sexy as always but her character didn't help that much.
Jason Lee always works for these kind of movies but the plot didn't
help him either.

So there you go, this is a mildly-entertaining, not clever or witty,
but "ok-time killer" for those who enjoy regular almost mediocre
romantic comedies.

Watch it only if it airs on cable. I did that! I didn't spend a single
dollar on it and I'm proud about it.
<|_=00=_|>

Paul Coleman is a week away from marrying Karen when he wakes up next to a
dancer he met at his stag do.  He quickly ushers her out of the flat and
hopes never to see her again.  Sadly it is a matter of hours before he is
introduced to her again as Karen's cousin Becky.  Paul tries to make it to
his wedding day without Karen finding out – an aim that is made more
difficult by Becky's crazy ex-boyfriend, overzealous police and the complex
web of lies Paul spins to cover himself.

On paper this film sounds awful and indeed almost every second of it is
teetering on the edge of being an awful romantic comedy that goes just where
you expect it to.  The plot is simply daft – one contrived set piece after
another that is increasingly stretched as the film goes on.  It ends in just
the way you know it will (despite how much I hoped it wouldn't or failed to
see how it could) and it will infuriate many in regards just how silly it
is.

However it is funny enough to cover the cracks.  Much of the humour is
instantly recognisable and made up of well known routines (Paul climbing out
of the bathroom window) or physical comedy (some pratfalls along the way). 
Happily there is plenty of slightly off the wall humour that, although not
new, is quite good.  An example would be the `fantasy sequences' but my
favourite bit is Paul sweet memories of a male dance teacher.  The whole
thing is very silly and you should prepare yourself for that, but it does
just about have enough silly laughs to keep it going.

For me the number one reason I enjoyed this film was the performance of
Jason Lee.  At no point does he suggest that this is a serious film, in fact
many times a silly scene was saved by the `what the f is going on' look on
his face – a hint to us that he is in the film and he can't believe what's
happening, so the audience should go with him.  For the rest of the time he
lends himself really easily to the type of humour and is able to raise the
material a bit.  He is a good lead here and keeps bits of his `Brody' from
Mallrats to good effect.  Stiles is awful in my opinion.  She doesn't really
act and seems to be trying too hard to do `kooky' – it doesn't work.  She
has so little screentime that I found it very hard to accept that Paul would
get anything from her.  Blair has a thankless role and she doesn't quite
carry it off – like Stiles I felt that she was trying too hard and almost
came across as a caricature.  Maybe they were both led by Lee's knowing
performance and responded in a bad way.  Larry Miller is quite funny (but
predictable) as the minister next door and Brolin is a surprising find as
the father in law.

Overall this is a very silly film, based on one daft scene after another
that leads to a predictable ending that simply doesn't make sense even using
the logic of this type of film.  However it is funny and a great performance
by Jason Lee makes it more enjoyable than it probably should
be.
<|_=00=_|>
I happened to watch this movie by chance some days ago while flipping
channels. My expectations were not very high but it was an interesting
movie.In 'A Guy Thing', Jason Lee plays Paul, a straight-laced,
Seattle-based fellow who is about to marry his fiancée Karen (Selma
Blair) and settle down to an unchallenging life of middle-class
domesticity. We first meet Paul at his bachelor party, where he
professes no desire to engage in any of the normal bachelor party type
activities his (surprisingly few) buddies encourage, in case he's a bit
naughty and gets into hot bother with his soon to be trouble and
strife. Of course, the next thing Paul knows, it's the morning after
the night before, he's in bed with a naked hula dancer, and his
mother-in-law phones to inform him that Karen is on her way over. Oh,
and the hula dancer is Karen's cousin Becky (Julia Stiles).

From this small acorn of potential trouble grows a mighty oak of
frenetic misfortune, as Paul scrabbles from misadventure to
misadventure, trying to cover up what he's done whilst keeping up the
appearance of being a dutiful, family-oriented good guy, who's
super-excited about his forthcoming nuptials. His efforts to ensure
Karen remains none the wiser about any potential wrong-doing on his
part ironically forces Paul closer and closer to the fun-loving Becky,
forcing him to question whether he really wants the life that seems to
have been mapped out for him. The movie contains the right mix of
comedy and romance. Definitely worth a watch.
<|_=00=_|>
I somewhat enjoy this film. Though the story is very unoriginal and
what you called very predictable movie. Maybe because of its lightness
and charming cast that actually saves this movie.

Anyway, there's nothing that you didn't know about the movie or how it
is going to end since it is a typical romantic movie but overall this
movie can actually make you watch it to the end with its cast of
charming Julia Stiles and Selma Blair.

Overall this is just another feel good movie that actually make you
feel good, as least for the first viewing and that will disappear from
your head the coming week.

Rating: 5/10 (Grade: C-)
<|_=00=_|>
Maybe this is every man's dream? To have a one night drunken fling with
your fiancé's cousin? Or so you think. Turns out, it becomes a headache
to keep it concealed for long.

Enter panties left at the scene of the crime and everything just
snowballs. From enraged police officers to wearing a wire for the FBI
to bust such an officer, the movie takes one problem and turns it into
multiple ones for the main character.

Like many 90s films of this genre, however, this one also has a happy
ending. Sort of. But this one is unique that it has two love triangles
in one. But I guess I am happy everybody else was happy.

Overall, the laughs were fairly good. So if you have a little time to
kill, this will do the trick. "C+"
<|_=00=_|>
A much as I like Jason Lee,this is a brain-dead, incredibly derivative
date movie that has been done dozens of times before. I really wonder
who goes to see these things. Lee plays his usual hapless schmo who
wakes up to find a naked blonde (Stiles) in his bed on the morning
after his bachelor party. His fiancée (Blair) is on the way over to his
apartment at that very moment, f course. I suspect you do not need to
have me say anything more about the plot. The moment we see Stiles and
Blair, we know where this is going. The lowest of low points in this
bogus comedy is when Lee tries to explain away Stiles' panties, which
Blair finds in his toilet tank. As he haltingly tells her that he
bought them for her, she buys his explanation, and at that point, I
wanted to crawl under my couch and die. The wedding finale is similarly
cringe-inducing. Blair, a decent-enough actress, is such a pretty young
thing to be wasted in such dreck. But then again, it's a paycheck. This
is assembly-line movie-making that Hollywood should have given up
making long ago. It's not even up to modern TV sitcom standards. I
suspect the script was throw together by a roomful of monkeys taking
turns typing on an old typewriter.
<|_=00=_|>
With a decent cast, there should be something in this movie, but no, it
fails to make the most of almost every situation. the jokes are few and
far between, and most of the time you ask yourself - I should be
laughing at this, but I am not. A remake of 'There's Something About
Mary' is what is being attempted in tenor and style, but it just keeps
failing. Jason Lee from TV can forget the big screen (it has certainly
not let him back again since this was made!), while Julia Stiles and
Selma Blair are going through the motions well enough as repeats of
their characters from 'Ten Things..' and 'Legally Blonde.' But where
was the snap and dazzle to make the most of the situation and
characters - I mean how do you make mediocre when a groom wakes up with
a strange girl in his bed after his bachelor party? probably most of it
lies with Jason Lee, who is not Jack Lemmon or Michael J Fox, who fails
to do anything with the farcical proceedings on screen. OTT comedy at
times mixed with RomCom and it falls between both stools. Dire at
times, but it drifts along!!!
<|_=00=_|>
A young man named Paul (Jason Lee) is on the verge of marriage. At his
bachelor party he meets a dancing "tiki girl" named Becky (Julia
Stiles) as part of the hooting and hollering bedlam. Romantic
complications ensue.

Set in Seattle, the film does have a few things going for it. Both
Jason Lee and Julia Stiles give nice performances. Both the film
editing and the color cinematography are professionally well done.
There are some funny lines of dialogue. And I liked the sequence that
has a band playing "Born Free"; what's amusing here is that the song is
so humorously out of place.

But the film's concept is not exactly original; and the ending is
predictable. The plot moves along rather weakly, owing to contrived
coincidences and to Paul's far-fetched lies. Most of the characters are
highly animated, but also stereotyped. The Jim character, for example,
is your typical college-aged frat rat; he mutters dialogue that is
mostly banal, like: "Paul, listen to me ... we're men; we're hunters;
it's encrypted in our DNA code; you gotta accept that, buddy".

Despite a weak script, "A Guy Thing" is not bad, especially if you want
a movie that does not require heavy-duty thinking. The story lacks both
subtlety and thematic depth; what you see and hear is what you get. But
that's not unusual for a romantic comedy. As such, the film could be
summarized as mildly entertaining cinematic fluff.
