
This is one weird rating from all the fine subscribers to IMDb. For the
first time in, my albeit limited experience, the previously flawless
rating system has, in my opinion, got it way wrong.

This movie is almost superb. Kind of LOTR meets Star Wars, with more
humour (intentional British spelling by the way).

The direction, special effects, plot, music, screenplay, cast
performance, and entertainment value are all truly fabulous! I suspect
that those who went to see it had decided beforehand that it would be
rubbish in the way of a self-fulfilling prophecy. That does sound a bit
smug, but this film is way, way better than 6.1! It will be something
of a travesty if Riddick and Pitch Black before it, are not built on
with the other, previously planned, releases.

If you haven't seen it, please do so - enter uncommitted and leave
smiling knowing that you spent a good $ or £ or whatever! Don H.
<|_=00=_|>
I thought this movie was riveting. It did start a little slow, but soon
thereafter caught my full attention. I had to change mental gears from
expecting a Pitch Black sequel/clone, but not in a bad way at all. And
there ARE tie-ins with Pitch Black plainly evident unless you aren't
particularly observant or haven't seen Pitch Black. I thought the
special effects were some of the best I have seen in a very long time,
and after I began to become adjusted to the more involved background
story, I found it engrossing. I felt that the characters had some depth
to them. Enough for me to care a little about a few of them anyway, and
Riddick became a little less of a cardboard cut-out, and a little more
intricate in this movie. Some of the action sequences are also pretty
impressive. I find it quite disappointing that this did not do better
in theaters, and intend my rental to become a purchase. I hope that
they continue the series with the next one? or two? movies that have
been rumored to be following. 

Those who found the movie itself disappointing, I would guess would be:
1) Hardcore sci-fi, or action movie fans who spent way too much time
making mental comparisons to their favorite storyline/universe, or
acting star during a movie to actually just enjoy the movie. 2) People
who just wanted straight up action without all of the intricate details
of a sci-fi storyline. 3) People expecting a sequel to Pitch black that
didn't grow or expand on the storyline or character, who couldn't
switch gears.

I took this film as THIS film, and thoroughly enjoyed it. I did not
spend the entire movie making mental comparisons to other sci-fi or
action movies or stars. Yes some of it's ideas have been used before.
So what? Plumbing was an idea used by the ancient Greek and roman
civilizations. Should we not use plumbing, because someone else used it
before? If you spend all of the time during the movie making
comparisons, then you might not give the movie the full attention it
deserves.

For any who enjoy a good sci-fi action movie with a little thought
behind it, and don't have some holy grail to compare it with, I would
highly recommend this one.
<|_=00=_|>
I would also like to comment on the fact that TCOR received bad
reviews. Personally, I think that Vin Diesel should continue making the
movies from the other screenplays that have already been written. The
plot in these films (TCOR and Pitch Black) is actually quite original.
From an action standpoint, the films do not lack anything. Riddick is
the bad ass anti-hero that we would all like to be sometimes and they
couldn't have cast the parts any better. There are some similarities
between the Necros in TCOR and the Borg in the latter Star Trek movies,
but who cares? David Twohy put a great spin on the Necro collective and
I am eagerly awaiting another sequel. Anyone who likes Scifi and enjoys
fantastic visuals will love this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I only saw the directors cut, but apparently that makes all the
difference, and so i think the 6.1 rating may not be representative. I
never felt like i was lost or something could be better explained. 

I was surprised at the depth of the story line, almost inspiring me to
go read the books (except I don't have the time :) Sure, some of the
one-liners were corny, but Vin Diesels usually similar style actually
fits the role of Riddick quite well.

One caveat, I went in with low expectations which may have boosted my
overall impression. And while there are a few references to Pitch
Black, I wouldn't call it required viewing to see this movie. They
carried over a few relationships but at least gave a bit of background.
<|_=00=_|>
I am not sure why this movie caught to much bad press. It is a very
very solid sci-fi/action movie. Its completely different from the first
one but in a good way. Pitch Black was sci-fi/horror not action. The
action sequences in this are amazing as well as the fight sequences.
Vin Diesel was born to play this character like Arnold to the
Terminator. The special effects, fights and action make this movie a
balls to the wall fun flick. If you have not seen it because of all the
nay sayers, I say hogwash, wow never thought i would use hogwash in a
sentence. I've seen this one three times now with different people and
everyone who sees it ends up really liking it and asking themselves why
they haven't seen it before this. Check this one out for certain.
<|_=00=_|>
This film has gotten terrible reviews, and I feel as if its bad press
is undeserving. It's a good film, and it frustrates me that people hate
this movie. So what if it doesn't have a good, original plot? What
movie does have a good original plot? Look at Crouching Tiger, Hidden
Dragon. That movie didn't have an original plot, but yet people praised
that movie to high heaven.

Why do people insult the Chronicles of Riddick for its plot? Sure, it
doesn't have the best plot in the world, but it's half decent. Besides,
the Chronicles of Riddick is an action film. What kind of moron goes
into an action movie, like the Chronicles of Riddick, expecting an
Oscar winning performance? When I go into a movie, I don't care whether
the plot is good! I watch a movie to be entertained! Why bother
comparing the Chronicles of Riddick to the Manchurian Candidate (Or
what have you)? Would you go into a movie for kids and say the movie is
crap because the story is cliché? Of course not. So then, why are
people dissing the Chronicles of Riddick for its story? Kids movies and
action movies don't require plot for them to be entertaining. Drama
films, mystery films and romance films all require plot, sure, but why
expect an amazing drama out of a film when the trailers clearly show
that the movie is going to be a sci fi film? That doesn't make any
sense! This movie isn't the best of all time. Far from it. With that
said, it is a good sci fi film, and one that is very enjoyable. Don't
let the critics fool you. The Chronicles of Riddick is an enjoyable
film, that I recommend.
<|_=00=_|>
WOW! What a surprise! A very well thought-out plot, excellent character
development, immersive sets, and special effects that melt into the
fabric of the movie so well, they all but disappear. I was not
expecting to be absolutely glued to the screen when I first sat down to
watch this movie, but I was. It pulls you in like a roller coaster
ride, and doesn't let you off, until the ride is over. A performance
from Vin Disel, that is arguably his best ever, not to mention he was
also a producer of this movie. My compliments to your ability to
recognize a good story, and to bring it to such life.

This one is on my library list. My only regret was that I did not see
it in a theatre. I hesitate to call this art, but it has been a long
time since a movie has entertained me so much.
<|_=00=_|>
Just had fun watching TCOR and am pretty happy about it. Good action,
great visual stuff. A worthy successor to Pitch Black, though the two
films are hardly related. Vin Diesel does a good and convincing job at
playing an action antihero. As usual, Judy Dench adds to the film, even
though her role is small here. The story is pure pulp SF and is short
and predictable but is refreshingly dark and (mostly) unsentimental. It
actually also has some interesting bits and nice side stories as a
(smallish) bonus. Bits and pieces have been copied from Dune, without
the film being a Dune copy. Compared to Dune, TCOR has more action and
fewer Lynch oddities & boring bits. In my book, both films are good,
about equally so.

Reading some of the other reviews, it seems that people are fairly
polarized in their opinions of this film. Like most pulp science
fiction, it takes a different sort of suspension of belief from that
which makes usual films work. However, the action makes it a fair bit
easier, and I found it a lot more engrossing and convincing than any of
the five (ridiculous but entertaining) Star Wars films, the uniformly
unwatchable Star Trek stuff, or, for that matter, most blockbusting
light entertainments. But that is just me. If you hate Dune,
exaggerated action scenes, or (minor) plot inconsistencies, then you
probably won't like this film. Otherwise, chances are good that you
will.
<|_=00=_|>

I just saw this film and I really enjoyed it. Sure, it is not the same
a "Pitch Black" which I think was also a good film in its own right.
"Chronicles of Riddick" is a big budget summer blockbuster film and on
that level it succeeds. Sure it is silly in parts but we are not
discussing a project based upon a Pulitzer Prize winning novel. It is
action packed science fiction. I think Riddick DID stay true to the
character he played in "Pitch Black". While the Riddick in that film
was a brutal, self-centered opportunist, I think we see by the end of
that film that he had good characteristics as well. The Riddick in this
film is still brutal, self-centered and opportunistic (see the full
size statue of Riddick shown during the end credits) but we see more of
the decent aspects of his character as well. The action scenes in this
film were great! I especially enjoyed the "topside" chase scene on
Cremetoria. And Thandie Newton was a really good "baddie"!

The thing that pleased me the most was that there were people of color
in central key roles who were not stereotypes. The main hero was not
the buff blue-eyed white man out to save humanity that we have been
feed by Hollywood. And the female characters seemed to have more sense
at times than the male characters. Thandie Newton's character had a
much better grasp of court politics than her husband and Dame Judith's
character wasn't just the stereotypical "wise mystical being", she was
politically savvy as well.

The only problem I had with the film was the lack of development for
Linus Roche's character. I just did not believe his actions toward the
end of the film. But, that is trivial.

All in all, it was a good way to spend about an hour forty five on a
Saturday evening!

<|_=00=_|>
It was very refreshing to watch a science fiction movie with a great
story and fantastic acting. I enjoyed Vin Diesel's performance as
Riddick. He made the movie with his one-liners. Casting was very good.
Special effects were incredible. I would give it 9 out of 10 stars. I
hope there is a sequel to follow this movie. There appeared to be a
time span between Pitch Black and Chronicles of Riddick but they
bridged the gap quite well. A prequel to Pitch Black would help to
establish who Riddick is and where he came from. This movie definitely
took me to a place few science fiction movies do now days. I predict
that Riddick will be entertaining us with more movies in the future.
