

Hayes is a suave, distinguished spy with the CIA who is part of a set up
to
buy a stolen nuclear weapon and then capture those involved.  When he is
killed mid-operation, his handler goes to the only man who can replace
him,
his twin brother.  However his brother Jake is a hustler in New York City
and not spy material.  Oakes has nine days to get him ready to take over
his
brother's identity and take up the assignment.

Despite the awful reviews, I still decided to give this film a go because
I
was in the mood for a dumb film that really didn't require me to think
even
once: this was that film!  The film deserved every bad review it got - the
only thing you need to worry about is whether or not you can accept the
massive weakness or not.  The plot is a real shambles and if you think
about
it logically then it all goes to hell.  The idea that this is a reasonable
plot, even for this type of film, is absurd.  The script backs this up
with
dialogue that is fitting for a stupid comedy but not for the situations in
the plot (`does it play dvd's?' or dialogue about Dr's Dre and Irving
while
trying to stall terrorists).  Some of it is funny, but to be honest, if
you
dislike Chris Rock then there will be practically nothing for
you.

The plot brings the bomb back to the US towards the end in an effort to
inject tension and urgency into the action, but it doesn't really work.
The
action is reasonably slick but it isn't ever really exciting - only
polished
like a product.  The action, like everything else, is quite clichéd and
not
distinctive enough to really stand out from the crowd of other action
movies.  The gags about race are subtle but still quite broad in the style
of Rock.  I didn't find it offensive, but I never really understand why
films have to constantly perpetuate racial myths such as all black people
listen to hip hop and like certain sports etc. Some of it is funny
though.

Rock is the main reason for this; as I said, if you like him then you
should
enjoy this as most of the comedy is driven by him (even if nothing is
anywhere near the sharpness of his act).  He is not very funny but he
helps
the film have an overall comic tone that works pretty well  Hopkins is
totally slumming it.  He manages an air of cool detachment but the
material
is way below him and his autopilot light is on the whole time.  Stomare is
poor and none of the villains really bring genuine menace - Eastern
European
hoods and clichés that they are.  Beauvais is sexy - but that is all she
is
here for, to put on black underwear! Her character breezes in and breezes
out with no real reason or consequence, plainly all she is here for is to
have a bit of sexy black ass in there - something that Washington doesn't
bring.

Overall this is a slickly made film that is clichéd, absurd,
undistinguished
and not as entertaining as it intends to be.  Despite the fact that the
film
is very average and not really one to stand out, it can be quite enjoyable
if you are ready for that. If you can turn off your brain and lower your
standards then this can be OK, however just don't expect it to be great no
matter what you do.
<|_=00=_|>

When does a knighted actor collect a paycheck? When he acts benightedly in a
cliched spy thriller that is a virtual textbook of Hollywood expectations,
right down to the scruffy mid-eastern terrorists and the oversized red
digital readout on a nuclear bomb.

Anthony Hopkins plays a CIA veteran who must train a streetwise kid, played
by Chris Rock, how to act like a real agent in 9 days. You can guess the
outcome; in fact you can guess every scene before it unfolds. Movies like
this make me know I couldn't do reviewing for a day job-I'd have to see
bombs like this everyday.  Did I say bomb again?  Did we just have one come
to America in `Sum of All Fears'?

I am committed to saying something favorable for all movies if I can. 
Hopkins is always interesting to watch: he underplays here with a `sang
froid' that would make Hannibal Lecter proud. The bad side of `Bad Company'
is the bug-eyed, monotone, hysterical Chris Rock, who may have been
medicated for this role because I didn't have to cover my ears this time-I
just bore up under his boring delivery.

Brooke Smith, who was the captured girl in `Silence of the Lambs', plays
Hopkins' partner. `Lambs' this is not.

The film moves rapidly enough for espionage junkies. There, I said 2 good
things.  The movie still is `bad' company for the serious
filmgoer.

 


<|_=00=_|>

After reading so many negative reviews of this movie, I expected the worst
and almost didn't see it.  But I was in the mood for a movie and it was the
only one showing that I hadn't already seen that was even remotely of
interest to me.  To my surprise I enjoyed the movie and where I think so
many critics went wrong was to view this movie as a comedy, which it really
isn't, except for a few humorous moments as might be expected in any such
action movie.  And Anthony Hopkins actually played his role the way it
should have been played.  It was not a role calling for a wild comic genius
but one calling for a very serious-minded professional who is involved in
trying to train a novice in just a few days for a deadly game involving a
nuke.  Chris Rock also played his role as it should have been played and
restrained himself from his usual antics, as in "Lethal Weapon 4."  Not a
great movie but much better than the awful "The Sum Of All
Fears."
<|_=00=_|>

Chris Rock stars as a CIA agent and a street hustler, twin brothers
separated at birth. When the more successful brother, Kevin (ironically
the
one who got his act together and made a life for himself, yet also the one
who got himself killed) is shot escaping a touchy sting operation in which
he and his team try to buy a stolen nuclear weapon with cyber money that
doesn't exist in real life, the CIA are faced with abandoning a 2 year
project and risking themselves because their new enemies are going to want
to know what happened to their deal or seeking out Kevin's twin brother
Jake, who makes a living whipping the crap out of unsuspecting chess
players
in Central Park and selling scalped tickets to just about any event you
can
imagine.

At this point in the film, it's clear that the premise is a remarkably
strong one for an action comedy - the irony of having a street hustler
suddenly thrown into a top secret CIA operation. And when you throw in
Chris
Rock as the hustler and Anthony Hopkins as his new mentor, it seems that
you
simply can't go wrong. Unfortunately, the movie seems to lose track of the
fact that it is a comedy, and in more ways that just forgetting to throw
in
some good one-liners.

Bad Company was made and scheduled to be released before September 11th,
but
was then delayed for obvious reasons (similar to the obvious reasons that
delayed the release of the much more incendiary Collateral Damage, given
its
subject matter). Because the movie was written before the attacks, the
writers can't have been expected to have known what bad taste it was to
center the plot on a stolen nuclear device that was meant to level a major
city on the eat coast. I don't hold that against it because of the 9/11
attacks, but only because it is such a tired premise. When are we going to
see some good action movies that are about something other than one guy
who
has to save a whole city from terrorists with big bombs?

There are points in the movie where it seems that the writers stopped and
said, `Oh wait, this is supposed to be a comedy,' and threw in a few
completely unamusing jokes here and there, mostly in the form of totally
inappropriate one-liners from Rock that almost invariably fall completely
flat. He and Hopkins do, however, have a bit of chemistry onscreen, but it
is mostly wasted. This is a flashy Bruckheimer production, obviously, but
it
is one of the least interesting action films that Bruckheimer has turned
out
in years. Granted, most of his productions are cheesy crap, but this one
even manages to be boring despite itself.

I watched Bad Company right after watching Men in Black II, and so was
already prepared for disappointment, but I found myself trying to figure
out
why exactly the movie is called Bad Company. Surely it can't be because
the
CIA is forced to employ someone literally off the street, because he turns
out to be remarkably bright and much more capable than they had
anticipated.
Then at the end of the movie, just as the bad guy is about to get killed,
he
says something about how we Americans think we're so great but we just sit
here while people all over the world suffer and die, and we just watch it
on
our televisions and grab another burger. This is, of course, disturbingly
true, and it is not a small part of the reason that four airplane were
hijacked in late 2001. It's something that Americans love to ignore so
that
we can pretend we're victims. The victims on September 11th were the
people
in the buildings and the people in the planes and al of their families,
the
country itself was not.

Does `Bad Company,' then, refer to the company that the rest of the world
is
in, being in the company of America? It seems that the message that this
film leaves resonating in your mind at the end is about what a selfish and
greedy country America is, and how capable we are to ignore the suffering
of
the rest of the world as long as we have our fancy cars and our money and
our heart disease instead of starvation. In this case, I guess Bad
Company's
not such a bad movie after all. It certainly gives a pretty potent wake up
call at the end, but one that will probably be largely ignored along with
the rest of the film. Ah well.
<|_=00=_|>

In Prague, the CIA secret agent Kevin Pope (Chris Rock) is killed in a
mission with Oakes (Anthony Hopkins). They were trying to recover a nuclear
bomb from the hands of some mercenaries. In order to proceed with the
operation, Jake Hayes (Chris Rock), twin of Kevin, is recruited by CIA to
act as if he were his brother. Jake is a rascal ticker scalper and his dead
brother was an exquisite man. The CIA agents have nine day to make Jake as
refined as he brother was. Although having a plot very predictable and full
of cliches, this movie is a funny action movie, almost a comedy. Therefore,
it objective of entertainment is accomplished. My vote is
seven.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie was very entertaining but certainly not great. I think Chris
Rock
gave a great performance and Anthony Hopkins is always wonderful. The
action
sequences were very good, especially the camera work in the field car
chase.
I'm glad I didn't see it in the theater, but I'm glad I saw it just the
same.
<|_=00=_|>

Chris Rock is hilarious in this film. Anthony Hopkins is good too.

It includes many funny scenes and the action is also good. But the plot it's
nothing special at all and the film is not very bad but not very good
either. If Chris Rock were not in it, it would be bad. I would rate it a
6/10
<|_=00=_|>

I have to say, this movie caught me off guard. Aside from some incredible
cinematic scenery (Prague is a beautiful city), I didn't expect this to be
much of a movie. And while it may be difficult for some to believe that
Chris Rock is CIA, I found this movie to address something serious and use
Rock's natural humor to both lighten and relieve the audience. There has
to
be something said for how funny Chris Rock is, regardless of the setting.
This movie is worth watching if you are in the mood for a funny movie with
an action filled plot.
<|_=00=_|>
...but I'm glad I used a free ticket to see it.

Anthony Hopkins is clearly slumming.  It's like he polished of his cameo
character from Mission Impossible 2 and set it to work for a whole
film.

The movie is supposed to be an action comedy but the action scenes are
limited to a few machine gun firefights conducted by people who can't hit
targets 10 feet away, and a single car chase.

The comedy is limited to hearing Hopkins use the phrase "get in the car,
b*tch" and some Chris Rock moments.  It was simply neither action-packed
enough or funny enough for the genre.

The whole film felt like a first or second draft of the script; like no one
bothered to polish & refine the concept.  It needed better, more original &
well thought out action scenes, and better humor.

Not bad free, but not even worth a matinee.  I give it a 5 out of
10
<|_=00=_|>

This film, as far as action films goes, is really not all that bad. I
normally don't like the genre too much for it's continuance of formula, but
this film was a surprise. The choreography was very well done and there were
some good one-liners contributing to some amusement along the way. Anthony
Hopkins and Chris Rock act well in this film, alongside the twisted Russian
mafia boss whom was brilliant, also to be found acting in the superb Guy
Richie film 'Snatch'. The photography of Prague was stunning, great camera
angles and a dramatic mood portrayed well in this beautiful city.

 Regarding the Trevor Rabin track 'BMBBO'... I loved immediately it for its
grace and sombre melancholic mood when I heard it in the film, but was so
mistaken when finally getting hold of the track... what trickery! The
beautiful strings and violin, the elegance and subtlety, gets butchered a
minute in by tacky electronica. what a shame to have this masterpiece
ruined. In the film obviously adaptations were made for particular scenes
and I got the high-octane 'alternative' version, as released on the CD,
which by the way, sounds like something from the 80's, a Jean-Michelle Jare
lasertropic overdose.
