
I haven't read the comments of others, so I'm not sure why it's rated
so low. This is a pretty decent yarn with some good action and suspense
in it. The story is almost believable. A drug dealer is detained by the
Police and offers $100 million to anyone who can spring him. The offer
is taken up by several people and the Los Angeles Police Department
finds itself outgunned. Their only hope is the newly formed SWAT team,
headed by Samuel L. Jackson. The whole SWAT thing is new and no one
likes it. While, today, many people still don't like the idea of SWAT
teams, they are now a part of the law enforcement landscape. It's too
"Military" for most people. The film shows the build up and some of the
training of the SWAT team, and their duel with the bad guys in the end.
It kept my attention and I found it entertaining. And isn't that what
the industry is all about? I gave it a 7.
<|_=00=_|>
'S.W.A.T.' is a movie that does nothing more than deliver. It promises
nice action scenes and gives us some. They look pretty good, so I guess
in that way I can recommend the movie. The story is, of course, about
S.W.A.T., a respected part of the LAPD. We follow a team with leader
Hondo (Samuel L. Jackson), Jim Street (Colin Farrell), Sanchez
(Michelle Rodriguez), Deke (rapper LL Cool J), Boxer (Brian Van Holt)
and T.J. (Josh Charles). They have to deal with a criminal named Alex
Montel (Olivier Martinez) who offers 100 million dollars to the people
who will help him escape from jail.

The movie opens with Jim Street and his partner Gamble (Jeremy Renner)
saving people from bank robbers, but they do that after disobeying an
order. Both are punished but Gamble thinks Street has betrayed him so
Gamble leaves the fore while Street gets a job out of action. The movie
continues six months later, leaving us with the feeling we will hear
more from the Gamble-character. We feel correct. These facts, and may
be that Street used to date Boxer's sister, are kind of important to
know, although every event serves the action or the one-liners that are
not that impressive.

Yes, events are implausible, but not in a way they become annoying. For
actions fans the movie does exactly what we expect and what we want,
entertaining enough. If you are normally not an action fan, only when
it is done very good, I should skip 'S.W.A.T.'!
<|_=00=_|>

S.W.A.T. is a nothing more and nothing less than what you expect from it -
god action film, the script is very predictable and full of clichees, but it
has enough logic and good sense to avoid the ridicule. Acting is average
good, effects are average good, and directing is average good - so what you
get is an average good action film. Get your popcorn, biers as well if you
are at home, sit back and relax. Nothing more, nor less 7 out of 10 on my
personal scale.
<|_=00=_|>

Thrown into a desk job when his partner Gamble disobeys orders and shoots
a
hostage, Jim Street bides his time waited beside being demeaned on a daily
basis.  When the commissioner brings in old school SWAT leader hondo to
put
together a young outfit, Street is offered to chance to retrain with the
select team and is soon back on duty.  Meanwhile a man is pulled over by a
black and white for a broken rear light, but is found to be a drug baron.
SWAT are sent to escort the man to a secure prison but, as they take him
into a holding centre he announces that whoever breaks him out of jail
will
get $100 million dollars.  SWAT soon have much to content with and must
ensure that Montel does not escape.

In a summer crammed with more sequels than ever, I was drawn to go and see
SWAT simply because it offered some hope by not being a sequel to a past
film (I didn't know at the time it was a TV conversion).  Unfortunately,
while not lifting it's formula from a predecessor, it essentially lifts
itself from many other films and lacks anything that really makes it stand
out.  The central premise (the `$100 meellion dollar' bit) is interesting
but only leads to a big long action scene that acts as the film's second
act.  Prior to this we are given the usual training stuff which, while not
new, is still enjoyable.

It's weakness is that it is suffering from too much testosterone and
therefore has to much of the men banging heads with each other and
comparing
size!  The second half is enjoyable as it is just noisy action all the
way,
but it suffers from being too overblown.  A scene where several different
street gangs attack a police convoy is an example of this but happily the
rest is not as bad as this and is actually quite good.  My main complaint
was that this second act felt like it should have been the main body of
the
film and that the training etc was just the introduction.  However the
second act seemed very short and I came away with the feeling that this
was
made with a sequel in mind from day one - just like MIB felt like it was
made to get to MIIB!

That said it is still fun to watch, albeit unoriginal and clichéd fun.
The
overblown, all-destroying action probably doesn't do justice to the actual
precise and tactical work that SWAT units do and it did make me wonder why
someone didn't just take the `$100 meellion dollar' idea and put it in a
normal cop film setting but hey-ho.

The cast is really good on paper but hardly make much of a splash in
reality.  Farrell continues to land on his feet with yet another starring
role.  His American accent hasn't gotten any better but he is still
watchable with his tough guy charisma (would be nice to see him build on
this rather than relying on it though).  Jackson is slumming it a bit and
doesn't really lift the film by his presence.  He is no stranger to action
movies but he doesn't manage to do much here other than add a face to the
mix.  Smith (LL Cool J, now starting to use his real name in credits) is
OK
but again doesn't do much special; I found it amusing that both Jackson
and
LL had actually made Deep Blue Sea more enjoyable by their performances
but
neither did it here.  Rodriguez is not allowed to show she can act at any
point, but she is easy on the eye and is good enough.  Martinez's villain
is
OK but it was never clear where he was from despite the fact he had a
French
accent - have I missed something, was he a French drug lord?  If anything
his role marks a sad day for English actors everywhere, from now on it
seems
that, due to their actions over Iraq, the French will be providing the
baddies in American action movies from now on!

Overall this is a reasonably enjoyable piece of noisy entertainment.  If
you
expect anything unique or clever then you will be really disappointed.
However if you are prepared for lots of running with guns, noise and macho
posturing then this should be enough to satisfy you.  For me it didn't
stand
out from the pack but it was still an OK way to spend a few
hours.
<|_=00=_|>
I seriously had so much fun watching this. Is it clichéd yes? Is it
stupid? No. First off, the performances are great. Sam Jackson is still
a badass. Colin Farrel is very cool. LL Cool J does a decent job. Also
Jeremy Renner was awesome.

The film also worked because it didn't take itself too seriously. it
wanted the audience to have a fun time. The action scenes are really
fun, the effects are good, the climax is really entertaining. It's not
the best action film ever. It's not the best cop movie ever. It's not
the best movie ever. Even so, i got what I paid for. A fun popcorn
flick. I was never bored. I never checked my watch. I was having too
much fun watching this to be worried about anything else. Great
entertainment.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is no doubt influenced by the 'Die Hard' series.  In this case,
1990's 'Die Hard 2' where the plot involved a drug dealer.  A drug dealer in
this case offers 100 million dollars to anyone who can bust him out after he
is captured.  Naturally, everyone with a greedy agenda, including some
people that really make things sticky for the good guys, try to spring him. 
This film has a nice gradual build to its eventual payoff and Colin Farrell
and Samuel L. Jackson are in good form.  I only wish that their characters
had been a little better developed.  It's nice to see a movie where a
character has a particular manner, saying or habit that makes their
personality instantly recognizable.  This is one of the better films to be
based on 70's television.  Certainly better than the 'Charlie's Angels'
films (rubbish).
<|_=00=_|>

S.W.A.T. may be the best action film since THE TRANSPORTER...Just ignore the
plot holes, leaps of logic, and occasional cold-bloodedness, and enjoy the
fast-paced action and macho camaraderie!

Jim Street (Colin Farrell, easily 2003's busiest actor!) is a decorated LAPD
S.W.A.T. member, but when his partner, Brian Gamble (Jeremy Renner, looking
like a pumped-up Elijah Wood) disregards orders during a bank robbery, and
wounds a 'civilian' female, while taking out the leader, the lady sues the
city (considering the baddie was about to kill her, the reaction seems a bit
illogical!). Dressed down by their boss, Capt. Fuller, Gamble goes
ballistic, and quits the force; Street "eats crow", and is demoted to
working in the Weapons Cage, cleaning weapons and putting up with verbal
abuse from former teammates (who thought he'd 'sold' his partner out...an
attitude that seems illogical, as well, as he'd been in their ranks three
years, and they SHOULD have known him better! ). He maintains an insane
physical regimen, and prays for the day he can return to
S.W.A.T.

Six months pass, and the unit's reputation is on the skids, so veteran
warhorse 'Hondo' Harrelson (Samuel L. Jackson, looking sexier and more
dangerous than ever!) is called in, to put together an elite team inside of
S.W.A.T., sort of a 'baddest of the bad' crew, to take on worst case
scenarios (how this would help the performance of the REST of the unit, who
knows?) He picks Josh Charles and Brian Van Holt from S.W.A.T., LL Cool J, a
street cop with an 'attitude', Michelle Rodriguez, as a female cop with even
MORE of an attitude...and Jim Street, with whom he bonds like a long-lost
brother, despite threats from Capt. Fuller. There is GREAT chemistry between
Jackson and Farrell, and their scenes together are film
highlights!

After 'DIRTY DOZEN'-like training scenes, and embarrassing the egotistical
Fuller by ace-ing his terrorist hijacking training scenario ("Best time
ever, right?" Hondo razzes the Captain, as the last 'terrorist' is taken
down), the new unit is given a choice assignment...moving a youthful
international crime kingpin (played by UNFAITHFUL's Olivier Martinez) to a
holding facility. Unfortunately, in front of television cameras, Martinez
offers $100 million to anyone who can spring him...and virtually EVERY hood
in L.A. decides to take a shot at the money. Then the fun REALLY begins, as
the film becomes one long action sequence!

While the subsequent 'surprises' are predictable, and the climax, a Lear Jet
landing on a bridge, is impossible (the winds alone would have cracked up
the small aircraft against the narrow confines of the span),  the pacing is
so fast and furious that you accept the leap of  logic of the sequence, and
the subsequent fight between Street and...well, watch the
movie!

While I'm not sure S.W.A.T. will encourage tourism to L.A. (which is
pictured as so crime-ridden that it makes New York City look like an Amish
village!), the film IS fun, in a violent sort of way, and seeing the star of
the original series, Steve Forrest, in a brief cameo, was a pleasure! Now,
if I can just get that darned theme song out of my head...


<|_=00=_|>
People may dismiss S.W.A.T. as one of those films that stands there on
its own as pure entertainment for the average film going Joe and
overall, they'd be right to do so. You don't need me or anyone else to
tell you that this film is indeed a bit of light-hearted fun that most
people can enjoy but what struck me was that more popular 'fun' films
such as Snakes on a Plane and Pirates of the Caribbean didn't do as
much for me as S.W.A.T. did and this makes me think that S.W.A.T. is a
tad underrated, albeit as a popcorn fest.

The films spends enough time early on hanging around the main character
of Jim Street; a disgraced ex-S.W.A.T. member whose partner got them
both into a little trouble a few years ago when he made a bit of a
botch of a hostage situation. Although Street is played by Colin
Farrell whose one of those actors most people have a love/hate
relationship with (although it's probably mostly females who fit into
the 'love' category) so it's always going to be a little tricky to
associate with the fact Farrell is the focus of the film, character
wise.

One scrap of 'cred.' the film has is its inclusion of Samuel L. Jackson
as the boss of a newly formed S.W.A.T. team following his return to the
force although he gets his own way far too easily during the forming of
the team, in my opinion. His search takes control after the good
opening and what was effective was that genuinely funny humour as well
as decent action/chase scenes are both blended in to the search. We're
also introduced to the dangers of law enforcement as Michelle
Rodriguez's character tells us when she exclaims she was attacked by a
guy three times her size and weight wielding several small sharp razor
blades.

What makes S.W.A.T. the piece of fun, colloquial film-making it is; is
its evidence of light heartedness all the way through. In the UK where
I come from, the film was rated as a '12A' which means twelve year olds
can see it; as long as there's a parent/guardian with them. The reason
for this is its lack of violence and genuine, gritty police action. The
chase and action scenes, although impressive, are done in a routine
manner with fast talking, joke-style dialogue there to extinguish any
threat of profanity or violence for the kids. Also, the music is a
cause for concern. I have no idea of the bands nor the songs actually
used but it's of that modern day rock/pop stuff that sounds so much
like the previous song released in that genre, it's worrying. These
songs that pop up at various intervals include montage sequences and
the like, keeping the light hearted atmosphere and again, giving the
kids something to relate to in the form of music. For me and probably
anyone else over the age of 20, it was very disappointing.

The fact the villain of the film is French is awkward enough. I say
French but really, he's European and him and his non-American cronies
are another disappointing aspect of the film. It's just too typical of
an American summer film to do this: including a Eurotrash villain. The
fact he actually spends most of the film in custody and has to issue
his threats to press camera crews is another thing that detracts from
the film. The fact he's in custody and out of harms way as far as
violence and challenging the heroes is concerned; means less of a
threat to the kids thanks to the 12A tag. With other odd things
cropping up such as the fact each gang just happens to try and rescue
the baddie at the exact same time with no prior arrangement of a truce
as they all strive for the reward money, was a sloppy piece of
film-making.

Despite the good things S.W.A.T. has going for it, it never gets out of
that, 'family' gear that it gets into and as a result, feels like a
re-hash of that 1986 film Top Gun, only with guns and on the ground
instead of jets and in the air. Still, at least you get to hear a
couple of Jackson nods to his appearances in Pulp Fiction and Jackie
Brown, respectively. That in itself, to some, is more than enough of a
reason to give S.W.A.T. a go.
<|_=00=_|>
It's difficult to review action movies fairly. SWAT was never going to
be a classic; this sort of this has been done to death, especially in
recent years, and ultimately SWAT struggles to throw in anything new or
inventive without looking contrived. See "landing a plane on a bridge"
for details.

There's nothing striking about any of the characters which makes it
difficult to judge acting; we've seen the clichés before, the team
rivalry, the betrayal, the stickler chief, the fat cops, the old pro,
etcetera. If anything, perhaps SWAT is guilty of spending too much time
on this; we don't really need to know about Colin Farrell's break-up,
or see him throw up after a particularly vigorous workout, or Michelle
Rodriguez's kids... It just interrupts the action we've been promised
from the trailer and unnecessarily extends the viewing time.

The action sequences are SWAT's strongest point. They aren't special,
or particularly tense, and I'm not a huge fan of the "jerk the camera
everywhere to make the audience feel like they're there" action cameras
that helped ruin Resident Evil 2, but that aside, you can't really
complain. Things explode, the good guys win...what did you really
expect?

When things are blowing up it's alright. Just don't expect too much
from a movie that is designed to pass two hours and be forgotten and
you'll be just fine.
<|_=00=_|>

I'm not sure if this movie is intentionally one big joke, but I found it
absolutely hilarious.  It sports some of the worst writing I have ever seen.
 The whole thing is laughable, even the french bad guys are played by
Italian mobsters!

"I've done a few stewardesses."
"Just a few."

Some guy points a gun at Olivier Martinez's character's
head.
"What are you gonna do, shoot me?"

Even the acting is bad, which is surprising, since Samuel L. Jackson and
Collin Farrel are usually pretty good.  But none of them have any on-screen
chemistry, which takes away from an already-bad movie.

Okay.  This movie is either police-movie bile or satirical genius.  I am not
sure.  But I'm pretty sure it's the former.

1/10
