

i didn't expect much coming into this movie, i didn't hear much about
it and Van wilder was one of the national lampoon movies without Chevy
Chase. however this movie surpassed all my expectations. Van Wilder
defines the slapstick teen comedy of the new millennium. loaded with
sexual humor and innuendo, Van Wilder keep the laughs coming. i believe
Tara Reid was at her hottest in this movie, and believe it or not, there
are a ton of quotable lines to live by in this film. as for the plot,
its just about some guy who doesn't wanna leave the college he calls
his home until he meets a girl that makes him realize his own
potential. this film was much better then the last 2 American pies put
together. this is a true popcorn movie to watch with your friends.

<|_=00=_|>

This was one heck of an hilarious movie. I can watch it over and over.
Reynolds did a spectacular job in the movie, but I must say that without the
character Taj the movie wouldn't have been as funny.

This is more of a guy comedy type movie but my gf loved it
also.

The donuts scene I must say was a little gross but still the movie was
amazing. Laughed from start to finish..... 
This is the kind of guy everyone would like to be or know in
College.

I don't think they could of taken anyone else then Reynolds to do this role
maybe I m just saying that because he is one of my favorite actors but he
did do a great job.
9/10 
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is hilariously funny! I've seen it more than 4 times and it
gets
funnier every time! Ryan Reynolds is hilarious as Van Wilder, the lead
role.
Being that this is a National Lampoon movie, one would expect it to be
funny. It definitely lives up to expectations of the previous National
Lampoon movies. The script is ingenious and is extremely well-written.
Many
parts of the movie are unexpected, which makes it all the more enjoyable.
This movie is so much fun to watch over and over again. The part with the
dog and the "eclairs" is hilarious in itself.
Although this is one of Reynolds' first movies, it is a big hit. Surely,
we
can look for more hilarious movies like this one in the
future.
<|_=00=_|>
Van Wilder (Ryan Reynolds) is a very popular student, who organizes big
parties and raises funds for the most different causes in his college.
After spending seven years in the college without graduation, his
father Vance Wilder Sr. (Tim Matheson) decides to stop paying his
tuition. He applies for a loan to continue in the college, and becomes
a professional promoter of parties to pay the installments. Meanwhile,
Gwen Pearson (Tara Reid), a student of journalism who writes for the
college newspaper and is the girlfriend of an ambitious and brilliant
student of medicine Richard, is assigned to write about Van Wilder. Her
boyfriend becomes jealous and begins a personal fight against Van
Wilder. In the end, of course Van Wilder and Gwen Pearson stay
together. This movie is brainless, making 'American Pie' looks like an
art movie… but it is also very hilarious. Yesterday I laughed a lot and
repeated many scenes, such as when Van Wilder applies for a loan; or
with the strip dancer farting in the nightclub; or preparing the
sandwiches for the fraternity of Richard; or when Gwen prepares a milk
shake with colon-blow for Richard; or the examination of Richard for
the medicine university. I agree that the jokes are scatological and of
very low level, but I do not recall the last movie I laughed the way I
did with 'Van Wilder'. Stop thinking and prepare to have 90 minutes of
very funny situations. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): 'O Dono da Festa' ('The Owner of the Party')
<|_=00=_|>

What this movie has and other movies lack are characters you admire and
care
about. The movie never succumbs to sentimentality, thankfully, and it keeps
a high level of cheerfulness and humor through the entire running time.
This
is a movie that wants to party and have fun, where characters are in high
spirits and at times a little inebriated.
This is the movie that will put the National Lampoon franchise back into
respectability. Not only is this movie gut-bustingly funny – if you can get
past the crude visual puns like a pit-bull with what looks like a ten-pound
scrotum attachment, and a crotch-enhancer pump that is mistaken for a
bong –
this transcendent comedy of gross manners is most affecting because it's
incredibly well-made. Most college campus comedies are cheap in production
value and clumsily structured. Van Wilder is exceedingly well-paced and
smartly written, by writers Brent Goldberg and David T. Wagner (their love
for Ferris Bueller is apparent) who know how to set up not only a joke but
sequences of offhand slapstick that are irrepressibly absurd. Director
Walter Becker (creator of the ingenious short-film Saving Ryan's Privates)
handles the irreverent and random acts of background physical comedy with
ease and panache.

The campus wild man is fittingly known as Van Wilder (played by Ryan
Reynolds). Van Wilder is a guy that has friends from everywhere, from the
jocks to the nerds. Reynolds finds a precarious balance between
recklessness
and cheerful insanity, which is crucial because he turns acts of
humanitarian philanthropy into casual and spontaneous gestures without
giving second thought. No job is ever too big for the man, whether it is
becoming the de-facto basketball coach that inspires the school's team to
win or setting up a rockin' party for the geekiest fraternity on campus.
Van
Wilder has enthusiastic support from everyone but his burned-out workaholic
father (played by Tim Matheson, once the wild man in National Lampoon's
Animal House) who decides after seven years of his son's enrollment to stop
tuition payment.

Van Wilder becomes the subject of a school newspaper editorial and Tara
Reid
plays the snobby, uptight reporter Gwen whose ties belong to frat boy
Richard Bagg (Daniel Cosgrove), who conducts hazing rituals that are
crueler
than anything since Animal House. When Gwen tries to get the naked truth
from Van Wilder, she mostly just finds Van Wilder naked. But it's the smart
rapport that develops between them that allows Van Wilder to strip Gwen's
inhibitions, to let her walk on the wild side. In the background, a turf
war
erupts between Van Wilder and Richard.

The plotting is shameless in its methods of revenge. There are innocent
people involved in the mayhem, including a scene where pre-pubescent boys
raid one of Van Wilder's parties and end up barfing out of a school bus
(but
hey, these young boys had the time of their life until then). Richard's
fraternity brothers are sent a basket full of éclairs stuffed with juices
from a particular dormitory pet. In a knock-off homage to Dumb and Dumber,
a
character digests a bottle of colon blow right before he is to take a final
exam.

The movie rarely takes a breath. It does settle for easy chuckles but goes
for the comic gold, pushing past the ribbon of where comedy usually wears
out in exhaust. Not every joke works, but you admire the efforts that the
filmmakers went to in order to make you laugh. A virgin's first encounter
with a girl that culminates in a massage oil rubdown gets more than messy
and squanders too much, thus not earning any laughs. A scene where Van
Wilder has to charm a raggedy and prunish administrator gets frighteningly
explicit and goes on maybe one shot too many. But Van Wilder is always the
man of the moment. One of the dorky characters goes to Van Wilder to ask
him
how to `muff dive.' Ultimately, Van Wilder is king and his rebel-bent
philosophy is trippingly funny. At the end, you won't be able to remember
all the funny scenes because there are just too many of
them.

<|_=00=_|>


Now that I am into my thirties I find most movies cliché and uninteresting,
especially the action genre, SWAT, Face Off, Swordfish, XXX, Shaft, do I
need to continue.  Yet people for some reason actually pay money to see
these films.  I've started to enter my pompous intellectual phase, yet I
still have a big weakness for teen movies.

Animal house, Ferris, Weird Science, Bachelor Party and more recently a
resurgence with American Pie, Road Trip, Have the Cow and Van
Wilder.

All of these films are great, IMO.  Sure they are predictable, a bit cliché,
sometimes gross and certainly a bit childish, but they are bloody funny. 
The only rule for a comedy is to be funny.   I guess that if we are honest
that period of our lives should be best.  At least you have the innocence
and optimism to know your life is all in front of you and getting laid and
having fun, is pretty much the only thing on your mind (that hasn't changed
if we are honest).

I am disappointed that so many people criticise a film that clearly wasn't
meant to be taken too seriously and is genuinely funny.  Great stuff please
may it continue.


<|_=00=_|>

This is a great movie, don't believe the critics on this one. If you get
this on DVD you can safely fast-forward through the two over-the-top gross
out scenes that virtually assured this movie would get terrible reviews.
The
rest is pure comic genius in the often amusing, but rarely outstanding,
field of teen/college comedy. This is my new favorite movie!

ps. The best jokes in this movie rely on sex or sexual inuendo. If you
don't
like either you can safely count this movie out, but then again, you
probably knew that already.
<|_=00=_|>
Van Wilder (Ryan Reynolds) is one of the coolest, nicest, likable and
most popular guy at the Coolidge College. He's also has an personal
assistant (Kal Penn). Wilder is great at throwing parties and helping
students with their courses at their most outrageous moments but since
Wilder is at his seventh year as senior and he never takes his future
seriously. Graduation for Wilder is the furthest thing is his mind.
Things are about to change, when an young attractive reporter (Tara
Reid) try to figure out Wilder's wild life. Wilder's father (Tim
Matheson) threatens to stop paying his tuition for the seventh time.
Wilder, His Personal Assistant and His Buddy (Teck Holmes) will try
find ways to keep Wilder in college. But there's a slimly college
student (Daniel Cosgrove), who is the boyfriend of the reporter. This
jerk will do anything to get Wilder out of college.

Directed by Walt Becker (Buying the Cow, Wild Hogs) made an smoothly
surprisingly well done outrageous comedy with a couple of very funny
scenes (With also one hilarious gross-out scene is actually
disgustingly memorable, if you like it or not). Reynolds' appealing
performance makes this college comedy film fun to watch. It is also
better than most of these silly college movies and this one offers
something fresh. This film was an modest hit at the box office. It was
also one of the top selling DVD's of 2002.

This unrated DVD has an clean anamorphic Widescreen (1.85:1) transfer
an good-Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD menus have an censored
and uncensored options. The second disc is packed with extras,
including:Deleted Scenes, Outtakes, Behind the Scenes featurettes and
more. This film is a lot of fun, if you don't think about it too much.
Written by the writers of "The Girl Next Door":Brent Goldberg and David
T. Wagner. Deon Richmond, Erik Estrada and Chris Owen appears in
cameos. Paul Gleason (From "The Breakfest Club" fame), Curtis Armstrong
("Bugger" from "Revenge of the Nerds" films) and Unbilled:Tom Everett
Scott appears in small supporting roles. (*** ½/*****).
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is exactly what you expect from the genre: mindless fluff
with adolescent jokes, nudity, and lots of gross-out stuff. It is,
however, unapologetic about it, and invests a lot to carry things to
the extreme, which is what gives it its charm. If you cannot take any
of the above and find enjoyment in them, don't waste your time with Van
Wilder.

If, on the other hand, you like vomit-inducing pranks, beautiful young
girls flashing their boobies, and hilarious one-liners galore peppered
by a huge dose of stereotypes (but without hatred), you will have one
of the most entertaining 2 hours of your life. Every time it plays on
TV I find myself watching it again and again. The two leading male
actors, Ryan Reynolds and Kal Penn, are exceptional as usual, and Tara
Reid, while she offers her customary wooden non-performance, fills out
her role enough not to be painful. A surprise find is the actor playing
Tara's boyfriend: he plays so well, you will LOVE to hate him.

All I can say is, with college for 20 years behind me, I wish I had a
Van Wilder when I was attending school. And the movie even has a
message!
<|_=00=_|>

I had the displeasure of watching Van Wilder for the first and last time
last night. Oh  how it still burns in my head. This poor film suffers from
some odd sort of cinematic  schizophrenia: sometimes it thinks it wants to
be animal house as it's stereotypical  "frat-boy-cum-slave-driver" uses
unidentified and nameless students as croquet posts  and tunnels, and
sometimes it wants to be a sentimental love story. This movie feels like  a
string of barely related pranks and humor that was patch-worked together
with  something akin to a plot. Our hero, the amiable and misguided but
otherwise kind  hearted Van Wilder is every college boys wet dream of a
self-image: Intelligent but not  too intelligent, clever with comebacks,
interested in finer things like love and friends  and disinterested in
having a life revolving around work, living off his fathers bank  account,
campus celebrity, blah blah blah.... I'm sure you've probably seen this
before  and it was much better as a high school movie called "Fast Times at
Ridgemont High", or  was it "Animal House", or maybe this film just tries to
lamely take concepts from these  better films and update them for a newer
audience. Whatever it is it's pure crap.

I've never seen such sick humor outside of a Troma Studios movie. At least
with a  Troma release you expect lots of feces, vomit, sick humor involving
children and a plot  as absurd as the premise. But in Van Wilder you get all
the vomit, sperm and abuse with  a plot they think you might care about. Boy
has it good, boy gets told by father that he  will not receive more easy
money, boy has roaring good time as he crunches many  business opportunities
to raise money so he can continue with his chosen looserly  lifestyle, boy
meets overtly-cute pseudo-intelligent girl who wants an interview for the
school paper, and wait for the supprise... Boy falls in love with girl who
has boyfriend in  the snottiest frat on campus. Bet you didn't see that
coming. Bet you don't see the friction, pranks and insults that go on
between Frat boy and Van Wilder. But then again,  I am sure you do.

The shining moments of the movie are only so because they will stay burned
in your  brain for days afterwards. Take for instance the continual shots of
Van's bulldog's  obviously fake, over-sized testicles which will fill your
screen on occasion. You will get  endlessly entertained by swaying
testicles, floating hot-tub testicles, Van kissing dog  testicles in an
early morning supprise. As if the large testicles weren't enough we get  one
of the most disturbing scenes in movie history when Van plots revenge
against his  rival, the boyfriend of the main love interest of course, by
removing the cream filling of  eclairs using gynecological instruments only
to be refilled by having his friend  masturbate the dog to create a new and
exciting filling. But wait! There's more! Once the  many eclairs are full
and the dogs testicles are now down to a normal, smaller pair, they  are
placed casually and suspiciously outside the snotty frat-house. Oh the
horror as for  quite a while we are treated to many frat boys voraciously
enjoying every gooey, warm,  drippy, clear drop of the dog sperm from the
eclair as they make obvious comments like  "Wow, they're still warm" and "I
think I have had these before". Trust me, much time is  dedicated to this
scene and.... Damn. I used to love eclairs.

There is a lot of really easy and simple humor in this movie. Let's have an
Indian  student talk about dirty sex as it will be funny just for that
accent. Or maybe we can get  elementary school kids drunk and have them
projectile vomit. Let's have strippers who  fart smoke, that's cool.?? This
movie has none of the charm of Beavis and Butthead,  none of the stylistic
unapologetic crassness of a Troma Film, And the plot is soooooo  predictable
and merely a rehash of almost every bad college film in history. It's the
same  plot as One Crazy Summer but not even close to funny and that film
used Curtis Armstrong in a way that we all laughed at. In this film he has
been degraded to a  momentary laugh and no character at all. No body in this
film gets fleshed out, the only  thing remote to character development is
the exchange student gets laid and Van Wilder comes to understand why he
hasn't left college in 7 years and trust me that part is  about as deep as a
dog-bowl.

I wish I had something nice to say about this movie. Even Showgirls is
enjoyable for  it's embarrassing attempt at seriousness, but this piece of
work has no redeeming  qualities. The only truly funny moment is as the
credits roll and we see some of the  behind the scenes pranks with several
characters playing up homosexual elements that  were only hinted at in the
film. I'm sorry but I can't even recommend this film. Avoid it  all
costs.
