
A lot of people have come up to me and said "How can you love Quentin
that much, he is just too extreme!" or "Oh come on, Kill Bill is just
SO not realistic.." Yes. No.

Mr. Quentin Tarantino is rather extreme, yes, and it's lovely! And No.
Kill Bill is not realistic, but it's not meant to be realistic! Just
like... Lord of the Rings, that's not realistic either! But because it
has clear unreal elements, like wizards, it's acceptable?

You don't go to see Kill Bill, or any other Q.T-film to see "Stepmom",
in the same way you don't go to a Marilyn Manson concert hoping that
they will play some Spice Girls..

Kill Bill, both volume 1 and 2, is absolutely gorgeous! The art
direction is beautiful! The camera angles are perfect... just Gorgeous!
The lighting, the sound, the dialogs... and of course, the details! No
one works with small details the way Quentin does. I must also say that
the soundtrack is brilliant and the whole film is just so well casted!
Uma Thurman is perfect in the leading role, Darryl Hannah has never
been this good before, ever! And Chiaki Kuriyama, even though she has a
quite small role, is excellent, even better than she is in "Battle
Royale". David Carradine is painfully perfect, Michael Madsen is ALWAYS
excellent, but never as good as when he works with Tarantino. I must
also say that Sonny Chiba was great. I've never been a big fan of
Vivica A Fox until now, and I used to think that Lucy Liu was just your
average actor but she turned out to be fierce. Pretty much everyone who
is in this film is ten times better than they've ever been.

But above all things, Kill Bill is artistic, beautiful... Perfect
colors, perfect everything... gotta love it.
<|_=00=_|>
I know it's a couple years late, but I had to write a review for some
of the few people that haven't seen one of my favorite and refreshing
I've seen over the last few years. Kill Bill Vol. 1 is yet another
quality film of Tarantino's short, but distinguished list.

Kill Bill involves a nameless woman (Uma Thurman) who is slowing
seeking revenge on her former hit squad the Viper Squad and her boss
Bill (David Caradine.) Her former hit squad wronged her by gunning down
her closest friends and family during her wedding and putting her into
a coma while being pregnant. A few years later she awakens in a
hospital, without child, and tries to track down each member of the
squad. As the story progresses (through this film and the sequel), you
find out who she really, why Bill wanted her dead and the fate of her
daughter.

The movie is really a combination of Tarantino's love for the 70's
over-dramatized Kung-Fu movie era and story of revenge with rich
dialog. Yes, this movie is violent, but in a cheesy way. This created
some controversy and really had audiences stirred up, failing to
realize it was supposed to be over the top without no sense of realism.
Like I said, it was supposed to be a tribute more so than a gruesome
action flick. With all cheesiness aside, I can understand how some
people could feel a little woozy after seeing someone lose an arm and
having 4 gallons of Kool-Aid red blood shoot out of the body like a
whale's blow hole. What really makes this movie is Tarantino ability to
make bad to mediocre actors seem like good ones, a smart and hilarious
dialog and a good storyline. Of course, this is what he does in pretty
much in all of his movies.

There are various plot holes in the story, but we are really meant to
ignore them unlike most movies. Just like the gory scenes, come to
grips to the fact that the most of the implausibilities are there just
to fill in the gaps of the movie. The movie also features a couple of
classic Tarantino showdowns, including an unforgettable one with the
Japanese infamous crime lord, O-Ren Ishii (Lucy Lui.) Once again,
Tarantino puts his imagination at work again in his story telling by
using some of his old techniques like jumping timelines and some new
ones like adding Japanese animation for character backgrounds.

I wouldn't really recommend this film to someone who is really not from
the Pulp Fiction era. This film is really just homage to flicks that
frequently appear on Sunday Samurai Showcase, revenge and Tarantino's
continuous fascination with Uma Thurman. This film contains extreme
violence and sometimes strange dialog coupled with some pretty good
acting and directing. If you're not a fan of Tarantino's films, you
should pass on this one because it is doesn't stray to far from his
other stuff. If you like his other works, this is a must see due to its
originality and quality. And, if you just don't like Tarantino himself,
and find him annoying like everybody else, I don't blame you but it's
still worth your while seeing.
<|_=00=_|>
Man, what a film. As a fan of 70's martial arts movies, it was great to
see all of the references. I also thought the use of B&W throughout was
extremely effective. The cartoon sequences seemed a bit much, but did
fit in with the overall feel of the film. I have seen many people
posting about the sheer amount of blood and guts, but you have to
remember this was Tarantino's homage to Bruce Lee-era action pictures.
In those movies, the stories were very similar epics of revenge, and
they never had much of a budget for good "gore" effects. It was more or
less "throw some fake blood on the guy who just got killed" type of
effects, which were duplicated accurately by some of the deaths in this
movie. The plot also followed closely the plot of most 70's Kung Fu
movies; something despicable happens to the weak hero (whole village
razed, family slaughtered, etc..) and the hero goes away for years to
learn the secrets of a particular style of Kung Fu. All of these movies
contained the "secret move" which the master normally does not teach,
except of course, in this rare instance. That move, as depicted in Kill
Bill Vol. 2, is always used on the evil leader of the clan whom had
brought death and chaos to the hero.

Kill Bill was a terrific modern take on those movies which were always
set in ancient China. I was very impressed with Uma Thurman's
swordplay, at no point did I feel that it looked scripted or fake. Even
when fighting against more than 50 Crazy 8's, it replicated admirably
the incredibly one-sided fights from some of the best martial arts
movies made 30 years ago.

All in all, a great and original film! R.
<|_=00=_|>
Having seen Tarantino's 3 previous films, going into the cinema, my
expectations for 'Kill Bill' were already over the roof. However,
regardless of my high hopes for quality entertainment, I was not
prepared for this film. I was dumbfounded. I was blown away. I had
quite simply never seen anything even remotely like it.

In 'Kill Bill', the revenge plot serves only as a larger story arc,
thus allowing Tarantino to play with as many different genres as he
likes, and boy - what a mix he dishes out! With complete disregard for
the conventions of filmmaking, he paints an expressionistic masterpiece
in his own unique style, the likes of which the world has never seen
before. Cinema rarely gets this exciting. With 'Kill Bill', Tarantino
proved once and for all that all the hype around his persona is
justified: he IS the most daring, original - and entertaining! -
filmmaker of his generation. Simply amazing: 10 stars out of 10.

Lesser-Known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/

Favorite Low-Budget And B-Movies: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054808375/

All-Time Favorite Films: http://www.IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/
<|_=00=_|>

Just saw Kill Bill: Vol. 1 and was surprised, to be honest, at how
incredibly GOOD this film is.
Here is a craftsman (or artist, if you prefer) at the top of his game.
Some
of the shots are simply incredible; the score is, for the most part,
vintage
Tarantino selections- and the RZA does a very good job at filling the
blanks; Uma Thurman is a great female lead, for sheer presence (and decent
acting chops). Even Lucy Liu, who I expected was going to re-hash her
Charlie's Angel character, burst on the scene like a flaming nunchuck.

The stringing together of the scenes was impeccable. The transitions, the
intercutting between dialogue, the flashbacks... I simply could not get
enough.
Tarantino IS, indeed, having fun here. He is giving us a film that may not
go down as a classic, Pulp Fiction style, but that shows us what is yet to
come. I doubt that he's lost his writing talents (as some have claimed),
and
I actually disagree that the dialogue in the film is "poor", or that there
are "no memorable lines" (Empire). The kung-fu genre has never been a
particularly good park to display Shakespearean writing virtuosisms. The
lines work fine.
The plot is simple enough, but Tarantino takes a burger and serves it as
"steak tartare with sauce au poivre and asparagus terrine". He basically
manages to cram so much information into the film that plot is simply
irrelevent. What is relevent is the Bride's thirst for blood, her primal
sense of vengeance and our total devotion to her.
Bill, of course, is one of the greatest characters to ever NOT appear on
screen.
Overall, a great movie and an example of how a filmmaker's tool is not his
pen: it's his eye.


<|_=00=_|>
Arguably this should not be a difficult film to review. It is nothing
less than brilliant. The story, the direction, the musical score, the
casting, the acting, the dialog, the fight choreography, the inset
homage to past films ... brilliant.

Just brilliant.

What makes this film tricky to review is not the film but ironically
the film-maker.

I do not know the deep background here but I am guessing that QT, at
the very height of his creative powers, locked himself in a cabin in
the woods for a month and put this opus together. And essentially (in
the view of this reviewer) not only created one of the best films of
all time but essentially defined his own career by setting a bar so
high that even his own future work could not equal it.

And there you have it. The hard part of the review.

The film is perfection. But in my view QT has yet to produce anything
that comes close either in terms of final product or even in terms of
effort expended.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm only subtracting one star because either part one or part two taken
alone seems incomplete, yet satisfying nonetheless. If they could have
been merged into one film it would be the perfect combination of
mystery, mythology, and exposition.

Uma Thurman was nominated for a Golden Globe as "The Bride," a woman
who seeks revenge against the group of assassins, of whom she was once
a member, who turned her wedding rehearsal into a bloodbath, killing
everybody else in the wedding chapel and putting her into a coma for
four years and having her awaken to an empty womb - she looked about
eight months pregnant when Bill shot her. In volume one, although all
five of the people involved in the massacre are on The Bride's hit
list, she only kills two of them.The Bride goes after Vivica Fox's
now-married housewife and mother, and Lucy Liu's Yakuza boss, which
requires a trip to Japan. Tarantino pays homage to Japanese samurai
films and Hong Kong martial arts films to make an entertaining story
with excellent editing and soundtrack. A perfect start to what's to be
expected in Vol. 2., which is where all of the backstories appear.

If you walk away from both parts one and two wondering if there is any
symbolism in there, is what you thought you saw what you really saw,
and what on earth does that last scene mean?...consider yourself in
good company. And my only spoiler, why didn't Lucy Liu's character want
to kill Bill as much as Uma Thurman's did? That is, if what you think
you see implied in part one is indeed true.

This is Tarantino's best as far as I'm concerned. Every time I see
either part one or part two on cable I'll stop what I'm doing and
watch. Not recommended if you are squeamish though.
<|_=00=_|>
I hate this movie a lot. I have been going on about it for a while, so
I think it's time to take my anger out by making a review. I think I
may have offended some people, and I apologize. 

So, here it goes: "Kill Bill" is a very bad movie. I assume that
Quentin Tarintino immediately drew in fans with "Pulp Fiction," because
of its wit and it was high on the "cool" factor. I saw some of it, and
I will say that it was impressive. But, it looks like Tartintino became
lazy by making this and co-directing the crappy "Sin City."

The storyline of "Kill Bill" is about its name. Bill attacked a woman
who we know as "The Bride." Her name is censored when mentioned. Now,
"The Bride" wants revenge on Bill, and members of a gang called "The
Deadly Viper Assassin Squad." So, she goes out and finds them and
attacks them. The story ends there and it does well, sort of.

The story is something that was thought up in a few minutes. The Bride
wants to kill people, and she does. As simple as that. "Kill Bill
Volume One" really is just shallow characters killing each other.
First, she battles some woman. I have no clue what her name is though.
Then, we find some history of The Bride. After, we find that The Bride
was somehow knocked out. I forgot why. When she wakes up, we experience
more brutal torture of people. Then, she gets a sword and kills lots of
other people. The End.

I find this very similar to "Sin City." It's a gory, shallow and
pretentious action film that was made to show off a visual style and
action scenes. The only real difference is that "Sin City" had
something close to a storyline. This one didn't.

Supposedly, this is Tarintino's homage to martial-arts films. So, that
makes it a masterpiece? That makes it get onto the Top 250 Movies? Is
that why it's rated so highly? It has plenty of references to other
martial-arts films. For example, Uma Thurman wears a suit that looks
similar to the suit worn by Bruce Lee in one of his previous films.

Well, "The Ring" has loads of homages to horror films, including
"Rosemary's Baby," "Silence of the Lambs," and "Poltergeist." Where's
that on the Top 250 movies? Well, the homages seem as a cover-up for
the story's' weakness. Why does a bodyguard fight in a skirt? I know
people get attacked in a number of outfits, but since when does a
bodyguard decide to fight in a schoolgirl outfit? The anime scene is
near pointless, and doesn't even look like anime! It looks more like an
attempt at drawing realistically, and ends up looking pretty ugly.

Maybe it's because of the action. Well, there are only about two or
three fight scenes, and they are only a bit exciting. There are plenty
of other movies, which have better action. For example, "Ultraviolet"
(Another bad movie) had more action than "Kill Bill" and a number of
good fight scenes with good camera angles that gave it some flair. If
that had homages to other films, would that be on the Top 250? I must
say, even the action in "The Karate Kid" seemed to have a certain wit
to it.

All the action in "Kill Bill" is meaningless. It is meant to entertain.
But, with loads of blood, what fun could it be? Its fun to watch The
Bride slash her way through people, but after severed limbs appear, it
loses it's fun. The violence in "Saving Private Ryan" and (I think) the
violence in "The Wild Bunch" had purpose. But this, like "Sin City," is
just sick, cruel violence.

With that, there are PLENTY of movies with good action such as
"Terminator 2: Judgment Day," "Princess Monoke," "House of Flying
Daggers" and "The Quick and the Dead." All of these had better
storyline that "Kill Bill", even if "The Quick and the Dead" seemed a
little weak in that department.

Backing up to horror films, I see that this film plays out like a mix
of "Scream" and "Hellraiser: Bloodline." One person repeatedly tortures
victims (like Pinhead) with a blade. (Like "Scream") Sadly, it's not as
thrilling as "Scream." It's as thrilling as "Hellraiser: Bloodline."
The characters are thin. I'm not talking about thin, as in skinny, but
lacking detail. Sure, "The Bride" gives a bit of inside info on them
(The "inside info" is showing the character killing somebody else.) but
the characters usually die after that.

The action seems too unrealistic. Our main character kills plenty of
people, but how? She jumps in the air and lands on her sword (It's
stuck into the stairs.) but how does she do that? There are some movies
with unrealistic action sequences ("House of Flying Daggers,"
"Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon") but those take place in ancient
China. This takes place in a modern day setting and doesn't feel like
either one of those films.

That's why I hate the film. I can go on and on, but why should I have
to? I suppose I hate it for all these reasons. Maybe the hype killed
it. Or, it could be because Dan Grant's review influenced me to hate
it. Either way, I don't like it.

Yet, there are some good points to this movie. The action can be fun
for some. I don't think torture is necessary though. The music was
excellent. I liked the "Bang Bang" and "Twisted Nerve" song. I suppose
it does seem interesting at parts, like when it turns into anime (even
if the scene seemed pointless) or black-and-white. (But, this was
already used in MANY other movies.)

But, it still stinks. To me, this is about as bad as "Ultraviolet";
it's shallow and uses style to cover up its crappiness.

2/10
<|_=00=_|>
Do I think this movie is absolutely brilliant? Yes. Do I think this is
the all time greatest movie ever, or even a top 50? Nope. I find the
dichotomy between people who hate this movie and those that think it's
the greatest film ever made is interesting. Even more interesting is
the apparent split between fans of Volumes 1 and 2. Like the thread
says, I think most of it's a matter of those who prefer style to
substance. For my past, Volume 1 destroys Volume 2, but I concede that
everyone has their own tastes and experiences and that no one pinion
has any more weight than the other. Two scenes in particular really
make this movie brilliant in my opinion, and both are fairly subtle in
their portrayal but fascinating by their tone and the cinematic
elements that come together to carry them off:

1.) The scene where Oren and the Crazy 88 enter the House of the Blue
Leaves. Absolutely magical. The score, the pacing, the
atmosphere....simply magnificent. The slow motion pull away and the
obvious hierarchy of characters, Lucy Liu was absolutely made for that
part and that part was made for that scene. The beautiful and menacing
Gogo Yubari and the goofy 88s trailing behind. You can also feel the
tension the owners feel at having such esteemed guests but one's who
admittedly exude as much fear as they do respect. Add to this the
nameless, faceless people dancing who are oblivious to the regality
(and lethality) of Oren's entourage. 

2.) Oren is called out by Kiddo who subsequently whacks off Sophie's
arm in a highly symbolic gesture. Words can't describe how moving that
scene is. The score is superb and the timing is nothing short of
perfect. I especially love the way the crowd pauses after the arm
slicing...like they're all stunned or still convincing themselves it
rally happened...then all rush out screaming. Kiddo makes a slow,
deliberate plod through the panicked crowd, a march to destiny filmed
from several perspectives that combine holistically to give the segment
a life of it's own.

One aspect of this movie that puzzles me is the emphasis it's critics
make of the gore. For my part the gore was so outlandish it's hard for
me to see how anyone could take it seriously, and that was part of the
appeal. Buckets of blood spraying 15 feet in the air is so beyond the
realm of reality how could you possibly take it seriously? For my part
it was borderline comical and really brought out the flavor of the
scenes, rather than being their focus. And regardless of what you think
of Tarrentino as a director, the man is bar none the best at matching
musical scores to a scene in the business. A few other noteworthy
scenes...

*The end-fight between Oren and Kiddo....marvelous stuff. The backdrop
of the snow and the water, the smooth silence interrupted by the
fountain, again, a great accompanying score. Fine piece of film
craftsmanship.

*Kiddo's overhead film shot while walking to the bathroom of the House
of the Blue Leaves. Simply amazing. 5,6,7,8s performing live is just
quirky yet proper enough to really add some depth and the unique
filming make this a scene to behold.
<|_=00=_|>

Normally I do not comment on this kind of movie, but I was a captive
audience of one and now feel compelled to write something if only for those
of us who literally fall off our chairs laughing at the gullibility of
people who take this stuff seriously.

Space age technology delivering a form of entertainment designed for one of
two kinds of viewers:  those who are looking strictly for flash and those
who never got beyond kindergarten in matters requiring critical thinking. 
That about sums it up except for wondering what Tarantino is really up to in
delivering live cartoons as if they were serious (or even popular)
literature.

My own guess is that he is making fun of himself making fun of his audience.
 

Not that there's anything wrong with that.
