

'Tuck Everlasting' is one of those sweet movies with a lot of flaws you
don't care about. You could ask question after question but I did not find a
reason to do so. The story about an immortal family and a young teenager
that comes into their lives is probably a well known story for some
audiences, but I didn't know it. The immortal family exists out of father
Angus Tuck (William Hurt), mother Mae (Sissy Spacek) and two sons named
Miles (Scott Bairstow) and Jesse (Jonathan Jackson). The young teenager who
is taken by the family so she can not reveal their secret is Winnie Foster
(Alexis Bledel).

Although at first the family thinks Winnie needs to be killed, things change
when Jesse Tuck and Winnie start to have feeling for one another. Winnie
becomes a new member of the family. In the mean while we have Winnie's
parents (played by Amy Irving and Victor Garber) looking for her. A man in a
yellow suit (Ben Kingsley) is actually looking for the Tuck family but
thinks he will find the girl with them as well. He knows how the Tucks have
found their immortality and has plans for himself.

You can probably understand how many flaws a movie like this must have.
There a couple of reasons we don't really want to ask too many questions.
First of all it is a good thing the movie keeps the attention in the middle
of everything. It does not really focus on the reason of immortality, it
does not really focus on the relationship between Jesse and Winnie and it
does not really focus on the outsiders like Winnie's parents and the
Kingsley-character. Although that is not a good thing in most movies it
works perfectly here.

Another reason you don't want to ask questions is Alexis Bledel together
with Jonathan Jackson. They are sweet together, have some nice scenes.
Although you sometimes see the Rory Gilmore of 'The Gilmore Girls' Bledel
does a nice job with her Winnie Foster. Jonathan Jackson, who I only know
from a small part in 'Insomnia', is a good choice for Jesse. This and three
other respectable actors like Hurt, Spacek and Kingsley make sure the movie
does not fail on that level.

All this together with a very nice score and some beautiful images make this
a very good movie. It is perfect for the whole family. If you can forget the
flaws, forget the question you might have, you must be able to fully enjoy
this.
<|_=00=_|>

I can be a pretty cynical fella, but I had actually read the young adult
novel this film is based on and really enjoyed it. The message of the book
is brought to the screen and I was thoroughly impressed with the adaptation.
A fine cast does great work and Ben Kingsley has a field day playing the
mysterious Man In The Yellow Suit. The film is a little slow going in the
beginning but all the strands and backstory must be laid out and once it
gets going - the film moves with a beauty and tenderness that is rare. The
music score is lovely as is the cinematography but overall, the message of
the movie is what is special - it is not how LONG we live, but HOW we live.
A beautiful film - for kids 9 and up.
<|_=00=_|>
A young rich girl (Alexis Bledel) in the early 1990s, meets and falls
in love with Jesse Tuck (Jonathan Jackson). The problem is that he's
part of a family that are immortal.

I read this book in college as part of a Children's Literature class. I
love it! I thought it was just incredible. I never saw the 1980 version
of this and when I heard Disney was going to redo it I expected the
worst. Fortunately I was wrong. Disney made a quiet, beautiful,
charming fantasy film. They don't overdo the sentimentality (as they
could have) and make the story quite moving and engrossing.

This is also a rare film where virtually every performance is
good--especially Bledel and Jackson. But Sissy Spacek, William Hurt,
Amy Irving and Scott Bairstrow also turn in very good acting. And
Elisabeth Shue narrates and does an excellent job.

This is beautiful--well-directed and acted with a sweeping music score.
I was captivated from beginning to end. This failed at the box office
but it really should be rediscovered. I give it a 10!
<|_=00=_|>
I will start by saying that I have read the book and it is one of my
all-time favorites. The movie stuck pretty close to the book, right
down to several quotes taken from the book. There were a few changes
that surprised me. For example, in the book, Miles is a mild mannered
person. In the movie, he's extremely bitter because of what happened to
him due to his immortality. (Sorry, no spoilers) It was a good change.

The casting was amazing. Alexis Bledel plays Winnie Foster. Like Rory
on Gilmore Girls, Winnie is very serious, but wants to have fun.
William Hurt didn't strike me as someone old and wise, but he portrays
Angus Tuck very well. Sissy Spacek was great as Mae Tuck, showing her
character's motherly side toward Winnie.

Ben Kingsley plays the Man in the Yellow Suit (TMITYS). TMITYS is a
great villain in the same league as Lex Luthor. He has no superpowers,
but his mere presence can send super humans (immortals) running for
cover. In the book, he's a vague character. He doesn't even seem to be
a villain until later in the book. All we know is that he wants to find
the Tucks and their spring. In the movie, TMITYS is presented as a
villain, and we find out more about what he wants and how he knows
about the Tucks. Bravo, Mr. Kingsley!

One last thought... (I know I said 'no spoilers', so I'll be as
discreet as I can.) Don't let the ending disappoint you. I told my
cousin the end of the movie and she said it was a terrible ending. It
wasn't terrible. One character just made a choice. I strongly recommend
this movie to people of all ages.
<|_=00=_|>

This is the best adaptation of a classic children's book I've seen in a
very
long time. Nearly everything in this film is just right. Of all the
live-action films that Walt Disney produced in his lifetime, one he was
very
proud of was the 1960 POLLYANNA, and TUCK EVERLASTING reminded me of
POLLYANNA in several key aspects. Like POLLYANNA, TUCK has a meticulous
attention to period details (it takes place in 1914). Also like POLLYANNA,
it has some high-powered acting talent in peripheral roles, with the main
focus of the story on younger, less well-known actors. The cinematography
is
beautiful, with a rich interplay of light and shadow, and to best
appreciate
this aspect, you should try to see it in a theater with the brightest
picture available. Like another classic children's book (CHARLOTTE'S WEB)
TUCK EVERLASTING explores philosophical concepts of life and death and
eternity that most adult films, much less children's films, ever touch on.
I
hope that TUCK doesn't end up comparable to POLLYANNA in one key area: lack
of box-office success. Walt was extremely disappointed when, despite the
loving attention he garnished on the film, audiences for the most part
stayed away. TUCK EVERLASTING deserves to be  a huge success. Hollywood has
come under frequent criticism for not making enough family-friendly films,
but it seems that when a rich, intelligent film does come out, it's
ignored.
I hope and pray that this one won't be.
<|_=00=_|>
I'll keep it brief - I appreciate this movie a whole lot. When I got it
I really was expecting something different, so for the majority of the
movie I was disappointed, considered the plot and characters mediocre.
But the last two minutes of the movie made me rethink the entire thing,
man... I can not promise you an amazing ending or anything like that,
because most people probably saw it coming, all I can say for certain
is that it sure did affect me. I thought it would just be all typical
and uninteresting and everything but having a meaningfully strung
conclusion like that set my head straight and made me see what it was
all about. Now I can't wait to watch it again. I consider this movie a
well done story with good acting and a nice enough plot. It has strong
aesthetic value through it's good looking images/scenery, too. Of
course it made me completely depressed. The stories that are supposed
to be life-affirming are always the ones that make me the most
depressed, "A Year of Impossible Goodbyes" was supposed to be a
life-affirming adventure but it's the saddest book I've ever read!
<|_=00=_|>

Even though Disney does have some very bad movies out there, there are still
ones that are excellent. Tuck Everlasting was such a great film. The acting
was great. William Hurt, Ben Kingsley, Sissy Spacek, Jonathan Jackson, Scott
Bairstow, Amy Irving, Victor Garbor, Alexis Bledel are excellent in this
movie. They are all such good actors/ actresses. The scenery was just
beautiful. The music was very very pretty. I never read the book and I know
there are probably changes in it from the movie, but as a movie lover I
loved ever minute of it. This movie is for everyone. I recommend this movie
to anyone who loves a good Disney movie or just a good family movie.

<|_=00=_|>
Make no mistake: this is a nice movie, but it's one of those films you
can't help but feel could have been so much better.

The first 20 minutes was very promising with spectacular scenery,
overall cinematography and interesting characters. But, it started to
slow down and then just bogged down more and more with a teen romance.
Yes, it finished fairly well but unless you are a teen or 20-something
young woman, I doubt this film will hold your interest. 

Perhaps even for some women, this movie did not turn out as
dramatically as it should have been. It's just too flat. Too bad; it
looked like a "keeper' for awhile.
<|_=00=_|>

Winnie Foster(Alexis Bledel) is a free spirited young girl who is sick of
living a boring life with her rich strict parents and one night after an
argument with her parents Winnie runs away. She gets lost in a forest and
stumbles upon Jesse(Jonathon Jackson). His family now takes Winnie with them
because she has discovered a secret. That the Tuck's are immortal and that
she can never ever tell anybody about that. Winnie and Jesse fall in love,
and now Winnie must choose, will she go on and live her life like she is
supposed to, or will she become immortal just like Jesse and spend forever
with him?
I thought this was a very beautiful movie, it is not just for kids like many
people say. I think the whole family could enjoy this movie, it questions a
lot of things people wonder about these days and it's just a really great
magical fairytale.
I would give Tuck Everlasting 10/10
<|_=00=_|>

Like many other people on this website, I myself had to read the novel upon
which this film is based when I was in the sixth grade. I really can't
remember it that much, but seeing the movie brought some of it back to
me.

The movie strays from Babitt's novel in some ways, as the "love" between two
central characters is romanticized slightly. Otherwise, the story is not
changed all that much, but there are still a few minor changes to the story
that I could remember.

Most of the cast was perfect. Ben Kingsley fits the role of The Man in the
Yellow Suit pretty well. Out of place kinda are Sissy Spacek and William
Hurt who have the minority roles in this film. They were still quite good,
though.

The story flows nicely, but there were still a few scenes that were
different as I had envisioned. I pictured the Treegap Constable having a
bigger role, and I also envisioned there to be more 19th century costume and
prop designs. Just some things to be kept in mind when the next remake of
this novel comes out in another thirty years or so.

TUCK EVERLASTING: 4/5.
