
"Hulk" is a film which is widely considered a failure, both financially
and artistically. Yet in the latter category this movie has a lot on
offer: masterful editing, good acting and the direction of a true
master. 

What Ang Lee has tried to achieve, namely merging the pulp-story of the
Hulk with the scale and drama of a Greek tragedy has been well
achieved. The scope of the story and its effects on the characters are
only to be taken seriously on a truly grand scale, and by supplying the
protagonists with interwoven back-stories Lee and his screenwriters are
making it clear that this is not to be seen as a realistic story, but
an epic metaphor. 

Special kudos goes to Timothy Squyres, who does one marvelous job of
creating an editing similar to a comic's design. This pays tribute to
the source material's pulp origins as well making an impressive visual
statement. "Hulk" looks and feels like no other film, which makes it
one of the most interesting, if not one of the best comic- adaptations
of all time. 

The crux is that this movie does not know who it's aimed at. The
intellectual Ang Lee- connoisseur picks his nose when it comes to the
Hulk, simply due to its humble roots, while the average
popcorn-cinema-goer is slightly irritated when confronted with the
films "odd" approach to comic-movies. This means that only viewers
which are a bit of both can truly appreciate this masterpiece. 

All the other elements for a good piece of entertainment are there and
present: Eric Bana is, as usual, fine as the tormented soul which
manifests itself in green rage, Jennifer Connelly is as solid as ever
and Nick Nolte steals the show with what is a truly weird turn as Bruce
Banner's/the Hulk's dad. The visual effects are beautifully executed as
well. There is not much left to be desired.

It's a pity such an interesting and brave film gets a rating of
slightly above 6 at IMDb.
<|_=00=_|>

Of all the big name superheroes Marvel has to offer, HULK is one of the
easiest to gravitate to. It's not hard to find what makes him appealing.
Superficially, he is an unstoppable raging behemoth whose strength is
rarely
matched. This alone would be an obvious foundation for a film franchise.
What is surprising (and ultimately refreshing) about this one is its
willingness to explore the depth of the Hulk's dilemma. If the film's jade
giant were absent from this movie, its story could still be the frame for
another.

The movie starts with an army scientist named David Banner who performs
genetic experiments for the government. He carries one out on himself
before
fathering his son Bruce. After a few years into Bruce's childhood, a
tragic
event occurs, which results in David's incarceration for 30 years and
separation from his son.

Upon maturing, Bruce also becomes a scientist. Instead of his father's
obsession with genetics, he develops a fascination for gamma rays and
nano-med (almost subatomic medicinal) technology. He becomes victim of a
lab
accident that unleashes the Hulk; partly due to genetic mutation he
inherited from his father, who just happens to work on the base as
janitor,
recently released from his sentence. To make things more interesting,
Banner's co-scientist, Betty Ross is his former flame. And she just
happens
to be the daughter of General Ross, the man who jailed David Banner during
his family's tragedy. It is this terrible event that holds the key to why
Bruce transforms to his monstrous side, and to how their reunion will
end.

The movie starts slow, with admirable character development. By the time
the
Hulk appears, everyone's motivations are known with each personality
sharply
distinguished. Ang Lee loves showing humanity and human frailty in his
stories as he has done exceptionally in EAT DRINK MAN WOMAN, THE WEDDING
BANQUET, SENSE AND SENSIBILITY, and THE ICE STORM. We discover the hidden
storylines, the human aspects that can be just as interesting as the
action.
We discover that Bruce and Betty have both had fathers that they could
never
count on (that's probably what brought them together). We see David Banner
and General Ross not primarily as power hungry males, but as caring
fathers
as well. We experience Bruce Banner's awkwardness and inability to express
himself adequately, which makes us understand all the more why he begins
to
`enjoy' transforming into his raging alter-id.

Though it's true that the Hulk doesn't appear until 45 minute into the
movie, once he does, the action hardly stops. Sure there are scenes of
destruction, but they are calculated, punctuating turning points in the
movie, instead of bombarding the audience as mayhem in others. The
backdrops
upon which these action sequences are set upon are breathtaking. The
battles
rage from an underground base, to the vast majestic Monument Valley
landscape, all the way to the Golden Gate Bridge and even to the very
stratosphere. I can still vividly recall Images of the Hulk clashing with
`hulk-dogs' in the California Redwood forests and him being chased by
helicopter gunships in a concave rock formation in the Arizona
desert.

People remember Ang Lee for CROUCHING TIGER HIDDEN DRAGON, which many
consider (present company included) to be the greatest martial arts
picture
ever made. It left such big shoes to fill, even for Lee (At one point TIME
Magazine labeled him, `America's Best Director'). Those who recall
CROUCHING
TIGER remember its sublime images of combat, but what set it apart in its
genre was its poetic character involvement. We cared deeply for Li Mu Bai
and Yu Shu Lien, for their values, and for their quest for the green
destiny. Lee does the same for HULK. In exposing its characters to danger,
he wishes to reveal the gravity of their situations. Hardly ever does
anyone
utter a mutter a snappy line, emote a mushy sentiment, or deliver a cliché
expression.

Compare Bruce Banner's discovery of his newfound abilities with Peter
Parker's (of SPIDER-MAN). He reacts with deep fear and confusion, whereas
Parker reacts with excitement and exhilaration. The latter may be more
amiable for audiences, but if I found out that I was growing microscopic
claws on my fingertips and spewing webbing from my wrists, I'd be freaking
out. Spider-Man has the comfort of shooting off a few quips along with his
webs as he confronts his foes. Banner, along with other characters in HULK
have no such luxury. The movie is not without joy though. It has several
humorous moments, none of them in a light-hearted sense
though.

It should be said that this picture was blessed with a great cast. Eric
Bana
(BLACK HAWK DOWN & CHOPPER), who has star written all over him, conveys
inner turmoil-slash-solidity very effectively as Bruce Banner. The
ever-beautiful Jennifer Connelly reprises her
wife-of-a-brilliant-but-mentally-unstable-scientist
role from A BEAUTIFUL MIND as Betty Ross. I thought her main purpose was
to
appear as a captivating yet unreachable beauty for both Banner and the
Hulk,
and she serves her role perfectly. Nick Nolte has to my mind never given a
bad performance, and he appears valuably scruffy and deceivingly two-faced
as David Banner (he could be confused for one of the hulk-dogs). But of
all
of the main players, Sam Elliot (THE CONTENDER, WE WERE SOLDIERS, & THE
BIG
LEBOWSKI) impressed me the most with his controlled and palpable intensity
as General Ross. At one point, with his glistening complexion and bulging
neck veins, he looked more intimidating than the Hulk.

The movie has a lot of other assets. It has a memorable score by Danny
Elfman (who also did BATMAN and SPIDER-MAN). It has beautiful
cinematography
by Frederick Elmes (THE ICE STORM). It has wondrous visualization by using
split-screens like window panes in comic books, such as several angles in
one shot, or one window opening up into another (this is the most
inventive
use of the technique since Brian De Palma's FEMME FATALE). It also has
buried moments of lyrical dueling between different characters. When Betty
Ross says, `You weren't that hard to find.' and Banner retorts `Yes I
was.'
that instant carried a greater emotional weight. You'll understand it once
you see it.

Fans of the Hulk (like me) will be familiar with the several storylines
that
have been amalgamated into the screenplay, one of them being David Banner,
who is Bruce's character in THE INCREDIBLE HULK TV series (speaking of
which, Lou Ferrigno, who portrayed the TV Hulk, appears in a cameo with
Stan
Lee). The rest I leave up to the `Hulksters'. But for all the pluses that
HULK has, the ones that I will take home with me are its ideas. That the
Hulk is not just rage, he is pure innocence. He only smashes when
provoked.
He is a near mindless brute, but when calm, he is a child. He smites tanks
that fire at him as a toddler would kick a toy after tripping over it.

As a character, the Hulk is the ultimate childlike id, the source of all
instinctual impulses and demands for immediate satisfaction of primitive
needs. As a film, THE HULK is the most introspective of the Marvel
superhero
movies that have come out so far. The X-MEN films have had the
disadvantage
of having too many characters, resulting in too many protagonists to
follow.
SPIDER-MAN and the BLADE movies were all about entertainment. Many comic
book films barely touch on their themes, but HULK actually wants to deal
with the issues it raises. No wonder I gravitate to it.

<|_=00=_|>
Ang Lee's "Hulk", at two years after.

Perusing the negative reviews of the film collected at the Rotten
Tomatoes site, I'm stricken by the degree to which the negativity
directed at it by allegedly professional film critics is based upon the
fact that it dashed (rather than living up to) their rather low
expectations for it. The assumptions underlying so many of the
criticisms are that the film is supposed to be a brainless "summer
blockbuster," but isn't. Another variation: that it's a film based upon
a comic book, and that all such projects are supposed to be mindless
rubbish for dazzling bumpkins (To those of us with some genuine
knowledge of the field, this variant is particularly entertaining in
that it's inevitably accompanied by a string of authoritative
assertions regarding comics which demonstrate only the offended
critics' abysmal ignorance of the medium). "Hulk," it seems, doesn't
know its place; it commits the sin of aiming for something more than
mediocrity. In a sense, this is a testament to the film's quality. It
clearly doesn't cater to such low expectations.

Criticism of the film's CGI--a more common one at places like IMDb
where there's far less pretense that a poster actually has anything of
value to say--can be set aside as the superficial whining it is. In
spite of what so many "summer blockbuster" fans seem to think, special
effects aren't a story; they're just a means of telling one. The CGI in
"Hulk" is competent. Beyond that, it doesn't matter.

Likewise the vacuous "it's boring" complaint. Modern viewers with no
attention span be advised up front that you will find "Hulk"
challenging, and would be better served by spending your
"entertainment" budget on trash like "The Phantom Menace" and "The Day
After Tomorrow," and leaving the real movies to the adults.

I don't insist that a fan of typical Hollywood summer fare actually
offer some rational critique of the picture--I'm not a cruel man. I do,
however, insist that, for anyone who expects to be taken seriously,
"Hulk" must be accepted or rejected for what it really is. For my part,
I think it's a misunderstood minor masterpiece, a film in the vein of
"Blade Runner", "Excalibur," and "Once Upon A Time In The West"--all
generally snubbed in their day, all now just as generally hailed as
classics. I'd like to think I live in a society where this is the fate
that one day awaits "Hulk"; it certainly deserves it. Time will tell, I
suppose.
<|_=00=_|>
I finally caught up with the film on DVD, after missing its cinema
release and just not having the urge to see it until now. It has had
some rather bad press, so I wasn't actually expecting very much.

One of the reasons I have waited so long was to let my son, (who is now
eight) grow up a bit before seeing it. He was interested in the tie-in
products filling the shelves in all the stores on release. A
blanket-marketing ploy that is becoming more and more hysterical, I
fear.

Another was that I was wary of renting it as the Hulk character has
been rather mal-treated in live-action form.

Until Ang Lee's film.

Firstly, this isn't by any stretch of the imagination, a kids' film.
Though my younger children watched it, it gave them serious food for
thought about what scientists do to animals and people in the name of
science. My oldest was enthralled. She appreciated Lee's magnificent
use of the film medium.

This is a very dark movie. The origin-story has been manipulated and
updated linking the two lead characters (Bana and Connelly) in a
sorrowful, fearful event that happened to them both in their childhood.
Nice touch.

"Banner's" (Eric Bana's) father (played by Nick Nolte) shuffles back
into his life after 30 years incarceration for causing the events that
had traumatized the young Banner. Banner later finds that his father
had "experimented" on him when they were still a whole family. This
creepy device effectively modernizes the story and it's ultimate
revelation is a clever way of releasing the pent-up rage that Banner jr
has locked within his mind. This rage feeds the Hulk. Banner finally
becomes the Hulk after some incredible bravery in the lab.

The film's effects are superb. I am a very happy viewer. This is great
cinema. A wonderful adaptation of a tortured, misunderstood human
being.

Highly recommended, by me, for true Hulk fans.
<|_=00=_|>
In a time where superhero movies seem to come from the assembly line
and standards are (sadly) set already it is hard to find gems that
really transcend these paradigms.

Ang Lee made a different approach to the superhero genre - and the
people didn't like it! Why? After Daredevil, Blade, Elektra, Aeon Flux,
League of extraordinary gentlemen, Spiderman (yes, i mean it), Spawn,
etc etc there are many parallels you can draw between superhero films.
And Hulk is the only thing that the others aren't: un-American! In a
very rare exception we have a film here that doesn't have the arrogance
and straight-forward story that we seem to have gotten used to too
easily.

Spiderman (in particular) follows the EXACT steps you can read in a
tutorial for film making - that may be neat to watch but leaves no
space for surprises or artistic inputs. Ang Lee seems to have taken
especially this thought very seriously and created a piece of art that
the average pop-corn-formula-film-liking movie-goer may find hard to
digest. No doubt, this movie is not made for assembly-line-film-lovers
- it is constructed very thoughtfully and goes beyond the
interpretation of a superhero. It plays with the chaos that erupts out
of the events rather than glorifying another world saviour.

There is no real good and evil, there only is an overcharge from both
sides that don't know how to master the situation. The American
movie-goer averagely wants black and white sides, a proud US-flag
waving and a hero that saves the day (+nation and eventually the world,
maybe even the universe). Nope, not in this one. While most of the
other films establish superheroes as something that fits perfectly into
our society, Hulk plays with the idea of what would happen if unknown
uncontrolled untameable power surfaces - and that both sides act
incredibly humane. At this point 80% of movie-consumers are out and 90%
of movie-lovers come in (that number is small as we know).

I appreciated the rather unconventional storytelling, I admire the
cast, I treasure the artistic hybrid of comic and reality and I enjoyed
the portrayal of energy. Now, anyone who has seen Asian action films
will find many parallels - the question is, are YOU ready to adapt to
some of those standards when they are being poured over a western
story? I was... And I was overwhelmed!

Anyone calling this movie the worst film they've ever seen (and there
are quite few stating this) should stay with Spiderman, Transformers
and Blade and get the same product over and over again (because they
keep buying it). For my part I was grateful to see that there are
people out there who get the chance to put a very distinctive stamp on
their work making it unique and deep.

Five years later the audience won and an assembly line version was
released, not as bad as some others but definitely not as creative and
visionary as this one. Great job Ang!!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
Hulk is an excellent action/drama and science-fiction film based on the
classic superhero (or antihero) The Incredible Hulk. Following the
trend on the last years about recycling comic superheroes, Hulk's turn
became a very interesting alternative to other formulas used in several
of these adaptations.

Knowing that many people consider this movie as dull and boring, please
let me state that it's far from being dull. After the critics towards
Spiderman just scratching the surface of character development, and
where other movies simply failed miserably (e.g. Daredevil), we should
be grateful that we can finally see some depth in the main character as
we're used in the good comics.

Ang Lee's direction shows his usual way of telling stories, in a
sensitive and personal way. Instead of letting the movie drown in its
limitless action possibilities, he conducted the story through a
sensible path. The editing work, which remarkably resembles comic
frames in many scenes, and contains some awesome transitions, is simply
wonderful.

And all this not forgetting Hulk's main point: a green, angry mass of
power and destruction. The movie has some of the best action scenes
I've seen lately, which makes me wonder what is expecting some people
who blame this movie for its lack of massive fights against entire
armies. My opinion is that the action scenes of Hulk are perfectly
balanced; more than showing Hulk's sheer strength but never going
completely overboard. And also showing some of Hulk's main weaknesses,
keeping the character real and not entering the area of fantasy.

One side of this movie that people also seems to throw tantrums about,
is the refurbishing of Hulk's origins. The story of Bruce Banner's
transformation has been updated with including today's technology, and
making it in my humble opinion much more interesting and 'believable'
than the original. Not being a huge fan of Hulk's comics, I didn't feel
personally attached to the original story, so I actually liked it more.
But I can understand that the purists or the die-hard fans will be
disappointed by these changes.

Along with Hulk's origins, the plot includes good science-fiction
elements. Don't misunderstand me; the stuff is in general barely
believable. A scientist conducting advanced genetic experiments in 1965
(all by himself!) is not a good start... But in the end, it doesn't
matter. This superhero adaptation is as good science-fiction as other
excellent adaptations like X-Men (including its sequel X2), where
others will just remain as good or bad action films with just some
sci-fi scattered around. Where others lost their opportunity, Hulk
didn't.

What other things are good in this movie? Well, the main actors all do
a good work, specially Jennifer Conelly and Nick Nolte. The special
effects are great, and while there are entire scenes made just of CGI,
they're still not the strong point of the movie. The plot and dialogues
aren't just bridges between computer generated action scenes, which I'm
thankful for. Furthermore, the plot is also rich in references to the
comic, Hulk's enemies and other subtle things. The movie is full of
small details (has anyone noticed the frog over the hat in the final
scene?) which reward you when watching it a second or third time.

The main down of the movie might be that followers aren't used to see
Hulk in this way, a deep and sensitive character, and probably expected
more action and enemy-smashing and less deep dialogues running after
child traumas... Which could explain its relatively low rating and some
bad critics. Maybe I just connected very well with this movie and
that's why I put it so well, but I can also see that the elements of
this film, taken independently, also have their merits and all together
form a solid production. In my opinion, of all the comic superhero
adaptations, Hulk is the most interesting and best quality one which
I've watched to date. I just wish people would concentrate more on
enjoying this different view of a superhero's life. But oh well, each
one has different tastes.

And one final note. The soundtrack is absolutely wonderful!
<|_=00=_|>

I had rather low expectations before seeing Hulk, since the early criticism
was pretty harsh and basically the whole mojo around this movie didn't sound
very good. However, I was very pleasantly surprised. As many previous
reviewers pointed out, Ang Lee has created a marvelous movie/comic book
amalgam, which may be too cerebral to most of the viewers, but Hulk has
always been pretty complicated character anyway. If the movie had been made
as a "Hulk Smash!" bruhaha it would most certainly...well, suck! This way we
got excellent Sam Elliot and Jennifer Connely, and very good Nick Nolte and
Eric Bana, all capped with absolutely brilliant directing by Ang Lee. If
only all the other comic book movies were directed in this
way...
<|_=00=_|>
I know the current "Avengers" movies are popular right now, and
everybody digs Mark Ruffalo's version of the Hulk (myself included), I
still consider Ang Lee's 2003 "Hulk" to be one of the finest comic book
based movies ever, and contrary to popular belief, one of the most
faithful. Being a true fan of the Hulk comic stories from the 60's to
the 80's, I think I can say this with credibility. I'm also coming from
the angle that the 70's TV show is not the real Hulk. 

First, Ang Lee's film is extremely faithful to the comics. Watching the
movie, it was as if some scenes were lifted right out of the Stan Lee
stories. Hulk fighting army tanks in the desert, Hulk leaping over
canyon cliffs, Hulk touching the reaches of space, and yes, even Hulk
dogs are from the comics. Hulk's father in the movie is directly based
on Bruce's father in the comics, Brian Banner, who was abusive and
allegedly had a hand in Hulk's origin. The many villain incarnations
that David Banner takes on at the end of the film are not just the
Absorbing Man, but are an amalgam of many of Hulk villains including
Zzax.

Second, Ang Lee's film was less about simply "Hulk Smash" and more
about the idea of the Hulk. The idea of evolution, the idea of
repression and subsequent freedom from that repression. It's
interesting that every Ang Lee film is similarly about this idea of
repression. Repressed gay cowboys, repressed women in China, a
repressed slave finding freedom after the Civil War, etc. The evolution
idea is expressed in the food chain of "Hulk" creatures we see in the
movie. First a frog, then dogs, Hulk himself, and then a near "Hulk
god" in David Banner. Evolution is also cinematically expressed in the
morph edits seen throughout the film. Contrary to popular belief, the
multi-frame editing was not just about mimicking a a comic book, it was
about expressing the idea of freedom from repression, of seeing
something from different angles, different points of view, different
sides, much like Bruce has a "different side" to him. If you notice,
the multi-angles many times show us the same subject but from a
different camera angle. The idea of the Hulk is also metaphorically
visually expressed through the imagery of atomic mushroom clouds and
jellyfish, two visually similar objects. It expresses the idea that
this Hulk was born of two of the greatest known forces in the universe,
genetic and atomic force.

It's Ang Lee's masterful filmmaking, strong use of visual metaphor, and
faithfulness to the original comics that really sets his Hulk film
apart for me. Perhaps the one scene that really spells out what Ang Lee
is doing and also brought me back to the old comics was that first
close-up we see of Hulk free and jumping through the desert to the
haunting Danny Elfman music. Classic.
<|_=00=_|>

It's late, so I'll just bullet point my thoughts.

1.  Hulk as CGI - works most of the time, some of the time it doesn't. 
Nobody can argue with that.  But, like Gollum, the expressions of the face
and the fantastic body language made you WANT to believe. Unlike Gollum,
some of the shots just don't work at all.  The big CG breakthrough for this
movie - the manipulation of real settings was just SPECTACULAR.  I fully
belived that San Fran was getting torn apart.  

2.  Too long.  Cut a half hour.  

3.  The comic book style - hit and miss.  

4.  Most of my friends hated the movie, yet.....  

5.  ..... I found many of the scenes to be incredibly moving, which took me
by surprise.  Though I secretly hoped that the Hulk would just be ICE Storm
with Hulk in the Joan Allen role, I have to admit that Lee pulled off one
helluva feat.  I sympathized more for the hulk than the entire MATRIX cast
(of both movies) combined.  And I'll take a faulted movie with emotion over
almost any big budget vehicle any day.

The L Man  

<|_=00=_|>

I went into this fearing the worst and I was rather quite surprised. I
thought all the so called 'boring' parts were needed both for
characterisation and plot development. The way all this is shot keeps it
from slowing down to much and before you know it the Hulk is out. Very
impressive visually, only spoiled by a lousy ending.

8/10.
