

In the lines of She's All That, Columbia Pictures brings Whatever It Takes,
a teen comedy with all the cliches. The story is fairly simple, unpopular
guy (Shane West) is in love with hottest girl in the school (Jodi Lyn
O'Keefe). His beautiful yet different female friend (Marla Sokoloff) is
being adored by the hottest guy in the school (James Franco). So the
unpopular guy and the popular guy team up to get the girls. They both help
each other in ways that aren't normal to each other. But when the unpopular
guy realizes that what he was looking for was right under his nose
everything becomes chaotic. The performances are good. Nobody does a stand
out job but they all do the best with what they have. The jokes are at times
really funny and at times a complete waist of time. There is a lot of racy
material for a PG-13 movie. Many of the sexual jokes can get pretty bad. If
your a teenager I think you will enjoy this film. Whatever It Takes is a
sometime enjoyable and sometime funny teen comedy with a reused plot and
many teen comedy cliches. If your looking for a comedy that breaks new
ground this just ain't it. But if your looking to enjoy yourself, you might
just get a kick out of it.      
<|_=00=_|>

Whatever it takes is bad, silly, predictable, stupid, and romantic, in
exactly the ways it's supposed to be. It follows formula to a tee. Good
production quality. The beautiful people are very, and the nerds are
unmistakable. Teen gross outs. Hot fashions. Adolescent fantasy at its
finest.
Both a one and a ten at the same time, I have to give it a
five.

<|_=00=_|>

Perhaps there's a new software product called InstaScript that's selling
big
in Hollywood. To make this movie, simply feed in keywords like teenager,
high school, prom, and booze. Then ensure character choices include two
females: one rich and self-indulgent, one attractive but rejected. And
males: Three jocks, three geeks, and a geek-but-jock wannabe. Next, turn
the
sex setting to extra-super-duper, but make sure the PG-13 button is turned
on (or who knows what may happen). InstaScript is conveniently programmed
to
recognize that audiences love to hate popular people, laugh at geeks
watching pornography, and cheer underdogs who get vengeance in the end.
So,
push print and voila! Out comes a perfectly formatted script that will
impress the studio soooo much, they won't notice the missing
plot.

Instascript will do 'Whatever It Takes' to get your movie made. Note the
wardrobe department will save extra dollars with costumes that use minimal
fabric to clothe the star females. Notice also the scene where the girl
that
is willing to have sex with any man who treats her badly (a great
portrayal
for young female audiences to follow...) is camped on the front lawn of
the
guy she wants to take to the prom. The convincing way she flashes her
almost
naked body at him is bound to be a hit.

Meanwhile, your Miss Unpopular character will blossom into a full woman,
especially when she leads her date to think she wants bondage sex on prom
night. And how about that twist at the end? How could anyone guess those
two
would wind up together?

And you'll love the way InstaScript fills in the other 90 minutes of your
script by reusing classic movie scenes. Sure, you may know about Cyrano de
Bergerac's trick of telling his buddy what to say to the girl. And yes,
you've seen the swimming pool idea in It's A Wonderful Life, but don't
worry. Nobody coming to see the movies you make with InstaScript is going
to
be old or wise enough to ever suspect that the following movie has been
recycled to fit their screen.

(c)2000, One Voice Communications. All rights reserved.

<|_=00=_|>

Final Score: 3.8 (out of 10)

As cliché teensploitation movies go `Whatever It Takes' is as dull as it
comes. And that's really saying something given all the spit-wad plotlines
screenwriter Mark Schwahn throws up against the wall hoping something -
anything - will stick during this dog's drawn out running time. Not one
character, situation or idea elicits the smallest laugh. The cardinal sin
of
comedies. Even the grating `10 Things I Hate About You' got a laugh here
and
there.  Following in the standard prototype of the modern teensploitation
movie, this generically titled movie builds it's high school setting
around
a work of classic literature, usually Shakespeare, and in this case
`Cyrano
DeBergerac'. But it's a slim basis at best, the movie takes more of it's
cues from `She's All That', `10 Things' and every other teen movie of 2
years earlier where the characters scheme to get the hottest girls in
school, high school is divided sharply on clique based stereotypes and the
world of every character of every clique revolves around. (dun, dun, dun)
the prom.

The one thing `WiT' does right is the casting. The movie is almost
watchable
by Jodi Lyn O'Keefe and Marla Sokoloff prancing around as the `hot girls'.
O'Keefe sends the guilty pleasure meter through the roof in a few juicy
freeze-frame scenes. The always adorable Sokoloff even manages to escape
with her dignity, which is more than I can say for the rest of the cast
including Shane West, James Franco (`Freaks and Geeks'), poor talented
Richard Schiff (`The West Wing') as the `PE teacher` and Julia Sweeney in
a
particular embarrassing role as West's mother/flamboyantly liberal Sex Ed
teacher.

Every once in a while I start to think one of these movies might have
something satirical to say, maybe offer some honest or insight on the high
school caste system. Alas, it's not to be as our hero (West) does things
that no normal teen would do following the script's phony teen character
to
a T. Some of the jokes are even so dated one wonders if the movie were
delayed a few years. The prom night finale involves a painfully unfunny
riff
on 'Titanic' (1997!) and around that we've got geeks pulling vandalism
stunts, `the most popular girl in school' turning out to be a bitch and a
pseudo-climactic race to stop `the most popular guy in school' from
implementing his `Sail and Bail' policy on the sweet girl despite
everybody
knowing full well that she's to smart to fall for it.

All of this drags at an uneven pace at the hand of  director David Raynr;
feeling like an epic at barely over 90 minutes. It's true
teensploitation -
constructed in equal parts by a Hollywood contempt for the teenage
demographic on full display by Raynr and Schwahn here and a teen audience
that gobbles this stuff up again and again. It's got a decent guilty
pleasure factor, but you can only get so many miles out of Jodi in the
shower before even I want something more.  
<|_=00=_|>
Ryan Woodman (Shane West) and Maggie Carter (Marla Sokoloff) are best
friends and neighbors. Floyd (Aaron Paul) is their slacker friend. Ryan
is obsessed with high school goddess Ashley Grant (Jodi Lyn O'Keefe).
Big man on campus Chris Campbell (James Franco) wants to get the one he
can't get, the virginal enigmatic Maggie. So he needs Ryan to Cyrano
DeBergerac for him. In return he proposes to do the same for Ryan with
his cousin Ashley.

The biggest problem is that Shane West is way too good looking for the
loser role. They need somebody much more geeky, and a bad haircut
really doesn't make it. It's nothing offensive, but it just can't rise
above the clichés. It's obvious where this is going, and it has an
uncomfortable time getting there.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was just awful! It was just about the worst movie I've ever
seen. It's up there w/ Win a Date w/ Tad Hamitlon & In Good Company.
This movie had absolutely no point. The had Shane West as the "geek"!
How could you put someone that gorgeous as a geek?!?! HONESTLY! I
really hated the movie, it was cheesy lame & should have never been
made. Don't watch it b/c those are important minutes of your life that
you will never get back! I mean Shane goes to all these attempts to get
a girl who only seems interested b/c he treats her badly. I don't
understand if a guy pushed me in my pool there would be no more
speaking between us! This movie is a rip off & boring. I actually might
have fallen asleep a few times. The ending was just awful, and his
friends were complete and total fools! I've never seen any movie so
strange. The prom being themed Titanic was just insane. I really can't
even put into words how badly I hated this movie. DON'T GO SEE IT.
Believe me i'm helping you out!
<|_=00=_|>

All right, let me state first-off that I LOVE Marla Sokoloff and would do
ANYTHING (including sit through "Whatever It Takes" again) for her. To
underscore the depth of my devotion, let's take a peek at this film. It is
the most AWFUL RIP-OFF of classic teen movies ever made. Columbia owes about
a dozen studios either credits or apologies. 
First, we have the premise--a guy and a girl are next-door neighbours and
well, sparks just might fly. They even shout at one another from opposite
balconies. Where have we seen this before? "Drive Me Crazy" (Fox) of course.
We also have a onetime nerd who cruelly abandons his nerd friends in order
to score with a hot chick--"Drive Me Crazy" again. 
There's also a witchy, misandristic girl protagonist (as seen in Disney's
"10 Things I Hate About You"). Even the underlying theme of the film--stud
wins the heart of mousy girl, nerd wins hot babe--is a steal from
Universal's classic "Sixteen Candles."
Trust me, there is NOTHING original in this movie! Even the nerd with the
surprise prom date ("Drive Me Crazy"), the screechy girl thrusting her
yearbook into people's faces for autographs (Columbia's own "Can't Hardly
Wait") and the prominence of a very unfunny penis joke early in the film
("10 Things") are blatant rip-offs.
Now that I've torn this movie apart, you can't say you haven't been warned! 
   
<|_=00=_|>

The only part of WIT it takes I liked was the set, Maggie and Ryan's
balconies. That was cool, plus it had the opportunity to say the one funny
part of the film was when Ryan jumps onto her porch and Maggie says the line
[not gonna say it if people are reading this who haven't seen the movie].
Much better versions of this storyline were "Never Been Kissed", "She's All
That" and the aforementioned "10 Things". I must admit, I was a little
confused why they put great actors like Kip Pardue and Christine Lakin in
bit parts while Jodi Lyn O'keefe and James Franco were starring. 
<|_=00=_|>

Routine teen effort about a nerd (Shane West) and a high school jock (James
Franco) who team up together to help each other land the girl of their
dreams. Very appealing cast and competent direction makes this film mildly
entertaining, but their is nothing that seperates this predictable film from
1000 other films in this genre.

Rated PG-13; Sexual Situations and Profanity.
<|_=00=_|>

I thought this film had some really funny moments and good lines. Marla
Sokoloff was perfect for his role, and so was James Franco, who looks as
cocky as his character in the film is. The other actress Jodie was played
over the top, because she has all these hissy fits which can be funny to
watch or annoying. Overall good job but the ending is dumb
