
I read all the reviews and comments before seeing "Crossroads." Since I
got it free from the public library, and "time" was my only investment,
I'm not sorry at all. Roughly 50% of IMDb votes are "1" which is
totally absurd. A more accurate rating is probably in the 4 to 6 range,
compared to all similar films. "Center Stage", where the central
characters are dancers training to make it big in ballet, is a similar
film.

Other commentors say "Britney Spears can't sing." Those comments are
equally absurd. While I'm not particularly a fan of hers, she indeed
can sing, very well. As a singer she is as good as most of the rest of
the young singers who cater to the teeniebopper audience. She certainly
is a better singer than Madonna who achieved her fame on image alone.

Can Britney act? Compared to good young actresses, Britney is fairly
amateurish. But she didn't have to stretch very far for the role of a
proper, studious high school valedictorian who decided to look for her
mother who abandoned her as a baby to be raised by her single father
(Ackroyd). And, along the way write poetry which was then put to music
by a young man who drove the three girls west to Los Angeles.

Most of the situations and dialog are silly, and there are many
close-range shots of a pretty, smiling Britney. However I suspect they
would appeal to the under-15 crowd of Britney fans. I enjoyed the film
from the point of view that it gave me some glimpse of the real
Britney, one that is not revealed in her concerts and music videos. I
believe, as she grows up and out of her former image, she will develop
a more mature singing and acting style and will continue her popularity
for a long time. (Year 2005 update: I was wrong, she's become very
strange! Year 2007 update: She has gotten even more strange! Year 2008
update: Even her little sister has become strange, and a new mother!!))

Critic Ebert gives an accurate review of the facts in the case, I will
not repeat them here. While I probably would not recommend this film to
anyone, I personally enjoyed watching it. Not a very good film, still
it also is not a bad film. Just juvenile.
<|_=00=_|>

Out of all the people, I admit that I bash Britney Spears all the time. But
I saw this movie because my 2 best friends and my boyfriend wanted to see
this. And we actually thought this was a cute movie. And it's funny, our
friendship is like the one in this movie. There's the sexy one, there's the
smart one, there's the one who wants to make it big, and of course my
boyfriend. Of course it's not oscar worthy, or the movie of the year. But
it's cute. Kind of cheesy, but fun. So what if you're not a Britney Spears
fan, if you hate this movie just because someone you don't like is in it,
you have to be a pretty shallow person. So stop acting like you know
everything about movies. I'm not a pre-teen, but I liked it. So like I said,
just admit that it was cute. Like people are going to contact you and praise
you for making fun of this movie.

7/10 
<|_=00=_|>
I love Crossroads because it's so terrible. Definitely one of the best
"worst movies" I've ever seen, it tells the story of how Britney Spears
looks like a fashion model and acts like an angel while still managing
to be the most unpopular girl at school. Sob, sob! Incredibly awful and
idiotic drama coupled with sickeningly sweet romance make this one a
not-to-be-missed...if you're the sort to love MST3K, that is. Sure,
Britney can't act too well, but she can sing, and this movie is
actually a LOT better than Glitter, Mariah Carey's similarly-themed
vehicle. (And by "better", I mean "less boring and self-indulgent.")
It's been two years since I saw Crossroads and I still remember it
vividly. It's a cult classic--moronic, worthless, contrived, and
hilariously awful.
<|_=00=_|>

Please don't waste your time on this movie.  The only people who may
possibly like it are those people who think that Britney's music is
brilliant.  And even those people can't deny that Britney can't act.  This
movie lacked everything.  When you read the plot, it looks as though it
could have some meaning to it, maybe even a little more than some other teen
movies.  But it isn't so.  And it's so silly, like Britney's character
writing that poem that turns out to be the lyrics to that stupid, ' not a
girl, not yet a woman', whatever it is.  And then the guy writes music for
it and she automatically starts singing along perfectly, she automatically
knows the tune even though she hasn't heard it yet, and so forth.  And don't
even get me started on the karaoke contest scene, the cover of "I love rock
'n roll" is a travesty.  This is another pitiful pop star attempt at being a
movie star.  Doesn't work at all.
<|_=00=_|>

You just know a film is going to be bad when the line, "We'll be friends
forever" is spoken. Yep, this film has that line, quite near the start in
fact. The funny thing is, the film has absolutely no redeeming features at
all. Cliched and uninspiring plot, acting that needs to be reported to the
trades description act, and Britney Spears. She can't sing, she can't act.
What more could I expect from a film that's advertised as "The Britney
Spears movie"? Not even Dan Akroyd can save this piece of tripe. The two
worst things? First of all, Britney Spears is clearly not a virgin, so stop
pretending that she is. Second of all, the film implies that she actually
has talent by showing her writing a song. This film should be buried in the
desert, and the site at which it was buried should subsequently be nuked.
Simply put, it is the worst film ever made.
<|_=00=_|>
I can't say that this film is worthless. It has got rather good
lighting, make up and it's filmed OK, and the art direction isn't that
bad.

But I think that the plot was too predictable, the acting was simple
and quite boring. Taryn Manning did OK, but the rest... it was just not
impressive at any point. And I think everyone was trying to make
Britney look better than she really was, complimenting her. Her
character, Lucy, is too flawless. She was always perfect while the
people who surrounded her had prominent flaws. And then in the
commentary she went on about how every girl would be able to relate to
her character, but wrong! No one is that flawless and covered in sugar. 

And I know you've got to see it for what it is, you don't go to see
Crossroads if you are looking for a deep film, but even as a cute chick
flick Crossroads didn't do very well. at all. It was shallow pretending
to be genuine and deep. Even in the worst of girl films you need a
point where it's getting serious - something to make it look real, you
need to feel something.

This whole movie is too SWEET. Everything about it is sweet.. the
dialogs, the looks, the camera angles, the clichés, the music. It was
like having 200 lbs of Chocolate, it was way too much. No one can
handle that much sugar in one night...
<|_=00=_|>
Man when I was watching this movie at the theaters I was sure it was
going to suck. Hardly anybody was inside watching the movie. And people
warned us not to go in that movie room. The only reason why me and my
friend watched it was because we had free tickets and, you guessed it,
Britney Spears was in the movie. I tried so hard to like it but I hated
it. The movie went on so slow in the beginning and their acting sucks
and you can almost predict what's going to happen next. In about 45
minutes through the movie WE LEFT THE THEATERS AND WENT HOME. I was
like, "This movie isn't going to get better is it?" and my friend said
"Let's go watch another movie". We didn't even watch another movie, we
just left feeling miserable.
<|_=00=_|>

Ok, I have nothing against Britney Spears (except for the fact that she
can't sing), so my trashing of this movie has nothing to do with the fact
that Britney has the lead role. Although I will admit I only saw it to
see
how bad it was.

The movie is so predictable I knew what was going to happen within the
first
fifteen minutes. I'm so glad I watched it at a friend's house and I
didn't
pay anything for it. The movie is boring because you know what is going
to
happen before it does. The girls travel with a 'hot' guy, and Lucy, the
virgin, really takes a liking to him. Gee... I wonder what is going to
happen?

I will give the movie some credit, however. Not all the acting was bad,
some
of it was good. The characters had some kind of depth, and the movie
attempts to hit mature issues like date rape. I would not recommend this
movie to anyone, unless they were like me, and just wanted to be
amused.
<|_=00=_|>
Musicians trying to act in movies is nothing new. Madonna did it,
Justin Guarinni did it, Kelly Clarkson did it, and most famously,
Jennifer Lopez did it. In 2002, Britney Spears became yet another
unfortunate statistic to the sad and growing tally of can't-act
singers. Mauled by critics, "Crossroads" became a box office
disappointment, and finally showed the world that an Oscar is nowhere
in the near future for Mrs. Spears.

"Crossroads" is definitely a stinker. The plot is so indescribably
simplistic that a 6yr old could follow it. The element of Britney's
character finding and confronting her AWOL mother is disastrously
underdone. At other times, the acting is downright ridiculous and has
some of the most uninspired direction I've ever seen (closeup, medium
shot, closeup, medium shot, repeat 500 times). 

Judging from the lead actress, "Crossroads" is a film aimed at the
preteen crowd so naturally it should have content which is suitable for
that age group. So you can imagine how shocked I was at the whole plot
line of Lucy trying to loose her virginity to some loser, the saga of
her friend being raped by her other friend's fiancé, who gets pregnant,
and then has a miscarriage by taking a header down a flight of stairs!
Yes, this is all in the movie, folks!

However, those saying it's the worst film of all time have really got
to see more movies. This is because "Crossroads" is mildly amusing to
follow despite it's Goliath sized flaws. I do admit I have a soft spot
for the road trip genre, and the quirkiness of several characters and
their offbeat adventures kept me somewhat entertained in a vanilla
state. But despite this, Crossroads is not worth the DVD price. You're
much better off using that money to see a better film currently in
theatres.

So next time you visit your local video rental place, I advise you skip
this one. It's simple, and poorly made so it's really not worth your
time. If it happens to be on cable, you might be amused but I'm sure
you'll find yourself changing the channel not long after it starts.
4/10
<|_=00=_|>

Crossroads is not a good movie by any means. Its predictable, cliched,
stupid, cheesy and corny. Some of the scenes who are supposed to be taken
seriously are laughable.The plot is stupid and the script yes not very good
either. But this film is enjoyable on some levels. As for Britney. Her
acting was not all that bad. She was actually the only one who was decent in
this film. And I am no Britney Fan. She was not good but she was not bad and
I Have seen worse. However the other actors were either bad or terrible.


