
I absolutely LOVE this movie and have to say that it is by far my
favorite comedy. There are parts of this movie where you are laughing
so hard that your stomach hurts and you have to re-watch those parts
because you were laughing to hard to hear exactly what was going on.

Have to admit that I'm a fan of Chris Kattan and loved him on Saturday
Night Live. He's great at comedic acting and this movie is most
certainly proof of that! Although, still, he seems to be at ease in the
parts of the movie where things get a little serious (although nothing
can be too serious in this movie!).

I recommend it for watching. Not all sense of humors are the same, but
personally, I loved it...as did my entire family!
<|_=00=_|>
MIGHT BE A SPOILER!!!!! I LOVE THIS MOVIE! what else can I say it's
hilarious! it's about a VERY dysfunctional family...Corky who is cut
out for absolutely nothing, goes undercover as a FBI agent and the boss
thinks he's just what they need for the case of the night vulture. But
all wanted was to steal evidence against his father, "Pop" Romano, but
every time he comes a step closer they pull him back five. Corky Romano
is one of the funniest movies ever! I told my best friend about it and
I was shocked she'd never even heard of it! But I got her to watch it
and our favorite part is the same as almost everyone else's..."You guys
want some cookies?" This is what some call a dumb comedy but that's
what makes it SO funny!
<|_=00=_|>
Corky Romano is I believe a good movie. Well of course not a good movie
in terms of story line but good enough. The good thing about this movie
is the hilarious parts. Honestly I don't know Chris Kattan before I
watched this movie. I just saw it's poster on a mall and I decided to
watch. Why? I don't know why did I watched this movie, but to tell you,
I really had a great time laughing all by myself inside that cinema.
That's the time when the movie CORKY ROMANO became one of my all time
favorite comedy.

Sometimes the story seems nonsense. But that's the beauty of it. This
movie never makes you think of anything. It just makes you laugh. I
recommended this movie to a friend of mine and he liked it as well.
Although we have the same reaction.... The story is not impressive.
4/10 for story.. But who cares? This movie just made my day..

Good choice if you want to relax and just laugh for an hour and a half.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me tell you something. I can only remember about this movie because
of Vinessa Shaw wearing a skimpy, sexy mini nurse dress. Ohhh, that
memory helps me when I'm sad.

Seriously, "Corky Romano" is the goofiest movie you can get in terms of
spoofing crime/mafia cinema. It's that goofy, that makes the Wayans
Brothers look serious! To be honest and quick; watch this movie only if
scatological humor, extreme cheese, and goofy performances make you
laugh.

Otherwise, don't watch it. I watched it on the theaters and well I had
a decent time with it but it was back in 2001 when I was still 17.
<|_=00=_|>

please save your money and go see something else.  this movie was such 
piece of crap. i didnt want to go, but i had to so i thought i'd laugh at
least once, NOPE.  not a single laugh, it was that horrible! chris kattan
will never get a good comedy role after this and "a night at the roxbury."
this movie is completely obvious, has no smart humor at all, and just
repeats itself over and over again. listen to me, and stray as far away
from this movie as you possibly can!
<|_=00=_|>

Chris Kattan is a great sketch actor on Saturday Night Live...but he
should
probably leave the movie industry alone unless he gets some sort of
creative
control. He plays an annoyingly peppy character who basically comes off as
mildly retarded and on speed. Wanna know the only funny parts? The stuff
they showed in the previews. Yes, his rendition of take on me is funny.
Nothing else is. ESPECIALLY when you can tell he's trying very hard to be
a
physical comedian, which he shouldn't have to try at because he is one.
And
yet, his 'demolishing the vet's office' bit comes off as cringingly bad.
This movie made me develop an eye twitch. Avoid it at all costs, and keep
watching SNL.
<|_=00=_|>

Admittedly, I didn't have high expectations of "Corky Romano."  But then
again, who did?  However, I felt it deserved the benefit of the doubt.  I
had no high hopes of "Joe Dirt" either--another recent comedy starring an
SNL cast member--and I ended up being pleasantly surprised.  But this film
is just as bad as it looks in the previews.  Chris Kattan is actually a
talented comic actor--contrary to what you might think after watching this
movie--with great energy.  He's been in many hilarious SNL skits, and I
think he's one of the most talented cast members on SNL as of now.  In this
case, he's given a lame, pointless script and he tries to remedy each scene
with his incessant mugging.  Throughout each scene, he attempts a lame Jerry
Lewis act and fails miserably.  Jerry Lewis knew how to pull off this type
of physical comedy, not to mention he worked with much better writing. 
Kattan simply looks like some ignorant fool with ADHD who had one too many
Cafe Lattes.  He doesn't even wait for the punchline; he assumes we'll all
laugh once he starts jumping around like an ape on crack.  In one scene, he
ends up in a tugging match with a dog who has a package of cocaine in his
mouth.  The package explodes and the cocaine splashes all over him.  He
comes back to the job, strung out on coke.  Now, how are we supposed to
laugh at the fact that he's acting hyper and on-edge, when he's doing the
same thing throughout the whole film?  

As for the rest of the cast members...Vanessa Shaw is really hot, Peter Berg
is wasted in a thankless role and so is Chris Penn.  Peter Falk is also
wasted, though he has a few funny lines that I'm pretty sure he improvised. 
I hope Falk gets a decent movie someday soon.  That's too much talent too
waste on a clunker like "Corky Romano."  I didn't like Falk's last movie
"Made" all that much either, but at least he had a decent role. 

I chuckled a few times, but I could not get a single laugh.  Each gag is
performed with no sense of timing or delivery.  And it's made worse by
Kattan's hammy acting.  And there are certain gags that are streneously
dragged out.  For example, when Kattan is about to fart in his two brothers'
faces.  He stands there for 2 or 3 minutes, trying to get out a fart and
when he finally he does it's a little tiny one.  It's bad enough when you
have a gag that's funny and drag it out, but when you have a lame gag and
you drag it out it's a hell of a lot worse.  And another example of this is
when he tries to translate what those two Asian men are saying during a drug
bust.  I can go on and on about what's wrong with this so-called comedy, but
I'm not gonna waste my time.  Like I said earlier, if you predicted bad
things from the trailers--you predicted right.  

My score:  3 (out of 10)    
<|_=00=_|>

I could only get through about 25 mins of it. Not one laugh in the 25
minutes I gave it, one of the most painful films I've ever had to endure.
Chris Kattan is so nervous on screen that it made me nervous to watch him.
Just a horrible movie.
<|_=00=_|>

Wow.  Some movies just leave me speechless.  This was undeniably one of
those movies.  When I left the theatre, not a single word came to my
mouth.
All I had was an incredible urge to slam my head against the theatre wall
to
help me forget about the last hour and a half.  Unfortunately, it didn't
work.  Honestly, this movie has nothing to recommend.  The humor was at
the
first grade level, at best, the acting was overly silly, and the plot was
astronomically far-fetched.  I hearby pledge never to see an other movie
starring Chris Kattan or any other cast-member of SNL.

<|_=00=_|>
Corky Romano (2001): Dir: Rob Pritts / Cast: Chris Kattan, Vinessa
Shaw, Peter Falk, Chris Penn, Peter Berg: The hero sticks his ass in
someone's face and grunts and groans until his face turns red. Is this
suppose to be funny? Chris Kattan stars as a timid veterinarian whose
father undergoes a heart attack. His father was involved with the mob
and is under surveillance after evidence is presented against him. He
has two other sons, one whom is gay, and the other not being able to
read. Corky is ordered to go undercover as an F.B.I. agent to
infiltrate the feds and destroy the evidence. Director Rob Pritts does
an uninspiring job. Corky is an idiot straight through. Nobody this
stupid just walks into a police station and does what he does, and
Kattan doesn't render it funny even for a split second. Peter Falk is
typecast as Pops Romano whose role consists of him sitting about
waiting for someone to please him. Vinessa Shaw plays a female agent
whose job is to be a potential romantic target for Corky, as if he
would know the first thing about getting her in the sack. Chris Penn
and Peter Berg tarnish their resumes by appearing as the two moron
brothers. Their basic skill is to appear meaner than Romano and
therefore look like bigger jackasses when he comes up on top by sheer
luck. Dreadful production in a film that Corky should place his ass
upon and grunt until his face turns red. Score: 1 / 10
