

Novocaine is a very strange film. It doesn't make up its mind whether it's a
take off on a genre or is it playing straight. That said, the story has a
lot of laughs and it was a complete surprise given the negative comments one
had heard about this film. David Watkins' script and direction give this
film a different look of what Hollywood is giving us lately. Steve Martin is
a very difficult actor to cast and he has to have the right vehicle and
direction in order to excel, as he  does here. Sometimes Mr. Martin comes
across rather shallow in some of his screen portrayals, but as the dentist
at the center of this comedy, he is at the top of his craft. Laura Dern is
just perfect in her role. She keeps getting better all the time, whether
it's comedy, as it is here, or her other film this year, Focus. She's an
actress who doesn't repeat herself. She's a true original. Helena
Bonham-Carter is perfect as the junkie that appears in Steve Martin's life.
Quite a change for her image, better known for her appearances in serious
films. This must have been quite a turn around for this actress, better
remembered for her work in serious English drama. The most remarkable scenes
are those of the great Kevin Bacon as an actor tailing David Keith in
preparation for an upcoming police film. He is hilarious as the method actor
in search of ways to interpret the real life detective in the movies.

All in all, this is a very satisfying comedy.  
<|_=00=_|>

I would never have seen Novocaine had it not been for my love of Steve
Martin.  But what amazed me in this film were the genius performances by
the
other actors: a terrific character turn for Laura Dern (didn't mean to
rhyme).  The always-charming Helena Bonham-Carter playing a role
reminiscent
of (but NOT the same as) her Fight Club character.   Elias Koteas' quirky,
stupid take as Steve Martin's younger brother.  Kevin Bacon making a cameo
in one of the only roles I've EVER liked him in.

But most of all, Laura Dern.  This woman can act.  She absolutely stole
the
show.  A character who seems at once timid and sweet, then sends me
spinning
with her karate fanaticism.  I will not tell you anymore about her
performance (of which there is MUCH more to tell), because you need to
discover this film for yourself.

The filming is an absolute masterpiece, as well as the writing, both done
by
David Atkins.  The music is a wonderfully stylized score by Danny Elfman,
calling forth 'film noir' memories.  And there couldn't have been a more
thrilling cast to watch on screen.

Novocaine is a suspense thriller, as well as an extremely funny movie.
See
it for Steve Martin, though you won't be watching him for
long.
<|_=00=_|>

To start with, any movie in which Helena Bonham Carter gets naked is a good
thing.

This is a weird weird movie, but good pacing and casting saves it. A more
disciplined director could have turned it into a cult classic.

Steve Martin is convincing in a challenging part. He is a fine actor.He
brings just enough comedy so the movie doesn't descend into the land that
light forgot. This edge gives the film strange believability.

Laura Dern is also exquisite walking a fine line to achieve a balance
between farce and drama. Her character, blondness and 'hard body' look
contrasted effectively with HBC's petite, auburn wickedness.

At the end, I wanted to watch it again to appreciate the fine points I
missed the first time through.

I would describe it as a darker " The Whole Nine Yards".
<|_=00=_|>

Steve Martin has great taste and gets some of the best stories in the
industry.  I don't think he's made a bad movie and this one is stellar.
Novocaine is a little along the lines  of Spanish Prisoner and reminds me
of
Memento.  The plot was complex, the acting superb,  it was well crafted,
surprising, and even funny.  When it started out I couldn't help but squirm
in my chair due to the horrible decisions the dentist was making.
Nevertheless, let me assure you that in the end we all went away feeling
fully entertained and pleased.  The crowd at the advance screening loved it
as well.  I continue to be impressed with Steve Martin.  How many actors or
artists can you honestly say that about?  What a great
show!
<|_=00=_|>

I was lucky enough to get to go to an advance screening of Novocaine (I won
tickets).  I LOVED it!!  I always loved Steve Martin but was really
impressed at what a great actor he is as well as comedian!  I don't want to
give anything away, but this movie totally surprised me, part thriller,
part
drama part comedy.  Nothing like Martin's done before but still very Steve
Martin.  Helena Bonham Carter plays a role similar to her Fight Club role,
very mysterious and brooding.  I was also happy to see Laura Dern in a
great
role.  She's different in every movie and is especially strong in this one.
The movie is such a mixture of twists and turns that it's hard to rave
about
it without giving anything away.  But I definitely recommend this movie to
everyone, perfect for a date or with friends.  Even the score is phenomonal
too. I can't wait to go again and see it in the theatre the first weekend
it
comes out.
<|_=00=_|>

The suspense of this beautifully written plot manages to keep you
squirming
while the actors dazzle you with comic flourishes, thick sexual tension,
and
all-around excellent performances.  A great film.  Steve Martin has proven
that he has a knack for suspense thrillers with this film and The Spanish
Prisoner.
<|_=00=_|>

If you are expecting a typical Steve Martin comedy, then don't see this
movie.  However, if you are looking for a dark comedy with many twists and
turns, and with great acting, then this movie is for you.   I liken it to
The Spanish Prisoner, another fantastic Steve Martin movie that contained
many unexpected plot twists.  I give this a 10.
<|_=00=_|>
Whatever Steve Martin is in is probably going to be good, and this one
was. It was a slow starter but it finally got off to a fast moving
film. Steve, the dentist, was taken in by a drug user and when he gave
her a prescription for 5 pills, he learned that she had added a "O" to
his figure and made it 50. Once he started lying, he had to keep on
lying to cover up the other lies. He was apparently an innocent victim
and didn't know it for a long time. There was one murder of the addicts
brother, and another murder of Steve's brother. He finally figured out
the one person who could get all the information together and and set
him up to be convicted. When he pulled his own teeth and replaced them
in another false set, we could really see the sense of it all. The end
was the greatest surprise of all.
<|_=00=_|>

I must say that about halfway through this movie I thought about bailing out
on it.  Steve Martin's character kept making SUCH bad decisions that it was
painful to watch and you could easily see where it was
going.

But I'm glad I stuck with it.  Martin did a marvelous job of playing a
terribly upstanding character who does things even he thinks himself
incapable of, when he meets someone who finds his buttons and keeps on
pushing them.  *** SPOILER FOLLOWS ***  You'd expect him to end up wishing
he'd never met her, yet ultimately their meeting is the one thing that saves
him.  Sure some of the plot twists are a little implausible, but it's
well-acted, told from an unusual point of view and a lot of fun.  7 out of
10.
<|_=00=_|>
Steve Martin is believable as a dentist who sees his life spiraling out
of control after a series of cascading lies sets him up as a murder
suspect. What is not believable is the script, which seems to overlook
common sense. Cops that fall asleep while guarding a suspect, and worse
yet handcuffing a suspect to a flimsy bench in the court house. After
an intriguing set up, everything has less and less logic. The
proverbial happy ending is totally unbelievable, as is the supposed
motivation for the entire storyline. If you want to see a pretty good
Steve Martin performance and can overlook Novocaine's many flaws, it is
definitely watchable. - MERK
