

So...the title is a bit dodgy. "Dracula 2000". Ick. Nevertheless, I was
pleasantly surprised by the quality of the film. To begin with, an
interesting cast. Christopher Plummer has, previously, suffered from
what I call "Michael Caine" syndrome; making any film that will write
him a cheque, Johnny Lee Miller was amusing in "Trainspotting" and,
let's not kid each other, there is no mystery as to why Jennifer
Esposito and Jeri Ryan were cast. Round it out with some second and
third tier young "Actors du jour" and you probably haven't spent too
much money. 

Now...the most irritating aspect of the film is the almost surreal
amount of flagrant Virgin Records placement. Seriously....Mary works in
one of the stores which means we get prominent t-shirt coverage....not
to mention the gawdy neon sign, the truck in the garage
etc.....however, Dracula needs virgins, right?

By far the most interesting part of this film was the story behind the
creation of Dracula. Taking the myth back to the time of the
crucifixion, with Judas Iscariot suffering some fairly serious guilt
issues leading to his suicide and eventual "re-birth"....good angle: it
helped to explain the vampires aversion to all things holy and dislike
of silver (as in 30 pieces of...). Still don't get the mirror-phobia
but hey....

Someone on the creative team of this film has a sweet little visual gag
in store. Check out the scene in the Laffayette Cemetery...there is a
crypt bearing the name "Spencer Hepburn". Nice one.

The ending is a little rushed and it seems that Miller might have left
the set early that day, since he apparently vanishes. It also leaves
blatant amounts of room for a sequel, but I wouldn't hold my breath.

That I even considered seeing this film was primarily due to Wes
Craven's participation. However, I found it to be an imaginative and
fairly tasteful modernisation of one of the all-time cinematic horror
legends.

<|_=00=_|>

I saw this on cable the other night. C'mon give the movie a break, it
wasn't
that bad. This is not Shakespeare; it's a Vampire movie, for Pete's sake.
It's not after the Oscar, its entertainment. Sometimes a lot of the User
commentators lose sight of what some movies are about.

An example of this is a review of Santa Clause 2, where one guy wrote
`The
North Pole was a very distracting, annoying place to be. It seemed so far
from reality'. Well I don't want to spoil his Xmas but Santa isn't
reality.
It was a MOVIE!

Dracula 2000 was a lot better than the old Hammer movies or in fact a lot
better than a lot of other Vampire moves. If you could ever do an
original
story on Vampires, this was close. I mean, what is in a Vampire script.
Spooky guy/girl gets out of coffin, kills people (usually girls with
great
bodies) another guy/girl tries to kill them before they kill again. Oh
and I
forgot the part about the heroine is a reincarnation of the Vamps long
lost
love. (See Blacula, Fright Night, Dracula 1992 etc etc)

Dracula 2000 was more original. At least he had a real reason for wanting
the Heroine (his blood, her blood) and his origin was an interesting
concept, better than Coppola's, which I still find confusing. This was
never
going to be An Interview with a Vampire, but it was a hell of a lot
better
than Queen of the Damned. If you like Vampire movies this should be on
your
viewing list.

<|_=00=_|>
Being a poor hen-pecked loser who isn't allowed cable television, I
found myself in the rather alien position of being spoilt for choice
over which movie to watch last Sunday night. British terrestrial
television rarely throws up such a dilemma, so I had to consider
carefully which one to select. In the corner marked 'safe option' we
had Mel Gibson's Ransom (seen it; dull; can't really remember what
happened but am assuming they eventually get the kid back), second was
Man on the Moon (seen it; vaguely remember being a bit disappointed),
and third was Wes Craven's Dracula 2000 (never seen it; presumably a
straight-to-video job). Almost without hesitation I plumped for that.

A maverick choice, you might say - but there was method to my madness.
On more than one occasion, drunken and deluded girls have approached me
in bars and accused me of looking like Jonny Lee Miller. They are wrong
of course - those close to me have taken sadistic pleasure in assuring
me I look more like a cross between Woody Harrelson and Kelsey Grammar
- not particularly good for my sex-symbol status, but useful if I ever
wanted work as a stunt double on the set of Cheers.

Anyway, it turns out I chose wisely - Dracula 2000 is a hoot. More
Schlock than horror (as you might expect from the creator of the Scream
franchise) it has the kind of kitschy charm of Buffy the Vampire Slayer
only with worse dialogue and a sillier plot. Those purists who prefer a
more classic Peter Cushing/Christopher Lee tussle between good and evil
are unlikely to stay beyond the first reel, but there are rewards for
those who stick it out.

Miller plays Simon Shepherd the protégé of the mysterious Matthew Van
Helsing (Christopher Plummer). A gang of thieves infiltrate Van
Helsing's secret stash of old relics and unwittingly release Dracula
from his silver coffin. Big mistake. The dark lord makes a bee-line for
New Orleans in search Van Helsing's daughter Mary. On his way, he
creates merry hell crafting a few undead henchwomen (mostly blonde) and
enjoying unspeakable depravity in the middle of the Mardi Gras
carnival. Unsurprisingly, Miller and Plummer pack their crucifixes and
silver bullets and hurry over to save the day.

This being a sexed-up modern-day version of Bram Stoker's classic,
Dracula himself is far from the urbane older gentleman with the black
cloak and the widow's peak - this one is young and spunky and has the
kind of barnet you might find in a L'oreal commercial. Try to imagine a
bastard hybrid of David Copperfield and Alan Partridge and you won't be
far off. Dracula's hair is not the only highlight though: There are
some brilliantly awful modern cultural references - Sweet and innocent
Mary works in Virgin Megastore (geddit?) - and an audacious religious
sub-plot which goes some way towards explaining Dracula's hatred of
silver.

All in all it is great fun. It was inevitably mauled by the critics,
but I guess they don't have a sense of humour. Poor old Jonny's been in
some turkeys since he made Trainspotting, but I'm backing him to hilt
on this one - it certainly beats watching Mel Gibson and Rene Russo
blubbing for two and a half hours.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
The story is very convoluted but it comes down to Dracula (Gerard
Butler) is search of Van Helsing's (Christopher Plummer) daughter Mary
(Justine Waddell) in modern day New Orleans. 

Let's get the negatives out of the way: Jonny Lee Miller is TERRIBLE;
Plummer's accent is pretty obviously fake; there's far too much product
placement for Virgin Records and the vampires crack terrible jokes. All
that aside the movie is quick, it's fun, beautifully and
atmospherically shot. The script is interesting--it gives Dracula a new
origin which fits but is pretty silly too. Dracula is a reanimated
corpse...trying to give him a different origin is pretty dumb. Also,
crosses don't affect vampires anymore...it just annoys them. Also
there's plenty of blood and violence on hand and erotic sexual
seduction by Dracula.

With the sole exception of Miller the acting is good. Plummer works
(despite the accent); Omar Epps is having a whale of a time; Justine
Wadell is good and Esposito, Ryan and Fitzpatrick make a good team of
scary (and sexy) vampires. Gerard Butler is fantastic as Dracula. He's
young, VERY handsome, has curly black hair and a buff body. Also he
portrays Dracula's sexuality and violence very well. 

So a slick, fast-moving and fun vampire movie. Worth catching.
<|_=00=_|>
---in a campy sort of way. 

First, watch the DVD deleted scenes, extended scenes and audition
featuring Gerard Butler. That will get you in the right mood! Then
start the film. 

The first 30 minutes are a mess. After the opening scenes with
Christopher Plummer as Van Helsing, that lays the groundwork for the
story, they could have skipped all the scenes about the stealing of the
coffin and just had Plummer tell Simon (Johnny Lee Miller) "we been
robbed!". 

But the young people and the robbery and taking the coffin by plane and
it crashing - all could be handled by voice-over. This is just a mess
and not one of the actors are interesting or have any charisma.
Especially Solina (Jennifer Esposito) going into the vault, dark and
creepy and skulls and gad! you get the picture. We are in for a fright!
Bah!!! So lame.

Our first great shot of Dracula (Butler), is on the plane when he walks
into the section of the plane and reaches out for Solina - and like any
sane woman, she goes right to him. The love bite is next. Um Hmmmm! In
the meantime, Mary Van Helsing (Justine Waddell - child like and
innocent) is having dreams/nightmares seeing Dracula in her mirror. She
is speechless, and we are too. OMG! She keeps saying "wake up - you're
dreaming" but then he comes close and sniffs her and says "you're real"
and I have to pause the film and fan myself.

Troubled Mary goes to the church in New Orleans where the priest is a
childhood friend, to get some answers about her Mother and as he is
putting the candles out and turns to Mary - it is him, the big D. A
gaze to die for. The next is Dracula perched like a gargoyle on the
church parapet above the Mardi Gras revelers and he says "Farewell,
Princess." Perfect! 

Down at street level, he walks among the drunken revelers with a
bemused look. There is a giant TV screen showing dancers silhouettes,
there are beads and coins tossed at him as he looks on with a knowing
smile. He watches the giant screen flash images of atom bombs, rock
stars, lingerie ads and women mud wrestling and says "Brilliant." Great
satire!

His walk through the "Virgin" record store is iconic, with all the
young gals turning to look as he passes by. He gets Lucy, Mary's friend
to take him to their home. His comment to Lucy, when she can't come up
with a word to describe Mary's mothers decor of the house "catholic?"
is priceless. And to her query "would you like some coffee?" he says "
I don't drink----------coffee." Timed perfectly with just the right
look. And of course, he has her on the bed and on the ceiling! Faint!!!

It is like there are two films here - one a brilliant satire with great
lines. And the other an incoherent teen/slasher/blood-fest. But it is
almost possible to just start anywhere after the first 30 minutes and
the story is interesting and makes sense of the Jesus Christ/Judas
theme.

The cinematography has some beautiful scenes. The Red Hall - the
curtains blowing and the eastern theme music for the desert and cross
scenes. The few lines Dracula(Butler) utters are great and with timing
and marvelous expression. "The Bible is propaganda." "You think you can
defend her with the Bible." To Mary "Everything I have is yours; and
all you are is mine." (Shades of The Phantom.)

Dracula to the Jesus Cross "I give them (revelers below) what they
crave most. All the pleasures you denied them." And his gesture to Mary
- arm and hand out as the camera pans away and he says "come let us
feast" and the kisses. Wow!! Nellie bar the door. I want some of that! 

(8/10 - would have been higher but that first 30 minutes is just bad!)
<|_=00=_|>
This is such a beautifully filmed and acted film that it's a shame for
anyone to miss it. The cast is just excellent, especially Gerard Butler
as Dracula. His role is slightly underplayed which works beautifully
for THIS Dracula whose real self is only discovered at the end of the
movie. Wes Craven used everyone in the film exactly the way they should
have been used. 

This is not a slasher movie. Although there is violence and blood the
rest of the movie actually subdues this. It is a thoughtful movie that
sets up the ending slowly, step by step. 

If you haven't seen it, by all means, give it a try and watch with an
open mind and see if you can figure out WHO Dracula really is. (besides
the hot Scot, Gerard Butler, who is just fascenating in this film)

DottyinCA
<|_=00=_|>

An interesting take on Dracula--You might get a kick out of the end when you
find out Dracula's true origin.

It struck me as two movies in one.  There was a very passionate vampire
story going on, covered up by a high-tech monster movie (think Bram Stoker's
Dracula coated with a layer of Underworld or League of Extraordinary
Gentlemen).

Considering the double tone of this film, I'm not surprised to see
Christopher Plummer co-starring along some very fresh-faced young actors.
Any fellow Canadians will notice a few Canucks besides Plummer in this
one.

Because of the inconsistent flow of the movie, some silliness, and the
disappointing death of one of the main characters, I gave this film a
6/10.
<|_=00=_|>
This Movie rocked my socks! This movie was original, entertaining,
attention holding and perfect in every other way. Plus not to mention
great actors....Dracula was so attractive, alluring, and seductive that
I found myself rooting for him. This movie was amazing, although its
sequels were horrible and very disappointing. (havely because Gerald
Butler did not portray Dracula in the sequels) so strap on your
crucifix's cause this movie was AMAZING and will take you for a ride!
This movie was excellent in many ways. First off, the plot.....was
awesome. It was a new take on Dracula without losing the old feel for
it and disregarding the legend. On the contrary, it added a feel of a
modern Dracula, like he had adapted into out time. Then the acting was
superb (again, Gerald Butler!!!! I love him) and also the director.
(Wes Craven is a genius). So 10 stars to this baby.
<|_=00=_|>

Please don't waste your time.  This movie rehashes the worst of Bram
Stoker's Dracula (Van Helsing), Anne Rice's Vampire Lestat (rock music and
silly biblical references), and Blade (high-tech toys).  I really like
vampire movies and novels, and there are many out there that are very good
.
But not this stinker.  Not even the soundtrack helps it, mostly because
the
movie resorts to ridiculous scary classical music rather than the "kick-ass
metal" some reported.  Only a few times did I hear any metal; mostly it was
tortured violins.  Avoid it like garlic and crucifixes.

<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie for 2 reasons--I like Gerard Butler and Christopher
Plummer. Unfortunately, these poor men were forced to carry a pretty
dumb movie. I liked the idea that Dracula is actually a reincarnation
of Judas Iscariot, because it does explain his disdain for all things
Christian, but there was so much camp that this idea was not realized
as much as it could have been. I see this movie more as a way for the
talented Gerard Butler to pay his dues before being truly recognized
and a way for the legendary Christopher Plummer to remind the public
(me and the 5 other people who saw this film) that he still exists. I
actually enjoyed the special features on the DVD more than the movie
itself.
