

I'm afraid it took two times of me watching this to actually appreciate
the
film.  It was quite good for a buddy movie.  The comedy was there and so
was
the action.  Mike Epps is a very funny guy.  Ice Cube is always good at
his
characters.  The plot was so so.  It is kind of like some that have been
done before but as for entertainment value it was fun.  I would watch
this
again in hopes that I would laugh even harder the next
time.
<|_=00=_|>
All About the Benjamins (2002)

5 word summary

Enemies team up against criminal 

A cool film. Ice Cube plays a similar character that he does in most of
his films, the hard ass smart ass, but it works well with his role.
Mike Epps also plays about the same as usual, but it also works really
well. They both have pretty good comedic performances which along side
the action directing makes a decent/ tolerable action comedy.

Its not a fantastic film by any means, and though I said they had good
comedic performances, the acting wasn't that great. Personally I think
Eva Mendes and Tommy Flannigan acted better, but they still weren't at
their best. The directing and writing is also nothing special, it works
here, but that's about all you can say about it

All about the Benjamins is a pretty average and predictable action
comedy but it was fun and funny. If you are a fan of Next Friday and
Friday After Next, you will probably enjoy this "fourth installment."
It's very similar in style and definitely similar performances by Cube
and Epps. 

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
Though it may appear as a Friday style film, All About the Benjamins is
far from the comedy franchise as possible. Instead of being a slacker,
buddy comedy, it's an action cop film similar to 48 Hours or Beverly
Hills Cop. It isn't necessarily bad, but it takes a path I didn't
expect. How could you blame me for mistaking it was a straight forward
comedy? It's in a four pack that includes all Ice Cube movies, and it
stars Mike Epps as well. The same characters that portrayed Craig and
Dey Dey are in a movie that is included in a Friday four pack. Can't be
that far off.

Sadly, it takes the path and cliché of every cop movie out there.
There's explosions, swearing, two friends, etc. It gets old very fast.
There's not much new or fresh utilized here. If there is a low six star
movie rating, this is the one. It's not a five star film, but it's not
a seven or eight star film. It's kind of tilting on the edge.

Bucum (Cube) is a bounty hunter who's goal is to get money to open his
own investigation firm. Reggie (Epps) is a con artist that somehow
escaped Bucum's clutches three times. After winning big on the lottery,
but losing the ticket in the back of a van with diamonds thieves, Bucum
and Reggie have no choice but to work together to get the thieves and
retrieve the lottery ticket so Reggie can claim his riches.

It reminds me of a film I watched not too long ago called Lottery
Ticket that also stars Cube, about a young man trying to survive a
weekend with a $370 million lottery ticket the whole neighborhood is
aware of. The only difference is the ticket never leaves the man's
possession. In this one they need to get it back.

The film has frequent chases and action moments, but I find them
unappealing and just a little much. I would have liked less of the over
exaggerated, played out action sequences and more of the witty dialog.
Ice Cube and Mike Epps made a great duo in Next Friday and Friday After
Next, and had numerous dialog scenes in the film that were utterly
hilarious and clever. This film relies too much on action movie
clichés, and a drawn out plot. You know they'll retrieve the ticket,
and most likely fight towards the end. The suspense is none.

You may say it's my fault for comparing the film too much to Friday,
but I'm not analyzing the film based on my first impression. I'm
grading on behalf of the film's plot, characters action scenes, and
suspense. The film had everyone of those in decent context. But so
decent they were forgettable.

Starring: Ice Cube, Mike Epps, Eva Mendes, Tommy Flanagan, Carmen
Chaplin, Valarie Rae Miller, Roger Guenveur Smith, and Anthony Michael
Hall. Directed by: Kevin Bray.
<|_=00=_|>

I am becoming more and more a fan of Ice Cube's movies, he is really not a
bad writer or a director. I am not however so much of a fan of Mike Epps.
Don't get me wrong, he is pretty funny, but something about his voice just
bugs me....kind of like Dave Chapelle ("Half Baked"). The movie overall
though was fairly entertaining. My game ball for best acting goes to Eva
Mendes who played Epps' character's girlfriend Gina who wins the lottery
at
the beginning of the movie. Unfortunately for her, Reggie (Mike Epps)
loses
the ticket while being chased by Bucum (Ice Cube). It becomes kind of a
running "gag" thorough the movie that he is always looking for his missing
lottery ticket. I heard ahead of time that Tommy Flanagan was supposed to
play a different kind of tougher villain from Ice Cube, but frankly I was
not impressed. With the exception of one scene where he cripples a guy, he
didn't seem especially threatening, and his accent was just getting on my
nerves. Enclosing, I wouldn't run out and drop $10 to see it immediately,
but it's more than entertaining for you and your stoner friends to have a
laugh on a Sunday afternoon.
<|_=00=_|>

This was a another great partnership of Mike Epps and Ice Cube. After
seeing
"Next Friday", and having not stopped laughing yet. "All About The
Benjamins" was a must see, and I was not disappointed. Ice Cube has
certainly come a long way and is proving to be a very versatile actor. I
can't wait to see "Friday After Next". I'd pay full price to see "All About
the Benjamins" again.
<|_=00=_|>

After sitting through "All About the Benjamins" it's a real enjoyable
action/comedy.  This is the story of a bounty hunter (Ice Cube, who also
co-wrote with first-time screenwriter Ron Lang and co-produced) who's on
the
pursuit of a bail jumper ("Next Friday" co-star Mike Epps) and their
footchase ends up at drop-off for a major diamond where the killers left a
few dead bodies in the process.  I'll admit Cube is really showing his
talents as an actor, screenwriter, and producer. And, Epps, is real
hilarious in this movie. Cubevision projects have been getting better. And,
Ice Cube shows a lot more comedic talents than he did in the last two
"Fridays".  I also like the bad guys, especially the ring leader of the
heist.  I feel that this is one of the most plot-driven movies Ice Cube has
done since "Players Club".  And, if you look hard at "All About the
Benjamins" it's not just an Ice Cube movie.  It's an actor/screenwriter
hard
at work.  But, only one thing this sounds more like a movie that would be
released in the summer, not early spring.  
<|_=00=_|>

I saw this this movie in theaters back when it came out and it was
entertaining then. I bought in on DVD and I have been entertained
since. But last night I watched from a more critical stance than usual
and found some flaws in this movie that I thought was very good. 

First of all, I love Ice Cube and what he's done with his career and
how he branched off from music to movies. He's one of the few rappers
that can hold their own on either side of the camera. He also seems to
know his limitations. He enlists others to handle the over-the-top
comedy for those qualified. Mike Epps was a very good choice. At times
his jokes can fall flat, but the hilarity of his funny moments make up
for the missteps.

I watched 'All About the Benjamins' last night and I was in stitches
laughing at the shower torture scene. I rewinded that bad boy at least
five times and watched it again once more before I went to sleep for
one more chuckle. Oddly enough, it wasn't Ice Cube, Mike Epps, or even
the torture that I found funny. It was the torturee (Julian Ramose
played by Roger Guenveur Smith). When he mouthed off at Mike Epps'
character (Reggie) I was rolling all over the place uncontrollably. 

This movie's script could have been better, but I've seen much worse. I
was never bored and I will watch this movie many more times in the
future. Ice Cube should employ better writers in the future. This could
be a gem with smarter dialogue. We watch movies too, you know. 

I gave this movie a 7 out of 10. That one scene getting rewound so much
was a HUGE factor. See this if you get a chance.

<|_=00=_|>
Tyson Bucum (Ice Cube) is a Miami independent bounty hunter. His next
job is con man Reggie Wright (Mike Epps) whom he caught three times
before already. Tyson and Reggie get tangled up with two ruthless
deadly diamond thieves, Julian and Ursula. Reggie loses his wallet
while escaping the thieves' van. The diamonds turn out to be fakes and
the thieves believe that Reggie has the real diamonds. Then to his
horror, Reggie finds his winning lottery ticket for the $60 million
jackpot is lost with his wallet.

This tries to be a mad-cap irreverent wild action caper. I love Ice
Cube and Mike Epps is fun sometimes. Music video director Kevin Bray
seems to be trying to copy Michael Bay's Bad Boys. This is a fun style
for awhile but it eventually wears thin. It's a borderline case but
it's more tiresome but fun.
<|_=00=_|>
A professional bounty hunter (Ice Cube) is in the search of a two-bit
hustler (Mike Epps). When this hustler gets mixed-up accidentally with
a botched diamond heist. Since this hustler lost his wallet to a racist
psycho villain (Tommy Flanagan). The hustler actually has an winning
lottery ticket of $60 Million Dollars. The bounty hunter teams with the
hustler, since the bounty hunter almost gets shot by the villain's
employees (Carmen Chaplin & Roger Guenveur Smith). The bounty hunter
and the hustler are mixed up with a diamond heist, a lost winning
lottery ticket and one thing become clear... that it's all about the
benjamins.

Directed by the first-time filmmaker:Kevin Bray, who directed plenty of
music videos for talented music artists. The film's has an familiar
storytelling but if it wasn't for Cube's and Epps' likable
performances, the film would have been a real mess.

DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (2.35:1) transfer and an strong
DTS 5.1 Surround Sound (Also in Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound). DVD
has an fine commentary track by the director and producer:Matt Alvarez.
DVD has four entertaining featurettes, Deleted Scene, Outtakes and
more. The film has an fine music score by John Murphy (28 Days Later)
and an good looking cinematography work by Glen MacPherson (Exit
Wounds, Romeo Must Die, Walking Tall-2004). It is worth seeing,
especially if you are a fan of Cube's or Epps' films. Written by
Actor/Producer:Cube and Executive Producer:Ronald Lang. Eva Mendes
co-stars as Epps' girlfriend. Carmen Chaplin is the grand-daughter of
the famous silent comedian:Charlie Chaplin. Super 35. (*** ½/*****).
<|_=00=_|>
I enjoyed this film about a bounty hunter (Ice T) who chases a con man
who keeps eluding him. When the con man wins the mega lottery and then
loses his ticket (in the boat of a nasty villain) he tries to enlist
the aid of Ice T to get it back. Unfortunately for him, Ice T does not
believe him about the ticket and is not only interested in collecting
the bounty for the con man and also recovering several million in
diamonds that a bad guy has.

Eventually, Ice T starts to believe the con man and they somewhat work
together but Ice T maintains a short leash on him until he can beat the
villain and get the diamonds.

There are some really hilarious scenes and both Ice T and the con man
put in excellent performances.

An overlooked gem that is as good as any of the Lethal Weapon films!
