
Ellie (Christina Ricci) and her brother Jimmy (Jesse Eisenberg) are on
their way home when they get into a car accident. While trying to help
the other driver out of an overturned vehicle, the other driver is
attacked by what Jimmy swears was a "huge man-like wolf". Both Jimmy
and Ellie end up scratched and possibly bitten by the creature. When
they begin noticing strange physical effects and behavior--including
both of them suddenly becoming more assertive socially--they begin to
wonder if a werewolf has bitten them. If so, will they turn into
werewolves, too? 

Cursed had a notoriously difficult time making it to the screen. It
began production in 2002, then went through four major shoots with 90%
of the material being tossed out at one point. Major characters, played
by major actors--including Freddie Prinze, Jr. and Skeet Ulrich--were
in and out of the film. Director Wes Craven even ended up abandoning
the film altogether when Dimension Films chairman Bob Weinstein
demanded a PG-13 cut rather than Craven's initial R. Someone else did
the final PG-13 cut. As should be expected, these events appear to have
harmed the film.

As the theatrical release stands, chunks of the film appear to be
missing. For example, we see Jimmy and Ellie both pretty convinced that
they're werewolves shortly after Jimmy first begins researching the
symptoms and Ellie thinks he's being ridiculous. The transition is not
convincing; there seems to be exposition missing. There are a number of
such choppy, non sequitur moments. The film doesn't flow very well.

The most obvious material to be cut--during and after "attack"
scenes--surely hurt the film, as well, although part of the problem
with these scenes may have been Craven's fault. Like too many recent
films, attack scenes are shot blurry, cut way too fast, and they're
often too dark. Part of the idea might have been to make the CGI less
obvious, but I'd rather have obvious CGI than incoherent scenes.

One final flaw was that the werewolf material in the film wasn't
handled very clearly. Whether this was yet another editing problem or a
script problem from screenwriter Kevin Williamson is difficult to say,
but the film's werewolf "rules" are never well explained. For example,
it's never quite clear why the werewolf would want to attack people
again and why they wouldn't just be full-fledged lycanthropes the first
time. Although this makes a bit more sense later in the film, werewolf
"rules" are still implied that are never explained but needed to be.

But there are a number of positive aspects to the film. Craven shows
that he hasn't lost his love of postmodernist reference and theatrical
"wall breaking", the performances are good, occasionally the film is
suspenseful (the car crash near the beginning is especially well done),
and Williamson's story overall is intriguing in that Cursed is really a
somewhat traditional thriller in which characters just happen to be
werewolves.

Craven opens the film at a carnival, which is obviously theatrical, and
quickly presents a psychic "performer" who happens to be a "real
psychic", taking her job seriously rather than just providing
entertainment. The parallel is to Craven as a horror filmmaker, which
may often be seen as just an entertainer instead of a "real
illusionist" approaching the job with serious intentions. Then he
quickly takes us to a club, Tinsel, that's a veritable Madame Tussauds
with a Hollywood theme, complete with full, detailed sets. There are
numerous horror references in the club, including to Craven's own work,
such as A Nightmare on Elm Street (1984). This emphasizes the
artificiality of cinema in a way similar to the "real film in a film"
conceit of Craven's New Nightmare (1994). To push this theatrical wall
breaking further, many sets, such as the interior of Jimmy and Ellie's
house, are lit and shot so as to emphasize their artificiality--almost
as if the film were being made on the displays at the Tinsel club.
Craven also has a number of characters working in the entertainment
industry, and like New Nightmare, has celebrities playing themselves.
As a humorous jab at filmic self-reference and comments about his use
of the same in previous films, especially Scream (1996), a pivotal
scene near Cursed's false climax is shot in a very artificial-looking
hall of mirrors (and this is also literally reminiscent of a number of
other horror films, including The Exorcist II: The Heretic (1977), Dr.
Giggles (1992) and The Haunting (1999)).

The fact that Williamson has really constructed a thriller, and it just
appears to be a werewolf film, is a kind of late-film twist that
provides another level of "wall breaking". It's a clever idea that has
some similarities to Williamson's I Know What You Did Last Summer
(1997) script, which continually flirted with the gray area between
thrillers and slasher flicks. Williamson also spends time exploring the
dramatic consequences of Ellie and Jimmy's newfound power.

However, given the final result, at least with the cut I watched, these
more intellectual touches from Craven and Williamson may have ended up
being too hip for the film, which Dimension apparently wanted to sell
as a more by-the-numbers horror flick geared to pull in younger teens
(and a surprising amount of pre-teens in the showing I attended). I'm
not usually one to complain about the existence of PG-13 (or even
tamer) horror, as I do not think that gore, language, etc. are
necessary for a good film. It's not that I dislike gore, but I love the
first three Universal Frankenstein films, say, as much as I love the
Evil Dead series, Romero's zombie films, or any of the Texas Chainsaw
Massacre films (and certainly more than I like, say, Andreas Schnaas'
work, which has the gore but not much else). But when the result of
studios pushing for PG-13 results in such an apparent botch-job, I have
to add my voice to the protesters.
<|_=00=_|>
I went into "Cursed" with high expectations, I'll admit. But how could
I resist the re-teaming of the "Scream" team, director Wes Craven and
screenwriter Kevin Williamson? I should have known after re-shoots and
delay upon delay of the film's release (It should have come out last
November), that this would not be another masterpiece in the works.
Though I tried to keep my hopes up, the results of this recombination
are mixed at best.

Christina Ricci ("Monster") and Jessie Eisenberg ("Roger Dodger") star
as siblings who are attacked by a mysterious animal in the Hollywood
hills while trying to pull a woman from a wrecked car. Both are wounded
by this animal and as the days go by, they begin to change. Eisenberg
is most convincing as the younger brother who researches the animal
that attacked them. He believes they were infected by a werewolf. The
rest of the film chronicles their changes and quest to find the beast
who infected them.

Aside from Ricci and Eisenberg the cast mainly consists of a
smorgasbord of television actors, mostly from the WB. And I'm not sure
that I'd call what they were doing acting. It seemed they mostly showed
up and had a good time. Which can work, as long as the audience is
enjoying it, too. However, I found myself groaning at much of the
dialogue and wincing during emotional moments.

The film is slow to take off but does pick up the pace in the middle
before falling off again towards the end. The computer graphics already
look dated, and the werewolf makeup is most definitely sub par. A word
to filmmakers everywhere, if you can't make a werewolf transformation
look convincing, then don't show it at all. There's a lot to be said
for implication.

Though there are several scenes where something pops up in the frame to
make you jump in your seat, nothing haunts you as you leave the
theater. There's no fear of bad dreams here.

Overall, the geniuses behind one of the classic fright films of the 90s
(and possibly of all time) did not bring their best work into this
decade. I hate to say it, but Wes Craven seems to be suffering from his
own curse - the loss of fright.

For a smarter, more imaginative take on the werewolf theme, check out
"Ginger Snaps" or "Dog Soldiers."
<|_=00=_|>
I'm sad that so many people have not liked this movie! It was a total
parody of every werewolf movie you have ever seen. I thought it was
hilarious and I think that's what Kevin Williamson wanted (but who am I
to speculate?). I thought of the movie in the same way I thought of
Scream... a lot of people saw Scream as just a cheesy horror movie, but
those that are huge horror fans and have a sense of humor, got the
joke.

Lighten up.

My advice to those who haven't seen the movie: Don't take it so
seriously! It's supposed to be fun. The obvious jokes aren't the only
ones you are supposed to laugh at ;)
<|_=00=_|>
Every once in a while, Wes Craven comes out with something new that I
enjoy. Scream was the last noteworthy movie I can recall (and that I
have seen) that was good. While Cursed was no Scream, it was a pretty
good little werewolf movie, despite what Wes, himself, thinks of it. I
think it would have been better if it was left uncut, but I still
thought pretty highly of it, even if most do not agree.

Cursed is about a brother and sister named Ellie and Jimmy (Christina
Ricci & Jesse Eisenberg) who get into a car accident and end up getting
bit by something while helping the other motorist. Neither knows what
it was, but Jimmy saw the creature directly and describes it as a
wolf-like creature. Slowly, they begin to feel the changes one makes
when turning into a werewolf and they have to solve the mystery of how
to stop it.

I do have to say that Christina Ricci was absolutely stunning. I love
the way she looks with her hair down. Also, Kristina Anapau as Brooke
was also quite a knock-out.

The plot does take a few turns, some of them not so good but overall,
not too bad. The good far outweighed the bad with me. The werewolf
itself was awesome, with the exception of the one time you get to watch
the transformation. It was OK but could have used a little flair or a
bit of violence in the change- maybe something along the lines of Van
Helsing's vampire change would have suited me better. Also, the little
gay sub-plot thrown in for no apparent reason could have been left out.
I realize this sounds weird to say about a horror film, but coming out
of the closet in the way shown in this movie was completely
unrealistic. Even more so than the fact they were running from
werewolves.

I was also a bit disappointed with the ending but I was truly
entertained throughout the film and can recommend it with an 8 out of
10.
<|_=00=_|>
Ellie and kid brother Jimmy are driving home late one night through the
Hollywood Hills when something huge and monstrous crosses their path.
One nasty road accident later, the annoyingly whiny female passenger of
the car they just hit is dragged off into the woods by a mostly unseen
creature which rips the woman to shreds - and good riddance. Ellie and
Jimmy do not escape unscathed themselves. The creature has mildly
injured them both and soon, brother and sister are experiencing
heightened senses and suffering the Mark of the Beast on the palm of
their hands. For Jimmy, it's a blessing in disguise as he returns to
high school and battles the school bully. For Ellie, it's the first
step on the path towards discovering who the real monster is, and the
suspects are numerous. Will she and her brother discover the identity
of the beast in time to save themselves from the curse? Or will they
too become full fledged werewolves at the next full moon?

"Cursed" doesn't take itself very seriously as a horror film, or as a
comedy. It seems to be trying to decide which it wanted to be, and
hadn't made up its mind in time for the closing credits. There are a
few genuine laughs to be found throughout, and some nifty references to
the bygone days of Universal Creature Features, but for the most part
this is a silly, airbrushed effort, filled with Beautiful People acting
stupidly. I should have considered myself warned when I saw Scott
Baio's name in the opening credits. The werewolf itself has a few good
scenes, but I was kind of disappointed to see the legendary Rick
Baker's name in the credits, and then find myself face to face with a
CGI beast later on. And what was Christina Ricci doing in this? Did she
lose a bet with Wes Craven or something?

This film might have fared better in the 80s, but it seems somewhat
lifeless and unimaginative these days. I'm just glad I had a free pass,
otherwise I would be feeling profoundly ripped off right about now.
<|_=00=_|>
After five years without directing a film, I bought this DVD expecting
a good return of Wes Craven to the genre horror teen movie. I like his
last works in this genre ("Scream 1, 2 & 3") and also the drama "Music
of the Heart", and Christina Ricci is very cool. Unfortunately,
"Cursed" is a forgettable and predictable collection of clichés. It is
amazing how the viewer can predict the next scene! Further, it is
amazing how easy is to replace a fancy car in Hollywood: Ellie wrecks
her car in the middle of the night, and on the next day she has a
brandy new car. Jake breaks the window of the driver of the new car,
and on the next sequence we see Ellie driving in a rainy night in high
speed without disheveling her hair. Ellie's brother Jimmy
unsuccessfully tries to be funny. If you want to see a great werewolf
movie, there are many excellent options, but you can forget "Cursed",
which is only recommended for killing time. My vote is five.

Title (Brazil): "Amaldiçoado" ("Cursed")
<|_=00=_|>
'Cursed' has already earned a place in Hollywood history for it's
infamous production problems. Massive re-shoots (rumored up to 75% of
the movie), recasts, rewrites, over a year of delays, basically any and
everything that could possibly go wrong. Pass this off as credit to
Craven as a director and Williamson as a writer that they were still
able to pull off something of a fun movie.

A pair of siblings are bitten by a werewolf following a car crash that
leaves one woman dead. Amidst their sudden development of new powers
they must contend with the traumas the curse brings. Discovering that
the only way to lift the curse is to kill the cause of the infection,
they must now find out whom the beast is.

On the evolutionary ladder of Craven's films, this is above 'Shocker',
below 'Scream', right about on par with 'People Under the Strairs'.
Meaning there is some good, gory fun to be had if one doesn't take it
too seriously. Those in the market for some blood and laughs ought to
have a fine time.

What hurts so much about this, and is the source of much of the films
bashing, is that it could have been so much better. While the talents
involved worked hard to salvage as much as they could it still feels
like an overall missed opportunity. The scares are OK, but not great;
the jokes are OK, but not great; the pacing is OK, but not great;
noticing a pattern? Technically it's a mixed bag. Great, energetic
camera work with some lively stunt work adds a lot of energy, but
on/off pacing slows things down again. Characters and scenarios are OK,
but dialogue lacks pizazz. And while there is some good gore being
tossed around, the creature itself never looks all that believable
(neither in CG or costume incarnations).

In the end this is not the ultimate failure fan-boys have tried to pass
it off as; time will be kind to Craven's unfortunate child and horror
fans should too.

7/10 (Note: review based on R-rated version of film)
<|_=00=_|>
I've been waiting to see Cursed for a very long time, probably more
than a year, since the first time I heard about it. I expected a great
movie, with Wes Craven at the helm why wouldn't it be a great film? I
went to the opening day matinée showing and this is how I sum it up.

Cursed fails to capture the audience's attention for a few main
reasons. First and foremost, it follows too much standardized formula
and fails to think outside the box. Watching Cursed, you can almost
predict exactly what will happen and when it will happen. The script
could have been improved with a few minor changes which would have
changed the entire direction of the film. Instead you have an A-Typical
werewolf film with the protagonists fighting to save them selves from
the "curse". Sorry folks, this story has been done in other horror
films more times than I can count, and not just in werewolf films! 

One element I didn't care for was when the brother, Jimmy, suggests
being a werewolf could be cool. This is exactly where the story should
have gone from that point onwards. But as quickly as he says being a
werewolf could be cool, he falls back to the standard "gotta kill the
head werewolf and end this curse" attitude. The movie would have been
better if Jimmy had welcomed his "curse". Had that one change in plot
occurred the story could have gone off in several darker and more
interesting plot lines. 

I can't fault the CGI effects for a change. I am strong opponent of CGI
technology as the effects usually look awful.In Cursed the effects are
better than normal, although they are still no where near the
traditional "An American Werewolf in London" make-up and prosthetics
quality. 

I did enjoy the humor in the film. Cursed does offer several very funny
moments and a few corny ones too. Without the humor the movie would
have been an utter waste of time. The humor helps detract from the poor
plot line which you can tell was attempting to be clever like Scream,
but failing miserably. 

I wonder if Wes Craven was even on the set when this film was made. It
seemed to lack of the trademark qualities of a Craven film. Whatever
the case may be it is obvious he did not do his research in what makes
a great werewolf film.

Werewolf films, to be effective, must have several good transformation
scenes, graphic mauling and mutilations and an innocent protagonist who
is seduced by the curse. Cursed really has none of these qualities. 

Overall I did enjoy the film, but I also expected the movie would fail
to "wow me", which it did. It seems to me that the problems with Cursed
were mostly script and plot related. Don't expect to be scared, but try
to have a little fun with what it is. 

Remember, werewolf movies are almost never scary...especially if they
throw in a happy ending!
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, sorry for the name on the summary it is really bad .

I have to ask something...why are so many people panning this movie!?!I
loved it! So it was in no way terrifying and i only jumped a few times
but it was well worth a Friday night where i could have been sat in.

So many people have complained about it not exceeding expectations but
i will not blame Craven or Williamson for that. I would blame the board
of Dimension who asked Williamson to rewrite the script and end up
having what could have been a good cast ensemble reduced to one or two
noticeable actors - Christina Ricci, who looked gorgeous and provided
eye-candy for many guys, and Shannon Elisabeth, who i wished had had
the part of Judy Greer but Judy's performance wasn't terrible. And i'll
blame Dimension for cutting out gore which i swear was the only thing i
missed.

The transformation wasn't very 'American werewolf in London' but does
it have to be? I am not going to stick up for that part 'cause it
could've been better but don't moan about it.

I think the script was good and it had a few fantastic one liners- the
werewolf screaming LIAR and giving the finger...hey, anything can
happen, its Hollywood. And the script was hardly thin or terrible, just
lacking in some detail about the werewolf rules.It was a bit clumsy
though, the first werewolf dies but the head doesn't become separated
and it isn't shot by silver...rather silly mistake. 

I am very happy that Craven didn't take the movie seriously and started
to turn it into a parody from early on because it was enjoyable
otherwise it would have been nothing but a few unseen deaths and a very
dull plot but the humour and in-jokes made it better.He did try to work
with what he had and i guess he gave up because of Dimension ( I don't
have a problem with Dimension films, honest!)

All in all, if you are looking for something to do and are out of
ideas, go and see this movie but do not take it seriously at all and
you should have an enjoyable night without the bad after-effects of
scary films with nightmares and anxiety.
<|_=00=_|>
Cursed Ellie(Ricci) is a struggling, self-conscious young woman working
as a make-up person for a talkshow. She lives with her brother, Jimmy,
and they live alone because their parents died a few years earlier. One
night, they are driving down a dark winding road and something slams
against the windshield, and Ellie swerves the car and knocks another
driver off the road. That night changes their live after a giant,
mythical werewolf rips the girl apart. From there on, Ellie and Jimmy
learn they might be "cursed" after they suddenly have the most
recognizable feature... a star on your palm.

As they learn more about the situation, they find out that, to end the
curse, they must kill the original source... a twist of fate brings
them to Ellie's unexpected crush's grand opening of his store. Joni,
Ellie's rival/nemisis at work, shows up and chases the place empty.
After killing Joni and narrowly escaping her, they return home... but
all their predictions where wrong... and only they can stop the curse.

Wise-cracking writer Kevin Williamson has written creative pieces in
the past. I like his style most of the time but I personally think he
makes his screenplays too diabolical, particularly in the "Scream"
films. Stylish-horror director Wes Craven directed the first two
"Scream" films and various other horror films. As a pairing, I enjoy
their ability to weave suspense, blood, and creative death scenes.
'Cursed', their most recent project, is not a film to be called bad...
but it's not up to their potential as a team.

The negative points:'Cursed' begins introducing us to a bunch of
characters. As the plot slowly unfolds, it becomes somewhat lackuster.
We can't believe anything the supporting characters say because most of
them are thrown into the film to add another body to the body count
pile.

Onto the positive points, which are more then negative. 'Cursed' has
good atmosphere, is well-made and taut. It has a few jolts and
Christina Ricci is eye-candy to guys on-screen. The film also has a few
interesting elements in it. This 'curse' showed us how much the
characters really valued each other, or their own lives. The death
scenes are nothing to yelp about, but they are fun to watch,
particularly one with a woman in the elevator. :) There are a lot of
funny moments, also which adds a lot to the film.

The main problem I said in the summary is this... it is not scary at
all. A few jolts aside, the scares begin predictable, such as someone
turning around and someone is standing right there. They're nothing to
jump about. Kevin Williamson seemed to hold back this time, like he was
trying to keep his reputation good, so he took it easy.

CURSED--- 3 from 4 PG13-

horror/terror violence, sexual content/references, language and some
images of nudity.
