

`Possession' has all the intricacy, mystery and suspense of a classic
piece
of detective fiction.  What sets this film apart, however, is that the
object of the mystery does not involve a dead body, a piece of stolen
treasure or a missing person, but rather the hitherto secret love affair
between two well-known 19th Century English poets.   The clues come in the
form of journal entries, love letters and snippets of enigmatic poetry
that,
when pieced together, afford a glimpse into the inner yearnings of these
two
young, but essentially unrequited lovers.

As a narrative, `Possession' runs on two parallel tracks, one set in
modern
times (that's where the detective story aspect comes in) and the other set
in 1859, as we learn the details of the romance that took place between
the
writers.  In the contemporary plot strand, Aaron Eckhart stars as Roland
Michell, a handsome young American research assistant who has come to
England to study the work of famed poet Randolph Henry Ash, a writer with
a
certain misogynistic strain who nevertheless enjoys the rather unique
reputation among poets of having been utterly faithful to his wife.  As
the
story begins, Ash has become something of a cause celebre within British
literary circles because the year 2000 happens to mark the centenary of
the
discovery of his work.  While poring over a first edition copy of one of
Ash's volumes, Roland stumbles across some original letters of Ash's that
hint at the possibility that Ash, contrary to the public impression of his
marital fidelity, may actually have had an affair with another famed poet
of
the time, a Miss Christabel La Motte, a woman believed by her biographers
to
have been a lesbian.  Confronted with this startling, revolutionary and,
perhaps, priceless piece of information, Roland sets out to unravel the
mystery, accompanied by Maud Bailey (Gwyneth Paltrow), an expert on the
life
and work of Miss LaMotte (and a distant descendant of that famed poet in
the
bargain).

`Possession' earns points automatically simply by providing us with a
unique
storyline and a fascinating glimpse into a world we have rarely if ever
seen
portrayed on screen - the world of literary investigation.  We are
fascinated by all the behind-the-scene details showing not merely the
investigative footwork that goes into unearthing the biographical details
of
a writer's life, but also the sometimes-cutthroat nature that propels
rival
investigators to both make and publish their discoveries, even if that
means
utilizing tactics that can be described as, at best, unethical, and, at
worst, illegal.

But `Possession' offers more than just that.  It also manages to provide
not
merely one, but two complex romances occurring at the same time (though a
full century apart in the context of the story).  Randolph and Christabel
are both products - and victims - of their Victorian Era morality, yet at
the same time, their struggles are universal in nature and neatly
correspond
to those experienced by Roland and Maud, who literally follow in the
footsteps of the earlier couple.  As our modern day investigators travel
the
same route through England that Randolph and Christabel took a century
previous, Roland and Maud reveal much about their own inability to make
commitments in the face of possible true love.  As they tentatively grope
towards one another, then back away out of fear of pain and rejection,
Roland and Maud define, in many ways, the métier of modern romantic
coupling.  Yet, we discover, through Randolph and Christabel, that life in
the past really wasn't much different from what it is today.

Based on the novel by A.S. Byatt, the David Henry Hwang/Laura Jones/Neil
LaBute screenplay provides highly charged scenes between our two romantic
couples, particular those involving Roland and Maud.  The dialogue in
these
encounters is often sharp, intelligent, incisive.  The romantic moments
between Raymond and Christabel have a slightly more conventional feel to
them, but they, too, often ring true in a way that is both deeply moving
and
strangely exciting.  Director LaBute has drawn wonderful performances out
of
his quartet of first-rate actors.  Aaron Eckhart as Roland and Jennifer
Ehle
as Christabel are particularly effective in their roles.

It's refreshing to see a romantic drama that manages to generate some
actual
chemistry between its two on-screen lovers.  In the case of `Possession,'
our pleasure is thereby doubled, since the film accomplishes this with not
merely one couple but two.   `Possession' may not provide the blood, gore,
corpses and hair-raising thrills one usually associates with detective
fiction, but its devotion to the drama found in words, poetry, language
and
romance makes for no less an engrossing experience.


<|_=00=_|>

This film offers some gorgeous visuals and some great performances -
notably
those by Jeremy Northam and Jennifer Ehle (a bit of a casting joke since
those two are famous for playing Jane Austen's Mr. Knightley and Elisabeth
Bennet, respectively) - but as a literary adaptation, the movie falls
short
on too many points. Sadly, the filmmakers have missed out on most of the
central themes of the novel, without substituting a sufficiently
interesting
interpretation of their own.

A.S. Byatt's novel examines the shifting relationships between men and
women
a century and a half apart - to that end, the characters in the two
storylines (the Victorian and the contemporary) mirror each other
deliberately. For some unfathomable reason, the screenwriters have decided
to cut out completely two crucial characters from the modern-time
storyline
- Val, Roland's girlfriend, and the feminist (and Lesbian) researcher
friend
of Maud's, whose name I forget  - their equivalents in the Victorian
period
are Ash's wife, and Christabel's lover Blanche.

One of the main interests of the original story lies in the ways in which
the relationships between those characters have changed because of the
changes in society that the 20th century has brought - particularly the
way
the main characters relate to each other (significantly, Maud is the
stronger and more successful person in the modern-time relationship) - but
also with respect to all the other characters involved (Roland and Val's
relationship, which is based almost exclusively on sex, as contrasted with
Ash's and his wife's relationship, which is entirely sex-less - the point
here being that in a truly fulfilled relationship, these two things must
be
in balance).

Also, the characters, particularly that of Roland, are bent and twisted
beyond recognition - I have nothing against Aaron Eckhard or his
performance, but he simply plays a completely different character from the
Roland Mitchell of the novel - who is *not* brash (nor is he celibate),
but
has a certain mousy-ness about him that is quite essential to the plot.
Also, he is British for a reason, so making him into an American adds a
completely wrong dimension to his and Maud's differences. Judging from the
director's commentary, the main reason for casting Eckhard was that he's a
buddie of director Neil La Bute's - it's a sad thing that the filmmakers
decided to twist the character and plot to accomodate the actor, rather
than
making a more informed casting choice, as I am sure there are plenty of
suitable British actors out there that would have fitted the part
admirably.

Gwyneth Paltrow offers a convincing enough performance, and is well-cast
as
Maud Bailey - a woman whose physical attractiveness stands in the way of
her
being taken seriously as the bright academic she is. But she is not being
given enough scope to be the reserved intellectual she is supposed to be,
because her relationship with Roland developes far too quickly, and with
not
enough plausibility (particularly given a certain lack of chemistry
between
the two actors) - thereby missing another of the main themes (and
contrasts)
in the novel.

Having said that, the film is worth watching for its final five minutes
alone - and incidentally, this is the one scene that catches most
accurately
the spirit, and the point, of the original novel.


<|_=00=_|>

I went to watch the movie with a little trepidation...after all, I've had
images of these characters in my head for years...but I also went with much
excitement, as I have been waiting for this movie to come for some time now.

 First of all, Neil LaBute captured the snobbery of the whole academic scene
very well, albeit very briefly.  However, the British characters make so
much comment about the fact that he's an American, that it borders on the
ridiculous.  Most of the actual British people I've met actually like
Americans, and although they make the occasional joke about them, they don't
carry on like the academicians in the movie.  The point I am making is that
the other characters seem to emphasize Roland's brashness so much that
Roland doesn't even have a chance to show what he's truly made of, why he's
there working with Professor Blackadder, over any dozens of other graduate
students (British or not) who could have had his place.

 Much has been said about making the character of Roland an American.
Actually, I think that the choice of bringing an American into the academic
mix not only changes this from something more suited to "Masterpiece
Theatre" TV to something worthy of the big screen.  Roland is the outsider
in the book, a lower-class Brit, but he is also someone who harbors poetic
aspirations and more passion for his chosen subject (Ash) than any of his
colleagues.  The fact that he is an American in the movie helps to emphasize
his outsider identity.  But the audience is never truly shown this at all in
the movie.

 This is the true misstep of the movie (and I have a feeling that perhaps
some of it is on the cutting room floor):  Roland's character is so
underdeveloped in the movie that anyone coming to the movie without having
read the book cannot help but feel he is a "fish-out-of-water." Sure, they
have scenes of Roland reading a book of Ash poetry and a brief flash of
Roland writing poetry in a notebook.  But the latter scene seemed to exist
only for Gwyneth Paltrow's character (Maud Bailey) to have another
opportunity to make fun of Roland, and not to help reveal any sort of depth
to his character.

 As a fan of the book, I did enjoy the movie after all.  The Victorian
scenes were especially beautiful and I loved the seamless cutting between
past and present in the same spaces, the same rooms.  Since my only
misgiving is that it was too short, I feel that LaBute was successful in his
adaptation...I guess I will have to look to the DVD to see if he had
intended to flesh out Roland's character more.  Unfortunately, Roland is
never even given a chance to show what he's made of, except for the fact
that he steals a letter from a book -- the catalyst of both the movie and
the book.  His "American-ness" in this case -- his boldness and his guile --
is a good thing.  It's just too bad that we don't see more of why he likes
Ash so much and what really motivates him to take up the literary chase with
Maud...and this is why I would recommend to anyone who's enjoyed the movie
that they should read the book...it will amaze you how much LaBute managed
to keep in, and it will astound you to become more acquainted with the
quadrangle of characters and their individual passions and motivations.

<|_=00=_|>
I recently watched Possession and went into it with low
expectations...counting on it to compare with some of Paltrow's other
flops like Bounce or Duets, but I am thrilled to say I was pleasantly
surprised by this film. First of all, Paltrow's co-star is the fresh
new actor, Aaron Eckhart and not played out Ben Affleck or non-actor
musician, Huey Lewis. So right off the bat, I was pleased by
that!Possession is an extremely intelligent film that oozes with
intrigue as Paltrow and Eckhart race to solve the mystery of a
heart-wrenching romantic scandal taken from history. It weaves together
a relatable modern-day romance with an irresistibly passionate
Victorian love story. This film is very "out of the box" and
unexpected...an extremely unconventional romance that makes you think.
I love those and think you will too!
<|_=00=_|>

A rose by any other name is still a rose; and so it is with love.  And
whether or not history reflects any of the great love stories of the past
accordingly and/or contextually correct, it does not alter the fact of it. 
The rose of the romance four generations later, for example, may become
known as the lily; neither does that alter the fact of what was, nor of what
is, all of these decades later, indelibly etched upon the mind's eye of
eternity.  `Possession,' directed by Neil LaBute, is just such a story,
within a story; one the actual passion of which may have been inadvertently
diminished, however, through the misinterpretation of the chroniclers who
years before set it all down in annals made figuratively of stone, and
which, once set, forever after endured.  A romantic film of an even more
romantic notion, it's a twofold tale of love, the stories of which, though
separated by generations, are in the end, in nature one and the same. 
Because, as this film so richly reveals, love indeed lives eternal, and is
borne on the very same flame throughout the ages.

Roland Michell (Aaron Eckhart), an American, is in London on a fellowship
researching the life and work of 19th Century poet Randolph Henry Ash
(Jeremy Northam), poet laureate to Queen Victoria.  History recognizes Ash
as a dedicated and faithful husband, and his love poems-- purportedly
written to or about his wife-- are considered to be among his most
noteworthy accomplishments.  In the course of his studies, however, Michell
happens across some passionate letters written by Ash to a woman; a woman
who is, without question, not his wife.  And all evidence points to poetess
Christabel LaMotte (Jennifer Ehle) as being the receiver of the letters--
and of Ash's affections.  

Galvanized by the thought that he may have discovered something that would
change history, he seeks out Dr. Maud Bailey (Gwyneth Paltrow), currently
doing research of her own on LaMotte, in hopes that she will assist him in
his quest to uncover the truth about Ash.  Initially skeptical, Bailey
acquiesces, and together they set out across England, following what appears
to be the trail of Ash and LaMotte's movements during what Michell and
Bailey calculate to have been the period of the romantic interlude between
the poets.  And what follows is a journey of discovery for Michell and
Bailey; about the tenets of truth, history, and most importantly, about
love.

LaBute, Laura Jones and David Henry Hwang wrote the screenplay for this
film, adapted from the novel by A.S. Byatt.  And for LaBute, known for such
films as `Your Friends and Neighbors,' `Nurse Betty' and the scathing `In
the Company of Men,' it's an artistic turn of 180 degrees.  Absent are the
misogynists and narcissists who typically populate his landscapes, replaced
by characters the audience can warm to, if not embrace entirely.  First and
foremost, this is an enthralling love story, made all the more so by
LaBute's sensitive and sensible presentation.  Visually, it is stunning, as
well; Jean-Yves Escoffier's masterful cinematography fully captures the
exquisite beauty of the setting, which complements the romance and makes for
an entirely transporting experience.  

What makes this film altogether satisfying, however, is that LaBute (via
Byatt) manages to transcend the dominant romantic aspects of it,
interjecting a very subtle consideration of established social precepts and
principles, as well.  There is a decided sense of Ibsen about it, in
attitude, outlook and especially in the suggestion of the `roles' men and
women are assigned according to the dictates of `Society,' both then and
now.  And there is an obvious parallel drawn between the characters of
LaMotte and Bailey.  Generations later, Bailey has become the person LaMotte
aspired to be, and would have been except for the constraints of the times,
exemplified by the direction LaMotte's life necessarily had to take, as
compared with the options Bailey would enjoy in the same situation today.

The casting of this film could not have been better, beginning with LaBute
stalwart Eckhart, who perfectly realizes the character of Michell.  Through
his performance, he manages to carry the pivotal role of the film, without
making his character the focus.  Michell is central to the story, but it is
not `about' him, though Eckhart does give him something of an enigmatic
presence, revealing just enough about him to maintain interest, but no more.
 Eckhart directs attention to what Michell is doing, rather than who he is,
which successfully effects the desired results, and makes the film
work.

From the moment she appears on screen, Gwyneth Paltrow is a commanding
presence.  Her initial entrance is fairly inauspicious, and yet when she
steps into the room the eye is automatically drawn to her; it's one of those
cinematic ` moments' destined to remain suspended in time.  She imbues Maud
with a confident reserve which enables her to dominate the scenes she shares
with Eckhart, pointing up not only her considerable ability as an actor, but
Eckhart's generosity.  Beyond all of which, Paltrow has eyes that draw you
in like tractor beams.

The players who make this film so emotionally engaging, however, are
Jennifer Ehle and Jeremy Northam.  With acting souls seemingly tempered for
period piece drama, Ehle (`Pride and Prejudice') and Northam (`Wuthering
Heights,' `Carrington') make the perfect LaMotte and Ash.  In Ehle's
Christabel, we discern a character of independence and strength, beneath
which lies the romantic nature of the poet; in Northam's Ash we find
gentleness and charm, a dreamer who seeks out and finds that which is
beautiful and good about the world, the spirit of which he manifests in his
work.  Their respective performances are elegant, and there is a definite
chemistry between them that renders the romance viable and
convincing.

The supporting cast includes Trevor Eve (Cropper), Toby Stephens (Fergus),
Tom Hickey (Blackadder) and Lena Headey (Christabel's friend).  `Possession'
is an excursion into new territory for LaBute, and the result is a
memorable, transfixing experience for his audience.  10/10.         

                    

                  

   
<|_=00=_|>
It needs to be said; this is not a very good film, but it does keep up
the appearance of one fairly well, carrying a facade of mystery,
romance and great literature. The director navigates two parallel story
lines – one taking place between two secret lovers in the mid-1800s and
one taking place between two soon-to-be-lovers in the 21st century –
the latter couple finding their romance as they are unlocking the
lovestory of the former... through letters. The bad news is that the
director only put his heart into one of the story lines, namely the
costume one, and as a result, the modern day lovestory between Gwyneth
Paltrow and Aaron Eckhart as literary sleuths suffers greatly.
Nevertheless, Possession makes for an OK diversion into quasi-romance.

Starting in the positive end then, period-junkies Jeremy Northam and
Jennifer Ehle are breathtaking to watch as poets during the Richmond
period in England. They are two people who cannot be together, for one
has chosen a wife and the other has chosen a life of 'shared solitude'
(which is a euphemism for a lesbian relationship). Yet they begin a
correspondence of love letters, which blossoms into a fully-fletched
romance, embroidered in intrigue and quiet passion. Ehle's beautiful,
reassuring smiles conveying the latter. At times their story is
achingly romantic, so I think this aspect is very nicely tended to in
the film. The graceful words in their letters even invests the film in
a lyrical flow of sorts.

For our modern day story, Gwyneth Paltrow plays the icy literary expert
Maud Bailey, who is also a descendant of Ehle's character, but clearly
lacking in her passion. The film offers no satisfying explanation as to
why the chilly Maud suddenly warms up and falls for Roland (Eckhart),
other than they they are researching the lost letters together. I love
Eckhart, but truly believe he is all wrong for this part. He ends up
clumsy and flat and underdeveloped in the film (the novel probably
offered more insight into his character, I don't know) and again,
Maud's attraction to him seems far-fetched. I really can't stress how
bad their storyline is; no description will do it justice.

Otherwise, Possession does a fair job of melting themes of love and
love lost as it progresses and it occasionally manages thrilling. In
order to get events unfolding, Maud and Roland unlock the mystery of
the ancient lovestory by conveniently appearing clues, hidden hatches
and notes. It's into Da Vinci Code territory with this approach to
plot, but it works to a point. There is also seamless, fluent
intercutting of the two parallel stories in the editing process.
Neither a very solid nor very interesting template here, but
"Possession" does make for a fine pastime. 

6 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>

I'm a big fan of Gwyneth Paltrow whom I regard as an actress of rare
talent
and beauty so, in spite of many reviewers being parsimonious in their
praise
for this film, I ventured out to London's Leicester Square to make my own
judgement and did not regret it. Following her performances in "Emma",
"Sliding Doors" and "Shakespeare In Love", for the fourth time Paltrow
adopts an impeccable English accent.

This time she plays an academic specialising in the work of an obscure
19th
century poet called Christabel LaMotte (Jennifer Ehle, whom I enjoyed in
"This Year's Love"). She is approached by an American researcher, Roland
Michell, played by a permanently unshaven Aaron Eckhart, who has
discovered
a possible romantic connection between LaMotte and fellow poet Randolph
Henry Ash (Jeremy Northam, last seen in that other costume drama "Gosford
Park"). It turns out that Ash's marriage has no physical side (for reasons
which are not explained), while LaMotte's lesbian relationship may not be
as
exclusive as was thought.

All this sounds more raunchy that it is. There is in fact little sex and
no
nudity at all on show; yet director Neil LaBute ensures that sensuality
imbues scene after scene. Set against the unusual locations of Lincoln and
Whiteby, the modern-day academics retrace the steps of the two poets both
physically and romantically in cross-cutting scenes that reminded me of
the
structure of "The French Lieutenant's Woman". If you're a pubescent
popcorn-guzzler, you'll hate this movie and find it terribly slow and
literary (it is based on the Booker Prize-winning novel by A S Byatt); on
the other hand, if you'd like something different from the usual mindless,
blockbuster fare, you'll probably find this a refreshing
change.

<|_=00=_|>

Two love stories unfold simultaneously in this attractive, sensitive, but
not wholly successful adaptation of a popular novel.  Eckhart plays an
American literary researcher in England who stumbles upon some long lost
and
completely unknown love letters by a Victorian poet (who just happens to
be
having his centenary celebrated!)  He pairs with an icy doctoral
researcher
(Paltrow) and they begin to piece together a heretofore undiscovered
relationship between the married poet (Northam) and a fellow poetess
(Ehle)
who is involved in a long-standing lesbian love affair.  The stories are
presented in turns, often accented by some clever setups in which the same
settings reveal jumps in time.  Eckhart (an immensely appealing actor)
took
a lot of heat for his role which was originally intended for a British
actor.  His presence changes the entire flavor of the story as it was
written in the source novel, yet he comes across as endearing as ever.
Paltrow (an agonizingly overrated actress and overrated beauty) looks like
Carolyn Bessette Kennedy only with a rigid, showy English accent.  Her
attention to the accent and to what she believes her character to be
results
in an almost robotic portrayal and nothing resembling a human being.  The
Victorian couple generates both interest and romance, yet isn't given the
screen time of the contemporary couple.  If a STAR hadn't been placed in
the
modern story, maybe the focus could have been more even and the Victorian
story could have been given a  touch more emphasis.  Still, Northam and
Ehle
(who bears a striking resemblance to Meryl Streep) manage to make an
impact.
What was apparently quite enthralling and romantic on the page has become
rather routine and familiar on the screen, though there are some lovely
and
thoughtful moments throughout.  Some of the location scenery is gorgeous
(as
is Eckhart.)  A host of British character actors round out the cast with
results ranging from strong (Headey, Stephens) to campy (Eve) to wasted
(Aird, Massey.)  Someone needs to inform Paltrow that an accent, a bun and
a
turtleneck don't provide the performance alone.  Some commitment,
expression, thoughtfulness and especially realism are also in
order!
<|_=00=_|>

There have been any number of films where time shifting back and forth is
the plot device to tell a story.  Mostly the results are mediocre or even
abysmal ("Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure": it was nothing of the kind). 
One of my old and rarely seen favorites is "The Yellow
Rolls-Royce."

More recently "The Red Violin", based on Ann Rice's novel, took viewers
through several epochs as the impending auction of a magnificent violin
loomed.  That movie worked.  And so does "Possession," also based on a novel
and beautifully realized by  Neil LaBute,  a sensitive director with an
outstanding leading cast.

Set in England with a side trip to France, "Possession" follows the path of
laconic American scholar "Roland Mitchell" (Aaron Eckhardt) as he works for
an eccentric Irish academic.  Both specialize in nineteenth century British
literature.  Apparently Mitchell is still working on his Ph.D - his duties
for his employer are largely of a research assistant nature.

At his master's command he goes to the British Museum to verify some data
about the great poet, "Randolph Henry Ash" (come to life through Jeremy
Northam).  Like Professor Peter Schickele, whose fortuitous discoveries of
the works of Bach's least known son, P.D.Q., Mitchell stumbles upon several
handwritten pages that lead him to believe that a great mystery about the
life of Ash might be solvable.  Since Ash is being celebrated with
exhibitions and academic convocations, this is, certainly, a good time for
this Yank to delve into Ash's past.

With the pages in hand (felony larceny comes to mind as the proper
acquisition designation) the adventure begins.  And soon leads to "Dr. Maud
Bailey" played by a luminous Gwyneth Paltrow (Ms. Paltrow is now living in
London so her dialect preparation was practical as well as necessary for the
film).

Bailey is a specialist on the life of poet "Christabel LaMotte" (Jennifer
Ehle). She's reputed to be a tough and difficult person.   Often in the
academic world, that simply means the person in question is a competent
woman.  As Bailey and Mitchell deepen their investigation the inevitable but
well-acted romantic attraction, rejection, and...well... (you can guess,
can't you?) rolls to its certain ending.

The scenes shift seamlessly between the nineteenth century poets and the
twenty-first century academic sleuths.  Career opportunities, acclaim,
lionization by a small coterie of academics in very narrow fields await
those who first publish new discoveries.  In a real world where many
consider weaponizing pathogens to be the true meaningful work of the
academy, it's nice to see that a love of literature and an insatiable desire
to learn about those whose writings remain cherished can be the focus of a
fine film.

Of course there are scurrilous academics afoot - an arrogant American and
his toady English assistant - who are sniffing at the trail left by Mitchell
and Bailey.  The extremes they go to are silly, even funny but NOT
implausible.  What is very silly are the recurrent anti-American comments
that go beyond humor and make me wonder what the script writer's experiences
here have been.

Maud and Roland  seem real, and so are Christabel and Henry, because their
doubts and passions aren't of the exaggerated variety that Masterpiece
Theater regularly plucks from English literature or that Merchant/Ivory
immortalizes.  Each couple in real life would understand the lives and fears
of their opposite pairing.

I'm not quite sure why the song "Posseso" accompanies the end credits. In
any event I don't understand Italian beyond menu and cookbook so I have
little idea what it's about.

9/10.
<|_=00=_|>
The first movie from Neil Labute ('In the Company of Men') was an
amazing film. I dare to say that it was almost a masterpiece: black
humor, splendid dialogs, original story, I love it. His next movie
('Your Friends & Neighbors') was an average black comedy and I was a
little disappointed, but then, with the wonderful 'Nurse Betty', Neil
Labute's prestige with me was redeemed. Possession is a romance with no
surprises: since the first meeting between Maud Bailey (the beautiful
Gwyneth Paltrow) and Roland Michel (Aaron Eckhart), the romance between
them is very predictable. Roland Michel, an American living and working
in London, finds some original documents that present a possible
evidence that a married and faithful poet of the eighteenth century
might have fallen in love with a lesbian poetess. Due to his research,
he is introduced to Doctor Maud Bailey and as far as they go deeper and
deeper in their research, they fall in love to each other. Their love
increases in parallel to their findings about the passion between the
poet and the poetess. The problem is not that the film is a bad movie,
but being a Neil Labute's one, we would expect much more than that. I
believe that other fans of Neil Labute will be also disappointed with
this plot. However, viewers who love romances with a beautiful cast and
landscapes may appreciate this film. My vote is six.

Title (Brazil): "Possessão" ("Possession")
