
Went to a screening last night and was blown away. Michael Corrente is
the kind of director that is in short supply these days. With all the
garbage coming out of Hollywood, he has resisted the temptation to head
west and make more $ and has instead stuck to his roots. Brooklyn Rules
is a powerful independent film with a very realistic take on the coming
of age genre. The cast is top notch. The stars and supporting
characters ring incredibly true. I'm not going to list all the names
(and there are some of the top actors out there) but just look at the
credits and know that each of the actors did some of his/her best work
to date. Scenes of the three best friends growing together are
inter-cut with elements of harrowing violence and blossoming love. The
total effect is one that left me wondering why so few films have the
balance of Brooklyn Rules. So many are all out in one direction. Hyper
violence- or total sex for 90 minutes. This movie has classical
composition and pacing yet is completely original in it's own way. A
harrowing portrait of learning the horrors of the modern city life. The
soundtrack is amazing on its own. Kudos to all involved- Great job!
<|_=00=_|>
Brooklyn Rules is a good story about the undying love and loyalty of
three friends growing up in Brooklyn, under some very difficult
circumstances. Some fine acting by Alec Baldwin and Scott Caan and very
good dialog, so listen carefully. I think this movie has a minor flaw.
Sometimes it moves a little slowly but the story line does keep you
interested. There is some very funny dialog in this script that breaks
up some of the serious moments in the movie, which I liked. This movie
is also very violent at times but I believe it was a necessary part of
the story.The script,written by Terence Winter was very good and
superbly directed by Michael Corrente. I also liked the way this movie
was filmed, the set decoration was good and so was the lighting. It
made a lot of the scenes very easy on the eye. All in all, I came away
from this movie feeling good. It reminded me of growing up with my
friends, not under the same circumstances, mind you, but just the way
good friends talk to each other with brutal honesty and oh yes, always
a wisecrack.I recommend this movie because it is about all of us in
some ways. I think people will identify with the characters, I think
they will like the film.
<|_=00=_|>
If I had to sum up this movie it would have to include a mixture of
Boondock Saints, A Bronx Tale and a little taste of Goodfellas all
rolled into one to create BROOKLYN RULES...the cast was awesome the
storyline was as truthful as you can get and the movie had it's moments
of comedy and others of reflection....I would give this movie a 10 out
of 10 and I hope that more people get to see this movie which without
the hype will gain it's legion of viewers by word of mouth...those are
the best kind of movies in my opinion the ones that just spread like a
tidal wave without the pomp and circumstance but still end up being
all-time classics or at least achieve Cult Status.
<|_=00=_|>
BROOKLYN RULES (2007) ** Alec Baldwin, Freddie Prinze, Jr., Scott Caan,
Mena Suvari, Jerry Ferrara, Monica Keena. (Dir: Michael Corrente) 

Scorsese lite: lackluster gangster drama back in the day

Ever since Martin Scorsese made his bones as a filmmaker with MEAN
STREETS and GOODFELLAS there seems to be a flood of rip-offs or as they
would like to think 'homage' to the master who made made men
respectable for the average cinephile who could get there violence
graphic and anti-heroes even more complex.

However the latest attempt to score a hit for The Mob is a rather
lackluster gangster drama set back in the day: specifically Brooklyn
circa 1985.

The focus is on a trio of childhood chums who've seen the brutality of
the streets but are none-the-wiser: Michael Turner (Prinze,, Mr. Zero
Charisma himself), as the narrator of the flashback driven story, who
has Ivy League dreams of becoming a lawyer; his hot-headed goomba
wannabe thug bud Carmine Mancuso (Caan, continuing his cottage industry
of short-fused jerk-offs) and their sweet but dumb buddy Bobby
Canzoneri (Ferrera of HBO's "Entourage" who I can't stomach at all nor
the series come to mention it). The three friends are on aimless
existences with Michael trying to maintain the straight and narrow path
for a stable, normal life preferably from the concrete jungles of his
environs while seeing Carmine becoming further corrupted by the local
mobster Caesar Manganaro (Baldwin, the best thing about this otherwise
tedious affair), a shifty-eyed yet charismatic capo who has his fingers
in many pies and shows his true colors for violence in one memorable
sequence involving a competitor in the refuse removal business and a
meat slicer in the butcher joint Michael works.

While the script by vet scribe Terence Winter ("The Sopranos")
intersperses real life gangsters from the era into the storyline the
lines are a bit forced and predictable for the outcome for the trio's
fates and the characters feel like cardboard facsimiles of other genre
films like the aforementioned Scorsese canon. 

Director Corrente (who made a decent debut years back with FEDERAL
HILL) does the best he can with the familiar material but ultimately
can't infuse the stock material with any real energy (accept for a
decent fist-fight in a diner). That can pretty much some up the entire
film as a whole.
<|_=00=_|>
Coming off of last years nearly perfect The Departed which cast a huge
shadow in how good mob movies have to be or how great every actor was
compared to this indie flick. I think every actor in this film was very
good and engaging, you feel the friendship between the three main
characters and Alec Baldwin is always dead on in his rendition of a
ruthless mob boss, if you don't like him i would rent The Cooler with
William H Macy which he was nominated for an Oscar for best supporting
actor. All in this movie is worth 10 dollars, its got a great cast and
story that you may remember from the news of the 1980s Growing up in NY
as a kid this movie hits home, hearing about Paul Castellano getting in
front of Sparks Steakhouse was one of the most insane things to see on
TV. John Gotti was a ruthless killer and he wanted everyone to know, he
flaunted it to the point where he killed dozens of people for years. He
would walk to the courthouse on charges weekly in his three thousand
dollar suit nobody could touch him. This is why this movie is special,
it captures that feeling of how it came down to an all out mob war on
the streets of NY and how it was growing up in the midst of it-60s and
70s have been done. The 80s is when every move these guys made was
front page news. I was lucky enough to catch this in the theater and i
must say i was highly entertained. Maybe its from being a big mob movie
fan or an entourage fan or just a fan of quality characters and acting,
either way its fun to watch three guys from Brooklyn grow up trying to
keep their nose clean in those mean Brooklyn streets of the 1980s. I
just wish this movie went wide release because it was a film that had a
huge cast and setting that it would have scored big with a lot of
moviegoers-like the scarface generation who all think they are gangsta!
<|_=00=_|>
From the dialogue to the soundtrack, I felt like this movie was
grabbing from other classic mob movies.

There were even direct quotes! ex: a conversation between freddie
prinze jr and scott cahn about whether or not it was better to be loved
or feared... come on! ... It was like listening to fingernails going
down a chalkboard to here these two guys butchering one of the great
mob movie moments between Sonny & C in A Bronx Tale.

The dramatic role was clearly too much for Freddie to handle. Scott
Cahn and Alec Baldwin were bright spots, but there were too many other
awkward moments that seemed like a collision between your typical
romantic comedy and a bad mob movie.

If you're going to use the Stones in a mob movie soundtrack... at least
pick songs that have not been used in other mob movies.

Don't waste your money and pay to see this in the theater. Its a
rental.
<|_=00=_|>
As I go through "Brooklyn rules" DVD sitting on my rack-top for the
umpteenth time, i can't help but feel disappointment deep within, not
at the movie but at its fate. It is a pity that a film of this grandeur
has gone through almost unnoticed by the general audience and critics.
It has suffered the same dead-end that an "also ran" type movie
suffers, when the truth is that it is far from one.

The first words that float into my mind when I think of this movie is
'tour-de-force'. Yes, we have been subjected to countless of these
gangster films over the decades but nothing comes close to this on
levels of sheer effectiveness and the connection which it is able to
make with the audience. The three protagonists right from their
childhood to the untimely demise of one of them, take us on a
unforgettable journey, made so not by any dramatic twists in the script
or by any enchanting visual imagery in the movie (if you are looking
for these things, I would suggest a re-watch of Avatar or perhaps some
Justin Beiber), but by the simpleness of the script.

Mike, Carmine and Bobby- the heroes of this tale- have a chemistry
going on between them that almost makes you believe in them, believe
that what is happening in front of you is real. What most of us are not
lucky enough to experience is having childhood friends and still being
their closest buddies when we grow old, the joy of calling these
friends names, the persistent attempt to one-up each other, the wonder
of always sharing our moments of joy, sorrow, and things we love most
with them and finally even being willing to kill for them. And it is
this true friendship that the movie depicts and does so in a manner
that makes you believe in what you are seeing despite their difference
in personality and inclinations and despite their differences in
education. And this is what later makes you feel the pain of two of our
lone warriors left behind when one of the pack leaves them forever in
the battlefield that is life. The reactions and the expressions in this
leaves no place for superficiality, it is just as if the things are
happening to you or me or to a next door neighbor- the film succeeds in
depicting the trios life to such a big extent, and herein lies its
greatness.

I have all but the greatest respect for Corrente in making the lives
three ordinary boys living in a unruly district into this extraordinary
film, and yet warn you all the same, that if you haven't watched this
yet then don't go in expecting great things cause then you might not
find them, but if you just go in to experience something, then I would
bet you a thousand bucks that you will come back more full-filled from
it and with the knowledge that the 100 minutes of your life were indeed
well spent. Watching this movie was indeed a life changing episode for
me and I enjoyed it as much as watching the first edition of Rocky
(note that I compare the two because these are both simple and yet
really powerful movies). The movie is aptly summarized in the
conclusive scene by Michael Turner in reminiscence of his departed
friend, when he says that wherever you go, and whatever you do- you are
never far apart from your true friends and not even death can separate
you from them for you always carry them in your heart. And this is
exactly what this movie is all about. Their immortal friendship. And so
if it is in the case of true friendship, that even if fate has the
worst in store for you, you needn't bother as you live forever in the
memory of your friends then the same goes for this movie as it will
always live on, in the memory of us few faithful followers who could
grasp its true meaning.
<|_=00=_|>
I have to say I was presently surprised by this little film, I expected
way less then I got. That's not to say that this is a fantastic film
but it's a good one. It does a great job of representing a believable
friendship between it's three main characters. I once again have to
gripe of the pointless and sub par acted female character who is
injected for the point of having one and doesn't add much to the film.
Alec Baldwin is great as he usually is, and the three main characters
are both well acted and believable unlike their accents but that's not
important here. The story may be filled with a few clichés but the
friendship of the characters make it work well enough to pull you into
the story, not immerse you in it but keep your interest. I don't want
to say Freddie Prinze was amazing but he was rather good, I wish he
would lean more into films like this and stay away from any romantic
comedy/dramas for a little while, play a villain or something, I do
believe he has the talent it's just that he gets type cast in those
romantic roles. Anyway, the film was surprisingly good, as was the
story and the acting. Don't expect the Sopranos, Goodfellas and
definitely not The Godfather and you won't be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
I live in Providence and wanted this to be successful. Im a fan of mob
movies and saw the Essex Boys this wkend which is not very good, but I
enjoyed it. It was fun to watch. This movie about 3 kids growing up
reminded me of Amongst Friends, which I also enjoyed. In my limited
knowledge of Corrente directed films(only 2), he does not know how to
cast. I saw Federal Hill years ago with the Turturro(sp?) that can't
act. He was good in bit parts of NYPD Blue, but nowhere near able to
carry a movie. In this movie we have Prinze Jr-again I don't know much
of his career, but know he has been in crappy teen movies like i know
what you did last summer 2 and have caught moments of it or something
that looks just like it on TNT reruns, and he isn't any good. Also the
movie adds James Caan's kid. This just spells B movie all over it
before I even see the thing. When I see Steve McQueen's kid or Tom
Hank's brother I become skeptical. The Caan kid is not a good actor and
he is funny looking. He looks like a good looking oompa loompa. I think
hes about 5'2". 

Mena Suvari is given nothing to work with. She has about zero
personality in the movie. She is merely there to comment and elicit
comments about Prinze's clichéd character that has a dad die early and
fighting his way out of the tough neighborhood. He also has a tough
exterior that hides the real tenderness that he has for his buddies.

Prinze hangs out at his buddies house who has a retarded dad that
misprounces everything for the comic relief(didn't there used to be
some really bad comic that did this?) and a mother thats the worst cook
in brooklyn or something-funny stuff and just where I would want to
hang out. 

Alec Baldwin is good. Hes always good even when he cuts off a body
part. Guess which part? Yes, a reservoir dog and about a dozen other
movies' ear chop. At least he didn't talk into it after removing it. 

Speaking of Reservoir Dogs, there is a lot of conversation between the
3 buddies that does not come within any distance of being that
riveting. 

Could there have been anything different tossed in to make this movie
somewhat unique? Back to the Essex Boys, it at least threw in a Body
Heat-like angle where a spurned woman is behind all the
mechanizations(sp?)or like Nick Cage in the con movie that has been
done to death, spices it up by making him an obsessive compulsive among
other things. 

Sorry my comments are so negative, but this movie was just bad.
<|_=00=_|>
This film was written by Terence Winter, one of the driving forces
behind the Sopranos TV series and, given the reputation of that show
(which I have to admit to never having seen), I was quite surprised by
the routine nature of this film. Freddie Prinze Jr. finds himself out
of his depth as Michael, a Brooklyn kid half-scamming his way through
law school while trying to avoid becoming sucked into the mob life so
adored by Carmine (Scott Caan), one of his closest friends.

Much of the problem lies with the fact that everything that happens
here we have seen before in better, more original gangster flicks. The
story is OK, but the script rarely rises above the pedestrian and,
despite some rather clumsy attempts to insert a number of 80s pop
culture references there is no real feeling for time or place. Alec
Baldwin, who appears as the local mob ruler is by far the best thing
about this film. In fact, Baldwin's pretty good in everything he does
these days, having successfully negotiated the thorny transition from
leading man to character actor without falling foul of the pitfalls
encountered by some of his contemporaries. The best scenes in the film
are the ones in which he appears and aren't just the most violent
incidents. There is more insight into the workings of the mob in the
scene in which Baldwin sits down with another gangster to iron out a
few issues between Michael and the local mob psycho than there is in
the beatings and shootings, etc.

Scott Caan is memorable, but it's difficult to be sure whether it is
because he gives a good performance in his own right or because in a
number of scenes he is so reminiscent of his father playing Sonny
Corleone.

While there's nothing new here, the picture is entertaining enough and
is a relatively painless experience.
