
So many people have already written reviews of this movie, which has
been out for five years now, that I am not going to go into detail
about the plot, or the acting, or whether the storyline is predictable,
or how cute Ty Posey was. I am merely going to say that I watched it
tonight for the first time with my 13-year old daughter and we both
enjoyed it immensely. I found Jennifer Lopez a bit stiff in places, but
overall she handled the role well. I do not understand why so many
people had problems with Ralph Finnes in this movie, I found him not
only believable but incredibly sexy, and I hope he gets the opportunity
to do more romantic comedies! Bob Hoskins stole every scene he was in.
Stanley Tucci chewed scenery. Natasha Richardson was suitably selfish
and blonde. New York was lovely. The dog overacted shamelessly. The
movie was not perfect, but it was delightful. The only wrong note was
the series of magazine covers at the end, showing what happened to the
characters; it was much too "cute" and rather unbelievable (all three
of her maid friends become hotel managers?) And I was rather
disappointed that - for all the film's brave talk of crossing social
barriers - the movie ends with nothing more than a magazine cover with
the headline "A year later, they are still together". I felt cheated.
<|_=00=_|>

So you'll know where I'm coming from, some of my favorite movies are "Parent
Trap," "Father of the Bride," "Kate & Leopold."  If you like these kinds of
movies that leave you feeling good and happy about life, then you'll enjoy
this tastefully done movie as well.  I could have done without a certain
scene between the two, but this movie has a lot to offer, and has a moral to
teach as well.  It has strong characters of positive principles, and there's
even an "older man mentor," like from "Pretty Women," that adds that
wholesome touch to the film.  
<|_=00=_|>

I just saw the movie and checked IMDb right away, where I found that
this movie only had a score of 4.6 which I find to little. Why? There
are some reasons. But first, when I watched this movie I knew always
what was going to come, you can see in advance where the movie is going
to. This is why I think the movie gets such low score. Unjust I feel,
when you go to see this movie or rent it, I assume you know that it's a
romantic movie? By the title of the movie you could very much assume
that it's a feel good movie. So when you bring these 2 together you
pretty much know what's gonna happen if you read the back of the movie
box. Why rent it then? For it's purpose, it makes you feel good. Two
people falling in love is always a nice thing and seeing how they cross
boundary's for that love is even nicer. Thus I think that the movie
succeeded in what he was made for. To give people the romance and the
good feeling. Go see this movie with your girl/boyfriend if he or she
doesn't dislike this kind of movies and sure you will feel happier
about your own relationship as well. Because there is nothing heavy
about this movie. That's what makes it so good in his genre. Do not
watch this movie for super acting skills (although I do not dislike the
acting). Do not go and see him for the directors special thricks to
tell you things. Go see this movie for the romance and positive note
and for sure you will not be disappointed.

<|_=00=_|>
The story? Cliché, cliché, cliché, the umpteenth remake of Cinderella
with not a single interesting addition. The script? Formula (and lame
at that). The cast? Jennifer Lopez's turn as Cinderella/Sabrina proves
she does not remotely belong to "rags-to-Princess" roles; she is
galaxies away from Audrey Hepburn or Grace Kelly (or even "Pretty
Woman" Julia Roberts), no matter how expensive the jewelry or costumes
she wears. Ralph Fiennes seems to be on an O.D. of Prozac, with a
perennial foolish smile on his face, wishing he were Cary (or even
Hugh!) Grant -- shame to see a talented actor in such a puffy role.
Natasha Richardson is wasted in the obligatory dumb blonde part,
Stanley Tucci hams it up irritatingly, Bob Hoskins knows and shows his
role is an embarrassment. On a less negative note, kid Tyler Posey is a
real charmer, and manages to survive his "cutie" part. The direction?
Well, no doubt Wayne Wang is a professional and I hope he was paid a
LOT of money to lend his prestigious name to this fluffy cake - I only
wish the word "professionalism" were taken more seriously, as in
"professional integrity"...Where is the Wayne Wang that directed the
surrealistic "Life is Cheap...But Toilet Paper is Expensive" and the
cool "Smoke"? 

Sit through this only if you are in a hypoglycemic fit; otherwise watch
"Sabrina" once again and marvel at real star power, witty dialog and
charm to spare!
<|_=00=_|>

It might not be Oscar material, but it is a cute movie - so if you like
Jennifer Lopez or wants to spend an evening on the sofa with your
girlfriend, this movie is a good choice.
Nice acting from all parts and a cool soundtrack with Norah
Jones.
<|_=00=_|>

I can understand Jennifer Lopez being in this stupid piece of fluff that has
no point, but why, oh WHY were the other actors in it?  Three great British
actors: Ralph Fiennes, Natasha Richardson, Bob Hoskins - I know they can do
better than this!  J-Lo was good in the Wedding Planner, but watching this
movie made me realize what a lousy actress she really is.  The story is one
that's been told a hundred thousand times - and has been done a hundred
thousand times better.  There was nothing new here, no new ideas, not even a
good laugh.  They call it a romantic comedy, but it's not.  It's J-Lo
pouting for two hours.  Ralph and Natasha try to throw in some comedic
elements, but they're stuck with really unfunny lines (Natasha's "I've been
dumped" speech for one).  Bob Hoskins has the one good speech in the entire
film, but even he can't save it.  Why was he in it?  Why?  I don't think
we'll ever know.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a warm-heated story with a predictable plot. It may not be a
great film, but but it is good entertainment. And the highlight of the
movie may be hidden in a soliloquy, rather than revealed at the end.
Every good story offers hope and this film delivers that. Its
characters also experience transformation thanks to several
easily-overlooked defining moments. So watch and enjoy the film for
entertainment. Then watch it again, and again, for the pleasure of
discovering the tapestry of truths it contains.

This is every bit as good a film as "The Wedding Planner" and Fiennes
portrays a politico who learns the world doesn't revolve around
himself. To some that might seem like fantasy, but it doesn't detract
from the story. The supporting cast is a delightful menagerie. And
perhaps the best role is that of Lionel Bloch, played by Bob Hoskins,
who portrayed Smee in "Hook."

This isn't just another chick flick. And guys may need a few Kleenex.
They will definitely be glad that Jennifer Lopez didn't wear another
dress.
<|_=00=_|>
So it's Cinderella. It's hard to imagine why that would bother anyone
who'd seen the trailer, by the time you sit down to watch the movie you
know the plot.

I may be the last person on earth to see Jennifer Lopez outside the
checkout line. She's not bad looking but didn't impress me all that
greatly as an actress, but she did tell the story. This may be a light-
weight role for Fiennes (duh!) but I thought he carried it off well.
The kid (Ty) was great, and Bob Hoskins was wonderful.

I think Pygmalian (Pretty Woman) is a better story, and Julia Roberts
is obviously head and shoulders above Jennifer Lopez, but I certainly
don't regret adding it to my Netflix queue!

Van
<|_=00=_|>
Nice fantasy romance starring Jennifer Lopez that seems to rank high
amongst her fans.

Marisa Ventura (Jennifer Lopez) is a single parent maid working at a
high end hotel in Manhattan. She meets Chris (Ralph Finnes) a wealthy
politician who finds her son cute and also falls for her head over
heels, but he thinks she's also from a privileged background. Soon he
finds out her true identity. Will her romance survive ?

This is a modern day Cinderella story. By no effort of her own, she
goes from a maid to becoming affiliated with the highest echelon of the
society. Coveted, desired and protected by a strong man who also likes
her son and is very nice to him as well. It's an escapism, but it
works. 

The opinions may be divided on this movie. Some may find the story too
convenient. Other's may find the story a transporting experience for
100 minutes. One thing is for sure. If someone else played the lead,
this movie would have been just a soap opera, but credit goes to
Jennifer Lopez for turning a flop into a box office success. She brings
quality to the movie that wouldn't deserve the class if she wasn't in
it.
<|_=00=_|>
I remember seeing this in the cinemas back in 2002 and my mom dragged
me to see it. I of course thought that it was going to be so stupid but
I decided to check it out. I also recorded in on VHS a few years back
and I saw it on TV loads of times. Its about a single parent(maybe
divorced) who has an adorable son named Ty(this reminds me of that 2007
film Enchanted with its cute frothy plot and the single parent in love
with a dude who has a high up job).

One day Marisa( Jennifer Lopez) is so friggin stupid she decides to try
on someone elses clothes(Oh the horror LOL) when all of a sudden smiley
politician Chris comes in sees her in these expensive clothes,thinks
she's a guest but she's not and to top it all off she uses a new
idenity Caroline(is this guy so blind or stupid as he saw her in the
loo and his all lovey doupy with her guess so).

The romance between Ralph Fiennes and Jennifer Lopez is kinda dull as
there is no spark like in other rom coms like Enchanted where Amy &
Patrick had great chemistry in that film or any other rom com. Some
scenes were kinda dull like the maddox scene with the dancing was
poor,if there was a better song and some better choreography it might
have been better.

The only think I enjoyed in this film was the ending where the two
would be lovers end up being together in the end.

If you love frothy rom coms and cheesy plots then check it out.
