

READY TO RUMBLE (2000)
Rating: 7/10

First of all, I'll just say I'm glad I didn't see this at the movies. When I
go to the movies I generally only go by myself or with one other friend, but
Ready to Rumble is much more enjoyable when you have 5 or 6 other friends
and you're watching it at a party. In that environment, I really got into
this flick. Anyhow, I thought this movie had a lot of qualities and a few
bad points that put it down. I loved the wrestling scenes, the comedy was
extremely strong, the performances were good, the sound was loud and booming
and the editing was flawless. For the bad side, I didn't really like the
ending. Yes, I did enjoy the `get to the top of the cage' and you win idea,
but the characters don't really resolve themselves properly. Whatever
happened to Rose McGowan's character? And just after he wins a match, Oliver
Platt suddenly demands that Scott Caan and David Arquette be his assistant
people. Then we see a couple of shots of the supporting characters and out
we go. That's the end. Not a very good ending. However, there are a lot of
good points that bring the movie above the rather empty ending. I enjoyed
Scott Caan's performance and David Arquette wasn't as annoying as I thought
he would be. Oliver Platt is also quite funny as Jimmy King, but Martin
Landau's extended cameo rules this movie. He's a funny dude! In conclusion
of this review, I'll just say don't expect another Rocky or a wrestling
version that is just as good as American Beauty because you're not going to
get it. But all viewers who enjoy a bit of a kick in the groin on film,
gut-wrenching fight scenes, a ton of silly comedy and heaps of big hooters,
come right in, because this is one fun comedy I'm sure you'll enjoy if you
don't take it too seriously. 
<|_=00=_|>
We first saw this movie a long time ago and it has several laugh out
loud moments. We then rented it again for a couple of our nephews, a
few years ago, who really enjoyed it. They were at the time wrestling
fans who knew wrestling was mostly fake.

Last weekend we borrowed it from a friend to watch with those same
nephews from a few years ago, and we laughed all the way through it
again. The boys no longer watch wrestling, said they are catching new
jokes in it this time around.

The acting is over the top, and bigger than life but so is wrestling!
It is a great movie if you want to escape and laugh for an hour and a
half.
<|_=00=_|>

I think the people who criticized this movie missed the entire point of it.
Ready To Rumble isn't supposed to be a "good" movie; it is just supposed to
be a "fun" one.  I don't think the folks who put this film together had any
illusions about it winning any Oscars but I think they made a very good
"dumb" movie.  I am NOT a wrestling fan and I still enjoy watching it
because I can enjoy it for what it is without expecting more out of it.  I
watched it last night with my 10 yo son and he thought it was great.  Those
who found fault with the movie need to take themselves and their
entertainment less seriously.
<|_=00=_|>

This was light and enjoyable film of two affable wrestling fans who want to
reinstate a recently fallen hero to the top of the WCW world.  I have seen
funnier films, but this was not a disappointment by any means.  Fans of
wrestling should really enjoy it, non fans (like myself, although I think I
might be becoming one) should still like it.  Arquette, Caan, and Platt
make
a nice trio, and Martin Landau is hilarious as an old-school wrestling
guru.
<|_=00=_|>
Ready to Rumble doesn't much going for it at a glance. Gordie (David
Arquette) and Sean (Scott Caan) are two adolescent boys trapped in the
bodies of twenty-something sewage workers from Lusk, Oklahoma. The WCW
is their passion and as true die hards, they brook no criticism of the
sport's veracity. Their nights are spent in a convenience store parking
lot jawing with junior high school students. These men are losers
through and through. And yet there is something innately likable about
these boy-men. They are losers in the sense that Rocky Balboa was a
loser; they were born with nothing into the middle of nowhere, blessed
with naught but dogged determination and unwavering faith in their
cause. Ready to Rumble follows their quest to restore an even bigger
loser to his former glory. That loser is disgraced professional
wrestler Jimmy "The King" King (a terrific Oliver Platt). King is a
hero and role model to the boys from Lusk, who know him only from his
television persona. In reality, King is an alcoholic who spends his
days in drag, hiding from child support collectors in a secluded
trailer. He has been exiled to Palookaville by corrupt wrestling
promoter Titus Sinclair (the always unctuous Joe Pantoliano).

The story is told kayfabe; that is to say, the filmmakers would have us
believe that wrestling is a real sport and these athletes are really
beating one another to a pulp in the ring, night after night. So when a
gang of professional wrestlers dive off of the four corners of the ring
to deliver a four man head butt to the fallen King, we are expected to
cringe at the brutality. When King is unjustly stripped of the title,
we are expected to feel outrage on his behalf. And when the boys travel
cross country on a search for their hero, we are expected to feel
excitement at the prospect of King's triumphant return. Personally, I
had no such experiences as a viewer, yet something about this very
simple film moved me. At its core, Ready to Rumble is the story of an
emperor disrobed. Oliver Platt gives a commendable performance as King,
a boorish oaf still capable of feeling shame. This man is no Bret Hart,
no Hulk Hogan; no "Stone Cold" Steve Austin he. King fights dirty,
drinks heavily, and mistreats his only supporters constantly. That by
the end of the film I came to care about this man and his struggle is a
true credit to Oliver Platt, one of Hollywood's finest unsung actors.
Above all what touched me about Ready to Rumble was the faith of the
two boys in their hero. Initially it was so undeserved it occasionally
strained credulity; other times it was merely heartbreaking. But if
there is one thing a viewer ought to take from Ready to Rumble, it is
the testament borne to the transformational power of faith. By the end
of the film, King has paid the cost of redemption and becomes the hero
the boys always perceived him to be. The film's message is the
following: as we believe, so shall it be.

As a self important film snob, I would be remiss if I didn't note duly
the many things in Ready to Rumble I could have done without. This film
is supposed to be a comedy, but its humor mostly comes in the form of
juvenile absurdity. Perhaps Adam Sandler fans will enjoy the adolescent
mischief, but I mostly found it a distraction from what could have been
a compelling drama in the hands of a more capable director. In a forced
subplot, Gordie's overbearing father, the town sheriff, is hell-bent on
getting Gordie to follow in his footsteps. He'd rather see his son find
a steady career in law enforcement than spend the rest of his life a
wrestling obsessed sewage handler. This man is introduced as an
antagonist, but bluntly, I found his position very sympathetic. Who
could blame him for attempting to intrude on his adult son's adolescent
fantasy? Moreover, Rose McGowan plays a conniving, unlikable tart that
Gordie becomes quite stricken with. Her character really doesn't have
much of a reason for existing other than to cram an attractive actress
into a Nitro-girls outfit. And of course the ending is all too pat, as
it must be in a film that takes place in the WCW universe.

For all of its faults, I was surprised to find myself enjoying Ready to
Rumble. I came to care deeply about its well meaning protagonists and
their fallen hero. Arquette, Caan, Pantoliano, and especially Platt all
show their stripes as actors, turning what could have been a farce into
a compelling journey of redemption. I can't quite give the film a
recommendation, but it's underdog story and rock solid performances
struck a chord with me.
<|_=00=_|>

Even though I'm not a very big WCW fan, I still thought it had some very
funny parts. The movie itself of course was a bit lame, but I guess it was
made for laughs. I'm surprised they made this movie about WCW and not WWF? I
mean WWF is a lot more popular than WCW. I though it would have been way
better if it was based on WWF and not WCW. But everything else of the movie
was decent. I'm a huge wrestling fan and I love wrestling. So whatever movie
is based on wrestling, I Like! This movie deserves a B+
<|_=00=_|>

I am a wrestling fan, but when I first saw the trailer to this movie it
looked cheesy and I was SO disappointed. Let me assure you the trailers do
this movie no justice...it was absolutely GUT-BUSTING!! I've never laughed
so hard at a movie in theater before, there were also many people there
enjoying the movie who obviously were not wrestling fans. For true fans
though the movie is even more funny because of all the inside jabs at the
business. Noticeably "Sinclair" as some kind of weird Vince McMahon/ Eric
Bischoff mix, Sal bears remarkable resemblance to the great Stu Hart and
his
wrestling school, and many more. The "main event" was incredibly exciting,
the best wrestling match any fan will ever see. This film is must see for
fans and non-fans alike. 9 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>

Although if you know quite a bit about wrestling, you will find this movie
to be one of the most trashy and horrid pieces ever (why Oliver Platt? Get
a
wrestler for God's sake to wrestle!), but for being a piece used mainly to
showcase WCW stars, it wasn't too bad, it let you see that some of the
guys
actually have some of that stuff called talent. Plus, it made for some of
the lowest moments in WCW history when they strapped the gold around Mr.
Arquette's waist (resume now includes: Scream bitch/1-800 idiot/WCW world
champion), so anytime I can see the makings of what would turn out to be a
big step in the demise of WCW is a good thing for me.

All in all, not bad, good for a few laughs, while the ending kinda sucked,
not an overly bad film, unlike Mr. Nanny, remember that? And now that the
movie "Backyard Dogs: The Movie" is out, it won't have to worry about
being
the worst wrestling film ever made!
<|_=00=_|>
Sad this movie did kill WCW forever, this wrestling federation went
down even further if it would have stick to its wrestling only (the
"King" storyline with DDP and the evil manager Sinclair), but instead,
went into too much vulgarity such as raw sewage and toilet bowl humour,
which was not necessary at all. I would have went another direction
rather than putting too much of feces jokes.

Martin Landau is great as a former wrestler turned teacher. And the
wrestling storyline is just like what we see on TV.

Bottom line: should have stick to wrestling only, as it is the only
entertaining portion here...
<|_=00=_|>
This movie came along at a strange time pro wrestling. Pro wrestling
had become the hottest thing on premium TV with the years leading up to
the this movie's production being dubbed "The Monday Night Wars" due to
WCW's Monday Nitro running straight up against WWE's Monday Night Raw.
In late 1996, Hulk Hogan's morph into Hollywood Hogan made the company
number 1 and Nitro beat regularly beat Raw for almost 2 years straight.
It was also an incredibly profitable time for the Time Warner company.
Newer rival stars like the WWE's The Rock and Steve Austin were getting
offers for movies and television so WCW management at the time decided
it was time to shoot a film. It was released by spring 2000. 

It starred Scott Caan, David Arquette, Oliver Platt, Joe Pantoliano,
"Diamond" Dallas Paige, and Rose McGowan. Sean (Scott Caan) and Gordie
(David Arquette) run a sewage business in the town of Lusk, Wyoming.
They're huge fans of WCW. They drive to Cheyenne to see a live Monday
Nitro broadcast. Their favorite wrestler, WCW champion Jimmy King
(Oliver Platt), has one too many backstage arguments with WCW President
Titus Sinclair (Joe Pantoliano in a strange cowboy outfit). Sinclair
decides that Paige is going over King in their title match that night.
When they wrestle, Paige shoots on King and with help from some outside
interference gets the win. Sean and Gordie are devastated by this and
it puts them on a journey to find King and help resurrect his career.
Along the way, they find out their hero is a drunken lout who ran out
on his family. 

I don't know what the writers and producers of this film were thinking
of when they pictured a pro wrestling fan. Kayfabe, wrestling fiction,
has been a well-known part of that business for decades, even before
Vince McMahon's admissions about the business in 1989. The Sean and
Gordie characters are too stupid to know this or else live in denial.
You even see the acknowledgment of kayfabe when Titus Sincalir is
discussing the main event's finish with DDP in front of the other WCW
wrestlers before taking DDP aside to change it. During the match scene,
you can also see Paige and King calling spots to each other. The whole
smile and wink backhanded approach to acknowledging kayfabe is a little
insulting to pro wrestling fans and it seems that the writers think
they are all man-boys living with their parents. 

I think they pictured these characters as innocent and enthusiastic,
which Scott Caan plays well enough, but David Arquette may have been at
his most obnoxious here as Gordie. He was a horrible casting choice.
Joe Pantoliano was another odd choice, his clothing and wig were too
much of a distraction. He would've been better playing it up as a New
Jersey-born East Coast sleazeball in an expensive suit like Paul
Heyman. Eric Bischoff could've easily played himself with his comic
book villain grin as the evil boss. Rose McGowan is cast as a Nitro
Girl named Sasha who takes a romantic interest in Gordie but she's just
eye candy. Martin Landau has a memorable cameo as Sal Bandini, an old
school wrestling trainer like Lou Thesz or Verne Gagne. DDP may
actually have given the best performance playing the heel version of
his pro wrestling character. 

It seems like this of version WCW lives in a fairy tale world where
they have no worthy competition because no one ever breathes a word of
the WWF/E. Another irony is that many of the promotion's biggest
stars-Hulk Hogan, Scott Hall, Kevin Nash, Jeff Jarrett, Scott Steiner
and star Ric Flair-don't appear in this. Aside from DDP, the only
really big WCW stars to appear were Booker T and Sting in throwaway
cameos. Maybe one of the strangest things ever done to promote a movie
was having one of the stars start participating in wrestling matches.
WWF/E had celebrities like Mr. T and Cyndi Lauper making appearances
during the old Rock and Wrestling era but neither was actually booked
to win a promotion's title belt. 

WCW booked David Arquette as their champion in an on screen feud, where
he was seen aligning himself with DDP and Chris Kanyon against Jeff
Jarrett and Eric Bischoff. It got even stranger from there, believe it
or not, with Arquette defending the belt and then he turned HEEL on
DDP. At the very least, though, Arquette was originally against
wrestling in WCW as a promotional stunt and he gave all the money he
made doing it to the families of Darren Drozdov and Brian Pillman.
