

I read the IMDB reviews on this two nights ago, and decided not
to
rent this film. But then as if by coincidence, the next night I
noticed
it was on cable currently, so I taped it.

And I'm glad I did.

It seems some reviewers lament the lack of a message in
this,
I can appreciate such weighty films, hey I enjoyed the
"Whale
Rider," but such films often reduce down simply to hackneyed
sententia. I'm kinda afraid life does as well...but this ain't
the
forum for that chat.

Charlie Kaufmann seems to specialize in *mixed* message
films. I enjoy them as I enjoy a puzzle. They are thought-provoking
both in theme and in details (don't know about you, but I had
to
look up Franz Kline...)

Other reviewers lament the onanism going on (or should that
be
down).  To me, "Adaptation" was a whole lot more masturbatory,
this has an easier-to-follow plot. The humor rises more quickly
to
the surface...and yes I did chuckle at times.

No one so far has voiced concern over this being a film
that
reflects back from the start. It is done deftly; although I
know
some people dislike that as a device.

There are several nice film tricks. A circular beginning/ending,
Robbins clearly being in a closed afterworld, and
nods to other films...Bambi, Tarzan, Frankenstein, Sophie's
Choice... ;> No, I'm forgetting another real one. I'm not
that
familiar with the director's MTV exploits, but I'll rent that
collection
sooner or later.

No one here yet has mentioned Young Frankenstein (which I
see
as more of a prototype than Pygmalion...or even Oedipus
Rex.)
But there are some serious questions being posed. Less
these
days than in the 70's do we get pitched an idyllic ideal;
one
wherein if man were stripped of his modern trappings, social
strictures, political oppression and other garb, would we find
a
purer being? Isn't that also an element of Marx/Hegelism?

Kaufmann weaves a new sort of unibrow...uniting the high and
the low.

There are other more universal moments here. Arquette
struggling not to care what others think about her. Robbins
trying to chose between the sweet girlfriend and the saucy
seductress, between his heart and his...

Ahem, still there's much more here than what I fear is found
in
"Me and Him." Libido is a prime mover...whether subjugated
or
conjugal.

I'm having a hard time wrapping this up...is it a film that
states
that human nature is deceitful (all of four main characters are
in
at least one charade)?

Again, I'm glad I rented it. I've got to get better at
cross-referencing
other reviewers when reading posts here. I think Kaufmann is
a
very gifted, and very conflicted guy.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>

As he managed to do in Being John Malkovich, brilliant writer Kaufman
succeeds in creating a completely believable alternative reality, which he
employs as a metaphor that pokes seemingly light (and therefore lethally
subversive) fun at 'society' - what it means to be civilized, what it means
to be free, how people judge each other based on ridiculously superficial
differences of appearance, etc, etc.  It works, because Kaufman IS so
brilliant, and I left the theatre with the same feeling I had gotten from
Being John Malkovich - inspired and gratified that someone like this not
only exists in the world but actually gets to put his completely unique and
uncompromising visions on the screen.
<|_=00=_|>

'Human Nature' will inevitably be reviewed in comparison to 'Being John
Malkovich', and the comments will be along the lines of 'less coherent',
'not likely to be as commercially successful', etc.  But should these be
reasons to NOT see this movie?  Only if you want to miss the most
intelligent movie to come out since BJM.  Forget 'A Beautiful Mind', which
gives the appearance of intelligence by flaunting pseudo-guru math, but was
just another sappy tale of 'the triumph of the human spirit'.

What makes 'Human Nature' and BJM a cut above the usual cinema drivel, is
that they actually attempt to get into some serious philosophical issues.
BJM delves into personal identity, while 'Human Nature' digs even deeper
into the realm of our underlying... human nature.  What makes human nature
any better than animal nature?  civilization?  language? manners?  And do
these distinctly human features actually make us better, or just different,
or different in a bad way... i.e. by making us lead dual lives, tearing our
originally united being into inharmonious halves (subjective/objective)?
And can we simply unite our duplicitousness by forgetting language,
civilization, and manners... by returning to nature? Or, with a philosopher
who gets an intensional nod in 'Human Nature', Wittgenstein, are we stuck
in
language, forever banished from the garden of eden?

This movie raised all of these questions, and more, for me... which is what
I expect out of a good movie: not only does it entertain us, but it invites
us to join in the entertaining.  By posing these questions, it challenges
us
to answer them, and to ask our own questions of it... which means that we
have to see it again in order for it to continue the dialogue.  Now that's
what I call interactive movie-going.  Philosophy has started some great
stuff in history: religion, government, science.  So I think that's its not
asking too much for movies to engage in philosophical debates and trying to
include the audience, rather than thinking of the audience as fodder for
the
box office.


<|_=00=_|>
I don't know what's happening with the votes on this movie. It IS
really great. May be people just get offended by lots of nudity in this
picture? Why to bother? It's VERY thought-provoking, extremely smart,
funny and in a same way sad. I prefer it over Eternal Sunshine
sometimes. Really great story about how hopeless we all are. A bit
farce, a bit comedy, and great philosophical meaning. Why don't we live
in forests? Why don't we try to be free? Why do we live in this world
of steel and plastic? Just think about what questions do Kaufman movie
rise. 

Being John Malkovich .. is pretty shallow, not strong work. I still
adore it, but it's worst Kaufmans work for me, though it's extremely
original. 

Adaptation brings out greatest thoughts about movie-making, about human
relations, about creativity and Hollywood, about mainstream and real
art. And the funny thing Adaptation even mocks about itself. Great
script.

Eternal Sunshine is mainly about love, destiny and memories. Nothing
else there. Though i have to admit it's a perfect script. 

Human Nature is an anti-human, Greenpeace-pro movie... till the very
end. It mocks humanity sometimes, but mostly talks about how
self-important we are, how ungracious to the nature around us. But the
end ... Well, wont write spoilers here.

This movie is a skeptical answer for all those hopeless romantics out
there. And i think it's a great symbiotic relationship. Romance and
skepticism.
<|_=00=_|>

Finally, a definitive answer to the question,
"What is human nature?"  Actually, "Human
Nature" is not the answer to that question, but it
does address other issues, one of which is
the nature of comedy.
Many, if not most, people who see "Human Nature"
will not care for it.  I was going to say "not
get it", but that is condescending.  I think
"Human Nature" is a hilarious comedy.  It's
extreme adsurdity makes it so.  It combines elements of
Pygmalion, Frankenstein and Tarzan into a wonderful,
modern day farce.
The story is about a love rectangle formed by Nathan
Bronfman (Robbins), Lila Jute (Arquettte), Puff (Ifans),
and Gabrielle (Otto).  Nathan and Gabrielle are somewhat
normal (as normal as two scientists can be), but  Lila
and Puff are a bit off center.  She has a problem with
body hair which covers her whole body, and Puff, was raised
in the wild by his father, who thought he was a gorilla.
The story is told through flashback by the dead Nathan,
the testifying Puff, and the arrested Lila.  Wonderfully
done.
The one question I had throughout was how Puff came to
be
testifying in front of congress.  The answer was so pat
and contrived it was funny.
My advice is, go see this movie with 4 or 5 friends, and
try and predict which one of you will like it.  The rest
will hate it.
<|_=00=_|>

This may be one of the most undereatimated movies on the imdb. Trumped only
by it's more popular cousin Adaptation, this movie in the best that film
language has to offer express all the joy, sorrow, misery, agony, torment,
ennui, sillyness, and boozy lust of being a biologacal creature in a social
super structure. I love this movie. I love how it translates the dry
language psychological philosophy into an entertaining movie that is both
emotional heavy and light heartedly funny. Rhys Ifans is absolutely
wonderful in his portayal of the apotheosis of the destructive nature of
language on human emotion.  As with adaptation I just can't say enough about
this movie. They seem so intelligent and full of joy that Charlie Kaufman is
quickly becoming one of my favorite writers in hollywood along with
Linklater and Tarantino.

10 out of 10
i'm drunk
<|_=00=_|>

This is further proof that writer Charlie Kaufman is probably the most
unique writer in show business and he's developing into quite the cult
figure. This odd story is about a woman named Lila (Patricia Arquette) who's
body is covered with hair and at the age of 20 she retreats into the
wilderness to hide and she writes nature books to make ends meet. But after
some time she decides to leave and get electro-dialysis because she gets
horny. Her friend hooks her up with a shy and repressed scientist named
Nathan (Tim Robbins) and they hit it off. Then while on a nature walk they
discover a man (Rhys Ifans) living in the wilderness who thinks he's an ape.
They take him back to Nathan's lab where he is going to teach him to be
human. Only Kaufman could come up with such a ridiculous story and make it
redeemable. The film is directed by Michel Gondry who is known for directing
several of Bjorks videos and he makes his feature film debut here. I think
the film works because Kaufman makes sure the viewer is not to take this
seriously but at the same time the humor is not presented in an over the top
way like some cheap attempt at laughs. The humor is more dry witted and it
reminded me a little of something Albert Brooks might have thought of.
Another thing I enjoyed was the performance of Arquette. She's the core of
this film and it should remind everyone that she is able to carry a film by
herself and that she's a very underrated actress. I've always been a big fan
of hers and she's just not used in films enough. She does appear nude but
she seems fine with it and she should, she looks great. The film wants to
ask the question about sex and the difference between humans and animals and
the environment we are all brought up in. When the film was over I wasn't
sure what to make of it but once I found out that Charlie Kaufman wrote the
script an immediate smile came across my face. Knowing he was behind this
odd comedy seems to make all the sense in the world!
<|_=00=_|>

Spoilers herein.

I've been watching a lot of movies and this movie is kind of like a snack in
between the really hard hitting movies. As that, it's really entertaining,
at times insightful, and fun to watch. Some people may have gone into
watching this expecting a straight comedy, and perhaps that is the reason
they were disappointed. The movie is satiric, and only at certain times is
the comedy blatant and obvious (some people call this gross-out humor). I
found the idea of Arquette's character Lila having hair all over her body as
a bit uncouth, but the filmmakers are trying to make a point about the
superficialities that is part of being human. 

Acknowledging the title, I expected a mock of what we humans hold dear as
our essence, and I got just that. The movie should not be discredited
because the philosophical aspect of nature versus nurture is on the light
side. I think Human Nature has some good insights that everyone can walk
away with. As humans in a civilized society, we have to conform to the norm
and follow rules. We have to restrain our hormonal pressures for sex and the
like. Isn't it argued by some that the sole purpose of life is to reproduce?
That idea is a bit crude and cold, and most of us don't like to think of it
like that. 

We used to be in touch with nature when we were first born, but after being
indoctrinated into societal culture and behavior, we lost our nature. This
dehumanization of our essence is essentially what we hold to be human, as
ironic as that is. Man is a rational animal as Aristotle said. Would we be
rational if weren't taught to be? Are we at all times rational in this
civilized society? Aren't people still fighting over trivial things? Are we
any smarter now than we were two thousand years ago? Although not explicitly
in the movie, these sorts of thoughts is what the movie is essentially
bringing up.

One of the funniest scenes in the movie was when Puff (Rhys Ifans) is shown
a slide of a naked woman on a projector and he instinctively lunges at the
picture trying to 'get some.' I am reminded of a similar scene, with
different ends, in Clockwork Orange. Nathan (Tim Robbins) has to shock him
several times before he learns to contain his sexual urges. I found all of
the scenes trying to teach Puff to be a sophisticated person hilarious,
including the scene where he whispers to a manakin from a fake balcony
watching a non-existent opera. Miranda Otto playing the assistant of Nathan,
Gabrielle, was funny with her fake French accent and mannerisms.

Nathan's parents were equally funny teaching their adopted six-year old son
Wayne table manners. At one point, Nathan says, "Mother please tell Wayne
not to hit on my girlfriend." I liked when Puff's father goes berserk and
ape-like when he sees the newspaper headlines saying "Kennedy Assassinated."
I found it interesting to see Nathan sitting in what we assume is purgatory
telling his story and asking if he is going to heaven or hell, or if he
would have to tell his tale again. *SPOILER - The ending is hilarious when
Puff gets together with Gabrielle after pretending to go back to nature.
/*SPOILER 

Overall, this is a good movie. Human Nature is funny, original, and has a
message to give to the viewers. The film manages to pack all of this in 96
minutes, good for those of you with short attention spans. Forget Charlie
Kaufman wrote the screenplay because that will create expectations too big
for this movie to handle. This is a sleeper that everyone should check
out.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie on TV and was pleasantly pleased. It turned out better
than what I had expected. The best thing about the movie is the story.
Its all about human nature of sorts, About thing that people do and
choices they make given the circumstances.

All the actors fit their respective roles. Especially Rhys Ifans as
Puff and Patricia Arquette as Lila. But unlike other movies there is
never any breakthrough or memorable scene that one might later
remember. The whole movie seems to be one single continuous piece but
one doesn't realize that until after the movie.

I don't think that this movie also fits any particular genre. Even
though it is set as a comedy, all the humor is too suttle to be branded
as genuine comedy. I don't know what genre it is, all I know I that is
good.

So, If you wouldn't fancy any particular genre of movies but want to
watch a movie that will not make sad, angry or too confused about the
plot and so on, Watch this.
<|_=00=_|>
A modern screwball comedy that takes in everything from My Fair Lady to
Greystoke whilst nodding askance at the corporeal British humour of
Benny Hill. It can be a bit patchy and hangs together by virtue of a
good cast. Rhys Ifans, reasonably fresh from doing a similarly oafish
turn in Notting Hill plays a Tarzan-Adam opposite Patricia Arquette
pushed into being an Eve-wannabe by virtue of excessive and socially
proscriptive bodyhair. Both are game for taking their clothes off a
great deal and in the most unflattering circumstances. Binding them
together is a well-judged Tim Robbins. The relationships between the
three are scrambled by a fourth, an urbane, conniving lab assistant to
Robbins played by Miranda Otto with a 'faked' French accent (that
knocks the socks off whatever Rhys Ifans is attempting). The argument
for and against civilisation is played out in the sub plots like a
complicated Mexican stand-off and the end is a good example of survival
of the fittest. Harmless but misses its target. 4/10
