
OK, so this was not exactly high art. But let's be realistic, it is a
movie with Paul Gross and Leslie Nielson in it. I was not expecting the
English patient.... What was here was a good little comedy movie that
poked fun at a lot of Canadian idiosyncrasies, had realistic characters
and had a bit of fun with a known Canadian (and international) sport.
It was nice that most of the characters had some sort of flaw, but
still managed to sort things out and overcome. Better yet, it was nice
to see Leslie Nielson actually act in a movie with a character who had
depth instead of his normal two dimensional slapstick characters.
Mostly, I enjoyed this movie because it was not a complete cast of
perfect people, and it did have fun with a lot of Canadian stereotypes.
It is always good when we can laugh at ourselves. Like I said, not high
art but that was not what we were looking for.
<|_=00=_|>
If you just want a pizza and beer movie and a few laughs with mates
then this is a good choice.

Just offensive enough to feel adult, just enough comedy to make you
laugh, and enough curling to remind you you're watching a sports movie.

Is it a classic? No.

But, is it a turkey? No way.

It's an unusual sports movie with lots of silliness and little
one-liners and it actually does the send up of curling very well.

All in all it shines for its small town values, it's heart, and good
performances.

A nice break from the norm.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved this movie and I'm an American. I originally got it because of
Paul Gross since I love Due South, but this movie was generally funny.
I see from a lot of comments that people were disappointed in the
clichéd plot, but seriously people. Do you want the team to lose the
tournament? Do you not want the guy to get the girl? Most of us want
the happy ending; that's why we watch these kind of movies. And there
were just enough quirky things thrown in to give this movie its own
originality. Think about the end of the tournament when our guys when
and the evil Juggernaut comes over to Cutter. He turns out to be a
pretty nice guy, pompous yes, but nice. And the little commentary
between Cutter and Lennox afterward is hilarious.

The scene with the beavers on the road may have been a little bit
slapstick, but its also exactly how I imagine a bunch of drunk men
would deal with it. The biblical quotes were cracking me up.

Overall, I highly recommend this movie. I firmly believe that the only
reason it didn't do very well in theaters in the US is because it
wasn't mainstream enough: no major stars (other than Leslie Nielsen and
he really only had a minor part), it was about a sport that a lot of
people aren't familiar with, it wasn't made by a major production
company, and I don't recall it getting a lot of advertisement here in
the States.
<|_=00=_|>
There's not much I can say about this film that a true critic would. I
can't tell you about the depth in characters or plot, or how
unrealistic it might/might not be. I can tell you, though, I did enjoy
watching this movie Saturday afternoon in my PJ's with my little
sister. In the summer we kids really have nothing better to do
sometimes than watch movies and go biking. Only Macy has a bike, so we
stayed in one particular day. Roaming through or scalable-less TV
stations we found a delightfully odd movie called "Men With Brooms". It
was quirky, it was cute, it was all we needed to have a good few hours
together. Okay,so it's not the greatest comedy ever written- it serves
it's purpose of entertaining and that's all that matters to me. Watch
it, enjoy it, don't examine it!
<|_=00=_|>

Being a fan of Paul Gross' for 8 years, I was very disappointed with this
film.  Maybe he tried to do too much by writing it with John Krizanc,
acting
in it, and directing it, and getting the beers for the cast.  The film
has
such obvious "funny" bits in it - no subtlety at all like Due South had.
In fact, there were moments were a placard could have been held up "laugh
here".  It all ended so neatly too?  Cutter got the right woman, won the
golden broom, admitted to a burn, and was reunited with his father. The
couple got pregnant, the funeral director got rid of his nagging wife,
and
the astronaut went into space.  Only Lennox seemed human :) There was no
depth to the characters, so I didn't care about them.  The foul language
and
lavatorial humour did nothing to enhance the basis for a good film. I
give
it 3 out of 10 for trying, and live in hope of better things to come.

<|_=00=_|>

The film is about the sport of curling, and has a lot of Canadian
small-town quirkiness thrown in. That makes it different than most
other movies out there. But the plot... If you can't guess what is
going to happen every step of the way, then you have never seen any of
the innumerable
rag-tag-bunch-of-misfits-overcome-the-odds-to-beat-their-adversaries
films. It is funny at times, but other jokes are just beaten into the
ground. One example is the drunken announcer at the curling match. It
was a little funny to begin with, but it got real old. This is the type
of movie that you can stand to watch if it is on cable, but don't go
out of your way to see it.

<|_=00=_|>
This was one of those movies that I caught on cable at like one in the
morning. But to my surprise I actually loved it. It was very funny and
very sweet. Paul Gross and Leslie Neilsen always play so well off each
other, much like they did in Due South. The supporting cast, with the
exception of Molly Parker, were really funny as well. She whined her
way through the role. The script was filled with great one liners and
amazing heart. The acting, particularly by the 3 leads, was good for
the most part. They all seemed very comfortable with each other and you
believed they were friends. Scenes like the beaver road block and Peter
Outerbridge's sex scene with the biker made me laugh so hard. My family
is from the Newfoundland area of Canada and to be honest I saw a lot of
them in this movie. To those who have said this movie was awful and
told others not to watch it, I disagree. If you are looking for a movie
to make you laugh and has a lot of heart, I recommend this one.
<|_=00=_|>
This show is now a classic among my friends and family. The jokes are
almost inside jokes to all of us Canadians. Its great how it plays on a
lot of the usual stereotypes the world knows us for but has so many
things that are only funny if you live here & thus actually GET IT!
Even the Canadian product placements were meant to be funny. It was
great to see so many familiar faces from the vast amount of Canadian
talent there is out there. This movie is like the hilarious TV show
Corner Gas in all its great Canadiana. I'm sure if you're not Canadian
you just won't get it. The curling is awesome. I love how they have
actual known curlers playing mixed with people known for things here
other than curling. When you live here curling gets under your skin. It
IS an exciting game. Something as minute as a hair on the ice can
change the whole game. I love how this movie captured its ups and
downs. Some of the camera shots for the curling games were really
creative. Overall I'd have to say that this is one of the best and
funniest Canadian movies ever made!
<|_=00=_|>

Genial, intermittently amusing comedy about curling.  I never knew what
curling was, and it's sort of an interesting shuffleboard/billiards kind of
game and I'm glad to have learned something about it, but outside of that
this movie is so slight that in spite of it's easygoing charm I never felt
more than a passing interest in the character's lives.  Watchable but
forgettable.
<|_=00=_|>
This is the kind of flick you watch when you don't want to think too
hard but you still want some intelligent humour and a good story. Some
jokes are hidden in sarcasm, satire or poignancy, and you might miss
them, so it's worth paying attention. The style of this movie's humour
may have been a bit before its time, as it resembles currently popular
TV shows like Scrubs, The Office and Psych. Even the many colourful
characters, including bit-parts, are very believable in today's
small-town culture. Do not miss the beginning or the rest wont hold
together. Although it lags a bit in the middle, it still satisfies
because there's enough variety along the way, that the ending isn't
quite as nauseating as you might fear. The soundtrack is excellent and
the out-takes at the end wrap it well. For Paul Gross fans, pay
attention to his facial expressions - he's more animated compared to
many of his other roles.
