

I'm probably one of the few who thought this movie was hilarious. I
mean, how can you NOT laugh at Will Ferrell and Lee Evans breaking into
a song about how they're going to beat up the title character ("the
bastard's going to pay!") The movie gets funnier and stranger in the
second hour, when anything resembling a plot was apparently tossed out
the window. Leon Phelps is a unique Saturday Night Live creation. If
you don't expect much (as I did going in), you may just find yourself
in stitches. Granted, this is not the stuff of classic comedy, but it's
not the "one star" comedy that most critics called it.

<|_=00=_|>

The Ladies Man was never made to win awards, or put Tim Meadows at the top
of the hottest actors list. What it was made to do, is to make you laugh.
Now, if you are still interested in seeing this movie, please do so. Not
only is Tim Meadows a riot as the fish sandwich eating, houseboat living,
stud muffin, but "Wrestling" Will Ferrell, and the rest of the cast are
great as well.

I'd give this movie 6 out of 10, just for the goofy jokes, and laughs it
got
out of me.
<|_=00=_|>

I loved it. It was just what I needed after a hard day at work. Tim
Meadows
was freaky and disgusting. Heehee! He is so dang cute, I could hardly
contain myself. He says some great one-liners and I laughed out loud a few
times. This movie was hands down "craptacular" in my book and definitely
in
keeping with several other fine SNL films.
<|_=00=_|>

Sometimes they get lucky and have a hit on their hands (Wayne's World, the
first one, not the second). But most often they have duds (It's Pat comes to
mind rather quickly). This time out it's Tim Meadows as The Ladies Man. This
movie falls somewhere in between a hit and a dud. It was very funny for the
first 20 minutes, but then, as usually happens with SNL skits, it starts to
slow down, before finally ending, long after it should have.

Tim Meadows is Leon Phelps, a radio DJ with a nightly show called The Ladies
Man. He answers any and all questions dealing with sex and relationships,
usually in the crudest way possible. Everything seems to ultimately come
down to the butt. After pushing the buttons of the station manager, Leon,
along with his producer Julie (Karyn Parsons) gets fired, and needs to find
another job. Out of the random blue, comes a letter from one of his
ex-ladies. The letter offers him wealth and luxury for the rest of his life,
the only problem being that the letter isn't signed. So Leon needs to track
down all the women he's been with to find the woman of his dreams. But
sometimes, as Billy Dee Williams says in the film, the woman of your dreams
is standing right in front of you. There is also a sub-plot about a bunch of
guys who's wives/girlfriends have all slept with Leon, and they want to
first figure out who he is (by a tattoo he has on a part of his anatomy),
then kill him. Leading this bunch of guys is, surprise! Will Ferrell from
SNL. 
First off, I thought the sub-plot was rather lame. The singing and dancing
stuff was just completely worthless. I usually like Will Ferrell but here he
just never clicked for me. And the rest of the guys were just schlubs who
tagged along, and in the end all decided that having their wives/girlfriends
cheat on them was in fact their fault. So back to the main story. The story
basically centers around Leon and sex. So what it comes down to is, if you
don't like the character of Leon, you won't like the movie. His voice, his
mannerisms, his dialogue is what carries the movie. I am not a big fan of
Tim Meadows. I never thought he was a particularly good actor on SNL. The
only thing I ever really liked of his, was his Ladies Man skits. But the
best thing about those, is that they usually involved the guest host
(remember the one with Cameron Diaz?), and they were short. For about 5
minutes, they were pretty funny. And here, for about 20 minutes, it's really
funny. What I thought was good about the character in the movie, is that he
stayed in character throughout. He never wavered from his wanted to just get
laid persona. Until right at the end where there was this transformation,
and the ever present speech to tie things up. Other than that, it was pretty
good at keeping Leon as Leon, and not changing him into something less crude
than he was. There isn't a lot of substance to this movie, if you couldn't
guess. But like I said earlier, the beginning of the movie I found to be
very funny. Some real laugh out loud moments, all revolving around sex and
his crudeness. The problem of course with this movie, and most other SNL
spin offs, is that these are characters that are only supposed to be shown
for a few minutes at a time. Stretching the concept into 80 minutes is very
difficult. 
That difficulty is obviously why they needed the sub-plot, because without
it, this movie would have been a little under an hour. When it was good, it
was good, but when it wasn't good, it got to be boring.

So overall, The Ladies Man wasn't as bad as other SNL films, but it wasn't
as good as others. It had some funny moments, the first 20 minutes was
pretty good, but the rest of it dragged on. There was an unnecessary
sub-plot whose only purpose was to lengthen the film. The bottom line is, if
you like Tim Meadows and his Leon Phelps character, you'll be able to watch
the film. If he annoys you, don't even bother going. Unless you just want to
see Tiffani Theissen in some nice revealing clothing. 


<|_=00=_|>
The fact that The Ladies Man originated from a skit on Saturday Night
Live should surprise no one who has seen and disliked the film. The
film feels exactly like a character who belongs in skits roughly five
to eight minutes long, who will occasionally say something funny in
those five to eight minutes, and then end on a comic-bang before the
screenwriter decides to cut over to another sketch. The sad thing about
The Ladies Man is it focuses on its title character (played by a
clearly inspired Tim Meadows) for eighty long, often tedious minutes,
completely deluding the character's comic effect because it must be
referenced with almost every line he says.

I've discussed how tedious and often frustratingly unfunny Saturday
Night Live films can often be (I wrote a whole blog on it three years
back, so that should give an idea of how opinionated I was). Their main
complaint links most of their films (with notable exceptions of the
Wayne's World titles) in that they have difficultly giving their
character's antics enough to do for a film's runtime. "The Ladies Man"
character already has enough energy to be in a eighty minute film, but
does he have the humor, plot, and charisma capabilities of carrying
such precious minutes? How far does a sexist, afro-rockin' radio host
go? The answer is not very far, but the film is at least buoyed by the
competence and appeal of Tim Meadows, who can do no wrong in films as
far as I'm concerned. His presence is casual and his attitude often
laidback, even when he's playing a character as tiresome as this one.
He plays Leon "The Ladies Man" Phelps, a studly black radio host who is
known for his outspoken sexism on air during his nighttime show where
he gives female callers shallow advice about relationships. The first
thirty minutes of the film show his attitude and serve as nothing but a
showcase for redundant jokes akin to that of modern Saturday Night Life
sketches.

When the story finally does get going, it's lame and serves more as
filler than as a significant plot. It follows a man who finds his wife
cheating on him, only to spot a naked black man running outside his
home with a smiley face tattooed on his rear. Turns out, there is a
website dedicated to finding this man and a group of angry husbands
meet up to try and track down the man who pleasures their wives. The
result is a tiresome array of unfunny marital jokes and a predictable
but slightly catchy song and dance number.

Tim Meadows (who serves as co-write on this film) is clearly inspired
when playing "The Ladies Man." His personality is always energetic and
here he plays a character he completely created and "perfected"
himself. There is a genuine sense of fun and comfortableness when
playing this role. The issue is that "The Ladies Man" is so thin and
uninteresting as a character that he's more of an idea. In that regard,
Meadows does a great job at playing an idea.

I return full circle to my point that I made in the beginning that
stated that the films focuses on a character that feels exactly like he
belongs in concise skits on Television. It's no surprise that after
about fifteen minutes of laughing with and at the character, I began to
be burdened with feelings of tedium. This only influences my point that
a character with this personality belongs in shorts seventy-five
minutes shorter than the film The Ladies Man.

Starring: Tim Meadows, Karyn Parsons, Billy Dee Williams, John
Witherspoon, Will Ferrell, and Eugene Levy. Directed by: Reginald
Hudlin.
<|_=00=_|>
Do you like really inventive comedy or do you love "the wedding
crashers", if the answer is the latter stop reading now. I can't
believe this movie is not higher rated. Basically Meadows plays a
character not unlike Austin Powers.There are so many inventive moments
in this gagorama. From crudity - Leon playing with himself on the
porch, the ex boyfriend tricked into eating . . Oh well. To inspired
lunacy- clown sex , the Broadway routine, the voice over. Meadows is
great as the childish, but very sweet natured Leon. Some great lines
"don't blame the wang" "freaky deaky sex world" too many. . . Why this
movie wasn't huge is a mystery. Great comedy.
<|_=00=_|>

The Ladies Man is a funny movie. There's not much thought behind it, but
what do you expect from an SNL movie? It's actually better than most SNL
movies (i.e. Superstar or A Night At The Roxbury) Tim Meadows and Will
Ferrell were both very funny. Chris Parnell was also funny in his short
scene (one of the funnier ones in the movie). Other than that, the rest of
the cast is average and is just there to support Meadows. I've definitely
seen funnier movies, but I've seen dumber ones too. Again, it's not exactly
a deep movie, but it's good for a few laughs. It was funnier as a skit
though. But still, if you're looking for a pretty funny movie, I'd recommend
this one. Just don't think about it too much, or you'll hate
it.

Rating: 6/10
<|_=00=_|>
The Ladies Man (2000): Dir: Reginald Hudlin / Cast: Tim Meadows, Will
Ferrell, Billy Dee Williams, Lee Evans, Tiffany Thiessen: Lackluster
portrait of a guy who hides behind a radio personality because he
cannot find love. It stars Tim Meadows as Leon Plelps who gives advice
about relationships. Many husbands are familiar with the happy face
tattoo on his ass and they group together with the intent on reclaiming
their manhood by castrating him. The conclusion is insincere as Phelps
attempts to justify his behavior. Well directed by Reginald Hudlin with
visual flair but Meadows hardly presents Phelps as sympathetic, and his
concluding statement is difficult to swallow. When your leading
character is this pathetic then it takes a creative plot turn to turn
that around and this film fails to do that. One performance that does
pay off is Will Ferrell who is hilarious as a wrestling obsessed
husband who leads a funny song and dance number out to Phelps's
houseboat. Billy Dee Williams is wasted as an advice giving bartender.
Lee Evans plays an angry husband whose wife is caught in bed with
Phelps. Evans could have matched Ferrell in hilarity had his role had
any followup but unfortunately he just gets lost amongst the other
hateful husbands. Purely an act for Meadows to further promote his
Saturday Night Live skit with no conviction or care for its orgy.
Score: 4 ½ / 10
<|_=00=_|>
I give this 8 stars because it's like a modern day Marx Brothers' movie
or Myra Breckenridge. Everyone's in it, there are silly musical
numbers, the story's negligible, but it's just pure enjoyment and a
snap shot in history. I heartily recommend it for mindless watching
which is a whole genre of movies. Caveat, the cinematography during the
big musical number is lacking. But it's just laugh out loud funny!!! I
won't say more because it's terrible to spoil jokes. Still, there's a
lot of Chicago-isms as well as pub-related humor. If you like to go to
bars and have ever had casual sex with a stranger, you will find this
hilarious. Plus! It has Billy Dee Williams in it, and if you ask me,
any movie with him in it is a 10 star film.
<|_=00=_|>
I picked up the DVD a few weeks ago and finally got to see the whole
film.

This film is hilarious! There were so many WTF!! moments... ;D It helps
if you just accept this as a screwball comedy from the get-go.
Characters break the fourth wall early on, so that's something to keep
in mind.

Tim Meadows plays Leon, a Chicago-based late-night radio talk show
host, "The Ladies' Man", who focuses on love & romance related issues.
He's popular, but controversial, as his on-air commentaries are
frequently raunchy and ribald. One evening, the station manager (Eugene
Levy) has had enough and he fires Leon and his producer (played by
Karyn Parsons of TV's "Fresh Prince"). In the meanwhile, a strange
all-male support group plots to track down Leon for, shall we say,
making them cuckolds. The leader of the group is played by fellow
Saturday Night Live alumnus Will Ferrell.

Tim Meadow's Leon is clueless, moronic and sex-obsessed, but also a
decent guy, deep down. His portrayal is of a man that is grossly out of
touch with reality, yet obtusely hidden gems of wisdom can be found
within his crude radio commentaries.

The story of being the adopted son of Hugh Hefner was nuts! We never
find out whether it was true or not-- a cameo by the real Hugh Hefner
would have been cool.

Billy Dee Williams as Lester.. spot on! (And at first I thought he
might be Leon's real dad.) Did I miss any Colt 45 product placement?
...Here's the always reliable John Witherspoon ("scrap iron"? LOL...)
...and of course the director as Leon's tailor! Karyn Parsons.. so
lovely, and amiable as the straight woman to Tim's antics as Leon. (she
needs another TV show!) Tiffani Thiessen... I admired her from afar on
Saved By the Bell, but... wow... (repeat: she needs another TV show!)
...The woman who plays Candy.. I'd swear I've heard her voice before..

Will Ferrell does so much here it's insane... He pretty much takes over
every scene he's in.. the first VSA meeting is gold...

The song and dance sequence.. who did the choreography? The bar food
challenge was one of the most hilarious-- and disgusting-- segments in
the movie!! ... there was a whole lot of liquor consumed in this film--
or maybe it was really iced tea or something? ...So many left field
appearances lend to the pleasantly surreal atmosphere of the narrative.
Tamala Jones.. nice!! Julianne Moore.... !!!!!!!!!!!!!!?????????? Then
Julianne Moore in a clown outfit...?!!!!!!!!?!?!??! ... I wonder what
was involved in decorating Leon's funky houseboat digs? (and where'd
that remote control come from? , LOL) You'll enjoy this film whether
you rent it, buy it or stream it.

Tim Meadows is an underrated, underused talent, especially considering
his long tenure on Saturday Night Live. This film only received modest
returns at the box office, but it is definitely worth checking out.
