
Okay, first of I hate commenting on this thing but I felt like I had to
stand up for this movie. So many people were bashing on it and I felt
like people who might want to see it should get a second opinion.

First off, Bend It Like Beckham is not meant to be the most profound
movie of the century. If that's what you're looking for go somewhere
else. Just because it is an independent film does not mean it has to be
artsy. It's supposed to make you feel good and you're supposed to have
fun watching it and those two things are handily accomplished.

Secondly, the acting though not "Halle Berry in Monster's Ball" is
still good. The movie doesn't need acting like that honestly so don't
look for it. It's a family movie. If that's what you wanted you
wouldn't or shouldn't even be looking into this movie honestly.

Lastly, It has a really cute story. I think it's thought out well and
it's entertaining to watch. It's also very true to life for the most
part for that culture so if you want to sit down and watch a movie that
you can enjoy and feel good about when you're finished. If you're
looking for something with deep thought out plot lines and big dramatic
scenes this is not for you.

-Lyndsay
<|_=00=_|>


`Bend It Like Beckam' is a heartwarming charmer about a young girl's
search
for identity in 21st Century England.  Like `Fiddler on the Roof,'
`Beckam'
deals with the painful struggles tradition-bound cultures must go through
as
they enter a looser, more freedom-loving modern world.  The culture in
this
case is that of immigrant and first-generation Indians living in Great
Britain.  As with all such tales, it is the young folk who feel the need
to
pull away from the stuffy values of the past, and who end up dragging the
reluctant older folk kicking and screaming into the future right along
with
them.

Jess Bharma is a fairly typical teen with dreams of becoming a world-class
soccer player.  However, Jess also comes from a very traditional Indian
family that believes a girl should not play around with boys, show her
legs
in public, or aspire to much beyond marrying a good Indian boy and raising
a
family.  We've seen this kind of set-up countless times before and `Bend
It
Like Beckam' will certainly not win any prizes for creativity or
originality.  It does, however, have a youthful exuberance and a generous
spirit that can't help but captivate even the most diehard, coldhearted
cynic.  Parminder K. Nagra is utterly winning as young Jess, capturing all
the innate optimism and unquenchable enthusiasm of this irrepressible
character.  She receives superb support from a cast of outstanding actors,
both young and old, including Keira Knightley as Jules, her inspirational
buddy who provides Jess with the opportunity to bring her dreams to
fruition; Jonathan Rhys-Meyers as Joe, the handsome young coach who
provides
lessons in love along with lessons in soccer; Anupam Kher as Jess' father,
who turns out to have some of his own personal demons to deal with;
Shaheen
Khan as Jess' mother, who doesn't understand why her daughter can't be
content with the pre-ordained life her parents have laid out for her; and
Juliet Stevenson as Jules' mother, who proves that Indians don't hold a
patent on tradition-obsessed parents.  In its quiet, gentle way, the film
also confronts the issue of racism, particularly in terms of how the
Indians
are often still treated as second-class citizens in British
society.

As directed by Gurinder Chadha, `Bend It Like Beckham' is a
light-on-its-feet `feel-good' film that never takes itself too seriously.
The movie suffers a bit from a sitcom mentality, as when, for instance,
Jules' parents labor under the illusion that their daughter and Jess are
actually lesbian lovers.  The plotting, in addition to being predictable
at
times, often seems contrived and excessively melodramatic (the rivalry
between Jess and Jules over Joe being the primary offender).  But this
isn't
enough to do any serious damage to the film as a whole.

Thus, if you're looking for a film that is easygoing, uplifting and
comfortably old-fashioned in its demeanor and theme, `Bend It Like
Beckham'
is for you.

<|_=00=_|>
Wow, I can't believe I waited so long to see this film. I just never
got around to watching it. The plot has nothing that interests me. I
know nothing about soccer (football.) I am one of those American fools
that has no clue. I had never even seen David Beckham before this film.
I chose to ignore the buzz surrounding this film at the time it was
released in America. Enough about me. 

Truth be told, it was a mistake to ignore this little piece of
movie-making heaven. What a fun film. It's full of color and
exuberance. I had a goofy grin on my face through the whole movie.
Parminder Nagra is so sweet and lovable, you can't help but root for
her. No wonder why the American television show E.R. has snatched her
up. I have a new appreciation for Indian culture. Those people know how
to have a good time. The wedding scenes are dazzlingly beautiful. 

The only problem I had was deciphering some of the British slang and
dialogue through the accents. I turned on the English subtitles to make
sure I didn't miss anything. (This is not a criticism of the film!) I'm
sure audiences worldwide have trouble understanding the constantly
changing slang in American films as well. 

This is a perfect date film. It has a great sports plot like Rocky, and
a strong sense of feminism that is empowering for women. I watched it
with my wife, and sixteen year old niece, and we all loved it. I highly
recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>

The title of this film nearly put me off watching it.  Not being a
Manchester United fan, the mere mention of Beckham was a bit off putting,
however I put my prejudices behind me and I'm glad I did.

I wasn't expecting much of a film, but I was pleasantly surprised.  The
film
sped along with me never looking at my watch and I enjoyed every second of
the film.  If you liked East is East then you'll love this film.  OK so
the
storyline is nothing new, and the classic storylines are contained within
the film but it's all done very funnily, and with a breath of fresh air.
The film moves very fast and keeps the audiance entertained.  The
occaisional funny moments are a good chuckle and not some poor attempt at
humour, and best of all it's a good british comedy.
<|_=00=_|>

As a former 2 time Okinawan Karate world champion, I like movies about
sacrifice for sport.  But this movie is about so much more.  This movie is
so good and so deep.  I have recently been plagued by very serious injury
and pretty much a disastrous lack of passion.  Almost lights out for me. 
And this silly little movie touched me so deep that like out of a daze it
reminded me about what life is supposed to be about.  This is a movie about
living.  Living your life for yourself and respect for others.  Empowerment.
 God, bless "Bend it like Beckham" I believe it is a true gem.

<|_=00=_|>

This movie might best be characterized as a collection of formulas -
underdog sports flick, culture clash flick, generational conflict flick,
young-love-overcomes-obstacles flick.  The setting of transplanted
Indian-ness makes it feel like one of Mira Nair's films - `Monsoon
Wedding'
or `Mississippi Masala.'  There's also quite a bit of youthful, flippant,
foul-mouthed, blue-collar London impertinence going on - an episode of
`Eastenders,' perhaps.

And yet to dismiss the movie with this quick sketch and a few references
would do it a terrible injustice.  OK, no, it is perhaps not `great.'
It's
a feelgood movie, and while it dips a bit into serious subject waters, it
doesn't stay down too long.   And, it really IS a collection of all these
movie formulas - and, I submit, they do exactly what they're intended to
do.
It's ALMOST too much, but it's not.  The formulas lead to their
inevitable
pay offs, of course, but they pay off in ways that are not quite
expected.
The final outcome is rarely in doubt, but throughout the twists and
turns,
the audience (at least the audience where I was watching), find
themselves
shamelessly twisting their hankies on the sidelines, crying just a little
where they're supposed to cry, and cheering when they can't but cheer.
There is a point at which you want to stand up and clap wildly - it's not
at
the end, so you can't, but the audience where I saw it sure wanted to.  I
think they felt a little cheated that they couldn't.  The mood of the end
is
not one conducive to raising the rafters, but many clapped softly anyway.
Granted the movie isn't timed quite right, but it really IS that good -
it
makes you want to show your gratefulness for the efforts of writer,
director, and actors.

Any flaws of timing or plausibility I find I can easily forgive due to
the
overwhelming charm of the movie's star, Parminder K. Nagra.  Her
expressions, her boundless energy and defiance, her ability to convey the
conflict her character feels between duty to family and wishing for
something more - I was completely taken in, from start to finish.  This
actress is going places.  She has the kind of playful wit and irreverence
you see in the best early John Cusack, coupled with a depth to play
convincing disappointment and struggle.  If you love `Say Anything,' with
the passion that most true devotees, including me, do - you will love
this
film.  In fact, if `Say Anything' is your favorite film, drop whatever
you're doing and RUN out to see this film, before it leaves theatres.
Drive
100 miles if you have to.  It has that same magic.

It doesn't hurt that Ms. Nagra possesses a true, deep, classic beauty and
grace akin to that of, say, a Kelly or a Bergman.  I mean, my fellow
red-blooded males, this woman is flat-out, drop-dead stunning.  She's
equally fetching as a feisty tomboy jock (my personal preference) or as
an
elegant, traditionally clad Sikh woman.  Go see it to watch her, even if
the
subject matter isn't your thing.

It is perhaps not a great movie, but it's one that will, due to its sheer
quirkiness and great heart, likely find its way onto the `favorites'
shelves
of many, and not just young girls aspiring to make it big and become
soccer
stars.  Evidently the movie is a huge hit in England and Germany, and
Parminder is well on her way to becoming a superstar.  Go out and see
what
all the fuss is about.

P.S. I must beg to differ with the reviewer who claims that women's
soccer
is not big in the U.S.  Women's soccer is HUGE in the U.S. - there are
perhaps ten times as many young women playing soccer in America as in the
whole of Europe.  The U.S. national team is THE powerhouse international
women's team, and has been for almost a decade.  Brandi Chastain's
shirt-removing gesture in the 1999 Women's World Cup, which graced the
cover
of Time, Newsweek and Sports Illustrated, has become iconic.  Young women
from around the world most certainly DO aspire to be on American college
teams - North Carolina and Santa Clara, I believe, particularly.
American
Mia Hamm, far and away the greatest women's player of all time, dominates
the sport like a Michael Jordan.   I'm fairly sure the U.S. is the only
country to have a professional women's soccer league (maybe Japan as
well?).
This film is fully aware of this.  If girls' soccer coaches from age
five
on up don't make this film required viewing for their team, they should
consider leaving coaching.

<|_=00=_|>
My scalp still smarts from the burning coals heaped on it when I vowed
I love this film. Bring on the coals; I'll walk over them as well to
say again that I love "Bend it Like Beckham." Granted, there's a lot of
"in spite of" in that confession. It's a bit movie-of-the-week; the
screenplay is on the paint-by-numbers side. And, most troublingly, the
director's commentary implies that in this film beauty can be found
primarily amongst the white of skin.

The film's genius is not in what's obvious to the Syd Field-doctored
eye: character arcs, themes, construction. It's in both the surface and
what lurks deep beneath, but not in those layers of artistic topsoil
that reviewers seem most often to scratch at. Powerful, sometimes
semi-clad female bodies not simply on display but kicking the crap out
of a football do a better job of naturalizing female strength and
agility than Lara Croft or Zhang Ziyi will ever do. These are real
bodies (Keira Knightley's excepted) whose work is not to look great
first and kick butt later. They are working bodies whose beauty is in
their movement and self-determination. And, in my book, lead actress
Parminder Nagra is one of the most gorgeous creatures ever captured on
screen – not only because she can lay claim to that hackneyed
adjective, "luminous," but because her performance has an honesty and
un-bookish intelligence that's utterly compelling.

The result is a film women can enjoy without feeling like they're
making a pact with the devil to do so. As in Chadha's "Bride and
Prejudice," the relationships amongst women sizzle with a chemistry
that can't be neatly slotted into the stodgy, Sweet Valley High
categories of "best friends" or "sisters." Perhaps Chadha is even right
in her commentary to disavow the film's flirtation with lesbianism.
"Bend it Like Beckham" has an electricity that can't be reduced to the
simple hetero/homosexual love triangle its conventionally structured
script would suggest. The precise nature of its pleasure is,
ultimately, a bit of a mystery – and is all the more seductive for it.

Oh yes, and did I mention that it's hilarious?
<|_=00=_|>
As someone who's never been into sports, it seems like it would be hard
for me to get into the football (or as we Americans inexplicably call
it, soccer)-themed "Bend It Like Beckham". But I gotta say, this was
one cool movie! Anglo-Indian Jesminder Bhamra (Parminder Nagra) and her
WASP friend Juliette Paxton (Keira Knightley) love to play football
(yes, I'm going to say it the British - and international - way) and
just adore football player David Beckham. But Jesminder's traditional
Sikh parents don't approve (her mother offers a really whacked-out
description of football early in the movie). Okay, so maybe it was sort
of a cliché in that sense, but you gotta love this movie! And if like
me, you go to this movie not knowing the definition of "bend" in
football...don't worry, the movie explains it (I'd also never heard of
David Beckham prior to this movie). And we all know that Keira
Knightley hit it big: a few months after "BILB" came out in the States,
she starred in the equally cool "Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of
the Black Pearl".
<|_=00=_|>

As an anti-football person, I (on the surface) grudgingly took my younger
brother to see this film, although secretly I hoped it might be East is
East
II. The trailers looked fun so I thought I'd give it a
go.

It took about ten minutes but after that I was glued to the screen, and
that
wasn't anything to do with the neck cramp caused by sitting too near the
front due to a packed auditorium. The acting was fresh and vibrant, the
characters engaging, and the jokes genuinely funny. The entire auditorium
was laughing out loud every minute or so. Football fan or no football fan,
sport became irrelevant to the main principles of love, friendship, family,
independence and rivalry. Add a dash of Sikh culture and you have the
formula for the best British comedy I've seen in a long time, dare I say
it.... better than East is East.

This film trots along nicely at a lovely pace, never dwelling on anything
longer than necessary nor leaving anything unfinished, keeping the viewer
entertained and mentally engaged. Though not a characteristically
twisting-and-turning film, there are some pleasant surprises on the way and
things don't always happen as you would expect.

Saying that, there were elements of predictability but these were exploited
satirically more than used as script-fillers. I suppose depending on your
particular penchant for happy-endings you could be either delighted/let
down
by the ending. Personally, if there was any other outcome I would have
written a strongly worded letter to the script writers.

As for the actors, I would have to say that Juliet Stevenson (Paula) put in
the finest performance. I never knew that people like that existed but she
her realism with sometimes bizarre concepts has convinced me that they
possibly do! Prize for the most unconvincing (of the main characters) goes,
unfortunately, to Kiera Knightley (Jules), but don't get me wrong, even she
offered a great performance, it's just that someone has to be last of the
best and sorry Kiera, this time you're it.

Tip: Don't leave before the credits. Once the lights came back up I
realised
to my horror that perhaps I shouldn't have watched this film after all. My
beloved but forgotten Ice Junkie had melted into a sugary blue juice. Oh,
what am I saying, it was absolutely brill and I can't recommend it enough.
I
will definitely buy it when it comes out and add it to my collection of 3
videos. I'm a student. I only splash out if it's really worth
it.

<|_=00=_|>
Jess is 18, very smart and wants nothing more than to play football,
when she joins a local team she has to lie to her parents again and
again, as they would never approve of her chasing her dream, they want
her to settle down with a nice Indian boy and learn how to cook.

Bend it Like Beckham is a very funny feel good movie that doesn't need
to be deep and complex, it's just fine as it is. The cast are all very
good and they play their roles very well, the story is simple and
predictable, but it works perfectly and the script is very realistic
and very funny.

A great Family movie 8/10
