
I was surprised to find the rating when I first checked it out, but I
suppose it's a matter of personal experience and the taste that goes
with it. I like to be reminded of my own personal experience (which is
similar) and compare it to what the main character goes through in the
movie. I suppose you'll like it if it means something to you, so if
you've got issues with your past (relationships, particularly) and you
like happy endings, give this film a shot. There's a bit of
stereotyping in the film though, but they're presented humorously, so I
didn't really mind. Besides, they aren't very damaging stereotypes (at
least in my view), nor very annoying ones.
<|_=00=_|>
I cannot envision anyone but Reese Witherspoon as Melanie, a
snooty-but-lovable up-and-coming New York City fashion designer from
Alabama who receives a marriage proposal from the prominent, well-bred
son of the mayor of New York. Of course, this means that she must go
back to the small town where she was raised to demand a divorce from
Jake (Josh Lucas) - seven years after walking out on him. 

Aside from being a love story, this film shows us that you cannot
escape your past, no matter how hard you try. Everywhere she turns
Reese's character is beset by the people and events of her youth. Old
friends seem almost compelled to reminisce about their youthful
escapades. She just cannot seem to get away from it. You really get a
sense of how she must feel when you see her in the honky-tonk bar,
surrounded by rednecks with no visible exit.

Witherspoon is right at home in the role as a smart, sassy young woman
ala 'Legally Blonde'. However the real star of the show is Josh Lucas.
His expressive face lends an authenticity to Jake that transcends the
stereotypical former football star and produces a charismatic, likable
guy who just wants to win back his girl. But if it is stereotypes that
you want, they are there to be found. Most prominent is the mother of
Reese's fiancé, played by Candice Bergen. She is one tough politician
who is as cold as ice and predictably obsessed with her public image.
Others include the independent, feminist girlfriend, the redneck
buddies and a gay fashion designer.

Director Andy Tennant also likes to deal with some classic historical
and societal conflicts in this movie, such as the North versus the
South. In addition to numerous Yankee/redneck jokes, Witherspoon's dad
(Fred Ward) is involved in the regular reenactment of a Civil War
battle. Tennant also seems to be a fan of love's ability to prevail in
the face of these conflicts. His film 'Ever After' has a similar theme
– it deals with the struggle between nobility and commoner during
medieval times. Specifically, it is about a Prince who falls in love
with a peasant girl. Despite the odds, their love overcomes this
obstacle. 

If you like romantic comedies, you should like this film. Despite its
flaws this movie is upbeat, entertaining and it comes with a lesson
about the futility of trying to escape your past that might prove
invaluable to some audience members.
<|_=00=_|>

Ever hear of the story of crying "wolf?"  Most of the extra forceful
reviews
of "Sweet Home Alabama" are the professional and amateur reviewers that
try
to tell us, "stay away, this is a waste of your time, do not see it."
Bull-dinkey! They are just crying "wolf" for some unknown reason. This is
a
fine, funny movie that relies more on an ensemble cast than just on Reese
Witherspoon. The writing is smart and funny, the directing fits the
comedic
mood of the story, and the acting is just right.  Although it is a quite
different film from "Legally Blonde" and "Election", I enjoyed it just as
much, and will enjoy it upon repeat viewings.

no SPOILERS here...

Critic Ebert has a good summary of the story so I won't repeat any of it
here.  For those who may see the film and wonder how much the small town
life is exaggerated, let me tell you "not much!"  I grew up in a very
small
southern town, and I go back on occasions for high school reunions. What
is
depicted in this film is pretty darned close to reality, with some license
taken for making the story a bit more interesting. Pay special attention
to
the story with the cat, and its burned tail, and watch closely at the end.
:-)

The DVD is fine but the picture is not "reference" quality. The sound is
Dolby 5.1 but surround channels are not very dynamic.  The "extras" has
several deleted scenes, and also includes the original ending that was
scrapped after comments from test screenings. They had to re-shoot and I
think the eventual ending is very appropriate. The first and last scenes
complement each other very well.

"Sweet Home Alabama" - a fine movie for those who enjoy a good comedy, and
especially those who like Reese Witherspoon.
<|_=00=_|>

How could anyone like this movie? I avoided this movie because I
thought it would be merely fluff, but a girlfriend brought it over for
movie night, so I decided to give it a try. While I generally love
Reese Witherspoon in many movies (Election and Freeway are awesome)
neither she nor the other good actors could rescue the bad story,
two-dimensional characters and poor writing in this trite movie. C'mon
gals, do women really act like this? Would you treat good people who
love you like that? No way. Why do male screenwriters decide to portray
us like this anyway? At the end of the movie I said out loud, "This
must have been written by a man". Sure enough: (Story By, Screenplay
By, Directed By) all men. 

**SPOILER** Additionally, I am getting sick and tired of the
leave-them-at-the-alter-but-we-can-still-be-friends? overused
storyline. Why is it considered romantic to treat another good person
who loves you in such a cruel manner? It seems that disregard for
kindness, decency and public humiliation is the best romantic story in
today's vapid Hollywood boardrooms. This woman is rude and cruel to
good people. She says and treats people horribly and we are supposed to
believe that if she says "I'm sorry y'all" or gets a little weepy that
this is good enough for 100% redemption? As a viewer, this was a hard
pill to swallow. She lies to the man she loves in both cases; runs away
when times are tough ("for good times and bad, til death do us part"
yeah right); publicly humiliates her friends (several times); betrays
confidences that in the deep south could mean life or death--Give me a
break! I believe that you should be able to empathize with the
protagonist, but I found that I hated her and the story. Why do we
choose to be spoon-fed this insipid crap? I think that as moviegoers
paying good money that we need to be a little more critical when a bad
story, bad dialog and unbelievable situations arise in movies.

<|_=00=_|>

Reese Witherspoon terrific heartfelt performance makes this movie work. I
originally had my doubts about seeing this one but I bought the DVD and I
highly enjoyed the movie. Reese Witherspoon has good chemistry with both
Patrick Dempsey and Josh Lucas. The film although predictable is full of
funny moments and a lot of heart. 
<|_=00=_|>

Everyone is taking this movie too seriously. It's my favorite chick
flick movie. There is no violence, except when she hits the mayor, no
drugs, sex and only a little bit of questionable language. And some of
the accents are accurate, at least the ones from the people I know from
Alabama. Plus, it's a MOVIE. It's so funny! I'm from NJ and I don't
think it portrays the South in a bad light. It's not meant to be a
serious movie, just something to make you laugh go awwwww. If anything
it portrays New York as a crowded dirty place...and it is..but not
everyone in New York is rude...um OK, maybe I take that one back.
Anyway don't criticize it, it's just a romantic comedy and how many of
them are actually worth watching??? Go Ethan Embry and Josh Lucas!!!

<|_=00=_|>
I found Sweet Home Alabama to be a very sweet romantic comedy, Reese
Witherspoon was just so adorable in this film. I wanted to see Sweet
Home Alabama because I love Reese and remember hearing so much about it
when it was released. So, of course, I figured now would be a good time
to rent it and find out what this movie was about. Over all, I'd say it
was a bit over rated(everyone I knew who saw this movie loved it), but
still a watchable romantic comedy.

Sweet Home Alabama is about a girl, Melanie, she is about to marry the
mayor of New York city's son. But she has a bit of a bumpy past in the
south where her family and old friends are, she's still married to
Jake, her high school sweetheart. Without trying to bring up her
embarrassing past to her fiancée, she has to get things done and
settled with everyone, including her husband. But she slowly discovers
how much she missed her true home and how much of a wonderful guy that
Jake is.

A bit predictable and silly, but over all I would recommend Sweet Home
Alabama for a lite comedy that most could enjoy. Like I said, it's not
that big of a deal, but I love Reese Witherspoon personally, so you
might disagree, but then again, how will you know if you don't give the
movie a shot? So, sit back and just have fun! 

6/10
<|_=00=_|>
I am glad I didn't listen to critics and watched this movie! It is a
very good movie with charm, humor, sadness and most of all, genial
acting! Reese Witherspoon and Josh Lucas are the two characters that
you can relate to. Especially the dog part is very fun. I think what
makes this movie good is that it is a story you can relate to, but made
with humor. Yet there are a part sadness in the story.

It begins with that Melanie is asked by the son of the mayor if she
wants to marry him. Then she says yes, but she has things to make up
and decides to go down to her hometown in Alabama to get a divorce from
her husband who she hasn't met for years, not after she lost her child
and he was drunk on their wedding.

The concept and plot is very smart, when the tone is told with humour
even in situations that are serious. In fact, if the movie hadn't
humor, it had been falling apart. The humor is lifting the story to a
little more than just good. It is so fun, so full of genial and amusing
characters, excellent acting and an excellent ending. Maybe a movie
that mostly girls like to watch, but anyway a good movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Where do i start with this movie? Fantastic, had me hooked from the
start, they were on to a winner as soon as they cast Dakota Fanning as
'young' Melanie. Now i'm a sucker for good 'chick Flicks' and this one
tops my list, Reese shines as Melanie, the girl who realises that what
she's been looking for was right there at home waiting for her. Josh
Lucas makes a fabulous performance as Jake, her estranged high school
Hubby who's never got her out of his mind. If you are in the mood for a
good old fashioned romance with some great country thrown in then this
is the one for you, i've lost count how many times i have seen this now
and i'll never tire of it. Even if this isn't your kind of film i
challenge you to watch it and not feel good, practically impossible.
<|_=00=_|>
This film had good intentions I guess, but it didn't really come off
that way to me. This film is about a woman who is about to marry a nice
guy politician from New York but has to go home and divorce her
ex-husband who refuses to sign the papers. The films general message is
that success and being rich in life aren't important, having babies,
cooking, getting drunk and pottering about doing not much is what
life's about. I'm not so arrogant as to say it's a wrong message, I am
a lazy person, it agrees with me! But the problem starts with the fact
you are supposed to love this up herself girl who comes back and
insults her former friends and you just don't find that happening. This
film tries to twist and surprise you which it doesn't do and you find
her transition, jumpy and forced, instead of a steadily realisation she
just seems to wake up or click instantly into this next stage of
realisation (after punching a woman in the face.. hmmm.. our heroine
suddenly develops a very strong south American accent and this quick
transition comes across as purely ridiculous. 

You find yourself majorly worried by the immoral (inevitable) walking
out on a really nice guy at the altar, who is just supposed to accept
that because of Witherspoon's nice smile (which he does "oh my heart's
broken I think I am OK with you leaving bye"). Classic old school
romantic comedies at least had the decency to make the other man a git,
or at least plotting or not wanting to marry her themselves. I would
comment on the blatant racist north America south America overtones but
I don't really know enough about this to comment. Not bad acting
performances from all the cast despite the script and plot.

Life is short but not so short you should avoid watching this film,
after all it's a feel good film.
