

Disney, the film name that once stood for all things innocent and suitable
for all ages, has finally started to realise that to survive it needs to
become more diverse. Such diversity has been very apparent in the last
couple of years. Films like "Tarzan" and "The Emperor's New Groove" have
made an attempt to move away from the traditional song-driven routine of
Disney's past and into new, uncharted territory. "Atlantis" is the boldest
step yet, but we have to remember: This is STILL Disney. The first ever
serious film to come out of Disney's animation studio is a major
achievement
for them - in fact it's so serious it makes it into PG territory. Perhaps
why a lot of families were scared off from seeing it this past
summer.

But despite the more mature subject matter, this is still a film that
Disney
wanted to draw in the families with, not just mature audiences, so the plot
had to be kept simple enough for children to understand, but interesting
enough to take it away from the realms of "The Little Mermaid" et
al.

So what we get is actually a potentially detailed plot, unfortunately
suffering the blow of being condensed into a 96-minute movie. Ultimately,
this is an action film about Atlantis, not about the exposition preceding
it, so we are whisked through the first half hour with as many sequences
bombarding the screen as is possible without losing coherency. Suspend your
disbelief of how the characters get from point A to point B so quickly,
you're unlikely to find an animated film that detailed coming out of
Hollywood! If you want epic levels of detail in the plot, turn to James
Cameron's "Titanic". Both films feature a boat in some
manner.

And let's talk about love, shall we? Yes, as with a lot of films, the lead
male (one Milo Thatch, a bumbling archaeologist) and lead female (Kida, the
clichéd Atlantian princess) are set to fall in love with each other. But
what I found was not as clichéd as I was expecting. By film's end, for
once,
the characters touching/feeling/kissing sequence was far more subdued.
There's various points in the film where the attraction grows, but it's
just
not in the ballpark of, say, "The Little Mermaid" (A good
thing).

You may have grasped that this is a rather clichéd film. Correct. You have
your leading hero and heroine, backed up by more than half a dozen crew
members who go on the expedition, all being given their moments during the
film. Numerous other characters appear, take up the few minutes of
screentime, then disappear. It doesn't take a genius to do the maths – a
96-minute film with a focus on action and visuals, and with a considerable
cast, has very little time to expand the characters to any major extent. So
what does it rely on? Clichés, and lots of them. Every character emulates
something that has been done a thousand times before. You have the bumbling
scientist, the attractive princess, the square-jawed colonel, the rich
eccentric, the maniacal sleazebag, the Russian femme fatale – need I go
on?

I don't know why this got to anyone – I found the tongue-in-cheek nature of
this film quite amusing. Alright, this is meant to be a serious flick, but
do you really expect Disney to give up every single trait of their history?
At least the writers have tried to come up with consistently witty
dialogue,
and sometimes it even is a little inspired.

But in the end it's those big stunning visuals that put the icing on this
cake. The CGI animation is truly amazing in places, and doesn't dwarf the
characters, which was a flaw that let the recent "Titan A.E." down.
Speaking
of characters, Disney hired an outside comics industry artist to create the
designs, bringing an anime style to the film. Infact the visual
presentation
of the film as a whole owes a lot to anime, much more so than any previous
Disney outing. This resulted in a conflict with fans of the Japanese anime,
"Nadia", for the film's overall similarities with said cartoon series.
Having not seen this anime, I can't comment.

With picture, there is sound. Gary Rydstrom heads up the sound team, and
what a soundtrack! From the opening shot the sound stage is alive and is a
treat. James Newton Howard treats us to a dynamic musical score, which
compliments the film in every way, never sounding out of place and always
helping to build the tension or subdue it.

Perhaps I missed the point of what the creators intended. To me, the film
conveys that it's an adventure thrill ride, albeit with a more serious tone
than any Disney film before it. If you don't like the clichéd
tongue-in-cheek attitude, then perhaps the effort that has been poured into
the visuals will delight. Heck, at least the mythology is far more correct
than can be said about other Disney efforts (*cough*Hercules*cough*).

This is a positive, 10 out of 10 review, from someone who was blown away by
this film. I always suspend my disbelief with any animated film – after
all,
the laws of the real world are more than frequently broken in the cartoon
medium. So sit back, enjoy the ride, and perhaps everyone can find
something
to enjoy about this film.
<|_=00=_|>
I thought this movie was very well put together. The voice-overs were
also great. I liked how they all overcame their conflicts and reached
their goals. I would recommend this movie to anyone. It was definitely
worth the time and money to watch it. Atlantis has some comic scenes
that made me laugh. Other scenes made me sad. And others made me glad.
It is a movie any age can enjoy. From the moment Milo is the crazy
"profesor" or until he gathers the crew up for the fantastic voyage
under the sea. After I watched the movie, I read the book. It was good
as well, but the movie puts better pictures in your mind. It is just
like the book. But go ahead and watch this movie!
<|_=00=_|>

This movie was great!  It was an excellent rendition of an ancient myth.
The animation was somewhat odd, but nothing new from Disney.  It was
definitely better than expected for a Disney movie with no singing.

The background animation was magical.  It was a different level of work for
the Disney people.  Some of the characters were a little boxy, but it was
more than made up for with the beauty and lushness of the scenery.  The
music was largely instrumental but that was perfect for the movie.  This
was
definitely not a film that needed the characters to bust into song.

Perfect.  10 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>

Here's what I knew about "Atlantis" before watching it:

* - It's officially Disney's first animated sci-fi adventure.  I'm not sure
how accurate that is (I like to nitpick) but it made me curious first time I
heard it described.

* - The preview looked, for the most part, damn cool.  Evidently, it was
also "too cryptic" according to some critics after the
fact.

* - It apparently did SO badly that Disney said, "Screw it, let's re-release
'Spy Kids'".

So, with all that said, how is the movie?

Hella-cool.

I'm a sucker for animated fantasy that involves stirring music and rampant
special effects anyway, but "Atlantis" goes all out.  It's a throwback to
all the CGI eye-candy shots in "Beauty and the Beast" and "Aladdin", so much
so that it's almost an effects animator's Best-Of Show.  The characters
maybe aren't that memorable (except, perhaps, for the ship's medical
officer), and the plot's a little dull, but this isn't a movie you watch for
the plot.

Here's a controversy that bothers me.  The "failure" (as in, it "only" took
in, like, five-hundred-million or something; I know animators who'd kill to
see fifteen bucks of that) of this movie compared to the popularity of
"Shrek" and "Monsters Inc." has been seen as evidence of the death of
traditional animation.  I don't think that's true.  How do you account for
the "South Park" movie?  What about "Final Fantasy"?  Really, the story and
the artistry is everything, not the method.  I don't know what Disney's
comeback movie will be like, but I don't think they're out of the picture
yet.
<|_=00=_|>

I thought that this film was very enjoyable. I watched this film with my
wife BEFORE I had my first child.  Therefore, I was not watching it as
simply family entertainment and I still thoroughly enjoyed it.  It seems
as
though many of the reviews are pointing out that this movie is not earth
shattering, there were no unexpected plot changes and that the movie was
predictable and boring.  If these people were watching this movie
expecting
to have a religious experience doing so, then they were obviously going to
be disappointed.   This is simply an animated movie; nothing more.  If you
want to see this movie simply to sit back and let yourself be entertained,
you will not be disappointed.  In closing, this is definitely not the best
movie Disney has made, but it IS entertaining and I do not understand the
bad reputation it has received.
<|_=00=_|>
I am absolutely astounded at the negative reviews for this film, both
from IMDb and from the critics.

I grew up watching this film as a child, and I remember loving just
about every second of it. Seeing it again at an older age, it holds up
just as well if not better than I remember it. Some Disney films I feel
are given too harsh of treatment from critics and I feel should be held
in higher regard (The Lion King II: Simba's Pride for example), but if
I had to pick the absolute most underrated film (animated or not) to
ever come from them, I would have to choose Atlantis: The Lost Empire
as one of my top picks.

To begin with, the animation is some of the best I've ever seen from
Disney to date. The visuals feel so incredibly huge, they look
realistic, they move fluently, the textures are amazingly detailed: One
could be completely blown away by this just from the visuals alone. The
scenes in the Crystal Chamber, the submarine, the fight/action
sequences, they're incredible. The designs are something I can commend
too. The look and feel of the city of Atlantis is very creative and
awesome to look at, and I always got the sense that this was a real
lost, living and breathing culture with a coherent society.

Something I feel this film gets especially right is the characters:
Good lord, every single one of them is memorable. Milo, Kida, Sweet,
Cookie, Mr. Whitmore, the King, Audrey, I could go on for a while. Each
and every one of them have their own personality traits and all have
their individual moments, plus no two are alike. Each and every one of
them are likable and I found myself satisfied with each and every one
of them. The demolition guy I especially enjoyed. Almost every line he
said was hilarious, and his personality is hugely enjoyable too.

Speaking of that, that's another thing about this film: Its humor. I
can't even begin to count how many moments and lines made me laugh. The
writing for the humor is some of the funniest I've seen or heard, and
almost every one of the protagonists has a funny line or two at some
point. I think the most humorous scene for me were the ones with the
demolition guy and Mole. Dear lord are they hysterical both together
and on their own.

But on the opposite end of the spectrum, I absolutely love the drama
that's conveyed throughout the movie. The story is very well written
and it held my attention through to the end. It's definitely one of the
most serious animated Disney films to date, and the first of its kind
to not have any musical songs. Personally, I loved this touch. While I
absolutely adore the songs in many other animated films, here I think
it was more appropriate not to have any. The actions scenes are
spectacular, especially with the final one that takes place. The
violence and the gritty realism of everything makes the physics of its
world seem closer to that of the real world (Or live action if you
will), and I like things like that in animated films. Many characters
die (I won't dare say who or why), a lot of depression sinks in for
them, they use real guns, the violence is rather high, and I think it's
great. (I'm not one of those people who always drool over action and
special effects like with Michael Bay films, but I digress). The
physics feel real and nothing is particularly cartoony in it, so I'm
very glad Disney knows that kids can still handle serious drama like
that.

And one other thing: The musical score by James Newton Howard is
absolutely nothing short of fantastic. It could be because I'm a total
sucker for chorus and choir music in movies, but the score here felt
completely appropriate for the Atlantian setting. It has quite an
Indonesian feel to it at times, while at other moments it has more of a
Lord of the Rings influence to it, like when there's the loud choir
going off in one of the major sequences. Every track has something to
it, and it is one of the many Disney soundtracks I dearly wish I could
buy to enjoy its full glory.

In conclusion, Atlantis: The Lost Empire is hands down for me the
second most underrated animated film to ever come from Walt Disney
Animation Studios (Coming in VERY closely behind The Lion King II:
Simba's Pride). To reiterate what I said before, I am flabbergasted at
the negative critic reviews for it, plus the rating here of 6.7 when
that's more than a whole point lower than it should be. Atlantis: The
Lost Empire is an absolute gem in the Disney lineup easily comparable
to that of The Lion King, Beauty and the Beast, Aladdin, and so forth.
It's always one of the first films I think of when I hear someone say
they should revive 2D animation for all of these reasons and more.

This truly is a lost classic.
<|_=00=_|>
"Atlantis" is a new and right step for a Disney feature. It's a good
choice to make a film by such a mysterious legend like "Atlantis". I
didn't have any expectations for this film, but after watching it, I
don't quite understand why this film got so bad reviews. Even in my
country the reviewers weren't positive.

"Atlantis" is not a perfect movie, but still one of Disney's greatest,
even I doubt that this film ever will get "Disney classic" reputation.
Well, that's another case. It's funny to think that this sci-fi movie
was directed by the same directors as "Beauty and the Beast" and
"Hunchback" (so Kirk Wise and Gary Trousdale are trying to get away
from their monster movies reputation, he he, I'm just kidding).

Well, enough nonsense. "Atlantis" is a watchable, exiting and very
enjoyable film. Even this film it's a PG-rated action-feature, it's
also suitable for kids, in my opinion (parents who mean the opposite,
don't kill me for writing this, he he).

The story is a little predictable, but it doesn't ruin the movie. The
comic book-inspired animation it's suitable for the film and set's a
departure from the usual Disney-style. It's colorful, dark and
detailed. The Deep Canvas sequences are pretty impressive. The film is
also funny sometimes, even I more giggled than laugh through the movie.
(SPOILERS) The characters of this film are also very likable, but
unfortunately there isn't enough screen time to get to know everybody,
so some characters are left behind (SPOILERS).

The score of James Newton Howard is absolutely great. It's daring and
exotic. (SPOILER) The most impressive about this film is how they're
making the Atlantean language sound very natural, ethnic and authentic.
It's really awesome (SPOILERS OVER)

The script is tight and well-written, but still the there are some
questions left unanswered in the story. But luckily there are not so
much of them.

So do you're self a favor, don't listen to the reviewers and watch
"Atlantis", cause it's waiting for you...
<|_=00=_|>
It is written in stone that Disney animations simply ~must~ be
musicals. Right? Where? Show me. Because I found this attempt to be
much more enjoyable for ~not~ containing the hokey
made-for-five-year-old standard Disney musical fare. 

While the story was not as enthralling as it could have been, it was
still quite good, enjoyable, and adventurous. I had hoped for a bit
more, yes, considering the subject matter, but this movie is ~not~ the
bitter disappointment or utter failure it has been billed to be. 

The animation quality is average, but the dialog is quite compelling,
as is the story line, plot, sub-plot, and amazing creativity I found
within this production. I will refrain from outlining the plot, as it
has been done and done, but this movie is well worth a view if you are
a fan of fantasy.

This is, in my opinion, THE BEST Disney Animated Feature Length Film.

It rates a 9.4/10 from...

the Fiend :.
<|_=00=_|>
Whether you love or hate this film, no one can deny the hard work put
into it. For starters, it inspired a new language - Atlantean. The
animation is also very good (and one of Disney's last to be animated in
its classic form before the horrible Chicken Little came along).

The characters certainly are easy to engage with, especially the main
protagonist Milo who is adorkable and a hard worker. Atlantis TLE is
also one of the most original story lines Disney has ever come up with
for a while too. It's also very much action-packed and has some humour
to.

A couple of criticisms I have is that I felt a little bit bored at
times so I guess the plot isn't completely solid and the comedy side of
it came off as quite gimmicky sometimes (mostly derived by Mole's
character). 

Overall, Atlantis is not the greatest Disney film ever but it certainly
is worth a watch and greatly under appreciated.
<|_=00=_|>
That hits a few speed bumps and shows it, but is well worth watching.
Atlantis - The Lost Empire is an imaginative and engaging film about an
unfunded linguist who seeks to find the lost city of Atlantis. He is
turned down by conventional establishments (i.e. the stuffy museum
where he works in the boiler room) and is given his chance by eccentric
millionaire Preston Whitmore and a team of explorers. It suffices to
say that Milo and company, after much adventure and mishap, discover
Atlantis, which is vastly different from anything they expected, and
Milo gets more than he expected out of his adventure. I would give this
film 6 out of 10 stars - its not great Disney, but it's certainly
better than some of the other crap out there. I watch it whenever it
comes on TV, which is a good indication of an enjoyable film, I think.
It isn't really a film for children. The plot is often hard to follow,
and the action may be too intense for very little ones. There is a very
sweet romance which grows out of a friendship, so there isn't any kissy
kissy to make "blech" faces at. The characters are human and funny, and
there are some pretty good one liners in here. Worth the time, if you
like adventure and comedy.
