

`Life, or Something Like It' is a romantic comedy with a better-than-average
premise.  It attempts to address the question `if you suddenly discovered
that you might only have a week more to live, how would you spend that
remaining time and what changes would you make to your life?'  Perhaps
because this IS a romantic comedy, the best the film can manage to do within
the tight strictures of the format is to raise a few of the more provocative
issues surrounding the theme – those dealing with the meaning of life and
the vagaries of fate, for example – then drop them so it can address itself
to the customary clichés one would expect to find in a film of this genre. 
One only wonders how a more serious-minded European filmmaker, for instance,
might have tackled the same subject matter.

Angelina Jolie plays a beautiful, but thoroughly superficial and
self-absorbed TV news reporter living a near-perfect life in Seattle. 
Indeed, when we first meet her, Lanie Kerigan seems to have everything going
for her: stunning good looks, a glamorous profession, a handsome major
league ballplayer fiancé, and now a major career advancement in the form of
a regular spot on a national morning news program.  One day, however, her
world comes crashing in when she meets up with a homeless man on the street,
a self-styled `prophet of God' who tells Lanie that she will die within a
week.  When all his other predictions begin to come true, Lanie realizes
that this man may not be quite the lunatic or charlatan all her friends and
acquaintances keep assuring her he is. 

Given this setup, `Life, or Something Like It' can't help but grab our
attention.  We wonder how we too would react if such a horrifying scenario
were to suddenly present itself in our own lives. The problem is that the
movie doesn't really do much with the material it has to work with.  Nothing
Lanie does seems particularly thoughtful or meaningful when she is
confronted with potentially imminent death: indulging in some halfhearted
attempts to reconcile herself with an estranged sister and father, giving up
her health-obsessive diet and exercise regimen, and dumping the fiancé with
whom she discovers she has nothing in common.  Considering the thematic
potential of this material, the film always seems to be lagging several
intellectual beats behind where it should be.  This is particularly true in
the predictable love/hate relationship she shares with Pete, one of her
cameraman coworkers.  Yet, oddly enough, it is this very pairing of Jolie
with Edward Burns that gives the film its moments of greatest charm.  Both
performers are so likeable in their understated warmth and vulnerability
that we can't help liking and rooting for their two endearing characters. 
Paradoxically, then, the film satisfies us most when it is at its least
innovative.  The movie is at its worst in an embarrassingly unconvincing
scene wherein a boozed-up Lanie, sans makeup and carefully groomed coiffure,
leads a contingent of striking workers in a rendition of `Satisfaction' in
the middle of a live TV interview.  Cloying moments like these merely serve
to remind us that we are stranded in movie fantasy land when the film could,
with a little more effort, have ascended to a much higher level.  (The film,
incidentally, endorses a rather reactionary view of women in the workplace,
arguing that a woman needs to consider whether achieving success in the
corporate world is worth sacrificing a chance at achieving marital and
familial happiness – a quandary that never seems to be posed to male
characters in movies).

Despite the fact that it has moments of quality and charm, the film,
ultimately, feels like a case of lost opportunity.  One finds oneself
leaving the theatre in a state of frustrating ambivalence: acknowledging
that the film works on a level of superficial entertainment but knowing
that, with a little more depth and insight, it could have amounted to so
much more.   

 


<|_=00=_|>

Life, or Something Like It. Dumb title if you ask me. Angelina Jolie as a
blond? I don't think so. Ed Burns as the love interest? Sounds like a
chick-flick or ‘something like it.'  All this needed was Greg Kinnear and I
think we'd have something like ‘Someone Like You', right? Well not exactly.
Although this movie was obviously aimed at the female crowd and used just
about every chick-flick cliché under the sun, there was more here than I
expected. I found this movie very predictable for the most part but the
characters are so engaging  (especially Jolie's) that you find yourself
getting wrapped up in them and the story that surrounds them. The thing that
stood out for me where a couple of scenes that had the audience so quite you
could have heard a pin drop. One was when Angelina Jolie's character asks
her fiancé what it is between them that dictates they should be together.
Utter silence. The theater, in anticipation of what lame answer is about to
spew forth from her jock boyfriend, was silent. The other was when
Angelina's character is interviewing Stockard Channing's. Again total
silence from the crowd. Those two moments in the movie  made it worth while
for me. The rest is just as you would expect. I didn't find any above
caliber performances here, just the really good ones you'd expect from this
cast. You wont see this one on Oscar night but I thought it was worth the
ticket price and it didn't feel like a waste of time. That's my take. What's
yours?
<|_=00=_|>
I enjoyed this movie, thanks in large part to the fact that I saw it on
FX channel, on their "DVD on TV" movie night, where those two hosts
(can't remember their names...) give you supplementary facts and other
commentary about the movie during the commercial breaks.

The story was actually fairly engrossing: Angelina Jolie's character
(Lanie Kerrigan), who is a news reporter, is told by some strange
street prophet, Jack (played by Tony Shaloub), that she will die in a
week. The story unfolds as she proceeds to live her rather hectic,
self-absorbed life interspersed with romance, a somewhat strained
relationship with her father and sister, and the ever-present
wonderment as to whether Jack the Prophet will be correct in his
prophecy that Lanie will in fact die in a week. In other words, the
movie does manage to keep you on the hook right up to the very end.
(The ending was a bit lame, but still had a good message if you care to
adjust yourself to it.)

Jolie's character, Lanie, is interesting, because if you watch the
movie more than once, you will most likely start to be intrigued by her
appearance: the platinum blonde hair, the puffy lips, the expressive
eyes, the makeup.... you might start to think she resembles Marilyn
Monroe, or, you may just write her off as a woman who actually looks a
bit like an attractive transvestite(!). But no matter, because whether
you like Angelina Jolie or not, you can't help but be a bit intrigued
by the appearance of her character, which is kind of "out there" for
Jolie. One potential problem, though, is that she is possibly TOO out
there, to the point where she may distract the viewer from seeing the
message of the movie

Tony Shaloub's character, Jack the Prophet, is very well portrayed by
Mr. Shaloub. He's lovably wacko, and plus he has some pretty funny
lines in spite of his plight in life. I like the Ed Burns character,
Pete, because he reflects reality, whereas Jolie's character is kind of
too unreal, but still fun to watch.

I liked the setting of the movie, Seattle, since I live in Seattle. For
those of us who live in the rainy city, it's fun to see an interesting
movie that takes place in our environs. They also used actual news
people from a local Seattle TV station, so it was kind of fun to see
people whom I've been seeing on the local nightly news actually appear
in a Hollywood movie. They changed their real names, though, which was
kind of weird.

There were a few things I didn't like about the movie, the main one
being that Lanie, who works as a modern-day TV reporter, comes across
to me as just way too much of a sex-pot, I mean just way outside the
realm of reality. It gets to be jarring after awhile to see such a sexy
creature being passed off as a news reporter when we all KNOW that no
modern local news station would put such a pouty, platinum-haired
blonde on the air (....or WOULD they??? as Conan O'Brien would say.)
But mainly I liked the movie, and it was actually worth a repeat
viewing, as it kind of grows on you, and ultimately makes you THINK
about your own life, your own values, your personal destiny, etc. BTW,
there's a pretty good batch of songs that accompanied the movie too,
though I don't believe there is an actual soundtrack available, so you
will probably have to hunt down each song individually.

All in all an interesting movie, with a message worth pondering - if
you can get past the steady distraction of the appearance of Angelina
Jolie, of course.

Well, that's my review. You guys have been a great audience, thanks for
listening!
<|_=00=_|>

If one is asked to sit through 99 minutes of a film that ponders, "Living
every day as if it were your last," then the film should at least deliver
a
fresh prospective on this overdone topic. If it fails to do that, perhaps
a
character that the audience would care about is in order. Life Or
Something
Like It fails to do both.

Lanie Kerrigan (Angelina Jolie) is a local Seattle news reporter who is
being considered for posh job in New York, for "AM USA." She must first
prove herself in the field by working with Pete, an experienced cameraman
(Edward Burns) whom she supposedly hates. When the ambitious reporter
interviews a homeless prophet, he announces that the blonde reporter will
die within a week. Once all of his other predictions come true, Jolie's
character begins to realize that she is in fact going to die. As Thursday
(D-day) quickly approaches, the reporter re-evaluates her own
life.

The premise of the film is a little interesting at first. Sure, it has
been
done over and over again, but various interpretations have their own charm
and there is room for more. However the development of the plot is just
too
obvious and there is nothing new, nor is anything portrayed in a very
intriguing way.

While Life was marketed as a light comedy, it is anything but. Comedy
would
have been a much better direction for the filmmakers, however aside from a
few jokes on the sidelines, the film takes itself very seriously. The tone
of the script is confused. It's similar to A Knight's Tale which also
tried
to hopelessly shift between drama and comic relief. In the end, we end up
with a picture that doesn't work as a drama or a comedy. Throughout the
film, it feels as though the filmmakers kept changing their minds.

Unfortunately the confusion is not the only self-destructive component in
the movie. The character development also does the job fairly well. Jolie
shows Lanie's ambition sufficiently, but the movie suggests that there is
more wrong with her life than a little healthy competition. It seems
ridiculous that a person whose real tough faults we haven't seen is trying
to change her ways. The movie seems to artificially pull Lanie into
changing, instead of using character development as cause for such an
evolution. Lanie changes at the end, but the question, "why?" remains.
Pete's relationship with Lanie also seems forced. Pete flashes randomly
throughout the movie, cueing Lanie's unfolding.

Edward Burns carries his role well enough, but unfortunately there isn't
much to carry. Angelina Jolie just doesn't seem to fit into this role and
while she is a talented actress, there is something very odd about her in
Life. In fact, Tony Shalhoub is the only actor who remotely stands out in
this movie. Although his dialogue follows the same scripted fate as the
others, Shalhoub manages to express with his voice and facial expression
much more than the script actually inhibits.

The script doesn't allow the audience to care much for any of the
characters, doesn't contain a single original idea and tends to push ideas
aggressively instead of allowing the audience to discover them. The script
also leaves off various unresolved mysteries, most of which only seem to
act
as space fillers. The filmmakers take us towards one direction and back
off
immediately afterwards. Maybe they forgot? Considering the pacing, most of
the audience did too.

Life Or Something Like It is comparable to one scene where Lanie's soon to
be ex-boyfriend, Cal, takes Lanie to a ballpark in the middle of the night
to throw a few pitches after a heart-to-heart talk. Lanie expects Cal to
have some words of wisdom for her, or at least charm - but doesn't catch
anything except the ball. Life Or Something Like It won't change your life
and it won't change your mood either.

If you need to kill time, see the movie - But what if today is the last
day
of your life?

Grade: D
<|_=00=_|>

I wouldn't watch this movie.

I gotta start off by saying that I'm still not sure if Jolie's character was
a brunette or a blonde naturally. All the "young Jolie" pictures show her
blonde (I thought) but she's obviously not a natural blonde.

Honestly, when I leave a movie that's supposed to make me re-evaluate my
life and what it means to live (like American Beauty did) and the only thing
I can think about is the hair color of the star I think the movie failed.
Sure, it wasn't too hard to watch and it worked out well as a Saturday
afternoon hang-out w/ the lady-friend flick, but w/ Jolie I was really
hoping this movie would fulfill its promise and be the engaging,
interesting, thought-provoking film that it could be. Instead we see very
strong similarities to American Beauty w/ a little "To Die For" thrown in
for good measure and a helpin' heapin' of a John Cusack film (doesn't really
matter which)

What really bugs me about this film though is that I really thought the cast
was great. They were so believable (well, except for Jolie's hair, which
really is a character in its own right) and their performances were so
strong that as I look back on the film I really don't understand where it
went wrong...maybe it tried to hard at the end, maybe all the logic fell
apart just to bring about the thrilling climax, maybe it felt too much like
a parody of tv news to also be the love story/life lesson that it also
sought to be. Sure parodies can have morals and realistic love stories but
this one doesn't.

I wouldn't avoid this film, but I wouldn't seek it out
either.

<|_=00=_|>
I don't know why people have given this movie bad reviews - I really
enjoyed it! I don't think the product placement was at all bad... who
cares??? Those are things we all use everyday anyway, right? The movie
was absolutely wonderful and all of the actors played a great role. The
only thing I didn't like was Angelina's hair - she does NOT do blonde
very well. Other than that, she did a wonderful job with her character,
Lanie - who feels she has to be perfect in order to be "special", she
has the perfect boyfriend (or so she thinks), the perfect body, the
perfect apartment, and hopes within 5 years she can achieve success in
her perfect broadcasting job. Until she meets "Prophet Jack" played by
Tony Shaloub (who also does a wonderful job - as usual) who tells her
she will die in 7 days. She starts to realize everything she has been
working for is superficial and meaningless. You have to see this movie
to see what she does in her last week --- & IF she even dies. Two
Thumbs way, way up! ;)
<|_=00=_|>

If it weren't for Angelina Jolie, I would've fell asleep through the whole
damn movie.  Jolie delivers another spirited performance, and she is an
extremely beautiful woman with a smile to die for.  But the movie is just
dull, dull, dull.  First of all, if the director wanted to make this a
straight drama that's fine.  Just don't market it as a COMEDY!  If
sentimental schmaltz with few or no laughs is your definition of comedy,
then you're in for a treat.  The director is Stephen Herek, who also
directed the dull, forgettable Eddie Murphy vehicle "Holy Man."  Like that
movie, "Life..." is horribly uneven, taking a serious turn way too early in
the film and never recovering.  Despite extremely poor attempts, I'm pretty
sure Herek intended this to be a comedy.  Herek just has no sense of timing!
 And may I add, there are certain scenes in the previews that weren't used
in the final cut--Why the hell do directors tease us like that?!!!!!!  For
example, there's supposed to be one scene where Jolie is on the set of a TV
show and a light from the ceiling falls down, inches away from killing her. 
But there are no scenes where her life seems threatened.  Instead, the movie
gets preachy and sentimental about the subject of carpe diem and developing
the all-too-predictable love affair between Jolie and Edward Burns.  Like
always, they start out hating each other's guts and about 20 minutes through
the flick, they're practically soulmates.  The character arcs are so quick
and stilted.    

I like Edward Burns, but he should definitely stick to independent film.  I
don't usually say this about directors, but he should stick to starring in
his own movies.  His writing is obviously much more creative than that of
Hollywood screenwriters, who get paid 10 times as much as him.  OK, he was
fairly good in "15 Minutes" and quite good in "Saving Private Ryan," but he
should try to steer clear of Hollywood.

Every scene is so dull and downbeat.  Herek tries to redeem himself with
pretentious fast-motion shots, identical to those of Madonna's "Ray of
Light" video.  If Jolie weren't the star, this film would be dead in the
water.  And Tony Shalhoub deserves better as well.  I'm not surprised to see
him in a corny flick, but he is an underrated comic actor and I loved him on
"Wings."  

Jolie decided she would take a break from movies after done with "Tomb
Raider."  Why, oh why, did she change her mind and star in this ultimately
forgettable pseduo romantic comedy?  She should've saved the blonde hair for
a much better movie.  

My score:  4 (out of 10)   

    
<|_=00=_|>
LIFE OR SOMETHING LIKE IT has a premise of reporter Lanie Kerrigan
being told by a homeless man that she's going to die in a few days from
now and right away I was expecting some bitter-sweet angst , a sort of
present day morality tale inspired by Frank Capra and I guess very
early in production this was the idea but I was left confused . Is it a
redemption tale ? If so then why does Lanie start out as a not
unlikable person and remain a not unlikable person throughout the movie
? You see there's little in the way of character development and the
situations and soul searching never seem to draw the audience into
Lanie's fears . None of this is helped Stephen Herek's shallow
direction either 

In short this is a shallow film but while being confused as to what
it's trying to say it's also fairly watchable too . Angelina Jolie is
breath takingly beautiful and in many ways she's like a female Leonardo
Dicaprio in that her good looks disguise she's a much better actress
than critics give her credit for and imagine how worse the movie would
be if her role was taken by say Sandra Bulloch while Dave Newman's
haunting score also helps the movie greatly
<|_=00=_|>
Nothing like real life! Fancy directorial touches--and Angelina Jolie
looking sexy in a Marilyn Monroe platinum 'do--cannot save innocuous,
superficial film about a TV news-anchor being told she will die in a
week by a street psychic with an impeccable record. Romantic side-plot
between Jolie and cameraman Ed Burns never heats up, although Jolie is
quite an intriguing presence all on her own (her performance is
generally uneven, but her beautiful face is always worth reading). Has
a few strong scenes, and an interesting supporting performance from
Stockard Channing as a Barbara Walters-type, however the script doesn't
dig very deep. **1/2 from ****
<|_=00=_|>
I don't understand why some people trash this movie so viciously. It
really isn't much different from all the other romantic comedies that
come out. I enjoy the main actors - Jolie, Burns, and Shaloub - and
each does a fine job with the roles they play.

In the flashback intro we see that Lanie (Angelina Jolie) was a cute
little girl but with thick frame glasses so the boys tended to ignore
her. So she focused her energy into an ambition to rise to the top in
broadcasting. She is one of several candidates for a NYC job, and a
chance to move out of small-time Seattle TV.

She is required to work with cameraman Pete (Ed Burns), an old
boyfriend who still shows an interest. Together they encounter Prophet
Jack (Tony Shaloub) who stands on a plastic milk crate on the busy
sidewalk and makes proclamations. That day he predicted the score of a
game, that it would hail the next morning, and that Lanie would die in
7 days.

Lanie is shocked when the first prediction comes true, then further
afraid when it is hailing the next morning. Not wanting the death
prediction to come true, she tries hard to prove that not all Prophet
Jack's predictions come true. But he says they do, he just hears the
message and repeats it.

MAJOR SPOILERS FOLLOW. Lanie and Pete get close again, then he is
devastated when she is picked for the NYC job and she just plans to
leave him in Seattle. While there, and doing a very successful
interview with popular journalist Deborah Connors (Stockard Channing),
she comes to realize the folly of her selfish dream, and a little bit
of her dies that day, 7 days after the prediction. So, while she didn't
physically die, the ugly part of her died.
