

`Big Fat Liar' offers a lively contemporary spin on the Boy Who Cried Wolf
legend.  Jason Shepherd is a 14-year-old inveterate liar who spends most of
his time devising elaborate yarns to keep himself out of trouble with his
parents and teachers.  One day, through an amazing fluke, he meets up with a
nefarious movie producer named Marty Wolf who steals Shepherd's story idea –
a composition he wrote for his English class entitled `Big Fat Liar' – and
proceeds to make a movie out of it.  When Jason's parents refuse to believe
their son's outlandish tale, the youngster heads out to Hollywood to
confront Wolf and make him verify his story.  When Wolf refuses to do this,
Jason concocts an elaborate scheme to make Wolf's life a living hell until
he relents and helps make things right back home.

Kids will love `Big Fat Liar' for the simple reason that it works as pure
adolescent fantasy wish-fulfillment on several levels.  First, it shows a
youngster getting the rare opportunity of turning a major studio backlot
into his own personal playground (the film sometimes feels like a 90-minute
commercial for Universal Studios' behind-the-scenes tour).  Second, it feeds
the desire we all have to watch the tables being turned on a certified
rascal.  And, third, like any good fantasy for children, it puts the kids in
a position of power over the adult world.  Jason and his pretty cohort,
Kaylee, get to call the shots and pull the strings that eventually get the
grownups to pay attention and listen to them.

`Big Fat Liar' might actually have been a better film had it resisted the
tendency to overdo so much of its comedy.  In fact, the best parts of the
film occur near the beginning when Jason and his adventures stay connected
to the real world.  Once he gets to Hollywood, the film loses a bit of its
edge.  The cleverness and wit of the film's opening stretches give way to
overwrought plot mechanics and over-the-top slapstick.  The film has a great
deal of undeniable energy, but subtlety can be a virtue as well and we miss
that sense of sly fun that defines the film's ambiance early on. 

Still, `Big Fat Liar' has more to recommend it than the average teen comedy.
 First of all, it stars the marvelous Frankie Muniz (`Malcolm in the
Middle') who has energy and charm to spare in the role of Jason and who
literally keeps the film bouncing along even when the comic setups don't
always pay off as well as they should.  Muniz is one child actor I will miss
when he grows too old to still play these parts.  Amanda Byrnes is equally
likable as Jason's conspiratorial companion, Kaylee.  And even though Paul
Giamatti seems to be doing a Jim Carrey impersonation through large sections
of the film, this fine comic actor hits heights of magnificent manic madness
as the put-upon, hissable villain of the piece.  The movie also has a fun
time ribbing many of the elements of Hollywood culture – from the unemployed
`actors' working as chauffeurs to the has-beens looking for that big career
turnabout to the insipid material that often serves as the basis for big
studio productions (a movie about a cop teamed up with a crime-fighting
chicken is the example here).   

`Big Fat Liar' provides mixed blessings for the sophisticated adult
audience, but youngsters should enjoy it all.

<|_=00=_|>

Broad comedy, minimized violence, recognizable stars - drop the kids off at
the matinee and you're in good shape.

If you go along with them, you can play spot the movie connection. Half the
movie is set at Universal Studios Los Angeles. Aside from the obvious
(character walking past the Norman Bates House, etc.), the producers left
dozens of props from other movies lying around. (I already submitted the
cars from "Back to the Future" and "How the Grinch Stole Christmas".) It's
almost like the movie is one big plug for the Universal Studios
tour.

Speaking of plugs: Note the obvious ones for Coca-Cola and the E.T.
re-release.

Parental Guidance note: Please be sure to explain to your kids that a)
Hollywood is not a nice place to run away to, and b) they shouldn't expect
to get hugs and encouragement after they run away.

<|_=00=_|>

Big Fat Liar is the type of movie I would've liked even more if I was
younger and by that I reccomend this movie to the kids and if the parents
don't want to go see Collateral Damage or Black Hawk Down or whatever, they
might chuckel as well.

Frankie Muniz plays a young teen who is usually lying a lot, and when he
really looses a paper for school in a movie producer's (Paul Giamatti's)
limo and winds up in summer school, he decides to go with his girlfriend
(Amanda Bynes) to Hollywood to confront him.  But it isn't as easy as he
thought for him to fess up.  Giamatti's blue man scenes are some of the
funniest scenes he's had in movies since Private Parts.  Other scenes vary
on the person, however.  Grade: B
<|_=00=_|>

When a 14 year old boy has an accident with one of Hollywood's biggest
producers, he soon finds that the producer has begun to make a movie off
of
an English paper story he left in his car.  When no one believes the kid
he
takes his best friend and they go to Hollywood to get the producer to
admit
that the kid created the story and they are willing to do anything to make
sure he admits it.  Although this is more for kids it is still a fun
comedy
for all ages.  A good acting job by the young actors.  ** out of ****.

<|_=00=_|>

Jason Shepherd(Frankie Muniz) is known for always lying to keep himself out
of trouble. When he doesn't complete his big english assignment, his teacher
says that he has three hours to complete it or he will fail and go to summer
school. Jason has a great imagination and he writes a story that's tilted
"Big Fat Liar". On the way to hand in his assignment, he gets a ride from a
famous hollywood producer Marty Wolf(Paul Giamatti) but unfortunately he
forgets his english assignment. in the car, fails and has to go to summer
school. He tries to convince his parent and teacher what really happened to
his assignment but nobody believes him. A few months after, there is a big
blockbuster hit coming out tilted "Big Fat Liar" that's supposedly been
written and produced by Marty Wolf. Jason notices that the movie is based on
his english paper and that Marty Wolf has stolen his story. Now along with
his cute friend Kaylee(Amanda Bynes) Jason will travel to Los Angeles and
try to convince everybody what a big fat liar Marty Wolf is. I thought this
was a harmless fun little movie. It's nothing special but it has a couple of
jokes and it's pretty entertaining. It's more for the younger audience but I
still found it to be somewhat enjoyable. I would give Big Fat Liar
6/10
<|_=00=_|>

This is a hilarious movie about a kid who just wants to earn his dad's
trust
back.  Frankie Muniz, Paul Giamatti, and especially Amanda Bynes all
provide
excellent performances.  It's a well-written story with some very
important
messages.  Much of it seems to be set in Universal Studios, on lots one
can
see during one of the tours, which makes the movie even more enjoyable.
I
haven't laughed this much in a long time.
<|_=00=_|>

This Movie is really an entertaining, good clean fun movie, for the
kiddies.
Kaley(played by Nickelodeon's talented Amanda) is the sidekick to a
rambunctious boy who has a hard time telling the truth. He eventually
works
this into a movie script that gets stolen. I won't bore you with the
details. If you have children and want to see an entertaining if not
thrilling kids movie, I highly recommend this one.
<|_=00=_|>

It is a nice comedy. It has the great features of the childhood, lying or
trying to get away from own generated troubles. The casting is great,
great
acting. And the special effects ? Well, some stunts are really impressive.
Watch it! :)
<|_=00=_|>
Okay, I'll admit that if I didn't have kids, I never would have seen
this film and would never see it. But, considering all the rotten kids
movies I have seen (such as SPY KIDS 2 or BABE: PIG IN THE CITY), this
is a significant improvement. And, it had enough in it that I wasn't
totally bored out of my skull or contemplated suicide (something I did
repeatedly in the other two movies). Sure, the performances are pretty
broad and the plot is kinda silly--but it IS a kids film. And, compared
with other films in the genre, this is definitely better than average.
Frankie Muniz and Amanda Bines actually appear to have some talent and
probably will continue to have careers after puberty--at least on
infomercials or doing voice-overs.

So, if you are looking for a film to see with your kids, you certainly
could do a lot worse!
<|_=00=_|>

Big Fat Liar is what you get when you combine terrific writing, great
production, and an emphasis on clever ideas over adolescent pap. The two
stars work great together, and--what can I say? Amanda Bynes shines.
Putting
"Irkel" and Lee Majors in the film were brilliant touches. Watch this
film
with your kids. If you don't laugh throughout it, you must not have been
paying attention.
