

When my husband and I heard that Barry Sonnenfeld was going to direct the
film version of Dave Barry's first novel,  we were pretty excited.  Both
men
have a similarly nutty knockabout comic sensibility with a touch of the
surreal, and this wacky farce about a motley crew of Miami citizens
embroiled in a race to recover an atomic bomb seemed like the perfect
vehicle for them to pool their talents on.  Well, it was! Hubby and I had
a
grand time -- but alas, we seemed to be among the very few moviegoers who
even gave the flick a chance!  I guess it didn't help that BIG TROUBLE's
originally-scheduled December 2001 release was delayed due to worries that
a
plot involving smuggling an A-bomb through laissez-faire airport security
would seem more disturbing than funny after the horrific events of
9/11/2001.  Maybe most audiences are still too spooked right now to
appreciate the satiric possibilities in Sonnenfeld & Co.'s cynically
funny,
Billy Wilder-esque treatment of these elements -- but I hope that down the
line, folks will give BIG TROUBLE a chance, because really, it's like what
might have resulted if Billy Wilder had ever had an opportunity to direct
The Marx Brothers.  We were laughing throughout!  The ensemble cast is
superb, from Patrick Warburton and Janeane Garofalo as members of Miami's
Finest, to Tom Sizemore and Johnny Knoxville as dunderheaded crooks, to
Tim
Allen and Rene Russo's chemistry as single (well, unhappily married in
Russo's case) parents who get drawn into the shenanigans when their
respective teenage kids Ben Foster and Zooey Deschanel (both delightful --
I
wouldn't be surprised if these two became big stars someday!) accidentally
foil a hit on Stanley Tucci (hilariously obnoxious as Russo's dreadful
second husband) by Jack Kehler and Dennis Farina (spoofing his earlier
role
in Sonnenfeld's GET SHORTY adaptation).  Everybody gets a moment to shine,
even Jason Lee as a hippy-dippy drifter and Sofia Vergara (who looks
remarkably like a Latina Denise Richards) as Tucci's put-upon maid.
C'mon,
give this unfairly underappreciated gem a chance when it hits home
video!

<|_=00=_|>

  Dave Barry, author of the book, does a really good job of portraying humor
about his home town (Miami), teenagers, parents, divorce, marriage, autos,
airports, difficulties of working in a strange town.  The movie is humorous,
fun, and moves along quickly.  You can enjoy a nice time with it.  All the
actors do a great job.  I think some of my favorite lines have to do with
arrivals & departures at the airport!  Behind the humor are the scarey
foundations of some of the major scenarios of the movie.  (Can't say what
those are; gives too much away.)  So if you are in need of a comedy to
enjoy, but which may leave a residue of some of the problems of today's
world, watch "Big Trouble".  

<|_=00=_|>
Although I had never heard of humorist Dave Barry before I saw this
movie, I had a great time watching 'Big Trouble'.

Director Barry Sonnenfeld ('Men in Black', 'Get Shorty') does a great
job of juggling the huge ensemble cast, and everyone (including Tim
Allen) are all wonderfully funny and, it must be said, a little bit
nuts. I particularly liked Dennis Farina as a hit-man who despises
Miami (where the story takes place) and Zooey Deschanel as a deadpan
teenager.

'Big Trouble' is outrageous fun for all, and this is a great comic
ride.
<|_=00=_|>

Its been a while since a movie has made me laugh out loud... at home... on
DVD without the help of a theater audience to provide a helpful laugh
track... but this Dave Barry adaptation did it. The wildly slapstick script
keeps its wildly varied cast hopping... and hopping admirably! Tim Allen,
Rene Russo, Zooey Deschanel, Ben Foster, Stanley Tucci, Janeane Garafalo,
Dennis Farina... heck, the entire ensemble is so good that I would gladly
sign on for a sequel... hey Mr. Sonnenfeld, welcome back to funny!

<|_=00=_|>

I've seen one user comment here already that unfairly compares Big Trouble
with Snatch or Pulp Fiction, but that's really neither here nor there. Big
Trouble is intended for an entirely different audience, and while it never
reaches the mighty heights of the former, it does a big crap on the latter
because it never takes itself too seriously. It recognises that the
audience
doesn't want a film as a fashion statement, but merely as a form of
entertainment. The makers also recognise that they don't have the material
here to entertain and inform at the same time, so they just concentrate on
making the best comedy that they can. It is for this reason most of all
that
they succeed.

The strengths of this film are actors like Tim Allen, Jason Lee, Dennis
Farina, and Tom Sizemore. I never thought I would say that about Allen,
but
it appears that when you give him decent material, he can actually make
something out of it. Jason Lee is a pleasant surprise as the unwashed
hippie
who seems to just magically appear in a tree (you have to see it to
believe
it). Tom Sizemore, however, really steals the show as the thug who just
doesn't quite seem to have the brainpower to do anything
correctly.

Put simply, this is a crime caper that was intended for families who want
to
be able to take their pre-teen children to something with this kind of
plot
and not be worried about the content. Whether you agree with this
marketing
philosophy or not, it does allow for success of a different kind, namely
that it succeeds because it is so unreal that the viewer can laugh without
getting disgusted by some of the characters.

The things that detract from this comedy are some weak supporting actors.
Zooey Deschanel even gives the camera the old "stunned mullet" look at
times, while Patrick Warburton only seems to know one expression. Stanley
Tucci can't give us anything to sympathise with his character over, and
Sofia Vergara seems completely doomed to be a bit player for whatever
little
career she might have. The running length is a bit of a two-edged sword -
on
one hand, it makes sure that the film is never boring, and no scene goes
on
for longer than its welcome. On the other hand, possibilities for
interesting subplots are often passed over.

In the end, I gave the film a seven out of ten. It's not rocket science,
but
if you sit back in your chair with a beer and some popcorn, preferably
with
some friends to share your disbelief with, it makes a good piece of
entertainment that won't make you wish you could have those 85 or so
minutes
back. Recommended for those in a light-hearted mood.
<|_=00=_|>
I've seen it dozens of times, and still, I can't help myself but laugh
my a** off... Incredibly bright, fresh collection of timeless jokes,
gags, and funny situations cleverly bound together by one of
Hollywood's most talented comedy directors into a flowing, easy,
coherent piece of entertainment. This film's set must have been the
most funny workplace ever... I wonder how the actors have managed to do
the shooting, there must be tons of blooper reels in store... After
reading some comments here, I really wish to have a chat with some of
the people, who didn't find this movie funny... Or better - I'd like to
know, what films they regard as being funny, if not "Big Trouble".

And my last remark - it's been a very long time since I've heard such a
brilliant movie score as James Newton Howard had written for "Big
Trouble". Excellent job.
<|_=00=_|>
I still remember laughing so hard I was in tears in a theater filled
with less than 20 people! A great cast and well written, this movie got
the shaft after it was suddenly moved to a 12/2001 release (with almost
no publicity)after the events of 9/11 because the movie had scenes
depicting lax airport security. We Americans were far to fragile to see
someone smuggling an atomic bomb and a gun through poor security! What
people missed was a funny story and some of the best one-liners I have
ever heard ("maybe you guys should plead Not Guilty by reason of
stupidity!). Honestly, I have never been able to drive into an airport
without thinking about Arriving and Departing ("We're arriving, but
then we are departing?")and Florida Gator fans just get hammered! Great
flick, get the DVD and see it for real, not the Comedy Central version.
<|_=00=_|>
Perfect comedy of situations.

Better then book, as it makes better use of supporting actors.

Amazing movie, made in old style of comedies. Must-see for all lovers
of the comedies.

It was most likely harmed by by airport security scene which was found
politically incorrect after the 9/11, but its a comedy so I do not see
a problem.

I would give it 12 out of 10.

Very nice review in Russian located here:

http://www.exler.ru/films/11-03-2003.htm
<|_=00=_|>

I discovered Dave Barry in a Reader's Digest article titled "The Martian
Death Flu". That short story inaugurated a fascination for all things
Barry
and "Big Trouble" is a faithful depiction of the mind of this Miami
madman.
This Pulitzer-prize winning columnist meets the director of "Men In Black"
and TV's The Tick.

Sonnenfeld's touch and a good soundtrack contribute to this madcap
misadventure where a hallucinogenic toad, a sub-compact car, and a
'garbage
disposal' bomb make for an outrageous race to save a corporate embezzler's
step-daughter.

An immaculate cast certifies the action will be riveting and
breath-taking
viewing after viewing.  Thanks, Dave!
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is excellent, funny, hillarious. It should be rated alot higher
then the 6.4 rating it has right at this moment. This is one of the
funniest
movies I have seen in a couple years. I bought this movie on amazon.com
before I had ever seen, I am glad I did. My hunch was correct, this is a
great movie, very worthy of owning. How anyone could watch this movie and
not laugh out loud, huge, rolling in the isle laughs, is beyond me. Johnny
Knoxville and Tom Sizemore we're just hillarious, Tim Allen great as
usual.
Dennis Farina's line, Looks like we got a couple gators fans, was just
totally hillarious. He was classically funny as usual. All in all very
funny
movie all around. I loved it, I may watch it again tonight.

