

Every summer a film comes around that takes everyone by surprise.  Last year
it was Scary Movie and I'm sure in 1977 it was a film like Star Wars and
then in 1981 it was Raiders of the Lost Ark.  Now I am not saying that The
Fast and the Furious is in the same class as Raiders and Star Wars, just
that it surprised everyone on the same level.  F&F is short on plot and
dialogue and even some of the acting is lame, but what it is oozes is
testosterone.  It pumps your blood, increases your adrenaline and attacks
you with fast cars, sexy women and that one invariable that I think it has
going for it... Vin Diesel.  There is just something about the guy,
something that you really can't put your finger on, but he just has it. 
Maybe it is charisma, maybe it is charm, maybe it is just that he resembles
some of the action heroes from the 80's with his chiseled triceps and his
slabs of pecs.  Maybe it is all those things and maybe it is none of those
things, all I know is that F&F is exactly what I had hoped it would be and
nothing more.  This is the summer movie that I have been waiting for.  It's
not that the films that have been out so far aren't that great because some
of them are, it's just that this is the one that epitomises what summer as a
teen ager is all about.  It is no wonder that exit polls for this film were
around 65-70% under the age of 21.  And maybe that is why I enjoyed it so
much.  I am pushing 30 but isn't it cool to lose yourself in a film that
reminds you what it was like to be in highschool.  And isn't it cool to
watch street racers break 140 miles an hour wile they shoot NOS through
their vehicles?  Well isn't it?

F&F doesn't contain any machinations similar to a film like Mission
Impossible and it doesn't dazzle us with special effects of impending doom
like Armageddon did, but it takes us into a world where people live life "a
quarter of a mile at a time."  

Vin Diesel plays Dominic Toretto, a massive, bald mechanic that owns a
garage but street races on the side to make some extra cash.  Paul Walker (
The Skulls, Varsity Blues) plays Brian Spindler.  He is a cop that has
infiltrated the street gang to find out who is highjacking trucks and
stealing all their merchandise.  There are about four rival street gangs in
L.A. and one of them is pulling this off.  He has to figure out which one. 
Of course along the way he seduced by the life, but that is not what we
really care about.  All we want to see is lots of racing, a few crashes,
some fights and some sex.  F&F doesn't disappoint.  If what you have seen in
the trailers of the film excites and entices you, then you know exactly what
you're in for.  This is not going to win any Oscars for anything but what it
will do is entertain you.  It will expedite you for 90 minutes into a world
where Honda's are souped up to look like Dragons and junkyard scraps are
rebuilt from scratch to be better than they were before, better, stronger
and faster.  If this film appealed to you in the commercial, it will appeal
to you on the screen.

And of course there is Vin Diesel.  He first made a name for himself in
Saving Private Ryan where he played Capparrzo.  Then he jumped onto the
scene with his excellent and grandiose turn as Riddick in Pitch Black.  I
think this is the film that got him noticed because no one had even heard of
him before this.  Then he did Boiler Room and he showed a different side to
him.  But F&F is all muscle and sheer bravado.  I think Vin is going to do
great things in the years to come.  He is not a nobody anymore.  This film
will take care of that.  And face it, isn't it cool to see the genesis of a
new action hero?  

8 out of 10-  The ultimate summer rush!
<|_=00=_|>
Today I saw Tokyo drift and yesterday I saw 2 fast 2 furious for the
fifth time, but I still find myself drawn toward the original. It stars
Paul Walker as an undercover cop who infiltrates the street racing
underworld of LA to catch a crook who has been hijacking millions of
dollars worth of electronics from 18wheelers, causing the truckers to
take matters into their own hands, ultimately ending in deaths and
multitudes of money stolen. Now, you would think that because of the
semi weak plot, this movie wouldn't be that good, however, the main
storyline is just a small part of this movie, the other elements being
action and some interesting relationships regarding vin diesels
character. Diesel plays a street racing god, one of the best in the LA
scene. Walkers character, Brians, way into the world is through Dominic
Toretto (Diesel). Toretto has an air about him which draws other in,
and Brian is no different. Throughout the movie, Brian is getting to
know Dom, earning his trust, etc, but at the end of the movie, both Dom
and Brian are forced to make a decision about each other... The whole
relationship is interesting to watch. As for the action, there is
plenty of it. Besides the many races, there is also some gunplay and
some hand to hand fighting, and some interesting hijacking sequences.

All in all the cars are hot, the girls are hotter, the cars are fast,
the guns are loaded, and for the more serious, the relationship between
Dom, Mia, Vince, Letty, and the others is amazing.

If you haven't seen this movie, rent it tonight
<|_=00=_|>

FAST AND THE FURIOUS does not try to be something it is not. Therefore, it
surprises me to no end that I will say that FURIOUS is a decent movie. For
dialogue, everything is one-lined crazy nonsense. Most characters are
ultimately cruel to everyone and each other. Some lame brained antics are
done. But it all works out. FAST AND THE FURIOUS is definitely for these
times and shows all aspects of the real world and who survives in it through
cars and the people that drive them.

After losing his job to Dominic Toretto, an untouchable to some, Brian sets
out to win his respect by putting his car on the line against the speed
demon. Meanwhile, the cops are desperately seeking the perpetrators of
several truck hijackings and believe Toretto is the man behind
it.

With a built of guilt in me, I am proud of saying that FURIOUS was
impressive in its execution. The editing was top notch, the camera work well
laid out and some surprising acting from a script made of cardboard. There
was not much you could do with FURIOUS, but then it starts to feature more
on the engines than the cars themselves. It also never forgets the story.
FAST AND THE FURIOUS smokes the competition in its genre, if only for the
moment.
<|_=00=_|>
The Fast and the Furious is probably the first movie to get me into
cars while at the same time enjoying myself without having to worry
about a plot.

Paul Walker plays Brian O'Conner, a hot shot police officer, who goes
undercover as a car junkie Brian Spilner to see if a local street
racer/mechanic by the name of Dominic Toretto (Vin Diseal) has anything
to do with hijacking a bunch of cargo from DVD's, TV's, entertainment
sets, and so forth while at the same time falling head over heels for
Dominic's sister Mia (Jordana Brewster). Brian comes so close while at
the same time gaining trust to the target (Dominic) itself where it's
only a matter of time before the truth comes out.

The film itself has the best action sequences involving street racing
and high octane action where despite a so-so plot to follow, or one
that's been seen before (such as Point Break), you don't have to worry
about a thing. It's just pure fun.

The film also stars Michelle Rodriguez (S.W.A.T.) as Dominic's
girlfriend, Letty; Ted Levine (The Silence of the Lambs) as Sgt.
Tanner, and singer Ja Rule in a small cameo as a contestant against
Dominic.
<|_=00=_|>

It begins with a spectacular action scene where three Honda Civics execute a
high-speed highjacking of a cargo truck, and from there, the action never
stops. With The Fast and the Furious, director Rob Cohen seeks to capture
and thrill the audience with a booming soundtrack and non-stop action, and
he seems to have succeeded.

The film follows officer Brian O'Connor as he infiltrates a street-racing
gang in order to capture the drivers of the three enigmatic Hondas, which
have been terrorizing truck drivers in Los Angeles. The gang is led by
ex-racer Dominic Toretto. Toretto immediately takes a liking to O'Connor,
while his gang seems a bit skeptic. Toretto's right-hand man Vince is
O'Connor's main problem, as he suspects the truth about his identity from
the very beginning.

The plot is slightly dry, as the movie incorporates many typical aspects of
other films of the genre. For example, there's the fact that Toretto is the
only one to trust O'Connor. The rest of his gang except for, of course,
Vince, quickly follows him. Then there's the whole
falling-in-love-with-the-sister-of-the-guy-I'm-about-to-get-arrested
subplot. And then there are your typical problems from rival gangs and the
hero's attempt to prove himself by striking against them. Yet despite the
many stereotypical aspects of the script, the well-developed characters and
interesting relationships save the movie from becoming just another heap of
typical Hollywood sensationalism.

The movie features strong acting, as the actors work well together and
compliment each other's performances. This is only Michelle Rodriguez'
second major performance since her film debut in the independent drama Girl
Fight, which was a hit at the Cannes Film Festival last year. Not just
another bad girl, Rodriguez shows a strong acting ability, which is apparent
in her portrayal of Lena. Vin Diesel is also a fairly good actor who seems
to be climbing through the ranks of Hollywood. Best known for his role in
the failed science-fiction thriller Pitch Black, Diesel sports a memorable
attitude and strong screen presence that promise to make him a contender for
future stardom. Opting to cast less known, yet strong actors instead of more
commercially viable ones, Rob Cohen has created a well-rounded cast, which
gives the movie its fresh attitude and memorable mood.

Yet it is the action scenes that are the real stars of the movie. Featuring
three races and four equally spectacular action sequences, the movie
delivers fast and furious action from beginning to end. Accompanied by a
rocking soundtrack, the action sequences are put together by flawless
editing and elaborate stunts, effectively creating a maddening adrenaline
rush in any viewer.

A long time producer and Harvard graduate, Cohen has achieved success a
director, with movies such as Dragonheart, The Skulls, Daylight, Dragon: The
Bruce Lee Story (which he also wrote and starred in) and several episodes of
the series Miami Vice. He is also a screenwriter and has had small roles in
some of his movies. He plays a pizza delivery boy in The Fast and The
Furious.

Although the slight semblance of a plot does not make this something for the
serious moviegoer, the relentless action more than makes up for it. Not too
long and filled with fantastic cars and non-stop entertainment, The Fast and
the Furious will leave you dazed and breathless.

<|_=00=_|>

This movie, has by far the best car racing scenes ever filmed, as well as
the best cars. They are gorgeous machines, and these guys certainly can
drive them. Great story, not just another Gone in Sixty Seconds where all
they did was steal cars, there actually weren't very many race scenes as you
might expect, but every shot is filled with cars, and lots of them. The
acting is great as well, as usual Vin Diesel gives a brilliant performance,
as Dominic Toretto. It has already earned a massive following, and when you
leave the theaters you will be filed with such a massive adrenaline rush,
that you and all your buddies will be left with the feeling that you must go
out and race. Everybody I have talked to have said the same thing, it just
has this crazy adrenaline rush it gives you. I highly recommend this to all
fans of cars, and racing, but it has something for everybody so see it even
if you are not a fan of either, bottom line, just see it!!!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
This is a great movie. Far from being superficial pulp, this movie has
a complex plot. Vin Diesel's performance is tremendous; his screen
presence is dominating. He succeeds in carrying the movie. Although the
movie contains lots of glitz, it also tells a story that deals with
themes such as loyalty and betrayal. The rest of the cast is excellent
too, especially Jordana Brewster and Paul Walker. Michelle Rodriguez is
as usual wonderful. It would be easy to dismiss this movie as being
little more than a live action cartoon, but the movie really is full of
surprises. It has several intensely dramatic scenes, some of the most
incredible car chase scenes, and some deeply esoteric verbal exchanges
fraught with emotion. Whether it's Vin Diesel pouting or Paul Walker
being heroic, the results are same: nonstop action, intense dialog, and
interesting characters, all of which together produce great
entertainment. It's more than just about automobiles.
<|_=00=_|>
I love ''The Fast and the Furious''. Many people are criticizing it in
a bad way, saying that this movie have ruined the street car culture
among other things.Well, I can't judge very much because I am not(yet)
a car expert, but I can say that what this movie did was show to other
people who never saw or heard anything like that, another reality that
they are not used to see or hear. I became much more interesting in
cars(specially tuning them) after watching ''The Fast and the
Furious''and a whole new world have become a reality to me. Vin Diesel
is awesome and hot (as usual)as the character Toretto,the respected
leader of a famous street gang that is under suspicion of stealing
expensive electronic equipments. The plot itself is not a profound or a
big thing, but the cars and the races in this movie are really awesome!

You gotta love or hate it! :)
<|_=00=_|>
If you like cars - this movie is for you. Sure, the cars in this movie
are not what an ordinary European lad would regard as decent, some of
the parts are quite alluring (T66 with NOS you know... ;-)) but among
the car bodies there are some that look way too stereotype (Honda
Civics...?).

The story is entertaining, though rarely sophisticated. This, I guess,
is the reason for why someone reader of IMDb commented that in this
movie Vin's talent was wasted. I consent to this to quite some degree
and really suggest to those of you, who haven't already familiarized
themselves with the work of this convincing actor to do so as soon as
there is a chance to.
<|_=00=_|>

Outstanding movie, makes me want to go out and sup up my car and race
somebody.  A definate see.  I loved the fast cars, the high speed
adrenalin,
and some good lookin women. One of the best "car" movies i've seen
yet.
