

So its fluffy and predictable. It's unrealistic and sickly sweet. Who
cares...this film pretends to be nothing more than what it is intended to
be. Light romantic comedy.

Since stars like Cary Grant, Kathrine Hepburn and Irene Dunne, lit up our
cinema screens in the 1930's with films like The Awful Truth, Bringing up
Baby and My Favorite Wife, Hollywood and of course the movie going public
have reserved a special place in their hearts for RomComs, screwballs and
battle of the sexes comedies.

Identical plots, Identical jokes but none the less jokes and plots that will
never go out of style and will always be relevant in any age or location,
whether it be New York of the 30's or New York in the present
day.

Hollywood has always worked on the basis that they stick to what has been
tried and tested and has proved to work, that is why with a small plot
change and a rehash of old jokes and situations they are able to reinvent
their movies for a new generation of film buffs. It was through this formula
that Doris Day and friends were able to continue RomCom history throughout
the 60's and every one of them box office winners.

A recent example of this would be Down With Love starring Ewan McGregor and
Rene Zelwegger. Who could not see plot comparisons to Pillow Talk or Lover
Come Back? Yet it did not make this film any less enjoyable. Our
entertainment lies in seeing our actors of the day fill the roles of the
great actors of yesterday and how the scripts and jokes are adapted and told
within a backdrop of 21st century life etc.

Matthew McConaughey and Kate Hudson made this film with impeccable comic
timing and enjoyable performances. Of course with Goldie Hawn for a mother,
Hudson comes straight from comic stock so I would have been disappointed if
she failed to meet the challenge but she didn't. Some of her facial
expressions and mannerisms almost had me convinced I was watching an old
episode of "Laugh In" 

McConaughey also held his own and proved himself to be a gifted comic as he
did in the Wedding Planner.

This plot seemed quite original and as a battle of the sexes comedy, they
seldom come as good as this. Again the formula was followed and we were
under no illusion on what the final outcome would be, but their journey to
this ultimate destination is what we find entertaining.

This type of film has been popular for seventy plus years and their
simularities are what makes them so. Instead of slamming them..watch some of
the predecessors and appreciate their origins.

Be thankful they are still making these types of movies today as in an era
which is threatening to be devoured by action thrillers, fantasy adventure
and shoot 'em ups this seems to be the only diversity left in motion
pictures. 
<|_=00=_|>

The fact is, I had not intended to see this movie - ever.  I had not heard
good things.  But my wife saw it, and liked it.  One evening she caught me
in a mellow mood and I watched it with her.

To say it is contrived is an understatement.  To say it is generally
predictable is to state the obvious.  It is a piece of fluff romantic
comedy
familiar to viewers of old movies.  But there are a lot of people who LIKE
fluff, and frankly, I think we will probably watch it again some
day.

The writing was occasionally witty, often funny, and sometime
knee-slappingly hilarious, without degenerating into the completely silly.
The chemistry between Kate and Matthew was great, and their performances
were what made this movie rise above the mediocre.

Don't waste your time with this movie if you insist on depth or insight
into
universal truths - it ain't happenin'.  But if you want a good time with a
charming flick, you could do worse.
<|_=00=_|>

OK, to be honest i didn't expect much out of this movie,being a
romantic comedy and all,but in the end i actually liked it, yes it's a
chick flick ,and yes some things in it wouldn't really happen in
reality,and the movie being so sweet and funny,the ending could have
been a little better,but hey,these kind of movies always have something
that we would like to be different,all in all i actually liked it,and
enjoy watching it over and over again...

Kate Hudson was really sparkling in this light spirited comedy, and i
for one would like to see her more in funny comedies like this...

Denny

<|_=00=_|>

Andie(Kate Hudson) is a beautiful young woman that works for a women's
magazine called Composure and for her next article, Andie has to write about
how to lose a guy in 10 days.
Ben(Matthew McConaughey)is an advertising executive and he makes a bet with
his friends that he can make a woman fall in love with him in 10 days. Of
course, these two meet each other and the scam is on.
Andie will do anything to lose a guy and Ben will do anything to win a girl,
what they don't expect is that the two of them will fall in love with each
other.
I thought this was a funny and charming romantic comedy. The lovely Kate
Hudson gives a great performance, she was absolutely hilarious!
I would give How to Lose a Guy in 10 Days 7/10.

<|_=00=_|>
Benjamin Barry is an advertising executive and ladies' man who, to win
a big campaign, bets that he can make a woman fall in love with him in
10 days. Andie Anderson covers the "How To" beat for "Composure"
magazine and is assigned to write an article on "How to Lose a Guy in
10 days." They are sure to meet each other in a bar and both tries to
get what they want without knowing what they are really doing.

This is one of the funnier romantic comedies, if you'd like some
laughs. There are many laugh-out-loud moments here and there. The humor
was witty and slapstick, which I love in comedies.

The chemistry between Kate Hudson and Matthew McConaughey is great.
this film is like the battle of the sexes.

Don't watch this film if you want lies between romance but if you would
like to have a really good time, then this is the film.
<|_=00=_|>

There are no words to describe this movie. I found it hillarious and
heartwarming. The two principle actors were great as their roles as Ben and
Andie. Kate Hudson was great at driving Ben nuts. I laughed for days.

I loved the soundtrack too. It had classics and modern day classics.

I feel this movie will go down as a classic with such films as Pretty Woman
and Dirty Dancing. 
<|_=00=_|>
'How to...' columnist for composure magazine, Andie Anderson (Kate
Hudson) agrees to write a first-hand account about what it takes to
drive a man out of your life in just 10 days. Eligible bachelor
Benjamin Barry (Matthew McConaughey) accepts a high-stakes bet that he
can lure any woman into falling in love with him...also in 10 days.

With the couple consistently tying to deceive one another, this turns
out to be a pretty funny ride, and the chemistry between Hudson and
McConaughey is excellent, which does help to hide the lack of depth in
the story.

I've seen better, but it's entertaining enough 6/10
<|_=00=_|>
how to lose a guy is an original story, which is well-acted, very smart
and very very funny. i found myself laughing out loud many many times.
I think its one of the best romantic comedies of all time. I would
encourage buying the movie: great for parties or anytime you want to
good laugh. I quite enjoyed this movie actually. I didn't intend to see
it but i'm not sorry i did. I like romantic comedies but the past
couple of years they've been pretty disappointing & plain stupid + i'm
not big on Matthew McConaughey. The main reason why i liked the movie
is definitely Kate Hudson! She's so adorable & hilariously funny in the
movie. Definitely the star. Matthew did a good job i guess, but i still
don't particularly like him a lot. The story is original, the jokes are
really funny & there's real chemistry between the main characters!
Unfortunately it's just a chick-flick that will be forgotten pretty
soon. But at least it's a romantic comedy with a real heart!

Entertainment Score: 9.9/10

Overall: 9.85/10
<|_=00=_|>

*May Contain Spoilers*

I found "How to Lose a Guy in 10 Days" to be entertaining, funny, and cute.
I saw it in the theater with my sister and friends and we all liked it. I
found the plot to be original and the acting was good. The characters were
also realistic.

 
"How to Lose a Guy in 10 Days" is a twisted tale about Andie Anderson, who
writes "How To" articles and Benjamin Berry, and advertiser. Andie Anderson
is writing an article entitled "How to Lose a Guy in 10 Days" and  Benjamin
Berry made a bet with his workers/friends that he can keep a relationship
with a girl for more than ten days. Andie and Benjamin meet and fall in love
and then the action happens.

I suggest that everyone should see this movie because it really is funny. I
give this movie 9/10 stars.
<|_=00=_|>

There are scenes in this movie that defy quality, professional honesty that
work like gems.  The home family scene was particularly intriguing in "How
To Lose A Guy...," the quality of the photography went from professional
quality feature film to a something not home video, but less sharp and
informal.  It is there the audience experiences an honest, genuine quality
time the coming off the screen between Kate Hudson and Matthew McConaughey. 
This movie was has a smart send up, funny lines and comical scenes about the
dating behavior and quirky incidents that have befallen man and woman over
time.  While the ending wasn't quite as dazzling as it could have been, it
ties itself up nicely.  I was hoping for something more traditional, classy
but as it was the ending was more personal and straight forward.  A good
date movie with bit more of a bite than the average man/woman
collision/confrontation/competition movie.
