

I really liked the TV series - i used to watch every episode on the Disney
Channel,But i don't think the movie is quite as good as the
series:

For instance
 
The writers are used to coming up with 10 minute stories, but with the movie
it seems like a 10 min episode streched out to 80 minutes so i'ts not as
good as i would have hoped, but the acting is still superb and very
convincing.
The animation is strangely NOT as good as the Series it seems very flat and
uninspired.
On the good side it's got a really cool story even if it could have been
done in half the time & JAMES WOODS (his voice anyway) is really good as the
bad guy. It has really cool 60's songs towards the end of the
movie.

all in all a really good movie which will delight kids and adults alike,just
a shame it's not as good as the series

my rating 10/10 for pure enjoyment
<|_=00=_|>

Recess the TV show is about kids having fun, and teachers being teachers
(good and bad). There's good character development and personality variation
on the small screen and it carries well to the big screen.

The movie puts the kids in the role of spies who need to break INTO school
to save their lifestyle. Along the way, there are great 60's flashback
scenes and songs, lots of funny spy movie cliches including the mob-scene
climax.

The characters are caricatures but it IS a cartoon after all. There's good
voice casting (including James Wood, Melissa Joan Hart and a great sounding
Robert Goulet). The plot is complicated (and just a little goofy), but my 8
and 10 year old had no trouble following the action.

There are good messages about friendship, respect, integrity, duty, but
these aren't done in a preachy way.

The animation quality is variable. There are some great 3d zoom-sweeps, but
for part of the movie the characters look like they've been singed. However,
the few animation flaws are only an issue for nitpickers (like me).

See it with someone who knows that characters and likes them. It'll be a
good rental or a nice afternoon in the theater.

<|_=00=_|>

Theodore Detweiler Jr. Vincent Lasalle. Michael Blumberg. Gustav Patton
Griswald. Gretchen Grundler. Ashley Funicello Spinelli. Peter
Prickly.
Seven heroes out to save Summer Vacation from a madman who really
whomps!
Recess. School's Out.
If you like the cartoon series, you'll love the film. Funny, inventive,
and
dare I say it for Ashley fans, SCANDALOUS!
Featuring the voices of Andrew Lawrence, Rickey Collins, Pam Seagal,
Dabney
Coleman and James Woods as his greatest Disney villain since Hercules
kicked
his Hades' fanny, Recess; School's Out immortalized the children of Third
Street School to icons of movie magic. Robert Goulet gives a perfect
performance as Mikey's singing voice. His "Green Tambourine" video was
just
awesome!
Do yourselves a favor, Recess fans, get off your fat, saggin' butts and
WATCH THIS FILM!  It's Tenderrrrrrr! 
<|_=00=_|>
...I had never thought Disney could redeem themselves after movies like
"Tarzan" and "Mulan" until I seen this classic.  Yes, I just said that
Recess: School's Out is a classic.  I loved this movie, and I'm a teen who
hates most cartoons.

There is nothing about this movie that isn't funny, from Robert Goulet
making a 'cameo' as character Mikey's singing voice to all the overdone teen
cliches in character T.J.'s older sister Becky (Mellissa Joan Hart).  This
movie never even tries to be overly-dramatic as most other Disney movies,
it's just straight, top of the line fun.

Without a doubt the greatest thing going for this movie is James Woods as
the Dr. Evil type villain, pulling all the cliches of the James Bond bad
guys.  That's the great thing about Recess, it basically uses cliches, but
makes fun of them too.

Hilarious movie, 8/10.
<|_=00=_|>
I love the film and thought it has everything a perfect film needs.The
action,the comedy and everything else that makes the actual movie
great.Rickey D'sh on Collins,Ashley Johnson,Paul Willson,Jason
Davis,Andrew Lawrence,Courtland Mead,Pamella Segall,Dabney Coleman,
April Winchell were perfect as the voices of the characters and so was
everyone else that was involved with the movie.I love watching the
cartoons on T.V. and don't really think that they are for little
kids.Recess schools out shows the story about 6 school friends who find
out some strange goings in their school and save it from bad guys who
are trying to get rid of summer vacation.
<|_=00=_|>
Paul Germain and Joe Ansolabehere's "Recess" cartoon shorts, which ran
on ABC when the Walt Disney Company first bought the network and
transformed the entire children's programming department, were
exaggerations of how many kids see life on the school playground. Since
the series ran long enough, and seemed relatively popular, it should be
no surprise that Disney would end it with a movie, whether it's a
feature film or a made-for-television movie. While it's intended
audience might not be able to relate to a soundtrack of wall-to-wall
classic rock, the story itself is much easier for both kids and their
parents to relate to.

*POSSIBLE SPOILERS* 

T.J. Detweiller is as happy as anybody else at 3rd Street Elementary
School that school is out for summer, because he thinks it's going to
mean a couple of months of fun with his friends. Unfortunately, they've
all gone to their numerous specialty camps, none of which turn out to
be what either of them hope, but that's besides the point. Left at home
by himself, he ends up with a great deal of spare time riding his bike
around town. Suddenly he finds out that very weird activities are going
on in his school, and they include secret service look-alikes and a
green glow in the cafeteria windows. When he tries to tell his parents
and the cops, they don't believe him(would you?), so he runs to the
last person he wants to see... Principal Pete Prickly. And when he
reluctantly follows TJ to investigate, he seems to dematerialize. This
leaves him with no other choice but to get his older sister to gather
his friends from camp and stop whatever evil plot might be going on.
And only when the other kids see what looks like a huge laser beam
coming out of their school auditorium do they decide to break in and
stop whatever IS going on. Upon this break in, TJ is caught, and finds
his hated principal alive and well.

During their capture, Principal Prickly reveals that more than three
decades earlier, 3rd Street Elementary was an easy-going school with a
faculty population of reform-minded hippies, including the currently
hard-nosed Ms. Finster and Prickly himself. But one of those hippies,
former principal Phillium Benedict turned out to be a complete fake who
used standard hippie-slang to score with the female teachers, and his
only "reform" was the abolition of recess. Today, he's a disgraced
former secretary of education who plans to abolish summer vacation, by
abolishing summer completely!! Frankly, I find it difficult to believe
that any school district would allow their fleet of buses to be painted
psychedelic colors. The only ones that were painted that way were sold
off to real hippies. The idea that somebody would use standard 1960's
slang merely to pick up women(or score dope), however is very easy to
believe. I also don't remember childhood being as happy-go-lucky as
either the show or the movie suggests. At least it recognizes that Gus
doesn't share the same memories as his friends(a fact which the 2003
straight-to-video "All Growed Down" ignores). And after three allegedly
"crazy stories" about weird things going on at 3rd Street School, I'd
think the local cops would be suspicious enough to think something must
be going on. Flaws like this aside, not to mention a gimmicky CGI
beginning and ending, don't detract from the fact that this is a movie
that warms the heart a little as it tries to cash in on the success of
a then existing cartoon series.
<|_=00=_|>
As a youth, I remember the show Recess with great memories. I remember
it playing on Toon Disney (now Disney XD, respectively) at around
3:30pm when I was in the third grade. I used to rush home and watch it
before carrying on with my homework. It was childhood nostalgia at its
finest. I wasn't introduced to the series till around 2004 or 2005, so
when the film came out in 2001 I had no interest in seeing it because,
well, I didn't know what it was.

It wasn't until about six months of watching the show I finally found
Recess: School's Out and watched it. Back then, I thought it was one of
the greatest animated movies of all time. I was shown it again at the
end of the year in forth grade when the whole grade watched it at once.
Memories like that will never die for me.

Not seeing this since around sixth grade, I used to rewatch it at least
twice a year, seeing it again in 2011 kind of saddened me. I hesitate
to watch old animated films I adored as a kid and some films like Fools
Rush In which was a kid favorite of mine because I fear of tarnishing
my memories of those movies. I remember them to be "amazing" and
"hilarious." When reality catches up to me, most of my childhood
favorites are only average pieces of film.

First of all, the film focuses on a bizarre storyline. T.J.
Detweiller's forth grade year comes to an end and he has plans of
riding bikes, camping out, and just hanging out with his five friends
Mikey, Spinelli, Gretchen, Gus, and Vince. Only problem; they are all
going to some sort of camp for most of the summer leaving T.J.
secluded.

T.J. spends his first days of summer riding his bike and moping, like
any kid with no friends over the summer would do. He notices strange
activity going on in the school. There is a giant laser beam, satellite
monstrosity inside of it and when he goes to the principal for help,
the principal is dematerialized right before his eyes after trying to
unlock the front door.

It turns out, that Dr. Phillium Benedict, former principal of the
school, is trying to realign the moon to make a "year round winter" so
summer vacation will be obsolete. His obsession with "test scores" and
"improvement" leads to this chaos, so T.J. rounds up the gang to have
an adventure and save their summer from extinction.

The plot is entertaining, but it is unbelievably strange and awkward.
Eliminating summer vacation? I could see that. Hell, it is already
happening in some schools. But I don't know if any proctor is planning
to realign the moon. Another thing, where are the neighbors to the
school? Don't they see the laser beam come out? And who wouldn't notice
the long beam of green light light up the sky? The police are
absolutely no help either. I can understand if a kid comes in saying
"people are in a school with a laser beam" and the cops not believe
him. But if multiple people, even adults, came in saying nearly the
same thing don't you think the police would at least investigate. In
order for this plot to work, half the town has to be a bunch of unaware
nitwits.

And for a kids movie, it doesn't really have any attract factor for
adults. The sixties music and the retro scenes are actually something
adults may like. They only last for a short while though. Some scenes
in this film like the scene of T.J. riding his bike with One is the
Loneliest Number and the end credits with the whole Recess gang
covering My Green Tambourine was actually the most favorable parts of
the movie. I remember from my youth watching those scenes.

The animation is a bit different from the show. The show was hand
drawn, and the movie is CGI. In 2001, CGI still wasn't a normal thing
for all animated films. It's that awkward period between the past and
the present. The buildings look blocky, but the characters look great.
It isn't the beauty and remarkable quality Toy Story has, but animation
isn't everything. It gets by.

Recess ranks up with the biggest nostalgic memories with me. While
appreciating the movie when I was younger, the movie doesn't really
serve more as a purpose than an extra trip to the theater. This
could've easily been a TV movie, but maybe Recess deserved a film
adaptation to the big screen. While some of the fun has deteriorated,
there is still some there that will most likely never go away. The
scenes in the treehouse were still as fun as they'll ever be.

Starring: Rickey D'Shon Collins, Jason Davis, James Woods, Paul Wilson,
Ashley Johnson, Andrew Lawrence, and Dabney Coleman. Directed by: Chuck
Sheetz.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a likeable cartoon feature for both parents and children because it
moves along and holds your attention.  Fortunately, no one bursts out
singing, but the oldies background music is a plus.  James Woods does a
fine
job as the voice of the baddie.  NOTE : Have never seen the TV show so am
judging the film on its own.

<|_=00=_|>
Recess:School's Out is one of the biggest surprises I had recently
while watching films, for I found it bright, colourful and very
entertaining. Yes, it's a kids' movies, but adults will like some of
the voice actors and the music. Sure, the story is a little
forgettable, and there are some slow parts, but the feel-good nature of
the film compensates. The animation is very good, and is moreover true
to the style of animation in the TV series. The script is quite funny,
my favourite line being "I have a fat saggy butt, which I like to
scratch every hour on the hour". The voice cast breathe life to a
likable host of characters, and are fantastic, the obvious standout
being James Woods in a wonderful performance of Dr Benedict. The music
is great, and Mike has a remarkably good singing voice. There are some
very funny moments like anything to do with Randall and Ms Finster, and
the fight at the end. All in all, engaging and entertaining, more
reared at kids, but still likable for adults too. I honestly wasn't
expecting it to be as good as it was. 8/10 Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>
Recess: School's Out (2001): Dir: Chuck Sheetz / Voices: James Woods,
Dabney Coleman, Andy Lawrence, Melissa Joan Hart, Peter MacNicol: Based
on the Saturday morning cartoon about the reckless boys of the school
ground. Animation regarding freedom within its view of recess. School
is closing for the summer but it is believed that an alien invasion is
upon them when the principal disappears. This leads to a ridiculous
climax. Director Chuck Sheetz does his best but the animation is on the
same low level as South Park. James Wood voices Dr. Benedict wishes to
take over the elementary school. Dabney Coleman voices the principal
who tells of Benedict's nasty past. Those two adult characters actually
carry their scenes effectively until the idiotic third act. The kids
are elevated beyond a level one can identify. They throw themselves
into danger that no normal kid would dare do and that isn't counting
the implausible elements. Yes, this is a kids animation but certainly
not the best in that league. Other voices include Andy Lawrence and
Melissa Joan Hart who won't likely brag about this film on their next
awards appearance. Although a message may exit, it seems more
determined to sell a cartoon that had no quality to begin with.
Children may enjoy this film but it is hardly engaging entertainment as
oppose to something by Pixar. This animation has all the creativity of
dog barf. Score: 3 / 10
