
Road to Perdition, a movie undeservedly overlooked at that year Oscars
is the second work of Sam Mendes (and in my opinion his best work), a
director who three years before won Oscar for his widely acclaimed but
controversial American Beauty. This is a terrific movie, and at the
same time ultimately poignant and sad.

It's a story of a relatively wealthy and happy family from outward
appearance during difficult times of Depression when the, Michael
Sullivan, a father of two children, played by great Tom Hanks (I'm not
his admirer but ought to say that) is a hit-man for local mafia boss,
played by Paul Newman. His eldest son, a thirteen years boy Michael
Sullivan Jr., perfectly played by young Tyler Hoechlin, after years of
blissful ignorance finds out what is his father job and on what money
their family live. Prompted by his curiosity and his aspiration to know
truth he accidentally becomes a witness of a murder, committed by John
Rooney, son of his father boss. Such discovery strikes an innocent soul
and it caused numerous events that changed his life forever. The
atmosphere of the period, all the backgrounds and decorations are
perfectly created, editing and cinematography are almost flawless while
the story is well written. But the main line of the movie, the most
important moments and points of the movie and the key factor of the
movie success are difficult father-son relations in bad times. They are
shown so deeply, strong and believable. Tom Hanks does excellent and
has one of the best performances of his career in a quite unusual role
for him and all acting across the board is superb. Finally worth to
mention a very nice score by Paul Newman and in the result we get an
outstanding work of all people involved in making this beautiful (but
one more time sad) masterpiece. I believe Road to Perdition belongs to
greatest achievements of film-making of this decade and undoubtedly one
of the best films of the year.

My grade 10 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>

Many have either hated, loved, or been let down by this film. Hype does
terrible things to the best and worst of things. Most of the reasons i
have
heard for not liking this film are ridiculous. Let me just tell you, if
you
have not seen it yet, go see it. Even if for some reason you don't think
its
amazing, it will be among the best films you have seen of the year
anyways.
Road to Perdition is a beautiful movie, both visually and in performance.
Every actor here is deserving of acclaim and Academy attention, mainly
Jude
Law. Any emotional detachment is intentional; It is a tragic story, one of
betrayal, love, bonds, and revenge.  There is no doubt this film will
become
a classic. Don't dare compare it with Godfather: this is a GANGSTER film,
not a MAFIA movie! Godfather will never be surpassed, so don't compare to
it. Road to Perdition as of now is the leading Best Picture Oscar
contender.
Unlike past years, it deserves it.
<|_=00=_|>

This couldn't have been better. The strong restraints on Mike Sullivan's
expressions couldn't have been portrayed in any other way. Tom Hanks
delivers the best performance of his career. Young Tyler Hoechlin drives
an
emotional wheel; playing the basis character for the story. And veteran
Paul
Newman gives one of his best character performances in a long time.

This film is based on a bold graphic novel by Max Allan Collins and
Richard
Piers Rayner. This is a father/son story which basically employs the two
candidates solely unfit for the roles. Mike Sullivan had no father as a
child, so John Rooney took him in. Although a generous man, Mr. Rooney
involved himself in organized crime. Therefore, the debt of Sullivan was
only to be paid off in involving himself in the business. Now, Sullivan
has
a wife and two children and is trying to keep his children safe, but at
the
same time pay back his boss. The events to follow, will test Sullivan's
loyalty and embrace his family's fate.

With a great adaptation by David Self, the dialogue comes out seldomly,
but
yet very virtuous. The story unfolds in a beautiful 1930's setting
(Brilliant Art Direction by Richard L. Johnson & Nancy Haigh) covered with
a
dark rainy (snow on the ground) exterior. Driving the story, is Thomas
Newman's wonderful Irish score, settling in only when necessary.

But the most important technical element in the film is Conrad L. Hall's
beautiful photography. This is some of the best cinematography I've seen;
and I watch a lot of films. The scene when Mike and Michael are in the
car,
entering Chicago is quite impressive. The shot starts at the front of the
car, revealing Mike(Hanks) through the windshield. It subsequently dollys
around to the side of the car, to see Michael(Hoechlin) awakening and
peering out his side window. As it continues, it trucks sideways and
dollys
back, completely around the car and reveals a gorgeous scenic 1930's
Chicago.

With a great cast and crew, the principle man creates a brazenly amazing
film. I'm talking about Sam Mendes, who made his feature film debut in
1999
with American Beauty. (won him various awards) Before American Beauty,
Mendes worked as a play director for the British Theater, but decided that
he wanted to move on saying that there was nothing new for him in theater.
With only two films, Sam Mendes has marked himself in my book as one of
the
great directors (In a list of about twenty-five).

The film illuminates a brazen genre that has its hits and misses and
expresses the true theme brilliantly. The photography, acting and story is
phenominal. I'm still waiting for Scorcesee's Gangs of New York, but for
now, I'm fully confident in saying that this is the "Best Film of the
Year".
Considering it's competition (Signs, Insomnia, Minority Report) thats a
strong statement. 
<|_=00=_|>
Acting

This film is a very well acted film. I will say that the performances 
are slightly weak at times; but for the most part, the acting is very 
good. The only actor that blew me away with his performance was Jude 
Law as Harlen Maguire. He was incredible! Tom Hanks seemed alittle 
unsure at at a few points throughout the film but he too was 
incredible. Paul Newman, good as always. 

Cinematography

This is what made the movie a masterpiece (and I rarely use that word). 
Conrad Hall is a true genius. If at any point in the movie you were to 
pause it, you will see the delicately crafted work of this man. He sets 
up every shot so that nothing is left out. When the camera is still, 
there is a postcard like quality to the screen. When the camera is 
moving, every shot is planned to understated perfection. But it doesn't 
stop there. Conrads choice of colors and contrast between light and 
dark settings is a work of art. The way he lights the set is some of 
the most amazing lighting work I've seen. His work on this movie made 
it what it is. This movie is at the top of the list for best 
Cinematography with LOTR, Black Hawk Down, Hero, CTHD, Moulin Rouge, 
and Vertigo.

Story

People will say this movie is a 1930s gangster flick but, I believe 
they missed the point of the movie. It is a love story about a hit-man 
who fails in trying to protect his son from the life he chose. It is a 
brilliantly crafted story that unfolds into a beautiful bond between 
two people who have nothing but each other. The screen Writing is 
worthy of an Oscar.

Music

Thomas Newman conducts a sad but hopeful score to intensify this sad 
but hopeful story. The music is some of the most beautiful and moving 
scores I've herd. 

Direction

Sam Mendes is a new director with a feel of an experienced director. 
The symbols he uses and the performances he gets from his actors is a 
rarity in todays film-making world. I will be on the lookout for the 
next Sam Mendes Film.

10/10 one of the most moving and beautiful movies I've ever seen.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved so much about this movie...the time taken to develop the
characters, the attention to detail, the superb performances, the
stunning lighting and cinematography, the wonderful soundtrack...

It has a combined intensity and lightness of touch that won't work for
anyone who wants the typical fast-paced action flick. If we lived in
Elizabethan days, I'd say this movie's a bit like a Shakespearean
tragedy. But since we don't, let's say it's more like a Drama-Suspense
movie.

The plot is simple, but the story is complex. The movie is intelligent
in the way relationships and issues are explored. Much of the story is
shown rather than told, which I find makes it more subtle and moving -
and which also works well for a story based on a comic book (or graphic
novel). At times I felt I was actually there in the 1930s, part of this
story - there was such a realistic yet dream-like quality in the style
of its telling.

I don't often prefer movies to the books they were based upon, but in
this case I do. (Though I did enjoy the book too.) I've bought the DVD,
which is great because it has some wonderful deleted scenes and
insightful commentary.

(I also took my little cousin, who's a little younger than the boy in
the movie, to see it after I saw it for the first time, because he has
issues at home and I wanted to use this as a way of starting a
discussion on father-son issues with him. He loved it - and the
discussion.)
<|_=00=_|>
Conrad Hall went out with a bang. The great film photographer finished
his illustrious career with this movie before passing on. He did
himself proud as this is one of the best-looking crime films you'll
ever see.

Of course, the acting ain't bad when you have Tom Hanks and Paul Newman
playing the leads! The amount of action in here is just right, too: not
too much; not too little.

None of the characters in here, frankly, are "good guys" as Hanks is a
professional hit-man for town boss Newman. Hanks' only redeeming
quality is not wanting his young son to wind up a killer like him,
although he does teach him how to be the getaway man in robberies! Huh?

As good as the acting is and as interesting as the story is, the real
star of this film is cinematographer Hall, who paints scene after
beautiful scene with his lens. His work is just awesome.
<|_=00=_|>
I f you thought Sam Mendes' first film, the much heralded American
BEAUTY was a movie with style to spare, wait until you see his highly
anticipated second effort, the unrelentingly grim 30's gangster
melodrama ROAD TO PERDITION. Some critics have hailed this new movie as
a worthy successor to THE GODFATHER, a rash judgment made by several
reviewers taken with Mr. Mendes' extraordinary technical prowess. If
the mechanics of movie making are what make a picture great, then yes,
ROAD TO PERDITION is a distant cousin to THE GODFATHER in terms of what
it achieves in cinematography, editing, music scoring and sound. What
it doesn't have is a resonance that all great stories and some very
rare movies have that stay with the viewer long after the experience of
reading or seeing it is over. As with American BEAUTY, there is a cold,
distancing feel to this movie, despite some very tense scenes involving
paternal love, loyalty and betrayal.

This story of a hit man (Tom Hanks) and his relationship to a surrogate
father - figure who is also his boss, an elderly Irish mob leader (Paul
Newman) , seems to have been culled from innumerable gangster movies of
years past. The father /son motif that hangs over this picture is so
heavy handed in its treatment that there is not much room for
spontaneity ; the entire enterprise has been very carefully wrought ,
and nearly all the dialog is delivered with an air of great portent :
this is obviously a gangster film , hence the requisite amount of
violence and bloodshed , but the film is nearly devoid of any humor to
speak of ; only in scenes involving a young boy driving a getaway car
in a cunningly edited montage is there any sense of lightheartedness to
leaven the pervasive sense of doom.

That being said , I have nothing but the highest praise for the
stunning look of this film ; indeed , it is not an overstatement to say
that this is one of the most beautifully photographed and designed
movies I have ever seen. Veteran cameraman Conrad Hall will very likely
win another Oscar for his work here . The production 's sets and
costumes are just as exemplary ; in fact , the entire film is a
technical marvel. Mr. Mendes continues to astonish with his vivid use
of color, and he and Mr. Hall again make very dramatic use of red blood
splattered against pale colored walls , all the more effective and
disconcerting due to the preponderance of blacks, blues and grays that
dominate the movie's color scheme.

If I have failed to duly note the acting , it is not because the actors
do not purport themselves ably ; everyone in the film is top notch,
with special mention going to the two malevolent bad guys : Daniel
Craig is the classic "man you love to hate", the spoiled, impulsive son
of Newman's gangster father ; and an almost unrecognizable Jude Law as
an especially slimy miscreant who goes on pursuit of Hanks and his son
and figures very importantly in the film's riveting second half. But
acting in a movie this dazzling is bound to take a back seat to the
photographic fireworks on display here. If a Rolls-Royce was a movie ,
I've no doubt it would look like ROAD TO PERDITION.
<|_=00=_|>

This is one of the best made movies from 2002. Maybe it is not the best
movie, but it looks the best, has great acting and is directed perfectly by
Sam Mendes, who debuted with 'American Beauty'.

It tells the story of a gangster named Michael Sullivan (Tom Hanks) who is
seen by his son (Tyler Hoechlin) on one of his jobs. Michael's boss, John
Rooney (Paul Newman), thinks things will be okay but his jealous son Connor
Rooney (Daniel Craig) sets both his father and Michael up, leading to the
death of Michael's wife (Jennifer Jason Leigh) and second son. Michael
thinks Rooney is responsible and Rooney has to choose for himself and sends
a hit-man Harlen Maguire (Jude Law) to finish the job. Since Michael is a
respected man within the organization he tries to win some friends who can
help him including mob boss Frank Nitti (Stanley Tucci).

In a way 'Road to Perdition' is a standard gangster movie but it is so well
made you almost can not see that. This movie is good in its production
design, art direction, sound, music and most of all in its cinematography.
All these elements are able to surprise and create suspense although the
outcome is pretty certain. That Hoechlin is not a annoying kid and Hanks,
Law and Newman know how to act helps, of course.

Based on a comic this movie is so much better than you would expect and
although it has it flaws it belongs to the better movies in the genre.
Sometimes there are events where you realize you have seen it so many times
before, but for some reason it also feels fresh at the same time. The scenes
between the adult Hanks and the child Hoechlin help in that area. See this
movie that will look familiar at times but is totally new on a lot of
areas.
<|_=00=_|>

`Road to Perdition' is a rocky road of revenge and reconciliation,
punctuated by some gorgeous Conrad Hall cinematography. Tom Hanks is a
1930's mob hit man whose 12 year-old son sees him commit a murder. The rest
of Director Sam Mendes' (`American Beauty') film is the boy's coming to
terms with that knowledge. Paul Newman plays a `godfather,' a father to his
errant son and like a father to Hanks.

Laced throughout are 3 father-son relationships, which seem to move toward
the violent ends reserved for mobsters. Hanks' son is ambivalent about his
dad, whom he seems to adore yet hold accountable for his crimes. Newman's
son is like Sonny Corleone, too loose to be in charge and no heir apparent;
Hanks owes his lifestyle to Newman-all these relationships are subsumed by
the business needs of the larger organization.

This is noir with a dark palette, costuming in clothes metaphorically
heavy,
and sounding often as stylized and minimal as the murders Hanks commits.
`Road to Perdition' lacks the grandeur of Coppola's `Godfather' epic, but
it
succeeds in evoking an old-testament judicial system where eye meets eye
and
tooth savages tooth. The revenge motif is too dominant to let the film rest
on the promising father-son motif.

Hanks' son learns about morality and decides about following in his
father's
footsteps.  Hanks gives another controlled performance, and Paul Newman
lets
us know there is room for one more powerful screen godfather.

<|_=00=_|>
Frankly, this movie has gone over the heads of most of its detractors.

The opposite of perdition (being lost) is salvation (being saved) and
this movie is one of a very few to deal with those two concepts. The
movie also explores the love and disappointments that attend the
father-son relationship. It should be noted at the outset that none of
these are currently fashionable themes.

The premise is that the fathers in the move, hit-man Michael Sullivan
(Tom Hanks) and his crime boss John Rooney (Paul Newman), love their
sons and will do anything to protect them. But Rooney's son Connor is
even more evil than the rest. He kills one of Rooney's loyal soldiers
to cover up his own stealing from his father. When Connor learns that
Sullivan's son Michael witnessed it, he mistakenly kills Sullivan's
other son (and Sullivan's wife) in an attempt to silence witnesses.

Sullivan decides he wants revenge at any price, even at the terribly
high price of perdition. Rooney, who in one scene curses the day Connor
was born, refuses to give up his son Connor to Sullivan, and hires a
contract killer named Maguire (Jude Law) to kill Sullivan and his son.
So Rooney joins his son Connor on the Road to Perdition.

For the rest of the movie, accompanied by his surviving son young
Michael, Sullivan pursues Connor Rooney down the Road to Perdition, and
Maguire pursues Sullivan. When Sullivan confronts Rooney in a Church
basement, and demands that he give up Connor because Connor murdered
his family, Rooney says - "Michael, there are only murderers in this
room,.., and there's only one guarantee, none of us will see Heaven."
As the movie ends, somewhat predictably, one character is saved and one
character repents.

I'm not a big Tom Hanks fan, but he does step out of character to play
hit-man Sullivan convincingly, giving a subtle and laconic performance.
Newman does well as the old Irish gangster Rooney, showing a hard edge
in his face and manner, his eyes haunted by Connor's misdeeds. Jude Law
plays Maguire in a suitably creepy way. Tyler Hoechlin plays Young
Michael naturally and without affectation.

The cinematography constantly played light off from darkness, echoing
the themes of salvation and perdition. The camera drew from a palette
of greens and greys. The greys belonged to the fathers and the urban
landscapes of Depression era Illinois. The greens belonged to the
younger sons and that State's rural flatlands. Thomas Newman's lush,
sonorous and haunting music had faint Irish overtones and was played
out in Copland-like arrangements. The sets were authentic mid-Western
urban - factories, churches. The homes shone with gleaming woodwork.

The excellence of the movie lies in its generation of a unique feeling
out of its profound themes, distinctive acting, and enveloping music
and cinematography. The only negative was a slight anti-gun message
slipped into the screenplay y, the movie's only nod to political
correctness.

I give this movie a10 out of 10; in time it will be acknowledged as a
great film.
