

Throughout my life I was raised on the beautiful animation from the
'wonderful world of Disney'.  Even as an adult I continued to love the
stories and wonderful animation that set Disney apart from the rest.  But
the recent years have seen a huge decline not only in the animation
department, but in storyline as well.  It now seems, with this movie in
particular, to be caught in an avalanche of lousy animation, overused puns
and cheap innuendo.  It may amuse a 5 year old, but for anyone that ever
appreciated the quality that was once a Disney trademark will be sorely
disappointed!  I had hopes with the beauty and quality of movies such as
'The Little Mermaid', 'Beauty and the Beast' and 'Aladdin', but those
apparently were the last gasps of any beauty in artistic and story
quality!
This one must surely have sent Walt Disney spinning in his grave to see
how
the current regime has cheapened everything he worked so hard to build!
The
likes of 'Snow White', 'Pinnochio, 'Bambi' and those like it are
apparently
gone for good!  How sad to see such a grand art form bite the dust!  Shame
on the animators of this one!
<|_=00=_|>
I'm typing this as the movie is playing on DVD. And the kids seem to
like watching it. But then, they're young and animation appeals in
general. 

Still, we try to watch with them... and I happen to love animation
myself, having some background in cartoon-drawing. Everything Pixar?
Fantastic. Old Disney? Sure, serve it up. Along with the Looney Tunes,
old Tom & Jerry, etc.

This, though, is a sleepwalk of a feature in so many ways. Not in the
animation, which isn't bad (though not much special, in context of
what's out there). Nor in the music, which is decent enough. 

The writing, however, is horrible. I can't imagine anyone
characterizing this dialogue as "funny"... it's an endless stream of
clichés. And the story line, while thin at the core, is unnecessarily
complicated at the fringes. The twists don't feel like twists. They
feel like fumbling shortcuts used to navigate a nest of tangled
details. 

I find myself astounded at how (a) such a venerable studio as Disney
gets behind this kind of project (b) how they manage to attract so much
high-profile voice talent and (c) how those actors stomach saying these
lines, given that every one of them has acted in much better stuff than
this pap. I guess a paycheck helps.

But still, ultimately this is a movie that shouldn't have been made.

P.S. One other thing... one can't help but feel like this is one of
those animation movies meant to appeal to a demographic. Like, say, the
vast swath of middle America that loves country music. It's worth
noting that the other failed animated movies of recent years have all
attempted to do the same kind of feel-good, blatant targeting. 

Brother Bear... Fox and the Hound 2... there are others I can't think
of at the moment. Why does it fail? First, because the movies by nature
end up offering stereotypes of the demographic they're targeting.
Second, because they end up being style over substance. The plot is
just a vehicle to deliver the caricature. And last, because it's
ridiculous to assume that great story lines don't transcend the
cultural distinctions. 

Do the studio marketers really think, for instance, that the Nascar set
and Manhattan kids alike can't "get" Monsters Inc or Toy Story on a
shared level? The only movie of recent years that seemed to beat that
rap was "Cars." And that was because it was a good story, not stuck in
being pedantic or playing to any one crowd.
<|_=00=_|>
The 44th animated Disney "classic" is just one among other good
examples of how Disney went downhill during these last years.

It's sad to see how Disney (which made so many timeless classics)
declined that much. What happened to the traditional hand-drawn
classics? All this CGI stuff only ruined Disney! "Home On The Range"
isn't the worst Disney movie ever, but it is side by side with their
worst movies.

This movie has lots of irritating moments, but the worst of all is a
scene in a bar - one of the most ridiculous scenes in a movie! The
"humor" of this movie isn't the classic humor which is really funny.
What we see here is nothing but annoying, unconventional and pointless
modern humor.

This movie has some nice backgrounds of the Old West, but only a few.
The characters are very ugly in general and so terribly designed that
it's impossible not to feel annoyed by them.

Stupid situations, terrible designs, very low picture quality, awful
animation and boring songs are more weak points of this disgrace.

The characters in general are annoying. The only characters I liked
were the little yellow birds, the little pigs and Rusty the Dog. But
even these characters can't be compared with the beloved and legendary
Disney characters of the great classics from the past.
<|_=00=_|>

This is the most dispiriting Disney release since the dark days of the
Black
Cauldron.  The laughs were strained and ill-timed.  While the string of
quality Disney movies carefully crafted humor aimed at adults as well as
children, this one relied almost exclusively on belch jokes and
inappropriate (not to mention inane) sexual innuendo.  Seemingly undecided
whether it was to be Emperor's-New-Groove-goes-country or
South-Park-in-the-West, it miserably fails its audience both young and
old.

While Judi Dench and Jennifer Tilly struggle in vain to carry the film
with
some attention to character, it never ceases to amaze that Roseanne --
purportedly a former stand-up comic -- has such leaden delivery and a
complete lack of comic timing.  Obviously, unless she is bellowing at
another character, there is simply no way that her talented co-stars can
create any rapport.  From her first words on screen, Roseanne sinks this
movie like a stone.

A total waste of some talented co-stars.

Please, please, let this be the final death rattle of the Eisner era.  It
is
bad enough that Michael Eisner has ruined practically every character
through badly-thought-out and badly-realized straight-to-video sequels,
but
to completely destroy the bedrock of the Disney empire -- animated
theatrical releases -- is unforgiveable.

This one only gets a 2 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>

While the film wasn't a total dud a la "Treasure Planet," it's certainly
no
"Little Mermaid," or even "Emperor's New Groove," which I consider the
best
of the latest crop of cartoons for its hip sensibility.  "Home on the
Range"
suffers from an unoriginal and unfunny script, although it  is not
tediously
poor or Saturday-morning-cartoon simple.  To begin, there is an
overabundance of plastic-playset ready characters (literally a whole farm
full): the trio of bounty-hunting heifers played by Roseanne Barr, Judi
Dench, and Jennifer Tilly; the yodeling cattle rustler Alameda Slim (Randy
Quaid) and his three bumbling nephews; the wannabe-hero steed Buck (Cuba
Gooding Jr-- who ok'ed that name?); two lascivious bulls; a buffalo
bouncer;
a peg-legged jackrabbit; and a whole farmyard of pigs, chickens, a goose,
and a surly goat.  Oh, and Steve Buscemi shows up too, as a caricature of
himself in a purple suit and a pencil moustache.  Estelle Harris and
Patrick
Warburton (so memorable in "Toy Story 2" and "Groove," respectively), had
brief cameos as well.  There's no time for any kind of character
development
(not even with a sacred Disney "I Want" song), and the thinnest of
premises
has the cows hunting for Slim in time to get the reward money to save
their
farm.  I was surprised not by the simplicity but by the unnecessary,
unfunny
bawdiness of the script (the movie opens with a shot of the Barr cow's
ample
udders, with her voiceover dryly remarking "Yep, they're real.  Quit
staring."  Crossdressing, pee, and fat man jokes follow.)  Alan Menken
wrote
a few snappy but unmemorable tunes (none of which are sung by the
characters, but by the likes of Bonnie Raitt and k.d. lang) and a
Coplandesque score.
The film redeems itself in its art direction, which bursts with Disney
color
and retro UPA-style angularity.  Especially in the opening scenes, a
multiplane effect is used to further flatten, rather than deepen, this
storybook world.  It's an interesting and visually engaging concept that
works well for the story.  Backgrounds are intricately detailed with
drybrush effects that call to mind "Sleeping Beauty;" if that film's art
director, Eyvind Earle, had been called upon to paint the rocks and buttes
of the American desert, it would have looked very much like this.  It's
quite stunning, actually, and the best art direction since 1996's "The
Hunchback of Notre Dame."
I especially appreciated a background detail in the  town scene: one of
the
buildings was actually only a facade, held up by supports like on a
backlot
Western set.  Similarly, sooner or later, not just critics but parents too
will demand the Disney animated features to show that they have something
behind that venerable name.  "Home on the Range" will tide us over for
now,
but a renaissance of Disney is getting to be overdue. The Disney animation
department (what's left of it), like it or not, needs to take a cue from
Pixar and strive for family-friendly originality if they hope to maintain
the integrity of the brand. ***


<|_=00=_|>
It has been nearly five years since the release of this recent
traditionally animated Disney flick, made in a CGI-dominated time, and
I definitely didn't even hear about it at the time of its release. It
clearly didn't turn out to be a box office smash, which is probably why
I never heard about it (unlike "The Incredibles", the hugely successful
CGI-animated feature released the same year), and I don't think I knew
about it until I saw it mentioned in a book about animated films a
couple years ago. After seeing "Home on the Range", I can definitely
see why it tanked.

In the old west, Maggie, Mrs. Calloway, and Grace are three cows, all
with very different traits, who live on a dairy farm in Nebraska called
Patch of Heaven, owned by an elderly widow named Pearl Gesner. Pearl
owes a lot of money, which she unfortunately can't pay, so it appears
she will soon lose her farm, and it will be auctioned off! So, the
three cows decide to set out to try and save their home. They must
track down an outlaw, a cattle rustler named Alameda Slim, who uses a
false identity to claim many properties in the state, and hypnotizes
cows with his yodeling! On their adventure, they meet others on the
same mission, to try and stop Alameda Slim, and due to the different
traits of the three cows, they don't always get along, with conflict
between Maggie and Mrs. Calloway, which obviously won't make it easier! 

Others have already mentioned the lacklustre plot of this film, and I'm
going to have to agree wholeheartedly. The plot pretty much completely
failed to interest me, since it's very simple and forgettable, and the
real lack of humour doesn't help. I only rarely found amusing moments,
and kept a straight face for almost the entire thing. For example,
there's some weak slapstick, which may appeal to kids, but probably not
many others. I found that the funniest parts involved Alameda Slim's
dimwitted nephews, parts such as them not being able to recognise their
uncle after they've seen him put his simple disguise on, but they are
very minor characters. Not only is the plot forgettable, so are the
gags and most of the characters. Basically, the film was put together
fairly simply, and probably could have been more focused. I found
myself indifferent to pretty much everything about it, and I'm sure I'm
not alone.

It looks like this film marked the end of a very long era, the era of
traditionally animated theatrical Disney movies, which began in 1937
with "Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs" and went on with the company
long after Walt Disney's death in 1966. Through those decades, so many
classics were made in the franchise, so it's unfortunate that they
couldn't finish with a much more noteworthy picture. Instead, they
finished with a dull one, one which is probably much more appealing to
kids than adults, unlike probably most of them, which can be fun for
all ages. "Home on the Range" reminds me a lot of "Rock-A-Doodle", a
1991 animated film from Don Bluth, and not one of his more popular
efforts. Both are lacklustre animated films with anthropomorphic
animals, ones which are basically for the kids, and I've personally
found to be very unmemorable.
<|_=00=_|>
where did it all go because it certainly wasn't spent on the animation.
It was just your regular Saturday morning cartoon animation. I guess
most of the money must have been spent on the stars who played the
voices. Since Rosanne's been out of work lately, she probably asked for
a pretty penny to do this.

It didn't have any fun songs that stand out in my mind. Plus, the plot
was very generic. And it needed more animals. The main animals were
cows, a rabbit, and a horse. There's also a goat, pigs, buffalo, and
chickens, but they weren't shown a lot. One of the reasons people liked
the story of Finding Nemo so much was all the different animals used to
tell the story.

FINAL VERDICT: I guess 5 year olds will like it, but I didn't think it
was too great.
<|_=00=_|>
The critics were right about this movie that it wasn't worth the time
or movie to see it. This movie might have been one of the reason to
shut down this ink animation dept. What was the purpose of this movie?
Was it based on cows or Rosanne Barr? They should have featured her in
a live action movie. There was not much of a story and it didn't make
sense. A yodeling outlaw riding a bison stealing cattle right from
under ranchers who don't have enough sense to take care of them. There
is not one cow hand, cowboy, or cow dog in sight. Thank goodness, there
are no predators either. Maybe this is a reason why the cows follow
this outlaw like sheep, they never heard howling before nor are they
ever sang to like one of the cows was by the old lady of pleasant
valley.
<|_=00=_|>
From the moment the film starts, we know it's not going to be good, but
the more I watch it now, the more cringe-worthy and unwatchable it
gets.

Everything from the animation style to the characters and to the plot,
is just an absolute train wreck. There is nothing redeemable about this
picture. Pending loss of property, kidnapping of the cattle and Pearl's
and the dairy cows' relationship as "family" makes me want to retch out
of pity for how much fuss they're kicking up over nothing. 

Even as a child when I watched it the first time, I had to skip some
parts because they were just too silly for me. When you compare it to
Finding Nemo for example, a much more dramatic picture with depth,
lovable characters and outstanding dialog, you'll see what I mean.

It's not even one of those "so bad it's good" movies. Just plain
unbearable.
<|_=00=_|>
this movie has got to be the worst ever! it's annoying, stupid and
pathetic. the STUPID story is this: a farm called "little patch of
heaven" (give me a break) is going to be closed down if they can't pay
for it, so 3 cows look for a bandit who who yodels and steals bulls
(it's been a while since I've seen it) which is beyond stupid. In the
end, the capture him and get to keep the farm. Tipical Disney. The
characters are bad, the only character I like is Buck. It is PG, 76
minutes and has the voice of Cuba Gooding Jr.

STUPID piece of crap. Avoid at all costs! I'd give it a 1/10. Only see
it if you like westerns and bad singing cows, otherwise don't buy even
if it's $5.00!
