

`Full Frontal' is maybe my greatest deception this year. Directed by
Steven
Soderbergh and having such a cast, I would not believe that the film could
be such a crap. There are lots of characters, but none of them is well
developed. Therefore, the viewer sees many famous actors and actresses on
the screen and is not able to understand who they are, what are their
motives, where they are. The plot is very confused, and some actors and
actresses perform more than one role. The image and photography are
horrible, using a kind of fake Dogma '95 style. I do not know how such
talented people could be part of such a mess: friendship or big money?
Anyway, a huge waste of talented people and of my time and money, in a
film
that never works. My vote is three.

Title (Brazil): `Full Frontal'

<|_=00=_|>

Director Steven Soderbergh calls Full Frontal the unofficial sequel to Sex
Lies and Videotape, his groundbreaking 1989 film. Most everyone else has
called it a mess, or useless waste of time. One prominent American critic
even suggested this might be the worst film ever by a major director. I
can't say I agree with the harsh criticism. While I'm not exactly sure what
the movie is about, and vast passages of it simply do not work, I do think
it is a film with great passion and energy. Soderbergh has left behind the
slickness of Ocean's 11 and Erin Brockovich and made an experimental film
that bristles with inventiveness. Not everything works, but there are
several nice performances, particularly by David Hyde Pierce and Catherine
Keener and I enjoyed watching an A-list director stray from the tried and
true and explore rockier ground.
<|_=00=_|>

I found Full Frontal to be a rejuvenating film. I am so use to seeing
films
that are so structured and plot is thrown at you, with this film I didn't
know what was going to happen next.  I went in to the viewing of this
without knowing what to expect, I can say I didn't have high expectations
about it.  I didn't let the knowledge of Steven Soderbergh as a director
influence how I began watching it. I went in with an open mind and I
think
you really need to in order to get the ideas presented.  This film took a
risk by using well known actors, brilliant actors, making the public
believe
that this would be a film like all of the others.  For me, it was great
to
see the versatility. I was glad that there was some true acting going on,
there was an enormous amount of truth coming from each artist on the
screen.
To see truth and honesty and open hearts on screen allowed me to really
embrace this film.  Some people may say they disliked it because they
didn't
have any sympathy for any of the characters, well I think that it doesn't
really matter if you do or not. This film was a day in the life of people
who are all in some way intertwined and are all brought together for a
brief
moment.  I feel that it is trying to portray the truth of each person and
if
that was the idea, Steven accomplished something great.  I have only
rented
it but I intend to go out and buy it.  It is a good resource for actors
searching for what truth honestly looks like on screen. Full Frontal is a
good exposure of the soul really bringing each characters truth out in to
the open.
<|_=00=_|>

This is an exercise from Steven Soderberg and that's all it is. You sit
through an hour and a half of conversations that normally entitle "you know"
at the beginning and end of every sentence to try and make the "film" more
real. It juxtaposes two "films"..one containing Francesca(Julia Roberts) and
Calvin(Blair Underwood)(this filmed in 35 mm)as Catherine and Nicholas
talking about a black actor's status in "white hollywood".This leads to
Calvin being opposite Brad Pitt(playing himself)in a film directed by David
Fincher. This film,come to find out is in turn a doc directed by a man who's
face is covered by a block(it's Soderberg). The "real film" (which is lensed
in digital)contains Calvin and Francesca as well as other characters and
their lives in Los Angeles. The film's ending totally popped my already
deflating balloon and showed that my time and patience was wasted. The
dialogue meanders trying to show real people talking about real things. I
thought it was a hollywood insiders film cared only by those who are
hollywood insiders. I thought the characters never had direction and were
simply annoying. There were moments it looked like the film might go
somewhere,but unfortunately it gets bogged down with that "phony film" keeps
coming into the middle of the "real" movie. I just sat there trying not to
collapse in my desire to turn the dvd off. Oh well,I'm done with this
review,but if you watch this wasteland of wasted time beware..I warned
you.
BOMB/*****
<|_=00=_|>
I was surprised by how much I actually enjoyed FULL FRONTAL. I'm not a
big Steven Soderbergh fan and only heard bad things about this film so
when I rented it, I was expecting more of Soderbergh's pointless films,
like KAFKA, and instead was totally engrossed with the movie, the
characters and mostly the hypnotic style and direction. Aside from the
ending (the party scenes) and the unconvincing storyline with David
Hyde Pierce, I liked everything else. I was mesmerized from beginning
to end.

The great thing is how quiet this movie is. Movies are so noisy these
days, mostly in order to numb people's mind to hide the fact they don't
have anything more than visuals, watching FULL FRONTAL was like a
cinematic vacation. 

Beautifully shot, clever and at times engrossing (the Catherine keener
storyline was my favorite). It's sad to see few people "got " this
film.
<|_=00=_|>

Too dreary to work as a satire, too wrapped up in its own cleverness to
engage; this is an insubstantial vanity piece that might have been
entertaining to make but isn't much fun to watch. I'd have thought that if
Soderbergh wanted to show off, he could have come up with something better
than this collection of over-scripted (and not particularly original)
gimmicks.

It might have worked had we spent more time in the company of the
interesting peripheral characters (the theatrical Hitler, Gus the producer)
than listening to the self-absorbed droning of the others. Film students
will probably love it.


<|_=00=_|>
In Spanish there's a saying that translates: "Grow fame and go to
sleep". I think this happened with S. Soderbergh, where he took
advantage of his surprising win at the Oscars Best Director competition
and the success of his movie Erin Brockovich along with his pal Julia
Roberts and her high peak in the moment he made this movie. Without
those 2 mega successes he wouldn't convince many studios to make this
movie, and none of us would ever seen it. The box office barely went
over the movie budget.

A mix of troubled characters related all to the movie business create a
confused and complicated web of feelings, relationships, weird
behaviors and "rendevouz" that are let to almost pure improvisation by
the director, and in retrospective it sounds very interesting but we
haven't seen many movies with such a proposal maybe not because nobody
has thought about it but because it's very hard to make it successful
and achieve a fine piece of work. In this case I don't think that the
weight of Oscars and fresh success help that much in accomplishing that
nice piece of work. A very good and daring idea where all the actors
were abandon to their own choices in make up, dressing and craft
supplies. Niece piece of work... for the actors and crew who make it,
in their own private screening or party, not for us who felt it was a
waste of time and my $1 that cost renting it. There is some arrogant
smell in the air that I felt heavily since I saw for the first time Mr.
Soderbergh old fashion sort of feminine style glasses frames and it was
strongly confirmed by watching this movie.

I don't remember in recent years a movie where I start watching the
running time as early as I started with this movie: when it ran for 15
min I was already impatient, and for a good 1 hour or so I felt
uncomfortable for not knowing anything of what was happening and not
connecting but a couple of dots in the whole plot. Maybe that was the
precise goal of Soderbergh, don't know. I felt bored watching a huge
bunch of nonsense which might have make sense but at the end it didn't.
Brad Pitt was quite right at the end: I don't know who did it. We
strongly hope there's better to come from Soderbergh.
<|_=00=_|>

What as waste of energy.  Sure you could see where they wanted to go, if
it
hadn't been made a 1000 times by independants and students.  Was
Soderburgh
trying to re-create something from his "Sex, Lies..." days?
This movie can be summed up in that it was a student film made by
Hollywood
trying to be self-referential.   If you were in on the jokes and the
cameo/guest appearances then you were in on the movie, otherwise, for
most -
you're out.
Nodding and winking at your clever, in-jokes at Hollywood does not make a
movie.

What was Terence Stamp doing  there?


<|_=00=_|>

I've seen a lot of bad reviews for this movie, but personally, I liked it.
I guess the movie didn't have a definitive plot, but it was slightly
quirky,
which is a nice change of pace from the more serious films I usually
watch.
When I left the movie theater, everyone in there seemed pretty satisfied
with the film  But, everyone's entitled to their own opinion.

<|_=00=_|>

I couldn't track the characters and after 20 minutes I didn't want to track
them. I just wanted it to end--what was Soderbergh thinking?
At first I thought it was supposed to be amateurish since it was a movie
within a movie, but, when it went on and on with horrible lighting and
terrible hand-held camera work, it was enough to make one want to run out
screaming.
