
This was a pretty clever film mixing live characters and human voices
for the dogs and cats. The dubbing is extremely well-done, and so is
the humor. It's a funny story, although it displays the typical
whacked-out father, which is another political correctness feminist
agenda (mother = good; father = bad). Other than that, it is a very
entertaining film even with a bunch of silliness.

Check the cast out. How often to you see Susan Sarandon and Charleton
Heston in the same movie. Now THERE is diversity, even if it's only
their voices!

People here complain the film is too much for kids, and not adults.
Well, isn't that terrible? Imagine the nerve of these filmmakers, doing
something just for children!
<|_=00=_|>

Why can't people just let a movie be cute instead of analyzing it to death. 
Sure the plot is a bit much--cats are trying to prevent a Mr. Brody from
inventing a vaccine which will cure dog allergies--thus making dogs more
popular than cats.  With a "Mission Impossible" format dogs and cats battle
each other for domination of the world.

The plots gets carried away with itself toward the end, but who cares?

 The dog and cat agents are all good (their voices, excuse me).  Especially,
good is the voice of the persian cat, Mr. Twiggles, whose owner is
bedridden.  The housekeeper/nurse makes Mr. Twiggles' life a horror by
continually dressing him in feminine outfits which he hates.

Another favorite is Lou, the beagle puppy who is adopted by the Brody family
and is drafted as a secret agent in the war against cats.

I gave this movie 8 stars.
<|_=00=_|>

I loved this movie, from the diverse animal characters, to their human
counterparts, to the amazingly funny dialogue!  I've seen it about 10
times,
and it's still one of my favorite movies!  (and I'm no spring chicken...I'm
in my 50's)  Some animal movies aren't worth seeing more than once or
twice,
but this one is worth seeing many times!  It won't go down in history as a
classic, but it certainly puts you in a good mood and keeps you
there!

I love dogs, especially beagles, and the one in this movie ("Lou") is just
adorable!  Tobey Maguire is the perfect voice for him, and Sean Hayes is
hysterically funny as Mr. Tinkles' voice!  The writers should have gotten
several awards for the script!  Jeff Goldblum is always good, so it's no
surprise that his character, Professor Brody, suits him to a tee.  Everyone
plays off each other very well, and the storyline is original and
appealing.
I love the fact that Charlton Heston plays the voice of the mastiff at
Headquarters!  Very well cast!

I hope they do a sequel, with all the original actors & voices!  Oh yeah,
did I mention how great Susan Sarandon was, as "Ivy" ???

Bravo to all these actors, and to the director, the writers, and the
producer!  
<|_=00=_|>

Scientist Brody is working on a formula that will wipe out dog allergies,
thus making dogs the most popular pets on earth.  When the dog agent
protecting the house is kidnapped he is accidentally replaced by an
untrained puppy Lou.  Lou is trained up with the help of Butch, Peeps, Ivy
and Sam.  However with Mr Tinkles chasing the formula and Lou growing near
to his family - can the formula be protected?

This had great potential - a good plot, a really strong cast and a good
opportunity for children and adult jokes alike.  The plot delivers what it
has - a little silly but quite clever in places - but the comedy is
seriously lacking for adults.  For children there are some fart jokes and
plenty of cat and dog slapstick but there are almost no jokes for adults
that other films such as Shrek and Toy Story had in spades.

Given the cast this is very surprising - Jon Lovitz is a great voice but is
hardly used at all, the character of Mr Tinkles could have been a great Dr
Evil character, but even he is wasted.  This is a great shame as all good
children's films need to have something for adults to enjoy again.  The
great cast (Maguire, Baldwin, Clarke Duncan, Sarandon, Pantoliano, Charlton
Heston, Lovitz) is a good draw for adults but having almost nothing to
deliver for them is a big disappointment.  The only funny scenes are the
ninja cats and a handful of others but mostly it's wasted.  The human actors
are bland - Goldblum playing a scatty scientist? Surely not! That'll really
push his barriers.

Overall a disappointing film that'll please children but needed a lot more
work to keep adults entertained.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is so cute! It's all about the eternal fight between cats
and dogs. (And it's funny to notice that cats are always the bad ones)
We have famous actors as Jeff Goldblum as Professor Brody and Elizabeth
Perkins as Mrs. Brody. The famous voices are from Tobey Maguire as
Lou,Alec Baldwin as Butch and Susan Sarandon as Ivy,only to mention a
few. The story is kind of simple: Professor Brody is trying to find a
formula to cure the people's allergies to dogs, being himself one
example of an allergic person to them. The cats of course, are worried
about this,because the cure of the allergy would make dogs even more
popular among humans,making the cats rejected. The story turns around
Lou and his dog spy friends,who needs to protect the formula and also
save Lou's owners of the evil cats. Ps: The dogs have a high tech
technnology to cause all the humans jealous. ps2:Ivy,rules.
ps3:Mr.tinckles is hilarious.
<|_=00=_|>

CATS & DOGS / (2001) ** (out of four)

In "Cats & Dogs" you get a cat and mouse chase movie, except the dog
replaces the mouse, and the feline's goal is not just to catch the opponent,
but to claim world domination. 

That's a pretty weak concept for a bid-budget, special effects action film,
especially when the production features the best technology has to offer.
The movie uses more than 800 visual effects, and 200 animators, designers,
compositors, sculptors, and technicians. With so much going for it, "Cats &
Dogs" should have utilized these tools to bring a great story to life. It
does breathe life into a plot filled with energy and gusto, but it sure
isn't great. 

Unbeknownst to humans, cats and dogs have always fought for world
domination. A power-hungry Persian cat, Mr. Tinkles (wonderfully voiced by
Sean Hayes), has broken a truce between the species. He plans to lead an
attack against man's best friend. 

Jeff Goldblum stars as Professor Brody, a scientist allergic to dogs. He
conducts experiments in the basement of his house, hoping to invent a cure
for man's allergic reaction to dogs. Mr. Tinkles designates the Brody home
as ground zero for his global battle plan.

Initially, the folks at Warner Bros. considered doing the film as an
animated feature, but they finally decided on a combination of live action,
cutting-edge technology, complicated puppetry, and computer animation.

The results are splendid. Each animal has their own vivid personality,
complete with facial expressions and physical gestures. The special effects
do not overwhelm the film. Lawrence Guterman, the film's director, doesn't
exploit the amazing special effects, but focuses on creating believable
animal characters. 

Sadly, however, the sight of a talking cat eventually wears off, and that
leaves "Cats & Dogs" with little interest. It might entertain children with
high energy action and talking animals, but a movie cannot run on those
things alone. Perhaps the film could have worked as a comedy, but it lacks
any form of wit or impulse. "Cats & Dogs" thinks its concepts are funny and
entertaining enough, which is probably why it puts so little thought into
the story.  


<|_=00=_|>
Cats and Dogs was a pretty entertaining film. I will admit it I think
kids will enjoy it more than adults, but it is fun. It has a silly but
clever plot, a commendable voice cast and some decent acting in the
human cast. While there are some funny moments, there are some parts in
the middle half that are lacking slightly in comedy, and the script is
a tad weak in parts. Despite the film's short length, it goes along at
a swift pace, and the characters are at least likable. I have to say
Lou(voiced with earnest conviction by Tobey Maguire) is adorable for a
dog, and while you certainly don't want to mess with villainous feline
Mr Tinkles (Sean Hayes seems to having a whale of a time here), though
he is cute to look at. I have to say I think the best lines came from
Mr Tinkles, they were often hysterical. As I said, the voice cast do a
commendable job with the material they are given, and Jeff Goldblum and
Elizabeth Perkins turn in decent human performances as well. The
technical aspects are very well done indeed, and the music is good.
Laurence Guterman does well directing, better than he did in the
dreadful Son of the Mask four years later. All in all, not perfect, but
it is cute and has a great concept. Kids will love it, adults might.
7/10 Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>
I personally thought Cats and Dogs was really good. The espionage war
between the cats and the dogs was an inspired, if not so original idea,
and the fight scenes were hugely amusing - the ninja cats had me in
stitches, to say the least. The way Mr. Tinkles suddenly finds a way to
make his plan succeed is a little rushed - how did the fainting of his
owner suddenly change everything? There are several plot holes in this
film, and a little more explanation wouldn't have done harm. But this
film didn't try to be intelligent or gripping - it's basically the Cold
War with pets for most of the film, but with a climactic finish in
which everything is suddenly resolved and all the baddies are ruined.
Even if it is not a corkingly intelligent piece of cinema, it sure is
an amusing one, and it isn't badly done either. In fact, the climactic
finish is brilliantly done and very amusing - machine guns are replaced
by spraying machines, and bombs are replaced by spraying machines too
(you'll see what I mean). It stays funny throughout, and it is amusing
to see how all of the espionage happens behind all the humans' backs.
Even if it does make human beings out to be a bunch of idiots who could
quite easily be invaded by animals, this is still a great film which
will tickle anyone's funnybone (unless you're a cruel, heartless critic
of course...) 7/10
<|_=00=_|>

At three times during this movie I seriously considered walking out (which I
have never done). Why did I stay? I guess I hoped it would take a turn for
the better. Needless to say, it didn't... it only got worse.

I think the reason I hated this movie so much is that I wanted it to be
something else. 
I wanted an original take on this ancient rivalry, instead of the standard
"cats bad, dogs good". (Forget an original story, I just wanted a marginally
good one.) I wanted the animals to be real characters, treated with respect
and earning our emotional reactions, instead of being used as props - hurt,
tossed around, put into scary situations - to manipulate our
emotions.

That it's a "kid's movie" is no excuse. What an insult! Kids don't deserve
quality entertainment? Movies have to be dumbed down for the kid audience??

If you can handle watching a disturbing, strange, disconnected family (and
not in a good/funny way), a squirmingly bad kid actor, some very ugly cats,
sloppy editing, and as many cliches as you could ever want, then go see this
movie. There are one or two clever moments, and some of the people around me
did seem to enjoy it. But make sure you catch it on dollar
night.
<|_=00=_|>
In the town of comic book land there is a home that lives the lonely
young boy without a friend. Until one day Lou the Beagle puppy arrives
on the scene.

Set around the game of espionage, with similar themes to Mission:
Impossible, James Bond and to a great extent Austin Powers; Cats and
Dogs animates the spy game with great bravado and even greater humour.
This is a stylish and extremely witty parody that has the cat world
fighting for world domination and to see dogs put in their place,
outside in the doghouse, where humans would, as is the cat's goal, be
allergic to the canine breed and thus welcoming the feline race into
their homes.

This is a high octane fun and friendly family movie that is built
around the life of young Scotty (Alexander Pollock) and his scientist
father (Jeff Goldblum) who whilst working too hard at trying to make a
breakthrough for a cure to prevent dog allergies in humans. Unaware of
his neglect, young Scotty, as too his parents, is completely oblivious
to the fact that the parallel world that revolves around them is in
great danger of crossing the divide of talking animals and dumb humans.

Cats and Dogs is more than puppets meet Muppets; it is more than that,
even though just as entertaining, it has progressed to greater levels.
If you want to see Mr. Tinkles, the white Persian, that strangely
resembles the white cat seen in the Bond and Austin Powers movies,
giving his orders, over a grand table and log fire in his mansion. If
you want to see secret agent dogs fighting Devon Rex's ninja style, a
knife throwing Russian Blue hair-balling big style and a gigantic army
of mice reading an instruction manual, all at once, on how to concur
the world then this is the movie for you.

With an intelligent and comical script, good sets and capable staff,
such as Tobey Maguire, Alec Baldwin, Jon Lovitz, Michael Clark Duncan,
Susan Sarandon and the great cinema legend Charlton Heston in the
limelight, some very good special effects and plenty of spills and
action, you really cannot go wrong.

This is your typical laugh a minute family day in at the movies, and
whichever side you cheer for, you are always guaranteed to end up
stroking that funny bone until well after your sides ache.
