

Take it easy, folks !! This is only a MOVIE,
and this one is intended to be a fanciful
exaggeration from the word go. I took my
11 yo son to see it, and he had no problem
understanding that.

Isn't this movie supposed to be an extreme
comic view of the unfair world of junior high
from an underdog's point of view? Think of
The Three Stooges - did anybody take their
scripts to task? No, but everybody LAUGHED!

Better judgment triumphs in the end in most
respects, in Max Keeble's Big Move. And Max
earns respect not because he's the toughest,
but because his turnabout beats the bullies
at their own game, and because he won't let
his buddies take the rap alone.

This movie, and Shrek, See Spot Run, Cats &
Dogs, and Spy Kids, are some of the most
enjoyable movies I have seen in the last 10
months. Not since "What Women Want" or "The
Brothers" have I seen an adult movie that was
near as funny as any of these kiddie movies.
(Okay, add in "Oh, Brother, Where Art Thou".)

I only hope that overly critical attitudes
aren't congenital. 
<|_=00=_|>

Amusing for adults, a blast and a half for pre-puberty members of the
family, Max Keeble is just good junior high fun.

Resiliently taking it all in stride, Max (and friends) absorb typical 6th
grader abuse: the school yard bully, the angry principal, retaliatory ice
cream man, and a looming move out of state. Each of these "villains" play
rather cartoony. Larry Miller as always nails the dimwitted, egocentric,
greedy, fumbling principal. (He's also very good in Princess Diaries.) Noel
Fisher covers the leather jacket, wallet-chain-wearing bully role well too.

The triangle of friends, in contrast to the buffoony bad guys, hang closer
to the kinds of kids we know (or used to be).

So when Max learns that his family will suddenly be moving to Chicago, he
decides to return a few transgressions inflicted on himself and his
friends.
Ah, the sweet tingles of revenge ("Home Alone" style). "I don't just have a
plan ... I have a planetarium!!!"

And so begins a three-day extravaganza for which the bumbling bad guys are
just not ready. Eventually, Max gets more than his original bargain and
finds himself teetering precariously on the brink of a friendless abyss.

"Any kid can make a mess. It takes man to clean it up."

Some somewhat stereotypical themes are peppered tastefully with carefully
shot fun, good acting, and a strong sound track that accentuates the folly.

I simply love the scene where the school's sexy science teacher strolls
across the classroom setting each Bunsen burner a light as she passes,
simply because she is perceived to be the "hottest" teacher in the school.

Coincidentally, Alex D. Linz and Zena Grey (Max Keeble and best friend
Megan) enjoyed my particular screening from the front row.As the credits
rolled, they stood up and boogied to the soundtrack. A good time, take the
kids.

<|_=00=_|>


This movie had a lot of laughs for a younger audience, and was
entertaining. The young actors including Alex D. Linz and Zena Grey
weren't
bad. The movie wasn't boring, and kept the story moving along rather well.
This movie is a good one for around eight year olds- ten year olds, or
maybe
eleven. I give Max Keeble's Big Move a 7 out of 10. :)
<|_=00=_|>

Max Keeble. Well then. Not horrible, but definitely not the best. The
jokes
are O.K., the cast isn't too bad (where have I seen all them before?), and
the food fight was a hit. However, the little scenes between "Max" and
"Jenna" weren't very good at all. Come on, what 9th grader would actually
notice a 7th grader. Possible, not likely. It's a movie, though. I guess
the
directors can have their fun. This movie wasn't totally bad, it just needs
a
little more...something. 6 out of 10 for Max Keeble.
<|_=00=_|>

Max Keeble's Big Move was an excellent movie! I thought it was very funny
and
that even though some people cannot relate to him,it still appeals to all
ages. At my movie theater when it first came out,it was really hard to get
tickets. High school and middle schoolers were in line too. The movie and
the school it was taken in,relate very much to my middle school here. I
just
don't know what else to say but that I loved it.
<|_=00=_|>

I took my 12-year-old son at his request to the movie.  I would have to
say
he enjoyed it more than I.  It is aimed at juvenile humor and while not
bad
it has few redeeming qualities.  As many such files the kids are very
smart
and clever while all the adults are totally inept.  I will say it did have
a
good and appropriate ending.
<|_=00=_|>

Terrific kids film about a junior high student who gets tired of being
tormented and vows to get his revenge after learning that his family is
going to move away. Solid kid performances and lots of fun moments
definitely make this one worth taking the kids to. GRADE:
A
<|_=00=_|>
I think the film has to be seen for what it is - a good, fun, over the
top kids film. Don't take movies like this too seriously. If you expect
anything other than this, you will most likely be disappointed. If
you're expecting something reasonably suitable for adults, you will be
disappointed.

For those who are unaware, the film is about a boy (Max) who finds out
he's moving house & uses it to take revenge on those who have bullied
him. He then finds out he's not moving &, having "forgotten" to attend
his going away party with his friends, has to make amends with everyone
& still deal with the bullies.

There are some good solid performances in this film, particularly from
Alex Linz (Max), Zena Grey (Megan) & Larry Miller (Principal
Jindraike). Even if the plot is totally unrealistic, as are most of the
characters. If you just sit back, relax & enjoy it though, you'll find
it's pretty good.
<|_=00=_|>

You've seen it all before: the cafeteria food fight, the stupid,
egocentric
adult authority figures, the boy smitten by the sexy older girl who
realizes
the girl who really loves him is his not-so-sexy but loyal friend of many
years, the animal sanctuary threatened with destruction that the boy must
save, the cruel, sadistic older boy who has it in for our hero, etc. etc.
This is a predictable, totally unoriginal movie which is composed almost
entirely of such cliches and sight gags. Save your money. (by the way, my
kids loved it) 
<|_=00=_|>
As a grown man, it is rare for me to like kid's movies and/or like the
same kid's movies as much as I did before. Some of them I still like
just because of the nostalgia feel--I don't think I would have liked
some if I saw them for the first time today. Max Keeble's Big Move is
not one of those. I think I would have loved this movie regardless of
my age and intellect. 

This movie feature a few stars along with future stars that were still
making their names. It stars Home Alone 3's Alex D Linz as the title
character and a fat Josh Peck as his best friend Robe. Because I love
this movie so much, I may always see Peck as a fat nerd. It also
features Larry Miller, Nora Dunn, Jamie Kennedy, Zena Grey, Orlando
Brown, Noel Fisher and Robert Carradine. 

The movie is about Max entering the 7th grade, where he must be
subjected to bullies, peer pressure and an odd faculty. Max's salesman
father (Carradine) gets news that he must move to Chicago and Max is
shocked. But he soon sees it as an opportunity to enact revenge on all
those wrong with the school. Things take a turn for the worst when the
school suffers even more and Max finds out he doesn't have to move
after all. Uh-oh!

The first thing this has that is needed for a bully movie is the sense
of realism and comedy. Max Keeble is able to find the perfect balance
between these. The comedy never runs out of fuel and it is there to
make everything that much better. Max's plans for revenge are so funny
and genius. There's one scene where he starts a food fight to make
Principal Jindrake (Miller) look bad. I would honestly say it is the
best food fight ever filmed; better than Animal House, Problem Child 2
and others. There's many other scenes that make this wonderful.

Max Keeble was back in the days when characters in family movies were
made with such depth and like-ability. Max is a preteen who is trying
to figure out the world and think he is doing well, when it really just
makes everything worse for everybody. These characters give good
lessons on bullying, revenge and egos. Just because he thinks he won't
be there to be punished, Max let's his whole revenge scheme get to his
head and thinks he's the greatest. All he did was stoop to the other
bullies' level, making him the worst of them all. What happens to Max
is very common. I could relate to all characters, not just Max.
