

No Spoilers Ahead

I saw the movie last night in the "sneak preview". I had no idea what
kind of movie it was, except for the genre "thriller". Thriller is not
right. It is more a "Thriller/Psycho/Horror Movie"

Most of the movie you had no time to get breath. It has a really good
atmosphere and good actors. You never know what will happen next and
you are really shocked the whole time.

Thats what my experience with that movie was, but i have to say that i
did not know anything about the content of the movie, i did not see one
trailer of it and i read no comment of it before watching it. 

I have to admit, that there are several parts which are not logic or
seems to be not logic, but it doesn't destroy the atmosphere, because
you have no time to think about it during watching the movie.

I would not watch it a second time, because the shocking effects would
not work anymore, but i give this movie 7 points. 

By the way: there are really morbid and cruel scene's in it, i hadn't
expected that.

I can't understand "illegal alien51"'s comment. I liked it!

( I hope my English is not so bad, because i am not used to write or
speak English a lot )

<|_=00=_|>
Knowing Renny Harlin's track record, you never know what to expect from
the Finnish director. It seems it's more or less random which of his
films turn out to be crap or really quite good. I didn't know what to
expect here, and maybe my low expectations were part of the reason why
i found this film to be surprisingly entertaining.

The setup is pretty standard-fare for a serial-killer film. What makes
this different is the victims. They are FBI-agents in training to
become profilers. Their teacher is Jake Harris (Val Kilmer) who likes
to use special methods while training his agents. As a test the
profilers-to-be are sent out to an army training facility on a desolate
island. A small town is built on the island and the morning after their
arrival a murder will have happened in the town, their job is to find
the killer. Something goes wrong however and it seems the game has
become real, a killer really is on the loose and now he's chasing them.

To say that this story is unbelievable and forced is an understatement.
The whole set-up with an abandoned island feels a bit cheap, a lame
excuse to get the agents alone in a place from which there is no
escape. But if you can accept that particular bit of plot then the rest
is not bad at all. The atmosphere is well built and the suspense is
thick. Also most of the actors do a pretty good job creating that
"anyone-could-be-guilty"-feeling.

So, even though the serial-killer thing has been done a thousand times
and even though the set-up here is even less believable than usual,
this is still an enjoyable experience. It might not be revolutionary,
and it might not be something you'll remember for very long. But if you
like this kind of movie you will at least be entertained for as long as
it lasts. I rate it 6/10.
<|_=00=_|>

MINDHUNTERS may not offer anything that new to the serial killer genre but
what it does do is entertain its audience. 

Despite watching and knowing that "everyone is a suspect" and being very
familiar with the genre myself, I still had a hard time trying to pin down
who is responsible for the films gruesome murders as it rolls along. Forget
the award recognition that everyone likes to talk about around this time of
year, MINDHUNTERS is a fast paced, thrill ride stuffed with talented actors
(including Val Kilmer, Christian Slater, and Jonny Lee Miller) that could
easily put director Renny Harlin back on the map after the catastrophe that
was DRIVEN. So get some popcorn, sit down, and play the game of who is the
killer. Trust me, you'll have a good time. 
<|_=00=_|>
It started out just like any other so called thriller, but in a very
short time it was proved to me that it isn't so. It is a superb movie.
I rarely see anything like it. In a nutshell, a few FBI profiler
trainees are taking part in an exercise and they are completely
isolated. Nowhere to run, nobody to call, trapped in a way. The so
called exercise soon turns to be deadly, in a way that surprised even
me. I guarantee that you will not see that coming. And that is just the
start. Soon the trainees realize that the killer is one of they're own
and all hells break lose. Do not place bets on who the killer is, I did
and I lost. It is a juicy movie, so do enjoy. You will not see anything
like it for a very long time.
<|_=00=_|>
I've read comments pointing out that this movie has ripped a lot of
ideas from other movies and that there are situations that are so over
the top that they get silly.

To that I say; Sure, why not? It's still entertaining.

I agree that they could have used the cast differently and that some of
the plot points are quite unbelievable but on the whole it doesn't
distract from the tension and the setting of the movie.

The profilers sometimes act pretty stupid and out of character but the
actors do a very decent job portraying them and Renny Harlin has
actually done a really good job with the directing.

If you want a horror/thriller/action flick where you keep guessing
pretty much to the end and don't mind recognizing bits and pieces from
other movies then this is for you. 

Well worth a watch (no pun intended).
<|_=00=_|>

I found Mindhunters to be a thoroughly entertaining movie that did have some
good surprises and moments.  The story is as original as it could be,
although, one can argue that the whole group in isolation getting picked off
one by one thing has been done before.  I will not give away too much of the
movie so that you can be surprised at the twists that it offers, except I
must make one comment.  Why on earth do they let LL Cool J have some of the
most ridiculously stupid one liners.  I mean, if he wants to be bought as a
believable actor, he needs to put an end to this madness.  I am sure you
will know what I am talking about when you see the movie.

Anyway, I give it 8 out of 10 and a definite check it out if you enjoy
thrillers... especially ones with gruesome killers.
<|_=00=_|>
A group of seven FBI trainees is sent to an isolated island for the
final stage of their training period under the direction of the
eccentric Jake Harris (Val Kilmer), who uses questionable methods.
However, they are attacked and killed by a serial killer that can be
one of the team members. The tension increases amidst the group with
the lack of confidence on each other.

Although not being exceptional, "Mindhunters" is a good thriller and
slash movie. The tense story is original, mixes horror, thriller,
action, crime and mystery and the resolution is not bad. This is the
type of movie that entertains and I liked it. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Caçadores de Mente" ("Mindhunters")
<|_=00=_|>
Renny Harlin isn't exactly known for making intelligent movies, but at
least they're usually quite enjoyable. "Mindhunters", however, is so
utterly stupid that it's hard to get any kind of enjoyment out of it,
apart from maybe some unintentionally funny bits.

The concept behind Mindhunters (group of people get stuck somewhere
with a killer on the loose) is OK, and it has lead to some exciting
movies in the past, including Harlin's own "Deep Blue Sea", which,
while also very stupid, at least didn't take itself seriously.
Unfortunately, "Mindhunters" does. And that's were the problems start.

"Mindhunters" is about a group of supposedly talented FBI trainees
getting stuck on an island. Before long, a mysterious killer starts
killing them off one by one, using increasingly more elaborate traps
(think "Final Destination"). The first problem with this is that the
traps that are used are so ridiculously complicated and depend on so
much circumstances that in real life, they would have a one in a
billion chance of succeeding. They would also take hours to set up,
time that simply no character has since they're all together almost all
the time.

Next, although the main characters are supposed to be trained
professionals, they immediately crack up after the first murder, and
start panicking and wildly accusing each other for so reason
whatsoever. Yeah right.

The list of implausibilities and plot holes goes on and on, right up to
the conclusion that makes no sense whatsoever, and seems to be there
only for shock value.

All of this might have worked if the movie hadn't taken itself so
seriously, or if there had been any other redeeming qualities. There
aren't. The acting is poor, none of the characters are even remotely
interesting or even likable, and there's hardly any humor in the entire
movie (in spite of LL Cool J's presence). The only small point of light
in this mess are some of the murders, which, granted, are fairly
spectacular.

"Mindhunters" is a movie that asks of you to completely abstain from
using your brain for about over one and a half hours, for only a couple
of seconds of gore. If you ask me, that's a pretty poor trade-off.
There's nothing wrong with a bit of mindless entertainment, but this
goes beyond any reasonable limit.

*1/2 out of *****
<|_=00=_|>
A group of eight FBI profiling students are given a final test when
they're sent to a deserted military island where they must solve the
clues left by a fake serial killer called the "The Puppetmaster." What
starts out as an exercise quickly turns deadly as they are killed off
one-by-one in elaborate death traps, forcing them to start questioning
whether one of them might be a real killer.

The plot isn't original or anything as this concept has been done
already. However, this seems like the type of film one would rent to
have a good time. It wasn't as good as I had hoped but it was a fair
rental. The story did have a couple of plot holes and some unrealistic
moments. The movie is also kind of predictable. If you're playing
really close attention, then you will figure it out. The characters
were pretty much all one-dimensional so it wasn't hard to see what role
this person was playing and such.

The acting was decent, nothing spectacular though. Kathryn Morris is no
stranger to this type of roles. However, she isn't a very good actress.
She's tolerable but they should have gone with someone else. Val Kilmer
is in the film for about 15 minutes, which is bad since his character
was probably the most interesting one. Christian Slater gives an awful
performance and it's good thing that he doesn't really appear much in
the film. LL Cool J gives a decent performance. He's not really a
favorite of mine but I don't hate him or anything.

People should know not to take a film seriously if Renny Harlin is
directing it. His films are usually made for fun and he isn't a very
good director when he makes a serious one. Exorcist: The Beginning was
bad and so was Driven. He does a decent job with this film but I still
haven't forgiven him for making Cutthroat Island. The film isn't very
long as it's just 100 minutes long. The death scenes are also pretty
good even if they are unrealistic. The ending is longer than it needs
to be but it doesn't effect the film too much. I also don't really
understand why it was delayed as it was a mildly entertaining film. In
the end, this film is worth watching if you're looking for a mindless
thriller. If you're looking for something that will challenge you, look
elsewhere. Rating 6/10.
<|_=00=_|>

I watched MINDHUNTERS with a group of people whose sole basis for the
success of a film depends on whether or not they could figure out who the
"bad guy" was.  They could not, so they deemed it a "very good" movie,
much
to my chagrin.  They seemed to completely miss the fact that nowhere in
MINDHUNTERS do the film-makers make any attempt at a plausible story line
or
characters that have any kind of dimension at all.  The screenwriter
creates
flat confused pawns that inhabit a hopelessly labyrinthine world that
defies
all bounds of logic.  The viewer not only has to suspend disbelief, but
must
place it in a wastepaper basket and burn it.

O.K., the story as I remember it:  A group of trainees for the F.B.I. (or
some other stock agency that would result in training on an abandoned
island) go to an abandoned island.  The mastermind of the group is a guy
played by Val Kilmer (in a glorified cameo that receives top billing), and
a
bunch of other people (amongst them Christian Slater and L.L. Cool J.) who
fall victim to elaborate traps--most of which would have have taken an
entire day to set up, although the cast is together on screen most of the
time.  Does that mean the killer isn't one of the group?  Who cares?  I
don't want reveal any of the implausible plot twists (except the ones I
reveal below); they have to be seen to be believed anyway.  It would take
more time to rationalize this festering spaghetti bowl of a movie then I
really would like to dedicate to such an amateurish and laughable film.

Examples and !!**SPOILERS**!!:  One of the group is dying for a cigarette.
While out walking by herself, with a killer on the loose, she notices a
pack
of smokes fall out of the machine.  Well, what does she do?  Realizes the
obvious trap that has been set?  No...she smokes one and dies horribly.
Huh?  Apparently the future members of this elite shadowy agency are
half-wits that deserve to die.  It just goes on and on like this for the
length of the film.  This is even worse than director Renny Harlin's
previous film STRIKING DISTANCE, and that was a pretty god-awful piece of
crap.

Anyway, if you like being tricked by a movie (even at the cost of honest
characters and a clever plot), then MINDHUNTERS fits the bill.  But, if
you
are opposed to be shamelessly manipulated by a witless and obvious
thriller...stay far away from this disaster.  1/10.

