
I have been looking for Billy Elliot for more than two years. I heard
that it should be very good or even excellent film and another reason
for watching it was that I have seen several Working Title films before
(About a Boy, Notting Hill, Love Actually, Four Weddings and a Funeral)
and I found all of them much more sincere and emotional than average
Hollywood products. Also these British films have something to offer
that you rarely can find in Hollywood movies: a charming heartwarming
mixture of sweet and funny comedy and inspiring and touching drama.
Last month, finally, I found the tape. From very first moments of the
movie my eyes were riveted to the screen and when the movie ended
feelings and emotions overflowed me. Billy Elliot in my opinion Billy
Elliot is a brilliant movie, easily one of the best movies of the year
and most likely of the current decade.

Director of the movie Stephen Daldry brought to us an exceptional,
truly inspiring and moving, emotional and poignant movie. The entire
story and all the characters are completely believable and the
atmosphere of small provincial town somewhere in North-Eastern England
skillfully captured and transmitted to us. Sometimes the movie is sad,
sometimes it's funny but Stephen Daldry's work never leave you
indifferent. The story occurs in a small coal-mining town in 1984 and
there are signs of a severe depression all over the town. You can see
all around a shadow of distress and even poverty. Some simple but
incredibly powerful scenes bring to us sad feeling of hopelessness and
even despair. There is a big coalminers strike in the town but it's
easy to see that it's also the hopeless strike. But all this is only a
masterfully recreated background for main story of the title character,
a twelve years old boy. He recently lost his mother and both his father
and elder brother are striking coalminers. Billy is forced by his
father to attend boxing classes and one day accidentally he see the
girl ballet classes that occur in same room and he find ballet much
more interesting than hated stupid boxing. So he attends those ballet
classes instead the boxing and there is nothing surprising that after a
few weeks his father suddenly finds out that Billy didn't attend boxing
and worst of all he is attending the ballet classes. The main conflict
occurs.

Billy must fight for his choice, fight against his own family. There
are two stereotypes against him. First one is that ballet for girls,
not for boys (lads do football... or boxing... or wrestling). And
second sounds even worse: all male ballet dancers are gays. Billy is
not but no one from his family except aged grandma want even heard
about ballet. There are only two people in the whole town, who support
him – middle-aged ballet teacher Mrs. Wilkinson and his friend Michael,
who is the same age as Billy and who found that he is possibly a gay.
This gay subplot easily became for conservative audience a very
controversial question. But the fact is that such stereotypes are not
invented by the director of the movie and if you would try to learn
more about this terrific picture you will found that Jamie Bell, who
took dance lessons from age six, suffered from similar sneers and
taunts. Billy's problem is that he must fight not only against bad
obstacles and misunderstanding but also against strong social
stereotypes. Several brilliant come scenes and bright humor greatly
emphasize the struggles of the main hero.

Jamie Bell playing Billy has on of the best performances ever among
young actors. His performance (and particularly dance sequences) is so
genuine, bright and sincere that all the time we can easily feel an
expression of a young boy, not a director, choreographer or writer.
BAFTA award for best actor of the year is well-deserved and it is pity
that conservatism of the Academy too often becomes an insuperable
obstacle for many great movies. Julie Walters (an Academy nomination
for best supporting actress) as Billy's ballet teacher also did a great
job as a talented woman as a talented women who forced to teach in
small provincial town for pitiful salary. The chemistry between teacher
and student is another great line in Billy Elliot. Two other important
supporting characters – Billy's father and elder brother Tony are also
excellent and their evolution is perfectly showed by Stephen Daldry's
direction. The beautiful soundtrack is a perfect combination of a
classic (including a nice reference to great Swan Lake) and modern
music.

The original "R" rating shouldn't mislead you. Except for strong
language it should be easily a PG-13. But this is a very rare case
where some strong language and profanity are necessary for authenticity
and characters understanding. The movie is suitable for teens and it
definitely is able to give some good lessons for them.

10 out of 10 looks well deserved. Thanks for reading and sorry for my
bad English
<|_=00=_|>

To say that Billy Elliot is the best movie of 2000 is to damn it with
faint
praise, since this year's crop is pretty uninspiring. Better to compare it
to movies of the past few years, and even then it would stand out. It is a
phenomenally good film, and perhaps even groundbreaking in its own way,
since it goes against the trend of quirky, violent, sex-obsessed
moviemaking
that's become so popular recently. We've finally been given a film with a
good, almost mythic story, complicated yet believable characters, a
masterful blend of emotional intensity and critical restraint, and a
series
of dance scenes that are authentic, inspiring and completely integral to
the
plot.

No wonder critics have been falling over themselves in heaping praise on
Billy Elliot. No wonder it's been holding its own in the box office
despite
being shown in a mere handful of theatres (one-quarter to one- sixth as
many
as the big Hollywood blockbusters) and despite its receiving hardly any
promotion at the moment. Its success is being driven by word of mouth. And
what is the word? Here is a movie that appeals to your heart, head, funny
bone, eyes and ears, and last but not least your feet, for the music and
the
movement will have you wanting to get up and dance. And it achieves all of
this without insulting the intelligence. I sometimes wonder how the movie
would have been done by Hollywood: Billy would have been made a more
pathetic figure; the people in his life rendered more black and white;
characters would have either remained caricatures, or made to develop in
the
blink of an eye. All such excesses are avoided in Billy Elliot, where the
characters develop in a totally believable way, where Billy invites
admiration instead of pity, and where the silences, looks and gestures all
leave so much to the imagination. The dictum "Less is more" is clearly the
guiding principle behind the film.

The buzz for Billy has been so positive that people sometimes come away
disappointed that their lives haven't been changed. So don't go expecting
a
"knock 'em dead" Hollywood rollercoaster. Billy Elliot is far more subtle,
though the emotional moments are all the more powerful because of that.
You
can however believe everything that has been said of Jamie Bell. He has an
outstanding screen presence and carries the movie on his little shoulders
with breath-taking naturalism. His dancing is honest and powerful, and
very
masculine. He makes you forget that all the other actors give the
performances of their careers in support. If the Oscar were awarded
without
consideration for age, career, box office draw or Hollywood clout, Jamie
and
his movie would win hands down.

<|_=00=_|>

I went into this movie expecting to hate it, and found myself instantly
smiling at the playful opening credits with Billy jumping on a trampoline.
From there on it just got better and better. The wasn't even a minor
character that I could say needed work. The cast as a whole was brilliant -
and surprising at times. The father and brother come off as these one-sided
brutal characters in the beginning and then as you watch, they become two of
the most well constructed and acted characters this year and for who knows
how long. Jaime Bell is brilliant for a first-timer and his dance is
wonderful. There are also so many layers to the film. From brilliant
cinematography to wonderful symbolism both in the script and in the music
(listen for the tune Billy is playing on piano in the main score during the
big moments). The music on a whole was brilliantly picked and I don't think
a single element was overlooked or addressed. If you haven't seen this
movie - GET OFF YOUR BUTT AND INTO THE THEATER! It is truly an experience
that everyone should have and I hope to see more from this writer, director
and a brilliant new face in Jaime Bell.
<|_=00=_|>

With a seemingly run-of-the-mill storyline - that of an 11-year-old
schoolboy wanting to be a ballet dancer - it is quite a feat to have made a
movie as warm and entertaining as this.

Quite simply, this is the best British movie in years. All the characters
are intriguing, and the acting is flawless, most notably from 14-year-old
Jamie Bell whose acting is utterly convincing, filled with humour and
insight beyond his years. He is also a fantastic dancer, and some of the
dance sequences are reminiscent of the dance-filled musicals of the old
black and white movies.

The backdrop of the historic miners' strike of the mid-1980s, it brings the
story down to the earth and adds the necessary tension to make this film
truly believable and a worthy story to tell.

I find it hard to see how anyone would not like this film. 9 and a half out
of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
Billy Elliott is a moving, uplifting, and often exuberant, drama about
motherless young Billie (Jamie Bell) fulfilling his dream of becoming a
ballet dancer, in the process overcoming the objections and prejudices
of his father and brother (Gary Lewis and Jamie Draven).

It is also a piece of magic realism, with political overtones. By
setting their near fairy tale in the context of a close-knit mining
community, and more specifically against the backdrop of the 1984/5
miners' strike - a defining moment of modern British economic and
social history - writer Lee Hall and director Stephen Daldry are able
to refer to gender and class issues, without turning their work into a
political tract, and without losing focus on the central human drama.

The film is realised near flawlessly. Bell achieves a convincing blend
of adolescent bewilderment and defiance; if his dancing is not quite as
good as we might expect, the storyline explains this away by saying
that at this early stage his attitude and drive are more important than
his technique. The dancing set pieces, clearly inspired more by Fred
Astaire and Gene Kelly than by Nijinksky, are performed with gusto,
mainly to pop songs by T-Rex.

Lewis and Draven put gritty realism and passion into their roles of a
father and son committed to their community and to the miners' cause.
They make us feel their despair as they realise that this cause is
lost; but also their endurance as they come to terms both with Billie's
aspirations and their own uncertain futures - within a few years most
UK coalmines would be closed. (The colliery in Easington, the real-life
location of the film, closed in 1994.). The scenes of violence between
strikers and police are presented uncompromisingly and authentically,
but with the occasional touch of humour.

Julie Walters provides an outstanding performance as Mrs Wilkinson, the
dancing teacher who recognises and fosters Billie's talent; and helps
him resist his own and his family's inhibitions. She is perfect as the
chain-smoking, straight-talking mentor, who has her own personal
disappointments and hurts, which she hopes Billie's success will help
heal. To we outsiders watching the movie, Mrs Wilkinson appears as an
integral part of the local community; but it is made clear that in the
mid-80s, as far as Billie's family and friends are concerned, she is a
middle class outsider, almost as alien as another species.

One issue which the film tackles head-on is traditional heterosexual
male abhorrence of homosexuality. This attitude clearly underlies the
shock of Billie's father and brother when they discover his interest in
ballet. They would be even more horrified if they realised that his
best friend was discovering gay tendencies in himself. It is typical of
the sensitive direction that without labouring the point the film
indicates by its close that attitudes towards gays changed radically
during the 1980s and 90s along with the industrial landscape.
<|_=00=_|>

I had seen the commercials and they emphasize the dancing
aspect of the story which is great but there is so much more to this
movie. It deals with death and it touches on Mens feelings of loss
and what a Man is and even deals a bit with homosexuality.
Theres not many times where I sit though the end credits anymore
but I was mesmorized. I laughed in this movie and I cried too. The
dance scenes were terrific too. The boy who played Billy should
get an award hands down for this movie. I watched the emotion on
his face and it was amazing. This is the best breakout
performance by a young boy since haley Joel Osmant in Sixth
Sense. I have to say I just loved Julie Walters too. Where has she
been since Educating Rita.
Inspite of the swear words this is a movie that families should
see. Its hard to believe this gets an R rating and movies like Scary
Movie get...only R ratings.  I dont get it.
Strange that two of my favorite recent movies are from the
British...This and Croupier.
Word to Hollywood, make more movies like this or at lease import
more like this.
Dont miss this one!
<|_=00=_|>

This is one of those really great dramas that only come around maybe once a
year. This is my pick for the best drama of 2000. Filled with amazing
characters, a great plot, and circumstances that seem too real, the
wonderfully underplayed value of it takes precedence over anything set
against it.

There are some great performances here, so let's get to
‘em.

Jamie Bell plays the lead role, in an astonishing performance. Amazing
dance
routines done in perfect sync, I can just imagine the time he had
memorizing
all the steps. A knockout performance, with some of the most dramatic
scenes
played out with perfect honesty and realism.

Another notable performance comes from Julie Walters, who plays Mrs.
Wilkinson, the dance instructor in the mining town where Billy lives. Once
a
great dancer but now forced to work in the bottom floor of a boxing hall,
she plays her part wonderfully, showing the lack of compassion and
jadedness
without words but only through expressions, deep hurt lying beneath all
that
scorn, but love shining through as she sees Billy's true talent.

Finally, performance wise, we have Gary Lewis, who plays Billy's father.
With wonderful scenes that play themselves out with harsh reality, I never
tire of seeing the hurt in his eyes when he sees that his little boy isn't
going to be a boxer or a football player, but a dancer, then seeing him
again with the love and appreciation for his dancing son. Some things must
be experienced, and the deep hurt he carries about the death of his wife is
one of those. Greatness all around.

The one problem I did have with this movie is that it is first of all rated
R. Why?!  If it weren't for the few (and very effective) uses of the 'F'
word, it would've gotten a PG-13 rating. It so strongly needs the 'F' word,
yet it needs to be seen by a PG-13 audience! This is a move that truly
should be shown to middle schoolers all over the country, showing that you
should believe in yourself and no one else. Follow your dreams. Not only is
this message not shoved down your throat (as some other movies shamelessly
do), but it is done in such a way that you truly believe it. You want good
things to happen, and you get that, but not spotless and clean. Nothing is
done easily, and there will always be someone who will try and stop your
dreams from coming true.

Another (and the only other problem) are the accents. The British
definitely
have a style of speaking all their own, and it sometimes took a moment for
all the dialogue to register. Sometimes I'd miss half a scene, trying to
decipher out exactly what was said. However, the tones and emotions of most
scenes were enough to let you know what was said. Everything didn't have to
be spelt out, but I can imagine that after I get this DVD I will sit down
with the captions on, just to know I didn't miss anything. This is one of
the only complaints I have for another favorite of mine, Lock, Stock and
Two
Smoking Barrels.

Billy Elliot is a true rag-to-riches story that unfolds amazingly well
without pulling your heartstrings shamelessly as other movies love to do. I
recommend this to all, expect to be entertained with great plot twists as
well as interesting characters, wonderful dialogue, and a story that can
never grow old: Follow your dreams.
<|_=00=_|>

Billy Elliot is by far the most honestly told depiction of middle boyhood
I've seen in years, if ever. I was in joyful tatters at the end of this
story of a boy struggling to stay true to his calling in an anguished
northern English mining town circa 1980. Every working class character in
this film is written and uncompromisingly played with great love and
understanding of both family and class hardship. Personally I view this film
as the finest piece of British "intimiste" cinema I've seen since Mike
Leigh's "Secrets and Lies". Yet it has epic elements as well.  Billy's
personal story unfolds while his home town is occupied by uniformed British
strike control forces.

This is a tale of inter-masculine struggle in a family and mining town
almost devoid of (and yearning for) a balancing feminine presence. Billy's
gift is slowly awakened in this stressed and violent male crucible. His
relationships with his brother, his father, his genderally confused
classmate, and his teacher all grow increasingly charged as the movie
develops. For honesty and presence, Jamie Bell as Billy far surpasses Haley
Joel Osment's debut in The Sixth Sense. And if that's not enough, Julie
Walters, Gary Lewis and Jamie Draven as Billy's teacher, dad and brother are
all heartbreakingly portrayed. All are perfectly cast and at the very top of
their form.

After all these characters have passed through the warzone of the first and
second acts, director Steven Daldry delivers perhaps the most perfectly
executed third act I have seen in a family centered drama from England or
elsewhere. There are countless insightful decisions  Daldry makes in the
course of this film that other directors will study for years to come. But
they're all brought to touching and masterful closure in the third act
segments.

Kudos to scenarist Lee Hall for an excellent script. It should also be
noted that many of DP Brian Tufano's beautifully composed shots match those
of the great Chinese and Italian cinematographers. The film is brash in its
musical style and forthright in its language. It is a film of specifics and
the locale is not dressed up. And unlike many other local color films from
England since 1985, this film has a strong, eminently compassionate
narrative spine. Many audience members in the show I attended were
immobilized and overcome in their seats during credits.

Despite frequent profanity, boys 11 and up should be allowed to see Billy
Elliot, if only to keep them from abandoning hope. If it helps even one
oppressed and confused boy keep an ear to the faint voice within that might
just be his true calling, this film will have been worth every dollar spent
in its making. A truly uplifting film. 
<|_=00=_|>

Billy Elliot is a truly inspirational movie. It reminds us of the human
potential to transcend our economic surroundings and the expectations of
society by doing something so simple, and yet sometimes so very difficult,
as simply being ourselves.

Born in a socially and economically repressed mining town, Billy is told
that boys box or wrestle; boys don't dance. But Billy loves to dance and
does so every chance that he gets.

Does a love of ballet make you gay? Does it matter if your best friend is a
crossdresser? How far will a father go when he realizes the truth about his
son? This is a movie of change, growth and emotion, with characters and
actors so real and fully developed that they pull your heart forth and
place
it firmly upon the screen. We literally feel the brittleness of judgement,
the despair of lost hope, and the joy of acceptance.

It is easy to see why this small British film has won so many foreign
awards
and nominations, and I only hope it will be given the chance it deserves to
inspire and transform US audiences as well.


<|_=00=_|>

Billy Elliot is a wonderful story of a young boy overcoming obstacles to
participate in the one activity that takes him away from his troubled family
life. By dancing, Billy unleashes his frustrations, yet also receives much
criticism by participating in a less than macho sport. Every aspect of this
movie was well done: the acting was superb, the characters were complex but
believable, but the cinematography alone takes the cake. The cameras look at
things from some very interesting and unusual views. Every shot was well
planned out and every item in the background had importance.

This is one of the best movies I've  seen recently and one that definitely
shouldn't be missed by anyone that believes in following his or her dreams.

