

I will admit that when I first heard a Disney movie called "The Princess
Diaries" was coming out, I thought it would be corny. But upon actually
SEEING the film, I found (as is usually the case when stupid judgmental
people make up their mind about films without watching them, I won't name
names, you know who you are...Tom!) that it was in reality a charming,
original, humorous and thoroughly entertaining family film.

The plot is fairy tale in nature: Mia is a social misfit with terrible
hair
and no self-confidence. Her only friends are eccentric activist Lilly and
rock band headliner Michael (played by real-life rocket Robert Carmine of
"Rooney") who has a little crush on her. Then, who of all people should
turn
up but Julie Andrews to tell Mia that her father (who she hasn't seen
since
she was tiny) was actually royalty and that she, Mia, was princess of a
country no one's ever heard of. What it comes down to is this: She has
until
a big embassy ball to decide whether she wants to give up the crown (and
basically open the country up to a hostile political takeover) or take her
place as princess. After a makeover (at the hands of funnyman Larry
Miller),
some training and at least four horrendously traumatizing incidents, she
decides...well, that would be giving it away, wouldn't
it?

This is not a movie for little girls dressed in tutus who want to be
princesses when they grow up. For the first time in the studio's tenure
(I'd
wager) this film depicts the responsibility of royalty. Mia tackles with
the
pressures of ruling a country. But for my money the best part of this
movie
is the love story. No, not Mia and the uniquely attractive rocker
(although,
that is great). A second, unscripted love story exists between Andrews and
her chauffeur, Hector Elizondo. That's terrific.

It's about being yourself and bettering yourself. It's about knowing who
your real friends are. It's about living up to your own expectations. It's
about smushing an ice cream cone on the blouse of a bitchy cheerleader who
deserves it. And maybe that sounds corny to all y'all (rustic expression)
but I know a lot of adults who could use lessons like these.
<|_=00=_|>

When I was 32 years old, back in 2001 when this movie came out, I took
my then 7 year old daughter to see this move. As a parent I often have
to suffer through books my children read to me, music they like, and
television shows & movies that I have no desire to see. The previews
made this movie look like the standard Disney channel fluff I
occasionally have to endure. However, I found that I actually enjoyed
this movie.

Garry Marshall basically redressed his PRETTY WOMAN storyline for kids.
He even brought in Hector Elizondo, the hotel manager in PW, as the
head security officer for the Queen of Genovia, who is played by Julie
Andrews. The story also has aspects of the LITTLE LORD FAUNTLEROY novel
in it.

The story is not all that original. A long lost heir to the throne of
Genovia has been identified as a klutzy teenager who lives in San
Francisco. The Queen of Genovia goes to San Francisco and attempts to
persuade her to come back to Genovia and take her place as a princess
of the realm. From their the typical hijinks ensue. The princess gets
an education in proper royal behavior & procedures. The Queen learns to
loosen up and relax. Princess Mia also struggles between dating the
school jock, who ignored her before she became famous and dating an
unpopular guy who has been her friend for years.

The story is predictable and hold no real surprises. Despite this I
still found myself enjoying the film. Julie Andrews did well in her
role as the Queen and it was a treat to see her in another Disney film.
I was surprised by how well Anne Hathaway did in her role as Princess
Mia. She held her own against such performers as Andrews and Elizondo.
This movie could have come off as cheezy but thanks to the director and
skilled actors it proved to be a real treat. I remember back in 1990
when PW came out that girls thought it was so romantic that a hooker
could find romance, true love and wealth. In my opinion PD is a much
better role model. I'd rather have my little girl wishing she that she
was heir to throne than a hooker who happens to find true love. 

Anyway, thanks to my daughter I discovered a film that I really enjoyed
It is also because of her that I just saw the sequel, PD-2. It was even
better than PD.

<|_=00=_|>

I really enjoyed this movie. It was fun to see a fairly clean movie that
was
fun to watch. The acting of Julie Andrews and Anne Hathaway is superb and
the story shines out hope. The director takes a very unlikely event and
makes it believable, teaching us all something in the process. It was
refreshing to see a teen film without all the sexual inuendos and crude
language.
<|_=00=_|>

A fun story - if entirely unoriginal - about an awkward and unpopular 15
year old San Francisco girl (Anne Hathaway) who discovers out of the blue
that she is the heir to the throne of the small, fictional European
principality of Genovia, and has to deal with all the adjustments that
requires.

It's typically Disney-esque. There's nothing here that would cause you to
blush even a little bit as you watch this with your 8 year old. The
strongest language used is "shut up" - and it was quickly explained to the
Queen that in America "shut up" doesn't necessarily mean "be quiet;" it
might just mean "wow!"

There's a strong cast. Hathaway put on a very good performance in the lead
role of Mia, moving from shy and awkward teenager, to sudden celebrity
causing her to have to deal with being popular not for who she is but for
what she is, to - finally - elegant princess. Julie Andrews was - well -
Julie Andrews. She didn't miss a beat in her portrayal of Queen Clarisse,
and Hector Elizondo handled the role of Joseph - Mia's driver and bodyguard
- with great style.

It's a fun movie. Nothing heavy, nothing that will cause you to think too
much. Just nice, light fun. It loses a few points for being entirely
unoriginal (how many movies have used this theme?) but is still enjoyable to
watch. 6/10
<|_=00=_|>
The Princess Diary talk about a 15-year-old teenager whose name is Mia
wants to be invisible at school. One day, on the contrary, she was told
to be the Princess of a country, which is very opposite to her former
expectation. What a big turning to her life ! What she will undergo ?
Mia is my very first and memorable impression about this movie.
Anything about her comes from Anne Hathaway's virgin performance. After
deeply understand the character-Mia, Anne let Meg's story vivid on the
screen. Her acting is natural and every detail show a combination of
her own understanding of the character and the shining of the character
itself. I noticed some details about Mia,which is very sophisticated.
Mia's school uniform represent the 1950's elegance. The black socks and
ties. What a copy of Audrey Hepburn in "Breakfast at Tiffany's". Mia's
smile remind me of another famous actress-Julie Roberts, who has become
a mother recently. The beautiful big smile is very eye-catching and
also memorable. Oh,I remember another person who also have those big
smile. She is Amélie Poulain. The Story is philanthropic and
extraordinary.It's not simply a Cinderella story.But, a great story
about grandmother and granddaughter, a education-valued story about
mother and daughter, a special story about father and daughter,a
ever-sweet story about first love, a beautiful story about friendship.
Above all, it's a growing story. Based on Meg's classic story The
Princess Diary, the motion picture make her characters believe-like in
another artistic way. Just like having read Margaret's story (Gone With
The Wind), you then watch O'Selznick's GWTW movie. Your feeling will be
like: I seemed to be a part of the story. Those characters are just and
always around you! Clarisse: The Sound of Music is recognized as a
movie that is priceless, so, this also recognized the supporting
actress's performance is priceless. Julie is an actress that could act
well on any characters. The governess,the grandmother or on Broadway,
etc. Helen (Caroline Goodall) played a vital role is Mia's growing
period. This daughter and mother is a good role model. Because they
show the grand respect for each other. Anyone can't grow without
friend, the princess,too. From the friendship with Lilly, Mia knows how
to tell the truth, how to apologize and how to deal with something that
is uniquely occurred in teenager, which is called Growing Pains. Like
other reviewers, I also feel the last sentence Mia told Michael is
Soooooooo...... Cool ! :-O "You saw me when I was invisible." Why we
feel cool ? Because that's what true love is. And, especially, that's
what true love is to a princess !! Joe is a person we can't ignore. He
acted as a imitate friend to Mia. He told her what she should be. And
he is virtually the bodyguard. Oh, by the way, he is a very very
special one ! Some of the songs in The Princess Diary is also
memorable." A Summer Song" remind me of those romantic school kisses.
The final song "Miracles Happen" is special designed for this movie,
for Mia and also for all of us. Now, I am recommending this movie to
YOU from my heart.
<|_=00=_|>

This is one of the few movies that really made me meditate of my own life,
and the invisibility around me. I think that Anne Hathaway and Julie Andrews
are the coolest grandaughter-grandmother couple I've ever seen - Julie
Andrews being such a great actress, and Hathaway being so
beautiful.
Lame acting for Lana - whoever interprets her - doesn't look like a real
spoilt brat - See Freaky Friday's spoilt brats for more.
Anyway, cool, great movie with a superb plot - can't wait for part 2. I give
it a 10. The love story between the two characters - Mia and Michael was so
nice, and the line "You saw me when I was invisible" was sooooo cool.

<|_=00=_|>
I loved this movie and although it may have been slightly cliché, the
dialog was quite smart and it was quite a funny movie. I think that if
you expect the movie to be Oscar worthy, it will obviously fall short.
But as it only attempts to be a sweet story about a misfit 15 year old
turned princess, it completely lives up to it's potential. I think that
Julie Andrews completely made the movie and that Anne Hathaway also did
an excellent job. The movie is great for people of all ages because it
has a simplistic plot yet has great one liners and great repartee
between the characters of the Queen and Princess Mia. I also think that
the minor characters are great also because they provide even more
comic relief.
<|_=00=_|>

I was surprised to see that the overall voting average for PD was in the 6
range, as so many people I know enjoyed it as much as I
did.
Anne Hathaway plays the role perfectly, making the awkward Mia extremely
likable, as the heroine always should be.  Julie Andrews shines like a
true
royal.  The entire supporting cast adds something special to the film.
It's
quality family fun, and destined to be another Disney classic!
9/10 stars!
<|_=00=_|>

Though this story sounds like a cheesy teenage fairy tale attempt, it
is something quite the contrary. The 'girl who finds out she is a
princess' story, has been most certainly covered, but this makes you
forget about it being a fairy tale cliché.

All thanks to Anne Hathaway, who just sizzled as Mia – her cool/ funny
tone of voice and personality, just made her picture perfect. It was as
is she was just born to play it. In the end, this movie ranked no.19 in
the top 20 movie list of the year 2001, grossing more than 100 million
at the box office….something which it completely deserved. Julie
Andrews, makes a sudden re-appearance as Queen Clarise. Though she does
fit perfectly to what the casting director's envisage of the Queen,
there is something that does not fit, to make it perfect. However, that
does not stop anyone from not enjoying the movie and having fun. Mandy
Moore's debut performance…well was HORRIBLE (listen to her cover
version of 'Stupid Cupid'- its even worst than her acting)! But because
Anne Hathaway's character was brought out with a lot of strength, all
these minor faults seemed invisible. Hector Elizondo was equally good
as the chauffeur Joe. He had wit and the personality. Heather Matarazzo
always plays a freak, and in this case, it is still the same.

This may be a kiddie movie, but I believe it was made for everyone to
enjoy it- and it did serve it's purpose. I ENJOYED THIS MOVIE SO MUCH
and would make a great recommendation, for anyone who just wants to
make movie night fun.

<|_=00=_|>
Mia Thermopolis is a smart but shy girl. She is not from the group of
the popular people and also has as an expectation in her life to be
invisible. But she doesn't know one important thing: She is the only
heir alive to the throne of Genovia! Her father, Philliph was the
prince, but he needed to get a divorce of Mia's mother,since she didn't
want to have a life full of rules and obligations. Now, Mia is going to
have classes with her Grandman, Queen Clarisse Renaldi, to things like
history, art until how to sit and band in order to behave as a
princess. Paolo also helps in her looks making Mia become a very
beautiful girl.

This movie is very lovely, but I never read the books to compare. But I
can say that I loved to see Julie Andrews as a Queen, and to see the
new and beautiful actress Anne Hathaway in her debut movie!
