

"Snatch" is fantastic; and not least because it demonstrates emphatically
that the British movie industry is capable of rivaling even the best of
what
Hollywood can offer.

"Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels" was one of the funniest movies
released in recent years, and "Snatch" takes everything that "Lock,
Stock..." did so well and does it even better.

Back are the cleverly intertwined plotlines, the hilarious one-liners, and
the simultaneously intimidating and comedic London villains. So is the
skillful editing, and often original cinematographic style. This time
however, it all looks somewhat slicker and better funded, and alongside the
British regulars are the odd American celebrity (Brad Pitt, Benicio Del
Toro).

Everyone in the film puts in an excellent performance, but Pitt stands out
as a charismatic and near-incomprehensible Gypsy boxer.

Like Ritchie's earlier film, this one takes a little while to find its
feet,
but once it does the pace doesn't slacken until the finale. One scene
featuring three guys and a squeaking dog in a stolen car stands out
particularly, and left the audience at my local cinema almost weeping as
punchline after punchline was uttered.

When it comes to comedies, I cannot recommend this one highly enough. If
you're after a good laugh, you won't find much to better
"Snatch".
<|_=00=_|>

I was never really too keen on "Lock, Stock And Two Smoking Barrels".  All
my friends constantly quoted it, raved and ranted, and then when "Snatch"
came out, everyone made an even bigger deal of that.  I watched Lock Stock,
and though I did like it, it didn't really tickle my fancy.  But Snatch,
that's a completely different story all together.

When I saw Snatch at the cinemas, I was shocked to see a couple leave only
fifteen minutes into the film.  As they left, you could hear their
intellectually deficient comments; "this movie is so boring".  I couldn't
believe it!  I'd recommend this movie to ANYONE, The Pope
even!

There are hundreds of thousands of reasons for anyone to see this movie;
each word of the script being a reason.

Snatch is possibly one of THE best written movies I've seen. It's smart,
witty, funny and has just the right touches of dark humour.  With characters
like Turkish, Mickey, Tommy, Brick Top, Bullet Tooth Tony and Cousin Avi;
their witty repartee will have your personal quotes list full for months
after watching it.  The camera work and editing complement each other to
keep the film's pace on its toes, much like the boxers at the center of the
character's stories.

Jason Statham has some of THE best lines in the movie, constantly slamming
anything even slightly intelligent his partner Tommy has to say.  Brad Pitt
turns out an excellent performance as the Irish-Gypsy-Pykie Mickey; his
accent is hilarious.  

Even though the story line is only a simple one (following a massive Diamond
through England's criminal underworld), it is the connections each character
has to the diamond and each other that really makes this film stand out from
all the usual jewel-heist films.

Another 10 / 10 from me on this one, it's just a pity the follow up to
Snatch was a "collaborative effort" from Mr. Richie and his
um.......wife.

<|_=00=_|>

A film about boxing, diamonds, gangsters pretending to be Jews, a fat
getaway driver, a rather vicious dog and man eating pigs.
Guy Richie has followed the success of Lock, Stock with an equally stunning
and ambitious return just as Tarantino did with Pulp Fiction. The
characters
are so colourful they jump right off the screen, the dialogue so snappy you
want to learn it by heart and the acting simply wonderful. Vinnie Jones
reveals he can act and Brad Pitt shows that he is far more than a pretty
face and could well win a best supporting actor oscar for his role as Irish
Mickey. See this movie!!!!
<|_=00=_|>

Read this review carefully, please.

First off, Snatch is an amazing movie in every sense of the word. There are
very few movies made where the director obviously did not let one FRAME onto
the screen without a reason, and Snatch is one of them. Nothing happens
onscreen without it having an effect on the plot.

By now you know the plot, or plots. We follow a diamond-heist and the
various characters trying to get theirs, at the same time following
participants in an illegal boxing ring. The incredible part of the movie is
how every scene ties in with the rest somehow, every character connects with
the rest at least once.

There are complaints that the movie is confusing, or muddled. There are a
lot of things that they don't tell you (such as what the dog has to do with
anything, but he's a VERY important character), and that's a good thing. Too
many movies force feed the audience its plot points (Think The Ring vs.
Ringu, did we need the "How long could you survive down there all alone?"
line?). Rather, we just watch occurrences, and have to piece together what
ties everything together, the plot weaves together beautifully.

The cinematography and performances are fantastic as well. Even the
soundtrack is perfect. The camera style during the fight scenes
(slowdown/stop/go) makes it difficult to stop watching, the sound effects
fit in quietly in the background without being overwhelming. And it will be
IMPOSSIBLE to watch this movie without repeating many of the lines around
your friends. I found myself saying "Zee Germans" and things like "It's not
like he's a set of car keys, now is it?" quite a bit. Naturally, Brad Pitt's
pikey is one of the most outlandish I've ever seen.

Summary: watch the movie, and don't expect to be TOLD everything, expect to
have to pay attention.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is perfect in all its categories: credits, sound track,
production, casting, writing, photography, editing, acting, and
direction. 10/10.

I was amazed with the freedom of the use of the camera. This movie will
change the way movies are made. Slow-mo, stills, black and white, and
color were all used to brilliant effect.

I must pick out specific actors who were just over the top - meaning
10+!

Jason Statham as "Turkish" is simply superb - a star of very high
caliber. (You should see him in anything he made, and read my comment
about John Carpenter's movie: "Ghosts of Mars.")

Alan Ford as "Brick Top" is terrifying - his forced speaking style made
me think that he was chewing on the flesh of his previous victim.

Vinnie Jones as "Bullet Tooth Tony" is total tough head to foot tough -
a walking brick wall - a marine for all seasons - none tougher.

Brad Pitt as "Mickey O'Neil" is utterly 110% convincing. I never liked
Mr. Pitt's work before this - but this one totally sold me - he is as
solid an actor as ever came out of Hollywood... and better!

Finally, Guy Ritchie should be recognized as a Michelangelo of film.

-LD
<|_=00=_|>

Guy Richie's follow up to Lock Stock and Two Smoking barrels is every bit as
astonishing as its predecessor. The humour is better and I have never seen
people in a cinema laugh as loud and as frequently as they did here. Vinnie
Jones plays a similar role as Big Chris, here as Bullet Tooth Tony. His
appearance is limited but boy does he make an impact. Even when he is not on
screen there is much to savour from Dennis Farina as Avi and a trio of
pawnbrokers who are sent to rob a bookies. Brad Pitt sheds his movie start
personna and preforms impressively as an Irish gypsie.
Unlike Lock Stock.. the humour will appeal to all nationalities.
However they mind some slang expressions such as Pikey and blag hard to
understand.
Good preformances, fantastic characters, razor sharp diologue, expert
direction and camera work and brilliant humour, Snatch will make you laugh
more than any other movie this year. See it now.
<|_=00=_|>

Imagine what would happen if you took 8 or 10 criminals of various
professions, threw them into a maze, gave one of the criminals a diamond the
size of a fist, and yelled out load, "SOMEONE IN THIS MAZE HAS A HUGE
DIAMOND!  WHOEVER FINDS IT AND IS THE LAST MAN STANDING, WINS!" What do you
think would happen?  Snatch is what happens.

Snatch is a confusing, twisting, crazy movie.  Let me repeat that.  This
movie is crazy!  Imagine the Mr. Toad's Wild Ride at Disney Word on acid,
and this is what you get my friend.  Believe it or not, this mass confusion
and complete insanity is very, very entertaining.

The movie has it's problems.  First off, for those of you who have seen
Snatch's predecessor, (Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels), you know that
Guy Richie (the writer and director of both films) has a very music-video
style as far as the camera angles, movements, and cinematography goes.  The
strange camera techniques get so mad with lunacy that I noticed people
walking out of the theater.  I was also turned off by this madness.
However, most of this insane crap gets over within the first hour, so it
doesn't last.

If any of you people out there loved Lock Stock as much as I did, do
yourself a favor and see this movie as fast as you can.  Snatch is a bit
more serious than Lock Stock, but when it's funny, you'll laugh till your
lungs burst.  It was nice to see Vinnie Jones, who was Big Chris in the last
movie, return as the same basic character (only now named Bullet Tooth Tony)
and doing the same "slamming victim's head in a car door" act again.  The
performances were just as great as Lock Stock, with Jason Statham and Pitt
leading the pack.  I was disappointed to see that Bendicio Del Toro didn't
have a bigger role.  I was expecting him to be a lead character, but he's
not.

So, in conclusion, if you have never seen Lock, Stock, and Two Smoking
Barrels, I would see that first before seeing Snatch so you can get adjusted
to Guy Richie's style.  I still think that it is stupid to compare either
two movies to Pulp Fiction (unlike most people), but it is in the same
ballpark as Pulp.  That means if you liked Pulp, you will most likely like
Snatch and Lock, Stock.  If you have never seen Pulp or Lock Stock, you have
deprived your life of culture.

9/10

<|_=00=_|>

`Snatch', written and directed by Guy Ritchie is by far one of my favorite
films of all time – it is easily in my personal Top Thirty.  In the film,
about (what else?) several schemes that happen to go very wrong yet manage
to intertwine and (for better or worse) resolve themselves in the end,
Ritchie assembles one of the funniest cast of characters in recent memory. 
Let's see if we can keep this straight:

Turkish (Jason Statham) and his partner Tommy (Stephen Graham) are amateur
boxing promoters who, after their premier fighter is wounded, have to find a
replacement to fight, or one of the meanest guys in London, Brick Top (Alan
Ford), who just happens to run the boxing matches and stands to make a lot
of money off of the fight is going to impart his unique brand of justice on
them.  Enter Mickey (Brad Pitt) the gypsy who knocked their fighter out, who
is an unintelligible drunk with quite a right hook.  Meanwhile, there is a
diamond `the size of a fist' that has been stolen by Franky Four Fingers
(Benicio Del Toro). On his way back from London to America where he is
planning on fencing the diamond, trouble ensues, and his fence, Cousin Avi
(Dennis Farina) is forced to come to London to find both Franky and the
diamond with the help of characters like Bullet Tooth Tony (Vinnie Jones)
and Doug `The Head' Denovitz (Mike Reid).  Of course, this can't happen
easily, as there are a trio of inept thieves on the trail of the diamond as
well as my personal favorite character in the film, Boris `The Blade'
Yurinov (Rade Serbedzija) – or as he's better known, `Boris the Bullet
Dodger'.  

Did you get all that?  The performances by all of the above actors, and
several more that I didn't even mention are all really good, particularly
Brad Pitt's.  Every single actor in `Snatch' looks like they are having one
hell of a good time working in the film. This story, while complex and with
many ramifications from the core plot is absolutely brilliant and a lot of
fun.  There are many one-liners that I still personally use four years after
first seeing the film, and the intricate weaving of the characters to tell a
very simple heist story is just SO good.  `Snatch' would be a great film due
to its story alone, but Guy Ritchie's direction is so dead on, the film
transcends brilliant and becomes FAN-insert your choice of expletive
here-TASTIC.  The slick cinematography, lightning-fast pacing and fun camera
angles are right on target with the story.  Add on a great soundtrack that
spans Oasis, techno and a traditional-sounding Hasidic song and Ritchie has
presented the viewer with an instant classic.  

While this was not the first time I had seen the film `Snatch', it was the
first time I'd watched the film knowing that I would have to analyze it
slightly in order to funnel my thoughts from the film just being
`Phenomenal!' to `Phenomenal because…..'  While I can certainly be
classified as an unabashed Madonna fan, and have been for the last two
decades, I REALLY hope that Ritchie decides to drop his wife from his film
work and not continue on the `Swept Away' path, rather, to get back to the
work that has earned him well-deserved high praise.  Sorry
Madge.

--Shelly

<|_=00=_|>

The release of Tarantino's "Pulp Fiction" in 1994 prompted a schism in the
staid gangster movie genre: the standard hallmarks - serious characters,
gunfights, intrigue and damsels in distress - were enhanced with snappy
dialogue, and gallows humour.  The biggest change however was the
introduction of the mobius strip-style plot line, where the concept of time
is no longer linear, instead constantly folding in upon itself, flitting
between past, present and future that forces the viewer to pay close
attention lest they miss some subtle detail.  Inevitably, numerous copycat
films emerged that tried to capitalize on Tarantino's success, but it
wasn't
until 1998 when Guy Ritchie, an unknown British director, took on the
challenge that a successor was found.  Now Ritchie is determined to prove
that his first time out wasn't a fluke.

Turkish is a young man with an entrepreneurial bent, who, when he's not
running his gambling operation, manages bareknuckle boxers.  Through a
business deal gone wrong, he becomes acquainted with one Mickey O'Neil, a
mumbling manic motor-mouthed piker who also happens to be a one-punch
marvel.  Turkish persuades Mickey to join his stable of fighters, but soon
discovers that Mickey has his own agenda, and gets Turkish in trouble with
the gangsters who run the underground boxing circuit.  Other characters
that
become involved in the drama include a four-fingered degenerate
gambler/jewel thief, a vicious boxing promoter, a gang of inept robbers, a
polite hitman, a crazed Russian gun runner, a group of Irish gypsies, a
crooked New York jeweler and a pugnacious pet.  The common thread binding
them all is a perfect diamond the size of a peach pit.  If you aren't
confused yet, you soon will be.

"Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels", Mr. Madonna's (Ritchie) first film,
was shot on a small budget, with a no-name cast (except for football bad
boy
Vinnie Jones) and quickly became a rousing success at home and found
receptive audiences abroad.  While not a technically a sequel "Snatch" is
stylistically very similar to "Lock, Stock…":  Ritchie utilizes his
trademark bombastic staccato sequences, and repeatedly bounces off on
radical tangents to throw the viewer off balance.  He did however opt for a
decidedly darker satirical tone in this film, that may make some people
uncomfortable (think "Very Bad Things").  What struck me as particularly
daring was his decision to create a story with such a voluminous cast.

Ritchie faced a daunting task with this film: how, with roughly twenty
principal characters, does one adequately flesh out each character, and not
hopelessly confuse the audience?  The feat was made doubly difficult, as
several cast members are big name stars.  Somehow Ritchie manages - each
actor is full bodied, receives ample screen time, and no one character is
the centerpiece.  With so many talented actors, it is difficult to pick out
one performance that stands out:  Rade Serbedzija is hilarious as the mad
Russian who blithely burns through each of his nine lives, as is Vinnie
Jones' manic gentleman hitman.  On the other end of the spectrum, is Alan
Ford as Brick Top, the promoter with a penchant for pigs, who epitomizes
cold-blooded viciousness. If forced to pick my favorite however, I would
have to go with Brad Pitt

Pitt resurrects his trailer trash look from "Kalifornia" and adopts a
nearly
indecipherable brogue that sounds like my best friend's Uncle Wally on a
bad
day.  As Mickey O'Neil, the hard drinking wily grifter and part-time
pugilist, Pitt displays a wide range of emotions, demonstrating again that
he is not only a star, but also a gifted character actor.  And I would be
remiss if I didn't mention the dog that subtly stole every scene he
appeared
in.

While "Snatch" initially struggles to find its stride, and is very similar
to Ritchie's earlier film, it is fresh and funny enough to make you forget
any minor shortfalls and stand on its own.

<|_=00=_|>
I would imagine viewers would either really love this movie or be
totally turned off. It is presented in a different format for its time
(since copied), has very odd and profane characters, accents that are
difficult to understand, and tells an unpleasant story with some
disgusting scenes. So, why do I enjoy this film, being an old-fashioned
so-and-so?

Well, because I usually enjoy "stylish" film-making and dark humor and
this has both in abundance. This is almost as stylish as it gets:
fascinating visuals, odd camera angles and various tricks, sound
effects, etc. Most of the characters in this bizarre crime film have
colorful nicknames and most speak in a strong British accent. A gypsy,
played by American Brad Pitt, is almost intelligible.

This is why I strongly recommend you use English subtitles while
watching this film, at least for the first viewing, or you will totally
lost. The DVD offers a feature I've never seen before: the option of
using subtitles solely for Pitt's character. The filmmakers knew few
people were going to understand Pitt's weird way of speaking. Anyway, I
recommend the subtitles for everyone. It makes the film more enjoyable
when you know what's going on, especially with the many slang terms
used in here that have to be totally foreign to most viewers outside
GB.

Since the action changes every two minutes to another scene with other
people (Lord of The Rings subsequently did the same), it's had to get
lulled to sleep or have your mind wander. Something wacky is going on
every few minutes. The attitudes of the criminals are rough: these are
low-life people in the underworld: extremely tough people with the
toughest being "Bricktop" (Alan Ford) who likes to feed people to the
pigs. There are a ton of f-words in here, too.

The disjointed story is not easy to follow and I found I needed several
viewings to understand everything that was going on. The characters are
so strange, so cartoon-like, that - combined with the unique visuals -
it makes it a fascinating film to watch every time. Some of these
actors were fairly unknown at the time of this release , at least here
in the States, such as Jason Statham ("The Transporter") but we know
them know. There is a good mix of young and old actors in here.

This is a guy's movie with the top dozen actors in this film all
tough-talking, almost-crude men (plus a funny dog). It's so weird, I'll
just end with the cliché that "this is not for all tastes" but if you
enjoy dark humor and something totally different, you might want to
give it a shot. Just remember to turn on the subtitles.
