

Man, to anyone that thinks this is highbrow art, please, please, get a
life.
This was supposed to be a ghetto comedy, and as such it is awesome.  The
scene with Damon and the pimp in the Bathroom almost put me in the
hospital.
And the Church ladies at the storefront.  This is funny stuff.  I mean
real
funny stuff.  If you can't find the comedy in this, you need to take the
stick.....  I'm sorry, as I was saying this is really funny
stuff.
<|_=00=_|>
In udder hilarity, the gang of two is back! And with a comedic
vengeance. I saw this in California when I lived there at Christmas
time, 2002, and it was one of the funniest down in the hood yule-tide,
Christmas stories I have seen in years. 

From one of the worst roommates, Dey Dey,(Epps Jr.) to Pinky their
ex-boss, to Pops and uncle, doing restaurant bar-BBQ together(and
arguing and fighting, all the way)right on down to the landlord and one
of the biggest 'problems' these two have had (Damon) since,
well...since 'FRIDAY' 1995 when Chris Tucker was riding with Cube, and
Deebo was troubling' em'!!

The two police officers I won't soon forget, A.Hole and B. Dix when it
came time to bring the PO' PO' into it, these two were all in all.
Christmas time is here and unfortunately so is the ghetto thugs, out
rippin' and stealin' everything in sight, including Dey Dey and Craig's
stuff even out the refrigerator. They're broker den broke, and you
can't 'beat' that with Michael Jackson!

I went back and saw this a few more times before it left the theater
because frankly, it was worth it. Ms. K.D. Aubert, was a lovely and
wondrous addition to this Miss-L-toe mantra in the ghetto. This was
accompanied by a ghetto-fabulous soundtrack! Mary J Blige was my
favorite of all, 'Family Affair' was R&B soul-delicious!! And in all,
as Mary would say, Jesus is the reason for the season all the way!

I really love it when Ice Cube puts his writer's cap on and brings out
yet another gem of a good-times movie. 

I recommend this to Ice Cube and Mike Epps fans, because they take it
and bake the cake and steal the show.

Good team playing' y'all! Here's to another fun-filled two hours down
the hood comedy road. I'll be waiting. Until then, (****) four out of
four.
<|_=00=_|>

When I saw the coming attractions while going to see "Brown Sugar", I knew
that I had to go and see this movie. Craig (Ice Cube) and his cousin
Day-Day
(Mike Epps) are back for another installment in the "Friday" series. This
time the boys are in South Central and getting ready to celebrate
Christmas...until a burgular dressed like Santa Claus (Rickey Smiley) robs
the boys and getting away with their rent money and presents. Craig and
Day-Day then apply for jobs as security guards when their evil landlady,
Miss Pearly (Bebe Drake), demands the rent money in advance or she'll let
loose her burly son Damon (Terry Crews), who has spent 12 years in prison
and now likes men. As they adjust to their new job, Craig becomes
interested
in the sexy Donna (K.D. Aubert) who works at her pimped-out boyfriend's
department store. Also featured in the movie are Craig parents (John
Witherspoon and Anna Maria Horsford), Uncle Elroy (Don "D.C." Curry),
Pinky
(Clifton Powell) and even Chico the dog who wreaked havoc on Craig and
Day-Day in "Next Friday".

This movie was so hilarious and topped the second installment but could
never surpass the original "Friday" simply because of Chris Tucker who
played Craig's best friend Smokey. I will definitely go and see this movie
again and again until its available to own on DVD. Maybe if there's a
fourth
"Friday" Chris Tucker can join Ice Cube and the hilarious Mike Epps. I
would
love to see those three together.


<|_=00=_|>

This movie was not good at all. I liked the first two movies but I can
not
say the same for the last one. I think Cube and Epps are a great team on
film but this movie was so bad I don't think anything could have saved
it.
The movie was pointless! I laughed two or three times at the most and
most
of what I did laugh at I had seen in the trailers. The best part was when
Epps character was yelling at the old women in front of the liquor store.
Cube is not funny at all and the movie was the same as the other two. It
was
about Craig and Day-Day trying to get money they owed before an overly
large
man beat them up. Even Craigs' dad who I think is the funniest character
was
not funny at all. I know people who liked the first two movies will see
this
regardless, but if you are just going to see it because you think it
looks
funny don't.
<|_=00=_|>

Having been a fan of the first Friday, my expectations for the second one
weren't exactly high [no pun intended], given the fact that Chris Tucker
wasn't in it. But it turned out to be an okay movie. I also noticed the
direction it took the franchise to -- low brow humor. The first had a little
bit of it, but the second one seemed like it just wanted to gross you out
with its sick humor and poop jokes. 

You won't find much difference in this Friday. Turning the series on its ear
and giving it a fresh new spin with the Christmas theme seemed like an
intriguing idea. Did it work? Hells yeah. With the uncontrollable Mike Epps
once again playing the crazy sidekick to Cube's Craig, Chris Tucker seems
like a distant memory. Out goes the semi-seriousness of the first one about
the reality of the hood, and in comes the all out craziness that solidified
the second. The only memorable characters in this one are Money Mike and
Damon. If you're a fan of the series, by all means, rent it.

By the end of the movie, you'll ponder if this was the best way to close out
the trilogy. Was it as funny as they could make it? Memorable? With a
stronger script and more reigned-in performances, it could have been.
Average at best. But let's hope Cube ends it here.
<|_=00=_|>
Seriously, people, where's your sense of humor? Again I thought that
Friday After Next turned out to be a great film that had a lot of
really funny humor that nearly had me rolling on the floors laughing.
Ice Cube did a great job with these stories and made it a Lord of the
Rings of the hood type of trilogy. I loved Friday After Next, the story
rocked and the actors were back and it looked like they had a great
time performing together again. I know that this movie is so
stereotypical, but it was all in good fun, you know? 

Craig and Day Day have jobs as security men in a strip mall and they
find themselves being tormented by their land lady for the rent money.
When Day Day abuses his power of security and has men go after him for
throwing their grandmothers off the corner, he and Craig are fired.
They decide to throw a party to pay the rent money by charging party
fees and Craig does fall for another woman, but she's a bit harder to
get than the others.

I loved the pimp and Damon's characters, they were just so funny,
especially coming out of the party with Damon's partners in a clamp!
You'll have to watch the movie to see what I mean. I highly recommend
Friday After Next to anyone, it's a great movie that I honestly had a
good time laughing with and I am not ashamed to admit that, I don't get
the low rating, because this was a fun movie. Please, don't judge so
harshly, you'll find yourself loving every joke better and better.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>

I had the opportunity to sneak this film at the CWRU Film Society this
evening.  I admit I wasn't expecting much.  Friday was a great film.  Fun,
laid back and a good trip.  Next Friday was, well, OK, but it wasn't
great.
Friday After Next was maybe a little lower on the scale.

This suburban white boy is a huge fan of Cube, so I had fun just the same.
Things just seemed... I don't know... disconnected.  Granted the first two
films didn't have a strong plot, but this one was a little thinner.  The
situations were funny, but they weren't as funny often times as I thought
they could be.

In short, I'm glad I saw it and yucked it up.  I certainly needed the
laughs, but there could have been more of them and not so spaced apart.
Finally, I thought the opening sequence was cute, but perhaps too cute,
and
it certainly seemed to drag on just a little too much.

Enjoy it, it's worth the money, but maybe at the cheapie show, which is
where I fear it will be in a few weeks...
<|_=00=_|>

i saw this movie twice and the second time viewing improved my expression
about this movie as i catch up with more jokes that i missed during the
first time. i find this movie very enjoyable for the first 20 minutes and
the last 20 minutes. things happen in the middle drag a little bit but
they
are bearable and dispersed with a few quality jokes. 7 out of 10. and i
will
wait to check out the next sequel as the last scene implies that the
story
of the main characters will be back.

<|_=00=_|>

I am a big Ice Cube fan, but these Friday sequels are getting old
especially
when you don't have Smokey (Chris Tucker) around anymore on these, Mike
Epps
does an nice job though. I really didn't care for this third one as much
as
the second which wasn't that special in the first place. I hope Cube quits
making these Fridays and stick to stuff like Barbershop, I found this
third
one not as fun as the others and short for some reason. WAR Willie
Jones.
<|_=00=_|>

The third movie in Ice Cube's "Friday" series, this was the funniest of the
three so far. The film takes place on Christmas Eve (on a Friday of course).
Craig Jones and his cousin Day-Day have been robbed by someone going around
dressed like Santa Claus and have all their gifts and rent money stolen (and
their recreational drugs confiscated by the cops). It puts a damper on the
day, where they have new jobs as mall security officers. So we see them
through their day, wondering if they'll get their revenge on the burglar and
seeing the hilariously overdone sterotypes in the film.

Most of the characters from the first two film and their idiosyncrancies are
back, like Craig's father and his bladder problems. There's also Maz
Jobrani's Moly, playing a stereotypical Asian character whose broken English
was a gas! Probably even more hilarious is the sheer sight of Katt Williams'
Money Mike who plays someone that is a cross between Snoop Dogg and Spike
Lee. Also, I just loved the wardrobe; I'd love to get a pimptastic suit. Ice
Cube is good here, as he plays the only normal character in a world full of
crazy people; I could feel for him. The acting was overdone, but it was done
like this on purpose and so I could accept it, besides, the dialogue was
funny. Ice Cube has a superb sense of humour. It's only about 82 minutes, so
it doesn't overstay its welcome, either.

And once again, Craig proves you don't have to be overly handsome to get the
ladies. Very good comedy!
