

The usual quota of "surface reviews" here. Are we living in a totally
one-dimensional society these days that has no time now for unsupported
fantasy - "Just the facts Ma'am, Just the facts!"

We have here an adult fairytale no less, yet what do I read (and I include
paid media critics here) but absurd negative comments such as "How did
McConaughey and his intrepid band of marines come up with the fuel to
cross
the atlantic?"  "Why are the children seemingly so well fed in a period of
pestilence?"  "Where does the seemingly limitless fuel come from?" etc
etc.
Who CARES?????????   this is a DRAGON fantasy for God sakes! Someone want
to
set up a Government enquiry as to why fairies speak English? the
possibility
that Humpty Dumpty had a middle-ear infection? Perhaps the Easter Bunny
has
some communicable diseases that he should be tested for?

Ok REIGN OF FIRE is not up there with other sci-fi classics and the
marketing department should be answering charges of misrepresentation for
that poster showing an aerial armada of helicopters battling the
fire-breathing beasties over central London - that just never happens but
I
gotta tell you REIGN OF FIRE has some of the greatest set designs and
cinematography I have ever seen. It is extremely interesting to LOOK at
from
a technical viewpoint. The dragons themselves make the least interesting
contribution to the film and except for the final confrontation which
almost
"gets there" they are really secondary to the film itself. If you were to
actually record the amount of dragon "screen time" I doubt it would be 18
minutes....and most of them are not far off laughable. Curiously, that
aspect alone should have wrecked it for me...but it didn't - I found the
"wasteland asharamas" totally credible and involving.

I thought the much maligned McConaughey's role not without interest. Still
haven't worked out whether or not "Mad Matt" was supposed to be some
hybrid
creation - part Patton, part Maximus, part Captain Ahab or just all
"grunt."
He certainly handled his last solo flight with flair and derring-do.
Basil
Rathbone himself never swung a meaner sword!
Christian Bale replete with his best "know wot I mean" brit accent was
pretty good I thought as Quinn the reluctant colony leader. What I
couldn't
believe is how the years have treated Izabella Scorupco the most beautiful
Bond girl I ever saw (GOLDENEYE). I realise that a decade of fighting
dragons and close-contact aeriel combat takes a lot out of a girl but she
looked 20 years older! I would never have recognised her. Totally
shattered
an illusion I have maintained of her. If she said "Boys with Toys" now, I
think I'd need a double vodka-martini!

But I digress.  The dragon fx were just so-so, they saved the best for
last
sensibly. The script had its moments but the production work and
set-design
were simply awesome...SO good in fact, the rest of the film really didn't
matter! Overall I would bequeath it a 6.9. Worth seeing if one is prepared
to watch it in the spirit that it was made.
<|_=00=_|>
This was a bit different than one expected. There was no nonsense, no
tongue-in-cheek humor or special-effects just for the sake of it: this
was simply a humans vs. dragons story taking place in the future. No
laughs and nothing hokey, which is what I expected. They played it
straight, simply as a fight story between the two parties.

Yes, there were credibility problems with the story but overall, it was
good escapist adventure. The dragons were realistic-looking, the
scenery dreary but the story interesting and intense in spots.

I wouldn't buy it, but I would definitely recommend it if you are
looking for a night of adventure on film. You could do a whole lot
worse, especially with two young actors who have arrived as stars:
Christian Bale and Matthew McConnaughey.
<|_=00=_|>

Seems like I'm in a minority enjoying this one! It amazes me that so many
people are quick to put the boot in to this (admittedly) silly but
entertaining b-grade post-apocalyptic thriller yet line up to watch the
absolutely awful and overblown Star Wars movies. Yes, I said b-grade,
because despite the budget being close to $100 million, that's exactly what
it is, a b-grade sci fi movie, no more, no less. Fans of Roy Ward Baker's
'Quatermass and the Pit', Larry Cohen's 'Q: The Winged Serpent' and Tobe
Hooper's 'Lifeforce', all of which 'Reign Of Fire' reminded me of at various
points, will enjoy this one more than the Blockbuster crowd. Christian Bale
('American Psycho') and Matthew McConaughey ('Frailty') are both pretty good
as the leader of an underground community and a hardass military man
respectively, who both have different approaches to their shared problem -
the ongoing threat of dragon attacks. Yes, in this future dragons are real
and have devastated the world, and only a handful of human survivors exist. 
Once you can accept that premise, and some of the "scientific" explanations
for the why and wherefores of the dragons, you're in for a wild ride.
No-one's gonna argue this is a great movie, but it's a lot of fun, and I
recommend it, especially with beer and pizza.
<|_=00=_|>

Sure, it was cheesy and low budget, but 
the indomitable Rob Bowman didn't pull any 
punches in this futuristic drama about dragons. 
Giving a scientific edge to a creature based in 
fantasy, this film proved to be a rather refreshing 
step in science fiction, which means it won't 
be a well received one. Even if this film barely 
makes its money back, at least it leaves the 
door open for other fantastic ideas in the science 
fiction genre. 

As for the film, the technical side was excellent. 
Bowman, a former television director proves 
he can do just as well with a 50 million dollar 
budget (?) and a tough to sell idea. Both 
Christian Bale and Matthew McConaughey were 
believable as care taking heroes. Their bipolar 
dynamic was especially excellent, creating tension 
not just in beliefs but also in culture and devotion 
to country. McConaughey was especially good 
as Van Zant (which was well cast, considering 
he is an actual southerner), bringing a role to 
his resume which I had never seen. All in all, 
a decent film to watch. 7/10

<|_=00=_|>
I love this film. It shows the very human struggle to survive after
they've been knocked from the top of the food chain. It blends medieval
mythology with a modern era breathlessly. Definitely an original take
on Man vs Dragon. Now to get this straight, this is a film about
Humans, not about Dragons. The dragons merely supply the unique reason
for the apocalypse. This is a film about the post-apocalypse, not the
apocalypse. It's not about skies full of Dragons turning worldwide
armed forces into ash on an epic scale. It's not about Dragons setting
the world, quite literally, on fire. It's about after all that's
happened.

Which is a shame this was advertised as a film about Dragons burning
all life as we know it. Of course, everyone goes in expecting to see 90
minutes of Dragons destroying everything. If this had been advertised
as a more human film about after these Dragons have completely wasted
everything, I really think this could've been seen as a good film. It
unfortunately set expectations high in the wrong sort of viewers by a
mind-blowingly epic trailer.

Christian Bale, Gerard Butler and Matthew McConaughey all deliver their
role superbly, and the script isn't as bad as it's made out to be
either. The effects were great and the Dragons do look pretty
realistic, to the point I almost believed this was a documentary. Okay,
so there are some plot holes, but it doesn't take a rocket scientist to
fill those in yourself. I mean, does everything have to be explained so
obviously? The only reason this film gets 4 stars and not 5 is because,
being a film about human struggle, it could've done with a bit more
character development. Other than that, it's a deeply entertaining,
well-acted, suspenseful film.

Don't knock it before you see it for yourself.
<|_=00=_|>
I think this is the best post-apocalyptic action film since The Road
Warrior. Everything about it works: the story, the acting, the sets,
the special effects. It amazes me that this film never found it's
audience. I think it's fantastic.A really interesting take on the
dragon myth. Something never seen before in a film. Unfortunately, that
summer of 2002 all anyone could think about was the over hyped debut of
"spider man." Such a shame, because this film beats it by a mile in
terms of imagination on display. The sequence where men attempt to
snare a dragon in mid-air is something that has never been seen before
on-screen. Amazing and excellent stuff, pulled off with panache.
<|_=00=_|>


`Reign of Fire's' premise is simple: the world has been wiped out by
airborne, fire-breathing dragons, who at first multiplied by the thousands
but now themselves are starving and dying off.  A few bands of people remain
here and there trying to survive.  Quinn (Christian Bale, with whiskers and
glottal stops), who was on the scene as a boy in London when the first
sleeping dragon awakened in a cave unearthed by an Underground project his
mum was working on, leads a group of survivors in the north of England
who're just trying to get a crop going for the next year and save a little
mob of children.  In comes Van Zan (Mathew McConaughey, with shaved head and
brawny tattooed arms) leading an American helicopter crew. He's become a
dragon slayer and since he's found there's only one male dragon left and
it's somewhere around London, he's come to solicit aid.  Quinn refuses.  Van
Zan pushes on to London without Quinn.  They fail.  He returns and begs
Quinn to come as guide.  What follows is the finale.

If you probe too deeply into the premise you're not going to have any fun,
but fun is what this movie offers, glorious mindless fun and, above all,
fabulous apocalyptic visuals of twisted metal, crepuscular landscapes, dark
hulking ruins, and men crawling through them to fire off weapons at the evil
birds, which look very graceful as they sweep through the skies and spurt
out long expanding streams of fire.  Shots are so stunningly composed you
want them to freeze-frame.  Within the dark end-of-the-world light there is
amazing clarity. Working with Ridley Scott's cinematographer Adrian Biddle,
X-Files director Rob Bowman has produced the best fantasy landscape this
year next to `Lord of the Rings.'  When Van Zan leads a hunt in the sky,
it's like a computer game, and sometimes we see the game through the eyes of
the dragon and it looks like a degraded digital film.  However, it's not
ingenuity of conception but sheer aesthetic appeal that makes the visuals of
this movie so good.

The other large positive factor is the very solid, mostly English cast
including a number of appealing youngsters led by Scott James Moutter as
Jared, Quinn's adopted son, not to mention Bale, who brings a striking level
of naturalness and conviction to his role as the sensitive,
conscience-stricken Quinn.  Bale's a foil to McConaughey's American macho
militarist icon.  McConaughey, whose finely chiseled face can be seen
staring in mirrors in `Thirteen Conversations About One Thing,' is having a
lark playing a brute here, but in the moments when he isn't shouting, he
gives Van Zan almost as much conviction as Bale gives Quinn.  Ladies are in
short supply in this story: there's Alex (Izabella Scorupco) as Van Zan's
helicopter pilot who winds up with Quinn, and for five minutes there's Alice
Krige as young Quinn's mum.  But since this movie's ideal audience might
surely be young teenage boys, that's probably enough. Other things are
lacking too, such as more variety in the dragons, more recognizable details
of the wrecked London of the final scenes, some more colorful characters
among Quinn's community, as in post-apocalyptic classics like `Mad Max.' 
But to say that is to miss the point, which is that this is a fast,
exhilarating ride that's a feast for the eyes.  If you want to view all this
as a `B' horror picture, fine: just grant that it's a first-class version. 
To be seen, by all means, on a big screen, preferably in a big, old-time
movie house.


<|_=00=_|>

The previews for this movie did not really interest or impress me at all. 
In fact, I went to this movie only half-interested with a friend who claimed
that it would be a good movie.  The PG rating worried me, and I was afraid
it would be another poorly done movie.  I mean, dragons in the future??

However, the previews didn't really say anything about the great acting,
touching scenes, and great overall story and concept.  What a surprise this
movie was!  Matthew McConnaughy does a great job, and I could only really
half-believe it was him through the whole movie!  He plays such an
interesting character ... and then the highly rated Christian Bale lives up
to his previous acting job... a brilliant performance on his
part.

I really was impressed with this movie.  It's a wonderful post-apocalyptic
movie that explains the demise of the dinosaurs, and brings a whole new
element to the evolution and recycling of life on planet Earth.  Everything
in this movie was great, and sci-fi fantasy fans, you MUST SEE THIS
MOVIE!!

A few complaints though, no nothing too bad really.. just nitpicky: 1) a
poor directing decision on filming parts of the dragon's eyesight
perspective; this kind of technique is shabby, but luckily, it was for only
2 quick shots. 2) They should have explained how the tanks and helicopters
get their fuel. 3) The end line was a little silly, something to do with
evolution?  Huh? 4) Where did all the female dragons go at the end?  They
just seem to dissapear... maybe an extra 2 minute scene there could have
helped to explain the final demise of the dragons.

Overall, this movie is a winner!  I'd rate it a solid 8/10 or so!  See it! 
Finally, a post-apocalypse movie that is original, believeable, and doesn't
have Kevin Costner in it!!!


<|_=00=_|>

Reign of Fire is a must see movie for its special effects and computer
graphic dragons.  The plot is wacky because of the theory the dinosaurs
were
killed by dragons.  The actors are perfect for their roles and did a fine
job.
In London, an underground tunnel digging operation hits a cave
containing
the long dormant dragons.  This causes the dragons to awake and spread
all
over the world.  They burn everything in their path.  The Earth is
broiled
and the dragons formed a dictatorship.  All surviving organisms hide.
Quinn
is the leader of a small hiding community.  His leadership comes to
question
when Americans show at their door.  Big, grizzly Van Zan tells his story
of
being a dragonslayer, and Quinn lets them stay.  Van Zan has a theory
that
there is only one male and it is living in London.  He wants an army to
help
him kill the male and save the world.
The computer graphics and special effects are awesome.  Some movies
have
big dragons and little wings that somehow make it fly, but Reign of
Fire's
dragons have huge wingspan.  The dragons look spectacular.  Van Zan's
leap
into the dragon is the most exciting part of the movie.
I think the director is combining fantasy and future to make the
audience
think that anything is possible.  Bizarre things are going to happen in
the
future, but I do not think dragons are going to take over the
world.
<|_=00=_|>

`Reign of Fire' is a no-more-than-passable sci-fi monster movie, strong on
production values and special effects and weak on just about everything
else.  Once again we have the typical gray-and-khaki hued post-apocalyptic
world filled with burnt out cities, roaming bands of grimy-faced survivors,
and enough soot, dirt and rust to make the audience feel the need for a
shower once they get out of the theatre (in other words, the `Mad Max'
look).

The apocalypse in this case comes in the form of a race of fire-breathing
dragons that are awakened from their millennia-long state of dormancy thanks
to a deep-drilling construction project in downtown London.  We are told
that these ash-eating dragons hibernate for eons at a time waiting for the
earth to replenish itself before embarking on another mission of total
bio-global destruction.  This is, in fact, the explanation for the demise of
the dinosaurs, though, if this were indeed the case, one might question just
how this species managed to so completely avoid leaving any evidence of its
existence in the fossil record.  In this kind of movie, it is probably best
not to ask questions of this sort and to just go along with the sheer
inanity of it all.

The first specimen to be unleashed is discovered by a young London lad named
Quinn Abercrombie who, 18 years later, has grown up to be the hunky
Christian Bale, leader of a group of survivors holed up in a kind of
mountainside fortress with very little hope for a future.  That is, of
course, until one fateful day when `Dragon Slayer' Denton Van Dan (Matthew
McConaughey) makes his sooty-faced appearance.  From then on it becomes a
battle of the minds and muscles between these two strong-willed individuals
who have decidedly different ideas about how best to ensure the survival of
the human race.

Movies like `Reign of Fire' pretty much preclude any real critical analysis.
  Suffice it to say that the special effects and art direction are quite
impressive throughout, the dialogue bland and purely functional, and the
performances adequate to the admittedly rather unchallenging task.  And the
characters are at least allowed to show their human side at times,
displaying various amounts of fear, uncertainty and emotional vulnerability
even at those moments when they are having to be at their most daring and
heroic.   There is one truly inspired scene in which two of the adults
beguile the children by acting out the Luke Skywalker/Darth Vader `I am your
father' confrontation scene from `The Empire Strikes Back.'  More clever
moments like that would have helped make `Reign of Fire' a more distinctive
film than it currently is. 

Oh well, if nothing else, the theatre-shaking soundtrack is enough to keep
you awake, if not exactly interested, at all times.   But cranking up the
volume is often the first indication that a movie has very little else to
offer.    

  


