

	Magic happens, if you let it; and sometimes even fate or destiny-- or
whatever you want to call it-- steps in to lend a hand.  But when it
concerns love, and finding that special person you're going to spend the
rest of your life with, should you risk tempting fate with a test of that
love or what is seemingly meant to be, or should you just follow your
apparent destiny and embrace it?  Such are the questions two people must
face and answer in the romantic comedy/drama `Serendipity,' directed by
Peter Chelsom.  Jonathan Trager (John Cusack) is shopping for a gift for his
girlfriend, and Sara Thomas (Kate Beckinsale) is looking for something for
her boyfriend when they reach for the same pair of gloves on a rack at
Bloomingdales.  And the wheels of fate are quickly turning.  Or are they? 
Jonathan and Sara proceed to spend the next few hours together, including a
romantic interlude skating in New York's Central Park, and there are
definite sparks flying between them.  For Jonathan, it's a significant
emotional experience, and he realizes something has happened, that something
has changed in his life; Sara feels the same, but being a true believer in
destiny, she needs a sign that this is meant to be before she'll consider
pursuing whatever it is that's just happened between them.  So she puts it
to the test.  And for Jonathan, knowing only that her name is Sara, it's the
beginning of an odyssey-- a quest-- to find true love with the woman he
already knows in his heart of hearts that he wants to share his life with. 
For Sara, it's the beginning of a search for love, and for that one special
person she knows is destined to be her soul mate forever.  They both find,
however, that the path to pure love is filled with every obstacle the known
universe could possibly place in their way.  And is the journey worth it? 
Well, in the end, it all comes down to what fate has predetermined.  Or does
it?

	In the tradition of such films as `Sleepless In Seattle' and `You've Got
Mail,' Chelsom has fashioned a truly romantic tale of two people who are
absolutely destined to be together, no matter what.  And-- as the audience
knows early on-- nothing less will be acceptable.  Hanks and Ryan may be
missing, but the charismatic Cusack and the beguiling Beckinsale more than
make up for it, carving out their own niche in the genre with this outing,
and Chelsom has just enough of that Nora Ephron touch (including the use of
music, matching the perfect song with every situation) to make it work.  The
chances of things ever happening in real life the way they do in this movie
are about twice as remote as winning the lottery, but who cares?  This is a
heartwarming fable about love-- about the way we `want' love to be-- and
it's delivered with an endearing care that makes it emotionally involving,
entertaining and a thoroughly satisfying experience.  And there's not a
whole lot more you can ask of a movie, I think.

	Cusack is so likable, and manages to convey the bedevilment of his
situation with such facility, that the viewer is unequivocally drawn in from
the beginning.  You want things to work out for this guy-- and Sara, as
well; and, of course, you're pretty confident from the outset they are going
to.  But along the way they make you feel something; they enable you to
share the frustration as well as the elation that comes with discovering
love, and perhaps finding that better part of yourself at the same time. 
And the fact that Cusack makes Jonathan so believable, and someone with whom
you can identify, has more than a lot to do with it.  It's a quality
performance from an actor with the flexibility and range to do just about
anything, and who never disappoints.

	The other half of the equation for success, of course, belongs to
Beckinsale, who is not only beautiful, but a good actor who infuses her
character with a touch of mystery and complexity that makes her winsome and
interesting.  Like Cusack's Jonathan, Sara is someone you can root for; you
want to see her get what she wants and what she deserves.  This isn't a
perfect world we live in, and we all know it; but for Sara and Jonathan you
want it to be.  There's a chemistry between the two of them, and they make
it so easy for you to project your own feelings and desires into their
situation, that there's no getting around it.  If they win, you win.  It's
that simple.  And even though they take you over some rough spots along the
way, it's a fun trip and Beckinsale and Cusack-- Sara and Jonathan-- make it
a journey worth taking.

	The supporting cast includes Molly Shannon, Jeremy Piven, Bridget Moynahan
and Eugene Levy (who is terrific-- and hilarious-- as a sales clerk at
Bloomingdales).  A handsome film that touches all the right nerves and
pushes all the right buttons, `Serendipity' has a gentle sensibility about
it that addresses the notions of romance and love that reside within us all.
 And it's refreshingly presented in a way that is pure and inoffensive; and
as such it allows you to open up and embrace something of value without
having to apologize for it, and without implying you have to be `hip' to
appreciate it.  Because it's all about love and sharing love, which is
something we can all use a little more of in this world we live in today. 
And that's the magic of the movies.  I rate this one 9/10.

	      

	

	       
<|_=00=_|>

This charming romantic comedy has all the right ingredients and serves up a
bouillabaisse of schmaltzy romance and slapstick fun.  Jonathan (John
Cusack) and Sara (Kate Beckinsale) meet in Bloomingdales when they both want
to purchase the same pair of gloves.  The attraction is instant and they
spend a romantic evening cavorting around New York City together.  At the
end of the evening John wants to see her again, but Sara decides that if it
is fate that they should be together, they will find each other again.  She
drives away in a cab and he never sees her again.   Well, almost
never.

Years go by and both of them are about to be married, but each still has
this nagging feeling that the other was his/her one true love.  Of course
fate conspires to bring them back together (after about a dozen near misses)
as they each simultaneously undertake one last attempt to find one another
just before they get married to someone else.

The fate angle is plowed mercilessly, almost to the point of nausea, but the
skits are funny and the chemistry between Cusack and Beckinsale is
enchanting.  Cusack is an expert at playing the tortured and neurotic lover,
but here he is more haunted and forlorn than dysfunctional, and it plays
much better than his previous two characters in `High Fidelity' and
`America's Sweethearts'.  

Kate Beckinsale rocketed from obscurity to prominence with her performance
in `Pearl Harbor' and proves to be a wonderful romantic lead in this film. 
She is breezy and adorable and spins a delightful web around Jonathan and
the viewer.  The film also benefits from outstanding comedic support from
Jeremy Piven as Jonathan's best friend and devoted Sara sleuth.  Piven's
zany comedy proves to be the perfect complement to Cusack's wry despondency.
 Eugene Levy is a scream as the eccentric Bloomingdales salesman, who
blackmails Jonathan into buying half the store to give him information from
Sara's charge account.

All in all, this is an entertaining comedy that is insubstantial but
delectable.  I tend to give romantic comedies a little more slack, because
I'm a sucker for this slush, and this is one of the better ones I've seen in
a while so I rated it a 9/10.  This lighthearted romp makes a great date
flick, but if serious drama is your preference stay away.

<|_=00=_|>

Jonathan and Sara bump into each other while Christmas shopping in
Bloomingdale's, when they both grab the same pair of black cashmere
gloves at the same time. They go for coffee at a café named Serendipity
which, Jonathan discovers, is Sara's favourite word. A firm believer in
the power of fate, she refuses to give Jonathan her phone number –
instead, she writes her name and number inside the cover of a book,
which she then sells to a secondhand bookshop, telling him that if they
are meant to be together, the book will find its way to him. Likewise,
she makes him write his number on a banknote, which she promptly
spends, telling him that if fate decrees it, the note will find its way
back to her. A few years on, Jonathan and Sara are both engaged to
other people, but each keeps thinking about whether the other is their
true soulmate, and then they start to see signs which they interpret as
the fates trying to tell them something…

This is a charming romantic comedy – a heavy suspension of reality is
required, but that's surely part of the point. Sara's willingness to
leave her future to fate slightly beggars belief, but Beckinsale
manages to make Sara appealing enough. It's prettily shot and perfectly
paced – the movie never flags but everything pitches along perfectly
towards the inevitable but agreeable conclusion (it also keeps itself
to a restrained 90 minutes, which seems increasingly unusual among
modern movies). Cusack is, as always, utterly adorable, with more sex
appeal than 100 Brad Pitts. A little bit of perfect escapism.

<|_=00=_|>
Jonathan Tragger (John Cusack) meets Sara Thomas (the gorgeous Kate
Beckinsale) by chance in the Christmas eve, in Bloomingdale's, both
trying to buy the unique pair of black gloves available for sale. They
decide to go to the cafeteria Serendipity and Jonathan asks for her
name and phone. Sara decides to write it in a book, and his on a five
dollars bill. She gives the bill to a newspaperman and she says that
she would sell the book in a New York used books store. She states that
if destiny wants them two together, Jonathan will get that book back.
Or she will receive that bill again. From this day on, Jonathan will
'chase' Sara's book trying to reach his lost love.

I did not know the word 'serendipity'. In accordance with Webster'
dictionary, it means 'an apparent aptitude for making accidental
fortunate discoveries'. The character of Sara believes on it, but
regrets for her belief in the end of the story. This is the typical
predictable and commercial film, but supported by a very charming
actress (Kate Beckinsale) and actor (John Cusack). I am a suspicious
viewer to make any comment in this regard, since I love Kate Beckinsale
and John Cusack. But I really believe there is no way that any viewer
dislikes this movie. The cover of the DVD is also very beautiful. My
vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Escrito ans Estrelas" ("Written in the Stars")
<|_=00=_|>
The first time I've seen this movie, I knew I'd add it to my
"classics", and here it is. Kate Beckinsale shows her talent -finally-
within the movie by blending right into the act of John Cusack. Since
I'm in love with these kind of movie scripts, the movie got me in its
clasp as I've heard Armstrong's deep voice in the beginning. As the
movie starts, the movie's philosophy starts to reveals itself through a
pair of black Kashmir gloves. The fact that love will find a way
through it all is buzzing all around the movie and makes you feel
warmer even though it's winter and snowing. The ice skating section and
the ending section on the same "floor" are wondrous moments which any
people would like to live - which makes the movie closer to the
audience. The thought of someone "right around the corner" waiting for
you is all around the movie and makes you feel like go out and find
"them". A really cute story with a good sense of humor. Deserves my 9!
I just LOVE watching it!
<|_=00=_|>

The plot premise, in a particularly streamlined nutshell:  In holiday-season
Manhattan, Sara Thomas (Kate Beckinsale) and Jonathan Trager (John Cusack)
meet cute and, although they both have Significant Others, they end up
spending a charming and romantic evening on the town (including coffee and
dessert at the aptly-named Serendipity III restaurant).  Despite their
obvious chemistry, Sara insists on leaving their future up to fate (she
turns out to be a therapist, so you'd think she'd know better, but more on
that momentarily), whereupon they get separated in the Waldorf=Astoria. 
Years later, Sara and Jon are both engaged to other people, but can't stop
thinking about one another, so they each take a last stab at finding each
other again before their respective nuptials.  Knowing what a big John
Cusack fan I am, a friend of mine recommended I rent SERENDIPITY. Between a
parade of people phoning us and our own busy schedules, however, I had
almost as much trouble getting to finally sit down and watch the DVD from
start to finish as Jon and Sara did trying to get back together in the film
itself!  But it was worth the effort:  even though I was growling at Sara
under my breath for being so stupid as to leave their budding romance up to
fate instead of running off with Jon when she had the chance (and was Sara
so new to NYC that it never occurred to her that other people might take
Jon's elevator in the Waldorf=Astoria during their decisive elevator race? 
Do fate and common sense have to be mutually exclusive?), I found Cusack and
Beckinsale so endearing and so full of romantic chemistry (and they both
looked yummy, I might add) that I found myself forgiving a lot and rooting
for them to get back together.  Marc Klein's script is so chock-full of
funny and frustrating near-misses that at times I found SERENDIPITY as
suspenseful as a Hitchcock film! :-)  NYC and San Francisco locations are
used wonderfully (I was pleased to see that although the second floor of
Serendipity III as shown in the film was quiet enough for Sara and Jon to
hear each other talk, it was still as crowded as it usually is on a holiday
week! :-).  Cusack and Beckinsale are surrounded by a delightful supporting
cast, too, particularly Jeremy Piven and Molly Shannon as their respective
best friends and the scene-stealing Eugene Levy as an officious,
self-serving Bloomingdale's salesman.  I also found it refreshing that the
filmmakers didn't take the obvious route of making the leads' current
Significant Others so horrible that you can't imagine what attracted Our
Heroes to these creeps in the first place (that sort of thing always makes
me lose respect for both the protagonist *and* the screenwriter).  Bridget
Moynihan and John Corbett (did the casting directors just stroll on over to
the set of SEX AND THE CITY one day and say "Who's free to make a movie?"
:-) were appealing enough that I could understand what Cusack and Beckinsale
saw in them, yet they were just self-absorbed enough and
not-quite-on-our-heroes'-wavelength enough that I didn't feel bad when they
got dumped. If romantic whimsy is your bag, give SERENDIPITY a
try.
<|_=00=_|>

Since I have always wondered about fate/destiny and the alike, it was not
for one moment, hard for me to embrace this movie.  To me, this movie
signifies the importance of saying what you feel and feeling what you say.
All to often in life people pass each other by and subsequently up all
because of being afraid to feel, say, think, and of what others will
think.
I have tried to become more honest in my life as a result of seeing this
movie.  
<|_=00=_|>

There are times when you watch a movie and instantly realize you're watching
something special.....this is that type of movie.What's so special you say ?
Critics would probably say it's nothing but a walking cliche......Maybe...but
isnt the ride always worth it ? Isnt the chemistry the whole reason we watch
love stories to begin with ? The best love stories arent so much about the
story as they are about what we wish romance in our lives
was.Instantaneous...Tender...Magical...Hearts all a flutter.If you like good
chemistry between the likeable Cusack and Beckinsale in a magical
setting...prepare to be touched.I was.This is by far one of my favorite love
stories,only slightly behind " Somewhere in Time " .If you expect realism
dont bother -but if you want what love SHOULD be...hypnotic,mesmerizing,a
heart awash a sea of tenderness...then get ready to enjoy yourself.May you
all find your true love as well....
<|_=00=_|>
This is the ideal romantic film, brilliantly directed by Peter Chelsom
(why does he not make more films?) and perfectly cast with John Cusack
and Kate Beckinsale. Jeremy Given gave a wonderful performance as
Cusack's friend, which greatly helps the film work. And special mention
must be made of a hilarious cameo role played by Eugene Levy as the
salesman one most dreads meeting at Bloomingdales in New York. (His
hysterical 'don't step behind the counter!' is what we have all
encountered so often with neurotic sales people. Of course, one
'understands', while laughing uncontrollably at them.) This film is
funny, warm, life-affirming, ironical, strange, disturbing, comforting,
and licks your face like a puppy. Its theme is the invisible tapestry
and connecting threads of fate which lie behind the events of the
visible world, especially as they relate to True Love. In other words,
'serendipity', or fortunate chance. Cusack and Beckinsale find each
other, are eternally meant for each other, lose each other, and - well,
I don't want to spoil things, - but let us say, search for each other
for years, with results to be discovered by the viewer. It is all so
charming and just right that rather than find another romantic film,
one might just as well watch this one again over and over, with a
steadily increasing and delighted smile. Above all, it is Cusack who
makes this, as he is the ideal romantic male lead for such charming and
elfish fare. His slightly pixie-like looks are just quirky enough, not
too much to make him look truly odd, but enough to mark him on the brow
as 'an innocent at large' who can have these adventures and really mean
them.
<|_=00=_|>

I went to this with the full expectation that I was going to see a chick
flick, and had come to terms with that by the time it started.

This, however, is not a chick flick. This is a "romance" film about two
individuals who, whilst both in perfectly-good-but-not-quite-perfect
relationships with other people, take a fancy to a random stranger they
meet
in a department store one evening and so spend the rest of the night
flirting outrageously like a cheap tart with them.

This done, off they both go to continue their extant relationships.
Unfortunately, instead of realising that they could do better and bringing
the relationships to a neat end, they only decide to make a run for it on
the eves of their coincident weddings. How serendipitous.

We then have the pleasure of watching them each drag their best friends
(one
of whom's marriage is destroyed in the process) across the planet in order
to try and find their once-potential philanderer, whilst their nice
bride/groom stands rather forlornly alone at the altar. As any plot line
following the jilted spouses is abandoned at this point, I am surmising
that
they were stood up. Perhaps they died. Who cares.

Man finds girl, some snow falls, some kissing ensues and our happy couple
realise that the forty-five minutes they spent together in a restaurant
six
months ago are more than enough to base their everlasting happiness on.
Audience feel warm and fuzzy inside. Speaking for myself, I was certainly

close to tears.

The idea that this film could be billed as a romantic comedy is quite
extraordinary. Certainly, the leading characters appear to share the moral
outlook of a badger on heat and in that respect I'm very glad they managed
to find a like-minded mate. Every other character featured in the film is
quite laughably two-dimensional and the only deliberately comedic fragment
I
managed to spot was a quite nicely done best man's speech - made at the
weddding subsequently destroyed by our lovably lust-fuelled hero and
heroine.

I am secretly hoping that the joke is on me, and Mr. Chelsom is treating
us
to a wonderfully dark satire on morals and romance in modern times.
Somehow,
though, I just can't make myself believe it.
