

True it's not the best movie. And it is another fatal attraction with
teens.
But believe me it's a good movie. There are some flaws. But you should
judge
for yourself. It has good suspense, great performance by Erika
Christianson.
And Shiri is doing good on her carrer. It is another cheesy teen movie,
but
this is a good one. So over all, I'm not going to say this is the best
movie, but it was worth $5.00. Like I said judge for yourself. Don't
believe
the bad reviews. Just go have fun. You won't regret it.

6/10
<|_=00=_|>

Ben Cronin (Jesse Bradford) has it all--he's a high schooler with a great
mother, a wonderful girlfriend and a great career ahead of him as a swimmer.
 However he meets beautiful Madison Bell (Erika Christensen) and (stupidly)
has sex with her.  It turns out she's a psycho and when he rejects her  she
goes out to turn his life into a living hell...and she's not above murdering
someone.

Totally predictable but surprisingly not bad at all.  The characters talk
and act like teens (although they all look their age--early 20s), the story
moves fairly quickly and I was never bored.  There are some glaring lapses
in logic but, while I was watching the movie, they didn't bother me.  For
instance, it's impossible for Bell to do all the things she does.  Also the
sex and violence is very toned down for the PG-13 rating.  Good performances
really make the film work.  Bradford is very good as Cronin.  Handsome,
muscular and believable.  Shiri Appleby does wonders with her sadly
underwritten role as his girlfriend.  Christensen is excellent as Bell. 
She's both beautiful and very scary.

No masterpiece bit a good, solid teen thriller.  I paid $9.50 and thought it
was money well spent!  Worth catching.
<|_=00=_|>

This film succeeds because of Jesse Bradford.  I remember him from Bring It
On (another excellent performance), but it appears he's done lots of
things.
He's a great lead actor, and I can see him filling Tom Cruise / Ben
Affleck
style roles in a few years' time.

The film itself is a fairly respectable effort at a Fatal Attraction style
relationship, with teen-thriller-genre elements of the misunderstood wierd
guy, the new girl in town with a secret past, and so on.  I can only think
of one vaguely surprising moment (with Josh, in the pool) - otherwise it's
fairly predictable, but enjoyable all the same.

Watching it, I couldn't help but wonder why the school's best swimmer and
most attractive guy didn't have a bigger circle of friends (Josh the jock,
Randy the drip, and a black girl with a chip on her shoulder (what an
original character..).

Also, why would he be tempted by a girl who isn't quite as attractive (or
as
nice) as his girlfriend? - but I know that's often the case in real life,
so
I can let that go.

Finally, Jesse didn't need the whole 'troubled teen past' - in the places
where it was used, it wasn't really necessary - and although I'm no fan of
the family values lobby, I am thoroughly sick of the single-parent-family
that seems to exist in every single movie these days.  It's just a lazy way
of adding to teen angst, and avoids the need to write convincing two-parent
scenes.

Swimfan is fine, but is only really a stepping-stone movie onto bigger and
(hopefully) better things for the lead actors.

<|_=00=_|>

If you've seen `Fatal Attraction,' then there really isn't much reason for
you to check out `Swimfan,' which carries the psycho stalker scenario to
absurd heights.  But since the target audience for this film is today's
teens, chances are many of its viewers will never even have heard of `Fatal
Attraction,' let alone seen it.

`Swimfan' is set in one of those high schools that exist only in the movies
– you know, the ones that seem to be populated almost entirely by
twenty-something hunks and babes (with the occasional nerd thrown in) and
which appear to be utterly devoid of teachers, principals, counselors or any
other adult supervisory staff to run the place (in all fairness, we DO get
to see one swim coach).   None of these students are ever seen attending a
class, cracking open a book or doing any homework, but then that would sort
of spoil the fun of the high school experience now, wouldn't
it?

Ben Cronin (Jesse Bradford) doesn't ask much out of life.  All he wants is
to be left alone to concentrate on his swimming so that he'll be in tiptop
shape to impress the scouts who are coming out from Stanford to have a look
at him.  That's his plan anyway, until one day, into his life, strolls
Madison Belle (Erika Christensen), a pretty young seductress, who, upon her
arrival at the school, makes an immediate beeline for Ben, seducing him in
the school's swimming pool and making his life thoroughly miserable
thereafter.  Soon Madison is stalking our hero in true Glenn Close fashion,
finding ways to insinuate herself into every aspect of Ben's once seemingly
ideal life.  Indeed, Ben has every thing going for him: popularity, good
looks, athletic prowess, a devoted mother, a girlfriend who loves him – and
it all threatens to come crashing down around him after just one night of
unbridled passion with this fresh-from-out-of-town psychotic nut case. 

About the only interesting aspect of `Swimfan' is how it shows that, in this
technologically advanced age, a genuine stalker now has so many more options
at his or her disposal – answering machines, cell phones, pagers, voice
mail, email, instant messages.  The possibilities are endless.  It's enough
to make one long for the good old days when an obsessed paramour had to at
least foot the bill for a phone call or buy a stamp to send a deranged
letter, or at least find ever more clever ways of skulking around.  Stalking
just seems way too easy these days.  Technology appears to have taken all
the challenge out of it.

Unlike `Fatal Attraction,' which at least managed to achieve a level of
credibility before it went off the deep end in the final act, `Swimfan'
never establishes a believable tone.   Madison's actions always just feel
like melodramatic plot points, and Ben's retaliatory measures aren't much
better.  And the law enforcement in the town – well, the less said about
THEM the better!  Ultimately, the story becomes more and more preposterous
as it churns along, so much so that the film actually ends up generating
more laughs than gasps by the time it is over.  Jesse Bradford and Erika
Christensen may still have solid acting careers ahead of them, but my
suspicion is that `Swimfan' will not rank very high on either of their
resumes.

<|_=00=_|>

Ben Cronin (Jesse Bradford) is an ex-addicted in drugs athlete. He is
disputing a participation in the Olympic games and joining Stanford
University through swimming. He is in love with his girlfriend Amy Miller
(Shiri Appleby) and is a good son, working with his mother in a hospital.
When the young woman Madison Bell (Erika Christensen) joins his high-school,
he is seduced by her and has an intercourse with her in the swimming pool.
Madison chases him, but he turns her down. She becomes obsessed by him and
turns his life in hell. This teen version of `Fatal Attraction' is very
predicable, but is not a bad movie. The young cast has a good performance
and this film is a good entertainment. My vote is six.

Title (Brazil): `Fixação' (`Fixation') 

<|_=00=_|>

I would like to say that this movie hasn't got many reasons to be as good as
it is, because it is a teen/twentysomething play on a formula that's kind
of, or for lack of a better phrase truly, been done to death. Fatal
Attraction movies, while occasionally pulling at least one different trick
out of their hat, are always the same, that's why Michael Douglas is in 95%
of them. However, it's extremely well made by director John Polson and
well-acted by the young cast, particularly Traffic's Erika Christensen, who
shines as Madison Bell, the obsessive swim fan of the title.

The story deals with Ben Cronin, a high school senior who's life is going
pretty well, as the hero's usually is at the start of these pictures, he has
a lot of good friends, he has a girlfriend Amy (Shiri Appleby) who is as
sweet as apple pie, and he's on the way to a swimming scholarship to
Stanford. However, all of that changes once he encounters Madison Bell, the
seductive new girl in town. He only wants to be friends with her, but after
they have a one night stand, she becomes more obsessive, stalking him,
ruining every aspect of his life, and generally acting like a nuisance. I
suppose I don't have to say that because that is pretty much how a Fatal
Attraction picture works.

What makes this movie work is that it is well done, and it is as creepy as
most FA clones need to be if they expect to work. Plus, the three leads are
all very good, albeit this film belongs to Erika Christensen, who does a
pretty good job of stealing the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
The character Madison is interesting but when the story comes to the
end, everything turned so quick and seems to get more and more
nonsense. The power of Madison is overwhelming. She knows everything,
she can go anywhere. At last, she, a young girl, killed 2 police
officers! Going back to the swimming pool with Amy seems to be too
dramatic and comedic. The acting skills of Erika Christensen is
impressive. She shows inner anger but lack of psychic complications.
When facing the "truth" that she was not loved by Ben, she did not show
much "lost" by her eyes contacts and facial expression, instead, the
editing did. And this is what the mood is built up by editing
throughout the film.
<|_=00=_|>

Have to admit that I enjoy watching the infamous teen horror films.  Don't
get me wrong, they probably won't be nominated for any Academy Awards, but
they're not a waste of a movie ticket either.

Both Jesse Bradford and Erika Christensen carry the film well.  Although
much of the plot remains predictable, with a lot of help from the
trailers,
there are still a few plot twists that will keep viewers interested.
Madison Bell (Christensen) is the new student who gets what she wants, at
any cost.  Obession can be a very interesting and intriguing game as she
sets her sights on Ben Cronin (Bradford).  However, Ben already has the
perfect life as a high school student (a chance at Stanford, the perfect
girl and a solid swimming career.  Throw a monkey wrench into the
equation,
and Ben's world spins out of control.

A good movie to see on a date, or if City by the Sea isn't appealing.
Leave
the youngsters at home on this one.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of those films that proves once again that there are limits
to how much decent production values can redeem a bad script. Lenny
Bruce had a great line that covers the situation: "You can't get snot
off a suede jacket." Directed by the guy who helmed "Hide and Seek,"
which I haven't seen yet, but eventually will once I find it for free
at the library like I did this one (thank goodness!), "Swimfan" (an
inept title if ever I've seen one) has some nice camera-work and decent
acting going for it, but not much else. It's one of those films that
has you progressing from "Huh?" to "What the...?" to "Now hold on a
second!" to "Oh, for God's sake!" to "Alright, now that's just
ridiculous!" over the course of its beguiling but vacuous running time.
The leads are attractive enough and do their best with the slim
material, but simply cannot overcome the forced storyline. I know I
finally gave up on it completely when bad girl Madison shot her way out
of the back seat of a police cruiser. Handcuffs in front? A
conveniently left-handed cop in the back seat who leaves his weapon
conveniently unsecured? Please. Dan Hedaya has an uncharacteristic turn
as a relatively sane swimming coach, but was obviously just taking a
paycheck. Eminently skippable unless you're an Erica Christensen
groupie (I found Shiri Appleby much more attractive), "Swimfan" sinks
rapidly in the deep waters of its own stupidity and lack of
believability.
<|_=00=_|>
We've seen this idea before, in other films like "Fatal Attraction"
(1987) and "The Crush" (1993). A woman obsesses about a man, and won't
let go. Given the high school age of the main characters in "Swimfan",
and given background music that is mostly sophomoric, the film is
clearly targeted at people under the age of twenty-five.

Ben Cronin (Jesse Bradford) is annoyingly smug. He's your prototype
high school pop jock. He drives around in a macho-looking pickup truck.
Madison Bell (lovely Erika Christensen) gets a crush on Ben and, even
knowing he already has a girlfriend, stalks him relentlessly; she's his
femme fatale. Conveniently unstable and manipulative, Madison makes
trouble for Ben with one plot contrivance after another.

The script has a setup that is too long. And the second half of the
script has action that is wildly improbable. Madison just seems to
appear from out of nowhere in the most unlikely places, and at just the
right time. Her efforts are too easy, especially as they relate to
hospital security and police procedures. It's as if she has superhuman
powers, not an effect you want to impart as a storyteller, unless your
story fits in the sci-fi or fantasy genre, which this film does not.

If the script is weak, the acting is generally pretty good, with
reasonably effective performances from Jesse Bradford, Erika
Christensen, and James DeBello as Dante. The film's color
cinematography is fine. And I also liked the editing, with jump cuts
that neatly corresponded with Madison's state of mind.

"Swimfan" is not a bad movie. But its premise is unoriginal, and the
plot structure is faulty. A script rewrite or two might have rendered a
better cinematic outcome. However, other elements of the film are fine.
And for the right audience, this film does have some entertainment
value, at least for a one-time viewing.
