

Note that I say "movie" and not "film".  I was dragged to see this, but I
found myself really liking it.  The chemistry is wonderful and even though
the storyline isn't the most original thing in the world, it has enough
spark to keep it going.  Definitely more of a rent-able movie, but let down
your guard about teen flicks.  This one is pretty good.
:)
<|_=00=_|>

All the critics seem to be saying that this movie is trying to be "When
Harry Met Sally" and failing miserably at it, instead of seeing what a
nice
change of pace it is to see a romantic movie about two people who don't
cuss
and run around naked.  I get so tired of seeing the same plot line over
and
over and then when someone makes an original movie like "Boys and Girls"
it
is bashed because people say it is boring.  It is not boring, it just
contains great dialogue instead of the usual lame boyfriend girlfriend
story
where they all try to figure out who to sleep with next or what funny sex
scene they can come up with.  It is incredibly sweet and it contains a
great
performance by the wonderful Claire Forlani.  She is such an incredible
actress and no one seems to notice.  The same thing happened with "Meet
Joe
Black" because it had wonderful dialogue and no one saw that either.  I
think people just don't like movies with any character development that
may
actually cause you to think about anything other than what will blow up
next.  If you want to see something that takes a little effort to
understand, then go see "Boys and Girls".  The dance scene alone is worth
the $7.00.
<|_=00=_|>

Okay, technically, it was kind of predictable in the case that boy meets
girl, boy and girl encounter turbulence in relationship, and then boy and
girl end up back together at the very end of the movie.  However, let me
ask
you this:  How else is a romantic comedy suppose to go?  I challenge anyone
who isolates this flick's unoriginality as the reason for their dislike to
come up with a better overall plot for a romantic comedy.  I think that the
writers did an excellent job of adding onto the generic template and making
this film enjoyable to watch.  First of all there's the whole thing with
"fated" meetings where the two main characters seem just unable to get away
from each other which adds that sweet "soul mates" ideal (even though I
personally don't buy into that stuff, there is an undeniable charm to the
idea).  Then there is the still-unoriginal-but-not-yet-hackneyed idea of
attempting a mere friendship between the guy and the girl.  Finally, there
is the inevitable falling in love, the relationship problems, and then the
falling back in love towards the end of the movie. As a matter of fact, the
only problem I have with the script is the miniscule hypocrisy found in it:
at some point in the movie, Jennifer states that a romance movie never
shows
the affect of time on long term relationships, and this movie was not an
exception as it ends with them making up and going off to live "happily
ever
after".

Now we can look at the undeniable chemistry and superb acting of the two
main characters, Ryan and Jennifer.  The interactions of these two
characters is the classic example of not getting along as kids but falling
in love as adults.  Freddie Prinze Jr. and Claire Forlani are two of the up
and coming celebrities of teen movies and I personally feel that they did
their part in this movie by acting well.  Also, the principle humor of this
movie did not lie in the common slapstick or sexual humor, although Jason
Biggs does add in those factors hilariously.  I think the main characters
came off as more intellectual (as one majors in engineering and the other
in
Latin) so the writers aimed more towards clever jokes, anecdotes, and quip
remarks which, to me, seemed just as hilarious as Jason Biggs's
antics.

All in all, this isn't the BEST movie in the world, but it IS definitely a
good movie if you want to watch a movie that will make you feel like Love
is
something real and not just some random idea that people have in their
heads.
<|_=00=_|>

In an era when "teenage-girl movies" run rampant, it is easy to dismiss
this
as just another flick targeted to make young girls squeal over Freddie
Prinze Jr or one of his 20-something cohorts.  Boys and Girls, however, is
different.  It presents itself with much more class, and comedy, than most
other films of its genre.  Boys and Girls has an engaging story that makes
the audience connect, emotionally, with the problems of the main
characters.
The film has more than one story that it follows.  It touches on the
lives
of four different college students and their failing attempts at social
interaction.  Its involving story line is strengthened by the funny parts,
too.  Each character has their own unique quirks that make the viewing
experience that much more enjoyable.  Boys and Girls leaves many other
films
of merit in its dust and deserves much more recognition than it has
received.
<|_=00=_|>

Boys and Girls is a predictable but fun look at two young people who are
friends with potential.  This movie follows Ryan, an uptight nerdy type
who
feels all life should be planned out to the very minute.  Enter Jennifer,
a
quirky fun and free girl who is out to enjoy life as the adventure it is.
Ryan and Jennifer meet a few times over the years before finally settling
into a comfortable friendship at college.  Where will their relationship
go
as they share more of their lives together?  It's an obvious movie with an
incredibly close resemblance to When Harry Met Sally (somewhat less clever
than its grownup counterpart, but cute nonetheless).  Freddie Prinze Jr.
and
Claire Forlaini have wonderful chemistry and are fun to watch (especially
in
the dance club scene).  Ryan's best friend and Jennifer's best friend are
played by Jason Biggs and Amanda Detmer with whimsical freedom.  They
provide much of the comic relief and are an enjoyable distraction from the
plot.  If you want a little escape from life for a few hours, this movie
is
just the light, enjoyable distraction you could be looking
for.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is an interesting piece of filmwork. The characters are
completely believable, the story is effective and funny, and the actors pull
it off with such distinction, I have new faith in Prinze's ability to act.
Many say these are the only roles he's good in - so what? If this type of
character is what he does best, let him stick to it. Claire Forlani is a new
face, but bright and powerful, with the kind of new charm we first got from
Hewitt or Gellar. This movie is a romance, so it may not appeal to everyone,
but altogether, it is a decent movie, recommended for about 10 and
up.
<|_=00=_|>

Sometimes you want to watch a film, not to hugely stimulate the mind but
to stimulate the heart and this one did it for me.
The romantic concept was a familiar one of boy and girl meet but don't
seem
to get together and they become 'friends' but when they do strife comes of
it.  The ending may have been predictable but it was uplifting and very
sweet and even though it's just a film you come out feeling optimistic
that
maybe happy endings do exist.

<|_=00=_|>

This film may be predictable, but it is so in a good way. I found it fun
yet
thoughtful at the same time.
Its a Romantic Comedy that has something about it that makes you laugh
out
loud or cringe with embarrassment!
I reccomend this film to anyone who wants a good laugh and a good
cry!
I give it 8/10.

<|_=00=_|>

Thoroughly enjoyed the film. The chemistry between Freddie and Claire was
great. Would recommend this to anyone who loved 'When Harry met Sally'.
Jason Biggs is great as the best friend showing more character than in
the
American Pie films. If you like Claire Forlani then you must watch 'Meet
Joe
Black'!!
<|_=00=_|>

I loved this movie.  First time I've seen Claire Forlani, but it won't be
the last.  Freddie Prinze, Jr. was Freddie Prinze, Jr., but Claire Forlani
was terrific.  I liked this movie so much that I have it on tape and watch
parts of it over and over again.  Lots of people didn't seem to like this
movie much.  Maybe, I liked so much because it reminded me of my college
days in the 60's, in particular, how my wife and I got together there.
I'd
give this movie an 8 out of 10.
