

As a huge fan of the books, I had incredibly high expectations of the movie.
 In order for the movie to work for me, it had to capture Bridget's
plucky-heroine character and the hilarious-poignant emotions that are in the
book.  Needless to say, `Bridget Jones's Diary' the movie worked very, very,
very well.  Although Helen Fielding also wrote the screenplay (w/ Richard
Curtis, very skilled with romantic comedies) and keeps the laughs coming,
this movie could have fallen flat on its face.  But it doesn't because one,
the casting is absolutely divine and two, smartly builds on some elements
the book downplays.  

	
Renee Zellweger is absolutely perfect as Bridget Jones.  She has always been
one of my favorite actresses and here, she totally displays Bridget's
pathetic cuteness.  Zellweger gained weight for this role, too, so she looks
adorably plump.  It's very, very hard to not fall in love with her the
moment you see her at her family's Christmas party or drinking alone at home
or listening to sad, Celine Dion music.  (You have a heart of stone if you
aren't moved to laughs or tears or pity for her.)  I can't imagine anyone
else playing Bridget Jones.  Zellweger fits the role because she is very
much normal and approachablewe can relate to her.  

As Daniel Cleaver (her caddish Cassanova lover/boss), Hugh Grant is
smoldering and hilarious.  (Ok, I might be a little biased because I've been
in love with him for ages and ages, but you can't deny he is a great comedic
actor.)  There's no trace of his stuttering that we saw (and I loved) in
`Four Weddings and a Funeral' or `Sense and Sensibility.'  Grant morphs
effortlessly into a cad that we all love to hate and all love to love.  Yes,
it's a paradox, but that is what Grant brings to his role.  He makes being
`bad' look so sexy.  You can't take your eyes off him; he brings his own
humor to his role.  It's lovely, smoldering, and incredibly sexy. 

Colin Firth is also a delight to watch onscreen as Mark Darcy (I think I
might be in love with him, too).  He is also sexy and smoldering, but not in
the same wild, fiery way as Daniel Cleaver.  Firth brings a very cute
sweetness to his role.  I don't know if it is his adorable face or his hair
or the way he dresses or just the fact that he is a major sex symbol, but
you can't help but fall in love with him the MOMENT you see him onscreen. 
There is also one very beautiful moment where he tells Bridget, `I like you
very muchjust the way you are.'  It's incredibly romantic and, for me,
ranks right up there with Tom Cruise's `You complete me' in `Jerry Maguire.'
 He also has rather explosive chemistry with Renee Zellweger, which is
moving and sexy all at the same time.  (And, of course, the author Helen
Fielding used Colin Firth as the basis for Mark Darcy, so it all works out
marvelously.)  
	

I also mentioned that the movie smartly builds on some elements that the
book downplays.  Yes, there are certain parts of the movie that cannot be
found in the book, but I'm still glad they put them in the movie.  Most of
what they added doesn't necessarily build on plot but it does add to the
characters.  I don't want to give anything away because it's rather
hilarious what unfolds onscreen.  The movie is filmed in an almost Ally
McBeal type of way but it remains true to the sincerity, cuteness, and
pathetic naivete that Bridget Jones embodies.  There are no pretensions. 
It's an entirely wonderful film.   10/10

<|_=00=_|>

Being a long time fan of the BJD books (three years and counting), I had
nothing but high hopes for the movie version. I was lucky enough to get
into
a sneak preview last night, and I was not disappointed. The movie, like
the
book, has the most hilarious lines and moments, and each of the actors
portrayed their characters so well you couldn't imagine anyone else in
that
part.  Renee Zellweger IS Bridget, there is just no arguing it. No other
actress could have pulled off what Renee did in this movie. Hugh Grant
makes
for an excellent Daniel, who is completely two faced and has a smarmy
sort
of charm that makes you want him just as badly as Bridget does. Colin
Firth
is a superb Mark Darcy, but that was a given because the character was
practically written with him in mind - as all avid BJD readers know, Mark
Darcy's character is a play on the Mr. Darcy Firth portrayed in Pride and
Prejudice.

Some of the more hardcore fans of the book may be disappointed with all
the
missing jokes and scenes, but to film the entire book would have left us
with a 10 hour movie. The writers did an excellent job distilling the
essence of the novel, and the finished product has all the charm and wit
of
the original. The audience, many of whom I'm sure have never read the
book
(and many of whom, surprisingly, were male), laughed nonstop throughout
the
film, and everyone seemed to enjoy it thoroughly. As for those of us who
have read it, I do believe that this is one of those rare book-to-movie
jobs
that was really spot-on, and everything that was noticeably changed in
the
process only makes the movie better.  So go see it, it's hands-down one
of
the best movies of 2001 so far.
<|_=00=_|>

Bridget Jones's Diary is full of lighthearted fun.  The cast is
wonderful -
especially true for Colin Firth. His performance is magical.  Being given
such a thin material to work with, playing a `dreadful cold fish', he has
artfully shown Mark Darcy's kindness and charm that gradually wins
everyone's heart.  This would be an impossible mission for actors other
than
Colin Firth.  I enjoy every minute of his performance.  In my opinion,
they
should give this nice boy more camera times - that's the only complain I
have about this movie.  Besides this complain, I have to congratulate the
whole production team for successfully creating a movie of such weightless
fun, and at the same time being honest and sincere to the human emotions.
It is very hard to believe that this movie is Sharon Maguire's first
one.
I never read the book.  So, you can trust my observation to be totally
independent of the book.  If you wish to have some fun and also like to
dream a little bit, this is definitely the movie for you.
BTW.  If you enjoy watching drama and haven't seen Colin Firth's "Pride
And
Prejudice" (BBC), do yourself a favor and rent it.  He is *really* a great
"Character Actor" - one of the most talented alive.

<|_=00=_|>

What made this film work? What made this film break the usual British
romantic conventional route? One actress! Her name is Renee Zellwegger,
seriously, if the actress was British, this film would've been -'been there,
done that'. Instead, this clever casting has made Bridget Jones a wonderful
little picture.

Renee Zellwegger is an actress who changed to suit the screenplay, now that
is ACTING! Her mannerisms, her weight, her enthusiasm and cutesy style are a
wonder to behold.

Colin Firth does a great job, he plays his role well, a future James Bond
perhaps? Hugh Grant finally gives us something different, he was actually
quite funny at times.

Maguire as the director handles the proceedings extremely well, this is her
debut and I think she will become quite successful with small
films.
The Super35 wide-screen frame is used well, bravo!
The screenplay is lightweight, but written well, plenty of ad-lib and
spontaneity transcend the script.

As a male, sit back and have a laugh. 
Quality!
<|_=00=_|>

With certain bad movies - "Plan 9 from Outer Space" is a famous extreme
example - you start to wonder if there's something wrong with people who
don't realise that they're bad.  I'm not saying that if someone LIKES "Plan
9" then his or her brain probably needs to be repaired; the suspicious,
unhealthy thing is not LIKING the film, but being of the opinion that it's
good.  (Many people have a soft spot for it precisely BECAUSE they realise
how bad it is.  In this way it differs from something like "Timecode", where
either liking the film OR having a high opinion of it is something to be
embarrassed about.)  And something similar applies to, say, "Citizen Kane". 
Disliking it makes sense; thinking it's a bad film does
not.

But there's another kind of film that tempts me to be even more
presumptuous.  "Dumbo" is the best example I can think of at the moment.  I
can see why one might (mistakenly) have a low opinion of "Dumbo": some of
the footage IS mere padding, the triumph at the end is too swift, the charge
has been laid (falsely, but not ludicrously) that the crows are racist
caricatures ... and so forth.  But surely even the people who think "Dumbo"
is a bad film must still manage to like it.  If they don't, THEN I'm
suspicious.

I feel this way, to a greater or lesser degree, about a number of light
comedies, and this is one of them.  I can't honestly say that I revere or
adore "Bridget Jones's Diary" (N.B.: I'm male), but all the same, I can't
help thinking that people who take an active dislike to it have something
wrong with them.  This applies not just to the film as a whole but to
Bridget Jones, the central character, in particular.  What has she done to
merit dislike?  She's beautiful (as beautiful as Renée Zellweger has ever
been on screen), honest and kind-hearted.  The diary she keeps certainly
reveals her many flaws, but none is particularly pronounced, most are purely
negative and anyway, she shares them all with the rest of us - so don't
pretend you're not like this, too.

This is an amiable, well-written and fresh romantic comedy with, for ONCE,
an attractive female protagonist.  It's far from being the greatest film
ever made and there may be grounds for attacking it which I haven't touched
upon (I suppose there always are), and so all in all I'll understand your
not thinking as much of it as I do, but, dammit, you'd better LIKE
it.
<|_=00=_|>

Speaking as one familiar with "Pride and Prejudice"--the book and the 1995
miniseries upon which this work is loosely based--I like this spunky
little
movie exceedingly well, just as it is. Do not be put off by superficial
comparisons to "Four Weddings and a Funeral" and "Notting Hill," both
shallow and pretentious movies memorable only for one fine eulogy and some
physically beautiful protagonists. "Bridget Jones's Diary" is
more.

Bridget Jones is, as its soundtrack suggests, "Everywoman." Every woman
who
has ever fumbled for words, fallen on her face, been embarrassed by her
mother, chosen her underwear carefully, picked a cad for a
boyfriend--whether she's a thirty-something singleton or a sixty-something
grandma--can identify with Bridget on some level. You can't help pulling
for
her. Cheering her on is cheering yourself on.

But this chick-flick is not hardcore; it has a broad sense of humor. Male
viewers have been caught in the act--smirking. There is even a fistfight
to
warm insensitive martial hearts. A couple of famous people make
appearances
here, too--one with a million-dollar price on his head--Salman Rushdie,
who
plays himself in a wryly irreverent little sequence.

It's easy to miss the movie's charm on the first screening--some very good
lines are swallowed at the ends; the gratuitous profanity, casual sex,
prodigious smoking and drinking are turn-offs; the heroine is an awkward,
fleshy woman with reprehensible fashion taste, and one may easily posit
that
she ended up with an unsuitable and unlikely mate.

But I contend, after a second viewing, that this movie is a little gem.
There is a wonderful economy in the editing; every scene, every action
tends
toward only one possible conclusion, a PERFECT conclusion. And the
childhood
clips in the ending credits give credence to that conclusion and provide
support for it--which is that the hero and heroine are made for each
other.

I rate it a solid 9 (with a 10 for the BBC/1995 "Pride and
Prejudice").

* * * *  S P O I L E R S   A H E A D  * * * *

At first glance, Miss Jones seems stupid and inept and the last woman in
the
world one would pick for the intelligent and successful Mr. Darcy. But
consider this: Darcy already had "a clever wife" before--bliss must needs
be
sought elsewhere. Besides, Bridget, though somewhat gauche, is not
unintelligent, as evidenced by her voiceovers and some of her sallies. But
most of all this: Each has something the other needs--he is steady and
reliable, she possesses liveliness and warmth. Notice the wistful look on
Darcy's face as he watches Bridget and Cleaver cavorting on the river. He
WANTS some nonsense and indecorum in his life--needs them; she would be
his
savior. Imagine Darcy's life if he had settled on the competent but
priggish
Natasha--both parties would have stagnated. Imagine if Bridget had
surrendered to the charms of a Daniel Cleaver--fun for the nonce, but
misery
for the long haul.

No, this ending is perfect in every way, down to the last delightful
epithet
uttered by an aroused Darcy. And oh yes, the kiss--very promising indeed;
at
once tender and ardent, it leaves one with the distinct impression that
Darcy will be something more than "helpful in the kitchen."

<|_=00=_|>
(Note: Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book "Cut
to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote!" Get it
at Amazon.)

What really makes this movie stand out from a venerable list of other
working girl fantasies is the familiar but one-of-a-kind personality of
the irrepressible Bridget Jones. Created by novelist Helen Fielding,
who also wrote the script, and brought to life by the talented and zany
Renée Zellweger, Bridget Jones is a 32-year-old pleasingly plump London
working girl, a "...verbally incontinent spinster who...dresses like
her mother" (to quote Colin Firth's character, Mark Darcy). She is also
clumsy, the kind of girl who might spill sauce on her blouse, a little
overweight, smokes, drinks too much and sometimes says what she thinks
without consulting her brain. She is also very good at improvising on
the spot, a talent that charms not only the two leading men, Hugh Grant
and Colin Firth, who vie for her affection, but also the five o'clock
news audience who like her bum and knickers just fine.

Director Sharon Maguire, in her first outing, combines Brit witticisms,
slapstick pratfalls, raunchy, sharp and realistic dialogue, and a
blatant but inoffensive sentimentality into a romantic comedy that
surely has Nora Ephron and Julia Roberts paying close attention. She
keeps us guessing about who will get the girl (and who really deserves
the girl) with the usual misdirections and misunderstandings
characteristic of the genre. There's a little dead time about half way
in, and the uncertainty about whether Bridget wants Hugh Grant or Colin
Firth is milked a bit overmuch, otherwise this is nicely paced
entertainment sure to chase away a blue afternoon.

Hugh Grant and Colin Firth are both very good, and Gemma Jones as
Bridget's mother is a charming, dotty sight to see. Bridget's friends
are funny as a kind of foil to the tired glamor of Yank TV's "Friends."
And there's a darling "home movie" sequence during the closing credits
purporting to recall Bridget at four and Mark Darcy at eight, that
retrospectively and adorably frames the movie.

Should a CHICK FLICK ALERT be declared here? No doubt, but thanks to a
warm, bubbly, funny and decidedly unprudish and unaffected (and I must
say, somewhat daring) performance by Zellweger, we'll ignore it because
we "like her just the way she is."
<|_=00=_|>
This film I only discovered fairly recently, and just absolutely fell
in love with it. It sure seemed familiar and lo and behold then I read
about the Pride and Prejudice connection and then it all made complete
sense.

This is such a charming, lovely homage to Pride and Prejudice. The
three lead characters are just perfect. It is funny, sweet at times,
sad at others, and just wonderfully sexy and v. romantic (especially
the last 1/4th of it).

Renee is so extraordinary as Bridget Jones, who would have ever thought
she could play so believable a modern Brit woman so well. Her accent
seems flawless to me. Hugh Grant is hilarious and a charming Lothario
throughout. But Colin Firth is who really sold me on this film. His
ability to play a guy that you start out not liking but drooling over
by the end of the movie is sublime.

I am a big fan of the less is more style of acting that Mr. Firth puts
forth in this film...much of his performance is in his eyes and his
facial expressions. While Daniel (Mr. Grant's character) chatters on
and on and tries to charm with his wit and words, Mark Darcy (Mr.
Firth's character) just has a strong and rather silent presence along
with an integrity of character that is revealed and he wins us over (as
well as Bridget).

This movie has a lot going on outside of the wonderful romance as well.
Contemporary events, gender inequities, social differences, work place
decorum, fashion, self-image, sex, family, and friendship all come
under the scrutiny of Bridget Jones and her diary.

This is a very good adaptation of a beloved novel. The tone, scene
selection, dialogue and characters capture the essence of what fans of
the book love about it. I cannot imagine it any better cast or written.
<|_=00=_|>

Speaking as a singleton of a certain age, I found this move dead on.
Although set in England, the theme and feelings of single people everywhere
were universal.  The plot line stayed pretty true to the book with a few
exceptions but the tone stayed the same.  I know when I went to see this
with a female friend there were many men in the audience who looked like
they had been dragged there but 5 minutes into the move they were laughing
as hard (if not harder) than the women in the audience.  This is definitely
not just a "chick flick." Renee Zellweger was a perfect Bridget.  When I
first heard that she was going to play this role, I was skeptical but after
I saw it(which I did twice, so far!) I couldn't imagine anyone else with
such a mixture of cynicism and innocence.  Bravo to the casting of Hugh
Grant and Colin Firth as Cleaver and Darcy, respectively.  If this movie
doesn't win some Oscars it will be a crying shame.  
<|_=00=_|>

I think I must have different contact lenses from the other people who've
commented on this film.  Either that, or I saw a different
film.

                      ***SPOILERS AHEAD***

First of all, I have to say that I found this a mildly amusing film with
some good moments that made me laugh out loud.  

I also have to agree that Renee Zellweger does a fantastic job playing
Bridget Jones:  she's plain, gawky, funny, warm, sincere, and a real twit
all at the same time.  That said, I confess it took me a little while to
warm to her character, partly because Bridget is such a twit.  I mean, she's
32 years old and she doesn't have a clue how to fix a meal for friends?  She
automatically assumes that first-date sex is inevitable even before a
relationship begins (hence the underwear angst)?  She cannot string two
words together without babbling?

I guess the thing that bothers me the most about this film, though, and
people's glowing reactions to it, is wondering what Bridget and Mark are
going to talk about from now on.  I mean, he's a top barrister with
education, money, social standing, and a variety of interests, humanitarian
and otherwise.  Bridget, on the other hand, seems to have no interests,
other than drinking, smoking, feeling sorry for herself, and catching a man.
 She's not intelligent, well-educated, committed to anything, or even with
the prospect of being a viable, supporting housewife.  At least with Daniel,
cad though he clearly is, [I muse cynically here] she had fun--and so did
Daniel.  Fun and Darcy don't actually go in the same sentence! In the end, I
thought she ended up with the wrong man.

I walked out of the movie theater a bit disappointed.  I'd heard lots of
good things about this film, and although it has some good moments and some
funny lines, and Zellweger's acting is commendable, I thought the film just
didn't live up to expectations.  
