

THE TIME MACHINE which I first saw at its London premiere in 1960 has long
remained a personal favorite of mine. I bought the film 17 years ago and my
own children grew up with it during the many times we have watched it since.
It had a distinct charm and news of its impending remake was of no interest
to me...another un-reworkable film if ever there was going to be one! I had
no interest in its existence and even less inclination to see it. Dragged,
protesting to the theater recently by my daughter who had already seen it
and who, under the insane belief that I would enjoy it, strapped me into the
seat! Raving incoherently and fully intending to dislike each and every
frame, I watched what I expected to be my greatest nightmare since SPEED
2.

Well girls and guys...I was so wrong! The remake not only captures and
enhances the memory and feel of the original in many ways, it is vastly
better! Pearce, who improves mightily as the film progresses (his early
wimpy appearance telegraphed danger as far as I was concerned!) is just
plain excellent as the slightly unhinged designer. The time machine itself
(understandably, with today's fx potential) creams Rod Taylor's 1960
mini-umbrella!  Mark Addy makes a great "Philby" very much in the style of
Alan Young's original characterisation. Nice touch too, having him cameo
here as the florist! For him of course, he has experienced his own "time
machine" in the 42 intervening years!

"One hit wonder" Samantha Mumba is an acting natural and as the Eloi girl,
hits exactly the right note called for in the role. Both she and her younger
brother Omero contribute greatly to the film's success. Everything about
this film is visually impressive. Wonderfully imaginative sets and masterful
cinematography. Jeremy Irons' small but significant role comes off well
too!

I read complaints about the Morlock make-up? Hello?  any of you ever SEEN a
Morlock? No???  well then, kindly refrain from negative comment. These guys
looked and moved way better than the little furry 1960 creations! I liked
also the intent NOT to have Pearce able to reverse the death of his fiancee
- that was heightened awareness on someone's part!

Add to the above a superb musical score and if this doesn't all make for an
entertaining and thought provoking film, hey guys, you're hard to please.
Certainly this was never intended for THE FAST AND THE FURIOUS set! It is
inarguably the best remake I have ever seen and one of only a few have that
ever managed to improve on the original!
<|_=00=_|>

Judging from the initial reaction to THE TIME MACHINE, it seemed official
to
me that people have forgotten how to have a good time at the theaters
these
days. But the surprising box office performance in the week following its
release seems to now suggest otherwise.

This is a really fun movie. It's a tad slow at first, but since it's only
a
short 96 minutes, things get going pretty quick. Guy Pearce is well-cast
as
the slightly-nerdy mathmetician, Alexander Hartdegen, and the special
effects were very well-done (some were shown unfinished in the trailer and
in the TV spots, so don't let that deter you.) Two of the best sequences
are
the two forward-traveling sequences, the first when Pearce begins his
journey into the future, with the change from Victorian era to the future
flashing by before us during a terrific pull back from the time machine
all
the way out of Earth's orbit and around to the far side of the moon, where
a
ship is coming in for a landing on a colony. The second is when Alexander
is
knocked unconscious by an explosion tremor in the distant future, when
explosives mining on the moon have knocked it from its orbit and have
caused
it to come apart, showering the Earth with moonrocks, and the time machine
speeds forward into the very distant future. It's a terrific sequence in
which we see the geological evolution of the area in a matter of moments,
from cliffside rock formations taking shape to environmental changes and
everything in between. A truely awe-inspiring moment that is one of ILM's
finest effects sequences.

I also liked how they kept a lot of elements from the original: good
friend
Mr. Philby, the spider making a web at the top of Alex's greenhouse, the
constantly-changing store window mannequin that appears in the building
across from Alex's house, the stop at one point in the future to discover
that a disastrous incident is occuring (nuclear war in the original, the
moonrock shower in this version), and the entrance to the Morlock's
underground lair. Even the "talking rings" in the original are sort of
brought back, though this time in the form of a holographic New York City
public library computer (Orlando Jones), whom Alex first encounters in
2030
and again later in the film, set nearly 800,000 years later. The Eloi this
time around are not all blonde and lifeless. In the original, they calmly
walk into the Morlock's lair when the horns sound. Here, they run fearing

for the lives when the Morlocks come to hunt. And the Morlock's are no
longer the lumbering bodybuilders with green body paint and white fright
wigs. Here they are taller, more-muscular deadly creatures with an
animal-like ferocity, with incredible physical abilities and capable of
fast
speeds.

I think this movie is a good example of what remakes should be. Keeping
the
concept and elements of the original, while bringing to the material
something new. Pearce, as I said, is well-cast as the time traveler, who
builds the machine first out of his desire to right a tragedy in his past,
then ends up traveling into the future. Samantha Mumba does a fine job in
her first feature film role. I'm not too fond of singers who try to make
the
move to acting (witness the debacles of Britney Spears, Mariah Carey, and
countless rappers), but Mumba was pretty good. I have a feeling we'll be
seeing her more in the near future. Jeremy Irons' role was too brief,
though. Being the Uber-Morlock, I was hoping for more screen time, as well
as a lengthier confrontation. But he was still good. If I didn't know it
was
him, I never would have guessed it. Much to my surprise, his performance
is
a very restrained one, never exploding into one of those bursting,
over-the-top speeches about wanting to overtake the planet. I was also
expecting him to attempt to use the time machine to travel back to the
past
and take control in a time when there were more resources, but that idea
(again, much to my surprise and delight) never even comes up. He seemed
pretty content just doing things in the time he was in. Still, I would
have
liked for him to had more screen time.

I was also very impressed with the score by newcomer Klaus Badelt, who has
worked mostly in association with composer Hans Zimmer, providing
"Additional Music" from films liked HANNIBAL and GLADIATOR. His score here
is full of action and emotion, with a heroic main theme and a really nice
African tribe-like sound for the Eloi. I look forward to the release of
the
soundtrack, and I'll be keeping a watch for his future projects. He sounds
very promising.

My only real complaint is that it all goes by too fast. A full two hours
would have been great.

In comparison between this one and the original film, I suppose some
people
would say it lacks the charm of the first. The original, despite some
dated
effects, is still a good movie, with the always-reliable Rod Taylor. I
grew
up with it on video, so I consider it a childhood favorite. But I also
enjoyed this version for the fun-filled action-packed piece of
entertainment
that it is.
<|_=00=_|>

This version of the H.G. Wells classic is quite different from the wonderful
1960 movie starring Rod Taylor. As such, it remains entertaining but is
rather more superficial. Nonetheless, I enjoyed it. This one is set in
Manhattan instead of London, and the Wintry scenes of New York a century ago
were nicely done.  

Instead of bemoaning the current dismal state of the world as in the 1960
version, our current hero, well-played by Guy Pearce, seeks to go back in
time to prevent the untimely death of his beloved fiance. When he discovers
this is impossible, he seeks resolution in the future. The special effects
of course are good as he moves into that future, although the Geologic
changes depicted could never have occurred in less than tens of millions of
years.

In the future, 800,000 from his present, following a calamity involving the
destruction of much of the moon that nearly destroyed Earth (that in lieu of
the nuclear holocaust in the 1960 version) he discovers the Eloi, now
cliff-dwellers, who are indeed still there, although now instead of looking
like blonde blue-eyed Aryans they are a nice Politically Correct cafe au
lait color. Curiously, there seems to have been no change or improvement in
this species despite those 800,000 years - evolution has apparently ceased.
But that was how it was with the 1960 film; in fact, this type of Eloi is
more intelligent and active-minded than the nearly brain-dulled zombies Rod
Taylor discovered. They must have been more intelligent as they somehow got
the steel handcuffs off our hero that had been placed there in the earlier
scene in the past.

This version is far kinder to the Eloi: our hero never feels rage at how
they squandered the knowledge and history of civilization. Yes, books have
crumbled, but there is a photonic human-like computer device, a remnant of
the New York Public Library which contains every shred of information ever
collected. How its power source remains  up and running in a Stone Age world
is never explained. "Self-contained power", perhaps?!

The evil Morlocks are still around, and have evolved, but instead of
menacingly appearing at night, or sounding sirens resulting in the Eloi
marching catatonic and transfixed to their cannibalistic doom, the Morlocks
now attack in broad daylight - and they are very muscular and athletic. In
fact, we discover that those are just one type of Morlock - others include
those who have emphasized their intellectual development instead of brawn,
and Jeremy Irons does a great job as the spooky albino-like head Morlock,
the "uber-Morlock". The scary hidden menace of night, in the Taylor version,
in the world of the Eloi is missing from this film, unfortunately.

Our hero's final battle was quite different from the other versions, and
featured an altering of the future/present I still don't
entirely
understand. But it was compelling and dramatic.

I missed the thoughtful tone of the 1960 film in which Taylor (as "George")
discussed Time as a Fourth Dimension, and had a close relationship over the
years with his friend Filby, and later his son. The scenes where he stopped
his Time Machine inside his old boarded up house seventeen years into the
future are, regretably, gone - too slow for today's audience, as perceived
by the producers. It all created for me a nostalgic even elegiacal emotion I
missed in this movie. The end scene where Taylor returned to bring back
"three books" for his life with the Eloi is not in the 2002 film.

The well-known symbolism in the Wells' book, and somewhat in the 1960
version, of an Upper Class feeding off the labor of the Working Class,
cannot be seen at all in this current movie. That despite it being ably
directed, at least in part, by his great-grandson, Simon Wells.

The performances are generally quite good. Besides the wonderful Mr Irons,
Guy Pearce is excellent as Alexander Hartdgen. Samantha Mumba is credible as
the the replacement for Yvette Mimieux's Weena - now called Mara. Her actual
younger brother plays her film sibling. Although she is an Irish singer, she
is also half African, thus satisfying the PC need for the correct
complexion. Mark Addy is limited by the script as Filby; in the 1960 version
Alan Young was wonderful in that role.

Scenery, sets, art direction, and special effects are all quite
good.

This film was entertaining and enjoyable. I just wish it had also been also
as thought-provoking for me as the 1960 Rod Taylor version had been. I know
comparisons can be invidious, but they can't be helped when remaking a
classic. Nonetheless, worth seeing.
<|_=00=_|>

The four of us are in the 40 - 50 age range, and we are fairly tough what we
like and do not like in films. It was Friday night and we wanted
entertainment. We read the comments below - mostly, but not all negative -
and decided to take a gamble. Arriving at the cinema, we were prepared for a
bad movie but hoping for 'a good relaxing time'. 
 
Well, we *did* like this film! Not a top box office smash or even an 8 out
of 10, but entertaining nevertheless. The MUSIC was superb. ACTING was fine.
HISTORIC life portrayed in old Cambridge Massachusetts was realistic - even
the snow and cold weather was real. The ROMANCE was acceptable. The STORY,
while not closely following H G Well, was good enough. The SPECIAL EFFECTS
were very good indeed. 
 
It is worth a gamble, to see this film. But go with a light heart and an
acceptable frame of mind, and keep your expectations below that of a 10 out
of 10 film.
<|_=00=_|>

Problems with my health have meant that for almost five years I wasn't able
to read books properly.  I used to love reading, but eventually I had to
accept that it was something I'd have to leave behind, and I found instead a
passion for film.  Earlier this year my health improved enough to get back
into reading, and The Time Machine by HG Wells was the first book I managed
to get through.  For that reason it's a special book for me, one that I'd
recommend to everyone and defend against anyone who has a bad word to say
about it.  Beyond what it means to me, it's a masterpiece of science fiction
from one of the genre's founding fathers.  For those reasons, sitting
through this adaptation was one of the most miserable experiences of my
life.  I can't begin to express the utter contempt I have for this piece of
garbage.

Set in nineteenth-century New York, in the days before accents had been
standardised, this inane and inept adaptation takes Wells's genius and
flushes it well and truly down the Hollywood bog.  It sees Dr Alexander
Hartdegen tormented by a pointless back-story, and driven to find a way of
undoing the recent tragedy that only he cares about.  He invents a time
machine, powered by a dynamo attached to Wells's spinning corpse, but finds
he is unable to change the terrible past.  Helpfully mumbling exposition to
himself, he comes to realise that the only way to understand why the past
can't be changed is to travel 800,000 years into the future.  It was at that
point that Mr Logic ran out of the cinema, knowing he wouldn't be needed for
the rest of the film.  I wish I'd followed him.

Arriving in our distant future, Hartdegen finds that the human race has
evolved into two distinct species; the peaceful, beautiful Eloi and the
evil, subterranean Morlocks, whose skin had long-ago turned into rather
obvious latex.  Lazily – I mean, luckily – the English language has survived
800,000 years mostly intact, and after a quick chat with one of the Eloi,
Hartdegen turns action-hero as he tries to free her people from the clutches
of the Morlocks.

This is a thoroughly useless adaptation, one that leads me to believe that
the screenwriter has never bothered to read the book, but had instead just
glanced at the plot summary on its back cover, had a quick lobotomy, and set
to work on his screenplay.  Everything that made the novel so powerful has
been lost.  The anonymity of the time-traveller has been replaced by a
dithering scientist with a name and a back-story; his parental affection for
little Weena has been replaced with him wanting to do Mara; the Eloi's
laziness and lack of intelligence has been replaced with a paradoxical
inventive and resourceful nature, which throws up unanswered questions as to
why they've failed to rebuild their society; the Morlocks, freed from the
moral ambiguity that the novel had put forward, are reduced to nothing but
supernatural, superhuman, hissable baddies.  It was just horrifying to see a
work of such genius simplified, dumbed-down and turned implausible, and
lapped up by an audience of idiots, including my own brother!  Adaptations
don't have to be loyal, and I understand that there are certain things that
work in a novel that wouldn't work on screen, but if things have to be added
or removed, the changes should at least be equal to the ideas they replaced.
 That just isn't the case here.

And it's so Hollywood that the pursuit of science isn't enough; Hartdegen
can't invent a time machine simply out of the scientific curiosity, it has
to be motivated instead by a lost love.  And look at the difference between
the book and the film, in terms of imagination and invention:  The book
created a machine that could travel through time; the movie has a
holographic museum curator to dispense exposition.  The book was a powerful
critique on the British class system; the movie has a running joke about
bowler hats.

Even if you can see this as a film in itself rather than as an adaptation of
another story, it still fails.  It's ridden with plot-holes, crippled by the
absence of logic, and has a pay-off that's so lazy it's a miracle it even
bothered to turn up on time.  And while we see travel in the fourth
dimension, we only see characterisation in the first.  The leads are
allocated one adjective each, and accents that could be kindly described as
`well-travelled'.  The only real successes are the sweeping score by Klaus
Badelt, and the often stunning effects by the always-reliable ILM and
Digital Domain.  Both were wasted in a  movie that was heart-breakingly
bad.

I've never been so upset by a film.  I've never spent so long with my head
in my hands.  I'm sorry they did this to you, Mr Wells.
<|_=00=_|>

Since Herbert George Wells(1866-1946)' "The Time Machine" happens to be
one of my favorite novels I was interested in this film mainly to see how
the old man's great-grandson would handle his legacy.This film left me
with
mixed feelings.Many good points and many bad ones.

The Good:I truly enjoyed the 19th centurie scenes with Alexander and
Emma.Her tragic death and Alexander's wish to change it provides our Time
Traveler with serious motivation that he seemed to luck in the book.His
obsession with his work is another good point.When you turn all your
efforts
towards one point then it is more probable that you will achieve your
goals.The scenes while the machine is operating are visualy
beautiful.Alexander as a "wandering fool" and his amazement at the 21st
centurie achievements are well done.The Uber-Morlock was quite
impressive,
his seing the memories, dreams and nightmares of others seem to have left
him with a lot of wisdom.His lack of emotions in a matter of survival for
himself and his race is understandable.Why should he be shocked?Humanity
has
fed on flesh for milenia.We knowed and we don't get shocked by it.Why
should
he be?He actualy seems evolved rather than devolved as the other
Morlocks.

The Bad:In the original novel humanity supposedly reached a golden
age.The
upper-class used the lower-class to achiebe its dream.A life with no
worries.The upper-class lived in magnificent towers while the lower class
was forced to live below the earth, in tunnels.As time went on the
upper-class evolved to the Eloi living in a paradise.Childlike in
appearance
and in nature.Their luck of problems left them with no need to studie and
eventualy all the wisdom of their founders was lost.They were left using
achievements they couldn't understand and couldn't maintaine.The
lower-class
evolved into the Morlocks.Forgotten by the Eloi they were left to feed on
each other and eventualy reached the surface and started feeding on the
Eloi.Both races were devolved when the Time Traveler arrived.The only
person
from this time he actualy likes was Weena a young Eloi girl he saved who
grew attached to him.In the novel they wander around studying the state
of
decline the human races had reached.

Unfortunately all this history of the two races is lost in this
movie.The
plot about the Moon falling was rather ridiculous and hardly explained
the
evolution of the two races.The Eloi of the film are much more inteligent
than those in the movie but nothing interesting is truly done with them.I
was hoping to see Alexander trying to teach his new roomates some of his
wisdom.But nothing like this happens.Why would Alexander be interested in
those two races isn't explained.Why would he pass two chances to return
to
his time isn't expained at all.What gives him the right to kill the
Morlocks
is left equaly unexplained.The "Happy" ending leaves him living in a time
that shouldn't held any interest for a science-loving man.Nothing to
explore
or study.After his experience with time travel I don't think he would
just
be content left in one or the other point of the time stream.Rather
unfortunate progress.

It could have been a classic if only the finale didn't resemble stupid
adventure movies rather than the original novel or any other piece of
fiction with an actual interest in the concept of time traveling.Alas the
Wells family seems to be devolving too.
<|_=00=_|>
The 2002 version of "The Time Machine" is just the latest in a string
of terribly disappointing Hollywood remakes that fall flat on their
face despite extravagant special effects. 

What a lousy, uninspired bland story, with no imagination. Why so
totally rewrite such a wonderful sci-fi classic? Are today's movie
audiences too hip for the H.G. Wells writing largely as is? The 1960
George Pal version told a much more endearing story, even with clunky
low-budget effects, beach-party looking Eloi, and Morlocks that looked
like Smurfs on steroids.

The 2002 version must have H.G Wells turning in his grave:

1. The idea that the time traveler is motivated by the desire to change
the past and trapped in a time paradox is an old sci-fi cliché. This
totally distracts from the love affair with Mara (what happened to
Weena?!) that made the 1960 version so endearing. This sets an
unfortunate and distractive tone early on that makes the whole movie
dour. If Guy Pearce's character was so brilliant either he or his buddy
Einstein would have realized the time paradox dilemma – not have it
dawn on him 800,000 yrs in the future – from a Morlock no less, Doh!!
What's wrong with time-traveling just for fun & adventure & curiosity
-- as embodied in the 1960 version?

2. Only if you saw the first movie would you realize at all what Pearce
was doing with the time machine when you first see it. The George Pal
film carefully explains the whole weird idea of 'travel' though a 4th
dimension.

3. The director goes out of his way to make Pearce's character look
geeky, a worn out old stereotype of scientists. In the 1960 version Rod
Taylor was a little nerdy too (at least around Weena) but managed to be
swashbuckling, playful and charming.

4. Among the key themes of the 60's version -- abandoned in the remake
-- is the idea that endless war leads to the bifurcation of humanity.
Blowing up the Moon to destroy humanity is pointless -- and doesn't do
much for science literacy. For over 4 billion years the Moon has
suffered vastly more powerful asteroid impacts, which would make any
nuclear device look like a firecracker. Yes, science fiction needs
artistic license, but this is just plain dumb and meaningless.

5. Destroying the time machine is stupid too. Apparently our time
traveler invented the neutron bomb to power this thing. Blowing up the
machine to kill Morlocks is sort of a cop-out 'machina ex machina'
Disappointingly, Pearce never comes back to the 1800s to tell his tale
to his incredulous friends, a key part of the Wells story with the
irony that in a week the time travels goes into the far future and
back.

6. Having Morlocks running around in the daytime totally ruins H.G.
Wells' wonderfully spooky, ghoulish portrayal of them as shadowy
creatures of the night. A true cinematic opportunity lost. Also, Wells
depicted the Eloi as frail and childlike. These guys in the movie
looked like they could take on Morlocks, if they weren't such big baby
wusses.

7. The one smart Morlock – kind of a bleached-out Star Wars Evil
Emperor -- had potential, but is so lame and aloof he tells Pearce to
take his machine and go home ?! Boy, what a dramatic high point! In the
book the Morlocks steal the machine because they are so fascinated by
it, and fight to keep it.

8. The goof ball hologram at the N.Y. Public Library is too much. It
makes light of the idea of human cannibalism. the 1960 version simply
had the "talking rings" that delivered a chillingly somber eulogy for
humankind. Derailed evolution is serious stuff.

Its sad the wonderful effects in this movie can never make up for a
weary contrived clunker of a script. Save the cost of a ticket &
popcorn and go rent the DVD when it comes out (soon no doubt), at least
you can fast-forward thought the dull parts, just like our time
traveler.
<|_=00=_|>

Any movie version of `The Time Machine' is destined to suffer from the
structural inadequacies contained in the original source material (H. G.
Wells' 19th Century novel of the same name).  The previous 1960 George Pal
version could not overcome them and neither can this current update, written
by John Logan and directed by Gore Verbinski and Simon Wells. 

Credit the filmmakers for resisting the modern temptation to transpose
Wells' original tale to a contemporary setting.  The story still begins in
the 1800's, with scientist Alexander Hartdegen (Guy Pearce replacing Rod
Taylor in the role) creating a machine with the capability of transporting
him back and forth in time.  Unlike in the original film version, however,
Hartdegen is not motivated by sheer scientific inquisitiveness alone.  The
writer has provided him with an added personal inspiration for his endeavors
in the form of a beautiful young fiancé who is tragically murdered at the
moment of their engagement.  Hartdegen's overwhelming desire to find a way
to return to the past as a way of rewriting the future provides the
necessary motivation to get the story rolling.  

The structural problem alluded to in the opening paragraph boils down to the
simple fact that `The Time Machine' is, by its very nature, a tale in which
the first and second acts will always far outshine the third (although,
regrettably, the third act always ends up taking the bulk of any
adaptation's running time).  The story is at its most intriguing and
compelling in the setting up stage and in the scenes depicting the actual
time traveling experience (this was the case in the first version and it is
the case here as well).  We watch in awe as Hartdegen races across the
millennia, seeing life from a strangely sped-up perspective (the special
effects here are very impressive).  We also enjoy the little side forays he
takes into the early 21st Century, where he visits a modernized New York
City of 2030 and, a few years down the road, a world threatened by a
disintegrating moon.  

Less compelling is Hartdegen's eventual destination, the world 800,000 years
in the future.  Those familiar with the earlier version will know all about
the earth he ends up encountering, one in which the peace-loving, land
dwelling Elois have become fodder for the cannibalistic, subterranean
Morlocks, a grim product of evolutionary (or should we say, devolutionary)
development.  Just parenthetically, one is struck here by just how heavily
Pierre Boulle `borrowed' from Wells when constructing his plot for `Planet
of the Apes.'  Given the obvious limitations of this rather hopeless final
act, the makers of this version haven't done a bad job bringing it to the
screen, since there really isn't much one can do with it but to turn the
whole thing into an extended chase scene anyway.  The odd passivity of the
Elois in acquiescing to their decreed nutritional fate was, however,
captured to greater effectiveness in the 1960 version.  One felt caught off
balance by the sight of all those people resigning themselves to the
inevitable while affording no sympathy for the `loved ones' who were the
Morlock's victims.  As partial compensation for missing this intriguing
aspect, the new film does make the Morlocks appear rather more threatening
than they did in the Pal version.  However, Jeremy Irons, as the
representative of the `intelligentsia' branch of the Morlock race comes in
way too late in the story to register effectively, and the climax of the
film is both confusing and inexplicable to put it politely.  (There is,
however, a nice coda at the very end, merging both time periods into a
shared spatial dimension).  The least believable aspect of this current
edition is the fact that the few Elois who still speak English 800,000 years
in the future – an absurd notion in its own right – could give Professor
Henry Higgins a run for his money in the elocution department.  We should
all possess their pitch-perfect pronunciation, command of diction and level
of vocabulary.

Guy Pearce isn't given much opportunity to act in this role and I must say
that, in his beardless state at least, his gaunt countenance is almost
frightening to gaze upon at times.  I don't know what might have happened to
him in the year or so since he appeared in `Memento,' but someone needs to
buy that poor boy a substantial meal from time to time.  In some of the
early scenes in the film, in particular, he looks positively freakish.  I
kept looking for signs of deliberate tampering by the makeup artists and
wondered how some future alteration in his appearance might play a
significant role in the narrative's development.  It never happened, which
leads me to wonder if Pearce might not himself be morphing into a
Morlock.

Special mention must me made of the superb art direction that adorns the
film.  The sets depicting 19th Century New York City are particularly
impressive.

Overall, `The Time Machine' does a better job revisiting its source material
than Tim Burton's `Planet of the Apes' did last year.  That may, indeed, be
faint praise – but praise nonetheless.


<|_=00=_|>

I was interested in seeing this remake simply to find out if it was as
bad
as a myriad of critics have suggested it to be . I did love the 1960
version
and I am not keen on people remaking my favourite movies , but surely
last
year`s remake of HG Wells romantic fantasy wasn`t going to be as bad as
painted was it ?

Herbert George Wells wrote the source novel so why not call the hero
Herbert
or George ? It`s also a Victorian sounding name so why`s the hero got a
name
that resembles Steve Martin`s character in THE MAN WITH TWO BRAINS ? This
screenplay just like David Duncan`s from the 1960 version lacks an
opening
hook but it does speculate that even if time travel did exist it would be
impossible to change ones destiny , an interesting thought . Screenwriter

John Logan adds a post modernist sequence featuring both HG Wells and
STAR
TREK . I didn`t think the humour worked very well but I had to admire his
cheek , and since everyone cycles everywhere Logan suggests that in the
mid
21st century America has elected a president from the green party which
no
doubt caused civilisation to collapse . Like most other movies set in the
far flung future there are illogical gaps in the screenplay . For example
remnants of the present day would still exist . Put it like this : The
pyramids of Egypt are a few thousand years old and at the present rate of
degeneration they won`t exist in a few thousand years but Alexander goes
798,000 years into the future and the skeletal remains of 21st century
New
York still remain ! , but as I said this is a common flaw in time travel
stories as is the ridiculous notion that hundreds of thousands of years
into
the future people will still be able to understand and speak English , so
this can be forgiven on the grounds of dramatic license . My only real
criticism of the screenplay is that John Logan borrows a bit too much
from
Duncan`s earlier screenplay , otherwise this is a fairly good adaptation
on
Wells groundbreaking novel . Adding the ubermorlock is an inspired idea
that
works very well

I`m in two minds who to credit / criticise as director . As you may know
Simon Wells left the project days before the project was completed and
was
replaced by Gore Verbinski so for the purposes of this review I`ll refer
to
the director simply as " The director " , and the director does manage
one
show stopping moment as the camera pans out from Alexander at the end of
the
19th century across an ever evolving landscape eventually stopping on a
lunar colony . The most controversial aspect of the film seems to be the
casting or more especially the casting of dark skinned actors as the eloi
,
but I fail to see what the problem is . The eloi live on the surface in
bright sunlight so why shouldn`t they be dark skinned ? It`s also in
keeping
with the social darwinism of Wells novel . The eloi have evolved due to
environment the same way as the ubermorlock has evolved , and social
darwinism is totally amoral so there`s no right or wrong , or good and
bad
involved . I do wish people would stop playing the race card . As for the
ordinary morlocks they`re superbly designed with some great make up
involved
but the director throws a massive spanner in the works by having them
running a hundred miles an hour and being able to jump great heights
which
suddenly makes them unconvincing which is a great pity , they would have
worked better as men dressed up rather than CGI supermen . I did like
Jeremy
Irons as the scene stealing ubermorlock though . A word of warning for
those
of you who suffer from photo sensitivity , sadly once again this is a
movie
that heavily features strobe lighting . I`m not epileptic which is just
as
well because I wouldn`t want to risk a seizure watching THE TIME MACHINE
.
Sadly there seems to be more and more films being produced with this
technique in style used and sadly I`ve had to keep saying - Stop using
strobe lighting in movies . It`s totally irresponsible for directors to
do
this .

To sum up the 2002 remake of THE TIME MACHINE was light years away from
the
debacle I`d been led to expect . It`s fairly good in its own right but
not
as good as George Pal`s 1960 version , maybe because it lacks the charm
of
the former , a charm that movie had in abundance , but this version is
still
pretty good as remakes go          
<|_=00=_|>

I enjoyed The Time Machine and its focus on simplicity and special effect
instead of heavy time travel contradictions and fancy plots.  This movie was
straight backwards and forwards dealing with materialism and love - straight
and simple.  This was a feel good movie in a time (our time) of confusion,
fear, and war.  Too many critics looked for something really deep, tried to
tear it apart because of its apparent lack of scientific continuity.  But
really the essence of this movie was human relationships and I thought the
movie it made its point even though it took 800,000 years to do it.  I felt
with the characters.  The only real problem I had was how a language could
be kept so pure after so many years - of course they may have had help from
a local library.
