

How great was this movie? I fell in love with it from being made to watch
it
in Health class in 11th grade. I love films about adversity within races,
and this movie was a classic. Herman Boone has to bring blacks and whites
together for a highschool football team to play with each other. Of
course,
it's the 70's and racism is still rampant. I love the message that people
will mesh anyway despite outside complications. Julius' and Gerry's
relationship was really profound and special. It crossed a lot of lines.
Denzel was remarkable as Coach Boone. He took no crap, yet was scared to
lose his position underneath. There was tension everywhere and it worked
for
the film. The players were really memorable to me. Blue, Rev, Sunshine,
Petey, and Louie Lastik were adorable and hilarious. A great ensemble cast
effort. The guy who played Yoast was good as well, because he had to learn
to overcome prejudices he had that he never knew he did. Even better, was
the fact that it's a true story which makes it all the more sweet. I watch
this movie over and over and can practically say every line by heart.
Great,
great film. The Titans really were greater than the gods of Greek myth,
and
these guys were greater than any stereotype.
<|_=00=_|>

By looking at REMEMBER THE TITANS you are probably saying "oh geeze, another
football movie.  How can this one be any better than the last one?  The only
good recent football film is RUDY."  Well, after seeing this film, you'll be
taken by surprise, just like I was.

In 1971, in Alexandria, Virginia, the town's high school football team, the
T.C. Williams Titans, are very popular.  T.C. Williams High School current
football coach, Coach Yoast (Will Patton), is nominated for high school Hall
of Fame.  But a few weeks before the start of the school year, a
white store owner shoots and kills a black man who was suspected in stealing
a product.  This causes a racial seperation between blacks and whites in
Alexandria.  Then just before the start of the football season, Coach Yoast
gets demoted to Assistant Coach in place of Coach Boone (Denzel Washington).
What's bad is that Boone is black, and Yoast is white.  Most of the town's
residents are angry, and even some of the players are willing to ruin their
football career's to quit the team to make a statement.  But at the start of
football camp, Coach Boone won't take any racial diversity.  Boone treats
all of his players equally, he has his football camp practices appear to be
a mixture between boot camp and group sessions.  If the player misses
catching a football, he has to run a mile.  If the player doesn't know
anything about the person of the opposite color that they are rooming with,
they have homework to get to know one another.  With this, it creates a
special bond between these men.  Men who act more mature and humane, unlike
most of the residents of Alexandria.  But when Coach Boone and Coach Yoast
prove that the Titans are a winning team, the issue of race is erased and
the true meaning of teamwork is born.

The way to make a great sports movie is to have it be adapted from a true
life story.  Like PRIDE OF THE YANKEES, HOOSIERS, and RUDY, all are films
that show that what appears to be a sport, is the true triumph of the
human spirit.  I really did enjoy the characters in the film, since they are
factual, they have very humanistic qualities.  While one loves to hum "Ain't
No Mountain High Enough," another gets excited while listening to "Act
Naturally."  And although you can guess what happens in the end, you don't
care.  You enjoy and like the character's so much that you are cheering for
them.

I highly enjoyed the acting in this film.  I think if Denzel Washington
should get his long overdue Oscar for Best Actor, it should be for this
film.  He teaches his team that black or white, these men are a team, and
that the only way to win is teamwork.  Washington gives a bravura
performance, that it will stun the people who think that Washington usually
plays "racist" roles.  I also enjoyed Will Patton a lot, he's not playing
the cliche coach who gets demoted, and wants to ruin the new head coach.
Instead, he understands the message that Boone is giving to the team that he
helps as much as he can to help the team succeed.  I thought Patton's role
is the best assistant coach role that I have seen since Dennis Hopper's role
in HOOSERS.  And the football players are also great, the ones I thought
stood out were:  Preston Brant (Jerry Buck, the team's captain), Donald
Adensun (Petey, the team's running-back), Kip Perdue (Sunshine, the team's
quarterback), Craig Kirkwood (Rev, the team's defense player), and Ethan
Suplee (Lastik,
the team's leading defense, and by his size, he should be!)  I was glad to
see Suplee change his roles in his career.  The last time I remember seeing
him, he was the vicious skinhead along with Edward Norton and Patrick
Furlong in AMERICAN HISTORY X.  In REMEMBER THE TITANS, he's the exact
opposite, he's the first white player who makes friends with the black
players!!!

Director Boaz Yakin and producer Jerry Bruckheimer should be commended for
this film.

I am pleased to see Jerry Bruckheimer made a really enjoyable and
intellectual film, which is the complete opposite of the type of films that
he's famous for.  In fact I think this is the first one intellectual film
Bruckheimer has made! The message that it sends out is really powerful, and
if it doesn't convince you to change, then you are probably dead.  And
director Boaz Yakin does a fantastic job with this film, that along with
Cameron Crowe, Wolfgang Petersen, and Ridley Scott, he should be nominated
best director.

This is quite a film, in fact, I think this is the best football movie that
I have ever seen!  I really really enjoyed this film, and as I left it led
me to believe in the message that this film was sending to it's audience.
And this being only "PG" and put out by Walt Disney Pictures, I would love
to see both junior high schools and high schools to show this film to it's
students.  If they did, then chances are, the violence in schools will go
down.  And it took Jerry Bruckheimer, Boaz Yakin, and Walt Disney Pictures
to do it.  Great job guys!  Don't miss this enjoyable film!
***** (out of five)
<|_=00=_|>

"Remember The Titans" is one of the two best films to have a chance to win
an oscar for best picture.

Denzel Washington leads a cast that is young, fresh, talented and determined
to make this movie a success. "Remember The Titans" is laced with strong
performances from Will Patton, Ryan Hurst, Wood Harris, Donald Faison and
Greg Alan Williams.

Based on a true story "Remember The Titans" follows the 1971 T.C. Williams
High School Titans football team and their struggles with integration.
Washington is Herman Boone, who has run up against racism after he has been
brought in to coach the Titans. Patton is Bill Yoast, the man Boone replaced
as head coach. 

Washington and Patton are just two pieces of the puzzle, which makes
"Remember The Titans" a real gem. However, the strength and real beauty of
"Remember The Titans" does not come from Washington or Patton, but the Titan
football players because they are the ones who give the strongest
performances in the film.

I must say that the best performance of the whole movie other than
Washington and Patton is the young actress who portrayed Bill Yoast's
daughter, Hayden Panitierre. In "Remember The Titans" this young actress
single handidly made it worth watching this film. Her talent shines through
and her presence on screen is as fresh as the daily air; furthermore, every
time she is on screen she sparkles. It is so pleasurable to see talent like
this being discovered.

I hesitated to see "Remember The Titans" because I didn't want to see
another football film, but it is more than just another football film.

"Remember The Titans" is a special film that has special performances and is
well worth every dollar you spend to rent this film.
<|_=00=_|>
Being a former white athlete and coach I am sick of sports movies where
the story involves a team eventually winning a championship so I passed
this one by when it first came out. Big mistake!! Like "Hoosiers" this
one was an exception and what an exception. Remember the Titans is in
my top five movies of the past ten years. Denzel Washington, as the
coach, gave another of his consistently outstanding performances.

Like "Hoosiers" this is a true story and it is not just a story about
sports but a strong story about race. I probably appreciated it more
than most because of my background I connected to the movie. During the
1940s I attended schools which were well integrated and students of
different races and cultures existed harmoniously. To a large degree,
it was because the high school had a very successful football program
in which unlike almost all of the other schools, minority athletes were
welcome. In my junior year we went undefeated and won the State
Championship and the team is still considered the best high school team
of all time. The only time the team came close to defeat was in the
State final when we played another well integrated team.

Consequently the community while generally middle and upper class
except for its minorities was well integrated. As a result although I
knew racism existed, I never encountered it in my community. But then I
began to see its ugly head. First, the All-American end on our team, a
superb athlete, was denied scholarships both to USC and Stanford
because neither school accepted minorities. I had always wanted to go
to USC but because of what USC did to my friend I turned down its offer
of a scholarship the next year as I did to Stanford which I considered
a snob school then as I do today.

But my college was cut short when the Korean War began and I was in the
service. I was sent to bases in the South and I spent much of the next
thirteen years in the South witnessing how bad it was for the blacks
and I was involved in the civil rights movement in the South which got
me into a lot of trouble with my military superiors.

During my tours in the South I became head coach of a football team at
a Southern base. Filled with ex-collegiate stars and some pros, we
regularly played Division I colleges and universities. However, because
I had black players on my team I couldn't schedule games with any white
southern colleges. Instead we scheduled one black college and several
state universities in the mid-west.

Some critics have compared the summer camp at which Washington as Coach
Boone brought the blacks and whites together as a team as like a Marine
Boot Camp but everyone missed the subtlety of this. I went through Boot
Camp at a time when the military was just integrating and we had
southern blacks and whites as well as a mix of races from other parts
of the country in my platoon as well as all classes. It didn't take
very long for us to become as one unit. The first part of boot camp is
sure hell and the reason for it is that it reduces everyone to the
lowest common denominator of misery and you quickly learn that the only
way to escape that misery is to work together. This is just the way
Coach Boone made it work.

What I liked about this movie is that it showed how all this played
out. Most moviegoers today are not really aware of how bad racism was
in 1971 but this movie illustrates it well. Even though the movie has a
few corny moments and the actors playing the roles as football players
look old for high school, these faults are minimal and do not detract
from the power of the film.
<|_=00=_|>
Remember the Titans is much more than a story about a high school
football team. It is a true story about two men who overcome their
differences and help an entire town deal with frustration, anger, and
mistrust. Herman Boone (Denzel Washington) is the head coach of the
football team at the black high school while Bill Yoast (Will Patton)
is the head coach of the football team at the white high school. In
1971 the high schools are integrated and Coach Boone is chosen to
become the head coach of the football team while Coach Yoast is demoted
to assistant coach.

Remember the Titans is a powerful film with incredible performances by
both Denzel Washington and Will Patton.
<|_=00=_|>

"Remember the Titans" is a movie that by the end of seeing it makes you feel
good. And why shouldn't it? You would figure that it'll be a nice little
picture since it comes from the Walt Disney Company, and I think it's
perfect for the whole family. "Remember the Titans" is a comedy-drama based
on the true story of a high school in Virginia that is integrated with white
and black students, white and black teachers, and white and black athletic
coaches. Oscar winner Denzel Washington gives another one of his fine
performances as the new head coach of the high school football team, and
Will Patton is equally good as the current head coach who is now demoted to
assistant coach under Washington. Together they try to get their players of
both races to get along and put on a winning team. In addition to Washington
and Patton, there are some other terrific performances by the young actors
who portray the football players. I see some future stars here. The movie
has plenty of dramatic moments with some delightful comedy thrown in the
middle of it. It obviously gets a little predictable towards the end which
keeps "Remember the Titans" from being a perfect movie. But so what? This is
a sports movie and usually sports movies almost always ends with "the big
game". Who's going to win that big game? I won't say who wins the big game
in "Remember the Titans", but in the end you'll be rooting for the Titans to
win, win, win! And that's all that matters. Bottom line: "Remember the
Titans" is an excellent film, very well made and very well acted by everyone
involved.

***1/2 (out of four)

<|_=00=_|>
If their is ever a film to watch to get motivated, it's this. You don't
have to be an American football lover, just any sport, or activity. The
passion displayed on the screen could get Sven Goran Eriksson in the
mood. Their are particular inaccuracies in order to make this into more
of a film, but I wouldn't call it predictable. This is based on a true
story, and the 13 and 0 record really happened, so this true story was
what created the predictable film stereotype. I love the choice of
actors in the film. Each person seems to be able to tap in to the
feelings of their character, which creates a much more realistic film.
It depicts the nature of racism within peoples lives very well and
shows how common loves for different things can pull people together so
that simple and wrong beliefs are forgotten. Needless to say this film
makes me feel better about the world, while making me want to be a
winner as well.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie received a lot of criticism for being a little too "light"
in it's depiction of racism in that time period. However, the fact that
Disney decided to take on the topic at all astounds me. I think that
this movie is incredibly effective and an excellent football movie. It
really sucks you into these characters and make you feel for them. I am
emotionally affected by this film no matter how many times I've seen
it, and I think that this movie will stand up over time as one of the
most endearing sports classics of all time.

Quote that i believe defines the movie: "I don't care if you like each
other, but you will respect each other. And maybe, I don't know, maybe
we can learn to play this game like men."

My personal favorite: "I don't want them to gain another YARD, you
blitz all night! They cross the line of scrimmage I swear to God I'm
going to take every one of you out. You make sure they remember
FOREVER, the night they played the Titans."
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is more than just about football, race relations and
integration.
The lead characters excellently portray the human spirit, showing that
everyone can overcome not just on the field but also in
life.
The ending is predictable, but it draws you in with the intense emotion
to
win both on and off the field.

<|_=00=_|>

Remember the Titans was touching, uplifting, inspiring, motivating, and
triumphant.  It will make you cry at parts, laugh at parts, "goose
pimples"
will appear on your arms at parts, it will also make you cheer out loud
from
your seat! A must see.
