

`Awful', `Hopeless', `Terrible', `Benifer's Gate'.

These are the words I read from some of North America's most respected
film
critics in my research before viewing the debacle Gigli starring Ben
Affleck
and Jennifer Lopez.  At first, I wondered aloud 'how bad can it be'.
After
all, how often does the common public agree with the harsh words of a
critic.  Besides, Pacino and Walken in the same film should be enough to
generate even one star out of even the sternest critic, right.  Right?

Gigli is about two unbelievable gangsters who are assigned the task of
kidnapping and watching over a prosecutors mentally challenged brother
while
also keeping an open eye on each other to ensure the success of the
operation.  Ben plays Gigli, an accent challenged goon who is as
believable
as Madonna in a nuns uniform, and Jennifer plays Ricky, a lesbian gangster
who is primarily hired to ensure that Gigli doesn't screw things up.

Along the way, plenty of bit characters and ridiculous side plots stymie
the
progress of the mission.  Ricky has an ex-lover show up at the house and
attempt suicide, the gangsters ask for the thumb of the prisoner sent to
the
prosecutor, Gigli has to rush to his mothers house and learns that good
ole
ma knows all about lesbians and throughout the film we are constantly
annoyed by conversations between Gigli and his crime boss, Lenny over the
phone. I could go on, but what's the point.

Gigli was one of the worst reviewed films of 2003.  So I began to wonder
why
this film in particular ended up on everyone's poop list even though there
were plenty of worse films people were throwing good money at (Boat Trip,
Bad Boys II, Masked and Anonymous).    The answer became pretty obvious.
Nothing was expected of these other entries, but Gigli had the star power
of
the two most talked about celebrities in Tinseltown.  Throw in director
Martin Brest who has had incredible success with Scent of a Woman,
Midnight
Run and Beverley Hills Cop, and sprinkle in the veteran a-list power of
Christopher Walken and Al Pacino.  With a recipe as rich as these
ingredients suggest, one's expectations are set to a higher standard.
Gigli
simply does not deliver the goods.  The dialogue is so laughable that you
expect this film to have midnight showings a la Rocky Horror Picture Show
in
the next ten years, and the characters are so eccentrically hysterical
that
you can't help but cringe in your seat in embarrassment for all those
involved.

So now back to the critics.  We, owe you an apology.  Most of the year, we
read your reviews and chastise your opinions, but every once and a while,
a
consensus amongst your peers keeps us from going in mass and spending our
hard earned dollars on crap like this.  A $6 million dollar domestic take
for Gigli is an example of the power that you possess, and for that, I
will
keep reading.

<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie and hated about 99% of it. After I found out it cost
$54,000,000 to make, I started to hate the other 1%. If this is
considered a love story between Lopez and Affleck, may I ask...where
was the love? A sex scene with no nudity, no passion, and no
sound....why? Supporting characters like Christopher Walken and others
were introduced and went no where...why? The story alone peeks when
Pacino arrives and shoots one of the cast members. From there, i was
hoping that Pacino had finished the job and killed the rest of the
cast. If that happened, the movie would have been good. Instead, the
movie drags and drags and drags. The audience is not going to care if
the actors in the movie learn something or progress if they don't care
about the characters. Lopez and Affleck's characters do not exist! Much
like the ugly tattoos on Affleck's shoulder, the movie was not fun to
look at. In my opinion, and I do not think I am wrong, if Lopez had a
small nude scene and / or the movie was done as an independent film for
under 2 or 3 million, Gigli would have been a giant success. Instead,
we are left to wonder....why?
<|_=00=_|>
Smug and a self-adorned cine-sophisticate, I rented out Gigli with a
friend ready to scrutinise it with the benefit of my enlightened view
of film. It was going to be an hilarious two hours. I'd settled down in
a very comfy armchair and had poured a glass of some Austrian glug. I
couldn't wait to laugh at the stupid dialogue and that ridiculous
script but the joke was on us because Gigli transcends the established
limit of effective urine stealing. This is because its simply so
horrible that you can forget trying to make yourself look intelligent
and media literate by ripping the bladder evacuate because the scale of
misguided conception baffles the mind and eventually shuts it down.
It's like being hit by a sack full of bricks in the face for a full 114
minutes. There's a teasing little scene with J-Lo early on when she
tells a bunch of unruly kids that there's a martial arts move that can
gouge out the eyes and simultaneously destroy the visual cortex meaning
that not only are you rendered blind but you'll never be able to
remember anything you've seen. For the Gigli viewer this is like
showing Charlie and the Chocolate Factory to a hall packed with
diabetics. You're left to ponder the short term agony weighed up
against the long term benefit as Martin Brest's story unfolds with the
principle characters of a unlikeable, emotionally and sexually retarded
thug with a soft centre (a fat Affleck), a lesbian who isn't really a
lesbian because you can be converted to heterosexuality by an
emotionally and sexually retarded thug and an actually retarded man who
was probably supposed to be a Rainman-type character who redeems
Affleck's arrogant meathead but is in fact a cringe inducing, self-harm
facilitating caricature of the mentally handicapped. Look, many movies
look good on paper and suffer from poor execution but what's head
scratching about Gigli is that it's as dire on the page as it is on
screen. Broadly it's supposed to be a romantic comedy, sort of Out of
Sight meets Rainman meets Whats New Pussycat? but it's stillborn as a
criminal caper, devoid of anything approaching sensitivity and has some
of the worst battle of the sexes banter that ever crawled onto the
screen. Brest, who directed the dire 16 hour remake of Meet John Doe,
Meet Joe Black, shows that when it comes to misjudging material he's
peerless. His crimes here are compounded by the fact that this is his
own script. That script, incidentally is a roll call of on screen
horror. Witness, if you can, the Penis Vs. Vagina scene in which
Affleck argues the case for the male genitals or the tear jerking
moment in which the soft hearted Affleck, having given the Mentally
Handicapped Brian relationship advice, looks on like a proud father as
his new friends woos an Australian bombshell during the filming of a
Baywatch beach party. You'll envy the man who gets his brains blown out
and eaten by goldfish or the horrendous girlfriend of J-Lo, who having
realised which film she's in, slits her wrists...stupidly, the wrong
way. Once its all over and you sit there open mouthed you're left to
(briefly) ponder why Brest did it. Did the kidnapped brother have to be
disabled? Surely there must have been a more effective way of
facilitating Affleck's transition from idiot to slightly more
compassionate idiot? Did J-Lo have to be a Lesbian? Sure, Affleck has
to have some obstacles toward getting the girl and we all like a bit of
sexual tension but gay viewers must have been flabbergasted that a man
who describes men and women as "the bull and the cow" and does lovable
things like warmly looking vacuous and endearingly been obnoxious
should persuade a woman to er, "hop over the fence". And even if Brest
was blinded by his own vanity what in the name of Beverly Hills Cop
persuaded Christopher Walken and Al Pacino to cameo? None of it makes
any sense. The bottle of wine I had with the film was good though but
by the time I regained consciousness the bit left in the bottle was
undrinkable.
<|_=00=_|>

I could've went to McDonald's with my five buck and gotten something to
eat
but INSTEAD I went and saw the new J-lo/ Ben Affleck puke bonanza titled;
Gigli. God, I'm an IDIOT!!! The first ten minutes weren't so bad but then
I
realized I was in "Finding Nemo". When I made my way to the right theater-
I
was horrifed!This was Gigli? A J-Lo movie ALL ABOUT J-LO- Well I never!
Anywho- there's only too things worse then this movie:
1, Burning to death
and
2, burning to death while watching "Gigli"

for A movie titled "Gigli" -- I never laughed once! Total rip
off!
Horrible! I give it 4 stars **** ...out of 240!
<|_=00=_|>

J-Lo and Ben were badly miscast as gangsters in this. Neither is
believable.

We are supposed to believe Ricki (J-LO) is a gangster and mean just
because she says so. She does absolutely nothing to make her seem
dangerous. But, then it gets even funnier when she shows up in a crop
top shirt, letting it all show, only to announce she's gay. What! J-Lo
is just too famous for anyone to see her as gay, not to mention, she
never acts like it in the film.

As for Ben, he's really bad too. He's uses this horrible accent and
swears a lot. I guess that means we are supposed to believe he's a
tough gangster from New York because of this. He doesn't have the
stomach to cut off a finger and he lets a guy that owes money only pay
half. No muscle man would act like such a wuss.

Then we get the mentally challenged guy that plays some role with the
plot, but I'm not sure what because the plot never made sense to me. I
never got the whole point of kidnapping the guy. Then there are the
very bad dialogue scenes that have been mentioned many times. What was
the writer thinking and how could Bennifer say those lines without
laughing. And I still don't get why a lesbian would give that yoga
speech to a guy in such a seductive way. So unbelievable.

The only thing that made me laugh was Gigli reading to the retarded
guy. He read what's on tabasco sauce bottle and charmin toilet paper.

FINAL VERDICT: Gobble, gobble says it all. Overall bad acting and
writing. But I have seen worse movies. I only recommend it for those
who feel compelled to see J-Lo looking really hot for a couple of
hours.

<|_=00=_|>

I borrowed my friend's Gigli DVD to see if the movie was really as bad
as the ratings and other comments here will indicate. The answer is
yes. When the film first came out, it rocketed to number 1 on the
bottom 100 list. That ranking was undeserved, as the movie does have
decent technical aspects (editing, sound) relative to Manos and Future
War. Its good to see Gigli settling a little further down the list.
 From the outset, I could tell the dialog was just horrible. It was
unfunny 90% of the time, and contained useless overlong scenes. One
example was the whole 'pleasing a woman' sequence where Lopez was doing
Yoga on a mat while talking with Affleck. Just horrible. Jennifer Lopez
has to win the award for most painfully miscast actress. She is totally
unbelievable as a Lesbian girl gangster. She failed to convince me that
she had ever broken the law in the past. 'I did some really bad things'
-- yeah right. I would avoid this like the plague. 1/10

<|_=00=_|>

I can't exactly remember how or why I ended up seeing this movie, but here
I
am thinking of the film that stands next to Matrix Revolutions as the
worst
of 2003. It is that bad. Reasons? Well, for one, this movie contains a
brutal depiction of Ben Affleck violently raping the acting craft. There
is
one reason. Two? There is hardly a plot, but old, cliche gimmicks to
create
a Rain Man feel in a hit man story. Does it work? Three? No. It does not.
And I don't care if people write reviews stating that a lot of reviewers
won't admit they liked the picture. I have nothing to hide. I hated it.
I'll
admit that the picture had two pluses. Christopher Walken's brief speech,
and Al Pacino's. Those were the high points of the movie, and I have no
idea
how they got persuaded to participate in the film, but there it is. They
were damn good. In scenes that had little to do with the story. Which had
little to do with anything. I won't even touch on J-Lo's questionable
lesbianism, or the random suicide attempt by her former lover (who shows
up... why?). What can I say? Awful film.
<|_=00=_|>

Larry Gigli is a hired thug for the mob in LA.  When he is put on a job to
kidnap the brother of the Federal DA, he takes the mentally handicapped
Brian to his flat with the intention of the DA dropping charges against
his
boss.  Later he is joined by another contractor, Ricki, who Louis has put
with him to make sure he doesn't f**k the job up.  His amorous approaches
towards her are rejected when she tells him she is a lesbian, but the two
have bigger problems with the job itself.

I rented this film because I had read all the harsh reviews, both
professional and on this site, that just ripped into it and seemed to have
more personal vendettas against the stars rather than objective points to
make about the film.  With this in mind I decided that I would have to
check
it out myself; I have no personal feelings about Lopez and Affleck - their
relationship is not something I have had rammed down my throat as I don't
read the gossips mags and my paper of choice is the Times, where they get
rather limited coverage.  Without this fatigue I was able to view the film
as it came to me rather than seething with cruel and clever put downs even
before the film started (as some critics clearly did).

However, the critics were mostly right, even if they overreacted to the
extreme.  The film starts reasonably well and you can see the potential,
or
at least you can see what they were thinking when the film was being put
together.  Sadly, as the film continues, the thin strands holding it
together are slowly unravelling until almost nothing is left of value.
Some
of it works well; how many times have the audience embraced a comic crime
caper with hit men in the lead roles?  Here the film does have some of
that
type of humour (particularly in the jokes about Gigli's masculinity) but
the
music used to set the tone begins to grate after a while because there is
nothing to support it, and everything else is flawed.

The main plot is so very full of holes and stupid plot devices that it is
difficult to be involved by it.  For a crime comedy, the plot doesn't need
to be perfect - but it needs to be good enough so that it doesn't take
away
from the film, here it is so weak that it damages the film at it's core.
The other side of the plot is the romance, and it is absurd!  I'm sure if
I
were a lesbian that I would be offended by the `I'll turn her' approach of
the film, but I'm not so I'll leave that for others to debate.  However
the
romance between the two is unrealistic and uninvolving, the lesbian thing
just makes it worse.

The characters themselves are poor.  Neither Gigli or Ricki ever seem like
killers - in fact even a hint of violence and they look terrified and out
of
their depth.  His personality seems to change to whatever the scene
requires
(one moment impatient, the next sensitive, the next angry) while Ricki is
just sweetness and light.  Affleck and Lopez must take almost all the
blame
for this, their performances are as misjudged and lacking as the script.
Affleck is actually not that bad - he is willing to send himself up, it is
the jumping script that makes him appear to be all over the place.  Lopez
is
awful; someone who has done this crime comedy style movie before should
have
been much better but she acts like she is in a simpering rom-com.  What is
surprising is just how little chemistry the two have considering they are
a
couple now; they just don't do the job at all.

Bartha gives a dumb Rain Man impression to the point where I kept
expecting
him to say `I'm an excellent driver'.  His character is just a joke and I
even wished for Lopez to come onto the screen whenever he was on - at
least
I could just stare at her body and ignore him!  The two main cameos are
actually very good but unfortunately serve to show up the rest of the
film.
Walken is good but his character appears and disappears without reason,
Pacino is much better simply because he does his menacing `woo-ha' thing
and
is very effective.

Overall this is not the `worst film ever made', those who tell you that
have
clearly have a limited viewing experience; many of the reviews were made
harsher by the back lash against the whole Bennifer thing.  However that's
not to say they are wrong - only overly harsh.  The film is poorly judged
in
almost every aspect and is too hard to enjoy as a result.  Has about 3
good
moments in it, but it is an overwhelming shambles.
<|_=00=_|>
A truly cynical person might think that the whole J-Lo/ Ben Affleck
relationship was a publicity stunt designed to help this movie along.
After all, if a couple was in the midst of a passionate affair, it is
reasonable to expect some on-screen chemistry between then, right? That
kind of chemistry is sadly lacking in the J-Lo/ Affleck interactions.

Ms. Lopez appears to be either in over her head as far as acting
ability, or realized that she was in a "take the money and run"
failure; I did not buy her as the character she was supposed to be.
Affleck was just leaden, although he had nothing to work with in terms
of character or dialogue. He has not always been bad (I liked "Chasing
Amy"), but here, his scenes crawl along at a painfully slow pace. The
"retarded kid" (and that is all he deserves to be called) is playing a
high-school play version of "Rain Man" with all the annoyance but none
of the nuance, complexity, or charm. The less seen, the better.
Forgettable cameos top the mess.

The worst thing about Gigli is the endings. Imagine a painfully bad
film, where you want to sit it through to the end, just because of all
the pain and suffering it has put you through ("this film is NOT going
to defeat me"). You get to the end. Then, there is another ending.
Then, another ending; then, an ending involving the retarded kid. Then,
an ending not involving the retarded kid. Then another... You get to a
point where you sincerely believe that the editor should be forbidden
from ever working in film again. Along with the director and the choad
who did the bizarrely inappropriate music, as well.

The colorful, in-your-face awfulness of "From Justin to Kelly" was a
picnic compared to the leaden, meandering awfulness of "Gigli." And, to
think of how much this film cost, for so little...
<|_=00=_|>

Can anyone locate a plot for this movie? I won't bother spoiling anything
for you because wel...there isn't anything to spoil. Absolutely nothing
happens in this movie! Thank god I only watched it with my friends as a joke
to add to a school project.

Let's just say there are a lot of lines that bring this movie down a lot.
I'm sure all the late night hosts have already summed these up in one way or
another. I was lost after the first ten minutes, and it's hard to get
through the first five! My advice to you is...if you want to see a movie
that is at least remotely watchable...AVOID this one. For the love of
God!!
