
I learned a lot about World War II from this film. First of all, during
this war it was a custom of both the Japanese and Americans to scream
every time you shoot or get shot (even with about 30 bullets in your
chest you can still scream apparently). Secondly, Japanese soldiers do
not like cover. They like to stay out in the open, and will not fire
their rifles unless they're within 15 feet of American soldiers.
Thirdly, one man with a Thompson sub-machine gun can take out an entire
regiment of Japanese soldiers in an afternoon.

This film was completely first rate, start to finish. From the soldiers
who flail about wildly as entire belts of machine gun ammo are pumped
into them (before they drop to the ground mind you), to the 12 soldiers
that Nicholas Cage shoots with a handgun while laying on his back
wounded in the space of about 15 seconds, this film just screamed
realism and authenticity. Highly recommended to history buffs and
people who can appreciate some of the best acting ever put on film.
<|_=00=_|>
I thought this was a film about Navajo code talkers. Well, it's not. 
While there are a couple of Navajos in the film, the story revolves 
around Nicolas Cage winning WWII all by himself. This guy's incredible 
and makes John Wayne look like a wimp. Every time the Marines are in 
trouble, up jumps good old Nicolas Cage with his Thompson and POOF! the 
battle is WON! I wonder how we won WWII without Nicolas Cage? The film 
has a LOT of combat footage and most of that is very well done. That 
alone is worth a watch but don't expect to learn much of anything about 
the Navajo code talkers. You should read about them, because theirs was 
an important part of history, but they're a minor part in this film. I 
gave it a 6, only because of the good combat footage.
<|_=00=_|>

Warning: SPOILERS

If you live in the UK, a good guide to the quality of any movie is the
review it gets in the best-selling 'News of The World' Sunday paper.
Because
the NoW's critical faculties are arguably less than those of an ant, a
good
review equals lousy movie; bad review: probably worth seeing. On which
basis, the endorsement `One of the best war movies of all time -- News of
the World' that features on the cover of the UK DVD Collector's Edition
says
it all: here indeed is one of the worst war movies of all
time.

Quite why it should've been so is mystifying, for in the subject of the
Navajo code talkers there's a genuinely interesting story: how they were
recruited, the dilemmas they faced in signing up to war, the problems of
integration, the heroism they showed and the regrettable secrecy that for
so
long obscured the nature of their contribution. . . in the hands of
half-way
proficient moviemakers, the code talkers' tale would've made for first
class
cinema.

Instead we get 129 tedious minutes of pyrotechnic mayhem, and a plot so
ludicrous it's astonishing it even survived first pitch: that a codetalker
has to be 'protected' by a guardian angel lest he fall into the hands of
the
enemy. Oh really?

The premise might've had some passing credibility had director Woo
understood that remaking 'War and Peace' was not, in this instance, A Good
Idea. But no: Woo moves remorselessly from one major league set-piece to
another, in every one of which bombs, bullets, bayonets and shells rain
down
upon the unfortunate Navajo from left, right, behind, in front and above
(thus making Nicolas Cage's advice to `make sure you follow my ass if you
want to stay alive' one of the transparently daftest script lines of
recent
memory).

Far from taking care of the windtalker / codetalker, the US Army ensures -
in this movie at least - that he has a survivability prospect of thirty
seconds. Still, he is assisted by Cage, whose uncanny ability to survive
veritable hails of gunfire is in inverse proportion to his ability to act:
you'd have thought 'Captain Correlli's Mandolin' would've been disaster
enough but no, Cage goes for broke in this one, distraught, depressed,
dysfunctional, and alarmingly indiscriminating when it comes to shooting
people (his own, and the enemy).

The good news though is that he doesn't get to play a musical
instrument.

Two sequences do, however, stand out in this turgid mess. In the first,
Cage
allows himself to be captured by the enemy whilst pretending to be a
prisoner of his Navajo charge, this sleight of hand being accomplished
thanks to the fact that Adam Beach (who plays the Navajo) looks, er,
Japanese.

Woo seems not to have noted that Beach doesn't even look like a Navajo,
let
alone a Japanese, but then, nor does the enemy, which for reasons known
only
to writers John Rice and Joe Batteer decides in this screenplay to
implement
a policy of actually taking prisoners instead of shooting all Americans on
sight.

But perhaps they guessed it was Nicolas Cage.

In the second sequence, Cage rolls drunkenly around a battlefield
graveyard,
weeping for the souls of all the men who were killed when he was
single-handedly taking the Solomon Islands at the start of the movie.
(Seeing as they were spared from the rest of 'Windtalkers', it's not at
all
clear why anyone should feel sorry for them). Anyway, Cage rolls around,
and
the non-Navajo non-Japanese lookalike Beach comes to his aid. . . and
brushes against a cardboard cross which promptly falls
over.

Yup. That's how they did it during the war. Buried each individual soldier
under a highly photogenic if insubstantial cardboard cross. And never mind
the tropical rainstorms.

Still, at least it's consistent: cardboard plot, cardboard direction,
cardboard acting.

VERDICT: Depressingly inept; a missed opportunity -- considering the
nature
of the source material -- and, sadly, yet another question mark over John
Woo's career.

RATING: 1/10.


<|_=00=_|>
I just watched the director's cut on DVD after having seen the
theatrical cut some time ago.

Plot summary: In WWII, a code based on the Navajo language was used to
securely communicate between US troops in the Asian Pacific, without
the Japanese eavesdropping. We follow two Navajo code talkers and their
US Marine "bodyguards" as they go into combat on a Japanese island.

A lot has been written about this somewhat flawed John Woo movie. After
having seen both versions, my main disappointment is still that the two
code talkers seem like background characters. A movie with a lower
budget, without big Hollywood stars put in the foreground would
probably have been more satisfying. Maybe that movie should have been
done by another director too, I don't know. 

Enough good "general" war movies have been made. The code talker part
of the story should have been made much more pivotal as was done here.

I'm a fan of Woo's Hong Kong and Hollywood work. The director's cut of
Windtalkers doesn't turn a mediocre Woo film into a masterpiece, but it
is certainly an improvement.

Main advantages of the DC are more fleshed out characters. You get more
background on all main characters, including the two Navajo code
talkers. I felt more involved. As a result, the code talker part of the
story is served better, but still not enough to my taste. The DC also
has more uncut battlefield scenes. Woo really shows his talent here,
with raw yet beautifully shot war action. You get the sense that you
are in the middle of the action.

I was particularly interested if a scene was put back in where a US
soldier takes a golden tooth from a Japanese corpse. This scene was
described in several documentaries about censorship by the US Army. Not
completely surprisingly, this scene was also absent from the DC.

If you are a Woo fan or already appreciated the theatrical cut, it may
be worth checking out the director's cut.

My ratings: 6/10 for the original cut. 8/10 for the director's cut.
<|_=00=_|>

When watching the trailer of Windtalkers, one gets the impression that this
film is about the Navajo indians and how their native language was used to
create a code that could not be broken by the Japanese.  However, it turns
out that this film is really about a white army seargeant (Nicolas Cage) and
how he eventually befriends the codetalker (Adam Beach) that he is
responsible for protecting.

Director John Woo doesn't disappoint with the action sequences.  All of them
are breathtaking and highly detailed.  However, all of this action tends to
take away the emphasis on the story.  No matter, the scenes that show the
developing friendship between the two seargeants (Cage and Christian Slater)
and the codetalkers (Beach and Roger Willie) gives Windtalkers its heart.
(7/10)
<|_=00=_|>
This showed up on the history channel and with the husband once again
off playing poker I thought, OK, time to ingest a little more history.
Only to end up retching over yet another Nicholas Cage bad movie. 

Now, I just recently saw Con Air for the first time on STARz, so the
juxtaposition is unfortunate for his rating, but is he letting his
lizard tattoo or Elvis visitations determine his movie selections? Are
the script readings done by a psychic? Does he gravitate to stupid
characters?

I thought I was going to see something that was about World War II, but
actually I got to see a silly film filled with characters I've seen so
often I could have written this script myself during a silicon valley
traffic jam, and done a much better and far more historically accurate
job. They all trotted around after the usual conflicted Sergeant - or
is Nicolas Cage always conflicted (see fixations above)? - with a
Navajo Indian (instead of a representative of some other ethnic group)
thrown in to cause racial tension.

Let's see, we had the bullying racist, who then has his life saved by
an Indian (gee, there's a surprise), the panicking recruit who can't
take the pressure and trips the mine field (wow, didn't see that
coming), the accepting comrade who (symbolically) blends an harmonica
with the Indian's flute (but dies saving the Indian's life, ditto,
ditto), the young boy who must grow up too soon (ah, the poignancy),
the Army lieutenant that treats everyone like tools (not again!), the
mystic wisdom that teaches us all a little something, the constantly
breathy flute music (used with all cultural lessons) - have we endured
this one before? 

Not really, because we've never seen quite so many battles, with so
many bodies (tossed so high in the air) before, or filmed in Utah while
pretending to be Iwo Jima. Was John Woo trying to win some kind of
battle-filming contest here? Well, I hope so, because he sure lost a
battle with the script.

Of course, we had the added stress for poor battle-worn Nicolas Cage
that he might have to shoot his code talker rather than have him fall
into enemy hands. Quite the sophisticated plot twist, that! Oh no, will
Nicolas get too close and feel bad if he has to shoot his young
trustee? More conflict! More angst! Cage's specialty! Makes the story
so much better, right? 

Better, but not accurate. Reality: the code wasn't the language - it
was a derivative, based on, the Navajo language. If someone was
captured, the code would be changed. The prisoner might understand the
base language, but not the code itself. 

Oh, yeah, periodically the Indians, who I believe were the original
inspiration for the movie, would get to talk back and forth in Navajo,
and we would get to see the translation on the screen. They would say
their position (not in actual code). Oh, and one time in the movie, the
Japanese noticed the Americans weren't speaking English. 

And another time, according to the movie, the Japanese attempted to
capture an Indian who was just standing around the front line because
somehow they knew he was a code talker. Right. They guessed in the
middle of combat that he wasn't Hawaiian or Japanese American, he was
an American Indian. And they also had somehow figured out that the
language that wasn't English was a derivative of an American Indian
dialect, and therefore this man must be a Code Talker. Right there in
the middle of the battle. Alrighty then. (It must be similar wisdom
that causes me to doubt the veracity of this incident.) 

These incidents brought history alive for me, alright.

Reality: Code talkers were translating messages NON STOP throughout the
taking of Iwo Jima. Which makes it difficult to understand how the
Navajos would have been hacking and shooting away on the battlefield,
or standing around the front lines, and going through that
growing-up-too-soon stuff. Reality: They were able to communicate three
times faster than previous codes had hustled along, but like any other
job, the number of messages increased to fill the time available. Seems
to be a bit of a discrepancy between busy busy real code talker life
and Hollywood. Oh, sorry. That's a duh.

In addition to not understanding the difference between a language and
a code (is this rocket science?) the soldiers in the film didn't even
wear the right dog tags. Reality: I've got my dad's dog tags from WWII,
and you can get a lovely facsimile at the Smithsonian gift store right
now. Were they not stylish enough? Was it more exciting to use choke
chain dog tags? Every time I saw a soldier I saw an anachronism. As in
big fat mistake.

I do appreciate that at least we have a movie in these Politically
Correct days where we had two sides to a war: good guys and bad guys.
You don't see that very often any more, so points to John Woo for that
one area.

But I'm getting away from what was really going on in the movie, which
was all about battered, bruised, benighted and badgered Nicholas Cage,
who talked to the Navajo like Clint Eastwood talked to the trees in
Paint Your Wagon. Not to mention the usual angst-ridden and conflicted
stuff he faces. I got very little wind talking, and an awful lot of
wind blowing out of this movie. 

All it did for the important role the Navajo (and Comanche in the
European Theatre) Indians played during WWII was bring them up in
conversation - too many inaccuracies to be of any other use.
<|_=00=_|>
-Some spoilers- There's a rule in Hollywood that states, "If you're
making a war-movie, you better make it damn patriotic". With patriotic,
ridiculous often follows. This film presents it's patriotism in FORM of
ridiculous scenes. For example, there's a scene where IL' Nicholas Cage
gets blasted and falls to the ground, wounded. Quickly, a group of
Japanese soldiers start running towards him, but Nick managed to kill
them all in one second... Using one gun... Without even aiming. The
scene made me laugh out loud, and could be classified as one of the
funniest moments in film-history, ever, but unfortunately this gem is
overlooked.

Throw everything you know about films out the window. This film doesn't
have a plot, or any deep character. It doesn't have any realism, which
is customary for war films, nor does it have any good acting. So what
does it have? Lots and lots of action. More action than you can
imagine, actually. The film only has one purpose, to show off how the
brave marines kill as many enemy soldiers as possible. Explosions,
gunfire etc. etc.

Ed Wood could not have done a worse job than John Woo did when he put
this film together. It's simply that bad. Gather your friends, bust
open a few cans of beers and enjoy the "Plan 9 from Outer Space" of the
21st century!
<|_=00=_|>
First, the bad: Nicholas Cage's over-the-top, suicidal maniac, idiotic
self-pitying marine played with no subtlety at all. Peter Stormare's
lousiest performance to date, he's been going downhill since the
excellent work in FARGO. Perhaps that one was just luck for him, and a
good script. Excessive battle scenes, so much so as to give the viewer
shell-shock too. For these, a ONE.

The good: both Adam Beach and Roger Willie give solid, well-bodied
performances as the Navajo code talkers. The effort to recognize the
contribution of the Navajo code talkers is a very positive aspect here,
and for these reasons the film deserves a NINE. I give it an average of
FIVE.
<|_=00=_|>
A war movie done John Woo-style sounded like such a good idea on paper.
The slow-motion action sequences and other typical Woo-ism elements are
often even more laughable than beautiful or realistic. Same goes for
the deeper and sentimental meanings of the movie.

It's obvious John Woo wanted to make a "Saving Private Ryan" realistic
like war movie but the movie gets stuck somewhere between Hollywood
action/war entertainment and a serious war movie.

The battle sequences look too fabricated and planned out, which is of
course a killer for the movie its realism. Sure the battle sequences
all look fine and it obvious cost some serious money to make this
movie.

Between all of the battles and action within the movie, there are lots
of slow moments. Guess it tries to be deep or something, also about the
Navajo-culture, in those moments but it instead feels pointless and
often like a drag. Same goes for most of the sentiments within the
movie. It's also the reason why the movie is quite long.

The movie is an underwritten one that for a genre movie is too
formulaic. It's mostly a predictable movie that offers very few
surprises or original moments. A shame, since the concept of the movie
is definitely an original one. The movie also doesn't bother to tell
where and why they are fighting. What are all these battles? Why are
they being fought? And yes, of course the movie also finds room to put
in a love-story. All of the character also remain pretty shallow one's,
no matter how far they dig into their past.

Nicolas Cage just wasn't made for these sort of movies. The movie is
filled with some other well known names in it and most of them do a
good job. It's not like the acting is one of the weakest elements of
the movie but that still doesn't mean that everyone was correctly cast.

It's definitely a watchable movie but its shortcomings just prevent
this movie from being a great or really memorable one.

6/10

http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/
<|_=00=_|>

What's that you say?  "Windtalkers is a war movie, not science
fiction!"

Let's see...Cage's character fires his pistol in no particular direction
yet
takes out large numbers of enemy soldiers who also seem compelled to
present
themselves as clear targets at the most inopportune moments during the
countless firefights.

The bodies of enemy soldiers are hurled through the air in unbelievable
symmetry as a result of conventional World War II ordnance detonations that
contradict the laws of physics.

While under ferocious enemy attack, a Navajo code talker invokes the code
(his native Navajo tongue) to request air strikes from the American
battleships offshore. A less dramatic, more expedient request for
assistance
would have gone something like this: "Holy crap, we're getting pounded here
on the island by the enemy! Anything you fellas can do to kill the Japanese
soldiers who are killing us would really be helpful!  Just look for the
smoke, fire and bodies flying through the air!" No code needed, just plain
old conversational (albeit very animated) english. No problem if the enemy
hears the radio transmission because everything is ... what's the
phrase?... happening right now!!!

I saw this movie a year ago during a pre-release studio screening in Laguna
Hills, CA.  John Woo and about 35 movie industry types (each armed with his
or her own water bottle) were in the audience.  When the movie ended and
the
audience members began filling out the obligatory evaluation forms (the
price of admission) the stillness in the theater was deafening.

I assumed that the film would be severely re-edited.  Apparently it
wasn't.

"Windtalkers" was as much about the American Indian's (90% Navajo) unique
contribution to our prevailing in World War II as Tom Sizemore's character
-- collecting souvenir soil samples -- in "Saving Private Ryan" contributed
to the study of geology.


