

I was pretty entertained by this sequel. What I found most impressive was
the excellent voice-over work. I have gone back and checked what the deal
was and found it very interesting that both the Winnie the Pooh crews (new
and old) were very much involved in the Jungle Books.

Kaa the snake was my main interest, being done by the same voice over guy
who now does Winnie the Pooh (Jim Cummings). Just as the original Kaa the
snake, Sterling Holloway, was also the same guy who did the original
Winnie
voice .

The other was the Black Panther, Bageera, originally done by Mr. French of
Family Affair, the great Sebastian Cabot... now being done so well by Bob
Joles who also narrates the Winnie series these days, just as Mr Cabot did
in his day. Haley Joel Osment did a fantastic job of being Mowgli as well.
John Goodman... good I guess... but the original Phil Harris just had that
fluid jazz scat thing DOWN. So Baloo just isnt as cool as he used to be.
No
offense John, I seriously can't think of anyone who could have done
better.
But sometimes greatness is just great, and can't be duplicated. Nice try
though.

Sure the story wasn't really all that rivoting, the animation wasn't as
full
or rich in color. And no King Louis, but then again... the elephant
marching
army and the Beatles Buzzards were so great and are back
again.

Jungle Book was a great classic, certainly my favorite of all Disney
animations... but Jungle Book 2 is certainly worth seeing for the next
bunch
of little guys who need that Disney fix.

I have to agree with another critic in here... they should have spent a
little more time and added a few more minutes of something. 70 minutes...
and 15 of it in shadow puppet credits... stop short changing the Disney
legacy with trying to reissue a cheaper version of the actual foundation
that Disney was built on. Walt is shedding a few tears where ever he
is.(actually I guess he sheds ice cubes, isn't he frozen somewhere?)
Eisner,
get with the program already. 
<|_=00=_|>


We just took our two daughters (ages five and four) to their first cinema
experience...The Jungle Book 2.  Though it had a few scary parts (Shere
Khan
close ups), overall it  was pleasant and didn't contain the violence that
has characterized a number of other childrens videos that we've
rented.

The above experience not withstanding, as I watched the film I kept
thinking
that this movie should not have gone to the theaters, but should have
been
sent straight to video.  When you look at the voice talent (John Goodman,
Phil Collins, Haley Joel Osment), you initially expect big gun
entertainment. It is later that it dawns on you that you've paid cinema
prices for a film that lasts only around 75 minutes and has a plot that
is
more concerned with having the original cast make almost forced
appearance
(look! Here is the snake! We've come across the monkeys!  Are those
elephant noises I hear?), rather than bringing them all back as part of a
well devised plot.  The film develops well in the village with Mowgli
recounting his jungle life.  Once the village is left, however, you feel
pushed along.  The most forced of the whole group are the buzzards, who
go
from being significant in the first film to basically showing up here and
watching Lucky, the new vulture addition, ham it up. I guess Col. Hathi's
wife knew better.  She doesn't even appear in this one!

The weak plot aside, there was something unusual for me in returning to
these characters so many years later and seeing that they have not aged a
bit....only in animation!  Seeing this film from the 60s brought back
with
updated music, was enjoyable.  Perhaps that is why the buzzards weren't
really needed.  Audiences of the first film would have been thinking
"Ringo"
during the buzzard scenes, here the Smash Mouths sing on the soundtrack.
Some things just don't cross time well.

So... as a sequel the film is weak. But it is enjoyable to watch...on
video.
Some sequels are a waste even in the 99 cent bin (Beethoven 3, anyone?),
while others are worth the sitting (Homeward Bound 2).  Disney has given
us
a sequel designed for a family with little kids, but its theatrical run
shows a greed that does not fit well with the reputation for quality that
Walt Disney was given.

ps.  We watched the film here in Argentina, so it was in Spanish.  Lucky
is
presented as a doof whose Spanish has the thickest North American accent
I've ever heard.  Hmmmm.
<|_=00=_|>
A few weeks ago, they re-released The Jungle Book on Disney DVD and I
watched it after not seeing it for years and I just forgot how much I
loved it. I saw that it had a sequel and I figured it might be worth a
look. I watched it tonite and even though it wasn't a bad attempt, it
was not really necessary to make it. The first Jungle Book ended so
well and had a perfect happy ending, this was just a strange
continuation on the story. They do bring back our favorite characters
which I loved, like the snake, he's so cheesy, but he always cracks me
up. Bagera, the panther, once again, I just love him, he tries to do
right all the time, but he always gets hurt in the process. And of
course Baloo is always there to bring some life and fun to the story
with the simple bare necessities.

Maugli is living in the village with a new family and life. But it's
not the life he's always wanted, it has work and rules. He tells the
other kids about the jungle, but they don't believe on how fun it is.
Baloo and Bagera are in the jungle and Baloo just misses Maugli so much
and brings him back to the jungle. But they're in big trouble, Shanti
and her little brother(children from Maugli's village) follow Maugli
and they are all being followed by Sher Kahn who wants revenge on
Maugli for making a fool out of him.

The Jungle Book 2 is a cute Disney sequel, but for those who love the
original, it doesn't hold a candle up to the first Jungle Book. But for
the kids and just a regular family film for the afternoon. I have to
admit that there was a scene that definitely made me laugh, when the
snake sees Shanti and tries to eat her, but her little brother beats
him up, pretty good too, I couldn't help but laugh out loud. There are
some fun moments, so it's worth a look, but I do of course prefer the
first Jungle Book.

4/10
<|_=00=_|>

I will have to agree with some commentators here that The Jungle Book 2
was
a very big disappointment.

Disney Corp. should hire a team of movie experts and analyze the elements
of
the first movie and then repeat them again, with changes.

The only good part in my opinion was the new vulture played by Phil
Collins,
he was funny. Otherwise, the music which in version 1 was completely
enchanting, and delightful is missing from version 2. Also they left out
one
of the best characters, King Louie, and above all, there was no plot at
all.
Alas! William, are there no more writers like thou?

Disney would die again if he saw this movie.
<|_=00=_|>

Recipe for Jungle Book 2:

Take one classic animated movie, loved by millions the world
over.

Carefully remove the plot.

Add a couple of inconsequential new characters.

Simmer gently without much loving care for very little time in a
studio.

et voila!

You have the most pointless sequel I have seen in a long time. This is a
shameless and charmless cash-in on the original Jungle Book. All the
characters are there (with the exception of King Louie - who is absent for
no explained reason) but they are there just because they were in the first
film. No other reason at all.

The plot isn't. There is no plot! Some vague hokum about how Mowgli misses
the jungle, and that's it. Dull, dull, dull, dull, dull!

You have to admire Disney's inattention to detail, though. For example.
Mowgli, having been transplanted to the man village, has to obey all the
rules of civilised society. Except, he still gets to wear his loincloth like
some Tarzan wannabee. No smart man clothes for you, jungle boy! Just that
raggedy old cloth! Haha! You're in the man world now, but we'll cruelly let
you wear your rag to constantly remind you of the fact that you were once in
a real movie with heart!

And what's with everyone in that village? They are deathly afraid of the
"jungle" and its inhabitants. So much so that they've placed convenient
stepping stones across the river so that they can get to it anytime they
like. Bah!

There's one new song of any note "Jungle Rythym" which is OK, but that's it.
Otherwise it's just an endless rehash of "Bare Necessities" several times
during the picture. Talk about a one-song movie.

The voices are done reasonably well, though how they roped John-Rhys Davies
into this I'll never know. Mowgli (Haley Joel Osment) and Baloo (John
Goodman) are particularly good.

But otherwise its just rubbish really. Little kids will enjoy it, but it's a
shame Disney didn't add a few more "adult" oriented gags into it. The only
one of note was the vultures being portrayed as the Beatles. Even that
wasn't funny the second time around. I can imagine parents the world over,
having taken their kids to see this, dreading the little 'uns wanting to go
again.

Oh, and Disney guys? Just because Lilo and Stitch was a good film, doesn't
mean you have to try and sneak the two main characters into every movie from
now on. Shanti and the intensely irritating Ranjan are practically clones of
Lilo and Stitch, but without the charm of either.

The final insult was, after sitting through the movie and listening to far
too many reprisals of "Bare Necessities" and NOT having King Louie in it at
all, the end credits played out to "I Wannna be Like You". Yeah, that makes
tons of sense Disney. Not have a major character in the movie, then use his
theme song at the end.

What a crock! Not so much of a straight-to-video production as it should
have been a straight-to-the-cheap-bin-in-the-video-shop
effort.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of the many sequels that Disney attempted in the new
millennium, which marked the end of the Disney Renaissance era. Some of
them were merely shadows of the original versions and many felt like
someone had taken a straw from the originals, sucked it through and
then vomited them out, leaving behind a total mess.

In this case, it's the latter. I can't even begin to count how wrong
this sequel is on so many levels. The plot is riddled with clichés and
is basically the same as the 1967 version, with the original characters
brought back, but with not as much action or development. The new human
characters are overtly annoying, especially the psychopath-in-making
Ranjan, not to mention the father basically echoing the same thing
almost every father in a Disney film says ("I'm very disappointed in
you." "I shouldn't have been so hard on you.") If I had a nickel for
every time someone said that, I'd be able to finance my own movie. 

Another terribly written scene involves Kaa, who, after being
needlessly and brutally abused every time he goes near a man-cub, meets
Shere-Khan again. You would think after everything that happened during
the limited time he was on screen, he would have wanted to rid the
world of man cubs and tell Shere-Khan, who is bent on revenge, where to
find Mowgli. But instead he lies to him, which makes absolutely no
sense. Kaa had no reason whatsoever to lie to him. As I said, the
writers were taking everything from the plot of the first film and put
it into this one, having nothing glue together as it should.

The songs are also rubbish and highly forgetful, and John Goodman can't
bring back Baloo to life as Phil Harris did. Goodman is no bear. He's a
Sullivan. 

Although the animation is much better, it cannot save the fate of how
pointless this sequel is.
<|_=00=_|>
Even though this film was made over thirty years later, it is a sequel
to the 1967 Disney flick, "The Jungle Book", the last animated feature
produced by Walt Disney himself, which was released the year after he
died. I watched the 1967 film from beginning to end for perhaps the
first time in January this year (I definitely saw at least SOME of it
in my childhood, but I'm not sure exactly how much), and was not let
down, as my review of it will tell you. It's been nearly three months
since then, and it's taken me this long the get around to watching and
reviewing this 2003 sequel, "The Jungle Book 2", made after so many
other animated features produced by the Disney company after the man's
death in 1966. I've seen several direct-to-video Disney sequels, most
of which have been pretty bland, and this is a bland theatrical Disney
sequel.

Mowgli now lives in the "man village" with adoptive parents and a
younger stepbrother named Ranjan. He is good friends with Shanti, the
girl who lured him out of the jungle and into this village. However, he
misses the jungle and his old friend, Baloo, and the friendly bear
happens to be missing him. Baloo manages to make his way to the
village, escaping from the elephants who try to stop him. Mowgli is
obviously glad to see him, but when Shanti sees the bear, she thinks he
means harm and screams for help! Baloo runs back into the jungle with
Mowgli on his shoulders, and Shanti thinks her friend has been
kidnapped, so she follows them. Mowgli and his bear friend are now back
together, while Shanti and Ranjan search through the jungle for the
boy. Unfortunately, the evil Shere Khan is also looking for the jungle
boy, seeking revenge on him! Another problem for Mowgli on this
adventure is that he finds himself unsure of whether he wants to live
in the jungle with Baloo or in the village with Shanti and his adoptive
family.

A major problem with this sequel, one it didn't take long at all for me
to notice, is definitely the humour. The film starts with Mowgli in the
village, and nothing here made me laugh or even smile. When we see the
jungle animals in this film, it's still not funny, even with the return
of such characters as Baloo, Kaa, and the vultures. Sure, we have more
of their antics here, but unlike before, they're not funny. In fact,
nothing in the entire film made me laugh or smile at all, even if I may
have very seldom come close! Another complaint I have about this
"Jungle Book" sequel is that the Ranjan character is too noisy! I guess
this is supposed to be funny as well, but it's not. Around the
beginning, after Mowgli and Ranjan trick Shanti and make her fall in
the water, she calls them, "Horrible, stinky boys!" What a cheesy line!
Throughout the film, I did not find myself very interested in the plot
(it may copy that of the original a little too much), and I think I had
trouble following the "W-I-L-D" song because it was so uninteresting to
me. There may be some mild suspense towards the end, and some parts
later on may even be fairly poignant (or at least close to it), but
these things are certainly not enough to make "The Jungle Book 2" worth
watching.

The first sequel to an animated Disney feature was "The Rescuers Down
Under" from 1990. That film was released in theatres, but most of the
animated Disney sequels have been direct-to-video, starting with "The
Return of Jafar", the first of two sequels to 1992's "Aladdin". "The
Jungle Book 2" was released the year after "Return to Never Land",
which I haven't seen, but I know that it's a sequel to the 1953 Disney
feature, "Peter Pan". Unlike most other Disney sequels, these two
actually had a theatrical run, and I don't know about the "Peter Pan"
sequel (though it wouldn't surprise me if I saw that it's the same as
most of them), but this "Jungle Book" sequel is just like another
direct-to-video one and probably should have been just that. As one
would expect, since this sequel was made decades after the original,
the animation is more advanced here, but it's so bland compared to its
predecessor that I don't really care. I'm not sure whether I should be
giving this a 4 or a 5 out of 10, but neither of those are high
ratings. 1967's "The Jungle Book" is good animated family entertainment
for many of those who want that, but this 2003 sequel might be just for
kids.
<|_=00=_|>
I agree with the reviewer of the DVD to this Disney sequel on the
Ultimate Disney site (now more commonly known as DVDizzy): It's not on
the same level as the first movie, but simultaneously it isn't that bad
either and I still find it enjoyable, despite the flaws there may be.
Someone mentioned that this is just a rehash of the original film. I
didn't quite get what that other viewer meant or what that other
reviewer was talking about at first, but I guess it is somewhat, in a
few ways, but not all that much I don't think. Believe it or not, this
is actually one of the few Disney sequels I was feeling to a degree.
Those who think this is very bad, I can think of other movies that are
much worse, such as the straight-to-VHS Bar-B-Q and I rather watch
Jungle Book 2 again than that or before ever watching that again,
looking back on it. To anyone who may be reading this, y'all might want
to rent for yourselves or watch it online first though. I don't think
I'll even bother bringing up what has already been elaborated by the
other reviewers about this on here nor try to discuss what hasn't
already been discussed on this. Anyway, I say it's worth giving a whirl
and hopefully at least some will be on the fence with it like I am.
<|_=00=_|>
The original is one of my favourites, with the great songs,
originality, memorable characters and its good nature. Other than the
existence of the characters, this sequel fails everywhere else, so is
definitely inferior in comparison. I can't believe some people thought
the original was racist, I personally think someone's ethnicity should
not be an issue when talking about voice work. Another problem with the
sequel was that the characters, who were funny and memorable in the
original, were not very likable at all, not even Baloo. Though Phil
Collins makes a brief and amusing appearance as a vulture. The biggest
flaw, was the plot. It seemed non-existent, and if there was one, it
was very uninteresting with no heart, fun or charm at all, all of which
were in the original. It also felt too much of a re-hash, a similar
problem I had with Little Mermaid 2. The pace was very limp, although
the film is quite short.(some sequels like King of Thieves, Enchanted
Christmas and Simbas's Pride were surprisingly good despite their short
durations) The voice talents try their best, but with a very bad
script, and they sounded too similar to the original voices. Haley Joel
Osment does his best, but his Mowgli had no personality, likewise with
John Goodman as Baloo. Bagheera, Kaa and Ranjan provide some laughs,
halfway through, after a very slow beginning. One of the original's
highlights was George Sanders' Shere Kahn. Whilst suave and
charismatic, Sanders brought a sense of menace to the character. That
said, I was deeply disappointed in Tony Jay as Shere Kahn, though it
isn't his fault at all; the material they gave him was very bad indeed.
He was amazing as the character in Talespin, why did the script writers
decide to ruin him, by making him rather empty as a villain? Jay is a
truly talented voice actor, like Tim Curry, evident in Beauty and the
Beast, Talespin and Hunchback of Notre Dame, but through no fault of
his, Shere Kahn was nowhere near as menacing as he was in the original.
The songs from the original were legendary, here they were eminently
forgettable, and slowed the film down quite considerably. Bare
Neccessities even managed to be very badly sung. Though on a positive
note, some of the animation was average, and there was at least some
attempt at humour. I don't think it is as bad as Cinderella 2, but
nevertheless it is very thinly-plotted. 4/10 Bethany Cox.
<|_=00=_|>

A project designed simply to milk little kids parents of their money.
The
plot? Nothing happens !!!  This is especially bad because of the quality
of
the first film.  Straight to video instead?  No, straight in the bin,
where
people who dream up these sort of vacuous non-entity efforts should also
find themselves.
