
...that this film is not getting the credit it deserves. It is in my
opinion one of the most underrated films of all time along with The
Matrix Reloaded. Revolutions is undoubtedly different from the previous
films both in general and in terms of tone but why is that necessarily
a bad thing? I won't be so arrogant as to say that the people who don't
like this film are unintelligent. Whether or not people like a film or
not is a subjective matter but I can't help feeling that the people who
dislike (or even hate) this film are missing something because
Revolutions is an intelligent, entertaining, beautiful, sad and moving
picture.

The acting of all three films have been a mixed bag and although I
usually join in the bashing of Keanu Reeves I find him strangely
fitting for the part of Neo. His voice is not the perfect voice due to
its monotonous tone but his body language is very good and sometimes
even great and that is the case in Revolutions as well. Carrie-Anne
Moss plays her character like she did in film two and that is neither
particularly good or bad but a decent performance. Laurence
Fishbourne's character has been reduced somewhat for the final part of
the series but I found that the lines he did have were delivered with
conviction and experience. As most people know Gloria Foster died
before finishing her scenes for Revolutions and thus a different
actress was cast to take over. The choice fell on Mary Alice and while
she is no where near as good as Foster she is decent enough. Ian Bliss
gets a chance to show his worth in the third film and personally I
found his scenes to be among the most interesting of the film and his
uncanny imitation of Weaving was spot on. Most of the secondary cast
from Reloaded returns in their parts in Revolutions and they all do
decent jobs with their characters. Harry J. Lennix (Lock) improved his
character tremendously in spite of limited screen time. Hugo Weaving
still provides the best acting in the film and steals every one of his
regrettably limited number of scenes. He is probably my all time
favorite screen bad guy. He manages to show the change in his character
remarkably well considering how limited his screen time is. Agent Smith
exhibits an increasing amount of human traits including anger, hatred,
jealousy and even a sly sense of humor. This change happens to mirror
Neo's growing understanding of the machines. Neo and Smith are linked
in that way as well.

The effects are of course extraordinary which was to be expected after
the stellar effects in the second film. Although there weren't as many
scenes inside The Matrix this time around I still found the effects of
the "real" world to be awe inspiring at the least and the battle for
Zion was an incredible display of special effects. Of course the
directors never lost sight of the people involved in the battle making
it more tense had it only been effects. The climactic battle between
Neo and Smith is quite simply stunning. It takes roughly 15 minutes and
I for one hardly breathed in those 15 minutes. All three Matrix films
have been inspired by Japanese animé comics and that is very visible in
the final battle as one can't help but think of Dragonball for
instance. The action in that particular scene is frighteningly well
done and I got the chills when I watched it in the cinema. Very well
done.

The story is darker in this film than in either of the previous films
but that is to be expected as the first film was about birth and the
second about life. Obviously that means that the third is about the
inevitable end that must come to us all: Death. This does that the tone
of the film becomes much darker and I felt that was good. This did that
the film distanced itself from the previous films in the series and
rather than become another rerun the film becomes its own entirely and
that is both its weakness and its strength. I think it is its strength
as it increases the originality of the film but apparently a lot of
people didn't like the interpretation that the third film represents as
is clear from the bashing the film has gotten from audiences and
critics alike. The film does still have great symbolic value and you
can interpret the film in a great number of ways like the previous
films. For me this improves the film(s) greatly as you can watch it
again and again and still find new things that will renew your
interest.

Sadly I cannot make you love this film as much as I do because that
would defeat the purpose of the film which is to make people think for
themselves. My conclusion about Revolutions is that you will either
love or you will hate it but in my opinion Revolutions is almost as
good as the first one and one of the best films I have ever seen.

9/10 - On my top 10 of best films.
<|_=00=_|>

'The Matrix Revolutions' is the much-anticipated conclusion to the
Wachowski Brothers' cultic sci-fi trilogy, whose previous entries were
'The Matrix' and 'The Matrix Reloaded.' In the series' final
installment, the messiah figure, Neo, does battle with the diabolical
forces that have imprisoned most of humanity in a world of cyber
unreality via a massive computer program known as The Matrix.

Of the three films, 'Revolutions' is definitely the least imaginative
and the least interesting. What separated the first two episodes in the
series from most other action films was the willingness on the part of
the filmmakers to bring some thematic depth and narrative complexity to
a genre that, all too often, finds no room for such qualities. The
previous two films didn't always succeed in their endeavor - often
emerging as more hollow and pretentious than meaningful and profound -
but they managed to remain intriguing even in their moments of failure.
Unfortunately, the same cannot be said for 'Revolutions,' which spends
so much time on repetitive action scenes and special effects that there
is little time left over for storyline and theme. In a strange way, Neo
himself ends up getting lost in this film, dropping off the radar
screen for astonishingly long stretches of time, only to re-emerge
periodically to remind us that there really is supposed to be a purpose
buried somewhere beneath all this ear-splitting commotion (this could
be re-titled 'Finding Neo'). The sad fact, though, is that, once we
arrive at the climactic scene to which all three films have been
building, the resolution turns out to be a ham-handed muddle, utterly
lacking in clarity and coherence After an almost six-hour-long buildup
over the course of the three films, the audience is left scratching its
collective head wondering just what it was that happened before the
closing credits started rolling by. Perhaps smarter people than I can
figure all this out for, frankly, after the overall disappointment
occasioned by this film, I couldn't muster either the desire or the
effort to probe very deeply into the matter.

It goes without saying that the special effects in this film are
spectacular - we would expect nothing less - but what we don't get from
'Revolutions' - which we did from the two previous 'Matrix' films - is
that little something extra in the form of intelligence and
sophistication that made them more than just the bland, over-produced,
assembly-line products they easily could have become - and which
'Revolutions' very nearly is. Even the stolid earnestness of Keanu
Reeves can't convince us this time around that there is anything hidden
under all those cool gadgets and explosions worth our looking into. 

Thus endeth the Matrix series, not with a bang but with a whimper -
intellectually speaking that is.

<|_=00=_|>
Let me first say i promise u will love the trilogy if u read this

Here we go with the basics.

Zion is real! The Matrix is not.duh

The Matrix was designed to provide a mental stimulus for the human
bodies connected to the machines as a source of power. This is the
sixth version of the Matrix. There have been multiple versions of the
Matrix because of a flaw in the program (kinda of like Windows). That
flaw is giving individuals the ability to choose.

The first Matrix was designed as a perfect Utopia (see pt. I - Smith
explains it to Morpheus; pt. II - The Architect explains it again) but
humans did not accept it as real so they just kept waking up. It was
redesigned to reflect our civilisation at it's last stage before it was
taken over by the machines (the year 1999).

The Architect's problem with this new design (the anomaly)of the Matrix
is that it require individuals to think freely, i.e. choice. It was the
Oracle that suggested he redesign the Matrix in this way. But since
humans have choices, so must the programs sent to watch over them, i.e.
The Agents, thus bringing us the problem that is Mr. Smith. In
Reloaded, The Architect continues to speak of the anomaly he is unable
to get rid of, which is why at some point, he feels the only solution
is to destroy the Matrix and those who are aware of it (the people of
Zion) and start from scratch again.

The Oracle says it clearly in Revolutions. Mr. Smith is the result of
the anomaly trying to balance itself. Mr. Smith began to think freely
(see part I where he is freaking out while interrogating Morpheous) and
the result was a negative one. Realize this, he is a similar program to
the One so he is far more dangerous than a normal individual who makes
bad decisions. Mr. Smith's virus like behaviour happened in EVERY
VERSION OF THE MATRIX. The result would always lead to the same thing
-- a system crash if they didn't quickly reboot the system. The same
knee jerk reaction you have when you realise someone has sent you a
virus.

the one program was created to solve this problem. But each version of
the One ultimately failed. Neo is different, in Reloaded he choose the
door that led to Trinity, not the door that RESETS the program. Note:
The Architect even noticed that Neo's experience in the Matrix was
different than all the rest, realising he was the first of them to fall
in love.

Onto Revolutions: Neo's choice has changed everything. The system is
still threatened by Smith's behaviour, so the Oracle makes a new
choice; one she has never done before because no version of the One has
ever chosen the difficult path as opposed to easy one of just resetting
the system. She allows herself to become merged with Smith in the HOPE
that she'll be able to help Neo when the time is right.

Neo makes another unique choice. He goes to the machines and asks for
PEACE as opposed to simply destroying the system by going through the
opposite door as all other versions of the One did. It was a simple as
that to save Zion. Machines don't need very long to process that this
may be a better idea than just constantly resetting the system.

At the end, Smith says to Neo the movies tag line - "Everything that
has a beginning has an end," as the Oracle is speaking to Neo through
Smith. Neo realises it all along, the only way to end this is to
sacrifice himself. The Oracle noted that Neo and the Source (the
computer mainframe, the Architect they're all one and the same so don't
get confused) are connected which is why he can control machines
outside the Matrix. He uses this connection to his advantage. He
becomes a Mr. Smith and since all the Smith's are connected, the Source
now has a lock on Smith and simply deletes him. Pretty simple huh? For
those that like to dig deeper, than note the biblical references
throughout the series. Heck, the French Man (Merovigchian) is the
Devil, just read the elevator button Morpheous presses when he goes to
see him for the second time. The Architect represents God - i.e. the
creator of the world and its destroyer whenever things don't go as he
wants. He even has you to chose a select group of people to restart
Zion again sort of like Noah's Ark. Neo is Jesus, the one who realises
that peace and love is the answer, not war. And the Oracle represents
the Holy Spirit - the consciousness that resides in all of us. It's a
deep trilogy if you PAY ATTENTION.
<|_=00=_|>

We all know the original Matrix was easily the pinacle. But that's because
it grabbed out attentions as something brand new. The first movie, if done
correctly as the Matrix was, can open our eyes to new ideas we never
considered in any strain of our imagination.

 I'll admitt, Reloaded was a bit slow and perhaps a bit tedious at times. It
was saved by an amazing Neo vs. Thousands of Smiths' battle, an even more
amazing highway scene centered around Morpheus, and the appearance of the
amazing Monica Belluci (a character I wish we'd heard more from the in the
3rd installment).

 Now as for Revolutions. Unless you're unrealistic or a mass-media critic,
who all hate anything outside of artsy or useless Indy movies that get ZERO
major release...you'll enjoy and perhaps love Revolutions.

 You get clarity to a lot of questions. You get resolution. No cliffhangers.
People die and people survive, I won't dare say whom. You are brought all
the way from dispair to happiness. Instead of simply giving the cheesy
ending, the Matrix's "end" is proper and sensible.

 Of course there are some plot holes, but I dare anyone and everyone to find
a movie without numerous mistakes or unanswered questions. More and more
directors should heed the advice of David Lynch and allow the audience to
interpret a few things for themselves. Keep them thinking. (I won't open up
a Lynch debate, that's for another time and place)

 In the end, you'll enjoy Revolutions. It is action-packed with amazing
special effects and the usual above-average acting and amazing creativity in
the choreography of the fight scenes.

 Agent Smith shines in a stellar performance by Hugo Weaving. His words to
Neo throughout his battle are stellar. His encounter with the Oracle,
awesome. Keanu, Fish, Carrie-Anne, Jada, and others for the fight for good
are also as sharp as they need to be.

 In the end, Revolutions is everything a true fan of the Matrix wants. And
if they ask for more, they are not only guilty of being unrealistic, but
also asking too much for an amazing trilogy.

 A trilogy I believe should be held in the same breath as Star Wars (the
original three), Back to the Future, Indiana Jones, and numerous other
action-drama based trilogies. I'm sure I'll be adding the Lord of the Rings
trilogy to that list, barring a collapse with the Return of the King
(another debate for another time).

 
<|_=00=_|>

The first Matrix movie is one of the more ground breaking movies
in
the last decade as evidence by a pretty massive influence on pop culture.
I
could immerse myself in this review of just how great I think the first
movie is, but I digress. The second was received with so much hype that it
couldn't possibly live up to in all fairness, but I thought the second
movie
was wildly entertaining and a bit like the first one in the fact that it
made you think quite a bit after the movie was over (The first one "blows
your mind" an over-used phrase when it comes to reviewing movies, but it
certainly applies in this case).  However, I thought the second had too
much
action, I believe Keanu has close to 5 fight scenes.  Morpheus has one,
Trinity has 2 I think, all this fighting I think cuts out of the plot
which
is why the the Matrix is cool to begin with.  The action is fun and out of
this world at times, but without a good enough plot, a viewer can feel
disconnected from the characters in the action.  The plot of the second
movie I did enjoy, I just thought more time should have gone into it.  I
thought there were many twists and turns and it ends with a decent
"cliffhanger."

My own problem was that unlike most of the critics I went into the
third movie with a lot of expectations, but I knew seeing the first Matrix
and the previous Wachowski Brothers movie (Bound from 1996) that this
trilogy was going to end a bit differently than a conventional sci-fi
film...and it did, but more so in a way that I think a real fan of "The
Matrix" is still left wanting more, or let me re-phrase, a little more
attention to detail.  Revolutions does have bright spots, as much as I
love
a rock-em, sock-em WELL DONE Kung-Fu in any movie, thankfully that part of
the Matrix was cut back.  How many times do I need to see Keanu just
entirely beat the tar out of some random machine that never really dies?
I
like the fact that Jada-Pinkett Smith was at least put to some more
use(although it could have been more) in this last film, she adds spark in
basically every scene she's in.  The final Neo-Smith fight is awesome. I
think the rain alone creates a very cool atmosphere, but a death fight in
the rain is certainly something that isn't new to an audience viewing an
action movie.  It's still the same basic plot, but I think too much of the
plot is revolved around the destruction of Zion.  I think the battle
sequence is something around 25 minutes?  That's way too long for a
computer
generated battle...at least if your movie is barely over 2 hours.  For a 4
hour epic like the 3rd Lord of the Rings for example it works because
they've taken so long to develop the characters that the action is more
thrilling because you feel so attached.  The supporting characters are
barely developed that are fighting in that sequence, The Kid has a back
story in the Ani-matrix, but Capt. Mifune or the vast array of other
characters that get blown to bits, I have no clue who they are, so what
does
all that destruction mean to the viewer?  It's a huge display of visual
effects that in the end, kind of have a weakened purpose.

With the Matrix I feel more so attached to the ideas presented rather
than specific characters. As much as you gotta dig Mr. Whoa(Keanu) and the
ever present bad-ass himself Mr. Fishburne(great in Mystic River by the
way), and the under-rated Carrie-Anne Moss, I just don't feel as attached
to
them as I would to say, well Sam-wise(Sean Astin) from Lord of the Rings.
I'm not trying to compare, I'm just offering an example. Also, because it
is
a little over 2 hours there's no time to get into some of the other cool
supporting characters.  Monica Belluci has one stinking line, I mean she's
a
very talented actress (See the Passion or foreign flick Malena), but hell
at
least give her a few more to see her in that dress, WOW! Lastly, the
overall
flow just seems like the Wachowski's didn't know exactly how to end it,
not
enough time is really given to any of the main or supporting characters, I
seem to keep harping on this, but if you are going to end a trilogy you
don't have to come to end-all-be-all on everything, but it would be nice
to
go into more detail than they do.  A scene between Seraph and Neo in the
teahouse is so light and generally cool for example, but nothing like this
really appears in the third. Like what is this underlying connection
between
the Frenchman and Seraph for example?  What is that about?

All in all, the Matrix was a fun ride, interesting early philosophy
(the first movie), unbelievable special effects (all three just
incredible),
and great Kung-Fu, but it just could have ended differently with more
depth.
So I tried to write this (while being sick at school), but as un-biased as
I
could for someone who isn't a fan of the trilogy.  Overall rating: 6.5/7.0
out of 10 for the Matrix Revolutions, course if you're a fan, you'll
probably dig this way more than that.

P.S. - I seriously hope the Wachowski's don't pull a George Lucas and plan
on making a bigillion more of these movies because while I thoroughly
enjoyed the Matrix Trilogy, I'm Matrixed Out. No need for Matrix Rebooted,
or Regenerated, or Regurgitated, you get the picture.

<|_=00=_|>

Revolutions is much more concise and to the point than Reloaded was. The
action is much more focused and purposeful, mostly because the movie is
working its way toward a conclusion, rather than an open ending or a
cliffhanger like either of the first two movies. The dialog is geared toward
answering unanswered questions rather than raising new ones, and even the
new questions raised in the third film can be answered by watching the film
again (watch all three a few times over and you'll be as pointlessly
knowledgeable about The Matrix universe as I am!).

Unlike Reloaded, even the score fits well with every scene in the movie. I
didn't care too much for the rave scene (the scene or the music) in
Reloaded, but I can't recall a moment in Revolutions when any scene or
sounds felt contrived or unnecessary. If nothing else, I was more
disappointed that some scenes and characters didn't appear in the movie! For
instance, the Merovingian and his goons were grossly underused in this film!
Such an egotistical, maniacal character should be the focus of more
attention than what he received in what is supposed to be the best movie of
the trilogy.

(One thing I must say to any viewers who criticize the film because it
doesn't look real enough or doesn't feel right: you need to stop thinking
like an illogical human and treat The Matrix like what it is: something that
isn't real. It's science fiction, and much of the action takes place in a
computer simulated dream world that is described as an imperfect simulation
of the "real world". That is all.)

I have been more involved in The Matrix than I have been in any other media
phenomenon to hit pop culture, which means that it is simply, for whatever
reason, the realization of an idea that works very well for me. The
Wachowski brothers put together an excellent body of work with these films
and accompanying works on various media -- so excellent, in fact, that I am
easily distracted by discussion of The Matrix, both within the context of
the story and above and beyond the story (symbolism, allegorical
applications, etc.)

My only complaints were that the Merovingian was grossly underused, the fate
of the Twins and some other characters was not explained, and the Kid's
triumphant "The war is over!" at the end was a bit premature, given what we
had just watched for the last two hours.

Finally, everyone should keep in mind that the machines have Neo's code, and
whether Keanu Reeves comes back or not, his intellect may yet survive in the
Matrix somehow...
<|_=00=_|>

(No plot spoilers.)

Like most others, I loved the Matrix. And like a lot of others, I was
underwhelmed with Reloaded. But for Revolutions, I came out pretty happy.
You do see an end, and there are some surprises. But I was still left with
important unanswered questions, and that's kind of inexcusable for the
finale in a 7 hour trilogy.

What Matrix Revolutions brings to the table is a giant war. The machines
have reached Zion, it's the last stand for the humans, and Neo must make a
choice that could bring him face-to face with the machine city and a
possible end to the war.

After a slow but interesting start, we see the war begin. It's a special
effects frenzy, similar to that of Lord of the Rings or the arena battle
at
the end of Star Wars: Attack of the Clones. The war scene makes up the
entire middle third of the film, and for what it's supposed to display, it
does it well enough. Aside from legions of the "squiddies", or Sentinels,
there are a couple new machines that are fascinating to watch: Giant,
drilling creatures that instill an appropriate feeling of dread and power.
On the human side, there's a small army of walking robots similar to the
Power Loader machines in "Aliens", but with extensive firepower. This
results in long sequences of shooting, attacking, and screaming, which is
going to uninspire fans of the Matrix's deeper plot but which is
appropriate
for a war setting.

The only problem is that a lot of this is pretty standard stuff. Grizzled
military commanders will be hard on young soldiers, who find their courage
and prove their true worth. People will be injured and give important
information in a speech just before dying. The heroes will be doubted but
still do just enough to prove their doubters wrong.

But then one of the bigger overall problems is that the main characters
are
sort of lost amongst the backdrop of war. Morpheus has maybe 30 lines,
becoming a shadow of the informative, enigmatic hero he was in the
original.
This time, he's reduced mainly to someone who hopes Neo saves the world
while himself taking orders as co-captain of Niobe's ship.  Trinity has
little else to do either besides tag along with Neo or do a couple
arbitrary
flips and kicks.

And then there's actually a few more specific problems. A very important
scene with Neo and Trinity occurs within the movie's last half hour, and
although it's dramatic it too is cliche. What's worse, after the scene is
over the plot just moves right along as if it didn't matter, without it
even
being mentioned again. Given the importance of the scene, and the fact
that
it's occuring between two characters who we've known for years, it feels
like it's over way too quickly.  That's just a letdown. The same thing
occurs with the appearance if the Architect, the builder of the Matrix. He
has a brief scene in this film, and has almost nothing important or
informative to say whatsoever. Again, it seems like a waste, especially
due
to the fact that he SHOULD have interesting things to say by the point at
which he appears in the film.

Finally there's the film's conclusion, which I won't reveal. I will say
that
it was one of the less predictable of possible outcomes. But it too is a
letdown in a couple ways: First, it leaves quite a few important questions
unanswered, and could be construed as leaving the door open for a sequel,
but also could be seen as the absolute finish.
But that's the problem. If it's the end, I want my questions
answered,
I want to know the hows and whys. The final minutes left me
wanting,
left me thinking that there were several possible conclusions to the story
that aren't there on film. And in my opinion, that shouldn't happen at the
end of something this large and built up to.

But what really matters is whether I enjoyed the film. Although the review
doesn't sound like I did, that's actually not the case. I went in planning
to know what I wanted to know, and while I didn't learn everything I still
did spend a couple fun hours watching an action movie. The acting, score,
and effects were pretty much on par with the other films so there's
nothing
lost there, but it's the details that hurt. Where the original Matrix was
a
smart script that mostly made sense, this one was more or less action with
an incomplete plot wrapup. But it still did have several good scenes, and
many of the special effects were great (I loved machine city, with its
vast
fields and burned skies). I also truly loved the music for the final
fight,
and during the end credits.

Still, while Reloaded had a standout chase scene as well as some great
kung
fu like the 100 Smith brawl, this one had neither. There is a climactic
and
important Neo/Smith battle at the end of Revolutions, but it too is
different: In demonstrating the epic and dramatic repercussions of this
battle, it consists mostly of giant (albeit very cool) effects, lots of
flying, and very little actual close combat. This makes Revolutions
unfortunately boil down to a plot far less interesting and focused than
the
original Matrix, as well as far, far less kung fu. There's also much less
complicated story development than in Reloaded, but that's probably a good
thing. That doesn't leave Revolutions with much to digest however, aside
from a long war scene and a plot wrapup that doesn't explain much more
than
the most immediate questions. Even the actual "ending" after the big fight
is pretty brief, which then is followed by the closing scenes that make
things confusing again.

In the end, Revolutions is still fun to watch, and I still like it 2nd of
the trilogy. It's just not as tight and fun as the original, and it kind
of
deflated after the information overload of Reloaded. Not a bad movie at
all,
it just falls a little short of the great climax worthy of what the Matrix
began years ago. Not in style or flash, but in making everything fit.  I'd
still recommend it to those who saw the first two, just don't expect that
big, revelatory plot scene where everything make sense - that's still
missing.
<|_=00=_|>
Before seeing the first Matrix movie I didn't expect to like it. I was
dead wrong – I loved that film. I therefore looked forward to the next
two. I was wrong again – I hated them both. Each is execrable, but
"Revolutions" is the worst.

In fact, "hate" is the wrong word to use for this movie. Rather, I was
bored. Revolutions is dull, unimaginative and impenetrable. I know,
there are people out there who see impenetrable as deep and meaningful.
In this case it's not. It is shallow and meaningless.

Revolutions has three distinct parts. In the first third not much
happens, and what does happen is of no import. Most of the audience
will have been lost by the end of this portion of the film –
disinterest will have caused their minds to drift. As the movie
proceeds some may think that this inattention was the reason they
didn't understand the film – that they were at fault, not the movie.
This is a mistake; Revolutions really is as dull and meaningless as it
appears.

The second third of the movie is a seemingly unending, desperately
repetitive shoot-'em-up. There are lots of special effects, but they
are used to no actual effect. Moreover, the effects aren't really very
special. The entire battle scene uses the old trick of low lighting and
shadow to imply great effects without actually showing them. It doesn't
work. All we see are duplications of the same few (very few) basic
machines – an obvious economy.

Moreover, some of the machine designs are just stupid. For example -
why create a giant metal walking extension of a man, a walking waldo
fighting machine, and then leave the operator totally exposed to –
well, anything, really. These war machines couldn't beat a stone-age
tribe. "Look, here comes one of those stupid machines again. Let's just
hide behind this rock/tree/hillock until it's close, then throw a
spear/axe/knife/rock at the driver, kill him and take his machine for
our own." As for emotional involvement with the characters in the
battle – forget it. They are, without exception, poorly drawn, shallow
caricatures. If they die nobody in the audience is going to care – the
characters aren't real people, just pale, humourless shadows.

Another lowlight of this central third of the movie (an entire third of
the movie used up on this drivel!) is the acting. Poor throughout the
film, the "acting" of the characters in the "battle third" is truly
ridiculous. The General is the worst culprit, closely followed by the
Council members, then – well, everyone else, really. It's almost as if
the actors had no idea what the movie was about and - ah, yes, of
course… 

WARNING - SPOILERS ARE PRESENT FROM THIS POINT ON

Then there is the film's ending, its "climax". Spectacular it isn't. No
explanations are provided, no great revelations occur.

What we have is Trinity taking forever to die from injuries that quite
clearly would have killed her almost immediately. Never mind, we get to
hear her spout something about love again and again and again while Neo
(on a desperately urgent mission to save Mankind's last hope for a
future) takes his ease and waits for her to finish her pointless
homilies.

After the woman finally dies Neo cuts a deal with the machines to
eliminate Agent Smith in return for "peace". There is a bit of a fight,
some meaningless wordplay, then Agent Smith attempts to absorb Neo. Neo
becomes a duplicate Smith, the original Smith acts confused and the
other duplicate Smiths go pop, followed by the original. The Neo Smith
becomes Neo again, but dies – probably. He's carted away in a manner
that suggests some kind of Messiah figure. The machines stop attacking
the city and that's that.

Much thought has gone into this film's ending by those seeking a deeper
meaning. My own interpretation is that Neo "knew" the Matrix to be a
fantasy to a degree and with an absence of doubt that others could not
achieve whilst interacting within the Matrix. This knowledge gave him
the power to manipulate the fantasy. It also grounded him to reality
(the "Source"), and when the program Smith attempted to absorb his
enemy he became "grounded" to reality through Neo. Programs are just
lines of code in the real world; so Smith's existence as a coherent
being could not continue.

However, deep thought into the "meaning" of the ending is wasted. This
was a very poor, unsatisfactory finale. In fact, the entire movie was
dire. It was both dull and dull-witted. It is obvious that the writers
used up all their good ideas on the first movie. That film was
excellent – imaginative, innovative and understandable. It was complete
in itself. But it was also very successful, and successful films must
have cash-in sequels. So "Reloaded" and "Revolutions" came to be.

Unfortunately, there really wasn't much left to tell after the first
film – and certainly not enough for TWO films. Neo had been left in a
position to wrap things up in the first movie, but that was a tale that
would take only a short time to tell – and would be uninteresting in
the telling. So the writers chose to go all mystical and spiritual,
seeking to imply depth and content where there was actually nothing,
whilst providing a great big shoot-up to fill time and amuse
adolescents and video game fans. It isn't enough. Not even close.

I would suggest that anyone who has not yet seen this movie should
ignore the praise of those who imbue it with a depth and meaning that
it just doesn't have. This is a bad film, pure and simple.

Avoid.
<|_=00=_|>

Initially, I was expecting the movie to be more plugged into the matrix
than
unplugged from it.  After deciding to go back and see the movie a second
time with that expectation already established, I watched it again and
thoroughly enjoyed the movie.  I understood then that the movie really
required to be primarily "unplugged" in order to make any type of sense at
all and close the trilogy.  It didn't hurt that the second viewing was on
an
IMAX, as well.  The sound and effects were simply amazing once again, and
in
spite of all the negative reviews out there, I am satisfied with the
trilogy
as a whole.  I look forward to adding the DVD to my collection; it will be
well worth the investment that is required.
<|_=00=_|>

Matrix Revolutions is a revolution of a movie and shows that the brothers
wont stop at a half worked job.
the attention to detail and cinematography of the real world makes you
shocked at how much work was really put into this film.
In my opinion no one will be able to match the hugeness of the matrix
trilogy for a long time.
a job well done and a movie definitely worth seeing, even if you didn't
like
the 2nd one.

