

Don't listen to the other comments here. This is one science fiction movie
that works. It manages to get all the things it's got going against it,
work
*for* it.

Take the male lead, for instance. Stephen Baldwin is not the sharpest
knife
in the drawer (and indeed, hasn't exactly starred in a lot of quality
movies). So in this movie he's got no mind of his own. He's an assembly
line
clone, used as a host or worker body for the corporate jetset. That's
putting a man of Stephen Baldwin's caliber to the best possible
use!

The movie is about mind transfers. That's the plot, and the writer takes
the
utmost consequence of what this means. A plot that would be an
insufferably
silly stunt-of-the-week on an episode of Star Trek, Stargate or Farscape,
manages here to be described disturbingly realistically and in a
near-present day setting. Every possible twist that could possibly be
imagined if this technology existed is commented on in one way or the
other.
No stone is left unturned. The sexual possibilities alone remain an
important on-going sub-plot. This is highly unusual for a run-of-the-mill
sci fi/action flick.

The SFX are fairly few, and integrated seamlessly and perfectly into the
story. The one-molecule-thick cutting wire is really cool.

Like I said, it works. All of it. It is engaging, coherent, tasteful (all
the four female main characters have topless scenes, and no, they are
*not*
gratuitous, but enhance the characterization), well-written, and goes out
of
its way to avoid clichés. For commercial flicks of any kind, this doesn't
happen often. It's too bad the guy who wrote it hasn't done anything
else.

I'm amazed to see that most of the commentators here have such a low
opinion
of this movie. Don't listen to them. This movie succeeds in everything it
sets out to do. For a B movie, it is good. Surprisingly good. It will hold
up for several viewings, if you're the type of person who can appreciate
it.
This is going to be a cult favorite.

8 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
You don't need a big budget to make a fantastic film. 

Simply put: This is an entertaining and surprising movie with
everything you could ask for - genuine suspense with believable plot
twists, well-timed action, memorable comedy, and special effects that
actually has a purpose beyond the "see-what-we-can-do" arrogance of
many blockbuster productions. 

I regularly contribute to IMDb's I Need To Know Board where many board
favorites tend to be the memorable kitschy flicks. In the coming years
- this will be one of them - I guarantee it. Not only is this a really
fun movie to idle away a 'popcorn video night', it's filled with unique
visual hooks and interesting plot twists that tend to find their way
into the collected memories of film fans.

While others have noted similarities to other well-known films of the
genre - I urge you to watch this with a fresh mindset (pun intended).

This is probably one of the best Stephen Baldwin films from his
hodge-podge career. Had he chosen to do more along these lines I
suspect his limelight wouldn't have gotten so dusty that he'd end up as
a B-rated 'star' for reality TV schlock. Doing solid, low budget, but
profitable films is a career track that had Edward Herrimann and C.
Thomas Howell working for decades while their
"will-only-work-for-great-scripts/directors" driven counterparts have
been forgotten or relegated to the world of early retirement.
<|_=00=_|>

This was another of those films you catch when channel hopping the movie
channels, normally I just catch the start of many films and get very quickly
bored and move on, not this time.  It created a whole new (scary) world that
was very clean and very techno.  Our hero was very competently played by Kim
Coates with whom I was not very familiar with, as the film moved on (without
giving too much away it's about the transfer of conciousness from one body
to another) the lead was played by a succession of characters, Kim Coates
for the introduction part, Kyle MacLachlan for the 'what's happening to me'
bit and finally Stephen Baldwin for the action role.  Each one bringing just
what was needed to pull off the role.  I highly recommend this film.  My
congrats and thanks to all those involved.
<|_=00=_|>

In the near future, corporate customers can save time on air travel by
jumping into other bodies for short periods of time.  Despite being
unwilling, Toffler jumps into a body in order to attend a meeting in San
Francisco.  However, when it comes to returning to his old body he is told
that his body has been stolen by the terrorist who had been in the body he
jumped into.  Toffler jumps into a clone in order to escape and, with a
temporary body decomposing over 54 hours, he sets out to find Fisk and
reclaim his body.

In the near future, body switching is possible for the rich, id badges
tell
everyone who you are, High Fidelity is playing at the cinema, but yet
nobody
has ever seen the film Face/Off.  Yes - this is the future as seen in a
low
budget movie.  Alarm bells rang for me when the credits revealed that this
was, yes, a film who's main cast were Baldwin, MacLachlan and Coates!
Happily though, it wasn't actually that bad, just rather unexciting and
uninspiring.  The plot has promise but it doesn't deliver it well enough.
Face/Off had the same basic plot but it moved much quicker and slicker
than
this.  The problem is that the plot feels too baggy and ill thought out
with
too much that isn't fully expanded on.  This wouldn't be a major problem
if
the film moved slickly and with a lot of energy.

Sadly, it doesn't.  The film has the odd exciting moment but generally it
lacks tension and is a bit too slow and talky.  Three times the film falls
back on needless sex scenes in an attempt to give the audience what it
came
for.  The conclusion of the film is obvious and, for that reason, lacks
punch.  It's a shame because, even with a low budget and less-than-perfect
effects, the film could still have been exciting if the director had done
a
better job with the pacing of the film; as it is he delivers it too
slowly.

The good ideas flicker up along the way - the best being near the end as
Toffler's disregard for his cloned body becomes useful, but generally it
is
quite lacklustre.  Even though the cast suggested worse, they were
actually
reasonably good.  Coates is always watchable and, don't worry, after a
brief
spell as the good buy he soon changes to the bad guy role.  MacLachlan
seems
to have taken the role just as a cameo and a chance to have a sex scene.
Baldwin is slumming and it shows a bit too often.  He is OK for the film
but
he didn't have that much in the way of charisma; sure he played more than
one character, but he still wasn't all that hot.

Overall this is not as bad a film as I have maybe put across here.  If you
have rented it as a cheapy video or are watching it on a low rent cable
station, then you probably know what's in store.  As such, it works OK but
it is still hard to overlook a plot that could have been tighter and a
film
that really needed a lot more in the way of tension and excitement to keep
it going.  Worth watching if you're in the mood.
<|_=00=_|>

Very cool film with one of the best ticking clocks ever.The hero, a guy
whose body's been stolen by a terrorist, has three days to find himself
before he dies.Kyle MacLachlan gives one of his best performances ever.
When he finds out his body ain't coming back, you feel his pain! Stephen
Baldwin's pretty good, too, as the clone body Maclachlan has to borrow &
proceeds to trash like a rental car.And Pascale Bussieres, where'd she
come from?Beautiful, sexy, smart, really good actress.There's lots of
good future-shock touches to tell us we're not in Kansas anymore, like
gadget boutiques that sell weapons to executives (check out the
"protonic monofilament") & assassins who use "seeker" missiles that
circle the skies for days waiting for their targets to show (now you
know why the movie opens with a bang!). The whole travel-by-body
-exchanging angle is original & very clever in the way it plays out. For
once we get a genre movie that's got a brain & plenty of action, too. A
real surprise coming from director Allan Moyle, whose previous films,
including the delicious PUMP UP THE VOLUME, seem more focused on teens,
music, & sex (though there's plenty of that here
<|_=00=_|>

XChange's jumping-off point involves an extremely clever way to travel -
you
switch into someone else's body, and they switch into yours; that way you
can attend that all-important meeting in San Francisco without  never
actually leaving New York. Smart, huh.  But with new technology comes new
evil-doers - body terrorists, who 'float' from one body to another,
wreaking
havoc along the way.  This is an endlessly creative flick that never gets
boring, with another great performance from Kyle MacLachlan to boot.  See
it
in any state of your choosing.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not going to go as far as 10/10, but nonetheless, a very original,
well crafted movie. It loses marks for kind of falling apart after
about 45 mins, but still manages to resurrect a good ending. What
annoys most is not the movie but the marketing. I'm sure this never
came out in the cinema and its not widely available on DVD. Anyway,
lets talk X Change. Stephen Baldwin and Kyle McLachlan. OK, not your
household names but still good enough. This bloke swaps bodies, but not
mind in order to travel quickly to some other place using a company
called X Change. But something goes wrong, his real body is stolen by a
known terrorist and he faces a fight for his life to get it back. One
of the best movies in recent years but as I said, such a shame not many
people have heard about it.
<|_=00=_|>
Xchange 7 out of 10: Any movie that starts out with the premise that
society has purposely cloned hundreds of Steven Baldwins embarks with
one foot in the grave. And the plot of people's consciousness traveling
to different host bodies and "the Corporation" losing some poor schlubs
original body is right out of Overdrawn at the Memory Bank. (For those
who are not Canadians, PBS watchers or MST3000 fans, Overdrawn is one
of the worst pieces of science fiction ever created and defiantly not
Raul Julia's finest hour.)

Yet the movie pulls itself out of this one two punch with a smarter
than it had to be script (at least until the tired and predictable
third act) and some rather enthusiastic sex scenes (more on that in a
minute).

First the script. Now most science fiction films when talking a big new
technology like consciousness transfer will create some crazy take over
the world, the world will end, destroy civilization as we know it
scheme. Xchange takes a different much more realistic and creative
track. People hop into other bodies to avoid exercise, avoid long lines
at the airport and experiment sexually. In other words what people in
real life use mind blowing technology for. (The internet is a
mind-blowing piece of technology and people use it not to gain control
of the universe or gather great amounts of knowledge they use it to
post useless opinions on movies, download porn and shop for collector
plates on E-bay.) Now the third act does fall apart with talking
killers and vats of acid not to mention car chases that wouldn't be out
of place in an A-team episode but by this point the movies charm has
sunk in.

As for the sex scenes unlike many films with plastic woman and men who
attempt to copulate with the woman's navel while still wearing their
underwear, Xchange features sweaty, athletic and realistic sex. This
along with some decent violence and good non-Baldwin acting helps
elevate Xchange into a top tier of B-movies.
<|_=00=_|>
Though hardly great stuff, I had a decent enough time with Xchange, it
delivered some thrills, some laughs and an unexpected dose of nudity.
The plot is petty cool, with a businessman using a new technology of
transferring ones consciousness into another someone else's body in
order to travel fast, but getting into a spot of bother when a
terrorist pilfers his body when he leaves it. As well as this
interesting concept there are a few sweet gadgets as well, though there
aren't too many action scenes or violent moments. Mostly this film
relies on wit, invention and a relatively decent cast, though it does
hot up with a fairly exciting finale. Castwise we have firstly Kyle
McLachlan, who is oddly subdued, lacking the magnetic appeal of say,
Agent Cooper or Orson in Desperate Housewives, but still perfectly
watchable. Sadly he isn't in it too much and Stephen Baldwin is the
hero for the bulk of the film and he's reasonable enough if a tad
uncharismatic. Kim Coates does well as the bad guy, I never heard of
him but he holds the attention well, and the main women are Pascale
Bussieres, who is quite a looker in a curious sort of way and also has
an intensely appealing accent, (French I'd say, though it may in fact
be French Canadian given that the film was made in Canada) and Janet
Kidder, who is also quite a looker, though doesn't have a cool accent.
There are a few sex scenes, providing some nice sights of fine female
flesh, though sadly there is not too much in the way of violence or
gore. Though the few mildly grisly moments are pretty nifty, which
helps out a lot. All in all, this is unremarkable stuff and unlikely to
rock anyones world, but it is a good watch, with a good streak of wit
and a decent measure of fun throughout. Not one to hungrily seek out or
get too excited about then but provided your expectations are low, this
should deliver a fair enough fix of low key sci fi thrills.
<|_=00=_|>

I bought X-Change on DVD because I'm such a great fan of Kyle
MacLachlan and in the end ,the only thing I could reproach to the film
is the absence of this wonderful actor during the two thirds of the
film.Indeed,he's the first body the main protagonist "floats" into and
,so as to make the story go on,it was necessary for him to say "Bye".

About the film itself,I have to say I was gladly surprised:being never
released in French cinemas,I was fearing to face a very common TV
movie,deprived of rhythm and though the story may not be incredibly
original,there's a good pace throughout the story and it doesn't look
cheesy as many sci-fi films can.Maybe it's good to point out
though,that Stephen"not very expressive" Baldwin and Kyle MacLachlan
should have had their parts X-Changed for our pleasure,but well,what
now is will still be,so...

As a resume,this movie surely won't change your life and look upon
things but it may help you kill some time and,all things being
considered,that's already not so bad!

