

There are so few lesbian genre films "OUT" there. And for those lesbian
genre films that
do exist most have characters that are either disturbed psychopaths (my
favorite-
Heavenly Creatures) or cardboard cutout prototypes that have no place in
my
world. As
result, unfortunately most lesbians are starved for good lesbian genre
films.  The best
lesbian roles have usually been played out in supporting role characters
within the main
stream.  To appease the appetite, `gaydar' commands an ever watchful eye
to
find those
precious tidbits.

However, thank heavens for the charming wit and refreshingly real
characters
in "Kissing
Jessica Stein".  "Kissing Jessica Stein" goes beyond the stereotypical to
explore
individual characters for who they are and what they are going through in
their lives.
The film is a positive reinforcement on the value of relationships to an
individual's
personal growth and spiritual evolution.

"Kissing Jessica Stein" is a highly intelligent romantic comedy that goes
deep to explore
emotional relationships:  Not only between Jessica and Helen but also
between Jessica
and her Mother, Jessica and Josh, other co-workers and all of their
friends.
The film
highlights the importance of discovering yourself and of letting those
that
love and care
about you know who and what makes you happy.  Ultimately anyone that truly
loves you
wants you to be happy.  Jessica and Helen's continued deep friendship
after
their
breakup is testament to this.  Jessica's painting,  Josh's true love for
writing and Helen's
continued enjoyment of a lesbian sexual relationship is also testament.

All is true to the spiritual core of the writers intent.  There is no
definitive end to
ongoing life.  The writers cleverly leave us to "marinate" within our own
imaginations.
<|_=00=_|>

The mantra of the successful and single career woman in New York City, and
undoubtedly elsewhere, seems to have evolved to "All the good men are
either
married or gay."  But still, through singles ads and avocation-based
meeting
places and just hope they persevere.  Few decide that answering an ad in
The
Village Voice placed by a lesbian or bisexual woman is an antidote to the
scarce-available-man dilemma.

That's just what copy editor and hopeful painter "Jessica" (Jennifer
Westfeldt) does in "Kissing Jessica Stein" leading to an awkward first
encounter, then a close friendship and ultimately an intimate relationship
with a stunning, smart and funny art gallery manager, "Helen" (Heather
Jurgenson).  The film tracks their relationships with each other and with
the people in their lives - family, friends, co-workers.

The story could easily have sunk to the level of a zany, fluffy, sex comedy
or, perhaps, strived to be a "message" drama. It does neither. What makes
it
wonderful is that all the characters have whole lives which they live in
confusion and compassion, pathos and passion.  Superficially, they are
familiar Manhattan, affluent stereotypes.  In reality, they have all the
longings and frailties - and strengths - of people everywhere.  The
character development is real and affecting without being cloy, cynicism is
at a minimum. Helen and Jessica haven't stepped out of a Woody Allen take
on
Manhattan life.

Is Jessica really coming out for life as a lesbian or is she trolling in
unfamiliar waters out of desperation for a friendship that includes
intimacy?  Has Helen given up myriad lovers of both sexes to settle into a
domesticated gay relationship?  Are the answers there?  Should they
be?

If a Lifetime Achievement Oscar for portraying the Jewish mother-in-law is
ever awarded Tovah Feldshuh will get it.  In this film she hovers
dangerously close to a familiar caricature while projecting a warmth and
wisdom deeper than the conventional portrait of the hectoring, always
worried Jewish mom. The opening scene at a Day of Atonement synagogue
service is priceless.

"Kissing Jessica Stein" is an Indie production based on the two leading
actresses' collaboration in writing "Lipstick," their 1997 play.  These are
two very smart and insightful women: I hope more comes from their fertile
and caring understanding of human, not just female but human, needs.

This film is very New York with scenes from a number of neighborhoods.  I
have mixed feelings about the post-11 September premiere decision to delete
shots of the World Trade Center and replace them with the midtown skyline.
A
reviewer noted that audiences at the premiere were distracted by the
WTC-dominated panoramas.

In a largely full theater with a number of clearly lesbian couples along
with many more single people and (probably) heterosexual couples it was
really nice to be part of an audience that burst into frequent laughter not
based on sexual orientation but rather together as people enjoying a really
clever, funny-and-serious, good film.
<|_=00=_|>

Final Score (cumulative average of various classic cinematic qualities):

 9.2 (out of 10)

 Ok, your an attractive woman (or man, doesn't matter). You've got a good
job, good friends, good family base, and nice place (complete with gorgeous
spiral staircase).  You're happy. You're contributing to society. But you're
single so everybody around you - who themselves are now dating, engaged,
married or pregnant- is telling you that you aren't actually happy because
you're not just like them.  Never mind that 43% of the population is single
and 48% have never been in a successful relationship.  Couples are fascist
and in the movie world being alone is a fate worse than death.

 That's where we pick up with Jessica Stein (cute beyond words Jennifer
Westfeldt) being constantly hounded by her hyperbolically obsessed mother to
hurry up and "find someone" like her brother.  The first few minutes of
"Kissing Jessica Stein" are pretty routine.  It features the feisty grandma
and a "all-men-are-losers" montage straight out of a Meg Ryan movie.  But
you've got to know the mold in order to break it.  A few minutes in the
movie takes a 180 degree turn at the moment when at a dinner Jessica
complains about the lack of decent guys in the city and her boss and former
boyfriend Josh shoots back, evicerating her. The monologue is brilliant, but
never mind what he says it's a testament to the film, it's intelligence and
sheer scope that he was allowed to speak up at all.

 As the plot kicks in, Stein becomes intrigued by a personal ad placed by
another women, Helen - free spirited bi-sexual seeking her first lesbian
experience.  The two slowly but surely the two begin to date and form a
relationship hampered by Jessica's own neurosis and, well, let's be honest-
biological sexuality.  Things get complicated from there. To call "Kissing
Jessica Stein" a lesbian or same-sex romance is a little to boxed-in for me.
While "KJS" could be viewed as many things, it is most accurately one of
those "free spirit helps straight-laced person break out of his/her shell"
movie.  There are many points during the first viewing of this movie where I
didn't like it- afraid of where it was ultimately going.  Much to my
delightful surprise, Stein's lesbian experience isn't ultimately to get her
to reject men and find love, but to free her- from her own neurosis and
perfectionism.  The movie doesn't show women's lesbian tendencies in the
casual way of, say, Chasing Amy, but explores the sheer oddity of it as a
novelty plot gimmick.  One of the best scenes in the film is Helen's gay
friend voicing offense to the unfair way she seems to choose her sexuality
whenever it's convenient for her.  The movie starts out seemingly filled
with stereotypes (male, gay, Jewish, ect.) but before the end everyone gets
their say and the true characters come out.  The ending is set up the entire
movie in the many parallels between Helen and Josh.  It is perfect.

 Did I mention the movie was funny? It is probably the funniest
movie -written by and made for women- that I have ever seen.  It's subtly
funny. One of those movies where you nudge your neighbor to see if they got
the joke too. The dialogue is delicious- jam packed with wit, honesty and
quotable lines.  It's a comedy of ideas.  The music is great. If there's one
thing in this low budget indie flick that is cinematically brilliant it's
the audio visual montages. The subtle way it plays with the background music
and on-screen action. In one of the more subtle examples Jessica walks up
her spiral staircase- her steps exactly in time with a recurring piano note
in the song.  Finally, I'm a guy and I never got the whole lesbian-chic
thing. Seems like overcompensation from a bunch of homophobic men who don't
realize that if all the women get together there won't be anyone for them.

 I originally scored "KJS" in the late 8's.  But the more it turned over,
marinated in my head the better it got.  When I went back and re-scored it
with the complete picture in my head it shimmied it's way into the 9's (this
is equivalent to 4-stars).  Hopefully, this isn't the last we've seen of
these two talented women.  "Kissing Jessica Stein" is a great movie. An
endearing and invigorating people story.  I hated to take it back to the
video store.

<|_=00=_|>

Kissing Jessica Stein is supremely wonderful.  It is the best romantic
comedy  I  have ever seen.  The movie made me laugh, it made me cry, it was
everything you could ever want in a movie.  I would recommend it to anyone.
The characters are hilarious, but three dimensional and the sense of humor
that the  movie carries is phenomenal.

The scenes in New York and beautifully shot, also and the Jewish family is
very  much like my own.  Though some characters might be called
stereotypical, I  would have to thoroughly disagree and say that I thought
every character had  their our twists and turns. Lastly, I thought the
chemistry between Helen and Jessica was so perfect for the  movie.  At first
Jessica was uncomfortable, but by the end of their relationship  Jessica was
dependent on Helen.

 Beautiful, beautiful movie!!
<|_=00=_|>
I don't know how any one could reduce the characters in this film to,
'shallow' or 'board'. This was a rare film in the romantic comedy genre
which didn't follow the tired old formulas. Yet it still has a classic
feel to it (great music and a beautiful aesthetic). It is a story about
the validity of sexual experimentation. Some people may feel like we
are born one way or the other and if we are unsure, or perhaps want to
experiment then we are 'stupid' or 'frivoulous' those assumptions are
what this movie is trying to combat. It isn't about being gay or
straight, it's about opening up yourself to possibilities whether they
are fruitful in the end or not, the experience alone can make you a
better, more compassionate person, who knows what it is to be honestly
seeking happiness in whatever form it may come. Bravo to the two
writers and actresses in this film, it is one of the rare film's that I
have enjoyed from start to finish and one that I can watch over and
over and continually take joy in.

I believe no movie is right for everyone, some people won't take from
this film what I have. I recommend this film mainly to women from 18 to
35, straight, gay or bi. Men don't seem to be able to connect to this
film on the level that women seem to, also it's politics and
presumptions may be too radical for conservatives and too conservative
for radicals. If you didn't like it that's okay, but its themes will
speak to many people. Well written, acted, and directed.
<|_=00=_|>

This film had something for everyone: a loving view into a Jewish family,
including religious practices we rarely get to see on screen; a
relationship
between two women who are trying to find the right someone who "gets"
them;
and having the courage to go after the things you want the most. Scott
Cohen
is gorgeous and appealing as Josh Meyer, Jessica Stein's boss,
ex-boyfriend
and friend of her brother. He convincingly moves from bitter and
judgmental
through his own emotional journey when he sees Jessica summon the courage
to
be happy and seek her dreams. He sings beautifully in Hebrew, too!

Tovah Feldshuh was brilliant and touching as the Jewish mother with a true
understanding of her daughter. No caricature here: she has one of the most
touching scenes in the entire film. Jackie Hoffman was fun and funny as
Jessica's best friend and coworker Joan, who lives vicariously through
Jessica and Helen's adventures.

Jennifer Westfeldt (Jessica Stein) and Heather Juergensen (Helen Cooper)
wrote, produced and starred in this wonderful, touching, funny view of
single life in New York today. In fact, New York itself was a character in
this film, providing both opportunities and barriers to the relationships
among the characters. I highly recommend it!
<|_=00=_|>

Kissing Jessica Stein is the smartest romantic comedy that I've seen post
1990.  The writing is funny and witty.  Also, the characters are genuine.
I
especially enjoyed watching the chemistry between Jennifer Westfeldt and
Heather Juergensen.  You don't need to read more comments from more people;
just go out and see this movie.  Heck, see it again; it's like reading a
book for the second time (like I said, it's smart and witty).  You too can
see why I call KJS a very smart romantic comedy.
<|_=00=_|>
At the beginning of "Kissing Jessica Stein" we meet Jessica (Jennifer
Westfeldt) sitting in synagogue between her mother and grandmother
discussing the lack of Jessica's love life. Jessica interrupts and says
"Shut up mother, I'm atoning." This sums up and sets the tone for the
greatness of this film - Jessica is authentic and very funny.

I connected instantly with Jessica as I am sure many single or recently
single women can (and I'm not even Jewish). I usually hate making film
comparisons to Woody Allen because a)its being done way too often and
b)its just not Woody Allen who is still making great films for us. But
in this case, part of my connection to Jessica is that writer and star
Jennifer Westfeldt, like me, has probably seen "Annie Hall" one hundred
times, and a great deal of Diane Keaton's Annie shines through in
Jessica.

"Kissing Jessica Stein" is a romantic comedy about a girl who basically
just doesn't know what she wants, but its better than that statement.
The film is very well written and very funny. The relationships
explored are real and three-dimensional and every element that moves
the story forward is done with subtlety and humour. There is one
mistake in the writing, and the writers make it obvious that they are
writers, but it doesn't matter because the film is just that good. When
they start getting too far from the audience with a character
philosophizing about his current stance in life, they pull us right
back in with a great line "You got dark." It also helps that Westfeldt
is married to Jon Hamm and is friends with some of the best comedians
in the business.

After you finish watching "Kissing Jessica Stein" (which, believe me,
you have to), find Westfeldt's next foray into her version of romantic
comedies "Ira and Abby" (2006). Oh, and if for some reason you haven't
yet, see Woody Allen's "Annie Hall" (1977) first.
<|_=00=_|>
Jessica Stein is a beautiful Jewish journalist who always have problems
with love. She is an intellectual who hates people who are superficial,
and always get disappointed because she is much more intelligent or
interesting than the regular guys she goes out in date. For her bad
luck, her brother is getting engaged and her mother is making pressure
on her to have a serious relationship with someone.

And there is Helen, a sexy artist who always go out in dates with many
different men (many of them at the same time) and decides to experiment
something new: women. With the help of her two gay friends, Helen
writes a type of an advertising in the lesbian sector of the Journal.
Jessica is attracted to Helen's ad,specially because it mentions one of
her favorite writers, and also because she is a little tired to not
have any lucky with men.

Now on, what we see are hilarious situations with the shy and reluctant
Jessica to accept to be with Helen, who in the other hand is crazy for
the commitment.
<|_=00=_|>

Ive used 'marinade' as a verb - so I was bound to like this
one.

Highly enjoyable, honest, witty and refreshing.  As good a movie as gets
made these days.  Finally a film driven by likable, intelligent characters
and their relationships, not guns, explosions and two dimensional
stereotypes and plots by (and for) 8 years olds.

KJS has a dash of fantasy from time to time, a cracking sound track, and
although I wouldnt have called it a comedy - it's funny when it needs to be.
 But I think it was the honesty of the writing that I particularly took to -
that and the moments that surprise.  As many have noted - the scene with the
mother on the veranda is a bit special.

If you like Woody Allen then this is one for you.  If you look forward to
the next Van Diesel effort, then I doubt you will stay beyond the
credits...

ps Was the dedication 'For our parents' at the end of the film ironic? 
Watching this film with your parents could quite possibly be the single most
embarrassing experience of your life.....if they are anything like mine that
is....
