
This review is for the Director's cut DVD of Daredevil. In all honesty,
i liked the theatrical version of this movie. But now that i have seen
the true version of this movie, the director's cut, i don't have any
desire to watch the theatrical cut ever again. The director's cut is an
improvement in every way. Everything makes sense now, and the
characters are more fleshed out, which is a very good thing. 

The DC is 30 minutes longer than the original cut, of which the new
footage ranges from a whole new big subplot, and little things, that
actually have more impact and and make the movie more understandable
and better than you might imagine. The action scenes are way better
also. The DC makes the movie into what it should've been in the first
place before the studio screwed with it. I can't believe how much the
studio hacked this movie up for theater..it is quite ridiculous. But
now with the movie restored to it's original vision, i can fully enjoy
it without the thought of something missing from it. In comparison, the
only thing that the original DVD release has over this new DC DVD is it
has a second bonus features/behind the scenes disc. 

The DC DVD is one disc, and has a few movie trailers, a making-of
featurette, and an all new audio commentary. Despite it's shortcomings
in form of a second disc compared to it's counterpart, i'd choose the
DC over the theatrical version any day. The DC is simply so much
better. Forget what you know about the theatrical cut of the movie, and
give this new DC version a chance..it is superior to the other version
in every way. So give it a try, and i think you might be pleasantly
surprised. Even those of you who hate the original cut. 

My vote, in comparison: Theatrical version- 5.5 Director's cut version-
9.5

In closing, i'd like to thank the Director, the film editors, and
everyone else who made this wonderful Director's cut DVD possible. I
love the new version, and it's nice to see the Director's vision
restored to this movie after nearly 1 1/2 years. Two thumbs up! R.I.P.
Daredevil theatrical version!!
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, i was never a reader of the comics, and didn't know much
about daredevil before venturing into the cinemas to see the original
when it was released. At the time, there wasn't much action out and i
like most of Ben Affleck's movies, so though i would give it a go.
Although i liked the theatrical release ( but didn't love it) i still
bought it when it came to DVD...and to be honest, when i watched it the
2nd time on DVD, i didn't think as much of it, as when i left the
cinema.

So when i heard the directors cut was out, and people who hated the
first release, but liked the 2nd one, i thought wow, i didn't mind the
first, perhaps i will really like the new version. and guess what? I
did ! Its absolutely fantastic. After the characters were fleshed out
more, the storyline was more involved and filled in the plots- you
actually cared about what happened and got more into the feel of being
apart of what was going on in hell's kitchen.

If you watch the "featurette" : giving the devil his dues, you will
understand that Mark Johnson the director, absolutely loves this
material, loved the comic, and was disappointed himself with the
theatrical release. He understood why the critics & fans alike didn't
support it, and really wanted to fix the problems with this DVD. When
will Hollywood studios & executives learn, a 100 minute movie, does not
mean a better movie - and when will they learn that audiences DO want
more than just action - we can think, you morons! And can hold our
attention for more than 100 minutes. Here's a simple plan for your
money making schemes - and this goes to Gary Foster ( producer who
still says the theatrical version of daredevil is better) If you make a
GOOD MOVIE, that gets good reviews, and that fans & critics enjoy, then
more people will see it, more people will see it a 2nd time, more
people will recommend it to friends, and that means a bigger audience,
a repeat audience and bigger dollars for your pockets ! So while the
first was a quick paced movie that made quick bucks, a longer - more
thought-out MOVIE, would have garnered longer life at the box office.

in a word - RECOMMENDED !
<|_=00=_|>
When I heard about a directors cut to this movie I never imagined it
would be so much better than the original release. Why must movie
studios always feel they know better than the director. This film would
have been much more successful had they left it alone, but by insisting
on so many cuts and changes they shot themselves in the foot. All
because they wanted a family friendly spider-man type film instead of
the much more dark and violent world of daredevil. Every scene added to
the film makes you wonder why they cut it in the first place. It isn't
just about adding scenes though they have taken a couple out too. I
can't imagine anyone who would miss the fireside love scene. I urge
everyone who saw the theatrical cut to watch the directors cut. It
isn't a perfect film but it's a more complete and enjoyable one. Also
watch the documentary on the directors cut DVD and see one of the
producers trying to defend the original release and then actually
saying he thinks it is the better cut. I think he must be more blind
than Matt Murdock!!!
<|_=00=_|>
The director's cut is masterfully done. I really like fact that Matt/DD
was more a tortured loner (no Priest confidant, no Elektra screw). The
fight sequences are much better and much more complete. These two facts
are what make the DC a better film. I do agree that having Matt walk
with Elektra after that bizarre fight would've been a better idea. It
would make the impact of her "death" more believable. In the DC, Matt
only bonds with Elektra on two shallow occasions. He "plays" with her
for three minutes in that silly sparing match and then walks her up to
the roof and leaves her standing in the rain. So, why does she "wish
you could see me tonight" at the ball? There is no depth or connection
at all. The DC works well for most things but it really hurts the
relationship aspect between Matt & Elektra. 

Besides the relationship factor, this version is better. The fight
scenes are vastly supperior. A must own on DVD.
<|_=00=_|>
I enjoyed the original version but the new director's cut version of
this film is just fabulous. I really like fact that Matt/DD was more a
tortured loner (no Priest confidant, no Elektra love scene). The fight
sequences are much better and much more complete. Make no mistakes
about it, the director's cut now makes Daredevil a great action flick
that's the proper mixture of quality acting, deep emotion and dark
violence. The plot is now much more coherent .... (for instance, now we
know why the police came for the Kingpin at the end of the movie!) The
Daredevil DC is a shining example of vigilante-style justice done
right. It's also yet another comic book adaptation done properly.
<|_=00=_|>
First off, this was a more complete version of the DVD which came out
earlier. In this edition, about a half-hour of new material was added
to the disc (and what was shown at the theaters.) All reviews I read
said it elevated this film from "fair at best" to "good." I agree. It
made the movie much, much better.

Yeah, it's more far-fetched than the other superhero movies because
here, the hero is a blind guy who, because of his blindness, has
extraordinary hearing powers along with the rest of the usual
Batman/Spiderman-type athletic skills.

As in most of the Batman films, this is a dark film. I think it would
have been better had it lightened up a bit with a few jokes and a more
wholesome female lead. Jennifer Garner is another one of these
latter-day skinny chicks who is made to be tough-looking, tough-talking
and tough-fighting. In other words: ridiculous. However, I will say she
comes across a little more likable on the extended version. One more
negative: the fight scenes go on a tad too long and are outlandish.

On the positive side, this may be the best-sounding DVD I own, at least
up to ones I had heard up until this came out in January of 2005. Since
the hero (Ben Affleck) has super hearing, this is emphasized in this
movie and so you, if you have a 5.1 surround system, hear sounds from
all speakers at almost times. It's awesome!

Affleck, meanwhile, is likable as the superhero and I liked the message
he gives at the end about shunning revenge. Wow, you don't hear that
much in movies. Kudos, too, to villains' Colin Farrell and Michael
Clarke Duncan. They are fun to watch, especially Farrell.

So, if this superhero film interests you, make sure you get the
"Director's Cut" edition. It's far better than the original, and, I
believe, the same price.
<|_=00=_|>
As I titled this, I really enjoyed the movie since I am comic nerd, but
I rated this as a 5 out of 10. I got the Directer's Cut for Christmas
and OH MY GOD it made this movie so much better. The subplot with
Coolio really rounds out the character's of Matt and Foggy and little
scenes added back in here and there like Matt's rituals after patrol
and in the morning, and the extended version of him and Elektra on the
roof before the rain made part of the ending make more sense. One thing
I really enjoyed was the additional time to developing the Kingpin and
making him really seem like a bad guy helped a lot. All in all whoever
made the call to cut all this stuff from the movie should be fired from
the studio because the theatrical release was a butchery and a farce. I
felt bad having to admit that I didn't like the movie too much at
first, but now I can tell people how much it kicked a$$ (didn't know if
curses were allowed).
<|_=00=_|>

Where Spiderman was colorful and almost cartoonish, Daredevil is gritty and
merciless. Whatever you thought couldn't happen in Peter Parker's world will
more than likely happen in Matt Murdock's neck of the woods. Because people
die here. Sometimes they die slowly and painfully. The superheroes go home
with scars on their backs, broken teeth, and more than a few gruesome images
that need to be repressed. For all of these reasons I liked Daredevil,
because it takes chances by offering a hero that is by no means invincible
or conventional.

 The origin story of the character Daredevil is pretty complicated, but, as
the helpful gentleman in the theater so aptly put it, "He's blind, but he
can see stuff blind." Let's just leave it at this: As a kid, Matt Murdock
was blinded by radioactive material in a freak accident. This caused his
other senses to become phenomenally acute, to the point where Matt can track
criminals by their scent and use sound waves as a sort of radar. He uses his
newfound abilities to protect those who will not be protected by the justice
system, all the while hoping that one day he will find the person who killed
his father.

 If you're a fan of the first two Batman movies, you'll find a lot to love
in Daredevil. There are still some comic book elements that require some
suspension of disbelief, like the fact that Matt could construct an entire
high-tech lair beneath a church while working as a pro-bono lawyer, but the
movie is not fantasy-driven. The fight scenes will make you wince at their
realism, the love story is not corny or forced (as opposed to a certain
flick called Just Married), and the characters are complex, uncertain people
who just happen to don masks and fight on rooftops.

 Do you remember the parts in the old Christopher Reeve Superman movies
where Clark would hear someone crying for help in the distance? He would
always be having dinner with Lois Lane at the time, and had to make up some
dumb excuse for ditching the scene like, "Oh! I just forgot. I have a book
due at the library." Then he would dash off to save the day, leaving Lois
high and dry. Well, in today's feature, Matt hears someone crying for help,
but when his love interest, Elektra, asks him to stay, he actually does.
With out-of-left-field scenes like this, I couldn't help but enjoy
Daredevil.

 Some might be surprised at how little screen time the villains get in this
movie. Kingpin, a Don Giovini mobster type, and Bullseye, an Irish nut with
a couple of loose screws, are important parts of our story, but they don't
steal the show. Going back to the Batman comparison, many movie buffs think
that Jack Nicholson's role as the joker actually become more interesting
than the winged knight himself. Not so in this movie, as Daredevil is the
guy whom the role shebang revolves around. By deciding to focus on the hero
more than the villain, the audience can get into his head and root for him
to the last battle. Matt is a cool guy because he's not a wealthy playboy or
Kryptonian who can smash through walls. Other than his heightened senses and
combat skills, he's just a regular guy who happens to like read leather.

 After X-Men and Spiderman became huge hits, it was expected that Hollywood
would start churning out more superhero flicks as fast as they could make
them. Thankfully, Daredevil doesn't seem recycled or rushed and actually
brings something new to the table. 
<|_=00=_|>

That's why I think most critics hated this thing. It's not lighthearted fun
like "Spider-Man" was, it's more adult-themed. I actually found it a bit
more effective than Sam Raimi's superhero epic. Why? Because it wasn't campy
and it didn't have cartoony special effects. The CGI in "Daredevil" is more
photorealistic. I also loved the "Matrix"-like martial-arts incorporated
throughout the film. 

In fact, as far as darker-themed comic book movies go, I think "Daredevil"
is a much better film than either of the first two "Batman" pictures were. I
recently watched "Spider-Man" again on DVD and I've always had mixed
reactions of it. I do think it works on the level of campy fun and for that
I gave it a B Minus. But I think "Daredevil" is a more solid picture and I'd
grade it with a B.

I like the look of the film, the washed-out colors make the movie look very
70's in certain scenes. Like "The Crow", the movie has an MTV mentality with
rock and rap songs, but also has a love story as well. The sound design is
awesome, if you have a good theatre sound system, "Daredevil" will take full
advantage of it. I don't think Ben Affleck got credit when it was deserved.
Along with Jennifer Garner, Colin Farrell and Michael Clarke Duncan, Affleck
was perfect cast.

Anyhow, as much as I believe "Daredevil" is a much better film than
"Spider-Man" was. I actually think "Spider-Man 2" is better than
"Daredevil". The best comic book movie ever placed on film. It shows that a
director can really improve on his work. I highly recommend that film to
anyone. Well, the bottom line is: "Spider-Man" (B-), "Daredevil" (B) and
"Spider-Man 2" (A). I hope you enjoyed my review.
<|_=00=_|>
Despite the low ratings this movie has gotten from the masses, I
honestly can say that this is probably the best Marvel movie to come
out in the recent barrage of comic based movies to hit the big screen.
I'm guessing the reason for the lack of high ratings is that most
people were looking for a super hero along the lines of Spiderman who
saves people and is always doing "the right thing". Well this obviously
isn't the case here, as one can clearly see from how Daredevil does
away with the baddies. I personally think that the concept of an
avenging lawyer who serves up street justice to those that manipulate
the system is a great concept. I also think that everybody did a great
job of playing their characters as they should be played, yes I know,
even Ben. The only person I thought did a mediocre job was Colin, who
only helped to make the already stupid looking Bullseye look even
dumber then the character deserves. As you can no doubt guess from
reading this, I'm a huge fan of the series. What you probably wouldn't
guess is that choosing Michael Clarke Duncan to play the Kingpin is by
far the best "improvisational" casting choice I've ever seen. For those
of you who don't know, the Kingpin is "supposed" to be a big white guy
we're talking sumo style big. While Michael isn't quite that big, his
size and look are by far better then anybody else they could have ever
gotten to play this role. So, in conclusion, if you like your hero's on
the darker side, a la Batman, then this should be a good choice for
you. The effects and story line are great; I can only hope that the
only "acceptable" attendance at the theaters won't stop them from
making a sequel to this movie I know, don't hate me but with Ben
playing Daredevil again as well don't worry, I hate myself too!!! And
P.S. Elektra isn't a sequel it's a separate plot line all together,
although they try to link the two at some point in the movie, but
that's another comment for another movie.
