


I had not heard much about "The Glass House", besides unfavorable reviews
by
critics, who claimed it was a ridiculous display of unintentional humor.
However, when I came across it casually on HBO, I was immensely surprised
and impressed!

The story was gripping and I loved the character development - which is
so
rare in thrillers today. I thought the cast was brilliant, especially
Diane
Lane and Stellan Skarsgard. Stellan's character was completely chilling,
and
he played it so effectively. And Diane's character was also wonderfully
displayed - despite her terrible actions at times, you can't help but
empathize with her a bit, due to Diane's emotional investment in the
role.
And Trevor Morgan (who I also recently saw in "A Rumor of Angels") is
sure
to do very well on the big screen for years to come... he's very good for
such a young kid. And Leelee Sobieski... she was weak at times, but I
felt
that she was perfect for the part. She has kind of an authentic look to
her
and she was casted very well for the part. She had on-screen appeal
without
being too obnoxiously cutsie. She did a fair job, certainly enough to
fulfil the director's vision of the movie - I'm sure of that.

As far as the story goes, it's got everything you could want in a
thriller.
There were some holes, but some of my favorite movies of all-time have
holes
and I think it's really too much to ask for a perfect film. But it's
downfall was that at times it was a bit predictable - but for me, that
only
enhanced the movie's suspense.

I greatly enjoyed this movie and I think you will too. I'll agree with
the
critics that there are some technical flaws in some of the story's
details -
but over all, the story was very compelling and told VERY well, great
development of it's characters and all the events were portrayed very
believably, the director definitely kept the audience's trust and
attention.
So, I recommend it - despite the critic's bashing of the film.
Personally,
as a teenager, I thought the portrayal of LeeLee's high school was very
realistic and so that definitely caught my attention in a good way.
Little
things like that, that are usually not apparent in most movies today,
certainly made up for other little flaws. So, go catch it on HBO or rent
it!
It's good!

<|_=00=_|>
You might initially be reluctant to give 'The Glass House' a try if
you've been turned off by many recent "thrillers" as they often have
been disappointingly by the book. This is your eerie psychotic chase
thriller similar to movies like 'Pacific Heights' and 'Unlawful Entry.'
And, though it does play by the rules (unforutnately), there is
something about it that makes it more entertaining than the recent
dismal fare (not that Pacific Heights wasn't highly entertaining).

Leelee Sobieski plays Ruby Baker, a kid going through the terrible
teens. When she and her brother's parents die in a car accident, they
move in with ultra-modern family friends, Terry and Erin Glass. You
know right from the start that there is something dreadfully suspicious
and exceedingly bizarre about the Glass couple, but you can never be
too sure exactly what at first (that's the purpose of a thriller, to
throw you a few hints and let your quick assumptions guide you into all
the wrong paths so that you're--hopefully--pleasantly surprised when
the real perpetrator and his motives are revealed). But, Ruby Baker is
a smart kid who's ever-present skepticism about the intentions of her
new surrogate parents, and starts trying to figure out what's wrong.
Unfortunately, this movie does terribly follow the book when it comes
to the main character being disbelieved by other well-meaning
characters (social workers, lawyers, teachers, etc.) who consequently
pay with their lives for their doubts and unwillingness to really
investigate, and in turn, making things worse for poor Ruby. It also
follows the book when it comes to the deranged finale and the
he's-not-really dead ending.

But, there is something that makes this better than most of its kind.
On the one hand, you're never sure whether you can always trust Ruby
because even she, too, arrogant most of the time, seems like trouble.
It's hard to sympathize for a character like that at first. And, not
only does Stellan Skarsgård make an appropriate villain as Terry Glass,
his wife (played by Diane Lane) is not entirely an innocent creature
herself as most women are often written to be in the role of the
creep's wife/girlfriend/mother, etc. A good mix of characters and a
creepy setting, combined with a decent finale, make it just the perfect
mix of suspenseful elements. And one that I would recommend seeing.
<|_=00=_|>
I apologize for the pun, I could not resist myself. This film was
recommended to me by a friend, and I had never heard of it, so I could
not really say what I was expecting. What I received though was a
smart, intense, fun, excellently executed thriller with wonderful
performances that entertains from beginning to end.

Leelee Sobieski brings to her character, Ruby Baker, depth and
likablity without even having to apply much effort to it. Stellan
Skarsgård and Diane Lane are great as the Terrence and Erin Glass, and
even Trevor Morgan gives a nice performances as Ruby's younger brother,
Rhett Baker. The performances are part of what is effective with this
movie. Everyone delivered their lines and completed scenes with
finesse, even if they weren't Oscar worthy presentations and they
created the atmosphere that the director was trying to set perfectly.

The film is not boring at all and it's not mediocre as a lot of reviews
suggest. It has a nice, suspenseful build up and the material, while
the gist is a bit overused, is fresh in it's own way. Who says an
unoriginal plot has to bad? Is that a written rule? The plot is simply
marvelous in this film, if you ask me. I enjoyed so much seeing how the
twist in the film starts to slowly unravel piece by piece, because I
liked the characters and was interested in the story from the get go.
The movie almost trips on it's own feet a couple of times, but nothing
seriously major that is worth noting keeps you from enjoying the fun
and satisfaction the film brings. I even was extremely fond of the
setting, and for those of you who say it's an overrated pun with the
Glasses living in a house mostly made of glass, there are horror
classics throughout history that work off puns much cornier, and The
Glass House does it very well, stop complaining.

In any matter, as I have said, The Glass House is non-stop fun and
excitement from beginning to end with delightful and even memorable
performances (i.e.: Leelee Sobieski, who indeed gives the finest
performance of all, and probably the finest of her career in general),
an intense and realistic atmosphere, relentless build up and a twist
that I honestly could not see coming. I loved it and had an amazing
time watching it! It was a riveting, effective, astonishing
accomplishment in my book.
<|_=00=_|>

Having seen many thrillers, most of them being formulaic, I was somewhat
excited to see this one, since it has a pretty good cast; Stellan Skarsgård,
Leelee Sobieski & Diane Lane. The plot does, admittedly have some holes, but
these newer thrillers are rarely(read: never) perfect. All things
considered, it wasn't a disappointment, as I didn't have that high
expectations. The plot is OK, fairly see-through and obvious though, but it
does have some twists that I(even though I may be alone on this) wasn't
expecting. The acting isn't anything special, but at least Skarsgård and
Sobieski both pull of decent performances. The characters are reasonably
well-written, none of them come off as one-dimensional stereotypes, even
though some of them, in all honesty, more or less are. The script is fairly
well-written, though it does have its share of cliches, but most films do,
anyway. All in all, a fair addition to the thriller genre, nothing that will
stay in your mind for a long while after seeing it. It will, however, most
likely keep your interest for the duration of the film, and keep you
entertained, too. I recommend it to fans of thrillers, it would help to be a
fan of at least one of the actors, and it doesn't hurt to have reasonably
low standards or expectations. 6/10
<|_=00=_|>

THE GLASS HOUSE / (2001) *** (out of four)

By Blake French:

	"The Glass House" takes place in a beautiful, luxurious glass mansion
complete with swimming pools, expensive artwork, high-tech security systems,
and just about everything else. The wealthy occupants, Terry and Erin Glass
(Stellan Skarsgard and Diane Lane), become legal guardians of sixteen-year
old Rudy (Leelee Sobieski) and eleven-year old Rhett (Trevor Morgan), when
the kids' parents die in an automobile accident.

	Terry and Erin were the best friends of the children's parents. They
welcome their new guests into a world of wealth, glamour, and fun. Soon
enough, however, Rudy notices strange quirks about these seemingly friendly
folks. Is Terry secretly watching Rudy change her clothes? Is Erin addicted
to prescription drugs, or is she a diabetic? Was her parents' death an
accident, or a diabolical act of murder? Trust becomes as transparent as the
glass surrounding this family. 

	"The Glass House" opened to mostly negative reviews, and not without
probable cause. The setup provides an intriguing, imaginative situation, but
everything happens so quickly the film forgets character introduction. First
time-feature director Daniel Sackheim helms a hole-laden script by Wesley
Strick that creates more plot holes than Swiss cheese. The film derives into
involving material, but lacks the focus to play out these plot points.

	While Daniel Sackheim and Wesley Strick create a movie that lacks the
timeliness and intelligence of a first-rate, edge-of-your-seat thrill ride,
"The Glass House" does offer good suspense and a plot that reveals itself
with tantalizing sinister hints and increasing tension. It keeps us
guessing, even if this diabolical fairy tale is anything but surprising.

	Leelee Sobieski has been in a lot of movies lately, and that's not a
coincidence. She is a very talented actress, and she carries "The Glass
House" through many plot miscalculations. Trevor Morgan, seen in "Jurassic
Park 3," adequately supports Sobieski's thorough, convincing performance.
The very gifted Diane Lane and Stellan Skarsgard cover their sinister
motives with pretentious personalities, but inject a mysterious, menacing
undercurrent.

	"The Glass House" also provides a fresh, unique outlook on villains.
Instead of causing trouble, these characters get themselves into trouble,
which eventually makes them dangerous. Innovative, original twists like
these are what make this movie worth a look. 
They say those who live in glass houses should not throw stones, but the
villains in "The Glass House" do, and it's only a matter of time before
everything shatters and breaks apart. It's quite involving watching these
events come about, especially through a character driven story.


<|_=00=_|>
I turned this on and immediately started looking for something that
would start in a half hour. I did not expect to be interested, but I
couldn't stop watching.

Ruby (Leelee Sobieski) and Rhett (Trevor Morgan) lose their parents in
a terrible car accident, and the Glasses, Terry (Stellan Skarsgård) and
Erin (Diane Lane), take them in. Everything appears normal, Erin is a
doctor, and Terry runs a big business, drives a Jag, and they live in a
huge house. But everything isn't as it seems or we would have no movie.

Ruby starts to get suspicious about things she sees and hears, and the
attempts of Terry to explain them seem to mollify her for a time.
However, she finds things that are definitely wrong, and makes plans to
escape with her brother.

This is where the thriller begins: car chases, and fights, and death
and duplicity. It definitely kept my interest, and I suspect it will
keep yours.
<|_=00=_|>

I was surprised by this one, after having read some of the comments about
it.  My wife had insisted on several occasions to rent it, but I had managed
to avoid it until now.  The reason being that I'm not a great fan of
‘startle-you-scenes' movies, where story line comes second to all possible
means to startle the audience out of their shoes (which I believe is a the
wrong way in creating good horror/thriller action movies).  The Glass House
is however not one of these, and I suspect that is one of the reason some
people have given it slack reviews.  Here they seem to keep to more
realistic theme, with characters re-acting in intelligent manner, instead of
some idiots you often see in horror/thriller films.  The interesting thing
was that the girl in the movie suspected from the start that something was
wrong, and tried to solve the situation.  The authorities became part of the
picture from the start, instead of the usual stupidity that someone ‘evil'
resides in position of authority, denying the victim any help.  The Glass
couple were a bit unusual, though not overdoing it, and we can follow how
they slip into their own nightmarish madness.  Especially good was the scene
were Mr. Glass is asking for a loan at a bank, displaying how, in fact, he
was just a regular man.  So all in all, this was just enough tension, in
rather realistic environment, with surprisingly good acting all around. 7/10

<|_=00=_|>
On the whole, this is a fairly predictable suspense/thriller with the
expected twists and turns thrown in to try to throw the viewer off and
keep us guessing, but in reality there was really only one plot point
that I was really guessing about (revolving around the estate lawyer
and where and to whom his loyalties really were) and that particular
plot point wasn't really at the heart of the story. The movie
introduces Ruby (Leelee Sobieski) as a bit of a troubled kid, whose
troubles become much more complicated when her parents are killed in a
car accident, and she and her brother are sent to live with the Glass
family - friends of their parents (played by Stellan Skarsgard and
Diane Lane.) And, yes, the Glasses live in a house that seems to have a
lot of glass - too cute by a longshot.

The suspense is around the Glasses. What are they up to? They haven't
been especially close to Ruby's parents in recent years, and there's a
certain creepiness to them (and especially to Skarsgard's Terry) right
from the start. That builds to the point where the Glasses become
downright dangerous to the kids. However, there really isn't much
mystery about what the Glasses want. (It's revealed fairly quickly that
the kids have a large trust fund and that Terry needs money to pay off
a loanshark he's in trouble with.) So there's no real suspense around
motive, and you pretty much know that although it's going to be a rough
ride the kids are going to end up OK (because they always do in this
kind of movie.) So the story isn't really that compelling. The
performances (mostly from Sobieski, Skarsgard and Lane) are decent, but
I didn't think anyone in the cast was truly outstanding.

Two things worked really well in the movie. Director Daniel Sackheim
did a good job of gradually turning the Glasses from just a creepy
couple into a dangerous couple. (At first, Terry's interest in the 16
year old Ruby was truly creepy - it seemed physical more than
financial, a suggestion that was let go of fairly quickly in favour of
the financial motive.) The other thing that worked well was the setting
in the house. Yes, the play on words was a bit too cute, but the big
house with its somewhat confusing design and all sorts of windows both
inside and outside so that the characters (and the viewer) could often
catch a glimpse of what was going on was effective. But, still, a
suspense/thriller that's almost entirely predictable and that therefore
has no real "edge of your seat" moments can't be considered truly good.
(5/10)
<|_=00=_|>
It is a really a good film for a low-budget movie.It could be far
better and I was really surprised that they didn't took advantage of
some scenes that held the element of surprise quite well.In other words
there should have been more action scenes instead of making it look
like a drama.The only positive of the movie that it could draw the
attention of viewer.I saw it by chance in television and in the whole
film I had an immense feeling of curiosity.I really wanted to see where
plot would turn out,and I was surprised negatively.I think it should be
rated with a 6 but rated it with a 7 instead because of its
intrigue.Still is one of my favorite thrillers.
<|_=00=_|>
As much as I like me some Sobieski, especially when wearing a bikini as
she does here, I cannot recommend The Glass House as anything other
than a mildly entertaining yet instantly forgettable piece of trash; it
certainly doesn't work as a taut psychological thriller as intended,
the far-fetched nature of the scenario draining any tension from
proceedings.

Lovely Leelee plays Ruby, the oldest of two siblings who go to live
with new guardians, Terry and Erin Glass (Stellan Skarsgård and Diane
Lane), after their parents die in a car crash. As time passes, Ruby
begins to suspect that her parents' wreck was not an accident, but that
they were actually murdered by Terry in order to get his hands on the
children's $4m trust fund.

A hackneyed plot loaded with implausible situations and predictable
outcomes ensures that The Glass House never achieves the
edge-of-the-seat atmosphere it aims for. As the film approaches its
final act, the level of preposterousness goes off the chart, Terry
becoming an indestructible killing machine who survives certain death
to return for one more attempt at killing meddling teenager Ruby.

Still, Sobieski does look mighty fine in that swimsuit...
