
I laughed so hard during this movie my face hurt. Ben Affleck was
hilarious and reminded me of a pretty boy Jack Black in this role.
Gandolfini gives his typical A performance. The entire cast is funny,
the story pretty good and the comic moments awesome. I went into this
movie not expecting much so perhaps that is why I was so surprised to
come out of the flick thoroughly pleased and facially exhausted. I
would recommend this movie to anyone who enjoys comedy, can identify
with loneliness during the holidays and/or putting up with the
relatives. The best part to this film (to me anyway) were the subtle
bits of humor that caught me completely off guard and had me laughing
long after the rest of the audience had stopped. Namely, the scene
involving the lighting of the Christmas tree. Go see it and have a good
laugh!
<|_=00=_|>
Don't listen to the critics - this film is truly hilarious and, more to
the point, touching.

I am not a real fan of Ben Affleck - I am somewhat ambivalent about hi
- but he knocks the comedy ball out of the park in this film.
Gandolfini is also excellent, as always.

Is this a holiday classic? Perhaps not, but in the tradition of Bad
Santa, this is going to become part of my DVD collection as soon as
possible.

Do yourself a favor - go see this truly funny movie! The only downside
is your sides will hurt from all the laughs!

Merry Christmas!
<|_=00=_|>
Surviving Christmas

A ridiculous and perverse premise has somehow made its way onto cinema
screens this Christmas. Just like Christmas With The Kranks and The
Polar Express, Surviving Christmas winds towards a festive moral that
aims to fill the audience with yuletide cheer. The execution of said
moral in this particular seasonal release is highly questionnaire but
unmistakably funny.

Surviving Christmas has been slammed by the critics remorselessly.
Nobody seems to have liked this twisted retelling of the story of
Scrooge, and I believe I have found the answer: nobody likes Ben
Affleck.

Affleck plays a rich ad executive who pays a dysfunctional family to
take him in and make Christmas just how it was when he was a child.
This seriously strange idea could, in the right hands, been a gross out
smash hit in the Farrely brothers style. Instead, Mike Mitchell decides
to take the whole thing a little too seriously and what results is a
comedy that is uncomfortable with itself. As a result the actors are
left unsure whether to play their characters straight or exaggerated.
This can be all be blamed on the script, or lack thereof. Filming took
place without a finished draft, and thus, parts of the film were
improvised and unfunny material remains in the final cut.

Nevertheless, there are many positive attributes to this genre
subverting film. James Gandolfini is very entertaining as the
constantly resentful Tom Valco whose only vice, in true Christmas
spirit, is money.

Ben Affleck style in comedic roles is disliked by many, but his
specific brand of humour is allowed to thrive in this unnatural plot
and situation driven comedy. The character of the son (Josh Zuckerman)
is underdeveloped, as is the family's relationship with its neighbours,
but again the unfinished script can be held accountable.

Surviving Christmas is by no means a great film, but it is certainly
not as bad as it has been labelled. Unfortunately, most won't get a
chance to decide for themselves until this film is released on DVD as
it was grossly under marketed in the UK. An offbeat comedy and a
genuine step forward for the Scrooge remakes that when given the chance
to shine in its own right, works quite well.
<|_=00=_|>
Surviving Christmas is a surprisingly funny movie especially
considering the bad publicity when it was first released. Ben Affleck
is funny as an obnoxious millionaire who pays the family that occupies
his childhood home to be his family for Christmas. He then drives the
family crazy with overindulgence for Christmas cheer. I have not been a
Ben Affleck fan in the past (though I did like Daredevil and Paycheck)
but here he is well cast in this role. I also like Christina Applegate
as the daughter in the family who can't stand Affleck's character at
first. Sure you can see where this movie is going but you don't care.
Ignore what the critics say and rent this movie out because it is
funnier than a lot of Christmas movies.
<|_=00=_|>
I had some reservations about this movie, I figured it would be the
usual bill of fare --- a formula movie about Christmas. Being in the
middle of a heat wave in late June, we decided to give it a shot
anyway, maybe we would see some snow.

This movie turned out to be one laugh after another. Ben Affleck was
believable in his character, but the real star of this one is James
Gandofini. He delivered his lines with a real wit about him and made a
great "dad".

If you want to have an enjoyable couple of hours, definitely check this
one out.
<|_=00=_|>
What would you expect from a film titled 'Surviving Christmas'and
presented as 'festive fun', something like Ghandi or English patient?
There are lots of things I love about this film, it's funny, it is very
well cast and it is superbly written. I came to the film as a
Kaplan/Elfort fan but was dubious when I read the plot, it sounded
ridiculous. But the film doesn't come across like that because Affleck
(as Drew Latham) plays his part perfectly, one minute a child-like
adult, the next a mature man who realises he has gained everything in
life apart from what he really wants. In fact we see Latham grow up in
this film, when he encounters the problems of those he envies and
realises that their lives are not so good, he sees that his own lot is
not so bad.

This film has fewer weak or dud scenes than many other comedies I have
seen. Comedy is so much harder than any other type of drama, it either
works or it doesn't and very few comedy writers get it correct every
time.I particularly loved the drama scene, where the family take to
reading parts written by Latham . The pleasure is in the reaction of
Tom Valco (James Gandolfini) and the comments of Brian Valco (Josh
Zuckerman). It is the dilemma of the greedy Tom Valco who has to bite
his tongue, wear silly hats or sing to the Christmas tree in order to
earn the prize money that keeps the film moving along well.

The addition of daughter Alicia (Christina Applegate) into the story
brings a delightful romantic angle, and why not in a Christmas film? Of
course its corny and contrived; he's rich and handsome, she's beautiful
and single, and so inevitably her and Afflect end up falling over
together in the snow and finding themselves face to face. Great! One
thing I would have liked was more use of festive music to boost the
atmosphere but I can't really complain. I got what I wanted.
<|_=00=_|>
At first i didn't think that Ben Affleck could really pull off a funny
Christmas movie,, boy was i wrong, my daughter invited me to watch this
with her and i was not disappointed at all. James Gandolfini was
funny,, i really liked Christina Appelagate, and Catherine O' Hara was
good too, the storyline is what really sold me,, i mean,, too put up
with family,, at the table for people you only hardly see but once or
twice a year,, and probably don't get along with anyway,, you really do
need as much alcohol as you're system can stand to deal with
Christmas,, so i thought that the premise was good there, buying the
family with 250000 dollars, was a little on the far fetched side,, but
it turned out to work pretty good for me,, cause it was a riot all the
way through, it shows the class struggle of the different families. it
has lot's of funny moments, including embarrassing stuff on the
computer for a teenage boy. all in all i loved this movie and will
watch it again next Christmas or sooner if my daughter wants too.
<|_=00=_|>
Its a good thing I rented the movie before seeing the viewer rating
from this site. It was a wonderful movie that I will be adding to my
Christmas selection. The cast was wonderfully chosen and Ben Affleck
plays a good leading role. I would tell viewers who have not seen the
movie to go ahead and buy it. I rate it right up there with Christmas
vacation. The movie was very funny and well written and Ben plays the
eccentric rich executive very well. The things he says and does is just
how I would imagine a person with too much money to act. The movie is
much funnier than The Santa Claus and Christmas With The Kranks. Plus
it has a good story line and teaches the true meaning of Christmas
which is you can't buy love with money.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie isn't as bad as I heard. It was enjoyable, funny and I love
that is revolves around the holiday season. It totally has me in the
mood to Christmas shop and listen to holiday music. When this movie
comes out on DVD it will take the place of Christmas Vacation in my
collection. It will be a movie to watch every year after Thanksgiving
to get me in the mood for the best time of the year. I heard that Ben's
character was a bit crazy but I think it just adds to the movie and why
be so serious all the time. Take it for what is it, a Christmas comedy
with a love twist. I enjoyed it. No, it isn't Titanic and it won't make
your heart pound with anticipation but it will bring on a laugh or two.
So go laugh and have a good time:)
<|_=00=_|>
i know it's not Christmas season,but i thought i'd watch this movie
anyway.i didn't really have any expectations going in,so imagine my
surprise when this turns out to be a watchable movie.it's not really
very funny,but it has some amusing moments and it's not boring.i guess
this was supposed to be a Ben Affleck vehicle,but i thought James
Gandolfini and Catherine O'Hara had the more interesting characters and
added more to the movie than Affleck did.Affleck does okay here,but he
really has less to do than Gandolfini and O'Hara.Christina Applegate
has a small role in the movie.this is a movie that satisfies you for 90
minutes,and then is quickly forgotten soon after.for me,"Surviving
Christmas" is watchable and entertaining.as a result,i'll give it a
6/10
