
Not many movies keep on getting better and better as you watch them for
the 5th, 6th or 7th time, especially comedies. The first time I saw
this movie in the Cinema it didn't blow me away, and most people I know
who have seen this movie only once do not rate it very highly. After
seeing it a few times I rate this movie as high as Fletch and other
classic comedies, probably higher.

There is so many worthwhile jokes that I think it must have taken quite
a while to write - if you don't have a similar sense of humour you
would probably think they had written it all in one night which clearly
wasn't the case. There is not a lot to complain about with respect to
the acting either - their style suits the movie perfectly.

Remember that it is a comedy first and foremost - if you are looking
for an clever story you have the wrong genre. Criticism of the movie
being a series of sketches or jokes is really irrelevant - one look at
the cover or preview tells you exactly what kind of movie it is.
Regardless, there is nothing wrong with the plot and if you
appreciate/comprehend the jokes the movie flows just fine.

If you are going to watch it, watch it 2 or 3 times.
<|_=00=_|>

One of the funniest movies I've seen in a long time.  I haven't seen a
funnier first 10 minutes of a movie since SOUTH PARK -- the gags are
puerile
and stupid, yes, but they are also refreshingly original.  No fair
comparing
this to POLICE ACADEMY -- the characters in that dreadful series of movies
were all alien morons and hardly recognizable as human beings.  These
characters are smart and fully fleshed out -- these are the kind of guys
who
remind you of your friends.  This movie should be an inspiration to both
aspiring film-makers and to the big studios -- you don't need a $20
million
actor and twenty-five different writers and a ridiculously contrived
concept
to make a successful comedy.  If I were running a big studio, I'd sign
Broken Lizard up to do 10 more movies at the $5-$10 million range, let
them
hit their stride and develop a following, and cash in on the DVD sales.
And
let's face it -- none of these guys are leading men, none of them would
ever
have had a career in Hollywood on their own, but together, they're funnier
than those lames on SNL.
<|_=00=_|>

Super Troopers?  Never heard of it.
Then I saw it.  Then I hit play again and watched it twice in a row.
Sitting in an Airbase in Turkey, I knew I had found what would be our
number
one "cruise flick."  The movie that all the officers of Fighting VAQ-134,
could watch together, then spend the next few weeks quoting.   One guy
even
got a callsign, "Farva."  Perfect.  There is a lot of great material to
chew
on all through the movie.  The rivalry, pranks, and rookie bashing are
things we cherish.  And we can all relate to having that one guy around
who
drives you crazy.  Many of my peers have already purchased the movie.
And
we have incorporated many of the quotes into our cinematically based
lingo.

My recommendation is to grab a bunch of friends, maybe some cold
beverages,
and have a good time.  You just may want to become a Highway
Patrolman.

<|_=00=_|>

The ensemble cast in this film takes the just above average drug humor
and turns it into a laugh festival. I rate this movie as funny as
Animal House.

The Local Highway Troopers are hapless, hopeless, and not anyone you
want on YOUR highway, but man are they funny! You truly find yourself
loving this crew as they struggle to keep their station open in the
face of budget cuts.

The characters are so widely diverse yet so believable from the
ethnically questionable leader of the crew Arkot Ramathorne (Thorny)
whose girlfriend runs a head shop to the adorable and insane Mack whose
wild stunts steal the show on a regular basis.

<|_=00=_|>

Super Troopers LOOKS stupid but came through in the clutch with solid laughs
from this comedy team.

I'm not going to use some lame rating system like the other guy used but I
will say this: IT IS BETTER THAN THOSE MOVIES HE MENTIONED.

Super Troopers combines solid physical comedy with surprisingly solid comedy
writing. Its by no means a classic, but it is very worth sitting around with
some friends, smacking a few beers and checking out this
flick.

I was surprised by the hilarity of this movie, hopefully you will
too.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was hysterical! The way they joked around with each other
was so true to life! It wasn't unrealistic at all! Anybody who sees
this will have to agree that there is at least one character in the
film that reminds them of one of their buddies! I know it sure reminded
me of the guys that hang around me! We just saw the movie this evening
on IFC in widescreen, without commercials, and unedited. I am very
happy I waited to see it this way instead of a TNT, TBS, USA, or FOX
broadcast version. I am definitely getting this movie on DVD as soon as
possible! The outtakes and behind the scenes features are probably
fantastic!
<|_=00=_|>

This was a welcome change of 
pace, a film that was a bit independent 
and a bit mainstream, yet all in all, 
was still hilarious. With an unknown 
and unproven cast, this film captured 
a certain sense of zeal within a viewer, 
certainly making the viewer wish 
highway patrolmen were this funny and 
irregular all the time. Funny, even though 
the comedy was sometimes low brow, 
this film certainly earned its accolades 
at the Sundance Film Festival.
<|_=00=_|>

I have seen this movie about 25 times and it is absolutely one of the
funniest movies I've ever seen. The comedy is fresh and deep at times but if
you have any sort of a sense of humor...you'll love it. The characters are
built well and the film flows evenly until the end. Farva is the funniest
character and works well with the others.

Buy it!
<|_=00=_|>
If you try to picture that, you'll understand what kind of movie you're
getting when you watch this hilarious movie. This is one, that will
actually require a second viewing after wards, either because you're
laughing so hard, or you don't get most of the jokes. If you don't
understand it the first time around, please watch it again. There are a
LOT of jokes and gags here, most of them are fall-on-the-floor funny,
and even if you don't get it, the movie will still make you smile. I
think this is the perfect movie to watch on a bad day. It will cheer
you up instantly.

The film follows the ridiculously stupid antics of a team of five
Vermont State Troopers, Thorny, Farva, Mac, Foster, and Rabbit, none of
whom would really qualify for a bronze medal in the special Olympics
(as far as police work goes). These cops' idea of a good time involves
playing bizarre, often rude mind games with the speeders they pull over
(such as, trying to substitute as many words as possible with the word
"meow," and repeating each other's lines), and chugging bottles of
maple syrup in the nearby diner. The state cops and the local cops are
rivals, and if the contest was for sanity, the locals would win in a
landslide. The mayor is threatening to shut down the state troopers
precinct, and when a murder that somehow involves drugs occurs on the
highway, the inept highway patrolmen find this as a last ditch effort
to save their jobs. 

Yep, the plot highly resembles something from The Naked Gun, and while
the film isn't as great as that, the laughs are nearly just as
consistent. Once you see the movie for the third time, you will need to
pause the movie occasionally in order to let out all your laughter from
the last hysterical gag, and prepare yourself for the next one, which
will of course, come probably as soon as you hit the play button. 

The actors who play the five troopers are all really talented unknowns
(especially the guy who plays Farva), and they should all get more
starring roles. These guys really know how to make you laugh your ass
off, and the fact that they manage to keep the straightest faces
imaginable while doing it is priceless. These guys need more
recognition, because as long as these guys aren't acting, lots of
talent is going to waste. This film really makes me want to see the
other Broken Lizard movie, Club Dread, just so I can see these guys in
action again. The scenery in the film is just plain gorgeous, with the
beautiful green New England look. It's a happy setting, that totally
sets a mood of impending hilarity. From the hysterical opening sequence
involving some stoned teenagers and littering, you'll need to duct tape
your sides together to avoid splitting. Quoting another review, this
film may seriously impair your ability to keep a straight face while
speaking to a state trooper. I couldn't agree more. This hilarious film
receives an 8/10. Please watch it again if it isn't hilarious to you
the first time.

Super Troopers is proudly rated R for Language, Sexual Content, and
Drug Use. Sex: 8/10 Violence: 5/10 Swearing: 10/10 Drugs: 7/10
<|_=00=_|>

It is mind-boggling that viewers gave this film an average rating of
better
than 6 points out of 10.  I went in expecting some zany fun along the
lines
of Airplane or National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation.  Instead the movie
offered a few lame sight gags and a cast of characters that you just
didn't
grow to care about.  Were I still a 16-year-old male (instead of a
45-year-old male) I might not have viewed this film as such a big waste of
time.  But my tastes have changed since I was sixteen.
