
I've heard a lot of reviews saying this was a bad movie. I disagree! I
don't know if any of these people have read any of the books, let alone
Hannibal Rising, but I loved the movie. Given, it seemed like Thomas
Harris wrote the book strictly for the movie, but I felt this movie was
made to have people understand how Lecter, "the monster" was created.

Yes, Lecter is irrational and that's the point. Hannibal Lecter is
suppose to be distant because he's a psychopath. He's suppose to be
apathetic. Some people mistook that for bad acting.

Comparing the movie to the book...they were about 85% compatible. Minor
changes were made, but nothing too critical.

I think some people are quick to make this movie out to be horrible
because they really are milking the Hannibal Lecter story, but I felt
it to be a decent movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to a free screening of this movie tonight, Thursday December 12,
2006 at the mall cause they gave out free passes at my work across the
street.

I wont give really much away...but the movie itself was great. Great
locations, great acting--especially by Gaspard Ulliel as Hannibal. I
swear his acting was so good that it was scary and near perfect as the
demented Hannibal Lechter.

The story about how he came to be was great also starting with his
youth during WW2 in 1944. And 8 years later, the main plot line unfolds
showing him becoming a medical school student in France where he begins
to learn of the many body parts that make a human work.

All in All this movie is a delectable revenge type movie with scary,
dark bad guys and many gruesome deaths.

*two thumbs up*
<|_=00=_|>
Isn't it interesting that most critics of this film whine that it
didn't measure up to "The Silence of the Lambs"? If you merely want a
reworking of Lambs, go rent Lambs and watch it again. Frankly, anyone
who goes to see "Hannibal Rising" hoping to have the same response and
emotions engendered by "Lambs" is a boob of the first magnitude.

The fact is, "Red Dragon" and "Lambs" are psychological thrillers,
"Hannibal" is an action flick and "Hannibal Rising" is a biopic/action
flick. Of the four Lecter films, "Hannibal Rising" is second only to
"Lambs" in overall quality. ("Red Dragon" was spoiled by Ed Norton's
astoundingly robotic performance; "Hannibal" was a visual masterpiece
but was ultimately tainted by the the screenwriters' obvious
desperation to concoct an ending that bore no resemblance to the
novel's very cool conclusion.) "Hannibal Rising" has it all. 1) Superb
direction (Lecter's riverside encounter with Paul Momund is stunning in
its ballet-like choreography); 2) a perfectly paced screenplay; 3)
beautiful art direction and design; and 4) powerful performances.

Li Gong's Lady Murasaki is actually as I pictured her in the novel:
beautiful, mysterious and not-to-be-trifled with. But it's Gaspard
Ulliel who steals the show. It amazes me that he successfully played
someone who's simultaneously a sweet, vulnerable youth victimized by
the Nazis and the Soviets and a calculating, coldblooded murderer.
Ulliel's finest moment is when Lecter unleashes his unhinged wrath in
the climatic scene aboard the river barge; it was thoroughly
disturbing.

Don't listen to the critics. Go see this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Contrary to a lot of other comments on this board I thought this was a
great film. And having just finished the book beforehand it met all my
expectations no problem. Ulliel looked very menacing as the anti-hero
Lecter but charming at times as well, just as Hannibal should be and he
is backed up by a strong supporting cast (Rhys Ifans in particular).

There are nice references to The Silence of the Lambs the Samurai's
face mask that Hannibal tries on resembling the mask worn in SOTL and
the music that he listens to in his room at the medical school which is
the same as he has playing in his cell in Baltimore.

I was hooked from start to finish and would recommend this film to
anyone.
<|_=00=_|>
'Hannibal Rising' faces many of the problems that will beset any
prequel. When the audience already knows how the larger story arc is
going to resolve itself, how do you make the new prequel engaging? With
a charismatic enigma like Hannibal, there is also great risk of the new
young version seeming like a hollow parody of the older more familiar
version played by Anthony Hopkins. I believe that 'Hannibal Rising' is
largely successful. It didn't strike me as a stand out film but I was
satisfied with it overall and do think that it has more value than just
to enthusiasts of the Thomas Harris books. I'd rate it a comfortable
second place out of the five films with Hannibal as a character (I
count 'Manhunter').

'Hannibal Rising' does seem a bit choppy and for a plot that explores
what drives a character into psychosis and lust for revenge, it didn't
really spend much time trying to flesh out the Hannibal character. You
get the brush strokes and the gist of things but a lot of the minutiae
seems glossed over. I guess my point is that the audience curiosity for
this film would be, I suspect, about what things turn Hannibal INTO
Hannibal -- the internal process-- and not just solely about watching
him hunt down and destroy those who have crossed him. A minor point
perhaps but it struck me as odd in watching this that a series of films
devoted to one of cinema's richest characters wouldn't really get in
depth character exploration in the prequel for the series.

This is not intended to criticize what I thought was a well directed
and tensely executed film. It is a violent film -- no kidding, right?
-- but a lot of the violence is implied, in the background or
off-camera. I really commend this decision as my imagination is much
more vivid when things are suggested and not shown. 'Hannibal' worked
not through terrorizing the audience but more through horrifying. I was
balanced on the edge of trepidation and distaste as Hannibal entered
each show down with characters he wanted to extract vengeance from. I
love sitting through a tense thriller that offers no relief and this
was almost the case here. My fellow Canadians and I were in tears of
laughter when it was announced that a character had fled 'to a village
outside of Saskatoon.' Surely unintended humour, and almost certainly
audience specific.

What interested me most was the discussion I had with friends after we
finished watching the film. I asked them when they felt sympathy for
Hannibal was lost in the film -- and make no mistake, the events in the
opening act are very much designed to put you behind Hannibal. Some
said after the first killing. Some said the moment he transforms from
child to youth. I think it comes later. Hannibal is rooted for almost
out of default initially. His antagonists are just that much more evil
and repellent that you throw your sympathy to him. This changes when a
policeman asks Hannibal to help him track down these same antagonists.
Hannibal has the choice of doing or not doing this. His response and
subsequent actions for the remainder of the film decided my sympathies
for me. Lesser acts of evil, might be used to purify and cleanse
greater acts of evil, but are still evil in themselves when the
motivation and the cost are the substitution of salvation and justice
for corruption and revenge.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, no Anthony Hopkins so I didn't expect greatness, but was
pleasantly surprised. Gaspard Ulliel did a very good job and has a
wonderful look about him. I was caught up in the story about how
Hannibal got started. To give an idea of my opinion so you know where
I'm coming from, I think Anthony Hopkins is one of the greatest actors
of our time and he was brilliant as Hannibal. That being said, I was
reluctant to see this. However I can now say I'm hoping for more. The
movie was done very professionally. They are saying this is the best
since Silence of the Lambs. I now believe them although I did like
Hannibal better than most. I don't want to give too much away, just
believe me it's worth the time to see it. Just don't expect Anthony
Hopkins. Keep in mind this is Hannibal at a much younger age. Go into
it with an open mind.
<|_=00=_|>
Presented as a prequel of the well known "Manhunter" and "The silence
of the lambs", this movie pays apparently no care for verisimilitude.
Lecter - we learn - is a victim of brutal violence suffered when he was
8 years old. He survives bombing, war criminals, a Soviet orphanage, a
travel from USSR to France in the 50es (with also a jump through the
Berlin Wall), where he finds a beautiful Japanese (!) aunt (Gong Li).
He already speaks a perfect French and is able to study medicine
without apparently having had any education (in the orphanage scenes he
cannot even speak due to the war trauma). Since he is Lithuanian, he
probably could speak German (very common in those countries before
WW2). Weird enough, the Japanese aunt is a survivor of the Hiroshima
nuclear bombing and she is a sort of Super Geisha Samurai who can fight
under the ancient rules of Kendo (something a woman of the 40es or 50es
could not even dream to do in Japan). Lecter himself shows to be able
to cut a man's head off in one single hit of sword, in a scene so silly
that I could not keep from laughing. In the end, this movie is simply
an example of commercial exploitation of a once good idea, just like
"Red Dragon" (a completely useless remake of the masterpiece
"Manhunter" by Michael Mann) and "Hannibal". Stick to the original ones
and let this movies out of your "to see" list.
<|_=00=_|>
Hannibal Rising tells the story of Hannibal Lecter from age 8 to his
early 20s. After his parents are killed during World War II, only he
and his sister are left alive in their family lodge. A group of Nazi
soldiers stumble upon the lodge and take shelter, but as they begin to
starve they decide to use Hannibal's sister for food. Hannibal ends up
escaping and ends up in an orphanage where he has gone mute due to his
traumatic experience. He escapes the orphanage and goes to live with
his late uncle's widow. When he finds the names of all those
responsible for his sister's death, he goes on a murderous revenge
spree, and he begins to cannibalize his victims. Not even he can see
the monster that he is becoming. The fifth entry into the Hannibal
Lecter series is entertaining, but could have been better.

Lets start off with what's good about this movie. As a revenge story,
it's very good and very entertaining. It's about a young boy that
watched the person he loved most brutally murdered and used for food.
As soon as he's old enough, he makes a promise to his sister to do
something about it, and he does. This movie would have been even better
if it was a standalone film, but instead it's an origin story of the
greatest movie villain ever. As a Hannibal Lecter movie, there are a
few problems. They show some of the more important aspects of Hannibal
Lecter beginning to shine through, such as his interest in medicine,
and his loathing for rudeness. It even shows him beginning to taunt
people who are interviewing him ("Now tell me inspector, did you choose
war crimes?"). Hannibal Lecter shows more emotion in this movie than
all the others combined, but that makes sense since he's not a monster
quite yet. The only thing I really had a problem with was that they way
the script was written, it seems that Hannibal would get his revenge
and then stop. The movie doesn't really explain why Lecter would turn
into a serial killer.

The acting is pretty good. Not one big name American actor appears in
this film, which is kind of cool because we're not distracted by any
big names, which leaves more focus on the characters. Gaspard Ulliel
does a really good job as Lecter. Taking over for Anthony Hopkins isn't
the easiest thing to do. He does the Lecter tone of voice pretty good.
I didn't really feel like Dominic West was as involved with the plot as
he could have been.

Overall, this is an entertaining movie, and it's nice for Hannibal fans
to see him in a movie again, but they missed some opportunities to make
connections to the other movies.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
Back in 2002, Anthony Hopkins announced he wouldn't play Hannibal
Lecter again. However, producer Dino De Laurentiis, refusing to put his
lucrative franchise (ironically, the Oscar-winning Silence of the Lambs
was the only Lecter film he had nothing to do with) to rest, decided to
bring the character back, with or without Hopkins. And since novelist
Thomas Harris had already mentioned a small but significant part of the
famous cannibal's past in one of the books, the solution was pretty
simple.

Following the example of Batman Begins and Casino Royale, Hannibal
Rising revolves around the protagonist's early years, trying to
convincingly explain why such a brilliant man became a cannibal.
Apparently, the answer is to be found in a tragedy that marked young
Hannibal for the rest of his life.

It's 1944, and the Lecter mansion in Lituania is under attack from the
Nazis. The family runs off to a cabin in the woods, only to be killed,
leaving only Hannibal and his little sister Mischa alive. Just to make
things worse, the two are taken hostage by a bunch of local SS
employees, lead by the psychotic Grutas (Rhys Ifans). Within a few days
Mischa is killed, and her death has such a devastating effect on her
brother he doesn't speak for eight years. He only starts connecting
with the real world again once he moves to France and lives under the
protective wing of his uncle's widow, Lady Murasaki (Gong Li). As their
relationship moves to more complex and dangerous levels, the tormented
youngster (Gaspard Ulliel) also becomes fascinated with the study of
the human body, and the various tools he learns to use in medical
school will come in handy once he discovers Grutas and his men are
still alive and decides it's payback time.

Many bad things have been said of Hannibal Rising. Some found the idea
of justifying Lecter's insanity useless, while others complained about
the book being a mere commercial gimmick to promote the film. The
latter theory may be true (after all, the novel preceded the movie by
just six weeks), but I actually think Thomas Harris and director Peter
Webber (whose previous work, Girl with a Pearl Earring, also dealt with
an origin story, though obviously in a different way) have done an
admirable job: the mood is kept suitably creepy for the entire
duration, and while there's plenty of gore (the on-screen murders are
less gratuitously bloody than in Ridley Scott's Hannibal, but more
imaginative and shocking), the focus is constantly on the characters,
particularly Lecter and Lady Murasaki, and their evolution. The weak
link in the film is Inspector Popil (Dominic West), a police officer
whose presence has the sole purpose of reminding long-time fans of Will
Graham and Clarice Starling. Pity the lack of any convincing back-story
robs him of their charm.

Another inappropriate element is a scene where young Hannibal wears a
samurai mask which is identical to the one he's forced to use in the
original trilogy. The shot itself is great, no doubt, but it's
absolutely clear its only reason to exist is to evoke Anthony Hopkins.

Luckily, that one moment doesn't take anything away from Ulliel's
sublime performance: he obviously borrows a few things (the sly
food-related witticisms, the spooky stare) from Hopkins, but adds more
elegance and charisma, making the character more similar to a vampire
than a cannibal. Also notable is the supporting cast, the strongest
contributions coming from Li (the sexual tension between her and Ulliel
is palpable and conveniently unsettling) and an almost unrecognizable
Ifans (most moviegoers probably remember him as Hugh Grant's moronic
roommate in Notting Hill).

So, in the end, Hannibal Rising is not a perfect film, but it is
sufficiently interesting and scary to satisfy fans of the franchise.

7,5/10
