

This very clever and fun little film has had more off-base reviews written
about it than any film in history.  Way too many reviewers react with horror
at - gasp - stereotypical representations of Italians.  They neglect the
fact that in actual fact the Italian-ness is 100% of the charm and beauty of
the film, and that not one of the Italians are not people we have all seen
in real life.  They also neglect the fact that Italian culture and tradition
has seldom looked so good or as real as it does in "Mambo Italiano."  The
Italian sister is heroic in her actions, and the Italian parents who come
around in he end are just like parents of ANY nationality.  I really fail to
see what all the squawking about "negative stereotypes" is all about.

As a Southerner and as a gay man I know something about stereotyping. All
groups get stereotyped.  This is not necessarily a bad thing, unless it is
the ONLY representation of a group that society ever sees.  We all need to
see the true diversity of any group.  I think we have all seen plenty of
other Italians and gay persons now, so we don't have to worry that a viewer
will see this movie and assume that all Italians and gay men are like the
folks in "Mambo Italiano."  But frankly, if they did, I think they would
have rather positive images of Italians.  Unfortunately they would leave the
theater thinking that half of all gay men get married to women in order to
hide the fact that they are gay.   Luckily I suspect most folks know this is
not the case, though it certainly does happen, since society still makes it
impossible for some of us to stay in certain professions and be gay at the
same time (cops, firemen, coaches, soldiers in the U.S., pro
athletes...).

"Mambo Italiano" is hilarious and light-hearted.  It is a big mistake to try
to read too much into it.  Just sit back, relax, and laugh.  It is one heck
of a clever, funny little film, with a surprise ending. Betcha can't guess
how it ends!


<|_=00=_|>

I decided to see this film because I had nothing else to do.  I wasn't
expecting much more than gay stereotypes and ridiculous humor.  However I
discovered just the opposite.

I have heard comparisons to "My Big Fat Greek Wedding", but the only
similarity I see is in the stereotypical presentation of nationalities.
However, these stereotypes aren't offensive, but more so delightful and
some
what sweet.

Angelo (Luke Kirby) is presented with just enough humor, but more so just
enough heart that it makes the character beleiveable.  For once gays are
not
presented as obnoxious drag queens or someone dying from AIDS.  In fact,
the
two latter factions are not even present in the film.  Instead it focuses
on
one mans humorous journey of self discovery in both relations to his
family,
partner, and his own sexuality.

At the end of the film, you leave feeling very happy.  Sure everything
turned out for the best in the end, but sometimes we need films like this
to
remind just how fun and quirky life can be at times.  
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this film at the cinema last year, and I found it very funny.
As an Italian-born male, sentences like " Italians move out either when
they marry or when they die" made me really laugh, because this is
partly true! Nevertheless, I think there's something which needs making
clear. The characters and situations portrayed in the film are credible
and hilarious insofar as they're set in the Italian communities of
Canada, USA or Australia. I worked for 4 years in the export department
of a company making Italian espresso coffee, thus getting in touch with
lots of Italians who had settled in faraway countries many years ago.
What I noticed is that most of them retain a picture of Italy and a
system of values which were real in the country they left behind years
ago, but look old-fashioned and rather over-the-top in today's Italy. I
think it's undeniable that ethnic communities abroad are more
conservative and traditional than the countries they came from, as they
cling to values that, though being "frozen" for them, have evolved in
the meantime. So some characters and situations of the film appear
exaggerated if compared with Italians of 2005, but are really amusing
if set in the context of the life of Italian immigrants, who represent
what we used to be a few decades ago. A light comedy, to be enjoyed
without taking ourselves too seriously.
<|_=00=_|>

This is the one film of the year I would recommend to anyone who wants a
good laugh. Ignore the po-faced people who did not enjoy it and prepare
yourself for an over-the-top stereotypical portrayal of "chaotic yet
serene"
ethnics in the wrong province in the wrong country. It is well-scripted
and
well-edited and the timing of the actors and director never fails. If you
want to find out about real gay life or Italian Quebeckers, this is not
the
film to see; it is just an excellent comedy with plenty of gems - and
good
comedies are few and far between nowadays.
<|_=00=_|>
A hilariously funny and thoughtful movie!

Gay guys lovers both in repressive families face the pressures of
"coming out". Can they survive or will one with a dominating mother and
job as a cop be forced to live a lie and the life of a straight?

Scene after scene is highly entertaining. The movie has an excellent
script, is beautifully filmed and deserves top marks.

The family of the guys give first class performances as do all the
players and there are so many super scenes, my favorite is when one of
the guys tries to assist on a gay helpline.

On a more serious note-can only speculate the number of gays, male and
female, forced through homophobia and pressure to be in relationships
they don't want.

10 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>

I saw a preview session of the Canadian romantic comedy Mambo Italiano last
night (15th Oct '03) and this really is one of the very best gay themed
films I've seen - and equally well suited to both a young and older
audience. 

I went to the preview because it had a gay theme - but quickly realised
there's a lot more on offer - and a great deal of the film is about family
and tradition. It's made with absolute honesty in regard to it's gay
content, and as such is neither opportunistic nor preachy.

Mambo Italiano successfully avoids all likely clichés with a beautifully
crafted script, first class acting and some of the best editing I've seen in
any motion picture. And it looks spectacular - verging on
surreal.

I thought it was wonderful that the predominantly young and mixed (and
presumably straight) crowd all laughed, swooned, sobbed and cringed -
although not all at the same time - proving that there are a lot of angles
to this film which will appeal to a very broad audience.

Mambo Italiano is the best time I've had in a movie theatre in the last
couple of years - and it thoroughly deserves commercial success.

I like that the TV adverts are give none of the film away, in fact
understating how good it really is. You'll be surprised - it's the sort of
film you'd love to see twice. 

"Gayline" telephone counsellors around the globe will have to forgive one
aspect of the plot (the lack of adequate training before going on-line), but
they'll get a kick out of the fact that they're a key plot line.

<|_=00=_|>
This film is about a second generation Italian immigrant having to come
to terms with the drastic consequences of coming out of the closet.

This film is unlike any other film I have seen. It is very fast paced,
each subplot don't last for more than 1 minute. There is a lot of self
narrative. It also shows intersecting events and scenes of relevant
characters, which is unusual for a comedy.

The sets are visually rich and appealing, and are always colourful and
carefully constructed. The character development is great, and we care
about the characters in the film. The script is excellent. The neurotic
sister is hilarious. The arguments of the parents are very lively and
funny, and are entertaining to watch. The costumes are nice and trendy,
but not over the top.

In summary, this film is a lot of fun, very entertaining, humorous,
visually appealing, and there is something for everyone! The only gay
scene is a half a second kiss, which certainly will not hinder its
crossover appeal to the mainstream. This film deserves more recognition
than it gets!
<|_=00=_|>
Unlike some other commentators, I knew nothing about this film except
it's a comedy about gay men. So I didn't expect much, but got all the
more! First of all, I was glad to see that the main character was
neither the classic handsome Hollywood macho, nor a feminine gay man
but just an average-looking young guy. The other guy does look more
cliché, but then he's the one who ends up in the closet, feeling guilty
about being gay. The acting is superb throughout the film.

Someone commented that it's not all that funny. Well, it's true -
coming out and breaking up with family or your lover are always
painful, and I don't like films which ignore this side of the story. If
you're deeply touched by Angelo's story, then it has performed the task
such films, I think, are supposed to do: to make the audience more
sensitive to gay people's issues. At the same time, though, it's pretty
funny - just like your own coming out is often funny looking back. The
confession scene is hilarious, and I laughed my heart out at the gay
helpline scene - working for a GLBT helpline myself, I can assure you:
this is just as distorted as the image of the Italian community. (We
could use that scene for training purposes, though: what not to do...)
<|_=00=_|>
Maybe it's because I come from Italian heritage that I find this film
so funny. I honestly think I laughed out loud during this film one of
the highest amounts I've ever belly-laughed during a movie. And you
know how you laugh later on in a movie when nothing funny is going on
because the thought of something hilarious that happened earlier is
still stuck with you? Well that happened plenty of times to me here. I
believe that it's because the Southern Italian and Sicilian in me both
find fat Italian men to be perhaps the funniest group of people in the
world. They are not simply funny because they know how to tell a joke,
or they know how to pull off a good pratfall, but more because all you
have to do is look at them, and they can make you burst out laughing.
There is a scene where Paul Sorvino and Ginette Reno, whom I believe
plays his wife, sit close together on a small bench in a cemetery
facing the camera, and I suddenly started laughing. They look funny.
They don't look weird. They just look like the first thing they say or
do is going to make me laugh like a hyena.

Every scene for the first half of the film, literally every single one,
contains something explosively funny to me, and they are mostly
consisting of native Italians speaking rough English with thick Italian
accents and fulfilling stereotypes of ardent cultural traditions. Hands
down, the scenes that made me cackle so hard I thought my friend
watching it with me was going to slap me for the unreasonable sound
that can cause me to make were the scenes that depict what Italian
families are like when the son moves out.

Mambo Italiano is also a surprise, because really it doesn't look that
good. On the cover of the DVD case, you see a bunch of characters in
some comical motion lined up across the cover, and you feel like you
could pretty much guess completely what their service to the story is.
Well, you'll be vaguely right, but if it wouldn't surprise you too much
for me to say this at this point, it's a very poignant film about
growing up as a homosexual surrounded by conflicting influences and
pressure. The film will actually make you angry at society and the
reality of what friends and family can end up doing to you in your
life. But it's riotous fun.
<|_=00=_|>
Spoiler alert regarding the end of the film.

I just saw this film on cable for the first time. I'd seen it
advertised and I'd been anxious to see it.

My feelings after viewing are mixed. This film is full of good
intentions and misguided humor. I wanted to enjoy it more than I
actually did.

The casting was a mix of good and mediocre. Stereotypes abound, but
that doesn't necessarily create good chemistry, OR laughs. While Peter
Miller and Luke Kirby make a visually appealing couple, that's
essentially where the appeal ends. I could see these actors making an
"effort" to be believable together, but their performances just don't
come across as genuine. Too much of a struggle, or a stretch, or
perhaps both, for these young men? Even the "family" scenes came across
as a bit cardboard.

I was disappointed in the Nino/Angelo storyline ending. It could have
gone two ways, and either one could be considered cliché, of course,
but I'm sick and tired of seeing endings where the closeted hunk can't
deal with coming out and goes deeper into the closet and leaves his
devoted loving partner in the lurch. Even a double-switchback would
have been more intriguing (and possibly "believable") than that.

The pacing of the film was sporadic. Perhaps that was intentional, but
it didn't lend itself to the genre of romantic comedy in this instance.

There's enough about the film that I enjoyed to like it, but I can't
say that I love it. There's almost enough eye candy to justify watching
it again, though.
