

How did Holly Hunter not win that Oscar? Why weren't Evan Rachel Wood and
Nikki Reed at least nominated, let alone winners?

I have seen many films in my time, and none have held such great
performances as this, and few have spoken to the audience in such a powerful
way.

Holly Hunter, who is always superb, outdid herself in the role of Mel, the
caring mother who doesn't know when to put a tighter grip on her daughter,
Tracy. Her performance is so touching, and so painful that you want to get
inside her and show her what she needs to do.

Evan Rachel Wood is outstanding as Tracy, the young girl who so desperately
wants to fit in, and will go to any lengths to get that. Wood is always
good, but she too has outdone herself, and perfectly nailed the role of
Tracy. Not once does she come across as a pretentious actress trying to act
like a teen.

Nikki Reed, who was introduced by this film, delivers a performance that is
worth the ticket fare alone. Evie is so manipulative, so seductive, and so
real that you can't possibly blame Tracy for wanting to be like
her.

Whoever it is who decides who gets the Oscars - wake up and realise that you
need to award these to the performances, not the actors who wear the nicer
dresses!

Thirteen is one of the more powerful pieces of cinema around. The camera
probes right into the livers of our protagonists, denying anyone the joy if
seeing this grim masterpiece from a safe distance. The soundtrack rocks
along to the emotions of the characters. The performances create not only a
good film, but a little disturbing slice of life.

Having seen Thirteen, I now understand why people label some films as
important. this is certainly one of them.
<|_=00=_|>

Wow.  Talk about a train wreck.  Of course I'm speaking in reference to the
life of Tracy, the main character, not the movie itself.  I give props to
the cast and crew, they all got mad skillz.  Now for a more intellectual
look toward the dystopic view of adolescence and the loss of
innocence.

Now that I've thoroughly confused old and young alike, here's the meat and
bones of why I think you should see this movie.  The movie captures the
creation of the emotional rift between an adolescent girl and her mother. 
While the rift is eventually healed, the impact on the viewer is anything
but easily forgotten about.  The movie is shocking, don't assume that it
won't shock you; these kids do more (insert ANY shocking noun here, i.e.
sex, drugs, etc.) in a day than an average college student, at least a
college student like me, would SEE, much less do, in an enitire semester. 

Evan Rachel Wood, who plays Tracy, gives a (dare I say it about someone so
young?) Oscar-worthy performance in her portrayal of an emotionally troubled
juvenile.  She captures the mood swings, the dark brooding, the joy of being
that age perfectly.  If there was ever a reason for being scared of having a
child, much less a daughter, having a daughter like Evan Rachel Wood's
character would be it.

Nikki Reed, the co-writer of the script, deserves notation for her breakout
performance.  Her acting was very good, considering that she has never had
any experience in the field ever.  Rather than detract from her performance,
her inexperience in selling her character to the audience only added to the
dark, manipulative side of her character.  If she studies the art and craft
of acting, she will be a presence in Hollywood for years to
come.

Holly Hunter gives another stellar performance.  Her character's balance, or
lack thereof, between the enforcer of parental-rules and her desire to be
involved in her daughter's life perfectly captures the connundrum of every
parent.  The climax of the film, featuring Hunter and Wood, reminds the
viewer of the intensity that raw emotion can create when you put two amazing
actresses together and set the pressure-cooker on Nuclear
Meltdown.

Thirteen is a must-see if you are entering middle school, or if you have a
daughter entering middle school.  Better yet, go see it with your daughter;
you will both be talking about it for a long time.  I give it a
whole-hearted 10 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
One of the most common criticisms of "Thirteen" is that it is
'unrealistic'. However, "Thirteen" never claims to portray all thirteen
year olds, hell, it doesn't even claim to portray a significant number
of them. This film is about the select few who choose to take a certain
path in life. They have no true parental figures, their lives are in
shambles, and they are making a quick and painful transition into
supposed adulthood. Notice the other people in the school scenes,
they're normal, they're just studying, hanging out with their friends,
and going through the motions of school life. Those aren't the people
that are being portrayed here.

Nikki Reed, an immense young talent, plays Evie Zamora, the hottest and
arguably most popular girl in school. Evan Rachel Wood plays Tracy, a
girl who still keeps her stuffed animals and Barbie dolls on her bed,
and whose parents have divorced recently and whose mother works as a
hairdresser out of her home to support the family. Tracy goes to junior
high completely oblivious of any of the social pressure that's present,
and begins to idolize Evie, obviously a terrible role model. In an
outstanding early scene, Tracy follows Evie into a shopping mall and is
initially appalled at the idea of shoplifting, but in a desperate
attempt to fit in with the 'cool' crowd, she steals a purse from a
woman who sat next to her, and finds Evie again, at which point she is
accepted. Sooner rather than later, Tracy is drawn into a terrible
depression which she deals with by using drugs, cutting herself, and
being sexually promiscuous. She does all this completely uncertain of
whether she wants to, and mostly because she's following Evie's lead.
To say that no 13 year olds have experiences similar to this is pure
ignorance, and if you're a parent who thinks this is unrealistic- think
again, and think hard. In today's world, narcotics are available as
easily as candy bars, and pop stars are more like porn stars, putting
pressure on today's teens to become promiscuous sooner in life.

Wood is a terrific, terrific actress who has made some questionable
career choices before and since this, but I hope to see her continue to
star in films like "The Upside of Anger" and "Down in the Valley".
However, in this particular film, even her tremendously powerful
performance pales in comparison with Holly Hunter's Oscar-nominated
supporting role as Tracy's mother, and by Nikki Reed, who, in her first
ever acting role, is nothing short of stunning. This role is very, very
racy for any 15 year old to take on, and Reed, who also co-wrote this
film's terrific script with Catherine Hardwicke, takes it on with
maturity I've never seen before from an actress of her age. First time
director Catherine Hardwicke does a great job here, her work is
inventive and adds real grit to this tale.

The bottom line is, "Thirteen" is a great, realistic, disturbing urban
drama that you should watch with an open mind and with knowledge that
it is based in fact. This is a challenging and brave film, and everyone
involved has gained immediate respect from me. One of the best of 2003.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>

Tracy is a normal thirteen-year-old girl, dressed in bright pastels,
bedroom full of soft toys and with giggly thoughts of boys. Starting
school in the new term she finds everyone in awe of Evie Zamora and her
friends – all of who have suddenly turned into sexy young ladies over
the summer. With her goofy kid look, Evie blanks Tracy until she
impresses her by stealing a purse to go shopping. As Evie gets in with
Tracy's mum Mel, she also takes Evie into her own world of rebellion
involving stealing, drink, disobedience, drugs and sex. Mel struggles
to hold on to the small parts of her daughter that she still
recognises.

At many points in our lives we all change and perhaps the first time it
happens is the hardest to deal with. The stage where everyone seems to
go from just being kids to suddenly being a peer group is a major one
and this film, for all its extremes, does justice to the difficulties
(for everyone) of the period in a story that is well written, cleverly
directed and really well acted by the whole cast. The plot builds well
on minor changes to Tracy and makes it totally clear where the pressure
is coming from and how it affects her; in this regard the script is
spot on and is totally convincing. When it goes to extremes it does
show signs of stretching and almost breaking but it never does – while
it is extreme it is still convincing and only two or three moments seem
like they are going too far. Certainly I can't imagine many parents
will be able to watch it without worrying about how they and theirs
will handle the change when it comes.

While the writing is great, there does come a point where it needs to
end and, while unconvincing, the film does at least draw to an end on
an ambiguous ending and only the final shot of a 'isn't life hard'
scream from Tracy struck a duff note and was too clumsy. As co-writer,
Reed shows a real awareness of the world around her and she deserves
the praise she got for that role but also her performance as Evie is
praise worthy, but perhaps not to the extent that Wood's is. Wood takes
us from a child to womanhood and never hits a duff note in her
portrayal of a girl just trying to fit in.

She is excellent and her dynamic with Hunter is a perfect fit and also
convincing; in my mind she is better than Reed because Wood had a more
complex character to develop – Wood had to change her character, Reed
played a character who was already there. Hunter deals with some minor
clutter in her character but generally she is as good as her teenage
cos-stars. Minor support roles for people like Sisto, Unger and Clarke
all add to the film but really the film belongs to the lead trio.
Director Hardwicke directs with style and with an eye for the clever
shot – at times using fast camera motions while in one key scene just
letting the camera frame the front room like it was a stage. She also
uses a clever touch in tainting the film stock a washed out colour when
Tracy's bubble finally bursts – we immediately go from bright colours
to washed out blue and, even with the conclusion we only return to dark
browns and not the highs of the main story.

Overall this is a very good film that is hard to watch if you have
pre-teen kids. It has extremes in there and it won't apply to every
teenager out there but to just call it unrealistic is to ignore the
reality of peer pressure and the sexualisation of youth generally. The
script is convincing, frightening and moving and is greatly helped by
three great performances from Reed, Wood and Hunter.

<|_=00=_|>
Don't listen to the negative comments on this movie if you are a lover
of indie films.

Thirteen's superb actors will make you feel like the story actually
happened. There is so much passion, so much realistic drama, you will
relive your teenage years.

Catherine Hardwicke deals with the issues that are present in today's
very YOUNG teenagers that most of us like to close out.

If you want to go see a good studio movie...sure...go see a beautiful
mind. If you know anything about what makes a good independent
film...this is one of the best.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is very real. It's depressing too, because the situations
the characters face are so familiar. The cast is fantastic. True talent
is shown by the way the characters' complex personalities are so easily
understood. The mother's situation is one that so many mothers can
relate to. She glances away for just a moment - a moment that slips
right past her when she wasn't paying full attention. Almost overnight
it's as if her daughter has become a completely different person. It is
an eye-opener for all parents of young teenage girls. My overall
mood/feeling after watching it reminded me of how I felt after I
watched The Basketball Diaries. Super-real.....no sugar-coated fluff in
this film. I thought it was excellent - both informative &
well-written.
<|_=00=_|>
Thirteen is a fresh look at what children go through today. It is
honest and terrifying, for some they can relate to the pain,
frustration, and confusion that the main character goes through but for
others it can serve as an eye-opening view of what that life is like.
For those who think this is like any other teen-on-drugs movie I'd have
to say they are completely wrong. True the movie does show a girl
experimenting with drugs and sex but it also taps into the emotional
and psychological problems that drive kids today to do so. The honesty
of the main characters cutting problems is absolutely both terrifying
and breath taking. I think thirteen was one of the most truthful and
beautiful movies I have seen in a long time.
<|_=00=_|>
***WARNING:THIS MIGHT BE A SPOILER*** Look, I'm no Ebert or Ropert, but
I do want to say that I though this movie was amazing. I watched it
when I was thirteen; I was channel-surfing and found this movie, and,
it being entitled "Thirteen", I thought it would be interesting. I'm so
glad that I watched this movie two years ago because I honestly believe
that it showed me the reality of drugs and sex and that entire
lifestyle (look, I'm not stupid. I know it's glamorized for Hollywood,
but it's as real as movies get, okay). I honestly think that "Thirteen"
is a very well filmed movie; one thing I noticed was that the movie
began in full color, correct? but as her life got darker and darker, so
did the movie. By the end, it was nearly in black and white, but when
Tracy woke up after her mom found out about her cutting, it was back to
color. The language used, the actions of the people, everything...just
so realistic, or, as I said before, as real as Hollywood would let it
get. Basically, I loved "Thirteen" and recommend it to any teenager who
isn't impressionable enough to want to do drugs and have sex because
"Evie seems so cool". (There's a post by a girl who tried that. What a
mad, mad world we live in.) Thanks, Bianca
<|_=00=_|>
I've been reading through the comments on here, and I'm wondering if I
watched the same movie as everyone else. I was honestly blown away by
this film, and agree with every praise that the critics have given it.

I think it's silly to say that Tracy was one-dimensional at all. She
clearly had so much built-up frustration towards her mother, and her
mother's boyfriend. Evan Rachel Wood did a perfect job of conveying the
slow inner-destruction of Tracy.

It's hard to believe that Nikki Reed had no experience before this
film. She absolutely nailed the manipulative attitude of Evie, while
also making the viewer like her.

Holly Hunter's absolutely blew me away. Aside from Charlize Theron in
Monster, and Felicity Huffmann in Transamerica, I can't think of a
better performance than Hunter's. You could actually see the terror and
panic in her face as she watched her daughter slowly slip deeper and
deeper into trouble.

The final scene in the movie with Wood and Hunter is one of the most
powerful scenes I've ever seen. I definitely recommend this movie to
anyone.
<|_=00=_|>
Thirteen is an excellent movie. I am 19 years of age and when this
movie first came out I was 15 years old. I loved it as soon as I
watched it and I ended up buying it. It is one of the first movies that
I have seen where a cutter is not looked down on and where the ending
does not leave the viewer with false hopes. It is an excellent movie
that gives everyone a real insight into a teenage girls life. It shows
very well how Tracy has a hard time coping with life, drugs and things
at home so she turns to drugs, boys, sex and cutting to comfort
herself. This is sad to say but this is how many teens today are
learning to deal with there pain by cutting themselves and loosing
themselves in drugs. Very excellent movie that will open anyone eyes
and leave u sitting in your seat wondering about yourself and your
children if you have any.
