
I'm not gonna lie. To say that this movie is confusing is like saying
the sun is hot but not really. And if you've seen cult director Richard
Kelly's previous films, "Donnie Darko" and "Southland Tales," you know
that's gotta mean something. When I went to see this movie, there were
about 50 people in the theater. Before an hour into the film, about
half of the audience had already walked out. By the end, there were
only 15 people left wondering what in the hell did they just see. I for
one could only comprehend roughly 40% of what I saw on- screen, and
even then it can only be called interpretation. So why did I give this
movie a generous seven stars? Because for one, we get some spectacular
performances (Marsden's great and Langella returns as a familiar creepy
character), and most importantly two, because it's entirely original
and Richard Kelly, undoubtedly one of the bravest directors alive, uses
his creative vision to tell a story that dares to be different. Quite
frankly, it's the ONLY way - only through Kelly's unique style could
this story be told the way it's intended.

In the end, if you're not willing to spend some serious thought into an
intelligent movie (and even then it may all amount to nothing), stay
FAR away from this one. But if you want to watch a deep, rich, complex
and thought-provoking piece on spirituality, existentialism, and the
predictability of human nature, go see this. Be prepared for lengthy
discussions with your partner however.

*Note: If by chance you've read this review, taken my recommendation,
have actually seen the movie and STILL believe you've wasted 2 hours of
your life, I'd be happy to share my views on the whole meaning and plot
of the film. See, that's why I liked it so much - it promotes
discussion! As hard as it is though, I'll try summing it up by
paraphrasing a rather depressing quote by Langella's character, who
explains the significance of the simple box to an employee: "Your house
is a box which you live in. The car that you drove to work is a box, on
wheels. When you return home from work you sit in front of a box with
moving images. You watch until the mind and soul rots and the box that
is your body deteriorates, when finally you are placed into the
ultimate box... to rest under the soil and earth."
<|_=00=_|>
I know that so many reviews on IMDb are extreme, with reviewers either
praising a film to the hilt or inarticulately tearing it to pieces. I
find neither of these kind of reviews helpful, and so I do not give
this film the awful review I am about to, lightly. The film is
art-house science-fiction of the worst kind dressed up as a Hollywood
blockbuster. The trailers draw you in by showing you what appears to be
a cohesive plot, but is actually just a tiny part of a wilfully
baffling series of events which are never properly resolved. I like
films which challenge the viewer and I do not need to be spoon-fed a
plot, and so my complaint against this film is not that it is too
highbrow. No - the film is just terrible. As the credits roll you will
feel genuine anger at having wasted your time on Cameron Diaz's wooden
acting and a faltering plot-line. Avoid.
<|_=00=_|>
Forget about Donnie Darko. I open with this because it seems that a
good portion of the reviews I have read on The Box amount to the simple
but weak argument that it doesn't hold a candle to Darko. It isn't that
I disagree with that necessarily, I just feel that this movie is a
different animal altogether and deserves its own analysis. There are
points of comparison to be sure, but they are peripheral concerns when
you consider that the key to the heart of each movie is different. In
Darko, the driving force of the narrative is existential. In The Box,
the driving force of the narrative stems from a moral dilemma. Believe
me when I say that I understand the inclination to compare an
innovative filmmakers'movies by looking for trends and patterns, but
for me it is more important to approach each new film as a self
contained entity first, and then broaden my gaze afterwards. 

The Box is one of those films you get mixed feelings about because it
seems to be in some sort of identity crisis. It isn't always sure what
it wants to be. The twists are numerous, but easy to follow if not to
predict. James Marsden and Cameron Diaz play a relatively believable
pair of newlyweds who are in financial straits. A Box containing a
"button unit" arrives on their doorstep and they are informed by a
horribly burned man that if pushed the button will cause the death of
one person whom they don't know, and they will receive one million
dollars. One of the things The Box achieves is to conjure up this
invisible fear that somewhere out there our actions have moral
consequences. Before the button is pushed it has an eerie and seductive
quality, alluring yet sinister. Once it has been pushed, events are set
in motion that make the two leads question their own morality and
deeply regret their fateful decision. 

The notion that the Box is an experiment is interesting because for me
it provides the movie with a paradox. If there are external beings
developing an "altruism coefficient" based on data gathered by couples
pushing and not pushing the button, then as the conspiracy unravels, we
notice that ultimately it is a forced altruism: Be selfless or the
species will be wiped out. I suppose the couples don't know the
consequences of their actions when they are faced with making the
decision, but they have no reason to suspect that The Box can do
anything, so why would they choose altruistically? Is altruism devalued
by the fact that we only care about it when presented with a problem in
our own lives? 

The psychological hurdles in this movie are everywhere. Push the button
or don't, it's likely someone is messing with you. Take the money or
don't, no one gives anything away for free. Search for the truth, the
answers you find slowly reveal your demise. 

I propose that The Box is an ironic work because it offers the false
choice of free will while revealing that we are trapped in many
metaphorical boxes. You can only choose to be free at the expense of
another's life, is that freedom? No, it is only another box because
then you become trapped in the consequences of your own morality. There
is no escape for us because we live on earth and that is another Box.
This is precisely why the external beings in the film are ultimately
antagonists. They demand we conform to moral standards which rob us of
our freedom. We made it to Mars, and we were burned for it and turned
into slaves in a sick game. 

The references to Jean Paul Sartre illustrate this point rather well.
"You can only enter the final chamber free, or not free." Sure, but no
matter the form in which we enter the chamber, it is a chamber
nonetheless. 

Trevor Nemeth
<|_=00=_|>
Richard Kelly's latest supernatural thriller "The Box" is creepy,
strange and overall sinister, yet not very coherent or focused. One's
opinion on the movie depends on whether one accepts its peculiar
concept or not. I must say that I was initially enthralled by the
movie's strange old-fashioned tone resembling sci-fi movies from the
1970s Kelly pays homage to. The movie handles its mystery rather well
with Frank Langella's uniquely scary performance being the obvious
highlight. Given that, the movie falters at the end when its otherwise
intriguing concept gets bogged down by the series of ridiculous events
that feel as if they were taken from a different movie. While The Box
tends to approach the wrong territory and is rather unfocused, one
can't help but acknowledge Kelly's ability to attract the viewer's
attention. His obsessions may not be shared by very many people, but he
manifests them in a richly textured manner. That's just enough to enjoy
this movie despite its shortcomings. 6.5/10 (B-)
<|_=00=_|>
After I heard how terrible this film was, I really wasn't expecting
much. I almost didn't even rent it, but I am glad I did. I love Donnie
Darko and I think with The Box, Kelly has gone back to the Darko style
of writing and directing. I am not sure why it received so many bad
reviews, maybe because like Donnie Darko it was too cerebral for the
mainstream. It's not a movie you can do three things and watch, you
have to pay attention to the little details. I do feel there are
missing pieces that weren't explained, but that could be the way the
film was edited and may come out later in a directors cut edition, or
it could be Kelly's way of keeping the audience guessing. I can see how
this movie wouldn't appeal to the masses, especially since it is a
cautionary tale of morals and ethics, but if you liked Donnie Darko,
you will probably enjoy The Box. I can see this having a cult following
like Donnie Darko.

Also I am not a Cameron Diaz fan, but I think she did a great job. I
had heard awful things about her performance in this, but in my opinion
this was one of her better roles.
<|_=00=_|>
In 1976 a mother named Norma Lewis (Cameron Diaz) lives with her son
Walter and her husband Arthur (James Marsden). One night a box is
placed on the doorstep of their home and the following morning they cut
open the box to reveal a button device that must be opened with a key.
By the late afternoon, a man with terrible scarring on his face comes
to their door and presents Norma with an offer. This man is Arlington
Steward (Frank Langella) and he announces that if they push the button
someone in the world that the family does not know will die and they
will receive a million dollars in cash. If they don't press it, nothing
will happen and the offer will move on to someone else. Norma and
Arthur are not allowed to tell anyone including their son about this
deal. The incentive for the family to push the button is heightened by
their financial difficulties. Arthur, who is currently working for
NASA, fails to be accepted into a new job he applies for and Norma, who
is a teacher, learns that her faculty funding is being cut.

One's enjoyment for this bizarre sci-fi thriller, based on the short
story "Button Button" by Richard Matheson, will be determined by how
far they are willing to take this ludicrous premise. The opening of the
film is particularly problematic in grounding itself in a sense of
realism with the household. Richard Kelly's previous film Donnie Darko
cleverly used the condition of schizophrenia to justify its excursion
into paranormal activity and parallel universes. Without the dream-like
state of that far superior film, The Box and the very thought of a
device that can kill anyone in the world, is entirely implausible. That
Norma would also accept someone into her house that has almost the same
scarring as Two-Face from The Dark Knight and believe this offer, seems
equally contrived.

If this sounds unlikely so far, what follows is even more absurd,
involving a conspiracy about someone who was struck by lightning, the
possibility of alien life or some other Godly being influencing these
situations. Scenes involving gateways opening up in public libraries,
random nose bleeds and mindless drones stalking the Lewis family,
become almost unintentionally comical in their absurdity. To a point,
the film could be called intriguing purely to see where it is going.
Kelly is occasionally clever in his ability to hold our attention
through many of the films contrivances. In one scene Norma is teaching
a class and then is asked by a strange boy about her foot. He taunts
her about it as she is missing four of her toes. Later, at a rehearsal
dinner for a wedding that Norma and Arthur are attending, this same
student appears as a waiter and seems to be stalking them. Yet the
eventual justification for these all of these oddities is wrapped up in
a highly contrived sci-fi revelation that many will find implausible
and difficult to swallow.

What is most disappointing about the film is that once the button is
pressed surprisingly early on, many of the moral implications that were
initially promised are diminished for much of pictures duration. The
ending, which won't be spoilt here, resurfaces these moral questions
again in the hope of echoing that of a Greek tragedy. While the
resemblances can be seen, by this point, given the unlikelihood of so
much of the film and the uneven performances, there is little reason to
care. Cameron Diaz's Southern accent might be unnecessary but it is
surprisingly Langella who is the most disappointing in the film, with a
very unsubtly written role, as the mysterious scarred man, who seems to
be hiding a military base that would make Dr. Evil proud. It really is
just a shadow of his towering performance in Frost/Nixon. There is not
a lot for many of the other actors in the film to do; in particular
both Norma and Arthur could not be regarded as characters but
mouthpieces for Kelly's pastiche of ideas. Underdeveloped and brief
conversations, such as where Norma sympathises with Arlington over
their deformities and also when Norma and Arthur question whether they
really know each other in case the button kills either of them,
highlights this.

Since 2001, Richard Kelly has failed to make a film that has lived up
to the quality and the imagination of Donnie Darko. Though this film
might be intriguing for a little while, it is too absurd and
implausible to be fully enjoyed and it would certainly not warrant
multiple viewings given the film's rather illogical revelations.
Science fiction fans might be able to appreciate it somewhat more and
draw their own conclusions, but what Kelly is really trying to say
beneath the surface remains cryptic. The Box is one film this year that
should have been shelved.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie starts off with a couple waken up by the doorbell early in
the morning. The woman Norma Lewis ( Cameron Diaz ) opens the door just
to find out no one's at the door. But there is a mysterious box on the
doorstep, and Norma brings it in. In the meanwhile Arhur Lewis ( James
Marsden ) joins her at the diner table and together they unfold the
wrapping paper to find a box with a big red button on top of it. On the
box is a keyhole which needs a key to open up the top so you can press
the button. They have no idea what it is or what it means but that will
soon change.

Later that day a mysterious creepy man is at the door, Norma opens the
door and the man presents himself as Arlington Steward ( Frank Langella
). He is creepy in the sense that he has a big open burn mark on his
face in the trend of Harvey Dent ( 2-face ) as seen in the Dark Knight.
He will ask Norma if she received the box and will explain what it is.
Mr. Steward gives Norma a key to open the box, and she can keep the key
with the box for 24 hours, in that time she will have to make a special
choice. If she will push the button, Steward will give the family a
staggering 1 million dollars in cash BUT someone, somewhere in the
world will die. To gain her trust Stewerd gives Norma a 100 dollar bill
and leaves.

So far so good, the first 30 minutes of this movie are good and
interesting, and you will wonder what will happen if they press the
button. The story has a great concept and is very promising.

Unfortunately the movie collapse under it's own weight of complexity in
the remaining 75 minutes or so. It's not because of bad acting,
although Diaz is terrible, Marsden plays OK but not memorable and
besides, Langella sticks out with head and shoulders. It's not bad
directing either. I loved Richard Kelly's Donnie Darko so we're not
dealing with a beginner. The Cinematography and camera-work is good and
the atmosphere in the entire movie is really well done. It's just that
the plot is turning out to be way to smart, but yet it feels dumb and
clumsy. At moments the movie is very predictable, and sometimes you are
scratching you'r head about what the hell just happened. You keep on
watching because you'll expect that the movie will fall on it's place
near the end. Unfortunately this is not happening and the movie ends
with questions unanswered. Kelly is probably trying to create something
that people will talk about after the movie and on birthdays. But to be
honest I didn't care about the characters and the story no more, the
last 20 minutes took forever and I remember asking my girlfriend if
they could please get it over with.

This movie is comparable to flavored chewing gum. It starts off with an
explosion of flavor but as you keep on chewing the flavor is starting
to go away and you end up with a dull tasteless piece of rubber in your
mouth.
<|_=00=_|>
Be warned, the next time you see "Richard Kelly" involved in any
production, run away. Fast.

Kelly proved to the world after his last movie, "Southland Tales", that
he is one pretentious director. It was indulgent and convoluted. In
"The Box", not much has changed.

I can picture what his pitch to Warner Bros must have been, and I bet
the executives at the studio ate it right up: a full-feature film based
on one of Richard "Twilight Zone" Matheson's old short stories.

Big mistake! Do not read any further unless you want this movie
COMPLETELY spoiled for you: 

Norma (Cameron Diaz) pushes the button. 

Turns out that Arlington Steward (Frank Langella) has an Alien using
his body as a vessel to conduct "experiments" in which the fate of
mankind rests. His face is scarred because he was struck by Alien
lightening, which killed him, but then brought him back to life to do
all of this red button testing. Obviously since Norma pushes the
button, knowing full well that someone may die, she must suffer the
consequences for failing to consider someone else's life instead of her
own. In the end she and her husband (James Marsden) choose to kill
Norma instead of having their son grow up deaf and blind.

Kelly dances around his film's "message", trying to make the audience
figure out what the moral of the story is. Obviously, any person with a
brain is saying at the beginning, "What if I was the person who dies?".
Richard Kelly doesn't even let his character's have this normal, HUMAN
conversation. In fact, they avoid it all together. They appear to both
be educated, working at a prestigious school and also for NASA, so why
wouldn't they both have a better ability to LOOK OUTSIDE OF THE BOX???

If he had the main characters actually have this conversation, the
entire movie could have ended right there! Instead, we have to watch
weddings go on forever, NASA and the NSA be complacent to Arlington
Stewart taking over these government programs, teleportation to show
Marsden life beyond our world so it will be "easier" to kill his wife,
and drone's controlled by Steward which can be anywhere and nowhere, at
any time.

The most painful part of this movie is the pacing. Nothing really
happens. Its a muddled mish-mash of ideas that are laughable.

It is insufferable how this film is being marketed. The commercials
make it look like "Saw" and even use the music from those films to sell
it. In reality what you get is a slow, dull, laughable (yes, half the
theater was laughing at the acting and visual effects), and messy film
which is neither imaginative, interesting, nor cohesive. At one point,
Cameron Diaz and her son are abducted and then suddenly, she is back in
the NSA's big black car with her husband on the way home. Where did she
go? Why did they take her? Do we really care? Not anymore you won't.

By the end you really won't care what happens to any of the characters.
You will be rooting for all of them to die so the film will just end.
Go see anything else that's playing. Don't waste your time, or money.
<|_=00=_|>
Before you dismiss my post as "not getting it", let me say...I'm one of
the biggest Richard Kelly and "The Twilight Zone" fans out there.
Donnie Darko is one my all-time favorites and I even thought Southland
Tales had it's moments. I'm a HUGE sci-fi fan. I was very excited to
see "The Box", couldn't wait for it to come out.

Having said that..."The Box" is terrible. Behind "Drag Me To Hell",
this was the worst movie I've seen in 2009. And it just simply WILL NOT
end! Whenever you think you've reached the end, another change in the
plot and you're off to more torture. I was actually groaning in the
theater by the end of the film...I could hardly take it anymore.

The biggest problem with "The Box", no matter how you slice it or try
to justify it, is that it simply makes little sense. Trust me, I "got
it", I understood what was going on. But that doesn't mean it makes a
lot of sense looking back on it. Take the basics for example. The main
couple...Cameron Diaz and James Marsden, playing Norma and Arthur
Lewis. Diaz loses her finances at her job, then bemoans that they are
"living paycheck to paycheck". Well, sell that f-ing Porsche your
husband is driving then!!! They live in a beautiful 2-story house in a
nice subdivision. Marsden is working what seems to be a high-paid job
at NASA and Diaz is an accomplished teacher. And, yes, Marsden drives
an overly expensive car. But they are somehow living paycheck to
paycheck?!? No need to press the button, just cut down your high-priced
lifestyle a bit! The movie would have worked better if they showed the
couple jobless and in serious debt. Instead, they are seemingly
desperate for money...all the while living what I would call a
luxurious lifestyle. Like I said...you can understand what's going on,
yet it still makes little sense! That's a rare combination.

There was an awful scene in a library that I feel will go down as one
of the worst segments in movie history (terribly acted too by the way).
It was idiotic, illogical and out of place. I can't even begin to fully
describe it actually, so I will move onto a subplot that involves
nose-bleeds and body possession by aliens. (Yes, I'm being serious
unfortunately). A kid is in Diaz's class with a wicked and smile on his
face (a sinister smile that seemingly goes by completely unnoticed by
everyone in authority at the school). He starts asking Diaz personal
questions, literally embarrassing her in front of her class. No
punishment is given to the kid whatsoever...he didn't even get asked to
stay after class for a talk! Then Diaz is at a party...and the same kid
is one of the hired help...ironed shirt, apron and all! I don't know
many alien-possessed kids (who appear to be in Junior High) that also
moonlight as a bus-boy at parties sponsored by teachers and school
officials...but we found one here! (See what I mean...you can
understand it completely, but it still makes no sense...a rare combo!)
Like many things in the movie, the kid comes and goes...no real
explanation about him, no ending to his character. Moving on... A lady
then approaches Diaz in a grocery store, telling her that experiments
are being ran secretly and her family is one of the test subjects.
Well...hmmm...if aliens possess the powers where they can take over a
body remotely...and the aliens don't want to help Diaz...then who was
taking over this lady's body and giving Diaz advice?! Again...The lady
was trying to help Diaz...and the aliens weren't interested in helping
Diaz...so who the hell was controlling her body?! Never explained.
Never talked about again. No nothing!! It goes on and on and on like
this for, what seemed to me like, 2 weeks. It would not end! I wonder
if this movie underwent a massive re-shoot at some point. It was poorly
edited. Diaz's accent was there one minute, gone the next. Sub-plots
began but never ended. The numerous push-backs of the release date
obviously shows the problems the producers had with the finished
product. It's truly a train-wreck.

Pass on this one...there's no redeeming value in it whatsoever. 3 out
of 10, just because I like Diaz and sci-fi! But it probably deserves a
1 out of 10.

Thanks for reading! 

JD
<|_=00=_|>
The creator of Donnie Darko brings you a twilight zone themed tale of
the oddest fashion. The film centers on a middle aged young couple
living paycheck to paycheck in 1976. One day a mysterious box appears
with a red button. Later on that day a spooky gentleman shows up and
tells them that they have the choice to press the button and receive a
million dollars but someone they don't know will die. It's a disturbing
and provocative question suspensefully outlined in the trailer and TV
spots. But let it be known that you just don't know what your in for
until you see it. At times pretentious and a bit melodramatic the film
is ultimately effective because of it's good performances and
intriguing subject matter. It would be unfair to ruin any of the plot
twists for you but lets just say the film will deliver on the aspects
you expect it to and not completely fulfill others it begins to
outline. There's a lot of apparent symbolism and subtext in the film
which is both interesting and annoying as it wasn't so evident in his
other superior film Donnie Darko. There isn't too much more to say
without ruining the film for you. it's meant to inspire lots of cafe
chatter afterwards. However, i'd also like to say It's shot well and
has an appropriately aged look to it and it's worth a watch. Check it
out.
