
Maybe Robert De Niro's doctor in Godsend (2004) went to the same
medical school of horrors as his Dr. David Callaway in Hide and Seek,
this year's De Niro toss away film, from which he deposits his
considerable paycheck along with cash from Meet the Fockers. Why he
doesn't concentrate his fortune and connections (as Clint Eastwood
does) to craft an artful small film that would allow his acting gifts
is the only mystery for me from his prolific but arguably spotty
career.

Young Emily Callaway (Dakota Fanning) has lost her mother (Amy Irving)
to suicide. Psychologist dad moves her to an older, rambling house in
the woods in upstate New York to start a new life. Not new are the
abundant clichés of the horror film: the suspicious neighbors, whom
director John Polson makes as creepy as possible; the questionable
sheriff; the doors leading to scares; the mutilated dolls; Emily's
imaginary friend, Charlie, who appears to be causing numberless
offenses in the house; and knives placed as objects of intrinsic
interest; and a vulnerable girl friend, Elizabeth (Elisabeth Shue). I
stopped counting, for the film is one extended cliché after another.

The interest for serious filmgoers might be the depiction of the
psychological stat after a loss to suicide. Whatever the term might be
such as "post-traumatic stress disorder syndrome," the film does a
credible job showing how difficult it is for Emily to lead a normal
life after the loss of her mother (and for her father as well). While
there are echoes of Stephen King (The Shining's "Here's Johnny" comes
to mind) and Hitchcock (think shower scene), there is no comparison in
quality with those classics. The audience at the preview enjoyed some
of the stock shock moments behind the many closed doors. Hide and Seek
will titillate horror fans but disappoint discerning film buffs, who
look for some believable edge and innovation.

Milton in Paradise Lost expressed the descent from happiness to
despair: "Farewell happy fields, Where joy forever dwells: hail,
horrors!" Hide and Seek is not a classic horror film; it is a classic
underachiever.
<|_=00=_|>
This horror/thriller/(maybe)supernatural movie is nothing really
remarkable, or anything that you haven't seen before, but it's quite
watchable. After the suicide of his wife, Robert de Niro's psychologist
character withdraws to an isolated rural location as therapy for his
traumatised daughter. Things start to get creepy when she develops an
imaginary friend who has a decidedly vicious streak.

I've been complaining for some years now that de Niro really needs to
pay a bit more attention to the sort of parts he accepts: he's been in
far too many stupid comedies. Here we finally see him in a dramatic
role, and whereas he pulls it off professionally, it's not really an
inspired performance, and you have to wonder where his next classic
role is going to come from.

That aside, 'Hide and Seek' is a suitably creepy and dark movie. Its
major fault, at least as far as I was concerned, is that its crucial
'secret' was obvious by about half an hour from the end. I still held
out hopes that I was wrong, but I think anyone who's seen enough films
of this sort would work it out by a process of elimination, and
besides, the movie blows its own cover completely a good 10 or 15
minutes from the end, which leaves you with a rather disappointing and
predictable run home.

The DVD includes four alternate endings, three of which the directors
eventually decided were too 'dark', and that the audience deserved some
kind of positive 'reward' after having sat through so much traumatic
stuff. I disagree. At least two of the three 'dark alternate endings
would have improved the film by giving it a sting in the tail. Good
god, go through a mental list of great horror movies, and you won't
find many that shy away from endings that are 'too dark'.
<|_=00=_|>
When I first saw the preview for Hide and Seek, i thought that it was
just another creepy kid movie. but after going to see it with a clear
mind, i was pleasantly surprised. The movie was well-crafted and
suspenseful with incredible performances from the cast. Dakota Fanning
played a scarred young girl who develops a dangerous "imaginary" friend
named Charlie. Her father(Dinero) moves with her to a remote place out
of the city for a new start after his wife's suicide.

I loved the first hour of this movie. The characters showed true depth
and the effects of what Fanning's character had seen were wonderfully
shown. The neighbors were introduced and seemed very creepy.

Okey, now to the second hour...Why? Why? The writers had so many ways
to go, why did they do the second personality ending? For those who
hadn't seen it, the Dad was Charlie. It's not even the lazy routine
ending that bothered me, it's that they had so many other choices! one,
the couple who lost their child. The father saw him speaking to his
daughter. When he went over to their house, he talked to the neighbor's
wife who broke down, saying that her husband did something bad. What
was that about? Also, the neighbor who was returning a key at 3am who
seemed very suspicious. With any of these endings, they could have
scared audiences with the modern fear of kidnapping and child
abduction. But no, they went with the alternate personality.

This movie leaves the audience wanting their money back and wondering
why they didn't see "Earnest goes to the Beach" instead. The writing is
inconsistent, leaving loose ends with the neighbor's stories. I suggest
watching the first hour and then leave or change the channel (if you're
watching it on TV).
<|_=00=_|>
As a psychological thriller, or a horror film, "Hide and Seek" doesn't
break new ground. In fact, once it's over, the viewer feels somehow
manipulated by what we have just witnessed. There are, supposedly, four
different alternative endings for the movie, but unfortunately, the one
being shown, doesn't add anything to what we have already seen.

Although the film has some interesting moments, director John Polson
has gone for the Grand Guignol effect. Ari Schlosberg's screen play
gives us hints about what to expect, yet, when we realize the mystery
at the center of the story, we keep scratching our heads.

Suffice it to say, this film doesn't add anything to Robert DeNiro's
brilliant career. Mr. DeNiro's last choices in films puzzle us, as well
as his fans because we know he is capable of doing much better. Yet, as
shown with this film and "Meet the Parents", and its sequel, "Meet the
Fockers", "Analize This", and "Analize That", the actor keeps us
wondering about his choices.

Dakota Fanning is a young actress who shows an uncanny sense of how to
upstage Mr. DeNiro in most of their scenes together. As Emily, in this
film, this girl shows an enormous range in what she is capable of
doing. One can see Ms. Fanning growing to be another Jody Foster in
later years.

The rest of the cast is completely underused. Amy Irving is only seen
in flashbacks, which is a shame since she is a valuable actress. Famke
Janssen has a few key scenes. The same goes for Melissa Leo, Elisabeth
Shue and Robert John Burke.

The only consolation was it was shown on cable and we felt lucky not
having spent the price of admission.
<|_=00=_|>
After the suicide of his wife, the psychiatrist Dr. David Callaway
(Robert De Niro) decides to move with his traumatized daughter Emily
(Dakota Fanning) from New York to the country to give more attention to
her. In their huge old house, Emily finds a new and violent invisible
friend called Charlie, making David very concerned with her mental
state.

"Hide and Seek" is a good, but predictable thriller. Dakota Fanning has
another outstanding performance, on the contrary of in the
just-released "War of the Worlds", where she is histrionic. Robert De
Niro is too old to act as the father of Emily, but in the end, this
movie is enjoyable. The DVD shows three alternative ends, and there is
a very dark one, which is excellent, with Emily in an institution.
Unfortunately, the commercial end prevails and becomes the "official"
conclusion of the movie. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "O Amigo Oculto" (The Hidden Friend")
<|_=00=_|>
After the suicide of his wife (Amy Irving), David Callaway (Robert De
Niro) takes his mentally disturbed 9-year-old daughter, Emily (Dakota
Fanning) to a new home in the country in upstate New York. Instead of
getting better, Emily begins to withdraw further, and she announces to
her father that she has a new imaginary friend named "Charlie." At
first, her father sees Charlie as a way for Emily to express her
feelings. Then a series of vicious acts such as menacing writings
appearing on the bathroom walls, and other mysterious occurrences start
happening around the house. David blames Emily for doing them, but
Emily says that Charlie did it. But is Charlie imaginary? You'd have to
ask Emily, who is the only one who can see Charlie. Charlie may
actually be both real and very dangerous. The movie is well crafted and
suspenseful with a great cast. For a thriller, I did jump a few times.
The ending was a little disappointing, but not unpredictable. (20th
Century Fox, Run time 1:40, Rated R)(8/10)
<|_=00=_|>
I wasn't impressed with 'Hide and Seek.' If you've seen Secret Window
or any of the recent horror=thrillers with endings of an identical
twist, you'll understand how tired and utterly formulaic this has
become. Hide and Seek lacks imagination anyways because the viewer is
asked to be confounded by a series of disconnected scare tactics such
as things jumping of closets, the last minute awareness of the culprit
before the death of an unsuspecting victim, and above all, modern
horror-thriller filmmakers determined to creep you out with some weirdo
kid.

All the while, however, the story is very thin: that of a father and
his young daughter coping with the gruesome death of the wife/mother
who supposedly slit her wrists in the bathtub where she bled to death.
However, we are led to believe that in fact, her death was no accident.
And the weird little girl and her mysterious, elusive friend "Charlie,"
seem to be behind the whole thing as they taunt the father who just
seems to want to get on with things. Something like 'The Omen,' if you
will. But, it doesn't end that way, of course.

Instead, a cast of pretty good actors star in a film of cheap tricks
and an even cheaper ending (including the infamous last scene where you
think that all is well until there is some last minute evidence that in
fact, the evil will continue unabated). Formula one hundred percent. If
you've seen films like 'Secret Window' or 'Taking Lives' or other
similar pseudo-mind benders (sorry, other titles don't come to mind at
the moment), then you're in for nothing new if you watch 'Hide and
Seek.' In any event, De Niro didn't over act and Dakota Fanning did a
fine job creeping me out.
<|_=00=_|>
Hide and Seek is a really creepy psychological thriller directed by
John Polson (Mission: Impossible II, The Sum of Us) and it has one of
the most memorable and most shocking/surprising endings ever. Another
movie that had that creepy-ending thing was Wes Craven's 'They'.
(sorry, no other titles come to mind. but see They, it's extremely
scary).

Anyway, Robert DeNiro (Shark Tale, Cape Fear (1991)), for once, did not
over-act in this movie. His acting was actually great! And Dakota
Fanning just literally blew me away. She is definitely THE BEST young
actress that has ever been and that will ever be (I hope I said that
phrase right, but if I didn't, I'm sure you know what Ii mean). She did
the same thing in War of the Worlds, too. She has a very, very, very,
very, very, very, very rare gift of acting. She has such a talent that
God gave her. She just passed through the part easily, as if there was
nothing too it. Her part as Emily Callaway really creeped me out. She
also won an MTV Movie Award for, 'Best Frightened Performance' in this
movie. She really seemed actually frightened! Everything else was
wonderful in this movie! See Hide and Seek! You won't be disappointed!

Original MPAA rating: R: Frightening Sequences and Violence

My MPAA rating: R: Violence/Terror and Frightening Sequences 

My Canadian rating: 14A: Violence, Frigtening Scenes, Mature Theme
<|_=00=_|>
De Niro, though he gives a nice performance, is not exactly in
overdrive, which probably explains why this film is released in
February instead of the blockbuster periods. It is a nicely-cast and
shot film, and De Niro avoids any temptation to munch scenery. The film
has a Sixth Sense-type surprise, but just doesn't have the "oomph" of
that movie. The scenes involving the neighbors are confusing and
perhaps there was sub-plot that got cut. You might also say that the
ending was telegraphed to some degree. I wouldn't go if you dislike
violence against women (or cats). Won't be at the top of De Niro's
resume.

Rated R (dead kitty; gratuitous shower curtains and sinister facial
expressions).
<|_=00=_|>
I was anxious to see this film, and I honestly enjoyed the first hour
of it. And then...Charlie was revealed, and I was so angry I considered
walking out of the theater.

Not every horror movie has to be "The Exorcist" or "The Sixth Sense."
Not every movie--horror or otherwise, has to be intelligent. With a
little bourbon, even "Night of the Lepus" can be fun. Twists in a
horror film are great--if executed correctly. And "Hide and Seek"
misses the mark completely.

For one, it asks us to be stupid and go along with the second half of
the film. The second half of the film doesn't add up, nor does it make
us say, "I should have seen that coming," as films such as "Sixth
Sense" and "The Others" did. There's no equation for this movie--none.
In the end, I had no idea what the movie was really about (that drawing
in the final scene--what IS that? What does it say?) The only thing
good about the movie was the performances by every member of the cast.
Hey Amy Irving! Good to see you! Same for Elisabeth Shue. Dakota
Fanning is very talented, and we should keep our eyes on her. But the
cast isn't worth the money.

Save your dollars for Blockbuster if you're really curious. Again, I
was hopeful at 7pm this evening, and very angry two hours later. Little
plot, no resolution. The film descends into utter nonsense. A true
disappointment.
