
I just saw Hostage today at an advanced screening and I liked it! It
seems to have all the elements of the Bruce Willis action movie, so one
might think it cannot surprise anymore. Then again, you rarely see a
bad Bruce Willis movie. It has the opening failure of the perfect cop,
and the almost "post traumatic stress" side to the character who then
moves into a smaller town, but carries his burden along with him.

But this time, Bruce Willis doesn't seem all that perfect, he is
scared, his voice is shaking in several situations and even cries. He
still saves the day, but he's a lot more... human. And the guy is
pretty good at this, too.

Then there are the really powerful scenes that shake your soul! Young
actor Ben Foster is involved in many of them and does a terrific
(literally and figuratively speaking) job! There are also some
unexpected resolutions and some even less expected symbolic shots.

Bottom line is, Hostage is a good pick not only for the action/thriller
fan, but also for any movie goer.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw Hostage in a German Pressscreening and I was blown away. Visually
stunning from the first second to the last. The director Florent Siri
nails every frame. He kept me on the edge of the seat from beginning to
the end.

In the last years Bruce Willis disappointed me. His last movies I found
very lame. But here, he is back as the great Action dude, he is famous
for. But Hostage is not another "die hard"-flick. It is different. With
more Drama, much darker and less humor is Hostage one of the most adult
(means grown up) Action Thriller I saw in Years.

The story is great. No cheap tricks, every second is well written,
superb acted and directed. The same with the soundtrack and - as I said
before - the visuals.

Hostage is a kind of violent Film noir in a MTV a like style. A real
ride. I don't want to tell much about the story. Go and see!
<|_=00=_|>
Tense. Engrossing. Gripping from start to finish. All words to describe
a conversation with Johnny Betts. But they also adequately describe
Bruce Willis' latest movie Hostage. The movie could also be referred to
as Redemption because that's definitely what you'll see this as if you
have been disappointed with Bruce's recent efforts.

However, I would recommend that you not go into the movie expecting a
Die Hard clone. Hostage sacrifices heavy action and humor for a darker,
more character-driven tale, and it works. THIS is how a thriller should
be! Things start off on an intense note as we see a grizzled-looking
Bruce Willis attempting to negotiate with a psycho who has locked
himself and his family in their house. He's got a gun, and he's clearly
not right in the head. I will not reveal what happens, but flash
forward a year later and having burnt himself out in the negotiation
business, Willis is now a police chief in a smaller town. You think
he'll be called on to use his negotiation skills again? If you say "no"
then please let me slap you upon the cheek.

The thrills only intensify from there once the trailer park trio takes
Kevin Pollack's family hostage. I really like the fact that we have two
sets of bad guys here. There are the white collar criminals who remain
faceless, yet ruthless in their desire to get what they want. Then
there are the blue collar boys who make a stupid mistake and get in way
over their heads.

I also appreciate the fact that the blue collar bad boys aren't
one-dimensional. Jonathan Tucker plays the older brother (Dennis
Kelly), and he does a great job of making his character somewhat
sympathetic. He's a small-time wannabe tough guy who gets himself in a
very bad situation that only escalates as the movie progresses. As the
situation worsens, we see that Dennis regrets what he's done. He
obviously wants to be anywhere else at the moment. He's scared, but he
continues to try to talk tough. He's reaping the consequences of
falling in with the likes of Mars.

Mars, portrayed by the show-stealing Ben Foster, is a long-haired,
black clothes-wearing troublemaker. His back story is completely a
mystery at the beginning, but we deliberately begin to see that he may
not be quite as sympathetic as the others. Is he pure evil?
Cold-blooded? Misunderstood? Regretful? Revealing anything would be a
disservice to your viewing enjoyment, so I'm not saying anymore except
that the character is very well-developed.

I know it's only March, but other than Million Dollar Baby, Hostage is
the best movie I've seen this year. If you want a fun, suspenseful
night at the movies then ignore the critics whining and moaning about
clichés and improbabilities and go check out Hostage. I love the irony
in the fact that half of the negative reviews on Rottentomatoes
complain about the clichés in the movie. Wow, at least THAT complaint
isn't cliché or anything. Try a little originality yourself.

Some of these critics like to go to Wal-Mart before a movie like this
and purchase the biggest, most industrial strength Nitpicker they can
find. You didn't know that was an actual tool? Oh yes. They're owned by
every single uptight critic who white-knuckle clenches his Movie
Snobbery PhD degree at all action and thriller movies. Don't listen to
'em. Hostage is a movie for movie fans, not movie elitists.

THE GIST Are you in the mood for a dark, intense, edge-of-your seat
thriller? Then Hostage will most certainly entertain. If you're the
type of moviegoer who only knows how to complain about clichés and
coincidences then I'm sure you'll do the same here. I recommend
loosening up and enjoying life a little.

Rating: 4.5 (out of 5)
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw this movie at an early screening. Loved it! It was a
psychological thriller, scarier than I expected. Ben Foster, who plays
Mars, is amazing, the best! Very sinister and portrays Mars with great
capability. The movie was darker than I expected, but I liked it better
this way, it was more believable and scarier...a real thrill ride!!
There is not one actor that could've done a better job. Bruce Willis is
his great usual self, he is heroic and tough. Jimmy Bennet who plays
Tommy is so unbelievably cute, as well. He also is great in the movie.
The movie has a film noir feeling to it, which is really cool. The
score appeals to the film noir aspect as well. I also agree with the
other voters in that the movie is very visual, not sugarcoated or
anything like that. I was kept on the edge of my seat throughout the
entire movie with the suspenseful twists that I didn't expect. All in
all, I loved it, and will be first in line to pay to see it again on
the big screen opening day. I would recommend this movie for those who
like thrillers, suspense, action, and those who are just looking to see
a really good movie. Hope this review helps! People should definitely
see this movie, so go see it!
<|_=00=_|>
This action thriller keeps you on the edge of your chair with a twist
around every corner. The beginning credits were presented in a unique
manner which transitioned quickly into the film. Bruce Willis portrays
his character so accurately ...in the Bruce Willis way..as only a
veteran actor can and you can be assured "Hostage" will become one of
his most notable films. His emotional range was tested time and time
again and he passed with flying colors. Another noteworthy mention
should be for Ben Foster in his role as Mars Krupcheck. I almost felt
sorry for him. His tormented and demented character came through so
vividly in his glaring eyes. The overall performances by all cast was
excellent...even the Beagle. Thanks for the adrenaline rush.
<|_=00=_|>
I went into this movie with moderate expectations, but was very
impressed with how good it was. Thoroughly entertaining from start to
finish, Hostage offered some great action, drama, emotion and most of
all some fantastic acting, mainly by Bruce Willis and Ben Foster. I
have not always enjoyed Willis' movies, but this one was reminiscent of
some of his better roles, ie. Die Hard and Sixth Sense. 

I have read some of the media's reviews of this film and some have been
unjustifiable harsh. Were they watching the same movie? Once again, I
am glad that I did not listen to the critics because I would have
missed this movie. If you are in the mood for a tense, gritty thriller
with believable and emotional characters, Hostage will not disappoint.
I give it 8.5/10.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see this movie last night for the only reason, it was a free
premiere ticket, and I had not much else to do. I was therefore
pleasantly surprised by the movie. Artistically and dialogue wise this
movie is lacking, except for the first scene, but this is to be
expected from a Bruce Willis film. As a an action/thriller the movie
hits the mark. It is noir, gritty, violent, and similar to the
director's, Florent Siri, style used for his 2002 film, "The Nest".
Several very cool shots by the cinematographer, tie this movie
together. This is a great movie to go watch on a Saturday night with
friends. You will be thoroughly entertained by Willis, who is best
suited for this type of role.
<|_=00=_|>
I just loved this movie. Tense. Engrossing. Gripping from start to
finish. All words to describe a conversation with Johnny Betts. But
they also adequately describe Bruce Willis' latest movie Hostage. The
movie could also be referred to as Redemption because that's definitely
what you'll see this as if you have been disappointed with Bruce's
recent efforts. 

Hostage sacrifices heavy action and humor for a darker, more
character-driven tale, and it works. THIS is how a thriller should be!

Are you in the mood for a dark, intense, edge-of-your seat thriller?
Then Hostage will most certainly entertain. If you're the type of
moviegoer who only knows how to complain about clichés and coincidences
then I'm sure you'll do the same here. I recommend loosening up and
enjoying life a little.
<|_=00=_|>
Jeff Talley (Bruce Willis), a former Los Angeles SWAT police
negotiator, has moved to Bristo Camino, a small quiet town away from
the big city. He now serves as the chief of police with a small force
in a town that has very little crime. After ten years as a hostage
negotiator, Jeff was just burned out and needed a quieter life,
especially, after his last standoff ended in the death of the hostages.
Three teenagers decide to simply steal an SUV from a wealthy accountant
just for fun. What started out as a simple theft ended up with the
death of a policewoman. The teenage thieves are trapped inside when
police backup arrives at the house. The house is heavily fortified with
armor and bulletproof glass for the owner's protection, but in this
case, it protects the boys from the police. The boys take the family
hostage, and Jeff must become something he never wanted to do again, be
a hostage negotiator. This is a great action packed Bruce Willis
thriller. The film has a superb storyline with many twists and turns
that will keep you on the edge of your seat. Bruce Willis is at his
best in this type of movie. A must see. (Miramax Films, Run time 1:42,
Rated R)(10/10)
<|_=00=_|>
Hostage is breathtaking from the first to the last second. Not only is
the story well elaborated pure and to the point with no frills but also
Bruce Willis has added more facets to his "last boyscout"
personality.Bruce returns as we have seen him so many times before - a
lonesome cowboy having trouble in his marriage and with his teenage
daughter. And yes he is a police chief once more. But he stepped down
in his career as blaming himself for a mistake he made in the past. He
is scared and even cries which makes him so human and almost fragile-
yet he is a tough negotiator still.He suffers and we suffer with him as
he portraits a hero which is much more real. Willis has matured and his
amazing performance just blew me away. Hostage is a must see.
