
Slick, witty, snappy, tight, and fun. Bright, endearing leads. David
Suchet is really good as someone who really isn't very nice. The heists
(and camera/editing), while not exactly Mission Impossible, are
innovative and exciting, and although you always know what's going to
happen it's a fun ride getting there.

Foolproof doesn't have the same star-quality you might find in some
bigger releases, but the film looks crisp and colourful with good (eg.
believable, unobtrusive) special effects, and there are plenty of films
- and big-name directors - who could learn a thing or two about getting
sparky performances, and a pacy, neat little caper.
<|_=00=_|>

Finally, a heist movie that doesn't have any noticeable plot holes,
intriguing concept, and for Canadian viewers, doesn't attempt to hide a
major Canadian city as somewhere in America.  

Normally, I'm put off by action movies because of the plot holes and
repetitiveness of so many of them.  So "Foolproof" came as a pleasant treat-
there is a MAJOR twist in the plot that you will just have to watch for
yourself.

Watching "Foolproof" was like reading a nice mystery novel on a winter
afternoon, (as it happens, I saw this movie on a snowy
afternoon!)

If this is the future of Canadian film, more please!
<|_=00=_|>

I rented this video on a whim as I enjoy heist flicks, but went in
expecting
really grade B material.  I ended up thoroughly enjoying this film! Ryan
Reynolds and the cast were funny without overdoing it and worked well
together.  The film wasn't burdened with cheesy dialogue, hokey special
effects and the such.  Throughout it maintained a smart approach toward
keeping the characters in the forefront.  Yes, the heist sequences were
detailed and decent in their own right and is on par with that of
Entrapment
but maybe even better: cool to watch without it being way, way over the
top.
But we never lose sight of the three central characters.  It's finding
these small niche gems that make watching films an adventure.
<|_=00=_|>
Kevin (Ryan Teynolds), Sam (Kristin Booth) and Rob (Joris Jarsky) are
best friends and they develop plans of foolproof heists as a game since
the times of the university, but without having the intention of
executing it. After developing a complex robbery of a jewelery, their
plans are stolen. Sooner, the mobster Leo Gillette (David Suchet), who
has stolen the jewelery following the plan developed by the group,
blackmails them with the following proposition: they have to steal US$
20,000,000.00 in bonds from a bank, and he returns the stolen project
of heist to them. Otherwise, he will deliver their plans with their
fingerprint to the police. Kev, Sam and Rob decide to join the gang,
afraid of going to the jail.

"Foolproof" is a surprisingly good action movie. The story, full of
plot points and betrayals, is engaging and recalls movies like "The
Italian Job", "The Sting", or "Confidence", among others. The nice cast
and the excellent David Suchet have great performances in the role of a
team with a weird hobby, and an amoral mobster. The music score is also
great and fits perfectly to the action scenes. I really recommend this
unknown movie as a great entertainment. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Jogo de Risco" ("Game of Risk")
<|_=00=_|>

This movie was outstanding!  Clever, funny, exciting, and Canadian.  I'm
quite proud to see this film on the big screen.  I'm even more proud of
the
fact that the film makers decided to base the story in Toronto.  Too often
has Toronto doubled for other cities in films, it was refreshing to see
the
"T dot O" being its good old self.

Until I saw this movie, Ocean's 11 (the remake, not the boring original)
was
hands-down favourite heist movie.  In my opinion, FoolProof is practically
dead even with Ocean's 11 on sheer cleverness.  I don't want to spoil
anything, but suffice it to say that the plot surrounding the heist and
the
"thieves by mistake" is brilliant, twisting, and...foolproof!

The characters were expertly played, with Ryan Reynolds really shining in
his performance.  He came across as smart, quirky, and of course very
funny.
His comic timing blended very well with the tense heist
drama.

The great part about FoolProof is that, unlike Ocean's 11, it didn't try
to
hype itself up with some veteran all-star cast to try and sell more
tickets.
Ryan Reynolds has significant star power, but I'm not sure if the fratboy
fans who say Van Wilder will warm up to this much more dynamic role.  Only
time will tell I suppose.  Either way, if you're a Canadian, support your
film industry and check out this stellar movie!
<|_=00=_|>
this no name, no budget mystery caper surprisingly is a solid piece of
film-making with an excellent plot twist, taut writing and acting along
with a good music track. There is a delightful laid back transition
into a more sinister scenario along with a few spicy scenes that never
become over the top. Somewhat manipulative in places, but not really
more than most mystery thriller genre movies. The characters could have
been more refined and restrained in a few places, but overall this a
good "see" if one is looking for something exciting when it comes to
crime films - a sort of mini Oceans 11 or 12 on a smaller scale without
all the big action. Seven out of Ten Stars.
<|_=00=_|>

I loved this movie.

Foolproof is a pretty intelligent caper film that rises above standard
caper/action movies that you get from, say, Arnold Schwarzenegger.

Acting: It was very good, but the acting from Ryan Reynolds was great. I
found his delivery perfect for the role.

Script: The script was fairly intelligent but fell into a few
standard-caper-script holes in a few spots. Overall the script maintained
its character through the interpersonal banter, particularly with
Reynolds.

Soundtrack: Excellent. Perhaps the greatest complement to an intelligent
movie is a groovy soundtrack that helps keep the momentum of the film going.
This soundtrack is groovy. Think Ocean's Eleven with George
Clooney.

Plausibility: Well, here we have problems. Don't think this is realistic,
just be thankful you don't have Arnie flying a Harrier jet. Hey, it's as
plausible as Ocean's Eleven.

Overall, I really enjoyed this movie, and I would happily recommend it to
almost anyone.

8/10


<|_=00=_|>

I'll admit it - I only went to see this movie to support the fact that a
Canadian movie was playing at my local giant movie-plex - a rarity in
these
parts.  I didn't know all that much about it and I went in thinking that
there was a good chance that I was not going to like this
movie.

But I was surprised.  Although it wasn't the most techno-savvy heist movie
with the coolest gadgets and up-to-the-minute technology, it had me
entertained. That's not to say that there weren't gadgets and neat props
used to pull of the heists - just not a plethora of things like you would
see in a huge budget Hollywood movie. The parts in the movie that were
supposed to be funny made me laugh and the tense parts had me going.

The setup, a trio of twenty-something friends making a game out of
planning
the perfect crime without actually any intention of pulling them off, was
at
least a refreshing start to a caper movie.  They are not looking to score
diamonds and make it rich - they are satisfied with knowing that they
outsmarted the security companies and that they could pull off these jobs
if
they didn't have morals and a respect for the law (they are just
desk-jockies).

I thought that the acting was well-done and the roles were believable.
The
script was pretty good and at least there wasn't a bunch of cheesy
one-liners and awkward dialogue (although I too found that they said
"foolproof" more times than warranted).

All in all I would have no problem recommending this to anyone. As long as
you don't go into the theatre expecting the smartest, savvy-est, most
original heist movie ever to grace the screen, then you'll most likely
enjoy
it for the 'popcorn movie' that it is.

<|_=00=_|>

While not up to the pace and drama of The Italian Job or Heist,this made for
cable epic is redeemed by a nice twist ending.

Kristin Booth as the female lead has charm and presence. Her smile lights up
the screen and she looks capable of the part played by her character, with a
well muscled build unlike the typical stick woman of Hollywood.

David Suchet, who you may remember as the cop in A Perfect Murder,
underplays the villain well though the other leads struggle more with the
wooden dialogue.

A diverting way to spend some time. Certainly better than The Score, which
wasted a huge budget and big name actors. Here, a modest budget and working
talent exceed expectations.
<|_=00=_|>

"Foolproof" is a wonderful surprise.  A smart, well-acted movie set in
Toronto with no one pretending it's New York, or L.A or...Pittsburgh!
Fast-paced and quick-thinking it's what multi-million dollar productions
(i.e.:The Bourne Supremacy) aim for but so frequently miss.  Above all there
is that "thing" that no one can plan: chemistry.  The actors have something
going on the screen and , whether it's feigned or not, it comes across full
throttle. Ryan Reynolds, Kristin Booth and Joris Jarsky just "click";they
are charming and engaging. The great David Suchet makes for a menacing
villain.  The whole thing had some brains behind it and I had a great time
watching.
