

Whatever you may throw at Michael Moore's methods, there are some points
made in the film that are valid.  

FACT:  The United States has a gun-related homicide rate that is totally
disproportionate to its population when compared to every other country in
the world.

By the end of the film, however, Mr. Moore has already discounted the
ownership of guns as a cause, and the blame lies firmly at the feet of the
selective and sensationalist media.  

By far the most insightful comments in the film are made by Marilyn Manson -
namely that there are certain businesses and politicians in the United
States that capitalise on on fear.

I don't see this as an anti-gun film, but more an observation of a country
that is so completely gripped by fear, that it is spiraling downwards into
deep and dangerous paranoia.  That this fear is driven by certain forces for
profit is sickening and it needs to be uncovered.

When I see so-called 'gun nuts' or apparent racists being interviewed, I
feel nothing but pity for them.  Their views have been formed by nothing
less than the media saturation they are exposed to on a daily
basis.

I guess these things are far more apparent to those of us who live outside
the USA and witness the continual aggressive acts it perpetrates upon
countries that are far too small and weak to defend themselves.

Watch this America, then "South Park, the Movie" and after that take a good
long look in the mirror.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>

`Bowling for Columbine,' is a very thought provoking film.

Perhaps the first thought it provokes in any US resident is that the most
sensible thing he or she could possibly do is move forthwith to Canada.
It's nearby, they speak English almost indistinguishable from standard
American, it feels `lighter over there,' you get government health care,
there are plenty of guns but very little killing, and you don't even have
to
lock your doors.

The fundamental question `Bowling for Columbine' asks is:  What's
responsible for the exceptionally high level of killing in America?  Not
a
lot of guns, Moore points out, because other countries have that.  Not a
violent history, because other countries have that.  Not a love of
violent
movies, video games, and so forth, because other countries love all that
too. Not poverty, unemployment, and ethnic diversity, because lots of
countries have more poverty and Canada has as much ethnic diversity and
more
unemployment. Two things, according to Moore, are primary causes:  the US
media, which, as he shows, fans up fear constantly among the American
populace; and the government in Washington, which solves everything by
bombing people somewhere. There's a third thing that emerges more subtly:
a
gun culture, which leads to the absurd notion of self-defense,
perpetuating
the violence and the fear and the racism. In this the leading force is
that
powerful lobby, the National Rifle Association. The result of this lethal
combination delineated by Moore, particularly since 9/11, is that
Americans
aren't very happy people: they live in a constant state of rage,
perturbation, and fear, when they're not disolved in tears for the dead
who're falling in the houses and streets and schools of the country on a
daily basis.

`Bowling for Columbine' isn't ultimately very cheery or uplifting stuff.
True, it has lots of laughs, but most of them are ironic - a little
sick-making, when you think about it -- and at American expense.  Those
of
us who live in the USA and don't actually regard moving to Canada (or
somewhere else) as a real option, aren't walking out of this polemical
documentary feeling any too cheerful.  One may quarrel with Moore's
style,
though it seems questionable that so many reviewers have expressed
disapproval of his personal appearance (what's sloppy dressing got to do
with it?). One can hardly quarrel with most of Moore's basic facts or the
urgency of his subject or his commitment to it.  Because of its
significance
to Americans on both personal and national levels, "Bowling for
Columbine"
has to be considered the most important (and it's becoming the most
watched)
US documentary film in many a year.  This is being recognized in all
sorts
of ways, first of all with the special jury prize at Cannes. We shall see
what the Academy has to say.

It's impressive that Moore and two young men seriously injured at
Columbine
were able by their confrontations to shame Wal-Mart into taking handguns
and
ammunition out of their stores - and Moore appears to have been surprised
and impressed by this result himself.

Moore has seemed crude and simplistic and confrontational in the past.
His
methods have not radically changed, but they've modulated into something
subtler and less self-serving, such that he has an ability to talk more
easily with potential adversaries --  bank employees giving out rifles
with
new accounts; Michigan militiamen; even Charlton Heston, the haughty
President of the National Rifle Association, who invites Moore into his
house to film a conversation.  True, Heston ends up walking out of the
room
after a while, but he doesn't have Moore thrown out.  Nor does Wal-Mart.
This is significant.  One is tempted to call Moore's methods (as he
wields
them today) not crude and simplistic and confrontational, but direct,
simple, and honest.  There's something unimposing and Middle American
about
his overweight slouch and scruffy baseball cap crowned head.  If he lives
in
a house worth close to $2 million in New York now, you can't tell it from
looking at him, and that consciously maintained persona, if we choose to
see
it thus, aids him in moving through Littleton, Colorado and Windsor,
Ontario, and the other places where he got the footage for this
devastating,
yet simple film. For credibility among US gun-toters like Heston, Moore
has
an ace in the hole:  he's an expert marksman and a lifetime member of the
NRA.

Heston walks out because he hasn't good answers; in fact he really hasn't
any answers at all.  His explanations for why the USA is so violent are
ones
Moore has already discounted, and he can't justify his brazenly fronting
for
the National Rifle Association in Colorado and Michigan right after the
child murders by children in those two states.  Marilyn Manson (the
artist
accused of complicity at Columbine because the young killers liked his
music) in contrast has not only good answers, but also the greatest
zinger
in the film.  When asked what he would have said to the youth at
Columbine
after the murders, he says:  `Not a word. I'd have listened to them.
That's
what nobody has been doing.'  In between telling interviews, Moore has
various ways of documenting contexts:  an animation, recited statistics
with
images, and astonishing film clips like the Fifties one of cops admiring
how
realistic some kids' toy guns are, and the one from a metal-detector
company
pushing for dress codes in schools, showing a boy with baggy pants
unloading
a whole arsenal.  What's laughable are all such solutions that don't even
begin to get at the problem - that are just profiteering from chaos and
insecurity.

It's encouraging that so many people are seeing and commenting on this
movie.  When it was over, I wished the lights would go up and there'd be
a
discussion group held right there in the auditorium.  There was a lot to
talk about.  Not everything was by any means clear, nor were all the
facts
to be bought without question.  But in one way or another, `Bowling for
Columbine' brings up all the most central issues in America  today.
Michael
Moore makes you laugh and cry; but most important, he makes you
think.


<|_=00=_|>

Yes Mr. Moore may lean left, and yes he may not be the most objective
documentarian.

However the facts stand: America has many, many more deaths attributed to
guns than any
other nation. It's a sad truth.

Unfortunately Mr. Moore has been vilified for asking why. And typical of
the
"head-stuck-in-
the-sand" mentality of the far right, they are angry for his work, not at
the facts.

This movie is well done and if you're left, right, in-between, gun nut, or
responsible gun
owner it is definitely worth viewing.

I suspect most of the negative comments posted about this movie at IMDB
and
similar sites
are by people who haven't seen the movie. They're just angry at what they
perceive the movie
to be.

It isn't a movie about gun control. It's a movie that merely ask why so
many
deaths.

Enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>

Documentary by Michael Moore about the NRA and America's fascination with
guns.  Much of the footage deals with Columbine and the case in which a 6
year old boy shot to death a 6 year old girl.  It all culminates in an
interview with the head of the NRA Charlton Heston.

Riveting, chilling, hilarious and absolutely incredible movie despite what
your views are on the gun issue.  Moore's views are definetely anti-gun but
he does try to show the opposite side also.  Moore questions why there are
so many killings in America by guns and almost none in other countries.  He
gives no real answers to this question but he raises a lot of interesting
points and theories.  I walked out of the theatre very shaken but, in a way,
exhilirated.  This is truly a great documentary.

I'm not going to review this fully--it's a movie you should see for
yourself.  A definite must-see.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie was entertaining and interesting, but in certain ways it
left me wanting. Michael Moore himself is somewhat irritating, and I
found myself wishing he kept more to the background than he does. At
the same time, the conclusions that he draws are compelling and
pragmatic. This movie was not designed to be an argument. It was not
designed to sway the viewer. It was designed to fuel the fire of the
already convinced. Though I think that this is Moore's intent
(concluded from interviews I've read), I feel that goal could be
reached at the same time as convincing a few fence-sitters, and that
would have made the film more powerful. 

I have two main complaints regarding this movie: 

First, I felt that Michael Moore sometimes crossed lines in his
interviews that in no way seemed to further his cause or drive his
point home. He interviews people as though looking for his answer, not
their answer, and particularly seemed to be trying to strike a blow at
the conservative masses. I thought this distracted the genuinity and
plausibility of the conclusions that he drew. It must be said that the
conclusions that Moore drew are of a nature that strikes at
conservative politics. However, I felt that the facts he represented
spoke for themselves, and that the blows should not have been dealt to
conservative interviewees by asking questions designed to get emotional
responses out of them.

Second, I found some of the statistics needed to be qualified with per
capitas or percentages. When comparing the United States to England,
for instance, it is important to take population differences and
density into consideration. Straight statistics do not apply. I think
the statistics were somewhat skewed by this oversight, however
according to some rough guesstimates I made, it wouldn't have
diminished Moore's point, only made it less dramatic (which would,
indeed, have strengthened his case). 

These two complaints hint at an even larger problem, however, and that
is this: Because Moore presents his case in this way, he can never hope
to have his message truly heard by anyone who isn't already on his
side.

<|_=00=_|>

This movie makes me feel that it is the first time i just remotely
understand the American society. Michael Moore explores the darkest side
of
America - the society built on fear. Fear of terrorists, fear of the
coloureds fear of your neighbor. It appears that americans have lost
perspective, not noticing the real dangers of life: pollution, traffic,
e.t.c. With TV-channels telling stories only about violence and terrorism
and populistic politicians scaring people to vote for them Americans trust
only in themselves.

Michael Moore tries with this movie to make the Americans consider and
think
for themselves being rationals, and to tell the rest of the world how the
American society works. Really something to think about... See it, its
necessary
<|_=00=_|>

I watched this for the first time and pretty much like it. But
something kept nagging at me. I am a pretty liberal person and believe
in Gun control but I really have always liked Charlton Heston and
couldn't believe he was as bad as he's portrayed here. So I did a
little research and found out that his speech was so horribly butchered
by Moore that he totally changed the meaning Heston was going for. Also
Moore inserted a shot of Heston waving a gun over his head that was
taped at a NRA function a year later in some other location and then
cut in so it looked like it was part of his speech in Denver after the
Columbine shooting. Moore never mentions that the meeting was planned
way before the Columbine shooting and couldn't be canceled
realistically in that short period of time. 

Other things found out. The Footage of the Dog with the gun is faked.
The bank at the beginning mailed the guns to customers from a warehouse
400 miles away. They didn't hand them out in the bank the way its
portrayed and the guns in the bank were models. The Foreign death
statistics don't take into account police shootings(the US figures do)
and they are not adjusted for the differences in population and a few
of them he took the lowest death toll in a given period instead of an
average???

The scene with Dick Clark was another one that I just couldn't believe.
Is he really that rotten? Turns out the the six year old's mother had
lost custody of all her kids and was a convicted drug dealer. She had
three children all from different father's and her son was not in her
custody and living with a drug dealing uncle in a crack house with guns
and Knives all over the place. Moore conveniently leaves all this out
and tries to make Dick Clark the bad guy for employing the kids mother
at minimum wage. When Moore approaches Clark he does it at the worst
possible time. Why? because Moore WANTS Clark to get angry and close
the door in his face. I'd shut the door in his face too. What's going
on here? The list goes on and on and I'll leave it up to the
inquisitive viewer to do a little research into how this films was made
as almost all of the major points Moore is trying to make have been
altered or major points left out to get his personal view across. And
what's with Canada being portrayed as something almost bordering on
Utopia? Did Moore ever mention that the film got major funding from
Canadian government money through a Canadian production company!! And I
have friends in Canada and they LOCK the doors! 

I agree with what Moore is setting out to do but the film really never
draws any conclusions and his tactics are not in line with what's
considered Non-fiction. I almost felt Moore's tactics were as
disturbing as the subject matter. When you have to distort the truth to
such an extent and not even realize or admit to it, based on the way
Moore defends everything in the film as the truth, is a very disturbing
trend. This film has a tremendous power to influence people and they
should really know the whole truth not Michael Moore's truth. Anything
else truly is "fiction"

<|_=00=_|>

What has become of the United States? Is there any difference from the
United States that was formed by Puritans and tried to escape from
persecution under the British flag? Has there always been a different
mentality for the American than that of any other nationality of
individual?
After September 11th Michael Moore the director and writer set out to
make a
documentary that addressed these and other embedded questions that are
addressed everyday in our news media, school systems, homes, stores and
street corners.
Attempting to address all sides of the issues as a person of the media
Moore used not only his own experiences, his connection to the NRA, but
also
other persons opinions that ranged from Charlton Hesston, the well known
president of the NRA and famous actor, to the average American that was
confronted with the violent acts that resulted from the accessibility of
fire arms.
This documentary took a new approach to the display of information. Not
only was animation used to explain history, American's imbedded fear of
their own neighbors, but it also used rock music ( gave a beat or a pulse
to
the film that progress from slow to fast as the intensity of the issues
progressed), sarcasm, interviews, and casual conversations. Moore
traveled
the country to talk to all those that make up the spectrum of the
American
society, he traveled to the scenes of some of the more recent American
tragedies, made impromptu stops in corporations such as Kmart (where the
boys from Columbine bought the ammunition used in the shooting), and
traveled to Canada to get an outside or foreign opinion. The idea was to
move away from the documentary style of `talking heads'; he wanted a film
that would not only touch a chord with the American people but one that
would also be readily watched. This idea also made the documentary, that
there was too much influence placed on the `words of the professional' or
the ` findings of the expert'; that these findings and misleadings
flooded
the news at night to increase the amount of fear that the average
American
has as it looked for a scape-goat to blame.
The information that Moor presented in his documentary did not
technically
follow a pre-described narrative, but followed more of a form where the
audience was left areas to think and to breakdown the information.
Elements
of the circular narrative were the foundation of the film, where similar
elements in opinions and the common American we continually addressed.
Yet,
the only problem that could be addressed is one of the ways in which
Moore
collected some of his data. Some might see a use of trickery or
manipulation
was used on his part to get the responses and such passion-filled
opinions
stated. While others would see the same information in the light that no
instigation was needed, that people have these strong beliefs, opinions
and
are willing to talk about them but they lack the examples or
understanding
of the topic to take a well informed stand on one side or the other. Such
a
problem is not new in the world of documentaries when controversial data
is
presented to the public. Moore did a great job of presenting a delicate
subject to the American people and was deserving of the Academy Award for
the project.

<|_=00=_|>

Moore Bowls Gutter Balls in Columbine Film

by Ari Armstrong

What are we to make of a documentary that claims to discuss violence in
America, but fails to even mention a policy responsible for raising U.S.
homicide rates at least 25%?

At the end of his film Bowling for Columbine, director Michael Moore
bowls a
strike. Unfortunately, his film is less successful. He heaves mightily
and
knocks down a few pins, but he also rolls some gutter balls.

Economist Jeffrey Miron of Boston University found "drug and alcohol
prohibition have substantially raised the homicide rate in the United
States
over much of the past 100 years" by an estimated 25-75%. Why? Prohibition
creates violent black markets. It's a simple theory supported by the
evidence.

So, in his rambling exploration of many other facets of violence in
America,
why does Moore completely ignore the domestic consequences of
prohibition?
Such an omission is inexcusable, and it indicates Moore's social agenda
trumps any serious effort to come to grips with the problem.

That said, at times Moore's work is chillingly poignant. During one
segment,
he shows frame after frame of botched U.S. foreign policy moves. The U.S.
helps kill or otherwise remove one leader of a struggling nation, only to
see the rise of an even worse leader. The U.S. has supported both Saddam
Hussein and the Taliban, though in retrospect that support seems to have
been unwise. Moore's critique of American "foreign entanglements" mirrors
libertarian concerns.

On the morning of the Columbine murders, Moore points out, President
Clinton
was on television announcing the latest American bombing raid in Kosovo.
Just an hour later, Clinton was back on TV discussing the suburban
terror.
Is senseless violence on the personal level linked to the mass violence
of
the state? It's possible, but Moore doesn't demonstrate a causal
connection.

Shock-rocker Marilyn Manson continues this theme by pointing out the
president has more influence than Manson does. Manson blames the
"campaign
of fear and consumption" constantly bombarding Americans. However,
Manson's
suggestion that his music is a healthy "escape" is as ludicrous as his
critics' assertions that Manson's music somehow drives people to
mayhem.

Moore notes the Columbine killers also attended a morning bowling class,
so
why not blame bowling? Moore's comparison is silly, but he does raise the
excellent point that people shouldn't look for scapegoats following a
tragedy.

Which brings us to another of Moore's gutter balls. Scapegoating is
precisely what Moore does, only his victim is the American gun owner
rather
than Marilyn Manson.

At one point, Moore places a picture of the young victim of the Buell
school
shooting against a ledge of Charlton Heston's house. Moore seems to think
Heston is somehow to blame for the death, and he asks Heston to
apologize.

Moore also took a couple of Columbine victims to K-Mart and used media
pressure to convince the chain to stop selling ammunition. He describes
this
as an "overwhelming victory." Yet his self-serving media stunt
accomplished
the same thing keeping Manson out of Denver accomplished: exactly
nothing.

In his incoherent badmouthing of corporations, Moore neglects to remind
us
that his film was released by a large corporation, his equipment was
manufactured by corporations, and his work was advertised by corporate
web
pages and media outlets. This doesn't prove Moore's case is wrong, but it
does prove he's not self-reflective.

Moore offers some needed criticism of American media, especially
television
news programs. One person Moore interviews notes that, even as the
American
murder rate plummeted, television coverage of murders dramatically
expanded,
thus giving viewers a false impression of reality.

Moore rightly rails against racism. Many white Americans have an
irrational
fear of black males, and this encourages a violent mindset. That's a
needed
criticism. Unfortunately, Moore seeks to replace bigotry against blacks
with
bigotry against gun owners.

Many of my gun-owning friends are doctors, lawyers, professors, and
professionals. Does Moore interview anybody representative of the
American
gun owner? Of course not. Does he interview any scholar who is an expert
on
crime and firearms, such as David Kopel, John Lott, Gary Kleck, or Don
Kates? Of course not. To do so would be to treat the matter seriously
rather
than fan the flames of prejudice.

Moore cites the gun-homicide statistics for a variety of countries with
lower numbers than in the U.S., but he conveniently omits countries with
more stringent gun laws and higher gun-homicide rates.

He also ignores the fact that England's gun bans have been followed by an
increase in violent crime there, including gun-related crime. All the
evidence that demonstrates lawfully carrying a handgun or keeping a
defensive gun in the home deters criminals is totally suppressed.

Moore does wonder why Canada has a relatively high gun-ownership rate yet
fewer murders. He concludes there is something wrong with American
culture.

He's right about that: there is something wrong. He rightly points to
poverty and America's racist past as part of the problem, even though he
looks to failed welfare schemes to solve poverty -- whereas libertarians
look to repeal the government interventions (such as prohibition) that
have
perpetuated it.

But Moore overstates his case. He thinks America is a nation of fear and
paranoia. But in some ways he feeds into the same media frenzy he
criticizes
in his film. Yes, some Americans have problems with violence, bigotry,
and
paranoia. However, the vast majority of Americans, including the vast
majority of American gun owners, lead basically responsible and healthy
lifestyles. This basic fact seems not to assist Moore in his quixotic
crusades.

<|_=00=_|>

that michael moore is an obnoxious self-aggrandizing windbag... an
incredibly overrated director who combines the crude rhetorical style of
conservative media hacks like ann coulter with the nutty politics and
unconvincing "millionaire spokesman for the common man" persona of ralph
nader... basically just a left-wing version of rush limbaugh, only
fatter.

anyone who honestly thinks that "bowling for columbine" is an accurate and
thoughtful investigation of violent crime in american society does not
live
in the united states (as the demographic data on this website clearly
illustrates) or is ideologically predisposed to agree with any crackpot
theory that moore spits out.  *obligatory spoiler warning*  the critically
acclaimed documentary is a rambling, poorly-focused melange of isolated
statistics, erroneous insinuations (including a crappy cartoon suggesting
that the NRA was established in conjunction with the ku klux klan), lame
anecdotal evidence, sappy appeals to the audiences' emotions, and
incredibly
dull diatribes about irrelevant topics like air pollution and health care
reform.

moore does, however, manage to pose an interesting question... why does
canada, where gun ownership is common and violence-laced american forms of
entertainment are popular, have lower violent crime rates than the united
states?  unfortunately, his laughably inept attempts to answer that
question
leave much to be desired.  in "bowling for columbine" we are told that
students sometimes shoot their classmates because k-mart sells cheap
bullets, the CIA armed paramilitary groups in central america during the
1980s, and television news programs somehow turn ordinary people into
racist
lunatics.  with stunningly tortured logic, moore also decides to blame
former president clinton for declaring war on a murderous serbian dictator
as well as dick clark for owning a restaurant that hired a single mother
on
welfare.

in a disingenuous interview with NRA president charlton heston, moore
crosses the line between mildly entertaining leftist buffoon and
self-righteous jerk.  with pointed questions and shameful editing, moore
portrays the aging actor, who suffers from alzhiemer's disease, as a
bigoted
old fossil.  take a minute to read heston's biography on this website...
he
was an active member of the civil rights movement when moore was probably
sitting in his parents' garage eating paint chips and sniffing model
glue.

the target audience of smirking gullible foreigners, aging hippies, and
naive latte-sipping college students will probably enjoy "bowling for
columbine"... but anyone who does not already assume that america is
overrun
by heavily-armed, delusional sociopaths will find it tiresome and
unconvincing... (2/10)
