

One never knows what to expect out of rock films. Going into Tupac:
Resurrection, I half expected another mediocre blaxploitation groaner.
The
other half expected a gushy MTVish drool-fest out to promote the
soundtrack
artists, including current corporate media darling 50 Cent.

Resurrection is neither. The producer is not some slick Hollywood mogul
with
no understanding of rap except as a source for making a quick buck.
Instead,
Afeni Shakur, the late rapper's mother, takes charge. As both executive
producer and the dominant force in her son's short life, her personal
agenda
impacts every frame. Like all documentaries, this is an extremely
one-sided
account, and it is likely due to her input that the movie downplays the
darker aspects of Pac's self-destructive downward spiral after his move
to
Death Row Records. Nor is the film harsh enough on Tupac's seemingly
endless
capacity for paranoia and irresponsibility.

Fortunately, she also makes the crucial decision not to dwell on more
tired
hash-rehash of so called East Coast/West Coast rap war, which the movie
clarifies as less of a reality than a media event. Nor does it choose to
linger on the numerous rumors and conspiracies surrounding Tupac's
murder.

Shakur and director Lauren Lazin wisely decide to let Tupac's voice carry
the film. Lazin wisely refrains from using the masterful, propagandistic
gimmicks of a Michael Moore documentary. There are no distracting
interviews
or massively-edited montages. As a result, the movie has a lyrical,
sacred
tone. History has mystified Pac as a martyr for West Coast gangsta rap,
although during his lifetime he only released one such album. Few choose
to
remember that Death Row was the twilight of his life, that he spent the
first half-decade of his career recording in the East where he grew up.
It
is here that the film takes its cue.

Resurrection lays bare a magnetic, arrogant, charismatic spirit that
immediately affirms why Pac remains one of rap's only true megastars.
Though
the film is not hard enough on how his growing obstinacy may have
hastened
his demise, it does not shy away from the controversy, the premonitions
of
death, the sex abuse conviction, and the inflated ego. The result is a
well-drawn sketch of man aware of his genius but haunted by demons, a
tortured soul navigating a realm more thuggish than he was at his core, a
contradiction which plays as a general commentary on rap's manufactured
images.

This movie's production value alone easily outclasses nearly every other
cinematic work that has ever pretended to be about hip-hop. It bears
little
resemblance to How High or Belly or to the shameless self-promotion of
the
vanity project 8 Mile, which was so sanitized as to kill any revelations
it
might have made about its star Eminem, the most high profile rapper to
yet
arise. I don't understand how someone could praise 8 Mile for its beauty
and
honesty (it isn't) and then criticize this film.

By contrast, the sincerity of Resurrection solidifies Pac's reputation as
`the only rapper that matters.' It shows why he is peerless and maybe the
greatest artist the genre has yet produced: whatever can be said about
his
music, as an intelligent personality there is simply no one else in his
class. He is so much more painfully relevant than all star rappers, and
the
sharpness of his observations on everything from politics to poverty
leaves
dust in the eyes of all his contemporaries. He represents a paradigm that
has become all-too-rare in a musical form now dominated by cartoon
images: a
constructive rather than destructive point-of-view.

A ball of contradictions, Tupac is finally much more complex and
brilliant
than most people would expect. People are uninformed and uninterested in
hip-hop probably will get little out of this movie. Those who know will
realize that the biggest tragedy is that not that Tupac died before
reaching
his full potential, but that other young black men with similar
sensibilities rarely reach his level of visibility. 9.5/10.
<|_=00=_|>

There is no doubt that Tupac Shakur is one of the most intriguing,
fascinating personalities in pop music history. He is made up of a
seemingly
endless list of contradictions: ruffian / nice guy, obnoxiously arrogant /
sweetly humble, hedonist / activist, "gangsta" / poet. And most
interesting
is that none of these "sides" of him seem at all false. He really is that
complicated.

Being a fan of his, especially his acting, ("GRIDLOCK'd" is one of my
favorite movies) I choose to remember the admirable parts of his
personality
more often, but I know that he was no angel, and I'm glad that "Tupac:
Resurrection" doesn't try to paint him as a hero.

Made very much in the style of last year's great documentary "The Kid
Stays
In The Picture" (so much so that I was surprised there is no connection),
it
combines seamlessly edited footage, photos that "float" around to look
3-dimensional, well-chosen music, and fluid narration to create a
dreamlike
and slightly eerie portrait of one person's lifetime in his own
words.

Unlike "The Kid Stays In The Picture", though, in "Tupac: Resurrection"
the
narrator telling his life story is dead.

Tupac is the one and only narrator of this film (through an edited
collection of insightful interviews), and it's a distinctly poignant and
eerie experience to hear it, almost like he is, "Sunset Boulevard"-style,
telling you his story from beyond the grave. Adding to the "Sunset
Boulevard" feeling is that the story starts in Las Vegas where he was
killed, and then rewinds to the beginning of his life. But sadly, you know
it's eventually going to end up in Las Vegas again.

This is an extremely well done, gripping documentary that I highly
recommend
even to people who don't care for rap music. Tupac's life story is a true
American tragedy, and anyone can learn from those. 
<|_=00=_|>

I went into this movie kind of hesitant. A lot of albums have been put out
after 2pacs death and all this and it seems like everyone just wants to
make
a quick dime off of him. Suge Knight more than anyone. But when i heard
that
2pacs own mother had put this movie together I wanted to see it. So some
friends of mine and I went to it. I've seen a lot of documentaries because
a
lot of documentaries interest me and though i completely disagreed with
Bowling for Columbine it was interesting to watch. This documentary by far
takes the cake. This movie was one of the deepest most heartfelt
documentaries...wait i mean MOVIES ive ever seen. 2pac takes you through
his
life and what he's down and though it dragged a little in the beginning as
he tells you about himself as a boy it picks up nicely as you're going
through and you just can't help but think this man was pure genius. This
movie is worth watching. Take a date, take your mom, take your dad, take
your friends...take your kid sister. The message isnt about violence. Out
of
4 stars I give it 3 3/4 . Beautiful Movie.
<|_=00=_|>

This documentary shows everything about 2pac's life, you can really dive
into his character and see how complex he is.  His accomplishments during
a
period of 6 years (pretty much) is really inspirational.  He isn't a hero,
or he at least didnt have enough time to transform into one, but I think
the
message was quite clear: Give (black) people a chance and they can do
great
things.  That's pretty much what this movie is about and it can be enjoyed
on many levels by different races simply because of - struggle.
<|_=00=_|>

First of all, let me say that I am biased, I think the world of Tupac.
That
said, this is his (and his mother's) mission statement for his life and
death and everything in between. I have followed 'Pac for almost 10 years
now, and my obsession for him has only grown deeper and deeper as the
years,
months, even days have passed since his departure from the music
game.

When I first heard about this film, I thought it was going to be another
video release accounting his legacy and mystery. I had no idea that it had
a
theatrical release date until a few months ago. Then I started hearing the
hype behind it, and really started to anticipate it strongly. I informed
all
my friends and anyone else who shared the same  passion of 'Pac as I, of
it's existence and when it was close to release. After reading some very
positive advance reviews from "Rolling Stone" and a few other
publications,
my anxiety only increased. It hits it's peak when I saw that ROGER EBERT
gave it 3 1/2 out of a possible 4 stars. I saw the film tonight at an 8:00
showing fully prepared sportin' my 'Pac t shirt, ticket stub in my hand,
and
an unmistakable grin of happiness of things to come. One word:
OUTSTANDING.
Afeni, Mtv, and Paramount were really, really, really seriously devoted to
this project!

I don't want give anything at all away to either serious 2pac devotees or
casual fans, but EVERYTHING you ever needed to know, or wanted to know
about
him, is presented in ACES. I rated this documentary a 9 out of 10 stars on
the Imdb scale. To sum up, I really and truly believe it is an enormous
shame that some people just don't understand or "get" how iconic and
influential Tupac was on both the music industry and to a certain extent
society as well. He was WAY, WAY more than just a "rapper", he was an
IMPACT!

2PAC FOR EVER. 
<|_=00=_|>

It's about time that a documentary about slain rapper Tupac Shakur such
as this be released. I've seen a number of other documentaries based on
the Shakur's life and they make me sick. For one thing, those films
make him out to be some sort of prophet or messiah, feeding into the
myth that that's exactly who he was. However, by allowing Tupac to tell
his own story, both his fans and detractors alike can finally get a
glimpse of who this man truly was as a person. In this film, from
Tupac's very own words, Tupac is not made out to be the monster that
some people would like to easily dismiss him as but but he is also not
portrayed as a saint, nor are his many troubles with the law ignored.
 From this movie, the clear conclusion is that Tupac Shakur was
ultimately a good, well-meaning person whose flawed philosophies and
poor choices in the people he chose to surround himself with ultimately
lead to his destruction. However, through tenacity and hard work, he
has become the bestselling hip hop artist in history, even from beyond
the grave.

<|_=00=_|>

This documentary of Tupac Amaru Shakur's life was amazing.  I am a huge
Tupac fan and have seen many other stories and and biographies of his
life,
but this movie by far surpassed any expectations I had about it.  Even if
you are not a Tupac fan; you will still be amazed at the life he lived,
grew
up with, and his legacy.  One of the film's strong parts is the fact that
it
really explains Tupac's mind and how he though about life.  Not only that,
but many people have a misconception that Tupac Shakur was just a
"gangstar"
that ran the streets and made music; and this film shows that he was not
all
bad and that he had a more sensitive side to his life and music.  Overall
the film captured a lot of his life through his eyes.  The film isnt about
his friends and family getting interviewed and recalling facts.....It's
real
interviews of him in the studio, in court, on MTV, personal interviews,
and
live accounts of him being him.   
<|_=00=_|>

Gangsta' Rap artist Tupac Shakur was gunned down on the streets of Las
Vegas in 1996, the end result of the life he led and the people he
knew. He was 25. The documentary 'Tupac: Resurrection' takes an unusual
and interesting approach to its subject, allowing the deceased singer
to speak to us, as it were, directly from the grave. The film begins
with him commenting on his own murder, then tracing back over the
events of his life as a means of both setting the record straight and
trying to make some sense out of all that happened to him in his very
brief time here on earth.

The film, directed by Lauren Lazin, relies primarily on interviews
Tupac gave throughout his short career, supplemented with some
additional commentary from those who knew him best. Though he became a
lightning rod of controversy due to both his criminal activities and
his provocative (i.e. violent, sexist) lyrics, Tupac saw himself more
as a 'voice of the people,' using his music as a vehicle for reaching
out to and connecting with the downtrodden, impoverished blacks living
in the kinds of ghettoes from which he himself sprang. However, even
many well-known black leaders and spokespersons had trouble accepting
Tupac's rather rose-colored definition of himself. What's most
interesting about 'Tupac: Resurrection' is the dichotomy it establishes
between the violence, drug use and criminal activities which played so
prominent a part in Tupac's life, and the genial, reflective, almost
apologetic tone of so much of what we hear him saying. It's hard to
know just how much of what has found its way into this film is really
raw truth and how much is sugarcoated revisionism designed to
'resurrect' and burnish a man's posthumous image and reputation. His
views on women come out particularly incoherent and unresolved. Yet,
'Tupac: Resurrection' is an intriguing documentary because it gives us
a glimpse not only into a strangely conflicted individual but also into
the even more bizarre world of corporate thuggery he inhabited. Like
many artists who have attempted to speak for the 'little people,' Tupac
became a victim of his own success and celebrity, living the kind of
pampered lifestyle that most of the people he was singing about would
clearly never know. It's a conflict as old as art itself, and it is one
that Tupac, for understandable reasons, was never able to resolve in
his own life. Interestingly, however, his brutal death at the hands of
murderous rivals, demonstrated that he never made it quite so far from
his roots as his lavish lifestyle might otherwise have suggested.

As a document, the film traces Tupac from his early years as the child
of two Black Panther members ( a pedigree that, he believes, set him on
the path to social crusader early on), through his youth in poverty,
his exposure to literature and drama at a performing arts high school
in Baltimore, his early attempts at performing, his meteoric rise in
the music industry, his years as a controversial celebrity, his
burgeoning film career, his continuing battles with police, the first
attempt on his life, his conviction for rape, his time in prison, and,
finally, to the rivalry between his own West Coast label, Death Row
Records, and the East Coast label, Bad Boy Records, which ultimately
led to his untimely death. For that little bit of history alone, the
film is worth watching.

As someone who knew very little about the life of Tupac - and even less
about his music - before watching the movie, I found him to be both
appealing and repellant, frightening and charismatic. The film leaves
the audience feeling as conflicted as the subject - which is what a
truly successful documentary should do after all.

<|_=00=_|>
I liked the movie very much. The documentary summarized 2Pac's life.
It's very informative and it educates us. You could learn a lot by
watching this movie. I'm a big 2Pac fan. I've listened to his music,
read his books, and watched, heard and read his interviews and
speeches. He is a standout from all the other rappers I've seen and
heard throughout the years. He is more than just a rapper. He is a
poet, prophet, revolutionary, activist, actor, singer, intellectual,
leader, orator, and artist. He is a man of many accomplishments. That's
why many fans and rappers strive to be like him. But I don't think that
we will ever see another one like 2Pac. There is only one 2Pac. He was
so different from the rest of us. It's a shame that he was taken from
this world at such a young age.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a very good documentary .. it gave me an inside closer look to
a world I don't know much of. I've heard some stories about Tupac ..
some myths too in my high school but I wasn't 100% convinced and
sounded just like lies.

I'm not a big fan of rap. I heard some songs of Tupac, though. I don't
remember his songs but I remember that I didn't like them due to the
foul language with all the swearing and the excessive use of the "F"
WORD!.

Anyway, that didn't mean that his life story wasn't interesting .. the
movie showed me briefly the life of a controversial young man who's
music was popular in many places of the world .. I'm amazed of how
frank Tupac is and that he has such courage to tell his stories
publicly.

Good documentary..entertaining, brief and goes right to the point!
