

Bring the crackers because mama, this movie is bringin' the cheese! If there
has ever been a more culturally diverse group of no-name actors to brave the
jungles of Borneo then I'll end my movie reviewing career right now (future
users of the Alan Smithee pseudonym applaud). All right, I've kept this
secret, but I actually sat in on a production meeting for Anacondas and
here's how it went down:

"Annoying black dude who just screams the whole time?"

"Check. But let's put a tough black dude in there as well. Don't wanna be
accused of stereotyping."

"Good idea. Who is Morris Chestnut?"

"Well, we thought it was a brand of chewing tobacco, but he's actually who
we're gonna use as our tough black guy."

"Oh, OK. How about a Latino woman with an unnecessarily bad
attitude?"

"You mean the J-Lo wannabe? Check."

"Good. Did y'all find that tough-looking Asian guy?"

"Check. It wasn't easy, but we found one with a mullet."

"Perfect. That'll alert everybody that he's not one of those brainy Asians.
How about a blonde babe with a thick, fake Southern accent?"

"Check. She's from Georgia, but her accent sounded too realistic. We told
her to fake it up."

"Good job. And I saw that you found a white European male, but how about the
protagonist?"

"Oh, you mean the muscular white guy with a 2-day beard growth and husky
voice? Check. He's in wardrobe right now having the sleeves on his tight
shirt rolled up."

"Perfect. Just don't forget the tattoos. Now how about somebody who's
actually famous?"

"Um, well, we don't exactly have that. But hey, we've got everything else!"
And that, my friends, is your cast. Some other guy of some sort of foreign
descent was thrown in there as well. He looked like Gregg Rainwater from The
Young Riders. He died soon enough, so it doesn't really
matter.

My money says you really won't care about anybody involved in this
production. Well, I did like the southern girl. She was pretty hot. But why
do producers insist on accents being so fake? Her accent dwindled as the
movie went along. She eventually was only accenting about one word per
sentence, but by the climax she started fakin' it up with reckless
abandon!

And I'm sure plenty of girls will think Johnny "Five O'Clock Shadow" Messner
is pretty hot, but for the most part you'll spend the first 10 minutes of
the movie picking which characters you want to see swallowed whole by a
giant anaconda. My first choice was the Jennifer Lopez wannabe. When B-movie
characters like her prance around with a huge chip on their shoulder, I
usually pray for some sort of creature to sneak up and bite that chip right
off. Along with the entire shoulder.

This is one of those movies that relies on every cliché in the B-movie book.
In other words, you can expect a whole lot of stuff like a door opening
slowly and then something jumping out while a loud noise is made. And since
this is a "creature feature," by definition a lot of the action takes place
at night, in dark caves and in water, with only flashlights to light the
way.

Dialogue is expectedly bad. We're treated to such intellectually-challenged
exchanges as: "What's wrong with this picture?" "You're in it." And it's
mostly dominated by Messner's Michael Paré-esque line delivery and Eugene
Byrd's banshee-like screeching. It's funny up to a point, but eventually you
start looking at your watch and thinking, "OK snake, it's time to eat this
kid."

The CGI looks a little goofy at times, but most of it is well done thanks to
the wise decision to hide the flaws with darkness and water. If you're
wondering how this compares to the original Anaconda, well, the two really
have nothing to do with each other except for presence of an anaconda. The
first movie had famous people in it, this one doesn't. However, this one
does have more anacondas! It's been 7 years since I saw the original, but
I'm pretty sure it's the better of the two.

My biggest complaint is that Anacondas wasn't cheesy ENOUGH! If you're gonna
be bad, then go as far out on the cheesy limb as you can go! Instead of a
blood orchid, their research should've discovered a rare, Indonesian banana
that held the secret to long life. Then once it was discovered the anacondas
were eating these things and living forever, one of the bad actors could've
deadpanned, "What are these things? Bananacondas?" BWAHAHAHAHA! Man, I
really need to start writing screenplays for intentionally bad
movies.

And I've said this before, but I'll say it again. Since "versus" movies are
the current sequel trend, they should've dug up Harrison Ford (it's been
four years since the guy had a hit), given him the Jack Ryan moniker again,
and given *us* Jack Ryan Vs. Anaconda: The Hunt for the Blood Red Orchid in
October. He could've been the guide for the scientists, and when one of them
started whining he could've cracked, "Traveling through Borneo ain't like
dusting crops, boy." Then he would've looked into the camera and winked.
It'd have been awesome and you know it.

Oh, and let me leave with a word of advice. If a bad guy is standing near
the edge of an anaconda pit, and he's holding a gun on one of your
colleagues, but his back is to you, then please, for the love of all that is
holy, instead of whimpering like someone forced to sit through a post-1987
Corey Feldman movie, stand up and kick the guy in the pit.

<|_=00=_|>
Rating: * 1/2 out of ****

As if further proof that I am in serious need of better taste, I was
actually looking forward to seeing this movie, not so much because I
was expecting anything great but because I'm a sucker for big-studio,
jungle-set adventures. The fact that it's got giant snakes can only
help, and heck, this movie's own predecessor wasn't half-bad. All
things considered, Anacondas was about on par with what I expected:
cheese, but reasonably watchable cheese. 

In the hopes of becoming millionaires, a group of young, "attractive"
researchers hire a boat, whose captain is expectedly hard-boiled and
hunky, to take them into the jungles of Borneo in search of the rare
Blood Orchid, a flower with the ability to prolong life but the catch
is that it blooms for only a six month period every seven years, and
they're approaching the last few weeks of that time span. The
expedition's boat sinks in a mishap involving a waterfall, leaving the
group stranded and easy prey for the freakishly large anacondas in the
vicinity.

The title Anacondas suggests probably a bit more than even the movie
can deliver, with the first genuine snake attack (barring the opening
credits) not even occurring until the forty-minute mark, and even then,
it's not for another half-hour until someone from the same group is
munched on by one of those slithery reptiles. There's a surprisingly
bare minimum utilization of the titular creatures, though I suspect
that has a lot to do with budgetary limitations.

If there's anything I expected to be a vast improvement upon the
original, it'd be the visual rendering of the anacondas, but they're
actually a few steps backward from the already spotty work in the
original. For cost-effective purposes, virtually all the effects are
CGI, and they're only a tiny bit better than what one would expect from
a Sci-Fi Pictures Original. Making the snakes larger also works against
the effects, making them goofier and harder to take seriously as a
genuine threat.

Worse, the snakes themselves seem a lot wimpier despite those
"advancements." The anacondas have been essentially mutated by the
Blood Orchid, so they're understandably larger (at least twice so) than
the snakes in the original and probably a lot longer as well.
Unfortunately, they're also inexplicably much easier to kill this time
around. One whack from a machete (used by someone who's never wielded
one before in her life) is enough to hack off one of these
monstrosities' heads clean off. One of the snakes even manages to
explode after being set alight by gasoline and a flare. And correct me
if I'm wrong, but when did anacondas actually have teeth?

The movie's various roles and characters are as stereotypical and
obvious as one can expect from the genre. There's the hunky male
American with his haunting past and he's got a hunky Asian
sidekick/first mate. There's the "serious" black guy and the comic
relief black guy, the latter of whom is probably the most obnoxious
character I've seen in film all year. There's also the serious chick
with "depth" and the whiny chick. In performing these roles, the cast
is almost all terrible (especially Johnny Messner as the lead), the
only modicum of acting talent coming from Morris Chestnut and the
promising Kadee Strickland.

While I've done nothing but harp on the movie, the biggest praise I can
shower it with is that it's rarely boring. From the lush jungle scenery
to the splendid visuals of the snakes right under the surface of the
water, Anacondas is at least a movie that's always nice to look at.
Even if it's never genuinely exciting or suspenseful, there are a few
cheap thrills and a fast pace that doesn't let up. I suspect very
undemanding and forgiving genre fans might even like it and it's to
them I would even consider recommending this movie. Everyone else
should first set their expectations straight.
<|_=00=_|>
Series note: Although this is the second film in the Anaconda series,
there is no need to watch the films in order. They are merely thematic
companions, sharing some similarities of plot and structure. They are
not constructed as chapters in a novel.

When it is discovered that an exotic flower found only in Borneo and
blooming only every seven years may hold the key to life extension, a
large pharmaceutical company sends a team of researchers to acquire
samples for study. Making the task thornier, the samples must be
obtained while the plant is in bloom, and as the film begins, it will
only be in bloom a few more weeks. In increasing layers of difficulty,
it's rainy season in Borneo and only Bill Johnson (Johnny Messner) is
crazy enough to take the team upriver in his ramshackle boat before the
season ends, despite the fact that they're offering $50,000, and as
they make their way upstream, of course the team runs into giant
anacondas of the type found in the first film.

Like Anaconda, Anacondas has been getting a fairly bad rap and I can't
quite figure out why. Sure, some people have complained about
inaccuracies in the films when compared to facts in the actual world,
but seriously, what's wrong with anyone who'd expect fictional films
like Anacondas to be educational or largely a documentary? The films
are basically monster flicks, with the degree of predictability that
usually entails, but what would one be expecting otherwise? Both films
are certainly internally consistent, with captivating stories, fine
performances and well executed technical aspects--directing, editing,
production design, cinematography (particularly beautiful in this
entry, and the Fijian landscapes are often breathtaking), and so on.

And in fact, Anacondas has much more than just competent artistry. From
the first frames to the last, this is one heck of a thrill ride, with
plot twists and turns around every corner mimicking the river and the
coils of the titular beast. It has basically nonstop suspense, it
cleverly incorporates horror elements from psycho humans to haunted
houses (the caves and the village they come across near the climax are
basically haunted houses in structure and tone). A number of sequences
will stick in your mind for a long time, such as the intense waterfall
scene and the great "wading" scene. There are also poignant subtexts
about materialism and the desire to be immortal versus emotional and
pragmatic concern for fellow humans. The new writing team even manages
to insert thought-provoking dilemmas related to utilitarianism.

There are a number of interesting parallels to Anaconda (1997), with an
equally interesting and capable motley crew of characters played by a
skilled cast. It may be a different locale, but the gist is still an
Apocalypse Now (1979)-styled trip up a river where the complexly
interacting crew must encounter and overcome various obstacles, not the
least of which are members of their own group, including initially
veiled villains who are as much of a snake as the more literal,
reptilian villains. 

Director Dwight H. Little also gives us an amusing alternate world take
on Anaconda's Paul Sarone (inimitably performed in that film by Jon
Voight) in Anacondas' short lived John Livingston (Andy Anderson),
whose name ties us in to famed 19th Century African explorer David
Livingstone, and the many filmic depictions of the same, including The
Lost Jungle (1934) and Stanley and Livingstone (1939). That's not the
only references to classics, as Bill Johnson's boat, "The Bloody Mary",
a character in its own right, has stylistic similarities to Charlie
Allnut's African Queen (from the 1951 film of the same name) and the
overall journey has resemblances to Disney's Jungle Cruise.

While the attack scenes may not be quite as clearly filmed and smoothly
cut as the first film, Little and his editors make up for it by
increasing the number and quality of gradually building suspense
sequences where we see a snake through water or in other environments
while our protagonists initially overlook them. The digital effects are
probably better than the first film and the mechanical/animatronics
effects are close in quality. In addition, Little incorporated many
shots of real anacondas.

If you at all enjoyed the first film, you should enjoy this one, as
well. It's important to watch films like Anacondas without
inappropriate expectations. In my view, Little and crew have
accomplished exactly what they set out to do--create an intense
thrill-ride of a monster flick with touches of humor and deeper
subtexts that's a worthy stylistic and thematic successor to the first
film.
<|_=00=_|>
No one really wanted, or asked for, a sequel to the seriously stupid
1997 creature feature Anaconda. But it was a hit (somehow) and you know
how studios are when it comes to milking something for all it's worth -
yes, Halloween 9 is currently in pre-production! Surprisingly,
Anacondas is actually quite good for what it is.

Originally meant to be a direct-to-video production, Sony was so
impressed with the dailies that they more than doubled the budget and
elevated it to a theatrical release. The budget constraints still cramp
its style, compared to A-list studio stuff, but it's the best film it
possibly can be.

With a touch more plot, involving a search for an ultra-mega-massively
rare flower, called the Blood Orchid, that only blooms every seven
years and can unlock the secret to everlasting life, there is a
sophistication to the script, rather than plain old slither'n'slash.

So we have a bunch of scientists on an expedition to the unknown depths
of the Borneo jungle and it's not off to a good start. They can only
afford a ramshackle boat; it's the rainy season and the rivers are
mighty treacherous. Also, their boat captain (Johnny Messner) is a
gruff ex-Special Forces American, with the cutest pet monkey ever.

Everyone seems to be okay about their perilous quest until they are
attacked by big crocs, go over a waterfall and become shipwrecked.
Then, when things can't get any worse, one of them is gobbled up by -
you've guessed it - an anaconda.

Instead of the traditional one-by-one deaths story, like the first
film, there is more conflict and interaction. These characters may not
be the best, or the most well written, but the actors do what they can
with what they've been given. Messner is especially good, keeping a
cool head as snakes prey upon them from every shadow. J-Low-IQ, the
hammy John Voight and Ice Cube may be gone (there is a quick reference
to them), but fellow Boyz N The Hood alumni Morris Chestnut and E.R.
star Salli Richardson are offered up as potential reptile food.

And it just so happens that it's mating season. And the snakes are all
up for a big orgy. And guess where the Blood Orchids are? Right above
their shagging pit. Oh bloody hell! Luis Llosa made Anaconda in the
most simplistic and static way possible. This time Dwight H. Little,
the very man who gave us Halloween 4, the epic Steven Seagal movie
Marked For Death and err... Free Willy 2, brings strong direction and
integrity. It's a darker, more complex film that seriously promises to
deliver the goods, but comes up a bit short. If it had been taken a few
steps further, then it would have been great. As it is, it's more
atmospheric and professional, but still, a bleaker ending, with more
gobbled-up characters, would have suited me better.

The snakes themselves look okay, nothing special. Little keeps them
hidden for as long as possible, only offering brief glimpses here and
there. A snake is an awkward looking villain, so keeping it hidden is
probably wiser. There is also, thank heavens, no dodgy animatronics.

Incredibly dumb and unnecessary it may be, but Anacondas is easy,
inoffensive entertainment that will surely appeal to some part of
everybody's taste.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie in my opinion is critically underrated and for that matter
it is a superb movie.The first movie in the anacondas series was so
pathetic that I hoped the second would be much better,and I was
right.An orchid with a unique chemical that can transcend ones life is
being protected by bloodthirsty anacondas and those that are looking
for it are thrust into a battle for survival. The acting is great and
the setting is even better.The reason this movie is so underrated is
because it may be inaccurate but movies are made to entertain and are
in a world of their own and unless they are based on true facts,they
shouldn't be compared to real life situations and for that reason,I
rank this movie as a superb adventure/thriller that will be enjoyed by
many.
<|_=00=_|>
In New York, the ambitious Dr. Jack Byron (Matthew Marsden) and his
associate Gordon Mitchell (Morris Chestnut) present the research of his
assistant Sam Rogers (KaDee Strickland) to the CEO and board of
directors of a corporation to sponsor a scientific expedition to
Borneo. The objective is to find a flower, Blood Orchid, that
flourishes for a couple of weeks every seven years and could be a
fountain of youth, prolonging the expectation of life of human beings.
They are succeeded and once in Borneo, they realize that it is the
raining season and there is no boat available to navigate on the river.
They pay US$ 50,000.00 to convince Captain Bill Johnson (Johnny
Messner) and his partner Tran (Karl Yune) to sail to the location.
After an accident in a waterfall, the survivors realize that a pack of
anacondas have gathered for mating and their nest is nearby the
plantation of Blood Orchid, which made them bigger and bigger.

I saw "Anacondas: The Hunt for the Blood Orchid" with a very low
expectation based on the IMDb User Rating, but I liked this
entertaining adventure a lot. The story is full of action and humor,
and I laughed a lot when Cole calls Sam of "Lorena Babbitt" when she
cuts the head of one anaconda. There are the usual clichés of this type
of predictable B-movie, but I had a good surprise in the end. My vote
is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Anaconda 2: A Caçada Pela Orquídea Sangrenta"
("Anaconda 2: The Hunt for the Bloody Orchid")
<|_=00=_|>
A scientific expedition sets out for the island of Borneo. They are in
search of a flower named the Blood Orchid. Reports say that this flower
can lead to a longer life. But what they find inhabiting the rain
forest of Borneo are a group of anacondas. But they aren't ordinary...
the Blood Orchid made the anacondas longer, faster, and smarter. Now
the scientists must find a way out of the rain forest by outsmarting,
outrunning and outliving the anacondas.

This movie got slammed by pretentious movie-critic-wannabes who don't
understand the concept of a popcorn flick. This is a popcorn flick, a
movie that you watch and eat lots of popcorn and enjoy yourself, cause
Shakespeare it is not.

I enjoyed the movie, and I'm planning on buying the DVD.
<|_=00=_|>

Along with "Catwoman", here's another summer movie that really wasn't
bad at all. In fact, I think I liked it a little better than the first
one. The plot had a few unexpected zigs and zags, some chills and quite
a bit of genuine humor. Everyone's a little too pretty (even the guys)
to be believed as a representative cross-section of humanity but that's
Hollywood for you.

The fact that there are no anacondas in Borneo mildly detracts but I
guess that's a minor squabble (someone really should have either done
more research or simply placed the movie back in South America). If
you're looking for a light summer entertainment, it's perfect.

<|_=00=_|>
Anacondas: The Hunt for the Blood Orchid. The sequel that no one asked
for. I guess since the Sci-fi Channel plays a giant snake movie EVERY
weekend, studio execs figured there must be an audience for this tripe.
Plot: an attractive cast of almost famous people go for a boat ride in
the middle of the jungle and are attacked by giant snakes. Yeah, it's
pretty much just like the first film, except J-lo is no where in sight
so I guess that makes it a little bit better. I felt sorry for Jon
Voight for making an appearance in the original. This time I feel sorry
for director Dwight Little. He directed the underrated Halloween 4 and
his older films are far superior to Anacondas. The script is by the
numbers so don't expect any surprises. The only surprise I found was
that the computer-generated snakes have come a long way from the
original film. Stay tuned for Anaconda vs. Boa vs. Python.
<|_=00=_|>

ANACONDAS: THE HUNT FOR THE BLOOD ORCHID (2004) * Johnny Messner, KaDee
Stickland, Matthew Marsden, Nicholas Gonzalez, Eugene Byrd, Karl Yune,
Salli Richardson, Morris Chestnut. (Dir: Dwight H. Little) SSSSsuper
Ssssize Sssssnakes Redux!

While it is hard to believe that there was an actual clamor – albeit a
7 years later one – for a sequel to the marginal hit 'Anaconda'
starring Jennifer Lopez and Ice Cube it is even harder to believe that
the film is a near-virtual remake only substituting a documentary
film-making crew with a scientific expedition that none-the-less winds
up the river without a paddle in this rudderless display of new
ineptitude.

When a pharmaceutical conglomerate giant decides to listen to a panel
of young, go-getting researchers to extract an extremely rare blood
orchid from Borneo that may have the key to eternal youth (you can
practically here the ka-ching! of millions of cash registers and saliva
foaming at the corners of their mouths with greed) they are pressed for
time since the flower only blooms once every seven years (of course!)
and literally have days to procure the bounty that awaits in the thick
no-man's jungle that only offers rogue boat captains (you'd think a
multi-gazillion corporation would have their own fleet of ships at the
ready but NOOOOOO!!!) in questionably seedy bars with an appropriately
slap-dash vessel at the wait.

So begins the journey into fear since not one character in this unknown
cast emerges with a unique thought as to maybe that this is not a good
idea with the fact that it is monsoon season and they have not a clue
as to the dangers that lie in waiting (cue the giant deadly snakes!)

Captain Bill Johnson (can he be a more blandly named 'hero'!?!?- played
by Messner, who resembles a deflated, charisma-less version of The
Rock) skippers the team – with his Asian first mate, Tran (Yune) and
cute monkey Kong (who gets the most close-ups, I kid you not then the
entire cast combined!) in tow – with a few problems that derail them
over a waterfall and eventually trekking through the treacherous
tropical thicket where one-by-one they become prey to a 40 foot
anaconda and several of his buddies (we learn that it is mating season
– How convenient! – and it seems a booty call for the cold-blooded
reptiles is in order , but first one must eat and the international
food court (that would be the untalented cast) is tops of the menu. 

The sequel's biggest problems is that there is no one to truly root
for, with its cardboard characters : Richardson, the bitchy idiotic
company woman who actually whines she's lost her phone after being
rescued from a crocodile (!); Marsden the Rico Suave of Doctors Without
Frontiers program (I kid you not!); Byrd, the black sacredy cat ala
Bill Paxton's Hudson in 'Aliens'; Marsden as the not-to-be-trusted
British scientist and Chestnut – the only real name actor and
substitute 'Boyz N The Hood' alum for Cube – basically doing a
variation of Samuel L. Jackson's gig in 'Deep Blue Sea'. However
Strickland's mousy administrative assistant proves to be the film's
wild card as she gets in touch with her inner Sigourney Weaver mid-way
through the slogging mess (literally) that is this lame, dunderheaded
horror flick that elicits very few scares no thanks to the pedestrian
direction by hack Little. 

The CGI critters do in fact look more authentic than its predecessor
however they are barely on screen long enough to get worked up over but
should note that they are effectively quicker in their kills. Wish they
could've done the same to the bonehead who greenlit this loser.

