
Yes, it's stereotypical, and no, it doesn't reach or even approach the
experience of Babe, but it is a fun flick, and one I feel is worth a
matinée ticket if you're at all intrigued. I have to give kudos to the
filmmakers for using real zebra sounds and vocalizations for Stripes;
little details like that can make or break a talking animal film for
the viewers who actually know a bit about the animals featured in a
film...and hey, is it really too much to ask for a zebra to make zebra
noises? There is some amount of potty humor, especially concerning the
flies and the Jersey gangster pelican Goose, but it wasn't as much as I
had assumed from earlier reviews.

There certainly are better movies out there, but the kids will enjoy
this one, and the kid in me did. It was predictable, but comfortingly
so, and sometimes it's nice to just sit back, suspend disbelief, and
have a non-taxing movie experience where talking, wisecracking animals
deliver lessons in life, like how being different isn't a bad thing,
real winners are those with the heart to try, and success is often due
to the support of those around you. And I do have to admit that one
scene near the end brought tears to my eyes, much to my own surprise.
<|_=00=_|>
Not sure what those others are seeing or looking for in a movie... This
is one of the best movies i have taken my two 12 year old's to in a
long time. This movie was hilarious, it had jokes for all ages. At
times you would hear the kids start laughing through the theater, but
there were several time when the adults would start out the laughing. I
laughed through the entire movie. My daughters have seen all of the
other movies that this one is supposed to be copying, but (according to
them) this is by far the best. This one will definitely be added to our
DVD collection as soon as it become available!! Highly recommend this
one for the whole family!!!
<|_=00=_|>
A baby zebra (voice of Frankie Muniz) is accidentally left behind by a
traveling circus and is found by a thoroughbred horse trainer, Nolan
Walsh (Bruce Greenwood). Nolan takes the zebra home, and his teenage
daughter Channing (Hayden Panettiere) wants to keep him as a pet. She
names the baby zebra Stripes. The farm is located near the racetrack
and the zebra grows up believing that he is a racehorse. Stripes has a
dream of racing the other horses at the track, and to get into shape,
Stripes races the mailman in his truck. All the farm animals help
Stripes and Channing achieve their racing dream. This is a cute movie
made in the same framework as the movie 'Babe', where all the animals
speak to each other. The horseflies Scuzz and Buzz (voices of David
Spade and Steve Harvey) had some of the funniest scenes. This is a
light hearted film that your children will like. Don't take the script
too seriously or you will miss the fun. (Warner Brothers Pictures, Run
time 1:34, Rated PG) (4/10)
<|_=00=_|>
This is a movie that touches all the right spots. It has Stripes
striving for an unattainable goal, Channing striving for her own life,
the loyalty and help of friends and the tragedy of a love lost. Just
remember this isn't trying to be real life "gritty" drama. It's
entertainment and my wife and I were satisfyingly entertained. If I had
any complaints it would be with the inclusion of Snoop Dogg's
character. It was a waste of screen time and I wish I could have gotten
a better feel for the hate of the stallion Trenton. It's a formulaic
movie but it follows the formula well with a new twist, likable and
hate able characters.
<|_=00=_|>
Don't be swayed by the negative reviews...I don't know what it takes
for some folks to enjoy a movie! I took my 8 year old to see this and
we both spent most of the movie in laughter. There is something for
EVERYONE in this film! On top of a great story and an enjoyable script,
there are many, many lessons for children to learn within this film. It
was so good to hear children splitting their sides in laughter during
the movie. And, in places, adult laughter drowned out the kids! This
movie has humor on all levels. It will definitely be added to our DVD
collection upon release. This is Rudy and The Little Engine That Could
all rolled into one. Don't miss this or you'll be sorry!
<|_=00=_|>
If you strongly dislike films that are predictable, clichéd or
derivative, and you're not showing Racing Stripes to kids, you should
avoid this movie. Well, at least looking at things somewhat
pessimistically. Ideally, you should sort out the conceptual errors
you're making and see the movie, because it is a very good film. The
Cult of Originality had it wrong. Artworks aren't inherently more
valuable just because they're unprecedented, and they're not inherently
less valuable just because they're engaging in a well-established form,
or "template", to put it in more modern terms.

Stripes is a zebra who is orphaned at the beginning of the film when a
traveling circus accidentally leaves him behind during a storm. Nolan
Walsh (Bruce Greenwood) finds him and brings him back to his Kentucky
farm (actually South Africa doubling as Kentucky). Walsh, a recent
widower, has a teenaged daughter, Channing (Hayden Panettiere), who
works at the local horse track for a mean, snooty and rich boss lady,
Clara Dalrymple (Wendie Malick). The horse track is the heart of the
town. The farm next door to the Walsh's breeds racehorses, and in fact,
Walsh used to breed and train racehorses, too, for Clara, and it's
implied that Walsh's wife, a former champion jockey, died in a
horse-racing accident.

Meanwhile, Stripes is trying to adjust to life on the Walsh farm, which
means assimilating with a motley crew of animals. All of the animals
can talk to each other, "Mister Ed" (1961)-style, but in the more
traditional filmic instantiation of talking animals, they can't talk to
humans, although it is implied that they can at least slightly
understand human speech. Stripes knows he looks different, but he
figures he's a horse, like the racehorses next door, because that's
what he looks closest to. Their teasing because he looks different
merely creates a stronger desire for him to fit in and even best them,
which naturally means a growing desire to race.

Any older cinephile could probably fill in the basic developments of
the plot, up to and including the ending, given the premises above. The
important consideration is not whether Racing Stripes is unprecedented,
but how well it does what it sets out to do. The formulaic aspects of
the plot, as with all artworks that engage with some traditional
"formula", enhance Racing Stripes rather than detracting from it by (a)
filling in a deep milieu of shared meaning, signifiers and so on, and
(b) underscoring the ways in which Racing Stripes makes its variations
on the form. It's a good film both because it executes the basics of
the form so well and because the variations are well done, creative and
entertaining. That's if you're an adult, at least. For younger
audiences, it's a great film because it's establishing the form in
their minds. The form exists as a template because it's a very
effective, classic plot rooted in a particular kind of cultural
mythology. But this instantiation is simply a funny, inspirational
story featuring a talking zebra.

Filmic visual manipulation has come a long way in the 40 years since
"Mister Ed". Mister Ed, the original talking horse, was made to "speak"
by putting something in his mouth that he would then try to remove. In
Racing Stripes, the animal speech is all done through cgi--actually
computer animation/manipulation of cinematographic images of the
animals' mouths, and it looks incredibly realistic. Like most movies of
this sort, Racing Stripes is a pleasure to watch simply for its animal
stunts. I suppose one can never get too old or intellectual to enjoy a
dancing monkey, so to speak. There are a few instances of animal
"stunts" being too dangerous for the animals--such as Stripes' wipeout,
so these are animated with cgi, too, and they're integrated very well.

There are also two completely cgi-animated characters--flies named Buzz
and Scuzz. These are the most consistently comic characters, although
as flies, a lot of their visual humor, at least, hinges on jokes about
things like garbage, discarded food, manure, and so on.

The animals are voiced by an all-star cast. Director Frederik Du Chau,
in his first live-action film (and only his second film), does an
excellent job creating performances from the animals that match the
public personalities of the voices. Stripes is Frankie Muniz, and has
his innocent precociousness. Dustin Hoffman is an older, small horse
named Tucker who provides advice and inspiration, a bit like a cynical
Buddha. Snoop Dogg is the family hound, naturally enough, and tends to
lie on the porch, chilling out and making sarcastic remarks. Joe
Pantoliano is Goose--he made a wrong turn in New Jersey and is now
comically trying to pass himself off as a gangster. The flies are David
Spade and Steve Harvey, with Spade doing his infamous manic-but-mellow
naivety. The human cast is good, too, but they're really ancillary to
the animals. Older cinephiles will especially delight in seeing M.
Emmet Walsh as a rumpled "track-rat".

As a film primarily targeted at kids and younger teens (although it's
certainly not enjoyable only to them--I'm middle-aged and have no
kids), Racing Stripes has a couple "moral of the story" subtexts, and
as usual, they're themes that not only kids can benefit from
internalizing. The primary theme is acceptance of difference. Stripes
is unlike any being the other animals have encountered, and naturally
he is teased, made fun of, ostracized and even physically abused
because of it. The gist of the plot is a demonstration that difference
isn't negative. This is often interpreted as a racial theme, but it's
really more general than that, applying to all kinds of differences.
The other main theme, acceptance of loss and confrontation of the
resultant depression, fear and anger, arrives via Walsh.

Cute, funny, heartwarming and a subtly surreal fantasy, Racing Stripes
is a great example of why predictability just doesn't matter when it
comes to making a good film.
<|_=00=_|>
This started in Australia early, so my partner and I went to see it for
a change of pace. Expectations weren't what you would call high (this
is the home of Babe after all), but we both enjoyed it quite a bit.

The film is well put together, visually it's attractive, earthy, and
the horses used are stunning -- any horse lovers will adore the movie,
despite the main character being a Zebra.

Actually, Stripes himself is overshadowed by some of the excellent
supports, including Hoffman's unappreciated pony and Pantoliano's
gangster Pelican called "Goose" (a very funny role). One exception is
Snoop Dogg's Basset Hound -- a waste of time, really. Then there are
the horseflies, Spade and Harvey -- some of their jokes are dated (an
M.C. Hammer gag in 2005???), but they're usually a high point.

The human characters were well cast -- Bruce Greenwood gives a very
down to earth performance and is totally believable as a mourning
farmer. Hayden Panettiere is a standout, look for big things from her
in the future. I remember her as Will Patton's mini-coach daughter in
Remember The Titans -- she's grown up with a great look and fine
acting.

Direction is fine, the effects of animals talking, etc are all well
done. Story is basic, but I guess that's what you want in a family
film. Funny animals, good values/morals -- definitely worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
Give a great actress a great script, and you can't miss. Give her a
mediocre script like Racing Stripes (a fun, one-dimensional underdog
story about a zebra that wants to race against horses), and she'll
usually find a way to shine through the mud. Hayden Panettiere, who I
last saw in Remember The Titans as the cute-but-obnoxious coach's
daughter, isn't all grown up yet, but at sixteen, looks ready to
conquer the world in a way that few actresses ever will.

I'm sure every teenage boy in America knows who Hayden is by now, and
in a few years, the entire male population is going to be spellbound by
this charming, multidimensional beauty. Remember The Titans was a great
script where she could have done little wrong; what makes her
performance here a great one is that nothing went wrong, and she got
everything out of the character that one could have expected, and then
some.

Some of the other "nobodies" in the film -- including Frankie Muniz,
Dustin Hoffman, Wendie Malick, David Spade, to name a few -- were
simply upstaged. Lord only knows what we'll be witness to once Ms.
Panettiere, and her material, age.
<|_=00=_|>
Though I have been a dedicated visitor to IMDb since I have heard about
it first in 2000, this... is my first user comment for a movie. And I
am very proud to give it for Racing Stripes.

What shall I say about this movie? Talking animals, American humour,
words, phrases and scenes which need to be in a racing movie. Is that
all? No.

This is the story of a zebra who with the help of his animal friends
and love of the daughter of his master, achieves the unthinkable - a
race against the horses.

With a single zebra, these people have woven and created a celluloid
which comes with ounces and ounces of passion, all for free. Right from
the first scene when Stripes is introduced until the last flash of the
race, passion is one word with which we are gripped. Stripes, the hero
of the movie, steals our hearts with its innocent expressions, cute
barking and an iron-fisted ambition.

A humble movie with a great animal team, good actors, visual effects,
applaudable cinematography and editing,... wait. There is something
which I am missing. Yes. Those unmistakable moments when the sounds and
visuals speak to us. Flashes, slow motions, brilliant ups and downs of
music and much much more which made all those animals' expressions
visible and audible even when they don't speak. The shot by shot
translation of the moods and motivation for the racing zebra build the
whole movie.

Leave all to your imagination. Watch Stripes begin that run. Those
minutes, I couldn't close my eyelids even for a routine blink.
<|_=00=_|>
I thought this was a very funny movie. I laughed a lot and don't think
that the jokes were too much (maybe the pecker joke). Someone said that
the first 20 minutes were slow but OK to get used to the animation, but
I think the animation was done really well and the race with the
mailman is in there as well. The mailman was very cool ! (my father is
a mailman, but this one is a lot more fun and hotter). I would have
liked to see more with him. Hopefully he will be in more films.

The relationship between the father and the daughter could have been a
little better, but the father and the zebra are nice together (with the
training).

The story is a lot of fun for kids and families. My 5 year old loved it
!! The horses are really beautiful. and so is the zebra (especially as
a baby) I have never been to Kentucky, but I did not know it was not
made in America, it looked beautiful. 

All around I think you will like this movie !
