

The original is a classic, I guess that's why there's a copy of it at the
Museum of Modern Art in NYC.

Taken as a remake, this is a good film. The story was different enough to
keep me guessing, the characters were, uhhh, fleshed out a little more.
While the original at times seemed like a documentary, this one was a
straight-up horror movie, though without too many of the cliches that make
modern horror movies tedious.

On it's own, this was a very good horror movie. Well-filmed, well-acted,
suspensful, with good characters. The kids in this movie are not all just
obnoxious kids--they get into trouble because of a good deed, so I found
myself rooting for them, even the annoying one or two. The casting of Lee
Ermey as the sheriff is icing on the cake; he definitely brought the movie
up a few notches.

While not a classic, this remake is worth seeing.
<|_=00=_|>
On August 18th, 1973, in Texas, the youths Erin (Jessica Biel), her
boy-friend Kemper (Eric Balfour), their friends Andy (Mike Vogel) and
Morgan (Jonathan Tucker) and the hitchhiker Pepper (Erica Leerhsen) are
returning from a vacation in Mexico to a concert of the Lynnard
Skynnard. Kemper is driving his van, when they see a disturbed young
woman dangerously wandering on the road. They decide to help her, and
the woman commits suicide inside the vehicle. They decide to look for a
telephone to call the Sheriff, and they end in the house of Thomas
Hewitt (Andrew Bryniarski), where their lives are threatened by the
sick Leatherface and his deranged family.

I was quite reluctant to see this remake. The original "The Texas
Chainsaw Massacre" is a classic, and as I have already written in other
reviews, I do not see any reason to release remakes of movies, mainly
classics. However, and although unnecessary, this remake is very good.
The cast, leaded by the delicious Jessica Biel, have good and
convincing performances. The cinematography is great, being very nasty
in the property of Leatherface. In the end, I liked this version and I
even dare to recommend it. I believe the fans, like me, of the original
"The Texas Chainsaw Massacre" will not be disappointed. My vote is
seven.

Title (Brazil): "O Massacre da Serra Elétrica" ("The Chainsaw
Massacre")
<|_=00=_|>
Horrors have a bad reputation for poor sequels and bad remakes, which
is why when people heard there was a remake of Texas Chainsaw Massacre,
the general thought was that they would be butchering the
classic(excuse the pun). 

However this is a terrifying, shocking, emotional thrill of a movie. It
may not be up to the standards of the 1970s version, but to be fair,
nothing is. The acting is quite well done. The film takes advantage of
the time its being made in and the budget, with this version having
much better production values, its much more gory but not at the cost
of story telling.

The realism is superb and the movie is, at times, as sad as it is scary
due to the emotional torture of the characters, i'm sure many people
will say its not as good as the original but it could have been a lot
worse
<|_=00=_|>
TCM is an adequate horror film in its own right but will play better if
you have not seen the original. The makers of the 2003 remake have
stripped the original of its dusty, dirty intensity and its blacker
than black humour and replaced them with a few Hollywood conventions so
as not to challenge the audience too much. The problem is that 30 years
later the remake is just so much more conventional than the visceral
original. The directors do copy some of the original shots but see fit
not to try to copy the nasty humour that made the original stand up to
repeated viewings. Remember the scene in the original where Sally wakes
up, tied to a chair, surrounded by the nightmare freakshow of a family
and screams her very soul out whilst the camera zooms into extreme
close up of her tear filled eyes as her tormentors laugh and taunt her?
One of the great moments of 70's shock cinema. Well, here, its a
lukewarm rehash where she comes to on the floor with all the horror of
waking up with a bit of a hangover. Other pointless changes include
trying to normalise some of the originals quirkier moments; originally
they wanted to find out if their granparents bodies had been dug up by
graverobbers; in the remake, they are on their way to see Lynyrd
Skynard. And what happened to wheelchair bound Franklin? Here the
nearest thing to a disability is that one of the characters wears
glasses. And whats the deal with water? The house in the remake should
have floated away the amount of leaky pipes it has. OK its not a BAD
film despite using all the old tricks but it seems to me that if you
want to see a great film you may as well watch the original and see
some really good film-making
<|_=00=_|>
This Is One Hell Of A Horror Film!!! I have to say too that the acting
was very good, though I wonder how hard it is to fake fear when you see
some of the scenarios the actors were in, but even the background
actors (especially the actor portraying Leatherface and the wonderful
R. Lee Ermey as the sheriff) are very good and add an element of
paranoid fear to the film. The thing that shocked me most was how
brutal and graphic the film was, the gore being very realistic, and
used very well. Instead of buckets of blood, we get moments of horror
that end in a very bright splash of red. And like the first, the most
brutal killings are shot in a way so that you see what is happening to
the victim but yet DON'T see it at the same time. This is not a perfect
film. It is too decadently dark and a lot of people will hate the film
for that reason, and it will be hard to see this as being a movie you
will want to watch over and over and over again. But in saying that, I
admit that that is why the film succeeds so well – they nailed the mood
perfectly. They didn't grave-rob it from the original but created their
own. As a horror fan I cannot recommend this film enough. It stands
just behind 28 Days Later as the second best horror film in a year that
has turned out pretty darned well for the genre. Yes, it is a remake,
and yes, the original is better, but having said that, I also must tell
you that this is a very well crafted horror film and a wonderful spook
show ride. I dunno if I am happy that it is going to do well at the box
office or not (it won the box office battle its opening weekend)
because I don't know what that means for all the other propose remakes.
But if nothing else, at least they didn't screw this one up.
<|_=00=_|>
Not bad for a re-make of course it didn't have quite the impact of the
original. It did a decent job building tension and there was a darker
atmosphere to the location, made it seem more nightmarish. 

Obviously the film had some advantages from a bigger budget, and R. Lee
Ermey is definitely worth watching. As for the family, you had an
almost twisted take on 'the dirty south', or in this case southwest,
people being more bizarre caricatures, but with the darker and more
atmospheric setting it works. 

Interstingly, it seems to lack the social commentary of the original,
but that is very common with remakes these days. Though there is
extensive use of rather effective foreshadowing in numerous scenes.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is meant to be brutal, dirty, disgusting, awe inspiring, and
terrifying. It succeeds on being each and evry one. The movie, once it
"picks up" is unrelenting, suspensful, and leaves you with an uneasy
feeling. There is such a stong sense of hopelesness throughout the second
half, such negative emotions are elicited without so much as a second of
comic relief. Yes, there is some comedy, but its all in the first third or
so of the movie. The movie drags for a bit at the beginning, but once it
all
begins, its some scary s**t. I am an avid horror movie fan, I watch
everything that comes out. Nothing has really scraed me, at least not in
years. This movie scared the crap out of me. I actually wanted to turn
away
at one point. I wanted to run, I had second thoughts, kind of like being
on
a rollercoaster for the first time. I left the theater with an uneasy
feeling. I couldn't stop laughing nervously, I guess I was trying to cope
with what I had seen. My girlfriend was absolutely terrified. Two girls
behind us were literally crying becuase they were so terrified. All around
us people were screaming, jumping, squirming. After the movie, everyone
was
saying "that was the scariest movie I have ever seen" and "that was nuts."
I
couldn't agree more. This movie really, actually, truly scared me. It was
just so brutal. I felt terrified for the victims; I felt afraid of the
villian (Leatherface was awesome). I loved this movie. It obvioulsy has
flaws. The beginning was slow, there were like thirty "jump scares,"
people
walked around exploring stuff alone, etc etc. But this movie, if judged
based on how much it did what it intended to do, gets a 10 out of 10.
Easy.
I thought this remake was going to be easy to stomach, I figured it was
going to be "hollywoodized." I was dead wrong. This movie was insane,
period. 
<|_=00=_|>
I am a hardened spectator; that means, I have only seen a couple films
in my whole life which I considered scary. I like horror films but
usually get disappointed with them, as 99% of them do not frighten me
in any way. This one did. It is an extremely consistent and successful
effort to create a sense of horror which is, in the end, the ultimate
means of the genre. It is not even about the plot; it is about the
director's possibility to create an atmosphere of hopelessness which
penetrates the film from the beginning on. The tension is built in a
masterful manner, cinematic means like light, soundtrack and camera
shots highlight the events in the most fitting way, the pace is just
right, all elements contribute to a consistently thrilling and gruesome
outcome. This film seems very modern in its effects and camera style
but somehow retro in its imagery which is a successful tribute to the
original version of "Texas Chainsaw Massacre". A seldom example of a
good remake.
<|_=00=_|>
The horror/sci-fi movie critic Richard Scheib coined the term
"Backwoods Brutality" to describe the slew of low-budget movies that
emerged in the 1970s which had as their main theme the violent and
abrupt destruction of middle-class serenity. The concept has
occasionally found expression outside of the horror genre (Straw Dogs,
Deliverance), but since Wes Craven's Last House on the Left (1972), it
has been a mainstay of the horror genre. Even thirty years later, the
basic idea continues to be remade and re-interpreted. 

In my view, the original Texas Chainsaw Massacre (1974) is the most
successful exponent of the genre. As it often is in the American
variations of this genre, the TCM takes the so-called blue state/red
state dichotomy to a grotesque extreme: the backroads of the Deep South
is another country and its inhabitants exhibit uncontained contempt for
every unsuspecting wayfarer. Its use of tension, which is meticulously
established in the movie's first 45 minutes, and release -- the last 45
minutes -- is almost elegant in its simplicity. Throughout, violence is
used in sparing and sudden bursts until the adrenaline-fueled final
act, during which it is mercilessly sustained.

With some minor qualifications, this description also fits Marcus
Nispel's 2003 remake. Here the enlarged budget and technical expertise
have worked both for and against the film. On the one hand, a variety
of new elements have been added to the story. Some, like the mysterious
little boy or the ending, are so-so, while others, like Leatherface's
skin mask or the "extended family," are effective. On the other hand,
the professionalism and attention to detail demonstrated by Nispel and
Daniel Pearl (whose cinematography here is magnificent) on down to
those responsible for filming locations and set detail, is consistently
impressive.

So the basic "tension-release" framework has been lifted from the
original but instead of improving on it the filmmakers have saddled it
with characters, situations, drama, and violence. (We learn from the
DVD extras, happily, that some "tender moments" were left on the
cutting room floor.) I give it a 7 because ultimately I think it works
as a horror movie on its own terms -- in fact, I don't think a better
American horror movie has been made since 2000 -- and Nispel/Kosar
deserve credit attempting to revise the concept in minor ways for fans
of the franchise. On the balance, however, the original's low-budget
guerilla-like realism as well as some of its visceral power has been
compromised.

Of note, finally, is the performance of Jessica Biel. Having earned her
acting chops on the Christian TV show/cheesefest, Seventh Heaven, Biel
has as of late found a niche playing physically tough, but likable and
intelligent characters. She's quite excellent here; as it was for the
original TCM's Marilyn Burns, Biel's performance is exhilarating and
intense -- a kind of endurance test. But one easily believes she has
the acuity and toughness to survive the ordeal.
<|_=00=_|>

This is the remake of the 1974 film The Texas Chainsaw Massacre.  I thought
this remake was done very well, it was very scary and very brutal.  Much
better then many recent attempts at horror.  Im not saying that this is
better then the original or worse, because in my opinion the two films were
made very differently.  This isnt the exact same movie, there are different
characters, and many scenes are different.  There are lots of similarities
and references.  The movie had one of the darkest atmospheres ive ever
encountered in a film and was extremely brutal and gorey.  A must see for a
fan or the original and its sequels and horror films.  If you like this
definitely check out Wrong Turn, another recent horror film that i was
impressed with.
