

I admit, I was dragged to this movie by my 12-year-old cousin. At first I
thought, "Lindsay Lohan? Who's that? And Jamie Lee Curtis? Isn't that the
'scream queen'?" I didn't want to go, but that was that.

Within the first few minutes of the movie, I rolled my eyes. I thought it
was just a cliche movie about a mom and a daughter that fight a lot. I was
bored. But ten minutes later, the magic began. I found my eyes glued to
the
massive screen, I found myself "shushing" anyone that interrupted my
connection with the two stars. I was hooked, and that was that.

Lindsay Lohan and Jamie Lee Curtis work wonders together. They have
wonderful chemistry on screen that make you believe that they have, in
fact,
switched bodies. Both actresses were brilliant in their roles of switch
reversal. Their acting was so real, their expressions so priceless.
Awesome,
too, was the movie's supporting cast. Enough said. The script was
amazingly
well written, the directing extraordinary.

To sum it up, this movie was "freakishly good." Pure magic, I tell
you.
<|_=00=_|>

Look . . . I'm mainly into sci-fi, fantasy, action-thriller, and special
effects movies (i.e. Matrix, LOTR, Identity, Star Wars, etc.) and
generally
try to avoid chic flicks and warm-fuzzy feel-good movies.  After watching
the current Freaky Friday starring Jamie Lee Curtis and Lindsay Lohan now
I
understand why.

See, I'm a guy, and guys don't cry, well, that's what we've been told.  On
top of that I'm 48 years old so I'd better have my maturity act together.
So, what happened?  Besides laughing my butt off at the truly funny scenes
(my wife and I caught a few stares from other movie-goers), I had to
strain
every muscle in my body to keep from bawling like a, no, it can't be true
.. . girl.

I might have to consult a therapist (Jamie Lee can certainly fill that
role
anytime) to understand why this movie had such a profound effect on my
emotions.  Maybe it's because my parents never really understood me (I
certainly understand them now) or maybe it's because I have a couple
daughters and I've rarely tried to put myself in their shoes.  This movie
accomplished that for me, big time . . . the ultimate exercise in empathy.

The interaction between mother and daughter was superbly acted and very
believable especially with the switched roles.  Moreover, the supporting
characters, from the little brother, to the fiancé, to the grandfather, to
even the detention monitor at the school were also outstanding and made
this
story a real winner.

I can honestly say that this is in my top 20 favorite movies of all time
and
I will most certainly buy the DVD when available.  I can't believe I've
been
saying all this about a movie way out of my usual genre but here it is, in
writing.  Please watch this movie, and then tell me I'm not losing it.
Enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>

This is about the third adaptation of the Mary Rodgers novel. Finally, the
team behind this film has gotten it together. It's obvious the original text
has been revised in order to include the language of today. But the best
thing about the movie is the casting assembled for it, with a sure
director's hand behind it.

Actually, this is about the first film that has made me laugh since
"Bringing down the house" that came out earlier this year. Most comedies
today seem to forget that the basic premise for their existence is to amuse
the audiences and entertain them, at the same time.

Mark Waters, the director shows he has a fine sense of how to make things
move constantly in this comedy about identity changes. Of course, this film
wouldn't be half the fun it is without Jamie Lee Curtis, who has never been
as effective in any previous films. Her take on Tess Coleman, the not so
cool therapist, strikes the right tone.

Her daughter is played with a lot of conviction by Lindsay Lohan, who is
totally believable as the typical teen ager working through the pain of
losing a father and getting a replacement she is not too fond
of.

Things move at a rapid pace; there is never a dull moment in the film. It's
a perfect summer comedy that will leave the viewer satisfied and
happy.
<|_=00=_|>

To make Freaky Friday work perfectly; you would have to believe that Jamie
Lee Curtis is Lindsay Lohan and Lindsay Lohan is Jamie Lee Curtis. Although
at times it seemed that way, at other times, it just seemed like Lohan was
trying to be Curtis and Curtis was trying to be Lohan. Any way you look at
it, Freaky Friday is a family-friendly film that tries to please everyone,
and does. It pleases shallow teen prep girls because of Chad Michael Murray.
It pleases teen boys because of Lindsay Lohan. It pleases older men because
of a Jamie Lee Curtis thong shot. It pleases older women because of Mark
Harmon. It pleases the whole family, being that they already saw Finding
Nemo and it's the only other family movie out there.

Tess Coleman (Jamie Lee Curtis) (changed from Ellen Andrews from the novel
by Mary Rodgers) is a harried psychiatrist who still has time for her
family. Anna Colemen (Lohan) (changed from Annabel Andrews) is supposed to
be a typical teenager (but is anything but), and has daily fights with her
younger brother Harry (Ryan Malgarini) (changed from Ben Andrews). Tess is
going to marry Ryan (Harmon), because her husband died three years ago
(can't there be a Disney movie with both parents still alive?), of whom Anna
doesn't approve. After a fueled feud, Tess and Anna open fortune cookies
that switch bodies: Tess is in Anna's body, and vice versa. Whatever will be
done?

Although most people have praised Curtis for her accurate portrayal of a
typical teen (although with the people at my school, what she does is
anything but typical), and she should be, Lohan does better at being an
adult. If Lohan, a teenager, could be an adult so well, that's rather scary.
I thought at most times Lohan was Tess, but Curtis was having too much fun
as Anna to really be thought of as great. Instead of acting like Lohan,
Curtis just acts like a young kid who just ate too much ice
cream.

One part of Freaky Friday that I didn't like is how often we were put in an
awkward situation. And when they were there, they just didn't seem
plausible. All of a sudden, Anna-as-Tess is a guest on a talk show, talks to
someone she has a crush on, and watches Tess-as-Anna perform? Not only were
they awkward, they were just not believable. On the other hand, Freaky
Friday not only has some genuinely funny moments, but is also quite touching
at times. Obviously, it was going to be, and Tess and Anna were going to
learn to respect each other, considering it was shown in the
trailer.

One other part I didn't like was how far it strayed from the book. It only
focused on Anna-as-Tess (Annabel-as-Ellen), and how she spent her day. Of
course, back then she was a housewife, but now she has to be a successful
doctor. I do admire it for changing it, unlike others, which is basically
watching the book. Overall, Freaky Friday is a likable, pleasant 90-minute
diverter. It won't change your life, but you won't be upset you saw
it.

My rating: 7/10

Rated PG for mild thematic elements and some language.
<|_=00=_|>

I've been wanting to see this film since the trailers started playing many
moons ago. I saw the Jody Foster version when it first came out in 1976 and
like that one, the 2003 version is an excellent all ages movie. It reminds
me of the great flicks Disney use to release all the time during the 60's
and 70's so it was no surprise they reached to the vault to redo "Freaky
Friday".

Jamie Lee Curtis has her best comedy role since "A Fish Called Wanda". She
was having fun with the part and many of the teen mannerisms she did as
Annabell were dead on. Curtis is one of the most underrated actors in the
world. Just based on her performance "Freaky Friday" was a great
ride.

Lindsay Lohan made the movie better with her take on Annabell. I have liked
Lohan since "The Parent Trap" and if she decides to stay with acting she
might go on as long as Jody Foster has in the business. Lohan has one thing
that actors like Tom Hanks and Julia Roberts have and that is an expressive
face. Acting is so much better when the actor can add to their part through
the expressions in their face and Lindsay can do that.

Watching the movie was a delight for me. I never got the feeling that 35
year old men wrote the script (they didn't) like I do with some of the
"teen" movies out today.

The music used by the movie band "Pink Slip" was above average and the other
soundtrack music fit the film as well.

Now if they would just do a big budget "Herbie the Love Bug" feature, I
would be even more happy.


<|_=00=_|>
This movie deserves all high ratings. Not only does Jamie Lee Curtis
prove to me a great Comedian, but the punch lines are displayed at
exactly the right moments and exactly the right way. Curtis as a
teenage girl is just as funny as Lindsay Lohan acting out the part of a
grown woman trapped in her daughter's body. I loved this movie and it
got great laughs out of me. I was actually able to sit in my room alone
and laugh to myself without feeling stupid. So far, I've seen it three
times and I don't think I will ever get tired of watching it, it just
keeps getting funnier and more entertaining each time. Simply a
masterpiece and I hope everyone who likes real real funny comedy gets
to watch this one! This is gooood!
<|_=00=_|>

Freaky Friday has just the right touch. In making an identity-switch movie,
there is always the temptation to overdo things, in both the comedy and the
pathos sides. Jamie Lee Curtis has just about the right balance portraying a
15-year-old in a 40-year-old body. On the comedy side, although on occasions
coming across as just a little bit too silly, Curtis has on the whole
brought out the funny side of the situation without undue exaggeration. The
important thing is her success in making the whole thing believable. On the
pathos side, her toasting speech in the engagement ceremony is touching
performance. Lindsay Logan, on the other hand, has much less opportunity of
repeating her brilliant performance in The Parent Trap (1998). The fault is
not hers. It's just that it's much less fun watching a 40-year-old in a
15-year-old body than the other way around. While this is obviously the
ladies' show, the two beaus provide reliable support. However, it is the
fantastic pair of grandpa (Harold Gould) and little brother (Ryan Malgarini)
who stole the show, particularly the little guy. I for one would love to see
a sequel with this pair swapping bodies. Good flick; well worth the
admission price.
<|_=00=_|>
Jamie Lee Curtis and Lindsay Lohan shine in this absolutely wild and
wacky comedy that will make you laugh and feel good. In my opinion, the
way she and Annabelle (Lindsay Lohan) magically exchanged bodies was
really creepy. This was because the earth rumbled when it happened. If
you want to know how it happened, you'll have to see the movie. I said
that because I don't want to spoil anything. If you ask me, the way
Annabelle and Jake (Chad Michael Murray) met was absolutely romantic.
Also, to me, he was an absolute charmer. I especially loved it when
Tess (Jamie Lee Curtis) scolded Annabelle when she was making trouble.
In conclusion, if you like Lindsay Lohan or Jamie Lee Curtis, I highly
recommend this absolutely wild and wacky comedy that will make you
laugh and feel good.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is an excellent entertainment. I thoroughly enjoyed it and
well put-together explaining individual mind-frame and it works.

I am sure we easily judge into other people's positive and negative
attitudes, but unless we put ourselves into their shoes, we will never
know. Hence this film takes us into the journey of a daughter and
mother who have complete different personalities. After a while, the
daughter and mother switch "only" bodies (via some weird Chinese
magic), by which they realize each others "actual life".

This film could have been made in various forms, but the writer and the
director chose a way by which they can convey their message to the
society while entertaining at the same time, which I personally think
is a better option. The film is very light-hearted, well scripted, well
directed, excellent costumes, brilliant acting skills, and finally very
easy to follow the storyline.

Please do yourself a favor and rent this DVD (and order a pizza) and
watch it at home with your family - maybe it will do you some good.

Enjoy! NEIL BHATIA

Score: 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
At first I couldn't understand why this was the version to see. It
didn't seem any better than the Shelley Long/Gaby Hoffmann version I
enjoyed years ago. Lindsay Lohan was a holy terror and her mom was
merely uptight but nothing special. But of course all that changed when
the magic spell took effect and Anna woke up horrified.

There are many deserving performances, mostly dramatic, that get Oscar
nominations each year. It's easier for a movie like this to get
recognition when comedy has its own categories. But Jamie Lee Curtis
was amazing. Such a bizarre sight, this middle-aged woman acting like a
teen! Maybe Oscar would be asking too much because of the competition,
but Curtis certainly deserved a Golden Globe nomination. And Lindsay
Lohan did a capable job of the mom in a teen's body, trying so hard to
fit in at school.

Harold Gould's performance also should be noted. He made quite a
likable buffoonish grandfather. I liked Rosalind Chao's clueless,
almost stereotypical restaurant hostess. Lucille Soong made us notice
as Chao's meddling mom who just HAD to help this family. And Jeff
Marcus as one of Tess' more troubled patients.

Although the musicians showed talent, I will say I agree with the first
opinion Tess had of her daughter's music. It was all just noise! I
liked the music for the wedding rehearsal.

I still want to see the Jodie Foster original, and twice I have been
annoyed that someone felt the need to do a remake rather than show the
original. But this one was really worth it!
