
Angelina Jolie returns as a distaff Indiana Jones in "Lara Croft Tomb
Raider: Cradle of Life," an action/adventure film (based on a video
game character) that is just goofy enough and inane enough to be almost
entertaining.

In this follow-up adventure - which is designed to give historians and
social studies teachers a severe case of the heebie-jeebies - Lara, the
world-famous archaeologist and adventurist, finds evidence that the
mythical Pandora's Box is really no myth at all, but rather an actual
object loaded with enough plague and pestilence to wipe the entire
human race off the face of the planet. It lies buried somewhere, hidden
by Alexander the Great in the 4th Century B.C. when he discovered how
virulent and deadly the contents of the box really were. Now,
twenty-four centuries later, Lara has to try and prevent an evil
billionaire capitalist from locating the container, prying open the
lid, and bringing an end to civilization as we know it.

Though the storyline is clearly not one to be conjured with, all that
really matters in a movie such as this one is that the action move
quickly and the stunts be sufficiently enterprising to engage the
audience. Credibility is the last prerequisite in a Lara Croft
adventure, as evidenced by the fact that if Lara isn't parachuting
smack dab onto the deck of a ship or into the passenger seat of a
moving jeep, she's hitching a ride on the back of a great white shark
and riding it to safety. Ah well, it's all in good fun, I suppose, and
Jolie not only looks stunning in all the outfits she's been given to
wear, but seems to be having a fine time playing along with the joke.

The ending is inevitably anticlimactic, but viewers can have a pretty
good time getting there at least.
<|_=00=_|>

Although Cradle of Life won't go down in movie history as an all-time
classic, I am mystified at why so many critics and moviegoers hated
it.

In my opinion, this movie is much better than the first Tomb Raider film.
The first film was entertaining, make no mistake, but it still had too much
of a comic book feel and 'Angelina Jolie' (qv) had not yet gotten a firm
grasp of the Lara Croft role. In Cradle of Life, both Lara and Jolie show
newfound maturation, and this makes her (both actress and fictional
character) much more interesting to watch. Heck, even Jolie's faux British
accent is more convincing the second time around. I was one of the many who
protested when she was cast in the role; the first film left be unconvinced,
but she finally won me over in her second outing.

The story is also more interesting in the second film, with the whole
Pandora's Box angle being something more worthy of Tomb Raider than the
tired old "conspiracy out to take over the world" plot of the first
film.

There are some aspects of the second film that I didn't care for as much.
Lara, for one thing, is far more deadlier this second time around and at one
point seriously considers gunning down a man in cold blood. This type of
behavior is more fitting for James Bond than Lady Lara Croft. But once I got
used to the idea of Lara Croft 007, I didn't mind it so much. (Indeed, if
Hollywood ever follows through with it's long-threatened female Bond film,
they could do far worse than get Angelina Jolie for the role of Jane(?)
Bond.)

What appealed to me in Cradle of Life is how familiar Lara, her background,
and her supporting characters have become with only one previous film under
their belts. No time is spent explaining who she is and why she lives in
such a huge mansion (which sadly appears only briefly). This level of
familiarity, of character comfort, is something I've only ever seen once
before -- in the Bond series.

Cradle of Life also features some most impressive set pieces that may not
necessarily advance the story, but are great to watch, such as a zoom in
from outer space on Lara riding a motorcycle, an incredible zoom-in shot
THROUGH the window of Croft Manor, and a great scene of Lara shooting at
targets while riding a horse -- sidesaddle!

Sadly, the critical and box office failure of Cradle of Life probably
guarantees no further entries in the series, and even if it does continue,
Jolie looks ready to follow Audrey Hepburn's lead and put acting on the back
burner in favor of humanitarian work so the role will probably go to another
(possibly less talented) actress. If this turns out to be the case, I
believe the Lara Croft series looks set to be remembered as fondly as the
Derek Flint films of the 1960s.

Anyone who has been scared away by the bad reviews could do worse than to
rent a copy from their local video store and check it out. You might be
surprised at how much fun the movie is.
<|_=00=_|>
Lara Croft Tomb Raider: The Cradle of Life is an improvement over the
original as it delivers more action and adventure. Archaeologist and
explorer extraordinaire, Lara Croft, journeys to a temple which has
sunken underwater in search of lost treasures. During her expedition,
Croft happens upon a sphere that contains the mythical Pandora's Box,
only to have it stolen from her by Chen Lo, the leader of a Chinese
crime syndicate. Chen Lo is in league with a bad guy named Reiss, who
wants to use the priceless Box as a doomsday weapon. The plot sounds
okay but the main reason someone would see this film is for the action
scenes and Angelina Jolie. People just wanting those two things will
probably enjoy this film. People that want a good story and better
direction should skip this film. The action scenes are really cool and
are done well. However, the story is weak and the film doesn't quite
make sense at times either. I think the person that should be blamed is
Jan de Bont. He is a terrible director and can't build up suspense very
well. He did a bit better then Simon West but still the studio should
have hired someone else. The acting is good not great but nothing
horrible either. Angelina Jolie does a good job of playing Lara Croft
and she is also very breathtaking in the film. Gerard Butler does a
good job as well though sometimes his performance wasn't very
interesting. The action scenes are really cool and are done well.
Another problem I had with this film is that it gets boring at times.
Having a lot of action doesn't mean its audience will be entertained.
The movie's running time is 117 minutes which is a bit longer then the
original. I think they could have cut the film down to about the same
length as there some pointless scenes. If you hated the original then
you should skip this film as the film is more of the same but it is
more entertaining. As long as you don't try to notice too many of the
mistakes in the film then you should enjoy it. If your looking for a
serious action flick then just skip this. Rating 6.8/10
<|_=00=_|>
ANGELINA JOLIE makes the most of showing her prowess at performing
stunts that any male would envy, but the showcase for her physical
skills is hardly worthy of her presence. The script is as shallow as
the video game it is based on and no one has much of a chance to give
any depth to their characters.

As a result, even her co-star, hunky Gerard Butler with his Scottish
accent, has trouble registering more than a "go through the motions"
kind of performance. The chemistry between him and Jolie can only be
described as "icy". Not to worry. He later steamed up the screen two
years later with his Phantom role and a scorching "Point of No Return"
sequence that had his female fans gasping for breath. Here, I have to
report, he is sadly wasted, except for a couple of daring stunts that
he and Jolie perform well together.

Ciarin Hinds, as the villain, later joined Butler for PHANTOM OF THE
OPERA. He would have been more convincing here with the mustache he
assumed for his Phantom character. Something is missing in his evil
portrait. He just doesn't seem comfortable in the role.

Things keep moving, stunts every few minutes, explosions, gunfire,
jumping off tall buildings, dazzling neon explosions, all accompanied
by Alan Silvestri's booming soundtrack music. But in the end, all we
have left with is a stuntathon sort of thing that is pointless in
tracing the story of the search for Pandora's Box and the quest for an
orb. It's cliffhanger stuff for the mindless and that's about all.

Not worth two hours of viewing time and the ending is rather lame.
<|_=00=_|>
With tongue firmly in cheek, the story of this film is a series of
preposterous events, but what are we to expect of a game made into a
movie? Angelina Jolie is Lady Lara Croft, and is stunning in her skin
tight gray diving suit. Ciaran Hinds (Phantom Of The Opera) is the
villain, a scientist bent on getting his hands on the Pandora's box
containing the essence of all evil, in order to rule the world. Lara is
having none of that, and enlists her former partner Terry Sheridan
(Gerard Butler - The Phantom) to help find it and keep it away from
evil doers.

There are some wonderful set pieces throughout the film as with the
underwater temple; Lara arriving at the boat to start the expedition on
a jet ski (wowser!); the shark to the rescue (huh?); the sub to the
rescue (double huh?). More: at the Croft mansion the kung fu; the
sidesaddle horse riding while shooting at targets (wow!); at the prison
getting Terry released - her in her white fur amid all that filth;
Terry doing pull ups dripping sweat; Terry looking down from his bars
saying "Croft" in just the right way to let us know this is one
dangerous hombre. And his devastating comment to Lara "I AM Charming"
and isn't he just? The motorcycle race between Lara and Terry across
the great wall in China was fun. Him telling her "don't look at my ass"
as they climb a hill was cute and funny.

The famous sex scene is so reversed - she is the one in charge and he
ends up her prey and victim - is one for the books. Nice eye candy for
all of us out here in the real world.

That's the good stuff. There are some strange choices made by the
director (or whoever?) A wedding celebration on the edge of a precipice
to show the quake at the beginning? Lots of money for what purpose -
didn't add anything for me. The upside-down gunfight as Lara and Terry
escape once again. Sorry, the thrill is gone and it bombed.

Simon Chow is good and in his Hong Kong films a real menace - but here
was wasted. Croft running up the car shooting - a la Chow Yun Fat in
some of his 1980's films - is blatant 'borrowing.' All the shooting out
of glass in the office building - a la "Die Hard" - been there done
that.

AND!!! What is with the Shadow Guardians in the last fourth of film. We
go from sort of realism filtered through game playing mentality into
science fiction. Blech! Lame! Cinematography is gorgeous and some of
the sound track music is fine. Overall a more good than bad - 7/10
<|_=00=_|>

This second movie in the 'Tomb Raider' series was a disapointment for me. I
was not a great fan of the first one either. Certainly Angelina Jolie is as
sexy as you can get, but there is too little else in her character to make
her the female James Bond that the authors of the series want her to be.
Even the sentimental track in this second movie does not succeed to make her
more real. Director Jan de Bont succeeded much better with the original
story in 'Speed' or the reality-TV like effects in 'Twister'. In 'Tomb
Raider 2' he is just mixing a potion of James Bond with a little bit of
Indiana Jones, without too much of a result. If you did not see it yet, you
may as well wait for the DVD. 6/10 on my personal scale. 

<|_=00=_|>

Forgive the length of this comment...I must purge this experience from my
system.
Uh...

Allow me to start by saying that I love movies.  I love great films, big
blockbusters,
indie, foreign, musicals...You name it, so long as it has good production
value.

And I can positively say that I have never, ever felt that I wanted my
money
back after
seeing a film...even if I was mislead by marketing or word of mouth.  I
have
always been
able to understand where the filmmakers were coming from, even if I didn't
like the film
or if thought that it was a complete sellout, I understood and was willing
to chalk it up
to experience.  Hey, I see a lot of movies.

But that all changed with Tomb Raider 2.  Hands down the worst movie that
I
have ever
seen in a theatre.  What were they thinking???  I don't understand how
anyone can make
a movie this bad.

I want my money back.  Both tickets.

Normally I would not see this movie, but my date made me take her and it
was
so bad.
Thank God I didn't see the first one.

I cannot describe the loathe that I feel for this movie.  It is beyond my
desire to leave but
reluctantly stay for the ending of Battlefield Earth (I had never
seriously
contemplated
leaving a movie theatre midway before Battlefield Earth).  It is way
beyond
the handful of
smokebreaks that I took during Pearl Harbor.

This was torture.  Plain and simple.

The script was horrible.  The dialogue was the epitome of crap.  But even
worse was the
execution.  HOW?  The stunts were riduculously fake--I could tell the
OBVIOUS
difference between takes which nobody seemed concerned about during the
editing
process.  Forget that they were too overblow in the first place (I have
sadly grown used
to this extravaganza of ludicracy so recently invading the boxoffice).
The

cinematography reminded me of a cheesy Kung-Fu flicks from ancient
times...the
framing was seemingly all up close giving no sense of space.  The timing
of
slow motion
to fast action gave the pure sense of cheesiness.  The sheer amount of
different camera
angle close-ups of ridiculous action that did not match made me sick at
heart.  Other
than ariel shots for different locales (which were used WAY TOO MUCH) the
film was
completely claustrophobic.  Note to filmmakers: I never want to see
another
close up of
Angelina Jole again after this movie.

I don't want to, but I feel that I have to comment of the God Aweful
special
effects in this
movie.  Please, please make it look realistic and don't jump frames at
times
during FX
shots (pay attention to a diving sequence).  Oh, I hate it.  I could
elaborate but I will just
say that these was the worst CG images that I have seen (looked fake like
the Mummy
series...but even worse because I don't think they did it on purpose due
to
the
inconsistency.)

And for the grand finale, the ACTING WAS EXCRUCIATING!  Oh...God, I
wouldn't
know
where to even begin.  I guess that in addition to the horrible script and
dialogue the
editing seemed to make it really shine.  It was as if someone yelled
"action" then dubbed
it out in so many shots...there were so many little pauses before the
actors
actually
began to act (and it was not edited out).  Talk about completely ruining
the
sense of
suspended disbelief...if it ever existed.  But even worse than that was
Gerard Butler.
Words can't describe my agony while watching him act in this picture.  I
don't want to go
on...I really am getting sick thinking about different
performances.

And thank God I can't complain too much about the plot, or lack thereof,
because I
actually FELL ASLEEP FOR THE FIRST TIME EVER IN A THEATER.  Unfortunately
my
snoring (no joke) at times prompted my date ask me if I was okay,
otherwise
I might
have slept through more of this film.

There really are so many intangible things that make this film so bad that
I
would have a
hard time articulating them all.  I would love to hear from someone who
worked on this
film to try and find an answer to this tasteless disaster.

Wow.
<|_=00=_|>

Where to start?  I'll start by saying i was near leaving the theater,
something i have never done before.  I only stayed cuz i was with my
friends
and we were havin a good time makin fun of it.  If u've been following
the
talk shows and what not u'll know that Jolie has been saying that she
tried
to add depth to the character.  That failed miserably.  What's worse is
that
in attempting to add depth to the character they tried to write a good
plot.
It was a horrible plot.  Predictable and trite.  To just put the icing
on
the cake in trying to write a good plot they ignored making good action
scenes.  So the result was scenes that just looked somewhat stupid.  A
flip
here and there that was totally unnecessary and (spoiler) a missed
gunshot
from 5 feet away from some guy who was supposed to be an expert karate
master/soldier.  She even had her back turned.  I could have shot her.  I
wish someone did.  So the bad plot took over the movie.  U know, I wasn't
even expecting a good plot, i was just expecting good action and a plot
just
so there could be more action.  But no they had to ruin it and write a
really bad plot and ignore making good action scenes.  When they're
showing
this movie on pay per view don't even bother watching it even if u steal
ur
cable.
<|_=00=_|>

It's doubtful if there will be a worse film this year then Tomb Raider: The
Cradle of Life.  I was a fan of the original film, but I'll be the first to
admit that there was room for improvement.  Tomb Raider 2 promised to
improve on the original, but surprisingly, it's almost unwatchable.  The
action scenes are perhaps the most dull you'll see this year, and the always
entertaining Jolie sleepwalks through the picture. From the unremarkable
opening, and throughout the picture, the film has the attitude that it just
doesn't care.  The film has no flare, which is surprising because director
Jan De Bont is usually known for his over-the-top style.  What a waste of a
picture, and probably the final nail in the coffin for this
franchise.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie centers on Lara Croft (Angelina Jolie) who is assigned by the
British Intelligence -MI6- to discover the Pandora box that the baddies
(Ciaran Hinds and Til Schweiger) want to find with the purpose of
ruling the world . She is helped by an imprisoned mercenary (Gerard
Butler) that will be freed , and two sympathetic underlings who
appeared in the first part (Noah Taylor and Christhopher Barrie) .
They'll have to confront amount of dangers , adventures and risks until
reach their aims .

Run-of-the-mill action film because from the beginning to the final the
frenetic action , thrills and fast movement are continued and unstopped
. The picture blends emotion , intrigue , thriller , suspense ,
rip-roaring scenes and a little bit of violence when the fights happen
. It is a film pretty bemusing and entertaining . It's a typical modern
action film : continuous struggles in leaps and bounds , running men
while are shooting and interminable pursuits . Besides , there are
spellbound landscapes of various countries where the starring are
traveling around the world to resolve the enigmas . The ending
confrontation amongst the protagonists and enemies on the Kilimanjaro's
skirts is breathtaking . The picture is similar to previous part with
the difference in this latter there is an adventure chum (Gerard
Butler) playing a type of ¨buddy movie¨ role. Thus , the storyline is
basically a rehash of the former picture . Just as in the first film,
there are several scenes in which the live-action Lara mimics are
mingled with the computer generator effects . The film attained
moderated success at box office , less than the first one , and not as
good as the anterior . I don't know if the producers are going to make
a third part .

David Tattersall's cinematography is glittering and glimmer as is well
reflected on the awesome and impressive outdoors in charge of the
production designer Petruccelli . Alan Silvestri's music is atmospheric
and marvelous . The motion picture was well directed by Jan De Bont
(Speed) . It is very spectacular , it is a film for adrenaline lovers .
The yarn will appeal to Angelina Jolie and Lara Croft videogames fans.
