
Around the World in 80 Days (2004), starring Jackie Chan, currently has
an IMDb user rating of 5.7. And they say it's one of the biggest flops
in history, having failed to recoup more than a fraction of its
(estimated) $110 million budget.

I say, give it time! Overseas box office plus rentals and DVD sales -
this movie will turn a profit in the end. As I understand it, movie
companies now make most of their money off the rental market, so I am
rather mystified to hear that a movie flopped just because it didn't
earn back its cost at the U.S. box office in the first couple of months
of release. Doesn't seem like a fair and complete calculation to me.

Anyway, I go to the trouble of wondering about this because I thought
this was a great and delightful romp of a comedy, and I believe
posterity will be much kinder to it than "5.7". The movie is witty,
beautiful, well-acted and contains virtually everything any kung fu
adventure fan's heart can desire. Before watching it, I thought it
would be more faithful to the original book, so I was surprised to see
the Ten Tigers of Kwantung, and let me say the surprise was 100%
positive. This movie is, absolutely first and foremost, a comedy. And
it is something so rare as a literate one, which does not ridicule the
premise it is based on. The movie makes the only right choice, namely
to update the classic story and add new levels and new ideas, which
keeps it fresh and adventurous. Let's face it, Jules Verne's science no
longer holds up in the present day, so we have to make modified
versions of the stories for a modern audience (hence also the very
entertaining updated version of Journey to the Center of the Earth: The
Core).

To see this movie as a remake of the 1956 movie - which seems to be the
position that many reviewers take - is completely faulty. This is a
riff/homage to the original novel, having nothing whatsoever to do with
any previous movie version.

I thought Jackie Chan's part in this movie was great fun, and I was
very entertained throughout. I can't think why it bombed in the U.S.
I'm gonna get it on DVD very soon.
<|_=00=_|>

Jackie Chan has had a mixed time of late in Hollywood. There was the good
fun of Shanghai Knights and around that was the poor duo of Tuxedo and The
Medallion. This falls somewhere in the middle. Around The World is good fun.
It's not great but it has charm and energy and is the sort of mindless,
competent movie making that is hard not to enjoy watching. It's forgettable,
could have been much better, but all in all not a bad way to spend a
Saturday afternoon.

The look of the film feels very Disney. It is all very much orientated
towards satisfying children. It's almost a cartoonish realism with the set
design and costumes, clearly evident with Philleas Fogs gadget laden home.
The action in the film and the looks could probably have been more gritty
but in any case it looks very colourful and the various settings all catch
the eye. It is clearly evident that the film had a lot spent on it, although
some of the CGI effects are not of the standard expected from a $110 million
film.

Cast-wise, Jackie Chan as ever is good. He's a comical genius and as usual
performs his own stunts. The fight scenes are good. Nothing compared to
Chan's Hong Kong stuff but far superior to much of his Hollywood action.
Steve Coogan is someone I am a big fan of. He is the dog's hairy things as
Alan Partridge. He is a comical genius. He doesn't seem as entirely natural
here though and the character he creates doesn't always work. It seems too
cartoony at times especially the accent. Cecile De France is very good as
Coogan's love interest. She is attractive, in a cutesy sort of way but she
has a charm and a likeability that works very well and the three leads seem
to have a good chemistry. The rest of the cast are all excellent with a huge
list of supporting parts and cameo's including an excellent Jim Broadbent, a
great part for Ah-nuld Schwarzenegger, and it was great to see him on screen
with Chan, also Rob Schneider, Luke and Owen Wilson, John Cleese, Kathy
Bates, and particularly exciting to me as a Hong Kong action fan, Sammo
Hung. The best supporting part for me was Ewan Bremner as the accident prone
police sergeant.

Overall it's worth watching and is entertaining enough but don't expect it
to blow your socks off. ***
<|_=00=_|>

There are classic films and fun films and even, very rarely, fun films that
become classics.  That's certainly true of Mike Todd's 1956 "Around the
World in 80 Days" which captured much of the fantastical verve of Jules
Verne's original story.  That movie also introduced, basically for the first
time, the idea of an onslaught of cameo appearances by famous screen stars,
not always readily identifiable.

So now as we start to bake at the beginning of a long, languid summer, new
director Frank Coraci gives us the irrepressible but getting a bit
long-in-the-tooth master acrobat/gymnast/kung-fu artist/stunt man Jackie
Chan in a very loose adaptation of the Verne novel.

Chan is Passepartout, valet to the inimitably neurotic inventor, Phineas
Fogg (Steve Coogan), but in this film his real identity is that of a Chinese
fellow, Lau Xing, whose mission is to return a stolen Buddha statue to his
village.  Nefarious English lords have an imperialistic and
self-aggrandizing plan of their own which includes tearing down the Great
Wall of China to get easy access to jade mines.  Jim Broadbent is superbly
Victorian-evil as Lord Kelvin, the head of the Royal Society of Science who
challenges inventor Fogg to succeed in traversing the Earth in 80 days or
else cease and desist forever from engaging in scientific experimentation
and Rube Goldberg-like inventing.

Passepartout, who swiped the Buddha, has both cops and Chinese killers, led
by a woman, General Fang, in hot pursuit and his service to Fogg is a guise
to get back to China.

Arriving in Paris, they are joined by the beautiful semi-Impressionist
painter, Monique La Roche played by the rising young French actress, Cecile
De France.  Winsome and cute, De France clearly had a great time making this
flick.

Coogan plays Fogg very well-in fact he's the most interesting actor in the
movie.  He took his role of a Henry Higgins-type scholarly recluse who
slowly falls in love seriously.

The story proceeds predictably.  While Chan is the star, his performance is
simply a well-choreographed reprise of past made-in-the West films where he
can show off his skills.  It's "Shanghai Night" all over again. Perhaps this
is his last such movie as his announcement earlier this week that he intends
to be a "serious" actor from now on pushed Iraq, gasoline prices and the
Bush-Kerry campaign off the front pages.

As with the original movie, cameo appearances are a small but welcome treat.
 The guy who beat Mary Carey for governor of a western state last year is
really devilishly funny as an Istanbul prince with a harem and an eye for
acquiring Monique.  The Wilson brothers play two young and later to be
famous siblings whose great stunt at Kitty Hawk supposedly changed the
world.  And Cathy Bates seems to have had a tough time not laughing as she
acted the part of the hardly imperious Widow of Windsor.

The set designs, cinematography and special effects are really excellent.  I
can see several Oscar nominations forthcoming.

Don't take this movie seriously-it won't dislodge the original from the
pantheon of lastingly memorable films.  Enjoy it as the summer fun vehicle
it's meant to be.  Or in any event is.

8/10 
<|_=00=_|>

The credits roll, and I sarcastically turn to my friend, and whisper, "Dude,
3 screenwriters, and they're all named Dave."

Oddly enough, that turned out to pretty much sum up the whole
movie.

It's not BAD.  It leans toward good, except it's not so much a remake as it
is a Disney-fication.  Like 'Cinderella' and 'The Little Mermaid' before it,
Disney takes the title of the story and a few major characters, and just
turns it into a theme-park attraction with emotional and dramatic resonance
to match.

Frank Coraci is solely responsible for making Adam Sandler's star stick. 
"Happy Gilmore" was cute, but it didn't have the style of a REAL movie, like
his two films with Coraci, "The Wedding Singer," and "The Waterboy."  Those
films work as FILMS, not just Adam Sandler vehicles.

I had high hopes for this one, and for that reason, it splatted.  Amusing
lines here and there, and great kung-fu choreography ruined by the same poor
photography that screwed up "Rush Hour."  This is martial arts.  DO NOT
shoot your actors from the waist up.  Things happen too fast, people are
moving in too many directions.  So in "80 Days," like in "Rush Hour," I had
a sense that there was martial arts taking place, but could barely see it. 
Coraci does pull the camera back a few times, down to the ankles maybe, so a
few scenes are reasonably well-shot.  But not as well as they could have
been.  In fact, the entire movie feels rushed, like they're trying to cram
the whole script into the alotted time frame.  Some "Indiana Jones"-type
pacing would have worked wonders, even if it made the movie 30 minutes
longer.  We're still talking about the book 100 years later for a reason,
you know.

What could have been fun for everyone turns into Disney-video wackiness that
will barely appeal to anyone over 13, and not at all to any fan of Jules
Verne.  And thus the old rule applies once again.... the more screenwriters,
the worse the film.  Even if they're all named Dave.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is an extremely fun take on Jules Verne's novel. The
storyline and characters are radically different than the originals,
but there is a purpose to every detail in this movie. Phileas Fogg is a
representation of Jules Verne himself, someone who sees the future.
Steve Coogan performed marvelously in displaying the vulnerability of a
man who wagers everything. He makes the character lovable and amusing.
Jackie Chan brings to the table his classic fight choreography and
humor, as well as branching into types of comedy he had not worked with
before. Cécile De France is the most charming face in the film and
brings an amazing spirit to her role. Jim Broadbent and Ewen Bremner
provide some of the greatest laughs. Also notable is the choreography
of color for each country. England is gray and dreary, lacking color.
France is full of light pastels. Turkey brings in strong colors of
gold, blue, and bright white. India is full of deep brown, orange, and
green. China provides a lush, natural green background and warm,
welcoming earth tones and dark blues. Everything is designed to take
audiences on a journey around the world. The end result is a beautiful
film that is suitable for all ages and provides that wonderful
feel-good sensation that only the greatest adventures can provide.
<|_=00=_|>
Jackie Chans latest movie has just hit our DVD stores shelves (well in
Australia at least) and I thought it was about time I submitted my
review. The story is very loosely based on Jules Verne's novel of the
same name, it involves an eccentric inventor Phileas Fogg trying to
race around the world and end up back in England within 80 days while
the evil Lord Kelvin tries to make sure he does not win and become the
head of the royal academy of science. Before you watch this movie there
are a few things you should know, its made by Disney, so its going to
be a movie that is aimed at all ages and very family friendly and it
also got a PG rating so its a relatively pleasant movie.

Having always been a Jackie Chan fan I may be a little bias but I found
this movie great fun, much more than I was expecting. All the backdrops
are gorgeous, and everything has a fun feel about it, this is the kind
of movie that is just purely for entertainment, very light very easy
but all together a fun ride that you should want to see again. A lot of
cameo appearances are in this movie and ad a whole lot to the feel of
the movie and all the main actors play their parts very well. The DVD
extras are not much and what should have been a highlight, the deleted
scenes where ruined by the director talking over then and making then a
waste of time.

I can not mention this enough- this movie is very lite, do not see this
expecting a life changing experience and just let yourself be taken on
the ride. 

This movie deserves 8.6 out of 10 Now that is cheap to hire do yourself
a favor and take a look, you know you want to.
<|_=00=_|>
"Around the World in 80 Days" is not luckily Jackie's worst film, that
is still "Tuxedo".

What makes 80 Days such a taunting movie is its unevenness. The film
switches between light-hearted to serious and even between various
styles of comedy, from Jackie's classic slapstick, to witty, to vain,
to gross-out and even Python-style comedy.

As far as fight-scenes go, they are well choreographed and Jackie can
luckily still kick ass. There were some parts of the film that didn't
make a whole lot of sense and because of the massiveness of the plot it
feels rather long. Luckily the changes in style keep the viewer on
their toes but the climax was not very satisfying however.

All in all, Around the World in 80 Days is an amusing film to watch. It
has both great and not-so-great moments and may be a little too
unconventional for Jackie's fans, but a good movie none the less.
<|_=00=_|>

Is this a Coogan or Chan movie? That's the only puzzling thing about this
movie. For the rest simply an action packed adventure, with a little too
much romance on the side. 15 years ago this movie would have been a great
success in the line of Goonies or a Disney flick.

Now a little overacting at times (the English cop who follows the main
characters for example) is compensated with great cameos, I won't give them
away, but keep watching!

Coogan is just like in his tv series, the well-known expressions and faces
are shown. Just his character, can anyone be that naive at
times???

Chan is sometimes the comedian with oneliners, and sometimes the actor with
bad lines. His fights rule, his acting still didn't. It didn't spoil the
movie, but the plot that kept returning to the 'chinese connection' almost
did. I didn't expect a co-plot, just Fogg travelling around the
world!!!

Don't believe the viewers describing this as a kid-movie. If you liked
Goonies in the past, read the book and like Chan's unbelievable fighting
scenes, you will be satisfied. 6/10 from me.
<|_=00=_|>
Very unfaithful adaptation of the Jules Verne novel, yet much more
entertaining than the tedious and wildly overrated but relatively
faithful David Niven version. The movie is breezy and enjoyable, with
some fun fight scenes, although it is completely inconsequential.

I think it would help when watching this movie to have not read the
book, because one cannot help but think that the extensive rewriting
was not necessary. Passepartout's character could have been expanded
for Jackie without so many other changes. Changing Phineas to a
bumbling, goofy inventor was clearly done in an attempt to make the
movie into another version of the buddy movie that has been Jackie's
greatest friend in the U.S., but Coogan is unexceptional in the role
and doesn't have a lot of chemistry with Jackie, so they really should
have just done the character as written, which could have made for a
much smarter movie.

In spite of plot holes and some silliness though, I enjoyed this, at
least in that, watch-a-movie-on-TV-on-a-Saturday-morning way.
<|_=00=_|>
If Jules Verne is just a French name with too many letters for you,
than you would like the film: funny situations, Jackie Chan fighting as
usual, a bit of love, and a lot of absurdities (like a small Chinese
child speaking Engish in the middle of China).

Maybe Jules Verne is just a French name with too many letters for the
script writer, the director, and the producer? Or maybe these gentlemen
consider themselves something more than the great French writer? Mr.
Fogg cannot just be a boring London gentleman who fired his servant
because he warmed his water with 0.1 degrees less than required. He
cannot bet just for fun. He shall be something. Let him be a crazy
inventor! Passepartout cannot just roam seeking a job. Let him be a
thief. Let him be a Chinese thief! What do Chinese do? They fight! And
now we have a subplot Mr. Verne has never dreamt of. It is not
interesting saving Princess Auda from being buried alive. Let her be a
French artist named Monique.

And, the Grand Finale! Deus ex machina! Queen Victoria playing the
clown. "You have 24 hours more, Phileas!" - "Oh, really! Than I have
won the game, because I didn't take into account the date switch
meridian". And everybody's happy! Read books, gentlemen! Especially
classic books, as Jules Verne's Le tour du monde en 80 jours.
