
I didn't quite know what to expect when I walked into the theater to
watch the movie of one of my favorite cartoons. Nickelodeon has a
really nasty habit of "big-budgtizing" movies of their shows (changing
the look, etc.). However this is not the case with SpongeBob. Whew, one
less thing to worry about.

Next was the story. Could Steve Hillenburg live up to what had been
laid down by the series? Yes. Basically it's like watching a 1 1/2 hour
episode of SpongeBob (and who couldn't like that). Lot's of visual gags
and typical Sponge brainless-ness. I was quite impressed.

If you're a SpongeBob fan, you'll love this movie. If you're not, eh,
watch it anyways, it'll do you good ;-).
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see Spongebob because my kid has pretty sophisticated taste,
and I couldn't imagine how a cartoon sponge could be interesting. But
it was interesting. I wasn't bored for a second, and actually laughed
out loud numerous times. Parts of it were definitely off color, but
that made it more adult....not just a cartoon kid movie. I loved the
David Hasselhof bit. I also liked the other real people and locations
that weren't cartoon. This movie would be scary for real little kids,
which may help explain why middle school kids like it. I'm not going to
watch the TV show every week, but I do think a parent could do worse
than going to see Spongebob with his kid...a pleasant afternoon, and
insight into what they are watching...
<|_=00=_|>
This is a movie about an animated sponge that wears square cardboard
pants. So there you go, you can't go to the movie and claim you didn't
know what kind of humor to expect. It's goofy, it's silly, and it can
be downright strange. But I can't call those negative attributes
considering the fact that all of the above can also be used to describe
me at times.

I've never seen the SpongeBob TV show, so I went into the movie without
much of an idea of what I was in for. I must say that while I won't
rush out and buy the DVD, I walked away fairly entertained. Expectedly,
a lot of the humor is directed towards children, but there's enough
here to keep the adults snickering. I may be nearing 30, but I'm not
ashamed to laugh at a sponge wearing square whitey tighties! Oh, and
for those of us who never cease to mock David Hasselhoff - he has a
cameo. I've gotta give the guy credit - he's very aware that the entire
country is laughing *at* him, yet he's completely willing to join in.

The children at the screening loved the movie, singing along to songs
and everything. One of the funniest things was when Patrick the
starfish first appeared on screen and the kids erupted in applause. It
was like watching an episode of Seinfeld when Kramer makes his first
appearance of an episode and the studio audience goes crazy. I briefly
thought about booing just for the fun of it, but the thought of a bunch
of tiny little hands pattering me upon my face didn't sound too fun.

But let's go back to the whole "singing along to songs" bit. I think
it's only fair to warn parents that this may start to drive you crazy
after the movie. Good luck trying to keep your kid from singing, "I'm
ready, promotion! I'm ready, promotion!" or "I'm a goofy goober, you're
a goofy goober, we're all goofy goobers" over and over and over again.
I had to bribe my 9-year-old brother with cold hard cash to knock it
off with the "I'm ready, promotion!" song.

Speaking of my brother, I asked him after the movie which he preferred
-SpongeBob or The Polar Express. To my surprise, he said SpongeBob
because it was "funnier." I suppose this is a lesson that children
aren't quite as impressed with fancy animation as adults are.

But he's right, SpongeBob is a funny movie in it's own quirky, original
way. I'm not dying to see it again, and I don't think I'll be glued to
the TV set every time it's on, but I enjoyed it, and I'm not gonna
waste my time or yours by picking apart what I didn't like. The target
audience should be pleased with the end result, so mission
accomplished.

THE GIST

If you're a fan of the TV show, then you should definitely get a kick
out of The SpongeBob SquarePants Movie. This movie isn't exactly for
everybody though. If you've never heard of SpongeBob, then there's
quite a bit here that may humor you. But if you hate all things silly,
goofy, and immature, then this isn't for you.
<|_=00=_|>
I have to put my hand up right now and say that the whole Spongebob
thing had passed me by up until I saw this movie. I have no kids, no
Satellite TV and therefore no legitimate reason to have caught any
episodes of SBSP. However, I did see some of the trailers, and being a
submarine nut I loved them. I also got the low down from a friend with
a youngster who watched the DVD constantly, day after day, and he
confessed to loving the show too. What the hell, I thought I'd see the
movie.

What do you know, it's actually quite good! It looks almost exactly
like an episode on TV, there doesn't appear to have been any attempt to
update, enhance or otherwise movie-fy the series. Fair enough. As for
the story and characters, while it's obviously geared to a younger
audience I'd have to say that at least half of it would only be
understood by the more adult viewer, and there are more than a few nods
to other movies that no toddler will have seen. For instance, the
silent, motorcycle-riding, super-tough assassin is a dead ringer for
the silent, motorcycle-riding, super-tough assassin in Raising Arizona,
and just as funny. There's a certain amount of slapstick and visual
gags, but the dialogue and situations are fine too.

Overall I enjoyed the movie, it's funny and engaging and although it
does start to lag a bit in the third act it's still rewarding. I'm not
sure if the live-action was a good idea, but it's always fun to see The
Hasselhoff do his stuff on screen, even if it's poking fun at his
persona. There's laugh out loud moments, annoying songs, cameos,
Hasselhoff and all the other things that a one-off special episode
should have, and that's fine by me.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay, I admit it! I'm a big fan of SpongeBob SquarePants TV-series. And
when the movie came out, I was more than suspicious. Most movies that
have been made out of TV-series have been big disappointments. But I
can assure you, this one is not.

If you have ever seen an episode of SpongeBob and liked it, you'll most
probably enjoy this film. Even though the movie is mainly directed to
kids, as is the TV-series, it will definitely keep adults interested
just as well.

Something I especially love in this movie are the characters. In their
own way, they're all fun and original. The voice actors do a brilliant
job in bringing the characters of Bikini Bottom to life. All the voices
fit perfectly and make the movie even funnier! Watching SpongeBob
SquarePants the Movie is like watching a long episode of the TV show.
And I believe that's just the way we like it! I was scared they were
going to make some kind of weird changes to make it more appealing to a
wider audience, but I'm glad they kept the spirit of the show.

If you have doubts about whether to see this movie, take my advice; go
see it, now!
<|_=00=_|>
I've read some of the extremely negative comments on this film, and I'm
surprised. I thought it was cute, funny, and imaginative, with some
well-timed dramatic effects (when they cross the county line, the final
fate of the woman with ice cream, ...). It even had a Ween song.

If you're curious about the film, I urge you to see it for yourself,
and don't be dissuaded by the negative reviews.

BTW, to provide some background, I come from the 'sappy Simpsons =
cra**y Simpsons' school, and I used to love Ren and Stimpy until Bill
Camp took over.

My wife and I both really liked the film.
<|_=00=_|>
Very stupid indeed. But funny. If you are a fan of the TV show then you
will get a kick out of the movie. Most of the jokes are aimed for an
older audience...mostly teenagers but there are jokes for the younger
audience as well. The movie is not as funny as the show but I'm pretty
sure that if you see it you will get a kick out of it anyway. When I
walked into the theater most of the parents walked in there with a look
on their face saying "God, this is going to be horrible, but I love my
kids." and when they were in the theater while the movie was playing
they laughed harder and they thought they would. 

I wouldn't recommend taking your 5 year old to see it, cause like I
said most of the jokes are pretty crude. And some of the younger kids I
saw looked confused when Mr. Krabs was telling Spongebob he was making
a jackass out of himself and when Patrick was wearing hooker tights.

Not for everyone but a very funny movie indeed.
<|_=00=_|>
Take the funniest things about Spongebob Squarepants (wacky-anarchist
environment and extremely funny animated drawings) and make it an
hour-and-a-half long. It's non-stop laughs and plenty of color and
all-out craziness. Spongebob and Patrick go off-model so much that it's
an eyegasmic delight for the cartoon maniacs out there.

Sooo many entertaining moments. It's literally a laugh-a-minute film...
lots of stuff that flies right over the kiddies' heads.

The one thing I didn't like about the movie - the character Mindy (King
Neptunes princess daughter). She didn't fit in well with the rest of
the character designs - she looks more like a character you would've
seen on the Daria animated series.

Also keep an eye out for the big sea creatures' wrestlin' scene with
the evil diver... such smooth and precise animation of so many
characters at once that I just sat there in pure awe.
<|_=00=_|>
SpongeBob finally made it to the big screen and the good thing is - it
is nothing less of the TV series, just longer and more fun. Staring
SpongeBob and Patrick in search of stolen crown of King Neptune, before
he turns Mr. Crab into fried crab.

If you're a fan of the TV series this will not disappoint you at all,
and if you're not a fan you will become one. Surprisingly, the movie
able to bring all the characteristic and style of the show on to the
big screen without trying too hard. It is still the same old SpongeBob,
and that what I like about this movie.

The story is consistence and the humor is still fun to watch, there is
always something new coming up making it unpredictable. And the
original song is brilliantly written and somewhat quite inspiring.
SpongeBob still make it big despite being a 2D cartoon cause the
animation here is colorfully done.

Overall: I enjoy the whole film, but maybe a little downside on the
David Hasselhoff parts. But overall it is an extremely enjoyable film.

Reason To Watch: Finally Able To See SpongeBob In Full Length Movie.
Triple The Fun.

Reason Not To: Dislike Real People Acting With Cartoon.

Rating: 7/10 (Grade: B-).

Please Rate (Y/N) After Reading, Thank You.
<|_=00=_|>
Lol this movie was SO awesome! I loved it because I LOVE the Spongebob
Squarepants show... It is so funny and I knew the movie had to be
excellent! You know how in the show Spongebob always wanted to be
"Employee of the Month"? Well, now in the movie, he wants to be a
manager... But not just only of the Krusty Krab...but of the "Krusty
Krab 2" !!!! But will it work out for Spongebob? He is up against the
"not very excited" Squidward Tennisballs....sorry....Tenacles.
Squidward Tentacles. LOL. Anyway, eventually Spongebob and Patrick
start a very dangerous mission to get to "Shell City"! There are many
obstacles along the way. Will they get there to save the day? Or will
fate slap them in the face? Check out the movie to find out. To sum it
up, this movie is irresistible and very funny. REMEMBER : "Cleanliness
is next to mannerliness!"
