
Cate Blanchett has done it again - played someone you can't take your
eyes off of, and not because she's a classic beauty but she's just a
good actress and plays such intense roles. Here, she's the
single-minded outraged Irish reporter out to expose the drug
trafficking in Ireland in the mid 1990s. Yes, it's based on a real
person, a very real Veronica Guerin, who took her life in her hands
with her desire to have this problem taken care off so the kids in her
country wouldn't have such easy access to harmful drugs.

According to the film story, the drug problem was ignored or the police
were just ineffective in dealing with it, so Guerin goes after the mob
as an investigative reporter. Her husband pleads with her to stop,
knowing she could easily be killed. The gangsters were tough and
realistically portrayed on film. There is no talk-now-shoot-later
nonsense. You mess with them, you will pay. That's the message they
give Guerin and you'll have to see the film to find out what happened.

Yup, this is an attention-getter from the start and especially with
Blanchett in the lead. A good story and highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>

I've been revaluing Joel Schumacher as a director for some years. I was used
to think he was just a typical Hollywood movie maker. But I understood this
man does commercial features whenever he needs money ("Batman forever",
"Batman & Robin", "The client", "A time to kill"), as he gets it he manages
to do good and more personal films.

In fact his mainstream movies are quite boring and mannered. Fortunately
Schumacher is much better with more alternative or low-budget films
("Falling down", "Tigerland", "Phone booth"). "Veronica Guerin" belongs to
this category.

I'm also happy, in this case, that a blockbuster producer like Jerry
Bruckheimer manages not to spoil the movie with artificial
tricks.

Veronica Guerin seems to me a symbol of Irish tragicalness. I mean, the
tragicalness you can find in works of James Joyce and Oscar Wilde, in
stories and legends of Ireland as well. Sadly, her story is
true.

The film has the right speed in presenting all the facts, it is simple and
well acted -Cate Blanchett's performance is outstanding.

Maybe Joel Schumacher, in the final part, looses a little the sense of
rhythm because he wants us to be moved and touched (and we are, indeed.
Because it's a shame that a woman and a brave journalist as well had to pay
that price).
But it's a true story, as I said. The film is valid because it denounces the
"conspiracy of silence" and inaction from authorities.

<|_=00=_|>
Just as Veronica Guerin exposed Ireland's underworld drug dealers, Cate
Blanchett's marvelous portrayal of Irish
journalist-turned-anti-drug-crusader Veronica Guerin seemed to have the
actress on a mission to prove that you don't have to look like a pop
diva or act like a porn star to be a compelling female lead in a film.

Like many films with an ethnic flavor, we get a supporting cast of
ethnic actors in slightly elevated roles from the norm. Most notable
from that category are Gerard McSorley as the evil drug-lord, John
Gilligan, and Ciaran Hands as street thug John Traynor, who plays both
sides of the fence throughout the film.

The story is painful, not only because of what happens to Guerin, but
in our knowing that her courage is a direct reaction to our general
apathy towards wrongdoing, with so many of us looking the other way
that the Veronica Guerins of the world are encouraged to fight evil
after the fact, but left as sitting ducks or thrown to the wolves while
they are still alive and making noise.

If there's one lesson every viewer of this film should exit with, it is
that those of us who are not part of the solution, are part of the
problem.
<|_=00=_|>

Based on the true-life incidents of Irish reporter Veronica Geurin, this
film is a gritty, disparate but continuously compelling take on what
eventually led to her violent death. And this is one of the few movies to
give an accurate impression of Irish natives, cultures, accents etc. This is
also an update of 1999's `When the Sky Falls' starring Joan Allen in the
Guerin part. Of course `Veronica Geurin' wouldn't have been made had it not
been for the fact that they used fictitious names to protect identities in
the former. 

The blunt realism of it all is what makes it all the more believable and
worthwhile. While on initial appearance this may look like Ireland's answer
to `Erin Brockovich', the two films are polar opposite. One is a glamorised,
feel-good story of a woman making one of the biggest lawsuits in history,
while the other is a gritty, downbeat story of how dangerous journalistic
work really is. The conclusion to the movie is pre-determined, so it's what
builds up to that point is where the movie succeeds. 

The Hollywood interpretation of the Irish has been completely flawed in the
past. Films like `Ordinary Decent Criminal', `Evelyn' and `The General' gave
out a totally unrealistic impression. But `Veronica Geurin' doesn't make a
false move and gives a complete expose of what this country really is.
Another huge positive is the sheer engagement of it all. Right from the
shocking `didn't-know-it-was-the-ending' opening sequence you'll be hooked.
Just too bad that the running time is a mere 96 minutes.

Despite being a slightly young choice (only 33), Cate Blanchett was an
excellent choice for the title role. She gets the accent just right,
physically looks like the title character, and is always convincing. It
really is her show, so support is upstaged for the most part. That isn't to
say that the supporting parts are bad in any way. Most characters aren't
stereotypes and do well in what little role they have. The only exception
being a totally irrelevant and inexplicable cameo from Colin Farrell. The
part is very small, but it makes a huge difference and is the only scene in
which you remember that you're watching a movie. Meanwhile, director Joel
Schumacher has proved to have mastered every genre. Well, not so much
mastered as much attempted. Let's just say that he is now officially
forgiven for the atrocity that was the previous two Batman movies.

Overall, `Veronica Geurin' is a powerful, rousing fast-based story that
leaves an unsurprisingly bad taste. But if you want a new-wave gritty
thriller, then this is the film for you. You don't have to be aware of the
incident to enjoy the movie, but it would help. My IMDb rating:
7.0/10.

<|_=00=_|>

This biographical drama grips me so emotionally from the beginning to the
end. The contents are so intense that I could literally feel the strain on
my body muscles at its end. Cate Blanchett's performance as Veronica Guerin
is top-notched.  She brings out a character that Ireland can proudly call a
true daughter. Guerin was one journalist whose professionalism and belief
prevented her from kowtowing to any corrupted system - even the threat of
death. Director Joel Schumacher has created a powerful movie that pays true
honor to Guerin.  

This film has a superb cast of actors. Their characters come through the
screen as very real people. Gerard McSorley's impressive performance as John
Gilligan will be unforgettable. Oh yes, watch out for Colin Ferrel's cameo.
Director Joel Schumacher's way of introducing the audience to the Sunday
Independent newspaper's investigative journalist is so appropriate. It
generated my curiosity and urge to get behind the uncanny story of the
martyred icon. Yep, I was mesmerized by the Guerin character, following and
watching every move and act this energetic woman made – up to a point I
started gasping with disbelief. Then the flashback followed. Oh yes, every
scene flowed with immense power and spirit to document Guerin's suicidal
fanaticism and mission. In a very impressively dramatic, yet easy-to-follow,
well paced-way, the story of Guerin's background unfolds. I witnessed the
type of dangerous and trouble-filled environment facing her. I saw her as a
workaholic mother, surrounded by loving family members who were willing to
compromise to her very unconventional traits.  I was given hints that there
was a softer side within her that she refused to make public. The film
provides very subtle indications that speak of Guerin's unusual urge to stay
a winner – even as a young girl.  

This film carries enough shocking scenes to make me understand the driving
force behind her seemingly senseless acts. Every word in the dialogue did
fill the gap, offering me a better understanding of her character. Blanchett
definitely breathes life into the Guerin character with phenomenal
credibility and vitality, allowing her personality to shine with such unique
journalistic dedication, honesty, courage, determination and obsession. 
What I see on screen is a woman with true guts – an absolute winner. `I vow
that the eyes of justice, the eyes of this journalist will not be shut
again,` Blanchett's character has said. `No hand can deter me from my battle
for the truth.'  Repeatedly, I saw her facing death threats and physical
attacks. My anxiety continued to crush me as I watch the evil surrounding
her.  

Does it always have to take a murder of a tenacious person to channel out
public outcry, disgust and legislative actions to fight a crime? Veronica
Guerin paid a price for devoting her career and life to exposing Dublin's
drug barons and underworld leaders.  I salute her. Like Bob Woodward and
Carl Bernstein, she belongs to the best category of journalists who will
make the world a safer place to live. This film captures the same vitality
as the inspirational ‘Bloody Sunday.'  It's definitely a film not to miss.

A+


<|_=00=_|>

Veronica Guerin is the kind of journalist I could never, ever be, if I
choose to go into that field in the future. She was determined, ballsy,
hard-nosed, a risk-taker, and instilled with a bravado that bordered on
irrationality. This movie is based on the true story of how Guerin, an Irish
reporter, galvanized her country into implementing stricter drug laws and
cracking down on drug-related crimes and drug abuse. Veronica Guerin paints
her as a modern day Joan of Arc - misunderstood by peers and politicians
while she was alive, but made a martyr and heroine after her death. It spans
a period of two years, from Guerin's decision to take down Dublin's drug
overlord, to her eventual assassination. (I'm not revealing any secrets -
she's shot at the beginning before the movie flashes back). Guerin's
tenacious reporting-style - poking, prodding, nudging friends and foes alike
- was effective, albeit often treacherous - there had been previous attempts
on her life before the final, fatal one. It is this that critics pick on in
their reviews: Guerin's almost insane tendency to provoke known criminals
and gangsters to the point of immediate danger to herself and her family.
While it would be somewhat implausible if this were a fictitious story, the
story of Veronica Guerin is a true one. Having not read her biography, I
have no idea how much the filmmakers have embellished on it, but I'm willing
to give them the benefit of the doubt. With the picture they painted of
Guerin, as well as Cate Blanchett's wonderful portrayal of her, I believe
that Guerin, in her passion-fuelled moral crusade, would have been that
compulsive, and ultimately, that heroic.

As much as I loved the story of Veronica Guerin, crusading journalist, I
have some bones to pick with the technical aspects of the movie. One is with
the director's tendency to suddenly go into "Blair Witch Cam," or hand-held
cam, for those of you who haven't been nauseated by that movie. It's
intended to give the movie a documentary feel, but the sudden switches to
from fixed to hand-held cams just leave me dizzy. Another problem I had,
though a smaller one, was with the schmaltzy-ing of certain scenes,
especially the last one, where Celtic songs are played in the background.
While I understand the reverrence intended and the relevance of playing
Celtic music, I couldn't stop images of the Titanic and Sarah McLachlan (I
don't know either) from appearing in my head. A suitably solemn,
well-composed, non-Celtic piece would've been much more preferable. But
that's just me.  9/10
<|_=00=_|>
The assassination of Dublin crime reporter Veronica Guerin in 1996
shook Ireland to the core, her murder saw a public swell of
determination to rid the country of its drug peddlers. Joel
Schumacher's film is an in depth interpretation of the woman, her
beliefs, her family life, her complexities and her stoicism to root out
the drug barons putting liquid death into the arms of the many.

Thankfully avoiding Hollywood clichés, it's often gritty and well
thought out, Schumacher and his writers, Carol Doyle and Mary Agnes
Donoghue, don't soft soap the Guerin image, her faults are laid bare
alongside her searing strengths. The dangers of her work are very
prominent throughout, leading to some suspenseful and fearsome scenes.
Cate Blanchett as Guerin is inspired casting, an actress capable of
covering all facets of the human condition, and in support Ciaran
Hinds, Gerard McSorley and Brenda Fricker give powerful performances.
8/10
<|_=00=_|>

This was an extremely moving film, covering the life and death of the
remarkable Veronica Guerin.

It would have been easy to sentimentalize this story, but it unfolded in a
realistic, down-to-earth fashion that somehow made Guerin's death all the
more harrowing.

However, Guerin was not painted as a tragic figure, but was shown throughout
as a flawed and all-too-human figure (the incident with the skateboard at
her son's party was very telling) who felt that she just HAD to continue
with her crusade.

It is impossible to over-praise Cate Blanchett's performance, varying from
flirtatious and humorous to passionate and driven.

Not an easy film to watch, but one that I cannot recommend highly
enough.
<|_=00=_|>

What a woman she was! Let's start off with good points. I think this movie
had a great cast. I think everyone was perfect.  The problem probably comes
with the filmmakers being American. I'm an American so I think I'm qualified
to say this. Sometimes you need to be from the same culture to understand
subtle and cultural things that are not evident to the naked eye so to
speak.  The movie somehow doesn't delve deep enough for us to understand why
Guerin takes these incredible risks. Perhaps we should have learned more
about her background to understand this unflinching courage she had.  It may
have also been beneficial to make the underworld figures she encounters more
layered.  Either way, it is a good introductory film to this incredible
woman.  Perhaps a homespun filmmaker can make another movie about her. I
reiterate that I thought the casting was terrific! Cate Blanchett is one in
a million. I felt her performance was oscar caliber.
<|_=00=_|>

As an n irish person i was expecting a bad film with joel shumacher
directing but this is a great film.

great because of the way veronica dedicated her life to something that was
right.

cate blanchet is superb and its sad that it took her death for the irish
gorvernment to do something.

an inspirational Film
8/10
