

12 September 1980 is one of the most important days in Turkish history.
New
constitution and laws made after Coup D'Etat were biggest backward steps
in
Turkey. These anti-democratic laws made Turkey semi-fascist state.
Nowadays
we are trying to restore our democracy.
The last quarter of 70's most of the right and left groups were
terrorizing
over the country. Everyday tens of people were killed in explosions and
assassinations. And the Army made a Coup and make very strict
laws.
The movie tells about the last summer before the coup. In the least
developed part of country. (southern-east) A man is appointed to the town
as
a library manager. But there is no library there and he is actually exiled
because he is communist. It tells about political struggles between two
left
fraction. People's love and life. And that dark era can not be explained
more funny. 
<|_=00=_|>
"They knew some of their plans were illegal. But they never did them
after all..." A nicely written mixture of comedy and drama about a
nation gone dark in the 80s. How they become politicized, terrorized
and forced to be depoliticized again by the cruel laws of "military
government".

Film carries hidden messages about how illiterate and naive the people
are behind their politicized and opposing faces.

Other than the main theme, to movie goes around a love story of "Crazy
Emin" and a girl who has just came to the town from the big city.

It's a colorful, easy, fun to watch film if you aren't Turkish. If you
are and if you have a little bit of knowledge of what happened back in
those years, it may put a stone in your stomach towards the end...
<|_=00=_|>
" Here you are teacher.Is it alright now?" The movie begins with this
expression . It is clear that the director Yilmaz Erdogan devoted this
film to his literature teacher who insulted him because of his
inability to write a good composition in high school, just to get
revenge.The genre of the movie is comedy but it also has dramatic
sides. 

By the grave of Rifat that was martyred in Cybrus. Siti Ana :How are
you my daughter? Asiye : Incomplete

A comic spoiler from the movie Tuuba : your eyes are beautiful Emin :my
eyes? which one ?

"There are good things that arrive there but none of them stay for a
long time ......"
