

Spend a couple of hours with the Griswold, oops, I mean Johnson family as
they take to the road for their family reunion.

Cedric the Entertainer supplies the laughs, all seven of them.  A sexy
female traveler inciting marital tension, being given the wrong car at the
dealership, unkempt rural relatives, we've seen it all before.

But what might be the funniest thing of all about this predictable remake
of
National Lampoon's Vacation is that (Lil') Bow Wow has a higher billing
than
Vanessa Williams.

But the fact remains that if you are looking for about 90 minutes of
profanity free family entertainment which, by the way, is becoming harder
and harder to find these days, then maybe The Johnson Family Vacation is
just what the doctor ordered.
<|_=00=_|>

It is an annual event in the wider Johnson clan to get together for a
reunion of food, song and competition – a competition that is always
won by Mack Johnson. Despite being separated from his wife, Nate
Johnson gets his family together to attend as usual and keep up
appearances. With a brand new Navigator truck and a tight time scale,
the family of five set out on their road trip only to find themselves
having to deal with cement, police, alligators and hitchhikers – and
that's all before they get to the reunion.

I generally avoid all-black comedies; not because I am racist but
because the opposite is true – and I find that many of these modern
blaxploitation comedies are full of racist stereotypes and broad ethnic
caricatures. With this film screening on a flight I was on I decided to
watch it as I find it very difficult to sleep on planes. I was pleased
to find that the film didn't base itself on racist stereotypes and the
like and instead went for the more race-neutral approach of road movie
broad gags a la Vacation. This is not to say that it is funnier – only
easier to watch because it is less offensive to me personally. The plot
is very simple but it makes the mistake of not staying simple – instead
it adds subplots of separation and treats them seriously. This is a
problem because it rounds them off in glib, unconvincing ways that make
a joke out of ever having them in the first place – the whole issue of
Nate and Dorothy working things out is a perfect example, the supposed
focal point of the family contest is another one – it feels tacked on.

The film is not anywhere near as funny as it needed to be to be a good
comedy. It has the odd laugh but generally the humour is so very broad
and uninspired that it is hard to do anything but raise the occasional
smile. Part of the reason it is even slightly funny is due to the good
work from Cedric the Entertainer. He isn't great here but he does
manage to get laughs from the poor material he is given to deliver. Bow
Wow is hardly much of a draw but aside from being an annoying rapper
cliché in the making, he does do well alongside Cedric. Williams is an
OK actress but here she has nothing to do – she has no laughs and she
is betrayed by the script when it comes to the serious side of the
film. Knowles looks sexy but that's it – nothing more than that;
likewise Soleil is a 'cute kid' and nothing more. Harvey is so poor
that I actually wondered if he was the reason that the whole 'family
contest' thing was pushed into such a small part of the film.

Overall this is a very average film at best. The plot is terrible at
points and just annoyed me in the way that it seemed to just write-off
the entire affair in the final section. The laughs come mainly from
Cedric who does OK considering the very broad material he has to work
with (and with little support from his co-stars). It's good that it
more or less avoid the lazy racist stereotyping inherent in the 'black
comedy' genre but it would have been nice if they'd replaced it with
something worthwhile.

<|_=00=_|>
Cedric the Entertainer is a fascinating man. I first saw him on the
Steve Harvey show, and those two have been playing off of each others'
comedy bits for a good amount of time. They were both in the Original
Kings of Comedy with Bernie Mack and D.L. Hughley, and they are back
together in this cutesy-pie family flick about going to a family
reunion and encountering obstacles in every manner along the way.
Picture National Lampoon's Vacation minus the funny main character
(Chevy Chase) and throw in plenty of urban over saturation.

This is interesting how Cedric plays such a straight character with
hardly any humor (as an insurance salesman, his career before
acting...a stretch, for Cedric sarcastically speaking) other than an
occasional giggle at his manner of helping his family get along on this
trip. Right off the bat, the movie starts heading straight to hell. Bow
Wow (who was probably offered this role after his CDs stopped selling)
plays a kid (who seems like he's nine) who keeps talking in -izzle
terms and stereotyping right away. A quick (and pointless) cameo by
Kurupt, the rapper, leads the audience down the wrong path entirely.
Shannon Elizabeth was in the film briefly as a stoner/witch/hitchhiker
who also wields an alligator, which was actually pretty great animating
for the alligator...very creepy.

There were funny moments, like the hanging of a flat-screen TV between
JFK and a picture of Jesus...pretty symbolic and funny. Also, I liked
the co-star Vanessa Williams' comment on tricked out SUVs: "It looks
like a purse on wheels." Also, at the end, Steve Harvey plays the
brother of Cedric who wins the family reunion-competition, and when his
trophy is crushed by a truck, his performance at that point was pretty
funny. But that's all...

Most of the movie is based around sketch comedy and pieced together to
seem like a movie. You can tell where they were trying to come up with
filler for the film. There are pointless fart/urine jokes that have
been overdone, a terrible CHP sequence with a jail moment and all that,
and a family reunion that they know that they're going to hate, but
they go anyways...FUN! :( Overall, I gave it a 4/10. It was a
light-hearted movie that probably shouldn't be looked at this closely,
but it does when the movie loses the audience's interest halfway
through it. Don't even bother renting it; get National Lampoon's
Vacation or European Vacation instead. This movie will appeal to your
10 or 11-year-old only, so beware.
<|_=00=_|>
I expected this film to be bad, and it met my expectations. You can
clearly see the effort of the filmmakers and the actors to be funny,
but it just comes off as annoying. The jokes are lame. I found it
difficult to merely smile. Cedric should stick to stand-up. As for Bow
Wow and Solange, who told them that they could act? It's amazing this
ever got made. I would have rather spent my time at the library reading
up on capital punishment. Obnoxious, unfunny, just a very long
headache. Exaggeration to the point of excess (even over-the-top stuff
can get too ridiculous), it's just not worth it. Save your money and
your dignity. Rent The Kings of Comedy instead, where Cedric shows how
funny he really is.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is simply not good. It wasn't funny and was a very lame
attempt to try something similar to National Lampoon's Vacation.
There's hi-jinks at the hotel pool, going out to see silly things,
etc... In this, the two parents are separated but are going to the
husband's family reunion with the 3 kids. Considering they only spend a
couple of hours at the reunion, why did they even go? Bow Wow basically
uses this role as self-promotion since he raps. And when they get to
the reunion, the relatives are dull and dumb, especially uncle earl.

I can't believe any of the actors would even let their name appear in
the credits. If they weren't already famous, this movie would be career
suicide. Even the music is terrible.

FINAL VERDICT: A snore fest.
<|_=00=_|>

Going in to this movie, I actually had high expectations for it.  I don't
exactly know why i did, but I figured Cedric and Steve Harvey would not
let
me down.  Well, I was without a doubt, highly disappointed. Not only was
this movie boring, but it was an overall corny movie and extremely
predictable. 20 minutes in to the movie, I told the person i was with
exactly what was gonna happen at the end and i was exactly right.  I can
count on one hand the amount of times that i even got close to laughing.
Well, at least Solange was pretty sexy in the movie, but believe me, thats
still not enough to make this movie good.  If you value your money at all,
you'll wait till this comes out on video.
<|_=00=_|>
I will not give away most of the story. But maybe the fact that I was
raised on the original vacation movies, I had a hard time accepting
this as a remake. I do think Cedrick the entertainer and Vanessa
Williams did a great job in their roles, but the remake could never
hold a candle to the original Vacation or any of the sequels for that
matter. (except for Christmas vacation 2).

I did find the first part of the movie very entertaining, but I somehow
got lost in the sudden change of the story, where the Johnson family
Finally makes it to the reunion, and has to turn around and leave.
Although, the fact that it was one wrong turn after another, and a
story of a family coming together, I must give it some credit for
sticking to some of the original "vacation" movie. I would not
recommend it to someone who loves the original vacation movies.
<|_=00=_|>
Johnson Family Vacation is a very stupid comedy that's really not worth
watching. Cedric the Entertainer plays Nate Johnson, a family man who
agrees to take his brood across country to Missouri for the annual
family reunion. Can his dysfunctional family survive the trip without
killing each other? The plot is very generic and the execution is
nothing new. The movie is so bland that there's no reason to actually
go out and see it. The cast makes this film a bit better but they don't
seem to be really be trying. Cedric the Entertainer and Vanessa L.
Williams both play their roles decently. Solange Knowles and Bow Wow
play their kids and both don't really give memorable performances.
Shannon Elizabeth was probably the best part about the film, too bad
she's in it for about ten minutes. Steve Harvey has a small role as
Nate's brother. Every second he is on screen though, makes the film
very hard to watch as he is not funny at all. Christopher Erskin
directs his first film and he can hopefully improve if he decides to
make another one. The writers got very lazy in this film as most of the
jokes fall flat. There may be a funny one here or there but that's not
enough. This wouldn't had been problem if the running time wasn't 110
minutes. Since it is so long, there aren't enough jokes to sustain its
running time. Also this film feels a lot longer then 110 minutes. When
compared to other films, its better then The Cookout and Soul Plane.
The National Lampoons road trip movies are a lot better and you should
stick with those. In the end, this a very generic film that's not worth
watching, though its pretty inoffensive. Rating 4/10, skip this unless
your a die-hard fan of any of the stars involved.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie would have been good except: Little Bow Wow, Bow Bow, or Big
Bow Wow, whatever you want to call him, was not funny. Nor was the girl
who played his sibling, nor was Vannessa Williams, and nor was Steve
Harvey. Cedric the Entertainer was the only beacon of light in this
failed attempt at a family comedy. The situation just didn't make for a
very good comedy, especially when this scenario has already been done
so well by Chevy Chase and others. The road trip/family vacation gone
wrong is a very played out story. This was not the right platform for
an original or successful comedy, and it was not the right platform for
Cedric the Entertainer to be as his name indicates: entertaining. It
was somewhat humorous and it was bearable, it is more of a "nothing
else is on" type movie.
<|_=00=_|>
In "Johnson Family Vacation," which is little more than an all-black
version of the National Lampoon Vacation movies from twenty or so years
ago, Nate Johnson loads his wife and three kids into the car and drives
from their home in Los Angeles to a family reunion in Missouri. Along
the way, of course, the family meets with a series of comic
misadventures that threaten to prevent them from reaching their
destination.

Despite the derivative storyline, the early scenes in the film exhibit
a kind of playful spirit that bodes well for the rest of the movie.
This is due in no small measure to Cedric the Entertainer, who, unlike
so many of the comics who appear in these types of movies, doesn't feel
the need to stand apart from the material in order to draw attention to
himself. Indeed, it is the laid-back, unfussy way in which he delivers
his lines that makes them so funny. He is also blessed with an
attractive supporting cast that includes Vanessa Williams as his
long-suffering wife and Bow Wow as his mouthy but generally
good-hearted teenage son. The movie even includes some clever little
satirical jabs at the accoutrements and symbols of modern-day black
culture as Nate, the traditionalist, who listens to '70's soul on his
worn-out 8-tracks, goes toe-to-toe with his adolescent gansta' rap
adolescents.

But as the Johnsons tootle their way across country in their souped-up
SUV, we begin to notice that the film itself has stalled out. About
halfway through, it dawns on us that the movie isn't really going
anywhere, that it is merely playing out variations on incidents we've
seen earlier in the film, and that the set pieces and situations aren't
nearly as interesting or outrageous as they should be. This is truly a
pity because, given the attractive cast, we really want to like
"Johnson Family Vacation" more than we ultimately do.

Still, all things considered, this makes for a reasonable diverting,
mindless time at the movies, and Cedric the Entertainer's moniker has
rarely seemed so apt.
