
I was avoiding the film because of the lower ratings it had received
but after several recommendations, I went and saw it and was
surprisingly pleased with the whole film from start to finish. In my
opinion, this could be very well one of the best thrillers of the year.
The trailer for it really doesn't do it justice for what the movie
really is; a dark, suspenseful, edge of your seat thriller. Jennifer
Aniston does a great job breaking out of her Friends character that
everyone associates her with and that so few sitcom actors have been
able to do. Don't wait for this one to come out on DVD. You definitely
want to catch this one in the theater.
<|_=00=_|>
I was a bit hesitant about seeing the film because of the low ratings.

BUT despite false "endings" this is a film worth seeing. The three
leads are good, although Clive Owen's character is three dimensional in
a way that Vince Cassell's and Jennifer Aniston's aren't.

There is definitely a chemistry between Clive Owen and Jennifer
Aniston, which goes a long way to making the premise of the film "work"
and also makes the twists so sudden, so plausible, so believable, so
odd! It's an atmospheric film aided by good music and interesting
"minor" characters.

See this film, willing to suspend disbelief. It's not a great film,
often a little implausible. But the genre it creates calls for one to
"go for a ride" too.

It is a film that, with twists and turns, will keep you "derailed".
It's a good thriller, and ends on a positive note.

Don't be put off seeing it.
<|_=00=_|>
Derailed is a tight, smart, and dangerous movie about risks. Based on
the novel by the same name, it's hard to believe the book could be much
better.

Jennifer Aniston gives a great performance, as does Clive Owen. The
directing is spot on and the music is simple yet effective. One knock
may be the film's cinematography; it looks like you've seen it or a
movie like it before. Nothing special about the visual style. 

Beware though, this movie is serious in all aspects. It can be violent,
foul-mouthed,and at times really thrilling. Those are things thrillers
usually aren't. 

Luckily, Derailed never goes off the tracks and in the end makes it all
the way to the credits. See it, rent it, or buy it. You'll believe that
Hitchcock still lives.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm surprised to see some low ratings for this movie because I found it
to be really good. I didn't find a boring moment thru out the whole
movie and the ending was so twisted... it just brought everything
together. I wasn't sure of what the movie was about so I was definitely
caught off guard with the whole plot. It sort of starts out like a love
story, then next thing you know the guns come flying. Its different
from any other movie I've seen with realistic outcomes and life
situations. At times I wasn't sure if I was on the good guy's or bad
guy's side because in a way, the main character deserved some of what
he got. And I also understood why the bad guys chose their targets
without remorse. If I wasn't given a background of the main character,
I don't think i would've felt bad for him. Anyway, its a good movie and
I'd definitely recommend checking it out.
<|_=00=_|>
Clive Owen convincingly portrays an everyman who lives a life where
every day is the same - until he unexpectedly meets a woman on a train
and his life starts going off in new directions.

When that turns bad, his old habits reassert himself: instead of
forming a plan with built-in alternatives, or being a brilliant
improviser (like so many other thriller heroes), he forms simple plans
and is always at a loss when they fail.

Other people feel that there are plot holes in this movie, but I feel
that it just shows an everyman who is a slow starter, not the dynamic
super-hero so many other protagonists turn into at the first sign of
trouble.

Recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
It starts so promisingly that thoughts of "Fatal Attraction" even
"Brief Encounter" came to mind but, unfortunately, it degenerates into
a rushed, thoughtless TV movie of the week. I can put up with nonsense
and suspend my disbelief like the next guy but you have to have all the
other elements in place for me to buy whatever it is you're selling.
Here the script gives up a wallop just a the right time and then
pretends to have accomplished its mission when the wallop should be the
beginning of the mission. Clive Owen is a phenomenal actor a true film
creature at a pair with the greatest and the best, although I think he
is overdoing it a bit. He's everywhere. No, Mr Owen, less is more.
Vincent Cassel is terrifying, brilliantly so. Pity that the script
doesn't allow him to become a real character and Jennifer Aniston, what
can I say? Whenever I mention she's not made for the big screen, her
defenders always shout: "Have you seen The Good Girl?" Well, yes, I
have and I was fooled like everyone else. She's not in tune with the
medium, her performances are just that, performances and not
particularly good. Did you see "Rumor Has It"? She's too much of a
personality and not enough of an actress. We'll be seeing re runs of
Friend for years to come. I think that will remain the Jennifer Aniston
that everyone knows and likes.
<|_=00=_|>
Great movie, Clive Owen was brilliant and its a good change for
Jennifer, pure fast paced entertainment, just what it was meant to be!
I hope Jennifer does a lot more movies like this to get rid of the good
girl type cast. I really liked RZA, his acting was great and his
character was believable and very funny. The movie was fast and edge of
the seat almost from the start. I found some parts predictable but that
didn't ruin the movie for me. Some of the things that I predicted
happened, but not when and how, so it still keeps you guessing. I buy a
lot of DVD's and this movie is going on my list of movies to buy for
sure. I definitely recommend this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I can understand why Anniston wanted to do this role, since she -=-
SPOILER ALERT -=- gets to play majorly against type (as the supposedly
'nice' girl who's really - oh no! - part of the scam), but I'm at a
loss to figure out what Clive Owen is doing in this sub-par,
unoriginal, ugly and overly violent excuse for a thriller.

It's obvious from the get-go (as so many people before me have stated)
that Anniston's character is not a victim in the scenario - the second
she shows up, we know this, if we've been paying attention to the
countless 'femme fatale' movies that have been made prior to this one ~
she's the bait, and Owen's character is going to be sorry he met her,
big-time. I can tolerate an obvious set up, if the story from then on
is at least played out with some panache, but no such luck here; it's
just one cringingly vile scene after the other, with the payoff -=-
SPOILER ALERT -=- being that Owen gets to have his revenge against the
bad guy TWICE. Whooptie Doo. And plot holes? Fuggedaboudit. One after
the other, blatantly stupid stuff, not even worth discussing here. The
title works, though, as a commentary on the screenplay, which most
definitely veers way off track.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw a sneak preview of this film yesterday in Toronto (Younge &
Eglington Theatre) There are some "cheesy" moments but I'm happy to say
that they are far and few between.

The acting is not academy-award winning but you will be pleased with
the performances.

It is an engaging film that brings you into a dark and gritty
underworld that actually can feel quite real at times. You feel for the
lead character.

One of the strengths of this film is character development.

It also has some twists that may actually surprise you in a good way.

I think the real downfall of this film is that it has a "Hollywood"
ending. For me the film loses points for this.

One final note: the climax, although still good, was pieced together in
such a way that it did not hold the tension enough for the theater
audience. There was laughter and some heckling in my theater.

I wouldn't walk into this film expecting a ground-breaking film that
will change the genre forever, but it is does have some good pacing and
the story moved along quite nicely. It is an enjoyable film that I
recommend.
<|_=00=_|>
Yet another movie where the set designer was obviously more important
than the writer. Yet another movie where the luxury of the hero's home
totally undercut his "desperate" need for money.

The Schines seemed to be living in a two million dollar house jammed
with enough generic knick-knacks to qualify for a Pottery Barn shoot
location - and yet it has taken them 7 years to save the $100K for
their daughter's operation? When Schine's wife asked him the perfectly
reasonable question about why they couldn't just sell the house to get
money, he replied that it was fully mortgaged. Guess what? If you sell
the house, they don't make you pay the 100K in interest a year than he
must be paying on his fully mortgaged $2 million.

In the end Schine was willing to kill for his daughter; but getting a
dinky little two bedroom apartment in an ugly burb with a bad commute
was out of the question.

If you really want to shock an audience today, forget the rapes and
stabbings, just try making a movie with bad decor.
