
Finally! Somebody has done right by Jack Black. Somebody has actually
made a movie where Jack Black can be the man and show off his talents.
This is Jack Black at his best and I feel privileged to be alive while
this guy's star continues to skyrocket! 

Dewey Finn (Jack Black) loves rock and roll. He is the consummate fan
who knows every worthwhile group and song. He is a singer, songwriter,
and guitarist in his own band called "No Vacancy." But other members of
the group have grown tired of his immature stage antics, such as
20-minute solos and stage-dives. They vote him out and hire someone to
replace him for an upcoming Battle of the Bands contest.

Downcast and distraught, Dewey doesn't know what to do. Plus, his
usually patient roommate Ned (Mike White), a schoolteacher, is being
pressured by his aggressive girlfriend (Sarah Silverman) to make Dewey
pay the money he owes for rent or get out. When a call comes in to Ned
asking him to serve as a substitute teacher at the prestigious Horace
Green Elementary School, Dewey decides to assume his identity and take
the job.

Of course, faced with a class of fifth-graders all nicely clothed in
their school uniforms, this rocker doesn't have a clue as to what to
do. So he tells them to chill out and enjoy some downtime. This scheme
works for a little while but then Dewey visits the orchestra class.
Lights go off in his head and bingo! -- the new class project is to
form a rock band. He decides to teach them everything he knows about
rock with lectures on its history, the evils of "The Man," and the
essentials of playing rock songs.

Dewey's spirits are lifted when he realizes that there are some
talented musicians in the class including Zack (Joey Gaydos, Jr.), the
lead guitarist; Katie (Rebecca Brown) on bass; and Lawrence (Robert
Tsai) on keyboards. Freddy (Kevin Clark), the class rebel, turns out to
be an eager learner on drums, and Tomika (Maryam Hassan) surprises him
with her unusual singing talent. The smartest girl in the class, Summer
(Miranda Cosgrove), gets her chance to excel as band manager while
others serve as back-up singers, special effects wizard, head of
security, and the official selectors of the band's name.

The humor quotient of the film is heightened by the funny performance
of Joan Cusack as the uptight and unlocked principal of Horace Green
Elementary School. When Dewey discovers that she is a secret fan of
Fleetwood Mac, they are able to connect as friends. The rock fan gets
his wish when he has the class entered in the local Battle of the
Bands. By the end of this rollicking film, you'll happily be chanting,
"For those about to rock, we salute you!"

Overall: 9/10
<|_=00=_|>

A quick glance at the story or trailer tells you that School of Rock is
probably the cheesiest, gratuitous, airhead excuse for a movie in ages, but
if you thought that was a good reason to avoid it you'd be wrong. Jack Black
plays the slightly past it rocker, stuck in a groove of 70s heavy metal rock
and roll and refusing to move on – until his (more up to date) band fire
him. Struggling to pay the rent, he takes a phone call intended for his
schoolteacher flatmate and accepts a job as supply teacher at a top school.
Soon he has the kids not only studying the history of rock and roll,
soundproofing the room and playing rock instruments, but actually competing
in a major ‘Battle of the Bands' competition.

Unbelievable? Yes. What's more unbelievable is that somehow the whole thing
works – Jack Black's over-the-top enthusiasm for his subject is contagious,
the edge-of-disaster suspense is continued throughout the length of the
movie, and by the end the audience is so desperate to see how the kids (who
they all play their own instruments by the way) perform in the concert that
seat wetting would probably go unnoticed. Joan Cusack, as the gobsmacked
headmistress, delivers a performance that is worth the price of your cinema
ticket in itself. Achieving such tears-down-the cheeks laughter and
adrenalin-packed excitement for air guitar music is nothing short of
miraculous.

School of Rock is a movie that promises entertainment and delivers.
Everything is as it says on the packet. For sheer feelgood factor, this
movie is unbeatable – and you can even take the kids!
<|_=00=_|>

Glancing at what other people have written about this movie, it seems that
these individuals are taking this film a bit too seriously. Worrying about
the "messages" this movie is delivering? Come on, there is no way that the
con that Jack Black's character pulls off could ever get far in the real
world! I don't think any sane person watching this movie would take this
seriously. This is a comedy, for crying out loud, made to make us
laugh!

I thought Black was fine in this movie. Sure, maybe his character is a
little one-note with his proclamations of "rock on" and "stick it to the
man", but Black somehow manages to do it over and over without being boring.
He's unbelievably energetic AND versatile, delivering these same things in
different ways each time that prevent the movie from getting into a rut. I
think it's safe to say that only Black himself could have made this role
work so well.

There is plenty of humor and great music. Even my senior citizen parents
kept laughing, and told me after it was over that they enjoyed the rock
soundtrack as well. It's a great movie for the whole family. Why was this
rated PG-13? Sure, there are some references to stuff like alcohol and
groupies, but they are not emphasized at all in their brief passing - and
your kids will already have seen these kind of things treated much worse
elsewhere! In fact, here in British Columbia, the ratings board gave it a
"G" rating.
<|_=00=_|>
What can I say? I'm a rockaholic. I eat, breath, and dream of classic
rock and it's glory days. I listen to only rock radios, and every other
morning I go on an AC/DC Binge. Rock is pure, and beautiful.

Unfortunately, it's not the only music out there.

Pop culture today sucks, putting it nicely. All that stuff out there is
ruining the minds of people of today. For a little while it seems like
rock disappeared, hiding underneath everything else, being disregarded
by fans today.

Then 'School of Rock' came along.

Dewey Finn (played by Jack Black) is a bum who gets himself kicked out
of his own band because of his unruly antics. To top this off, his
substitute teacher roommate Ned and Ned's girlfriend Patti begin to nag
Dewey for rent money. Dewey can't pay it off. After spending some time
trying to sell his personal belongings, a phone call from a prestigious
prep school looking for a substitute teacher catches Dewey's attention
and he parades around as Ned, hoping to just walk in, let the kids do
what they want, get some money, and be gone like nothing every
happened.

Until he finds out that the class of fifth graders he has been assigned
to teach are musically and vocally talented.

This sparks an idea off in Dewey's mind, thinking that he can turn his
group of fifth graders into a rock group so that he can win 25,000
dollars in a contest called 'The Battle of the Bands'.

This is a wonderful, classic - rock fueled movie. Jack Black is
hysterical as Dewey Finn. The children are all talented, particularly
the ones on instruments and vocals.

If you want to love rock music, go watch this movie.

If not, then you'll have missed out on something great.
<|_=00=_|>

Greetings again from the darkness.  With so few good comedies these days,
it
was pure joy to laugh out loud a few times during this Jack Black
showcase.
Is he over the top? Absolutely.  Is his humor and delivery similar to the
great John Belushi?  Yes, down to the arching eyebrows.  And I say SO
WHAT?
Jack Black is hilarious in this movie and director Richard Linklater (the
underappreciated gem "Dazed and Confused") uses his spot-on observations
of
Rock music and school days to deliver a wonderful film going experience.
Writer Mike White ("The Good Girl") also plays Black's wimpy friend and
former bandmate.  Although his acting is fine, it is White's writing that
will make him rich in Hollywood.  The kids in the band are wonderfully
cast
and appear to be very talented musically as well.  Special recognition to
Joan Cusack, who just nails the role of the uptight private school
principal
who is just itching to be unleashed.  I would have enjoyed a bit more of
the
Rock History tossed in for the sake of today's youngsters, but the
tributes
to Pete Townsend, Jimi Hendrix, Zeppelin and the Ramones are much
appreciated.  Look for Nikki Katt in a brief role, but mostly just sit
back
and enjoy a pure comedy that truly ROCKS!! 
<|_=00=_|>
Dewey Finn is a lazy freeloader and a guitarist in a rock band who
plays gigs every night and sleeps every day, in his friend Ned
Schneebly's apartment. One day as he shows up late for band practice he
notices a new guitar player who is replacing him. Poor Dewey feels so
bad about it and also about Ned and his girlfriend threatening to kick
him out since he doesn't pay any of the bills. After a few days of
trying to sell his guitars, which doesn't go very well, the head of a
school calls and asks for Ned Schneebly, who is a talented substitute
teacher with a good reputation. In a desperate attempt to getting money
fast, Dewey impersonates Ned and conveniently finds himself the teacher
of a third grade ( or something like that ) class for several weeks
ahead. Yet another one of his crazy ideas strikes him and his plan to
turn his class into a rockband to win the Battle of the Bands
competition is set in motion. 

School Of Rock is a great feel-good comedy, fun for just about anyone
of any age, kids or adults. Jack Black does carry a lot of this film on
his own but I won't be too harsh on the kids in the movie, they did
very well also. If anyone else should play Dewey Finn rather than Jack,
it just wouldn't be the same. Since Jack is actually in a rock band in
real life, and has played a few characters in films before who are also
into music, he just seemed to fit right into this film. His real
passion for rock music helps a lot in this film, and makes Dewey Finn
one hell of a good character. The plot to this film is really good I
think and Mike White did a great job on the screenplay. As did
Linklater on the direction of the film.

This comedy should not be ignored just because there are kids in it, I
enjoyed it a hell of a lot and you probably will too. 

9/10
<|_=00=_|>
Has anyone noticed that School Of Rock is like a modern, rock version,
and 10-millions times better version of Sound Of Music? Both are about
a teacher who spends time with a small group of kids and inspires true
music in them. Anyone who is 50-90 years old loves the Sound of Music,
as a member of the younger generation today I think it's safe to say
The School of Rock is the "Sound of Music" version of the new
millennia, because I doubt another movie in the next 100 or maybe even
1000 years with the same plot (teacher inspiring kids with music) will
do better than School Of Rock, just like no movie between 1900-2000 did
better than the Sound Of Music in this regard.

Jack Black's passion for the music is obviously sincere and true, just
like the teacher lady in the Sound Of Music passionately cared about
music and proceeded to teach the children the basic of doe ray memes
while running through grassy fields. The Sound Of Music is the mushy
Brady Bunch goody goody corny serious set-in-world war II version
(which can be enjoyable), the School Of Rock is the hard and humorous
and much more up to date version. In the Sound Of Music the main
character's main plight was surviving the harsh realities of Nazi World
War II along with her love interest; in the School Of Rock, Jack
Black's main plight is to survive the commercialization of music
(instead of Nazism), i.e. getting kicked off his own band while his
band members replaced him with a gorgeous dude with a great body who is
more marketable, and seeing that today's elementary kids are fed
nothing but crap music. See how it is all modernized more up to date?
Basically, the School of Rock ROCKS!
<|_=00=_|>
After being fired from his own band, the guitar player Dewey Finn (Jack
Black) needs to raise some money to pay for his rent and his bills.
When his friend and school teacher Ned Schneebly (Mike White) is called
to a temporary work in an expensive private school, Dewey pretends to
be Ned and accepts the job. He finds talented young musicians in his
class, and he decides to form a rock-and-roll band with the students
and win a competition called "Battle of Bands" to raise the prize and
be recognized in the show business.

"The School of Rock" is a very funny and politically incorrect comedy
tailored for Jack Black. He steals the movie and rocks in the role of a
rock-and-roll lover, who dreams to be successful as a guitar player.
Most of the lines belong to him, and I believe this movie is his best
individual performance in his successful career. Joan Cusack is
excellent as usual, and Miranda Cosgrove seems to have potential and be
a great promise as actress. The soundtrack is a great homage to
rock-and-roll, with many classics including Led Zeppelin's "Immigrant
Song". The DVD is full of worthwhile Extras, and in the end this film
is an excellent funny entertainment. My vote is eight.

Title (Brazil): "Escola de Rock" ("School of Rock")
<|_=00=_|>
After distinguishing himself in any number of memorable supporting
roles, Jack Black finally comes into his own in "The School of Rock," a
sporadically funny comedy that is part "Sister Act" and part genial
spoof of all those movies about a "super teacher" who brings meaning
and purpose to the lives of his students.

Black plays Dewey Finn, an aging rock'n'roller who is still awaiting
that moment when he will "make it big" in the music world. He lives
with Ned Schneebly, his longtime rocker buddy, who has traded in his
dreams of musical glory for a nagging girlfriend and a job as a
substitute teacher. Desperate for money to pay the rent, Dewey pretends
to be Schneebly and takes a job as a sub at a snooty, tradition-bound
prep school, where the last thing the administration and the parents
would want is a Jimmy Hendricks knockoff teaching their kids. And since
Dewey really only knows one thing, this uncredentialed professorial
imposter decides to make rock'n'roll the sole focus of his curriculum,
turning these inward, shy, nerdish kids into a viable rock band - all
under the radar screen of the ever-watchful administrators and parents
of course.

Although the storyline wends its way along a predictable path, writer
Mike White and director Richard Linklater find a great deal of warmth
and humor in the material. Dewey's utter obsession with rock music and
rock history is reflected in the fact that he leads the band members in
a prayer to the "god of rock" before a concert, and screams in
frustration - "What have they been teaching you kids at this school?" -
when he finds out his pupils have never been educated in the basics of
Hendricks, Led Zeppelin and Black Sabbath. Dewey is so preposterously
well-meaning and good-natured that the audience can't help but root for
him and his students as they embark on their mad quest to appear at a
local battle of the bands competition, unbeknownst to the
powers-that-be at the school.

The children playing the students are all winning and charming, and
Joan Cusack cuts a sympathetic figure as the uptight school principal
who harbors a little bit of Stevie Nicks under her prim and proper
exterior. But it is Black who makes this film his own, turning what
might have been a buffoonish caricature into a fully-rounded human
being. Black is not afraid to cut loose and take over the screen when
necessary, hitting heights of unbridled mania to rival the master, Jim
Carrey. Yet, he also realizes that he is part of an ensemble effort
here and understands the importance of integrating himself into the
material and not always dominating it. As a result, even when certain
elements of the film fall flat, as they frequently do, Black is always
there to prop the movie back up.

"The School of Rock" is an entertaining little comedy, but unlike a
real satire which would skewer the conventions of the genre it is
attacking, this film loses its nerve and winds up endorsing those
conventions. Dewey, for all his talk about defying "The Man," is really
a rebel in name only, and the film reflects the kind of feel-good
populism that no true hard line iconoclast would be caught dead
supporting. I guess it's too much to expect a mainstream Hollywood
comedy to launch a truly savage assault on mainstream values (in the
way rock, at its best, often does). Still, it might be nice to come
across the unexpected sometime (after all, movies like "Dr.
Strangelove" and "MASH" were able to do it).

Until then, we'll settle for what we can get. And Jack Black is good
enough for now.
<|_=00=_|>

I like it, I like it, yes indeed!

With a Judy Garland/Mickey Rooney plot, this movie takes a terrific
comic and musical turn and is a totally enjoyable, fun, and informative
ride!

I liked that Jack Black always treated his students with positive
reinforcement, which is really important if someone is ever to have the
guts to go on stage. He was never down or discouraging unless it was a
very funny down and

discouraging! And never about the students themselves.

I like Jack Black, I love this movie, and I love rock'n'roll above all
else!

Forget the clichés. Let yourself have fun.

And stick it to the man!!!!!!

