
I've been hearing lots of negativity about this movie. I think a lot of
people have been shocked, frankly, by the raw and rough nature of the
film. Having read the play, I've been looking forward to it for about a
year now, and it's honestly one of the best plays I've ever read. Mike
Nichols presents it in an amazing way, very faithful to the words as
they're written (and they should be, for the movie is also written by
the man who wrote the play, the brilliant Patrick Marber). 

It's a brutal topic, sex and love, especially when they're combined. I
thought the movie was amazing. It captured all of the vulnerability,
caustic harshness, and acerbic flirtation that the play vibrated with.
All of the cast brought the movie alive. It uplifts and then brings you
way down, but that's the point, and yet at the end, I didn't feel
depressed or saddened, just really really awake and curious. It's the
feeling you get when you get "closer", I suppose. 

Natalie Portman, in a tour-de-force performance, is the standout by
far. Maybe it's because she's the youngest, and not expected to be that
awesome, but she is. Anyways, her Alice is flirty and sweet, caustic
and manipulative, evasive and yet very open, sexual and gloomy all in
one character. She has the best chemistry with the men - whether it be
purely sensual with Clive Owen, or innocence and affection with Jude
Law. She comes alive with the two guys, and their scenes are ones to
look forward to.

Julia Roberts, whom everyone looks towards, is not bad in this film.
She's very understated and good, but she is outshone in nearly every
scene by whomever she's acting with. 

Clive Owen is absolutely astounding, and he's definitely on everyone's
radar screen. As the man of experience and "simplicity", as Jude Law's
character comments, he's brash and hotheaded, but also extremely
clever. Owen perfectly plays the sleazy, unlikeable character, but
somehow manages to appeal to the audience and even though he's a
disagreeable character, I think many managed to find something all
right about him - Owen's human sense in Larry. 

Jude Law is simply very very good; neither astounding nor bad. The only
reason he does not stand out is the fact that we've all expected him to
do a good performance. And he does, he has a great performance. He and
Portman have amazing scenes together, and he's always on par.

Simply put, the movie is not for everyone (especially not for seeing
with a parent or young child); it's a mature adult flick, and does not
back down from anything. It's high drama - with all the uplifting
romance and brutal arguments of relationships. It's a story about
people.
<|_=00=_|>
Mike Nichols directed, in my opinion, one of the three best adaptations
from stage to screen. "Who's afraid of Virginia Woolf" (The other two
being Sidney Lumet's "Long day's journey into night" and Elia Kazan's
"A Streetcar named Desire) After the extraordinary television
adaptation of "Angels in America" I also would have pleaded with Mike
Nichols to do "Closer" Sorry I'm rambling. What I'm trying to say in a
rather convoluted way is, simply, thank you Mr. Nichols. Adult themes,
conceived and performed by adult artists. I hope it makes zillions of
dollars so we can have more of it. Jude Law is a Peter O'Toole without
the steroids, Julia Roberts a Jeanne Moreau with an American passport,
Clive Owen is a child of John Garfield and Peter Finch and Natalie
Portman a Jean Peters with a college degree. I saw the film twice in a
row, I hadn't done that in years. Not since "Drugstore Cowboy",
"Apartment Zero" and "Sex Lies and Videotape" The unfolding of the dark
happens in front of our eyes and it feels chillingly familiar. Lies we
tell each other with so much conviction with so much honesty. The only
real thing is the pain and the loneliness. It doesn't sound like a very
entertaining night out but believe me, it is. Go, see for yourself. You
may have to confront something you didn't want to confront. That's part
of the process call growing up. Who's afraid of that?
<|_=00=_|>
What a treat. Most of the people who came with me, left, half way
through the film. I stayed to the end and I loved it. It moved me. A
rarity this days. The face of Jude Law is, still, so full of
possibilities. He seems unafraid of darkness. Strong. This is his most
grown up performance. I can't wait to see what he'll become. (If he
stays away from Hollywood as much as temptations permit, and keeps that
purity, that makes his darkness so powerful, as intact as humanly
possible). Julia Roberts is wonderful in a performance part Margaret
Sullavan, part Jeanne Moreau but all her own. Clive Owen is a force of
nature. Dangerous, compelling, human to the hilt. And what about
Natalie Portman? Wow. No surprise here. But what a surprise. I'm sure
she is going to amaze us for years and years to come. I'm really glad I
stayed to the end.
<|_=00=_|>
It's once in a very rare time that I go to the movies and I'm treated
as an adult. I see a film that is intelligent, thought provoking,
provocative and rawly realistic. Closer is that film. It present an
honest portrayal of four severely unlikable characters and they screw
with each others love lives back and forth. The film is told in adult
sporting complexity through the growing plot points , the way it's
filled and it's tasty advancing dialogue. Everyone in the film turns in
a powerhouse performance worthy of Oscar consideration. Ms. Portman is
wonderful as Alice shedding her blockbuster star wars acting skills and
portraying someone multi dimensional with heart and pizazz. Julia
Roberts stars as Anna in a cold, subtle performance which will leave
audiences appreciating her acting believability as she pounces through
each of her scenes with charismatic force. Jude law and Clive Owen are
the real surprises here both turning in wonderfully appealing
performance. Strong, weak, flawed and memorable. Especially whose last
outing was the entertaining but mediocre action summer pic King Arthur.
The film has wonderfully tight direction and sports beautifully placid
colors and a fine adult score. The film draws dangerously close to
being a near perfect film. I only wish it could've gone on for abit
longer I wasn't completely satisfied to the ends of the characters on
which we were give. but life itself isn't perfect or satisfying and
this is a slick of someones life. Rush out and go see Closer! Oner of
the best film's of the year!
<|_=00=_|>
This is the most honest film I've ever seen. Although I'm sure there
are critics out there who will comment on the explicit language rather
than the story, anyone who's ever been in a dysfunctional relationship
can relate to at least some part of this film. I for one found it a
very personal and shockingly accurate depiction of how human beings use
love and sex to unintentionally destroy each other. The performances
were magnificent from all angles. Mike Nichols has done it again. This
film is "Carnal Knowledge" for the new millennium. If the Academy does
not recognize "Closer" as a Best Picture candidate, then the Academy
should no longer be recognized as the authority on achievement in
film... yes, it's that good.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw a sneak preview of this film and thought it would be good but was
stunned by its unique flavor and strong character arcs that leaves you
wondering if you're watching a Mamet play or a classic film. 

The story gets more and more complex and the acting is so superb that
it adds a certain believability to it that would lack with a less
reputable cast. Jude Law is as always sensational as a variant of his
Alfie charaacter, and Natalie Portman has reached a level of maturity
that was truly surprising, not to mention wearing some of the sexiest
stripper outfits one can imagine. And Clive Owen is a perfect match for
Jude that turns into a perfect ego cock match that creates so much
delightful drama that you wonder how far they will push the edge. There
are parts of the story that seem a bit far-fetched but its Hollywood
baby so with this stellar cast you let a few issues like that fly
because you truly are at the edge of your seat wondering how twisted
these two pairs of lovers will get. 

If you happen to have just finished with a relationship or been cheated
on recently id highly advise to bring your heart ready for rampage or
lots of tissues but its depth is so provocative that you leave the
theatre with so many questions about your own personal life - which
personally is what makes the difference between a basic movie and a
magical one that literally makes one believe you're watching a true
story.

Enjoy and hope you never run into one of these characters.!
<|_=00=_|>
Closer: A

Mike Nichols delivers his best work yet. CLOSER is a well crafted
dissertation on art's reflection of the human condition, particularly
the dependence on romantic relationships. It delivers an intimate film
that actually achieves depths rarely seen on screen. Kubrick's Eye's
Wide Shut only scratched the surface of literal naked lies that
represent sexual game-playing on screen. His work came off as a
freshman treatise on relationships in a pervy, self-obsessed way.
Nichols and screenwriter Patrick Marber deliver a full and rich study
on the difficulties of love and sexual tension. Without ever showing a
sex scene on screen they are able to portray the nasty nature of
jealously, lust and obsession without actually exploiting these acts as
Kubrick and countless others have done. The result is a pure
_expression of the realization that we don't know anything when it
comes to assessing truth in character. 

Alice (Natalie Portman), a former stripper, is hit by a car in London
as she forgets to look right. Dan (Jude Law) comes to her rescue and
guides her to the hospital before guiding her into his life. Dan writes
obituaries but soon finds a novel in himself thanks to Alice. While
shooting the photo for his book he falls for the photographer Anna
(Julie Roberts) who pulls back from him given that he's with Alice. For
light-style revenge Dan sets up Larry (Clive Owen) in an Internet sex
chat room to meet Anna thinking this will embarrass him and her. Cupid
backfires thus throwing Larry and Anna into a relationship of their
own. First impressions, like all art, can only show you broad strokes
of character like stereotypes and lies. Alice is presented as a young
girl in need of saving, literally. Anna is a strong, independent artist
who seems smart in her career and choices. Dan is a struggling,
sensitive writer in search of a muse, someone to inspire and rescue.
Larry is a sex obsessed dermatologist and self-described caveman. By
the end of the film, however, the audience will get a deeper and more
profound view of all four characters and realize we just don't know
them as well as we think. 

Acknowledging that film can be art, the screenwriter is skilled with
dialog that reflects the illusionary quality that is art. Every piece
of conversation, every word has meaning, reflection and sometimes
foreboding for what is to come and the gaps in story and exposition
brilliantly leads the audience to fill in those elements with their own
interpretations. It is those interpretations and broad-stroke
impressions that the film is there to question. Alice, in the scene at
Anna's photo exhibit, discusses this very concept to Larry when
discussing her reaction to the photos and the show. The function is
just a big lie, the glossy photos of people's faces don't' show the
real person, the fancy people at the party only reflect that same
quality. Everything is for surface show - one-dimensional illusions of
character. Alice, Anna, Dan and Larry are those photos just in moving
form but that makes all the difference. The movement and editing of the
film allows us to jump through months and years of their relationships
to unpeel parts of the illusion of character and stereotypes. We can
explore wrong assumptions about characters and that should make us
explore the real-world difficulties of knowing people, really knowing
them and not just their image or attitude. Many will just see this film
as a sad story of four wounded people making bad relationship choices.
This is really sad because this film is truly a great wake-up call to
humanity to embrace a new approach and attitude about art and people.
Strength can be a weakness. Vulnerability can be empowering. Dependence
can be comforting. Nothing can be valued or viewed without bias and
prejudice. Great art, like this film, can sometimes achieve a new way
to show us how wrong we can be when we let our bias prevent us from
just experiencing life and being open to shifts in perception. So take
a closer look, at this film and the life around you. You just might
find happiness in walking away from the expected.
<|_=00=_|>
Have you ever seen a human heart? It looks like a fist wrapped in
blood.... Only in the film Closer can the universal symbol for love and
devotion be brutally manipulated into a tool, one whose sole purpose is
to express men's vile and barbaric proclivities. But this isn't your
ordinary love story, in fact when viewing Mike Nichols newest drama,
you can throw everything you thought you knew about modern
relationships out the window. In Closer, your best bet is to expect the
unexpected.

If you are searching for a traditional romance of sorts, this isn't the
film to turn to. If you are searching for a film to bolster up your
Holiday spirit in anticipation for the Christmas season, then have a
Jimmy Stewart marathon. But, if you are open to the idea of seeing a
film thick with hostility, brutal honesty and dizzying intellect...
then this could be a film that could satisfy your expectations. Let it
be said, that at the very least this is a film to be marveled. It is
such a well-crafted production, that you can't help but appreciate the
obvious talent that went in to making this movie look as glossy and
stylish as it does. Not to mention, how splendid the cast is... I only
wish I could say the same for the characters that they play... 

These gorgeous creatures, exude radiance and outer beauty, yet what
lies within their psyche is brutal and cold. Based on pre-conceived
notions, it's hard to see 'America's Sweetheart', Julia Roberts, or the
charming Brit, Jude Law utter such biting, vicious, and somewhat
disturbing statements. The character's have virtually no consciences,
and care about little more than appeasing their own personal urges and
impulses. The men in particular seem to be the most primitive in their
acting upon their animalistic instincts. Although, the woman are far
from innocent. Each of the four leads harbors a series of secrets they
are hesitant to unleash upon their counterparts. This blanket of
mystery leads each to act in contemptible ways. The character's are all
terribly detestable and obnoxious, yet still put on a facade of
refinement. It's unbelievable how articulate and intelligent these
characters really are. Every line that comes out of their mouth has an
aura of brilliance, and while one may find their comments offensive,
you can't deny that there is a lot of truth behind their sentiments.
The dialogue drives the film, and serves as another artistic device for
the director... it is truly poetic. The entire film is in essence, a
critique on the human race... a social commentary that exposes the
underbelly of the modern relationship. A disheartening subject to be
sure, and Nichols does not shy away from stating it like it is.

The story basically revolves around four characters and the ensuing
relations between them. It is a very slow moving film driven entirely
by the intelligent, cynical and piercing dialogue that spills out of
the character's mouths. There are probably only ten scenes in the whole
film, which goes to show you how lengthy each episode runs. Yet, I
never felt as though time was standing still... I was so wrapped up in
the character's lives and their ever present struggles to worry about
the scene's length. A technique that was implemented by the veteran
director, Mike Nichols is that there is no real sense of time in the
film. The story spans over four years, a gimmick which I thought was a
brilliant way to disorient the audience into the same dizzying mindset
the characters themselves possess.

The four leads, are remarkably and perhaps unrealistically witty...
Yet, in many instances they use this uncanny intelligence in ways that
make you cringe with disapproval. Those with an optimistic attitude,
would be best off suspending disbelief while watching this film. An
open mind is a must, and if you are easily offended... then you'd be
best off watching Disney cartoons or after-school specials. This movie
doesn't even attempt at hiding behind MPAA restrictions, and instead
pushes the limits by having the entire film revolve around the 'behind
closed doors' aspects of a relationship. Sexual slurs, derogatory
statements, and painful betrayal all pollute what in an idealistic
world would be a text-book perfect relationship. Don't expect a happy
ending. But, be sure to expect dialogue that sizzles and pops, and
stings those who it is directed at. C|oser is a film that divides
audiences like none I have seen before. Love it or hate it, you will be
glad you saw it... 3.5/4
<|_=00=_|>
The strength of Closer, both as a play and a motion picture, is the
flawless, mature and beautifully crafted dialogue. Patrick Marber's
screenplay is a testament to his truly great writing ability, as not
much of the original text needed to be adapted in order to work
appropriately and effectively on screen.

The raw emotion and base convictions of these four tragic characters
(all acted exquisitly) is given to us primarily through their words and
those words are all we need. 

If you need more than words and are looking for a feel good love story,
steer clear, you will only be disappointed.

However, if you are looking for a piece that will intrigue your senses,
causing you to examine your own soul, your own convictions, then I
highly recommend Closer.

Like Shakespeare, Williams, and O'Neil, whose words are a testament to
the condition of their lives and times, Marber, through his language
and presentation of these four exquisite lost souls, forces the mind to
acknowledge and deal with the most base of our natural tendencies,
painting a brutally honest portriat of the human condition in the 21st
century.
<|_=00=_|>
Given that the National Board of Reviewers ranked "Closer" as the third
best movie of 2004 (behind "The Aviator" and "Finding Neverland"), I'm
still stunned at how patently ridiculous it was. As one friend said
afterward, "I'm in the mood for something relatively painless--like a
full-body chemical peel."

If you're expecting a movie that faithfully portrays relationships
between men and women (at least those folks who live off Broadway and
outside of Hollywood), you won't find it represented in a single frame
of this movie. For 100 minutes--going on six hours--my friends and I
waited for a recognizable human presence to grace the screen. Instead,
here's what we learned from the alien life forms responsible for
"Closer":

1) Julia Roberts has one acting pose: stare off-camera and look
pensive.

2) Clive Owens has two acting emotions: fresh-shaved and unshaven.

3) Jude Law decided to reprise his role as the robot in "A.I." in every
movie he's appeared in this year.

4) Natalie Portman has never been in a strip club. (Her 'pole-dancing'
maneuvers--apparently inspired by her turn in "Mars Attacks!"--provided
the movie with the most unintentionally campy scene since 'Showgirls.')

5) The screenwriter has never been in a relationship. (And if he has,
he simply wasn't paying attention.)

6) When straight couples tell each other they've been cheating, they
act excruciatingly polite for several minutes (except Julia Roberts,
who stares off-camera and looks pensive). Then the cheated-upon will
ask the cheating spouse how the sex was and insist on hearing the
explicit details. This is the part of the discussion that finally gets
a response, ranging on the emotional spectrum from the kissing and
hugging one usually experiences during such fondly remembered
heart-to-heart talks to exquisitely scripted battles of screaming wits.

7) Internet sex chats are astonishingly tedious on film, but are useful
budget savers for the director who wants to make a 100-minute movie
seem like six hours.

8) American women who live in England are willing to have sex to get
whatever they want--even to get their ex-spouses to sign their divorce
papers. (You have to see this scene to believe it has actually been
committed to film.)

9) Audience-goers laugh at clichés. The more movies the cliché has been
used in; the harder they'll laugh. (Then again, given how many people
left the theater, maybe they were laughing at the movie itself.)

10) The new Hollywood formula requires a "surprise" twist at the
ending, even when it's not a surprise.

I haven't seen so many people walk out of a movie in years--and this
was on the East Side of New York, which has a high tolerance for the
inertness and amateurishness one often sees in "art" films. At the end,
there was mostly booing and catcalls from the survivors, accompanied
(oddly enough) by a scattering of applause--from those, I would
imagine, who were probably relieved that the rolling credits didn't
show the outtakes.

Every once in a while, I'll see a low-budget independent "gay film"
that is so lifeless that I am embarrassed for "my people." It's nice to
know that there are equally unwatchable "straight movies" about
relationships (although with Hollywood budgets, celebrity casts, and
big-name directors).
