
Certainly one of the finest movies I have seen for quite some time.
Exquisite direction and flawless acting make this a very entertaining
and often moving film. Denzel Washington plays one of his most engaging
and emotional roles to date, and the rest of the cast perform
beautifully. Christopher Walken is of course superb in his part
although he did not appear as often as I would have liked. A story of
ultimate greed that backfires is offset against a childs innocence and
love. This is also a film for action movie lovers as it has its fair
share of bullets, rockets and revenge. The location of Mexico City adds
a feel of seediness and corruption which in itself is an eye opener.
All in all, a truly gripping film from beginning to end. Highly
recommended!
<|_=00=_|>
...dont read any plot summaries because in words the plot might seem
trivial, brain-dead and pointless. The film is excellent, the acting by
both Denzel and Dakota (she will go sky high, trust me on that)are just
fabulous, and the plot is mind blowing. Actually "fabulous" is a small
word to use for such talented actors. The film is just based on actual
facts and some characters are not fictional, a fact that adds up to the
shock that i was having during and after the film. If you are fond of
both actors and of somewhat deranged films, you still haven't watched
your favorite one yet...Trust me, in the end you will have a weird and
inexplicable feeling. The film is awesome, see it, rent it, buy it or
whatever...just don't miss it
<|_=00=_|>
This has to be one of the best, if not the best film i have seen for a
very, very long time. Had enough action to satisfy an fan, and yet the
plot was very good. I really enjoyed the film,and had me hooked from
start to finish.

Added blood and gore in there, but brought the realistic nature of what
happens to the front of the film, and even had a tear jerker ending for
many people i should think.

It is a must watch for anyone. Seen many reviews, slating the film, but
to be fair, most the films that get bad reviews, turn out to be some of
the best. this proves it once again.

Rent this film, buy this film, just go out and watch this film. You
will not be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
This is by far one of the better made movies and 
didn't leave me disappointed at all. The sound track along with finely 
shot hand-held camera work was exquisite . The are always chances a 
movie won't hold ones beliefs as well as another, but I felt that 
rhythm of this picture and the timing was excellent. Dakota Fanning is 
rapidly becoming a staple in movie that require a child with an old 
soul personality and she has never disappointed me with her talent. As 
for Mr. Washington and of course Christopher Walken they both exceed 
the challenge of showing the darkest sides of humanity trying to move 
to the light.
<|_=00=_|>

I loved this movie. I'm a Mexican and was in the least offended by it.
In fact, I think this movie should be shown at police headquarters all
over Mexico. It's a sad truth that our police system is as rotten as a
3 month old corpse. It angers me to read in the news how killers,
kidnappers and other slime go free by paying a laughable fine or live
like kings inside prison cells. We should have someone like Creasy,
Denzel Washington's character. A bodyguard turned vengeful vigilante.
Kidnapping is flourishing industry down here (at least in the big
cities). I actually wish real life kidnappers could suffer the same
fate as the one's Creasy did his fine job upon. That would be so
marvelous (Sorry, I am THAT resentful!). MAN ON FIRE is a gripping film
that you can't miss. It might be hard on some of you, if you aren't
used to reading subtitles (Mexicans do that ALL the time while watching
American movies) but the effort will be well worth it. Some of the
editing is a bit fuzzy...kind of like TRAFFIC, remember? (another
brilliant take on how corrupt Mexico is). The movie starts out a bit
slow but the pace picks up frantically by the second half. I swear
you'll be cheering as you watch Denzel Washington dispatch the wrong
doers. His performance is nothing short of Excellent. The ending (no
spoilers, OK!!!) is a bit sad, but I'm sure you'll like it anyway. MAN
ON FIRE is one of the year's best movies. A "must own" for a DVD
collection! 9* out of 10

<|_=00=_|>
i liked this film a lot. it's dark, it's not a bullet-dodging,
car-chasing numb your brain action movie. a lot of the characters
backgrounds and motivations are kinda vague, leaving the viewer to come
to their own conclusions. it's nice to see a movie where the director
allows the viewer to make up their own minds.

in the end, motivated by love or vengeance, or a desire to repent - he
does what he feels is "right". 'will god ever forgive us for what we've
done?' - it's not a question mortal men can answer - so he does what he
feels he has to do, what he's good at, what he's been trained to do.

denzel washington is a great actor - i honestly can't think of one bad
movie he's done - and he's got a great supporting cast. i would
thoroughly recommend this movie to anyone.
<|_=00=_|>
Here's a gritty, get-the-bad guys revenge story starring a relentless
and rough Denzel Washington. He's three personalities here: a
down-and-out-low-key-now drunk- former mercenary, then a loving
father-type person to a little girl and then a brutal maniac on the
loose seeking answers and revenge.

The story is about Washington hired to be a bodyguard for a little
American girl living in Mexico, where kidnappings of children occur
regularly (at least according to the movie.) He becomes attached to the
kid, played winningly by THE child actress of our day, Dakota Fanning.
When Fanning is kidnapped in front of him, Washington goes after the
men responsible and spares no one. Beware: this film is not for the
squeamish.

This is stylish film-making, which is good and bad. I liked it, but a
number of people found it too frenetic for their tastes as the
camera-work is one that could give you a headache. I thought it fit the
tense storyline and was fascinating to view, but it's (the shaky
camera) not for all tastes.

Besides the two stars, there is the always-interesting Christopher
Walken, in an uncharacteristically low-key role, and a number of other
fine actors.

The film panders to the base emotions in all of us, but it works.
<|_=00=_|>
I hate preachy revenge flicks. I pay money to go see a revenge movie, I
want revenge -- not some tough guy learning that killing is bad, etc.
Seriously, if I wanted a sermon on the importance of turning the other
cheek, I'd either go to church or rent an eco-friendly Steven Seagal
movie.

I'm a big fan of the revenge genre, there's something about the
build-up that gets my blood boiling. I love getting attached to
characters and feeling their vengeance, which is why I love revenge
movies that go all-out and feature TRUE revenge.

COLLATERAL DAMAGE is a good example of a movie that just backed itself
into a wall. It starts as a revenge movie and ends as a message against
terrorism, war, and violence. In an Arnold Schwarzenegger film? Give me
a break.

So I had never expected to see such hardcore material in MAN ON FIRE --
it's an all-out action thriller that takes no prisoners. When Denzel
stuck a stick of dynamite up a man's anus, then blew him up, I thought,
"Wow, this movie really isn't afraid of offending people."

Washington's character isn't likable which is part of the reason this
succeeds. Most revenge movies feature heroes who, magically, don't seem
to want to kill anybody. However in this, Creasy (Washington) is a
bodyguard who avenges the death of a little girl (Dakota Fanning) and
he does so with more than mere vengeance. "I'm going to kill everyone,"
he says, and then does, with no pity and no remorse.

In fact this actually reminded me of the Tom Clancy novel "Without
Remorse," only it's even better. Scott is at the top of his game here,
revolutionizing subtitles along the way and adding an unmistakable
grain to his movie that only helps it become more memorable as a gritty
revenge flick.

It also features both Christopher Walken and Mickey Rourke -- the Kings
of Cool -- in the same film together. That right there makes the film
worth seeing.

I agree with Quentin Tarantino. This is one of Tony Scott's best films
and a great, hard-as-nails revenge movie -- I had expected little and
got back a lot. A definite must-see, and an Oscar-worthy performance by
Washington.

One of 2004's most underrated films. How did this get 30% positive
reviews on Rotten Tomatoes?!

4.5/5
<|_=00=_|>
There are many reasons to watch this movie: to see the reality that
whips Latin America with regard to the kidnappings thing, the police
corruption at continental level, among so many realities that we live
the Latins. 

The performance of Denzel Wahington was brilliant, this guy continues
being an excellent actor and that it continues this way. Dakota Fanning
just by 10 years, an excellent actress has become and I congratulate
her. The rest of the movie was of marvel, I have it in my collection. 

I hope that they are happened to those producing of Hollywood to make a
movie completely in Venezuela, where they show our reality better with
regard to the delinquency, the traffic of drugs or the political
problems. They have been few the movies that they play Venezuelan land
(for example: Aracnophobia, Jungle 2 Jungle, Dragonfly) they should
make more, as well as they make in Mexico.

The song "Una Mirada" I hope that it leaves in the soundtrack, it is
excellent. My vote is 10/10
<|_=00=_|>

Although released among a flock of revenge-minded action flicks (KILL BILL
VOL. 2; THE PUNISHER; WALKING TALL), MAN ON FIRE works as well as it does
thanks in large part to the always-watchable Denzel Washington, one of the
best actors around today.

In MAN ON FIRE, based on A.J. Quinnell's 1980 novel (first filmed in 1987,
with Scott Glenn), Washington plays a down-on-his-luck ex-mercenary who has
now stooped to drinking from a flash of Jack Daniels, until his old partner
(Christopher Walken) offers him a chance at redemption.  He is hired on as a
bodyguard to the 10 year-old daughter (Dakota Fanning) of a Mexican
businessman (Marc Antony) and his American-born wife (Radha Mitchell). 
While he and Fanning work like oil and water first (not mixing very well),
he really gets to form a bond with her, encouraging her to do better at
swimming, while he at the same time attempts to deal with the demons of the
past.  It is that very bond that will force Washington back into his old
line of work when Fanning is kidnapped and held for a $10 million ransom,
and he is nearly killed.  With almost any other stock action hero
(Schwarzenneger; Segal, etc.), the subsequent bloodbath would be the same
repetitive schlock we've seen a million times before.  But Washington's
character, though he's killing for a reason, does not particularly enjoy
doing what he does.  Still, he gets help from a very intrepid Mexican
newspaper reporter (Rachel Ticotin) out to expose "La Hermanidad" (The
Brotherhood), the kidnap gang responsible for Fanning's
abduction.

MAN ON FIRE is flawed to some extent because of the hyper camera work,
nearly headache-inducing montage editing, and various film stocks that are
par for the course of its director Tony Scott (TOP GUN; CRIMSON TIDE), but
which are not necessarily unique to him (witness Oliver Stone's use of
montage in JFK or Sam Peckinpah's in his classic 60s and 70s films).  Still,
Scott gets a very good performance from Washington, as well as Fanning, who
comes across as far more than a typical movie-brat kid.  Harry
Gregson-Williams' south-of-the-border Spanish guitar score is enhanced by
soundtrack splashes of Chopin, Debussy, and even Linda Ronstadt's classic
1977 country-rock version of "Blue Bayou."  Although the film overall is
quite violent, it is no worse than most action films of the last ten years,
and overall it is much better than most.
