
"Constantine" is a dark, yet dazzling film. A terrific story backed up
by spectacular special effects and great cinematography pull us into a
dark and dangerous world - a world where half-angels and half-demons
whisper to us mortals as God and Satan use us as pawns in an
apocalyptic game of chess. Cursed with ability too see these spirits,
John Constantine finds himself right in the middle of this showdown.

Keanu Reeves gives a fantastic turn as John Constantine. He infuses
Constantine with a grim sense of purpose and dark humor. He is the
ultimate anti-hero, and Reeves deftly takes Constantine from being
someone we simply root for to someone we actually like and respect.

Rachel Weisz is terrific as well. Her tortured and soulful performance
is the best of the film. Shia LaBeouf also blew me away.

I have not read the Hellblazer comics, but standing alone "Constantine"
is a great film. This one is a must see!
<|_=00=_|>
And I loved it.

I just watched Constantine on PPV, and like all films, it does have its
minor flaws, but overall the story was interesting, and the special
effects were nothing short of amazing.

Critics have been saying that Keanu Reeves' acting was horrible, but I
disagree. Even though I can't deny that this wasn't him at his best,
John Constantine is and angry and distant character, so Reeves couldn't
display much emotion. All in all, he didn't do too bad. 

Rachel Weisz was the star of the movie, giving a heartfelt performance.
Gavin Rossdale was good, playing the bad guy card too perfection. And
Djimon Housan, and Tilda Swinton were also great in their small roles.
Shia LeBlouf, like Reeves, could have done a little better. Peter
Stormare was perfect as Satan and my favorite character. He added a bit
of humor to his demonic role.

There are some major differences between the comic book Hellblazer and
the movie, like John Constantine was supposed to be British and
resemble a rocker named Sting. But I've never read the comics, so I
can't complain about these contradictions. But it seems to have the
Hellblazer fans disappointed.

I do feel I should advise that this movie has nothing to do with
Satanism. And to my knowledge, it was religiously correct. Save the
part about demons and angels living on earth.

In the end, like I said before, you either love it or hate it. Simple
as that.

my rating : 9/10
<|_=00=_|>
My first sort-of mistake was going to see Constantine at 11:30 A.M.;
this would have been a much better experience in a nighttime atmosphere
I feel. In fact, I'm thinking about going again this weekend at night.

That being said, I still enjoyed this movie immensely. For starters, I
actually thought Keanu was quite good in the role, and it didn't take
long to forget drawing comparisons to Neo. I haven't read the comics,
but I thought Keanu did a great job with the role... I laughed and
winced right along with him, not at him! All the supporting actors
(yes, Shia LeBeouf included) were great, and my only issue is that they
didn't get enough screen time to explore their characters further.
Djimon Hounsou was especially cool as Papa Midnite... with a name like
that, how can you not be?! Finally, Rachel Weisz deserves the "better
than the movie" comments she's been getting in reviews. Yes, she is
that good, and she's pretty foreign to genre work (but should
definitely do more)! I can't believe I'd only seen her in About a Boy
before this; her magnetism had almost got me to pick up Confidence and
Runaway Jury at the video store (which I have not. Yet). For one, she
does a damn good American accent - I had forgotten that she's British.
I'm sure many other reviewers will put this in better words than me,
but she really adds a whole new level to this movie. Her performance is
easily the most daring and heartfelt of the bunch, and I'd even go as
far to call it subtly exquisite... a phrase I don't hesitate to equate
with the actress herself. If Rachel Weisz had not been a part of
Constantine I wouldn't have liked it half as much as I did. Even if
you're not a Keanu or genre fan, I'd still check this movie out if you
(like yours truly ;) have a thing for gorgeous, talented
under-the-radar actresses.

Onto special effects. Pretty darn impressive, if you ask me. NEXT! I'm
definitely very tempted to check out the Hellblazer comics because I
really love the mythology and style of the Constantine universe. I
mean, Hell as a parallel dimension to our own world? How cool is that?
Certainly less banal than most movie versions of Hell. The story is
based around Catholicism, and it's just how I like my organized
religion -- all twisted! All in all, Constantine was made up of a lot
of things that I really love in my movies: detailed fantasy universe,
fun characters, good effects and action, and of course, the
vulnerable-but-butt kicking woman. Yay! The major problem with the
film, I feel, was bringing all of its elements together. Throughout the
film I kept thinking to myself what I would've done differently. There
was so much crammed into it that every single character and plot point
felt underused and ignored -- not one thing was explored deeply enough
for my satisfaction. They should have chosen just a few elements of
this complex universe and story arc for this movie and left the other
stuff for subsequent Hellblazer flicks (which I hope there will be!).

So basically, the parts here are very interesting and cool and worth a
look-see, but the whole just can't service all of them. Which is a damn
shame. I left the theatre wanting MORE, wanting to know more about the
characters and what living in their universe was like. MORE, darnit!!
While Constantine is fun and nice in its own right, I would've really
liked to see it expanded to its potential. Oh well! At least there's
the fantastic Rachel Weisz, so I can't complain further ;) Last words:
I want to see it again! Maybe not buy the DVD but definitely rent it.
Oh, and those rumors about an extra (albeit short) scene after the
credits are true, so STAY through them!
<|_=00=_|>
I've seen Constantine three times and I enjoy it more each time I watch
it! It is truly well-done and extremely entertaining, and I can
guarantee that if you like horror, suspense and/or fantasy you will
love this movie! Keanu Reeves plays a very cool Constantine, who is a
modern-day exorcist but most certainly not to be confused with a
priest, as he has his issues and a burden of sins from his past that he
carries with him. Constantine is a very realistic and human hero who is
devoid of superpowers but has all the cool gadgets and the kick-ass
attitude needed to survive in a world slowly being invaded by demons
and scheming angels. He meets Angela (Rachel Wiesz) after she loses her
sister, Isabel to the forces of evil. She comes to Constantine in
search of an answer on where Isabel has ended up following her apparent
suicide. Constantine journeys to other realms/dimensions in an attempt
to get those answers, even paying a couple of visits to hell. Needless
to say, with such a plot the special effects, acting, sets, script and
even wardrobe have to be carefully conceived and executed to make it
believable, and they are... in spades.

Constantine achieves what all great movies always do: it takes you into
another world that makes you forget everything about your own world the
whole time you are watching it. And really, in the end, isn't that what
great cinema is all about?
<|_=00=_|>
Keanu Reeves plays the title character in this adaptation of the cult
DC/Vertigo comic book called Hellblazer, and while the movie does have
its merits, it's not very faithful to the source material that it came
from. The movie stars Keanu Reeves as a gumshoe whose specialty is in
dealing with the occult. He specialty draws the attention of a police
detective played by Rachel Weisz, who asks for his help in her
investigation of her twin sister's suicide. A suicide that she thinks
that is more than it appears to be. In due time, they both will
encounter what lies under the surface of their world which is inhabited
by both the angels of heaven and the demons of the underworld who are
both fighting their own war for the fate of mankind. The movie is shot
beautifully in the way it tries to capture both of the landscapes of
good and evil that lives in this film's setting and the special effects
does the film justice in its interpretation of hell that looks like an
apocalyptic version of downtown Los Angeles, which is the setting of
this film by the way. Unfortunately, the script is so unfocused that it
hurts what this film trying to accomplish and the dialog itself lacks
conviction for the material itself. The climax of the film is a major
letdown because it just takes all the serious aspects of the film and
just tosses them out in favor of a brief Matrix like a gunfight that
undercuts the movie's tone and an incoherent ending that leaves more
questions than answers. I'm not as hard as a lot of people are on the
acting abilities of Keanu Reeves and he does his role well but his
performance lacked something here in this film and it felt more phone
in than genuine. Rachel Weisz on the other hand delivers a strong and
moving performance that does deliver the goods but you will end up
thinking that she is giving more to the film that it deserves because
her performance is way too good for this movie. She's so good in fact
that if the people who made this film wanted to make a faithful
adaptation of the Hellblazer comic book, they could have cast her in
the role of Kitt, Constantine's one true love. Now being a casual
reader of the comic of whom this film is based on, the character of
John Constantine is not well represented in this film and the script
makes him look like a shill who wants to redemption which is the polar
opposite of who the character is in the comic book who only served
himself. The character also had a slick side to him that gave you the
impression that he knew more than he let on while the character in the
movie is flying by the seat of his pants during the whole film. Plus he
relied on his wits to defeat his enemies while the character in the
movie has a gadget man who makes him weapons (The brass knuckles scene
in the movie is a joke because the John Constantine of the comic book
can't handle himself well in a fight). The cancer subplot in the film
only serves as a footnote while in the comic book, it had more of an
impact and certain characters who show up in the film are just watered
down versions of their comic counterparts. The most offensive of these
characters is Chaz, who is John Constantine's best friend (and is a
grown man with kids) but he is reduced to a street kid who is basically
a lap dog for Constantine to pick on. The only character in the film
that closely resembles the comic book is Papa Midnight, who's really
more of an adversary in the comic than the friend he is in the movie.
Judging this movie on it's own merits, It's a passable popcorn movie
that has a better than deserved performance by Rachel Weisz. Judging
the movie as an adaptation of the comic book, it's a letdown.
<|_=00=_|>
If you are a fan of Keanu Reeves then you'll love this movie. Of
course, he plays a similar character to this other roles but so do most
actors. I believe most actors are merely personalities and Keanu has a
cool one at that.

The special effects were great and there were many picturesque scenes
that will leave an imprint on your mind.

Even though I had never read the comic book I really appreciated this
movie for it's religious theme. I think anyone can relate to the
movie's notions of Heaven and Hell, good and evil.

The movie was funny, had just enough action, cool weapons, and
breathtaking scenes. Most importantly, watching it, I easily felt
transported into that world.

Great movie overall. I hope there is a sequel.
<|_=00=_|>
Constantine is one more of those movies that are adapted from a comic
series. Now, people in comics' stories often seem pretty wild in the
eyes of watchers or readers. Just think of Batman. Isn't Gotham City
crazy? Constantine, I think, is a most excellent picturisation of the
comic stories. It is full packed with action, the story is quite
entertaining, there is wit, the actors are amazing, the way of filming
is great. Just watch these pictures and camera stills. Beautiful!
Constantie is worth going to a movie theater. The pictures may blow you
away. It is stunning.

Go and watch it, make your own point of view. "My name is Constantine.
Joe Constantine. ***"
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was really great in my opinion. If you like the
horror/sci-fi genre then this is definitely for you. The effects are
great and the make-up is exceptional as well. Keanu and Rachel really
compliment each other in the roles they are in. I wouldn't expect
something phenomenal but this genre of movies is rarely gifted with
such a insightfully plotted movie such as Constantine.The character
build is great and the background of the characters isn't completely
clouded which is awesome, there's no feeling of confusion when it comes
to whats going on. It seems in some scenes the director was going for a
certain emotion which made it feel awkward but the action and reactions
are nice. Keanu really came across as tough doomed and uncaring, while
Rachel came across as determined and brave. There is no reason to not
give this movie a chance, if it seems like something you would like, i
recommend seeing it. The concepts and setups aren't something of the
usual nature so its a welcomed change of pace. I don't rate this 10/10
because is was astounding and mind shattering, a movie of the century,
I rate it 10/10 because it was enjoyable and i have watched it many
times without feeling tired of it. The score and soundtrack are great
as well, providing some depth into certain scenes. The contrast and
colors are good, although looking a little too dark in some scenes. The
movie takes you to many places, so there is no feeling that you are in
one place, sometimes I feel that movies that take place in the same
space create a feeling of urgency, not so in Constantine. Some
enjoyable aspects is the historical tie ins and use of terminology. All
in all, this is an exceptional movie, it moves from scene to scene with
little dragging in one spot, and has a great ending.
<|_=00=_|>
I have to say, I went to see Constantine because Shia LaBeouf is one of
my favourite actors. This may have made me biased before I even entered
the cinema, but I thoroughly enjoyed this film anyway! The plot is a
little hard to follow especially if you don't listen and watch
carefully for the clues. It centers around John Constantine (Reeves)
who helps "save the world" from demons. He's not the usual sort of
superhero because he is very reluctant to fit into that kind of role.
The supporting actors are very well cast, and Rachel Weisz deserves all
the praise she gets for her part. Tilda Swinton as Gabriel portrays the
angel perfectly as not quite male or female. The film presents
interesting views about heaven, hell and death, it's very
thought-provoking. In a way, Constantine reminded me of I,Robot because
it has a male lead who meets a female lead, and also has LaBeouf as
sidekick again. But other than that this was a good film, and I think I
will buy or rent it on DVD when it comes out. Here's a tip: wait until
the credits ends, there is an extra scene!
<|_=00=_|>
This is a fable...it's not supposed to be so rooted in reality that we
scoff at the implausibilities and the plot holes... We're not watching
it to say "look at how that happened" or "why is it all happening here
in L.A. when we have these worldwide problems" or...whatever... It has
to happen somewhere; either you buy off on the fable and get into the
story or you flush it...

While not being Catholic, through theological edification I was able to
make sense of storyline, ironies, metaphors, etc... I liked Reaves'
character and again, it's a matter of preference - love or hate - but
he played Constantine's miserable demon-cop just right - Reaves
continues to find rolls suited to his particular, dark style. Special
effects were great, and I give the film kudos for not diving in and
becoming an effects extravaganza...it remains online to the story and
where we're going... Weisz as heroine and Peter Stormare as Lucifer
himself were well-cast. What can I say? It was great diversion and a
fun DVD to watch. Check it out!
