

Living with his vegan girlfriend, Morgan Spurlock decides to try and
eat McDonalds for every meal for a month. At the same time he reduces
the amount of exercise and walking to match that of the 'average'
American to make for a fair experiment. After an initial bit of
sickness he gets to enjoy the food and eats it three times per day.
However after a week or two, his doctors begin to notice significant
increases in body fat, cholesterol and blood pressure. Interspersed
with this are interviews with experts on the nutritional value,
marketing and impact of McDonalds and fast food generally.

Several years ago I read the book Fast Food Nation and basically that
ended my interest in the main fast food outlets and saw my consumption
of processed foods drop quite a bit. I did not become a born again
Christian and still eat rubbish food and am no role model for healthy
living! However, what I have notice in the press and in the audiences
for this film is a rather smug 'look at them' attitude as if this has
no impact in Europe and Americans are some sort of freak show and
nothing to do with us. This film may focus on McDonalds because it is
the world leader in fast food which is high in saturated fats but if
all you take from this film is pleasure at seeing McDonalds taking a
kicking then you are missing the point. The film was challenging to me
and I hope it was to many viewers – but I have not eaten in McDonalds
or Burger King since 2001 and a bad bout of food poisoning in early
2003 ended my ability to enjoy KFC. So why did I find it challenging?
Well, because like many others, I eat too many saturated fats and,
regardless of where they come from (oven foods, ready meals or fast
food) I need to cut them down. Spurlock sends this message in a really
entertaining way while also having good digs at McDonalds.

His relaxed style is refreshing and allows the facts to speak for
themselves. He clearly doesn't like fast food as a concept but he is no
Michael Moore and is only slightly biased. He is certainly a lot more
interesting than his vegan girlfriend who is one of those overbearing
self-righteous types who look down their nose at anything. His good
humour makes the film but it is the documentary rather than the gimmick
that kept me watching. The facts on obesity do speak for themselves and
they are frightening and all the more so when you actually sit and
think about what you eat – sweets, colas, ready meals, crisps,
processed foods; whether it is salt, saturated fats or sugar, any of
these foods spells trouble if they are not part of a balanced diet. My
only fear of this film is that many viewers will look at McDonalds and
say 'they are to blame, lets get them' and simply ignore that it is
very easy to eat an unhealthy diet – go to any supermarket and you'll
find 'easy' food served up quickly but without the things your body
needs. I was challenged because I can easily veg out for several days
and be too tired to cook decent food and this reminded me why I need to
– hopefully many viewers will take that challenge and not just turn
from one fatty diet (McDonalds) to another (ready meals).

I personally didn't find the film as funny nor as shocking as many
commentators have said it was but it was still consistently
entertaining and interesting, true not the most scientific of
experiments but that is not the point. True, very few people eat
McDonalds every day but many, many people do eat foods high in
saturated fats everyday even if they are not all happy meals and, in
this way, maybe Spurlock's experiment wasn't so far-fetched and, lets be
honest, like their own lobbyist said – McDonalds are part of the
problem. That the film has had an impact is undeniable – the super size
option has been removed and how many salads did you see in McDonalds
this time last year? It may seem unfair and I can understand why
McDonalds has been quick to counter it and call it unfair and, in a way
it is unfair – why should they carry the whole blame for an
overwhelming surge in unhealthy eating, but I suppose that's what you
get for being the market leaders!

Overall this was a very entertaining film that mixes its gimmick well
with humour but also a good core of a documentary with interesting
talking heads who don't rant or rave but simply look to the figures in
most cases. However, I would say this; if you only see this film to
sneer at those visibly unhealthy or to tear a strip off McDonalds then
you are missing the bigger point – it is easy to eat unhealthy, cheap
food no matter what brand it is – eating it every day and having a poor
diet is a major problem and, if nothing else this should challenge all
of us to look at our own habits and not just point and laugh at others.

<|_=00=_|>

Fast food is good. I freely admit to running through fast food
drive-thrus (Wendy's, Taco Bell and McDonald's being my top 3) often,
sometimes several times a week. And I'm not the only one. I'm also one
of the many millions of people in the country who are, uh...not thin.
Think there's a connection?

In "Super Size Me", a documentary from talented debut filmmaker Morgan
Spurlock that manages to be both entertaining and horrifying, he
attempts to draw a parallel between the fast food culture we live in
and the rampant (and ever-increasing) rate of obesity in America. 

To do this, he launched into a little science experiment. A 33 year-old
New Yorker in excellent health, he would eat nothing but McDonald's for
an entire month, to gauge the effects on his body. Breakfast, lunch,
and dinner at McDonald's and whenever they asked him to supersize, he
would have to accept. 

Before starting, he consulted three doctors, a cardiologist, a
gastroenterologist, and a general practitioner, all of whom said this
experiment obviously wouldn't be GOOD for him, but that the damages
would be minimal. 

Instead, the results were pretty shocking. Spurlock gained almost 30
pounds (over 10 in the first week), saw his cholesterol skyrocket, and
experienced frequent nausea, chest pains, mood swings and loss of sex
drive.

During this month he also drove around the country, interviewing
several different people on the topic (including a "Big Mac enthusiast"
who has eaten over 19,000 Big Macs). His research on our fast food
culture definitely yields some interesting information, especially when
he interviews a group of 1st-graders, and more of them can identify
Ronald McDonald than Jesus or George Washington. 

"Super Size Me" isn't perfect. It's a little repetitive and has a
certain thinness to it (no pun intended!) that prevents it from being
one of the truly great comedic documentaries of recent years like
"American Movie" or "Bowling For Columbine". 

But even if it falls short of greatness, it's an entertaining and
thought-provoking film (especially if you're, uh...not thin).

Spurlock is a witty and engaging host (sort of like Michael Moore but
not as much of a windbag), and I also liked his girlfriend (a vegan
chef!) who looks on his experiment with a mixture of amusement, horror,
and dismay. Just like we do.

<|_=00=_|>
I had a report to do on childhood obesity, and I could use this
documentary as one of my resources. May I say that I was glad that I
watched this film. It is very terrifying what the fast food industry
has done to this country. I'm not trying to bad rap them, they're a
business. That's what they do, they try to make money. Do I agree with
all the law suits going on with people blaming McDonald's and Burger
King for making them fat? No, nobody is shoving the food down their
throats. But there are so many people out there that are heavy users of
fast food, and this documentary shows what the damaging effects can be
of eating fast food. I gave up fast food, and have not had any for over
a year now, and my health has boosted up majorly. Watching this film
might make you want to stay away from the fast food restaurants, but if
not, it'll make you think more about what you are eating.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>
This documentary film by Morgan Spurlock asks the intriguing and
topical question: What would happen to a normal 33-year-old man in
perfect health who stands six feet two and weighs 185 pounds if he ate
nothing but McDonald's fast food for thirty days?

Well, it is not recorded that he shrunk. In fact, Spurlock, forsaking
his vegan girlfriend's healthy cuisine, gained about 25 pounds and saw
his cholesterol level shoot up to dangerous levels as he huffed and
puffed his way three times a day through myriad Big Macs and fillet o'
fish sandwiches, milk shakes, sodas, fries and other not-so-delicate
items from the menu of the world's largest purveyor of fast food. He
had hired three doctors and a registered dietician to check his vital
signs and give him a thorough physical exam prior to this experiment in
not-so-fine dining. Before the gorging was done all three doctors and
the dietician advised him in the most uncertain terms for the sake of
his health to stop eating the sugar-laden, fat-smeared, nearly
fiber-free "diet." But Spurlock, trooper that he is, amid the McTingles
and the McPukes, hung in there until the very end. 

I can report that he survived the experience. Whether the viewer will
is another matter. If you yourself (God help you) are seriously
overweight you might want to pass on this excruciatingly detailed
misadventure under the Golden Arches. All that fat slapping against
those waddling thighs (Spurlock mercifully fuzzed out the faces of his
subjects, allowing us only body shots), all that jiggling flesh under
those XXXL garments might be too uncomfortably close to home for some
sensitive viewers.

But was this a fair test of the harmful consequences of eating Happy
Meals and being super sized? After all, Spurlock eschewed exercise
during the experiment, and of course nobody (?) actually eats every
meal at McDonald's as Spurlock did. Furthermore he actually doubled his
normal caloric intake from about 2500 calories a day to about 5000.
Regardless I think we can say that his experience was indicative.

The real question to be asked here (and Spurlock asks it) is whether
McDonald's (or as some have dubbed thee) whether McDeath's can be or
should be held responsible for the epidemic of obesity that is sweeping
the country. Spurlock implies that McDonald's should be held
responsible at least for its advertising aimed at children. I agree
with this. But I also think that adults ought to know what they are
doing. If they choose to chow down at a place that loves to super size
and under nourish them, perhaps they themselves should be held
responsible for the consequences. However, some people feel that the
advertising has been so insidious for so long and the food so addictive
to susceptible individuals that McDonald's ought to be taken to court
just as the tobacco companies have been.

For more information on the epidemic, its consequences, and what can be
done about it, I refer the interested reader to The Hungry Gene: The
Science of Fat and the Future of Thin by Ellen Ruppel Shell; Fat Land:
How Americans Became the Fastest People in the World by Eric Critser;
and Fast Food Nation: The Dark Side of the All-American Meal by Eric
Schlosser. Schlosser appears in one of the bonus features being
interviewed by Spurlock. This interview is one of the highlights of the
DVD. Schlosser is articulate, candid, and very well-informed.

Spurlock of course is a performer as well as a film maker. His
directorial style owes something to that of Michael Moore, and his
playful on-camera muggings remind me of Ian Wright of PBS's Globe
Trekker series.

See this as an introduction to this most serious threat to the nation's
health, especially as it affects children. Morgan Spurlock is to be
commended for bringing the reality of the epidemic to the attention of
the general public.

By the way, "McTingles" are those highflying, scary feelings you get
after rapidly injecting massive amounts of pure sugar and caffeine into
your system, usually by gulping your way through a 64-ounce McCola--and
to think when I was a kid, Coca-Cola came in six-ounce bottles. How
ever did we survive? "McPukes" are self-explanatory.

(Note: Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book "Cut
to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote!" Get it
at Amazon!)
<|_=00=_|>

Greetings again from the darkness. My daughter and I have been
anxiously awaiting the release of this film since first reading about
it months ago. Director (and lab rat) Morgan Spurlock takes on a fast
food exclusive diet for 30 days and fills us in on the painful steps
and sickening conclusion. Many have attacked Spurlock for picking on
McDonalds or for not selecting the healthiest thing possible at every
meal. These people are missing the point. He explains in the movie that
McDonalds is the selection because they so dominate the fast food scene
in the world and especially in Manhattan (where he lives). He also
explains his meal selection by showing that most McDonalds orders
include burgers and fries. Personally, I wondered more about his
numerous milk shakes and parfaits. These seem to be the items that were
a bit extreme. 

For the most part, Spurlock does an excellent job proving that we eat
too much fast food, that it is very harmful to our bodies, and that
there is evil at work conditioning kids that fast food is real food.
The most frightening part of the story was the school cafeteria segment
showing how kids eat when parents are not around and when school
administrators pay no attention. This is the crux of our problems. The
Georgetown professor compared it to the early candy cigarettes that
condition kids that cigarettes create happiness. The same can be said
for fast food and its happy meals and playgrounds. I did not agree too
much with the doctor's comparison of Spurlock to Nic Cage in "Leaving
Las Vegas". Cage's character was trying to commit suicide, while
Spurlock was running an experiment and even considered quitting when
the doctors were begging him to. Overall, a nice documentary without
the total disregard for decency and the truth shown by Michael Moore in
most of his films. I believe this should be required viewing for all
junior high and high school students, as well as all expecting parents.
This could be an educational tool to convince people to put a little
more effort into their health.

<|_=00=_|>

"Supersize Me" is an original, humorous, disgusting, shocking, and --
overall -- scary film. Spurlock takes us on a whirlwind tour of the
downfall of American health through poor nutrition, padding a lot of
information with anecdotal footage of his own foray into a
McDonald's-only diet.

What amuses me about the negative "reviews" for this film at IMDb is
how the majority of the naysayers focus on exactly one thing:
Spurlock's 30-day McDonalds binge. Heck, you could pick that much out
of the trailer, and write a slanted review based solely on the
imperfections of that particular plot device as an overall impact study
and call it a day. I wouldn't be a bit surprised to find out that's
what's happening, either. Certainly, anyone who's watched the political
BS pour in to commentary for Michael Moore's documentaries knows how
it's done. 

However, if you actually take the time to watch the film, you'll see
something quite different emerge: a pattern of childhood
indoctrination, poor nutrition, inadequate exercise, and skyrocketing
obesity rates, that's sweeping this nation like a plague. Spurlock's
self-afflicted experiment is, as I've mentioned, a continuity device
that unifies the broad range of the film within a single case study. In
the total scope of what's addressed in this film, it's a relatively
small part, and many decry it as unrealistic. 

But Spurlock never claimed it was entirely realistic! He says as much
in the film: he ate as much McDonalds in a month as *nutritionists*
recommend one eat in 8 years or more. However, the problem is, a lot of
Americans are eating as much fast food in a year as he ate in a month.
What is the net effect going to be after five years? After 10? Spurlock
further restricts himself to an AVERAGE amount of walking exercise,
typical for our national population. The problems he exhibits after 3
weeks on this diet are NOT unique, they are the ones that people around
the country are exhibiting in spades: weight gain, fatty liver,
depression, inactivity. 

It cannot be overemphasized that this condition is widespread. Those
arguing "personal responsibility" have to answer the question of how it
is that suddenly, over the last 30 years, so many people have "chosen"
a life of sickness and self-destructive addiction over one of health
and common sense. The effect of mass-media indoctrination is an obvious
factor, and the film addresses it well. Spurlock also takes us behind
the scenes at school lunchrooms and gymnasiums around the country,
where we find out a little bit of what's been happening to the kids of
America. Is the "french fry" truly the only vegetable we can afford to
serve to school kids, aside from the dubious catsup? How children could
be expected to show "personal responsibility" above and beyond that
exhibited by their likely-obese parents in such an environment of brand
franchising, 2nd-rate meal "programs", and cutbacks in PE/recess time
is a matter that I invite all fast-food apologists at IMDb to explore.

For pure entertainment value, I have to deduct points for an uneven
pace (especially near the end) and insufficient exposition from some of
the people in the film. Still, "Supersize Me" stands as an indictment
of the prepackaged food industry, its marketing hype, and its
congressional lobbyists. It also serves as a warning to Americans
trapped in demanding low-activity jobs which leave little time for
lunch or exercise: don't eat the fries!

8/10

<|_=00=_|>
Super Size Me is a great documentary. Enlightening and informative, it
uncovers the fast food industry's conspiracy, that it's not about the
people they serve, but its about the money we give them. They
manufacture and process foods so that we HAVE to have more. "You just
can't eat one chip" isn't just good marketing - they really put stuff
in the food, even in our meat, to make it more addictive! The food
industry in general is just another self-seeking money making machine,
no better than the big companies that outsource their manufacturing to
inhumane sweatshops in third world countries. They exploit the poor to
feed their gluttonous and materialistic appetites.

It took a lot of courage to go through with this experiment, risking
your own body for a greater cause. This film will hopefully help change
the way the fast food industry thinks and operates, exposing the
conspiracy. If nothing else, Super Size Me will inspire you to eat
right, exercise, and possibly become a vegan. At the least you'll be
motivated to eat better.

Though the film is a bit slow at times, considering the content, it's
definitely worth seeing. As a result of watching this movie, I don't
want to eat fast food EVER AGAIN!!!! We need more films and books like
this one.

Anyone who cares about what goes on in the world should see this film.
I highly recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>

Morgan Spurlock undoubtedly aspires to follow in the path of Errol Morris,
Roger Moore, Joel Sucher and other leading documentarians.  A young man
with
an adoring and beautiful girlfriend, he decided to unmask the evil of fast
food and its impact on an increasingly obese America.  That Americans eat
too much fast food - too much of any kind of food - and eschew exercise is
hardly news.  But a full-scale documentary examining sloth by the
bucket-full focusing on one major commercial phenomenon hasn't been done
before.

Spurlock decided to eat at McDonald's and only McDonald's for a full
month.
That's three meals a day with no other food source.  Before launching on
what actually was a death-defying trip (literally since for variety he
consumed Mickey D's food in Texas, L.A. and a lot of other places) he had
a
full baseline workup with a cardiologist, a gastroenterologist and an
internist who gets more screen time than his medical colleagues-he
gravitates between being supportive and alarmist, the latter increasingly
the right response to Spurlock's bizarre quest.

Spurlock also has a nutritionist/dietician and a physical trainer to keep
tabs on him.  The only specialty missing, in retrospective one who might
have been useful, was a psychiatrist.  His girlfriend, a vegan chef no
less,
looks forward to the month with a mixture of humor and
alarm.

"Supersize Me" has lots of scientific information on the nature of fast
food
and its impact on an America that eats out more than it dines at home, a
change from a past where mom or a wife faithfully prepared most meals.
Nutritionists decry the change in our culture, educators point out the
impact of fast food in school cafeterias on kids' health, a former Surgeon
General gravely decries the menace and the usual person-on-the-street
suspects shock viewers by their bumbling inability to define such terms as
"calories."  A food industry spokesman is blithely unaware that he is
being
set up to look like an ass. And, of course, there are multiple shots of
Spurlock vainly connecting with polite drones at McDonald's HQ seeking an
interview which never comes. Does this all sound familiar?

Spurlock's month-long consumption of McDonald's products gets old fast
although he and the director try to add some novelty like showing him
vomiting after downing a supersized meal.  Periodic visits to get his
bloods
and body checked reveal the insidious impact of a bizarre diet. His
puzzled
internist tells us several times he's never before seen a liver
compromised
by a high fat diet.

The problem, though, is that Spurlock is like those laboratory rats who
develop arcane tumors after consuming the equivalent of something that no
human could ingest in ten lifetimes. His peregrination from one Mc D's to
another becomes boring as his health is clearly threatened and he
stubbornly
refuses medical advice to give it up.

The best part of "Supersize Me" is the well-presented information on
schools
and fast foods and how a few are resisting the commercial tide that aims
junk at kids from kindergarten through high school.  Even inmates, we're
told, can be well fed at no greater cost than the fat-laden diets these
essentially sedentary wards of the state have shoveled at
them.

Technically, this is a well-filmed documentary with creative use of
multiple
images and graphs.

I hope Spurlock has more ideas for documentaries.  He's had a lot of time
to
think about it-an epilogue informs us it took him almost a year to regain
his former fitness and health thanks, partially, to his vegan lover's
detoxification diet.

Oh, and McDonald's is phasing out supersized meals, a minor withdrawal in
a
serious public health war.

7/10.
<|_=00=_|>
When I first heard about Morgan Spurlock's 2004 documentary "Super Size
Me", I was pretty jaded, because common sense would dictate that if one
eats fast food, they are going to have weight and health issues.
Indeed, this is what happened to Spurlock, however the magnitude of the
health deterioration was astounding.

Presented in a sometimes humorous format, "Super Size Me" is an
experiment conducted by Spurlock in which he would only eat McDonald's
food, three times a day, with the caveats that he would have to eat
everything off the menu at least once, and that he would limit his
exercise to the amount of exercise the "average" American gets per day.
Therefore, if he is nearing his walking limit for the day (measured by
a pedometer he wears) he would have to grab a cab or find another way
to get from A to B without walking. Predictably, he gains a lot of
weight, (though the rapidness of the weight gain is alarming – at
first, 10 pounds in one week) but it is his actual health tests that
are the most frightening. By the end of the second week, his doctors,
who originally approved his experiment (with some reservation,
naturally) were practically begging him to stop. Other than the
experiment itself, "Super Size Me" is peppered with facts about the
fast food industry and various interviews with industry insiders.

I definitely found the film enjoyable, and somewhat informative (though
having read Eric Schlosser's Fast Food Nation, a lot of the information
was old news) but there was something missing that is hard to grasp;
perhaps the film needed a little more substance and cold hard facts
instead of watching him constantly eat. However, it is my understanding
that the supplemental materials on the DVD are extremely informative
and even include an interview with Schlosser, so perhaps more insight
could be found there. Spurlock is a great presenter, however, because
he is just a regular guy who has a great amount of charm and good
camera presence. He was entertaining and likable enough to really
illicit concern when his health was so obviously starting to become
effected. Ironically, his girlfriend (and now wife) is a vegan chef, so
it was mildly humorous to watch her preparing a detox menu for him
using the most apropos vegetables to clean out his system.

The aim for most documentaries is to present a thesis and then not only
prove it, but provide supporting evidence. Though the thesis of "Super
Size Me" was kind of a foregone conclusion, Spurlock manages to provide
us with supporting evidence that doesn't make the entire film one big
"Well, duh!" which is what I kind of expected, going into the film. If
you have seen or plan to see this movie and are interested in the
subject matter, I would highly recommend reading Schlosser's Fast Food
Nation to gain even more insight on the business of fast food. It's a
very interesting read and would make a good companion piece to this
documentary. 6/10 --Shelly
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is a documentary for those who hate documentaries. Funny,
relatively fast-moving, and a cautionary tale without being preachy.
Spurlock is a funny guy and treats his subject with good humour, making
us laugh and shake our collective heads over our own poor
decision-making. There is no "Ronald is Satan" message here, and no
"look how bad Americans are." It is simply a down-to-earth, well paced,
insightful and humorous look at how insidiously entrenched The United
Corporation of America has become in our institutions and minds, and
the consequences therein.

One of my favorite scenes was a peek into a school where the now-famous
(and irritating) Jared Fogel (you know...fat guy becomes skinny guy
!thanx! to Subway) does a "get fit" speech. Spurlock interviews a mom
and her significantly overweight daughter, and the daughter actually
laments that of course SHE cannot lose weight like Jared because...and
this is priceless...SHE cannot afford to buy/eat two Subway sandwiches
a day! So this girl walked away actually believing that the ONLY WAY TO
LOSE WEIGHT would be to follow Jared's example, VERY SPECIFICALLY, and
eat two Subway brand sandwiches each day. So for her, even the SOLUTION
to her problem had a corporate logo! Amazingly, she could not even
envision the general message of "eat right/exercise more."
