

First of all, anyone who says that s/he didn't "get the point of this
movie"
needs to go back to watching movies produced solely by Jerry Brukheimer
because the point could not be more apparent to anyone of any
intelligence.
House of Sand and Fog is a commentary on the cultural gap between
American-born citizens and immigrants from war-ridden countries such as
Iran.  Unfortunately that gap is shown for what it is: wider than
ever.

The character of Kathy is portrayed brilliantly by Jennifer Connelly as an
emotionally unstable young woman caught up in the turmoil of losing both
her
husband and her family's home within eight months of each other.  Kathy
ignorantly fails to realize that the house her dead father has left her
brother and her is in jeopardy of being put up for auction due to unpaid
taxes.  Kathy comprehends, too late, that the thirty years it took her
father to pay off their home has been in vain when it is sold to an
Iranian
family shortly after auction.  Her character is pinned against Ben
Kingsley's Colonel Behrani when Behrani buys Kathy's auctioned house in
order to return his own family to a sense of stability.  The audience is
conflicted by its empathy for both character's need to satisfy his and her
own pride in family and the preservation of his and her heritage.

The catalyst for the two characters' conflict with each other is drawn
from
the supporting character of Officer Lester (Ron Eldard), a representation
of
the ignorance and lack of empathy some Americans feel towards people whose
lives have led them to seek better ones in the United States.  While
Behrani's main motive is to protect his family and give it a sense of
security, Lester puts his own selfish pleasures before the wellbeing of
his
own family.  Behrani and Lester are complete opposites, Behrani clearly
the
nobler.
It is clear why Kingsley chose to do this role: Kingsley's portrayal of an
Iranian refugee is both superb and honest, not to mention Oscar-worthy.
The
film shows that there are greater sacrifices in this world than those
materialistic in nature.  Ironically many Americans might find that point
hard to absorb, probably the reason why they are so quick to write off
House
of Sand and Fog as "one of the worst movies" they have ever seen.  House
of
Sand and Fog is a film, not a movie.  Those who give this film a thumbs
down
need to get a dictionary and distinguish the difference between the two
terms.  Andre Dubus III's novel has been done justice.  Thumbs
up.
<|_=00=_|>
Since antiquity, tragedy has been regarded as the highest and most
important form of drama for its ability to arouse the deepest sense of
pathos and empathy from its audience.

Remind yourself of this if you choose to watch 'House of Sand and Fog.'
I can state emphatically that 'House' is one of the most artfully
directed and acted films of the last five years, but make no mistake:
it is a tragedy, and only the hardest and most jaded of hearts will
emerge from the experience undisturbed. It is a dissertation on sorrow,
and while I'm glad I saw it, I can't say I had a whole lot of fun.

'House' was directed by newcomer Vadim Perelman, who also adapted the
screenplay from the acclaimed novel by Andre Dubus III. Perelman tweaks
the story in some respects but is ultimately faithful to the novel's
style and sensibility. As in the novel, the story is filtered through
alternating perspectives, the foremost of which are Behrani (Ben
Kingsley), a Persian ex-pat and a former high-ranking officer under the
Shah in Iran, and Kathy Lazaro (Jennifer Connelly), a severely
depressed recovering alcoholic tenuously holding onto sobriety but
nevertheless gradually self-destructing after the collapse of her
marriage.

The two characters are drawn together, appropriately enough, by the
house of the title, a small but elegant coastal property in fictional
Pacific County, California (the novel sets the house in Malibu). The
house belongs to Kathy, who inherited it (along with her older brother,
who lives elsewhere) from her deceased father. Kathy has become a
victim of a bureaucratic snafu--she has been erroneously charged with
delinquency on taxes for a non-existent business--but due to her
textbook depressive refusal to open and answer her mail, she wakes up
one morning to find that the county has evicted her and put her
property up for auction.

Enter Colonel Behrani, a regal man of aristocratic bearing whose
ruthless determination to maintain the standard of living his family
has always been accustomed to is simultaneously honorable and pathetic.
Behrani is the story's tragic hero in the classical sense. Behrani has
been saving and shrewdly watching the classified ads waiting for a
chance to snap up a foreclosure at a cut rate price, make modest
renovations, and then resell the property at peak market value in order
to acquire a six-figure nest-egg to fund his son's education and
improve his family's future prospects in the US. Fortuitously, the
house he buys at auction--Kathy's house--is a coastal property bearing
some resemblance to his former home on the Caspian Sea, back before his
family fled Iran. The house is seen in an early flashback, an eerie
montage wherein a younger Behrani in full-dress service uniform
observes as a row of enormous trees are severed at the trunk so that
the sea will be visible from the balcony where he stands.

To elaborate the plot further would be too revealing, so I'll simply
say that the lead performances in this film are sublime. I didn't think
at first that I'd be able to believe the stunningly beautiful Jennifer
Connelly as Kathy, a woman who redefines the term 'self-destructive,'
and yet Connelly manages once again as she did in 'A Beautiful Mind' to
prove that her talent and skill match or even exceed the looks. It
really goes without saying that Ben Kingsley's Behrani is a stunning
performance--Kingsley is a mesmerizingly charismatic screen presence
and a chameleonic character actor; few actors in the history of film
have been able to so convincingly disappear into their characters while
projecting such a distinctive, distinguished persona. Both actors
master these demanding roles such that the audience feels a broad scope
of contradictory and ambiguous emotions towards their characters;
neither is completely sympathetic nor despicable, and though in the
Aristotelian sense Behrani is the story's tragic hero, it's resolution
remains ambiguous, as does the ultimate responsibility for the tragic
denouement.

The direction of the film has its occasional hitches, but many of Vadim
Perelman's shots are brilliantly captivating. The Northern California
coastline is exploited to maximum effect, and Perelman offers numerous
shots and angles of seamless appeal--they are original and engaging
without feeling forced or consciously 'film-schoolish.' It's quite a
beautiful movie to look at, from the meticulous arrangement of the
Behrani's luxurious furniture and decorations to the patience with
which Perelman lets his actors' nuanced facial expressions and physical
gestures unfold the depths of their characters.

I have some slight reservation about recommending the film simply
because its tragedy is so unmerciful. And there are moments where you
may find yourself exasperated with the characters and unwilling to
maintain your sympathy for them. Personally, I think it's worth a look
for the quality of the performances alone. It's also quite original and
distinctive in style. It's devastatingly sad, however, and so should be
reserved for appropriate moods.
<|_=00=_|>

"House of Sand and Fog" is by far the finest film I've seen this year, and
probably the best I've seen since the dial turned from the 1990's into the
new millennium.

Vadim Perelman makes a movie so astoundingly beautiful that one has to
think
he's been doing this for years, but this is his first film.  Set in a
fog-drenched Southern California community, Perelman sets two immoveable
forces apart from each other -- Cathy, a recovering alcoholic burdened by
the memory of her late father, still trying to prove that she is a
responsible person in his eyes, and Behrani, a colonel driven out of Iran
with his family and desperately trying to maintain a life of stability and
promise.  In these two roles, Jennifer Connelly and Ben Kingsley give
steely
performances, each presenting troubled souls trapped within stubborn
facades.  Connelly once again gives a masterful performance, balancing a
reckless sensuality with the desire to find acceptance and love within
anything, even a house where the memories have become so painful that the
mail becomes too much to take.

Kingsley, of course, is perfect.  The subtleties of his facial expressions
when presented with moments of joy and frustration are masterfully
restrained.  This is his best performance of his illustrious
career.

When Kingsley and Connelly finally clash, halfway through the movie, the
movie, having until then been a paean to silence and unspoken loyalties,
becomes a terrifying thriller, riveting everyone with whom I saw the
picture.  Perelman moves from a mood piece to a suspenseful drama
effortlessly.  A jaw-dropping conclusion completes a powerful,
unbelievably
sad piece of work.

After a couple years of not finding a movie that stirred me, this is it,
what we all look for in movies -- a harrowing story, beautifully filmed,
cathartic and elegant.  Joy is very difficult to spot in the film, but
"House of Sand and Fog" provides the joy we get when being moved to
powerful
emotions by a wonderful symphony.

My best film of 2003 -- unquestionably 10/10.
<|_=00=_|>
In a tragedy that only the likes of Sophocles or Shakespeare could
recreate, the film House of Sand and Fog proves that some dreams really
can't be shared. The American dream is shattered for Colonel Behrani
and Kathy Nicolo in this movie of devastating beauty. It is a film
about the relentless struggle between an Iranian man and a
post-alcoholic over a small house near a Californian beach. When Kathy
loses her house due to county error, Behrani buys it for the sake of
money and self-pride. Their worlds clash when they realize there is no
perfect solution to this mistake, ending with a shockingly tragic
twist. The acting put forth in this film was nothing less of amazing.
Ben Kinglsey, as always, played his role as if he was really in it,
really showing us his point of view and displaying his need for the
house. Jennifer Connely played her role beautifully as well, showing
the inward spiral she was facing and how her depression finally took
her over. The story was nearly flawless with a few money and law
errors. However, the tragic themes of the film ring through
nonetheless. With a little less than a superior performance from Ron
Eldard, the film still had wonderful acting and brilliant film
technique. Based on the best-selling novel by Andre Dubus III, director
Vadim Perelman does an incredible job of staying true to the novel, and
using a few Russian film techniques to give a sense of emotion. This
type of film truly will tug at your heart and bring tears, yet will
give a sense of appreciation for the human life.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is based on Andre Dubus III'S acclaimed novel "House of Sand
and Fog". Dubus created a story of immense power about cultures and the
gap between them, about human pain, about hope and ultimately about
humanity and sometimes its tragic loss. Colonel Behrani (Sir Ben
Kingsley) and his family, buy a house on the fictional area Pacific
County, intending to ameliorate their lifestyle, as they have been
banished from their home country, Iran. However, the previous owner of
the house, a depressed young woman and recovering alcoholic, Kathy
Lazaro (Jennifer Connelly), turns up and reclaims her property, which
was taken from her because of a bureaucratic error. And when Kathy's
boyfriend, Officer Lester Burdon (very effectively performed by Ron
Eldard), a racist obsessed with the concept of justice decides to help
her, all hell breaks loose. I cannot speak of the plot any further
without spoiling it, so I will stop here. How can one tell a story and
be more than a mere narrator? How can a book be adapted to film,
without merely repeating what the book itself says? Not only does
newcomer director Vadim Perelman answer this question, he gives us one
of the best films of the past decade. Perelman doesn't waste a single
detail. Everything is brought together to create an astonishing
emotional impact. Like great directors such as Tarkovsky have done,
Perelman approaches his every character and pierces through her/his
soul. Every scene takes you deeper and deeper into the soul of the
characters, without ever being slow moving or over descriptive. As for
the performances, what can I say? Rarely if ever has a single
performance moved me as much as Kingsley's. This gigantic actor
delivers one of his best performances to date, he has immaculate
control over every single aspect of his character, physically and
emotionally. Connelly, one of the most talented actresses working
today, is also breathtaking, creating a performance that is a quiet
outburst of pain and regret. Shoreh Aghdashloo, portraying the most
tragic character of the film (at least this is my view of her
character), is heartbreaking. This is acting in its supreme form, I
really don't think it gets better. She truly deserved an Oscar for
this. Young Jonathan Ahdout is also excellent, we will definitely be
seeing more of him in the future. However, I must warn you: If you are
going to see this movie, prepare for an emotional breakdown. It is
really one of the most devastating films of the past years and if you'd
rather see a pleasant film, this isn't for you.
<|_=00=_|>
Movie It's a great movie, without a doubt, a strong and intelligent
offering with some of the strongest and most heartfelt performances
I've seen for a long time. Jennifer Connelly is stunning, and I don't
just mean in looks, her acting is amazing and is picked up on the audio
commentary again and again. One scene early on requires her to shed a
single tear while talking quite normally on the phone, as if on queue
it drops. You can hardly believe someone could give such a heart
wrenchingly emotional and confused performance as this and manage to
retain a normal life, watching her you believe that she is in a
downward spiral of depression and self destruction. A totally
believable and emotionally charged performance.

Ben Kingsley also gives a great performance, although not so outwardly
recognisable in emotion, it's only really until you watch the audio
commentary and listen to the praise given by the Director and author
that you realise how subtle and exacting his performance is. His
character is defined by strength, beliefs and pride, and Kingsley gives
an excellent performance, Shakespearean in stature.

The film itself is emotionally draining, and you feel you're being
taken on that roller-coaster drop along with Connelly's character, but
don't for a second think that you shouldn't see it for those reasons,
it's a journey that is superbly rewarding as a movie and an education
in the miscommunication of people. Particularly people of different
cultures.

As the movie progresses and the events step further and further down
towards their tragic conclusion, the characters become more and more
complex. Starting as simple, pigeon holed characters that you've seen
before, they soon become more real and pull you into the movie,
wrapping you up in them. They become utterly engaging and you totally
disengage from life around you.

There's a strong supporting cast, although the performance from
Jonathan Ahdout is not too convincing, those around them are, I think a
particular mention is required to Shohreh Aghdashloo who provides an
emotional balance for the coldness of Kingsley's character and an
emotional mirror to the devastation of Connelly's character.

Two things are mentioned in the audio commentary that I didn't really
pick up on until then, but retrospectively you realise these contribute
greatly to making it a great movie. The first is the subtlety, there
are many images and scenes without words that you don't truly
appreciate until a second viewing, or a very careful first one. The
second is the way that Kinglsey praises the Director's style of never
telling the audience what did happen and is going to happen, events
just occur. For instance the breaking of the marriage of Ron Eldard,
where there is no explanation given, it's just happened. This has the
effect of treating the audience with respect and realising that they
have intelligence, and it also makes for an excellent way of keeping
the pace of the movie.

Picture Presented: The picture is crisp and sharp, a superb use of
lighting in the movie moving from the bright opening beginning of the
story it darkens through time to the bleak and dismal closing scenes.
The light is always warm and inviting, with any artificial light
looking sterile, and the darker shots bleak and dismal. Some of the
time lapse shots between scenes are beautiful.

Audio Presented: The audio is very good, although there is nothing to
really take advantage of a surrounding speaker system, the sound is
kept sparse and atmospheric, with an extremely subtle and limited
soundtrack it gives everything to the movie and never distracts.

Extras Presented: What strikes you about this DVD are the beautiful
animated menus, black and white shots from through the movie fill the
background giving you the feeling of mystery and indeed sadness.

The Deleted Scenes are good, although alongside they have a dull and
very annoying commentary. Rather than talking about the scene and
giving some insights you are treated to noises of laughter, snorting
and approval interspersed with over the top bouts of backslapping.
Awful, before it's over you're dreading the onset of the audio
commentary. The Behind the Scenes is good, but nothing new.

The Photo Gallery is very well done as it's not a gallery at all, it's
a featurette that is filled with stills between interviews with people
talking about actors, characters and key scenes. It's a very engaging
way of creating a gallery. Another huge extra is the Shohreh Aghdashloo
Audition, it's truly amazing to see this actress work through some very
emotionally harrowing scenes one after the other right in front of your
eyes, it gives you a superb grounding in what it really means to be an
actor and auditioning. With this performance it's hardly surprising she
gained the role.

Finally there is the Audio Commentary, and after the pathetic
commentary on the deleted scenes I was really concerned. However the
backslapping was slightly subdued for the full commentary, still very
evident but much more bearable due to the amount of information that
was given about the story, filming and the actors themselves. Combining
Kingsley, Vadim Perelman and Andre Dubus III, you are treated to a
really wide view from story conception through development, filming,
acting and ultimately post production. I really enjoyed this insightful
commentary, although bordering on the crawling at parts, it gave you a
lot more about the movie and the story. It also provides an interesting
look at the actors and their methods.

Overall The movie is superb and firmly fixes itself in the realms of
classic tragedy. The acting from both leads is stunning, particularly
Connelly, and the supporting cast provide strong backing. Powerful,
emotional and at times quite harrowing, this is superb entertainment
and a movie deserving far more recognition than it did, again
particularly for Connelly.
<|_=00=_|>
Excellent performances, strong story, riveting. This story would not
work without Ben Kingsley. His characterization delivers complexity,
strength and intelligence. This movie was well cast and certainly finds
a way to touch a cord in everyone. The director did show a light touch
where necessary but put the actors through their paces as the story
unfolds. This is not light entertainment. It's about the human
condition and how people find a way to cope with adversity..........or
not. Better have a box of tissues because you will need it by the end
of the movie. They want one more line out of me and it's proving tough.
Hope this does it. I recommend this movie to anyone. The performances
alone are worth it. Guarantee you that you will not walk away from this
one without an opinion.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a really good movie. The cast is wonderful. If this is a first
movie I will line up for any future films from the director. Roger
Deakons is superb as the DP. I only wonder how a first time director
got him. The story is gripping and the cinematography is haunting. As I
watched it I just kept wondering how it would end. I never saw the real
ending coming. I loved all the characters and even wanted more. The
juxtaposition of the two story lines was fascinating. I wanted to hate
someone but couldn't. The only bad guy is the cop. Everyone makes
mistakes but his just seem so brutal. I had never noticed Jennifer
Connelly before but I will make an effort to see any films with her in
the future. As I watched this film I asked if I should make some
changes in my own life so that this sort of thing doesn't happen to me.
If you read the synopsis you will miss what this movie is really about.
Watch it. You will be better for it.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is undoubtedly the best of many good ones in the past years.
After watching it last night, it is still with me - the glorious
scenery, the entire cast and of course, most of all Ben Kingsley. Ben
Kingsley should have gotten the Academy Award for his performance. Not
once did I find the actor behind the character he was playing. I have
seen him in many movies, each of which he epitomizes and becomes a
chameleon changing colors becoming whatever his roll calls for. The
cinematography was beyond beautiful; indescribably glorious,
breathtakingly exquisite in both the colors and movement. The story was
believable, tragic yet it hit the right notes of a man who is
determined to regain at least some of the stature he had left behind. I
truly loved the line which was spoken in the Iranian tongue and then
translated "If a wounded bird flies into your house, you must take in
in and heal it." The words might not be exactly correct but the meaning
is obvious and quite eloquent.
<|_=00=_|>
Amazing how seemingly small and insignificant events can quickly
snowball to dramatically change the lives of those involved.

This movie had my rapt attention from beginning to end and is one of
the best films I've ever seen. No, it is not an uplifting tale that
ties everything up in a nice little bow at the end for the audience but
that is one of it's greatest assets.

Life isn't always ice cream and teddy bears. Sometimes the cowboy
doesn't ride off into the sunset and that's what makes this so
compelling--the realism.

It's not often that I find myself talking to the movie. Pleading with
the characters and wanting to jump into the movie to resolve a
conflict.

If you don't have to reach for the Kleenex, test your carotid for a
pulse.
