
I had so much fun watching this movie, a piece of light hearted fun
that everyone can enjoy. *If* they remember the opening lines of the
movie; this is a fairytale. And is therefore not to be taken seriously,
it should be watched for the pure enjoyment of getting away from the
daily humdrum.

I have seen this movie twice and both times the audience was literally
buoyed by the fun of the movie, though I must say the best parts and
lines come from Uncle Edgar(a deliciously evil Cary Elwes) and Heston
the snake(the slimy voice of Steve Coogan is wonderful). That is not to
say that the two leads(Anne Hathaway and Hugh Dancy) are not bright and
funny in their parts, they are. Only that the wonderful and memorable
lines come mainly from the more evil characters.

Joanna Lumley (as the evil Dame Olga) and Minnie Driver(one of her best
yet, possibly only beaten by her surprisingly good turn in "Phantom of
the Opera") are also great in their minor roles, providing colorful
characters and not just filling in screen time. Aidan McArdle(Slannen
the Elf) is wonderful comic relief each and every time he appears, as
is Lucy Punch as the horrid Step-Sister and chief fan-girl(shudder).
Eric Idle, Jeniffer Higham, Jimi Mistry and Parminder Nagra are also
memorable, particularly Jimi as Benny, Eric as the Narrator and
Parminder as Ella's best friend, though I think Parminder's talents are
woefully under recognized in this film and I would love to see her in
more main roles like in "Bend it like Beckham".

But I digress.

Hopefully those watching this movie will remember the fun it is
supposed to be and not fall into the trap of over analyzing this piece
of light-hearted happiness.
<|_=00=_|>

Boy, I'm glad I saw this movie before reading the comments here.  I found
this film to be delightfully funny and sweet.  sure it's utter predictable
but so what?  Yes, in the 'fractured fairy tale' department it's a far cry
from the genius of Princess Bride or Shrek, but it's an entertaining enough
90 minutes.  The effects are decent (they can't all be Lord of the Rings
perfect) and I found myself laughing frequently.  

I'm certainly glad I was completely unaware that this was based on a book as
most of the negative comments here seem to be from people who complain about
changes.  I can say, that not knowing the original, this story flowed just
fine.  Certainly, if one were to over-analyze the plot one could come up
with innumerable ideas based on the idea 'if she must always obey, why
doesn't this happen?' but that's not really the point here is it?  it's a
fairy tale for young girls.  My partner's 18 year old little sister (who
made me watch this as I never would have on my own) loved it, and I had to
admit that I liked it enough to give it a thumbs up 7 out of 10
rating.
<|_=00=_|>

The story of young Ella who was given the gift of obedience is a very
frustrating movie, it should be wild and charming and funny and the best
thing since sliced bread, or if not sliced bread then The Princess Bride,
but some how it doesn't quite work as whole.

The cast is game, the special effects are good and the direction seems to be
mostly on target, but somewhere along the way the movie decided to be too
hip, too happening, too many things all at once. Its a comedy, fantasy,
adventure, musical and a few other things all at the same time. It has
timeless humor and humor that is in danger of dating very badly. It feels
some times like a TV movie for kids and at other times something that should
be on the big screen for everyone. It doesn't seem to know what it wants to
be. Somehow I think that there were too many people with too many ideas
(good ideas) but no one to say too much is a bad thing.

I like this movie a lot, the pieces much more than the whole, but I can't
help but wanting to beat up everyone involved in it because this should be
so much better.

Six out of ten. Wait for video.

<|_=00=_|>
Given the recent success of fantasy movies, it was probably inevitable
that "Ella Enchanted" would get its turn on the silver screen. Like
"Harry Potter," Gail Carson Levine's delightful re-imagining of
Cinderella has been popular with both readers and critics, and contains
plenty of imagination and engaging characters. One only wishes it had
translated to screen better.

Levine comes up with a clever explanation for the reason why Ella
(played in the film by Anne Hathaway) must slave for her horrid
step-family: at her cradle, a well-meaning but rather dim fairy
godmother (Vivica A. Fox) granted her the "gift" of obedience, forcing
the poor girl to comply with any direct order regardless of how
ridiculous or dangerous. Refusing to be resigned to her lot, Ella sets
out to return the unwanted gift--and en route, find romance with Prince
Charmont ("Char" for short, played by Hugh Dancy).

Unfortunately, it is here that the similarities to the source material
end. In the film, Ella comes off as far less resourceful and clever as
she does in the book, and mostly seems to wind up getting into
embarrassing or awkward situations through her enforced compliance.
Which is a shame, because Hathaway is a vibrant and talented actress
who could have easily imbued the character with more spunk had she been
called on to do so. It doesn't help that the screenwriters have seen
fit to muddy Ella's quest with a standard-issue villain in the form of
Char's Claudius-esquire uncle (Cary Elwes, channeling the spirit of
Prince Humperdink and accompanied by a very unconvincing CGI snake),
and some business about the oppression of the kingdom's non-humans.

Like "Shrek," "Ella Enchanted" takes the fractured fairy-tale route,
throwing in sly references and anachronisms at every opportunity. Some
of these work (I liked the man-powered escalator in the medieval mall),
but more than a few fall flat (mostly Char's squealing fan club, who
are perhaps too accurate in their annoying behavior). Hathaway and
Dancy play it more or less straight, but everyone else camps it up
grandly, especially Elwes. Unfortunately, both Fox and Minnie Driver as
Ella's more sensible godmother feel miscast, and Parminder Nagra (the
talented star of "Bend it Like Beckham") is virtually wasted as Ella's
foreign-born friend.

"Ella Enchanted" is nice enough to sit through--Hathaway's presence
keeps things going, and there are enough nice visuals. But in a genre
that in the past few years has seen "Harry Potter," "Lord of the
Rings," and "Shrek"--with "A Series of Unfortunate Events" and "Charlie
and the Chocolate Factory" among the films on the horizon--it takes
more than nice to distinguish oneself in the field.
<|_=00=_|>
Warning--if you have read the book, do not see the movie--you WILL
become violently ill! O'Haver, the director, looked at the story (a
beautiful, classic book by Gail Levine that everyone should read), and
decided that he didn't like the current plot--so he made up a new one,
and still had the gall to say that it was "based" on Levine's
masterpiece of a book (kudos to "I, Robot" for actually being truthful
and honest enough to say that the movie was "inspired" by the
books--it's something for O'Haver to one day aspire to). He also made
up new characters and changed the old characters to fit his new
plot--Char's parents are dead, and there's a new evil uncle (Elwes)
with a cheesy snake servant who is trying to kill Char and take over
the crown--there's also a new elf friend of Ella's who wants to be a
lawyer (can you say Rudolph the Red Nosed Reindeer?), but is forced to
only sing and dance by this new evil and tyrannical uncle created by
O'Haver--ogres are also now not evil, but only "misunderstood"! And
Ella's father is nice and caring, Mandy is no longer her caring,
sensible fairy godmother, but a ditz and a magical klutz, and the
wonderful old-fashioned world created by Levine has been warped and
cheapened by the director so that it's a faux modern world (the modern
costumes add to the cheap and fake look of the film). Overall, the
movie bears little resemblance to the book in anything but the title
and character names, and is the worst adaptation I have ever seen, as
well as a silly and stupid movie in itself. Hathaway does indeed
reprise her role in Princess Diaries (another terrible adaptation with
changed character names, setting, roles, etc, though not as bad as this
one)--to the extent that there's even a debate scene that mirrors the
one in Princess almost exactly (forget finishing school--they have
modern school in the movie!).

In short, don't waste your money on this film--use the money instead to
read Ella Enchanted--believe me, you'll get much better and higher
quality entertainment this way, for a lesser cost!
<|_=00=_|>
If you've ever read Ella Enchanted, you will be shocked that a movie
studio couldso thoroughly ruin an excellent story. At it's heart, Ella
Enchanted(the book), is a story of love, frustration, and other human
emotions.Although you may find yourself smiling at times, it is more of
a romantic/angsty fairytale than a comedic fairytale, complete with one
graying fairy godmother, two banister-sliding protagonists, and three
masque balls (excluding Sir Peter's and Dame Olga's wedding reception).
What Ella Enchanted does NOT contain is an evil talking snake. When
Ella finally is able to find the strength to save not only herself, but
Char and the entire kingdom, you are so happy for her that, chances
are, you cry. As a matter of fact, I would say I cried more than I
laughed reading this book.

Watching the movie, I was speechless. It was extremely tacky and went
for cheap, easy laughs. At best I can call it a poor imitation of
Shrek, except that would be an insult to the highly entertaining Shrek.
There is no place in Ella Enchanted for an evil royal uncle and his
talking serpent, and definitely no place for a singing Ella, or a
dancing cast. (Nor a screaming fan club!). The well-developed character
of Areida, which I'm sure Parminder Nagra could have played well, was
cut down to a mere cameo.

This movie lacked human emotion. Ella was not nearly as frustrated as
any normal person would be at her curse. (Hello? She breaks out in song
and dance!) Don't get me started on the range of emotions Areida could
have covered. And of course Hattie is way too obnoxious and not nearly
as manipulative (read: not obviously annoying, but cruel) as she could
have been. If it were one actor's performance I would call it poor
acting. In this case, I would have to lay my blame almost entirely on
the director and screenwriters. With such promising material, they
managed to create an hour and a half of rubbish.

Even the movie's visuals gave it a much more modern feel, with colors
too vibrant for any over the age of 4. Half the time I felt like I was
watching the Teletubbies. I would say the maximum age that these cheap
laughs could amuse is 8 years old.

I read the book when I was probably around 10 or so, and have read it
innumerable times since then. It truly appeals to all ages, because,
unlike its movie version, it deals with true emotions, not cheap humor
and anachronisms, which, honestly, do not add to the story.

In short, forget the movie, read the book!
<|_=00=_|>

Ella Enchanted, starring Anne Hathaway, Hugh Dancy, Minnie Driver, and Eric
Idle, is a contemporary epic fairy tale, sitting on the top shelf with such
classics as The Wizard of Oz, and Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory.

A deeply telling and romantic tale, set in the land of magic, with many
important messages, ranging from personal freedom, self empowerment, truth,
and equality, to the simple pleasures that create the beautiful contrast of
fairy tales, humor, song, beauty, friendship.

A family movie, Ella Enchanted will be enjoyed by adults and children, and
is sure to bring a warmth to your heart.  

Anne Hathaway steals your heart with her charm, personality, and ability to
carry the movie no matter where it leads, with great beauty and skill. The
supporting roles are cute, witty, and fill out the movie in all the right
places.

This is one for the vaults, and the DVD collection.

<|_=00=_|>
It seems that many, many commentators disliked this movie because it
wasn't at all like the book. Fair enough, I suppose, but movies seldom
are. In any case, I haven't read that book, and was blissfully unaware
that this film was supposedly adapted from one. I found it surprisingly
cute. Many of the campy things hit the mark, like the "medeival modern"
anachronistic setting, reminiscent of The Flintstones cartoon wherein
it was filled with modern things constructed from prehistoric
materials; and the modern songs transposed to the time setting herein.
That last was a bit like Moulin Rouge, which annoyed me at first, but
then grew on me. I don't believe that I've seen this Anne Hathaway
before, but she is intriguing. Her vivacity and wide smile remind me a
bit of Julia Roberts. Can't say that I was much impressed with Hugh
Dancy or Aiden McArdle. Minnie Driver was most charming as the
incompetent fairy, and Vivica Fox was quite amusing as the lush fairy.
It's too bad that Parminder Nagra's part was so small, as she always
lights up a screen. And Cary Elwes couldn't hide his amusement with the
material as he munched on the scenery. I say check this out, if you
aren't going to throw a fit over the book.
<|_=00=_|>
I thoroughly enjoyed this film, it was clever, original and
entertaining. The interesting opening scenes were great as they
transported you to the fairytale world. I was very happy to see Eric
Idle was the narrator and Anne Hathaway was brilliant and instantly
likable as Ella, with Hugh Dancy the perfect handsome prince. The Elf
(another familiar face- Dudley Moore in 'Not Only But Always') is
wonderful as the sidekick. I also thought the story was very good, it
was slightly predictable at first, but then there were some interesting
twists, where I think the usual fairytale storyline was changed to
great effect. The way the Fairytale land echoed aspects of home were
amusing, with wooden escalators, taxi carriages… In a way, I liked it
more than Shrek, because of the fact that it was less 'polished' and
maybe more British. I would definitely recommend 'Ella Enchanted' to
anyone who wants a fun and entertaining film.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was gifted with a spell of fairy tale which was likable.
From the beginning Ella Enchanted was good – and all thanks to the
beautiful Anne Hathaway who seemingly sparkled. Great work of escapism,
such that though it's stupidity can be considered, it is shadowed by
its modernism and it's attempt to drive the audience into attention by
it's sarcastic humor present at certain desirable instances. Anne
Hathaway stole the show – there seemed to possess an invisible halo on
her making her the most preferable Ella. However I did ruminate over
the fact that is that all Anne Hathaway can play- this character had
almost cloning gestures as her character of Mia in The Princess Diaires
– so is that how much her talent can expand? Well as for the other cast
member - There was a casting perfection as taking into consideration
Cary Elwes, Minnie Driver and Vivica Fox, all were matched perfectly to
their designated roles. In conclusion I would not suggest this movie to
grown ups- as they would certainly NOT enjoy this step out of reality –
however this would be a great movie for kids and may be pre teenagers
and if you are an Anne Hathaway fan like me – well than don't miss
this.
