
A Note: I think it's best if go to the theater thinking, "Pierce
Brosnan = James Bond." This is what I was expecting. Normally, I will
have seen the trailer before going to a film. In this instance, I saw
an advance screening as a part of the Austin Film Festival and had only
seen a promotional photo of Brosnan walking away from an exploding car.
This reinforced the stereotype I had for Brosnan. I think the
distributor of this film would have been wise to promote it in this
manner, feeding people's stereotypes by using this James Bond-esquire
image, for I think the effectiveness of the comedy may in large measure
be a reaction to what a drastic departure it is for Brosnan. And this
was, no doubt, his intention.

Plot Summary: The story is about hit man Julian Noble. Noble, on
assignment in Mexico City, has somewhat of a meltdown when he realizes
his nomadic existence has left him with no one -- no friends or family,
not even a place to call home. Desperate for companionship, he starts
up conversation with Danny Wright, a normal guy, with a normal life, in
town on business. Unaccustomed to normal social etiquette he scares
Wright off, but pleads for forgiveness the next day and requests that
he accompany him to a bull fight. And the comedy begins as Julian
decides to open up to his new friend more about what he does for a
living. All is well until Julian realizes his "meltdown" is serious and
he is having difficulty following through on his "assignments." He
therefore has to ask for help from his new friend Danny.

Analysis: Brosnan took a substantial risk in signing on to this
picture. Paying him less than he would normally receive, and requiring
that he sport a creepy 'stache, a pot belly and trade in his custom-
tailored Armani suits for tight-fitting-euro-pimp threads, you would
think he would be out of his element. It turns out to be quite the
contrary. Brosnan proves that he is more than James Bond or Thomas
Crowne. He proves that he can be one of the most entertaining comedic
actors working right now as well. The dynamic between Kinnear and
Brosnan is delectable. Kinnear plays such a likable straight man cum
everyman, and Brosnan plays such a likable hit man, and the combination
of the two is irresistible. Their rapport with each other is so ripe
for comedy that you want it in every scene. 

While the film uses many conventional cinematic devices, I couldn't
help but feel as if I was watching something very fresh and original.
Largely, I can attribute this to the performance of Brosnan, but it was
also interesting that the film maintained the feel of a fast passed
action movie, in keeping with Brosnan's most notable genre.

I highly recommend this film.

JeromeFreeman.com
<|_=00=_|>
The delivery of some very humorous rude lines by Pierce Brosnan is
alone worth the price of admission. He plays a kind of "James Bond's
psycho twin brother", separated at birth, no doubt. As an intense
hit-man, his character is very sexual but even better, very funny. Add
the kind-hearted, uber-likable American "guy next door', Greg Kinnear,
to set up contrast. The myriad locations, vivid colors, and
quick-witted humor provide great entertainment. Hope Davis is well cast
as the "gem of a wife". But the focus of the film is on the two
fellows, a new "Odd Couple", and that's the part that works very well.
Have a great (probably R-rated) laugh, and look for the places where
the story goes a little deeper.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. Much anticipated, twisted comedy
from writer/director Richard Shepard is a coming out party for Pierce
Brosnan the actor. That Bond guy is gone. This new guy is something
else entirely!! Have read that Shepard thought Brosnan was too much the
pretty boy for this plum role, but Brosnan proves to be the perfect
Julian Noble, "Facilitator" ... and is anything but pretty! Do not
underestimate how twisted the humor is in this one. If you go, expect
punch lines and sight gags regarding all types of sex, killing,
religion, sports, business and anything else you might deem politically
incorrect. Brosnan takes an excellent script to another level with his
marvelous facial gestures and physical movements. Even sitting on a
hotel bed (with or without a sombrero) is a joy to behold.

Greg Kinnear is the straight guy to Brosnan's comic and has plenty of
depth and comic timing to make this partnership click. Hope Davis has a
small, but subtly effective supporting role as Kinnear's wife (what's
with her name "Bean"?) who happens to get a little excited when she has
a facilitator in her living room.

The visuals and settings are perfect - including a bullfight, racetrack
and Denver suburb. And how often do we get The Killers and Xavier Cugat
on the same soundtrack? This one is definitely not for everyone, but if
your sense of humor is a bit off center and you enjoy risky
film-making, it could be for you.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is fantastic. Finally well-written characters you can love
for all their good and bad. Pierce Brosnan is flat-out hysterical in
this self-effacing role. I think its the best thing he's ever done.
He's done other roles that exhibited shades of being capable of this
kind of fully-fledged work, but this role finally gave him the room to
run with it. I almost died when he walked across the hotel lobby in his
underwear and boots. And Greg Kinnear and Hope Davis are a couple to
aspire too, as well as actors to aspire too. Kinnear is so goofy
likable that his turn in the end is truly gratifying. You give good
actors good work to play with and they give us something more back.
<|_=00=_|>
"Margaritas and Cock..."

This tremendously entertaining film grabs you from the opening scene
and never stops delivering laughs, surprises and unexpectedly touching
moments. I had more fun watching "The Matador" than almost any other
film from 2005. It is a wacky film with an unforgettable character,
played to perfection by Pierce Brosnan.

Julian Noble (Brosnan) is a facilitator (hit-man) who specializes in
high-end corporate gigs (assassinating rich dudes). He is also
experiencing something akin to a mid-life crisis. After coming to
realization that he has no real friends, no permanent home and no
planned future, he stumbles into a Mexican hotel bar one night and runs
into Danny Wright (Kinnear).

Danny is a down-on-his-luck family man who is on the verge of losing
the big business deal that just might turn things around for him. He
loves his wife dearly, especially so since they lost their young son a
few years earlier.

The two men are chalk and cheese, hardly any common ground other than
that they are in the same desolate bar one night. And somehow a
conversation is struck that sets in to motion a chain of events that
will change their lives forever.

The friendship they form reminded me a lot of Laurel and Hardy. One is
the straight man and the other is the persistent fool who gets them
into trouble. The interplay is superbly timed and finely tuned, due in
no small part to the wonderful performances from Brosnan and Kinnear.

But make no mistake... This is Brosnan's film. He imprints one of the
most memorable and despicably likable characters of the decade. He
could shoot your mother and apologize immediately thereafter and you'd
probably forgive him. Brosnan may be cinema's ultimate charmer, but
this is his most endearing and complete performance to date. I wouldn't
be averse to seeing an Oscar nod for this role.

Consider one scene where he overtly ogles a high-school girl with the
impurest of thoughts and utters the line, "All blushy blushy... No
sucky fucky". He does it with the familiar Bond smirk and manages to
get away with it. He manages to tell a young boy, "Tell your mother to
lose 30lbs and 20 years. Then get back to me" without coming across as
unlikable. In fact, it makes us like him even more.

And yet the film manages to surprise us with some truly touching
scenes, most of which come toward the end when the film takes some
unpredictable turns. However, when Julian thumbs through his little
black book to find someone to call on his birthday, or when Danny and
his wife (Davis) console each other in their bedroom one night, the
film reaches an unexpected depth of emotion.

"The Matador" is stylish and energetic. It is constantly entertaining.
And it contains a career-defining role for Brosnan as the lonely
hit-man looking for normalcy, friendship and a means to do at least one
good thing in his life. This is an overlooked gem in 2005 and you
should make an effort to see this film as soon as possible.

TC Candler of IndependentCritics.com
<|_=00=_|>
"The Matador" stars Pierce Brosnan as a burned out assassin. He's James
Bond gone to seed, in too-tight, garish clothes, gold chains, and an
ugly haircut. Our struggling assassin, Julian Noble, is in Mexico,
trying to regain his nerve. Staying at the same hotel is a likable,
down-on-his luck businessman Danny Wright (Greg Kinnear), also trying
to regain his equilibrium. Danny is desperate to close a deal and
return to his wife in Denver (Hope Davis) with good news.

Noble and Wright unexpectedly become friends. Wright convinces Noble to
reveal certain techniques, which he demonstrates at a bullfight. Noble
is eventually targeted by his employers and shows up in Denver. 

Writer and director Richard Shepard did the Q&A after this delightful
movie at the Austin Film Festival. Shepard was also down on his luck.
After suffering the loss of his agent and rejection of recent scripts,
he decided to write a story no one would buy and create a character no
one would want to play. Then Pierce Brosnan called. Brosnan regains his
equilibrium in this movie. (There is life after Bond!) He has a
wonderful flair for self-deprecating comedy. Don't miss it. 

Stay for the closing credits to read what the filmmakers say about
bullfighting. I look forward to more of Richard Shepard's projects.
<|_=00=_|>
THE MATADOR is hit-man movie lite....if you can say that about a
hit-man movie. The violence is never really shown but often introduced.
At first I was scared I was in for another retread of mid-90s
gangster-hit-man-hipster-dark comedy BUT was happily surprised when I
realized this is just a sweet and humorous story about friendship.
Nothing terribly exciting happens in this film but every bit of it is
kept me grinning. The three leads have the best chemistry the big
screen has offered in recent years and it looks like they had a great
time making this film together. The writing is sharp though at times it
felt as if the script had been adapted from a stage play because of the
one set dialog scenes. This is a good film that I probably won't
remember for too long but at the time it was a complete joy. Good film.
<|_=00=_|>
Pierce Brosnan has sipped his last Martini and returns, in an
outrageous self-parody, as the aging foul-mouthed boozy assassin Julian
Noble, who has a particular fondness for teenage girls, bullfights and
tacky clothes. During a job in Mexico City he meets Danny (Greg
Kinnear), a straight-faced Denver suburban business-man, who's in town
to make his deal of-a-life-time, in a hotel bar. Despite their
completely different personalities and Julian's crude and insensible
remarks, they become friends. 

Largely carried by the performances of Pierce Brosnan and Greg Kinnear,
director Richard Shepard revealed that he didn't write the film with
Pierce Brosnan in mind , but I can hardly imagine this without him. He
proves to have a real talent for comedy and can be more than just James
Bond or cold-war spies. The scene in which the two meet at a glossy
hotel bar (stunning sets and beautifully photographed) really is a
bravura piece of acting skills. The scene lasts almost fifteen minutes,
and although it was probably carefully scripted, the two actors are
largely improvising, but they succeed wonderfully! It almost feels like
a new standard in screen acting. Think of Robert De Niro and Harvey
Keitel in MEAN STEETS improvising and add one of the most subtle
underpinnings of many genre clichés and the actors' own typecasting
(Brosnan's James Bond in particular), and you got one of the most
delightful pairings in recent Hollywood. 

Sadly, the story wears thin after a while. After an hour, the film just
runs out of steam. Nevertheless, and I can't put my finger on it
exactly, I did enjoy this very much. It just feels very fresh and
original, with some imaginative use of sets and lighting, and some
hints to Seijun Suzuki and Jean-Pierre Melville. The other characters
aren't given much to do, but this film does offer something new, in
that respect it almost effortlessly succeeds in blending all
conventional genres into quite an entertaining spoof. Very amusing.

Camera Obscura --- 7/10
<|_=00=_|>
A hit-man who is The Dude and Bad Santa both at once.

Pierce Brosnan is at his best and most hilarious in Richard Sherpherd's
The Matador (2005), as a booze-drenched over the hill hit-man who loves
bullfights, tacky clothes and teenage girls. It is his unapologetic
lust for the latter that provide some great laughs in the film.. There
is nothing funnier than hearing a sleazy, broken-down version of James
Bond exclaim after ogling some Catholic schoolgirls, "God I hate these
Catholic countries; it's all blushy blushy, no suckie fuckie." 

So Brosnan has a terrifically dirty mouth in The Matador and this is
juxtaposed with Greg Kinnear's goody-goody family man character in
their newfound, unlikely friendship. Both these characters elicit real
sympathy, but especially Brosnan who should be a very unlikable
character, a man desperate for a meaningful relationship in his life
but just can't stop himself from saying the wrong things. We follow
these two very different men as they learn from each other and start
changing their lives, projecting equal doses of heart and humour.

The Matador effective in the sense that it mixes absurdity and
quirkiness just right and glazes it with a dark comedy coating feel. It
is also quite funny thanks to its Brosnan performance, but it does not
have much in the way of a plot and no other characters or detours are
even worth mentioning - so it is sadly very forgettable. Still, if you
are even a slight fan of Brosnan's I urge you to see this film which is
easily his greatest performance, and it's a crime he wasn't showered
with awards for it. 

6.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
In The Matador, Pierce Brosnan plays a weary, boozy contract killer who
just wants to be friends with Walter Mitty-like Greg Kinnear. Sounds
like perfect casting, but the two leads don't really mesh, and the
movie plods along endlessly, halfheartedly throwing in a twist near the
end that only slightly mitigates the dullness.

Julian Noble trots the globe, shooting, stabbing, and exploding those
whom he's paid to terminate. He's not a likable chap, this Julian. He
likes his liquor strong and his girls young, if you know what I mean.
After a job in Mexico City, Julian learns he may be on his way out of
his amorphous organization; he then bumps into Danny Wright (Kinnear),
a businessman who believes he's just made a successful pitch to a local
company. Julian comes off as kind of a rude jerk who may or not be
telling the truth, but once he convinces (truthfully) Danny that he
(Julian) is indeed a paid assassin, the two sort of become pals.

It's a typical mismatched-buddies scenario - the loner and the married
man, the odd duck and the straight arrow. Danny is married to Bean
(Hope Davis), who becomes a little starstruck herself when she learns
of Julian's occupation. But what of Julian's future? Will he soon be
rubbed out by one of his own coworkers? This seems like a role tailor
made for Brosnan, kind of a down-on-his-luck James Bond, but for some
reason the character is a nasty, tough-to-read creep. Is he sincere or
a sociopath? Is he being funny or deadly serious? When he pulls the old
messing-with-you trope once too often, you start to wonder what he's
all about - and you get no real satisfactory answers.

The twist is okay, but in even a decent thriller it would have been
terrific. Here it's just sort of there, as if the writers had realized
they needed to tack on something a little off the beaten path and just
kind of shoehorned it into the story. The Matador isn't
incomprehensible, it's just maddeningly incoherent.
