
Some of the comments here about this movie say that this movie is
depicting the Netherlands wrongly. Drugs, prostitution and naked
weather(wo)men. How crude!

I think this movie is a cute spoof on the Netherlands. Of course we
don't have naked weatherwomen (unfortunately), but indeed we have
coffee-shops which are very much unlike Starbucks, and although the
legal status of prostitution is vague, it's not prohibited in certain
areas in the country and indeed the prostitutes do pay taxes and have a
health care plan. So in a sense it's true, albeit a bit over the top -
for amusement value.

The movie shows some nice areas of the country, like the windmills, old
cobblestone streets and canals. And it has a huge slew of famous and
not-so-famous Dutch celebrities, which actually makes this movie fun to
watch for a Dutchman! In fact, I think Dutch moviegoers would rate this
movie higher than an American would do, as the latter might not get the
tongue in cheek humor depicted within. Americans may even be offended
at how the war in Iraq is mentioned by a Frenchman, and the aggression
against people waving an American flag, sending out a political stab by
Mr. Schneider.

There is much eye for detail, like the shirts Deuce is wearing, or the
fact that he calls Eva 'ay-va' as the Dutch would do, the fun with the
street name ('Nieuwezijds Voorburgwal', notorious in Holland for its
red-light district) and the names and phone-numbers in the little black
book (DVD freeze frame).

So, being Dutch myself, I found this flick pretty amusing!

PS. the cover of the Dutch version DVD is much more appropriate,
showing an Amsterdam pavement divider post ('Amsterdammertje') instead
of the Italian (!?) Leaning Tower of Pisa.
<|_=00=_|>
After an accident with dolphins and elders on a beach, the clumsy fish
tank cleaner and former gigolo Deuce Bigalow (RobSchneider) is invited
by his pimp friend T.J. Hicks (Edie Griffin) to travel to Amsterdam
where he is presently living. Once there, T.J. Hicks is wrongly taken
as a whore-men serial killer. Bigalow joins the gigolo's association
trying to find the true identity of the murderer and clean TJ Hicks.
Meanwhile, he meets the gorgeous Eva (Hanna Verboom), and while dating
her, he suspects that she may be the wanted killer.

"Deuce Bigalow: European Gigolo" is politically incorrect, rude, gross
but also hilarious and extremely funny. There are many jokes with the
stereotype and clichés of the behavior of Americans, Dutchmen and
Europeans in general. The wonderful Amsterdam is mostly shown in the
prostitution area of the Red Light Zone District and some bars where
the consumption of drugs are free. There are many jokes also with the
behavior of tourists. This movie would be never nominated to an Oscar,
but deserved the "Man-Whore Award". This movie is a great entertainment
for non-conceited people that accept jokes with stereotypes and like
this type of humor. Otherwise, do not spend your time. My vote is
seven.

Title (Brazil): "Um Gigolô Europeu Por Acidente" ("An European Gigolo
by Accident")
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was very funny. Despite the fact that the story is a little
simple, generic, and weak, the movie contains non-stop jokes that will
make you laugh, whether you want to or not. The movie does contain some
immature humor, like the occasional fart joke, however, they are still
funny. The movie also has quite a bit of creative humor. Eddie Griffin
is a very funny part of the movie in a hilarious performance. This is a
simple movie meant for no other purpose than to make you laugh, a
purpose which it does a very good job of fulfilling. Do not treat it
like a drama. It is a comedy and therefore it does not have to make
perfect sense as long as it is funny. This is definitely worth seeing
if you want to laugh and enjoy crude and simple humor, such as in a
good Adam Sandler movie(an old one, the new ones suck) or a good
Farrely brothers movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Deuce Bigalow lost his wife, who died from a shark attack. In Europe,
things are pretty bad,since a serial killer is killing the European
gigolos. Deuce is called up by T.J., his former pimp, who invites him
to come to Amsterdam where T.J. is living and also pimping. When T.J.
is wrongly taken as a whore-men serial killer, Deuce joins the gigolo's
association trying to find the true identity of the murderer and clean
TJ from the jail. Things becomes even more difficult when Deuce falls
in love with the beautiful Eva, who becomes one of the suspects to be
the serial killer.

''Deuce Bigalow: European Gigolo '' is funny, yet a silly movie. It is
very good for a sequel, that are usually boring compared to the first
movies. Many of the funny themes from the first movie are present in
this one, but this movie has more black humor and offensive jokes then
the first one. If you don't take things too serious and remember that
this is a movie, maybe you will have some fun like I did. I really
liked Amsterdam being the scenario for this movie, and the lead
character Eva is extremely cute and beautiful. ( I also loved the
coffee shop scene!)
<|_=00=_|>
DEUCE BIGALOW (or "Deuce Not So Big Below" as he was called in this
film! Lol!) is back, this time to be a "man-whore" in Europe! This
sequel of DEUCE BIGALOW: MALE GIGOLO is pretty funny too, but even so,
I think the first one was a bit more hilarious. But this one is very
comical either.

I especially appreciated the part when they explain how to do a
"Portuguese breakfast"!... I'm Portuguese and I've never heard of that
(because it's just a joke, of course!). Maybe I should try it someday!
Lol! 

It was also nice the portrait of Amsterdam done in this movie, because
it's too exaggerated, but it really must be what Americans think of
Amsterdam I suppose! The scene where the cop is lightning TJ's joint,
at the coffee-shop, or the scene where this guy says that the truck
full of Marijuana that he's driving is to his daughter's birthday
party, which is going to make 13, are hilarious and are hyperboles that
clearly prove that exaggeration I mentioned.

Once again Rob Schneider does a great job in this funny and
entertaining movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I will not even bother to tell this movie's story because it really
doesn't matter. What does matter though is that this movie can be so
damn funny if you're in the right mood, after 4-5 beer or so that is.
It's shameful to admit but this movie is actually funnier than the
first one because it's so over-the-top. And this dutch babe is hot too.
One of the funniest moments have Schneider make a speech in front of
all the man heeers just to be thrown out of the window promptly.
Another funny sequence is when Schneider and his buddy attend a Coffee
shop.

With lines like "Kaizer, get back to your work" or "why is it called
Space cake?" this movie is totally hilarious in all its stupidity.

One of the worst movies of all time but also one of the funniest!

See it and laugh your balls off! :D
<|_=00=_|>
The 3 points that I took out of the 10 are:

2 for very sloppy and occasionally completely blank script

1 for self-indulgency as a whole (I usually like self-indulgency in
comedies, but it was a little too much here)

Having said that, this movie was hilarious.Some commentators said that
the jokes and gags were offensive.What is wrong with you people? That
was just the beauty of it. The fishtank scene, for ex., with the French
guy was excellent. And sure, completely mindless humor, but extremely
funny in its niche.Roy Schneider and Eddie Griffin have chemistry and
they are very nice comedians. Adam Sandler should stick to producing
and directing, cuz inapparently he is does a better job than as an
actor. 

One last thing: "Thank you for bringing democracy to Iraq" Loved that
one.
<|_=00=_|>
This was a horrible film...not that the first one was great, but damn,
this was bad. Being in Amsterdamn and being high off your @ss would be
the only way this movie could be enjoyed. This is Rob Schnieder's worst
film, and with a body of work that includes The Hot Chick and The
Animal, thats saying a lot. The jokes all fall flat. Most are tired
rehashes of the previous film, tall lady, cursing lady is now OCD lady,
etc. The only things that are actually funny are also absolutely
disgusting. For example, the penis-nose spraying cum all over people
when she sneezes...not funny, just plain sick. Also, the penis-nose
falling into the throat hole of another woman...thats just wrong. I
love these kinds of films, Wedding Crashers, Anchorman, Dodgeball,
Billy Madison, Mr. Deeds, etc., but this is the worst thing I've seen
since "Head of State". AVOID AT ALL COSTS.
<|_=00=_|>
This film was about Deuce Bigalow in the liberal Amsterdam to find the
killer of man whores. Through the process, he was in for some culture
shock and some man whoring.

The plot was silly and very politically incorrect. There were plenty of
gross moments, such as vomiting wine through a tracheostomy hole or
eating chips submerged in the toilet bowl. 

However, I did not stop laughing throughout the film because Rob
Schneider was so funny. He gave Deuce Bigalow a cute and innocent charm
which was important in making Deuce Bigalow likable. The film was good
for some light and non serious entertainment.
<|_=00=_|>
Regardless of the opinion of many of the other IMDb users, I personally
found the film "Deuce Bigalow: European Gigolo" excellent. I've always
been a big fan of Rob Schneider and it was he definitely didn't
disappoint here, proving himself once again to be a comic genius (he
co-wrote the movie) and him exceptional acting talent. surprisingly
much better then the original with a interesting story line, also I
found old jokes wern't repeated for cheap laughs, keeping the film
fresh, which was a relief, as many sequels of comedies end up using the
same jokes over and over again (like Austin Powers 2 and 3). Eddie
Griffin was great too, in his role as the "he-bitch", for those who
have seen the movie, i'm sure that most of you would of, like me, had
much difficulty to laughing when TJ found himself in a certain
position, by the riverside, with a dead male gigolo. Hannah Verbloom,
who played the real love interest in the film, looked just like a
gigolo's love interest should look like, and i appreciated that. :p All
in all, you should see it if you haven't and if you have seen it then
why not see it again, its worth it.
