
Zooey Deschanel is quite easily the most interesting thing about this
movie. It is slowly paced. It is an examination of one woman's journey
through an emotional roadblock. There are many aspects of this film
that are out of place and a bit frivolous, all indications of a young
or new filmmaker. However, I think it deserves more credit that the
above description.

This film surprised me with its various nuances, many of which are the
difference between a love affair with New York City and the hate that
develops when it's inhabitant realizes just how wonderful (and
horrible) home can be. In addition to that, it has been some time since
a film was able to be charming without being too forced, something I
think they do not ultimately achieve, but it is not without merit.

As mentioned above, it is worth the price of admission to watch Zooey
Deschanel work her way from solipsistic bitch to humbled and hurt
woman. She is raw, honest, fun, and a bit of a fu*k up. Ed Harris
brings her character a bit more alive, but he himself it not at his
best. As an actor he does a fine job, though I have a feeling he was
left out to dry a bit by the young director. Will Ferrel almost makes
his way through without being funny, though he is not removed enough
from his Saturday Night Live characters to really pull through. The
audience I was with seemed to love him. I nearly didn't see the movie
because he was in it.

When it comes down to it this film is a first-time film director used
to working in a theater medium. The writing is strong, the story
interesting and for all it's pit-falls and loop-holes, it still manages
to make an emotional impact. Give it a second chance.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. When writers attempt to tackle too
many themes in one story, usually none are complete. Writer and
Director Adam Rapp (brother Anthony is of "Rent" fame and has a brief
cameo in this one) is extremely ambitious as he explores parenthood,
artistic genius, friendship, community, guilt and the desire to feel
love and pain. Surprisingly Rapp is mostly successful in pulling off a
most complex script.

Ed Harris stars as a reclusive writer with more than a nod to J.D.
Salinger (his last name is Holden ... get it?). In poor health and
being taken care of by a former student (Amelia Warner) and a broken
down rhythm guitarist (Will Ferrell), Harris is taken aback when his
long lost daughter (Zooey Deschanel) shows up one day. Drastically
altering the dynamics of this bizarre little community, Deschanel
literally steals the film. She spills her soul on screen and we somehow
understand her habit of slamming her hand in a drawer just to feel
something. She is a pitiful person seeking redemption and her place in
life.

Harris and Warner are fine in their roles, but Ferrell is a real
distraction. As a viewer, we don't see the character. We see Will
Ferrell on screen ... acting goofy and clumsily mumbling his lines. His
open mike night could easily have been an SNL skit. This movie would
have been much better with a straight forward actor in this role. That
said, I still have faith Ferrell will succeed as a dramatic actor. If
Robin Williams could make the transition, surely Elf can.

If you might enjoy multi-layered story telling, a tremendous
performance by Zooey and can look past Will Ferrell, this movie has a
lot to offer.
<|_=00=_|>
Though the cover for the DVD of WINTER PASSING (a photo of the four
main characters crowded into a box) may make many potential viewers
pass over this little film, thinking that it must be silly slapstick,
this is a fine film written and directed with finesse and style by Adam
Rapp, a new face whose talents have been somewhat limited to working on
episodes of the TV series 'The L Word'. Rapp gives notice of a fine
writer and an equally fine director in this barely noticed little
touching movie.

Reese Holdin (Zooey Deschanel) lives in New York, an actress relegated
to small parts in off Broadway theater while spending her days as a
bartender hooked on alcohol, drugs and casual sex. Her life seems
dead-ended: she has become anesthetized by her manner of living. An
agent (Amy Madigan) approaches her with an offer to pay her for the
letters between her parents, both once famous authors. Her mother has
just died, and Reese didn't attend her funeral, so distant does she
feel is her relationship to her past. But the spark of money moves her
to ride a bus back to her Michigan home to salvage the letters to sell
for publication.

Arriving home she is greeted by the weird Corbit (Will Ferrell), a
Christian electric guitar player and composer who ears black eyeliner
etc, but does care for Reese's severely alcoholic father - the once
famous writer Don Holdin (Ed Harris) who hasn't written a novel in
years and lives in the garage of his home under the care of Corbit and
an ex-student Shelley (Amelia Warner), a bright very young girl with
demons of her own. Reese works at reconnecting with her father,
struggles with her resentment for the 'caregivers', and ultimately
finds the letters she came for, only to make discoveries about her
dysfunctional family and her father's status that alters her view of
his value as her parent.

The movie is rather stagy and most of the action is unspoken, and while
that technique of telling this particular story seems exactly right to
this viewer, there are some who will feel frustrated at the rather
static pace of the film. Zooey Deschanel once again proves that she is
one of our finest actresses on the screen and hopefully this role will
bring her to the attention of casting agents and result in our seeing
more of this gifted actress in the future. Ed Harris is superb as the
wasted, quietly grieving has-been author, keeping his performance
understated and in doing so creating a character that is indelible in
our minds long after the movie is over. Amelia Warner is also a fine
little actress and even galumphing Will Ferrell brings more than his
usual tiring comedic talents to this touching role. In all this is a
movie that deserves wide attention. There is more to quietly hear and
understand about interpersonal relationships than we would expect from
the cover! Grady Harp
<|_=00=_|>
Winter Passing is a world premier at the festival and the first feature
film from playwright and author Adam Rapp, who wrote the screenplay and
directed. The film follows Reese, a young actress played by Zooey
Deschanel, who returns home from New York when a book publisher asks
her to find the correspondence between her parents, both famous
authors. Reese is drifting through life, so detached that she takes to
slamming drawers on her hand just to feel something.

She travels to her family home in Michigan, only to find that her
ailing and eccentric father (Ed Harris) has taken in one of his former
grad students (Amelia Warner) and a former Christian rocker (Will
Ferrell), after the death of his wife and Reese's mother. Reese's
interactions with her father and the pseudo-family that has collected
around him prompt her to expose her feelings about her childhood and
relationship with her parents, and to come to terms with her own life.

I thought this was an excellent film, especially considering this was
Rapp's directorial debut. Zooey Deschanel gives a wonderful, emotional
performance as Reese, and Will Ferrell does a restrained, thoughtful
turn as the rocker/handyman Corbit. Rapp's story and characters were
interesting, and the occasional light comic moments provided a nice
counterpoint to the dramatic, emotional story at the heart of the film.
I thought this was a film well worth watching.

Writer/director Adam Rapp was present for a Q&A session after the film:

- The film came to being when Rapp was up for a grant through the
American Repertory Theater in Cambridge, Massachusetts, which had
produced a couple of his plays. He came up with a synopsis for a
four-character play set in the garage, and at the end, the garage door
would open to reveal the furniture in the back yard. However, he didn't
get the grant.

At the time, he had signed with a west coast agent who suggested he
write a screenplay. This prompted Rapp to open the story up, starting
with Reese's departure from New York. Once he had finished it, Rapp
said he couldn't imagine anyone but him screwing it up.

- On the subject of casting, Rapp said he first wrote to Ed Harris, who
called him back three days later saying he wanted to do the movie.
Having Harris on board allowed Rapp to attract other actors to at least
read the script.

At the time, Rapp shared the same agency with Will Ferrell. Rapp's
agent suggested Ferrell for the film, but Rapp was hesitant because
Ferrell was so big and was becoming very famous, and the character of
Corbit is such a loner, kind of lost in the world, and trying to
disappear, in many of the same ways as Ed Harris' character. But when
Rapp met Ferrell, Ferrell was very decisive about how he wanted to do a
small dramatic role, and he seemed to trust both the idea of it and
Rapp, and they had a good rapport. Rapp added that Ferrell was one of
the sweetest people he's ever met.

For Zooey Deschanel, Rapp had met with about 45 actresses, but felt
that she had the kind of dynamics he was looking for, that she had an
incredible intelligence, was very good with language, and at the same
time had an incredible emotional life. Rapp also loved her work in
David Gordon Green's film, All the Real Girls.

Rapp said that without the participation of Harris and Ferrell, they
wouldn't have gotten the financing to make the film.

- Terry Stacey was the cinematographer, and he also did The Door in the
Floor and In Her Shoes (which is also showing here at the festival). He
was Rapp's mentor a lot early in the process when Rapp didn't know that
much about film or its technical execution.

They sat together for about two months, talking about what films they
liked and how they wanted it to look and move. Both are huge fans of
70's films like those by Bob Rafelson and Hal Ashby, and they talked
about that, and how the camera would move, how it would become stiller
as Reese became more still in her life.

Rapp said that Stacey works with a lot of first-time directors, so he
felt really lucky, and that Stacey is one of the funniest people he's
ever worked with, and the he wears a funny hat a lot.

- When asked if he considers the music in the film the landscape of
Resee's psychology, Rapp said very much so, that the musical selections
were very important (Rapp is also a musician). He felt the music
carries the mood of the picture and Resee's inner life. Both Rapp and
Meg Reticker, the editor, spent a lot of time listening to and
experimenting with music. They worked to find a lot of female voices,
like Cat Power and Dawn Landes, women around the same age as Reese,
singing about things similar to what the character was going through in
the movie.

- Asked about the scene where Harris and Ferrell are playing golf in a
room in the house, Rapp said that he needed some way for Harris'
character to destroy the room and turn it into something else, because
the room was where he and his wife slept, and made love, and had their
life. Rapp thought golf would be a theatrical sounding thing (the sound
of the balls and showing the walls crumbling). It also establishes that
Harris' character has an agoraphobic bent; he puts the furniture on the
lawn and the house is turning into other things through the grief that
is going on.
<|_=00=_|>
"Winter Passing" is a lot of things besides being a very good movie. I
don't want to miss the chance to say that it could have been a lot
better, but it is what it is and what it is, is what we get. In this
way, what we get is a very introspective portrait of sad and lonely
people; I know it doesn't sound right but that's all I'm going to say
about the film.

The thing is that when you love cinema, you watch films even if you
don't know what they are about and you understand the nature of each
movie; "Winter Passing's" nature is loneliness, not just its
characters' but the sceneries' it's set in. In fact, it's one of the
most contemplative and observing films I've seen this year.

No wonder the cinematography is by Terry Stacey from "The Door in the
Floor"; it makes you watchHe uses a lot of darkness and creates a mood
so depressing that sometimes you can't figure out what's going on. But
it is a good trick, because when the sun comes out (and you've been
expecting it); Stacey's images look beautiful.

Adam Rapp, the man who directed and wrote the film, has a good
narrative eye and we sense it constantly during the film, but he also
has a talent for directing actors; and there's also credit to the
casting directors for this: the most unusual small ensemble. A weird
and special actress (Zooey Deschanel), a comedian (Will Ferrell), a
character actor (Ed Harris), and a rising English young star (Amelia
Warren)They all work perfectly together, because each of them
understands the fragile situation of their character and the rest.

By the way, Harris is working really hard these days and has a lot of
films we still haven't seen. And about Ferrell, I wanted to say this
after watching "Blades of Glory", a regular and overrated film I didn't
write about in which the comedian was the best element...Whether he
does comedy or drama, his hair is long or short, black or brown;
Ferrell always constructs his characters from zero. He picks little
things and starts repeating them throughout a movie, to prove he is
completely in character. You should pay close attention to his work in
any film.

Rapp crafted a solid screenplay that's maybe a bit over sentimentalist,
but he intelligently clarifies it in a crucial part of the movie.
However, for a story so humane and real, he could have been harsher;
because his elegant narration and images ask for it. However, in his
piece, and like in the best dramas, things are said better by means of
the images and not of the words; and that's always appreciated.

Also, if anything, "Winter Passing" is living proof that Zooey
Deschanel is a fantastic actress; that when she wants she can leave
eccentricity and also do great things (because she does great things
when she's eccentric); that she can carry a whole movie by herself and
that it should happen more often. But probably it won't, because she's
one of the most down-to-earth people in the business, and she only
works when it's worth itToo bad.
<|_=00=_|>
Winter Passing is remarkable for several reasons. The performances of
Zooey Deschanel and Ed Harris are resonant and moving. The look and the
music of the film are quite lovely and evoke a hurt, longing that works
well with the theme of the film. And finally, the story itself is
remarkable for anyone who's familiar with the life and enigma of the
writer J.D. Salinger. For anyone who has read his daughter, Margaret
Salinger's wonderful memoir, "Dream Catcher," the film will play like a
thinly veiled reference to her life with the highly lauded and
tragically flawed father who is a legend and inspiration to generations
and a horror as a father.
<|_=00=_|>
This would have made a great short film, and I don't mean that as an
insult.

The idea of the plot is an interesting one, but didn't seem to hold my
attention for the whole film, although the festival audience didn't
seem to mind that much.

Adam Rapp is off to a good start as a director, it seems he hasn't done
much, but I look forward to his next film. His work with the actors was
marvelous, and the camera placement wonderful too. It's just that the
story seemed a little, well, difficult to swallow. There's no missing
the Salinger connection, and it seems as if every cliché about his life
is crammed in here.

And as much as I love Will Farrell, his genius for comedy was somewhat
of a distraction- it's just hard to believe him in this role. A solid
actor without a public persona would have helped me stay in the story.

But overall, an enjoyable ride.
<|_=00=_|>
Imperfect, yes, but Winter Passing managed to involve me and charm me
without overstaying its welcome. A young woman barely in control of her
life returns home to her estranged father only to find that he is in
even less control of his. A redefined family searching for common
ground, the daughter unsure of a relationship long-strained and left to
wither. Some challenges and more than a little redemption. 

Adam Rapp did not over reach on any of these subplots and the
performances, particularly by Deschanel and Harris, are very
substantial, although Will Farrell was an interesting choice for his
character. Many will probably expect him to start doing something
silly, as opposed to only mildly funny.

This is one of the best "films you've never seen" that I've come across
lately.

Well worth a try.
<|_=00=_|>
What a nice film! The premise is simple: Actress Reese Holden (played
by Zooey Deschanel) is offered a lot of money if she can get hold of
letters written to and by her late mother and father, novelist Don
Holdin (played be Ed Harris). Reese hasn't seen her father for a long
time; she hadn't gone to her mother's funeral. Ed Harris, performing
with sensitivity and rigour (as in Pollock and The Hours)gives a fine
performance as the socially maladaptive, reclusive "genius"
counterpointed by s dazed, bewildered, but protective Corbit (Will
Ferrell, who gives a fine performance. I've just seen him in The
Producers, and physically/vocally he is *completely* different. It's a
good role.) Like Pieces of April, the film works with silences, visual
cues, and verbal cues intertwined. It is a film which is worth
concentrating in - and Zooey Deschanel's performance as Reese Holdin is
excellent. She doesn't go over the top, rather it is through a subdued
range that she succeeds in winning over the audience. Don't miss this
film, or let it pass you by.
<|_=00=_|>
Winter Passing introduces a few great characters inside of an
interesting family reconciliation plot, but fails to deliver with the
results. Deschanel does a great job anchoring the film's emotional
context as the very multidimensional, seemingly jaded Reese and the
always dependable Ed Harris does more with one eye then many actors can
emote during an impassioned speech. Will Ferrell however, despite being
the go-to comedic relief in a very somber film, simply cannot disappear
outside of himself enough as an actor to ever truly play a character
other then his endless Saturday night live variations, and to me his
awareness almost condescends the film's emotional impact. Nevertheless,
the film will have you engaged in the offbeat family situation we are
thrust into, only to have it become tied up way too neatly and quickly
at the end. This lack of a thought out finale will make the emotional
attachments made throughout the film with the main characters not as
hard hitting as the movie perhaps intended, but still delivers a pretty
solid, if a little unfulfilled, drama.
