
In reviewing the incredible annoying House of the Dead, I wrote, 'Why
flirt with the concept of overkill when you can make it say 'whose your
daddy?' Torque does not flirt with overkill; Torque *is* overkill's
daddy, and it was fun. 

Just a few hours before I watched Scary Movie 3 and that film barely
managed to summon a chuckle from me. Torque had me in stitches before
the first sixty-seconds were up. After years of watching 'serious'
films with ridiculously over the top chase sequences (especially
lately), finally a movie comes along and puts them all in their place.
I have waited a long time for a racing-movie to recognize its own
lameness and just (knowingly) go for all the over-the-top stunts it can
possibly collect in a loosely strung together plot about a bunch of
stereotyped misfits no one really cares about.

As stated above, the key was the fact this film does not take itself
seriously. Take for example the MTV quick-cut commercial editing style,
its overly colorful nature in sets and props, the comic-book-ish camera
angles, the overused CG for impossible camera/bike moves, and the
lighting which left the high-contrast shadows in mid-day. Want more?
How 'bout when a bike speeds past a road sign, making it do a Looney
Toonsesque-spin, and if you look carefully you can see the words 'Cars
Suck?'

Everything perfectly matched the goal this film set out to hit, which
is basically a tongue-in-cheek XBox game on the silver screen so
commenting on the characters and plot seems virtually pointless. It's
about as well developed as most action films-characters and plot serve
enough purpose to get the bikes from chase scene A to chase scene B
while poking fun at characters/lines from other racing films. No more
no less.

I personally loved Torque. Would I recommend it to friends, family, or
Joe-Shmoe who happens to pass me by in the video store? Well . . . for
those who watch films with an anal eye and point out, 'That's not a
logical plot point. That defies the laws of physics. That's the single
stupidest thing I've ever seen in cinema?' No. Heck no. Don't even pick
up the box. However, for those who can watch a film where the comedy
lay not in punch lines rather in the style -- a film that's a
celebration of all things lame in all of cinema's over-glorified chase
scenes? Have a blast and join in with Torque's mockery of the genre.
<|_=00=_|>

A lot of people think that I love the "Charlie's Angels" movies because I
think they're "so bad, they're good", when that's actually not true. On
the
contrary, I think they are pretty smart (especially in the precise way
they
constantly reference pop culture in clever and heartfelt ways). And yes,
they are totally silly and unrealistic and goofy, but what I like about
that
is that it's completely intentional (which is what most people don't get,
and is so obvious to me).

"Torque", on the other hand, is a perfect example of a movie that is TRULY
so bad, it's good. Or at least enjoyable in a surreal, lunatic sort of
way.
This movie seriously doesn't have a brain in its head.

In every sense a B-movie, it most resembles those gleefully exploitive,
low-budget movies that Roger Corman and Russ Meyer made decades ago, where
biker gangs did battle with their switchblade-toting girlfriends at their
side. And it's every bit as silly as it sounds, which could be either good
news or bad news for you, depending on what kind of filmgoer you are.

Personally, I knew it was crap the whole time, but still had a blast
watching it. The story is ridiculous and the dialogue is ludicrous (these
characters exist in a world where when a girl says "Nice bike", the guy
says
"Nice a**" and she LIKES it). But I cannot fully resist a movie in which
two
improbably beautiful biker chicks stare each other down on their bikes in
a
photogenic, deserted alleyway (both of them in front of huge product
logos,
for extra giggles), one of them yells "Bring it on, b****!", the other
whips
out a switchblade, and then they charge! As a classic B-movie enthusiast,
I
offer no apologies for having fun watching a scene like that.

It's really not all bad, either. Martin Henderson and Monet Mazur have
some
genuinely nice and tender scenes together, and the great, color-conscious
cinematography makes everything look so shiny you could eat off the
screen.
Jamie Pressly is an absolute hoot as the evil biker chick, and Adam Scott
scores some laughs as a conceited F.B.I. agent.

Also, several of the action scenes are pretty amazing, once you get over
the
idea that this movie is obviously not taking place on planet Earth, but
rather some video game universe or a 12 year-old's dream.

I wish Ice Cube was off doing the kinds of good movies he used to make
(like
"Three Kings", the original "Friday", "Boyz N The Hood", "Higher
Learning",
"Ghosts Of Mars"...), but he contributes some laughs as one of the heavies
here. I do wish he had changed his expression at least once, though. You
know the one where he grits his teeth and curls his upper lip so that he
look like he hates your guts and steam is about to come out of his ears?
That's the one that he has throughout the entire movie.

Basically, I'm not gonna fight for this movie or anything, I realize it's
of
essentially no value. I'll just say that it made it easy for me to shut
off
my brain and I enjoyed it, and maybe you will too.
I give "Torque" 3 stars the same way I would give "Switchblade Sisters" 3
stars. They're awful and cheesy, but a hell of a lot of fun, and that
counts
for something, doesn't it?
<|_=00=_|>
...And just about as nutritious for anyone seeking a coherent
story
or serious characters.  But being an aficionado of low-rent
B
movies, I took TORQUE for what it was -- a video game on film
that
had no relationship to the laws of physics.  Roger Corman
would
be proud of this puppy.

I loved the look of it.  I hate the desert (where it seems 75%
of
this film was shot) but it seemed so lovely, I almost wanted to
visit
the locations.  Martin and Monet are beautiful to look at and
almost
pull off their "tougher-than-thou" attitudes.  Ice Cube was
dope
(meant in the good way, not the dumb one) and the bad boys
(and
grrrrl) were just too much fun.  Joseph Kahn shows promise as
a
director (if someone will please put him on Valium); his
quiet
moments were just as nice as his non-stop action ones.

What's bad?  I can't say the script was because it's obvious
there
really wasn't one except in the loosest sense.  The editing was
so
in your face, I got lost a few times and still cannot figure out
how
one character died except he went BOOM on his bike in downtown
LA.  I was a bit offended at how all the black guys were
portrayed
in a stereotypical "bad-assed-muthaf**kah" way as opposed to
the
cool as cucumber confidence of "the lead three and she" and
the
"we're refugees from MAD MAX" baddies.

Let's put it this way -- cotton candy is probably the worst thing
you
can put in your body in the way of anything edible, but if you got
a
craving for it, nothing else will do.  And that's TORQUE, to
the
"max."
<|_=00=_|>
What's with the hate for this movie? Why can't people just take this
movie for what it is? This movie is just simply good B-movie action
entertainment. Its obviously no Oscar material, no but did you
seriously expected it to be? At least it doesn't take itself as serious
as both the Fast and the Furious movies did. You know that when you are
going to watch a movie like "Torque" you are going to see a bad story
with some second rate actors but with some nice action.

And this movie surely has some nice action. The motorcycle sequences
are surprising good and tense. Most of the stunts were nicely
choreographed and the movie has some nice camera tricks and nice
editing. It's obvious when watching this movie that Joseph Kahn is a
music video director but that certain style works perfect for a fast
paced movie like this. Joseph Kahn seems like a talented and well
motivated director, of which I'm sure we will hear more of in the
future. 

Yeah sure, the ending is pretty bad and fake looking but it didn't
ruined the movie for me in any way. I was entertained throughout the
entire movie by some nice action.

The movie has a bit of an awkward kind of humor, which they should had
left out in my opinion. The script is not very well written but still
the actors pull it of to make their characters likable and give them a
personality. Would I mind seeing "Torque 2"? Most certainly not! I
would rather see a "Torque 2" than a "The Fast and the Furious 3".

Really, just give this movie a chance, you might very well end up
liking it.

6/10

http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/
<|_=00=_|>

I caught this movie on DVD the other day. I thought it was going to be
terrible. It was actually great! The action goods are all there, but
five minutes into it I got the joke and was laughing with it (not at
it). I don't think this movie will appeal to everyone, but it will get
two types for sure: action gearheads who just want a solid
uncomplicated action picture, and smart viewers who can appreciate
clever film-making and the in-jokes threaded throughout. After seeing
the cameo of Dennis Weaver still being chased by the truck from Duel
after thirty years, I was won over by the Torque's own charms. First of
all it the director, cinematographer, and editor did a great job. This
film looks incredible. For those of you who actually care about
film-making, this film is densely loaded with interesting angles and
techniques that somehow manage to work as a cohesive style. I love the
way Joseph Kahn stages scenes. It's very creative and he has a sharp
sense of timing - action and comedywise. An overlooked first effort and
I would like to see more from him. Second, I thought Martin Henderson
as Cory Ford did a solid job as your typical running from the law good
guy. I liked his charisma and hope he does more action flicks. There
are some standout sequences but my favorites are the opening car chase,
the train sequence, the freeway, and the surreal, over-the-top
Playstation style ending. What's great is that each has its own feel so
that there is no sense of repetition. You feel like each chase brings
something new to the table, unlike other ilk of this genre. Need I say
anything about the women in this film? Wow. I would let Jaime Pressly
ride my bike anytime she wants. A word about the bad reviews here:
ignore them. The film is too good as an action movie to be dismissed -
what are the looking for, Cold Mountain? Disregard anyone who complains
about the "pepsi product placement" for that is most definitely someone
who did not get the joke (two motorcycle dominatrix chicks staged
opposite from each other under big prominent soft drink signs -
classic!). I think the movie suffers from a minor contradiction - it's
script is too dumb, but it's film-making is too smart. Yes, the story is
crap, but you don't watch a motorcycle chase movie for STORY. If you
sit back and enjoy this modern riff on Roger Corman, you might find a
smile on your face. If you have the ability to appreciate the sly wit
of smart visual film-making, you could find yourself cheering like I
did. Worst movie ever? Ridiculous. Three 1/2 out of five stars, maybe
more.

<|_=00=_|>

*SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*

I saw "Torque" in a near deserted movie theater. It was me in the second
row
and two 13 or 14 year old guys in the back row. We were the target
audience.
"Torque" hit a bullseye for us. So if you're not a teenage boy or a
B-movie
lunatic, avoid "Torque". If you fit into the profile audience for an
insane
biker flick, see this movie immediately.

"Torque" is hilarious. I was cheering through the whole thing. It wasn't
just the stunts that had me going. It was the dialogue as well. When the
main biker tries to make up with his girlfriend who he ditched he says, "I
wrote letters." She says, "I made fires." I just had a laughing fit
writing
that.

Ice Cube shows up as the angriest biker in the world. He has a permanent
scowl on his face. Just looking at him had me laughing. All the macho
elements of a biker flick are on proud display. The hard rock was cranked
up
as the bikers did battle. There was Kid Rock and Static-X. It was a hard
rock party. I had a good time.

Speaking of Static-X, the last scene with super hot Jaime Pressly has
"Push
it" blasting away as she does battle with the main blonde biker. Ah Jaime.
What a special effect you are. Good Lord, she can squeeze into a pair of
leather pants. Gotta love it.

<|_=00=_|>

This movie has tones of high octane thrills it almost makes you forget
about
a storyline. Because the story seems to drag itself around. For its action
moments that seems to come in every 5-10 minutes of the movie. If not for
the action this movie would be dull. Martin Henderson seems to do
allright,
and so does Ice Cube. But it's Monet Mazur, who seems to have a great
blend
of beauty and toughness in her role. I think she can have a great career
ahead of her. The action was awesome, but acting was dull. But then again
I
thought Fast and The Furious was no better. It does'nt try to be anything
truly terrific, it just tries to be a movie you can enjoy with your
friends.
<|_=00=_|>
Released in 2004, "Torque" cost $40 million and only made a little over
half back at the USA box office. It's therefore not a very well-known
film, but its gained a hardcore cult following in the years since.
After viewing it I can see why.

I thought it was going to be terrible, but it was actually great! The
action goods are all there, but five minutes into it I got the joke and
was laughing with it and not at it. I don't think "Torque" will appeal
to everyone, but it will get two types for sure: action gearheads who
just want a solid uncomplicated action picture, and smart viewers who
can appreciate clever filmmaking and the in-jokes threaded throughout. 

I fall under the second bracket since I generally loathe mindless
action flicks. What takes "Torque" beyond mindless physics-defying
action is pointed out above: the film is cleverly made and filled with
hilarious in-jokes. Director Joseph Kahn has a history in flashy music
videos and this comes across on the screen. It's pure eye-candy from
beginning to end with all manner of entertaining tidbits, like the
brief close-up of the turtle between the racing cars at the very
beginning.

The look & vibe is pure comic book come to life. Every shot, facial
expression, action scene, confrontation, word, set, pose, etc. reflects
this. The bikes are mostly crotch rockets but there are all kinds. The
guys are coolness personified and the girls are hotness incarnated. The
cast is highlighted by Martin Henderson as the worthy protagonist and
Monet Mazur as his babe. Ice Cube is great as the leader of a black
gang, while Matt Schulze and Jaime Pressly play the villains. There are
also a couple of FBI agents in the mix.

The cinematography is gorgeous, shot in the desolate regions of S.
California.

The film takes no prisoners at a brief 84 minutes. This is good since
films of this ilk shouldn't overstay their welcome.

Believe it or not, there's actually some depth to the characters and
storyline; we see glimpses of courage, love, friendship, repentance,
respect, sacrifice and loyalty. If they would have upped the depth and
offered some moving epic parts I would have easily given the film a top
rating of 9/10 Stars.

But it works fine as is. It is what it is -- perhaps the ultimate cult
action film ever made, pulsating with energy, creativity and
excitement.

GRADE: B+ or A-
<|_=00=_|>

I liked this movie.  There was nothing special about it at all.
Everything
looked fake and most of the stunts were beyond believable.  Who Cares?  It
is a fun movie that not only pokes fun at itself but at the makers own
other
movie Fast and Furious.  I thought this was a fun watch and all the votes
seem to be coming from people who were looking for a serious movie with
great acting.  Why?  You can tell by previews this is not that kind of
film.
This is a great way to just entertain yourself.  Go see it
soon.
<|_=00=_|>
The film deals with a biker named Ford ( Martin Henderson ) leader of a
biker gang ( Jay Hernandez, Yun Lee ), he's accused by a rival gang (
Matt Schulze and Jaime Pressly )of killing a biker who results to be
the brother of the leader ( Ice Cube ) another dangerous band . The
protagonist will try to resolve his innocence and being pursued by the
gangs and the police.

The picture blends action-packed , motorbike pursuits , shootouts , rip
roaring , struggles and a little bit of violence . From the beginning
to the end the action-pace is continuous , the movie provides fast and
furious amusement with spectaculars scenes . The picture packs
unstopped action and is extremely entertaining for action lovers and
video-games fans . The motorcyclists racing are made with authentic
stunts but also by C.G.I. ; however there are over use computer images
and visual effects , such as is especially developed in the pursuits on
the train and the breathtaking finale race . Atmospheric musical score
is adjusted to the action movie and is rightly composed by Trevor Ravin
. Coloristic cinematography by Peter Levy . The motion picture is well
directed by Joseph Kahn and has been produced by Neal Moritz , famous
producer of action films . The flick will appeal to adrenaline lovers
and young people are looking for strong emotions . Rating : Average but
very entertaining . Well worth watching . It's a must see for the
bikers buffs .
