
I looked forward to this movie, having been pleasantly surprised by
other fractured fairy tales such as "Shrek" and even "Hoodwinked", and
I really wanted to like this one a lot, but as it was, I only like it a
little.

Here's the lowdown: Cinderella, or Ella, as friends call her (Sarah
Michelle Gellar) is taken with the charming but clueless Prince
Humperdink (Patrick Warburton), but in the classic fashion of the fairy
tale we all know, stepmother Frieda (Sigourney Weaver) has other
ideas--when she stumbles upon the lab of a powerful wizard (George
Carlin) and runs afoul of his hapless assistants, Mambo and Munk (Andy
Dick and Wallace Shawn, respectively) she learns that everyone's fate
in Fairy Tale Land is pre-written, can be manipulated, and proceeds to
do so. She garners the support of just about every fairy tale villain
in a regular coup, Forcing Ella, Mambo, Munk, and cynical palace
dishwasher Rick (Freddie Prinze Jr.) to search for the Prince, or some
way out of the mess.

This film looks terrific--the visuals of Fairy Tale land are quite
stunning, and the character design, along with capable voicing, makes
the characters memorable. Even the idea is juicy, and leads to other
interesting notions, such as the view of Rumplestiltskin (Michael
McShane channeling Gilbert Gottfried) as a concerned guardian. The
problem--and it's a big one--is that they all deserve a better
executed, better timed story. The plot, while intriguing in concept,
drags in too many places, and there just feels like a few too many
holes are left here and there. The disjointed use of the talent is
somewhat evident as well; I'm somewhat used to guys like Warburton,
Shawn, and Andy Dick getting the great lines, and Dick does get some
good ones, but most of the good lines are divided between Prinze and
Weaver. Oh, they handle them effectively enough, but the uneven feel
loses punch for the whole production. So technically, it's excellent,
but overall, it's mediocre. You should really wait for DVD on this
one...
<|_=00=_|>
Avoid this film until you've read all of the negative reviews on it
first. That way, you are less likely to be as disappointed in it as I
was. The previews suckered me into seeing it. Do not make this mistake!

Though a cute idea, it ended up as only that ... a cute idea.
Fortunately, the acting was well suited to this shallow attempt to
entertain. Comparing it to Shrek and Hoodwinked is rather unfair, since
this movie is no where near their league. 

If you have absolutely nothing to do on a cold and rainy day, and you
get hold of a free ticket, pick up a newspaper on your way to the
theater and read what the critics have said about it. If you decide to
see it, on those terms, you have at least been warned.
<|_=00=_|>
I really don't understand all of the venom and vitriol directed at this
cute little film. Is it a cinematic masterpiece? No, but it's hardly
the worst children's animated film you'll ever see. (I leave that honor
to the horror that is DOOGLE.) The ill-fated romance between Rick and
Ella seems genuine enough -- it makes you take a second look at the
classic fairy tale and ask the question, "what is so all-fired
wonderful about Price Charming, anyway?" The casting was appropriate --
anything featuring the underused Wallace Shawn can't be all bad -- and
the acting was fine, if not Oscar-worthy.

Again, is this film on the level of SHREK or ICE AGE, or anything by
Pixar? Of course not. But is it better than a lot of the animated
children's films that have come out lately? Absolutely.
<|_=00=_|>
Happily N'ever After is a play on the usual and expected ending of all
fairy tales, where the guy will get the girl, defeat the evil
queen/king, and ride off into the sunset. What happens after that,
frankly, nobody cares, as it's as perfect an ending as it can possibly
be.

The storyline here takes a peek into what can actually go wrong, if
"happily ever after" gets traded for "happily never after". Fate as it
seems, in Fairy Tale Land, is managed in a castle top by a caretaker
wizard (George Carlin) and his two bumbling helpers Mambo (Andy Dick)
and Monk (Wallace Shawn). In their lair, there's the book of fairy
tales which dictates the lives of everyone in the land, a remote
controlled looking glass for that big-brother peep into their lives,
and a set of scales, which can be tipped into Good or Bad directions to
influence the proceedings of the fairytale.

Central to the plot, despite a host of other familiar and identifiable
tales like Sleeping Beauty and Little Red Riding Hood, is that of
Cinderella's. Ella (as she is known here, voiced by Sarah Michelle
Gellar) as usual is being bullied by her wicked stepmother (aren't they
always), voiced by Sigourney Weaver, and ugly stepsisters (Kath Soucie
and Jill Talley), and we encounter the same scenario about going to the
Prince's (Patrick Warburton) ball, fairy godmother, pumpkin coach,
glass slippers and all. Only that this time, the spotlight is put on
the Prince's kitchen helper Rick (Freddie Prinze Jr), the chief
protagonist and narrator of the story.

Rick secretly loves Ella, and cannot fathom why the entire kingdom is
smitten with the buffoon of a prince charming - Prince Humperdink. It
seems to copy the formula set out by Shrek, that if you have a prince,
making him a less than perfect specimen character-wise, to draw out the
laughs. In the presence of his incompetence, Rick and Ella gotta
combine forces to save their land and restore order when Ella's
stepmother gains control over the wizard's staff and lair. That about
sums up the plot.

Delivery wise, the animation looked rather uninspiring. 3D animated
movies have reached a certain threshold, and no longer commands the
wows. It's not that it isn't gorgeous, just not fantastically so. The
voice talents are relatively unknowns, except for the leads, and seemed
to have gone the opposite direction to the mantra of filling the movie
with as many recognizable stars as possible, in order to put attention
to the story and dialogue. Sadly, the story's rather plain, with an
expected ending, and the dialogue, lacking in wit and spunk. There are
scenes which try to be funny, but just fall flat.

In an animated movie where fairy tale characters run amok, the movie
coasts along without much madness infused. But definitely easy enough
for its intended target audience - the children - to understand and
enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>
Once upon a time, twelve years ago to be exact, a Canadian film studio
by the name of Lionsgate was created. At the start their films went
pretty much unnoticed. Starting in 2000 a wave of change came about.
First was 'American Psycho', then 'Monster's Ball' in 2001, followed by
'Saw', 'Fahrenheit 9/11', 'The Devil's Rejects', & 'Crash' in the years
after. All those films became notable favorites of many. The year is
now 2007, and Lionsgate has assembled a rather interesting collection
of people to take part in their latest release. Animation designer of
1997's 'Pippi Longstocking', Paul Boger is directing. 'The Return of
Jafar's story creator Doug Langdale and 'Ground Control's writer Rob
Moreland have been chosen to write. To bring the characters created to
life, on board is 'The Grudge's Sarah Michelle Gellar, 'Scooby-Doo's
Freddy Prinze Jr., & once alien obliterating, Sigourney Weaver.
Together with numerous others, they have created the atrocity of a film
with the truthful title 'Happily N'Ever'.

The Wizard of Fairy Tale Land, played by George Carlin, is going on
vacation. That leaves his assistants Mambo and Munk, played by Andy
Dick and Wallace Shawn in charge. It's now their duty to keep the
balance of good and evil. This means making sure all stories go
according to planned; each getting their happy ending. Everything is
okay until Sigourney Weaver's character, Frieda, Cinderella's evil
step-mother, finds out about the Wizard's absence and easily takes
over. The kingdom is now in shambles with evil now holding power.
Cinderella, played by Sarah Michelle sets out with Mambo and Monk in
search of Prince Charming hoping that he'll be able to save the day.
Rick, the dishwasher of the Prince, feels this is a waste of time. His
plan is for him, Cinderella, Mambo, & Monk to take out Frieda
themselves, which the others disagree with. Either way, the fact
remains that she must be stopped, and soon.

If this had been released in 2001, the idea of it might be more
appealing. Unfortunately, since it didn't, it's almost impossible not
to compare with 'Shrek'. Once again fairy tale icons have been synced
together for a CGI film. Only this time, they're aren't as much fun to
watch. I'll confess, the introduction fooled me. It made me think that
it would end up being okay. Thirty-one minutes in, I was completely
frustrated. I wanted it to end right then and there. This is actually
fitting though considering a line Will gives at the end of the intro.
He states, "I'm sorry to tell you, but it only gets worse from here."
How sad it is that I didn't pay any attention to his warning.

The kinks in the characters really make the difference here. Cinderella
isn't able to stray from believing the Prince is her one true love. She
doesn't end up opening her eyes to what is right in front of her until
the very end. This ends up making her seem dimwitted, and as a result,
makes us never really care about her. Then Rumpelstiltskin, played by
Michael McShane, ends up slowly turning good once evil is in favor and
lets him to get the baby he sought after. This change ends up affecting
his fairy tale. Instead of being dragged into the earth by rage, he
ends up staying and helps care for the child. This was only done for
the film because he becomes somewhat likable. So of course in the end,
they can't simply dispose of him like in the actual story. I guess
anyone can now re-write one of the Brother's Grimm's classic tales.

Above all other imperfections displayed, repetitiveness is honestly the
worst of them all. Over and over and over and over and over mostly from
Frieda, is the idea that nothing is going to end happy said. Sometimes
it's re-worded, sometimes it's not. I would think that title of the
film gave that away. Even having Frieda shout it once would be okay,
but no. They had to have her say it until it almost loses its meaning.
It does succeed in making you want the happy ending to happen even more
though. If that's even important at all at that point It does try,
I'll give it that, but it's nowhere near as clever as 'Shrek'. I must
say though, I did like the seven dwarfs. The twist on them is nice.
With that I must also say, they single-handedly can't save 'Happily
N'Ever After'. I urge you, avoid seeing it. Don't even rent it when it
becomes available on DVD. Just walk away and never turn back.
<|_=00=_|>
While this had some good points, there were many weaknesses. The
characters didn't always fit their voices and the animation was pretty
weak. Freddie Prinze, Jr.'s character, Rick, looked like Justin
Timberlake, for some unknown reason. Characters walked as if they were
automatons, not with the fluidity of humans. And Sarah Michell Gellar,
while I'm a big fan of hers from her Buffy days, seemed bored the whole
time. In fact, her (Cinder)Ella spoke with the same stilted simplicity
as the robot Buffy from Season Five of the series. The monumental
talents of George Carlin were wasted in such a small role. The whole
thing seemed as if it were a rushed rip-off of Shrek and Hoodwinked.
<|_=00=_|>
Things are going awry in Fairy Tale land. Thanks to the Evil Stepmother
(wonderful Sigourney Weaver), all the Villains of the fairy tales are
going to have their way.

The humor was hip (but not too hip). I laughed aloud a few times. I
think the adults will enjoy it as much as the kids. (The daddies will
especially enjoy the Stepmother's Jessica Rabbit-like physique.)
Beautiful 3-D animation helps it swing along. Although I found the
Stepmother's bosoms as bit TOO 3-D. Distracting.

Patrick Warburton is perfectly cast as the voice of the big handsome
(and dumb) prince. Married couple Sarah Michelle Gellar and Freddie
Prinze, Jr. do service as the leads, and Wallace Shawn, Andy Dick and
George Carlin are on board too. (George only has a few lines, none of
them funny, so don't get your hopes up if you're a fan.) 

It's no Shrek -- but it's 85 colorful minutes that go down easily.
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw Happily N'ever After. Trust me, I will N'ever see this
again. The plot was weak, the dialogue was amateurish and it belongs on
the direct to video shelf. I don't mind the lead female going against
ritual by choosing the underdog, but its not enjoyable when your
reminded about it every five seconds. The characters are one
dimensional and predictable. You feel no remorse for poor little Ella
and her love Rick. I actually thought the only entertainment was George
Carlin's character b/c he was on screen for less than four minutes.
Also this movie had no depth and is a cornucopia of corny one liners.
All in all, a perfect movie for children and their bored parents.
<|_=00=_|>
This is below the bottom of the barrel. Happily N'Ever After is that
kind of movie you watch once and never want to revisit EVER again. This
happens with GOOD movies when you want to watch that movie a second
time and it's even better than the first time, but this is the exact
opposite!! 

Who honestly thought that plagiarizing the Shrek premise was a good
idea? Who with the right mind set think that way?! Nobody! Shrek was
classic but this was and still is Shrek's crap! This makes other
horrors like Shark Tale look like masterpieces and believe me, that's
not saying enough. The movie has to be seen to be believed.

Horrible CGI, horrible acting, horrible characters, horrible script,
horrible humor that's not even funny AT ALL, and most of all A HORRIBLE
movie experience!!!! This is the worst cartoon I've ever seen in my
life!!! It'd take some real effort to make me hate a movie even more
than this one.
<|_=00=_|>
The trailer promised an exciting flick about how fairy tales might have
ended up had there not been a happy ending. 'Happily N'Ever After'
borrows heavily from 'Shrek' but it lacks the charm, the wit and the
uniqueness. The story is nothing new and almost every moment is
predictable. There are some funny scenes but a majority of the jokes
fall flat. The animation is far from the top quality of Pixar and
Dreamworks. It's not bad to look at but it lacks the liveliness.
Sigourney Weaver does a good job voicing Frida. Sarah Michelle Gellar
and Freddie Prinze Jr. are adequate. The film itself isn't as bad as
many have stated. The characters are likable and funny and the idea of
the villains taking over (since fairy tales no longer have a happy
ending) is amusing. Perhaps a larger budget would have made it look
better and a tighter script with better writing may have given more to
look forward to but overall it's not too bad for a one-time watch with
your family around.
