

I think this movie was great. It has hilarious humour and its almost an
unique growth story of a man that has grown tired of his miserable life
and finds something worth fighting for.

The thing that bothers me is that some people criticize the film cause
it has too bad language. In my opinion the used language is important
part of the film. I wouldn't find the characters very "authentic" if
they wouldn't use the kind of language they do. 

Maybe its part of modern trend. People are shocked if somebody swears
or shows a breast in TV and after that they go see some idiotic TV
series or action movie where they kill 1000 people and not even blink.

Is the message "violence is OK, but sex/nudity and swearing is not"
somehow logical? I think in the real life its quite the opposite.

<|_=00=_|>
Hilarious from start to finish, this movie covers the story of an
alcoholic safe cracker who works as a shopping mall Santa to steal
money from the mall on Christmas eve. The concept of the movie is
simple and the script is razor sharp with well drawn characters
enhanced by faultless performances throughout. As with all good
comedies, the material is inspired but it's the delivery that makes it
unforgettable. Thornton proves that when it comes to Dead-pan comedy,
there's no one better! His performance alone would be enough to make
this film good but the fact that his high standards are maintained by
the rest of the cast elevates it to a classic.
<|_=00=_|>
I avoided this flic when it first came out due to the reviews which
concentrated on the 'cynicism'and 'edgyness' of the effort. It is
crude.It is rude.And is is filled with enough 4-letter words to be its
own zone of bad taste. Know what else? Billy Bob Thorton is masterful
as is the rest of the cast.There are no 'heroes',but Billy Bob is not
exactly an anti-hero either.He portrays a broken,dysfunctional loser
who holds nothing in contempt so much as himself.Desiring nothing so
much as extinction,he rambles through life hating EVERYTHING. But it's
Christmas,and even for losers third,fourth,fifth,or 50th chances
sometimes show up.Watching Billy Bob's character 'grow-up'during the
film is surprisingly heartwarming.For a broken man,he does the best he
can once he allows himself to 'give-a-damm'. See this for his
performance(and the rest of the cast),and be surprised.
<|_=00=_|>
Billy Bob Thornton has found his Josef Von Sternberg in Terry Zwigoff.
As a revolting, immoral, insignificant Santa, Billy Bob is a wonder.
His face is a moving, disturbing, hysterical reflection of his
awareness. His life sucks. The cut from Miami to Billy Bob and his
partner walking down the street in their Christmas costumes is, on its
own, worth the price of admission. Terry Zwigoff has transformed the
crumbs of society into a sophisticated, adult, art form. Billy Bob and
his sensational young co star Brett Kelly create characters never seen
before on the screen and as a consequence we cling on to their every
nuance, incapable to predict what could happen next. That in itself
makes Bad Santa a very welcome surprise and a great time at the movies.
<|_=00=_|>

When I first saw the trailer for this film I thought that it was basically
just gonna be a funny little dark comedy that would be a nice distraction
from the annoying family movies that are being dumped into theaters around
this time. However, leaving the theater after watching this, I discovered
how much more it was than what I was expecting. Instead a good movie, I got
a great one, with good direction and a wonderful script and, best of all,
the performance of Billy Bob Thornton, who makes the film what it is. His
foulmouthed, cynical, suicidal character might look two-dimensional on paper
and, had another actor taken a stab at this role, come off as forced and
tiresome, but Thornton finds just the right blend of humor and reality. The
film is touching, but not on the surface. Many viewers will not get it;
they'll see this film as a vulgar assault on the Christmas spirit, and, in a
way, it is, but deeper than that there is a story here about a man who has
lost all faith in the human race and has now been restored. Without being
sappy, unlike almost any other film I've ever seen, "Bad Santa" is able to
make this an emotional journey for a contemptable character, get us to like
him, and disguise it behind dark, sick humor. It's a masterpiece of dark
comedy and the best holiday film of the last 5 years. **** out of ****

<|_=00=_|>
The first time I saw Terry Zwigoff's latest effort (co-executive
produced by the Coen brothers) Bad Santa, I didn't know whether I was
watching a comedy that had astonishingly funny and madcap moments, or
if it was a really bad movie. At times the script felt like it was
under the penmanship of demented cretins off loan of some low-rent
porno company. But there were scenes and moments with good old Billy
Bob Thornton that had me laughing uncontrollably, so I decided to see
it again recently. Now I understand it- this is a dig-in nails, ribald,
hardcore satirical look at one (un-kept is a term used loosely) man in
the midst of Americana during Christmas time. 

This man is Willie, played by Billy Bob, as something of a loser,
low-self esteem, boozing, cursing, and a thief, though only at
Christmas time. In a sense he's a modern day pirate without a shave,
though with a yearly plan to rob a large store in a given mall he's
given a job at with his co-patriot Marcus (Tony Cox, whom you may
recall from uproarious bit parts in Friday and Me, Myself, and Irene).
In one season, however, he meets a Kid (Brent Kelly), who for some
reason looks up to this con-man in a red suit, giving him a place to
stay in turn (never asked for) for some advice and help with bullies
and self-esteem. On the first viewing of Bad Santa, along with not
knowing whether I was seeing a good or bad film, I didn't know whether
Billy Bob was pushing the 'rotten-dude' envelope over the top or just
right. This may be a problem for most viewers going to see it once and
not thinking of seeing it again. 

But I think Bad Santa is one of those movies that merits a repeat
viewing- you may laugh less or harder at certain jokes and moments of
outrageousness, some may fly over your head completely or make you go
"eww". Yet I think the brilliant aspect about Bad Santa is it never
takes itself a bit too seriously. Even in the denouement, when we are
sort of assured things will turn out alright; it's like a denouement on
a South Park episode. In fact, that's something that can be said about
Bad Santa, is that it feels like a work in the vein of Parker and
Stone, but since it's from the director of Ghost World it comes off a
little fresher, with an appeal all its own.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of the best Christmas movie of all times. The casting is
brilliant, and the chemistry between all the characters is very much
present. 

Billy Bob Thornton was especially funny as the loser in life who dons
the red suit every Christmas. Just seeing Santa behaving drunken and
swearing every other word tells you how different this is from the
typical Christmas family friendly movies. 

Bernie Mac was funny in his supporting role, and Tony Cox was OK. Billy
Bob was phenomenal. 

I've watched this movie twice already this Christmas season, and I
loved every minute of it.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw the trailers and knew what I was in for when I went to see Bad
Santa. It's not Nice Santa or Naughty Santa, but BAAADD SANTA, horribly
drunk and disorderly Santa. Rude and Crude Santa.

I laughed until tears streamed down my face.

There is a lot of sexual situations and profanity, but you have to look
past it. Those sensitive to foul language should not watch this movie
nor FOUR WEDDINGS AND A FUNERAL. This is not a kiddie movie, but a
movie made for adults.

Compared to ELF, SANTA CLAUSE, and a whole raft of other so-so
Christmas related comedies, this is one of the best. Most holiday humor
movies are always on the lightside with an eye to the children market
during the holidays. This one ranks in there with A Christmas STORY and
PLANES, TRAINS, AND AUTOMOBILES and THE GRINCH WHO STOLE Christmas
(cartoon version).

BAD SANTA is Christmas at its darkest, full of profanity, bad people,
and evil deeds. But at the heart of it is a small bit of caring by one
Bad Santa.
<|_=00=_|>
Forget Jimmy Stewart and that claymation crap! If you like Christmas
movies with more of an edge and lots of comedy however, "Bad Santa"
might just be your new favorite holiday movie. In my mind, usurping "A
Christmas Story" and "Scrooged" as the funniest holiday movie yet, Bad
Santa (or BS as I like to call it) pulls no punches as it delivers a
raunchy, yet funny, and yes, even a little bit of a touching film.

Billy Bob Thorton is a drinking, fornicating, defecating thief who
freeloads for the whole year, only to work 25 days in December while
robbing a mall of all it's holiday proceeds. His partner in crime is
Tony Cox, Santa's little person helper who keeps him sober and lucid
enough through the season to not royally screw things up.

I won't go into details, because frankly the plot needs work. But the
acting is superb, the script hysterical, and the unbelievable jokes and
inappropriate situations are just so entertaining you won't care about
anything else.

Bernie Mac and Lauren Graham deliver polished supporting roles, as does
John Ritter in his final film role before his death. The kid doesn't
have many lines (and I want to slap him for the ones he does deliver),
but just looking at him makes me laugh, so I can't complain there.

Basically, this is the ultimate inappropriate Christmas movie; one that
makes you stand up and scream, "Holly s*!t I can't believe they did
that!" This movie is just so blatantly wrong, the only other film I can
compare it to is "South Park: The Movie." Just as South Park crosses
every line of decency that previously existed, so does BS. A great
movie because of it? Hell no. But a funny and entertaining one? Hell
yes!
<|_=00=_|>

He drinks and smokes and pukes and wets his pants and has sex in public
places. He has a horrible attitude, a trash mouth, is mean to little kids,
hates himself, and robs department stores. Ok, so he's not all bad, but he
is without a doubt the worst department store Santa ever. There's not a lot
of stretching required of Thornton to get into character in this flick which
capitalizes on the grosser than gross sense of comedy/humor as it wends its
way through a simple tale about a scamming Santa and his dwarf/elf sidekick
who rip off a department store a year to avoid honest toil. A mildly
creative love it or hate it flick which tries as hard to be disgusting as
funny, "Bad Santa" has, for obvious reasons, received mixed reviews. Only
for the thick skinned who aren't easily offended by bad language, bad
attitudes, or bad, bad Santas.  (B)
