

I guess this film didn't really grip me. You knew from the start where the
film was heading, but it seemed to take its sweet time about getting there.
Perhaps that's why I found myself nodding off several times, only to be
awoken by the obligatory, and repeated use of, shock tactics throughout the
film.

I can't really think of anything positive to say about this film, but
neither can I say anything greatly negative. It was neither good, nor bad.
In fact, watching it was very much like being trapped in limbo. There was
little to stimulate the audience's minds through most of the
movie.

It's also irritating to see Hollywood moralising about the evils of cloning
through the use of film. I'd hesitate to say it was right, but the last
thing reasoned debate on the subject needs is idiot screenwriters cashing in
on public fears (and fears that are generated by media misrepresentation, at
that) and adding more fuel to the fire. What next, a movie about people
turning into flies because they ate genetically modified food
crops?

This film isn't very good and you won't be seeing it twice even if you do
have the foolishness, like me, to watch it once. Lets just hope that this is
one film that Hollywood decides NOT to clone in the future.
<|_=00=_|>
After losing their son, Adam (Cameron Bright), to a freak accident,
Paul (Greg Kinnear) and Jessie Duncan (Rebecca Romijn-Stamos), are
approached by Dr. Richard Wells (Robert De Niro), with a risky and
illegal idea--to try "replacing" Adam with a clone.

In my way of looking at ratings, 7s are Cs. They tend to do as many
things wrong as right. Godsend has some admirable script
characteristics, a good to great cast and some very good technical
aspects. But it also has negative script characteristics and some
questionable directing and editing.

Overall, I believe Godsend is worth watching, so let's look at the
positive points first. It's rare that filmic science fiction--and this
is just as much as science fiction film as a thriller or horror
film--tries to tackle "hard science" as exposition and motivation.
Although Godsend also mixes some strong fantasy elements into its
"twist" and the consequences that lead to the film being a
thriller/horror picture, the basic idea is one rooted in actual
genetics. De Niro is given quite a few mouthfuls of science-oriented
dialogue that are fairly sound, and for my money, he delivers them
well.

I'm a big fan of De Niro's, so I tend to be gracious in my evaluation
of his work. But I could see where some viewers less enamored with De
Niro overall might find his performance here questionable. It's
certainly a bit different than normal, being oddly restrained and
almost emotionless for much of the film. For me, that approach fit the
character, given his profession and eventual revelations about his
personality. The other three principles--Kinnear, Romijn-Stamos and
Bright--were good in my view, but again I can see where some viewers
could interpret their performances negatively. To me, however, all of
the obvious problems stem from direction and editing, not the actors'
work.

The biggest problem seems to stem from director Nick Hamm's comments
about the horror/thriller genre. He has stated, "what was interesting
to me about Godsend was that the horror and the suspense had nothing to
do with anything supernatural or spiritual". Hamm isn't a very big fan
of the fantasy aspect of horror, which to me, translates into not being
a very big horror fan. This led to trying to create a horror film where
suspense arises out of realist drama and psychological situations. The
realist drama in Godsend tends to be very slow and relatively
uneventful--just as one might expect from someone not really wanting to
make a horror film. Psychological horror is barely approached. There
just isn't enough that happens. There are two potential villains, but
neither does much. It would be very difficult to call either "evil".

Kinnear and Romijn-Stamos aren't given enough to work with. They don't
have anything very meaty to react to. Hamm seems too afraid to leave
realist drama territory, at least in terms of the overall plot/action.
That makes some of their "horrified" reactions seem shallow or false.
Worse, Hamm doesn't seem to know how to cut horror films very well.
Scenes go on far longer than they should, and occasionally almost seem
as if we're seeing a bit of the footage either before Hamm said
"Action" or after he called "Cut". A prime example of this is the scene
near the end when Romijn-Stamos is walking through woods toward a shed.

Godsend is also one of the few cases where copious DVD extras may have
hurt the film more than helped. The DVD contains four alternate
endings, averaging about 12 minutes long each. These occasionally
deviate strongly from the theatrical ending, but none seem quite
satisfying (all of the more nihilistic endings that Hamm described on
his commentary but which apparently weren't shot would have done the
trick for me; I also liked the filmed tag suggesting a sequel). They
all tend to drag on, an impression that isn't helped by the lack of a
score and a sound effects soundtrack.

Also curious, given Hamm's dislike of the fantasy aspects of genre
films, is the fact that the crux of the "twist" in Godsend is extremely
loopy. What's happening with Adam makes little sense from a
realistic/scientific standpoint, and how it happened just isn't
possible. Of course, I'm not averse to fantasy, and I don't subtract
points for elements in film that are wildly divergent from our beliefs
and understanding of the actual world. But if Hamm is going to abandon
realism when it comes to important plot points, why not abandon it
wholesale, so that we can maybe see a film that deserves an A instead?
<|_=00=_|>

What can I say about Godsend that hasn't already been said? Probably
not much. It was just so...blah. I'm convinced that there could have
been a good movie here. I mean Greg Kinnear, Rebecca Romijn, and Robert
Deniro! Come on! This should have been a much better film. The premise
was good: a couple lose their only son and are given a chance to bring
him back through the possibly amoral process of cloning. If they would
have listened to Jud Crandall they would have realized that "sometimes
dead is better." It was just terribly hard to sit through and the
ending was really lame. I have to blame the writer. You know why?
Because there are 4 alternate endings on the DVD and they all suck too.
Either he just didn't know how to end it or perhaps the studio wasn't
pleased. Either way, it's completely avoidable.

<|_=00=_|>

While not the worst movie I've seen, it ranks up there.  The plot was very
thin and it was not very scary (although there was one surprising twist).
The horror elements were very predictable.  I suppose I may have been
disappointed because I was expecting something more intellectual and
instead
I watched something akin to _Child's Play_.  (A trailer was shown for
_Seed
of Chucky_.)

Often during the course of the movie, the music would creshendo as if
something very scary was about to happen, then the visual would disappoint
(especially in the "flashback" scenes).

Although the movie was only 1 hour and 40 minutes long, it seemed to drag
on
at the end.  The ending was bland and uninteresting.
<|_=00=_|>

I couldn't wait for this movie to end.  Lot's of scenes with one character
"sneaking" up on another and then a load sound to make you jump.  The story
was really lame and predictable.  I think Robert De Niro and Greg Kinnear
are both fine actors but it seemed like neither one believed in this movie
and just gave up.  This is the only movie that I've seen Rebecca
Romijn-Stamos (the mother) and Cameron Bright (the son) in, and I'll try not
to hold it against them .
 
It was very simply a very bad script and it appeared that the direction of
the actors was seriously lacking.  This is one of the worse movies I've seen
in quite a while.  
 
I usually only post my remarks when I think a movie is really outstanding or
really stinky.  This one is especially stinky.

1/10 (a total waste of time)
<|_=00=_|>

We've all lost somebody close to us at some point in our lives whether it be
a parent, a grandparent, cousin, a friend, a wife, or a girlfriend, it's
happened to everyone. But for a parent to lose a child, especially in the
prime of their life, has to be one of the most horrible experiences a parent
can endure. The whole concept of the parent outliving the child is just so
radically outrageous that no normal human being could ever fathom how such a
person would feel, unless they themselves lost a child. In years past, one
would lose a loved one, the time of grieving would take its course, and then
that would be that. But times have changed and so have the methods of
science, where a person would lose a loved one forever now the deceased can
be brought back to life through the experimental method of cloning or at
least that is the thought. Sounds more like some ungodly science-fiction
novel right? Not anymore. Now that scientists have experimented on
everything from sheep to mice to rabbits they now want to move on to humans,
with some radical and inscrutable groups claiming they have already achieved
the unthinkable  the birth of the first clone human being. Sooner or later,
the moral convictions of mankind will contend with radical science to
determine whether or not man can conquer death.

The story centers on a couple who decide to take the advice of a radical
scientist and have their dead child cloned in order to return to their once
happy life. Jesse and Paul may not have the most high paying jobs, the best
house, or even the best neighborhood but there is one thing in there life
that they would never be able to live without, their son Adam. Things within
the Duncan household seem to be looking up with Paul being offered a better
job which would require the family to move to a better quality neighborhood.
But life takes a tragic turn when, just a day after his eighth birthday,
Adam is fatally injured in a car accident and dies practically in his
mother's arms. With their whole world turned upside-down and memories of
their dead son everywhere in their home, the couple turn to Dr. Richard
Wells, a radical genetics researcher, who claims to be able to take cells
from the body of their dead son, place them in an egg from Jesse, and
produce an identical version of Adam. All the couple would need to do is
move into a new house, graciously provide by Dr. Wells himself, and promise
not to tell anyone about the controversial procedure they are about to
embark on. Once Adam is `re-born', the couple's life returns back to way
things were before the accident  that is until young Adam crosses the age
at which the original Adam died. From there the child has sleepless nights,
a sudden lapse in emotions, and disturbing night-terrors that both frighten
and confuse his parents. Could this be their just punishment for venturing
into the realm of God or is there something else behind Adam's bewildering
behavior? The story of Godsend is nothing more then a half-assed attempt at
copying true a horror classic, Rosemary's Baby, and even The Others. What
starts out as an intriguing insight into the moral and ethical complications
behind the concept of cloning turns into an uneven and flat attempt at cheap
thrills that leaves you with more question then when you started
with.

The cast is mainly centered on only four characters and, unfortunately for
the film, only one performs up to the standards expected of the movie-going
public. Despite the fact that Robert DeNiro's character is a great
opportunity for the outstanding veteran actor to add mad-scientist/researcher
to his resume, the audience doesn't get as much of him as they would want
which is sad since he is the only truly interesting character in the film.
The filmmakers could have done a much better job at providing more
information on character even if it was just revealed at the end of the film
but they don't even do that. It is an absolutely pathetic sight to see the
best thing a film has going for it, based on the cast, leave you totally
confused based on his actions since no motivation or reasons are given to
you for him doing what he has done within the course of the two hour
feature. Rebecca Romijn-Stamos, who has really built up her film career over
the past couple of years, is once again reduced to the second-hand eye candy
is this film, including a scene where she is walking through the house in a
white see-through sweatshirt that clearly shows her without a bra, which is
just an absolute embarrassment to see in a film now adays  Come on people!
Grow up! Greg Kinnear is pretty convincing as Paul Duncan but the character
itself is a problem. He's a biologist but it takes him the longest time to
figure out the thought that what may be wrong with the new Adam may be in
his genes. Where did he get his college degree from? And Cameron Bright, who
plays both the original and cloned version of Adam Duncan, attempts to come
off as a creepy-cute kid but there nothing creepy or cutesy about him, he's
just plain annoying. His `possessed' child voice and deep stares into
absolutely nothingness feel like complete rip-offs of classic horror films,
and not good ones at that.

Overall, what should be a film attempting to answer the moral and ethical
issues brought up the revolutionary concept of human cloning only leaves you
with the question of why you would pay eight dollars for an unimaginative
and bewildering horror knock-off. Even if you go into this film giving the
filmmakers the benefit of the doubt for ripping-off Rosemary's Baby, you'll
still have problems with the film's uneven and utterly confusing second
half. There are so many things wrong with this film that it is hard to
decide where to start. Let's first focus on the reason why the couple would
want to clone their son in the first place. The subject is brought up early
in the film but the wife refuses to have another child and pushes the
husband toward the cloning concept. If they had left it at that then that
would be fine but later on in the film they show the couple having sex,
before being broken up by the screams of their cloned son. Oh! You're
opposed to the having a child through moral methods but not to having the
occasional `wink-wink'? Another problem is that the film tends to throw bits
and pieces of religion into the film's background (the most obvious being
the `Godsend Institute') and yet the question of morals and ethics within a
religious context are clearly excluded from almost any conversations. And
how unsatisfying and completely confusing can you make an ending for a film
that was practically a waste of time to begin with? Somehow the filmmakers
managed to screw that up as well (without giving anything away, practically
nothing is answered). What prevented this film from getting an absolute
failure would have to be its intriguing first half and engaging performance
from Robert DeNiro but not even those things can resurrect this beaten and
bloody horse picture.

My Rating: ** out of 5 (Grade: D)
<|_=00=_|>
I liked the premise, although the character development was pretty
non-existent. Even affable, ever likable, Greg Kinnear came off as
completely one-dimensional. You just couldn't empathize with anybody in
this movie.

The only thing I'll say about Rebecca Romijn Stamos is that I really
wish this useless piece of fluff would stop getting acting roles just
because she's pretty.

I did enjoy some of the symbolism, ie. the little boy's name being
Adam, the fight in the church where the Bible gets burned, etc. But I
felt the ending was redundant. They had a perfect opportunity to end it
with a great final statement, but instead they chose to drag it out
another minute. The final "closeting" of whatever remained of the boy
Adam would have been perfect. If you've seen the film, you know what
I'm talking about.

The moral question posed by the film is just because we can do
something, does that mean we should? In fact Robert DeNiro's character
actually utters this, albeit in reverse. "If I'm not supposed to do it,
then how come I can?", he says. But this question is ultimately
obscured by the film's reliance on horror movie conventions. In short,
this could have been a great movie about the moral problems posed by
human cloning. Instead it's a C movie about a creepy mad scientist and
a creepier kid. Worth seeing but only for a three dollar rental.
<|_=00=_|>
If you want to watch the "Godsend" go dig out the original 1980 flick.
Although not quite the same story - it leaves this for dead! An
exercise in how to completely antagonise an audience. The thing appears
to be the result of almost daily-re-writes and a veritable conga-line
of replaced directors (It wasn't) In support of the theory the makers
had no idea what they were trying to achieve, the DVD itself has no
less than FOUR alternate endings - three of which are better than the
theatrical release.

The end result is neither scary, horrific, edgy...or even interesting!
Up until the "Hey, have I got a cloning offer for you?" sequence, the
flick had possibilities - not many admittedly...but some at least!
You've got De Niro spouting epithets of medical babble but at least
"looking" purposeful. Kinnear with all the charisma of a dead lemur and
the ever statuesque Rebecca Romijn-Stamos taking up the slack as
"Adam's" mom. Speaking of "Adam," (Cameron Bright)...has any kid ever
had less cinematic appeal? When all is said and done.....nothing much
is explained and the film simply "stops" rather than ends. Personally I
think the IMDb's 4.7 is overly kind!
<|_=00=_|>
I am 11 years old and I saw it with my dad. I wasn't that bad but my
dad loves horror movies and he thought it was awful. i will definitely
never see this movie again

My favorite horror movie is Poltergeist and this movie gives horror
movies a bad name.It had such a weird ending and I did not really get
the ending.If u are going to buy this movie definitely do not it will
just waste your money and your time.This movie is actually sort of
scary at times like there is a part where he kills this kid and that
sort of freaked me out.There is also a weird part where he has a vision
of Zachary walking down the hall and it played weird music.

Isabella
<|_=00=_|>
Great story, very thoughtful & interesting direction, moving
performances and a thrilling plot...

but the ending sucked major ASS!!! It was no resolution, was an insult
to the intelligence of the viewer, wasted De Niro (though I'm sure he
laughed all the way to the bank & didn't watch it - a phone in), and
just plain pi**sed me off! A real waste. 

If you want to EVER be let down by a potentially good film, this is it! 

The biology aspects and pseudo-science were actually thought provoking,
but I'm going to watch the 93 "Body snatchers" now to detox.

I HATE a film that makes me think & then has an "emperors new clothes"
ending. A total insult, I'm afraid.

I think the writer died 7.5 pages before the end and a studio Exec did
the rest. In crayons.

Don't bother.
