
'Elephant' is Gus Van Sant's brilliant and mind-blowing distillation of
teenage alienation and angst. Set on one of those sterile suburban high
school campuses, the film recounts a typical day in the life of a
school - typical that is until it ends in a Columbine-type massacre.

Here is a film in which style does indeed become substance, where the
'meaning' lies in the form and shape of the film itself. Rather than
tell us a conventional 'story,' Van Sant has chosen to give his film
the look and feel of a pseudo-documentary, merely recording the events
and conversations that occur that day, a day we are led to believe is
not unlike every other at that school. Van Sant's prying camera eye
turns us into voyeurs, as we observe the cliquishness, petty
humiliations, and sheer overwhelming banality that have defined high
school life for so many of us. Van Sant uses space brilliantly. Despite
the fact that this is undoubtedly a school with a large student
population, the characters on whom he focuses seem always to be somehow
isolated from almost everyone else around them. None of the characters
we see really seem to have any connection with one another, and even
when they do, it tends to be of only the most superficial kind. They
are like people stranded on their own individual islands, enduring
their suffering alone and in silence. Van Sant sets the tone with his
tracking shots of characters strolling down seemingly endless corridors
heading to nowhere in particular, making little or no human contact as
they go. The camera, throughout the film, seems to have a mind of its
own, often avoiding what seems to be a major plot point and, instead,
zeroing in on something that seems to have little or no real
importance. Then through the process of editing, he weaves nothing less
than a tapestry of alienation. By concentrating so intently on the
seemingly irrelevant minutia of daily life, Van Sant brings to the film
a sense of documentary immediacy most fiction films lack. We are made
privy to bits and pieces of conversation only to have the talk dribble
off as we or the characters turn the corner and move on to the next
group of people. It is the deadening 'sameness,' the insignificance of
so much of what we see and hear that makes this such a sad and haunting
experience. 

One thing Van Sant refuses to do is try to 'explain' why the killers
act as they do. He's smart enough to know that there is no single
explanation for such behavior, that it arises from a variety of sources
and that it is primarily the product of a general feeling of alienation
in modern society. We see one of the murderers suffering humiliation at
the hands of two schoolmates, the second killer playing a violent video
game and perusing a gun magazine, but these, in and of themselves,
cannot be the sole explanations. At best they are symptoms of a much
deeper societal sickness, one that Van Sant can only hint at but never
fully grasp - for who among us can claim to truly understand it? What
'Elephant' does is to make us focus on and actually see this
spirit-crushing ennui which permeates our culture and which defines
life for so many of our youngsters. 

The director has drawn fine work from his cast of talented unknowns.
Their every word, their every gesture rings believable and true. He has
also employed Beethoven's 'Fur Elise' to serve as a haunting refrain
throughout the film, capturing the poignancy of a world in which
beauty, spontaneity and joy seem to have been removed. 

There are some who will find 'Elephant' to be slow-moving, empty, arty
and pretentious. For them there are plenty of mindlessly upbeat
depictions of high school life to watch. But for those who can
appreciate a film artist working at the peak of his form, 'Elephant' is
a mesmerizing, vision-altering experience that pushes the boundaries of
the medium and takes us to a place, emotionally, that we haven't ever
been before.
<|_=00=_|>

On April 20, 1999, two boys wearing trench coats carried a daunting arsenal
of weapons harnessed with military web gear into Columbine High School in
Littleton, Colorado, and systematically gunned down thirteen students.
Gruesome though it was, the incident was just one of eight fatal high school
shootings between 1997 and 1999. These traumatizing events began a debate
about what was wrong with the nation's youth, an issue that is the subject
of Gus Van Sant's Elephant. 

Winner of the Golden Palm at the 2003 Cannes Film Festival, Elephant is a
brilliant and deeply affecting film that makes a courageous attempt to grasp
the malaise of today's youth culture. Van Sant does not attempt to explain
Columbine or uncover its underlying causes, and there is no revealing
epiphany. His film is a highly stylized, dreamlike tone poem that defies
linear conventions and is almost surreal in its approach. Using flashbacks
and recurring images from different points of view, the film captures the
mood and tone of its adolescent world: its perceptions, its self-absorption,
and ultimately its darkest instincts. 

The camera is a detached observer, and the strength of the film lies in its
acute power of observation and detail. Van Sant shows us all the surface
rituals: the girl cheerleaders, the boys playing football, the locker-lined
hallways, the academic discussions, yet an ineffable feeling of loneliness
pervades. The picture features impeccable acting by a group of
non-professionals from the Portland, Oregon area. Each character is
introduced separately and we see them going about their business on a
seemingly ordinary school day. The steadicam-tracking camera follows them as
they walk through the sterile halls that seem endless. The school appears
without life -- a place where one feels a desperate sense of loss.

We see John (John Robinson), a blonde-haired surfer type, take over the
driving from his father who has had too much to drink, then get called to
task by an administrator for being late for school. Eli (Elias McConnell) is
a photographer who asks classmates, including John, to pose for pictures.
Football player Jordan (Jordan Taylor) meets his girlfriend Carrie (Carrie
Finklea) for lunch. Three friends Nicole (Nicole George), Brittany (Brittany
Mountain), and Acadia (Alicia Miles) gossip and argue about who is whose
best friend. Michelle (Kristen Hicks) refuses to wear shorts, is admonished
by her teacher, and then goes to work in the library. The paths of these
students crisscross throughout the film and each has their own destiny to
fulfill when the violence erupts. 

The main protagonists, Alex (Alex Frost) and Eric (Eric Deulen) are modeled
after Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold of Columbine. When we first meet Alex,
he is being shunned by his fellow students, called names and pelted with
spitballs in science class. Alex is more outgoing and creative, Eric more
passive, but their personalities complement each other. Alex and Eric wait
at home until a strange package arrives in the mail while Alex plays
Beethoven's "Fur Elise" on the piano. When they return to school, they are
dressed in combat gear and ready to kill. 

Rather than giving us pat answers, Van Sant bases his approach on the
elusiveness of truth, and our insatiable desire to know more. The imagery
and camerawork are almost painfully beautiful, while the disconnected
narrative deliberately withholds closure. On top of all this, the pacing is
superb, slowly building up the almost unbearable tension. When it is finally
released, the explosion hits you with a frightening energy that is as
unforgettable as it is chilling. 


<|_=00=_|>
High school, kids having a normal day, two other kids shoot up the
place, the end. There's the plot - glad we got that out of the way ...

Elephant is a perfect example of how an utterly worthless film can hide
behind an important message and get praised for doing so. How is it
possible that this film has won so many awards? There's absolutely
nothing in here to warrant it.

Most of the film consists of steadicam shots of students walking
through corridors - long endless corridors. Occasionally they stop and
say something trivial to some other student. Oh, and since this is an
"art film" the chronology is out of order and we get to see the same
pointless events from different angles. Why? Because that's what makes
the film seem like something else than a countdown to a bunch of
executions.

If you didn't know that this film was about school shootings, would you
still be watching it after the first 30 minutes? Are the lives of John,
Elias, Nathan, and everyone else really that interesting? Or are you
just waiting for the guns to start blazing.

There are no answers in this film (to be fair, there are no real
questions raised either). Does Elephant bring anything new to the
discussion regarding school shootings? No. I guess the (sort of)
improvised acting and long takes are supposed to add an element of
realism to the film. But it just feels fake and forced. Not for a
second do I "believe" in any of these kids. They're just as stereotyped
as always before.

I don't believe that Van Sant is interested in giving a real depiction
of this kind of shootings. Just look at the actual shooters: bullied,
slightly less good looking than everybody else, Nazis, gay, gun freaks,
playing video games... Talk about taking the easy way out with those
characters.

Elephant is the worst kind of pretentious film there is. It knows it's
got nothing to say, so it discovers itself as art - that way people can
look at it and say: "Oh it's so beautiful and poetic. And such an
important message." The only thing Elephant managed to do, was to earn
a tied top spot (together with Eyes Wide Shut) on my list of the most
boring films ever made. [0/10]
<|_=00=_|>

What's in the name of a place? Tombstone, Columbine?  The former conjures
up
thoughts of heroic justice, the latter mass murder.  Understanding the
motives of Wyatt Earp or Dillon Klebold is not as easy as the place names;
interpreting a film about either event as antiviolence is not easy
either.

So director Gus Van Sant (`My Private Idaho,' `Good Will Hunting,'
`Gerry')
fictionalizes an average high school at which a Columbine-like massacre
takes place.  Interestingly, he makes no attempt to relay the underlying
causes for the young men's decision to slaughter; in fact, he seems to try
hard not to supply any reasons except for a brief segment with a boy
watching a show on Nazis and a faceless mother serving pancakes.  Even the
lad whose father is an alcoholic is not one of the murderers.

As my radio co-host, Clay Lowe, reminds me from our conversation with the
director, in Van Sant's Zen Buddhist way, he seems to be saying the
reasons
for the crime are unknowable like human existence itself.  For those
critics
who fault Van Sant for not committing himself to a thesis, the unknowable
should have sufficed.  That is not to say the director's slow pace, long
takes, and interminable tracking shots aren't boring; it's just that the
viewer must give in to the director's vision of teenage life as
essentially
devoid of humor, excitement, and rationale.  For us Western rational
types,
this mirthless world may serve as a possible cause for the slaughter.  As
one of the murderers tells the other at the beginning of the rampage,
`Have
fun.'

Throughout this Cannes-winning, almost docudrama, Van Sant turns our
expectations upside down:  The misfit girl is not saved just because she
is
like the assassins; the muscular, seemingly impervious African-American
student, tracked like a savior through the halls, is not a hero at all,
but
another disengaged high-schooler not reading the signals.

The aphorism about the ignored elephant in the living room, where it no
longer can be seen because it's been there too long, or the one about the
blind men who, each with a part of the elephant, can't describe the whole,
can be the appropriate theme of this cinema-verite dissection of the
senselessness of evil.  As Joseph Conrad said about the violation of the
jungle, `It was reckless without hardihood, greedy without audacity, and
cruel without courage; there was not an atom of foresight or of serious
intention in the whole bunch of them.'  In other words, crime and it
criminals are inscrutable.


<|_=00=_|>
If a film study class ever needed to find an example of shallow,
pretentious film-making this gem would fit the bill.

With a listed running time of 82 minutes literally half of it was spent
on laborious, pointless tracking shots of people walking. Walking
through hallways, across fields, through courtyards and other places
I've probably repressed by now.

To add to the train wreck, there wasn't a shred of meaningful dialog,
what there was of it.

I guess that's because the majority of the characters were high school
students and we're supposed to believe they generally don't say
anything meaningful during a typical day. But this is a film and it
would've been nice to get some nugget of insight or humor or anything
to make us care about any of them.

Finally after being bludgeoned by this seemingly interminable
minimalist dreck, accented by useless time shifts, arduous 360 degree
pan shots and different points of view of the same inane scenes (all a
first year film student's wet dream), we arrive at the film's
predictable Columbine conclusion. Yipee.

Killing sprees in schools are bad, thanks for pointing that out.
<|_=00=_|>
Elephant could have been a very beautiful short film. As a feature
length movie, however, it is awful. And I fear the reason it has gotten
so many positive reviews is that people feel they should like it. Maybe
if I were 16 I'd think this film was spectacular too. But just because
it's artistic doesn't mean it's good.

I didn't have a problem with the acting, in fact the dark haired killer
was pretty good. And the fact that we never know why they decided to
kill everyone was acceptable. The biggest problem with the movie was
that it was filmed like a short, yet was over 80 minutes long. In a
feature length movie you need character development. At least one. In
Elephant you learn more about John's drunk father than you do about
anyone else and he had only two or three lines.

And these interesting camera techniques that Van Sant employed needed
to be complemented or contrasted with something. If the film ended with
the surviving killer walking down a hallway as the credits rolled, then
maybe the 20 minutes of other people walking wouldn't have been
pointless.

My advice: if within the first ten minutes of this film you find
yourself waiting for something to happen, stop watching it. You'll save
yourself those other 70 minutes that, otherwise, you'd never get back.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all this movie is one of the toughest movies I have seen in a
long time, so just know going in to this movie that you will come out
with tears in your eyes. But even though being very sad, it is also
very beautiful, so it is worth watching.

Trying not to spoil anything important, I will give a short resume of
the movie. The first hour is basically just a day at a high school seen
from many of the students point of view, it keeps switching between the
students, sometimes showing the same thing again, but from another
students view. At first you don't really know what to think, or to
expect, or even who the main character is, and i guess you could say
that there is none. 

I guess you could say at first it is a bit slow, but it is definitely
worth it, to finish it. The whole movie has a very dark undertone, so
even though what you see may be very normal, or even cute, there will
still be this bad feeling of don't knowing what is going to happen.
There is not much of a story, but rather many short story's, it is very
beautifully put together and in the last 20 minutes you will finally
understand what the movie is about. 

All in all, I would say this is a really great movie that is not worth
missing. Without a doubt one of the best movies of the 2000s, dark, but
beautiful. 9/10
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is a fictional story, but it is essentially a retelling of the
Columbine High massacre.  It only spans maybe an hour in time, but it coves
the points of view of a lot of people, from victims to bystanders to the
murderers themselves.

It's a particularly important piece because of its storytelling style.  Van
Sant has the camera follow one character at a time, on the day of the
murders, and lets the story tell itself.  It is about as neutral as one can
get, really.  Van Sant doesn't use foreshadowing, he doesn't frame any
character up as a particular archetype, he doesn't play ominous music, and
the dialogue is about as inane and high school-ish as you can get, very
realistic actually.  There are no jokes, and relatively few scenes designed
for maximum shock effect.  That's the whole point: the situation was a
normal high school day, and the very events, regardless of how you paint
them, should be as shocking as anything.  All the while you're asking
yourself, "How can this possibly lead to a massacre?  These are all normal
kids," which faithfully recreates the tone of morning leading up the
unexpected real life events.

If you're looking for a conventional movie with a clear beginning, middle,
end, good and bad guys, glorified heroism and demonized violence, you won't
like this movie, it's not a made for TV special, it's closer to an art
film.

Some people have expressed anger at the movie, accusing it of some sort of
liberal Michael Moore anti-2nd amendment sympathies or heavy handed
preaching.  Having seen it I can't possibly understand what they're talking
about.  My suspicion is that they're seeing what they want to see.  And that
leads me to wonder just what a good movie about Columbine would look like,
in their opinions.  To me, this is it.

<|_=00=_|>
*** Spoilers *** Wow. This movie Elephant was so bad. I encourage
everyone to not see it. Personally, I have a high tolerance for boredom
but some of you probably do not. If it is possible to die from tedium
then this flick is the litmus test. Inert as an unconscious ELEPHANT,
this thing plods along till you want to pull your hair out.
MOTHER-OF-PEARL this thing is so pretentious that it is almost
laughable. Ugh. I am not going to harp on any details but I would like
to make a couple of personal observations. First Roger Ebert's reviews
are worthless. The fact that he raved about this movie while dropping
GVS's name and stating his warped views on the media verses movies is
proof enough. He is just too much of an insider and an academic for
most of us. Find a prolific reviewer here on IMDb that you agree with
and read his/her reviews as a better guide. Second personal point, Gus
Van Sant's success has gone to his head. This movie is not even a good
"typical day" at a high school. Or at least not any high school that I
have been to. GVS has directed several of my favs (Drugstore Cowboy, To
Die For, My Own Private Idaho, Good Will Hunting) so like a moron I
assume Elephant will at worst be misguided. Geez Louise was I wrong.
Moral of the story: Never trust a director or a movie critic. If you
liked Elephant then I strongly suggest you also see Warhol's Sleep
(1963). I am afraid that Elephant is to GVS as Heaven's Gate was to
Cimino. (now imagine the distant ring of the death knell)
<|_=00=_|>
This was one of the absolute worst movies I have ever seen. When I
began watching it, I was enthralled by the hypnotic images that Van
Sant is known for. It seemed cool. Then... my high wore off, and I
realized that there was little to no plot, hardly any dialogue, and the
movie made no point whatsoever. I hated this movie even more than I
hated Gerry. There was so much potential to make a great movie about a
school shooting. He could have put some characterization into the two
main characters, or any other character at that. Showing small scenes
of happenings around each character, and then disbanding them before
something actually opens up about their persona makes me mad. Or on the
other side, just showing the two shooters get into a shower together
without showing a reason why is really dumb. Why were they gay? Is that
why they shot up the school? Did they just decide they wanted a
homosexual experience before they tried a mass murder? A character
walks through the halls as if he was some sort of prophet only to be
murdered without speaking a line. There are so many things that I could
say to try and convince people to not see this movie, but maybe you
should all see it so you can understand what makes bad movies that tons
of people seem to like for absolutely no reason. Artistic doesn't
automatically make a movie good!
