
A remake of John Carpenter's superior film of the same title from 1976,
Assault on Precinct 13 concerns a siege on a largely abandoned police
station, which is related to the presence of a notorious criminal,
Marion Bishop (Laurence Fishburne). It's left up to a ragtag group of
police employees and criminals to defend themselves.

I should start by noting that I absolutely love Carpenter's original
film. In my view it is one of his best, perfectly capturing the
suburban desolation of 1970s Los Angeles, and exquisitely suspenseful
and horrifying, even though it's not really a horror film. Despite
that, when this remake of Assault on Precinct 13 began, I had high
hopes for it. The first scene is well directed, well shot, with
excellent dialogue. It turns into an intense action scene at just the
right moment, and results in some realistic, gritty deaths. The opening
is as good as anything in the Carpenter film.

Unfortunately, Assault on Precinct 13's excellence ended right there.
It's not exactly a bad film--I enjoyed it more often than not, but it
does have more than its share of flaws. In the end, my rating average
out to a 7 out of 10. Recommendable, but with reservations.

The first problem is that director Jean-Francois Richet tries to do too
much--too much backstory, too many characters, too many over-the-top
characters, too many quick cuts, too much shaky hand-held camera work,
too many "big action moves", too many explosions, too many settings,
and it's too dark. That the film is often so quickly edited and dark
makes it too often difficult to see what's going on in the action
scenes. Carpenter's film succeeded by being very taut, economical,
sober and logical in its directorial style. Richet tries to one-up the
original by forgoing all of those qualities. By the second or third
scene, I was fairly confused. Superfluous characters were popping in
and out, people were mumbling dialogue, and there was a whole complex
backstory being hinted at and not spelled out very well.

The brutal shooting near the beginning of the original film, which sets
off the whole sequence of events, was dropped--that thread was
completely removed from the film. It was lamentable in that this new
Assault loses much of the simple, sensible drive the thread provided,
and it was surely a decision based on political correctness. Likewise,
Bishop is not allowed to be a clear-cut bad guy here. That saps some of
the effectiveness out of his cooperation. In this film, he might be
mostly tough talk. The other criminals in the film are either left
largely unexplained or guilty of only petty or consensual crimes. I
find this kind of political correctness in films reprehensible,
although I realize it's primarily a studio decision.

On the positive side, the villains here were cleverly conceived, and
their nature makes them much more menacing physically. On the negative
side, however, Richet lost the Night of the Living Dead (1968)
zombie-like nature of the marauders, which saps suspense from the
attacks. The logistics of the defense of the police station and details
of their dilemma are not very clearly scripted or staged, either, which
doesn't help. Another flaw is that some intruders seem to inexplicably
hesitate. Another positive, though, is that Richet's film brings back a
few small details, such as the capture of the criminal at the beginning
of the film, and a substance addiction in one of the heroes leading to
a character transformation, found in Rio Bravo (1959), the film that in
conjunction with Night of the Living Dead, was the main inspiration for
Carpenter's original film.

Also on the positive side, this Assault has a skilled (and much more
well known) cast. Even though Richter occasionally directed them to be
a bit too over-the-top, the performances hit many very interesting
notes. And a few of the additions to the original film, such as a
Mexican standoff and a couple later scenes outside the police station
were excellent. The increased firepower here may also be to some
viewer's liking.

A viewer less fond of the original, or even unfamiliar with the
original, may like Assault better than I did. I may have even liked it
better if the original were not so fresh in my memory (I just watched
it again it recently--a review is forthcoming). There are enough
redeeming aspects for action fans to make it worth at least a rental or
a viewing on cable, but approach the film with lowered expectations.
<|_=00=_|>
On a snowy New Year's Eve, a police station where a bus full of
convicts has been jailed comes under attack from corrupt policemen,
forcing a police sergeant with a cloudy past (Ethan Hawke) to team with
a ruthless mob boss (Lawrence Fishburne) to try to keep them at bay.

The original was a pretty good film so I'm still confused about the
need to remake it. Yes, it was a little outdated but the film still
worked fine. I was expecting the remake to be really bad since the
trailer looked lackluster and Ethan Hawke isn't that good of an actor.
However, this update turned out to be a decent film. It doesn't
approach the original in quality but at least it doesn't insult the
original either. They do change some things from the original though
that didn't really bother me. Actually, it's kind of better that they
tried it in a different way instead of doing it exactly the same
(paging Psycho) and there was more reason to remake it.

The performances were okay, nothing special. Ethan Hawke was okay as
Roenick. He would sometimes go over the top and he was a little weak at
some points. Laurence Fishburne was better than Ethan but still only
average. Ja Rule actually gives a good performance for a rapper though
he doesn't get a lot of screen time. John Leguizamo was okay, kind of
dull. Maria Bello gave the best performance out of everyone and she is
a pretty underrated actress. Gabriel Byrne was just meh while Drea de
Matteo was clearly there for eye candy and nothing more.

Jean-François Richet does a decent job at directing and he manages to
create some suspense. However, he does keep the film simple and most of
the twists are obvious. The script is generic and weak with a lot of
clichés and little in the way of originality. The action sequences are
slick and enjoyable but they are also kind of sparse. The movie also
becomes dull from time to time even though the film isn't really that
long. There is also little character development so it's hard to feel
sorry for some of these people. The remake is really just a
semi-enjoyable, generic action film. It fails to surpass the original
in most categories but it still stands as a decent film. In the end,
Assault on Precinct 13 is a decent action film and it's worth checking
out. Rating 6/10
<|_=00=_|>
Now, before you criticize me, I have never seen the original John
Carpenter version of this film. Being a huge fan, I really should see
it, and after seeing this remake, I will definitely track down the
original to see if it is as good as this film. I had a blast! 

New Years in Detroit, a cold winter's morning as Precinct 13 prepares
to close it's doors and move to a new building. There are only three
people in the building on New Year's Eve, and as a storm draws closer,
a criminal being transported to a maximum security center is re-routed
to the deserted precinct. Only, there are some other people that would
like to get closer to the villain.

Very exciting story and excellent acting by both Ethan Hawke and
Laurence Fishbourne take this action over the edge. Some people may
find the film ultra violent, but violence on the big screen never
bothered me, so I enjoyed it quite a lot! Definitely worth a look for
action fans, and fans of the original who are curious. However, those
that are disturbed by violent images, would like to steer clear of this
film.
<|_=00=_|>
Rating: ** 1/2 out of **** 

A lot of people will likely hate this movie by virtue of the fact that
it's a remake. Being open-minded, I'm not offended by the thought of a
beloved cult classic getting a Hollywood remake; it is, after all,
quite interesting to see how the big-budget treatment affects the same
premise. In this case, the result is not too shabby at all, certainly
better than the ads would indicate, even if this is a remake that
doesn't stand on its own nearly as well as Zack Snyder's Dawn of the
Dead.

Assault on Precinct 13 (referred to as AP13 from here on out) stars
Ethan Hawke as cop Jake Roenick, a former undercover officer who's now
strictly on desk duty after a horrible mishap that resulted in the
deaths of two fellow officers. It's his last day (coincidentally also
New Year's Eve) in Precinct 13, and he's simply overseeing the transfer
along with another cop (Brian Dennehy) and a secretary (Drea de
Matteo).

Due to the snowy conditions, a prison bus transferring dangerous
cop-killer Marion Bishop (Laurence Fishburne) is forced to take refuge
in Precinct 13. But it becomes clear soon enough that there are a large
number of corrupt cops surrounding the precinct, determined to kill
Bishop and every possible witness inside. Faced with no other options,
Roenick frees and arms the prisoners, using whatever means necessary to
battle against the far more numerous and better armed enemy.

John Carpenter's 1976 cult hit was a fairly effective thriller,
maintaining an atmospheric claustrophobia that balanced nicely with the
well-choreographed shootouts. Though there are many differences between
these versions, both plot-wise and stylistically, this remake
essentially opts for the same brand of edge-of-the-seat excitement, but
as is par for this generation's offerings, the action sequences are
pumped up with a lot more firepower and a lot less plausibility.

As silly as Carpenter's film may have seemed to the discriminating
viewer, it was a smartly plotted thriller with only a few minor holes.
This remake, on the other hand, is riddled with all sorts of logical
inconsistencies. The most obvious one? In less than a day, the head of
the corrupt team of cops (played by Gabriel Byrne) is somehow able to
assemble his men on very short notice and arm them with top-notch
weaponry that must have been hell to sign out from the armory (he even
calls in a chopper at one point). And as the body count significantly
rises, one has to wonder how he plans to cover up the massive blood
shed (blaming it on Bishop's men doesn't quite explain how his own men
were killed or what they were doing at the precinct).

The body count is almost bafflingly low considering the numbers
mentioned (Byrne says he's got 33 men, hard to believe corruption could
spread to every one of them); I could swear fewer characters were
killed than were even involved in the entire film. Other problems
include a scene where Byrne chooses to execute a survivor rather than
use this person as a bargaining chip, and as the number of survivors
within the station dwindles down, one character conveniently remembers
an escape route just as the building's about to be invaded. 

The climax, a disappointingly rote cat-and-mouse chase, is set in a
forest apparently right by the station, but I could have sworn an
overhead shot established the precinct in an entirely urban section of
Detroit. Along with the sagging pace in the second half, predictability
also hampers the suspense, it's too easy to figure out who's going to
die and in what order. The identity of the traitor is also another easy
guess, considering the very tiny list of suspects still around by that
point. 

For all these nagging flaws, the film is still worth mildly
recommending for one lengthy, high-octane action setpiece. The first
major invasion of the precinct is a thrilling sequence, every bit the
equal of the similar siege in the original, though louder and
faster-paced. The action even boasts a little bit of strategy and some
mild thought. Other action scenes are competently handled, but lack the
claustrophobic edge of the shootouts set within the precinct.

The cast is mostly first-rate, even Ethan Hawke, who usually does
little more than coast by on his best Tom Cruise impersonation.
Laurence Fishburne, channeling a darker version of Morpheus, does well
with what little material he has to work with, and it's fun to see
Brian Dennehy barking up a storm again. Of the two female leads, Maria
Bello is the one with more "depth," but she's almost fatally annoying
as the whiny psychologist. Drea de Matteo, on the other hand, is one of
those rare women who somehow still looks sexy even when she's dressed
as a hooker (or is she sexy because she's dressed that way?). Gabriel
Byrne makes a solid impression despite the limited screen time, and Ja
Rule and John Leguizamo are apparently only on hand to provide some
truly lame comic relief and take equal turns participating in one very
gruesome beating.

AP13 came very close to getting a two-star rating from me, but in this
day and age when action films need sci-fi, fantasy or horror elements
to succeed, there's no denying this film is better than the usual lot
churned from Hollywood. This remake is an earnest attempt in crafting
an edge-of-the-seat thriller and even if it only gets halfway there,
that's still better than most pure action movies these days.
<|_=00=_|>
I did not think I was going to like this remake of the 1976 cult
favorite. I was, however, pleasantly surprised. The movie was fun. The
characters were likable. The action was well paced. The sets and
backgrounds were excellent, giving the viewer a feeling of desolation
and dread that the original movie had in abundance. I originally heard
that Ethan Hawke's character was the same as his character in "Training
Day", but I totally disagree. Oddly enough, both characters were named
Jake. So, they were both young police officers named Jake who were
going through a rough period, but Ethan Hawke played both differently.
This is not a movie to bring your kids to; too much violence. This
might be a good date movie, but not a first date movie. All in all, I
give "Assault on Precinct 13" (2005) an A-. If you want to have fun,
watch it. - JFLY
<|_=00=_|>
This is a remake of a remake and yet still packs a punch. I've seen the
original "Rio Bravo" several times, including when it first came out.
It was masterfully done and was one of the Duke's best movies from the
1950's. I saw John Carpenter's "Assault on Precinct 13" when it first
came out in 1976 and remember it as being one of Carpenter's best
movies. Now we have another version with basically the same characters
including the drunk, originally played by Dean Martin, who is tested by
the struggle for survival and eventually passes with flying colors.
When I first heard the Christmas music in the movie, it took me a
moment to grasp the reason for the Dean Martin selection until I
realized it was the producer's way of paying homage to the crooner's
performance in "Rio Bravo." This would be more entertaining for those
who have not seen the originals. This remake follows the originals to
the point of spoiling some of the surprises intended. I won't go into
detail on this since it would then spoil the surprises for those who
have not seen the originals. The story is there; the action is there;
and the entertainment is there, especially for those who are seeing it
for the first time.
<|_=00=_|>
Why remake the original "Assault"? To my mind "Assault" was Carpenter's
true masterpiece. It had all the elements good Carpenter movies
contain. External threat on a small group of individuals. People taking
the challenge because they are forced to do so. Isolation! Just
remember, the guns in Carpenter's original made no sound, being thus a
lot more threatening than conventional devices. And now this remake.
Concentrating on "main character I"s psychology and on his relation to
main character II (the evil but honorable). The anonymous threat in the
Carpenter movie replaced by a rather conventional conspiracy/corruption
background. The "remakers" just didn't understand the main plot of the
original. And thus produced something pretty ordinary.
<|_=00=_|>
I didn't have much hope for this when I when went to Copenhagen to see
this remake of the '76 film, which isn't a masterpiece itself, but
highly entertaining and one of Carpenter's best. 

So when I came out of the theater, I wasn't that disappointed. It was
as bad as I thought it would be. Hollywoodized for the average viewer's
enjoyment. Quick cuts and flashy shots. It doesn't take its time to
tell the story.

One of the problems is the clichés. I almost laughed when Jasper (Brian
Dennehy) said "I'm retiring in two days", or something of the sort. You
just know that he'll be dead before the credits roll. Also, even the
biggest retard in the audience can figure out halfway through the movie
that he's a bad guy.

Another thing is that the situation is not believable. In the original
"Assault" it was crazed gang members that was attacking the station,
but now it's 33 top trained S.W.A.T. members. No way can 8 people hold
them off. But I guess it's the corrupt cop's (played by a very dull
Gabriel Byrne) own damn fault; First he sends three S.W.A:T.'s in to
take care of business, and when they get killed off, what does he do
then? He sends in three more! If he would just send in all their guys
at once, Ethan Hawke and co. would be dead and buried 45 minutes into
the film and I wouldn't have missed my train home. 

And that brings me to the likable characters. There aren't any. When
Beck, a paranoid junkie who won't shut up, is the most likable of the
bunch, you know it's bad. For instance, there's the annoying, playboy
pin-up psychologist. Or the convict who refers to himself in the third
person (how totally funny). Laurence Fishburne does what he can with
this, but I'm getting tired of him.

And Ja Rule does an extremely poor job. Why do people keep hiring
rappers/singers in movies? They don't make good actors, with few
exceptions like Meat Loaf's Bob in Fight Club and Björk's Selma in
Dancer in the Dark.

This remake doesn't have the charm or watch-ability as the original
"Assault" has, and Lars doesn't like that.

3/10
<|_=00=_|>
Keeping watch over a rundown Police Precinct on an icy New Year's Eve
night sure sounds simple enough. What could possibly go wrong? Welp,
check your Action Movie Clichés Dictionary and you'll find the answer.
Problems arise when a van transporting Laurence Fishburne and other
hardened criminals to the city jail finds itself unable to traverse
Detroit's icy streets. What are the viable options? I'll give you a
clue - there is only one ... DING DING DING ... Take up residence at
the nearby Precinct 13 for the night.

OK, no big deal. The night might not be as quiet as hoped for, but how
hard can it be to baby-sit this group of punks? There's John Lequizamo
as the drugged out Puerto Rican. Then there's Ja Rule as the "gangsta"
who refers to himself in the 3rd person. And then there's some chick
who is cursed to forever be recognized as "the black, manly-looking
chick who guest-starred on (fill in name of cop/forensics show)." Oh,
wait. Then there's Laurence Fishburne. The only intimidating guy in the
bunch. He could be a big problem because he's one of the most notorious
mobsters/gangsters in town.

As expected, Fishburne does indeed become the key to everything. It
doesn't take long for a few masked invaders to storm the Precinct. They
want Fishburne. The cops originally assume that it's Fishburne's men
trying to help him escape, but we all know that's not the case. Rogue
cops haven't been invoked yet, and rogue cops always make an appearance
in an action film like this, so who's after Fishburne? ROGUE COPS! You
see, they've had some dirty dealings with Fishburne, and they fear
their corruption might be exposed if he talks. They have no choice but
to eliminate him. I'm sure it was a big moral dilemma for them, but a
choice had to be made.

This is where the fun begins. Because he and his men are badly
outnumbered, Roenick decides to arm the four prisoners. That's cute and
all, but what happens if the siege is diverted? Roenick tells the
prisoners they'll remain under arrest, and they'll "figure it all out
later," but I'm thinking a group of armed thugs will take exception to
that, especially after helping cops survive an attack by other cops.

Oh well, what can you do? It's at this point that the bullets and the
clichés start raining down on us harder that Ike Turner's fists on an
ex-wife. You're not gonna walk out of this movie soused with
originality, but who cares? This is just solid, action movie fun.
You'll ooh, you'll ahh, you'll grimace, and you'll make fun of the
cheese. Allow me to share some of my favorite ridicule-worthy clichés
from the movie: 

* Rogue cops magically block everybody's cell phone signals. We're not
really given a reasonable explanation. I guess the director thought
they needed to answer the "why can't they use their cell phones to call
for help" question but neglected to realize people might wander how the
signals were blocked. It's called movie magic.

* Professional snipers apparently can't hit the broadside of Rosie
O'Donnell's monolithic buttocks from a few feet away. Oh, they hit all
around their targets; they just can't hit the actual target. My
favorite example is when a couple of the prisoners are outside hiding
behind a snow bank. The sniper can see the prisoners behind the snow,
but he responds with, "I don't have a shot." THEY'RE BEHIND SNOW! When,
in the history of the world, has soft, fluffy snow ever stopped a
bullet? * Bad guys "monologue-ing" instead of shooting. Why do bad guys
insist on giving long speeches before killing their adversary? The
speech is always juuuuuuust long enough to allow the adversary to
escape the desperate situation he faces. Do movie bad guys not watch
movies? You'd think they'd learn.

* A completely unsurprising plot "twist." Stevie Wonder called; he said
he saw it coming a few miles away.

But again, who cares? If you can buy the 5'9" 150 lb Ethan Hawke as a
tough guy cop, then everything else should be easy to swallow.

One thing that I appreciated, a facet that will probably be lost on the
average soccer mom, is the movie's "show no mercy" attitude in regard
to who gets killed and how. In movie land, the rules clearly state that
all innocent people should survive, all actors who are somewhat
recognizable should survive, and no animals are to be harmed. Clearly,
Assault on Precinct 13 wasn't made aware of these rules. I warn you
now, don't get too attached to any particular character. Everybody is
fair game for a graphic bullet to the head. And if you're squeamish
when it comes to violence towards animals, well, keep in mind that a
dog actually gets punched in the face.

I just wish there had been a better lead actor for me to cheer for.
Hawke is serviceable as the head cop, but I've just never been a huge
fan. The fact that Fishburne could obviously snap him over his knee,
and I would have had no problem with that, doesn't help. I think the
biggest thing hurting Hawke is that records confirm that the name on
his birth certificate is NOT "Tom Cruise." Someone needs to alert him
of this fact and tell him to drop the impersonation.

THE GIST Assault on Precinct 13 is an action movie for the Grand Theft
Auto video game crowd. It's loud, it's fast-paced, it's profane, and
it's in your face. It doesn't pretend to aspire to be great art. The
goal is to entertain, and the goal is achieved. If you're squeamish
with violence, or if you're looking for intellectual enlightenment,
then I recommend looking elsewhere.

Rating: 3.5 (out of 5)
<|_=00=_|>
Potential spoilersif you've never seen a bad cop movie before.

The guilt ridden hero cop abusing drugs and alcohol, dirty cops
(ethically and physically), cops who dramatically rack the slides on
their guns before they go of to do something (nobody keeps a loaded
gun??), shooters with full automatic weapons who can't hit each other
from 20 feet away, people who die instantly from non-lethal stab
wounds, etc 

Hawke shows up in uniform with something on his face. What is it?? Five
o'clock shadow? A goatee?? I spent more time trying to figure this out
than paying attention to the movie. No self respecting police officer
would show up in uniform like that or allow another to do so. He looks
like some kid who walked in off the street.

Stylishly shot and a great cast, but its failure to be anchored in
something close to reality turns it into an unintentional spoof.
