
A young girl (Kristen Stewart) and her two teen friends pull off a bank
heist for obtaining the cash needed for the operating her ill daddy
(Sam Robards) where their mild-mannered mummy (Jennifer Beals) works as
a security agent . They encounter complications with a humorous and
botcher pair agents (James LeGros) in a robbery developed with imposing
tension and intrigue ; it's , of course , the highlight and great
climax of the movie . Thus , during the burgle the teens confront
perils and risks as high-tech systems , vigilance dogs and she will
raise a vault suspended many feet above ground (similar to Tom Cruise
in Mission impossible) with the aim to take million of dollars from the
safe .

The picture displays comedy , action , enjoyable humor and continuous
entertainment . Besides , galore kart chases with impressive velocities
and pursuits by police cars . The film is a crossover of ¨Topkapi¨
caper, ¨Ocean's eleven¨ heist pirouette and ¨Italian job¨ races but
wrapped in adolescent style . Likable acting from Kristen Stewart ,
Jennifer Beals and Max Thieriot's film debut . The picture contains a
lively and jolly musical score by George S. Clinton . The movie was
regularly directed by Bart Freudlich and turned out to be a remake of a
Danish hit smash titled Klatretøsen . It's a great stuff for schoolboys
of all ages though especially for kids and teenagers .
<|_=00=_|>

Catch That Kid, an enjoyable movie for the whole family?  I think so.  The
story is about a young girl named Maddy, a tomboy who loves climbing.  Her
parents, however, have forbidden her to climb due to an accident her
father
had had which seriously injured his back.  Though he had apparently
recovered, something goes wrong which leaves him paralyzed from the neck
down.  Maddy's mother Molly does everything she can to find the money
needed
- $250,000 - for an opperation to save him.  But there is nothing she can
do.  Maddy, still determined to save her dad, sees robbing the bank at
which
her mother is setting up a security system as her only option.  She
quickly
enlists the help of her two best friends - Gus, a go-cart mechanic and
Austin, a computer geek - who both happen to be in puppy love with her.
What ensues as they make their plan to rob the bank and begin to carry it
out is funny, incredibly unrealistic, and touching.

Most of the humor comes from the two boys' crush on Maddy, the wannabe
actor
who works at the bank, and later the fact that Maddy is left in charge of
her little brother at the last minute and decides to take him with her to
the robbery.  I would have liked to see more humor, and the slapstick
comedy
from the security officer was not very funny.  Nevertheless, the movie
overall was fun.

The movie is unrealistic, but I like it that way, because in reality life
is
complicated and hard, but in movies everything is possible.  I also
enjoyed
the hi-tech security measures employed at the bank, very
nifty.

The touching scenes come in where Maddy shows her deep love for her father
and learns how very deep her mother's love is for her.

The movie did not, however, teach any real moral values.  That is, of
course, easily remedied by talking to your children about right and wrong
and the real consequences of choosing actions you know are
wrong.

I recommend this movie as a fun movie for the whole family to see
together,
if only because the kids will definitely love it, but I think the adults
will enjoy it too.  8/10

<|_=00=_|>

Catch That Kid (2004)

When this film was released I knew it would get criticism, either by the
premise of stealing money, or by it's similarities between Spy Kids and
Agent Cody Banks. I do not agree that it is like Spy Kids, "Catch That Kid"
is a lot better.

The movie is about Maddy Phillips (Kristen Stewart- The Panic Room, Cold
Creek Manor), who loves to climb. After an accident on Mt. Everest, her Dad
becomes paralyzed, and he can get an operation in Denmark for $250,000- but
insurance doesn't pay for it. So, Maddy recruits her two best friends,
Austin and Gus, to help her rob a high security bank whose security system
her mother created. The safe is suspended 100 feet high, and Maddy must
overcome her fear of climbing too high, so that she can save her father's
life.

This movie had some really neat climbing sequences, good action, but it
lacked a few laughs. Bart Fruendlich manages the security and heist scenes
well, and the film has some pretty odd security devices for the
bank.

Kristen Stewart is great, she gives a good performance, and her two best
friends are also good. The parents are a bit one dimensional, but it doesn't
really matter to the kids, which is the audience most likely to be attracted
to this movie. When seeing this with your kids, just let them know robbing a
bank isn't a good thing, and that it's just a movie. Don't let them take it
too seriously, but hey, they're kids. 8/10.
<|_=00=_|>
A U.S. remake of the Danish film Klatretosen (2002), Catch that Kid is 
a teen heist film, in a nutshell. When Maddy's (Kristen Stewart) dad 
needs an expensive operation, she plans a heist to get the money to pay 
for it, enlisting the help of her two equally inventive friends, Austin 
(Corbin Bleu) and Gus (Max Thieriot).

Catch that Kid is a lot of fun, but viewers who are only looking for 
"realistic" fare may be disappointed. As a teen heist film, Catch that 
Kid is heavy on the fantasy aspects, which are frequently more 
cartoonish than realistic. Whether you'll like it will largely depend 
on whether you don't mind, or even prefer (as I do), fantasy instead of 
reality in films. And unlike traditional heist films, Catch that Kid 
has an overarching "warm and fuzzy" message, with a predictable climax 
and denouement.

Even though it is heavy on fantasy elements, the three stars, Stewart, 
Bleu and Thieriot, are very believable, in context, in their roles. The 
film is interesting that in spite of being a heist film, it is also 
constructed like a more traditional fantasy/adventure story. In this 
interpretation, the bank is as a castle, presided over by an evil 
ruler. Our heroes must enter the castle stealthily, foiling the court 
jesters/castle guards, evading the magical beasts to scale the inner 
sanctum, retrieve the sacred token, escape on horseback and save the 
true King. That the plot can work in both the modern heist setting and 
the traditional fantasy/adventure setting gives in more depth and more 
unconscious resonance with audiences amenable to less realistic tales.

Comparisons can easily be made to other recent films such as the Spy 
Kids series, the Cody Banks series, or even animated fare such as Kim 
Possible, but each has its particular niche, and Catch that Kid was 
just as entertaining to me (a middle-aged male) as any heist film for 
grown-ups.

Finally, in a different tone, let me repeat the rant I gave in my 
review of The Grudge (2004): It is ridiculous that U.S. distributors 
and studios feel that we need remakes of foreign films to make them 
appropriate for consumption. The original versions of these films 
should just be playing in U.S. theaters in wide release. There is no 
need to present an almost identical film but just substituting white 
American actors for non-white or foreign actors. Yes, Catch that Kid is 
a fine film, but ultimately, I'd rather see something original using 
this talent, and be treated to the latest foreign films--not just 
European, but Asian, African, etc.--at my multiplex. In the hope that 
someone with some pull at the studios reads this, it is also more 
cost-effective to do this, as (1) you can completely avoid production 
costs, and simply make domestic distribution deals from which you 
receive profit, and (2) you can make money off of fans like myself who 
otherwise pick up the foreign film DVDs in foreign manufactured or even 
bootleg versions.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm noting that Catch That Kid was based on a popular Danish film,
Klatretosen that only came out a few years ago. There had to be another
motivation for what these three enterprising juveniles did because
Denmark unlike the USA has socialized medicine and the problem that the
kids need the money for wouldn't exist there.

What that problem is that Kristen Stewart's dad John Carroll Lynch has
aggravated an old spinal injury that has left him bedridden and
paralyzed. The only hope of a treatment is an experimental procedure
that our insurance won't pay and will cost $250,000.00 for the
operation. So Kristen enlists her two friends, Max Thierot and Corbin
Bleu to do a bank robbery.

Getting inside information is easy because Kristen's mom, Jennifer
Beals runs a security company and on a take your daughter to work day
she accompanies mom and pays very close attention to the procedures
installed in the bank that Beal's is contracted to work for. 

Although they don't say so, it's pretty obvious these kids were weaned
on heist films like To Catch A Thief and The Asphalt Jungle. Cary Grant
never pulled off a neater robbery than this trio. 

Catch That Kid is a nice enough film that might send a wrong message
out there to younger viewers. Truth be told these kids are almost
caught, but get some help from an unexpected source. They never should
have gotten as far as they did.
<|_=00=_|>
As long as you don't apply any real caper rules to this then it's fun.

The idea of kids robbing a bank and using their ingenuity to do it has
to be immensely appealing to young teenagers, and the results on that
basis are fine.

The back story - robbing the bank to pay for the father's surgery - is
well handled, and overall it is a positive movie for girls - Kristen
Stewart, who plays Maddy is definitely the leader and for this alone it
makes it a better than normal teen movie.

Your kids can watch this without being corrupted; it's just a fun heist
/ caper movie that will keep the whole family entertained.
<|_=00=_|>

Even most adult heist films show that there are consequences for lying,
stealing, and endangering the lives of others. But when 12-year-old Maddy
engages in all these thing and more in order to rob a bank (for which her
mom designed the security system), the slow-witted adults around her are
admiring and awed by her nobility. The entire plot premise - Maddy's
family
can't afford an expensive operation for her dad - is cheap enough to be
insulting. Your kids need to see this movie if you want them to learn
that:
*All authority is bad (not to mention idiotic).
*Cops are evil - don't trust them.
*It's okay to lie to your parents.
*It's okay to lie to your friends.
*You're never to young to use sex as a tool to get what you
want.
*Putting the toddlers you babysit in deadly danger is funny.
*All of these are admirable if you come up with the cash.
On the positive side, this movie is very entertaining on an 8-year-old
level, and I'm sure most children will enjoy it.
<|_=00=_|>
An American remake of Danish 2002 film Klatretøsen, Catch That Kid is
undemanding family fare for the, well, undemanding. Plot sees Kristen
Stewart as Maddy, whose father is rendered paralysed from an old
mountaineering accident. Unable to raise the $250,000 needed for the
potential life changing operation, Maddy and her mother are at a dead
end. But Maddy hits upon the idea of robbing the bank where her mother
has been the security consultant, so enlisting the help of her two
young pals, she sets about committing the perfect robbery.

Plot suggests it is what it is, kiddie friendly fodder that's as
preposterous as it gets. But it's still a likable enough tale, stitched
together competently enough by director Bart Freundlich, and the actual
robbery itself is well crafted and not without genuine tension. The
child actors, led by future Twilight star Stewart, don't annoy, and the
writers even plant the strains of puppy love on the edges of the
narrative. It's all heading to an obvious conclusion, one that is very
It's A Wonderful Life in intent, but it does it's job well enough and
closes off with a smugness that's hard to get mad at.

An easy enough time filler to watch with the kids or to do your ironing
too. 6/10
<|_=00=_|>

Reasonably diverting, clearly tongue in cheek farce, far better than the
last Spy Kids installment.  The adult leads were one dimensional and
unconvincing, but the female lead provided the most interest and emotional
connection for the audience.  If you need a cold weather diversion for the
kids, consider this.
<|_=00=_|>
This is gonna take some explaining, but here we go: There's a girl
right? She is training herself to be just as good a climber as her dad,
an ex-mountaineer. Her two best friends are, in short: a computer geek
and an adrenaline junkie. Her mother has just finished installing a
security system at a bank, but it isn't properly tested yet. Despite
all this, the arrogant manager of the branch decides to go ahead with a
party he had planned. Meanwhile, The girl's dad collapses one night due
to the effects of an injury he acquired while on the peaks. The
diagnosis isn't good: He will be paralysed for life unless his family
can raise 250'000 dollars for a trip to Copenhagen and a mobility
restoring operation. Seeing as their attempts at borrowing the cash
lead to nought, the kids decide to plan a little heist on mummy's bank
the night of the manager's big do. With the young lady's climbing
ability, the nerd's technical know-how and the adrenaline guy's habit
of getting out of a tight spot, they make a perfect team! In fact, so
perfect it could only be dreamed up in a movie screenplay! But forget
my cynicism, let's check in on them as they start their raid!

And what a bank this is! All you need to sneak in is dress in formal
dinner wear, even if you look only 14 years old! Plus to protect.. oh
what was it now.. 18 million bullion?.. the institution hires.. you
guessed it. Two of the most retarded guards you'll ever likely to meet,
one just fresh out of college with no experience and the other a
complete psychopath who is in serious need of a dose of Ritalin. Ah,
but that's not all! They also have to deal with.. two rottweilers!
Scary stuff! Apart from that, there's also the motion detector cameras,
the hidden laser that sets off the alarm, the huge drop while our
wannabe climber girl is scaling up to the vault.. and yet they pass
these tests with ease! if only robbing Lloyd's TSB was this easy! I'd
do it myself! I'll tell you what would have made it more interesting..
if the children had run into a gang of REAL policemen while executing
their plan other than those two boobs. Would they have accidentally
zapped themselves with tazers in the corridor or staged fake sword
fights when they're supposed to watching their monitors? No, they
probably would have opened fire there and then on what could be for all
they know an armed gang. I know, I know, I'm being over the top, but
this seriously is one of the most ridiculous scenarios I've ever seen.

Oh wait! I haven't even mentioned the getaway on go-carts. Somehow the
brats evade two (Yes TWO) panda cars AND a chopper on almost deserted
streets, all while low on fuel and ducking under trucks all the way.
This is an amazing accomplishment for the young actors, and anyone who
accuses the director of having short stuntmen under those helmets is
quite patently wrong. Then, when they get to the hospital to take daddy
to Denmark, he wants to know where his little precious got all the
moolah. Not to worry, Mommy is quickly on the scene with an explanation
that will save her daughter from having to break rocks for the next
four years. Only problem is, its not a very good one. Only an idiot
would believe it. Fortunately though, that sums up 100% of the adults
in this film.. they buy it hook, line and sinker. So everything works
out fine: Father's gets his operation, Mother saves her job and the
Tomboy still gets hang around with her two best mates on the racetrack.
The only question remaining is.. which of them does she.. you know..
like LIKE?! Stay tuned to the gripping conclusion to find out. Or maybe
not.. 3/10 

P.S Oops I got so worked up over the unbelievable plot I forgot to tell
what I actually thought of it. Yeah, it sucked like an over zealous
vacuum cleaner. And anyone else want to kill that stupid baby? Talk
about overdoing the cute! Anyway, tune in next time my wonderful
viewers!!
