

Zach Braff's "Garden State" manages to accomplish something that very
few films have been able to do throughout the history of cinema. It is
a film that speaks to an entire generation. 1947's "The Best Years of
Our Lives" spoke to our grandparents. "The Graduate" spoke to our
parents. "Fight Club" spoke to our older brothers working dead-end jobs
in the 90's. But it is with the arrival of "Garden State" that our
generation is spoken to, those of us born in the early-mid 80's who are
in our late teens and early twenties trying to make it by in a
environment that seems all at once to strange and yet so familiar.

Homecoming is the theme of Garden State. Andrew Largeman (Zach Braff))
has been away from his hometown of New Jersey for the past nine years
and returns to attend the funeral for his mother. While having been
gone, Andrew has been on lithium and other forms of anti-depressant
medication all prescribed to him by his psychiatrist father Gideon (Ian
Holm). Upon his homecoming Andrew has decided to take a vacation from
his medication and take some time to re-connect with himself. From
there the plot grows as he connects with old friends and makes new ones
and discovers the joys of life and love mostly thanks to the arrival of
free-spirited Sam (Natalie Portman). 

Braff has written and directed scenes that qualify to go down in the
movie history books along such moments as Pulp Fiction's dance
sequence, and The Deer Hunter's Russian roulette scenes. Two of said
scenes that come to mind are when Sam takes Andrew up to her room for
the first time and does something "totally original that has never been
done before in this location and will never be copied again throughout
the rest of human existence," in order to ease the pain of an awkward
situation. Another scene occurs late in the film when the three
principals stand at the edge of a seemingly endless abyss and scream at
the tops of their lungs into the gorge. It is this moment that defines,
with one pure act, the epitome of what it feels to be in your late
teens, early 20's looking out at life. Standing at the edge of life and
screaming. 

While all the acting is noteworthy, including a hilarious cameo by
Method Man (yes, that's right Method Man), it is Natalie Portman who
steals the show. Sam is in essence the adult version of her character
from Beautiful Girls. She's 26, but an old soul. It his in her that the
movie comes out the realm of quirky off-kilter comedy and gains heart,
soul, and intimacy all to rare to achieve in films these days. Bravo
Ms. Portman. In addition, Peter Sarsgaard is becoming one of my new
favorite actors, after having seen him in this film, Shattared Glass,
and Boys Don't Cry within a matter of approximately three weeks. 

I will go on record an call Garden State a masterpiece. It does exactly
what films are supposed to do, take from all areas of art and
incorporate them into one. It is a passionate mixture of visual flare,
tremendous dialogue, hip music, and heart-warming pathos. I encourage
anyone who is young to see this film. See it with the people you care
about, this is your film, this is OUR film, and it couldn't be better.

<|_=00=_|>
'Garden State' came out in the Uk on December 10th. I had heard
wonderful things about it from friends and relatives in the US - I
wasn't disappointed...

From start to finish, the film made me laugh and cry. I thought the
opening in which we met Braff lying emotionless in bed. Listening to
the answer machine message from his dad about his mother's death was
disturbing and really drew me in.

So many memorable moments: The funeral, touching and funny, the party
scenes, the scan scene...And as for the dialogue - well, sharp and
witty. I don't think I will ever forget Natalie Portman's dancing in
her bedroom - just to be 'unique' or Zach Braff's touching comments
about what makes a 'home' in the swimming pool.

Even those touching moments were funny; the fact that he couldn't swim!

As a mid twenty-something, This film really spoke to me. It's that
question we all dread. We've graduated university, got jobs....then
what?

Fantastic...just a shame it is not on wide release here...

One of the best films I have seen in ages!

9/10
<|_=00=_|>
Movies with guns, explosions, Barbie/ken romance... You know the drill.
They can be good films, but it's rare I ever relate to those movies.

I *really* related to this movie - both the main character played by
Zach, and the pure concept and analogy on display here. This film earns
itself a place in my DVD collection upon release for the sheer fact it
matches my 20-something experience to a huge degree, and all the
feelings along the way.

Normally films such as this tend to end up becoming "coming of age"
stories - this isn't. It's simply about living life, but not knowing
why you are living it.

An excellent film on many levels - 10/10.
<|_=00=_|>
First off, for anyone thinking about seeing this movie, go do it!! No
matter what anyone has told you already about the film. I notice a lot
of people writing that they didn't like Garden State and that's fine, I
personally thought it was excellent. To me it was real life on film,
and within that real life there are very different people.
Unfortunately not everyone wants to see movies that remind them of
reality, and I guess not everybodies reality is the same as mine. Even
so Garden State is well worth the watching, if only to remind us that
the comatose state most of us live in is only temporary, and the joy of
a life well lived is forever.
<|_=00=_|>
Garden grew on me. It kept replaying in my mind. It reminded me of the
movie The Graduate (no slight praise) for many reasons, not the least
of which was the soundtrack which included a song by Simon and
Garfunkel. I mean, why include an old song by S&G in the middle of a
host of contemporary artists - it must have been done on purpose -
right? And the pool scene, although different than Hoffman's, still
serves to illustrate Andrew Largeman's alienation.

Much like the Graduate, it was the little things that got to me. The
escalators heading in two directions at the end, the making of a
completely original dance, the touching of the father, the arc on the
edge of the abyss, the silent Velcro...I could go on.

Natalie Portman got to me too. Playing the role of a goofy, epileptic
but cute, hometown girl, she steals the show. She hits all the right
notes. She is responsible for the death by tread-wheel of a loved one,
she habitually lies, and she's slightly crazy, but Andrew and we can't
help falling in love with her.

Movies like this are rare. Lots worth looking at, lots worth listening
to, lots to think about, lots to feel good about. I hope Braff (star,
writer, director) has a few more like this in him.
<|_=00=_|>
Zach Braff has made it. Both script, directing and main acting, and
everything is more than all right. This is a film without violence
about people living ordinary extra-ordinary lives and it's much more
interesting than extra-ordinary murders, which very, very few, even in
the USA, encounter.

The "hero" has been going on tranquilizers for all his grown up-life
and even before that. He's got no feelings left, not even for the death
of his mother. Then he meets a girl, well acted indeed by Natalie
Portman, who unlocks him slowly, saying the right things all the time
without knowing it.

Hours after you've seen this, you realize that here was a crucial
moment, this was a turning point and so on. The love story gets a
little sentimental at the end, but still this is a film that lives long
after you've seen it through.
<|_=00=_|>

I really loved this movie.  I mean, really.  So it surprised me to come
here
and find it rated so low.

By no means is this a perfect movie.  It can be slow or awkward from time
to
time and there are one or two moments that just don't work.  But.  By and
large I was really impressed.

It's a great little story with just the right balance of comedy and drama,
full of quirky characters and interesting performances.  Ian Holm demands
attention, as always, and Natalie Portman's Sam, while offputting at
first,
definitely grew on me as she grew into a real character.

But the real story here is Zack Braff.  It should surprise no one who has
ever watched Scrubs that his performance keeps the movie together; or that
he is able to create a jokey, distant, somewhat sarcastic character who
also
elicits real empathy from the audience and manages to emanate deep wounds.
What amazes me is the work he has done here as a first time
writer/director.

First off, there is an actual narrative here with meaning and relevance.
Too often, the big Hollywood movies will have a plot that resolves itself,
but means nothing; on the flip side, independent movies almost seem to
disdain plot for mood and thematic concerns.  Braff is able to weave both
together--a difficult task for a young writer.  The dialogue is witty,
plot
situations intelligent and creative, and overall the writing is
just--good.

As for his directing, there are a few odd choices.  I'm still not sure I
like one scene the main characters are screaming into a deep ravine and
the
camera sweeps away into said ravine.  It just tossed me out of the movie a
bit.  I'm also not completely sure what to make of the movie's ending,
which
I won't go into further except to say that I felt it almost changed the
focus of the movie up to that point and made it about something else.
However, there are moments of absolutely beauty as well, here.  The entire
scene where Sam and Andrew talk in his friend's pool has some great shots,
and Braff's comedic flair and timing are evident in his directing style,
which still manages to pull back for the more dramatic and poignant
moments.

I urge you to see this movie.  It's not a "big" movie.  It was never meant
to be.  But I have little doubt that, once it finds an audience, it will
be
remembered for years to come.  Sort of a modern day Graduate with a more
hopeful outlook on life.
<|_=00=_|>
I would give Garden State a 9 out of 10. The only reason I'm not giving
it a perfect 10 is b/c it had a slow start. Besides that this movie
overwhelmingly surprised me with its directing and acting. Natatlie
Portman did an amazing job playing Sam. She really worked the part.
Zach Braff's directing debut is stunning. I had never heard of Braff
except for his character on the TV show Scrubs. He also did an
excellent job acting. There were so many surprising elements thrown out
during the movie. Braff just kept piling one thing on top of the next
to make the story more interesting as it rolled on. I was very pleased
with Garden State!!!!!!!!!11
<|_=00=_|>
I have no qualms with how the movie does NOT capture New Jersey (like
Zach, I'm from there). Fine. Whatever. I lived there WAY long enough. I
don't need to see a movie that captures the Garden State.

What I do have qualms with is how bad this movie is. Let's make it easy
on you. We'll use some bullet-points. There are probably some spoilers
that follow. (Not that you wouldn't be able to predict the movie
ANYWAY): 

-The music placement was maddeningly forced and patronizing. Example:
Large: "What are you listening to?" Sam: "The Shins. Ever heard of
'em?" "No." "Listen to this song - it will change your life!" And then
they proceed to play that Shins song that was in a McDonalds
commercial. (Don't you love when the characters in a movie blatantly
tell you - the viewer - how to react to something? I love that! Hey,
they should have put subtitles during various scenes instructing us to
"chuckle," "Say 'aaaaaw'" "cry" "feel inspired" etc.) 

-The scenes were SO BAD. SO Cliché. SO MELODRAMATIC. Example: The
entire movie. But no, really, example: They're in the rainy quarry by
the ark. Large runs up - in the pouring rain (oh he's SO TORMENTED!) -
on top of a piece of heavy machinery and SCREAMS! Oh how moving! But
wait! Here comes Sam and his buddy (the annoying drug addict), and they
ALL SCREAM!!!! BUT WAIT!!!! OH MY GOD!!!! Here it comes! THEY KISS!!!
LONG, DEEP!!!! IN THE RAIN!!!!!!!! 

-The dialogue was SO BAD. SO Cliché. SO MELODRAMATIC. Example. They're
leaving the ark and Sam says something like, "Hey. Good luck exploring
the infinite abyss." And the guy says back, "You, too." Oh...Oh my! I
never realized...could it be? Oh my God it is! Large's life is
like...ohmigod...AN INFINITE ABYSS!!!! Another example: Large and Sam
in the airport. Sam says something like, "Is this goodbye?" Not enough
for ya? OK, Largeman says something like, "This isn't a period at the
end of the sentence... it's an ellipses." And guess what happens when
he tries to walk down the jetway and go back to his life in LA. You
know, what? Don't guess. It's a waste of your time.

-It's a Grade Z Wes Anderson rip-off movie. When not busy being
melodramatic and cliché, the movie spends lots of times with
crazy-kooky-off-kilter characters. Hey, Sam's brother... thank you Zach
Braff for including him, because it really made the movie so much more
textured. Also ripping off Anderson: the dialogue. Scene: Sam and
Largeman are in a bar. In walks friends, "Vagina!" says one of them.
Then they see him sitting with Sam, so one of the friends says, "Sorry
I said vagina." And Sam says, "It's OK." 

-Inventive cinematography that's not inventive but pointless and
annoying. Give me a break with the speed-up/slow down of film. Again,
Wes Anderson does it effectively in his movies. And it was done well in
"Donnie Darko." But, really, it was pointless. Wow. A crazy party where
people are taking X and snorting coke. Better roll out all the tricks! 

-You can count the good moments on one hand (even if you're missing
fingers). That's what makes it even WORSE. The retarded quarterback
thing...well, that was good! The little thing he (largeman) says as
they're about to enter the quarry (something about huffing
turpentine)...that was good! Oh, wait, that's about it.

You know, Zach Braff is, I think, always a little too cute. But, he's
likable. But, man, this is forced, pretentious, melodramatic (have you
gotten that yet?), overly cute, overly everything. This movie is
terrible. Apparently, I'm outnumbered, as this waste of time is
currently rated an 8.0.

Please, though, if you're looking for something truly poignant and
subtle and unique DO. NOT. RENT. THIS. MOVIE.
<|_=00=_|>

A very promising film debut by Zach Braff. 

The plot isn't all that original, the movie isn't all that flawless,
but "Garden State" has a unique and sincere quality which make it
totally differ from other flicks. In short, this movie is "real" and
sensational.

Let's not forget about the acting. Zach was lucky enough to have two of
the very best young actors starring in his movie: Natalie Portman and
Peter Sarsgaard. Especially Nat Portman, her Sam is so lovable that I
just want to give her a big huge. Her smile lights up the screen. NP's
character and acting are definitely the highlights of "Garden State".

8 out of 10. Very touching.

