
What an Excellent film! I went to an advance screening and left with my
jaw aching from all the laughing and grinning.

At first, it felt the film was just the play in front of the camera,
but the style eventually worked, turning the movie audience into a
Broadway audience. At times, the director took the actors outside
almost as a fun way of saying "see? with a camera, we can now move
around!" Nonetheless, by the time we get to the most famous musical
number, the audience was applauding and cheering after each song.
During the credits, it felt like a curtain call with applauds for each
actor.

So much fun and very deserving of the name Mel Brooks this film is
great for the holidays (with the more adult jokes being concealed in
song, and only minor swearing) older children and teenagers should get
a kick out of this fast paced, fun, and very memorable film.

Also, just a bit of advice: stay until the end of the credits.
<|_=00=_|>
The Producers (2005) **** Nathan Lane, Matthew Broderick, Uma Thurman,
Will Farrell, Gary Beach, Roger Bart Dir. Susan Stroman

I don't think the critics know what they are talking about. This movie
rocked! It took me back to the old days of movie musicals. You know,
the Bugsby Berkley years, big and flashy with hum able songs. Based on
the 1968 film starring Zero Maestel and Gene Wilder, and the smash hit
on Broadway, the story of a failing Producer named Max Bialystock who
has just had the worst show in town close called Funny Boy, a musical
version of Hamlet. Distraught he runs into accountant Leo Bloom who
comes up with the notion that you can make more money with a flop than
with a hit. Max overjoyed to hear such wonderful news lays it all out.
Step 1. They find the worst play ever written, the "mother lode" as Max
calls it when he comes across Springtime for Hitler, written by
neo-nazi Franz Liebkind. Step 2. Hire the worst director, a prime and
proper gay man named Roger Debris who wants to keep everything gay!
Step 3. Raise 2 million dollars from Max's backers: harmless little old
ladies looking for a last roll in the hay. Step 4 Open on Broadway and
before you can say step 5 they close and run off to Rio. All goes well
until Springtime for Hitler becomes a success leaving Leo and Max in
the dust.

People have been comparing it to the original, which sure it has some
of the same lines, and the story is the same, but both shows have
something different to offer. You get songs in this version that you
don't get in the original. Nathan Lane tears up the screen and will
have you in stitches as Max; his show stopping number "Betrayed" will
have you applauding. Matthew Broderick is also very good as Leo who
can't grab life by the balls and go. He sings "I Wanna Be A Producer"
with such gusto and dances with Ms. Uma Thurman, who is amazing as
Ulla, and their dance number has sheds of the old Astaire and Rogers's
musicals of the 30s.

Also excellent, are Will Farrell as the Nazi who speaks to his birds
and Gary Beach and Roger Bart as Roger De Bris and Carmen Ghia they gay
"couple" who want to put Springtime for Hitler on the stage, both stand
out in the cast, and both played the roles on Broadway. Other familiar
faces you will see are Jon Lovitz as Leo's accounting firms boss,
Michael McKean as one of the prisoners and Richard Kind as the Jury
Foreman who took over in the Nathan Lane role on the stage.

Susan Stroman doesn't make the camera cuts flashy, they are simple,
which makes it more enjoyable to watch the dance numbers, from the
opening number to the hilarious "Along Came Bialy" when the old ladies
do a dance break with walkers, to "Keep it Gay" to the uproarious
Springtime for Hitler number. The best-staged number was probably "I
Wanna Be A Producer" as it has shades from the 30s mixed with modern
day. It was wonderful! If you listen to some critics who choose to say
"this film show inexperience" or "not as good as the original" you are
missing a terrific movie musical that is just as good as Chicago! Plus
Mel Brooks was also standing there at the helm with Ms. Stroman. Be
advised to stay until the very end of the credits to view something
special! Bravo!
<|_=00=_|>
Much better than anyone had the right to expect. Lane and Broderick are
superb. Even moving. Look what I'm saying, moving. I mean it. Their
commitment is contagious. The comedy in itself is shamelessly
anachronistic. The gay jokes belong to the period in which the original
Producers were conceived. The tone is consistent with that period, the
film happens at an incredible pace and you smile from beginning to end.
How marvelous to see Matthew Broderick dance. This is an actor who
never had an Academy Award nomination and his performances have always
been top notch and his range runs the famous gamut from A to Z. What a
courageous actor. I couldn't believe he could get away with the "I'm in
pain! I'm wet and I'm still hysterical" scene without making me miss
Gene Wilder but he did. Nathan Lane is a force of nature. His Max is
very much a tribute to Zero Mostel, especially to his hair but this Max
is Nathan Lane through and through. Uma Thurman is a delight and I had
a great time at the movies. What else do you want out of life.
<|_=00=_|>
After reading critics' reviews I thought twice about seeing this film.
But I needn't have worried as this was fantastic entertainment. I don't
seem to care that the director has kept the stagy sets and took a
literal approach to adapting a stage musical for the big screen. It was
a fun time from beginning to end.

While his portrayal of Leo Bloom was too much like Gene Wilder's,
Matthew Broderick was simply divine when dancing. Indeed it was an
interesting to see the top half of his body so still and rigid while
his legs and feet were moving with such poise and grace. Nathan Lane
never seems to disappoint, he is simply brilliant. His physical
resemblance to Zero Mostel is obvious but the mannerisms are all his
own. Uma Thurman is good as Ula and Will Ferrell rediscovers his funny.

I didn't even mind the over-the-stop stereotypes. Gary Beach and Roger
Bart are screamingly funny. Springtime for Hitler is the best part of
the show and nice to see John Barrowman giving it his all as the blond
Nazi.

If you want to be entertained for a few hours then this is the movie to
go see, don't let the critics put you off!
<|_=00=_|>
First, there was Mel Brooks' clever movie "The Producers." That got
adapted into a Tony-winning stage musical. Then the musical became
adapted into a movie. This hilarious spectacle is sure to please!
Nathan Lane and Matthew Broderick return as Max Bialystock and Leo
Bloom, the same roles they made famous on Broadway. Lane is a riot,
channeling Zero Mostel's bombastic character. Meanwhile, Broderick
surprises as he does a decent take on Gene Wilder's original hysterical
act. Will Ferrell scores laughs as Nazi playwright Franz Liebkind, and
Uma Thurman puts in a good song and dance as Swedish sexpot Ulla. The
movie perfectly catches the style of the old-fashioned musical, with a
large serving of slapstick. This snappy production is sure to be a hit
with everyone!
<|_=00=_|>
What a fantastic surprise. I've seen Luke-warm reviews about this film,
largely saying that the theatrical basis (the Broadway show) is
oh-so-evident. Well, in my opinion, this is one of the film's
strengths. It's a well-intentioned performance and is close enough to
the original Producers, and so unlike it, that the musical remake is
justified.

I love musicals, especially musical comedy. This film is a sop to the
musical comedy, with good performances from the leads, and Uma Thurman
and Will Ferrell, who all appear to be enjoying themselves.

The central (staged) number "Springtime for Hitler" is brilliantly
choreographed, with suitably outrageous costumes. Gary Beach as a
brilliantly camp Hitler completes this excellent scene. And the
bratwurst!! The editing in this sequence - camera panning to the
gob-smacked audience is brilliant. This is a film that salutes and
spoofs musicals. It's an absolute delight
<|_=00=_|>
I am a huge fan of the original movie and had the pleasure of seeing
the wonderful Broadway show in 2003, so I was more than expecting to
love this remake. Unfortunately it didn't live-up to my expectations on
a number of fronts.

Most fundamentally, it seemed more of a cinematic rendering of the
stage show than a remake of the movie - the problem is that it utterly
lacks the charm of the 1968 film, and fails to capture the excitement
and energy of the show. This is not to do with the actors, who all put
in great performances and do the best job possible with their roles.
Though, I wonder if it was a good idea to keep the leads from Broadway
- playing a part on stage is very different from doing the same thing
in a movie. This is at the heart of what is wrong with this movie - it
is trying to be cinematic and theatrical at the same time.

Also, they have cut some of the funniest scenes and changed some of the
best lines from the original. Why, I wonder? For example, the first
encounter between Max and Leo in the original movie is hilarious and
dramatic - a magnificent opening set-piece, with drama, humour and
conflict. In this version, Leo just knocks on the door and introduces
himself. Bit of a damp squib, really.

Overall, I am not sure what to make of this movie. I would probably
have enjoyed it more if I had not seen the original. But not much.
<|_=00=_|>
Nothing is more arrogant than a film that assumes it's going to be a
hit before it even goes into production. Such a disaster is this
musical remake of "The Producers." Stagebound, presentational instead
of reactive, and more leaden than an Iron Cross, it betrays everything
about the 1968 classic -- not to mention raising questions how anything
this klunky could ever work, must less be a hit, on the Broadway stage.
Reportedly, Mel Brooks was distracted during filming by his wife's
illness and death, and that director Susan Stroman didn't have the
clout to override his in absentia presence. Never mind that the new
third act ending betrays the first two. Never mind that Lane and
Broderick never develop the father-son relationship that Zero Mostel
and Gene Wilder did, and which drove the story. Never mind that the
musical numbers are not only forgettable, but extraneous. Never mind
that the 11 o'clock number is over by 10:59. Never mind that Nathan
Lane is made up to look like a Hirschfeld drawing. Never mind that
Matthew Broderick is a human marshmallow. Mever mind that Uma Thurman
sucks the energy out of movies that she's not even in. Never mind that
-- oh, never mind. Like a dumb horror movie where the girl heads up to
the attic and you know the monster's there waiting for her but she goes
up anyway, "The Producers" is its own train wreck, devoid of any sense
of self-awareness, let alone the major one: that it needs an audience.
<|_=00=_|>
My father adored the original Zero Mostel/Gene Wilder version of The
Producers, he used to watch it regularly when I was growing up and that
rubbed off on me. When I first saw Mel Brooks 'The Producers' I thought
it was a stage play adapted into a movie not the other way round that
it became. While I never saw the Broadway revival of 'The Producers' I
did 'try' to watch the 2005 version of the 'Producers' on DVD. If you
have never seen the original 1968 version and have only seen the 2005
version then of course the 2005 version is going to be funny. If you
have seen the original, then you notice just how little effort the
actors made other than giving pale imitation of the Zero Mostel/Gene
Wilder blue print that makes the 2005 version look like an overacted
summer pantomime. I could only go 15 minutes before turning it off in
disgust.
<|_=00=_|>
If i could give it an 11 out of a possible 10 I would give it that...
the entire production was wonderful.. i would watch it again...and that
is something i do only with very few movies. Nathan Lane steals the
show with his wonderful performance. The performance by the actor
portraying the gay director is a model of what a supporting actor
should be.

The scene showing the actual production of the play was a masterpiece
and only Mel Brooks could do it justice. 

Uma Thurman gives a stellar performance and almost steals the show.

I can not say enough good things about this movie.
