
I saw "Catch and Release" a couple of months ago, the first screening,
writer-director Susannah Grant said, of the final cut. It was a very
friendly audience, but watching the movie, I couldn't help but feel
Grant could have and should have done better.

The film opens promisingly, teasing us and playing with our
expectations as we first see Gray (Jennifer Garner) and the
circumstances she finds herself in. However, Grant never quite builds
on that initial promise and soon "Catch and Release" meanders into
traditional romantic comedy territory, complete with the obligatory
playful and lovable sidekick - in this case, Sam (Kevin Smith) - and
the friend harboring a romantic secret of his own, Dennis (Sam Jaeger).

The crux of the story is Gray's realization that her life is being
turned upside down because of what she finds out about a loved one. And
- I'm giving away no secrets here, because it is, after all, a romantic
comedy - the blossoming romance between her and Fritz (Timothy
Olyphant), who at first is seemingly wrong for her. But wanna guess if
that will change?

The star of the film is undoubtedly Garner. Just as she did in "13
Going on 30" (2004), she again takes what should be a pedestrian film
and boosts it considerably with her undeniable charm. She has a smile
that melts the hardest heart and although "Catch and Release" can never
shake its conventions, whenever the film entertains, it's mostly
because of Garner. She imbues Gray with a vulnerability that's utterly
convincing.

Smartly, Grant also gives Smith - essentially playing himself with
cleaner language - the film's funniest lines. They're not anything
novel, but it's typical Kevin Smith. She also tags on a romantic
interest for Sam. It's no surprise, because Grant cannot break the
shackles of the genre for something original. You can see the pairing
long before it actually happens on screen.

Juliette Lewis seems an oddity in this film. I've not seen her in a
film for years and her character tends to grate a bit. Lewis is a good
actress, but she seems to get typecast in these off-kilter roles and
there's an unmistakable sense we've seen this performance from her
before.

Olyphant plays sleazy well - just watch him in the
otherwise-forgettable "The Girl Next Door" (2004). In "Catch and
Release," his caddish boor actually is a facade. Turns out, this chap's
actually a nice guy. He has to be. After all, he has Gray to win over
and Grant's doing this by-the-numbers.

And therein lies the film's problem. Despite Grant's admirable attempt
to spin the romantic comedy's meet-cute moment, it's hard to believe
Gray would fall for a chap who, for the lack of a better phrase, finds
carnal comfort at the most unlikely occasions.

Of course, "Catch and Release" has a certain sweetness about it. How
can it not when Garner's so adorable. It's polished, looks good; a cut
above, say, the odd independent romcoms that tackle the trials and
tribulations, the angst and adoration among a group of good friends.
But it offers nothing new and relies on a few too many "movie" moments
to elicit laughs. Some of those moments are funny, but you get the
impression they're not exactly rooted in any realm of reality. Yet,
Grant seems to want to lend her story a sense of reality, one that
deals with love, loss and forgiveness.

Grant said when she recut her film, she was forced to excise some of
Fritz's back story. It doesn't seem warranted, but there seems to be
something missing from Fritz. We know the story's moving to get Gray
and Fritz together - this is a freakin' Hollywood studio-produced
romantic comedy, after all - but it all seems too orchestrated from the
beginning.

Is it too much to ask a Hollywood romantic-comedy writer to be even
slightly daring? Hollywood-produced romantic comedies, by their very
nature, are predictable. You know going in the girl and the guy will
wind up together, so it's the journey that is supposed to thrill us.
Maybe even surprise us. Grant, however, chooses the safest, and
therefore, least surprising, path. She hits all the points a screen
writing guru without an ounce of originality would demand be seen in a
romcom script. The only novelty here is that Grant got some attractive,
appealing and talented actors for her directorial debut. It is they who
keep this extremely conventional story from turning unbearable. Though,
even Garner's considerable cuteness cannot salvage the film's ending.
<|_=00=_|>
Kevin Smith was definitely the comic relief in this movie. According to
Smith, he claims that he can't act and that's why he plays Silent Bob.
I say -- NOT TRUE!!! Kevin Smith was perfect as "Sam" and his acting
was very good. Jennifer Garner is always a pleasure to watch. She
always plays her characters true to form and this movie was no
different. I had a bit of a problem with Timothy Olyphant's character,
Fritz. There was definitely something missing from the way he was in
the beginning of the film to where we saw him end up. Perhaps Ms. Grant
will add a few more scenes to eliminate the confusion. Juliette Lewis
was just darling and gave a very convincing performance. This film
releases in January 2007 so get ready to have some fun.
<|_=00=_|>
Why was this movie good? It wasn't supposed to be good. It was supposed
to be a piece-of-crap romantic comedy but instead, it's an excellent
story in so many complicated, touching, veracious ways. In fact, in
coming up with an IMDb score, I tried to think of any one thing that
would detract from a perfect movie-watching experience and, can you
believe it? I can't.

Who packaged and promoted this film? Were they sleeping during the
screenings? From the first second, the quality of story and production
was evident. Multi-faceted, varied characters. Nuanced storyline. Fine,
fine performances. Beautifully done all around.

Thank you for this happy accident.
<|_=00=_|>
Not going to lie, this movie totally surpasses expectations. On the
surface, it looks like a total chick flick, but it totally delivers for
guys too. Lots of laughs and a very realistic and introspective look at
coming to terms with the secret lives of the people we love. 

Features a brilliant and very likable performance by Kevin Smith as
Sam. Relative newcomer Sam Jaeger as Dennis delivers an extremely
authentic and sincere performance. Their relationship as best friends
offers both witty comic relief and another dimension to the plot. Very
enjoyable. 

Jennifer Garner is, of course, amazing and beautiful. She gives her
character a sense of depth and grace that is really refreshing on
screen. 

All the boyfriends who get "dragged" to this are going to love
it--whether they admit to afterwards or not is a different story.
<|_=00=_|>
The opening scene of C&R could have been me when my best friend died.
Susannah Grant (and Jennifer Garner with her tremendous acting) has put
a touching visual to that permanent loss of a loved one. The coming
together of these friends, each mourning in their own way and trying to
figure out how to move forward, is captured with humor and at times is
sadly haunting. Each character looks for a way to stay connected,
despite their loss. The use of periods of silence with the camera
hanging on an actor's face is effective in communicating all the
subtext involved in love, loss and friendship. Although it was easy for
me to connect to each character, it may not be so for everyone. There
are draws in this movie for everyone, however. Kevin Smith is
wonderfully funny. Timothy Olyphant is beautiful to watch and Ms. Grant
has used his beauty (and his fantastically revealing facial
expressions) to the film's advantage. Jennifer Garner is . . . Jennifer
Garner. She's fabulous. I loved this movie and can't wait to see it
again.
<|_=00=_|>
Girl learns that her fiancé of five years has been lying. . .about
pretty much everything including having a kid with another woman while
they were dating. She freaks out and then hooks up with the only one of
his friends who was aware of all of his lies and who admits to walking
away anytime a relationship gets serious. . . Oh, and yeah she watched
him having sex with a complete stranger on the day of her fiancé's
funeral.

Girl finds out that there is also a cute, non-drug using, non-long
haired, non-lying, non-drug using, non-sex fiend friend of her fiancé
who is in love with her but shuts him down, because. . . women are
STUPID???

Of course all is well in the end because the drug smoking hippie sex
fiend surfer dude who has relationship and intimacy issues is RICH.
YEAH! ALL IS WELL.

P...L...E...A...S...E!!!!! Women are NOT that STUPID!!
<|_=00=_|>
Jennifer Garner's fiancé is killed in an accident just before their
wedding in idyllic Boulder, Colorado. He was an outdoorsy dude who ran
a fly-fishing shop with one of his three pals (Sam Jaeger), who lived
with a boozy, Zennish herbal tea peddler (Kevin Smith); the last of the
gang, Timothy Olyphant, embodies the most shallow and lascivious of his
current home, Malibu. He's the one who mourns by boinking a caterer in
the upstairs bathroom after the funeral.

After their six-year relationship ends as it did, Garner is
sympathetically devastated ...for a while. Then this faint echo of The
Big Chill disintegrates into soapy nonsense. Her late almost-hubby
fathered a child in California he'd never mentioned, while sending
monthly checks from a large account she never knew was part of the
package. One pal 'fesses up to the huge crush he's always harbored for
Garner, silently agonizing over her naive devotion to an undeserving
philanderer. The "other woman" (Juliette Lewis, riffing as a sexy, New
Agey flake with no apparent effort) and their kid show up. Things get
worse, as Garner learns more about the timing and other details of his
secret life. She finds solace and more from an unlikely source - all in
about the same time it takes for rigor mortis to set in on the stiff
who stiffed her.

The more the cast members talk and act, the more alienating they
become. Within an hour - if not sooner - the generally engaging Garner
and her circle grow tiresome, or worse. Smith, who's mainly there for
comic relief, is the least annoying of the lot. But he's just circling
the margins, playing it like Jack Black on Prozac. Nothing that happens
makes sense, or justifies ongoing empathy with the characters. The
splendor of Colorado's pastoral summer scenery is polluted by the plot.
If the EPA had required an Environmental Impact study, they might have
stopped the production. Another casualty of governmental cutbacks and
overworked agencies.
<|_=00=_|>
Despite being quite predictable, "Catch & Release" manages to be one of
the most enjoyable films so far this year. It is by no means amazing,
but it will no doubt ensure that you leave the theaters with a smile on
your face.

Jennifer Garner is perfectly cast as Grey, a woman who loose her fiancé
just days before the wedding. As she grieves, she learns several
surprising facts regarding her old lover's past - all of which will
keep you entertained. Juliette Lewis and Kevin Smith guest star, both
as enjoyable (and sometimes hilarious!) characters, that will keep the
audience hooked.

All-in-all, "Catch & Release" is a quick-paced, light-hearted, romantic
comedy, which chronicles love, loss, and finding love again. HIGHLY
recommended!
<|_=00=_|>
If this movie had been classified as a dark satire, I think I would
have been less disturbed. I've read a number of critiques about the
acting, the direction, the odd casting, but this movie is horrible
because of the complete lack of honesty in any of its characters. And
yet it is so sincere in its direction, it scares me to think people
actually think behavior like this is acceptable or healthy. Either the
characters have the repression skills of a psychotic or there is a
sequel which will display the emotional fallout. And yet, I've read no
review where anyone has a problem with this. Let me break it down (and
again, many spoilers are in this review - although how can you spoil
such a rotten movie). Opening: Jennifer Garner's character, Gray
Steele, attends her fiancé's funeral instead of their wedding (he died
in a boating accident). During the funeral, she catches one of his best
friends sleeping with the caterer (classy). Next phase, she's
struggling for money so she moves in with another 2 of her fiancé's
best friends. And of course, the one who slept with the caterer happens
to be crashing there as well (hmmmm - wonder where this is headed).
Next phase, Gray discovers the secret life of her fiancé - he had tons
of money squirreled away, he's been having an affair with a bimbo in LA
(no one calls her that but she is obviously portrayed as such - geez,
why else would they cast Juliette Lewis), and he's been giving this
woman money to raise the 4 year old boy whom she claims is his son.
Next phase, one of the best friend's tries to kill himself by swigging
a bottle of vodka and sleeping pills. Next phase, Gray and the sleazy
best friend (caterer dude) end up sleeping with each other and, I
guess, begin falling in love. Next phase, another best friend confesses
his love to Gray - a love he's been harboring for years. And of course
she rejects him because she's banging another best friend. And through
all this, Jennifer's character is calm and poised. Sure there are a few
tears, but no anger or rage - and it's presented as a good thing! It
freakin' gave me the creeps - I kept waiting for her to snap.
Especially when her to-be mother-in-law asked for the engagement ring
back or when same mother-in-law accused her son's affair as being
Gray's fault. What?! Later Gray also overhears the bimbo saying in her
oh-so-bubbly manner that basically Gray was so perfect, her boyfriend
acted like it was a vacation when he was away from her. And what is
Gray's response? "Well, I steal library books . . ." during some
freakish dinner they all have together. I guess to 'make peace' or
something. And in the end, Gray goes after sleazy best friend,
everyone's happy and moving on. Perhaps all the anger and rage was
being dealt with - but if you want your characters to appear to have
resolved these things, we need to see them dealing with it. Otherwise,
the river in Egypt happens to be flowing pretty strong through Boulder.
<|_=00=_|>
I have seen so many clunky romantic comedies, where characters behave
in ridiculous, unrealistic ways, so I was very pleasantly surprised by
this movie. Sure, the characters are somewhat stereotypical and
certainly much that happens is predictable, but in this case I don't
think the film is harmed at all. There are many charming moments,
plenty of humor, and most refreshing, a general air of goodwill that I
especially needed after sitting through the HEAVY and mostly grim
award-fodder that came out at the end of the year. The leads (Jennifer
Garner and Timothy Olyphant) are easy on the eyes and both give fine
performances. And, most importantly, I was genuinely rooting for them
to get together, which is the raison d'etre of all romantic pairings in
this type of movie. The supporting cast, especially Kevin Smith, were
icing on an already tasty confection, and the Boulder, Colorado
locations were an added delight. If you prefer Ingmar Bergman, stay
away, but if you're a fan of the genre, you won't be disappointed.
