
First of all: Greetings from a guy living somewhere in between the
Brussels sprouts, hahahaha. That's right, I'm from Belgium, you know
the place that no-one really knows, not even the Europeans...

Even though I expected to really hate this movie, I have to admit that
I had a lot of fun watching it. I loved to see how they magnified the
stereotypes about the French, the English, The Germans,... and made fun
about the Catholic church. Some people pointed out that it was clear
that the makers really don't know anything about the countries they
were making jokes about. Possible, but it didn't bother me once. It's a
comedy, not a traveler's guide!

This is how the story goes: A teenager is dumped by his girlfriend on
the day of their graduation. He has contact with a German girl, called
Mieke, but he thought it was a guy called Mike. Knowing this and after
he has seen her photo, he decides to pay her a visit in Berlin. But of
course they don't just end up in Berlin. They start their trip in
London, going to Paris, Amsterdam and Bratislava before getting to
Berlin...

The movie's script or the plot were probably the least of the
director's concerns. It's clear that they just wanted to go to Europe,
have some fun and film one hilarious situation after the other. I've
got the feeling that most of the European viewers didn't mind being the
subject of the movie. Yes it's crude and yes it doesn't show anything
about how Europe really is, but it's also incredibly funny. I give it
an 8/10 for that.
<|_=00=_|>

I know, I know, the trailer looks supremely dumb, so why go see this
movie?
Certainly not because it was from the people who gave us such gems as Road
Trip or Old School, that's for sure, and it's not like I even recognized
anyone in the cast (other than Michelle Trachtenberg, best known as
Buffy's
little sister Dawn). I guess I went because I found the trailer mildly
amusing and I still had $9 on an AMC gift card that I had been given for
Christmas. I've seen movies with less provocation, I suppose.

Eurotrip follows the adventures of four teens, Scott (Scott Mechlowitz),
Cooper (Jacob Pitts), and twins Jamie (Travis Wester) and Jenny
(Trachtenberg) as they backpack around Europe between high school
graduation
and beginning college. There's sort of a plot driving the film as Scott
wants to meet up with his e-mail pen pal Mieke (Jessica Boehrs), whom he
thought was male but finds out is actually a very attractive female. But
really the movie is an excuse to have fun with typical American
Euro-stereotypes.

Naturally the four fresh-faced kids get into all sorts of hijinks as they
make their way through London, Paris, Berlin, Rome, and so on. And the
foursome are your basic group: Scott is the well-meaning lead, Cooper the
sarcastic wise-ass, Jamie the uptight planner and Jenny - well, my first
indication that this wouldn't be a typical dumb teen comedy was when the
other three guys all treat Jenny as one of the guys, and of course she's
uber-cute Trachtenberg. They repeatedly refuse to think of her as a girl
despite the filmmakers really showing off Trachtenberg's budding assets,
which continues to play as funny through most of the film.

It may sound hard to believe, but I don't think I have ever laughed as
hard
or as long at another film as I did at this one. Maybe it's because my
expectations were pretty low, but this was a hysterically funny film. From
the opening moments where Scott is dumped by slutty girlfriend Fiona
(Smallville's Kristin Kreuk, in a terrific cameo) to the very end of the
film, I pretty much laughed the entire 90 minutes. Not only is there
clever
verbal play and uproarious sight gags (the arrival at Bratislava was so
funny I almost fell out of my seat laughing), but the writers were masters
of the recurring gag - the best of which is a song about Scott's breakup
with Fiona (it makes sense in the film) constantly popping up as they
travel
throughout Europe. One particular scene involving English soccer hooligans
traveling to France (led by the smashing Vinnie Jones) had me laughing so
hard I had tears rolling down my face.

Everyone gives a game performance. Scott Mechlowitz is perfect as Scott,
with just the right mix of leading man humor and straight guy stiffness.
Jacob Pitts' Cooper is surprisingly low key for the smart-ass; usually
this
kind of character is way over the top, but Cooper manages to be funny
without ever taking it too far. Travis Webster plays his nerdly Jamie
well;
we never look down on the guy, even though he's the more uptight one in
the
group. And Trachtenberg seems right at home being one of the guys even
while
attempting to transform herself into an object of teenage lust. The
cameos -
Matt Damon as a punk singer, Lucy Lawless as a Dominatrix, Kreuk, and so
on
- are all well cast and well used. You'll recognize a lot of the bit
players
from other places (Guy Ritchie films, SNL, etc) but they all work very
well.

I didn't expect this film to be so repeatedly and exceptionally funny, and
I
guess it caught me off guard. I can't recall laughing this hard at any
film
in the last five years, and maybe ever. I hesitate to call it the funniest
movie I've ever seen, because I've seen some great comedies, but I was
still
chuckling at this film more than a half hour after I was out of the
theater.
As far as movies performing above expectations this is one of the tops in
that category. I guess some people would be put off by the European
stereotypes, but the film was so inventively humorous and excessively
clever

(they do a great parody of the Indiana Jones 'moving around the map' bit)
that I was blown away. This is a movie I fully intend to see again, maybe
a
few times, and I'm already clearing off space for it on the DVD shelf. But
don't take my word for it - go see it yourself and see one of the funniest
movies in years.

<|_=00=_|>

This movie is hilarious & a must see for those who like American Pie,
Scary Movie, Senseless & similar types of comedies. Eurotrip uses
almost every single cliché or stereotype regarding Europe & exaggerates
it enormously in an unbelievably funny way.

Surprisingly the acting, which is done mainly by unknown actors &
actresses, is very good. As for Michelle Trachtenberg, she is just
plain awesome. Her acting deserves real praise. Plus, the film features
several pretty successful cameo appearances. Lucy Lawless as S&M
dominatrix is particularly hilarious.

Though the story itself can't be considered particularly original, the
movie is interesting, cause of unstoppable flow of hilarious jokes. The
theater was almost torn down with the viewers' laughter, when I watched
the film. The scene with The Pope is an instant classic in my point of
view, I haven't seen something this hilarious since the first Scary
Movie came out. Some satirical aspects also take place in the movie:
especially funny was the scene, when the characters arrive to a club in
Slovakia & hear a techno remix of a song 'Scotty Doesn't Know'. Awesome
moment.

In general, I think the film is underrated. In my opinion it is better
than the first & the second American Pie, the second Scary Movie & a
great number of less famous comedies. Go see it & have fun.

<|_=00=_|>

Okay, I admit it. Sometimes I enjoy dumb comedies, like "Police
Academy" or "Joe's Apartment". And this is nothing if not a dumb
comedy.

This type of film--the teen sex comedy--is precisely the sort of movie
professional critics love to hate, instead recommending that we see
artsy, coma-inducing independent, documentary and/or foreign-language
films. But let's face it: "Animal House" was better than "Eraserhead".
"Fast Times at Ridgemont High" was better than "Babette's Feast".
"American Pie" was better than "The Crying Game". And "Eurotrip" is
better than "Capturing the Friedmans".

Now, since my favorite movies include "The Godfather", "Citizen Kane"
and "Vertigo", you may ask why I liked this picture. Is it well-acted?
No. Isn't the script stupid? And how. Is there any socially redeeming
value? I couldn't find any. Isn't it xenophobic? Uh-huh. Doesn't it
portray women as merely sex objects? Yep. Isn't it awfully crude?
Yewbetcha. But what makes this film worth watching is quite simple:
It's funny.

Granted, there's no greatness here. You will not see anyone as funny or
talented as John Belushi, Bill Murray, Sean Penn, Cameron Diaz, Eugene
Levy or Will Ferrell here. The only cast members with any real acting
or comedic mettle are Matt Damon and Fred Armissen, who only make brief
cameos. On the other hand, you won't see anyone as gut-wrenchingly
awful as Chevy Chase, Rodney Dangerfield, Tom Cruise, Ben Stiller, Tom
Green, Seann William Scott, or Ashton Kutcher.

There's not much plot to speak of. A nice guy (Scott Mechlowicz) who
has just graduated high school goes on a trip to Europe to find the
girl of his dreams, a Berliner named Mieke (Jessica Boehrs) and takes
along his three best friends: a lazy ne'er-do-well looking for kinky
sex like in European erotica (Jason Pitts), a girl looking for romance
like in European novels (Michelle Trachtenberg) & a nerd looking for
museums like in European travel brochures (Travis Wester). Along the
way they run into all the various European stereotypes: thuggish Brits,
pretentious French, perverted Italians, desperately poor Eastern
Europeans, etc.

Yet as crude and xenophobic as this movie can sometimes be, it is never
anything but good-natured. I never got the sense that the filmmakers
displayed any ill will towards the peoples they were lampooning. And I
must say, for as much sex and nudity as there is in this movie (and
there's a whole lot of it), the biggest laugh I got was a PG-rated
battle of the robot mimes in Paris, which may be the only scene in the
movie that can be shown un-edited on TV.

Although this may not be great art, or even great comedy, "Eurotrip" is
a terribly crude, but awfully funny movie. 7 out of 10.

<|_=00=_|>
I love all types of movies, but I didn't expect to like this one. It
looked like another stupid teen comedy to me. I was so surprised at how
hilarious this was. I was rolling on the floor laughing my ass off. My
new favorite song is "Scotty Doesn't Know!" And while this movie
doesn't properly represent Europe and it's style and it's culture, it
does enlist every stereotype Americans have about Europeans, and that's
what makes it so damn funny. This movie is definitely one of my new
favorites, and is one of the funniest movies I've ever seen. If you
just want to laugh at everything that's wrong with the world, then this
is totally something you need to see.
<|_=00=_|>
Prior to watching this movie for the first time, my friends would not
stop quoting this movie and telling me how great it was. Now that I've
seen it I can see why they love it so much. I will admit that this film
is extremely raunchy and even shows some images I didn't think were
allowed in R-rated movies. Never-the-less the jokes are hilarious and
the plot flows rather smoothly.

Some people probably hate this movie because of the way it portrays
Europeans. To them I say LIGHTEN UP! It's a movie that's meant to be
stereotypical. They stereotype with taste, however, using many of the
common views and prejudices that the average American feels towards the
inhabitants of the various countries.

All in all, the cast was well selected, the music was awesome, the
situations were entertaining, and the locations were great. I highly
suggest this movie to people that love to laugh an don't get easily
offended.
<|_=00=_|>
Comedies like this is hard to rate. It's a bad movie, technically,
acting-wise and in many other aspects. But it's funny, no denying that.
After all, isn't that what comedies are about?

You would think a comedy like this would appeal only to Americans, but
you are wrong. I know Germans, Aussies, Swedes and Hollanders who like
this movie. I'm sure there are Brits, Italians, Eastern Europeans and
Balkans who like it as well. You have to be able to laugh at yourself.

What the movie is about is a bunch of typical teens going for a little
quest through Europe in search of the dream girl. Nothing new here. The
misadventures on the way, the xenophobic jokes and stereotypes and odd
characters are what you laugh at. Vinnie Jones as a crazy ManU
supporter, Rade Serbedzija as a Bratislavian truck driver, and many
other not that well- known actors doing silly and memorable roles. 

Some scenes work, some don't. Some are really funny, like the robot
battle outside the Louvren, and the Italian pervert smoking a post-sex
cigarette. Matt Damon turns up somewhat unexpectedly in the USA and
sings the catchy "Scotty doesn't know" song.

All in all, this is a great comedy to watch with your friends, and even
better in international company.
<|_=00=_|>
EuroTrip takes a group of teenagers from the US on an unforgettable
trip around Europe. After Scotty Thomas realises he has made a terrible
mistake, he and his best friend set off to put things right and they
run into some other friends in the process.

They visit Paris, Amsterdam, London and many more places which are all
given a very amusing stereotypical makeover from an American viewpoint.
With a strong cast, plenty of well written gags and an overall cheesy
script - EuroTrip is definitely a winner.

If you enjoy this movie then also see RoadTrip, Old School and the
American Pie series of films (certainly the first two anyway) 

8/10 Great fun
<|_=00=_|>
OK, most people will say, it's a comedy, let's rate it low, HELL NO!
This is one of these rare good comedy's. Road Trip wasn't as good as
this one. Scotty doesn't know is an instant classic. Nice change of
scenery for Kristin Kreuk even though she just appears briefly. Scott
Mechlowicz continues the good performance he had set in Mean Creek, not
to be compared of course, but good performances in both. Michelle
Trachtenberg is simply fabulous,she amazes me every time, except in
crappy movies like Ice Princess or in "Buffy". She shows she can act in
Mysterious skin, but just throws her talent away further down the line.
As for the story, it's nothing special, title says it all. The only
country they miss is Belgium :). It's a comedy people and yes, it's for
teens, not a family movie if you want to hear it. You know what you get
when you see it, so stop giving bad reviews about this! Simply amazing
comedy if you like these kind of comedy's. And please don't go
comparing it to American Pie or something like that. Guess that's all
there is to say
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw this at a second run theater and I found it to be very
hilarious.

Funniest movie since Road Trip in my opinion.

Scotty's girl dumps him on graduation day, so he decides to find his
internet friend in Europe, only to be taken for one heck of a ride.
Along for the ride with Scotty are his friend Cooper (who looks and
sounds like David Spade) and twins Jenny and Jamie.

The characters are likable, which really helps in this kind of movie.

Some surprise cameos also pop up.

I'll be adding adding this to my DVD collection for sure.

***/****
