
What - a Will Smith movie with nothing blowing up? I was all prepared
to hate this movie. I mean c'mon, a chick flick with Will Smith? It
seems Will Smith can only play one character - himself - but in this
one he tones that down and comes across as a real human being.

I was so surprised by this movie. I ended up laughing through the whole
thing and came to care for and relate to all the characters.

There was NOTHING about racial stereotypes. It wasn't about a black guy
teaching a white guy to dance at all. It was about a bunch of
characters who legitimately grow from the first scene to the last.

Take you girlfriend and go!
<|_=00=_|>
This was a movie that, at the end, I thought "Now that was an enjoyable
2 hours!" I hate spending around $20 (not including baby-sitting $$)
for my husband and myself to have that "It was OK" feeling.

I think I like Will Smith better as a comedic actor than an action
hero. He was well cast in this. His character was very likable, as was
Kevin James'. 

There were several laugh out loud scenes. It's also a romantic movie,
so guys, if you want to impress the lady in your life, take her to
this. Women will like it as much as any chick-flick, but I wouldn't
categorize this as one. There is plenty of guy humor in it for men to
enjoy. I think that's one of the reasons why this movie is so perfect
as a date movie. It has romance AND slapstick. I don't usually like
slapstick that much, but it wasn't overdone and I can't think of any
those scenes that didn't deliver laughs.

I definitely recommend this movie. The first thing my husband said to
me after it was over was "I want to see it again!"
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie screened last night, and you know what? I liked it.
For the most part, it's a by the numbers 'chick flick', but makes no
pretensions to be more than that, and in fact, is very good for what it
is.

The easy thing to do would be to take potshots at this film; throw out
things like 'Fresh Prince', 'getting jiggy with it', and even throw
around the whole 'black dude making a white dude cool' angle; but
that's too easy isn't it? Like shooting fish in a barrel.

No, this isn't a Wes Anderson film. The humor is rather broad, though
much it very funny. Of course you won't see it up for an Oscar (what a
tired joke that is); nor does it contain Quientin Tarantion-esquire
dialogue or groundbreaking visuals.

But taken for what it is, a romantic comedy, it really is very good.
Great chemistry between all the leads. Eve Mendes is gorgeous. And
Kevin James steals nearly every scene he's in. It gets a bit sappy
towards the end (don't all mainstream romantic comedies though?), but
if you're looking for a above average date movie with more than a few
belly laughs, this is your film.

A solid B+.
<|_=00=_|>
I expected a good movie. What I got was an even better movie. The
chemistry between James and Smith is just incredible. Glad to see him
in a major motion picture for once!

The movie works, because the actors play their parts perfectly. Will
Smith is fantastic with his never ending charm; Kevin James is
hilarious, and Eva Mendes...well, let's just say she plays that
bitch/sweet/annoying role to the best of her ability.

What I loved about the movie was the fact that Will Smith didn't even
have to try to be lovable. He just was!! The "date doctor" had all the
right moves, said everything in the most perfect of ways, and never
ever went over the top.

The funny parts are hilarious...and the cute, romantic parts are
unforgettable.

I totally recommend this movie. And no, it is not a chick flick.
<|_=00=_|>
This film was not about stereotypes, nor dance moves, nor pickup lines,
really. This film was about the vulnerability of peoples' hearts. It
was hard to believe that Kevin James could play in a convincing role,
that Will Smith could satisfy without action, and that such a hackneyed
genre of film could succeed in such a way. I don't intend to sound
overly endeared with this film - it wasn't "groundbreaking" in any sort
of way - but it was a film worth seeing. Was it believable? No. New
York couldn't be so simple and there has been no human being in the
history of mankind that has the "hutzpah" of Hitch. Sure, there are
bar-studs, but not ones that can get any chick, at any time - excluding
those raking in seven figures, of course. The thing that worked best
for this film was its true focus on the dramatic side of things, not
just on the comedy. It was a funny two hours, no doubt. But it was also
two hours that made you sit in your seat, become immersed in the
characters, and smile.
<|_=00=_|>
It's about time the multiplex features a romantic comedy with a
multi-cultural cast. As a New Jersean, I can honestly say Hitch did for
New York what Pretty Woman did for Rodeo Drive. The city is appealing,
the premise is intriguing and the acting quite wonderful. Only lovelorn
prudes that have no hope of a great sex life could hate this movie.

Now I'm not saying the movie is perfect as a matter of fact the last
act seemed a bit little rushed. Alex's epiphany about love and his
feelings for Sara seems incomplete. Is it me or did the director leave
some film pieces on the editing room floor? But even with that said,
it's a romantic movie that will have men alert enough to have an
intelligent conversation afterward. Don't believe what the sour critics
say about this movie  besides are any of them single in the current
dating world? I believe most of them are either married or so
hopelessly ridged in their solitary life that they wouldn't recognize
dating for middle classed professionals people if it was on a screen in
front of them.

Will Smith enters a wonderful genre as Alex "Hitch" Hitchens, a
professional dating consultant, and he is properly showcased with great
cast mates - Eva Mendes (Sara), Kevin James (Albert), and Amber
Valletta (Allegra). If Smith continues to stretch his talents in this
arena I'm sure we'll see a great Tom Hanks, Sleepless in Seattle
performance in the future.

Hitch is a movie that makes single people and new couples alike believe
in finding love in this cynical world. It's worth the price of
admission.
<|_=00=_|>
Hitch is about a man who knows what works with women and teaches the
guys who do not do well with them some tricks of the trade. Actually,
he more or less walks them through it. Hitch guarantees success up
until the dreaded 3rd date kiss. After that, they are on their own. Of
course, Hitch finds a girl who he falls for and everything that he
thinks he knows does not work out for himself, when following the same
guidelines. The movie was a well-written romantic comedy which both
guys and girls could have a fun time watching. Perfect for Valentine's
Day, which I'm sure was no marketing coincidence it was released on
Valentine's Day weekend.

Will Smith is perfect as Hitch. His performance here reminded me of a
more mature, possibly grown up Fresh Prince Of Bel Air. He was the
smooth talker and was able to read any situation for himself or his
clients to make a memorable impression, then have a memorable date with
the women his clients are affectionate towards. Sounds a little sleazy,
but Hitch has his own rules. He does not help out the guys who want to
"Hit it and quit it", so to speak, only those who really seem to like
or love the woman they are after. One thing the film never gets into is
what Hitch makes for a job like this, as I wonder how much something
like that could be worth in monetary value.

Eva Mendes plays Sara, Hitch's love interest. She does quite a good job
in her role here. Sara is the type of girl who is always on the defense
when approached by men, therefore, is leery of any advances. Hitch
reads her well and makes his way in, until she discovers what is is he
actually does. For some reason, women tend to take offense to his
"job".

Kevin James is also perfect as Albert, a man who is in love with a rich
woman named Allegra Cole, but she does not know he exists. His
expressions of nervousness and fright are hilarious. Heck, the movie is
just a darn good one. Nothing too offensive, a bad word here or there
but nothing major. I do not think it warrants it's PG-13 rating, but a
plain old PG would be fine for me. Regardless of it's rating, I can
honestly recommend Hitch to just about anyone and Will Smith rarely
disappoints. 9.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
Last evening I had the remarkable pleasure of seeing the movie Hitch. I
was stunned and amazed. Will Smith did a phenomenal job in a role that
he isn't always associated with. He proved once and for all that he
does not need to be holding a gun to be a great actor in a movie. Kevin
James was also very impressive. I admit that I've always like him on
"The King of Queens" but this role really brought him into the light
more, and i hope to see him on the big screen a lot more in the near
future. The movie was funny and adorable and I recommend it to any guy
as the best date movie you could ever imagine. The mix of comedy,
romance, and drama left me feeling complete. It's nothing like most
"chick flicks" in the sense of tears and sadness, but holds its own and
i think can be equally enjoyed by males as well as females. I encourage
all couples especially to see this movie but even if you aren't
involved with someone you may pick up some great ideas from Hitch. 

TWO WAY BIG THUMBS UP!!!
<|_=00=_|>
In this romantic comedy, Alex 'Hitch' Hitchins (Will Smith) is a 
legendary but anonymous date doctor in New York City. Hitch advises 
klutzy male wallflower clients on ways to make good first impressions 
on the women of their dreams. To contact Hitch, a man must have a 
referral from one of his former clients. Once Hitch accepts you as a 
client, he will coach you on your first three dates; after that, you're 
on your own. Hitch's newest client is Albert Brennaman (Kevin James), a 
fat tax accountant in love with a celebrity client, Allegra Cole (Amber 
Valetta). Allegra doesn't know that Albert exists, so Albert contacts 
Hitch to make his dream come true. Hitch decides to make Albert a 
client, even though, he knows this is going to be tough. While working 
on this job, Hitch meets Sara Melas (Eva Mendes), a gossip reporter for 
a daily tabloid, who is following Allegra's every move. Sara has given 
up on men, and Hitch wants to cut through that layer, because he is the 
master of love, so he thinks. With Valentine's Day around the corner, 
this is a good date movie. Women will love it, and men may pick up a 
few pointers. The movie is hilarious and filled with verbal and 
slapstick comedy from beginning to end. There are several scenes that 
may make you bust a gut laughing. (Columbia, Run time 1:55, Rated 
PG-13)(8/10)
<|_=00=_|>
Will Smith is Alex "Hitch" Hitchens, a long-time bachelor who has
become known as the New York City "date doctor" who charges to help men
get the women of their dreams. Although he helps all these other men,
he somehow is not able to have nearly as much success with Sara (Eva
Mendes), the woman he himself loves.

Hitch is a safe yet funny and entertaining romantic comedy. The premise
sounds pretty good and the execution is also pretty good. Yes, it is
very predictable and kind of cheesy. However, that doesn't mean it
isn't entertaining. I think Hitch is better than most romantic comedies
that have come out in the past year because the characters are likable
and Smith & Mendes have enough chemistry together to make the film
work. Will Smith is very charming as Hitch. He plays the role well and
he never gets annoying. It's also nice to see him in a film that
doesn't involve a bunch of things blowing up. Eva Mendes also gives a
pretty good performance and she is also very pretty.

Surprisingly, the best thing about Hitch is Kevin James. His
performance is funny and also pretty realistic. The only problem is
that most of his scenes appear in the trailer and this lessens the
effect. I never really liked him before but now I hope he makes more
movie appearances. Out of the four main actors, Amber Valletta is the
weakest. She gives an average performance and she just doesn't fit well
with the other three. The rest of the supporting actors are also pretty
funny, especially the customers that ask Hitch for help.

The only problem I really have with Hitch is that it plays it too safe.
If it was a little more edgier than the film could have been really
good but it still stands an enjoyable romantic comedy. It's not really
surprising that the film is safe since Andy Tennant is the director. He
directed It Takes Two and Sweet Home Alabama. He's like the king of
harmless, fluff films and Hitch is his best work to date. Another thing
that bothered me was the running time. 118 minutes is too long for a
predictable story and it does take a toll on the audience. I think it's
bad since the story is by-the-numbers and the film takes awhile to
reach obvious places. If it was a little shorter, than it would have
been fine. In the end, Hitch is an enjoyable romantic comedy and one of
the funniest films I have seen this year. Rating 8/10
