
Sometimes we can be over critical of a movie and call it the worst EVER
made. but this is one film that i couldn't be critical of enough.

it's a family film i guess but it's not even slightly funny on any
level. the performances of all the cast is woeful, Ice Cube snarls and
does his usual thing so i suppose he does fine, but the leading lady
and children act like they have been plucked off the street. its
embarrassingly bad at times, then again i guess the abysmal script
doesn't help. C'mon who writes this rubbish. Fart gags, puking gags,
and i need a pee gags. it really is terrible.

If someone suggests renting this out from the video store i'd run a
mile. avoid at all costs this is TERRIBLE.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was worse than I thought it could have ever been. I know
this was a kids movie but even the theater 1/3 of the way full, mostly
with kids only laughed a few times. Calling things just before they
would happen is probably the only thing that got me through this trash.
It was so predictable that is actually bothered me. The whole movie
surrounded this dope fly vehicle of Cubes, it wasn't even that great of
a car. Spinning rims!! OH SHNAP YO!!!! I never would have predicted the
ending either. Damn I bet she still wants him even after he beets the
crap out of some snowmen and her kids end up with some trucker and on
trains and ...... oh forget it. and check out the horse that Cube rides
next to the train. I picked it out at being fake in the first shot of
it. This made Garfield look good and that was just horrible. If at all
possible, never ever see this movie. You will be a better person in the
long run.
<|_=00=_|>
Long distance driving, constant headaches, groaning and claustrophobia.
Then, that tedious question arises...Are we there yet? But in the new
flick, Are we there yet?, that question takes a new meaning.

Through a series of worst-case scenarios from deer attacks to a train
race on horseback, Nick Persons (Ice Cube, Barbershop) experiences it
all.

Beginning a timid romance between Persons and Suzanne Kingston (Nia
Long, Boiler Room), possible babysitters for her children while she's
away becomes few and far between, leaving Persons, a child-hater as the
only viable option. He must transport Kingston's two "angelic" children
350 miles from Oregon to Vancouver. They attempt to make it in 24 hours
by plane, train and automobile.

Directed by Brian Levant, director of Snow Dogs (Cuba Gooding, Jr.) and
Jingle All The Way (Arnold Schwarzenegger), he defines his love for
making family-fun movies.

For what it was worth, the acting was decent. Ice Cube played a better
role than I expected. Aleisha Allen (School of Rock) and Philip Bolden
(Johnson Family Vacation) were well-cast. And the cherry on top of the
acting was Jay Mohr (Pay It Forward, Jerry Maguire). The way the actors
worked together accented the movie.

Cinematography in this movie was exactly what I expected. There were a
few intriguing camera angles, better than I've seen from directors of
Levant's credibility.

The rating was well chosen as PG. There was minor language and rude
humor.

Noticing half of the theater filled with children ranging from five to
twelve, and tons of parents, I'd definitely suggest staying away from
this movie on a date. There were periodic jokes and entertaining
scenes, but if you don't like "kiddy" movies, I would not encourage
this.
<|_=00=_|>
I have never written on IMDb and never have on any other movie review
sites but i felt compelled to for this one. What a load of garbage. The
worst movie i have ever seen at the movies by far. I was coaxed into
going little did i know that it was a kids movie - it has Ice Cube in
for God's sake. I thought at least it could be like one of those crappy
DMX action movies but it wasn't even up to that low standard. I mean
come on people! A summary of why this the worst movie i have ever seen

- typically American style for a kids flick - ie really cheesy, corny
lines, happy ending - need i go on - predicable - gee, i din't see that
last seen coming - nothing new: man falls in love with a woman the
first time he sees her - had no moral message - Plot summary: just cos
she's beautiful; he offers in an attempt to get into her pants to look
after her kids who surprise surprise are brats; they don't like like
him at first then they end up liking him; the woman doesn't appreciate
what he does until she sees how her kids love him and see him as their
new dad; then the final scene is them kissing on new years at midnight
- 

Absolute GARBAGE - i cannot emphasizes this enough If any sane mined
person with an IQ of above 50 wants to spend $12; WARNING this not the
way. The only thing that kept me in the theater for the whole tow hours
110 mins was the comfortable seats

rating:0/10000000000000000000000000000
<|_=00=_|>
The more I study film ideas, the more I'm amazed at how some ideas
continue to live.

Take the notion of humorous cruelty. Were the Stooges the first to
build a franchise around this? In modern times, it is the "Home Alone"
franchise where we are given an excuse for accepting the cruelties
because the hurter is a clever but innocent child and the hurtees are
stereotypical bad guys.

Here the idea tries a new incarnation. Lest there be any mistake about
the source, the movie actually starts in the "old" Home Alone mode with
our (anonymous) victim encountering tripwires that trigger child-made
traps of household goods and toys.

Then it shifts into the new mode. In this edition, some of the tricks
are intended and some are not. The victim is a new kind of shiftless: a
black man actually trying to be "ghetto." The story is supposed to
smoothly morph in a sort of "What About Bob" way from pain to rewarding
relationship. The turning point is also stereotypical: the treasured
black dad has abandoned his family and the beleaguered suitor is
revealed to be someone to whom that also happened.

I think humor about race, especially racial stereotypes, is fair game.
How better to puncture racism? But its got to be funny doesn't it?

This picture turns out to be what it starts to be about: a way of
torturing a black dude who manages a slick appearance of the ghetto
(we're talking about the guy who calls himself Ice Cube here, not his
character) and tries to put himself where he doesn't belong. Poignant
maybe, but neither funny nor endearing.

Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3: You can find something better to do with
this part of your life.
<|_=00=_|>
I knew this movie was going to be bad before I sat down to watch it,
and yet I allowed myself to do so anyway. Still, I found myself
completely unprepared for the intense levels of suckage that were about
to flow from the screen and speakers, corrupting my senses. I won't
elaborate on why this film was so bad, as everything I wanted to say
about it has been covered with great skill in the previous comment. So
instead I'll just use this space to insult the people who enjoyed the
film by calling them drooling fools. 

Also, I know they kids in the film were only acting, but if I saw them
in real life, I would still slap them across the face with whatever I
had to hand.

Don't even bother with this film unless you are missing both sight and
hearing. But even then I wouldn't risk it, you might feel the awfulness
slowly creeping into your brain.
<|_=00=_|>
What is up with the low ratings? This movie had us laughing all the way
through it! Clean, somewhat predictable but in a fresh way. These kids
did great in the movie; we enjoyed it a lot! Could easily lend itself
to a sequel and another "road trip" kind of scenario. I see it as
engaging and charming as "Home Alone" was so many years ago. I did
think the mother's reaction at the end was a little extreme and that
could have gone differently, but I didn't expect an Oscar-winning
storyline with this fun, punchy, movie. I guess if there had been more
swearing, sex, and violence it would have caught on better; seems to be
where our culture likes to go these days. I say kudos to the writers
and actors...you done good with this one and guess what...we're going
to watch it again today!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is so boring, I fall asleep while watching it. I can't stand
those Kids talking back and acting like a big mama, oh common guys do
you want your kids talking like that to you and other older people
without any respecting? well I think you guy should pick another movie
better for your kids to learn but not this one I'm be honest I read
someone said this movie is funny for kids? well I think he should check
with his problem, no wonder nowadays kids learn things so quick and bad
especially talking back and being rude to others, why they become like
that parents? because what they watch and what they learn, they learn
quickly and please don't give me wrong that it is not smart. Somebody
thinks the way they talk like that it means they are smart but it is
not. Well you should not waste your time and money on this movie,
boring and rude kids
<|_=00=_|>
Sorry, i just literally came back from the cinema and felt that i had
to warn everyone about this film. I love family films as much as the
next person, but at least those that are actually funny and don't make
you want to walk out of the theatre in the first scene. Don't bother
wasting your money. go and rent home alone again! I hated everything
about the movie. i was actually surprised that some people were
laughing gin the cinema, but maybe i've lost my sense of humour...who
knows. But one thing is for sure, you can go and see it. If your
disappointed then i was right all along, but if you like it....shame on
you....i'm right anyway... Please...don't waste your time
<|_=00=_|>
i usually read comments on IMDb but i've never bothered to write a
review. However, after watching this Garbage, i've to register to write
my very first comment.

this movies doesn't deserve a 1/10. i must be 0/10. the worst and
stupidest movie i've ever seen in 21 years. it has everything need to
be in the Trash bin; terrible story, really bad actress.

at first, i thought it was a very comedy movie with Ice Cube in it but
it turned out to be Extremely disappointed. i wasted $15 to buy this
UMD movie, if anyone wants it. i give it to you for 99 cents.

don't waste your time watching this crap. stay away from it
