
I just got back from taking my 4 year old daughter to see Valiant. She
really enjoyed it. It was not heavy or dark even though the movie is
set in WWII. The enemy all looked and sounded evil as well as menacing.
It was not a bad movie, but not a great movie either. But a point that
is worth mentioning. I think movies like Valiant should be supported at
the box office if for no other reason than to show support for G rated
movies. As a parent, I would really appreciate Hollywood and the film
industry to produce more of these light, G rated movies that I can take
my kids to see. No overt sexuality, no foul language, no bodies ripping
apart, just light-hearted fun. Its just a shame that movies like
Valiant are the exception instead of the rule.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm beginning to find a lot of these CG animated movies terribly
formulaic (Magic Roundabout's horrendous storyline a case in point)so
this movie made a refreshing change when I took my 3 sons to see a
preview. Not overly long, basing the story around Homing Pigeons used
in WW11 was a great idea and really appealed to the boys. The
characters were fun and well voiced (parents can play a game of 'guess
the actor')and there were some genuinely laugh out loud moments. Not
quite the emotional pull of 'Finding Nemo' but that wasn't the point.
To sum it up, my 11 year-old said. 'Great, Mum. About the war without
being too violent for my little brothers and not too babyish for me.'
Recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
Oh boy, Disney has their hands full with this one... a British animated
and voiced film about World War Two with death, destruction and rude
jokes. Oh, lets hope they don't cut the living hell out of this thing.

This is the story of Valiant, a smaller than normal pigeon, who wants
to join up with the Royal Carrier Pigeon Service. With the help of
Bugsy, a con artist pigeon he accidentally saves, he manages to trick
his way into the service. Training has barely begun when they are
rushed off to France to bring back an important message. There Valiant,
Bugsy and his squad come face to face with the evil falcon's who'd like
nothing better than to make them lunch.

A brief 75 minutes long (reports of 109 minutes must be wrong) this is
a good send up of World War Two conventions. We have hateful Nazi
falcons (the leader is played evilly by Tim Curry); the do or die
mission; Mom's tearful goodbye; Edith Piaf on the gramophone, French
resistance, balmy Brits (two of which are John Cleese and John Hurt);
heroic sacrifice and on and on and on.

The voice cast is excellent and any Anglophiles out there will want to
see this for the great voice cast which includes Ewan McGregor as
Valiant, who is a wonderful hero, Ricky Gervais as Bugsy who is
hysterical as the slob friend, and then add in Hugh Laurie, Jim
Broadbent, Curry, Cleese, Hurt and many others others bringing life to
the birds on screen. The whole cast is fun to listen to.

The humor is a wide net of British style humor from puns to fart jokes
to clever spoof to just about anything. In its way its completely
different than any typical American (ie.Disney, Pixar, Dreamworks)
film. Its not broad American humor, its quiet British humor with slips
into slapstick. Its a Britcom versus sitcom.

Technically this film is a marvel with stuff that will put Disney to
shame, and make Pixar and Dreamworks work harder. There are some
beautifully rendered sequences, in particular the numerous action
scenes. WOW.

The problem here is the pacing which is a tad slow. It un-spools like a
British World War Two film from the period. Its not bad but it might
prove taxing to American audiences who are used to faster paced comedy.
However once they go to France on the mission it picks up nicely with
chase after chase.

A friend asked if it was similar to Chicken Run, sort of. Both are
Britsh war spoofs, but the style of humor is different and you don't
have Mel Gibson bending it in the direction of American nonsense.
Chicken Run is probably better but its hard to say fairly since I need
to see Valiant again.

Certainly not the be all and end all I do recommend it, especially if
you like British style humor.
<|_=00=_|>
Valiant is a fair effort at an animated film. Without the budget of an
American movie this British movie does well. It is based on the role
pigeons played in WWII. The animations are delightful, the voice cast
is talented for a change. Ricky Gervais does a very amusing quite
lengthy turn, as ewan mcgregors buddy. Though perhaps the animations
aren't as expansive as others like finding nemo, the humour is still
apparent. This movie could have been longer, you do feel a bit short
changed. Its nice to see a British animated movie with its own unique
quirks, I feel this film will be shown repeatedly as a Christmas treat
film on TV. There are funny moments and this movie is probably more for
kids.
<|_=00=_|>
'Valiant' proudly invalidates the conventional assumption that pigeons
are stupid and very limited animals. In this imaginative and fast-paced
British animated adventure directed by Gary Chapman, pigeons are heroic
creatures stopping at nothing to serve and support their country during
the hard times it faced back in the early 1940's, during World War II.
The outcome of the dramatic war literally "lies in the wings" of the
pigeons, as they help the Allied Forces develop strategic plans by
bringing them confidential messages from the French resistance. 

Meet Valiant (voiced by Ewan McGregor), a little, hyperactive and
vivacious pigeon from the British countryside, whose big time dream is
to join the highly esteemed Royal Pigeon Service, a military unit
training volunteers as "pilots" and message carriers to facilitate
communication between the Allied troops. After reassuring his worried
mother that he will do just fine out there on the battlefield, Valiant
leaves his home for the RPS recruitment office in London, where he
immediately makes the accidental acquaintance of a chubby and clumsy
street pigeon named Bugsy (Rick Gervais).

After enrolling and meeting the rest of the team, Valiant and Bugsy are
brought to a military base where they have to put up with a merciless
Pigeon Training Sergeant (Jim Broadbent), who guides them through a
hard-hitting and strenuous training. Although it seems at first as if
Valiant were not qualified for the job, his strong determination
nevertheless provides him with the required strength to keep on. Soon
after follows the day of his first big mission, which consists out of
picking up an important message from the French. Only, none of the new
"pilots", including Valiant, are fully trained yet to embark the
dangerous operation

Although it may at first sound like your ordinary 3-D animated family
film about a bunch of cgi-animals trying the impossible to save the
world, 'Valiant' is quite a different, and above all, new experience.
It is solid fun for everyone, and finally an animated action-comedy
again that provides enough innovation and an appealing,
never-before-seen premise. First of all, the story is set in 1944,
shortly before the end of the war, which is rather an unusual period of
time for a computer-generated kid-flick. Second, the film also
creatively emphasizes on how pigeons helped the armies establish better
communication with partners or allies. 

Also, 'Valiant' clearly diverts us from our standard, negative view of
pigeons: the plot shows that a pigeon is not that dumb an animal after
all. The "freedom" pigeons in the movie are smart and speedy,
courageous and hilarious. The hero of course, is little Valiant, who
works very hard to become really big. He values friendship and
teamwork, and always comes up with a clever plan when the situation
abruptly aggravates. And the situation does indeed get tricky, because
shortly after Valiant and co. fetch the targeted message, they are
followed by General Von Talon, a deadly and vicious falcon who tries to
intercept the valuable "package"

Diversity is one of the positive words that can be used to best
describe 'Valiant': from the opening on, en route for the big finish,
the plot is loaded with a lot of fun, suspenseful twists and a globally
refreshing sense of humor. The pigeon training, for instance, is a
first highlight: instead of using miniature iron weights, Valiant and
his compatriots use apples. As dormitories, they use tin cans, and in
order to defend themselves against potential enemies, they are trained
how to attack with their beaks. The second part of the movie features
more action and suspense, as Valiant and Bugsy track down General Von
Talon in order to retrieve their message and free a captured pigeon. 

With its feature length of only 75 minutes, 'Valiant' is almost too
short, giving us the impression that some of the sequences are a little
rushed or just too easy. If Valiant for instance, got into more
threatening trouble, the plot would have been filled with even more
suspense, and some additional, intriguing complexity. Then again, the
filmmakers did a very inspiring job on the character development.
Besides Valiant, the little one with big plans, Bugsy is another
adorable figure, since he will eventually discover that having a true
friend is more important than acting on your own. Therefore, the
messages are crystal clear. 

Sweet faces, vibrant pursuits, an action-packed showdown between good
and evil, a considerable amount of slapstick, and lots of flat-out
funny dialogues and satisfying effects; these are all elements
contributing to the considerable atmosphere of this overall
entertaining summer movie. Furthermore, at the end of the screening I
attended, I heard a little spectator yelling: "Mom, Valiant was the
best one, and the coolest!" Considering that such films indeed intend
on turning their main characters the heroes of the audience, I'd say:
pigeon mission accomplished! (Grade: B-)
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film at the World Premiere in London. It has an incredible
all star British cast including Ewan McGregor, John Cleese, Ricky
Gervais, Jim Broadbent, the list goes on. It's a simple story of a
smaller than average pigeon who decides to join the Homing Pigeon
Service. The animation is first rate and the characterisations are
excellent. Smaller children may be a little scared of the scenes with
the hawks, but this is only a minor foible. It's a thoroughly British
story though and there are only English accents and voices. I hope our
American cousins aren't put off by this, after all we Brits watch a lot
of American movies, be they cartoon, CGI or live action. It's fun and
it has a real feel good factor about it and tells a wartime story about
animals being the heroes for a change, which is nice. Go and see it,
you won't be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
Although this may not tickle the fancy of non-Brits, Valiant is a
light-hearted comical little tale (it's quite short) of an even littler
pigeon with a big personality who wants to be in the RHSP as a wartime
carrier pigeon. The characters are well defined and work together well
with a generously simple plot. Bugsy (Ricky Gervais) is hilarious and
most of the voices provided were perfect, although it would have been
better if I didn't have a constant mental image of the actors while
looking at their animated aliases. 

Occasionally there are moments of dialogue or actions that are quite
obviously meant to be funny and aren't but these are generally glazed
over by silliness. A must-see for animation fans/Brits, but perhaps
more laughable for the younger generation among us.
<|_=00=_|>
The reviews on Valiant are horrible. This I find to be a big mistake, I
personally loved the film, it's largest mistake is a lack of a good
target audience, it is kinda a silly kids animated film with fart jokes
and such, but than it has in my opinion three times as many jokes for
adults about World War 2. In fact I think I may have liked it more than
my brothers who are 12 and 6 did. It has some hilarious cracks on
Hitler and D-Day which is usually something that I find impossible to
laugh about. The short(76 minute) running time just helps the film
because there are only so many jokes it can make without offending
someone and it never tries to use one more than once. The plot is
filled with holes but is perfect for making all the jokes. The
screenplay has some good dialogue and makes all the great jokes. The
voice talents are great. The film is well directed but could have been
better. The film is perfectly animated.
<|_=00=_|>
This is an animated comedy of a British Valiant-pigeon who enlists to
"The Royal Pigeon Message Service" of the World War II. Falcons
represent German's Luftwaffe and French animal resistance is in the
hands of mice! Overall impression is quite like with Chicken Run, only
this is made with computer animation.

It has come to be a habit for animations to contain loads of references
to other movies and general pop-culture so that adults can have their
own fun while their descendants laugh at animation characters'
slapstick. This film makes no exception in that sense. But it does this
mixing superbly. Additional credit has to be given to makers because
the WW II might be considered a-bit-harder-than-usual subject for a
kid-flick. The cast is excellent. Especially Ricky Gervais' character
Bugsy felt so much alive that I almost waited him to break through the
shell of an animated character and become visible on-screen. This comes
not only from the voice but from delicately characterized animation,
though. 

There are no songs disrupting the storytelling and there is some mild
violence (well, in war there is, right?), so this might be not the best
choice for the very youngest children? Not Shrek, but a quite hilarious
little film for adults and children alike!
<|_=00=_|>
This film is about a pigeon called Valiant, whom no one thinks he could
do anything big. It turns out that he does Britain a great service in
World War II as a messenger pigeon.

The animation is excellent. The movements are smooth, and the birds are
portrayed in great detail. However, the plot is very thin and totally
predictable. The humour is not funny because it repeats itself every 30
seconds. There must have been 30 scenes where birds have mid air
collisions and 30 scenes where birds hit a post and falls down. That
does not even count the 30 farts and belches. And have I forgotten to
mention smelly armpits? Can the filmmakers be more inspired and make
less crude humour? I am not sure if kids will enjoy this. The
characters are not even likable or cute. It is not entertaining enough.
