
Why would someone want to be comment number 458? Because it might mean
something to somebody. This movie meant a lot to me.

I spent about four hours, sole-to-sole, in the back of a pickup truck
hitch hiking with her and a friend of mine in Florida. This was before
she had killed anybody, I believe.

Years later, I saw the "wanted" drawing. It sort of rang a bell, but a
lot of usual suspects look like that, don't they? What are the chances?
Then, they caught her and showed the first photo, then gave both the
nickname (like a cousin), and the real name (like another cousin, only
spelled in Irish.) At the time, she mentioned the spelling with an "A."
I asked her if she was Irish and told her about my two cousins. What a
small world, right? She either told me her last name and I assumed it,
or told me she was Greek. The point being, the whole name aspect was
the first part of a four hour life story discussion we had. And you
don't forget four hours of a face like that either. The life stories
matched. It was her.

The mood swings Charlize Theron portrays are perfect, as are the
mannerisms, body language, clothes, teeth, complexion, hair, the body
fat, manner of speaking, that strutting walk and just everything. It
was absolutely uncanny. You never forget someone like that, and then
when they pop up alive like that again. It was just unreal.

She was mood swinging, or perhaps "cycling," the whole time I was with
her. I imagine if that was portrayed realistically, the movie would be
unwatchable. I remember thinking at the time, her behavior seemed like
the popular portrayal of those "possessed." 

After I saw Monster more than twenty years later, I called the other
guy that was with me. We have remained friends over the years. I told
him "Oscar this, Oscar that," blah blah blah, just out of the shock of
reliving the experience of Aileen again. The fact that she was played
by the glamorous, beautiful, Charlize Theron on top of it, was beyond
all comprehension. What a transformation! Of course, my beloved,
goof-ball buddy was sitting beside her sleeping most of the time in the
truck. His head kept on falling on her shoulder and she would push it
off. It was like Three Stooges. They shared the Doritos like it was the
school cafeteria or something. Can you imagine, in hindsight? Yes, it
is good for a few jokes, I admit it. She hadn't killed anyone yet, so
far as I can tell from reading about her and piecing the time-line back
together. This was the first and only time I had been in Florida in
those college-age days, so putting that together was fairly easy.

I don't know if I ever met anyone, before or since, that I have felt
more sympathy for at the time. She was very talkative, about herself
and the hard times she'd had. She was believable. She wasn't scamming
us or anything, as I first suspected, just shooting the breeze. I
wanted to cry for her. I think I even did so later, in hindsight. She
was unreal. She had, what I thought, were "multiple personalities."
Really just two, she would laugh one second, cry the next. She was like
a big, tough hard-ass girl of eight years. She told me all about her
childhood abuse, the horror of being a prostitute, and taking beatings
and abuse from the men. She mentioned living in hotels. She didn't seem
like too much of a drinker or a druggie. I just thought she was deeply,
emotionally disturbed. In those days, we should have said "mental." My
friend and I were a couple of happy middle-class college snowbird guys
on Christmas break. She had about the worst kind of life of anyone I
had ever met. She was only about four or five years older than us, but
looked twice her age. When I thought later about the hand she was
dealt, compared to mine, you better believe the religious feelings and
tears well up. They still do. I can't bear to watch the movie
sometimes, or at least parts of it.

Yes, what she did was wrong, if not evil. I don't think she was evil
though, at all. She had the innocence lost, naive but semi-funny
sweetness portrayed in the movie. I don't usually contemplate these
things, its just that you could see there was a good person there, just
profoundly _____ed up. For some reason, I was proud of her when she
wanted the execution. She was nothing if not honest. As an outside
observer, I don't know how you feel sorry for someone like that, but if
you knew what happened, you just might. I have no agenda in that
regard. Watch this and ask yourself if monsters are made, or are they
born? This movie captures my feelings perfectly. If you have read this
far, you can see the conflict. The movie reflects that so well, I can
not do it justice by praising it with words.

If you were a victim of her actions, I wouldn't blame you for hating
what I'm writing. If I read something like this about Charlie Manson,
I'd never believe it.

I just want to thank everyone involved in telling this bizarre story.

I would advise people to see this if they want to be challenged, not
just entertained. I've read some of the headlines on the index. So
should you.
<|_=00=_|>

Based on a true story this movie is about Ailen Wuornos, a prostitute, who
killed quite a few men who she "serviced".  She was convicted in 1990 and
executed in 2002.

She's played by Charlize Theron who's just incredible.  It starts off just
before she began murdering men and has met Selby (Christina Ricci), an
adorable lesbian who loves her.  It basically chronicles their
relationship
and what led Wuornos to kill these men.  Also she reaccounts her childhood
and how she became a prostitute.  It's more than a little depressing--it's
a
tragic story of a beaten woman who saw murder as the only way out.  Only
three murders are shown and that's more than enough.  The violence is not
glorified--it's bloody and sick and one is the most harrowing thing I've
seen in years.  What's so fascinating (and scary) about this film is that
I
actually began to sympathize with Wuornos!  While I could never condone
her
actions you can see clearly what led her to it.  This is a rare film--it
makes a serial killer look sympathetic.

Theron is a wonder in this--she became Wuornos (who was very
unattractive).
She gained weight, shaved off her eyebrows, colored her hair, used
contacts
and dentures to change her appearance completely.  Never once did I think
I
was seeing Theron acting--she BECAME Wuornos.  A great performance--she'll
easily get the Oscar for this one.  Ricci is also good here.  She's been
ignored in the press but she nicely underplays the role of Selby and is a
perfect contrast to Theron's acting.  Also nice to see Bruce Dern in a
small
role.

Music is used very effectively here.  They play songs of the time it took
place (1980s) so you know when this is happening and also nicely
complements
the actions on screen (especially with Journey's "Don't Stop
Believing").

A very good movie but a very depressing one.  Proceed at your own risk.

<|_=00=_|>

Charlize Theron's performance in this movie was so incredible I felt
compelled to shout about it to every single person I know. I was so blown
away by her that her performance actually reignited my own passion for
acting and made me realize why I'm trying so hard to break into this
business and to do it well. I never thought that Charlize Theron (of whom
I
was never a big fan) of all people could make me remember what
movie-making
is all about. With one role, she's converted me into a life-long fan. If
Oscar means anything anymore, she deserves that award, hands-down. The
movie
itself is one of the most gripping and emotional stories I've ever seen in
a
film, and, true or not, its right up there with the other great indies
depicting the sorry lives of Middle-Americans, such as Boys Don't Cry and,
ironically, Monster's Ball. I wept straight through the last twenty
minutes
of this movie, continued weeping intermittently throughout the day, and
wept
some more about it during my preparation for acting class the following
day.
Before I saw the film, I saw Charlize on The Daily Show, talking to John
Stewart about how Aileen Wuornos' story (and I'm paraphrasing) forces one
to
re-examine how we might label someone "evil" for doing horrible things. I
thought, that's just a bunch of liberal bulls**t. Then I saw the movie.
Like
I said, we can't know how much of the movie is one-hundred percent
factual,
but it's almost scary how little that mattered to me after I left the
theater. This film moved me so much that I actually decided then and there
that I would, that I would have to, think a little harder the next time I
thought of someone as "evil". If the goal of the filmmakers was to just
try
to get people to think about the fairness of the death penalty, I believe
they succeeded.
<|_=00=_|>
For once the Oscar went to the most deserving. I was not sure I wanted
to see this movie, but after seeing a trailer I became curious and
decided to check it out. Charlize Theron completely blew me away! She
is barely recognizable and seems to be channeling Wuornos at some
points. Patty Jenkins is to be highly complimented on her writing and
directing skills also. Rarely have I been so moved by a film but this
one simply cuts to the core and leaves you raw. Wuornos was obviously
not well, yet Jenkins provides insightful monologues that allowed me to
understand and sympathize for Wuornos. It is a sad and moving movie.
Never have I felt so disturbed yet riveted by a movie such as this one.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this on video and was completely blown away. I thought
Charlize Theron's performance as Aileen was extraordinary, not simply
in the scenes with the men (especially the "last john", when she has to
shut herself off from the humanity of the man she is about to kill) and
in generally suggesting an increasingly out of control personality, but
in the scenes with Shelby (Christina Ricci), right up to her
near-breakdown when she is putting Shelby on the bus. Despite adverse
comments from other reviewers, I consider Christina Ricci's portrayal
of Shelby equally remarkable, conveying childlike naivety,
seductiveness, stubbornness and growing manipulativeness very well.
They dominate the film between them, but the supporting performances
are fine also. I gave this 10 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
An intense, depressing movie. It sticks pretty close to the facts but
focuses chiefly on the relationship between Charlize Theron as Lee and
Christina Ricci as Selby. The police are hardly there at all. In fact,
neither is anyone else except for Bruce Dern who makes one or two short
but welcome appearances.

It could easily have been a by-the-numbers TV movie. (Come to think of
it, it has, hasn't it? With Jean Smart?) But the production values are
good, and the time and money has been spent on this film that we
usually associate with feature films.

The cinematography is outstanding. The shots of Lee near the end of her
rope, hitching on a foggy blue nightime Florida highway look like a
desktop theme from some arty horror/occult site. The script doesn't
have many tag lines. No "Rosebuds" or "I coulda been a contendah." Nor
is it folksy or catching in some other way. The dialogue follows the
story in being pretty straightforward and without much in the way of
noticeable touches. The director should be commended on her handling of
two things. One is the explanation for Lee's crimes. None is given.
There is a short scene in which Lee tells one of her johns about her
miserable childhood, but the abuse excuse is vitiated by Selby's
mother, an orthodox and unimaginative woman, who says simply that lots
of people have hard childhoods without growing up like Lee. And the men
are not all turned into sadistic hogs, which must have been a
temptation for the writers. The second virtue in the direction is its
management of the murders. Instead of exploding heads, there are a few
squibs, and usually not even that, before the victim yields to the
fathomless, cool, enwinding arms of death. The themes explored here are
not so much violence as love and desperation.

Ricci looks the part, with her broad forehead and tiny lips, but comes
across more as a Valley Girl than the kind of outcast who would pick up
and move off with someone like Lee.

Which brings us to Theron's performance as Lee. It's startling, of
course, to see a glamor-puss like Theron so thoroughly deglamorized.
It's the kind of performance that wins Academy Awards -- lesbians, the
height-challenged, autistics, all have won awards in recent years.
Theron deserves recognition for her effort too, but not just because of
the makeup and wardrobe. They're all splendid. Makeup has shaved her
brows to a Mona Lisa extent and turned her face just blotchy enough and
given her a raggedy set of teeth.

But that's not all that has made her performance as the central
character so memorable. (She's in almost every frame.) And it isn't the
thirty or so pounds that she put on for the role either. What's so
homeric about that? I can put on thirty pounds without blinking an eye,
and enjoy doing it. Heck, I can put on forty or fifty if she wants to
get into a peeing contest. No -- it's Theron herself who MAKES the
character. She's great, particularly in her physical manifestation of
Lee -- her body language, for instance. Instead of coasting through the
role, she animates it. The way she struts around with her shoulders
thrown back and her face down, emphasizing her several chins and the
girth of her neck. Maybe it takes a profession ballerina to figure out
these little techniques. Her voice isn't as coarse as that of a hooker
who constantly puffs on cigarettes, but Theron does what she can with
her own. She overcomes her native South African speech with no trouble
and introduces us to a breathless bravado that she's never used on
screen before -- not that I know of.

Her movements, her speech, her dreams, are filled with a desperate
illusion that doesn't exactly make us feel sorry for her but does make
us worry for her -- that she might, for instance, start screaming at
any minute and never stop. A nerve-racking picture of a ruined soul.

Is it worth seeing? Absolutely. You won't learn too much about how
Aileen Wournos turned into the person she did. Even the narrative
itself is a little confusing at time, so that you can't be sure where
Lee and Selby are at given moments. But it's Hollywood professionalism
at one of its rare high points. It's made by a mature team for an
audience of adults. Refreshing.
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw again Monster, followed by Nick Broomfield's gripping
documentary on Aileen Wuornos, and what a brilliant film it is. It sort
of reminded me of the kind of movies they used to make in the '70s,
where the characters were really the center and they weren't trapped by
formulas or by the self-indulgency of the director or the actors. The
characters aren't judged, but they're shown with their humanity. With
empathy. The result is not your usual indie movie that tries to be hip,
or a sugar-coated version of this tragic story with an answer for
everything and a nice confortable message in the end, but a truly
moving and absorbing film that focuses on the people whose story is
telling. At the core there's the amazing performance from Charlize
Theron, who's deserving of all the praises and the awards she got. Her
work is powerful, subtle, moving and layered. It's incredible to watch
Broomfield's documentary, after seeing the film. Sometimes it really
seems like watching the same person. It's not only that she recreated
her mannerism, which she did perfectly, she's also, somehow, got her
energy, as a person. She got to the emotional reasons as to why
Aileen's mannerism was like that. In short: an extraordinary
performance and a powerful film.
<|_=00=_|>

I sometimes wonder why more people can't be nice.  I wonder why the sins
of
the father have to plague the lives of his children.  Why people rape,
abuse, hurt, and maim.  In a perfect world everyone would be happy.  In a
perfect world no one would ever want.  In a perfect world a women like
Aileen Wurnos would not have been sentenced to die on death row, and in a
real world I wouldn't have to write about a movie like MONSTER.  It's a
movie that drips with exceptional performances, and yet leaves your soul
so
cold to the core.

MONSTER is the tragic true story of a woman who longed for a friend, and
nobody came to her aid.  It stars Charlize Theron (The Devil's Advocate)
as
Aileen Wurnos, one of the first women to ever die on death row.  Of course
the film doesn't begin that way, when we first meet her she's sitting in
the
rain with a gun contemplating ending it all.  You see she's has no future.
She has nothing but a past that's not worth repeating, and all she has in
the world is in a storage locker. What little money she has, is gained by
being a prostitute.  But one day in a little bar in Daytona Beach, Florida
she meets and falls for a woman that finally makes her
happy.

The woman is named Selby (Christina Ricci, The Opposite of Sex), and she's
a
young lesbian just trying to figure out the world for herself.  At first
this relationship puts Aileen on cloud nine.  She's willing to do anything
to provide for the first person that ever loved her.

But one night when Aileen kills a john who gets a little to rough, a
series
of events take our characters on a one way trip with destiny. Leaving the
landscape of these two women's lives are forever changed.  If only someone
had just been nice to Aileen.

MONSTER is not a happy film.  It's one of those movies that leaves you
dead
at the end.  You lose faith in humanity; you lose faith in yourself.  I
like
these kinds of movies, cause they convict me.  Here I am a young guy who
sometimes gets ticked off at a driver in front of me on the road.  For one
split moment I have murderous anger when that guy cuts me off.  What if I
was in Aileen's situation?  Would I do the same thing?  I would hope not,
but hey you never know.

If there is one performance that will tear you up inside this year, it's
Theron's.  For the entire movie you can hardly believe that this is, in
real
life, a beautiful women.  Theron throws all the glamour out the window,
gaining weight and frumping herself up to the point of being ugly.  This
is
a complete 360 and she's so engrossing.  She carries the film to heights.
A
lesser actress might turn in a wonderful performance, but Theron was
Aileen.
This is some brilliant acting.

I also give Kudos to Bruce Dern .  His character has the distinction of
being the only person who shows any real compassion for Aileen.  While a
small role it sticks out because it's the only real bit of bright light in
an otherwise dark and gloomy picture.

The screenplay by Patty Jenkins (Who also directed) does a great job of
giving Aileen and those around her life.  What Aileen did was
reprehensible.
What she did was evil, and she must pay for that.  But it allows for
sympathy. Not all evil is dark and black, and not all people who murder
are
100% culpable.  But yet you reap what you sow no matter what you're past.

MONSTER is a well-made, brilliantly acted film that's not for the weak of
heart.  It's engaging, engrossing, and realistic.  I think I want to rush
out and get the silliest comedy I can find right now, because I need
something to offset the dark tone of this film.  While it get a fine
recommendation, I just hope that the next time you feel like treating
someone like crap, you'll remember just how tragic the life of Aileen
Wurnos
turned tragic because nobody reached out.

<|_=00=_|>
After just seeing this film, I'm pretty much speechless. This is a
tough film to comment on. This is mainly due to the fact that it's a
serial killer film where you actually end up feeling sympathy for the
killer. Near the end of the film, when it goes completely out of
control for Aileen Wuornos, there's no feeling of "justice is done once
again"... quite the contrary, actually. It's so moving and disturbing,
following this person's life, through the last part of it. In the
beginning, we get a fairy tale-like presentation of Aileen's hopes and
dreams in her young years. Without warning, we're thrust into the hard
reality of her current years, immediately afterward. From there on out,
we're in her world, feeling her pain, experiencing her failures. We get
to know her as the film goes on, but we feel for her from the very
beginning, without even knowing why she is like she is. That says
something about the masterful direction and writing of Patty Jenkins
that is featured in this film. The plot is great, and it's surprisingly
easy to follow the thought process of Aileen... we understand why she
kills. The pacing is very good, there are only few scenes that seem to
move slow, and I don't think there was really any point where I was
bored. The locations is incredibly authentic. Jenkins actually went out
of her way to get shooting done at several places where the real Aileen
had been, and even cast people who had met her in smaller roles.
Cinematography is great. Acting is pretty much flawless; both Theron
and Ricci shine in their roles. The movie also has a unpleasant view of
prejudice from the 'other side'(the people who become victims to
prejudice), and hopefully this will act as a much needed wakeup call
for the people who believe in and go by prejudice. What really makes
this film have an impact is how dark and real it is. No happy ending,
no silver lining... just tough, uncut reality. When you see it, you
can't help getting engulfed in this person's world. The raw horror of
her life moves you. I can't see anyone, no matter ignorance, beliefs or
moral and ethic standpoint coming out after seeing this film and
believing that Eileen was the 'bad guy' in this story. It's just not
possible. I haven't seen any of the interviews with the real Aileen
Wuornos and I didn't follow her case, but I would like to know more
about her, find out what she was like to a greater extent than a movie
of 1 hour and 45 minutes can tell me. That's what this movie did to me.
It made me care for this person, and that says more than anything I can
put in this review. You need to see this film, unless you refuse to
watch anything that has harsh reality instead of a happy ending. I
recommend this to anyone who can take it. This movie will depress most
people, but after this one viewing, I consider it required viewing for
just about anyone. 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
This is the desperate story of a woman whose child-abused background
led her to teenage prostitution and a disgust with herself and
humankind before she reached 30, and then, desperate to keep the
spurious affection and shabby love, however ill-judged and unbalanced,
of an immature, lonely, and rather stupid lesbian, she turns into a
serial killer. Based on the life of Aileen Wournos, Patty Jenkins and
Charlize Theron have achieved not only a film of excellence and
importance, but of a depth and darkness that takes your breath away.
Charlize Theron's brilliant, bravura performance, Christine Ricci's
impressive supporting acting, Patty Jenkins's direction, and the
structure and script, make Monster an impressive film. Despite the
depressing themes, all the more accentuated by sad motel rooms,
low-life bars, and dismal highway nights when Wournos is seeking
clients - and victims - the film is so strong on characterisation and
with a script which rings true at every stage (despite some difficulty
in understanding the mumbled dialogue between the two leads at times),
it leaves a lasting impression of ineffable sadness.

The film works on many levels and the bottom line is a thorough
indictment of the dark side of American society. The monster is
American society which can produce, through ignorance, prejudice,
abusive behaviour, easy gun-license laws, the death penalty, and so on,
the kind of people which Aileen and Selby become. They are extreme
examples, of course, but the message is clear. And this film does have
a message even though it takes pains not to be judgmental. At the
centre of the film, when Aileen confesses her first murders to Selby,
she says she is okay with the Lord, it is the society that brought her
up, the politics and the religion, that made her what she was. If
politics and religion justify so many killings, her own killings are
justified (as a way of compensating for the rapes, abuse, the
inevitable prostitution, leading to more abuse and rape and hatred of
men as well as herself). Her logic may be questionable but her point is
well made.

I have noticed a recent succession of movies which focus on lesbian
killers and the lesbian lead always ends up badly. Is it no longer
valid to make film with a heterosexual female aggressor? Do those women
have to remain passive, or victims, or at least equal with the men they
are teamed with, but the lesbian is still 'the bad guy'. Thelma and
Louise were not portrayed as lesbians (although they still had to come
to a sticky end because of their crimes), but since then there is a
noticeable trend in Hollywood to recognise these lesbian themed movies
by giving the leading actresses Oscars - Frances McDormand in Fargo,
Hilary Swank in Boys Don't Cry, and now Charlize Theron in Monster.
(However, Monster knocks Boys Don't Cry and Fargo into insignificance.)

I wonder about the motives of Hollywood. The film world may pay
lip-service to liberal tolerance of female homosexuality by recognising
these actress performances, but the overall impression is that lesbians
are not good people and I question that audiences will be encouraged to
see lesbians as acceptable members of society, given the film examples
in front of them.

So, to me, this film was not so much a feminist polemic as a
depressing, but gripping, story about alienation and isolation, told in
a way which can't help but leave the viewer asking a lot of questions
about a society which creates such 'monsters'. Aileen is simply the
flip-side of the American dream and, as such, turns the dream extremely
sour.
