
I've had the pleasure to watch this film four times, and I've enjoyed
each viewing more than the last. Having read the book twice - once 11
years ago and once two months ago - I feel that the movie did an
admirable job of expressing the essence and heart of the book, while
keeping it within 100 minutes and palatable for the average movie
viewer.

It is clearly not a polished, big-budget film, and yet it attracted
many well-known and respected actors. It addresses issues of power and
control in relationships, religion, and politics in a fresh and
contemporary way. To me, its greatest accomplishment is bringing a New
Spirituality perspective to screen - where humans are not disconnected
beings in a random universe, nor sinners subject to the wrath of an
angry God, but are one with everything and are co-creators of their
experience of life.

I suggest you will get the most from this film by looking at it not as
a blockbuster, but as a paradigm-buster.

Happy viewing!
<|_=00=_|>
If there are any secrets of life, if there are any universal truths
which can guide us, this film failed to illuminate them.

While an acceptable piece of movie making, Celstine Prophecy fell down
in that category as well. Its main cinematic problems -- a lead actor
who basically can't act; dialog that sometimes made even good actors
like Hector Elizondro look bad and a confusing, inconclusive ending
that failed completely to provide the "pay off" that is usually
required to send the audience away feeling satisfied.

But this picture, first of the current mysticism or spirituality films
to hit the screen this year, was also supposed to be about something
more than movie making. While one could debate the validity of its
philosophy till the cows come home, it would seem fitting to note just
a couple of things.

The film, and the book which spawned it, are both called "The Celestine
Prophecy," yet no prophecy was really detailed or even outlined. There
were only some vague references to scrolls written about 500 or 600 AD
which seemed to predict that sometime in the future the world would be
racked with war and strife. Well, gosh, that's really going out on a
limb, isn't it? Since the Dark Ages were racked with war and strife and
since basically the entire history of mankind is filled with war and
strife, predicting more war and strife doesn't make you insightful in
my view. Its like predicting hurricanes are going to hit the Gulf
Coast. Only FEMA could have been caught off guard by hurricanes in
hurricane season.

Anyway, the scrolls are more about insight into human behavior than
anything else, or so it would appear. Whose insight? That is not only
never disclosed, its not even addressed in the film. Which gives us the
image of a lot of seemingly well educated people willing to change
their entire lives because of eight scrolls, which may be the earliest
known examples of the chain letter.

And what is the philosophy? That isn't exactly explained either. Best I
could figure out, it was a cross between the "feel the force, Luke,"
idea from Starwars and "The Power of Positive Thinking" stuff put forth
in self help books in the 50s. It went a little beyond that, as it also
included the kind of "look at the beauty around you" talk that usually
came from people urging you to ingest controlled substances, probably
not an unusual past-time for people in the Peruvian jungle.

This is a work of fiction, so the author was probably not intending it
to become the foundation of a worldwide movement. But then maybe L. Ron
Hubbard had good intentions, too, but the next thing we knew, we had
Tom Cruise jumping up and down on a sofa and then planting his demon
seed in poor little Katie Holmes and now we've got to mount a rescue
mission to get her and her child away from those people. Gee, I wonder
what Peter Graves and Marty Landeau are doing these days?

That brings us back to movie making and there was some good acting in
"Celestine," mostly from the girls. Full props to Sarah Wayne Callies
and the always reliable Annabeth Gish who both did fine jobs with their
roles. 

A marginal thumbs up, but very marginal. There are better cinematic
experiences around and much better philosophical ones.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie was good enough to remind me of the ideas I started to
understand about 10 years ago when I read the book. At that time, the
book had become a slow underground success, and when it started getting
a lot of attention, the literary critics tended to bash it like they
are bashing this movie. As a modern-day movie goer, I would like to
have seen a more polished and better executed movie to portray these
ideas, BUT it still reached me, and I was inspired again, even more
than I was by the book because there has been time for these insights
to gestate in me. Human evolution. Spiritual evolution. This movie is
more about the insights than the story that encases them. So if you are
interested in possibilities of the future human journey, you just might
get what you are looking for in this film.
<|_=00=_|>
It was about 10 years ago when I came across the book and not by
chance, it literally fell into lap. It was one of the best books I had
ever read. That said I waited years for the movie with high
expectations. I ordered the DVD as soon as it was available and eagerly
watched it with friends. Unfortunately the movie failed on several
aspects! As the movie progressed I found myself pausing the movie
frequently to explain to those who had not read the book what was going
on. The movie seemed to skim quickly over some of the insights without
proper explanation which caused me to loose track as to which insight
was being discussed in the movie. On a whole I felt the characters were
well portrayed and acted, but was let down by a crammed script. I
believe this should have been made into a mini series for TV allowing
it to take full advantage of the character development and proper
explanation of the insights.

Not bad if you have read the book... but if you haven't forget it!
<|_=00=_|>
This film fails to capture any of the mystery and intrigue that the
book offers. The main point of the book, the insights, are hardly even
touched upon, leaving the viewer wondering exactly why everyone is
making such a big deal about them and why they are willing to risk
their lives.

The character development is not good at all. No background or personal
development leaves the audience not really caring at all about what
happens to them, and so the action sequences fall flat.

The search for the manuscripts ends abruptly, and with no real
explanation, not leaving any sense of satisfaction as to what the whole
search was for.

This is one of the worst adaptations of a book I have ever seen. It is
horrible and a waste of time. If you have not read the book, skip the
movie and read it. If you have read the book, skip the movie and reread
it.

It is almost as if the point of making the movie was to discredit the
book, that is how poorly done and ridiculous this movie is. It is a
shame too, because it could have been good had they capitalized on it
at the height of its success and they probably would have been able to
get a good screenwriter and some good actors.

Please don't waste your time, READ THE BOOK!!!
<|_=00=_|>
I don't know what that other guy was thinking. The fact that this movie
was independently made makes it no less terrible. You can be as big a
believer as you want... the majority of this film is mindless drivel. I
feel i have been insulted by having to watch the first 40 minutes of
it. And that alone was no small feat. Not only is the acting terrible,
but the plot is never even close to developed. There are countless
holes in the story, to the point where you can hardly even call it a
story anymore. I've never read the book, so I can't critique on that,
but this is the first review that I've written here and it's purpose is
solely to save all you viewers out there an hour and a half of your
life. I can't remember the last time I couldn't even finish watching a
movie. This one really takes the cake.
<|_=00=_|>
Bingo is the game, bullshit is the name. Rarely has the screen been
smeared with such a blown-up hodgepodge of half-baked conspiracy
theories, puritan prudery, and new-age gibberish. The bulk of the story
is set at Viciente, a Cristian resort in the Peruvian jungle. Think
Tolkien's Rivendell meets Star Trek's Planet Baku, inhabited by
dimwitted followers of a not-so-mysterious, but surprisingly
narrow-minded cult of love and peace. Thanks to gruesome acting and
tacky production design (the rainbow-colored visualization of the
mysterious all-healing "energy" is particularly hideous), "The
Celestine Prophecies" looks and feels like a discarded 1980s "Twilight
Zone" episode. Factual errors regarding church history and nomenclature
abound. I can't believe Hector Elizondo agreed to be a part of this.
Maybe it was made without his consent, Bowfinger style. May the Lord
have mercy on the director, the screenwriter, the author of the novel,
and the poor souls who see the movie or read the book.
<|_=00=_|>
I read the book Celestine Prophecy and was looking forward to seeing
the movie. Be advised that the movie is loosely based on the book. Many
of the book's most interesting points do not even come out in the
movie. It is a "B" movie at best. Many events, characters, how the
character interact and meet in the book are simply changed or do not
occur. The flow of events that in the book are very smooth, are choppy
and fed to the view as though you a child. The character development is
very poor. Personnallities of the characters differ from those in the
book. The direction is similar to a "B" horror flick. I understand that
it would take six hours in film to present all that is in the book, but
they screen play base missed many points. The casting was very good.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie was TERRIBLE!!! Easily the worst movie I have seen in the
past few years. One of those movies I will be able to tell people for
the next three years that it was the worst movie I can think of. Thank
you for giving me an answer to that burning question "What is the worst
movie you have seen?" Answer: Celestine Prophecy. Trust me...I read the
book, enjoyed the message and was excited to see the movie, but then,
they treated the audience like we are r*tarded. There is no story and
the story that is there is crippled by too much magic and coincidence.
It is too bad they have to spell out the nine prophecies and can't
simply weave them into a story that is entertaining to follow. They
didn't spend any time on character development and it was easy to not
care if any character died. It was embarrassing to be one of the few
people who stuck around until the end of this incredibly boring movie.
The book is pretty boring too but I enjoyed the parallels that could be
seen in everyday life while you read the book. The film does not offer
the same opportunity and I would suggest not seeing it if you want to
continue to hold the words of the book close to your heart. DON'T SEE
THIS MOVIE. Trust me.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is just not worth your time. Its reliance upon New-Age
mysticism serves as its only semi-interesting distraction. The plot is
one that has been re-cycled countless times.

I was only prompted to even spend the time to put in a comment when I
noted that some have tried to prop-up the reputation of this drivel.
Their motivation & objectivity is dubious, since they encourage you not
to look at the movies faults, but at its well intentioned message of
New Age consciousness.

So would it be alright for some twenty to thirty Evangelical
Christians, or Islamic Fundamentalists to pour in positive ratings
about movies/television that support their views? In spite of the poor
qualities of production, or the lack of truth in any of its supposed
historic basis? I hope not.

I am sure the followers will come right behind me to say flowery things
about this movie, in spite of the truth.
