
The provocatively titled "Love, Sex and Eating the Bones" is a tale
about sexual frustration involving a man addicted to porn and a woman
with a decidedly more conservative view of making love. The curious
twist is that it is the woman who wants to get down-and-dirty in the
sack and the man who finds himself unable to rise to the occasion.

Michael is an aspiring photographer who works as a security guard at a
local parking garage. Jasmine is a successful ad agency executive who
has sworn off both men and sex since her last abortive relationship two
years ago. The two find themselves falling in love with one another but
hit a rocky patch when Michael turns out to be impotent - at least when
it comes to having to perform with a flesh-and-blood human being.

"Love, Sex and Eating the Bones" starts off as a sub-par, utterly
conventional romantic comedy, but just when you're about to give up on
it, it takes a daring and much appreciated detour into some previously
unexplored territory. This is the first film I can remember to feature
impotence as a major plot point and the first to acknowledge the
detrimental effect that pornography can have on real-world
relationships. That the film does so in the context of a romantic
comedy in no way diminishes its value and, in fact, makes the topics
more palatable and approachable than they might otherwise be. Moreover,
the film is blessed with two extremely likable stars as its
protagonists, Hill Harper and Marlyne Afflack, who tackle the tricky
subject matter with charm and grace. Some may see the humor in the film
as vulgar and crude at times, but I tend to think of it as realistic,
accurately capturing the ways in which couples talk and deal with one
another in the modern world. This turns out to be a better film than
one might initially suspect.
<|_=00=_|>

Love, Sex and Eating the Bones, should not be as good as it is.  With the
recent crop Urban, Black Romantic comedies and Dramedies, By all rights a
film like Love, Sex and Eating the Bones could have easily fallen flat
like
recent efforts.  But this film delivers in the smartest, sexiest and
funniest ways.  Veteran short film maker and documentarian David "SUDZ"
Sutherland makes the transition to features with the ease.  Love, Sex and
Eating the Bones, embraces the cliches and plot points of a paint by
number
romantic comedy and infuses them with a love and humour, that could make
this film a sleeper breakout worldwide hit.  Take this as a tip if you
are
looking for a must see film, this really, is it!!
<|_=00=_|>

Saw this @ the 12th Pan African Film & Arts Festival in Los Angeles @ the
Magic Johnson's Theatre... and LOVED IT!!!
"...Bones" was funny, poignant, heartbreakingly sad & erotic (in a
fun/nasty
sort of way)...
I felt the Hill's portrayal of no focus w/ his photography &
h
is pain & sadness & deep, intense love... what a great
job.
The film offers a most realistic portrayal of a situation
that
many men & quite a few women have no doubt experienced-quite
realistic & very much "oh-no-I-know-this-is-not-happening-to-me".
When it plays in your neighborhood, GO SEE IT!
<|_=00=_|>

Hill Harper plays Michael - a porn addicted man who, after starting a
relationship with a celibate woman, wins a contest to do a sex scene with
his favourite porn star.

This small independent film (2.5 million dollars) is absolutely
delightful.
It's a sure sign that innovative and imaginative films need not come from
Hollywood.

This is the Toronto director's first feature film after his award winning
short film.

<|_=00=_|>

This is a movie for everyone. You'll walk out with a smile on your face,
but
it's not your typical dumb, cheap, formula, romantic comedy. OK OK it has
a
mostly black cast, but it's not about race.  And sorry, but no, it's not
about porn either.  I don't care what your color or age or sexual hangups
are, you'll see people you know in this movie. It's smart and funny. My
husband enjoyed it just as much as I did.  Really looking forward to the
next movie by this director.  The only bad thing about this movie is its
title.  It sounds sinister (eating the bones?!).  I think it means getting
the most out of life, but it gives the wrong impression.  Just go see
it!
<|_=00=_|>
This is a nice relation drama/comedy flick.

After all the films I've seen in the past months it is nice to see a
movie that has a convincing story and is situated in a place thats
looks like it is on earth. Man meets woman and they fall in love. The
comedy about it is that the leading character, Michael, only gets a
hard one if he watches porn. Too bad. 

But his girlfriend makes a big fuzz about it. Enough stuff for director
and writer Sutherland to let us feel with Michael and maybe understand
its problem (hey, thinking of it is alway hornier than doing it. Forget
it, I had this discussion with my friends and we agreed about it). His
lover Jasmine is not very into the porn and she sees it as a big
problem. But hardly talks about it and lets poor Michael onto his own.
Hey, it is the millennium, talk about it, pay a shrink for him! All is
fair, this movie is very nice. It's interesting, funny and the main
character Michael is likable and all actors do a great job. Ik give it
a well deserved 7.
<|_=00=_|>
I am so glad I discovered this gem of Canadian cinema. The
performances, especially by the two leads, Hill Harper and Marlyne
Afflack in the roles of Michael and Jasmine, were gripping and
heartfelt. Harper and Afflack were so natural and appealing in
portraying the chemistry and the many emotional upheavals of their
characters' relationship, that I found myself rooting for this couple
to survive against all the odds (Michael is addicted to porn and a
regular customer of the video store Pornucopia). The film explores some
thought-provoking and somewhat dark themes, such as obsession, sexual
dysfunction, escapism and the frustrations of aspiring artists. But
comedic touches abound: Mark Taylor (Romeo in the sitcom Student
Bodies) puts on a very respectable "Jafakin" accent as Michael's mama's
boy/playa friend; there's outrageously campy fake porn scenes from
Michael's imagination and from the tapes he loves and much, much more.
As a Jamaican Canadian, I loved the elements of black Canadian culture
that shine through in the film: the dance hall songs in the soundtrack,
eating chicken bones, Caribbean slang, Haitian Creole, lack of
punctuality...The black characters also experience the subtle, but
damaging form of racism prevalent in Canada when they are dismissed and
typecast. However, the viewer is constantly reminded that black people
are and will always be an integral part of Canadian life: the
characters speak to each other in English and French, Barenaked Ladies
and hip hop go hand in hand and hockey brings everyone together. Sudz
Sutherland deserves some serious props for his screen
writing/direction: the film is well-paced, nice to look at, smart,
sexy, stylistically innovative in blurring the lines between fantasy
and reality and full of wry, self-mocking, distinctively Canadian
humour. I was very satisfied with the quality of the DVD in general,
which includes an insightful making-of featurette, but the quiet sound
and lack of subtitles were disappointing. I recommend this film highly
to all film lovers and especially people who like their romantic
comedies with a strong twist (think of Mambo Italiano, another Canadian
classic).
<|_=00=_|>
I'd actually give this movie almost eight stars, if possible, not
because it's so terribly fabulous (though I do think it's good--just
don't want to over-inflate my ratings), but because it manages
impressively much with the small budget it had. Also, I really enjoyed
most of the actors in it, and would seek out other performances they
do. If you like somewhat off-beat, character-driven comedies, then go
in without huge expectations but with an open mind, and you'll probably
be glad to have seen this.

I missed the very first few minutes (caught this by chance on the Starz
"black" movie channel late at night), and the first few moments I saw
seemed mildly unpromising, but with enough feeling of something to
come, and potential in the characters to keep me watching. It was the
first moment of magic realism (when Jasmine opens Michael's portfolio)
that quickly sharpened my interest. There were further moments of such
fantasy judiciously sprinkled through the movie, without heavy-handed
explanation or drawing attention--just there, with the writer-director
trusting audience members to not need spoon-feeding. Mostly, the
characters' normal, human problems, joys and such carry the movie
nicely.

There may be some validity to others' criticisms regarding stereotypes,
but, if so, I think it's not nearly so heavy a problem as some make it
out to be. Certainly, there's less of that in this than in many other
movies. Also, some of the aspects and situations that have been cited
as stereotyped or clichéd are perhaps simply universal, or just common
and true to real life. To me, it's all in what a filmmaker does with
such commonplaces, how he/she uses them, and Mr. Sutherland keeps it
mostly interesting and fresh.

Anyway, especially for a small-budget first feature film, this is
pretty damned good work, and worth watching for a bit of
character-driven fun.
<|_=00=_|>

Won't bother reitterating what's already been said about the film. It was
well worth seeing and though the budget was less than what most Hollywood
films spend on craft services, every cent shows on the screen and the
dynamics between the leads are sparkling. Ed Robinson (of Barenaked Ladies
fame) works well and Kenny Robinson as Robbie, the porn store owner plays
suitably subdued which, for a comic, is no easy task. The supporting cast
all play well, blending-in and emphasizing without stealing the spotlight
from the leads. If I have any quibble with the film it would be that I
maybe
could've done with a little less of the porn star fantasy but otherwise I
thoroughly enjoyed the film.
<|_=00=_|>

Hill Harper plays Michael - a porn addicted man who, after starting a
relationship with a celibate woman, wins a contest to do a sex scene with
his favourite porn star.

This small independent film (2.5 million dollars) is absolutely
delightful.
It's a sure sign that innovative and imaginative films need not come from
Hollywood.

This is the Toronto director's first feature film after his award winning
short film.

