

How refreshing to attend a non-animated, G-rated movie and enjoy it!  As a
41-year-old woman attending with an 82-year-old friend, I expected a light,
pretty, romantic fairy tale, and that's exactly what I got.  Never saw the
first movie, but the "catch-up" work at the beginning made that a
non-issue.

Surely, no one would go to this movie expecting to find the meaning of life
portrayed on the screen.  Come on, folks, this is a Disney princess flick
with Julie Andrews and a G-rating; is anybody expecting deep
philosophy?

Chick flick?  Of course!  Especially appealing to young (under 18) chicks?
Definitely!  Enjoyable to other adult women and men who just want a happy
trip to fantasy land with no worries about sex, blood, or blue language? 
Absolutely!

Take this film at face value and you'll enjoy it.  If you can't do that,
don't bother seeing it.  There are plenty of other "profound" movies out
there to inspire, teach, or depress you!  Go for a good time and you'll have
it.
<|_=00=_|>
What does it mean to be a princess? Besides wearing tiaras and twin
sets, dancing at balls…attracting fame and fortune simply for being
beautiful? A princess is stuck forever in extended adolescence – she
only has the trappings of power. Symbolically, at least, a queen has
real power, and does not necessarily need to be beautiful. 

For hundreds of years, fairy tales have filtered through our
consciousness to involuntarily fuel our dreams. In the last century,
what began as cautionary tales to lecture children have been sugar-spun
into a Disneyfied notion of desire. But with Disney's latest, Princess
Diaries 2: Royal Engagement, the recent trend of recasting fairy tales
to reflect modern ideals continues, albeit with a gentler hand than
yesteryear's feminists. 

Simply, it's not enough to be a princess anymore. Although ostensibly a
conventional tween romantic comedy, Princess Diaries 2 features a
heroine who is more independent than Drew Barrymore's character in Ever
After (1998) and less frustrated than Julia Stiles' Mary Donaldson
clone in the The Prince and Me (2004). And, even better, in Princess
Diaries 2, there are no handsome princes, just boys on the side.

I'm not a fan of much of director Gary Marshall's work – although
Pretty Woman's a classic, Runaway Bride, Raising Helen and the original
Princess Diaries are very ordinary films. But in this enchanting
sequel, he and screenwriter Shonda Rhimes give us a character who's not
just beautiful, klutzy and funny. Mia Mignonette Thermopoulos Rinaldi
is growing into her power.

Princess Diaries 2 begins five years after the original at Mia's 21st
birthday party. After the schemings of John Rhys Davies triggers an
ancient Genovian law, Mia has one month to marry, otherwise she will
forfeit the throne. As two very different suitors court her, Mia relies
on her now affectionate relationship with her grandmother, Queen
Clarisse (Julie Andrews), to guide her. Meanwhile security chief Joe
(Hector Elizondo) woos the Queen.

There are hackneyed moments, the worst of which is a pajama party
featuring dozens of little princesses who are designed to reflect their
aspirant audience. Although enjoyable, this scene serves no dramatic
function, except perhaps to showcase Julie Andrew's expertise in
mattress surfing. The change in Queen Clarisse's character is also
unexplained – she's transformed from being an acerbic biddy in the
first film to being the dream grandmother. However, this film is
entertaining, humorous and has a positive message. The cast and
characters are also strong, particularly Anne Hathaway as Mia, and
there's plenty of chemistry between her and Nicholas (Chris Pine).
Heather Matarazzo and Fat Louie the cat also make brief appearances.

Princess Diaries 2: Royal Engagement improves on the original, and will
be a particular hit with its target audience: tween and teen girls. But
this film's got enough substance to appeal to an older audience…if you
let it. ***/***** stars.
<|_=00=_|>
I remember seeing the first movie not expecting much from it, but when
I walked out I was pleasantly surprised! When I saw the previews to
this movie I thought "Oh god! Another movie ruined by a sequel!" I was
slightly wrong in my thinking, because this was in fact a cute,
light-hearted, feel-good movie. Maybe it's not as good as the first,
but I still thought it was rather enjoyable. Anne Hathaway is a great
actress and I'm so glad her talent was discovered and recognized. Julie
Andrews gave a great performance as the former Queen of Genovia. This
movie may have been predictable and a big ball of fluff, but what do
you expect to a sequel to a Disney movie where Pixar wasn't involved? I
would recommend this movie to anyone, just as long as you go into it
knowing it's different from the first. I'm just praying there won't be
a third movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Maybe this movie is enjoyable for the target audience (10-15 year
olds), but for everyone else I think it's a waste of time. It was much
too long and had a lot of ambiguous scenes added for the little girls
watching it. Examples include a scene where Mia walks into a room in
her castle closely resembling a mall, that is filled with clothes and
jewelry. Another scene is a pajama party (Mia is 21) in which stuck up
little girls sing karaoke and slide down stairs. The script is one of
the worst I have ever seen. The lines that are supposed to be funny are
so dumb it's almost funny. All in all, don't watch this movie unless
you are a huge fan of one of the stars or are stuck on deserted island
with only this movie. My favorite part of this movie were a few of the
songs, including Breakaway by Kelly Clarkson.
<|_=00=_|>
I am a frequent visitor to the cinema with my three daughters and I
have to sit through films that are regularly panned by the critics.
Despite that there is usually a source of escapism in most films that
make a visit an enjoyable occasion.

Princess diaries 2 is ham fisted drivel with few redeeming qualities.
The screenplay is full of grotesque amateurish caricatures that
irritate from early in the film. The writer could not decide which
country it was set in. Perhaps in attempt to be cosmopolitan there were
a broad range of European nationalities represented united in being
portrayed as idiots. Presumably because they aren't American and
therefore don't understand the working of the real world.

A complete waste of the talents of Anne Hathaway, Julie Andrews and the
bald bloke.
<|_=00=_|>

I am teenager residing in Arizona and chose to see this movie when I
was on my last day of my cold I was having (meaning, for the youth that
really are stupid, I was absent from school). Now, this movie was
supposed to be aimed to teenagers and pre-teens, preferably girls. I
remember seeing the original and I was just curious to see how they
would do the sequel (since most movie's with sequels are really bad). 

I got in the theater, noticing only a few people here and there (mostly
withered old ladies) and checking the rating age. "G". Oh god, not G.
No blood, no cuss words, no nothing' that I enjoyed seeing. G movies
always have scared me, even when I was a little kid. This struck up my
fears of seeing this movie.

I sat in my chair, only to see childish movie advertisements go on the
screen. And then it started.

It started...and I wanted to die right there.

The narration voice over just seemed so annoying. They absolutely
changed EVERYTHING FROM THE ORIGINAL! Making it cheap. Very cheap. They
had those Disney stars like Raven go and be one of the princesses. The
jokes were corny, too corny for my tastes. And they used phrases that
made me shudder. It was totally unrealistic, it was trying too hard, it
just was bad. And then forcing a song into it. I maybe laughed one or
two times during that whole movie. Most of the time those laughs were
because it was either unrealistic or just down right corny.

It was too Disney-esque. Now let me say this, I'm not the big Disney
fan. Most of their films are too predictable and don't have much
meaning to some of their films. I could predict almost everything that
was going to happen. The klutz jokes were getting old and the movie was
too long for my liking, but then out of nowhere. IT ENDED! TIME FOR
ANOTHER MOVIE...I guess.

Only that chair in the backrow of the theater, that was reserved for
me, will be empty if another movie Princess Diaries comes out.

<|_=00=_|>
I will just say that the one good thing about this movie is that it's
really nice to see Julie Andrews singing again. There is no debating
the fact that she has an amazing voice. What does bother me is this
increasing trend of teensploitation movies that are appearing regularly
in the cinemas. Film makers appear to have found a genre that appeals
to the teenage girl who still puts the pillow case on her head and
dreams of the perfect wedding and boy are they sticking to it. Take one
virginally attractive young woman, give her no brains but an abundance
of good intentions, place her in a variety of bumbling situations and
add one completely plastic love interest. Acting school? Only add as a
very last resort if character's can't manage basic facial expression.
Completely ignore the only two interesting characters and their complex
love story to focus on the teen dream of the "perfect man," and the
fight to win him from the dark side. Even makes the first Princess
Diaries look like Citizen Kane. Very very Boring.
<|_=00=_|>

Disney have proved yet again why they are a head and shoulders above
the competition when it comes to producing movies that aren't
admittedly brain food, but are "good clean fun", (if you'll forgive the
cliché), for kids. For every little girl who ever dreamed of becoming a
princess, this film is the perfect way to spend two hours.

True, it was grossly unfaithful to Meg Cabot's original novels, but
still managed to convey the charm and slick veneer that has come to be
associated with Disney, and the valuable message of independence for
little princesses everywhere.

For the more mature audience, this is a happy chance to revisit
childhood, or simply breathe a sigh of relief that what your child is
watching is not in any way compromising or damaging, and will not have
to be explained later.

Good message. Solid performances. Sweet (if bland and predictable at
times) story line. Great movie!

Highly recommended for two hours of escapism on a summer's afternoon.

<|_=00=_|>
I just recently viewed The Princess Diaries and over all liked it
pretty much, so I figured I would see the sequel. I rented it yesterday
and watched it this morning and it seemed to me like it was the same
plot as before only with a couple different elements. The film also
felt very rushed in some aspects, some of the plots or characters that
took place seemed to come and go. Although I'm still not sure since I
haven't read the books, but the movie itself was just predictable and a
bit too silly at times, it just seemed like it could insult the
audience it was aimed at.

Mia has graduated college and is off to Genovia to become queen and her
grandmother, Clarrise is about to give up her title. But Genovia law is
that before Mia is to become queen she must marry someone. She is
falling for a young man, Nicolas, but he is also up for the throne as
king, so his uncle is trying to set Mia up where she will loose her
crown before she could even have it. Mia has to decide wither to go
with her heart and let herself love Nicolas or have her duty for her
country and marry for Genovia.

The Princess Diaries 2 has some cute and funny moments, I won't lie, I
did laugh a little bit, but over all I have to say that it just could
have been more, you know? The actors didn't seem to click as well as
they did in the first film. Not to mention how quickly the character
Michael went away and Lily just was there for 5 minutes to make like a
semi quick cameo and just be out of the story. If you want too, feel
free to watch this movie, it's harmless, but it's not a great movie if
you're looking for one.

4/10
<|_=00=_|>
You'd think that after 5 years since we last met her, Mia would have
developed something close to maturity! I went to see this at the
theatre because i quite liked the first movie, however, as is often the
case with sequels, it offers nothing new and entertains not. Really,
really bad. I actually felt embarrassed for the people involved in this
movie...I mean the whole slumber party thing, (just one example)takes
this movie beyond fairy tale into a realm of absolute idiocy.All
efforts of humour are overdone and you just don't sympathise with any
of the characters as you did with the first. In short: this is a
disappointing and boring sequel from Disney.
