
This movie is a perfect example of what is wrong with the state of
movies today. The original was a gem, with excellent acting by
Katharine Ross, Paula Prentiss, and Patrick O'Neal. It was part horror
story, part feminist cautionary tale. Most of all, it was BELIEVABLE!
You got the feeling these were real people, and that all this could
really be happening--and with a minimum of "special effects". The
dialogue was pretty intelligent, the plot twists weren't given away in
the first 15 minutes, and the ending was a real shocker. You cared
about the female characters in the movie--you cared about Joanna's
plight, and rooted for her to escape her planned fate.

The current version could only--and was probably meant to--appeal to
the lowest common denominator of movie-goer. In this film, the women
are just as bad as the men--you don't give a damn what happens to them;
that's how annoying the characters are. The laughs are cheap and
lowbrow, vital plot elements of Ira Levin's novel are missing, and the
acting is just plain bad.

You know what? I'm getting annoyed just writing about this dreck. If
you have any taste, any sense, any feeling for good films, any aversion
to wasting good money on bad movies--stay far away from this one!! See
the original, and appreciate the stunning subtlety of a thinking
person's movie, well-made and well-acted.
<|_=00=_|>
I found out they were doing a remake of "The Stepford Wives" while
surfing on IMDb.com, and when I saw the cast, I was intrigued at what
an eclectic bunch they had assembled...Nicole Kidman, Glenn Close,
Christopher Walken, Matthew Broderick, Bette Midler, John Lovitz
(huh?), and Faith Hill (double, huh?). Given that Lovitz and Midler
were in the mix, I could only assume that they were going to give it a
comedic horror edge...interesting, I thought. This didn't make me rush
to the theater and be the first one in line on opening day, mind you,
but, I did find the prospect interesting. Well, this is proof positive
that a great cast doesn't a wonderful movie make, and that classics
should never be at best remade, and at the very least "tweaked" and
remade.

On a recent trip to San Francisco, and with a 5:00 am flight the next
day, I thought the best way to spend my final evening is catching up on
all those films I didn't see in the cinema. "The Stepford Wives" was
available on the hotel movie list, so I thought, "Why not?" When the
very first scene involved a "reality TV" exec (Kidman) launching
proposed new shows, complete with a Meredith Viera cameo, I knew I was
in for an odd night. Still undaunted, I continued watching. What
followed was one of the most over-hyped, ludicrous, inconsistent, and
down right stupid hour and forty five minutes I've ever wasted. It
wasn't funny. It wasn't scary. It wasn't even "Mommie
Dearest"-let's-treat-it-as-camp-bad. It wasn't necessary.

Kidman creates one of the most boring and unimaginative characters in
recent memory. It just leads me to believe that, Oscar win for "The
Hours" or not, the jury is still out on her. Matthew Broderick is
completely wasted as her mousey husband who packs the family up and
moves them to Stepford. Bette Midler plays the bawdy feminist author
with wisecracking husband (John Lovitz) in tow. I can only imagine that
the writers thought that their appearance on the screen would be funny
enough because NOTHING they said could make me crack a smile. A little
bit of John Lovitz goes a long way. You had the token gay couple
present, updating "Stepford" to the 21st century...Log Cabin paired
with flaming queen...how funny...twenty years ago. If you blinked,
you'd have missed Faith Hill. Given this was her big on screen debut,
maybe we should just consider her lack of dialogue a gift. Christopher
Walken must have an outstanding debt with the studio that produced this
disaster...that's the only logical explanation that justifies his
presence at all. And Glenn Close...talented and old reliable, Glenn
Close...if there is a notable performance in this idea gone awry, it's
hers. But, even her quirky performance turns embarrassing when this
train wreck finally winds down.

Which leads me to the biggest problem I have...its inconsistency. Are
they robots, or are they women with a chip in their head? One simple
way to avoid this problem is PICK ONE OR THE OTHER. Don't have a woman
spit out money from her mouth like an ATM, or have Faith Hill "blow a
fuse" with sparks flying out of her ears in one scene, then follow it
with a simple "off" switch making them all normal again. Even with the
largest suspension of disbelief available, this is an amateurish plot
error that stands out like a Southern Baptist at a bar Mitzvah. It's
almost as if they had them be normal at the end because test audiences
didn't want to deal with the fact that Bette Midler wasn't going to
have anymore screen time once she blew up. It was horrible, and an
insult to even the most casual of moviegoers.

I suppose that Hollywood has come to the conclusion that if the cast is
big enough, you can feed them whatever trail of dog sick you like once
the audience has bought their ticket and sat down. If this is the new
trend, then do us all a favor...leave the classics alone. Fire your
"writers" and hire a chimpanzee to write the scripts...at least they
work for bananas--meaning the price of admission might go down.
<|_=00=_|>
The fact that the book actually has a comic undertone indicates that
even when the feminism of the story has dated badly, it could be done
quite well as a wicked, even mean-spirited black comedy of sorts. As a
matter of fact, the great opening montage with its Danny Elfman-like
music and portraits of women in the 50s suggests this is exactly what
it is aiming for: skewering American complacency, Ozzie and Harriet,
and the notion of the Perfect Wife.

For the first hour, we're swiftly introduced to Joanna Eberhart (Nicole
Kidman, channeling Faye Dunaway from NETWORK and brilliant at the
moment she gets canned from her network for having gone too far with
her reality shows) and Walter Kresby (Matthew Broderick, emasculated
but not as mean as the novel's version), Bobbie and David Markowitz
(Bette Midler, her usual loud self and true to the novel's depiction of
the character and Jon Lovitz, also emasculated, a little underwritten),
and a gay couple, Roger Bannister (Roger Bart, flamboyant and catty,
almost walking away with the movie) and Jerry Harmon (David Marshall
Grant, appropriately subdued). We also get to meet the Stepford
residents, of which Claire Wellington (Glenn Close) stands out as she
maniacally tosses around her 1950s uber-femininity as if her life
depends on it and nearly comes off as a drag queen. Claire is married
to Mike Wellington (Christopher Walken, playing himself as usual).
Other residents include Faith Hill in a small but funny part as a
Stepford wife who seems to malfunction quite a bit. This quasi black
comedy of manners works well for its setup.

Until the 60 minute mark.

It's then that everything that made the novel work falls apart. Logic
goes out the window, the plot supposedly becomes a mystery, and then
magically there's a twist at the climactic moment which is only there
to please a crowd of people who would not accept the original, ironic
ending and one whom no one would have seen coming. When you cop out so
openly as this movie does (you can actually feel the exact moment when
the story, so far good, punches out and goes into autopilot) you're
insulting the public's intelligence. And that's not a good thing to do.
It just indicates a high level of laziness usually reserved for cheap
exploitation movies or dumbed-down franchise sequels, not for something
as high-profile as this.
<|_=00=_|>
Standing alongside The Wicker Man as the worst remake ever this really
is a pile of utter nonsense. The original had a good story to tell but
this one is just a joke.

Nicole Kidman would seem to be the perfect choice for a robotic woman,
I've never seen her show any emotions whatsoever. You can't really
blame the cast, the script is so poor that even the best actor would
struggle to convey any meaning in their lines.

The studio weren't too happy with the downbeat ending so ordered a
change, and then another, and then another. This ensured that this
movie has a happy smiley ending and the fact that it makes NO SENSE
whatsoever didn't seem to worry them because in their minds we the
viewers are basically vegetables that just need to be exposed to some
flickering images for about an hour and a half.

An entire army of producers cut this one up and made an absolute mess
of it, it's barely even a proper film let alone a coherent story. You
know what's really frightening though? It still gets a 5 star rating
(at the time of writing) so most people think this trash is average.

Even for bad movie fans there's just nothing to enjoy, the whole film
is atrocious and the fact that it is a remake of a good film just
plunges the knife in deeper. Deserves a spot in the bottom 100.
<|_=00=_|>
Ultra modern reworking of Ira Levin's bestseller from the 1970s (and
the 1975 film counterpart starring Katharine Ross) about Connecticut
suburb filled with perky, beautiful housewives and their boorish, piggy
husbands. Nicole Kidman is very good as the newcomer in town whose
husband (a rather stolid Matthew Broderick) immediately joins the Men's
Association. Abandoning the sly dark humor of the original movie, this
rather bombastic--and brief--92 minute version shows heavy signs of
post-production tinkering. There are all sorts of things wrong with
this movie, starting with the obvious hedging-of-bets pertaining to the
mystery behind the wives (which might've been wildly successful if the
filmmakers had just stuck to their original vision); Kidman's children
disappear at camp, are brought home (off-camera), and then disappear
again; one Stepford bunny coughs up money--exactly how is this done
according to Christopher Walken's "home movie" near the finish? But the
worst is saved for last, when an outlandish twist leads to the kind of
teeth-grinding, Larry King-cameoed ending that undermines director
Frank Oz's ability to even work on a movie much less direct one. Some
of the cartoonish humor (though over-the-top) is entertaining and
colorful, and the movie's first 45 minutes are good, but the thicker
the plot gets, the more ridiculous the film becomes. *1/2 from ****
<|_=00=_|>

I despise this movie. Most bad movies I simply dislike.
Plot: Interesting concept, could have been fruitful, but
wasn't.
Script: There were two funny scenes, the rest was boring. For the record
though, the audience (though not many in number) seemed to laugh a lot.
Generally, the script was passable. Still, after the first half, every
minute seemed like five to me.
Acting: Broderick and Close really didn't do a good job. It was just
sub-standard for a professional actor.
Editing: I could actually see where they had cut some scenes together. You
know, where a person is standing still and their image suddenly shifts
sideways.
Now, for the real kicker, the one thing that gets my blood
hot.
Continuity: This movie committed one of the unforgivable sins of the big
screen: Mutually Exclusive Realities. Without providing spoilers, I'll say
that the movie entertained one reality for the purpose of the body of the
film, and changed that reality for the convenience of the end of the film.
This was the cherry on the sundae. Oh my. It was so bad.
3/10
<|_=00=_|>

I very rarely write comments here about films I didn't enjoy but this is
different. This film boasts a cast that will be pulling people in cinemas.
My advice is: don't bother. It's just the most boring, predictable, badly
planned and executed piece of celluloid I've ever seen. It's as if Frank Oz
had a good idea but got bored half-way through realising it. I haven't seen
the original but surely the actors who got involved in this read the script
of the remake? They can't have based their participation on the Seventies
film, surely. Because the 2004 remake is full of awful cliches, bad jokes
(OK, there are a couple of good lines but that's about it) and it is so
empty of ideas that it makes you want to shout to the screen. If the actors
playing in this film were unknowns there is NO WAY anyone would have gone to
see it. It's just a parade of famous names (some good actors, some average)
that sleepwalk through a dreadful script. It can't even become a cult
classic - it's THAT average. 1/10 for me and that's being
lenient.
<|_=00=_|>

...on which it fails. (MINOR SPOILERS AHEAD)

The story: It makes absolutely no sense (as some others have pointed
out, this is due to the re shooting of the end to make it more
palatable to the average sissy audience). But I realize that if they
had tried to stay conform with the new ending then they would have to
take out ALL the visual gags. Now, I am not a huge fan of making
everything air-tight logical, but what they wanted the audience to
swallow here in contradictions makes star wars seem like a factual
documentary in comparison. So why make a write off even more of a write
off by adding a non-fit ending? I don't know. What can you do when the
story falls apart? In what types of movies can you just sit back an
ignore logic errors? A screwball comedy? A kill-fest? A
psycho-nightmare? A super hero movie? None of these surface, so we are
stuck with a terribly written movie (that had an ultra-thin story to
begin with) trying to take itself seriously.

The humour: There was barely any. A shot at AOL here, and pun on
Microsoft there. A bit of over-the-top depiction of a conservative's
wet dream. Not nearly enough to make this a 'fun' picture.

The suspense: There is none. The entire story is evident after the
'square dance scene' (15 minutes into the picture) - and I hadn't seen
any trailers nor the original. BTW: That isn't square dance what they
are doing - but I digress (I was young, I needed the money ;-) ). 

Actors: Bette Middler did surprisingly well. Although she usually gets
on my nerves she plays an attitude similar to her role in 'ruthless
people' -something which suits her. All others looked bored out of
their skulls. Kidman? Lets not go there. She's just not an actress. How
she ever got a leading role I'll never understand. Brodderick has had
better days, as had Loviz. Glen Close? I almost felt sorry for her,
having to deliver that totally contrived ending monologue full of
contradictions. I have to applaud her for getting A MILLION VOLTS
THROUGH HER LIPS AND NOT EVEN A SMUDGE MARK TO SHOW FOR IT. The 'plan'
she has does exactly the opposite of what she wanted to do from the
very start. Sheesh, They must have fired the continuity guy/girl after
the first day and forgotten to refill the job. Walken? He was OK, but I
have seen him MUCH better. I hope he loses that 'I shat my pants'-walk.
It looks like Jack Palance in his last movies. Maybe it's the same
medical condition?

The computer graphics: Texture mapped boxes without shadows or depth as
houses? Puhleeese. I could do better on my laptop in half an hour. The
robot-dog looked ridiculous.

Resume: 2 out of 10 (because I actually sat through it. The movie DOES
hat a good point going for it! At 93 minutes it is mercifully short.

<|_=00=_|>
Ira Levin's cautionary novel, "The Stepford Wives", was a fascinating
fable of the ultimate male backlash to feminism; in 1975, director
Bryan Forbes turned the novel into a chilling variation of "Invasion of
the Body Snatchers", as innocent wives are substituted by zombie-like
robots, their husbands bonding in a smugly evil male cult. Unsettling
and ambiguous, the fate of the actual women is left to the viewer's
imagination, making it far more frightening than a pat resolution would
have been.

This concept was apparently lost on Paramount, DreamWorks, and Frank
Oz, who wavered between camp and black comedy heavy-handedness, in this
2004 remake. Scripted by Paul Rudnick, the women are no longer normal,
sympathetic wives, but high-powered execs, with apparent agendas
against men, and husbands little more than doorstops. Their fate, to
become blond-haired sex-slave bimbos locked in 'June Cleever' mode,
while their idiot spouses adjust their breast sizes by remote control,
and swap the wives for favors, demeans both men and women, and even
offers an out-of-place jab at homosexuals, as a funny gay spouse is
turned into a right-wing religious zealot politician (how an openly gay
couple would ever be even allowed in this community is ignored).

While spoofing the earlier film isn't, in itself, a bad idea, no one
involved in this project apparently had a clear vision of what they
were aiming at, so continuity and logic are sadly missing. As other
critics have rightly noted, the status of the wives waivers between
being robots and being micro-chipped and brainwashed humans, making the
Nicole Kidman 'template' body, and finale 'revelation' of community
leader Christopher Walken's actual status as ridiculous as an
ATM-spewing wife, and remote controls to adjust emotional responses and
breast sizes, labeled, conveniently, with each wife's name. All the
pretty, golden-hued settings, and Matthew Broderick's emergence as a
'good guy with a heart' who saves the day can't compensate for the
quagmire of a plot. 

The real shame of it all is that the potential for a good film hovers
over the proceedings, just out of reach, and some really fine
performances are all for naught. Glenn Close gives a strangely
sympathetic twist to the film's villain, Walken is the most engaging
(and youthful) he's been in years, Bette Midler and Roger Bart are both
hilarious, Jon Lovitz is at his silly best, and Nicole Kidman again
proves herself more than adept at comedy, and portraying American
women. Matthew Broderick seems to be making a career of playing
milquetoast males (Ferris Bueller, where are you?), and for 'eye and
ear candy', nothing can quite match Country music sex symbol Faith
Hill's orgasmic moans, and cup-size changes. All this, lost in a truly
misguided film. 

What a waste!
<|_=00=_|>
The original was chilling and fascinating, and the main complaint one
could have about it is that the production values were kind of low and
so clearly 70's-dated. A remake was a great idea (so many times... not
so much).

And they wasted it... squandered it, with this piece of "who cares"
garbage. No point of view, no consistency in commentary on what women
do to themselves in general/men's expectations of women, and worst sin
of all... for all the gazillion dollars, and gazillion hours of effort
this movie had to have absorbed... it denies its own reality. Too many
instances to name, but the worst offender is it couldn't even decide if
the wives were killed and turned into robots, or if they were altered
by a chip that could then be reversed so you could tack on the b.s.
"happy ending" that was tacked onto this film. All the effort that went
into making Nicole Kidman's character's replica, and all the camera
time given to the creepy image -- both in the film and in the
trailers... and the replica clearly wouldn't have been used according
to the rules of the universe within the film, so why have it? Sorry for
the spoiler, but this !@#$*&*&&*)( film is already spoiled. And it
reeks. I'll never get those two hours of my life back again. God, a
remake could have been so cool.
