

I myself am a teenager and took my 10 year old sister to see this
movie. I won't say much as to not ruin the movie for those who have not
seen it but i will give my opinion on the mood of the film and such.

If you want to see this, don't expect a deep and meaningful (or
realistic) outlook on highschool life because it is your everyday
teen/highschool comedy with the over-used storyline of new girl vs
popular girl then new girl gets the guy and brings popular girl down. 

On a better note, Lohan's character, "Lola" was an entertaining one and
i enjoyed watching her over-exaggerated perspective of things. I must
admit that the set up of Lola's room and the way their family lived and
the clothes Lola wore were inspiring. I don't know if this is going to
be the case for everyone (haha) but i know that point of the movie made
it all worthwhile for me.

I'd recommend taking a younger sister/cousin/friend between about 6-12.
Remember, sometimes we need a silly movie!

<|_=00=_|>
'Confessions of a Teenage Drama Queen' comes as a disappointment from
Lindsay Lohan after the very funny 'Freaky Friday' and 'Mean Girls'.
Here she plays Mary, naming herself Lola, a girl who leaves New York,
the city she loves, and moves to New Jersey with her mother and two
little sisters. At her new school she becomes friends with Ella (Alison
Pill), mainly because they both like the same rock band, Sid Arthur.
Lola is a nice person but lies too much because she wants to be liked.
She seems very sure of herself, but we understand that is only on the
surface. Since the school is where most of the story takes place we
need a villain, another good looking girl named Carla (Mega Fox). Parts
of the story involve the bad Sid Arthur breaking up, a last concert
they will give in New York and Lola and Ella trying to get in. Carla
will be there since her father is the lawyer that represents Sid
Arthur. Other parts involve a school play where Lola is cast for the
leading role and Carla only for a small supporting role.

I am not sure why this film was made, but I guess to show Lohan
dancing, singing, being arrogant, learning her lesson, have a happy
ending, do some more dancing and some more singing. It felt more like a
Hilary Duff film and I was not surprised to learn the part of Lola was
in fact offered to her first. No offense to Duff, but Lohan is a much
better actress and has proved that in films with scripts so much more
intelligent than this one. This one fits in a line with Duff films like
'A Cinderella Story' or 'Raise Your Voice', films where you can enjoy
the good looking lady but nothing else. I hope Lohan's next film will
have the wit of a 'Mean Girls' again. I even have hard time believing
young teenage girls will enjoy this one. There are some moments for
them to be funny I guess, but most of the time it is not. Not for male
adults, not for teenage girls.

I like Lindsay Lohan, a lot actually, therefore I was able to finish
this film. She does the best she can, basically proving she is too good
for material like this. Without her I would have hated this film
completely. Since most people will not like Lohan as much as I do I can
honestly say you will probably hate this film too.
<|_=00=_|>
Lindsay Lohan plays Lola, a hip Greenwich Village teenager who moves to
a new school in a Jersey suburb, where she faces Carla Santini, a girl
claiming to be the most popular girl at her school, a title that Lola
must have no matter what. After trying to nab the lead role in the
school play, the competition between the two girls culminates at a
sold-out concert by Lola's favorite band that Carla conveniently has
tickets to see.

The previews made the film seem boring and for the most part it is.
There's not really a story and it's hard to tell what the real
intentions of the film are. There were a bunch of little stories but
none of them really went anywhere. I know this film is directed towards
teenage girls but they deserve better films than this. The movie was
just so lame and unfunny. The whole clumsy girl act is really getting
old and it wasn't really funny to begin with anyways. They were trying
really hard for laughs and it just wasn't working. There were just a
few small chuckles and that's it. The only reason why someone should
watch this is because of Lindsay Lohan. She actually gives an
entertaining performance and she saves the film from being really bad.

Sarah Sugarman does a terrible job at directing. She doesn't have one
clear idea for a story, just a bunch of random scenes put together. It
was pretty much just Lindsay Lohan running around all over the place.
Lohan doesn't really get support from the rest of the cast since they
all decide to phone in their performances. The film is also very
unrealistic and it sends a bad message out to kids. For example, two
thirteen (or fourteen) year old girls wouldn't go to a concert in New
York and depend on a scalper to give them tickets. Then they have this
scene where the two girls are in the bedroom of Sid Arthur having a
pillow fight while there's a party (thrown by a rock star) going on
downstairs. It was just completely stupid and unrealistic. The ending
is also pretty bad since it randomly ends with Lohan kissing Sam even
though they hardly focused on this romantic subplot. This film was just
an uneven, unfunny mess. In the end, Lindsay Lohan is the only reason
to watch this and it's really just for die hard fans. Rating 3/10
<|_=00=_|>

This film is the embodiment of everything I hate.  Loathe, hate, abhor,
detest, and despise.  It gives us the perspective of a vapid teenage girl
we're supposed to like, pitted against the mean-spiritedness of her even
more vapid, less likable, tormentor.  An hour and a half of whining and
cat-fighting is tidied up at film's end with a gesture as shallow as the
fountain into which one of the characters falls.  What could have been a
good satire turns out to be a warm, fuzzy hug toward every grating detail of
spoiled-brat life that should have been its target.  The performances are
almost uniformly terrible (Lohan should have played the rich snob, for
starters), and the film's rock-musical adaptation of PYGMALION (yes, you
read that correctly) is one of the more painful things I've ever had to sit
through.  This is the rare film that can be described as literally
headache-inducing.  It gives me new appreciation for THE LIZZIE MCGUIRE
MOVIE, which is a bad film, but whose star now looks like a beacon of
modesty and talent compared to Lohan in this make-me-a-star-now vehicle. 
(1/10) (* out of ****) (Grade: F)
<|_=00=_|>
This is the saddest excuse for a film I have ever seen! What a piece of
crap! This film has no plot at all. It can't decide if it's about a
school play, two girls wanting to meet a rock star, or a teenager
overcoming her urge to lie compulsively. I would have been more
entertained watching a dog take a dump. This movie is utter garbage and
should never see the light of day again. First off, the main character
seems to be more of an antagonist than the real antagonist is. How is
an audience member supposed to sympathize with a selfish, obsessive,
ignorant liar? Lola goes throughout the movie doing nothing but
complaining and lying while her only friend puts up with it. Carla, her
enemy, is more likable than her. And that's the truth. The romantic
interest is barely in the movie at all. It's like "Hey, you were in
this movie for like ten minutes, right? What's your name again? Let's
end the movie with us kissing". It's was idiotic. This is a comedy that
isn't. Please do not waste your time or your money, this film is movie
vomit.
<|_=00=_|>

"Confessions of a Teenage Drama Queen" is the story of Lola Cep, played by
Lindsey Lohan, trying to fit into a new town and school after moving from
New York. She wants to be an actress and she creates dramatic stories
about
her life and like some teen aged girls she gets over dramatic about the
events happening around her. It is all part of her attempt to be more
interesting.

I really thought the movie could have been better.

Lohan does a great job playing the "drama queen" and for the most part her
character is believable.

Her new friend Ella, played by Alison Pill, is the nice rich girl while
Carla, played by Megan Fox, is the nasty bitch rich girl and Lola's main
nemesis.

I was in drama club in high school and those scenes did seem believable as
the group is preparing for the school musical. In fact, one year, we had a
freshman girl beat our the senior girl for the lead in our school play.
That
caused a lot of issues just like those shown in the film. Carol Kane's
Miss
Baggoli was a bit too loopy but my drama directors could be
strange.

The problem was the story.

The main theme of the movie, as I saw it, was Lola building this fantasy
world for her life, having it crash down as lie built upon lie does
eventually, then comes redemption and she becomes a better person for it
in
the end. Lola learns she can be interesting just being
herself.

That is a nice film in itself. Unfortunately, the filmmakers couldn't
leave
it alone and added an unneeded big city adventure for Lola and Ella. It is
understandable since we need someway to have Lola's interesting fake life
uncovered but it led to an unbelievable situation when she meets her rock
star obsession. I kept expecting her and Ella to get into one zany scrape
after another, but that didn't happen. If you are going to waste film
shooting in the big city at least have something major
happen.

The other issue was one of theme.

If the theme is that lying to make oneself interesting will bring
retribution - in this case Lola's humiliation in front of her classmates,
then the ending of the film didn't fit the theme. I guess it was just
Disney's way of getting a happy ending but the stories Lola created were
so
huge it was not believable that she got what she wanted in the end. She
turns out to be really no better than Carla, who gets what she wants
because
she thinks she deserves it.

Lola was far too lucky. A little realism would have been
nice.

Lindsey Lohan showed a spark that could lead her to better roles. I really
think that she could be a big star a few years from now. She shined in
this
movie and was by far the best part of it, bad script and all. I think
years
from now people will be saying "Hilary who?"

Personally I thought the most interesting supporting character was Calum
Cep, Lola's dad, played by Tom McCamus. Those of us who watch sci-fi shows
produced in Canada may know McCamus from his role as Mason Eckhart on the
"Mutant X" television series.


<|_=00=_|>
CONFESSIONS OF A TEENAGE DRAMA QUEEN ** A lot of fluff and nonsense.
It's about a spirited teen who moves from New York City to a dull
suburb in New Jersey and faces difficulty when she enters into a new
school. One of her pupils has the Most Popular Girl title that she
strives to have (after all, she IS a Drama Queen!), so she takes the
lead role in a school play to attain the title. The shallow screenplay
is so full of holes one wonders how it managed to hold its own at the
box office. Production designer Leslie MacDonald and costume designer
David C. Robinson have a field day making this rather trivial
production visually rich.
<|_=00=_|>
Yawn, yawn and yawn once again. Lindsay Lohan stars in a bleached-out,
mega-bland, by the numbers Disney outing and thoroughly wastes her
talent in a lead role that could have been filled by . . . . a Barbie
doll, for all the realism and emotion needed.

The story concerns a young girl (Lohan) with an over-active imagination
who decides to "exaggerate" details of her life to make herself seem
more interesting after moving from New York to New Jersey. It's fairly
obvious that her lies will come back to bite her on the backside and
that lessons will be learned. It's also fairly obvious how her new best
friend will react to any revelations. Oh, and it's fairly obvious when
the girls' favourite band breaks up and are having one last concert and
then exclusive party exactly how things will pan out during THAT
particular evening. As I said at the start of this review. YAWN! 

The cast are completely wasted in this fairytale that I can't imagine
appealing to anyone except the most undemanding viewer. Lohan is always
watchable but her character has no real depth or even a decent arch to
work through. All of her emotions are exhibited through annoyingly
literal musical cues (HAPPY songs mean that she is HAPPY and vice
versa) Her friend (played by Alison Pill) comes from the Disney stable
of rent-a-kids. The "arch-enemy" gets the better moments and is well
played by Megan Fox, who really keeps her nails well-filed and ready to
scratch. As for the adults here, great names like Carol Kane and Glenne
Headly are given a few decent moments but then cast aside for the
dream-chasing teens. Which may well be as things should be but doesn't
stop the viewer regretting not being able to see more of those great
performers.

There isn't really even enough here to keep kids amused although the
7-14(ish) young female market may think this is a fantastic film and
that's the only demographic I can see being won over by this film. It
offends nobody but also barely entertains anyone. Watchable, but only
just.

See this if you like: The Prince & Me, Lindsay Lohan, Uptown Girls.
<|_=00=_|>
I wasn't really impressed by this movie; it's pretty much your standard
teenage film. The plot revolves around a girl from New York City who
moves to somewhere in Jersey and then attempts a new school. She is fan
of a band who breaks up and they give a final concert with an after
party. 

Now without many spoilers I will summon up the plot for you real quick.
Desperate to go to the concert she and her friend try all the teenage
clichés and so many things we have seen before to get in. She finally
meets her idol, the singer of the band and comments him on his alcohol
addiction. We can all predict the outcome of the film from a mile away.
There is also a subplot with a High School play. Where is trying to get
the lead part.

The acting isn't impressive but I have seen worse. Lindsey Lohan played
better in Freaky Friday and Mean Girls. Which were also better movies
by the way.

In the end this is just another Disney high school movie, where
popularity stands central and predictability is inevitable. Some people
might enjoy this, but for the majority of the moviegoers this is a
major let down. Grade 4/10
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this after seeing Lindsey Lohan in the better than average
"Freaky Friday" and the brilliant "Mean Girls". my expectations were
fairly high as i see Lindsey Lohan as the next big thing. But i was
disappointed at this film OK, so it's a Disney film, so i couldn't
expect a Mean Girls style of humour, or a Solid easy storyline, like
that of Freaky Friday. but i at least expected a little more passion in
the movie. The storyline was drab and very slim. there wasn't much to
go apart from the Lola (Lindsey Lohan) characters dream of being a
starlet. The plot was so weak, that absolutely anything could of
happen, which isn't really a good thing. The acting, especially from
Lindsey, was very amateurish. Linsey's character was so OTT that it
looked as though she had ignored the director and decided to improvise
her role. Alison Pill's role (Ella) was boring and lifeless, and i
could see that she was upstaged by an over excited Lindsey. the sub
characters were poorly written, especially the love interest Sam (Eli
Marienthal), who is brilliant in "Tucker" and "American Pie", who is
wasted and underused and also completely pointless to help push the
story forwards. the only saving grace in characters was Adam Garcia as
the drunken Rocker Stu. is utterly superb playing a drunken White
stripes meets Keith Richards character. he lifts the film at one point.
But He can't save this Turkey of a film. I would recommend this film to
Lindsey Lohan fan's who like her music more than her acting and 10 year
old girls.
