
My God. Having watched all of the three french prequels I have to say I
was a bit skeptical right from the start, but this is pure madness.
Being able to shred such a great movie as "Taxi" into this horrible
excuse for a film is beyond me. There are no humor, no story, no acting
and no action. It lacks everything you want from this types of films. I
have to say that if you were able to see the whole movie in 5 minutes,
it wouldn't be worth the time. If you're thinking of seeing this movie
and haven't seen the french one, please, do yourself a favor. See the
original.

And if any of your friends claims that this movie is worth seeing, he
or she is not. Believe in me.
<|_=00=_|>

This is the American version of the French Taxi films and it suffers in
comparison.

I'm not kidding when I say that this a remake of the three French films
since although the film is mainly a poor remake of the the first film,
it lifts sequences from the second and third films. 

Its a mess, a real mess. I'm a huge huge fan of the French films, and
for me there was no real point in my seeing this since anything that
worked came from the originals. 

Why did they bother? They changed the sex of the lead (though the Queen
is excellent), combined others and rewrote the cops mother to the point
of stupidness. They lost any sense of timing and connection...they
should have started from the ground up.

Its not the painfully awful film that some reviews made it out to be,
but it is a waste of time. If you can find the originals and watch
those. That should take you the better part of 5 hours and in the end
you will not feel as though you've wasted your life.

3 out of 10.

<|_=00=_|>
And just to make sure you get it right, i'll repeat myself: Watch the
french original! It's so much better, starting from the cast (Queen
Latifah is so miscast, it hurts), straight to the story/humor (it's
just not right)! 

The best scene (to at least have one good comment about the title) is a
scene involving Jennifer Esposito and Gisele Bündchen, which had a sort
of "tension" to it, that was funny and sexy at the same time! Funnily
(or maybe not so funny) enough, with the cast here, you'd be excused to
think that it would be more often like that. But it's neither funny nor
sexy ... and I'm not talking at the same time, at all! Except the one
scene ... but that doesn't save the movie, which just is too long and
has nothing going for it! It's a shame, because Jimmy Fallon can be
funny, but here he's just annoying!
<|_=00=_|>
Avoid this film at all costs! This is just a very very cheap remake of
the french movie by the same name. Being a big fan of that Taxi, I was
intrigued to see what the Yanks had done with it. Watching it was
painful, the only reason I watched till the end was to see how low they
were going to go with this film. 

Queen Latifa's performance is the only redeeming aspect of this film,
who does her best with an unoriginal, crass and cheap script. The best
scenes are direct rip-offs of the original film and Jimmy Fallon is
wasted on a one dimensional ridiculous character.

Go see the original french film and give this one as wide a berth as
you can!
<|_=00=_|>
Like Roger Ebert once stated about a movie, I'll use his words to state
this one: (This movie)isn't even the bottom of the barrel, it doesn't
even scrape the bottom of barrel. It doesn't even deserve to be
mentioned in the same sentence as barrels. When you have a movie where
Queen Latifah is the most experienced actor in the film, you know you
are in trouble.The debut appearances of Giselle and Jimmy were awful.
They did not get into character and made no connection between the the
audience and the movie. It surprised me that such amateur actors in the
movie business (jimmy is quite good in Saturday night live) were given
such large roles. Also, the whole plot was ludicrous. Brazilian
supermodels robbing a bank? In New York? Yeah, right. BS. Still wanna
watch this movie? Watch it at your own risk!
<|_=00=_|>
Slick, flashy film, a semi-remake of Luc Besson's "Taxi" from 1998,
here Americanized as an urban action-comedy. Queen Latifah plays
smart-mouthed cabbie with a souped-up vehicle in New York City who
inadvertently partners with stumble bum cop Jimmy Fallon to crack a
major crime case. Film should have relied more on Latifah's natural
sass and less on Fallon's white-bread, dim-witted act (race is a
constant punchline in the script, and Fallon is just there as Exhibit
A). Jennifer Esposito is wonderful as a no-nonsense police lieutenant,
Ann-Margret is a stitch as Fallon's tippling mother, and John Sierros
(Broadway actor shamefully credited as 'Fat Cop') shines as a
bamboozled police officer, but what happened to Queen Latifah? She gets
a few good cracks in, but there's no character here for her to play;
she sticks to her sarcastic persona and puts everyone down, but her
role is depressingly one-dimensional. Comedy has a fast pace,
impressive cinematography (although the swooping crane shots in traffic
get repetitive) and some good car chases, but the screenplay needed an
overhaul. ** from ****
<|_=00=_|>
Unfortunately, this was a film that looked better in the trailers when
the film was being promoted, prior to its commercial release. We just
caught with it thanks to a borrowed DVD and we are so happy we didn't
have to pay to watch this "masterpiece".

The film, directed by Tim Story, is a rip off. It is loosely based on
much better French comedies created by Luc Besson. This one here gives
credit to Ben Garant as its writer.

"Taxi" is an exercise in how not to make movies. The casting of Jimmy
Fallon for the main role was a poor judgment by whoever decided to give
the comedian this plum job; he is not even funny! The opening sequence
involving the undercover operation where Washburn fakes to be a Cuban
mafioso, shows that Mr. Fallon needs to reconsider future appearances
in films.

Queen Latifah, a charismatic performer, is handicapped having to act
next to an inane actor that ruins some of her best moments in the
movie. Ann Margaret must have been feeling desperate when she agreed to
appear in this film as the lush mother of Washburn, but on second
thought, it makes perfect sense that with a son like him, drinking is
the only way this woman can go through life.

Watch it at your own risk!
<|_=00=_|>
When he loses his driver's license, an inept police officer (Jimmy
Fallon) must rely on the reckless driving skills of a taxi driver who
would prefer to drive race cars (Queen Latifah) to help him stop a gang
of beautiful Brazilian bank robbers.

The premise sounds like one of those film that are really stupid yet
still kind of funny. However, it didn't really work out like that. The
film wasn't a complete dud it just wasn't very funny. I wasn't
surprised this film didn't do so well in theaters. The previews were
weak and a lot of people don't like Jimmy Fallon. I only saw it because
of Queen Latifah. Unfortunately, she couldn't save the movie. The film
was just too childish and unoriginal. There were a few funny lines yet
nothing that really made me laugh a lot. It starts off well but then it
starts to drag and it feels a lot longer than 97 minutes. I even had
low expectations because the critics murdered the movie but it was not
very funny.

Queen Latifah is easily the best thing about Taxi. She has a lot of
charisma and she makes the film watchable. Jimmy Fallon was okay,
nothing special. Sometimes he tried too hard to be funny though. For
his first movie, he sure made a poor choice. He could have a successful
movie career, he just needs to make better choices. Gisele Bundchen is
very beautiful and she did a good job but her role didn't exactly call
for a lot of acting talent. The direction was uneven and Tim Story
isn't a very good director. Also, the chemistry between Latifah and
Fallon just wasn't there and they didn't seem right for each other.
This comedy just suffered from a weak script and weak direction. It
ended up being a below average comedy and it wasn't worth watching in
theaters. In the end, if you're interested in watching Taxi wait for
video. Rating 4/10
<|_=00=_|>
I'm tempted to just write "This movie sucks" and then go see the
original again, but that wouldn't be very helpful to you guys. Here's
why this movie sucks.

To sum up the movie, I steal from oshram-3 (One of the other comments)
"The plot of Taxi follows Detective Washburn (Jimmy Fallon, making his
debut as a movie lead) and bike-messenger-turned-cab-driver Belle
(Queen Latifah) as they inadvertently get tangled up with one another
and have to figure out who is ripping off a series of Manhattan banks
and try to catch them. Rounding out the cast (no pun intended) are
Jennifer Esposito (you might remember her from Spin City) as Washburn's
lieutenant, Marta, and supermodel Gisele Bundchen as the head hot
chick."

Luc Besson's action-comedy Taxi(1998) was a great movie, mostly due to
decent acting, funny characters and social/cultural references. In this
American remake, all that is gone. 

The characters in themselves are severely less intricate than in
Besson's original, and maybe the best of them all is gone. I am, of
course, talking about the utterly insane police captain. Then again, of
course the Americans would leave him out, since he's a parody of every
single angry police chief in American movies. All that's left is Queen
Latifah driving a taxi, and a cop that's just pathetic, and doesn't
have that likable quality Frédéric Diefenthal had in the french
version.

Also, the political correctness really shines through the gaps in this
film. Every single strong character is a woman. The only guy in the
entire core group of the movie is the awkward cop/disguise artist. The
movie has been carefully constructed so it doesn't lash out at any
particular groups in society, and by doing that, you lose the edge.

I see this movie as a blatant attempt to salvage careers and make some
money on the fact that Americans don't like subtitles. It's also a
classic example of what happens when you let lawyers and politically
correct groups scare you out of doing things right.
<|_=00=_|>
YES! This movie is a re-make of an original french movie Taxi, in case
you didn't know and a pretty bad one. If you are too lazy to read
subtitles, well then I guess you are better off with this us trashy
version. If you are not, then get the original from 1998 with Samy
Naceri and Peugeot. It is sooo much better.

The problem here is that for some reason, the bank gang just had to be
a bunch of out of control Russian models. Yes! Beacouse that is going
to happen! This movie is just an inch from these evil mafia walking
around naked, it is hardly believable at all.

Plus, I am sorry, but Queen Latifah is not really convincing as a racer
person and in to the car kind of a person.

Sorry, folks, I say you could just put less money into dubbing the
original, than throwing them away for a poor try-out. I am NOT saying
all this just because I am from Europe.
