
I don't think I've yet seen a movie in my whole lifetime about a high
school kid creating his own college, just to impress his parents.
Nowadays, movies are either remakes or sequels, or plots that have been
used in many different films. This one has an original story line and
to follow it up by making it a comedy films only lightens the deal.
With this well thought out story and with laughs mixed in, this is a
good movie. Now I've seen better, but upon going into the theater I was
thinking another drug/beer/frat party with some sexual innuendo tossed
in (aka an "American Pie" flick) but I was surprised. To sum it up, I
enjoyed the film and the next time your shuffling through the paper for
movies, look for show times to "Accepted". If you want to laugh out
loud, that is.
<|_=00=_|>
This is what movies should aspire to. Funny without being totally
stupid, a little sexy without having every female in the cast show her
boobs, biting without resorting to 'f-bombs' every line. I've been
seeing Justin Long pop up in a lot of films over the past few years, I
figured with the right role he could break out. (Mac commercials not
withstanding.) This film just might put him on a fast track to the A
list. The rest of the cast also did their jobs perfectly, this is an
excellent little film with a nice message. (But you don't need to buy
the message to have a good time.) Lewis Black is, as usual, hilarious,
and Blake Lively is a fresh faced beauty. 

Take a couple hours and see this film, they will not have been wasted.
<|_=00=_|>
I for one was very anxious to watch this movie.

Though I knew it was going to be another type of movie in the style of
Revenge of the Nerds, I was still impressed.

There is plenty of truth to the fact of this type of learning and
believe very strongly that it should be allowed in a "new style of
schooling".

Conventional teaching methods do not always teach students what they
need to know or should know or want to know.

This approach to teaching should be further sought out in true academic
courses.

While there still was too much of the partying scenes, it obviously had
to be thrown in there - for Hollywood's sake of making a comedy about
college...even though we all know that life isn't really like that by
any means.

A touch unbelievable, still funny and with a killer ending.

Awesome ending. Crucial to the entire story and very surprising.

Without the final scene, the movie would have been half as good.

I liked this movie and it didn't have to have overly amounts of
swearing or nudity or gross out jokes for it to be good.

Great crew and cast, story and even the generic typecasting of the
obligatory "Hampton frat members" was well done.

American Pie 1, 2 3 and American Wedding or whatever clones it makes
doers not measure up to this by 1/3.

Far better than most comedies about first year College with no
demeaning stupid jokes to make somebody throw up with.

I liked it, even though it was simple...it was interesting and even had
heart...my only regret for watching this movie is that it wasn't
longer.
<|_=00=_|>
A great movie. The movie was even better then the commercials put on.
And believe it or not it was very very inspirational. I really think
anyone who walks out of the movie at the end will be inspired one way
or another.

It was kinda corny at the very beginning, but quickly picks up. I
laughed. I laughed very hard on some parts. The acting is basically
above average, nothing special, but better then average. I can safely
say it was the second funniest movie to come out this summer (1st
funniest being CLERKS II). So after all of that I give it a 7/10 (a
high seven, but not quite an eight).
<|_=00=_|>
Contrary to what many may believe as this movie being an "against the
system" type of movie and attitude. It is an excellent portrayal of the
"system" in question and how ridiculous it truly is. The funny parts in
the movie are in fact funny because they speak the truth about the
world around us. Anyone who finds this movie to be unrealistic is
simply denying the self evident truths about life. And that is to learn
what you enjoy. That is what college should be about..

I come to find that a comment must have at least 10 lines. I think I
have given my opinion on the matter. So I now write a couple more lines
just as filler. I hope you have been entertained during this time. I
encourage you to go see the movie. It is well worth your while so long
as you follow it and immerse yourself in the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw the trailer and read some reviews, and I had low expectations for
this movie. I was pleasantly surprised. While the plot is a little
off-beat, everybody in the making of this movie pulled off a pleasant
flick good for many a laugh. The writing and jokes are far more
literate than I have come to expect. Better yet, they are delivered
with aplomb by unknown actors doing a good job, all of them.

The main reasons I wanted to see this movie were Justin Long and Lewis
Black. Long is from "Ed" and the new Apple computer ads. He was just
coming into his own as an actor in "Ed," and he was excellent here.
He's a natural in front of the camera. Lewis Black is a social
commentator who pulls no punches. He's on "The Daily Show" on Comedy
Central about once every two weeks, but he really shines in HBO's "Red,
White, and Screwed." I regularly catch him on XM Radio's uncensored
comedy channel. Give Black an idea and let him improvise. Whether his
rants and lines here are scripted or improvised are no matter. He's
priceless delivering his thoughts on middle class angst. One thing
about Black's delivery, his hand gestures are not those of a comedian.
It just seems like he's having a conversation with you, and I think
that makes him unconsciously more effective.
<|_=00=_|>
I went in to this thinking another gross movie with gross humor.
Telling from my first sentence I don't like that humor and this movie
had it's moments but I loved it. Justin Long has really never done
comedy like this, where he's sarcastic and clever and I loved it. Lewis
Black....enough said. The ending I really did love because It had to
take itself seriously I mean how else would you end it? Yes it's
another underdog story but not in your typical format and the movie
wasn't their ups and downs, it was people coming together for one
common goal, To go to college where they were accepted. The cast was
amazing and yes I did laugh at loud when I didn't think I would and the
laughter lasted longer then I thought to. The parents and sister played
their roles well but their characters are put in when necessary. The
movie was not focused around them but at the same time they showed up
when you expect and not expect them to. They played in to the story
very well, and I loved the familiar faces Anthony Heald(Boston Public),
Jeremy Howard (I) (Galaxy Quest with Justin Long) Ross Patterson (The
New Guy)and Sam Horrigan (Brink). Blake Lively added her certain
something to the movie which made it even more enjoyable, as well as
B's Friends. I recommend this movie to whoever hated those gross
comedies of the last 4 years and really want something with humor and
an actually story line!~!
<|_=00=_|>
From the creators of Bruce Almighty and Liar Liar! The film took a
while to pick up from the start, at least for me seeing as I expected
this was a run-along America Pie flick. But it was slightly different--
a fun-loving slacker who finishes high school and makes his OWN
college, running it accordingly. As you can expect, there's a lot of
parties and hot girls in bikinis but this film tried harder than your
average teen flick. Bartleby Gaines (Justin Long) encourages his
students / peers to learn through freedom of expression and ultimately
'shove it to the system.' The humour was varied which I loved. All the
cast delivered fantastic performances-- hire this one out with a
friend, it's a bloody crack up!
<|_=00=_|>
(Synopsis) Graduating high school senior Bartleby "B" Gaines (Justin
Long) finds himself without a college to attend. He has been able to
talk and con his way out of every problem he encounters, but he hasn't
been able to charm his way pass the college admissions board of eight
colleges. His mom and dad are very disappointed that Bartleby hasn't
been accepted into college. His parents think that if Bartleby doesn't
go to college, he will have no future. Several of Bartleby's friends
are in the same situation of being rejected by all the colleges they
applied to. To satisfy their parents, Bartleby comes up with an idea to
start his own college with an internet site. They convert an abandoned
psychiatric facility into the South Harmon Institute of Technology.
They will be the only students. However, the web site states that we
accept anyone. On the first day of school, they unexpectedly have a
large number of accepted students that were also rejected by all
colleges. With a million dollars in tuition money, Bartleby must make
his fake college into a functioning one. He hires Uncle Ben (Lewis
Black) as the College Dean. The fun begins when they design their own
curriculum, make their own rules, and party all night.

(My Comment) The premise of starting a college without a teaching staff
is a little off the wall. Since it was a fake college, Bartleby really
didn't need a staff. The movie reminded me of the classic movie "Animal
House", the college setting, the fraternity, lots of gags, and pretty
young women. These new college freshmen had a different notion of what
the college experience was all about. The movie not only has lots of
humor, it also has a good message for life. People should reach for
their dream and create a passion for what they want to do in life and
not settle for what other people want them to do. The ending was a
little unrealistic, but it is only a movie. The movie was made for the
young crowd to have a little fun. (Universal Pictures, Run time 1:32,
Rated PG-13) (7/10)
<|_=00=_|>
The best thing from the American Pie "bakery." I found the humor and
the plot to be far more engaging audience than any of the American Pie
movies to date. .Also concerning the appropriateness of the content I
found this to be acceptable to a much larger audience than any of the
previous American Pie movies. I thoroughly enjoyed this movie
experience. When the movie first came out I read a number of negative
reviews and ended up not going to see it while it was still in the
theater...I now regret that decision. The movie far exceeded my
expectations in terms of plot, dialog/scripting, and overall quality. I
give it two thumbs way up!
