
Scorsese has such an encyclopedic knowledge and understanding of cinema
that every shot, however inventive and daring, is effortlessly
composed. The direction, editing and cinematography are all the
first-rate work by individuals who are clearly masters of their
profession and the production design, costumes and makeup are the best
you'll see all year. Their efforts combine to create a world of rich
and lavish color, of excitement and glamour. Who wouldn't want to visit
THIS Cotton Club in 1935? It's hard to imagine who could trump the
technical team for Oscars this year.

With such a perfectly realized world in which to perform, the actors
universally do an outstanding job. Despite the criticism of the
hardcore DiCaprio-haters, the unprejudiced will observe an excellent
performance that takes genuine risks and convincingly conveys the
passing of more than twenty years. Importantly, DiCaprio more than
holds his own when paired with Cate Blanchett and especially Alan Alda,
who both give equally note worthy performances. Blanchett's
interpretation of Katherine Hepburn seems spot on, and anyone familiar
with the late actresses mannerisms will appreciate the hard work that
clearly went into the recreation. Alda, one of the most consistently
underrated actors around, delivers another masterclass in restrained
character building as he oozes ambition and political dishonesty from
every pore.

And yet, despite the obvious talent of all those involved and
Scorsese's ability to effortlessly fill three hours, something about
The Aviator fails to completely satisfy. Without wanting to sound like
a film student, movies should, ultimately, be ABOUT something; love,
honor, courage, redemption, the BIG ideas and themes that are the fuel
of the plot. What was the drive of The Aviator? A rich guy recklessly
spends lots of money to indulge his personal obsessions and gets away
with it. We're never told how his experiences change him, and without
change there's no journey. Considering the screenplay was written by
John Logan, who usually displays a keen interest in showing the
emotional evolution of his characters, the oversight is inexplicable.
Ultimately then, much like Gangs of New York, The Aviator is simply the
sum of it's parts, and however brilliantly those parts are realized,
there doesn't seem to be a bigger theme to underpin and drive them.

The Aviator is a perfectly realized recreation of the era and one well
worth experiencing. But the lack of a real emotional journey suggests
'all gloss and no substance', and ultimately prevents the movie from
being truly great.
<|_=00=_|>
This is an astonishingly beautiful and moving film. Martin Scorcese has
created a seminal work -- one that brings the harrowing, big-studio,
adult movie making of the 1970's and totally reinvents and
reinvigorates it for today's audience.

The story traces the rise and demise of billionaire Howard Hughes as he
struggles to find meaning and purpose in a life unfettered by concerns
of money, talent or opportunity. Whether trying to get a plane off the
ground or a young starlet into bed, Hughes attacks life with a fierce
gusto -- plagued and prodded by obsessive compulsive germphobia that
constantly threatens to consume and defeat him.

DiCaprio is amazing! It's the performance no one thought he was capable
of. It is a dynamic, smart, funny, articulate, intense, mature and
ultimately harrowing performance that relaunches his career as one of
American's finest actors. At the end of the film, you just want to take
him in your arms and sob. It's really that good.

Cate Blanchett is incredible as Katherine Hepburn. At first, I was a
little thrown by how bravely she attacked the Hepburn trademark voice,
but I was completely won over by the second line. It is a tender,
funny, incredibly convincing star turn that supplies the heart for the
first half of the film. The scene where she takes Howard home "for
dinner" with the family is a classic! Kate Beckinsale does a
surprisingly fine job with Eva Gardner -- conveying the slow burning
passion of this Hollywood icon without ever lapsing into mere mimicry.

But, in the end, this isn't a love story -- it's a war story -- a war
between Howard's unstoppable will and his fierce inner demons battling
for Howard's soul. It is the major relationship in the movie and the
true heart of the film -- one that fuels his eccentric genius and yet
constantly threatens to rip his life apart. He tries to ignore it by
sleeping with every beauty in town. He tries to outrun it, building
faster and faster airplanes. Yet, it is his one constant companion from
early childhood to his ultimate, inescapable end. And it is this
relationship that leaves you devastated at the end of the film.

Brilliant!
<|_=00=_|>
Martin Scorsese's most recent ambitious project does not disappoint.

I just saw this film in a special preview for NYU film students, with
Martin Scorsese there to discuss and answer questions after, and I must
say, it was pretty phenomenal. It is Martin Scorsese's best work since
Goodfellas (this is obvious) and most probably his best work since
Raging Bull. DiCaprio's character study of Howard Hughes, and his
devotion to this role, is exquisite and reminiscent even of Robert De
Niro's in Raging Bull. The film is lengthy, but this compliments it,
for the story is riveting and the production is practically flawless
(even the combination of computerized processes and more traditional
photography was smooth and effective).

The presentation of the film, in an evolving color (from two-tone
Technicolor, as Martin explained it to us, to three-tone, to modern by
the later sequences) is absolutely stunning, and the cinematography by
renowned Robert Richardson, ASC, is some of the best I've seen (and, in
my opinion, deserving of an Oscar).

Cate Blanchett was impeccable as Katharine Hepburn, though, at times, I
felt that the complexity of her character was never really deeper than
a surface analysis.

She did her role flawlessly, but this is not to say that it really Alec
Baldwin portrayed one of the flattest villains I've seen in a major
motion picture, but, again, this is about Howard Hughes, and DiCaprio's
performance is worthy of an Oscar nod at least, and perhaps an Oscar
Win (certainly the best performance I've seen all year).

One of my few complaints, though, is the lengthy sequences featuring
Howard Hughes as a solo aviator. Though interesting, entertaining even,
the film was long enough already, and did not require such an
exhaustive analysis of individual flight procedures.

Also, it seems that some of the themes were almost too redundant, such
as the ways in which Hughes' psychological problems were performed.
Much of the Hollywood history is good, even interesting, but it also
sometimes seemed a bit self-indulgent, to the point where you
questioned the necessity of ALL of those nightclub sequences in the
film.

But, besides those relatively few complaints, it is a spectacular film.

In all: do not miss it.

3.5/4
<|_=00=_|>
There is no doubt that THE AVIATOR is the masterpiece of both director
Martin Scorsese and actor, Leonardo DiCaprio. DiCaprio becomes Howard
Hughes. The actor is so profoundly absorbed in the role that the
DiCaprio we know from other films cannot be found in this film. It is a
bravura performance of great depth and magnitude. DiCaprio richly
deserves his first Academy Award.

I have never know much about Howard Hughes. This film opened my eyes to
him as a personality, a businessman, aviator and his lavish lifestyle.
DiCaprio no longer is the "pretty boy" from other films. The
expressions he takes on are not handsome, the deeply furrowed brow, one
could actually watch him, as Hughes' character, think his way through
challenging situations, the mark of a highly gifted actor. Watching
DiCaprio evolve into the paranoid schizophrenic Hughes in the latter
part of the film is a stunning example of pure acting. Leo deserves
recognition for recreating a most difficult personality.

Though the film is long, it never slows down nor gets boring and it
commanded my attention from start to finish. It is masterpiece cinema
for these two men and for other actors too. Cate Blanchette must be
commended for her role as Katherine Hepburn. Every role was played by
first rate actors.

If you want to understand a piece of American history from the 30s
through the 1940s, this film will illumine you. It may not be the
greatest film ever made but it sure is cinema to the max and worth
seeing, without a second thought.
<|_=00=_|>
Before Howard Hughes was a recluse so reclusive as to out-Salinger J.D.
Salinger, he was a big time stud, who made big movies, flew fast
planes, and courted gorgeous ladies; so say Martin Scorsese and John
Logan, architects of this latest Hollywood biopic.' Leonardo DiCaprio
continues his trend of turning in great performances with great
directors, playing Howard Hughes between 1927 and 1947, the years where
Hughes conquered the worlds of film and aviation, making room for
romance with Katharine Hepburn (Cate Blanchett) and Ava Gardner (Kate
Beckinsale). In later years, Hughes's mental problems would become
legendary; at this stage in the game, he suffers only from pronounced
germ phobia and mild obsessive-compulsive disorder. This is all
expertly depicted by Scorsese, Logan, and DiCaprio. Stealing all her
scenes is Cate Blanchett, who should start making room on her mantle
for her Best Supporting Actress Oscar. It couldn't have been easy to
play an iconic movie star like Katharine Hepburn, but Blanchett aces
it. Kate Beckinsale, Kelli Garner (Faith Demorgue), and Gwen Stefani
(Jean Harlow) are the other women in Howard's life, although none are
as clearly defined as Blanchett/Hepburn. The villains of the piece are
Alec Baldwin and Alan Alda, playing, respectively, Pan-American Airways
CEO Juan Trippe and Trippe's bought-and-paid-for politician, Senator
Ralph Owen Brewster. Both excel, with Alda coming off as both slimy and
goofy at the same time. Alec Baldwin, like Cate Blanchett, steals every
scene he has, playing Trippe as a delightfully suave villain. In his
final scene he delivers a wonderful monologue on the future of Hughes's
Trans-World Airline, and caps it off with the most hysterical use of
the F word in many years. Also appearing: the dependable John C. Reilly
as Hughes's business manager Noah Dietrich; Jude Law, who apparently
can't go two weeks without seeing himself in a different movie, as
movie legend Errol Flynn; Brent Spiner (yay!) as airplane executive
Robert Gross; and Willem Dafoe as a photographer. "The Aviator" is
overlong, and drags in places, but it is a great movie. I rate it a
9/10.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Aviator"--a biopic of Howard Hughes-- is clearly one of Scorsese's
lesser works. Still, a lesser work from Scorsese is far superior to the
greatest work of your average director. Here's the rundown:

The first quarter of the film is a total triumph, showing the young
Hughes' bold endeavors in film when he produced what was at the time
the most expensive and lavish film ever made. Scorsese tipping his hat
to old Hollywood is the most fun he has had since "Goodfellas." The
costumes, set designs, and pacing of this portion of the film are
stunning and suck the viewer in.

The rest of the film, despite Scorsese's amazing and vivid attention to
detail, is a muddled mess, giving us glimpses into Hughes' obsessive
(and compulsive) ways, his womanizing, his ambitious foray into
aviation and the early days of commercial flight, his fight against
Congress at the end of WWII, and the notorious plight and ultimately
single flight of his infamous "Spruce Goose." It's all semi-educational
and semi-entertaining, but in the end I think the complicated life of
Hughes remains a mystery.

As for the performances, they are amazing (thanks in most part to
Scorsese, the ultimate actor's director). Leonardo Dicaprio in the
title role gives yet another performance that goes against my natural
loathing of him, and although he seems a bit too boyish playing Hughes
in the latter years (and the film really suffers for it), he's
impeccable for the better part of the film. Cate Blanchett as Katherine
Hepburn is simply stunning and steals every moment she is on screen.
Her look, her mannerisms, and her speech perfectly match the screen
legend to a haunting degree. Alan Alda and Alec Baldwin in supporting
quasi-villain roles are methodically perfect. And the nicest surprise
was Kate Beckinsale, a normally flaccid actress, playing Ava Gardner.
She came across as gorgeous, intelligent, and maximized her minimal
screen time without ever overtly stealing her scenes. Like Sharon Stone
in "Casino" and Cameron Diaz in "Gangs of New York" Scorsese once again
coaxes a great performance out of an otherwise unremarkable pretty
face. 

In the end, "The Aviator" flies high thanks to Scorsese and the acting,
even if the real person it depicts remains lost in a muddle of half
truths and speculation.
<|_=00=_|>
Leonardo Dicaprio, once again, shows his depth as an artist and his
ability to carry a film. He deserves the Golden Globe, and his due as
an outstanding actor. Howard Hughes, the man, remains a mystery and the
portrayal of his obsessive compulsive disorder was a powerful view into
his inner hell. The beginning scene set the pace for a journey into his
privileged and dark world. The Aviator showed the torments and gifts of
genius. Amazing job by all involved! Wardrobe, music, special effects,
direction, acting...all award winning contributions. I left the film
moved and disturbed, which shows the power of this film. Wonderful
performances by all the cast and the time"flew" by...
<|_=00=_|>
Leave it to Martin Scorsese, he is one of the few reliable directors
who graces in age, still manages to make outstanding movies. I thought
his previous film; GANGS OF NEW YORK was the best film of 2002 (and
still stand by that comment). Scorsese who was once known for showing
us the gritty realistic world of New York City's "Mean Streets" with
the Little Italy thugs (MEAN STREETS), anti-hero loners (TAXI DRIVER),
fallen hero (RAGING BULL), bizarre world of Soho (AFTER HOURS),
realistic thugs (GOODFELLAS), gangsters controlling Las Vegas (CASINO;
it wasn't in NYC, but it still had the similar theme), guilt ridden
paramedic (BRINGING OUT THE DEAD), and the war between immigrants
(GANGS OF NEW YORK). This is the Scorsese that all of us know about and
remember. Yet Scorsese was also responsible for telling us about a
single mother in the southwest struggling to survive (ALICE DOESN'T
LIVE HERE ANYMORE), the final farewell concert of a fantastic rock/folk
group The Band (THE LAST WALTZ), and the story of Jesus Christ (LAST
TEMPTATION OF Christ). Now Scorsese has become the storyteller of one
of the most enthusiastic and eccentric billionaires of recent years,
Howard Hughes.

In THE AVIATOR, Scorsese portrays Howard Hughes (Leonardo DiCaprio) as
several different roles: filmmaker, womanizer, entrepreneur, engineer,
germ-phobic, and aviator. The film tells about the achievements that
Hughes accomplished such as the movies HELL'S ANGELS & THE OUTLAW, the
building of an airplane that can fly above 20,000 feet, acquiring TWA
and making it a international airline, and the design and building of
the largest airplane ever the Hercules (now known as the Spruce Goose).
Yet Hughes went through so many conflicts with his business: Pan Am
Airline chief Juan Trippe (Alec Baldwin), Maine Senator Ralph Owen
Brewster (Alan Alda), Louis B. Mayer (Stanley DeSantis); his romance:
Katharine Hepburn (Cate Blanchett), Ava Gardner (Kate Beckinsdale); and
himself: paranoia, and obsession compulsion disorder.

THE AVIATOR discusses all of those elements in rich detail, that after
watching the movie, you begin to realize the amazing accomplishments
that Hughes did. Wonder why the only thing we most remember about
Hughes was being a recluse who was afraid of germs. And would like to
know more about Howard Hughes and see the films that were discussed in
the film.

This isn't a Scorsese film that people want another TAXI DRIVER,
GOODFELLAS, CASINO, or RAGING BULL would expect. This is a different
kind of Scorsese, one who is telling a story about a man, who is no
different that him. A dreamer who dreams big and ignores what his
advisors, and partners tell him, then come up with projects with
amazing results. 

DiCaprio proves that he his under-appreciated actor in this film. While
most of the public see him as that goofy kid who shouts, "I'm king of
the world!" in TITANIC. Yet most don't realize his talent with such
roles as in WHAT'S EATING GILBERT GRAPE and CATCH ME IF YOU CAN. THE
AVIATOR shows that DiCaprio is a great actor, giving a realistic
portrayal of the eccentric Hughes in some scenes, and a man who
cleanses the germs that represent people he dislikes or negative
incidents. Blanchett does a amazing job with her performance of
Katherine Hepburn with the way her head is tilted back to the
pronunciation of words to the snobbish like personality she has when
she is around her parents. While Beckinsdale also does a great job
playing the very sexy Ava Gardner who has a love/hate relationship with
Hughes, a woman who hates him at times, but will help him when he needs
help.

The supporting performances by John C. Reily, Ian Holm, Alec Baldwin,
Alan Alda, Danny Huston, and Matt Ross are all top rate and also
deserve recognition as well.

And Scorsese proves that he one of the best directors of all time with
several elements. First the pacing of the story, the film never drags
and at running time of 169 mins. it kept my attention on what was going
to be happening next. Second, some of the scenes of the film were of
complete beauty and wonder. One scene that blew my mind was during the
filming of the aerial scenes from HELLS ANGELS which showed how
dangerous it was filming the dogfight scenes from that film, seventy
years before computer generated images would replace that technique.
Third, the acting by the actors was top notch and very convincing.
Finally, the story of Howard Hughes himself was unique and original and
I think there will never be another person like Howard Hughes. 

This has been quite a year of movies: COLLATERAL, SIDEWAYS, KILL BILL
VOL. 2, THE INCREDIBLES, RAY, A VERY LONG ENGAGEMENT, THE TERMINAL,
FAHRENHEIT 9/11, BOURNE SUPREMENCY, OCEANS TWELVE, CRIMINAL, SPIDER-MAN
2, MEAN GIRLS, HARRY POTTER & PRISONER OF AZKABAN, and SPANGLISH were
all films that were amazing and all were among my favorite films of
this year (yet I still need to see LIFE AQUATIC and FINDING NEVERLAND).
But I think it will be hard to beat THE AVIATOR, for it's story,
characters, and epic feel. 

The Academy has snubbed Scorsese for 30 years; they did the same thing
for Roman Polanski until THE PIANIST. Now I think its time for the
Academy to acknowledge Scorsese for his craft and technique. While some
people will believe that Scorsese should have won his Oscar back in
1980 with RAGING BULL, or in 1990 with GOODFELLAS, I feel that it's
time to recognize Scorsese for something! And THE AVIATOR is one film
that I think that most Scorsese devotees (like myself) feel is worthy
of recognition. Plus, if this movie wins both Best Director and Best
Picture, then two of my favorite directors will win Oscars (Scorsese
and Michael Mann, who produced AVIATOR).

So that is why I am rooting and hoping that THE AVIATOR will collect
Oscar gold. The best movie of the year, and don't miss it!!!!! *****
(Out of five)
<|_=00=_|>
Martin Scorsese's "The Aviator" is grand spectacle with a reverence for
the nostalgic, set in simpler times. As a snapshot of Howard Hughes's
life from 1927 to 1947, "The Aviator" is a portrait of a man of genius
and unmatched innovation, and also a man debilitated by severe
obsessive compulsive disorder and extreme depression. "The Aviator" has
an amazing performance by Leonardo DiCaprio as Howard Hughes, and a
mesmerizing performance by Cate Blanchett, who seems to inhabit the
role of Katherine Hepburn-- the love of Hughes's life. However, the one
indelible image I have of the film is the scene in which Hughes is
frozen in the men's restroom, because he can't make himself touch the
door knob for fear of germs and contamination. Granted this was a time
before obsessive compulsive disorder existed as a diagnosis. The scene
is intended as a dramatic arc, distinguishing a tragic flaw in Hughes.
However, for me it seemed overly indulgent, and was curious regarding
the scene length. Much like most of the nearly 3 hour movie, this is an
exercise in indulgence, and attention to detail that is only that.
Scorsese's balance between Hughes's genius and his great suffering is
good melodrama, but not very inspiring. I have a particular affinity
for Howard Hughes the man. Had John Lone's (and Michael Mann's) story
followed Hughes through the 1950's and beyond, the story would be even
sadder. "The Aviator" illustrates the highs of genius, and the abyss of
near insanity. This is an accurate depiction of an amazing man's life,
but it is skewed toward the broken aspect. So just personally for me,
it was frustrating to watch. To Scorsese's credit, one gets that he has
immense compassion for Howard Hughes.

Hughes' life sentence is established in the opening scene. Hughes's
mother while bathing the young Hughes, tells him something that perhaps
leads to his obsessive compulsive nature. Apparently he is incomplete
in his relationship with his mother, and the story surrounding what she
said.

Fast forward to 1927, when Hughes left his father's wealthy drill bit
tool company in Texas, to be a maverick film maker in California.
Hughes is an ambitious and novice film director, but he is smart and
has unmatched drive. However, his real genius is as a pilot and an
innovative designer of airplanes. His gifts for fame and fortune are
established. Hughes (DiCaprio) then pursues a touching romance with
Katherine Hepburn (Blanchett). This is the highlight of "The Aviator",
even amidst the spectacular aerial cinematography, because it is just
about relationships that move people. There is a wonderful moment when
Hughes lets Hepburn take control of his plane as they fly above Los
Angeles at night. As great as the chemistry is between Dicaprio and
Blanchett, this romance part of the story goes on a little too long in
the context of the movie.

From this point on, the movie becomes increasingly darker. Sure, Hughes
has his share of triumphs, but everything is tempered by his spiraling
decline into depression and his debilitating obsessive compulsive
disorder. The acting is outstanding throughout the picture. This is
Leonardo DiCaprio's most mature performance. He truly captures Hughes's
intensity, genius, and charm. His suffering also elicits great
compassion. Cate Blanchett is outstanding as Kate Hepburn. At first one
wonders whether she is doing a caricature of Hepburn. She is not. She
is being Hepburn. Blanchett's performance is simply stunning. An
unrecognizable Kate Beckinsale is awesome as Ava Gardner. Beckinsale
gives surprising layers to Gardner, who is really not all that she
appears to be on the surface. John C. Reilly is fabulous as Hughes's
CFO. In an understated fashion Reilly's performance anchors the movie.
Alec Baldwin as Pan Am CEO, Juan Trippe, and Matt Ross as Hughes's
engineer Glenn Odekirk give strong performances.

Scorsese's "The Aviator" is spectacular to view, and has a sense of
history and tragedy. He offers an interesting portrait of the dichotomy
between genius and madness, with an emphasis on the dark. This choice
really lost me. "The Aviator" is amazing work, that is not very
inspiring, though it was probably not intended to do so. That is a bit
of a disappointment.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is about the world famous multi-millionaire Howard Hughes.
However, if the only thing you know about Hughes was that he was a
recluse who secreted himself inside his hotel in Las Vegas and was
obsessed with cleanliness, you may be in for a surprise. The film deals
with Hughes' life before all that.

After a brief prologue showing Hughes as a child with his mother
advising him on cleanliness, we move forward to 1927 with an adult
Hughes (played by Leonardo DiCaprio) directing his hugely risky film
"Hell's Angels". "The Aviator" takes in Hughes' film-making
achievements, his romances with some of the most beautiful women of the
day (including Katherine Hepburn (a superb Cate Blanchett) and Ava
Gardner (Kate Beckinsale)) and his passion for aviation. The picture of
Howard Hughes that emerges from the film is of a brilliant man who was
a ruthless perfectionist, constantly risking ruin and even death for
his goals. This all makes his eventual fate all the more sad.

The film is brilliantly made, the cast are all very good in their roles
(especially, as mentioned earlier, Blanchett as Katherine Hepburn) and
despite lasting almost three hours, it is never dull. The main flaw,
however, is that you never learn much about Hughes. Some more on his
background would certainly have been welcome.

Any film by Scorsese, however, is worth seeing and this is no
exception.
