
Percy Jones (Bernie Mac) is trying to protect his daughter Theresa (Zoe
Saldana) from ending up with the wrong guy, and though he does a
thorough background check on her new boyfriend Simon (Ashton Kutcher),
there's only one thing his research didn't tell him. He's white and he
wants to marry his daughter.

The "meeting the parents" premise has been done to death recently with
Monster-in Law and Meet the Fockers being the most recent films.
However, what the film lacks in originality, it makes it up with
laughs. There were a lot of funny moments and the movie hardly ever got
boring. However, most of the funny bits were used in the trailer and
this makes the jokes a little less effective since they are already
expected. Also, the repeat value of the movie is very low. It's worth
watching once but that's pretty much it. I don't think that's a bad
thing since most light comedies are like that.

I think the film works well because of the two leads. Both Bernie Mac
and Ashton Kutcher give funny performances and they have nice chemistry
together. Their scenes were the best and they never felt forced. Zoe
Saldana also gives a good performance and she has come a long way from
appearing in Crossroads. Most of the supporting actors are also funny
including Judith Scott, who plays Bernie Mac's wife. Mike Epps also
makes a cameo though it wasn't that good.

Kevin Rodney Sullivan directs and he only does an okay job. The first
half of the film is pretty funny and the racial issues are handled
lightly. During the second half, the film becomes all serious and it's
kind of awkward. The director ditches the laughs for awhile and he
approaches the issue in a mature manner. It kind of works but some of
the serious scenes felt fake. It seemed like the actors were about to
burst out laughing at any second and the film also got kind of dull.
The ending was surprisingly strong though. The changes of tone in the
film worked out okay but they weren't as effective as they could have
been. In the end, Guess Who is worth a rental, nothing more though.
Rating 7/10
<|_=00=_|>
To take a work of pure genius (Guess Who's Coming To Dinner / Stanley
Kramer 1967) and turn it into a Bernie mac, Ashton Kutcher roll
reversal. I have nothing against the actors in this film... BUT! The
original still stands strong as a cinematic masterpiece. Reviewing the
troubled historic times past. Any comedic treatment of this classic
work is nothing more than panhandling.

You can rent or buy the original for under $10. Sydney Portier was and
is his generation. Don't be fooled, This series of remakes being spit
out by the studios are simply because they already have the rights to
the films and they will be the only ones making money. But the best
question is what will they remake in 20 years from now.

Don't buy any of it!
<|_=00=_|>
Of course this movie is mostly being blasted because it was released so
shortly after the success of "Meet the Parents" and "Meet the Fockers",
which uses the exact some concept. Only difference with this movie is
that it's about an interracial couple. But also when you look beyond
this and ignore the fact that this movie is basically the interracial
version of "Meet the Parents", it just isn't a great movie because for
a comedy its surely lacking. Basically Bernie Mac was the only reason
that I still found this movie to be an enjoyable one to watch. 

Perhaps biggest problem is that the movie is too predictable. No not
just with its story, I mean basically everyone already knows in advance
how this movie is going to end but also comical wise the movie is too
predictable. They surely didn't came up with a whole lot of original
moments and because everything happens in such a predictable manner,
the comedy also just doesn't always work out.

The movie could had been a better one, had it handled its subject of an
interracial relationship better. That way the movie could perhaps had
send out a message but it doesn't really does so now. The movie doesn't
take away any stereotypes, instead it only sort of confirms them and it
happily does so, in order to provide the movie with racial-typed humor.
Somehow I have the feeling that it perhaps could had worked out better
had the guy been black and the girl white and so her parents, who they
are visiting, as was the case in the original movie this movie got
based on; "Guess Who's Coming to Dinner", staring Spencer Tracy, Sidney
Poitier and Katharine Hepburn, which was also a drama rather than a
comedy. Even though I haven't seen that movie yet I still am sure of it
that that movie its theme worked out better, perhaps also because it
was a '60's movie when interracial relationships obviously were still a
bigger issue. Seriously, when I take a black girl or Asian or whatever
home one of these my parents surely won't make a big issue out of it at
all. So isn't this a movie a bit too outdated already with its theme
and only relevant had it been made about 40 years ago? That is if the
film-makers intentions were to take away the stereotypes and
reluctances and intolerability of people towards interracial
relationship but I have the idea that the film-makers simply dropped
this idea and intentions and went for a simple full-blood comedy
instead. 

I haven't seen Bernie Mac in an awful lot of movies, also since he
started out pretty late white his acting career but so far I have
always liked him in his comical roles. He plays it serious and
sarcastic rather than over-the-top funny which makes him such a great
and hilarious actor in my opinion. It's also mostly his movie in my
opinion and Asthon Kutcher gets pushed more to the background by him,
even though Ashton Kutcher surely ain't a bad actor either, no matter
what other people always say about him.

A comedy you can surely do without but when you decide to watch it
you'll still be most likely lightly entertained by it.

6/10

http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/
<|_=00=_|>
Even though the movie is corny, it still sends a message that love will
prevail. Family means everything and without their support, love and
consideration, life will be harder. Just knowing that your family loves
you and what you love, makes facing the world that much easier.

I compare this to My Big Fat Greek Wedding in cultural attributes.
There is a world out there of give and take and for the most part, I
feel people have forgotten that. These two movies show that
consideration and the almighty give and take are important to
long-lasting relationships in any culture, religion and family.

I recommend watching this movie with an open mind, hoping to laugh,
love, cry and remember how to have a healthy relationship and I hope
this inspires you to have consideration for others in your world.
<|_=00=_|>
'Guess Who' is a good reflection of the changes in society since the
Sydney Portier version was made many decades ago. Ashton Kutcher is an
underrated comedic actor, who despite his good looks, can still be
quite goofy and amusing. The movie raises good points about reverse
racism, people's continuing prejudices and the pressures society puts
on 'mixed-race' couples. I think the director and writers found a happy
medium that allowed issues to be raised while at the same time keeping
the movie light-hearted, funny and entertaining. If you are looking for
something meaningful and entertaining at the same time, with a touch of
romance and some eye candy, this is the movie for you!
<|_=00=_|>
More nonsense from pap-Maestro director Kevin Sullivan. Another Cordon
Bleu of racially motivated comedy designed to suck the dollars from a
dumbed-down middle America. The cliché of the Oedipally challenged
father refusing to relinquish his jilted grip on his daughter is far
from a stranger to our screens. A successful director's job these days
seems simply to be that of taking an already burned out concept,
removing all intelligible plot moments, merging in a few racially 'hip'
moments and then repeat until they have enough money to breed and make
more of these sordid offerings. The 'comdedic' castration scene alone
should be enough to silence this director's career forever. Nonetheless
in addition the scene when the delusional father starts physically
befouling the prospective stud's mattress in an attempt to quite
literally dirty him in his fiancée's eyes is perhaps one of the lowest
points of cinema in the last hundred years. A degrading attempt at
comedy, at best a cringing wallet filler for the director. All I can
say is that I hope his daughter turns into a transsexual mud-wrestler
and elopes with an incontinent zebra.
<|_=00=_|>
When it was released in 1967, "Guess Who's Coming to Dinner" was
acclaimed as a "breakthrough" film for its lighthearted, yet serious,
depiction of an interracial romance. In the years since, society has
moved so far in the direction of acceptance of so-called "mixed
marriages" that any remake is bound to feel, at least to some extent,
superfluous and anachronistic. And that is exactly the case with "Guess
Who," a 2005 update whose abbreviated title is only the first of the
many changes the filmmakers have rung on the Stanley Kramer original.

The screenwriters' first alteration involves switching the race roles,
so that it is now a black family having to accept a white male as a
prospective in-law rather than the other way around. Bernie Mac assumes
the Spencer Tracy role as the father whose world is turned upside down
when his beloved daughter brings a Caucasian boyfriend (Ashton Kutcher
as a white Sidney Poitier) home to meet the family. On the distaff
side, we have Judith Scott taking over for Katherine Hepburn as the
understanding mother and Zoe Saldana replacing Katherine Houghton as
the freethinking daughter.

Since interracial marriage is no longer the hot-button issue it once
was, the filmmakers have been forced to inject a number of other
non-race-related plot complications into the mix to develop and
maintain the conflict and drama. Thus, we have Kutcher trying to hide
the fact from both his fiancé and her family that he has recently quit
his high-paying job at a prestigious firm and that he may, in fact, be
the target of a securities-and-exchange commission probe. Indeed, with
Kutcher spending most of his time trying to win over his critical and
overbearing future father-in-law, "Guess Who" feels more like a remake
of "Meet the Parents" than of "Guess Who's Coming to Dinner." The real
problem with "Guess Who" is that it rarely has the courage of its
convictions. Having decided to tackle a relatively dicey topic, the
film too often drops the issue in favor of scenes that wouldn't pass
muster even on a third-rate sitcom. For every scene that is incisive
and daring - i.e. Kutcher telling a series of black jokes at the family
dinner table - there is another that is pure Hollywood hokum (Mac and
Kutcher sleeping in the same bed together, Mac and Kutcher having a
go-cart race to determine who has the higher testosterone level and the
greater machismo, etc.).

All of the performers are fine, especially Mac and Kutcher in the lead
roles. However, they just haven't been given very sophisticated
material to work with here. "Guess Who" might have been a better film
had it aimed more for genuine, hard-edged satire and less for lowbrow
slapstick and predictable romantic comedy sentimentality.

Still, it's been 38 years since "Guess Who's Coming to Dinner" first
shocked the nation with its in-your-face defiance of miscegenation
laws, and the world has since moved on to other issues of social
injustice and marital definition. Which is why, in the year 2005,
"Brokeback Mountain" was a breakthrough film and "Guess Who" was not.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, I am not a fan of Bernie Mack and certainly not of Ashton
Kutcher, but I liked this movie.

While the movie is certainly predictable, it has its humorous moments.
Although Bernie Mack plays a little overly protective father, he does
not over play it to the point that it is just a ridiculous caricature.
Ashton Kuetcher has a good haircut and looks like a nice clean cut
male, not the long haired goof-ball we usually see.

My favorite scene was the one at the dinner table. Not to give anything
away, there were racist comments and racist jokes, but in good taste
and fun. That scene shows that both sides can be racist in their own
rights but still enjoy a good joke when it is truly funny.

While not the masterpiece that "Look Who's Coming to Dinner" was, it
was a whole lot more fun to watch.

This is you typical formula romantic comedy, but it is heavier on
comedy than romance.
<|_=00=_|>
Ashton Kutcher is going out with Zoe Saldana and while they do not have
a problem with their relationship a lot of other people do. That's
because Kutcher is white and Saldana, welllll, isn't. One of the main
people having a problem with their relationship is Bernie Mac (playing
Saldana's father), about to meet his daughter's partner for the first
time and completely unprepared for the obvious racial differences
between them. It's a remake of Guess Who's Coming To Dinner for the MTV
generation.

I like Ashton Kutcher and I also like Bernie Mac so this movie benefits
from their central performances. It also has to be said that the rest
of the cast do just as well and are all likable enough. So the cast
isn't a problem.

There is also a little bit more going on here than you might expect,
with the movie admirably tackling not only racism from one point of
view but any prejudice between races, generations and classes. It's
actually a bit braver than most during some moments (ie, Kutcher
relating a number of "black" jokes at the dinner table) but then,
sadly, dwindles back to rom-com clichés whenever scenes are lacking any
tension.

The direction from Kevin Rodney Sullivan is blah, everything stays
within very standard Hollywood limits and, for the most part, it's
unexciting, safe movie-making at its most average with character
development at its lamest. Which is a shame. Because I DO like Ashton
Kutcher and Bernie Mac.

See this if you like: Just Married, Save The Last Dance, Soul Man.
<|_=00=_|>
I found "Guess Who" to be absolutely delighful. Even though there are a
lot of differences between "Guess Who" and "Guess Who's Coming To
Dinner", I still see a resemblance. I also think that Katherine Hepburn
and Spencer Tracy would have enjoyed it. Bernie Mac and Ashton Kutcher
did a wonderful job. They seem to work well with each other.

As far as the movie is concerned, I found nothing racial in it, except
for the scene at the dinner table when Simon makes some racial jokes,
but remember it was only a movie. Yes, the jokes weren't necessary but
they were part of the script and movie, and I think no one should have
gotten offended because it was just a movie.

As far Bernie Mac's character and Ashton Kutcher's characters getting
off to a slow start, sometimes that happens between two characters.
Eventually you see them start a friendship near the middle of the
movie.

Even though there were some serious things happening in the movie,
basically the movie was very funny. A perfect example is when Bernie
Mac's character doesn't believe Ashton Kutcher's character about him
knowing about the racing circuit and tests him by racing him in a
go-cart, I found it extremely funny when they start to race each other
and try to beat each other and land up tearing through the hedges and
getting stopped by a police officer. Another funny example is when
Ashton Kutcher's character teaches Bernie Mac's character the tango and
later on Bernie Mac's character denies to his wife that he was taught
the tango by Ashton Kutcher's character.

This movie had a great cast. Zoe Saldan is extremely great in this
movie and so is Judith Boot, as is Ashton Kutcher and Bernie Mac.

I basically found nothing offensive about the movie except the scene at
the dinner table. But like I said before the movie was absolutely
delightful and very funny
