
I've never before seen a film that made me sit on the edge of my seat
practically from the opening credits. And I never got to sit back.

This was a psychological thriller of the best type. There is plenty of
opportunity for you to nominate the "bad guy" and while you may be
right in a sense you will probably also be wrong. The ending is a real
shocker - and I suspect that the typical reaction of many viewers is to
say "No way" - but if you think about it, it is the only possible
ending. But you have to think about it - and the film is so
action-filled that you never have time. SO the realization must come
after the closing credits roll.

I'd never seen John Cusack in anything but a comedy before (except for
a film called "Max", but I saw that before I knew who Cusack was). He
pulled off drama equally as well as he does comedy. An impressive
talent.

And an impressive film.
<|_=00=_|>

To be honest I didnt want to watch this movie but it was my wifes turn to
choose so I had no choice. After 20 minuites into the movie I was so glad
it
wasnt my turn to choose. This movie was absolutely fantastic. The Premise
as
you will read here on IMDB or on the back of the dvd in the shop/rental
store seemed very lame to me but I was so wrong.

It starts off as a classic "Whodunnit" movie but then flips and twists on
its head so many times your left astounded. I cannot imagine anyone who
would not enjoy this movie, It keeps you on the edge of your seat from
beginning to end and I loved every minuite of it. Throw in an all star
cast
(Cusack and Liotta are fantastic here) And you have one Hell of a
movie.

10/10

You Have to watch this, Trust Me :)
<|_=00=_|>
This movie totally surprised me on every level. I had never even heard
of it until recently; when an observant video store clerk noticed how
many thrillers I was hiring and suggested it. 

Having missed it at the movies, I figured it would be the usual B-grade
mystery murder flick, a bit of fun at best. Instead this movie had me
hooked from the opening sequence; I almost thought they'd put the wrong
DVD in the box! 

The story is like one big twisted, turning tunnel- with barely a
glimmer of a light at the end. The cast is great, the setting
appropriately scary- with no short measure of red herrings to keep you
guessing. 

The cast really delivers too; the characters are diverse and given
enough attention to keep you engaged but not so much as to slow the
action down. John Cusack is in fine form as the easily likable ex-cop
trying to hold it all together; Jake Busey plays the psychotic to
perfection as usual. 

I don't usually go in for gore, but there's really barely more than a
few hints of blood & guts. Definitely one to watch in the dark with a
group of friends to scare the hell out of yourselves. You won't regret
this one.
<|_=00=_|>
Because of what seem to be unusual circumstances, eleven people,
strangers to each other outside of their respective "groups" (two
families, two professional associations), end up stranded in a desolate
Nevada motel on a dark, stormy night. One of the "strangers" is a death
row murderer being escorted to another prison for execution. When
bodies start turning up and the murderer goes missing, he's the obvious
suspect. But things are not what they seem. Identity provides a "double
mystery"--a traditional whodunit and an increasingly bizarre "rubber
reality" mystery that we must figure out along with the characters.

This is my second viewing of Identity. I didn't like it quite as much
this time, although it still earned a "B". The two aspects I had a
slight problem with on the second go-round were one, the plot didn't
quite envelop me to the same extent (maybe because I remembered the
twist?) and two, since first watching it, I've seen a lot more films in
the rubber reality genre, and Identity is nowhere near as mind-bending
as many other examples. Still, this is a great film, with a lot of
assets.

Director James Mangold effectively employs a number of interesting
techniques here. The main standout in the first reel is the use of
Tarantino-like "multiple viewpoint" shots, where we see the same span
of time from one character's point of view, then another, then another.
He also effectively creates two very attractive atmospheres, especially
for fantasy fans--a "Twilight Zone"(1959)-like conundrum and a
sustained dark ambiance. The Twilight Zone aspect makes itself most
obvious beginning with the scene where the convict, Robert Maine (Jake
Busey), tries to flee, but discovers that he's still at the motel,
after all. The constant, Blade Runner (1982)-like rain underscores the
dark ambiance, which is reminiscent of films such as Fallen (1998) and
Se7en (1995).

While Identity isn't exactly a bastion of graphic violence, there are a
number of strongly visceral scenes and shots that are extremely well
done and effective for seeming realistic. The atmosphere is also
greatly enhanced by the hotel set, which matches the Bates Motel from
Psycho (1960) in dingy gloom. The film also has a wonderfully
nihilistic ending.

Even though I wasn't as enraptured in suspense this time, one is still
drawn into the film by the gradual quickening and spiraling of loss of
control experienced by the characters. While slowly killing each one of
them off as they're stuck in an isolated setting is a traditional "10
Little Indians" horror film motif that writer Michael Cooney employs,
the Twilight Zone aspects allow him to trump the sense of horror and
despair, as the surviving characters come to realize that they are not
in charge of their own lives, they can't call the shots, and their
illusions about their realities crumble before their eyes.

One of the negatives is that the rubber reality resolution is a bit too
telegraphed, too overt. The solution is given too early, and ends up
being spelled out note-for-note. It's a bit like giving a lecture on a
joke right after one gives the punch line. It might be difficult to
blame either Cooney or Mangold with this, however, as American film
studios and test audiences are notoriously allergic to ambiguity, which
is depressing, because I love ambiguity in films. Still, maybe the
Identity is just easier to figure out when you've seen tens of rubber
reality flicks. When I watched the film upon its theatrical release, I
overheard more than one fellow theater-goer still trying to figure out
the gist as the lights came up.

One might be tempted to claim that Mangold under-uses his fine
cast--who all turn in excellent performances, including one of my
favorite character actors, John C. McGinley. But on the other hand, it
makes sense that there is this large number and broad range of
characters. Under this scenario, you either under-use them or you've
got a 3-hour-plus film (not that I'd complain about a 3-hour-plus
film).

Of course the theme of the film, as well as all of the subtexts, has to
do with personal identity, and especially veiled personal identity.
None of the characters are who they seem. Most of them are lying to
each other in some way when they first meet, and even some of the ones
who know each other already are also lying to each other. Cooney and
Mangold explore the various social facts, actions, ceremonies, rituals
and so on that help provide personal identity for us, such as
birthdates, names, residency, marriages, benevolent versus criminal or
unethical actions, and occupations. They also explore a more dynamic
identity of action, as relationships continually shift throughout the
film.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, everyone seems to be confused about this movie so let me explain it
for everyone. The killer has a multiple personality syndrome, and was
being treated in a psychiatric home. They have tapes of him portraying
many different personalities, and they believe that one of his many
personalities is the killer. The reason everyone has the same birthday
is that every person is really him, all of these characters are made up
in this guys mind. The way they figure they can cure him of his
multiple personalities is to have them all come together inside of his
head and hopefully they will all be killed off, with the risk that the
killer will be one of the personalities killed. Let me repeat, the
point of that motel, is to have all the personalities come together
hoping that they will all die except for one, that one takes control of
his life. As each character dies, that is one less personality he has
left. In the very end they think he is OK because all of his
personalities are dead, except for the girl. But really that kid is
still alive, and he kills Amanda Peet. The exercise that they tried to
do was complete, all the personalities died inside of his head,
unfortunately the only personality that survived was the one that was
the killer. I hope that clears it up a little bit.
<|_=00=_|>

In the middle of a rainstorm, the judge and lawyers involved in the case
of
murderer Malcolm Rivers (due for execution the next morning) are called
together to discuss evidence that the defence believe had been illegally
suppressed.  Meanwhile a series of accidents, damaged phone lines and
flooded roads means that a group of strangers are forced to hole up at a
motel.  When the prisoner of a cop escapes and a murder occurs, they group
together to try and capture him.  However with him dead the deaths
continue
- each with a room key forming a morbid countdown as the remainder try to
survive the night.

For the majority of this film (more or less the first hour) the film is a
standard horror thriller that is quite thrilling as the guests are picked
off one by one.  However more or less on the hour comes a twist regarding
the connection between the guests that is at first silly, but then
actually
quite clever - even if it takes a bit of swallowing.  From then on it
continues in the same vein, with this twist changing our perception of the
action onscreen.  I imagine about as many of the audience will scoff at
the
twist as will accept it and like it.  I liked the twist and thought it was
pretty clever even if I have to acknowledge that it is pretty touch and go
for a minute or so at least.  The deaths are a mix of gory and shocking
(without pushing it to an 18 certificate) and the first hour is pretty
effective in terms of tension and drama.

The director opens with several clever shots that freeze frame before
moving
onto the next scene - this is pretty slick and helps start the film with a
good sense of urgency.  His direction within the motel is hardly original
but again it works well enough.  The heavy rain serves to put walls around
the motel (ie by not being able to see further than the perimeter) and
this
also increases the tension and the feeling of being trapped.  Of course
it's
not brilliant as it is really still just a slasher thriller but it is an
effective one.  The cast go a long way to helping this by having quite a
few
big names as well as pretty good performances.  Cusack and Liotta are both
good despite the temptation to slum it in this.  They both up the tension
and the urgency by their performances.  Peet is the standout from the rest
but McGinley, De Mornay and others all do well.  In the hearing Vince is
as
good as he always is when called upon to do a character with darting eyes
and he is effective doing what he does (as little as that is
here).

Other than the big name actors, many people will wonder what about this
film
made it stand out so much that it got good critical reviews.  I think the
critical twist will annoy as many people as it pleases and you do need to
have been absorbed into the story by the hour mark to really appreciate
it.
I'm not a big fan of this genre but I enjoyed this movie and suspect that
fans of this type of film will as well.
<|_=00=_|>

Today I have watched "Identity" for the second time in less than two months,
now on DVD. Again, I found it an excellent and intriguing film. There are
two versions in the DVD, and I selected the one with scenes that were cut in
the final edition (the other option was the theatrical version). Now I paid
more attention on the details of the plot, trying to identify flaws in the
screenplay, but the story is very tight. There are many extras in the DVD,
including deleted scenes, making of, filmography, comments etc. It is
amazing the filmography of John Cusack, composed mainly of good movies. I
keep my initial vote (nine).

Title (Brazil): `Identidade' (`Identity')

<|_=00=_|>
For a start,i would like to say that this film is worth seeing.It is
one of the best psychological thrillers that exist so i highly
recommend to those who like this kind of movies.The plot was very
nice,the twist also and the cast outstanding.Cusack,Liotta,Peet and
Hawkes did their best and the result was excellent.I liked a lot the
flashbacks that were made -mostly in the beginning. Furthermore,the
idea of the whole film was terrific.On the other hand,speaking frankly
there was an excessive gore and emphasis on the murders that didn't
impress me;a big part of the movie was "dedicated" to murders.Another
thing that i didn't like was the continuous rain that made me feel
tired,seeing again again the storm. Moreover,what i liked most-contrary
to many people- was the end of the movie.It was unpredictable
and,besides that,it is one of the few thrillers that you cannot find
out the end easily.It was very interesting and made me sit tight on my
couch .If you don't pay attention for a while you will "get lost". I
should not forget to refer to the hot presence of Peer that embellished
the movie apart from her casting abilities. Lastly,you should make sure
that you will be 100% concentrated on the film in order to understand
what is happening cause i regard it as one of the most difficult movies
to understand.It is certain that this film will dominate you with
mystery and in parallel make you think a lot of things that will be
predicted wrong in the end. I would give 9 -at least- out of 10 to
Identity.
<|_=00=_|>

Story genre: a thriller which borders on the lines of a horror movie

Storyline: 10 different ppl get stuck in a motel room on a stormy
night.. they start getting killed one by one and the blame keeps
shifting from one alive person to another

Cast: John Cusack rocks in his role - very well supported by the rest
of the cast

+s : the suspense is maintained well, individual performances excellent
background music

-s : the ending might not be appreciated by some folks

<|_=00=_|>

Let me tell you that I will give away nothing about the plot in this
review
and no spoilers will be included.

The movie is really a multi genre film. Thriller, Suspense, Horror but I
would definately put it more into the mystery category.

The story is hard enough to explain but trust me see the movie and you
will
not regret it.

The acting is perfect, each character is played extremely well by their
respective actors, Ray Liotta, John Cusack, Amanda Peet and many others
really do make this a top notch movie and one that will keep you guessing
right till the final credits.

I must also state that this movie involves one of the biggest twists that
I
have ever seen in a movie since the sixth sense or even the others. The
twist is unforgettable and is enough of a reason to go out and see this
amazingly written and directed edge-of-your-seat-thriller.

Let me finish by saying that I gave this movie a perfect 10, you cant
beat
it and for a genuine shock and thrill see this one because I know that
you
will enjoy it.
