

"Baptists at Our Barbecue" is the first movie I've seen in a long time
that sent me out of the screening feeling great, happy to be alive,
with a new love of other people...at least the first movie since
"Napoleon Dynamite." This movie is full of overtly Mormon and Baptist
characters, and yet it was accessible to everyone I saw it with,
despite their wide range of beliefs. The story is about a small town of
half Mormons and half Baptists, their bizarre religious feud, and the
strange series of events that conspire to change their situation. It's
also a love story, between an everyman forest ranger - twenty-nine, and
convinced he might always be single - and a beautiful woman who comes
to town to recover from a bad break-up. The town's bizarre feud makes
things difficult for their relationship to progress, and yet brings
them closer, as well, through a series of hilarious, surprising
developments, and a sweet, touching ending that made me want to fall in
love. It also made me feel grateful for the chance to break from
laughing. ...My ribs hurt.

<|_=00=_|>
I may not be mormon, but I LOVED this movie. It's cute, clean, and well
worth watching. Not to mention, Tartan isn't too hard on the eyes
either! Although the movie starts out somewhat slow, the love story
soon comes into play between Tartan and Charity. I found myself
cheering for the couple all the way through the movie. If you are a
Christian, I would definitely recommend it. My only complaint is they
never really tell you why the Baptists and the Mormons don't get along.
I would have liked to have some more information of their differing
theologies. I read up on the main actor, and it turns out that he is
Mormon in real life too. But don't mistake this movie for evangelizing;
it is subtle in its religious texts and does not force anything upon
the viewer.
<|_=00=_|>
Not really a great movie, or a great use of talent, and the portrayal
of the Church and the situation in the town was unbelievable and
ridiculous, BUT: it had its very funny moments, and was clean. The
underlying theme of getting along and resolving differences by bringing
people of varying ideas together was apt and even noble. I'm a Mormon
and I know my Baptist cousins are taught at we (Mormons) are going
straight to hell, but they are still accepting of me and my family.
Hence, to an extent, the movie rings true.

Just a note to the critics: This isn't a statement about Mormon
doctrine or the grander social wars in our world or in American
culture; this movie is, obviously, mostly an insider (to Mormons)
poke-fun-at-ourselves type of movie. No reason to get all uppity about
whether the movie took upon itself the most appropriate disparate
subcultures of Christianity, or whether Mormons could truly accept
anyone but others so (from the outside) similar.
<|_=00=_|>
I felt compelled to write this after reading some of the negative
reviews for Baptists at our Barbecue. I bought this DVD on a whim at
Hollywood Video and it was just a lot of fun to watch.

Yes, it's clearly a low-budget little movie but I very much liked the
actors and thought the did a great job. I'm not sure where some of the
other reviewers are coming from in putting them down. It's a quirky
movie with odd characters, most of whom are over-the-top. Would you
expect subtlety? Other reviewers have criticized Heather Beers'
performance as flat in the co-starring role. Maybe a little, but she is
beautiful and pleasant and I'll be looking for her other movies, though
I don't think there are many.

As for insider Mormon jokes, I felt like I got most if not all of the
humor and I am not LDS. And I did find the movie to be funny in a
gentle way. I don't know that I laughed out loud but it was enjoyable
and, again, quirky without being strange or stupid. I like off-beat
movies and I found this one to be easier to watch than, say, Big Fish
or O Brother, Where Art Thou? 

Finally, I really enjoyed the soundtrack. Much of the music just put a
smile on my face.
<|_=00=_|>
First, I'm not a Mormon, nor am I a Baptist (although I am a born-again
Christian). Second, I'm a big indie fan (I generally hate
blockbusters). Third, as much as I love movies, I'm tired of sex and
cursing thrown in for no good reason than prurience, which generally
distracts from the story line. Fourth, I love watching movies with my
family (kids aged 13-23), but trying to find one that appeals to all
age groups without insulting or embarrassing at least one at some level
is quite a challenge.

How refreshing to see a movie that portrays religion as an integral
part of life (as it is in my family and my circle of friends) without
the main (religious) characters being portrayed as boorish,
hypocritical, sanctimonious, etc. They're normal. And they consider God
to be a normal part of their lives. Do I know boorish, hypocritical,
and sanctimonious religious people? Of course I do. I also know
NON-religious people who fall into that category. But the media
generally presents religious people ONLY in those terms (or else
totally wimpish and ineffective, like Father Mulcahy on M*A*S*H). So
there were boorish, hypocritical, and sanctimonious people, both Mormon
and Baptist, in this movie. There are in my church, as well. But there
are also good, well-meaning, and even just quirky people who are just
doing their best in a world that teaches us to satisfy every personal
desire ("Try every possible sexual permutation! You owe it to
yourself!") than to try to discipline one's personal desires and do
something that seems distasteful, even if it's the "right" thing to do
("Try reaching out to someone who is different from you -- even if
you're scared. You both might learn something.")

Simplistic story? Maybe. Boy meets girl, boy may lose girl, etc. There
is an element of The Wizard of Oz in here -- "There's no place like
home," even if it's not the most exciting place. The acting was fine --
certainly no worse than many other (and much better-known) actors'
efforts (Nicholas Cage comes to mind as an overpaid one-note -- or
should I say one-whine -- "thespian"). Were there some clichéd
situations presented (i.e., the wise Native American)? Yes, but again,
no more so than in other multi-million cinematic efforts. Of course,
since my personal beliefs are closer to Baptist than to Mormon, I would
have preferred to have seen the story told from a Baptist-as-peacemaker
perspective, but ultimately it made no difference.

Thanks, Christian Viussa. I hope to see more of your work in the
future.
<|_=00=_|>
The story of the film was as simple minded as its morality: Go find a
girl, marry her, live with her happily ever after. Though the film had
some fine moments and turns, most of it stayed at the surface of what
might have been shown in a film with the same storyline.

The Baptist/Mormon struggle was only touched superficially and was
mocked about, probably intentionally. A more interesting story would
have been a mixed couple.

If you wanna see a film which doesn't need too much concentration,
which can be watched by the whole family and which teaches your
children modest and conservative values (besides the modern tolerance
stuff ;-) ), you will be fine with this film. Might be shown at a
family-home-evening...
<|_=00=_|>
Baptists at Our Barbecue is a movie apparently produced primarily for a
Mormon audience. By way of example, there are any number of inside
jokes and references that Gentiles will probably miss entirely, a stark
contrast to Garrison Keillor's Lake Woebegon where even outsiders get
the jokes. But much like Lake Woebegon, the essential plot and almost
comic innocence of the characters who populate this movie make it
broadly appealing.

The story is simple enough: an unmarried, 29 year-old Mormon forest
ranger decides to accept a transfer to the oddball town of Longfellow
to escape the efforts of his mother (and the efforts of the mothers of
every unmarried girl in Provo) to get him hitched. But Longfellow is no
ordinary town. Tucked away somewhere in the beautiful Rockies, it is a
community precisely divided between Baptists and Mormons. This balance,
and the competition is engenders, essentially fuels the movie. Yes,
there are the colorful and eccentric characters we have come to expect
from small town settings ever since Andy Griffith introduced us to
Barney, Floyd and the rest of the off-kilter residents of Mayberry; and
there is the central love story between "Tartan," the main character,
and the incredibly beautiful "Charity," played by Heather Beers. There
is even an antagonist, the pathetic "Rich" who provides the movie's
small amount of tension and danger.

What unfolds is general silliness wrapped around a deeper story of the
Baptist and Mormon communities coming together. Recalling the original
Star Trek episode, "Let That Be Your Last Battlefield," starring Frank
Gorshin, the essential point of this movie is that while the Mormons
and Baptists of Longfellow may see each other as starkly "different,"
to the eyes of outsiders they are in fact all but identical. Where
skin-deep differences in "Let That Be" led to tragedy, however, the
characters in Barbecue eventually come to see that the differences are
unimportant.

Neither the script nor the essential story call for great acting, and
the cast does a more than decent job engaging us in the respective
quirks of their characters. If there is one fault to be found in this
movie it is that in an effort to depict the characters as completely
wholesome, even essential human emotions are bleached out of existence.
While the addition of graphic sex would NOT have improved the story one
iota, the main character's lack of response when his house is torched
by the local miscreant strikes a dissonant chord and somehow loses him
the sympathy the audience has built for him. But this is a small
quibble and maybe there really are towns like this somewhere where
people just naturally and repeatedly turn the other cheek Would that it
were so.we could all learn a lesson from such tolerance.
<|_=00=_|>
Movie about a small town with equal numbers of Mormons and Baptists.
New family moves in, cue the overwritten dialog, mediocre acting, green
jello salad with shredded carrots, and every other 'inside Mormon joke'
known to man. Anyone outside the Mormon culture will have a hard time
stomaching this movie. Anyone inside the Mormon culture will be
slightly amused with a chuckle here and there. You'll be much better
off watching Hess's other movies (Napoleon Dynamite, etc..) than trying
to sit through this one. The acting is mediocre. Jared Hess has had his
hands on much more quality films like "Saints and Soldiers", and
"Napoleon Dynamite". I would recommend both movies over this groaner.
<|_=00=_|>
I was very pleasantly surprised by this film. The movie is based around
an old feud between the Mormons and the Baptists in a po-dunk town in
Arizona. Tartan, a born and raised Utahan, moves there to work as a
forest ranger. He is at first astonished at the quirky townspeople and
the religion war, and then later helps to relieve the tension. While
doing this, he falls madly in love a member's visiting niece. The two
have great chemistry and their story is totally original. Anyone
(Mormon or not) would really enjoy this film. It is a light-hearted
comedy with a message. I am also impressed that it isn't just another
LDS comedy, it has a completely different (and better) feel to it.
While there is some funny physical comedy, the lines really are funny
as well (not cheesy). Thoroughly enjoyed it and would recommend it
anyone.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was awful. I had a very difficult time watching this all the
way through. I didn't get the point of the movie. What was the point of
this movie? The soundtrack was bad, acting was bad and the story
uninspiring. The two main characters in the movie were very boring and
their dialog was uninteresting. There was no chemistry among any of the
cast members. I don't know this for a fact, but I suspect that most of
the actors were first timers. The movie could have easily been cut down
to about an hour and half without losing the plot. That indicates how
many useless scenes there were in the movie. I would have rather ha a
root canal during the two hours of the movie. I want those two hours
back! If you want to watch good, funny movie that is family friendly
and made by a bunch of mormons, watch Napoleon Dynamite instead.
