

I hate wrestling, but when I saw "The Rundown" last year I had to admit, The
Rock is one cool guy, and a perfect action star. He's big and tough, but
most importantly he's charismatic and has a sense of humor and a certain
softness that actually makes him seem somewhat vulnerable. This is what sets
him apart from someone like Vin Diesel, who was all set to be the next big
action star but never was because he has no personality or sense of humor.

"Walking Tall" is a remake of a 1973 based-on-fact film about a man who
fights back against corruption in his town by becoming sheriff and waging
war on the bad guys. I haven't seen the original, but I'm willing to bet
it's closer to the truth than the 2004 "Walking Tall", which is packed with
more machine guns, axes, exploding trucks, and gunfighting strippers than
anything that's "based on fact" could possibly be. 

Here, Vaughn returns home after years of being away to find his hometown in
shambles and dependent on a corrupt casino run by drug-dealing,
knife-wielding thugs. After he receives a brutal beating and his nephew
(Khleo Thomas, from "Holes") nearly overdoses on crystal meth bought there,
the war is on. My inner 12 year-old says "Woohoo!". 

Yes, this film is ridiculously over the top. It's also completely
predictable. But it's FUN. A lot of fun, in fact. It's extremely fast paced,
well-acted, the action scenes are excellent, and at just under 80 minutes,
it's exceptionally lean too. Not one unnecessary or drawn-out scene.

"Walking Tall" doesn't aim to be anything except old-fashioned popcorn
entertainment, and it succeeds, yet it has been made with surprising
artistry as well. The cinematography is very good, and there are some
interesting things done with sound and unexpected fade-outs. Also, Vaughn is
an interestingly complex hero (complex as far as these movie go, anyway). At
one point, when he clearly wants to bring a loaded shotgun into a fight with
him, he hesitates, and brings a less-deadly 2x4 instead. It's a neat moment.

So it's not going to be winning any awards any time soon. But I had a really
good time, plain and simple, and the audience I saw it with did
too.
<|_=00=_|>
The Rock is the next great action hero. He has all the requisites. He
is handsome, an amazing athlete with an awesome physique, charismatic,
intelligent, and funny. His star power carries Kevin Bray's "Walking
Tall".

The Rock is great in an entertaining movie. "Walking Tall" though great
fun to watch, and capably produced and directed also punctuates that
The Rock needs to work on more edgy and quality projects. He is
definitely a movie star, who can become a solid actor. 

"Walking Tall" has to overcome a very convoluted writing credit. This
is not a retelling of the Bufford Pussor story, although its original
screen writer, Mort Bristein, is acknowledged. This "Walking Tall" by
David Klass, Channing Gibson, David Levien, and Brian Koppelman tells
the story of returning Special Forces war hero Chris Vaughn (The Rock),
who comes home to a small town outside Seattle. The town mill has been
closed down, and his old high school bud, Jay Hamilton (Neal
McDonough), owns the new town casino and pretty much owns the local
police too. Jay is not the man he remembered from his youth. Chris is
forced to raise his hand reluctantly against Hamilton's men. They leave
him for dead, and fortunately Chris survives. So Chris is out to right
an injustice, and exact revenge with extreme prejudice. This "Walking
Tall" resembles "First Blood" particularly in it's local and plot
setting. 

Props to Director Kevin Bray for delivering on the story line as Chris
exacts his revenge. Bray has a clean and lean style. The action
sequences are crisp and dramatic. The Rock truly excels in the fight
sequences. For one thing he is an big strong guy, and when he is laying
"the smack down" on the villains it is believable and thoroughly
enjoyable. The bad guys truly get what they deserve. 

The supporting cast is solid. Ashley Scott (almost unrecognizable from
the short-lived "Birds of Prey") is good as the stripper with a big
heart who is Chris's love interest. Johnny Knoxville (of "Jackass") is
funny and charming as Chris's bud and deputy Ray. 

I completely enjoyed "Walking Tall". It is a brisk 75 minutes of cool
action, and has the star power of The Rock. I look forward to seeing
more movies starring The Rock.
<|_=00=_|>
The Rock takes a page out of the Chuck Norris bible in his rendition of
a special forces soldier returning to his home town. He quickly learns
things in his hometown are not as he had left them and not for the
better. Soon, things come to a head and he has to make a choice as to
whether he is going to put up with it, or Walk Tall.

As The Rock himself mentioned- the original Sheriff Buford was a white
man in his 40's so remember this is an adaptation of a 1970's movie
script that was originally "based" on a true story, so we are a pretty
long ways out from accurately representing the original events- this is
only representing the SPIRIT of the original true story.

Fabulous fight scenes, a tense script and some funny moments all are
reminiscent of the numerous Chuck Norris movies that portrayed a quiet
guy that doesn't take any bull-crap from nobody man!

While the script made perfect sense in an earlier time - the Viet Nam
era, it doesn't quite fly 100% in this day and age. So suspend a little
belief.You may findyourself scratching your head as to how that could
happen in this day and age.. well.. it could back then - even though it
didn't really haha. However, no mention is made of the actual time
period they are trying to represent- yet they mention current items
like home depot and cops TV show. The moonshine whiskey sheriff buford
fought is updated in this script to be crystal meth/ice.

The acting is surprisingly good for the Rock and he is looking manly in
this movie instead of the sculpted eyebrow weirdo looks he has achieved
in the past. Instead of looking like a dancer in a gay club like he did
in Scorpion King, he looks the rough and tumble part for this role.

His attachment to his family is acted in a clumsy and weak manner but
that isn't really important to the script- even if he only sort of
likes his family he would still protect them with his life so it still
works for the momentum of the movie.

Johnny Knoxville is mainly weak but has some great shining moments
where they allow him to be Johnny Knoxville instead of the stupid 1-d
concept of his character that seems to be forced on him through the
other parts of the flick. At times he is reminiscent of Barney Fife to
Rock's Andy. :-)

If you want to READ about the real man that INSPIRED this really great
story- http://www.sheriffbufordpusser.com/history1.htm (the welcome
page has a picture of him)
<|_=00=_|>

Walking Tall is The Rock's fourth foray into major motion pictures, and
different turn then his previous three trips to the box office.  What
separates 'Walking Tall' from his other films to date is The Rock is left
alone as the sole 'draw' of this film, without a major franchise (The
Mummy
Returns, Scorpion King) or other star power (The Rundown with Sean William
Scott and Christopher Walken) to draw an audience.  Is it a
success?

Yes and no.

Overall, it's an enjoyable action film with good a plot, decent characters
and acting, and some hard-hitting action sequences.  It centres on Chris
Vaughn (The Rock), returning home from the Army after many years of
service,
only to realize it isn't the place he left all those years ago.  A former
friend and casino owner Jay Hamilton (Neal McDonough) controls much of the
town through gambling, prostitution, and drugs.  After Vaughn is attacked
in
the Casino, and his nephew overdoses on drugs, he teams with his best
friend
Ray (Johnny Knoxville), becomes the town's Sheriff, and goes about trying
to
set things right.

It is The Rock's movie first and foremost, and his natural charisma and
personality are what carries the movie at its core.  The Rock plays Chris
Vaughn and delivers as well as can be expected, after four films he is
definitely looking more in his element.  The Rock is supported wonderfully
by the surprising Johnny Knoxville (of Jackass fame) who turns in a
wonderfully solid and funny performance as Ray, Vaughn's best friend and
later deputy.  Neal McDonough plays the main villain of the picture, and
although he doesn't have much to work with outside of being just "the bad
guy", he handles it well, and is matched well against The
Rock.

This movie is decidedly 'heavier' then Rock's previous outings, dealing
with
more significant topics like prostitution and drugs, which gives it a more
serious edge.  It certainly doesn't feel like a 'fun' film, like all of
The
Rock's other movies to date.

The action scenes are solid, and are a firm connection to the plot.
Unlike
Rock's previous films, the fight scenes are more traditional 'realistic'
looking fights.  That being said, for action junkies there's definitely
something here for you, with The Rock getting into it with his hands, and
guns, there's definitely something for everyone.

That said, I felt Walking Tall was a little bit thin.  First and foremost,
it ran at a meagre 85 minutes, which was simply not enough time for a
movie
like this.  Although all the necessary plot points were properly
established, I felt the movie needed another 20 minutes or so to `breath'.
Everything progresses logically, just much too quickly to build the level
of
suspense and anticipation I think the movie was capable of.  As a result,
leading up to the climax of the movie, it almost feels like a race to the
finish.  More character development and background was definitely
warranted,
as well as greater explanation on certain plot points.

I felt that this was a movie that a studio may have cut for time reasons
or
ratings (it also felt like it was being squeezed into PG-13), and if that
were the case, I'd love to see the full version.  I feel it would be a
much
more complete film, with a better build up, therefore making the payoff
mean
all that much more.

Overall, I enjoyed Walking Tall, and would recommend it to anyone despite
its faults.  The Rock is being championed as the next big action star, and
I
have to agree, he has the charisma, looks and moves to make it far, with
Walking Tall being a major 'step' in getting him there.

<|_=00=_|>
The key note here is inspired by a true story. Not based. So who knows
whats true and whats not. I doubt Meth was a big time operation in the
early 70's or whenever this was based. But nevermind that, this was a
fun movie. Yes it's rushed, yes it's 75 minutes long. Yes there is
indeed 11 minutes worth of credits. O_O

But if you wanna see a good Dwayne Johnson movie, this is certainly
better than the other movies he's done so far. 

The acting isn't too bad and good IL Johnny Knoxville continue's to
have a lot of fun. He's growing on me. the sheriff's girlfriend seems to
be a dead ringer (at least for the movie) to Britney Spears. Although
just like Spears, her acting abilities are much in doubt. Dwayne's a
good actor. Hey he's a wrestler, and he's had a lot of practice in that
area. Wrestling is all about acting. ;)

7/10

Quality: 5/10 Entertainment: 10/10 Replayable: 10/10
<|_=00=_|>
After eight years serving the U.S. Army Special Forces, Sergeant Chris
Vaughn (The Rock) returns to his hometown seeking for a job in the
local mill. He is informed by Sheriff Stan Watkins (Michael Bowen) that
the mill was closed six months ago and now the Wild Cherry Casino,
owned by his former high school friend Jay Hamilton (Neal McDonough),
is the major source of jobs and income to the town. Chris goes home,
and meets his best-friend Ray Templeton (Johnny Knoxville), who
organized a football game with their friends. After the game, Jay
invites Chris and his friends to spend the night in his casino on him,
but when Chris finds that the casino stick-man is cheating with the
dices, he fights against the security men and is almost killed by them.
When his nephew Pete (Khleo Thomas) has an OD with amphetamines sold by
the security men of the casino, Chris realizes that the town is
dominated by the mobsters and the corrupt sheriff and with a huge piece
of wood, he breaks the casino and the criminals. He is prosecuted and
in the trial, he promises to the jury and to the population that if he
is considered non-guilty, he would be candidate to the sheriff position
and clean the town. Later, Sheriff Chris Vaughn has to fight against
the organized crime to keep his promise.

"Walking Tall" is a non-stop action movie, with The Rock playing a
character inspired on the legendary McNairy County Sheriff Bruford
Hayser Pusser. I had never heard, read or seen anything about the life
of this brave man, but there are lots of references about his heroic
fight against crime and tragic fate of his family, inclusive a 1973
movie also called "Walking Tall" based on his biography that I believe
has not been released in Brazil. I liked a lot this 2004 fictional
film, with the charismatic The Rock excellent in the role of a honest
man that makes the difference in a corrupt town. Johnny Knoxville is
hilarious, as usual, and this movie is a great entertainment. My vote
is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Com as Próprias Mãos" ("With the Own Hands")
<|_=00=_|>
What makes Walking Tall such a good movie, in my opinion, is that you
really want The Rock to beat the bad guys. Obviously, in these type of
movies the good guys always have to win, so it's really important that
the director make sure the good guys come out looking much better than
the bad guys so that when the good guys win, the audience is satisfied.
This movie does that perfectly having The Rock have something extremely
cowardly done to him near the beginning of the film. Johnny Knoxville
adds a lot to this movie as well with some good humor. Overall it's
just good entertainment the whole time.

So check this out some time because it's a prime example of how a
slightly more adult feel-good movie should be done.
<|_=00=_|>
Walking Tall is a decent remake with some flaws from director Ken Bray
whose admirable in making this movie but a short running time, some
over the top action, and the lack of a more central villain is what
weighed it down. Walking Tall however isn't that bad and it's one of
the better remakes out there. Dwayne Johnson is solid as the lead and
proves to be a talented actor while bringing some of his wresting
experience to the movie during the action/fight sequences. Johnson
turns in a good performance of a man who returns home to find it
overrun by crime and corruption, which drives him to become sheriff in
order to put an end to it. The rest of the cast including Johnny
Knoxville, Neal McDonough, and Ashley Scott are okay in their roles but
(except for maybe Knoxville) they're not given much to do. The movie
felt short and rushed with an 86 minute running time. Some of the fight
sequences especially the one near the end between Johnson and McDonough
go over the top. Johnson's performance however and the action sequences
make this movie worth seeing at least once. Overall despite its flaws
Walking Tall is decent remake one of the better ones with intense
action, fist fights, some humor, and good performances by the cast.
<|_=00=_|>

After having found Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson's last film, The Rundown, a
very enjoyable action outing, I was hoping for big things from The Rock.
When I discovered his next film was this remake of the 1973 version of
Walking Tall I was hoping for great things.  The week before the premiere
my
enthusiasm was tempered by three huge things the film had working against
it.

The first disappointment was in discovering it was to be an MGM release.
From the studio that once boasted "more stars than there are in heaven" it
can now be referred to the studio that makes it as cheap as possible, then
throws it on the big screen for a few weeks, and finishes it off by
rushing
the DVD out to market.  As a profitability concept, I can't argue whether
the strategy is working or not, but having seen many of their recent films
I
can say it fails as far as any kind of cinematic achievements are
concerned.
Oh sure, once in a while they get lucky with one and it's half way
decent,
but it's not because of any real concern for quality.

The second slap in the face was to discover the running time was a little
over an hour and fifteen minutes.  Considering that the original Walking
Tall with Joe Don Baker ran for over two hours, this was definitely not a
good sign.  Add to that the fact that I had once seen the running time of
the remake listed as one hour and forty minutes, one could only guess as
to
what footage was now cluttering the cutting room floor.

Then the coup de grace was after reading some of the IMDB comments before
leaving for the theater, we find that Vince McMahon, the guy who gave us
Wrestling and even worst, the XFL, has his hand in this film some where.
Things were not looking good this morning but my mind was made up and I
was
going to go.  So, were my early hopes realized, or did my worst nightmare
come true?  The answer is somewhere in between.

Whereas the first Walking Tall film was a fictionalized account of Sheriff
Buford Pusser of McNairy County in Tennessee, the writers, producers and
director of this remake decided it wasn't fictionalized enough.  Not only
does it no longer take place in Tennessee, it now takes place in
Washington.
Our hero is no longer Buford Pusser the ex-wrestler he is now Chris
Vaughn,
ex U.S. Special Forces Sergeant.  I guess it wouldn't have looked good to
have The Rock talking negatively about wrestling the way Joe Don Baker
badmouthed it in the original.  Especially since Vince McMahon is a
producer.  Chris, unlike Buford who had a wife and two kids, is single.
But
he does have an ex-girlfriend lurking about somewhere.  The reason I
relate
this information to you is because a lot of the original film depended on
Buford's home life. In this version it is only slightly needed, which
would
partially explain the short running time.  It also makes this remake a
film
that lacks the ability to involve us in it's storyline like we should
be.

Walking Tall actually does start off well and is relatively faithful to
the
original.  Upon returning home, Buford...err I mean Chris, returns home to
find that the Lumber Mill that supported his home town has closed placing
his father, Chris Sr. (John Beasley)out of work.  Also living at home are
his mother, his paramedic sister, and his nephew.  Unfortunately, unlike
the
original film, his family is here for the purpose of supplying a few plot
devices that develop later in the film and nothing more.

What is new in town is a corrupt casino, built by the an old buddy,(Neal
Mcdonough), who closed the mill putting everybody out of work.  On a visit
there with his friend Ray (Johnny Knoxville), Chris finds some crooked
dice
at a crap game.  After fighting with the casino's security force, he is
subdued, viciously cut and left for dead.  Later when Chris's nephew
overdoses on drugs (ahh! the plot device I mentioned) supplied by the same
people who knifed him, Chris decides to seek revenge.  It is at this
moment
that the film begins to loose it's grip by degenerating into a series of
poorly staged fights and even worse shoot 'em ups.

Portions of the film are entertaining, in large part due to the on screen
natural charisma that The Rock has.  Just as in The Rundown, the role of
action hero seems to come naturally to him, and as far as acting ability
is
concerned, after only three leading roles he is already ahead of
Schwarzenegger's capabilities after the same number of films.  An even
bigger surprise was Johnny Knoxville as his best friend Ray.  He has some
of
the best written lines in the film, and seems to have just the right
screen
persona for his role.  The rest of the cast is basically generic.  Neal
McDonough's villainous Jay, talks more threatening than he appears and
that's a major problem.  In the original film, the threat of danger always
seemed imminent and except for Chris's initial fight, we never believe he
or
anyone else is in any real danger.  Even a tussle between Ray and some
guys
holding Rock's family hostage is played partially for laughs, which also
indicates how badly the film slips into being just another cardboard
action
film.

Another gripe I have though, is obviously there are chunks of this film
that
are missing.  I don't know whether it was a studio decision, a McMahon
decision, or a decision by director Bray, to cut the film, but the
decision
was a bad one.  At times the film loses what little cohesiveness it has by
leaving some scenes unfinished, and jumping inexplicably to others.  Go
figure.

I suppose there's nothing totally bad about being a formulaic action film,
except there is no reason why this film couldn't have been and shouldn't
have been so much more.  If it had been developed into the same kind of
engrossing story that the original was, it wouldn't matter how much they
changed it.  It was a golden opportunity for The Rock to really shine and
strut his stuff, but it is an opportunity now lost.  If memory serves me
correctly, the original Walking Tall was blasted mercilessly and I think
unfairly by some critics.  Audiences didn't care though and they flocked
to
it.  This remake has also been blasted by some critics and I won't
disagree
with them.  Unfortunately for The Rock, I don't think the audiences are
going to stand in line for this one.

If you want to see more about the original Walking Tall film you must do
two
things.  First, forget that you ever saw Joe Don Baker in Mitchell, and
second, get the DVD that is readily available.  That's my recommendation,
and when I have to recommend another film to people, I have no choice but
to
give the remake my grade which is a more than generous
C-


<|_=00=_|>
First off, I'm a huge Arnie fan. I love the action flick and my hero of
action is Arnie with Willis coming a close second. So when I heard that
Welcome to the Jungle represented Arnie handing the mantle to some WWF
wrestler I was extremely disappointed, how could anyone entertain me as
Arnie had?

Well I never did see Jungle, but I have just watched Walking Tall and
met this Rock fella, and you know what? I'm impressed. If this is the
guy to carry on what Arnie did, I'm with him all the way.

Movie: In this movie Rock can act, and act well. He's big and really
grabs a hold of the action hero role, but on top of that he's
personable, engaging and very believable. He has a great screen
presence, his lines aren't delivered flat, there's not any overacting
and he's very real in the role.

What's more surprising is that Johnny Knocksville isn't that bad
either. I've heard many negative things about this guys acting, but in
this movie he doesn't do too badly. Sure, he does look a little awkward
in some scenes but overall he's very competent.

Neal McDonough who I last saw in the TV show called Boomtown is, if it
wasn't for Rocks surprising performance, the star of the film.
Essentially playing his character from Boomtown but without any of the
good characters aspects, he's mean and ruthless here, a part he plays
superbly well.

The story does have an older more western or fifties feel to it, and
this stands it in good stead making it feel less like a modern action
movie and more of a character based story. Something it carries off
really well and helped by the large performances of the actors
involved. It also does a good job of building tension and developing
the story at a good pace.

There's a good filming style in the movie, simple and realistic,
helping the feel of the movie along leaps and bounds. That seems to
come through on everything from the camera work to the dialogue and
from the fight scenes to the sometimes excellent editing - most
memorable as the Rock drives through town after his second Casino
visit. The fight scenes benefit most from this style, giving a wide
view of very realistic hand to hand fighting which often turns out to
be quite brutal. The characters pick up anything to fight with and
there's no stylish moves here. They are tough, vicious and the
characters get seriously hurt.

Picture: Widescreen 2.35:1 - Anamorphic In keeping with the realistic
tone of the film the picture is filled with natural colours and
lighting, nothing is over saturated and it's clear and sharp
throughout.

Audio: Dolby Digital 5.1, Dolby Digital 2.0 - The audio is good and
particularly strong during some of the fight sequences. It also
features a soundtrack which matches the setting and tone of the film
well.

Extras: Audio commentary from director Kevin Bray, director of
photography Glen MacPherson and editor Robert Ivision, Audio commentary
with star Dwayne 'The Rock' Johnson, Alternative ending, Outtakes,
'Stunts' featurette introduced by The Rock, Photo gallery, Theatrical
trailer

The deleted scenes and outtakes are interesting but not that
entertaining or overly informative, apart from the Rock's accidental
breast grab. The same applies to the alternative ending which is a
little bit funny, but nothing revealing about the editing decisions.

The audio commentaries are the strong part of this DVD offering, with
one from the Director, Director of Photography and Editor, and the
other from the man himself, Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson. Although the
filmmakers commentary is informative, the commentary from the Rock is
as much of a surprise as the movie itself. It's both amusing and
insightful for the movie making process as well as the person himself.
Surprisingly humble, self depreciating and open, the commentary lets
you get to know the Rock as well as a ton of facts about the movie and
the actors. This guy can talk!

Overall: I saw the first comment about this movie on IMDb and it slates
it, calling it a mindless action movie. Quite frankly that's rubbish.
This movie has a lot more to it that most action flicks and has a fair
chunk of characterisation over them too. It's quite a morale tale, as
well as one based on a true life story, and apparently it's quite true
to the real story. However it does have its fair share of action, but
something that stands out for the movie is the realism in which it is
portrayed and shot. There are still some traditional action scenes, but
for the most part it keeps it grounded and tells a good tale that does
give you a warm feeling. Entertainment with a good message, I like it.

Also, for your consideration, is the performance of the Rock. Not only
does he prove himself to be a great action hero, but he also surprises
you in his acting ability. I was wholly taken in by him and really
latched onto his performance. Don't forget we also have the delights of
McDonough as his adversary.

It's well shot, well acted, and a good entertaining story with more
meat than you would expect. Don't write this off as a simple action
movie, look deeper, give it a chance, and check out the audio
commentary by the Rock.
