
If you see a preview for The Wedding Date before you go see it, you
understand what type of movie this is. It's a chick flick. It's a cute,
mildly funny, sometimes sappy, story about a woman, Kat, played by
Debra Messing, so wrecked from her last relationship that when she has
to go to her sister's wedding where she knows that he ex will be she
hires a male escort to go and make him jealous and her family get off
her case. The escort, Nick, played by Dermot Mulroney, isn't your
average Gigolo. No, he's what you would consider the cream of the crop,
and he doesn't come cheap. A cute, non-threatening premise, for a
genuinely cute, non-threatening, romantic comedy.

You can't go in expecting genius, because that's not what you'll get.
The Wedding Date, however, is a glorious, indulgent movie that will
leave you smiling. It's a movie for women, by a woman director, and
it's really for any girl who ever wished she could have a happy ending
like Cinderella. It's not all roses, of course, which keeps it
interesting. It's all par for the course, however, when it comes to
romantic comedies. Plus, the few glimpses of a bare-bottomed, Mulroney
will keep you interested, too.

I ranked this movie an 8 out of 10. I wasn't comparing it to Gone with
the Wind, or the Godfather. I was comparing it to other cute romantic
comedies, and as far as they go, this was a good one.
<|_=00=_|>
Kat (Debra Messing), an airline executive, fears going alone to her
snooty sister's wedding in London. This is especially so because her
ex-fiancé will be there as well. Though young and beautiful, Kat
nevertheless plunks down a cool $6,000 for a professional escort. In
return, the gorgeous Nick (Dermot Mulroney) must play the role of her
new and attentive boyfriend. Kat's sister, Amy, a la Monsoon Wedding,
has planned her wedding extravaganza to last four days, complete with
picnics, cricket, splashy parties and more. Can Kat and Nick pull it
off? Do they have enough natural attraction for each other? And what
about past loves? Messing and Mulroney make this film work, period. The
script has some weaknesses and letdowns, but the darling duo rises
above them. The nice scenery and costumes are also a bonus. There is a
moment when Kat tells Nick he is worth every penny. The same could be
said of the ticket price, as watching Debra and Dermot is very
satisfying. Sometimes, the world just needs a silly love movie. What's
wrong with that? I'd like to know.
<|_=00=_|>
The Wedding Date is an excellent date movie. You can't help but
empathize with the characters in this "Pretty Woman" type movie. The
two main cast members are a perfect match for each other. More than
just a romantic comedy, it is a good people movie in which you can
visualize yourself (or someone you know) embodied in one of the cast's
believable characters. There are several belly laughs peppered with a
few moist-eyed moments making this a very good movie for teens and the
young at heart, regardless of age. Granted, it may not be nominated for
any academy-type awards, but it rates high marks as a delightful
people's choice contender. The movie's entertainment value is clearly
worth the price of box office admission. I left the theater giggling to
myself...
<|_=00=_|>
I want see this movie again. After reading some reviews, I had my
doubts, but I have to say that I had a good time watching Wedding Date.
I found myself laughing throughout the movie, and Mulroney is
absolutely hot. Messing is perfect as Kat. They have great chemistry.
The writing is smart and fun. I liked how the story unfolded, and the
pace was just right. Wedding Date has a few twists and turns to keep it
from being another formula flick. The story and characters are
refreshing and different enough that it doesn't mimic other movies for
me. The English countryside is beautiful, and the other scenes added a
romantic touch too. I liked the decor of the her parents' home and her
old bedroom. It complimented the romantic theme well and made me look.
Any romantic will enjoy this fun and sexy romp.
<|_=00=_|>
Critics shritics. I loved the movie. To me, this is a great romantic
comedy. It has a sweet heroine and a gorgeous man who literally is the
perfect guy for her. Like critics say, it was predictable. But the
movie ended exactly like I wanted it to so I wasn't disappointed at
all. I left my boyfriend in front of the TV drinking beer and watching
the superbowl with his buddies. Hey, if men can have a fantasy world to
escape in to, so can I.

Sometimes it's great to just go to the movies and escape into a
romantic fantasy. I wish that every guy would see this movie because
they could learn something about what women want from the leading man.
It's really not that hard guys. I think this movie was the perfect
escape for women who don't want to watch football.
<|_=00=_|>
that is what i am and that is what this movie is. I don't think it is
supposed to be a profoundly deep movie. This is a very welcomed break
from the good, but overdone dramas of the day. I love them, but who
doesn't like to see a guilty pleasure movie every now and then? This
movie can cure the worst attitude and your craving fora good chick
flick. It is very funny and the clichés they use are used to please the
audience and the characters. so, i mean give it up, sit back, and just
enjoy this very awesome movie.

The actors are very well cast, and while i must agree that some of the
many plot lines are mostly left hanging, the important ones are not.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was soooo cute!!! It was one of the better romantic comedies
that I've seen in awhile. I much prefer Dermot Mulroney in this movie
than in My Best Friend's Wedding with Julia Roberts. While the movie
did have a very simple plot it was made totally enjoyable by the wacky
cast of characters and great one-liners that they tossed out. It
highlighted how families can put the 'fun' in 'dysfunctional'. It also
had some very good serious moments between father and daughter, and man
to man. The movie was about a wedding, and like weddings it encompasses
both endings and beginnings. I highly recommend this to anyone who
loves to laugh and loves happy endings.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to this movie hoping for a fun enjoyable romantic comedy. I was
rewarded with a truly wonderful romantic comedy. I loved everything
about it - the cast, the writing and the setting. 

Debra Messing and Dermot had good on screen chemistry and there were
twists in the plot that I don't think anyone could have foreseen. I
hear this movie was done on the cheap but it sure doesn't look it.
Debra brought her comedic skills to the big screen showing she isn't
just a TV star she is now a full fledge leading lady - watch out Julia!

I highly recommend this movie to anyone who enjoys the romantic comedy
genre. I loved it so much I would have bought a copy on the spot
leaving the theatre to have as my own.

Don't believe the critics who are panning this movie see for yourself a
wonderful romantic film.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie tonight, the night it came out and it was wonderful.
The plot of this movie reminds me of A Walk in the Clouds (Debra
Messing's first movie). What chemistry between the main characters!
Debra Messing's character reminds me somewhat of her Will and Grace
character. She is classic,elegant, and beautiful with her style. Dermot
Mulroney is sexy and charming. It was funny and romantic and had some
really great quotes. The music was fun so you may want to run out and
buy the soundtrack after singing out loud in the theater. I loved every
minute and thought it was worth every penny.I will buy this movie the
day it comes out on DVD.
<|_=00=_|>
There have been so many many films based on the same theme. single cute
girl needs handsome boy to impress ex, pays him and then (guess what?)
she falls in love with him, there's a bit of fumbling followed by a row
before everyone makes up before the happy ending......this has been
done many times.

The thing is I knew this before starting to watch. But, despite this, I
was still looking forward to it. In the right hands, with a good cast
and a bright script it can still be a pleasant way to pass a couple of
hours.

this was none of these.

this was dire.

A female lead lacking in charm or wit who totally failed to light even
the slightest spark in me. I truly did not care if she "got her man" or
remained single and unhappy.

A male lead who, after a few of his endless words of wisdom, i wanted
to kill. Just to remove that smug look. i had no idea that leading a
life of a male whore was the path to all-seeing all-knowing
enlightenment.

A totally unrealistic film filled with unrealistic characters. none of
them seemed to have jobs, all of them had more money than sense, a
bridegroom who still goes ahead with his wedding after learning that
his bride slept with his best friend....plus "i would miss you even if
we had never met"!!!!! i could go on but i have just realised that i am
wasting even more time on this dross.....I could rant about introducing
a character just to have a very cheap laugh at the name "woody" but in
truth that was the only remotely humorous thing that happened in the
film.
