
Gustave Klopp does a lot of dreaming. Born with an incurable "design
flaw" (narcolepsy), stress causes him to fall fast asleep. So,
understandably, he sleeps through most of school, being a teenager,
dating, marrying, numerous jobs and having a mortgage.

But his sickness finally provides meaning to his life when he starts
turning his dreams (heavily influenced by his father's love of American
action movies) into comic books. His therapy group of misfits love his
stories, but his therapist, his wife and his best friend all have
ulterior motives and Gustave has to wake up to reality, or lose
everything.

The film is quirky, funny and populated with eccentric characters with
big dreams and thwarted ambitions. A surreal comedy that is also
poignant and cruel.
<|_=00=_|>
(Sorry about my English dude i am french)I would hesitate between 7 and
8 mark. but does it matter ? The film is a highly emotional ballad
through ordinary lifes. Poelvorde is a truly good actor to me : he has
the ability to play ordinary guy but he transform them into heroes! the
emotion he can bring to his scenes is terrific. The man has a true
quality for generating emotion on screen. The scenes with Jean-Claude
Van Dame is beautiful, even though this actor is sometimes laugh at, he
appears as an angel in this film. Leny the worldwide karateka champion
needs this icon to find a sens to his life. Some people think this is
bulls*** : i say one should never laugh at the power of a dream or an
idea when it is really the sens of someone life ! I advise you to watch
this film if you are not a "mainstream only" !
<|_=00=_|>
After Atomik Circus, the hyperactive Belgian Benoît Poelvoorde is yet
again jumping with young directors and writers in a crazy movie with
lots of pace, plenty of ideas and references, a lot of humor (JC Van
Damme laughing at the image of himself that was built and then that has
spread to all french-speakers in the world after several interviews and
comments he made when on drugs again and again, several crazy TV
appearances saying stupid things absurd semi-philosophical metaphorical
sentences in a very pedantic tone while they meant nothing because he
was stoned etc...) and some critics made about current society with
wit, discretely etc...He succeeds at making his crazily pathetic
character very touching and above all hilarious as always...

Fantastic cast : Guillaume Canet, Zabou Breitman (= two directors ),
Benoît Poelvoorde as Lenny Bar (there is a game of words with this name
in French so that when you pronounce his character's surname + last
name it sounds as if you've said : "the boobs"...Stupid right now but
funny during some scenes in the movie...LOL!), Guillaume Gallienne of
the "Comédie Française" (from 'Monsieur Ibrahim' which won a prize at
the Mostra de Venezia with Omar Sharif and introducing Pierre
Boulanger...), a small but very funny part for Gilles Lellouche's girl
Mélanie Doutey as a girl who only sees half of things, a funny part for
Lellouche himself as one of the bounty hunters/ice-skaters twins next
to Léa Drucker (who has played in each of Aurouet & Lellouche's two
short-films...), François Berléand is good in this kind of cynical
roles as always, Jean-Pierre Cassel (yep, Vincent and Cécile's
father...) is coming back stronger than ever with both this movie and
the great but under-rated "Virgil" in which he was even better...etc...

Oh and don't blink to catch Guillaume Canet's 6 years wife at the time
(they're not together anymore) make a small kind of cameo appearance as
a nightclubber at some point in the movie...LOL

Just go see it!
<|_=00=_|>
Don't misunderstand me. I liked the movie. 

At first I was disappointed. I was mostly examining the flaws in the
acting , the poverty of dialogues etc. And then, I don't know how, I
was enjoying the film very much.

The way I see it, Poelvoorde's evolution in cinema is always aiming to
get closer and closer to the poor simple guy, struggling to get a sense
to his life. In that one we have three. Two are best friends, the third
is Gus' wife. I won't spoil the story since I think it deserves to be
seen, but they managed to give a true picture of very particular yet
totally second-rate lives.

Despite the apparent poverty of the situation (except in Gus' dreams),
there's a lot going on, many clichés and references to Tarantino's
movie making as well. And Van Damme is perfect: a counsellor for a dumb
clueless guy who thinks he's the best karateka in the world. I think
he's got his place there too.

Pretty hard to get a clear opinion on this, there's a lot of mixed
messages ... Once again I won't recommend it for people used to
mainstream movies.

I gave it 8 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
Everything about the first half is funny and seems nicely thought out.
Somehow the second half seems to slow down.

Poelvoorde's character is almost always (happily) Poelvoorde doing
Poelvoorde. In French cinema he is just very idiosyncratic and so must
play the part of the Belgian "grande geule" more than just a couple of
times. But this film is not just him alone. There are some great scenes
and ideas and characters. The adorable Guillaume Gallienne plays the
psychologist, Pupkin, who has ambitions to be the greatest cartoonist
alongside Uderzo & Goscinny, Franquin, and Hergé. François Berléand
('Au Revoir les Enfants'), the beautiful Zabou Breitman and Guillaume
Canet are all very good.

The fantastic dream sequences, and the suburban setting with its
faceless hypermarket, amusements, and bars are very somewhere nowhere
USA. The mustard and ketchup in plastic vessels on the table almost
cements the suspicion that this a misguided attempt to make this feel
American, or even to be an American style blockbuster, but its too
French (and Poelvoorde too Belgian.) 

The tank hatch opening ("Eh-oh!"), the sibling assassins arrival, the
'80s discos, and the psychologists' patients are among some great
scenes here. But Poelvoorde steals the show. The Jean Claude
conversation, and his public karate show performance is exceeded only
by the outstanding karate school lesson with hangover victim and child.

It's a good film with a lot of humour, although it dwindles a little by
the end.
