
When this movie came out critics and audiences were saying how rubbish
it was and it was a waste of time and money, but as i have a keen
interest in the paranormal i still wanted to see it anyway and i glad i
did! This is a family film but there are elements of adult horror here
such as suicides, murder and even zombies! The story is of a typical
workaholic dad who neglects his family and decides to take them away to
make up for this, but when he receives a call asking him to sell a
mansion he can't refuse so off he and his family go.

Once there they meet the creepy butler Ramsley and the owner Mr Gracy
who are obviously ghosts, and from then on all the supernatural events
follow one-another from zombie reflections to levitating around a
psychic in a crystal ball called Madame Leota. And i thought she was
the best character in the film, not just because i'm a Jennifer Tilly
fan but because she is very funny and has a strong personality for just
a head.

The effects are as amazing as the sets with the green glow of Madame
Leota, the zombies and more even the people who didn't like this film
can't deny that the effects are excellent. As i said the sets are also
some of the best i've seen the mansion is absolutely breathtaking.

The only thing that i think is bad with this movie is the child actors,
they just look bored going round the mansion with straight faces even
though they follow ghostly orbs into unknown places. But apart from
this the rest of the film is great fun for kids and for the adults who
aren't afraid to turn their brain off for 90mins. WATCH IT!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
'The Haunted Mansion' got a lot of bombs thrown at it by critics, and
almost nobody liked it. Well, guess what: I did. It's a faithful homage
to the ride, the actors are interesting, and the horror side of the
story is appropriately creepy. The plot is partially based on the
French version of the ride, and it's decent. Although the movie never
answers the question of why Master Gracey (Nathaniel Parker, who's
really good here) couldn't marry his sweetheart Elizabeth (who was
black), the hints are pretty obvious. And I liked the whole concept of
the curse (even though it doesn't make any sense). The little nods to
the ride throughout the movie are fun, especially Jennifer Tilly as
Madame Leota, a disembodied head inside a crystal ball who speaks in
riddles. Tilly can do this husky-voiced role in her sleep, and I liked
her (the special effects involving her are pretty neat too). Although
Eddie Murphy is miscast, and there are zero laughs in the movie, his
mugging for the camera doesn't hurt the movie. The kids are OK, and
Marsha Thomason does what she can with a thankless role, but it's
Terence Stamp who steals the movie. He is Ramsley, the sinister butler
of Master Gracey. With his deep rumbling British accent, Stamp gives a
deliciously over-the-top performance, and he does here what Johnny Depp
did for 'Pirates of the Caribbean'. Back to Eddie Murphy for a minute:
Although he earns no laughs, he plays noncomedic scenes well, and he
has some good banter with Stamp. The production design of the mansion
and the ghostly special effects are very cool, particularly a zombie
attack that pushes the PG rating to it's limits. Is 'The Haunted
Mansion' a great movie? Absolutely not; they could have punched up the
comedy aspect of the movie. It's not a bad movie, though. I thought it
was very entertaining, and it's certainly better than the awful
trailers. Not as good as 'Pirates', but a fun ride nonetheless.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, I am a Disney kid that grew up going to Disneyland in CA
every year. Since I am a fan of the ride, "The Haunted Mansion", I
guess I expected this film to be good. When I heard the mediocre
reviews, I backed off from watching it until I just bought it on DVD
this past weekend. I was very surprised to find it a lot better than I
expected. My kids loved it and have watched it about 3 times.

The sets were beautiful and intricate, the costumes and make-up are
gorgeous and the special effects are amazing. Rick Baker "Monster
Maker" is so talented and has done an impressive (as always) job
creating a vision from the Haunted Mansion ride that he also admired.

If you are a fan of the ride, I would imagine that you would enjoy this
movie as much as me.
<|_=00=_|>

Eddie Murphy? What genius thought up this lame script? Sure, they toss
in a dozen homages to the original ride, but Disney flubbed a golden
opportunity to create a classic film. Don't take one of the
most-beloved rides from Disneyland/World, and come up with a sub-par
comedy, with smart-mouthed kids, and a jabbering Eddie Murphy.

Tech credits are great, though. 

Don't be fooled by the DVD's claim of a "Virtual Ride of The Haunted
Mansion." I was expecting a recap of the actual park attraction, but
was instead treated to a tour of the movie set.

Also, Disney....why not just AVOID crude jokes and profanity in this
type of family film? The scares alone garner the rating you desire.
Don't dumb this down when it's not necessary. Have you not learned
ANYTHING since "Watcher in the Woods"? (And THAT was definitely
creepier.)

<|_=00=_|>
This movie did not work and was a disaster, considering the budget was
$90 million. The plot was so simplistic and done a thousand times. A
guy, in this case a ghost, wants his long lost love back, who he thinks
is reincarniated as Jim Evers' wife. He believes she committed suicide
back in the day. Of course, he was tricked and betrayed by someone he
trusted. So, Sara Evers gets lured back to the haunted mansion, but
brings her family along. Then her husband and kids have an adventure
involving ghosts and a talking crystal ball. But, it was written for a
10 year old, and it simply was not funny.

Eddie Murray had a slight come back with Daddy Day Care; that was OK
and did have some funny things. But, this movie sends his career south.
I don't understand why he agrees to be in these type of films; I guess
for the pay check. But, I can't believe he read the script and said,
"Now this is interesting, with good humor."

And the ghosts were bad CGI and not very imaginative. I could not
believe the great Rick Baker was involved with this flick. Most of his
ideas must not have been used.

FINAL VERDICT: I don't recommend it for anyone.
<|_=00=_|>
This was a very poorly reviewed film, and it didn't deserve such flack.
For me, it was a dumb, entertaining movie with some heart. For others,
it was a terrible job of emulating the classic Disney ride and just
another stupid Eddie Murphy comedy vehicle. Though I'd rather go on the
ride as opposed to watching this, it still has it's charm. This movie
is about a Realtor (Murphy) and his family traveling to a haunted
mansion for a business deal. While in the house they learn some strange
things and end up traveling through various rooms found in the ride
(the bride, the ballroom, Madame Leota, the graveyard with the singing
busts). In the end, this is a fun movie for kids, and amusing for
adults, with fun references, and a fun performance by Murphy and the
kids.

My rating: ** 1/2 out of ****. 85 mins. PG for mild language, violence
<|_=00=_|>
Another nail in the coffin of Eddie Murphy's career, The Haunted
Mansion is a slap-dash attempt to cash in on The Pirates of the
Caribbean, an infinitely more successful and better film based on a
Disneyland ride. There's just nothing here to write about--very little
human drama and not enough computer wizardry to keep you from noticing
you don't care about the humans.

About the only two things worth mentioning are Jennifer Tilly's fairly
funny Madame Leota, a wisecracking Gypsy trapped in a bright green
crystal medicine ball and Marsha Thomason, not for any acting ability
but simply that she is beautiful and her beauty relieves some of the
boredom. 

Oh, well. At least it didn't have some character pontificating, "Follow
your heart!"--the ubiquitous and hackneyed Disney message
<|_=00=_|>

'The Haunted Mansion,' a film 'inspired' by the Disney theme-park
attraction of the same name, feels like a cross between 'The Haunting'
and 'The Ghost and Mr. Chicken.' Eddie Murphy is a real estate agent
working in tandem with his wife, Marsha Thomason. One day she receives
a call from a mysterious stranger asking her to check out some property
he wants to put up for sale. Even though the caller specifically asks
that she come alone, Murphy decides to go along with her, bringing
their two young children as well. When they arrive on the scene, the
family finds a mansion replete with all the paraphernalia common to a
conventional haunted house - sliding panels, hidden passageways, a
graveyard in the backyard, an eccentric owner, a creepy butler (played
with delicious relish by Terence Stamp) and, of course, a houseful of
unruly and unsettled resident ghosts. Once ensconced inside, the family
discovers – much like homeowners in a buyer's market - that it's always
easier to get into a haunted house than it is to get out of one.

Murphy assumes the Bob Hope role of the comical skeptic who meets each
and every danger with a defiant wisecrack and clever quip.
Unfortunately, even Murphy, for all his talent, can't rescue material
that doesn't have anything much there to begin with. The story is
predictable and silly and the dialogue woefully bereft of laughs.
There's also one glaring plot hole that should not go unremarked upon.
Thomason is supposed to be a (pardon the pun) dead-ringer for a woman
who killed herself a hundred and fifty years ago, yet there is no way
that, in the context of that time, that woman could ever possibly have
been black. Colorblindness is generally a good thing, but in this
instance, it strikes at the very core of the story's internal
credibility. The film's visual imagery does indeed derive from the
Disney attraction – statues whose eyes follow people around the room,
dancing transparent ghosts, singing disembodied heads – but there's a
world of difference between a 5-minute amusement-park ride and an
85-minute full-length feature film. Before green-lighting the project,
didn't any of the executives over at Disney ask if anyone had come up
with a movie worth making? Given the results we see on screen, the
answer is 'apparently not.'

There's no point here in launching into our perpetual lament over the
downward spiral that Eddie Murphy's career continues to take. After
all, if he isn't worried about the squandering of his once notable
talent, why should we be? Life is just too short for that.

<|_=00=_|>

Haunted Mansion boasts wonderful spfx and great zombie makeup. Haunted
mansion is fast paced. Haunted Mansion is quite creative with it's storyline
and imaginative sets. But what the film does lack is good performances
despite Jennifer Tilly's Madame Liotta. Thew other ones just seem ok. The
film's wrap up is just so contrived and seems like one of many endings thatw
ill be available on the dvd. I realiaze it's an amazing feat to turn a ride
into full length film. But you just don''t have enough to work with and You
churn out an hour and 20 minute semi stinker. maybe it's best it shouldn't
have been made. Don't get me wrong whats on screen is quite entertaining not
due in large part by another annoying performance ny Eddie Murphy. But what
the film truly lacks isn't enough to block the film what the film truly
tries to be. A blatant family entertainer designed to bring in the bucks and
it most likely will.
<|_=00=_|>
The Haunted Mansion is directed by Rob Minkoff and written by David
Berenbaum. It stars Eddie Murphy, Terence Stamp, Marsha Thomason,
Nathaniel Parker and Jennifer Tilly. Music is by Mark Mancina and
cinematography by Remi Adefarasin. Based on the Disney Park attraction
of the same name, film finds Murphy as real estate agent Jim Evers, a
man who is so driven by his work he neglects to notice he is neglecting
his family. Setting off for a weekend family trip, it is no surprise
that when a call comes through to go see about another property to be
sold, Evers whisks all the family out to the bayou mansion with him.
What is a surprise is that this mansion is haunted and a curse
threatens to engulf the Evers family when they are forced by bad
weather to spend the night there.

Well it has lovely colour photography, a production set of some
excellence by John Myhre, great costumes from Mona May, nifty effects
by Jay Redd and Rick Baker once again delivers quality make up work.
But these high points are part of a very bad movie. Script is lazy,
almost as lazy as Murphy's performance in actual fact, front line cast
members are playing second fiddle to the outright homage of the park
ride itself. As film progresses the plot becomes a Whirling Dervish of
style over substance, where it is neither funny or scary. The very
young will be transfixed by the noise, motions and images, those from
teenager upwards will surely know they have been conned by the mighty
house of the mouse. 3/10
