
After my third viewing, I can finally admit that this film has me. I
enjoyed it during its theatrical run, enjoyed it more the second time
around, and now, I can only say that I love it. The cast is exemplary.
Tom Cruise is so good in this film that it is very often easy to forget
he is Tom Cruise. Easily his most powerful role and best performance
since Jerry Maguire. Ken Watanabe, however, is incredible in every
scene - acting with a rare sensitivity and intensity and breathing life
into a character much larger and more human than the grand story of
which he is a part. Though the entire cast is excellent, I feel that I
must also single out Koyuki and Shichinosuke Nakamura for,
respectively, the female lead and the emperor, for the subtle strength
and believability they each give their very challenging roles.

The story takes place during the early modernization of Japan, in the
1870s and 1880s. The Emperor's power has been weakened by the political
and economic power of his cabinet, by his young age, and by the
political influence of the United States and other western powers
pulling the strings of his cabinet and supplying modern weaponry and
tactics to the modernizing Japanese army. Cruise plays Captain Allgren,
an alcoholic veteran who has seen and participated in too many
massacres of innocent people, and is offered an opportunity to reclaim
some of his honor by helping to train the Japanese military in the use
of firearms. When he arrives in Japan, we learn that the first test of
the Japanese army and its new weapons will be against a rebellious
group of samurai who believe themselves to be in the service of the
Emperor and Japan, but resist the Emperor's cabinet and the influence
of western nations. In the power void left by a passive emperor, Japan
seems poised to enter into a civil war against its own values, faith
and honor. During the first attack on the Samurai, Allgren is captured
by the Samurai and begins a spiritual, physical and philosophical
journey which will bring him a level of self-respect his own culture
could never supply.

My interpretation of this journey is that Allgren has found a place and
people that offer him redemption, where, in his own world, he can find
none. But Allgren's is only a small part of the story - which
ultimately revolves around what is right for Japan, for the
subjectivity of a whole nation, and how to portray such a subject from
its own perspective. Traditional Japan is treated with empathy here,
not aggrandizing exaggeration, as some of the film's critics seem to
suggest. This is not a film about what is objectively right and wrong,
but a film about struggling to understand and empower tradition as a
means to control and benefit from change. I find no grand moral
statement here, but rather an intense, sympathetic, human drama with a
strong sense of honor and sacrifice.

Edward Zwick has made a film which operates well at every level,
carrying simple but profound philosophical ideas, but avoiding the
mistake of making these ideas and the characters that express them
super-heroic. Ultimately, this beautifully shot film conveys powerful
messages about war, tradition, ethics, honor and culture, which, though
not particularly original, are sensitively and intelligently brought
forward. There is a lot of action, including some remarkably well-acted
sword fighting and martial artistry, but none of it seems unnecessary
and the whole film is truly tightly woven. My highest recommendation.
<|_=00=_|>

I was skeptical about this movie because not every high-budget feature
with
Tom Cruise is guaranteed depth or serious acclaim, although it may gather
at
the box office.  And Warner Bros put me through TORTURE to see this pic -
changes of times AND locations, over and over.  I felt like was on an
survival test, an unbearably annoying treasure hunt over weeks and was
frankly ready to give it a negative review (which I'm writing on behalf of
a
publication).  However, I found the movie truly and unequivocally
remarkable
and cannot contain my review in 350 words.

First, the experience was powerful.  Edward Zwick was a masterful
director.
I was on the edge of my seat the whole time.  The action, sets, scenery
and
story - even the dialogue - were riveting.  Clearly, a ton of historical
and
cultural research and care went into the script, sets, costumes, casting.
They didn't just Hollywoodize Kurosowa's "Seven Samurai" as a Tom Cruise
vehicle.  Nor was it Dances with Wolves or Seven Years in Tibet, two
PC-preaching pics of yesteryear.  It was a lot more like Braveheart meets
Seven Samurai with elements of inculturation a bit reminiscent of Wolves
and
Seven Years.

Rarely does a movie have excellent acting across the board, but all the
Japanese actors were outstanding, and the Americans and Europeans were
excellent ... Tom Cruise was at the top of his game.  His Independence Day
angst combined with his moral nobility in A Few Good Men and The Firm.
Ken
Watanabe as co-star exemplifying bravery, wisdom and nobility was
outstanding.

In spite of this historical epic being "in vogue" at present, there were
surprisingly few cliché story elements.  Even the requisite (American-made
movie) romance with Take (Koyuki in this role was wonderful) furthered the
cross-cultural elements of the plot in such a way that neither culture was
violated - and above all the `chemistry' was discreet in Japanese fashion,
taking a necessary backseat without overshadowing the main story line,
actually adding richness to the process of "going native" for Captain
Algren
(Cruise).  The subplot went far beyond an added market draw.  Very
tasteful
and artful scriptwriting, with many colorful, developing characters.

The thrust of the film was the Western-Japanese cultural divide, differing
concepts of value and valor and the political issues surrounding Japan's
efforts to "Westernize."  [cross-cultural studies have become a cinematic
trend: Lost in Translation, Beyond Borders, The Missing, Japanese Story,
etc.]  Where most of the other films fell short (and The Statement was an
abomination], this film succeeded brilliantly.  The differences between
the
two cultures were considered and portrayed without completely bashing one
(except in the political arena, but even there, the Japanese seemed to be
inviting their own downfall, in many ways).  There was no simple scapegoat
or cultural domination message.  The American Civil War captain, Nathan
Algren (Cruise) goes abroad as not only a war hero but also a
cross-cultural
and linguistic expert.  Being in Japan, (at first as a mercenary hired to
train Japanese in Western ways of war), he takes on the study of the
people
and their language.  Although Algren's sometimes superhero abilities are a
bit of a stretch at times, taking the native language seriously is unique
in
American filmmaking (and American culture, hence our lowly reputation when
traveling).  Usually the American walks into the foreign scene and the pic
automatically shifts to all-English.  I was truly grateful to find the
dialog half in subtitles because half the characters were Japanese - and
Algren was speaking with them.  Secondly, this movie honors both cultures
for their recognized strengths, even in their distinctiveness.  For
example,
when the woman who is hosting Algren (in captivity) makes dinner, he helps
her.  "Japanese men don't do these things," she tells him.  "But I'm not
Japanese," he says (in Japanese).  Algren is not ashamed to uphold his
homeland customs (although this was 1876... pre-sensitive 90s man era,
long
before women's lib let alone men entering kitchens) when his own cultural
customs or inclinations are ways of caring rather than domination.
Another
and more important example:  Algren demonstrates American resilience and
perseverance when he rises again repeatedly after defeat.  This baffles
the
Japanese who are accustomed to falling on their swords in shame after
defeat, for them a noble death.  In these and many other ways, the
Japanese
Samurai (especially Katsumoto, Watanabe's character) and Algren learn to
appreciate each other's ways.  In many respects, the film moves past the
usual PC party line [of Dances with Wolves, Seven Years in Tibet and most
others of similar ilk out of Hollywood] and reflects on the beauty and
dignity in the midst of difference between the two worlds, and how much
they
need to learn from one another without money or domination as a motive.
The
dignity of the young Emperor Meiji finding his own cultural center, at the
end, was especially moving.  Overall, the film had depth and substance
with
brilliant work in almost every area of production and performance.  The
editing was marvelous - although it's long, there's no unnecessary
material
remaining.  Not a moment of boredom.  Props all around!

<|_=00=_|>
If you have NOT seen the film then stop reading this review and go
rent, buy or borrow it right now! What are you waiting for? This is a
10 out of 10 must see.

The casting, location, storyline and direction of this film is simply
excellent. I say this is Tom Cruise's finest acting hour. A story of
honour, integrity, tradition, courage and love entwined with great
battle scenes, beautiful scenery and superb acting, especially in the
lead roles of Cruise and Ken Watanabe.

For me personally I have no faults with this film. I do not possess a
vast knowledge of Samurai history other than what we see on TV and read
in magazines so cannot comment on it's depiction of true Samurai
legend. A real gem.
<|_=00=_|>

It is said that the only thing constant is change. Old ideals die off,
and
new technologies replace the inefficiencies of yesteryear. The young
usually
have little trouble adjusting to change, but traditionalists are often
dragged into the new era either kicking and screaming or silently
resolved
to remove themselves completely.

"The Last Samurai" manages to capture a little of both, with Japanese men
living in a world in transition from ancient bushido rituals of honor
into a
more modern empire of industry and trade. A sweeping historical epic that
hints at the brilliance of Akira Kurosawa's finest work while also
invoking
the melancholy of a Shakespearean tragedy, the movie is a reminder of the
cost of high ideals and danger of industrial conformity.

It's 1876, and Captain Nathan Algren (Tom Cruise) is an alcoholic wreck
of a
man. A veteran of the Civil War as well as General Custer's Indian
campaigns, he drifts from one situation to another ostensibly looking for
work but really seeking refuge from his inner demons of slaughtering
innocent women and children.

Opportunity knocks in the form of an old Army acquaintance Colonel Ben
Bagley (Tony Goldwyn), who has accepted work with a Japanese businessman
named Omura (Masato Harada). Omura has been charged with recruiting
American
war vets as military advisors to the new Japanese Army. Emperor Meiji,
under
advise from Omura and other parties, is interested in modernizing his
nation's military with rifles and other armaments.

In order to unify the nation, the powers that be must first take care of
civil dissidence within Japan. The samurai, led by charismatic chieftain
Katsumoto (Ken Watanabe), are violently opposing the invasion of Western
culture into their islands. Bagley foolishly sends his ill-trained
soldiers
into combat against the samurai, and during the resulting massacre Algren
is
captured and taken to the samurai's village.

During the course of the winter, Algren slowly gains the trust of his
captors and in turn is given free roam over the village. He fights with
Uijo
(Hiroyuki Sanada), who dislikes the American from the beginning, and is
given food and shelter by Taka (Koyuki), the wife of one of samurai he
killed during battle.

Katsumoto meanwhile seeks to learn about his enemy, and begins to respect
Algren as a fellow warrior. Also interested in the American is
Katsumoto's
son Nobutada (Shin Koyamada), intrigued by Western culture. Algren finds
the
first peace he has known in a long time, and begins to adapt to the ways
of
the samurai. He acts as a surrogate father to Taka's children, learns to
sword fight with a kitana blade and begins to respect the culture that he
originally sought to destroy.

But during Algren's absence the Japanese Army has had better opportunity
to
prepare themselves, and time is soon approaching that will determine the
fate of the samurai and the future of Japan.

"The Last Samurai" is beautifully filmed by John Toll, the same
cinematographer who worked on "Braveheart." The comparisons are obvious
with
moments of silent reflection and loud explosions of fury, both powerfully
captured on film.

Director Edward Zwick brings the same determination to the screen that he
did more than a decade ago with "Glory." The attention to period detail
is
near flawless and the movie never releases its grip on the
audience.

As Algren, Cruise grows from suicidal depression to driven idealist quite
realistically, drawing on the standard dishonored warrior archetype while
giving him touches of humanity. Cruise's only shortcoming is his lack of
dramatic range, and as such it never seems like Algren has any sinister
intent even when acting selfishly. Never for a moment is there a doubt
that
he's destined to be a hero.

Cruise is also overshadowed in every scene by Watanabe, who makes
Katsumoto
a honorable man who is shocked by all the dishonor threatening to
overthrow
his country. Philosopher, poet, family man and warrior - Katsumoto wears
many hats, and is realized through Watanabe perfectly.

Other smaller roles are captured by strong performances as well,
including
Goldwyn who brings class to the standard villain role as Bagley, Koyuki
who
plays Taka with quiet sadness and torn loyalties between her fallen
husband
and his killer who she is growing to love, and Koyamada who makes
Nobutada
young and headstrong but still sympathetic and honorable.

"The Last Samurai" only suffers during a protracted finale that screams
of
studio interference. The ending smacks of being safe, clean and
Hollywood,
something that almost betrays to whole film.

The movie is still strong enough to become a modern day classic. Like
"The
Wild Bunch," it speaks to those curious of what became of warriors who
outlived their time. Timeless issues of honor, loyalty and redemption as
well as the clashing of ancient culture versus new technology remain
omnipresent. To remain in the past in foolish, but to forget it entirely
is
disgraceful.

Nine out of ten stars. Destined to be remembered for some time, this
movie
honorably deals with its subject matter.
<|_=00=_|>
I disagree with a lot of the reviews of this film. Yes, it is true that
it does glorify a lifestyle in an exaggerated and unfairly sublime way,
but I think we're missing the point. This film is romanticism vs.
modernism. It's purity vs. corruption. It's not so much the premise or
believability, but the substance behind it.

Tom Cruise is an actor who is both idolized (by fans) and ridiculed (by
critics) In this film he dazzles us as a drunken U.S General haunted by
a bloody past. I was pushing for him to get an Oscar Nod, but alas,
None came. "The Last Samurai" wasn't particularly well received and
that was disconcerting to me. I'd recommend it to anyone with a taste
for romance and for anyone who simply longs for a little less
"celebrity wedding" and a little more "help the old lady across the
road".
<|_=00=_|>
The Last Samurai is a brilliantly crafted aesthetic pleasure, studded
with supernal performances from Ken Watanabe and Tom Cruise. In fact,
Tom Cruise unarguably gives his best ever performance, surpassing his
portrayal of Jerry Maguire in the eponymous flick. His plaintive
portrayal of Nathan Algren, not only evokes pathos but also seeks
sympathy of the contemporary viewer, who can vicariously relate to
Algren's disconcertion, owing to his inner conflicts of patriotism
vis-à-vis humanity.

However, it is Ken Watanabe, who steals the show with his mesmerizing
and poignant portrayal of Katsumoto, the leader of the last clan of
Samurai. His screen presence and delivery is truly amazing and even
outshines that of Tom Cruise, which is a compliment in itself. The
scenes between Watanabe and Cruise are pure gold, depicting fluctuating
feelings of hostility, compassion and camaraderie. 

Watanabe's intense and powerful performance in which he displays a wide
range of emotions, is definitely worthy of the coveted statuette, but
the academy never fails to disappoint. Watanabe's brilliant portrayal,
not only mesmerizes the viewers, but also convinces the critics of his
acting abilities. The tacit adoration between Algren and Taka (subtly
played by Koyuki), enormously adds to the beauty of the movie. All this
coupled with some brilliant cinematography and a mesmerizing score,
makes it a treat to watch and a truly surreal experience.

http://www.apotpourriofvestiges.com/
<|_=00=_|>

The Last Samurai is a strictly by-the-numbers samurai epic set in 1876-1877
Japan. All the 
necessary ingredients are here - beautiful Japanese landscapes and costumes,
larger than life 
battlefield sequences, and eastern philosophy.Although the pageantry is not
as beautiful as 
such samurai epics as "Heaven and Earth", it is more than
adequate.

Do not, however go into this film expecting "Kill Bill", grindhouse type
swordplay nor the 
poignancy of a Kurosawa piece. Instead, "The Last Samurai" occupies the
middle ground; a 
human story of one Westerner learning to embrace another culture kind of a
mixture of 
"Dances With Wolves" and "Shogun", films from which it derives almost
directly. And this is 
the films greatest flaw. It is utterly predictable. No spoilers here, we all
know what happens 
to the samurai. If not, the title ought to give you a clue. Every scene is
one that you were 
expecting to see. And the ending is the ending you expect.

But Zwick and co. still manage to weave an engaging story with panache, and
a climactic 
(despite it's predictability) ending, and that is why "The Last Samurai" is
such a great film. As 
the Zen saying goes, "Success is a journey, not a destination". It is
equally applicable to the 
samurai in the film, and the film itself. A success. 8/10.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Last Samurai" 2003 and "The Last of the Dogmen" (1995 d: Tab
Murphy, with Tom Berenger and Barbara Hershey in the lead) are both
films with the theme of the 'last' of warrior spirits (one is Samurai,
one is Cheyenne). The production of The Last Samurai is well worth
seeing - the glory of a large-scale Hollywood production it is. From
the research of the historical Japanese Meiji period, the mannerisms,
the way different classes of people dress, the settings, the battle
weapons and armory, how the Samurai train and fight, to the study and
appreciation of the Art of War - where men of honor and integrity in
service to the Emperor is the thing to die for. The film title in three
Kanji characters means The Way of the Warrior (Samurai). The one
character shown on screen at the very beginning (romanization: Sze)
meant in the service of the King. Hence the definition of Watanabe's
Samurai lifelong one true goal - to serve his Emperor, one and only,
and to die in the service of the Emperor would be an honor.

The film, directed by Ed Zwick, is truly a combined labor of love of
everyone involved. From the producer-lead actor Tom Cruise and Zwick's
film-making partner Marshall Herskovitz, cinematography by John Toll
and film score by Hans Zimmer, to the costuming details, diverse
casting, location scouting all the way to New Zealand and training of
the supporting cast - even the official Web site with extensive
production notes - all provide enhanced appreciation of this remarkable
film. The storyline and drama of "The Last Samurai" evoke various level
of emotions, pulling the heartstrings of the audience with high
emotional energy - suspense, sadness, smiles, empathy, joy.

"Kagemusha" by Akira Kurosawa, of course, is the ultimate grandeur of a
historic Samurai epic. "The Last Samurai" is comparable in drama and
treatment if not with equal passionate efforts all round. Both are
available on DVD with special features of audio commentary and the
making of 'featurette' and more.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is the best Tom Cruise film ever, alongside Ken Watanabe's
superb acting. Though slow paced at first it demonstrates the
importance of honour, not judging people on first impressions... This
film follows a rather sad story of fighting for tradition and avoiding
judging anyone until you meet them. It is full of truly breath-taking
scenery in Japan and superb battle scenes. The lead actors are truly
amazing which goes very well with a great story. This film really
proves that Tom Cruise can act! This film deserves more credit however,
it is truly Oscar worthy, for Watanabe's acting and battle scenes
mainly.

The story is basically about an American captain (Cruise) who is
tormented by his gruesome past that is hired to train the army to kill
the samurai which are raiding the country. He faces them in battle with
rookie soldiers and therefore lost and was captured by the samurai
leader Katsumoto (Watanabe) which kept him alive simply because he is
like every samurai very spiritual and believes in his dreams and knew
their was a purpose for him to live. After a the long slow process of
trying to find out information about his enemy, Algren (Cruise)
simultaneously begins training in the way of the samurai and comes to
love their way of life and develops a friendship with Katsumoto. After
a series and turn of events the story develops like a roller coaster
ride and fight together for their survival.

This film is honestly one of the best dramas/war dramas I have ever
seen, combined with a superb story, and action of amazing creativity in
the dialogue, setting and all the scenes! Truly Oscar worthy, ashame it
didn't win any, they makers really deserved more credit.

9/10
<|_=00=_|>
Powerful, well-crafted epic set in 19th century Japan about a
disillusioned American soldier who's hired to train a group of
fledgling soldiers and lead them into battle against a rebellious
samurai. Having been defeated and held captive by the enemy, he
gradually begins to understand and develop a great respect for the man
who should be his adversary. Long, but faultlessly performed and richly
detailed with compelling battle scenes and vivid, breathtaking scenery.
Cruise—sporting authentic Japanese tongue—is outstanding, but Watanabe
steals the film in a moving and forceful performance as the fierce but
honorable samurai warrior. Only letdown is the finale, which seems a
bit too conventional, but it's still a remarkable tale of life, honor,
and courage. ***½
