
I thought this movie was a funny and a romantic chick flick. Hilary
Duff is one of my favorite actresses and she plays a perfect Sam in
this movie. This movie is pretty predictable but still fun to watch. If
your bored one day go to the video store and check this movie out. It
is very interesting to watch from beginning to end. Chad Micheal Murray
is a great Austin for this movie and has what it takes.I never get sick
of watching this movie.Every character in this movie was the right
pick.I'm so glad Hilary played Sam instead of somebody else.If you are
not interested in this movie, at least give it a chance! From a scale
1-10 i give this movie a 8. Two thumbs up!
<|_=00=_|>
I have said before and I will confess again, I am just a sucker for the
Disney cutesy live action movies. Princess Diaries, Freaky Friday,
Parent Trap. They are predictable but always fun and light hearted and
humorous. It's a recipe for film that has worked for Disney far longer
than any of us care to think about. In saying that I am not a Hillary
Duff fan, although she seems multi talented, her characters never
change and her scope as an actress will seemingly be limited to Lizzie
McGuire for the rest of her career. 

A Cinderella Story is exactly what one would expect. It's a retelling
of the old classic fairy tale with the modern day twist but director
Mark Rosman, who has really nothing to claim fame to does a terrific
job at truly modernizing the story without coming across as stupid or
blatantly obvious. Duff plays Sam, a girl who's father is tragically
taken from her after marrying a wicked woman played perfectly hideously
by Jennifer Coolidge, you can't help but despise her in this role. She
is accompanied by her two daughters, Brianna and Gabriella who are
spoiled little brats that like to make Sam's life a living hell. Sam's
"wicked stepmother" takes over Sam's father's pride of joy, his diner
and turns into her own little cash cow while keeping her late husband's
staff on to torture them. She always makes Sam grind her fingers to the
bone in between school classes working in the diner. Sam has an online
boyfriend whom she's never met, there is a school dance in which he
wants to meet her, he turns out to be Mr. Popular, she sneaks out
having to be back at the diner for twelve before her stepmother finds
out. The rest of the story unfolds as you might expect. 

As with all live action cutesy Disney type films, the cast shines...yes
even Duff. She's too goody for her own good which works in this case as
you feel sorry for her. Her surrogate family, the diner staff are
delightful and funny and they help us root for the underdog. Rhonda
played by Regina King, who has been some great family movies ie: Mighty
Joe Young, and Daddy Day Care is perfect as Sam's protector and Fairy
Godmother you might say?? And Chad Michael Murray is great as her
Saviour and Prince Charming. The best part of this film is the way the
retelling is handled. It's not done in such a way that you are
blatantly watching another rehashing of an old fairy tale but rather
handled delicately and done in such a modern way that you think to
yourself "Hey that's almost like Cinderella." You actually feel for
each character the way you are supposed to feel, and you want to see
each and every one get what they deserve and incidentally they all do
which leaves you satisfied and happy with the film.

This movie won't rake in any critical acclaim but it's fun and you'll
enjoy it if you like this style of movie. I suggest checking it out!!
7/10
<|_=00=_|>
Your perfect family film. Has your normal crushes and such. Lots of
self confidence, and showing how much you need your friends. That
timeless, and useful quote, "never let the fear of striking out, keep
you from playing the game"...after I saw that movie, and heard that
line, i changed my lifestyle of leaving everything, calm , boring, and
not the way i wanted it. I was afraid that I wouldn't be accepted if i
didn't do a certain thing, or if I did a certain thing. I was wrong,
and this movie, strange as it may sound, gave me the nerve to do some
things I never would have done on my own. Definitely something to see
if your feeling left out, or need something that will show you, that
dreams can come true.
<|_=00=_|>
A fantastic interpretation of an age old classic. This movie has it
all, with a modern spark. 

Every aspect of the original story has been taken into account and even
added to.

But also, for the guys, hot chicks galore, and for the girls, fit AND
soulful blokes.

A rockin' soundtrack and slick feel to the whole film, with the
obligatory heart-wrenching sorrow of our heroine's father's death and
the hatred (oh, such hatred!) of the wicked step- mom, what more do you
need for today's Cinderella lovin' breed.

A great film to be enjoyed by the whole family.

Massive thumbs up from OUR whole family.
<|_=00=_|>
As an "old" fan of the Parent Trap, both editions but liked the modern
version the best, I found this movie captivating and a must have for my
limited movie collection. I love the modern story and the use of the
"you have mail" symbolism. I am still emotionally high on the
experience and I am watching parts of it daily for spurts of energy,
romance and fantasy into my otherwise interesting but routine life. My
granddaughters are laughing at me because I even bought the sound track
and played it in the car when I picked them up at school. "You don't
even like that kind of music", is all I hear from them through their
laughter. I am determined to "like" the music at least half as much as
I love the movie. Wish there would have been more buildup, ie, details
of the instant message relationship and more focus on the Prince and
Cinderella, their feeling and emotions before and after the ball. If
your parents, grandparents or other "old" people you know, were fans of
the Parent Trap, or Ever After, please find a way to get them to watch
this movie. Tell them an old retired Army Colonel recommended it.
<|_=00=_|>
I personally loved this movie and cried like as many times as I saw
this movie. I saw this movie about 10 times. Still seems like a
surprise every time I see this Beautiful spirited movie. This
Cinderella Story has a modern twist like no other. Hilary Duff and Chad
Michael Murray were great actors in this love story. This Love is about
a girl that loses her father but then meets the worst woman if her life
and her two stepsisters. But then she takes control of her life.
Samantha(Duff) showed girl power and her true colors in the end of the
movie towards Austin (Murray) and Fiona (Jennifer Cooliedge). This
movie inspires many people to go for their future and dreams and to
find their true love of their life.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, I thought that this movie is just some teen romance flick that
will not emphasize so much on feeling. Fortunately, it turns out
unexpectedly. The feeling in this movie is so appealing and sensible.
It is not just merely the fantasy story of Cinderella that one would
have expect it to be. At least I can feel the emotions and the romance.
For a romance movie, I don't expect it to be as great as Titanic, but
this movie is just fine. Besides, this movie also brings forth many
messages that would be useful to youth nowadays and I consider it to be
very educational. The most important message in this movie I personally
think is 'nothing is impossible if you just believe' and 'the fear of
being rejected' as these messages are vital in the life as a teenager
nowadays. Overall, this movie fulfill most of the important aspects
that one movie should have. It has a good plot and well-acted by the
casts. The casts managed to express their character well and this is
quite remarkable as most of them are young actors like Hilary Duff and
Chad Michael Murray. This movie also has an appropriate soundtrack to
go with it. One more thing, this movie is surely hilarious and I think
most of the people will like it. With all the mentioned features, one
will remain seated until the entire movie ends. Quite a good movie!!!
<|_=00=_|>
SPOILERS THROUGHOUT: 

Man do people hate this movie!!!! I guess I could See why. Oscar winner
it ain't. But there are so many movies that are worse then this. I gave
this a 6 which normally means OK maybe but not really that great. In
this case, though, I guess my review will Be a Mostly positive
one-because this was actually many points better then I ever dreamed it
would be.

First off I watched this when I was sick-now I have done that, in the
past with other movies and they've put me to sleep. Cinderella Story
kept my attention nicely. This movie, to me, didn't seem bad or
dreadful-just unoriginal. There was not a lot of creativity that went
into this, it's just basically the retelling of Cinderella high school
style. But I moderately enjoyed it. I was aware, when I was watching
it, that I wasn't watching anything particularly new or different, just
a sweet little movie. And I can say I even liked this a bit.

People have complained this isn't original but I actually think that's
a plus. My fear was that they'd turn the story of Cinderella into an
action movie. I mean Hollywood lately especially, HAS been known to do
things like that. But the story's basically the same and although I'd
have not originally thought of Duff for this role she's actually pretty
good in it. Chad Michael Murray, who played Austin was good as well,
although he looked about 5 or 10 years older then Duff but he was good
in the role.

The movie does contain a few laugh out loud funny lines and best of
all, you know what's gonna happen before it happens so you can relax
and enjoy yet another version of a timeless classic. This movie is
nowhere near at the level of a movie like Ever After, and I honestly
could not give it above a 6, but it's very much fun to watch at times
and clearly not made with the makers expecting Oscars. I'd say if your
in the right mood, give it a chance. My vote's 6 of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
I haven't looked at other reviews of A Cinderella Story yet, but
especially because it's a Hilary Duff film, I'd expect there to be a
lot of scathing comments. That's because Hilary Duff is, or was, at
least, popular with tweens and teens, and lots of slightly older folks
have a tendency to hate commercial or popular stuff just because it's
commercial or popular. Of course, they find other ways to justify their
effectively institutional hatred of this stuff, and I'd guess that the
main complaint would be the clichéd and predictable nature of the
material here.

And that's true. A Cinderella Story is clichéd and predictable, but
that's not a great reason to dislike it. It is a Cinderella story,
after all--it tells you right there in the title--retooled as a
contemporary Los Angeles-area high school romance-comedy. We all know
the Cinderella story fairly well. And any film fan at least old enough
to almost be through with high school is surely familiar with the
clichés of rom-coms and high school films. Most of us could write the
basics of A Cinderella Story's plot without even seeing the film's
trailer. So for adults, at least, A Cinderella Story is going to be
successful or not dependent on how well it hikes its well-trodden path.

For me, the best material was the more traditional Cinderella-based
stuff. Jennifer Coolidge (voluptuously) fills the role of the wicked
stepmother. I like Coolidge a lot. She has tremendous charisma and
performs her infamous, quirky sarcastic act here with verve. I also
like Duff. The two actresses playing Duff's stepsisters were new to me,
but just as charismatic as Coolidge. Director Mark Rosman quotes some
of the cartoonish visual gags of Disney's Cinderella (1950) more than I
expected, and it works amazingly well. It's one element that pushes the
film into a welcomed, absurd-surreal territory.

What didn't work as well for me was the material when Rosman and
credited writer Leigh Dunlap forgot about doing a pumped up remake of
Cinderella. Too much of A Cinderella Story deals with Sam's (Duff)
budding cyber-romance, her typical high school problems and the
caricatured, stereotypical high school cliques. It's not that these
other segments are bad, exactly, but they just don't have the spark or
humor that the Cinderella material has, and especially for something
like the cliques, we've seen this tens of times before. These scenes
would be right at home if we edited them into any of those other films
or television shows--sometimes I had to remind myself that I wasn't
watching, say, a Cordelia scene from the first season of "Buffy the
Vampire Slayer" (1997).

So A Cinderella Story has a bit of a split personality--as a funny and
wacky remake of Cinderella and as a far less humorous, pretty generic
"getting through adolescence and finding yourself" message film. That
After-School-Special-styled message may be a worthy one, but intercut
with a great version of Cinderella, it doesn't quite fit, even though
Rosman does finally start to find a unique and admirable groove while
still alternating modes towards the end of the film.
<|_=00=_|>
It is a wonderful film. And if you are like me and think that Chad
Michael is fit (which he is) then you will like it. It is funny and a
good film to watch. I have watched it over 20 times and i normally
won't watch i film more that twice. So i would say if you like funny,
romantic, girlie film then you will enjoy it. I don't think many boys
would enjoy it though. It is easy to understand and is well written. I
think that it is a bit to like Cinderella though. But otherwise i think
that every girl should see it.:) I hope if you get it that you enjoy
like i have. So have fun watching it. Sorry if this review is not that
good, i am not good with reviews
