
In all honesty, my Dad paid me to go see the Notebook with my friends
because he kept saying how magnificent it was. i went because it was
free, and with no expectations. However, the Notebook drew me into the
story from the beginning right up until the credits- and then kept me
crying for quite some time after it had ended. I, along with almost
every other person i have discussed the movie with, felt involved in
the situations and the lives of the character- crying at the sad
moments and feeling joy at the happy bits. in general, love stories are
predictable and somewhat dull (in my opinion) yet this movie kept me
guessing at the outcome, and delivered twists throughout the whole
film.The Notebook was extremely well constructed and i would give it an
eleven out of ten.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see this film with my sister and my Mum and we were the only
ones in the cinema. Not the best start, but I continued to watch it
anyway and am so glad I did. This is probably one of the most beautiful
and romantic films I have ever seen! From the relationship of the two
characters to their surroundings, every scene is breathtaking! The
Notebook tells the story of a summer romance that turns into a romance
never to be forgotten. Allie and Noah are the two lead characters and
they are wonderful. You immediately fall in love with the characters
and you want to follow every step of their doomed love story. it is one
of the greatest love stories ever told. Look out for the lake scene,
unbelievable! I came out of the cinema wanting to go back in again and
watch it all over again. It feels like you are reading a diary watching
this film, thats how detailed and wonderful this film is. Cannot really
give too much away about the story, all I can say is if you haven't
seen this film yet, be sure to see it. I cannot think of a film more
perfect for Valentines Day!
<|_=00=_|>

Often times when a movie comes from source material such as a novel
that did well, the people who were fans of the book end up not liking
the movie as much. Sometimes those same fans even end up hating the
movie, or not even giving it a chance by seeing it. Such was the case,
that I already knew the ending of Nicholas Sparks's novel even before I
got into the theater. Let me clear up though, that the best thing about
the film was that I ended up getting wrapped in the story on the
screen, rather than sitting there thinking to myself what part of the
story should be coming next. That is what makes a great adaptation,
when you can get lost in the story, and forget about your thoughts, or
what is going on in the outside world. Not only that, but the film
soared past any expectations that I had for it from the start too, by
being very well Directed and acted. 

Best known for his acting credits, Nick Cassavetes was tapped to direct
this film. His past experience, which didn't consist of very many films
includes the Denzel Washington film John Q. This was not going to be an
easy task for him though, because the story was built on us believing
the love that the main characters of the film would be showing was
real. It?s not as easy as it sounds, and some films (like Star Wars
Part 2), end up making the audience laugh, rather than feel what the
characters are feeling. He did a great job, and helped put together a
great cast for this film that would end up including Ryan Gosling,
Rachel McAdams, James Garner, and Joan Allen. All actors who have found
their niches before, and were brought in to this film to help carry the
story. 

Gosling is best known for his role as "Richie", one of the kids, in
Murder By Numbers. He brings a great innocence to the role of Noah
Calhoun in the film, one of the two main characters. Rachel McAdams
plays the other half of the duo as Allie Hamilton. She was actually one
of the leads (Regina George) in an earlier Summer movie, Mean Girls. At
the heart of this film the couple represents the love story that is
being told by James Garner's character. He reads from a book , the
story of the two lovers as they go through everything life has to
offer. Gena Rowlands plays the lady that he is reading to, and she gets
as wrapped up in the story as we do, as he progresses from chapter to
chapter in the novel he is reading. Garner was perfect for this role,
and shows his narrating skills as he explains how the two of them live. 

Meanwhile, in the story, Noah and Allie meet in one of the cutest
scenes of the movie. He sees her at a carnival, and knows right away
that he wants to be with her. He does not know quite why at first, and
all he can say is that something inside of him is drawing him to her.
He convinces her to give him a chance, and she eventually agrees to
give him the date that he seeks. What progresses from there is a Summer
romance that goes through all of the emotions that we all have
experienced before. What makes it even more real, is that it is not
played off as if every single moment is perfect between the two of
them. It depicts that they do have fights, that they do have
disagreements, but that they do have a love that is stronger than any
of that. This is what made the romance real for me. Everyone knows,
that in real life we can't have a relationship where everything works
out perfectly, or where everyone agrees on everything. 

The romance blossoms, but a problem exists that could spell trouble.
Noah is from a one- parent family, and sees himself working at a
lumber-yard for the better part of his life. He says that he has found
his place in life, and this is what the "cards" have planned for him.
Allie on the other hand, come from a very well-off family, and is being
brought up in a rich societal circle. Her family is spending her 17th
Summer in the small town by the sea, and first comes across Noah by
pure coincidence. The romance between them is kept under wraps for
quite a while, until her parents find out. The mother immediately
thinks that is should end, but the father feels that it is just a
summer "thing" that will come to an end rather quickly. That is, until
she is out late one night with Noah, and he takes the side of his wife.
They see no future between their daughter and this "boy", and take her
away from him the first chance they get. 

That coupled with the outbreak of World War II keeps them apart for a
couple of years, and the story really gets underway. Will their love be
able to endure the separation, or will one of them move on to something
that is easier in their own lives? The story becomes an epic of its
own, as its starts to split time between the story being read, and the
story of Garner and Rowlands living in the present day. This is what I
love about films like these, as we are given the opportunity to enjoy
two different stories going on at the same time. The love shown by Noah
and Allie is something that envelopes us, and it makes us forget about
the current story. By going back and forth, we are able to look forward
to where each of the two stories is going. All of it leads to an ending
of each story that is both very enjoyable, and very emotional at the
same time. 

As I said before, sometimes a book can fail to transition to film. This
is not one of those cases, as the movie instead becomes its own entity.
Both stories have great chemistry between the characters at the center
of them. It is amazing just how well the actors/actresses in the parts
play their roles, and just how much we as an audience start to care
about their lives. As it progresses, we truly care about what will
happen to the main characters, and we have in our own minds how we want
things to turn out. It is that type of film, where we start to become
part of the story, and want them to act or say something specific, that
truly makes a great story. Even though this is a movie that is heavily
geared to lovers of romance novels, this is a film that I found very
enjoyable. I highly recommend seeing this film while it is in theaters,
or purchasing it when it hits DVD, because it has everything that is
needed for a truly great love story.

<|_=00=_|>
I went into this movie with the misconception of thinking this was just
another typical romantic movie, but I was very impressed by this film
and the themes portrayed in this movie were handled in a great way.

This movie will have you feeling happy and joyful and the scenery is
just brilliant. You will feel like you are part of the characters, and
you will care about them throughout the whole movie.

The movie gallops in speed as we are absorbed into the great plot and
brilliant acting of all the cast involved. Ryan Gosling is brilliant as
the shy and quiet Noah, and Rachael McAdams is superbly beautiful as
the star of the movie, Allie.

As I said earlier in my review, I did go into the movie not expecting
much and that was because I thought it was a typical "boy loves girl"
movie which are sometimes just too predictable. Don't get me wrong,
they are some good Romantic movies that pull it off very well, but
there are simply too many in that particular genre.

The best thing about this movie was the depth of the plot and the
actors playing their characters so well. The supporting cast were good,
and James Marsden deserves a mention for managing to pull of a hard
role as the "rich man" well. Another plus point about this movie was
the great script, and you did not see too many "cliches" which is
always a good sign in a Romance movie.

It does not matter whether you love romantic movies or hate them, this
is NOT just a romantic movie it is so more than that. By the end of the
movie you will feel a whole heap of emotions. You will be talking about
this movie for a long time.

The only bad part about this movie is the length, which I think could
be shortened a bit but on the whole this was a superb movie which is
well worth a watch.

Go and Watch this! Amazing movie which will have you brimming with joy.

9 1/2 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
This amazing love story can be enjoyed by all. The Notebook is not one
of those cheesy chick flicks that often come out, it is a brilliantly
written intriguing story about two young lovers that most people can
relate to.

Even most males will agree that this movie pulls at your heart strings.
Filled with fabulous quotes, and sentimental moments I found this movie
to be one of the best I've seen. I got to know both main characters and
found myself relating to each of them. Most of us remember our first
love and that strong connection we had with them. This movie makes us
think of what could have been and gives us a fresh look at the meaning
of true love. I recommend this movie to anyone with a heart.
<|_=00=_|>
The Notebook is one of my all-time favourite movies. Its a constant,
and classic love story that makes you feel as if you are there watching
it.. as if you are one of the characters, which makes the impact of the
story just that much more real. There really are no words to describe
how this movie makes you feel, but one thing is for sure... It will
make you feel. After watching it, i've often just.. sat where i am and
just thought about it. It's just one of those movies that you will
think about 30 years after watching it, and still get that same feeling
in your heart.. and you'll know that it touched you in one way or
another. If you haven't seen it, you really are missing out... Its a
classic!
<|_=00=_|>
I am a big fan of love stories. Lately, the film industry has been
lacking the sort of element that I love to see in a movie. The last
movie I saw that made me cry as much as "The Notebook" did was "Ghost"
with Demi Moore. The casting of Allie and Noah in the movie was
exceptional and made the feelings and emotions seem real. After
watching the movie in the theater, I noticed every person, including
the men, cry as they left the theater. Now when was the last time you
saw anything like that?? I bought the movie on DVD the day it came out
and have been watching it everday since that day!! I would highly
recommend this movie to both males and females.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie seems to be postcard perfect, a lesson straight out of the
director's guide to romantic movies. Boy meets girl at a carnival, love
from the other side of the tracks, a date by the water, etc. And yet
the wonderful thing about this movie is that it takes what seems like a
story you've heard already (at least in bits and pieces) and still
moves you deeply. It really speaks about love in a way that most
romantic movies miss by speaking in cliché or over shoot by adding in
numerous complications to dramatize things. There have been other great
movies to comment on love in recent years (Eternal Sunshine, Lost In
Translation jump to mind) but this movie fills a need that those other
movies miss: the need for a straight, sweep you off your feet romance.
Too bad there can't be movies like this every year...
<|_=00=_|>
This story plays out as Duke, played by James Garner, reads a story
about two young people in the 1940s who fall in love and endure life.
The movie moves between present-day and the 1940s. It is structurally
very similar to "Fried Green Tomatoes", which is also one of my all
time favorite movies.

Unlike "Fried Green Tomatoes", this focuses on young love as it grows
and endures through wars and parental dissent. Sure, the core is the
"Romeo and Juilet" theme, but the way is plays out and the exceptional
charisma that the actors bring to the screen make it feel fresh and not
entirely predictable. This is a deeply romantic movie. If you are
cynical at all about romance, timeless love and dedication to another
person, you may find yourself rolling your eyes a bit. I am not that
cynical about the emotional ties that bind us and I was thoroughly
taken in by the story.

This is such a gentle movie. The characters are very human and very
likable. All of the actors turn in engrossing and compelling
performances.

Technically, this movie is exceptional, too. The scenes during the
opening credits is absolutely breathtaking. The editing is very good.
The story is compelling from the opening credits to the closing
credits.

My wife and I don't always share the same perspective on movies, but we
agreed on this one. We both loved it immensely. I am certain this will
become part of our permanent collection.
<|_=00=_|>
Prior to watching "The Notebook," I was not familiar with the work of
the actress Rachel McAdams. She made an indelible impression by
sustaining an outstanding performance in this film. Her character Allie
is the pivotal role in the film, as she must make the crucial romantic
decision on which the story turns. There are few performers capable of
evolving the complexity of characterization as achieved by Rachel
McAdams.

The film recreated effectively the world of the 1940s in America,
including the parental pressure exerted by the well-to-do family of
Allie on whether to allow their daughter to pursue a young man from the
other side of the tracks. As played by Ryan Gosling, the character of
Noah could have revealed more emotional layers. There was only one
scene in the film where he really showed that there was something at
stake in his love for Allie. He apparently wrote her a passionate
letter every day for a year. Especially in the film's early scenes,
Gosling could have shown more of the passion.

The other cast members were outstanding, including James Garner and
Gena Rowlands in the parallel story. In the two plots, "The Notebook"
merits comparison with another outstanding romantic film, "The Bridges
of Madison County." As the two subplots of "The Notebook" come
together, one of the key characters is Allie's mother. As always, Joan
Allen delivers a convincing and complete character portrayal, as the
well-intentioned, but conflicted mother. In one of the most moving
scenes in the film, the mother opens up to the daughter and tells her
story of youthful love and a fateful choice similar to the one Allie
herself must face.

My favorite scene in the film: a wonderful sequence where Noah and
Allie are in a boat in the backwaters of South Carolina. The waterway
is simply filled with white geese. It is a stunning and picturesque
moment, among many in this well-crafted film. If there is such a spot
in South Carolina, then I want to go there!
