
More of a spin-off movie than it is a sequel to 2002 and 2004's
Barbershop movies; Beauty Shop comes to us as the female rendition of
the popular franchise. Beauty Shop gives us the return of Gina, played
by Queen Latifah, from the second Barbershop movie. Gina has moved away
from Chicago to Atlanta so her daughter can attend a prestigious music
school. She has made a name for herself at a posh European-style salon
owned by the famous hairstylist Jorge. After a scuffle with her boss,
Gina decides to quit her job and achieve her dream of owning her own
beauty shop. She brings with her, a few loyal customers along with
another worker at the salon. With the help of her family and the
electrician slash romantic interest who lives above the shop, Gina
finds success with her beauty salon.

The cast of Beauty shop follows the same formula as the barbershop
movies. There's the obvious ice cube parallel with Queen Latifah's
Gina. The older and wiser stylist, the male form of Cedric the
Entertainer's character, played by Alfre Woodard who quotes the wisdom
of Maya Angelou to her customers. The token white worker is present
with Alicia Silverstone, and the one opposite sex worker played by Eve
in the barbershop has her counter part with Bryce Wilson's James. Also
included in the film is everyone's favorite Huxtable, Keisha Knight
Pullian, famous as Rudy Huxtable. And lastly, quite possibly my
favorite part of the movie and funniest character in the movie, Kevin
Bacon is hilarious as the egocentric Jorge. The cast works very well
together and the fun they had while making the film shows in each
scene.

While the cast is fun to watch, I still felt as though something in the
film was missing. When watching Barbershop, that classic old town feel
emits throughout the show. The characters are so fun to watch as we see
their relationships with each other and their own personalities work
and clash with each other. While watching Beauty shop, while the
characters were fun to watch interact with each other, that feeling
just isn't the same when you walk out. I left feeling somewhat
unfulfilled.

However, after more reflection on the matter, I realized, that the mood
of a beauty shop is no the same as the mood of a barbershop. Maybe I
didn't feel the same, because, well, I'm not a woman. As with any
television spin off, a movie spin off should be able to hold its own
ground. It doesn't need to be a complete reference to its predecessor.
Think of Frasier. One of the things that made the show so great was the
fact that it held its on ground separate from Cheers. The same goes
with Beauty Shop. Yes, it relies on a few references and relations to
the barbershop movies, but other than that, it completely holds its
own. Which, as I thought about it, made it more enjoyable to know that
I wasn't watching the same movie in female form.

Beauty Shop is a fun movie to watch with a very solid cast. Queen
Latifah does a fine job as Gina and makes and, more or less, makes up
for her involvement with last year's Taxi. If for anything else, see
the movie for Kevin Bacon, you wont be disappointed. Beauty shop is
pretty enjoyable and is the closest to a hair cut ill come to. I give
it 3 stars.(out of 5)
<|_=00=_|>
VERY mild spoilers.

This movie has some great funny parts. The friends I was with kept
saying "where's the plot?" Well, the plot was done in, well,
chick-flick style - plenty of relationship touchy-feely stuff, and not
much action. But that's what I expected.

For me the strength of the film was in the development and interaction
of the characters. The writers spared no silly jokes in virtually any
conversation - which is why I wanted to see the film in the first
place.

Kevin Bacon as a fake German gay hair-salon owner was a bit
disappointing; when we actually saw him try to work he didn't seem to
know anything about the how to do hair - which contradicts the premise
of his character. He could have been a competent hair-dresser and still
been a total jerk.

Queen Latifa, as usual, was wonderful, witty, funny, delivered her
lines perfectly, and simply knows how and when to do things just at the
right moment. I'm sure the editors, director and others also deserve
credit for her performance, but she shines in whatever she's in.

OK, I don't mean to make this out to be a great movie; it isn't. It's
entertaining, touching and funny - but it's mostly just "there" and
doesn't really move me beyond the moment. When it was over I was ready
to go home.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is a spin-off sequel to Barberer Shop 2: Back in Business.
Gina is a hairstylist who opens up a beauty shop full of employees and
customers more interested in speaking their minds than getting a cut.

Latifah does it again! Her charm lights up the screen. Gina's business
starts off bad. Her own shop just looks bad. Luckily, her friends help
her clean up the place and that's where she hires employees. She gets
one of her white friends in the other shop to help her work there. Some
of her black friends comes to help.

This is one of those comedies that doesn't uses f-words. The acting
from Latifah, Woodard, Silverstone, and Bacon are great. Actually, I've
never seen Bacon act like that in his entire film career. It's funny to
see that. Bacon's character then gets jealous because Gina is doing
much better than he has expected. The jokes are funny in this film.

If you just want to see a feel-good film, here it is!
<|_=00=_|>
Beauty Shop is a wholesome movie. It is a refreshing change from the
negative portrayal of females seen in most movies today. Beauty Shop
captures the true qualities of women striving, surviving, and winning
against all odds. There wasn't a strong storyline, just a message of
how women of all cultures deal with cheating husbands, cosmetic
surgery, gender and racial profiling, insecurity, and male chauvinism.
Still these women roll with the punches to enjoy each other and
celebrate the beauty within.

The underlining theme of the movie is Maya Angeleo's poem Phenomenal
Woman, which can be seen in Gina Norris (Queen Latifa), the struggling
entrepreneur trying to secure a future for her daughter Vanessa (Paige
Hurd) a young talented pianist. Particularly colorful characters are
"Catfish Rita" (Cheryl Underwood), Ms. Josephine (Alfre Woodard), Lynn
(Alicia Silverstone), Darnell (Keshia Knight Pulliam) and Jorge (Kevin
Bacon). It is has lots of humor, guaranteed to make you smile.
<|_=00=_|>
I am not black. I am not a woman. I have never had a weave or
extensions, and I try to stay out of the ghetto as much as possible.

Yet I got a kick out of Beauty Shop for some reason??? 

The script itself is not all that strong, but the performances by QL
and the rest of the ensemble cast are watchable and engaging.

Props to Kevin Bacon. His outrageous and flamboyant Jorge' is a nice
departure from his other roles and he comes across as quite convincing
in the part.

The movie only gets 3 stars from me because the storyline is quite
conventional and played out. However, for the most part the jokes are
funny and the actors deliver them nicely.... so tack on an extra star
for that.

While it won't win any awards, "Beauty Shop" is pure mindless fun.
<|_=00=_|>
This was Booty Shop more than Beauty Shop, and a spin off with a strong
cast and a lot of potential was buried in silliness. The Barbarshop
films were successful because they were feel good, fun and had a sense
of victory for the hardworking father.

This time, we have the exact same sentiments in reverse - mother
instead of father, all women stylists except the one guy, all black
except the one white girl - except instead of having a white guy who is
trying to be a boy from the hood from the outset, we have a girl who
forgoes her personality in favour of becoming a black wannabe. So the
message from that perspective is that in order to fit in and be
accepted one must conform to be just like everyone else. Good for a few
laughs, but loses something in the translation.

The standouts here are Kevin Bacon who is outstanding and hilarious as
Jorge the not- quite-Austrian salon owner, and Djimon Hounsou, who is
charming and catches you with the kindest face in film.

The rest of the cast are average, each actor and actress playing
themselves and bringing nothing special to the table.

On the whole, this film is just a shadow of the Barbershop films,
basically trying to emulate them frame by frame, except for one
important aspect: this film has no plot. No story. it's just a bunch of
scenes strung together by the overall premise of a beauty shop owner
trying to make it in this crazy world. No story and no Cedric the
entertainer and a ton of excessively vulgar booty humour equals a poor
(wo)man's Barbershop. I'd save your tenner and wait for the DVD - or
better yet, rent the Barbershop films. They're the better bet, as the
originals usually are when compared with the clones. 5/10.
<|_=00=_|>
While it is a spin-off of Barber Shop, it is not a sequel. Feel-good
movie that keeps you laughing. Good comedy that actually has a plot and
story line.

The advanced screening I saw was full of all types of people, and
everyone was laughing at many points throughout the movie.

Kevin Bacon, Alica Silverstone, Andy McDowell were strong supporting
actors playing unpredictable roles - great casting.

Some confusing parts about the relationship of the "mother-in-law and
her daughter." Sometimes you think, who is she and how are they related
again. But other than that... much enjoyment.
<|_=00=_|>
Barbershop spin-off finds Latifah in Atlanta where she's recognized as
the city's best hair stylist even though she works for a dandy,
self-absorbed shop owner (Bacon). Ambitious and fed up with his
disrespect, she quits her job then branches out and opens her own shop.
Despite her undeniable talent, and the support of her devoted
co-workers, she still has to learn how to endure the hardships of
owning and operating her own business. The plot is a little too simple,
and seems set up a bit too easily, but it's likable and pleasant with
an appealing, first-rate cast. Bacon has an odd but amusing supporting
role, and Latifah is an ideal leading woman. Laughs aren't always
consistent but they are effective, and everyone seems to be enjoying
themselves. **½
<|_=00=_|>
This amusing little movie appeals to a wide range with its comfortable
humor, racy but utterly inoffensive conversation, and its roots in
Disney-style family values (but for the real world). Queen Latifah does
a relaxed and amiable job of tying the film together, and the ensemble
cast is sweet and funny. I was impressed with Alicia Silverstone's turn
as a geeky little white country girl--it's the first time she hasn't
been playing off a well-to-do type and she carries it off. We had a
nice relaxing time of it while we were watching, and half an hour later
I've forgotten most of it--but that's just fine. Means I can pop it in
the DVD player later on, enjoy it, and not remember a word.
<|_=00=_|>
"Beauty Shop" is harmless. Harmless in the sense that it tells a story,
isn't necessarily offensive, and goes into the old reliable bag of
tricks when it comes to entertaining.

If you, like me, have panned down the cast on IMDb.com, you'll see
quite an eclectic bunch of actors. Alfre Woodard, Queen Latifah, Keven
Bacon, Andie MacDowell, Alicia Silverstone, Mena Suvari, Dijmon Hansou,
and Keisha Knight-Pulliam--it's as random as random can be...well, so
is the script. And, as a result, so is the movie.

Kathy Griffin does an entire act on feeling nervous when white people
start speaking black around her--it makes her feel awkward. Now imagine
Andie MacDowell shaking her now developing booty and Alicia Silverstone
freaking a black man on the dance floor. I think if you were look up
the word "awkward" in the dictionary, these two plot points would
appear as references to the emotion.

Queen Latifah can't seem to break that aura that you're watching a
person playing themselves. Try as she might (or is capable of), she
can't make us believe her chemistry with Hansou is realistic, and,
though you like "Gina," she can't really make us commit to it, and I
can't really say that you like her enough to care that she's having a
hard time. All of the supporting characters are basically
stereotypical--no one is spared, whether they be the the black girls in
the shop, the wannabes who try and adjust, or the white characters who
want to fit in that just can't seem to--ergo, we get laughs for
situational comedy rather than actual funny writing. And the biggest
revelation is that a character that everyone is convinced as gay turns
out to be just a metro-sexual who has a prison record and likes white
girls. Sorry--that's not enough to make me strive to look past the
forest and see the trees.

I know we are being asked to not judge a book by its cover, but,
Silverstone's phony "hick from the sticks" accent was waring on my
nerves far too much to pick up that message...and, I still can't get
past Andie MacDowell being a pivotal character in this film. Her acting
prowess is debatable, and she seems to just show up whenever a Southern
accent is required in a film. But, it was somewhat nice to see how a
former "Cosby Kid" turned out after what must be a huge cross to bear
if you're looking to carve out an acting career for yourself.
