
When I first walked into the movie, my expectations were not very high.
The first two movies, I thought, were the best of the series mainly due
to Richard Harris' dead-on portrayal of Dumbledore and screenplays that
closely followed the original books. Though the third and fourth movies
were very artistic and dramatic, I couldn't really connect to them in
the way i had with the books. They glossed over many of the little
things that made the Harry Potter series so magical in the first place,
focusing on a select few plot lines and limiting dialog to only what
was necessary to further the story. 

As a result they've felt more like a collage of scenes, a series of
puzzle pieces, thrown at the viewers faster than they can piece
together, just leading up to a final confrontation. Pacing has
certainly been an issue, leaving fans feeling disjointed, and those new
to the series confused as to what exactly is going on. In this respect,
Order of the Phoenix was very similar to the previous two movies. As a
Hollywood film, it deserves praise, bringing this amazing world to the
big screen, telling a compelling tale, and keeping the viewers glued to
their seats for the duration of the movie. However, to the die hard
fans of the books, you will undoubtedly be disappointed. 

Many scenes that one would think invaluable to the story have been cut,
replaced by the hasty filling in of plot holes. And while it pains me
to ignore some of my favorite scenes from the book being left on the
cutting room floor (St. Mungo's, Harry's Quibbler interview, the
Quidditch fight, etc.), I realize that yes, not everything could be
included in the movie. But in this watered down version of the book,
there seems to be something missing. We still have all the drama and
excitement, but some of the magic just seems to be gone. 

Aside from Evanna (couldn't have made a more perfect Luna), the kids
give simply average performances, never really reaching the full
potential put forth by JK Rowling's writing. The same goes for Gambon,
who seems to have ignored the calm, all knowing, endearing idea of who
Dumbledore is, in favor of a more erratic yet powerful headmaster.
Sure, this works well in the more dramatic scenes (specifically the
final battle), but otherwise, his performance falls flat, lacking the
eye twinkling charm we came to love from the late Richard Harris.
Thankfully, Imelda Staunton more than makes up for this in an amazing
portrayal of Dolores Umbridge, one of the more fully realized
characters of the movie. As for the rest of the cast, it's largely hit
or miss, determined by how each scene is written. 

Overall, I would certainly recommend the movie for everyone, fan or
not, as it really was a well made movie, despite a few wooden actors
and some bad dialog. But when looking at the books, one really can't
help but think how much more potential this movie could've had.
<|_=00=_|>
OK. Yes stuff was left out. Yes some things were inaccurate. And yes,
at times the story jumped around. But I'll tell you what, if that's the
price to pay for being able to see fantastic literature on the
big-screen...I'll take a few inconsistencies any day.

For having the task of taking 870 masterful pages and turning them into
a 2.5 hour movie, David Yates did one heck of a job. This movie is a
must-see, no matter how you look at it. For book-readers, sure you
notice the absence of certain parts, but you finally get to see what
you've imagined in your head for years take place in real-live motion
on the screenand you know what, those few things left out, help you
gain a better understanding anyway, because you have already read the
in-between stuff. Then, in the same breath, this is a great movie for
non-book-readers as well. For those HP fans who take the lighter
approach of skipping the books and simply following along by the
moviesyou won't know what you're missing anyway. The biggest
complaints about this movie will be from book-readers who wanted a
10-hour long, word-for-word re-creation of the book. Other than that,
there is nothing to complain about. Acting was great, story-line was
great, and the special effects were flawless.

(Slight Spoiler In This Paragraph) Being a book-reader, I knew heading
in that I would have to be prepared to accept substantial cuts from all
that takes place in the book. However, the parts that Yates chose to
focus on, were by far, the most important ones; and the way in which he
did it, left me speechless. Yates was clearly at his best at the
movie's climactic ending. When reading those last few chapters, when
Harry is at the Ministry, and there is the great battle, the book reads
like a whirlwind. Everything is happening at once: death-eaters here,
death-eaters there, Sirius finally getting the chance to fight, Moody
kicking ass, Ginny going on a tear and straight-up owning people. And
you try to picture in your head what all this would look likea million
things going on at once, and trying to picture how wizards and witches
really "fight" each other. Somehow, someway, Yates was able to create
that fast-paced, action-packed, confusion, and then all of a sudden,
like an orchestra going flat after their last booming note, Sirius
Black is gonejust like in the book. This was the hardest part for me
to swallow when reading the book, as tears ran down my cheeks, not only
because Sirius was my favorite character, but because you go from such
a "high" of seeing the Order save the day, to the unbelievable "low" of
seeing Harry's godfather simply fade away. This is an emotion and
thought process which was excellently portrayed in the film. Ironically
enough, Yates was only warming up.

As for the Dumbledore/Voldemort showdown, I don't think that it could
have been done better. In a Star Wars type fashion, Harry is being
tempted by Voldemort to release his anger, to have his revenge on
Bellatrix Lestrange, to have a taste of the dark side. And as we sit
there fearing for confused, helpless Harry, we see a green fire of
hope, and more like Master Yoda than any other fictional character,
Albus Dumbledore appears and engages Voldemort in a wizard-duel that
puts Gandalf and Sarumon to shame.

The way the movie engaged the audience and got their emotion kicking is
a great film-making talent not found in many movies anymore. Think of
the way Yates made you HATE Umbridge, just like the book. The way you
felt bad for Snape when you saw his hidden past, just like the book.
And think of the best two lines of the movie where you felt comfort,
confidence, and safety on Harry's part. The first of these lines was
Sirius Black to Lucius Malfoy: when the death-eaters are over-whelming
the kids, Sirius appears behind Lucius with a firm, "get away from my
godson." Then once again, when Harry is alone with Voldemort,
Dumbledore appears and almost as if to initiate the duel, says, "It was
a mistake for you to come here tonight, Tom." Overall, the movie was
fantastic. The best of the fiveby far. You just have to put aside the
gaping holes of chapters that were left out, and look at what was done
well. For the book-readers, imagine if you were forced to take only 400
of the 870 pages out of the bookyou would take the most important ones
that relate to the plot. So as much as the "prefect storyline" and the
"Harry/Cho drama" and all that other stuff is a great read, the big
screen simply doesn't allow enough time for it. As for the
non-book-readerspick up the books and get busy. Because as great as a
job that Yates did with the moviethe woman he got the story from, Ms.
Rowling, might just be one of the greatest authors of our time.

Now go spend 10 bucks and enjoy the show!
<|_=00=_|>
I actually was lucky enough to see this at a sneak preview on Monday.
The "experience" was lousy, but the film was good...IF you take it as a
separate entity from the series of books. If you separate the film from
the book, you won't be disappointed.

For the negative...there were, of course, MANY things that were omitted
from the film. As a huge fan of the books, I still must be realistic. I
knew there would be a lot of information left out. There were a few
things that I felt could have made the story richer if they had been
included, but I won't go into detail so I don't give away any of the
film's changes. There were a few changes that made me frown at times,
but as the story played out, it did make the film flow well. One of
their worst casting decisions, Michael Gambon, was actually tolerable
in this one, for the most part. I am NOT a fan of his portrayal of
Dumbledore, but I guess he worked for this film simply because, for the
majority of the story, he is supposed to be acting somewhat aloof
towards Harry. That worked for him. I miss the subtlety that Richard
Harris brought to that role, and, while he wasn't dreadful in this one,
I still believe that there are countless other well known actors in the
UK that could have done this role better justice. There wasn't enough
Molly or Hagrid for me though. I love both of those characters.

On a positive note, the special effects were very well done. The
thestrals were marvelous--eerie, but strangely peaceful creatures.
Evanna Lynch could not have been more spot on as Luna. Her voice,
mannerisms and demeanor were amazing. My only complaint about her was
that she wasn't on screen enough. :o) Imelda Staunton, as Umbridge, and
Helena Bonham Carter, as Bella, have to be two of the BEST casting
decisions that they have with regard to these films. They were SO
incredible. I was actually quite impressed with Dan, Rupert and Emma as
well. They have come quite far in their acting abilities. They have
finally achieved the art of saying a lot without necessarily opening
their mouths. The scene in the common room following the kiss between
Harry and Cho was hysterical. Kreacher and Grawp were great additions
to the films. Fred and George's exit was very well done, albeit
slightly different. The film, if taken by itself, was really good.
Unfortunately, it's a lot different from the book. But, as I'm doing a
film review and not a comparison, I'll give it 8 out of 10, because I
was highly entertained.

Our "sneak preview" was interrupted in the middle due to a problem with
the film, and I think we still missed some of it. We lined up 3 hours
before the movie was supposed to begin, it started late, it was
interrupted in the middle for over 30 minutes, we were wanded for metal
and electronics every time we went in or out...I think we'll just wait
until opening week next time. It's crowded, but a lot less trouble.

We are actually going to see it again.
<|_=00=_|>
I love the Harry Potter books, and I've always liked the movies. That's
why I was very excited to go see the latest installment of the series.
However the movie did not at all live up to my expectations; to me it
felt rushed and choppy. I realize that Harry Potter and the Order of
the Phoenix was a very long book, but so was The Goblet of Fire and I
enjoyed it's movie adaptation a lot. In this movie seemed as though the
director merely had a check list of scenes that he needed to but in the
movie put no thought into connecting them. The speed and choppiness of
the movie took away from the characters. It was just events and there
was hardly any character development at all. Which was a shame because
the young cast continues to get better, and there were some amazing
acting veterans (Gary Oldman, Ralph Fiennes, Helena Bonham Carter etc.)
In my opinion if the director had slowed everything down, only a
little, he could've added a lot more (character development, humor,
fluidity) However, despite by prier comments, the movie was not
terrible. It did have it's good moments, but I think it could have been
done a lot better.
<|_=00=_|>
I feel cheated. I really do. Too much omitted this time.

WARNING: DON'T READ ANY FURTHER IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN THE MOVIE or READ
THE BOOK.

Firstly, Harry stabbed the dementor in the eye with his wand! What?!
Secondly, did anyone find Kingsley Shacklebolt's hat mildly
unnecessary? Just asking. Then, there's the complete omission of
Hermoine's and Ron's elevation to prefect, AND of Harry becoming
captain of the Quidditch team. In fact, there was no Quidditch at all.
Frowny faces abound. They skipped the visit to St. Mungo's, and it
would've been funny to see Gilderoy Lockhart again. It also seemed like
the Weasley brothers' grand exit was stolen from them. The fireworks
were cool, but there was none of the flair, there was no speech, and
there was (yet again) no Peeves. Sad times. And then, despite all these
omissions, they find time to have a scene of everyone from the DA in
detention writing lines with blood-ink quills, which never even happens
in the book. Booo. However, through all this, there was one glimmer of
hope: The fight in the Ministry. "The battle at the Ministry will make
it all better," I said to myself. Not so! I mean, sure, it was good
looking, but the entire Hall of Prophecy collapsing? Surely the shelves
in that kind of room are sturdier than that. The distinct lack of
almost ALL of the Department of Mysteries? Where was the brain room?
Where was the hummingbird in the hourglass? And most importantly, where
was the prophecy?! We get a snippet of it, but it comes out before the
thing even breaks. And now we come to the saddest part: Sirius's death.
(I told you, you shouldn't be reading if you haven't seen/read it
already.) It was definitely as sad as it should've been, but it wasn't
nearly as abrupt as it was in the book. It's shocking because of its
suddenness. It becomes more real that way; it shocks the reader as much
as it does Harry. It just didn't seem jarring enough. Also, the young
wizards were casting nonverbally, which will (presumably) create
confusion when Harry duels Snape in Half-Blood Prince. Oh, and the
Priori Incantatum thing with Voldemort and Dumbledore? What?

I will say that Umbridge and Bellatrix Lestrange were perfect for their
roles, and the thestrals were very cool. The acting was all extremely
well done, the content just left a lot to be desired.

But what do I know? It's hard to write movies. I just wish the film has
included more of the important, meaningful content.
<|_=00=_|>
Yates, be ashamed. Goldenberg, be ashamed. This is the worst HP movie a
die hard fan had to sit through. To start off, just because the movie
is an adaptation of the book does not mean it should leave out entire
story lines, change others, and expose only those that will glitter and
impress those who have not read the book. Lord of the Rings... ring a
bell, followers of the book... did it stray as much from the books as
OOTP did? Now for serious talk, whoever decided that Grawp should look
like a 20' middle-aged man with Down's Syndrome should be tortured for
the rest of their life. Not only did Grawp look slow, but behaved,
moved, and got the audience's sympathy NOT how the book describes him
at all. And how about entire chunks of the book thrown away for a cheap
(but likely profitable) movie? How about being 3/4 through the book in
60 minutes? How about Kreacher, 2 scenes? How about Sirius' mother's
portrait? How about Quidditch? How about the Patronus charm being "very
advanced magic" yet the director felt every character needed an animal?
How about classes, wizard clothing, Diagon Alley... is Hogwart's set in
London now for some reason? How about Harry is the only one that does
lines in Umbridge's office (so as to isolate him further from his
friends in his loneliness)? How about Firenze taking over Divination,
showing that it is not a lost art and course? How about Weasley's
Wizarding Wheezes, the twins' decision making, the money Harry gave
them to open up their shop? How about knowing the names of the escaped
convicts, was it going to cost too much to PRINT 10 names of the
villains who are in the finale on the Prophet? I realize this is a film
"based" on the book, but to be able to say that the movie should
reflect at least 50% of the book, if the craptacular disappointment duo
of Yates/Goldenberg sign on for Half Blood Prince, I hope I am not
alone in wishing them to buy a few extra letter openers for the "angry"
mail they will certainly receive. If another duo appears, my advice is
to stick to the book, even Mel Gibson did that...

To Ms. J.K. Rowling, I sincerely hope you did not have the final
decision on the final cut of this film... it utterly destroys the
imagery/ plot you so carefully grew and pruned in the minds of
innumerable people, young and old.
<|_=00=_|>
For those of you looking for a faithful adaptation of Order of the
Phoenix, this film isn't it. How director David Yates got the go to
direct completely baffles me. Not since Chris Columbus' stilted pacing
has a HP film disappointed me. I realize that in a book as rich in
detail as the HP series something is bound to be left out in the film
version, but the direction and editing of this film leave much to be
desired.

The film opens in Little Whinging with the dementor attack on Harry and
Dudley. Mrs. Figg happens across the boys as if by accident just after
Harry defeats the Dementors with his Patronus, but is never "outed" as
a squib. The Dursleys were more worried than horrified, and never
threatened Harry with expulsion from their house. The sheer vileness
that audiences last saw in Prisoner of Azkaban was notable absent,
leaving the view to wonder what happened to bring us the weak and
whimpering version of the Dursleys that appears in this film.

When Harry is brought to the Order's headquarters, very little is made
of the fact that the Noble House of Black was once a bastion of
pure-blood fanaticism. Kreature makes a very weak appearance, and the
simple existence of Regulus Black (R.A.B.?) was never even touched
upon.

Fred and George remain the comic relief, but the ever developing
character of Ginny Weasley is ignored. Even more upsetting was the
notable absence of Mrs. Weasly's growing concern for her family's
safety. I thought that one of the most touching moments in the book was
the chapter in which Mrs. Weasly attempts of banish the boggart only to
have it continually morph into the horrifying visages of various dead
loved ones. Bill and Charlie were also not mentioned, leaving the
viewer to wonder if the film franchise plans to reduce the Weasly
family from 9 to 7.

As excited as I was with the casting of Imelda Staunton as Dolores
Umbridge, I felt that Yate simply did not do her justice. Yes she was
vile, but not in the bureaucratic evil way Rowling depicted her in the
novel. She simpered, but I just did not get the feeling that she took
malicious pleasure that she should have in what she did as the High
Inquisitor.

The rumored St. Mungo's scene, while it may have been filmed, was
disappointingly absent, with the film jumping from Mr. Weasly's attack
in the ministry (although why he was in the Deapartment of Mysteries
was never addressed) to Christmas dinner at the HQ and a lame "Here's
Daddy!" from Mrs. Weasly.

Even more disappointing was the depiction of the Department of
Mysteries. I entered the movie hoping for some wicked effects and
bizarre magical elements, and was left with just the Hall of Prophesies
and the mysterious doorway. To add insult to injury, the relationship
between Sirius and Harry was never developed to the point where Harry
would naturally feel devastated by the loss of his godfather. I felt as
though their relationship was more vague friend of the family then
Harry beginning to look to Sirius as a surrogate father figure.

Over all the continuity of the film felt too rushed and disjointed, as
opposed to the more fluid Prisoner of Azkaban and Goblet of fire.
Relationships between the characters felt forced, which I found odd,
considering the fact that the cast has been working together for 7
years or so. If any of my personal suspicions and predictions for the
future of Harry are accurate, this film has left out numerous key
elements. That being the case, then films 6 and 7 will have to scramble
to make up for what this film lacks. As Yates is slated to direct the
next installment, I can only look to it with a feeling of dread,
wondering how he will mangle the Half-Blood Prince.
<|_=00=_|>
Once again, I believe that the series is only getting better with each
progressive movie. I attended a preview screening tonight and was
completely blown away by the movie. While quite a bit of detail was
lost in the movie, how can you really expect a three hour movie to
capture what takes Rowling hundreds of pages to explain? This said,
Yates did a great job capturing the spirit of the book, and he had me
on my seat from the first scene all the way through the end of the
movie. I cried, I laughed, and I am pretty sure there were a few times
where I couldn't breathe from the tension.

What really made the movie for me was the talent of the actors. As
expected, the older cast members deliver some of the best acting
England has to offer. Sidenote: there is something about Emma Thompson
where every time she cries in a movie, I start tearing up myself. I was
especially impressed with how much Daniel, Emma (Watson), and Rupert
have improved their acting since the last movie. Having come from
seeing Daniel in Equus two weeks ago, I was expecting a lot from him.
Even after seeing him display more intensity than I thought possible on
stage, he surprised me in Phoenix. His emotions were so raw and genuine
that I literally got goosebumps.

Well done to the cast and crew! I can't wait for the next one!!
<|_=00=_|>
I have read and enjoyed all 7 Harry potter novels, and I watched and
enjoyed the first 2 films, Azkaban and GOF were OK but not good. This
however was awful, and when I say awful I really mean awful. I was
genuinely on the verge of walking out of the theatre after about 30
minutes, the only reason I sat through this was because of my wife.

I will say that Dolores Umbridge and Sirius Black were really good.
Harry Potter however was dreadful. Daniel Radcliffe seems to have
forgotten how to act on his way through puberty. I mean he was
excellent in the first two films so why was this so awful? He spent two
hours literally panting and moaning, it was like he had been told to
tense every muscle in his whole body and stay like that for every
scene.

Then there was Dumbledore and trust me Michael Gambon cannot do
Dumbledore. After Trelawny is fired and he tells Umbridge quite calmly
that she can stay in the castle he then proceeds to shout at the
students, "Don't you all have studying to do?", that was one of my
biggest wtf moments.

Percy doesn't speak at all, and Malfoy has literally one line in the
whole film. How about explaining that Umbridge was the one who set the
Dementors on Harry in the first place, and then they actually changed
how the Dementors looked, I mean film 3 got it spot on. Then there was
just ridiculous stuff like a Dementor strangling Harry, so he stabs it
in the eye with his wand? Then there was Fred and George leaving
Hogwarts, the whole reason that they caused a big scene and commotion
was so that Harry could use Umbridges fire in her office and find out
about Sirius. How about Kreacher lying to Harry? How about revealing
that Snape DID go and find out about Sirius and was merely pretending
to be ignorant to Umbridge? My biggest disappointment however by far
was the end fight scene's between the death eaters and the Order of the
Phoenix, in particular Dumbledore and Voldemort. Bellatrix does not
kill Sirius with the Avada Kedavra curse, she stuns him into one of
those weird curtained doors, and then he disappears. The fight between
Dumbledore and Voldemort was basically a giant light show where the cgi
people were probably told "Go to town, let your imagination run wild".

How about Dumbledore taunting Voldemort by calling him Tom all the
time, and avoiding his killing curses rather than fighting back? How
about Dumbledore being shown to be far more powerful than Riddle and
choosing for reasons that I can't remember now not to kill him? The
other thing about Dumbledore as well is that he appears to dissaparate
from Hogwarts which Hermione says repeatedly throughout the books is
not possible.

I probably haven't covered everything, but these films definitely went
downhill big time after Chamber of Secrets. You leave the cinema
feeling like all you saw was lots of clips strung together, and that
loads of things were missing, and it all happened in a massive rush,
you don't get that sense of satisfaction that you should get after
watching a good film. Whether you've read the book or not, I would say
avoid at all costs, and if you haven't read the book, then buy the book
and read it, it will give you infinitely more pleasure that the torture
you have to suffer to watch this film.
<|_=00=_|>
Within the first 5 minutes you can tell the series has undergone a
dramatic tone shift and I have to say I think thats appropriate since
Voldemorts return at the end of Goblet of Fire means that it's time to
put aside childish things. The big bad men are here and they don't care
about hurting children. it's time to get nasty.

Gone is the frivolity of the first couple of movies where magic was
cool and everything in this new and magical world was just wonderful to
behold, a la World of Disney. The new director has taken some risks
with style and approach and they've paid off brilliantly. Order of the
Phoenix is probably the darkest of the five movies we've had so far,
even more so than Azkhaban which was a step in the right direction for
where the series would eventually be heading. There's very little "fun"
in Phoenix and you can see why. The Dark Lord is back, it's no laughing
matter and this movie actually sells that fact.

This (in the movie world at least) is where Harry Potter crosses the
line from kids movie to grown ups movie.

Harry now has some serious mental scars (as well as his actual one of
course) since the events of the previous movie which while lighter than
Azkhaban, followed on well from that movie. The Ministry of Magic is in
denial about Voldermorts return and are trying to control the flow of
rumour stemming from the events of Goblet. To this end we have new
teacher and Ministry stooge Dolores Umbridge. Pink and fluffy on the
outside, crunchy and evil on the inside. She makes no qualms about
re-ordering the law at Hogwarts putting the kybosh on anything even
remotely fun and making the students lives a complete misery. What she
put Harry through in detention was simply pure evil.

She wasn't quite how I pictured her from the book but Imelda Staunton
played her with a deliciously bitter/sweet twist, all charming and
proper in her righteous delusions with that "stab you in the back"
thing going on. She was a nasty piece of work.

It is a shame that a lot of the content of the book was missing but it
was a big book and although I can't put my finger on what wasn't in the
movie (I read it a while ago now) it does sometimes feel that there
should have more substance to a few areas, mainly the characterisation
of some of the characters. Most of the major bits I remember from the
book were in the movie. There's a pace here we haven't seen before, a
new musical approach also puts a new twist on things and I think Harry
Potters world seems to fit it's new clothes well. I'm eagerly
anticipating what's next as I hear David Yates is also directing the
Half Blood Prince (last I heard anyway) and since that book has zombies
in it I think the new dark style will suit it awesomely thank you very
much.

The characters all look much older than they're supposed to be in
Phoenix but it also kind of works in it's favour. They all look like
they have a bit more history and life experience behind them, they're
coping with stuff that will age any kid and it shows. That's also
testament to the acting as well. Here mostly all the acting is pretty
good, Ron Harry and Hermione all put in good efforts obviously having
gotten the hang of the whole acting lark. Gambon is good as Dumbledore
but I do miss Richard Harris and keep playing what might have been his
versions of Gambons scenes over in my head. When I read the books it's
Harris I'm picturing. Helena Bonham Carter gives a kooky insane kind of
air to Bellatrix Lestrange (must get that from hubby Tim Burton) who
was a pretty good character. One thing about this film though is that
the actual Order of the Phoenix isn't in it all that much really. A
flaw that wasn't in the book. The line about Snape being in the order,
if you missed it you wouldn't even know he was in the order at all and
a subsequent scene later on might seem confusing.

Kreacher was well done I though, coming across as a real miserable old
bugger which was appropriate. The producers apparently weren't going to
put him in the movie at all but JK Rowling said they'd be stuffing
themselves up for the final movie if they did that.

All in all I think Phoenix is the best so far of the five movies,
followed by Azkhaban, Goblet, then the other two in no particular
order.

Now I've just got hold of The Deathly Hallows and although it's quarter
past five I'm off to bed so see you later....
