
It's 1962 New York. Barbara Novak (Renee Zellweger) has written a book
called "Down With Love" convincing woman that they don't need a man or
love or sex to succeed and be happy with themselves. Womanizer Catcher
Block (Ewan McGregor) is determined to prove her wrong.

This is many things--an affectionate remake of those silly Doris
Day/Rock Hudson movies; a sweet sendup of them at the same time; a
perfect example of 1960s sex comedies with a 2000s twist; a huge barrel
of laughs for film buffs with its perfect remake of a 1960s film and an
examination of sexual mores and stereotypes of the 1960s.

The movie look like a Day/Hudson movie right down to the fashions
Zellweger wears, the VERY colorful sets, the obviously painted
backdrops from penthouse apartments and the crappy back projection in
cars. There's also a hysterical (and very dirty) use of split screen
during a phone conversation between Zellweger and McGregor. The movie
even opens with the old Cinemascope logo used in films of that era!

The cast is right on target--Zellweger and McGregor give their all to
the performances--they wink at the audience all the time...but not TOO
much. David Hyde Pierce (doing Tony Randall) and Sarah Paulson are also
very funny with the dreaded best friends role. The only real problem is
the script. It is sharp and funny but occasionally bogs down and some
of the twists are too obvious.

Still, I enjoyed it. The casual moviegoer will probably hate
this--unless you get the inside jokes all throughout the film you'll
think you're watching a badly dated sex comedy. But it's not--it's a
parody and an affectionate sendup. This will be most appreciated by
film buffs or students.
<|_=00=_|>

I'm surprised to read so many user comments which indicate that Down
With Love received some critical acclaim - I recall a very different
response, where critics seemed hugely and almost unanimously
underwhelmed (maybe this was a UK response?) and consequently, I wasn't
expecting too much. This only enhanced my enjoyment - what an
underrated gem this movie is!! 

I rarely like Zellwegger, but here she was pertly perfect, and McGregor
was simply fabulous - dashing, charismatic, loathsome, even vulnerable,
especially when he occasionally slips from his duplicitous fake self
(when he notices a lash on her cheek, for example), and always delivers
his lines with exquisite (and surprising) comic timing. The support
cast were also excellent, especially Hyde Pierce, although he was not a
100 miles from his decade-long stint as Niles Crane. 

The set, costumes, production design and cinematography were also
outstanding in this movie, evoking the brashly-coloured, kitsch,
fluffy-light ambiance which pervades the early 1960s New York screwball
romance movie genre, but the snippy script and slick direction removed
this pastiche away from its potential as mere enchanting, screwball
fable to a witty, post-feminist send-up of this Hudson/Day romcom genre
- and indeed, the battle of the sexes. To its credit, Down With Love
doesn't collapse completely into mawkish sentimentality with Novak
(Zellwegger) suddenly capitulating into the cult of domesticity, tamed
by her man, which is often the fate of modern post-feminist heroines -
instead, the couple compromise, and we can be sure that she won't be
confined to the suburban purgatory she comes to dread. 

In all, a fun, fab and brilliantly executed movie, which has been
clearly (re)created with due love for the genre it so skillfully
parodies, yet in the light of postmodern sensibilities by adding a
much-needed post-feminist twist.

<|_=00=_|>

If only because Ewan McGregor and Renee Zellweger were in this movie, it
would be worth seeing.  What you can't expect, however, is the sheer fun
that ensues, complete with fake New York City backdrops, glamorous period
sets, and even more glamorous costumes, makeup and hairstyles.  After the
first few minutes, I began to tire of this homage mentality, but the
story
quickly sucked me in, thanks in great part to the blissfully neurotic
performance of David Hyde Pierce as the friend/boss of Catcher Block
(McGregor).  Sarah Paulson is also fun and perky as Barbara Novak's
(Zellweger) best friend/editor, and keeps things moving along quite well.
His Theatrical Eminence, Tony Randall, even makes an appearance as "The
Big
Boss" of the publishing company.  He, coincidentally enough, was the
friend/boss to Rock Hudson in "Pillow Talk" from 1959.

The chemistry between McGregor and Zellweger heated up the screen in a
sweet, old-fashioned way.  Remember the kind of romance that reminds you
of
when just smooching and holding hands was just ever so dreamy?  That
level
is cranked up a few notches higher (in that same sweet fashion) than
Doris
Day or Rock Hudson would have ever dared; a particular example is the
priceless "split-screen" telephone conversation between the leads, taken
to
a level above, below, and to the side-like of any ever seen on screen
before.

Also of great note is Zellweger's scene that includes the longest bit of
unedited exposition I've had the opportunity to see on film (one-shot, no
cuts at all).  It reminds me greatly of Steve Martin's coffee-pouring bit
("Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid") except that it's all dialogue!  I was torn
between listening to all of the story twists, and wanting to pull out a
stopwatch to clock her monologue!  The next shot of Catch must have
mirrored
the expression of the entire audience at that particular
moment!

Anyone planning to see this film might find it amusing to first watch
movies
like "Pillow Talk" to get a feel for the kind of film that is being
emulated
here.  In fact, there are a number of particular story elements that
obviously could be attributed to that particular film.

It should be no surprise to learn that the team who wrote this fun sex
farce
is also responsible for the upcoming "Legally Blonde 2: Red, White &
Blonde"
set to be released July 2, 2003.

Have fun, and enjoy this tasty treat of nostalgia.  Chocolate, as you
will
see, becomes a key player.  Make sure to stick around for the final
credits
as well.....if you loved McGregor in "Moulin Rouge" and Zellweger in
"Chicago", you will adore the vocal stylings of both at the end of this
oh-so-cute movie!

<|_=00=_|>
I loved the Doris Day/Rock Hudson pastiches and some of the comedies
that followed with the extraordinary Doris and a varied but terrific
succession of leading men. In particular with James Garner in "The
Thrill Of It All" The secret there, I believe, was a smart and knowing
script an unmistakable chemistry between the stars and performances
that were solidly based on reality no matter how "out there" they seem
to be. Here, the whole thing is so self conscious that we are never
allow to go beyond it and actually enjoy the whole thing. Rene
Zellwegger is a very good actress but not a natural comedienne. She's
at her best when she's thoroughly thorough as in "Nurse Beatty" where
she was very funny mostly because her conviction was so convincingly
strong. Here she plays it like in a SNL sketch and could have worked if
it had had the length of one of those sketches. In "Down With Love"
she's downright annoying. Ewan McGregor, one of my favorites, is not
even there. Let me explain. Think of Rock Hudson's commitment to those
roles. The charm he was able to emanate and how naturally he became the
foil for Doris Day. Here Zellwegger and McGregor don't play opposite
each other but against each other. No chemistry whatsoever. Ewan
McGregor so wonderful, powerful and beautiful in "Velvet Goldmine"
"Shallow Grave" not to mention "Moulin Rouge", is kind of insignificant
here. Yes, I'm amazed myself. Doesn't have a hint of the romantic
manliness of Rock Hudson, isn't that funny? I didn't like either the on
the nose production design, the silly costumes, the theatrical make up
and hair nor the unimaginative lighting. Other than that, David Hyde
Pierce is, almost, worth the price of admission.
<|_=00=_|>

This is an homage to the light romantic comedies of the early 60's and a
strong influence by "Pillow Talk". Renee Zellweger is Barbara Novack and
she
writes a book about women and how they look at relationships and an
editor
at a publishing firm named Vicki Hiller (Sarah Paulson) convinces the
board
of directors to publish her book. One way to get attention to her book is
for a well known writer to write an expose of it so they try to get
Catcher
Block (Ewan McGregor) to do the job but he's so busy womanizing that he
keeps canceling their appointments so they try other methods to get
attention to her book and they succeed as it becomes a best seller.
Catcher
is amazed by her success and bets his friend and coworker Peter MacMannus
(David Hyde Pierce) that he can make her fall in love with him which
would
make her a hypocrite and he would have a big story to publish. Catcher
pretends to be a shy astronaut from Florida and they start to date. This
film is directed by Peyton Reed who has worked almost exclusively in
television and is directing the "Fantastic Four" next. Film does an
admirable job of recreating those type of films that were prevalent in
those
times. The sets are terrific with the decor for the offices and
apartments.
Even the scenes like when Zellweger is riding in a car its obvious that
its
a sound stage with a movie screen behind them showing stock footage of
1960's traffic. The script also does a good job of adding some flavor of
1960's culture like when one of the board of directors describes her as
"The
Farmers Daughter" from Maine. This is of course in reference to Debbie
Reynolds and when MacGregor says he's an astronaut from Cocoa Beach
Florida
its from "I Dream Of Jeannie". All pop icons from the sixties. And having
Tony Randall in the film gives it the ultimate cavalier compliment. Its
not
a perfect homage like the scene where Paulson accuses Pierce of being
homosexual which would not have been allowed during those times but the
lighthearted charm of the film remains intact. Zellweger is fine as usual
as
Barbara but its MacGregor that caught my eye. His performances in the
last
two years have never ceased to be interesting. He was almost
unrecognizable
in "Black Hawk Down" and then shows he can sing in "Moulin Rouge!" But
also
shows he can handle playing American dialects. He's an amazing actor to
watch and here he adds to his mystique. Film is utterly charming and it
does
compliment the films from the early sixties. 
<|_=00=_|>
To make a movie which pays homage to a specific style of film making
and effectively pull it off is a thing not many movies nowadays can say
they do. Words like "noir" or "romantic comedy" or "sex farce" or
"genre film" are thrown around cheaply, and the end result is just
shades away from tragic.

DOWN WITH LOVE is a film that successfully pays a sincere homage to the
movies that Doris Day and Rock Hudson made back in the very early 60s,
and is filmed to look as if it had been released in its time frame,
down to its (opening and closing) credits, fake backdrops, stunning
wardrobe, innocent innuendo, and overall 60s values. There could have
been a plethora of references and anachronisms that could have ruined
the look of the film, but thankfully, this is not the case, and for a
plot that transpires in 1962, it feels absolutely and undeniably 1962.

Renee Zellweger, Ewan McGregor, Sarah Paulson, and David Hyde Pierce
all take over roles made famous by their predecessors (Doris Day, Rock
Hudson, Lauren Bacall, and Tony Randall), and without imitating them,
they make these their own and make DOWN WITH LOVE a breezy, enjoyable
viewing that doesn't ask for too much analysis.
<|_=00=_|>

DOWN WITH LOVE, director Peyton Reed's homage/spoof of the Doris Day/Rock
Hudson sex comedies of the early 60s, is a delightful bit of fluff in a
movie season filled with inferior sequels and overwrought epics. Dazzling to
watch, with Givenchy-inspired costumes (if Daniel Orlandi does not receive
an Oscar for his work, his peers should turn in their Designer cards),
wonderfully over-the-top sets (EVERYBODY in those 60s films lived in
apartments you could land airplanes in), and a 'More 1963 New York than 1963
New York' look (created on the studio back lot, with ample support from
CGI), the film would deserve a viewing even if the cast never uttered a line
of dialog!

Fortunately, the script, by Eve Ahlert and Dennis Drake, is wickedly funny,
full of the politically incorrect double entendres that were as close as
Hollywood could get to actual 'naughtiness', 30 years ago (and, yes, there
are more than a few present that WOULD have been censored, even then). The
story, of a woman who writes a best-selling 'self-help' book eschewing the
necessity of men for any more than 'casual sex', and the 'Hugh Hefner'-like
writer who turns his prodigious charms to work, in the guise of a naive
astronaut, to win her love, and thus discredit her theories, would have fit
Doris Day and Rock Hudson to a 'T'. While Renée Zellweger and Ewan McGregor
lack their role models' charisma, they have a pleasant chemistry together,
and the 'split-screen' phone call scenes between the pair are even racier
than the Day/Hudson 60s versions.

If the leads seem a bit bland, the supporting cast more than makes up for
any shortcomings. In a role that SHOULD garner a 'Supporting Actor' Oscar
nomination, David Hyde Pierce takes on the part assumed by Tony Randall or
Gig Young in those 60s farces, that of the put-upon, neurotic, sometimes
prissy friend of the hero. He is superb, even SOUNDING like Tony Randall,
and steals every scene he's in. His 'opposite number', friend of the heroine
Sarah Paulson, while not quite at Pierce's level, is still quite funny as a
chain-smoking career woman who would chuck it all for the right man. And, in
a FABULOUS piece of casting, the MAN himself, Tony Randall, appears as the
book publisher whose bestseller is RUINING his love life. At 83, the man can
still toss off a funny line...

With a very inventive 'twist-within-a-twist' climax, and Marc Shaiman's
evocative score punctuating the proceedings, DOWN WITH LOVE is a
delight!

<|_=00=_|>

DWL didn't do to well at the box office.  I guess it must have been due to a
poor advertizing campaign.  After finally seeing it, I though it was pretty
good.  It's sort of like a battle of the sexes.  Barbara Novak  pretends to
be a man hating woman who doesn't need love while  Catcher Block is a
womanizer out to prove he can get the DWL girl(Novak) to fall in love. So
along the way, we get funny situations, like Catch pretending to be Zip and
many over heard conversations that seem to be about something else, ie...
the secretary overhearing the sock discussion.  And an unusually scene using
split screens with Barbara and Catch talking on the phone.  She's below and
he's on top doing pushups.  At the end they smoke. Cute
idea.

The 2 supporting characters, Vikki and Peter, were good.  Plus we get a
surprise twist toward the end involving Barbara, which I never saw
coming.

FINAL VERDICT:  Cute and funny.  It's different than your average romantic
comedy.  So if you like romantic comedies, I recommend this
one.
<|_=00=_|>
I actually liked the gimmick (sending up the old Rock Hudson/Doris Day
movies) and the way they set it up in the beginning. Loved the costumes
and the set design, and, as others have noted, how they tried to match
the style of the originals. But the storyline really fell apart pretty
quickly, and especially as we wound toward the end and there were
suddenly layers upon layers of new story added. Like, WHAT? I found the
whole payoff to the story beyond redemption.

I guess, overall, I would say the movie came off charmless and forced,
and there was no chemistry between Zellweger and McGregor. Plus he
didn't look at all like the hunks of that time period. (Too small, for
one thing -- think Rock Hudson and James Garner. Or even Dean Martin.
They're all tall and more muscular.) I also thought that RZ and EMc
seemed to be playing in two different movies, neither of which would've
been anywhere near the 60s.

I agree that David Hyde Pierce brightens the movie every time he shows
up. It's just that there's not enough DHP to save the whole movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Barbara (Renee Zellweger) has just written a book called Down With
Love. She leaves Maine and lands in New York City, where her book is
about to hit the shelves. Unfortunately, the male executives at her
publishing house have doubts about the new tome and are not forking
over any marketing money. The lone woman at Banner publishing, Vicki,
takes Barbara under her wing and they work to get the nonfiction title
some fame. First, they decide to ask Catcher Block (Ewan McGregor), a
prominent male writer for Know magazine, to do a cover story for the
book. He postpones the interview again and again. In the meantime,
Vicki and Barbara get the book mentioned on the Ed Sullivan show. Soon,
copies of DWL are flying out of the bookstores, mainly because the book
empowers women to think more about themselves and less about attracting
a man. Catcher spies a picture of Barbara in a bookstore window and
knows he has to meet her. However, since he is a notorious ladies man,
he assumes the identity of an astronaut named Zip Martin. Naturally, he
plays the perfect gentleman when he begins to take Barbara out on the
town. How long will it be until Barbara discovers the truth? And, will
she have fallen for the guy first? Romantic comedy fans everywhere
should love this film. It is a takeoff of the old Doris and Rock movies
that are so delightfully fun and full of clean mischief. Zellweger and
McGregor are a joy in their roles as the smitten couple. The rest of
the cast, including a cameo by Tony Randall, are great, too. The look
of the film is nice, as are the costumes and the Big Apple setting. If
you love crazy, contrived, comic love tales, get this one tonight. You
will bask in its take-me-out-of-my-blues delivery.
