

Any comparisons between "Honey" and "Glitter" are probably due to both
movies having script-work by Kate Lanier (who, funnily enough, isn't listed
on the completed movie)... and, of course, to their having slightly similar
plots. Except that "Glitter" is likely to be more of a black mark on Mariah
Carey's book than "Honey" is on Jessica Alba's.

This movie about a kind-hearted young woman in New York who uses dancing to
help the people in her neighbourhood (the people that she meets when she's
walking down the street... sorry, couldn't resist) and who's plucked from a
nightclub to become the Paula Abdul of the 21st century - she even has a
little mole on her face - is aptly named; it's as sweet-natured as its title
character and has little if any benefit on your system, except to slip down
nice and easy and leave not very much behind. It's filled with all the
realism you'd expect from the producer of "Legally Blonde" and "Josie and
the Pussycats," but it's not quite as much fun as either. Part of it is a
personal thing (the Rodney Jerkins-executive produced music that permeates
the movie isn't my thing, rhythmic though it is), but the thin,
originality-challenged scripting and silly dialogue are more of a problem;
when our bartender-by-night/dance-teacher-by-day heroine tells a kid "Your
flava's hot" it's a little embarrassing, although in fairness "Honey"'s
street talk doesn't make you wince as much as some other examples of this
kind of thing.

To be honest, the movie pretty much goes in one ear and out the other;
there's not a single truly dramatic moment, with the setbacks coming on cue
(when Li'l Romeo's character gets arrested it, and many other moments in the
movie, plays like a less-than-brilliant After School Special) and the
characters are right out of Cliches Central, from the almost saintly title
character to the sexually predatory rival dancer. (And note to the
filmmakers: as anyone who's ever watched MTV, VH-1 et al will confirm, music
videos don't credit the choreographer on screen... regardless of what the
one that plays next to the movie's end credits might say.)

But it's impossible to really hate "Honey"; the movie's too harmless and
good-tempered for anyone to get into a hissyfit over its drawbacks, and
though the R&B-flavoured cameos mean a lot of people who see this movie will
probably be going "Who's this Tweet person?" Missy Elliott is genuinely
funny in her very brief scenes. The dancing's also good, which is one of the
main reasons to go and see movies like this; and though it doesn't actually
seem to have anything like a narrative drive (it just seems to end instead
of climax), there have been worse movies from music video directors, e.g.
almost anything directed by Russell Mulcahy.

Oh yes, Jessica. She doesn't quite seem like the streetwise type, but she
isn't supposed to be; she looks the part and comes off reasonably well, as
well as having the edge over Jennifer Beals in "Flashdance" in that she
actually does most of her own dancing. This isn't really the best vehicle
for her, to be honest, but Jessica's an undeniable charmer on screen, and
far too sexy for this or anything she's been in (with the arguable exception
of "Paranoid") to be an unbearable experience. All she has to do is improve
her choice of scripts...
<|_=00=_|>

Pros:
- Jessica Alba is likeable

- The Dancing is good and frequent

- Missy Elliott, Tweet and other hip hop stars can be seen in cameo
roles.

- It never gets too slow or too boring

Cons:
- The characters don't feel realistic in certain situations

- ...that goes for the plot too. For example, peolpe seem to know a dance
routine by looking at it once.

- The plot is unoriginal, you know where "Honey" is heading.

Summary: "Honey" is a likeable film, but you have to enjoy listening to
hip
hop and watch people dance.
<|_=00=_|>
I got a three pack on a DVD at Wal Mart for ten dollars a few weeks ago
and Honey was on the cover, never saw the movie, wasn't really
interested when it came out, but I figured why not see it for ten
dollars? Sounds silly, but who knows? Sometimes you find little
treasures here and there that are cheap, plus, I remember that this was
the film that really introduced Jessica Alba to the movie business
industry. Of course, she's really huge now, and judging from this film,
Honey that I watched last night, I have to say other than her looks, I
am surprised she made it this far. I don't mean to sound horrible on
the film or anything, but this just seemed like a giant rap video for
me and the plot was way too average and predictable with some cheesy
street slang.

Honey Daniels has three jobs: a bartender, a sales girl at a CD store,
and also a dance teacher at her mom's little business to keep kids off
the street. But more than anything, Honey wants to be a music video
back up dancer. Her wishes come true when a director, Michael, welcomes
her to the dance floor and makes her a choreographer. All her dreams
are coming true, until she realizes that she forgets the more important
things in life that mean so much to her. She eventually wants to open a
club of her own to help out the neighborhood kids.

Honey has the typical street slang which I didn't find attractive, you
just can't take it seriously. Alba, she's such a pretty girl, BUT, I'm
very sorry, the girl cannot act, I didn't feel an ounce of sympathy or
compassion for her character, she played off as this naive little
thing, when she could have played it more smart and strong. Not to
mention what was the whole Missy Elliot dialog? "What is this? This?
This? Ugh? Ugh?"... it was supposed to be funny, but Missy comes off
flat. Mekhi should have had more screen time, the guy is the only one
with talent in the film. The dance moves are good, but I just wish they
wouldn't have made this into a giant rap video.

2/10
<|_=00=_|>
Honey was a film I hadn't heard much about. A few people had mentioned
it if only as a passing Jessica Alba conversation. It took me some time
to actually sit down and watch it but I was pleasantly surprised. I
admit I am not a fan of hip hop music which was a big reason I hadn't
bothered to see it.

Honey is the story of dancer and nighttime bartender Honey Daniels. She
dreams of making it big in the world of dancing and she has the moves
but hasn't been discovered yet. By chance she is noticed by big time
music video director Michael Ellis who launches her career by putting
her front and center in some of the biggest music videos in the
industry. As her fame grows she loses touch with some of the things
most important to her, her neighborhood, her best friend, the kids she
used to teach dance too. She tries to juggle both but it becomes a
challenge. Ellis introduces her into choreography and she begins to
write the dance moves and further her fame. Finally she finds a balance
when she realizes she might be able to help get some of her
neighborhood kids off the street by putting them in music videos.
Unfortunately she quickly discovers Michael Ellis never wanted her for
anything more than sex and he fires her when she doesn't give it up and
on top of that blacklists her in the industry so no one will work with
her. She returns to her neighborhood where she discovers the drop in
center where she taught dance has closed and now she desperately wants
to open up a dance studio where the kids can dance and have fun safely
off the streets. In order to raise the money to buy the space for the
dancer center Honey organizes a huge dance show with the kids
performing. With the help from her neighborhood and the kids she will
succeed in all her dreams.

Any hip hop fan will appreciate this film from cameos alone. The film
is chock full of musical cameos from Missy Elliot to Jadakiss. It's
true that plot is a little thin in the film but quite frankly it was
much more of a plot than I thought it would be. I had the film pegged
as a Flashdance, Save The Last Dance type but it was less about the
dancer and more about her love for the kids. It was actually rather
uplifting and their final song of the film was very cool and made me
smile. I've read some less than favorable reviews on this movie but for
me it came as a surprise that it wasn't horrible. The cast is alright
but they don't really hold up the movie as much as the story does.
Jessica Alba is decent in the lead role, and Lil' Romeo does a great
job in his role as Benny, the troubled kid from the streets. It doesn't
have a lot of depth but if you enjoy hip hop and want something
uplifting, it's worth seeing. 7/10
<|_=00=_|>

After reading a lot of the reviews on this board, I thought this movie was
going to be really bad however I found that this movie isn't really as
terrible as some people have made it out to be. Jessica Alba plays Honey
Danies, a hip-hop dance teacher hoping to make it as a choreographer, for
someone who didn't have any previous dance experience, she sure does a
fantastic job! Mekhi Pfifer is good in his supporting role as the barber
with a lot of heart.

This movie is something that has been done many times before so you can't
expect an oscar nominated screenplay etc etc. However, its something you can
enjoy and if you are into the music or dancing, then this is definitely
something for you

a 6/10
<|_=00=_|>


Credit `Honey' with at least having its heart in the right place – even if
its brain isn't always so easy to find.  The ever sunny and optimistic Honey
Daniels holds down two jobs in her increasingly hectic life – a bartender by
night and a hip hop dance instructor by day.  She has hopes of one day
appearing in a music video, a dream that comes true when she catches the eye
of a big time producer named Michael Ellis.  Not only is Honey a smash in
her first video appearance, but Michael immediately hires her as
choreographer for one of his projects.  As is typical in these
strive-and-succeed tales, Honey soon discovers that success is not all that
it's cracked up to be when Michael reveals his true colors, setting up
conditions for her continued employment that she hadn't quite counted on (in
other words, `put out or pull out').  But the always-undaunted Honey is not
about to be knocked down that easily.  She uses this little setback to start
thinking less about herself and more about the street kids whom she sees
turning into drug dealers and gangsters right before her rose-colored eyes. 
Filled with a righteous zeal and determination, she rallies the neighborhood
to raise money for a new dance studio that can get the youngsters off the
street, channel their energies in a more positive direction, and turn their
lives around.

Only the most Scrooge-like curmudgeon could object to the positive,
laudatory, pull-yourself-up-by–the-bootstraps message the film is trying to
convey, and one would have to be downright inhuman not to feel uplifted by
the final dance sequence.  But good intentions and noble aspirations do not,
in and of themselves, make for a quality film, and `Honey' is a long way
from fitting that bill.  The movie wants to be taken seriously as a
realistic view of urban life but very little of what we see ever rings true,
starting with Honey herself who, with her invariably perky demeanor, seems
like a cross between Little Mary Sunshine and Mother Teresa in form fitting
jeans and matching halter top.  Everything that happens to her – from her
meteoric rise in the music video world to her purchase of an empty store for
her new dance studio to the benefit performance she and her dancers stage to
raise the money for the project – all come about way too easily and with
virtually no noticeable effort on her part.  We never believe for a moment
that any of this would happen in this way in the real world.  Thus, `Honey'
is really little more than an urban fairy tale, fine for children, I
suppose, but not of much use for adults with a more pragmatic understanding
of how life actually works.  

Jessica Alba is no great shakes as an actress, though she has an infectious
smile and a bubbly demeanor that work well on screen.  But it is Zachary
Williams, as the adorable, gap-toothed eight-year-old Raymond, who steals
the show.   Now that is one hell of an endearing little
kid.

<|_=00=_|>
In a poor neighborhood, the choreographer Honey Daniels (Jessica Alba)
works in a record store during the day and as a bartender in a
night-club in the night-shift, and teaches dance to teenagers of her
community. She dreams to be successful as a video-clip dancer. When she
meets the video director Michael Ellis (David Moscow), she believes
that her dreams have come true. When Michael discloses his real
intentions with her, she decides to struggle for making her dreams
really come true.

I have just watched "Honey" because of the name of Jessica Alba in the
cast. Fortunately I did not pay attention to the unfair and very
underrated IMDb User Rating. "Honey" is indeed a delightful and
enjoyable feel-good movie. Certainly it is not a masterpiece, and it
will never be indicated for an Oscar, but it is not its intention.
"Honey" is, first of all, a great homage to hip-hop, with the
participation of many stars such as Tweet, Missy Elliot, Blaque,
Jadakiss, Ginuwine among others, and awesome dance choreographs. The
story has a good message that everybody must fight to make the dreams
come true. The stunning Jessica Alba is wonderful in the role of Honey.
The story may be corny for bitter viewers, with most of the characters
being nice; horrible, for those who have prejudice against poor people
or hip-hop; or great for a viewer that appreciate a great entertainment
like me. The music score is fantastic, and the DVD released in Brazil
by Universal is outstanding, full of wonderful extras. My vote is
eight.

Title (Brazil): "Honey – No Ritmo dos Seus Sonhos" ("Honey – In the
Rythim of Your Dreams")
<|_=00=_|>
Jessica Alba is the star of the show; in this movie and in Hollywood
since I don't know when. Her situation is something to detail about.
Personally, I look at her and I think she has acted her whole life.
Everyone talks about her everyday as if she had decades in the
business, but she doesn't. I could say I believe she's done over ten
films, when this movie was probably her fifth important role. She did a
TV show I never saw for two years, but even before that, her name was
on the poster of the movies she appeared in. She is a star by nature, a
leading star; and "Honey" is the evidence that proves my statement. 

When the film starts, Honey Daniels (Alba) is working at the bar in a
disco serving the usual free drinks to her best friend Gina (Joy
Briant): "One, please", the friend says, and two guys standing right by
her get closer: "Make that three". Honey, with a big smile in her face,
tells the guys: "Today is your lucky day", and then Gina interrupts:
"Don't get to excited though; she'll not be here much longer…She's
gonna make it". So the guys ask how she's gonna make it.

Right away we find out Honey dances; and that she dances awesomely
well. If Alba did her own dance moves I don't know for sure, but it
always looks like her; in the dance floor, in the videos, in the dance
lessons. OK, the film: Honey has a great talent for dancing and she
could be a classic ballerina but she prefers to teach hip-hop in a
place her mother owns. She goes to auditions, she works hard, and she
ultimately gets recognized.

But Alonzo Brown and Kim Watson's story is not about "making it"; it is
about the good-hearted people who fight for what they want, don't sell
and don't quit. I don't even know if this is a veridical portrait of
the hip hop world, but the video shoots seem real and I guess the
artists/directors relationships should be how the movie shows them.
What I wanted to say is that in the music world, mostly with hip hop
(which I consider the easiest market today), when people make it, it
goes over their heads, and they leave everything behind.

Although not Honey Daniels; she'll not fall into temptation, and she'll
be there for the ones she cares for. It may sound too formulaic, but
it's beautiful. Debutant director at the time Bille Woodruff, with
previous experience from musical videos, shows us the nice face of his
characters' world. Everything is shiny, everyone's happy, everyone's
smiling. Yeah, sure some bad things happen, but everything will be
ultimately worked out.

Great casting work with the youngsters, especially with Zachary
Williams as a little boy, Raymond, who needs someone to watch over him;
and Lil' Romeo in a tremendous and talented performance as the teenager
Benny, who debates himself about being a gangster or a normal child.
This plus Missy Elliott's cameo and Mekhi Phifer in the most charming
performance of his career, and the some of the best lines as: "You
peoples? Playa, playa, how'd you swing that? I've been trying' to be
her peoples for weeks; ain't had no luck". 

Not enough? Alba looks gorgeously beautiful in every outfit she wears
and her acting skills are way above the film's requirements…She's
stunning now and it is only the beginning.
<|_=00=_|>
I thought it was a great movie with a good storyline about a girl with
a dream of making it big, helping out those who can't have that life.
Yes, a little predictable at times, but the thought was there. The
movie faced a lot of issues, from drug use and dealing to just
generally believing in your dreams and no movie is complete without the
fairytale love story. The dancing was awesome and Jessica Alba was
amazing as Honey Daniels. People will give up their dreams if things
don't turn out the way they wanted them to, but Honey stuck by hers and
accomplished something she'd always wanted to. I think she is an
inspiration for many.
<|_=00=_|>
I thought Honey wasn't that good!! Only because it was soooooo
predictable! Due to the dancing i thought it was o.k!! Jessica Alba is
a great actress as in 'Sin City' and 'Fantastic 4' i've never seen 'Sin
City' but i have seen 'Fantastic 4' which is a great movie! Anyway back
to Honey, Jessica Alba is great in this movie. I only seen it once and
that was last week it was the first time i had ever seen the film! And
i thought OMG (O my god!!) this film is sooooo predictable!! Sorry to
any one who thinks it's fantastic!!!! I'd have to say the best part
would have to be the ending!!! I love the song!!! And the dancing it
superb!!! Thanks to the directer who made this film! The ending was
great!!! And the choreography is amazing!!!
