

The best we should reasonably expect from a movie like `Blue Crush' is that
we will be treated to some stunning footage of surfers riding the world's
greatest waves (along Hawaii's Pipeline, natch) to personal fame and glory. 
We certainly get that in abundance - but what we have less right to expect,
perhaps, is that the film will offer anything else of any real quality. 
After all, we've been to these kinds of movies before, harking all the way
back to those halcyon Bleach Blanket Bingo days when Gidget, Moondoggie and
the rest of those addle-brained, teeny-bopper cut-ups aspired to nothing
higher than a life of eternal youth spent wallowing in the bleach-white
sands of Santa Monica or Malibu.  In the case of `Blue Crush,' therefore, I
am happy to report that the screenplay - by Lizzy Weiss (based on a magazine
article by Susan Orlean) -provides just enough touches of realism to keep
this new film both life-sized and interesting.  And the majority of the
credit goes to the film's protagonist, Anne Marie Chadwick who, much to our
surprise, engages our sympathies from first moment to last. 

Anne Marie is no bubble-headed, bleached-blond bimbo with nothing on her
mind but winning the big Pipeline competition.  Although that is, indeed,
part of her life's plan, Anne Marie is, also, an intelligent, pragmatic
young woman, fully aware of both her strengths and weaknesses and just
trying the best she knows how to make her life work for her, the young
sister in her charge and the two surf buddy girlfriends she lives and works
with.  Anne Marie is also riddled with insecurities, as she struggles to
overcome the fear instilled in her by a near-fatal accident in that very
same spot a few years earlier.  Meanwhile, she and her pals work hard trying
to eke out a living as maids at a posh hotel, earning just enough money to
keep a roof over their heads and pay some of their bills so they will be
free to head to the coast at the first sign of prime `Surf's Up' conditions.

The acting in the film is really quite impressive.  As Anne Marie, Kate
Bosworth lights up the screen with her subtly nuanced, poised and dignified
performance.   She knows how to use understated facial expressions to convey
the thoughts and feelings of the character she is portraying.   Equally
compelling are Michelle Rodriguez and Sanoe Lake as her fun-loving buddies,
Mika Boorem as her little sister, and Matthew Davis as the professional
football quarterback who becomes her love interest.  Director John
Stockwell, to his credit, manages to keep the majority of the scenes
intimate in tone and realistic in nature, rarely allowing the narrative to
wander into overwrought melodrama or teen-movie farce.  Even the obligatory
fight scene is kept restrained and believable.

There are occasional weaknesses in the film – a gaggle of snooty football
wives and groupies who snub Anne Marie for being too lower class for their
tastes are the primary offenders – but, on the whole, `Blue Crush' turns out
to be a much better film than its subject matter would ever lead us to
expect.  That comes as a particularly pleasant and un-looked-for surprise
here in the shank of the summer movie going season.  

<|_=00=_|>
For all you wanna-be critics out there trying to be negative about the
directing and cinematography, lighten up! This film is excellent in the
fact that it does not try to be more than it is... a surf flick. Its
obviously not trying to win an Oscar or a bafta. cant any of you simply
enjoy a feel good movie? the filming of the waves and the surfing was
top class and even though the acting was not Oscar worthy in any way
shape or form i think it was impressive that they embraced the surfing
culture and used local people in this film.

For all of you out there who like to just enjoy a films and don't feel
that you need to be completely baffled, shocked or made to think you
will enjoy this. Yes it is predictable but who cares its just a bit of
fun.

For all of you who hated this film just because the plot was
predictable and the acting was substandard i draw your attention to a
gentleman named Sigmund Frued; "Some times a cigar is just a cigar"
<|_=00=_|>

i went to see this movie solely because i thought it would be horrible.  It
looked so cornballish that i couldn't help but go if only to mock it from
my
seat the whole way through.  I was thus quite shocked to find myself
actually enjoying the film!  From the direction, to the action, the camera
work and especially the surfing shots, it was just amazing.  Seeing the
waves crashing fifteen feet tall, it is definitely worth seeing in theaters
to get the full effect.  Another shock came in the form of teh script, and
the acting.  While they had their holes, it was amazing how real the movie
felt.  They weren't actors, they were real people.  From the very
beginning,
it starts.  Other reviews have claimed that these characters were all
standard hollywood barbies, but this is far from the truth.  While it Anne
Marie is quite attractive she is far from movie star beautiful, there is
this natural and real quality to her that, if anything, makes her all the
more endearing.  i could drivel on, but the point is, this movie just makes
you feel good.  it takes you along on this enjoyable ride, and leaves you
with a positive attitude and an insatiable desire to move to hawaii, rent a
shack and spend your days surfing.  It was cute, but there's also a lot of
substance there.  definitely worth seeing.
<|_=00=_|>

Critic Ebert has a very complete and accurate review, and I will not repeat
any of it here. I bought "Blue Crush" as a used rental DVD, real cheap, and
it is a perfect disk. The basic story has been told many times, but it is
done here better than many. However, there is one thing that moves it from
the "ordinary" to "outstanding - the cimematography and the
sound.

After most of the first hour of the film sets up the characters and the
situations, we are treated to surfing the Hawaii "pipeline" by surfers. One
DVD extra shows how they do "face replacement" so that the pro surfer
appears to be star Kate Bosworth. With many cameras in the waves, and
sometimes under them, we get a unique perspective of being on top of a giant
wave, or being inside the wave as it is breaking.  All the while a very
aggressive sound mix makes you feel like you are there also.  This is
definitely a good DVD to have for demonstrating the quality of your digital
5.1 surround sound system with good powered subwoofer.

I suspect anyone who saw "Blue Crush" at home, on VHS or DVD, with sound fed
into the TV speakers has seen a different movie. That's because the sound
track plays such a key role. This isn't a great movie, but a very good one.
I believe its most realistic IMDb rating is somewhere around "7" or
"8".
<|_=00=_|>

From the thoroughly mediocre school of filmmaking, here comes director John
Stockwell's 'Blue Crush'. Its graduates...uh, actors include Kate Bosworth,
Michelle Rodriguez, and a bunch of other pretty people you've never heard
of. Bosworth is Anne Marie, the super-talented surfer with a confidence
problem. Before the movie is half over, she's in love with a pro quarterback
and struggling to gumption up for the big all-girls surf championship. It's
your standard 1980's Tom Cruise picture.

If a movie with such modest ambitions is supposed to make you want to go out
and take up surfing, I say, hand me my 'Point Break' DVD instead. Sure,
'Blue Crush' is professionally made and the camerawork is fine, but how hard
is it to pretty up shots of the Hawaiian ocean when it's in the form of
gorgeous, humungoid waves? That's a natural beauty that speaks for itself
and doesn't need Hollywood to flaunt it. As for the screenplay by Lizzy
Weiss & Stockwell, well, they're proficient with the surfing lingo. They're
also absentminded enough to bury their various hanging plot threads in an
undertow. The flick is not trying to be a deep meditation on the entire
wave-lovin' experience, but that's no excuse for staggering along with such
a sub-par story.

As unremarkable as they may be, the female leads are about the best thing in
the film. They all look smart in bathing suits---the words "woo hoo" come to
mind---and they're fairly natural. Plus, these likable babes don't grate
with too many, "you go, girl" comments. Rodriguez even smiled once or twice,
which confirms that she DOES have more facial expressions than just snarling
and pouting. But despite the physical beauty of the waves and the girls, the
film they're in is generic goop. Parents will be happy that all the sex is
kiss-kiss-fadeout, there's nary a drug, and only a handful of cuss words.
All the same, I'm certainly not happy with the content of 'Blue Crush'. It's
just not tubular, dude.
<|_=00=_|>

I should start off saying, This film is amazing on So many
levels!!!
the story is believable and well plotted, and the way this film was shot is
Amazing!!!

I originally went to see this film for two reasons.
1.I love Michelle Rodriguez.
2.Im a sucker for surf movies.

I originally didn't figure on expecting too much from this film, other than
a fluffy story with people wiping out alot on weeny waves, but In turn the
characters are brought out quite well, and the waves are
HUGE!
I do however think this is a somewhat sequel to "North Shore", "ie..Girl
makes it big on small circuit, has problems and eventually breaks through
and comes out on top, and it takes place in Hawaii, on the North shore..
:)"..It's Kind of a "fluff" story, but it Draws you INTO the character's
lives...and when your finished watching this film, you'll feel like youve
Really been hitting the waves!!

However , If you Don't like feel good movies, or surf movies in general 
bore you...then this film Isn't for you...otherwise this movie is tops when
it comed to surfer flicks!!!

<|_=00=_|>

Spoilers herein.

I was blown away by this little gem, because of how purely cinematic it
is.

All the good parts are framed by a weak story that started out at least
competently formulaic but has been so sliced and diced by the producers that
none of it makes sense. No matter. Really, no matter because the water
scenes make the time more than worth the effort. But it must be noted that
while the story (and acting and dialog) is all disposable, it respects the
sexuality of the girls. They are in bathing suits, and look nice but not
even once is there a prurient shot. Not once is there an attempt to slip
into a coy, seductive wiggle. And that's remarkable indeed.

But it is not the thing that makes this trip worthwhile.

Not all of life does well in translating to cinema. Some things are
inherently more cinematic than others, and the stuff that is (and is easy to
do) comes pouring over the hapless moviewatcher: explosions, car chases,
macho strutting and the related violence. And of course a specific type of
sexual, cool open (usually submissive) femininity. In fact, because that
sexual presence is so cinematically effective, it has defined societal types
and expectations. That's another story, one we will avoid here except to
already have noted that this film made a deliberate effort to steer away
from sex in order to only have one cinematic center.

And that's the architectural water. Structured, moving water is the most
cinematic thing in existence. It is also an incredible challenge to film,
but the few times it has been explored, the results have sometimes been
striking. Even in the otherwise horrible `Hard Rain,' even in the deeply
flawed `In Dreams,' even in the melodramatic `Titanic,' the movement of
camera with water comes close to a visually spiritual experience.

I live in a surfing town, and in 1967 saw `Endless Summer.' But in that and
all subsequent surf movies, what you get are moving portraits, not cinema.
Here, we move to a whole ‘nother level. The camera is above us, it is under
us, it is _us_, it chases us, it anticipates us. I have made a minor study
of how different projects move the camera within dancing (and in Ang Lee's
case, within fights). The same techniques are used here as we participate in
the dance between this athletic girl and these immense hydraulic
beings.

I do not know for sure who did what, but I confidently surmise that this
achievement is the result of a true story of girl power in Hollywood. The
editor in this case is Emma Hickox. Aside from what we see on the screen, we
know she is a remarkable cinematic mind if only because of her parents. Her
mother is the still working (at 85!) editor who changed the world of visual
imagination with `Laurence of Arabia.' Her father is the fellow that made
one of the most intelligent films about films ever (`Theater of Blood'), but
sadly unrecognized as such.

Watch what Ms Hickox does with the compositions of the eye as we envelop the
enveloping water. Watch how cleverly she establishes our place with our ear
at the beginning of these sequences and keeps us aurally, mentally
stabilized while the eye dances. Amazing, simply amazing.

My only criticism is probably something beyond her control. We only needed
to see the flashback sequence of the younger Anne getting her head bumped
once. It must appear eight or ten times, every moment we have to be
bludgeoned into recalling that she is frightened.

See this film. It advances your visual imagination far beyond what `Perfect
Storm' ever could.

Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 4: Worth watching. 
<|_=00=_|>

I won't dispute the weakness in the story and some so-so acting. In
this particular case I rate this movie highly for its video and
especially audio quality. For any home theater fanatic looking for top
notch sound this is one of the best. When they're out in the water
laying pipe, etc... its about as good a sound track as I've heard. You
can almost feel the water getting in your ears. The video isn't far
behind but that was easier for the filmmakers since the Hawaiian coast
is so beautiful. I found the story to be passable, but there are a
couple of segments that are dumb and I skip over on repeat viewings.
Some of the extra features on the DVD are also good. If you have a good
HT audio setup this needs to be in your collection!

<|_=00=_|>

Blue Crush. I have this really stupid habit of putting the names of the
movies that I loved on the wall of my room. I spend hours deciding whether
or not to put up the names of the movies making notes of its pros and cons.
It's a tough job!!

Today, so very strangely, with the opening scene of Blue Crush I wrote its
name between ‘The Matrix' and ‘Underworld'. I knew I was going to love the
movie even before I had seen it. And truly enough I loved the movie.

What I loved so much about the movie was the story. It was a story of
struggle against the odds to survive, to live for a dream. Isn't it the
intensity of our struggle with our inner demons and external nightmares that
determines the person that we grow up to be. The theme – I have a dream,
never fails to win me over. If you don't live for your dream what will you
live for. 
The art direction was awesome. If nothing else go to see this movie for the
photography. The underwater shots - breathtakingly beautiful. The movie
setting was perfect and the waves huge. The spirit of never-say-die that the
movie leaves behind is undeniable. I also loved the fact that the leads both
were set in different financial backgrounds. To see the trio of friends
working as maids seeing to the luxury of the rich in a posh uptown hotel was
an experience.  

Kate Bosworth does a really good job playing the role of a promising surfer
who has a nightmare to live down. Michelle Rodriguez is Hollywood's toughest
girl. Its about time she gets to prove her worth instead of being given the
second lead. This tough girl can take all of Arnie, Stallone, Vin Diesel and
give them hell in their own home turf. I may have watched the movie
originally for Michelle Rodriguez, but who really stole my heart was Lena.
She has this bright outlook at life that truly brings to life the essence of
being alive. Kate B's sister, Penny, going wayward growing up was also
great. 

The music was really cool. I'll admit I'm mostly a punk rock/ sometimes
heavy kinda boy, but the song that I'll be humming for a long time will be
`Cool Summer' from the movie soundtrack.

In the end I always write about the glitches in the movie. Today this will
remain blank. I found none.
Brian Grazer in an interview talked rather proudly about this movie and the
surfing stunts in it. And to God, he has a definite reason to be proud. And
its called Blue Crush.

<|_=00=_|>
In Hawaii, Anne Marie Chadwick (Kate Bosworth) is a local surfer girl,
who had an accident three years ago when she was on the top of her
career. She almost died in a huge wave, but now she is preparing for an
international competition, with the support of the best friends Eden
(Michelle Rodriguez) and Lena (Sanoe Lake), and her younger sister
Penny Chadwick (Mika Boorem). Anne is traumatized with her accident,
and is quite afraid of the big waves, but she aims to achieve a sponsor
to follow her career and have the necessary financial support. Some
days before the competition, she has a crush on the football player
Matt Tollman (Matthew Davis). 'Blue Crush' is a good popcorn film,
having a shallow story but compensated by the wonderful places and the
big waves in Hawaii, and the very beautiful young cast. An excellent
entertainment for a Saturday or Sunday afternoon for the whole family.
My vote is six.

Title (Brazil): 'A Onda dos Sonhos' ('The Wave of the Dreams')
