
Tristan and Isolde is one of the most enjoyable films I've seen this
year. I saw it in a preview screening without knowing anything about
the film or the myth. I expected a mediocre romance, only hoping that
it would be set in an interesting medieval setting and that my
girlfriend would enjoy it. Well it is a story of love, but also so much
more. The film has a dark undertone to it and every character is torn
between hard choices of power, loyalty, friendship and in Tristan's
case, love. There is plenty of both tragedy and love and although very
dramatic I never felt it was being too sentimental. The battle scenes
are very well done. Although realism is sometimes sacrificed for
dramatic impact, this works very well for the film. Most importantly
there are no invulnerable heroes. Everyone is in immediate danger of
mutilation and death, making the fight scenes more intense. The casting
of Tristan, Isolde and Lord Marke is perfect and most of the supporting
cast do an equally great job. The absence of any Hollywood superstars
makes the film all that much better. Enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>
One of the great love stories from the medieval courtly romances,
"Tristan and Isolde" has received many different treatments from
medieval poets such as Gottfried of Strasbourg to the haunting opera by
the nineteenth-century German composer Ricard Wagner. In each of the
versions of the story, there are new and different plot details in this
tragic love story.

In Kevin Reynolds' film adaptation, the most intriguing new twist from
the traditional story is the way in which Tristan and Isolde meet. In
this version, Tristan is given up for dead following a battle in
Cornwall and washes ashore in Ireland in a boat only to be discovered
by Isolde. She then uses her magical herbs to cure him. In Gottfried's
medieval tale, the two young people drink a love potion from a goblet
of wine. In this film, the young people fall instantly in love without
any need of an elixir.

In two touching performances, the young lovers are played by James
Franco and Sophia Myles. Their on-screen chemistry is electric, and
their scenes together are filmed effectively by Reynolds in beautiful
location settings. The film also explores themes of medieval chivalry
and honor. Rufus Sewell delivers an excellent performance as King Mark
caught in the love triangle that recalls the famous story of King
Arthur, Lancelot, and Guineviere. 

There are also great action sequences in "Tristan and Isolde,"
including battles, tournaments, and medieval siege warfare. But the
most memorable scenes are the intimate moments with Tristan and Isolde.
Their fateful meeting and the unfolding of their relationship make this
film worthwhile for audiences both familiar with the legend and for
those being introduced to this timeless love story for the first time.
<|_=00=_|>
Beautiful, full of emotion and moving. The characters are portrayed
skillfully and are generally believable - they fit into the legend but
aren't overly heroic. Not overdone. The love between Tristan and Isolde
is so powerful that it's impossible not to feel for them, but it is
also impossible not to feel bad for the King, who is deeply in love
with Isolde as well. The film's main departure from the traditional
story is it's decision to leave out the love potion between T+I, which
for modern audiences is a smart choice; it makes the whole relationship
appear more 'authentic.' This is also one of Rufus Sewell's only'
sympathetic roles, and it's a treat to see him play someone we don't
automatically hate. The real heart-wrencher comes from watching the
love grow between T+I while their obstacles grow larger. The movie also
had some great battle scenes, just violent enough without going for the
gross-out factor, convincing but not painful to watch (for most). And
like most good dramatic movies it's not completely without humor, there
are definitely some moments that make you laugh, or at least smile.
Overall, it is one of the best romantic historical movies I have seen
in a very long time. This movie is sure to make the entire female
population fall in love with James Franco, and it's story is
unforgettable.
<|_=00=_|>
I did not expect to like this film; the reviews were lackluster, and
many seemed to think the leads were mediocre at best. I found the
performances riveting and highly engaging. While I do not know the
actual historical story, I found the storyline highly captivating.

I thought James Franco played Tristan brilliantly - broken hearted but
not brooding, he seemed to only come to life during battle before
meeting Isolde, and then afterward only in their stolen moments
together. Many of the reviews I've read seem to think that he played
the role flatly, but I thought the subtlety of expression in his eyes
and body language was impressive. Confident as a warrior, but almost
innocent in intimacy, I thought he walked the thin line between adult
and youth effectively.

Sophia Myles captured the fire, vulnerability and desire of Isolde with
fervor - and that's not easy to do. Myles delivered her lines subtly,
tinting words with emotional depth -scorn, joy, passion, frustration,
disappointment - that was understated and yet passionate. She, too,
managed to portray a delicate balance between the innocence of
idealistic youth and the realities of a woman who found her self in an
unenviable position.

Rufus Sewell was fantastic. As king, he had to walk the thin line
between diplomacy and his own frustrations; as a man, he came alive
when with Isolde, and so her betrayal was all that more heartbreaking,
a scene which he played with focus and power.

I thought the fight scenes were very well done, except for the excess
of cut shots, jumping from person to person, which moved the action
almost too quickly, occasionally resulting in a jagged flow of action.
Overall, however, the battle scenes were very well done.

The costumes were incredible - not period realistic (especially
Isolde's wedding gown) but they were beautiful and overall well
designed to intimate the period but still have some glitz. The
locations shots were awe-inspiring. 

I LOVED these characters very shortly after they each came on screen. I
rarely feel such a strong connection to characters, especially of
period pieces, but each of the leads played their roles with finesse. I
deeply cared about these people, seeing hope and joy rise in their
eyes, only to see events quickly turn that joy to sorrow, and hope to
forceful determination. Their moments of happiness are so brief, their
heartbreak so complete that I found myself profoundly moved by their
experiences. As deeply invested as I became with these characters, I
nearly sobbed at the end of the movie. A 5-hankie tear jerker.

I eagerly await the release of the DVD, and expect to enjoy this film
many times over.
<|_=00=_|>
Tristan & Isolde was basically the best Love story that I have seen in
a good while. Better than the Notebook, better than Romeo & Juliet,
better than anything you could imagine. I went into the movie realizing
that I would shed a few tears, it is a given with me and love stories.
I did not know that this movie would cause me to sob severely and to
really fall in love with Tristan & Isolde. This movie can not even be
exclaimed, it truly is a work of art. I went with a couple girl
friends, and in the car ride home this movie was all we could talk
about. The parallels between it and Romeo & Juliet are apparent, yet
this love story seems to be more passionate and true love. The actors
and actresses really gave off the impression that they were in love and
troubled by all of the heartache they must overcome. Even though it is
2 hours long, I lost track of time and all sense of my surroundings.
This movie both captures and captivates the audience. A must see...
<|_=00=_|>
I must say that I didn't even originally plan on going to this movie,
but after I was asked by a friend to see it on its opening night, I
said that sure, I would go. I figured that it would be alright, nothing
more than mediocre at the most, but this movie was amazingly wonderful. 

I have heard many people's comments on how they didn't like it because
"Myles' accent was completely wrong," "the chemistry between Franco and
Myles was horrible," "it didn't even follow the original story," and
many other miscellaneous things. While the story line was changed a
little from the original story, I believe that it was still good. And
come on, how many times does Hollywood actually stick to the original
story anyway? I think that the way the story went was much easier for
people who were not familiar with the story of Tristan and Isolde to
follow. 

Further, I thought that Myles did a wonderful job with her accents. I
found it very easy to differentiate between the Irish and the English. 

And lastly, I found the chemistry between Myles and Franco to be simply
wonderful. They really showed me that the characters were truly in
love; it was compelling and deep, put together for a very good movie. 

I can honestly say that this is one of the best movies I have seen in a
while; it was not the watered-down relationship kind of thing that
comes from Hollywood most of the time. From the battles to the most
intimate of scenes, it stayed simple; not the high-tech kind of thing
that you would usually see. There were some parts meant to be funny,
some meant to be sad, and the movie averaged out to give you the best
of both. I will tell you that in its opening weekend I saw it more than
once, something that I would usually never do. It's a movie that gets
better and better each time you see it; one where you pick out things
each time that you had not seen before. 

Simply put, this is a wonderful movie. I loved it, but I would not
recommend going if you're just going because you think that James
Franco is hott! I know some people who didn't like it, I won't lie, but
if you come to the movie with an open mind and know that some things
are going to be different, you will absolutely love it, as I did.
<|_=00=_|>
Sophia Myles is without a doubt one of the most gorgeous actresses ever
to appear on screen, and most people's ideal image of what Isolde
should look like. The scenery is breathtaking, the cinematography
stunning, and the costumes remarkably authentic. Kevin Reynolds, who
has a proved track record with making accessible period films (Count of
Monte Cristo), mercifully gives the film a believability that is
missing in most modern historical films.

This is not an adaptation of the Wagner opera, nor a retelling of any
specific version of the tale, but a distillation of its strongest
elements. The absence of magical elements is a strength, as it was in
Petersen's Troy.

The actor playing Tristan is acceptable, neither spectacular nor awful,
but plays the part well enough not to distract from the other fine
elements in the film.

Overall, a remarkably successful film, and the only shame is that it
hasn't received wider publicity.
<|_=00=_|>
There are love stories,and then there are love stories that pack a
powerful punch.Tristan and Isolde indeed falls in the latter category.
I must confess to not being an avid watcher of romance films,and was
expecting not to enjoy much,if any of this film at all.I came away
pleasantly surprised,as this film has a power that is hard not to
acknowledge.It is two love stories in one.An English warrior is torn
between the love of a woman from a country with which they are at war,
and the man to which he owes his very life.The problem is,his two loves
are sworn to one another,though not by the lady's choosing.The story is
told well,and the film beautifully done.As of this writing,it is still
in theaters and is worthy of the admission price,not to mention a
worthwhile future rental.
<|_=00=_|>
I have to admit that I do not remember much about this story from my
college Western Civ class, but I enjoyed this director's work in other
films, so I took a chance. What a lovely film! The story is well told,
paced well, and full of thought provoking moments. I found the leads,
particularly Sophie Myles, who plays Isolde, to be mesmerizing in their
roles. The supporting cast is also terrific. I know this won't be for
everyone, but it's also not strictly a chick flick. There's plenty of
war scenes, adventure, action, etc. to keep those action film fans
happy, and yet there's a lot of good love stories, and not just between
the two leads as you might expect. I recommend this one!
<|_=00=_|>
I took my GF to it last night. It was her birthday and she had the pick
of which movie to see. I had not seen any of the trailers for it and
was told it was a romance. What I saw was not at all what I expected!
Set back when there were Kings and Lords, it kept me entertained
through the whole 2 hrs! There were several lesser name actors that I
recognized which made it even more appealing. No huge stars overacting!
I've been told that the movie does not follow the fable exactly, but I
had never heard the fable so I can't verify this. Not an action flick
like Gladiator or Troy, but if you like that era this is a movie for
you!
