
Lots of fun - I saw it with the grandkids and a theater full of
families. a great time was had by all. technically speaking, one might
say that the story was 'uneven' in places (can you say *that* about
animated films? (-:) -- I mention this because there has been some
needlessly negative feedback here at IMDb. On the whole, though, the
presentation is quick-paced, bright, happy, and delightful to the eyes
and ears. There are also some unique, quirky scenes (i.e. animals
nonchalantly getting on a subway?) - I love to see stuff I haven't seen
before. that's not easy to do, you know - by all accounts, "everything
has been done on film already.." - (if you catch my drift). so, give
credit when due! enjoy!(-:
<|_=00=_|>
Let's face it, it's hard to put out a good animation movie that is
equal to Shrek, The Incredibles or Finding Nemo. Those are hard movies
to follow but Madagascar is by no means a bad movie. In fact, I will
still rate this pretty high, as I enjoyed it without watching the
clock.

The plot was very easy for children to follow while not so simplistic
that adults become bored in the middle. The simple plot was that 4
animals raised in a zoo venture out into the wild and quickly realize
how easy they had it back home in the New York Zoo.

There was quite a few humorous scenes in Madagascar, but my favorite
has to be the "distinguished" chimps who get offended that the thought
of looking or smelling like a monkey is bad. An honorable mention is
the penguins who also got more than they bargained for in Antarctica.

While some of the graphics are sub-par to other movies I've mentioned,
like Alex the Lion (voiced by Ben Stiller) for instance. At times they
look sort of like clay-mation or something, and other they look
positively life-like. The scenery and the lemurs stand out as the most
beautifully rendered parts of the movie.

This movie is great for getting the kids out of the house and not too
bad if the normal adult wants to get away and enjoy something more
suitable for the family as well.
<|_=00=_|>
I could not disagree with those who are calling this movie boring more.
Is it a perfect movie? No. But it is fun, fast-paced, and highly
entertaining. A theater full of children laughed almost non-stop, and
even my husband (who honestly wanted to see the latest "Star Wars"
movie) grudgingly admitted it was pretty good.

The plot is basic: four animals must try to survive in the wild, and
along the way learn more about themselves. But the visuals are
hilarious, the music is fun, and the interludes with the psychotic
penguins? Priceless.

The only part of this movie I disliked was the casting of David
Schwimmer. Although he did a fine job, the entire time I felt
distracted by his voice- I was reminded too much of his Ross character
from "Friends." So, don't go expecting an Oscar-worthy film, or even
the next "Shrek." Instead, go to enjoy a piece of indulgent yet funny
animation that will keep you laughing.
<|_=00=_|>
There are so few movies that you can enjoy as a family, so perhaps I've
given this more stars than it deserves. I did laugh out loud several
times. The jokes are mostly "pop culture" references; for example, (the
zebra (Chris Rock) has a treadmill in his area (not a cage, really) at
the zoo.

This is sort of a twist on the fish out of water movies, as the zoo
animals, according to the local animal rights activists, don't belong
in the zoo; they are shipped off to Africa. Hilarity ensues; the
animals don't end up at the planned destination and find out that they
don't necessarily belong in the wild either. What I found unique about
this movie is that for once, the actual nature of the animal is
acknowledged. Ben Stiller's lion character realizes that everyone looks
like a steak and wants to eat everyone. Of course, he realizes that
he's "wrong" (HUH??) and tries to change. The kids loved it, I wasn't
totally bored out of my mind, and the animation was pretty good, I
thought. The penguins were especially cute. Wish they'd had more screen
time.
<|_=00=_|>
The mood you're in when you see a movie has a big impact on how much
you enjoy it. I saw this in a cinema packed with young families and it
went down well. I laughed a lot, so did my kids, and so did the cinema.
I explained to my daughter that pansy meant softy, so I even felt
useful.

Having young children means I have sat through quite a lot of this
genre, and the use of computers in animation makes things a little
over-refined. I seem to be the only person who finds Pixar movies too
polished, faultless, and stale. This film can be abrupt and patchy, but
in my opinion that makes it more spontaneous.

The movie looks great, the penguins are funny, the king is funny, and
the pace and energy are good. About 90 minutes is also the correct
length. The plot may be thin but the survival concepts that pepper the
movie are good intellectual fodder for children.
<|_=00=_|>
Moderately funny movie. Decent lines, some funny moments. I have to
admit I liked Ali G as the king lemur singing "Move It" as did my 7 and
4 year olds. Some funny visuals as well (won't spoil those here) but
this movie is nowhere in the league of Shrek or the better Disney
stuff, and certainly not as funny as the highlight reel that was the
trailer being shown for the last couple of weeks on television. If you
haven't gone yet, you might want to wait until it hits your local
second-run discount theater, or just rent it because as another poster
mentioned, it is in no way worth spending $50+ for a family of four.
And the poster who gave it a 10-star review, along with his blathering
drivel of a review ("reel" indeed, ugh) is an obvious studio plant, pay
it no mind.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay. Here we go. Before watching this film, if you read what it is
going to be about, you will find something that could be promising.
Four animals that are close friends in a zoo end up being stranded in
the wild where one of them--the lion--finds out that it is his nature
to hunt down the other three. Now that makes a good story! But the
thing is that the story barely even touched on that. It seemed to go
nowhere and throughout the time that I watched this, I felt as if it
were still beginning and we were being introduced to the characters,
including the ones that later come into play. I didn't feel as if the
peak of the plot was ever reached because I started thinking: What is
the plot? Where is this movie trying to go? Nothing really happens.
This film is like a large introduction that never really goes anywhere.
It barely touches the middle of the story when it suddenly ends. A big
hole was certainly there when the credits came up. A lot could have
been done with this story. We also never really connect with any of the
characters. They are just there. The voices are done well and they
really match with the characters, but that's mostly it. There is not a
lot of character development. But the good news is that many kids will
enjoy this. There is plenty of light humor, especially with the
penguins who steal the show most of the time. There are cute parts and
the visuals are all right. This is no Shrek and it is a little below
Shark Tale in my opinion. Dreamworks could have had a much better film.
So much more could have happened on this island, but alas we were only
introduced to it and nothing else. No, this movie is not horribly bad,
but it is not very good either. I give it an average at best. It is
watchable but that is it for me. The story was handled too weakly. This
movie really had potential. But hey, at least the kids most likely will
enjoy it =)

5.8/10 Stars
<|_=00=_|>
Here's another recently-made animated film that has two outstanding
characteristics which make it a winner: 1 - consistently funny humor
that adults can enjoy, and 2 - beautiful, bold colors.

When a movie is both fun to hear and to watch, I have very few
complaints. This movie provides a lot of enjoyment with more jokes
perhaps that adults would laugh at than the kids. I can't say that for
sure, since I watched it by myself....but I sure got my share of laughs 

This is a tale of four zoo animals that wind up in the wilds. To be
more precise, they go from the big zoo in New York City to the wilds of
Madagascar, an island near Africa. Wherever these "guys" are - the
lion, zebra, hippo and giraffe - they are entertaining. 

Ben Stiller and Chris Rock, voicing the lion ("Alex") and zebra
("Marty"), respectively, are the two main characters. Jada Pinkett
Smith's hippo ("Gloria") and and David Schwimmer's hypochondriac
giraffe ("Melman") provide solid support. The main thing is that all
the characters, including supporting ones, are likable and funny in
their own way. Every character is quite different. The story movies
exceptionally fast so the hour-and-a-half is easy to watch.

Maybe the best thing I can say is that I heard a lot of good things
about this before watching it, and it lived up to its hype. That's not
easy to do.
<|_=00=_|>
I took my 8 yr old daughter and a friend of hers to see the movie last
weekend. We had a blast. The humor is one of Dreamworks best. It was
sutle enough on some of the jokes that the younger kids did not catch
on but you could hear the adults chuckling.

My personal favorite was Melmen. He was very funny and I think that
everyone can relate to knowing someone like that. (Sick all the time)

I would not recommend kids under the age of 6 to see it though. Their
where quite a few little ones in the theater and all you heard was
"what are they doing now? Why are people laughing?" etc.

A lot of fun and a lot of laughs. We will definitely own this when it
comes out on DVD.
<|_=00=_|>
A wonderful movie for all ages.

This films really follows in the footsteps of recent animated
blockbusters as Finding Nemo,Shrek, Monster Inc., The Incredibles, Ice
Age etc. The story works very well, and it is obvious that the team
behind is people who knows their media. It stays on the same course all
the way through, something that really is the essence of the success of
the animated films these last years, something other writers can really
learn from. And that's all the comparison I will do, because it really
is its own movie.

A wonderful thing about it is the references to other movies like The
Planet of the Apes and American Beauty. Very obvious references I might
add. This also means that the filmmakers are aware that a growing
number of gross comes from adult audiences as well, and you then have
to assume that the story is written for them as well. 

The style of the movie is like we are use to in normal cartoons, just
put into a new media. And it works very well, you're always aware of
it, and yet you sit and really is in awe of the texture of for instance
Marty(Chris Rock). The technique is definitely as is to be expected. 

Hanz Zimmer, who's becoming a very well known man within the animated
world, does a moderate good job, the music is there and really gives
the effects it needs, but is just background. Directing is good, and
all the characters works in their own way on the screen but are best
together. There's a huge deal of very well timed jokes and they all
somehow seems to work.

The characters are very amu... sorry, highly amusing. Chris Rock is
almost best as voice(like in Dr. Doolittle), where Ben Stiller although
he comes through still is more enjoyable as live action. But both of
them are easily identified. Jada Pinkett is a bit to anonymous, and
David Schwimmer is just great, although his character wins in being a
good background joke. Now for the minor characters, as often with these
films, the minor characters gets a way with so much attention they
deserve a little more attention. The three penguins are awesome, and is
the ideal kick starters for this movie. They deliver almost nothing but
laughs. The king of the wild Julien(Mr. Ali G) is fun, although without
his sidekick Maurice(Cedric) he would be nothing. And then there's the
two monkeys also very enjoyable. One minor thing is to me that in seems
that the Sabletooth tigers from Ice Age seems to have been copy-pasted
into this movie for action, a bit sad but nothing that the movie itself
doesn't salvage. 

I would rank it among the top ten movies of this year, it is very fun
and works very well in most ways. 8/10
