

     I've been reading the comments page in a somewhat bemused fashion.  It
seems to be divided between people who don't like the movie because it's not
enough like the original graphic novel and people who don't like it because
they've never heard of half of the characters that are members of the
League.  The latter seems to me to be an unutterably silly reason for
disliking a film.  Does nobody read the classics anymore?  Nobody reads
Oscar Wilde, Bram Stoker, Robert Louis Stevenson, Jules Verne, H.G. Wells,
or Sir Arthur Conan Doyle?  I find that difficult to believe.  As to the
former--not enough like the graphic novel, in other words--just how in the
heck can a screenwriter accommodate the dark and twisted visions of Alan
Moore in a two-hour Hollywood movie, anyway?

     I don't believe that one can compare anything written by Alan Moore to
what ends up on the screen being ostensibly "based on the graphic novel". 
(The same applies to FROM HELL, which is another one most people pan, and
one which I think is under-appreciated even though the style is
breathtaking.  I don't even want to think about the reaction that will ensue
once THE WATCHMEN comes out!)  

     What seems to have been missed by most people is that this movie is
about style as opposed to substance.  It's based on a graphic novel.  That's
a fancy way of saying it's based on a comic book.  On that level, the film
succeeds admirably.  The characters are archetypes of their literary
forbears.  They aren't supposed to be, strictly speaking, human.  Of course
the plot is grandiose, impractical, and over-the-top.  Hello?  Aren't most
comic books like that?  Good heavens, isn't most of STAR
WARS?

     I don't claim that this is a masterpiece.  I do claim that's it's fun
to watch if one approaches it with a willing suspension of disbelief.  For a
couple of bucks shelled out at the DVD rental shop, it takes one to a
different world for close to two hours.  On that level, it's worth a rental.
 It's also worth a rental, once one watches the movie, to listen to the
commentary from various actors and to realize just how well these so-called
"unknowns" do assorted accents that aren't even close to their own.  Plus
the golfing anecdotes are amusing.  (And I don't even like
golfing.)

     This ain't CASABLANCA.  Nor is it TITANIC, for which I eternally thank
the gods.  (Now, THERE was an overhyped piece of inaccurate trash that
pretended to be history, but I digress.)  But it's kind of fun, anyway, as
long as one doesn't take it too seriously.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie was badly criticised by many critics and fans... I don't
believe that the movie's quality was 'low', but i detect two reasons:

1. 'what? automobiles, submarines, rockets, tanks, automatic rifles,
explosions that sank Venice? all those in 1899? no way!'

OK, those people maybe don't know that the movie is based on a comic
book!! The comic book is fantasy, it is in an alternate
Jules-Verne-like universe where all fiction was real... That book (and
this movie) belong to the genre 'Steampunk', a movement that is
interested in presenting an alternate Victorian age with an
extra-evolved steam driven science that never actually existed. IF you
read the comic you will see that: a bridge that connects England and
France, technology made by Tesla and Edison, zeppelins, airships,
anti-gravity devices... some of these are indeed mentioned in science
fiction works of that time, and since the comic is set in that kind of
universe, then all these are real.

The book (and the movie) don't want to convince you that these events
actually happened in 1899. The movie doesn't want to tell you that
Venice was half-sunk by an explosion and was later rebuilt. It is just
another universe, an alternate reality... it's fantasy!

there have been some Steampunk movies, and were never considered
serious: for example Van Helsing and Wild Wild West. They were too
much, too unreal... but if you accept that they happen in a Steampunk
universe you will enjoy them

(i suggest you make a search for 'Steampunk' online.. Wikipedia is a
good start)

now to the other reason

2. 'LXG is not faithful to the comic book'

no, it wasn't but they didn't want to adapt THE book into a movie! can
someone who watched Spiderman 2 tell me on WHICH issue of the spiderman
comic book series that movie was adapted?

Spiderman 1 and 2, (and all the comic-book movies) are not trying to
adapt a certain issue of the Spidey series into a movie: they try to
compress some events and characters from Spidey's universe and present
them combined on screen

i don't think that LXG was less faithful to the comic book than
Spiderman or Batman were to their respective originals... LXG wanted to
tell a story that happened in a universe similar to that of the
'League' comic book, not a certain story of the series..

i hope that if all could understand this, they would enjoy this movie
as it really should be enjoyed

<|_=00=_|>

I was very pleased with this movie. There are some who have claimed
that those who enjoy this film have a low IQ. I see no reason why a
person can't have a high IQ and enjoy an imaginative and fun film. For
years I have enjoyed the works of Doyle, Wilde, Stevenson, Stoker,
Twain, Haggard, Wells, Poe, and Verne. I went into this film hoping it
would do their characters justice. It did. Some prefer the "original"
versions of these characters by Alan Moore. I prefer the way they were
written by their creators. The characters are closer to their literary
selves in the film version than in the comic book. I was very happy
about that. I grew up with these characters and they played a huge part
in my childhood fantasy life. Other girls may have pretended to be
Wonder Woman, but I was Captain Nemo! I was hoping that LXG captured
the imaginative world that flourished in my young mind when I read all
those old beloved books. LXG delivered! This is a fun escapist fantasy
and all of my favorite literary characters are in great form. I had a
truly wonderful time watching LXG. It's a fun adventure that requires
that you bring your inner child along for the ride. My inner child
loved it. I loved it too!

<|_=00=_|>

Many times film have such bad vibes during production that they are rumored
to be a terrible mess before they have a chance to premiere.  Some films
that suffered this fate during filming were The Godfather and Titanic.  Both
turned out to be box office bonanzas and the trouble they had making it to
the big screen was quickly forgotten. Then there are films like Valley of
the Dolls and Myra Breckinridge which were legendary for their on the set
squabbles and dissension among cast members.  The end product of both of
those productions were films that should have won awards for being the
ultimate in cinema stinkers.  In 2003, we are given The League of
Extraordinary Gentlemen, which had already become legendary for it's
problems between director Stephen Norrington and lead actor Sean Connery. 
Add to that such disasters as a flood wiping out production in Prague and
you have a nation full of critics ready to pounce.  And film critics being
what they are in not wanting to waste an opportunity, pounce they did making
it one of the worst reviewed films in the past year.  Add to that the fact
that Fox made the mistake of pitting it against Pirates of the Caribbean in
it's opening weekend and it you have the makings of a box office disaster. 
Did League deserve it?  No, it's a film that in my opinion is fun, highly
watchable, and deserved none of the over the top blasting it took from some
critics.  Maybe if it had come out after Gigli many would have looked more
kindly on it.

League has an extraordinary premise for a fantasy/adventure film. The idea
of using legendary figures from literary fiction to combat a madman The
Fantom who is out to destroy the world is much more original than the sequel
based films such as Tomb Raider and Terminator 3 that we were subjected to
this summer.  (League is based on a comic book series that I have not read,
nor if I had would not use as a comparison.)  Our team of intrepid super
heroes consists of Alan Quartermain (Sean Connery), Captain Nemo
(Naseeruddin Shah), a now vampiress Mina Harker (Peta Wilson), The Invisible
Man (Tony Curran), Dorian Gray (Stuart Townsend), Tom Sawyer (Shane West)
and Dr Jekyll/Mr. Hyde (Jason Flyming).  The cast does an excellent job of
bringing each character to life.  Connery has been highly criticized for his
portrayal of Quartermain, but for those who cannot appreciate his presence I
suggest you try watching Richard Chamberlain in the same role in his two
films.  That'll teach you.  Peta Wilson gives Mina Harker a strong seductive
personality that reeks of sexual tension.  Stuart Townsend manages to make
Dorian Gray the most watchable of the characters by surrounding the
character in an aura filled with flair and Mystery.  Jason Flyming brings a
new characterization of a tormented Dr. Jekyll, who as Mr. Hyde is
transformed into a creature Bruce Banner would be proud of.  Shane West
exudes a boyish charm as Tom Sawyer befitting his character.  Though seldom
seen except in covering makeup, Tony Curran manages to give the Invisible
Man an unmistakable personality.  If there was a flaw in the casting I would
have to say it was Shah as Captain Nemo.  His characterization is for the
most part one note and empty, devoid of personality.

The story moves along at a nice even pace.  It quickly introduces the
characters so that we are able to get to know their personalities, then
moves ahead with the action. Writer James Robinson and director Norrington 
make equal use of each of the characters abilities so that none of their
talents are wasted.  The production design, set decoration and art direction
are all top notch, giving us a dark and brooding turn of the century look we
haven't seen before.  There are the usual minor plot holes and flaws one
could find if they took the time to study this film, but films like this
weren't made for film class.  For that you watch Citizen Kane.  Films like
League are made for an audience to have a good time while loading up on the
popcorn and soda and nothing more.  And I did have a good time.  After the
critical blasting League took in the press I steered clear of it for quite a
while.  Fortunately, several months later, I gave it a chance and am
certainly glad I did.  I suggest you do the same.

My Grade B       

              


<|_=00=_|>
Having been critically panned by both film critics and fans of the
original comic book version, you'd be forgiven for thinking that the
League of Extraordinary Gentlemen (which is hardly a league of
"Gentlemen" considering the presence of a female character) was
absolute rubbish. However, despite the flagrant misuse of characters
established in classic Literature (Dracula, The Picture of Dorian Gray,
The Invisible Man, Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea and especially
The Adventures of Tom Sawyer) there is an essentially a massively fun
film to be found, made all the more enjoyable if you disengage your
brain and just don't question the ridiculous goings on of the alternate
Victorian universe the film is set in.

So in conclusion, if a night of brainless action adventure fun is what
you'r after, then the League of Extraordinary Gentlemen is sufficiently
enjoyable material.
<|_=00=_|>

A bunch of fictional characters (Mina Harker, Captain Nemo, Allan
Quatermain, the Invisible Man, Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, Dorian Gray, Tom
Sawyer) are called together in 1899 to combat a madman who threatens to take
over the world.

The plot is silly and full of huge holes (Mina Harker was NOT a vampire; Tom
Sawyer working for the U.S. government?; Mr. Hyde looks like a cousin to the
Hulk; Dorian Gray is an immortal?) but the movie itself looks great, there
are plenty of incredible special effects (and, surprisingly, some bad ones)
and it moves so quickly that you really don't have time to stop and think
about it.  Just ignore logic, plot and characterizations, lean back and let
the movie sweep over you.  There's a fight or action scene every 5 or 10
minutes or so--you won't be bored.

All the acting is pretty good--Connery is excellent (as always) as
Quatermain and Peta Wilson makes a very sexy vampire.  The only bad acting
comes surprisingly from two good actors--Stuart Townsend is very dull as
Dorian Grey and Shane West is way out of his league as Tom Sawyer.  The
scenes between him and Connery are almost embarassing to watch--Connery is
acting rings around him.

So--is it a good movie?  No, but it is an enjoyable one.  Just sit back and
don't think about--during or after the movie!  Good viewing for a hot summer
afternoon. 
<|_=00=_|>
Sean Connery is a very distinguished actor. He has appeared in several
great films spanning decades. He was the original 007 James Bond and
has since made his mark on the American Cinema. His way or presenting a
line is uncanny. Connery is a real hero. His character Allan
Quartermain is no different.

The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen shows the world during the turn
of the century, 1900. The dawn of a new era is about to begin as the
world changes into the industrial, mechanized age. New technologies are
being developed and Europe is gripped with terror. The man known as
"The Fantom" is toying with England and Germnay, starting what seems
like a war between the two. Desperate times call for desperate
measures. Allan Quartermain is picked to lead a team of select
individuals on an expedition to find and stop "The Fantom". Allan is
teamed up with Captain Nemo (Naseeruddin Shah), Mina Harker (Peta
Wilson), Tom Sawyer (Shane West), Dorian Grey (Stuart Townsend), Dr.
Jekyll (and Mr. Hyde; Jason Flemyng), and Rodney Skinner known as "The
Invisible Man" (Tony Curran).

This movie features a team of famous characters of literature that suit
this period. The idea for the film is very ingenious. Most movies of
heroes and people with special talents center around figures from
today, not from yesterday. Although some of the characters might not be
recognizable to children, they don't really have to know about them.
This isn't the best kids movie, with scenes of intense action and some
not too pleasant graphics (Dr Jekyll to Mr. Hyde transformation). This
movie could have been so much more. For some reason it just didn't
click. The cast does an OK job of bringing these characters to life,
but there was room for improvement. Sometimes the effects overtake the
story and bring down the whole movie.

It is an enjoyable movie but isn't for everyone. It's a good adventure
and a decent picture all together. It's nothing to special but it
doesn't hurt to watch. Connery is good as the aging Quartermain and
with the father/son relationship with West, there is more to just the
cat and mouse adventure. LXG is a pleasant film that could have been
truly extraordinary.
<|_=00=_|>

This was one of my most anticipated movies.  I love Connery and the premise
of this was great.  A Indiana Jones setting for adventure, six great
characters from classic fiction, and a good story.

Somehow, these elements were lost in the presentation.  The story is
supposedly based on a graphic novel (comic book) by Alan Moore but the
departures from the original story are too numerous.  Sadly, not only the
storyline is abandoned but the style and flair is as well.

The entire movie is far too dark.  I'm so tired of "dark and atmospheric"
becoming just a vehicle for covering up lousy sets and fx.  The action
sequences are fake and choppy as the director decides on fast editing rather
than skilled choreography.

This is a period piece, set in 1899 but there are a lot of continuity
errors.  They refer to the car as a "car", for example, though they didn't
know what it was.

For his part, Connery does fine.  But he really always does.  Connery
doesn't really "act", he's simply himself each time.  Thus you won't see
much difference between James Bond and Allan Quatermain.  You will see a
huge difference, however, in the quality of the Connery Bond movies and
LXE.

The other characters were fun at times, but they either ended up underused,
poorly portrayed or just odd.

Wilson's Harker character was very confusing.  Was she a vampire?  If so,
what of the old mythos about not being out in sunlight?  She walks around on
the deck of the Nautilus in broad daylight.  Not sure where all the bats
came from either, particularly in the Arctic.

I liked Dr. Jekyll best, I suppose.  However, his character left a lot to be
desired as well.  He comments early after Mr. Hyde saves the Nautilus not to
make a "saint out of a sinner", yet the movie does just that.  Hyde is never
portrayed as vicious or evil.  He's either running frightened of Connery's
gun or eagerly lending his hand to the good guys.  Uhhh...

Tom Sawyer as an American Secret Service agent.  Nah, didn't really work. 
Dorian Gray was a waste as well.  A deep character that they didn't bother
exploring at all.  Nemo was terribly underused.

In better hands this would have been a much better movie.  It had a lot of
things going for it in casting, plot and premise... but they made it stale
and flat.  Too bad.

5 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>

Well, I just came out of the theater after having viewed LXG.  First off,
I
do not think it was a bad movie. While i would not recommend it as a must
see movie, I certainly didn't find it to be a waste of my time. Sure, some
plot points could have been developed more/better, but hey, I didn't walk
in
expecting Shakespeare.  Though I haven't read the graphic novel on which
the
film is based, I have read that both the graphic novel and the movie take
place in a reality alternate from both out history and our literary
canons;
which means that even though Stoker never wrote Mina as turning into a
vampire, it's okay for LXG to take the license to do so. And so on and so
forth.

Yes, it would have been nice to see Connery make his character a little
more
swashbuckling. But maybe that was the writing.  I almost loathe watching
anything with Peta Wilson, but i found here surprisingly interesting in
this
movie.  In fact, other than Tom Sawyer's character seeming a bit
incomprehensible, I think the other Leaguers were pretty interesting.  But
what was the deal with the bad guy, "M"? I thought his M.O. was even more
pointless and less fleshed-out out than any of the flattest Bond villains
I've had the displeasure of seeing.  It was just a badly written
character.

Just a word or two about the Mr. Hyde F/X, the CGI wizards of the Hulk
could
take a clue. Sure, both characters were CGI rendered, but Mr. Hyde's size
carried a credible degree of mass and weight, whereas the Hulk often moved
as if mass-less, making him seem too two dimensional.

All in all, I give the movie a respectable 6/10.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, first of all, to defend the movie against the first comment, Dorian
and Mina had met before their first scene together; they had a past
relationship . . . obviously . . . (scoff).

I loved this movie. Sure the CGI's were obvious and the fight scenes
may have been over-the-top, but come on! It is a movie full of these
wonderful protagonists that all have defining qualities that add
something special and intriguing to the group.

Stuart Townsend, um could he have been anymore Lestat? Funny seeing his
character act that way and play opposite a vampire.

Connery was his usual brilliant self. The Tragic Hero.

Shane West was great. Could have lived without his character, but West
perfected it.

Captain Nemo and Hyde/Jekyl were brilliant! Without their brains the
whole group would have been in serious trouble. Hyde would be the
Reluctant Hero here.

And Mr. Invisible man himself was freaky enough for the freaky lot of
them. I loved his character. He had you guessing from the beginning.
Where is he? Who is he? Anyway, I know this movie received bad ratings,
but I totally fell in love with it and its characters. I know there is
room for a sequel, but don't think there will be one . . . sigh . . .
but alas, I will always have this one.

Makes me want to go read all the books involved in this brilliant
compilation of great classics.
