
Arthur C. Clarke and Stanley Kubrick decided to make the 'proverbial
good sci-fi movie' when they jointly created the film and novel 2001: A
Space Odyssey. There have been few comparably good sci-fi films since.
Solaris is, however, one of them.

Whilst the Russian original is an epic and demanding film, Soderbergh's
work should not be considered a remake. The director himself considers
it his own interpretation of the book, quite apart from the earlier
film. Because of this, the two should not be compared.

If you hated Alien 3 because it didn't have any guns or 2001 because
the ending was confusing, do not waste your time with Solaris. It is
not for you.

Conceptually, the story is standard psychological sci-fi fare, with
simple but effective theological and philosophical themes. In this
respect it breaks little or no new ground over the Tarkovsky
predecessor. It has elements of romance, thriller, and drama, all
necessarily set in sci-fi land, as the setting is integral to the
storytelling.

Visually, the Solaris future is a conservative, believable vision,
reminiscent in look to that of Gatacca. Solaris space is a minimal,
beautiful place to be. Not dirty and used like the celebrated Alien
'space trucker' look, Solaris vessels are gleaming, intricate and
stylish, but seem to have been designed by engineers rather than
artists, such is the practical realism. Their design is complemented by
some of the best CG spaceship effects I have seen (incredible that it
has taken this long for computer graphics to look as good as the
model-based technology of 2001, Star Wars and Aliens in the 1960s and
70s).

Solaris, the planet itself, is a clever piece of art, seemingly
evidencing a degree of emotion by its colouring and detail, as no doubt
was the intention. In the commentary to the DVD it is mentioned that
many of the lingering shots of the planet were cut, which may have been
necessary for the pacing of the film, but I found every shot an
absorbing spectacle and would have enjoyed more.

The sets and costumes also retain the sense of engineering realism
combined with beauty. Soderbergh's eye for detail is evident here, as
everything has a purpose and look that fits perfectly with the overall
feel. Somehow, this look is original and avoids many of the clichés we
come to expect of sci-fi mise-en-scene.

Channel Four recently showed this on UK television and billed it along
the lines of a 'George Clooney Sci-Fi Romance'. A tenuous
interpretation, perhaps, but you can see why they did it. Whilst
Clooney adds Hollywood star appeal, fans will be slightly disappointed,
not because his work here is in anyway weak, but because he is
understated, convincing and very un-Hollywood. With Solaris he adds
another fine performance to an already commendably diverse filmography.

Natascha McElhone too plays a difficult, emotive role without resorting
to melodrama. The small supporting cast doesn't put a foot wrong, with
a delightfully odd but subtly creepy performance from Jeremy Davies
worthy of note.

Solaris is slow, abstract, haunting stuff. The direction is subtle,
dare I say almost Kubrick-esquire. The camera work is non-intrusive,
solid stuff without gimmick (apart from a touch of shaky-cam in the
restaurant scene where Kelvin meets Rheya) or overstatement.

Add to this a beautiful, timeless score by Cliff Martinez and you have
one of the better psychological sci-fi movies ever made.

The majority of people will hate Solaris. Let them. Let them have
instead the mindless Hollywood trash released every week and keep this
treasure for yourself.
<|_=00=_|>
My two favorite examples of Hollywood utterly destroying GREAT foreign
films are Vanilla Sky and City of Angels, which were abominations of
two of my favorite films - Open Your Eyes and Wings of Desire. If
you've seen Tarkovsky's brilliant "Solyaris" this film will seem more
like an Americanized tribute than a Hollywoodization of a great piece
of Soviet cinema. Some will likely ask why Soderbergh bothered to make
this film if he couldn't improve on the original. Personally, I could
not care less. This is a great film, and shows that it is possible for
Americans to remake classic non-American films sensitively,
intelligently and well.

To cut to the chase - if you like sci-fi with a soul,which stretches
the boundaries of imagination, explores the uncharted realms of the
human condition as much as the unknown realities of the universe, and
swims upstream against the currents of ethics, physics, and even
metaphysics, you will probably enjoy this moody, slow, multi-leveled
and heavily textured film. If you're looking for light entertainment,
stay away from this. This is a slow, intense film - dominated by dialog
- and there is no action to speak of. Also, you need to let this movie
pour into you slowly, so if you're not in the right frame of mind to
pay attention and be receptive, you should save it for another
occasion.

The cast is exceptionally good. This is unequivocally the best
performance I have seen out of George Clooney, but the supporting cast
and the female lead all blew me away. Soderbergh does have a talent for
making actor's look good, even mediocre actors, but there is nothing
mediocre about any of the performances in this film.

Though I recognize his talent, Soderberg's dialogical technique has
worn particularly thin with me. The once fresh fast-paced, rapid-fire
cuts and close-ups with the low-toned exchange of sentence fragments,
and the myriad Soderberg imitators, particularly in television crime
drama, have really gotten on my nerves. Solaris, however, is a bit
different. There are only a few "Soderbergh moments" in this rich
remake of the classic bit of 1970s soviet SciFi "Solyaris". Both films
are based on a novella by the brilliant Stanislaw Lem. This film,
perhaps even more than Tarkovsky's 1972 edgy, dark, and intense
original, will appeal to exactly the sort of movie-goer that Lem's
writing appeals to. Neither film captures Lem's quirky sense of humor.
I am quite glad that Soderbergh chose to make Solaris with very much
the same atmospheric eeriness, plot, and intellectual and emotional
depth as the original. It is a tribute to his artistic integrity that
he recognizes the brilliance of the original work, and imitates it
wherever he can do no better, adding subtle and appropriate nuances and
embellishments to make it his own. Some examples are the wonderfully
minimalistic soundtrack, and the very Soderbergh symbolic use of
lighting and color saturation to shift from the retrospective to the
live-action shot. Perhaps the best tribute I can give this film is the
fact that I am going to watch the original again in a few days for
comparative purposes.

In other words, this isn't going to be for everybody, nor, even, for
most. I am hardly surprised by the very low (in my opinion) ratings
received by this film here on IMDb. Solaris is a love story, a story of
exploring the fringes of sanity, and of questioning the very nature of
reality, and much more. Enjoy it!
<|_=00=_|>
First off, if you are looking for shoot 'em up, space ship flying
through the stars, hunting aliens type of science fiction, don't even
bother with this film. If you are looking for a Science Fiction film
that explores the human condition in the way that Blade Runner, 2001: A
Space Odyssey or Contact does, then this is right up your alley.

This film is not about events and actions, it's about ideas and
concepts. People looking for plot points to move them along will be
bored to death with this film because most of the action of this film
are those that will happen in your head. It is about people, desires,
regrets and what we would be willing to do if we could have that one
thing we cannot have back.

Some people complain about the fact that Clooney's character of Chris
does very little psychiatric work in this film. But, the truth of the
matter is that his occupation is used more to propel his anti-faith
views. I haven't seen it mentioned, but there is a reason why there are
a lot of discussion about God, religion and faith in this film.

Throughout the film, Chris questions and belittles Rheya's religious
views, seeing the idea of putting stock in something that he sees as
fantasy as being useless and just a crutch for people deluding
themselves into a happiness based on illusion. Chris comes to realize
that he would give up anything to be with Rheya, whether being with her
is an illusion or not. His happiness depends on her, and he realizes
that accepting what he needs is not a weakness -- as accepting faith is
not a weakness -- it is simply a choice to fulfill one's life, whether
it be real or illusion. And, as philosophers would argue, who can
really say which is which?

For those who want a science fiction film to make you think (like Blade
Runner does), this film is it. With a tremendous cast, beautiful
production design, excellent direction, and one of the best film scores
in recent years (hats off to Cliff Martinez), I have no trouble
recommending this film to anybody who is in the need of an intelligent,
thought-provoking film.
<|_=00=_|>

Since nobody had the wherewithal or wisdom to re-release `2001' in the
actual year 2001, a remake of Andrei Tarkovsky's comparable `Solaris' in
2002 would seem the next best thing.  Like those two earlier films, Steven
Soderbergh's latest work is something of an `art' science fiction film, far
more concerned with philosophy and theme than with action and suspense. 
This may make the film a tough slog for modern day audiences who have been
conditioned to be jolted out of their seats every five minutes while
watching films of this genre.  But for the deeper thinkers among us,
`Solaris' offers a fairly intriguing sci-fi vision of the afterlife, a sort
of new religious paradigm for the twenty-first century. 

George Clooney stars as Chris Kelvin, a successful psychiatrist whose
mentally ill wife - ironically enough, given his profession  - killed
herself a few years back.  Chris is commissioned to travel to a space
station orbiting the planet Solaris after strange things begin happening to
the crew aboard the ship.  It turns out that dead loved ones have started
appearing to the people there, leading a number of the crewmembers to
descend into madness and, in the worst cases, even commit suicide.   It's
not long before Chris' own dead wife, Rheya, arrives on the scene, prompting
him to question whether she is real, a replica created for an unknown reason
by the forces of the mysterious planet, or merely a figment of his own
troubled conscience and imagination.  The film taps into that desire we all
have of somehow being miraculously reunited with a deceased love one.  We
can't help but be moved by Chris' intense desire to believe that all that is
happening is real and that life with this person could indeed start back up
where it left off.  Clooney does a beautiful job conveying the inner
struggle between the grieving husband who wants to reconnect emotionally
with this strangely familiar woman whom he had thought forever lost to him
and the rationalistic scientist who suspects that both she and their
relationship are illusory and ephemeral.  The film itself may be glacially
paced, but the tension created by the situation pulls us through.  Natascha
McElhone brings an ethereal beauty to the role of the dead wife, and we are
moved by her own confusion as to whether she is really this woman Rheya or
merely some fabrication usurping the memories and feelings of someone long
gone from the scene.  Clooney and McElhone generate a strong romantic
chemistry between them, both in the scenes aboard the ship and in the
manifold flashbacks the storytellers use to reveal their relationship back
on Earth.  Viola Davis gives an intense performance as Helen Gordon, the
rationalist of the group who tries to convince Chris that he must overcome
his feelings and destroy this facsimile of Rheya or risk bringing potential
destruction to the people back home.

`Solaris' has been shot in the widest screen ratio I have seen in years.  It
almost feels like one of those old Cinerama pictures from the 1950's and
1960's, which is surprising actually, given the fact that, for all its outer
space trappings, the film is really an intimate, personal drama in quality
and scale (if you rent this on video, do NOT opt for the `full screen'
treatment; rather, make sure it is in the letterboxed format).  Also, the
set design and special effects are actually rather understated for a modern
science fiction film – as is everything about `Solaris' in fact.  Like
`2001,' `Solaris' is filled with images and concepts whose significance and
meaning aren't always readily apparent or easily spelled out for the
audience.   Just be forewarned that the film is more along the lines of a
tone poem than a rip-roaring action adventure tale.

`Solaris' isn't a great film and I can certainly see why many people,
expecting something different, might find themselves becoming restive and
bored by it.  For me, the film managed to seep under my skin and kept me
interested most of the time.  This is definitely not everyone's cup of tea,
but for those with patience and an appreciation for something a little
different, `Solaris' has its share of rewards. 

<|_=00=_|>

The state of human minds has always been so abstract and never easy an
easy
subject to comprehend. It's even more complex to decipher on screen.
Nope,
this film is not strictly a ghost story, nor is it a Star Trek adventure
story to interest most science-fiction craving fans. Don't expect to see
the
usual Hollywood sweet romantic tale either! This film focuses on the
psychological journey faced by the despaired and unstable minds.  It's a
film that totally relies on the characters' emotions and reactions.
Awesome!

Has Steven Soderbergh succeeded in sprucing up Andrei Tarkovski's 1972
psychological cult sci-fi classic to make it worth the while to pay a
regular price of a tix?  Can't really say, as I've never seen the Russian
version.  But I was truly mesmerized by this film's approach to what, I
think, is the study of human insanity slipping beyond saving.

The film is slow in pace and lengthy, with stretches of tedious silence,
letting the imagination of the viewers try understand what happened to
each
of the characters seen, or heard.  Silence comes with such intensity that
it
works very proficiently in this film. There are dazzlingly and
ecstatically
artistic visual moments to offer that dreamlike stance. At other times,
Soderbergh provides a more solid spectrum allowing the viewers to grasp
intellectually the conflicts faced by the human minds - Kelvin, Snow and
Gordon - as a result of some traumatically emotional events.  Viewers are
told that Dr. Gibarian has already committed suicide. These may all be
psychologists, but they all seem to exhibit signs of stress and paranoia.
Oh yes, the psychological intent of the film's contents is truly complex
and
we are slowly led to see who will finally be capable of making the right
choice, and escape insanity. Earth, presumably, is a symbol of
normality!

It's about the existential exploration of the minds' sufferings, almost
as
if the memories of the human mind are being driven to a test. It's
reliving
a past and letting memories play tricks on the minds. It's living on
regrets, hoping they could rewind the clock backward to bring about
changes
to events that are gradually driving the victims to complete madness.
Indeed, a very haunting!  Almost like the work of Bergman, Ophuls,
Kubrick,
and Welles, Soderbergh brings a well-crafted mysticism to the screen....
as
if to to say that only one out of many entering a mental asylum can ever
hoped to be cured. This film is very hypnotically effective and unique!
Solaris - seemingly like an alien memory-stimulating anthropomorphic life
form - is so eerily powerful on the screen.  It's the `mirror that
reflects'
what the mind is not willing to forget. It's the driving force to the
human
insanity.

George Clooney is simply awesome. Follow his Kelvin as he deals with the
issues of love, fear and death.  It deals with his choice to throw away
every memory of his past or to cling to them. That's to say he has the
choice to allow his memories to manipulate him, or throw them out
altogether.  I find it hardly possible not to get totally absorbed with
Clooney's character.  Scary as it may sound, ghostly memories are never
easy
to shake off and thus lead men to more deadly conditions. Sometimes for
these beings, their choice of death becomes their ultimate solution of
finding peace.  The performances of the ensemble of cast are solid, but
the
dialogue is the strength of the film, providing hints to what actually is
happening to the characters.

An intriguingly engaging film - that's my opinion, of course! The
narrative
progression is nicely eloquent and the ending is impressive - providing
the
viewers with the feeling of having unraveled the mystery and capture the
relief.  It's certainly not a film for everybody... especially for those
who
dislike deciphering abstract ploys in films.  Readers of Jung and Freud
may
find this film interesting as it supports the theory that conflict arises
within the mind, mental health and illness, dominance, creativity and
hearing voices. Fan of Clooney may miss his usual extraordinary charm and
wit, but I'd say, thumbs up to him for his courageous choice to engage
the
viewers with his talent in exhibiting his emotional expressions.

A brilliant film!

<|_=00=_|>

I rented this film, then did some last minute Christmas shopping. While I
was gone, my husband watched the first half of "Solaris" and turned it
off -
twice. He then watched "Terminator 3," which he enjoyed.

After he went off to bed. I started "Solaris." Unlike my husband, I was
hooked from the start, and thoroughly enjoyed being reeled in. This is
what
I look for in a film - a compelling, nuanced story, involving complex
characters. Perhaps it appealed to me more than to some, because I have
lost
several loved ones in recent years, including my father who died three
years
ago today, and am therefore wrestling with the same questions pondered in
the film. Or perhaps I'm just a sucker for a good story, deftly
told.

I don't think we would have necessarily had a better or worse film had
Cameron written the screenplay, merely a different film altogether. I
give
him more credit than many on this board, as "The Abyss" is and remains a
favorite film of mine, and only defied the laws of physics a few times.
;-)
Certainly "The Abyss" is a quieter and more introspective film than the
Terminator series, but then again, the films do examine the same themes.
It
might have been interesting to see what Cameron would have done with
"Solaris," hopefully sans car chases.

Personally, I am glad Soderbergh wrote this version, as there is very
little
I would change. I enjoyed every minute of it. The musical score captured
and
enhanced the atmosphere quite well. I remember hearing about the original
"Solaris," which came out the year I started high school, but I never saw
it. Having now seen this version, I'll make it a point to do so, and I'll
read the book as well. I will definitely be adding this film to my
collection.

As for my husband, I probably won't recommend that he see it right away.
Instead, I'll let him see it over time, as he did "The Shipping News,"
which
also put him off initially. Once he got past the move to Newfoundland, he
began to understand the humor I saw in the film, but he still despises
its
more depressing aspects. Still, he considers my taste in films weird, and
to
date understands neither my love for "Jacob's Ladder" nor my devotion to
"Six Feet Under."

But then, he doesn't like jazz, either.
;-)
<|_=00=_|>

Since I had just read Lem's novel Solaris and had in the past seen the
1972
Russian movie Solyaris, I was interested in seeing the new Solaris.
Someone
not familiar with the story may well be baffled by the movie. Those who
have
read the book will recognize the plot up to close to the end, where the
movie veers off in its own attempt for a resolution that Lem did not seem
to
think necessary to provide in the novel.

I was disappointed that the movie had almost nothing to say or show about
the sentient ocean of Solaris and humanity's failure to comprehend it. The
book went into great detail in describing the fantastic phenomena of the
ocean and the various failed theories to explain them. In fact I think
that
was the central theme of the book which is almost completely lost in the
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers Ahead:

Forgive me, being a philosopher, was this based on the original
Solaris? I saw the name on the poster and I bought a ticket but it
resembles the original as I resemble Brad Pitt: not at all. Was this
The Shrink Finds His Squeeze? Hairy Guy, His Large Posterior and Scary
Lady? I defer to the experts above me on Solaris; I liked the movie but
it was over my head. This much I can testify to: This is not a remake
of that movie. Yes, the planet is there, some elements like dead people
coming back but believe it or not Solaris was not about this man and
this woman the whole freaking movie. It really was a science fiction
not a romance. Within this paradigm, how was hairy butt's relationship
going with Rhea before she killed herself? Were they deeply in love
when they weren't endlessly fighting? The effects, all five minutes of
them, were interesting. The director, apparently believing that
Americans are too stupid to grasp the original's profundity, that even
sailed over my head, settled upon converting a deep, esoteric
reflection of being, the soul and death into a prosaic romance
featuring a woman who is frightening when she smiles. 

The ending, for any of you young people who have visited your parents'
house lately, is not rapturous it is like a twilight zone torture
ending. They never got along whilst they were living; how long would
Chris have had those tears of happiness before they changed into
different tears? The movie is boring beyond belief. The only good scene
is when he shoots her into space; the bad part is she comes back.
Computer boy, if he is human, needs years of acting classes. The
director felt that it would heighten the drama to shoot huge scenes
where the room is so dark I cannot tell if that is Clooney or the
Pillsbury Dough Boy. Please, Lights? It does not raise the intensity,
it angers us: who the hell is that? People were saying that in the
theater, loudly too. The movie consists of hairy boy and Ronin girl
looking deeply into each other's eyes for very long periods of time.

It does not take Sigmund Freud to figure out Chris is full of guilt
over his treating her like crap, rejecting her and then she off's
herself. There was no empirical love in the relationship; they fought
constantly. See, what happened to me? I am talking like a freaking
guidance counselor; the movie will do this to you also. Like any of us
give a crap about Chris and who his pants are blazing for. The
distillation of what is considered to be equal to 2001 in profundity
reduced to: Hairy Boy And Ronin Girl: As Solaris Turns. Romantics, even
within your world, which I avoid like The Black Death, it is a badly
written romance. These two could not stand each other. He only feels
guilty for dumping her then she kills herself; probably due also to
that mawkish piece of crap poem. Yes, when I had to take those English
classes, for my degree, I thought about taking pills many times. 

Young people, this is not science fiction, it is a romance that like a
changeling was left in the place of the script of Solaris. People were
walking out of this movie: Do you blame them? It commits the worst sin
a movie can: Misrepresentation. See, I do not go to romances and I,
like many of you, get slightly angry when I was sold one genre and I
buy a ticket to a romance movie. Boring like you cannot imagine, badly
lighted for half an hour. You better have the brightness control handy,
even then, the director rotates the image and blurs it; I don't know,
he was probably drinking, do you blame him? He goes down with the
station into Solaris, he wakes up and sees Ronin Girl. They have a
wonderful reunion; all is right in the universe: End Of Movie. Boring,
incoherent, pretentious and Not, repeat, Not Solaris. One terrible
piece of poop.
<|_=00=_|>

While Soderbergh's Solaris may well be a work of art in its own right, I
certainly pity those who haven't read the book or at least seen
Tarkovsky's
1972 original adaptation, which is a lot more faithful to Lem's novel in
its
scope, if not in its vision. Soderbergh has managed to leave out just
about
everything that could justify the title (as Lem himself put it, if he had
set out to write a book about space romance, he would have called it Love
in
Outer Space, not Solaris). So if you want to know the story, go and read
the
novel.

That said, I enjoyed Jeremy Davis as Snow, and the score is very
good.
<|_=00=_|>
As a science fiction film, Solaris follows the same rule as the best of
the genre, namely that it isn't the creatures or technology that makes
the viewers want to watch, it is the human drama. Which is just as
well, because the film itself is slower than the proverbial wet week,
in spite of being less than a hundred minutes in length. Nonetheless, I
will be very interested to see future projects from Steven Soderbergh.

The plot revolves around a psychologist who is suffering deep emotional
problems, which mainly seem to revolve around the suicide of his wife.
So when he is floating aimlessly around a spaceship that orbits the
titular planet, apparitions of his wife begin appearing. From what I am
able to discern, an alien intelligence is trying to take over the
ship's crew, in the hope that the ship will return to Earth and take
them with it. Of course, the crew have other ideas.

In essence, it sounds a lot like the basic plot for Alien, minus the
violence. Alien has a degree of violence, most of which is implied, and
so too does Solaris. The difference here is that the violence is not
essential to the plot. In fact, aside from a couple of corpses, you
never really get to see any. Instead, we are given a good deal of
exposition regarding the doctor's feelings regarding his wife and what
he would do to have her back in any shape or form. When the Solaris
alien appears in his cabin, it tells him everything he wants to hear,
and appears exactly as he desires.

The big question posed by the film is whether we are the sum of how we,
and more importantly other people, remember us, or whether there's more
that defines our reality. Having struggled with other people's wrong
impressions of me for most of my life, I have often pondered this
question myself. When the apparition-clone of Rheya is suddenly
deciding that it would be best for her and Chris if she no longer
existed in this form, she asks simply if she has simply been slapped
together from Chris' memories or desires. Nobody ever knows all there
is to know about another person, and that's what makes the surrealism
of the story so compelling.

I gave Solaris a seven out of ten. It was slow, and it could have been
at least ten minutes longer, but it works as a nice little piece of
thinking entertainment. Give it a once over, and you might be
pleasantly surprised.
