
I was surprised how good this movie was, not stupid as I figured. It's
another one of those based-on-a-comic book hero films that seem to be
popular nowadays (Hellboy, Batman, Sin City, Spiderman, Superman, etc.) 

However, this was the not the cartoon-like film I expected. It was more
of a pretty brutal revenge-crime movie. It's a rough movie, pure and
simple.

Believable? Of course not. Some of the action is ludicrous but the most
ridiculous of all - the fight against the huge Russian, is actually the
most fun of the action scenes. The rest is just plain mean as the
hero's entire family gets wiped out by gunman and "The Punisher"
(Thomas Jane) goes after them after almost being killed himself.

A smart aspect of this film was inserting a bit of humor in it, such as
the two nerds down the hallway who befriend "The Punisher." 

The sometimes-juvenile but interesting action scenes, the diverse
characters in here and the humor all combine to make this better than
anticipated. 

No, it's anything but a thinking man's movie, but it IS entertaining
and harmless if you look at everything tongue-in-cheek.
<|_=00=_|>
Someone said that this movie was too dark for the genre...He must not
have ever read any of the source material. The Punisher may be one of
the darkest comic book characters ever created. This film and
especially Thomas Jane, get that. This film is one of the better in the
genre, because it sticks to the source better than most.

Yes, I am a fanboy. But I am a fan of action movies too. This movie
took from some of the classics but made it their own. Its too bad that
spiderman or superman fans cant see past the all superheros must be
good guys...The Punisher is a different type of hero. The kind you wish
we would never need, but also one that you may want.
<|_=00=_|>

This wonderful revenge film was acted and directed with complete conviction
but still found the time to kick ass. This is one of the best movies I have
seen this year and I go to at least one movie a week. The acting was good. I
would recommend this movie to everyone. I thought it was going to be some
type of 80's action movie, but it turned out to be great movie aimed towards
an older crowd. The beginning is a bit slow, but the action really keeps you
focused. Thomas Jane did an excellent job as the Punisher and Travolta's
performance was much better than I was expecting. This is a movie that
thinks so deeply about its conflicts and decisions that there are times when
the audience itself feels like it has a personal stake in the outcome. This
is by far the best film in the reinvigorated sub-genre of
comic-book-to-screen conversions. 
<|_=00=_|>
If you like the old Clint Eastwood & Charles Bronson revenge movies
then you'll like this film. Great pace and action that's gritty but
extremely enjoyable. I can't say I knew anything about this Punisher
character before seeing this film but I thoroughly enjoyed it
none-the-less.

The Punisher is a shining example of revenge and vigilante-style
justice done right. It's also yet another comic book adaptation done
properly. In fact, this may be the first time I wished we could give
half-vaults, because it was just that good. In the compendium of comic
movies, this falls just shy of the two X-Men movies, but it is right
there with Spider-Man and easily surpasses Batman, Superman and The
Hulk. The fact that it is an R-rated movie killed any possible chance
of decent box-office numbers, but it was a necessary step to take, and
the quality of the movie just makes up for it. Hopefully this was
Thomas Jane's breakout role.
<|_=00=_|>

A fairly good adaptation of the Marvel Comics vigilante character
originally
introduced in the Spider-Man comic books.

Former soldier and FBI man Frank Castle (exit Dolph Lundgren, enter
Baltimore
native Thomas Jane of "Deep Blue Sea" and "Dream-Catcher", who's about six
or seven inches shorter than Dolph Lundgren but still pretty buffed up and
also
a naturally blond man having dyed his hair black to match the character's
appearance in the comics) has retired from the action and is looking
forward
to
living a quiet life with his wife and kid. While attending a family
reunion
at the
beach (Roy Scheider plays his dad) Frank's family is attacked by assassins
sent
by Howard Saint (John Travolta) to avenge the death of one of his sons
from
Frank's last mission. In a shot similar to the original "Mad Max" (1979),
Frank's
wife and son are brutally run over with a giant truck while his father,
brothers
and in laws are gunned down. After being beaten to a pulp and shot in the
chest
and nearly blown to bits, Frank is saved by a local and nursed back to
health.
Naturally, he is enraged at the heartless murder of his family and goes
after
Howard saint, his wife, son, and secretly gay lawyer, thirsting for
revenge.
He
sets up his base of operations in a run down building with three misfit
neighbors
- a sexy but unloved waitress, a guy with lots of piercings in his face,
and
an
over weight Asian guy.

In many ways closer to the comic book than the earlier film, this one
manages to
get the skull shirt in there and remembers to at least mention that Frank
was
originally a soldier before going and making him a cop/FBI guy. Thoug
Thomas Jane is not as physically imposing as Dolph Lundgren, he still
manages to be a fairly menacing yet sympathetic figure. John Travolta
delivers
his usual joyful villain routine. Rebecca R-Stamos of the X-Men films (and
yes, I
know she's separating from her husband John) plays the sexy but unloved
waitress who's spent the last few years trying to keep undesirable men out
of
her panties but once she gets an eyeful of Frank she wants to get into his
pants
because he's a strong, confident Alpha male who sticks up for the underdog
and
tries to steer Frank away from his suicide new life style. Rebecca is okay
in this
role, certainly no worse than any other comic book movie love interest.

One thing that surprised me about this film was how much humor was in it,
whether it was Frank's fight with a giant blond Russian thug or his
torturing the
informant to be by threatening to blow torch him while actually burning a
thing of
meat while poking him in the back with an ice pop ("You are not a nice
person."). Also worth noting is Frank's response to being told that
obviously he's
upset: "I used to get upset when I had a flat tire... when a plane was
delayed...
when the Yankees won the series..." Still, despite this humor, the film is
never as
ridiculously unbalanced as "Daredevil" or as disconnected as "Hulk" (both
released in 2003). I was also expecting a little more violence, but all in
all I was
satisfied with what I got.

So far this is probably the best of the non-X-Men/Spider-Man Marvel
movies.
Of
course, studios have a tendency to NOT give the lesser known characters a
suitable running time to establish who they are because they ARE lesser
known
and try to compensate by making them fast paced. Once studios learn not to
do
this, better superhero films will become more common. 
<|_=00=_|>
Though I was unfamiliar with the comic book character, I was impressed
with the all around quality of the production. It didn't hurt to have
the cosmically beautiful Laura Harring (mullholland drive)cast as
Saint's wife. Should have had more of her character. Thomas Jane turned
in a very worthy performance, as I think it's difficult to play these
comic book characters without causing nausea and guffaws. Interesting
that there was a bit of philosophy re society and it's criminal
element, kudos to the director/writer for a cogent screenplay. Did Jane
remind anyone of the french actor in the original Immortal? i.e. his
guttural delivery and dour countenance.
<|_=00=_|>

This is the second version of 'The Punisher', and while I enjoy the
original that starred Dolph Lungren, I LOVED this one. Thomas Jane was
amazing, he definitely had the essence of the tortured Frank Castle
down perfect. The acting in this movie was extremely well done, a lot
more well done than many people (critics) have given it credit for. I
think that John Travolta even though he can be a bit annoying at times
played a great bad guy, and his character was sinister, and cruel, but
loving at the same time. Will Patton I think almost stole the show with
his portrayal of his character Quentin Glass, because he had a charisma
about him that was equally disturbing. It was a great movie, not just
'great for what it was'. The story was good, the stunts, and the
violence amazing, and I really hope they greenlight for a sequel.

<|_=00=_|>
The Punisher put my faith back into revenge movies. The action in this
film is unbelievable and grim. I found myself not wanting the story to
end. Many of the movies based on superheroes in a comic book tend not
to sticks gritty and real. This one was and then some. The movie has
surpassed my expectation and I certainly look forward Punisher 2.

The next film sets itself up for a kick butt start. They should take a
page from X2 or the Lethal Weapon series and just open the next film
with a wild battle. You can grab the viewer right away and still tell
your full story right after. I hope the entire cast as well as the
director returns because they crafted one quality origin story here. In
summary, I enjoyed everything about this dark tale.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is one of those movies that make you wonder why every movie
isn't as good. However, if you are aren't the type that likes intense
violence and content a bit more mature than PG, then I don't recommend
this at all to you.

Tom Jane plays Frank Castle, a broken and confused F.B.I. agent who
loses his family to a band of mobsters, who horrifically slaughter
every last one of the members of his family, including his extended
family. The pain and anger that he deals with causes him to become what
he used to hunt down, a murderer who slaughters criminals day and
night. His first target is the man responsible for his family's murder,
a man named Howard Saint (terrifically played by John Travolta). The
suspense and excitement experienced throughout the film eventually
unfurls into a dramatic and astonishing conclusion that movie-goers
will never forget.

I can't think of anything more to say about this movie, so I will say
this: The value of this movie is beyond words. At least 10x better than
the original 1989 film starring Dolph Lundgren as the executioner, this
is a memorable and unforgettable film that is guaranteed to leave you
in awe. 

10/10!
<|_=00=_|>
"The Punisher" is a shining example of revenge and vigilante-style
justice done right. It's also yet another comic book adaptation done
properly. I thought this movie was one of the best I have seen in a
long time. In the compendium of comic movies, this falls just shy of
the two X-Men movies and Spider-Man but easily surpasses Batman, Batman
Begins, Superman and The Hulk. The fact that it is an R-rated movie
will kill any possible chance of decent box-office numbers, but it was
a necessary step to take, and the quality of the movie just makes up
for it. Hopefully this was Thomas Jane's breakout role, as he was
outstanding and has the potential to be a contender to Ben Affleck,
Hugh Jackman, Colin Farrell, and Matt Damon as the next big action
star. If you like action movies, check out this movie. If you like
comic book adaptations, check out this movie. Heck, if you just like
movies in general, The Punisher is two hours well-spent. Like Thomas
Jane himself says, "Frank Castle is dead. Long live The Punisher."
