
Eddie Murphy and Jeff Garlin are two fathers who lose their jobs in
product development at a large food company and decide to set up their
very own day care centre. Using unconventional methods 'Daddy Day Care'
starts to catch on, bringing with it the rivalry from Anjelica Huston
who runs the Chapman academy and has already driven all the other
competitors out of business.

Daddy Day Care really is fun for all the family and has a cast of
characters that you will genuinely care about, Murphy, Garlin and
Huston; along with the children all give fine performances making Daddy
Day Care a hit.

6/10
<|_=00=_|>
I've seen this movie a couple of times and I'm feeling rather mixed
about it. On one level I have a new kind of respect for Eddie, seeing
him in a nice family movie that I can show my baby cousins and still
laugh at myself. However I also know that we've passed the point of no
return on this one, we will never again see the strong 80's Eddie that
we once loved. I suppose we should look at this as a new chapter in the
career of one of America's funniest men, and while it is depressing I'm
still slightly awed that Eddie is still on the scene. After several
blundering movies and one very sorry attempt at singing stardom we find
an enduring man who can in fact change with the times. So for all the
Daddy DayCare bashers I think you should just be glad the our favorites
Murphy man is still around.
<|_=00=_|>
Casting for this film was brilliant. In fact, it could not have been
anything less, given that the final edited product - which boasts of
great interplay and chemistry between the crew, cast and the kids- was
a great family film (decent, entertaining, and heartfelt). What is
particularly nifty is that in this film, like some others including
Judge Reinhold's Vice Versa (1988), we get to see a children's movie
for adults with both the kids and the adults sharing equal stage
presence, which really is splendid. 

Eddie Murphy (now into his family man image phase) and fellow co-stars
like Steve Zahn (playing yet another geeky role with slick comic
timing) really capture the screen with their ability to play such
innocently playful and tender roles and when you watch them engage in
conversations with the child actors (who must have been a handful to
manage), one can tell instantly there was chemistry on and off screen
there (even child actors are kids and kids know who to trust) that went
on to boost the production set.

The credits even run a series of bloopers which showed the whole cast
and crew crying out in laughter after the some of the cherubic kids
deliver hilarious comments in between takes. The fun and interaction
they must have all shared as a crew unit must have been dewy cheeked
wonderful! This boost spills over into the film as one can definitely
sense the fun filed atmosphere, and even if someone disagrees they'd
definitely agree that there was loads of confetti colour and delightful
rainbow filled moments throughout the film, which kind of also is a
credit to the originality of this film's screenplay.
<|_=00=_|>

Y'know, it's kind of sad to see some of the comments bemoaning Eddie Murphy
for not swearing enough anymore. It's almost as if some people equate foul
language with humour. If you're one of those people who thinks a comic
sketch is much funnier with swearing in it, then you'll no doubt not like
Eddie in this movie.

On the whole, I found DDC to be harmless, unpretentious entertainment aimed
at kids, naturally, but with sufficient adult-only gags thrown in to keep
the parents happy. In short, a formulaic kids movie designed to keep parents
from being bored and kids amused.

The plot is silly, and predictable, but you don't go to these sorts of films
looking for deep and meaningful dialogue or witty social commentary. You
just go to be entertained. And DDC does deliver on that score.

Of particular amusement is Steve Zahn, as the rather cliched Star Trek geek
who is the only one who can speak to one of kids - in Klingon! He does kind
of steal a lot of the scenes in which he's in. Anjelica Huston is starting
to look real old, but still has that menacing screen presence that no doubt
helped land her the role of Mrs Harridan (yep, that really is her name) in
this picture. I'm thinking she would have made a much better Cruella de
Ville than Glen Close's overacting scenery munching version in 101
Dalmations.

The only thing I found a little irritating about this movie was the number
of times a microphone popped into view at the top of the screen. I must have
counted at least five instances. I kind of grew used to this in the 80's
straight-to-video days, but you don't really expect to see it nowadays, so
it was a little annoying.

Other than that, the movie is harmless and fun. And for those that complain
about Eddie not swearing enough....this is a KIDS film, you
know.


<|_=00=_|>

Okay, okay. How exactly do you give a movie 
like this a horrible grade? It's too cute to call 
bad, and how can an innocent children's film 
be considered a corrupted form of entertainment. 
Well, I guess I'm a sucker. With all of the cute 
kids, the laughable Star Trek fan (Steve Zahn 
at his best), and a diverse collection of neurotic 
characters plays into a movie that was focused-grouped
t
o the point of near banality. But then again, 
you can't put this film down simply because 
the kids were so great. So, I put down Eddie 
Murphy, who must be longing for the days of 
Beverly Hills Cop. Sure, he was respectable 
and funny, but his hard hitting days are well 
past him. I will say this, Lacey Chabert was 
absolutely smoking, and Angelica Huston 
was perfect as the evil school marm.
<|_=00=_|>
Caught this today on DVD with a buddy's grand-kids, and was pleasantly
surprised. I have given it 9 out of 10, not for pure artistic merit,
but as a funny 'family-film'. Certainly, the current rating here at
IMDb is pessimistic. There are only 2 or 3 decent films of this sort
produced annually in Hollywood, the rest being utter trash.

Eddie Murphy plays a more subdued role than we might expect as a
high-powered 'player' in the ad game, with little time for his family.
A sudden change finds him desperate for work or an enterprise, in a
plot ploy reminiscent of Michael Keaton's "Mr. Mom". The unfolding
action finds Eddie scrambling to operate a day care facility with
frenetic partners Jeff Garlin and, later, Steve Zahn. Murphy allows
that duo to handle the slapstick end of things. He remains the thinker
and the one who calms the waves of lunacy, allowing the plot to move
forward to the next challenge facing our heroes.

The satirical side of this story is shown by examining the competing
(snotty) daycare center of the always-delightful Angelica Huston,
reprising her 'vampy villainess' role of "Ever After". She runs a
sophisticated academy for toddlers that Fraser and Niles Crane might
envy (but it really needs to be taken down a peg or two).

Refreshing, too, is the portrayal of the daycare inspector unleashed on
Eddie by Huston. Instead of the typical clichéd grump who threatens and
hollers, we get a tender, supportive fella who really wants the boys to
succeed (we find out why at the end - watch the puppet show
carefully!).

Garlin is the closest thing I've seen to a replacement for our departed
and dear John Candy, a slightly over-sized actor who can combine
tenderness with slapstick! Zahn was an unusual sidekick fit as
'Giordino' to McConaughey's 'Dirk Pitt' in "Sahara", and, here as a
hapless Trekkie, impresses with his comedic timing.

Other notables pop up in supporting roles, and the kids are terrific.
Enjoy! 

Final word to other actors of (former) glory: check your ego at the
door, share the limelight with a great supporting cast and find a real
script with likable or compelling characters. in no particular order.
<|_=00=_|>
Ever since I saw "Baby Geniuses" I automatically hated any movie that
involved obnoxious young toddlers...especially babies who are supposed
to be smarter than everyone else. But two years ago when I was in grade
six, and it was in theaters, a couple of my friends wanted to see it,
so I thought "how bad could it really be?!" 

After I saw this movie, I was so0o0 glad i gave it a chance! It was so
cute and funny and the little kids weren't as bad as I thought they
would be. I actually never knew that Elle Fanning would be in it.I am a
huge fan of her sister Dakota, and I like her a lot too. She is
following right in her big sister's footsteps. And even though she
wasn't a main character, she was really cute in the scenes she was in
like when she called 911 after Crispin stole her doll and ripped off
it's head.

I guess making this movie would be kind of hard, seeing as most of the
actors are four and five year old children. It might be a little hard
to get them to do everything you want them to, but obviously they did a
great job, because the movie turned out awesome! Eddie Murphy was so
funny and it was pretty clear that he enjoyed working with the kids and
vice versa.

This is a great movie to watch if you ever feel like a laugh. After I
bought the DVD, I saw some of the bonus features which were pretty
cute. You get to find out more about the kids in "Daddy Day Care" and
their point of view on being in it. They're actually all pretty cute.
So if you feel like seeing a funny movie, go out and rent this one.
8/10.
<|_=00=_|>
This is just a funny and fun movie. And as one user wrote, the
chemistry between all the actors and kid actors really makes the movie.
We could use more movies like this. Nothing inappropriate either. It is
one of those movies that you come away smiling. It's a feel good movie.
I imagine if more people would support these kinds of movies maybe
Hollywood would make more. I do wonder if there are more people than we
think who secretly enjoy a good wholesome movie. And love Steve Zahn.
Eddie Murphy is so good when he keeps it clean. He seems genuinely nice
and, of course, love his voice for animated characters.

Everyone in the cast really makes this movie charming.
<|_=00=_|>
this movie is rated low just because its a comedy. If you check all the
movies are comedies rated low (especially Eddie Murphys). Eddie Murphys
is an actor who plays amazing and funny in many good movies. This
comedy movie is good  for the whole family and very fun to see it t in
a family movie night. If you choose not to see this movie because of
its rating then you make a big mistake (believe me it's not a waste of
time).its music is great. and you will enjoy watching it. I loved this
movie sow match i watched it like about four times. this movie is good
for all ages and don't be afraid to show it to your kids because its
just fine.
<|_=00=_|>

to my surprise. This wasn't half bad.  The first time in a long time, I've
found an Eddie Murphy movie to be OK.  Of course, it isn't him that makes
this film, but the kids.  They were the ones which were funny.  How can you
not laugh when a little girl kicks a fat guy in the crotch for no reason
with her mother by her side.  Plus when all the kids are given sugar treats
for lunch and are bouncing off the walls.  And there are many other scenes
like that one.

And Angelica Houston has a worth while cameo as the head of a stuffy, over
priced day care that stoops to low stunts to try to put Daddy Day Care out
of business.

FINAL VERDICT:  Has some funny parts.  Kids should like it, but it isn't for
everyone.  If you like movies that require no usage of brain cells, then you
might think this one is good enough to watch.
