
I have been anticipating the release of Bolt for several months. I had
an opportunity to see a screening of it and it exceeded all my
expectations. Bolt is a wonderful movie with a good story and heart,
something that Pixar has done well but Disney has struggled with. I
believe the addition of John Lasseter to Disney Animation has made a
significant impact on the quality and continuity of this film. Yes, it
is CGI. You may ask, "Why is Disney doing CGI when Pixar already does?"
All the studios are doing CGI right now. I have been very impressed
with Pixar's CGI detail, however the detail in Bolt is even better.
Creating a dog with fur that gets dirty, wet, wind-blown and looks real
is very impressive (at least it is to me). In addition to better
detail, the color and light of this film is so true to life, you'll
think it's the real thing.

I laughed, cried, and was on the edge of my seat. Disney has created
some lovable characters who will definitely win the hearts of millions.
Congrats to the entire Disney Animation studio, well done.
<|_=00=_|>
Its an animated movie about a dog. GIVEN, its a 'kids' movie. Unlike
many animated movies, the dialog isn't full of innuendos or 'hidden'
humor that only adults would 'get'. Its easily understood by kids, the
animation is top-rate (as would be expected) and the characters are
engaging and easy to enjoy. I admit that even though I love animation,
I went to this sneak preview with a few misgivings. The trailers didn't
look all that exciting, and I didn't expect to see anything I hadn't
already seen. On one hand, I was right. The animation WAS very good,
but nothing that hadn't been done before. But on the other hand I was
pleasantly wrong. The formula works perfectly for Bolt. It was fun,
didn't have any 'dull' spots, and while my theater was filled with a
fairly consistent mix of children and young teens, and a relative
smattering of adults, everyone seemed to enjoy it. Laughter was pretty
consistent among the old and young, and at the end of the flick I heard
something I rarely get to experience in theaters these days: applause.
Granted, the adults were the ones applauding, and I joined in
enthusiastically. The wife and I agree that this was one movie where we
felt we got more than our dollars' worth. Thats a rare treat. Bolt did
not disappoint on any level -and will find a spot in our library when
the DVD eventually hits market. I fully expect this movie to do very
well.
<|_=00=_|>
I was really not expecting much, was looking to one of those generic
"newgen" 3D animations but, oh, I was so wrong. I can easily say Bolt
is pretty much at par with Wall-E, the 2 21th century animations that
conquered my heart.

Few times I laughed, few times I had watery eyes, and it's impossible
not to adore the characters and be at the edge of the seat as you
follow the story. Also really loved the "authentic" finale with Penny
and Bolt. 

The Real D (my first ever 3D glasses movie too) was the cherry on the
cake with the astonishing graphics.
<|_=00=_|>
We got the opportunity to see this in a sneak preview in 3D and were
very entertained. Great plot, great animation and the 3D was amazing.
Sometimes felt like Bolt's head was towering over the audience. Good
thing he didn't drool!

All the characters were great. The pigeons were great comic relief.
It's amazing the amount of detail the animators put in. Watching the
way the pigeons moved their heads was entertaining in itself. Rhino and
Mittens were also hilarious while having more depth as well. A lot of
Rhino's great lines were in the preview but didn't exactly play out in
the story the way they seemed like they were going to. Even with that,
he was hilarious. Obviously the plot is predictable but it's a very fun
story. We were laughing out loud throughout this movie. 

Skip Bond and see Bolt.
<|_=00=_|>
The 2000s have not been very kind to Walt Disney Animation. While there
has been the occasional Emperor's New Groove or Lilo and Stitch, the
majority of their films from this decade have been rather mediocre
(most notably 2005's Chicken Little, which - ironically - remains the
studio's highest-grossing film of the 2000s). With that said, I
initially had some doubts about Bolt, despite hearing that it would be
Disney Animation's first film supervised by Pixar founder John
Lasseter. The surprisingly positive reviews posted shortly before the
film's release convinced me to buy a ticket. Thankfully, I was forced
to eat my words; welcome back, Disney.

The film revolves around Bolt, a white German Shephered who has spent
his entire life on the set of a TV show in which he portrays a
"superdog". As a result, he believes that the events on film (and his
super powers) are real. When he is accidentally shipped from his
Hollywood soundstage to New York City, he embarks on a cross-country
journey to reunite with his owner and co-star, Penny. Along the way,
Bolt teams up with a jaded alley cat named Mittens and a TV-obsessed
hamster named Rhino who also happens to be an extreme Bolt fanboy.

First of all, the effects in this movie are unbelievable. Everything in
the movie looks so realistic and yet doesn't contradict with the
animated cartoon-esquire characters. Also, while Bolt is obviously the
star of the movie, the real comedy comes from his unlikely companions.
In fact, my favorite character of the bunch is Mittens the cat, voiced
excellently by Susie Essman. Very seldom do I hear/see a character and
say "I can't imagine anybody doing a better job playing him/her", but
Essman really brings a lot to this already memorable character. And
though I found him to be pretty irritating at first, some of the best
lines in the movie come from Rhino the hamster.

Lastly, in one of the opening scenes we see Bolt as he is in the TV
Show to set the understanding of Bolt's world. Seriously, that was made
of awesome. The scene was action packed and full of excitement. I would
watch the show that Bolt is in. If I had to have a complaint, it would
be that it takes some ideas from several other films (such as Homeward
Bound, Toy Story, and The Truman Show). That said, it still manages to
feel like its own film, and with grace.

With terrific animation, an incredibly heartwarming story, and some of
the most endearing characters I've ever seen on film (animated or
otherwise), Bolt has not only become my favorite Disney film (Pixar
included), but perhaps my absolute favorite movie of all time. It feels
strange saying that, especially considering that I didn't even expect
to like the film, but I simply can't think of a movie that I've loved
more. It's also one of the very few films that manages to bring me to
tears every time that I watch it, and when a movie is able to affect me
on that kind of level, it automatically becomes a winner.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is about a dog that believes his friend is in grave danger.
What he does not know is that he is the star of a reality TV show.

Who would have thought "Bolt" would be so thrilling and entertaining!
The opening action sequence is rushed with adrenaline, it excites me
even though it is an animation! The plot is intelligent, interesting
and fun, the great thing is that it entertains without the need of any
toilet or gross out humour. The super-bark and laser eye scenes are so
hilarious, in a cute and mesmerising way. In addition, the transition
of Bolt from being a super dog to realising he he has no powers is very
well presented, that it makes me feel sad for Bolt. The animation is
flawless, and all the characters in the animation are super cute. I
thoroughly enjoyed every minute of "Bolt", I think it makes perfect
family entertainment.
<|_=00=_|>
I can't remember any film produced by Disney that I ever disliked.
Every movie they made, whether it's Pixar or not, is a great movie to
watch. Bolt is no exception. In fact, this brings Disney to another
level.

This film is about the bonds of friendship between Bolt, a "superdog"
and Penny, a young actress. Bolt thinks he has super powers but he he
obviously does not. He realizes that when he takes a cross-country trek
with a mangy cat and a weird hamster to save his human companion.

I guess you could say the voiceovers are great. John Travolta and Miley
Cyrus certainly did a good job.

I liked the music in this film. I shouldn't be surprised because
Travolta did star in Grease thirty years ago. The duet with Cyrus is a
great song.

This movie deserved to win some bigtime awards. The only reason this
did not happen because Wall-E overshadowed this film.

This is one of the best Disney animated films this decade. Actually,
most of them are great animations. Anyway, I rate this film 10/10.
<|_=00=_|>
"Wall-E" was superb, I love and admire it/him, but "Bolt" does beat it!
While the above mentioned (excellent!) movie did have some slow,
insipid and predictable moments, in the spaceship setting - well,
"Bolt" is coherent, self-consequent and true to itself from beginning
to end! 

The script is based on a treasure of meanings: the world seen by the
eye of a dog; the difference between fantasy and reality; the role of
the audience in an entertainment project; and, first and foremost, the
main idea: A DOG'S SUPER-POWER LAYS IN HIS FAITHFULNESS! Anyone who
ever owned a dog knows how true (and sacred) a fact is this!

Further, the same script is really intelligent - well structured and
built up, with a solid dramaturgy and a captivating narration, right
from the beginning. The starting premise, as expressed professionally,
is: 

- WHAT IF a dog, loyal with his life to his master, plays next to her
the part of a super-dog in an action TV series? 

- BUT WHAT IF, for him to act well, the trick is to make him believe
that everything is true, and his super-powers are real? 

- ...AND WHAT IF he gets lost by accident, and has to face the REAL
WORLD (and his REAL SELF) to get back to his master? 

...And this is how starts this truly initiatic trip, from New York City
back to Hollywood, for the engaging Bolt, his acolyte Mittens (the
stray cat who begins by being his sarcastic hostage, only to become his
main supporter), and Rhino the hamster, his devoted fan. While the
script continues in the same compact and fast-paced spirit, the
direction adds up to it by being more than just adequate: it's
expressive, enriching, imaginative, creative, bright. And what an
admirable humor, what an elegant satire, what a perceiving look all
over the American society, from the East Coast to California...! 

Of course, one should add that the graphics are superb, and the 3-D
DOES WORK, friends and neighbors - it ceases at last to be just a cheap
trick, and invests the story with style and perspective (not only at an
optical level!) 

One last word, and the most important: yes, I'm an old bastard, harshly
dragged along thousands of movies - but, when Bolt chose to die next to
Penny, I wept.
<|_=00=_|>
Standing out in the crowd is not always the easiest thing to accomplish
for an animated film, but above what you may expect, against WALL∙E's
heart, and Kung Fu Panda's slapstick hilarity, Disney's Bolt jumps
forward as simply the most fun. 

What makes Bolt noteworthy as well as a success on its own terms is its
ability to take an age-old message about being true to oneself and
finding your inner hero, and mesh it with a unique storyline that ends
up spawning what, at first glance at least, seems wholly unique.
Coupled with the expectedly bright crisp animation and stellar voice
work, makes Bolt better yet, and a sure contender for best animated
film at this years Oscars. Bolt also reclaims the original song work of
Disney past, conceived between its also star and teen sensation Miley
Cirus and Jenny Lewis and both compilations are memorable and sweet.
Bolt never dives for the heartstrings, but scores its emotional points
through well developed characters and thoughtful situations. 

Bolt opens with a very entertaining action sequence in which Bolt
(voiced to surprising effect by John Travolta) and his master Penny
(Miley Cirus) are chased by well equipped super villains which plays
out in the vein of The Incredibles. The genetically altered canine can
leap helicopters in a single bound, melt evil with laser eyes and
destroy villains at a whim with his super-bark. It is soon revealed
that the action speckled lives of Penny and Bolt is in fact a hit
television show, which requires Bolt to be kept in the dark about the
nature of his existence; in brief, he actually believes he has super
powers. But after a cliff-hanger ending of an episode in which Penny is
taken, prompts Bolt to escape, determined to reclaim his friend and
master. Embarking for the first time into the real world he haphazardly
enlist the help of a very reluctant cat (Susie Essman) and a fan-boy
err...fan- hamster named Rhino (Mark Walton) and along the way learns,
and earns, the true stripes of a hero and that of friendship. 

If everything I mentioned above was not enough to make you see this
film, I can also reveal that Bolt is an at times hilarious send-up of
the movie industry and genre clichés. Propelled by the hilarious
supporting voice work including Malcolm McDowell, Dietrich Bader and
James Lipton the blend of comedy, drama, and flat out entertainment
value is unmatched. Also worth an enthusiastic mention are the pigeons
that show up throughout the course of Bolt's adventure. Not only (as
with all) is the voicing perfect but the physical humour implored is
gut-busting, with the feathery fools twitching their heads in a pigeon-
esquire way during their meetings with Bolt to glorious results. 

If you have a chance, you obviously should see this film in 3-D,
however it is still well worth your money viewed in a traditional
medium. Bolt is a reminder of why Disney was such an animation
juggernaut and it is pleasant to see them recapturing some of their
past glory. And just in case you want it mentioned bluntly, yes there
are many jokes that older patrons will more then enjoy. It is always
refreshing to see an old formula revamped so effectively and certainly
always welcome to see a movie that can put a smile on faces of all
ages. 

8.5 / 10.0

View all my reviews at Simon Says Movie Reviews:
www.simonsaysmovies.blogspot.com
<|_=00=_|>
Over the past few years Disney track record in new movies has been
questionable. With the exception of Meet the Robinsons (which I quite
liked), Disney has done nothing but pump out rehashed ideas in the form
of inane sequels to classics loved by my generation or weak under
developed characters. Well not this time. I managed to see an advanced
screening of this tonight with my daughter and it had both of us highly
entertained. Bolt the "super" dog was full of funny and emotional
characters the likes of which Disney has not produced in a while. And
for once the comic relief characters, of which there are many, did
their jobs and pulled even the slowest of moments out of the trash and
send you rolling in the aisles. Rhino the hamster was my personal
favorite. After seeing this movie all my daughter could say was how
awesome it was and ask if we could see it again. I had to remind her
that it actually does not come out until next week. Well to sum it up I
would recommend to children young and old and while I have not seen it
yet in 3D I plan too because it was easy to see that 3D is going to
make the movie even more exciting.
