
There's no other word for it...Fox dumped this out, with NO marketing
of any kind. Nobody in the country, other than those who have been
looking forward to this film, know anything about it. All the red flags
have flown. It has to be a mess, it can't be anywhere near as good as
Office Space, right? Wrong. Though Office Space it ain't, this film
definitely has satirical bite and wit. It's a misfire on certain
levels, but who's to blame is left to mystery.

Based on what is currently showing in theatres, I can say IDIOCRACY is
a good movie. It's funny, sometimes laugh-out-loud funny. It's
effective, sometimes ingenious. What it isn't as far as I can tell, is
finished. We will see something come of this film again, whether it's
an extended cut or reshoots. Alone it can be hilarious. It's ballsy at
times.

Leaving the theatre, looking around at the mall, I was surrounded by
advertisements and billboards, commercialism and stupidity. It's not
quite as damning a dystopia as 1984, but this movie paints an ugly
future for our culture. And there doesn't seem to be much anybody can
do about it. Anyway, go see this if you can and try to find out what
happened that it was so specifically buried.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was quite a pleasant surprise. I had anticipated it for a
long time, and was afraid going in that it couldn't possibly live up to
my expectations.

It exceeded them.

I adored this movie.

Hilarious from start to finish (stay until after the end credits!), it
is absolutely remarkable how a movie about dumb and annoying characters
can be so intelligent, witty, and engaging.

With it's obvious matte paintings, the movie's future Earth recalls the
Planet of the Apes series and other Sci-Fi movies of that era.

In fact, this movie is essentially Planet of the Apes, but with people
who are the mental equivalent of apes.

It moves at a fairly brisk pace, and Luke Wilson carries the movie
quite well, with a character that recalls the one he played in "Bottle
Rocket." (There's even a not-so-subtle nod to "Bottle Rocket" in an
early scene).

Maya Rudoulph is also surprisingly good as a former "painter" who was
frozen as well.

Despite all its strengths, "Idiocracy" has the distinct feel of a movie
that was taken away from the director/editor before it could be
fine-tuned.

I cannot for the life of me understand why a movie this funny would
just be dumped into a few theaters with no advanced screenings, no
trailers, no marketing whatsoever.

It's as if the studio decided they were not going to spend any more on
it and just walked away.

Or maybe they thought the movie had the makings of a cult classic, and
the only way for it to become a true cult classic was to set it up to
fail? 

Whatever the case, it is a shame, because Mike Judge and this film in
particular deserve better.

I predict this movie will have real legs on DVD, and word of mouth will
propel it to the success it deserves.

Perhaps the Fox Executives saw themselves in the characters, were
confused, and thought it was a documentary?
<|_=00=_|>
Let me start by saying that if you're expecting subtle humour, you're
in the wrong theatre. It's low-brow and heavy-hitting. But he's not out
to tickle your funny bone. He's got the sledgehammer out and he's drawn
a bead on the side of your head. But fear not. As movies go, this is a
fairly gentle education. Oh, also, heavy on the swearing, but once
again, Mike Judge, not Fred Rogers.

Was this movie called 'intelliocracy'? F*** no. The gem, the essence
that is Mike Judge is that he has the ability to make people laugh at
themselves. Beavis and Butthead was most popular with teen-aged boys,
the very people at which it incessantly poked fun.

With that in mind, I don't think the humour in this movie is aimed at
the super intelligent. Maybe you are all too smart to get it. But he's
not aiming at you. He's aiming at your average Joe. And he's got a
message: get your act together and for god's sake, study botany! It is
a little disjointed and the narrator gets to be a little irritating
after a while, but once again, this movie is meant for people who need
a lot of narration ;-) It's funny. It has a message that it wants to
make sure that we all understand.

I question the casting of Luke Wilson in the role of a man with a 100
IQ. Sometimes, he's not able to play down (what's he got, like, a 104?)
to the level of his character. Slightly forced at times.

Kudos on Dax Shepard in this one. I remember seeing him in Zathura and
thinking, "This guys looks like an idiot." In this movie, he makes a
great idiot. Maybe I'm psychic.

It took a while to warm up to Maya Rudolph, but I gave her a little
leeway. After all, she did have to play straight man to an entire
planet. But once she got a little screen time, she made a solid
contribution.

Terry Crews played the same psychotic, aggressive character he's played
many times before, but he makes a first-rate president none the less.

Another bonus is that the place was practically empty. Counting my
girlfriend and I, there were literally six people in the theatre. We
could've had a barbecue pit and a mariachi band. So, no annoying people
talking, as appears to be the norm in the 'talking-to-the-tv' age.

All in all, a good premise and a competent delivery, given the intended
goal. Lots of laughs sprinkled throughout.

What made this movie scary was the fact that when we walked out of the
theatre, it was sort of like the movie was still playing. We saw a lot
of idiocy in the people immediately around us, maybe made more apparent
by the dose we got in the theatre....

They're all pods, all of them!
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not sure why there are no articles or posters or anything about
this film because I just saw it and thought it was AWESOME. I guess
it's not for everyone because it's basically Kafka's "The Trial" meets
"Beevis and Butt-Head", which is a pretty tough combination to swallow.
Still, I thought it was great. If you're going to see it because you
want a sequel to Office Space you're probably going to be disappointed.
But if you want to see one of the most brutal, acid-tongued, and
hilariously honest looks at where our society is headed you're in for a
treat. I just saw the 8pm show opening night in Los Angeles and there
were only 12 people in the theater, which means the film will probably
be gone in a week. That's really a shame because, in its own way,
Idiocracy is one of the best satires to come along in quite a while.
But then again it's basically making fun of the people who make up
about 99% of the movie-going audience so I guess it's no wonder the
studio panicked and tried to dump it.
<|_=00=_|>
Shame on Fox for dumping this movie. It was a total riot and I only
hope that it will find a second life on DVD and cable.

This is a hilarious satire. It takes the "What if" situation to an
extreme and it doesn't pull any punches (or kicks to the groin). It
makes you think... what is to become of this empire once we've gotten
totally to lazy and stupid? Everyone gets hit in this one esp. a number
of major corporations, and even Fox News takes a punch(which is
probably why the movie never had a proper release - other than the
marketing department over thinking the campaign and not knowing how to
market it "so we'll just give up!") Some may find the movie sophomoric,
due to the groin kicking, and farting, but the movie is much more than
that. You either get what Mike Judge is saying, or you don't. Most of
the negative reviews I've read seem to come from people who just don't
get it or are film snobs.

It'll probably play for one week in the selected markets so if you miss
it, keep an eye out for the DVD, it'll be worth the rental and I will
eventually have it in my collection.

Good Job Mike Judge, it's a shame that you got screwed, but you made me
laugh out loud and I look forward to the next movie you do.
<|_=00=_|>
As social satire, Idiocracy is just as good as Office Space, but with a
wider scope. To criticize this film as too puerile due to potty humor
is to kind of miss the point, I think. There are certainly fart jokes
etc., but they're not really intended to be funny to the audience -
they exist to define the state of "culture" in the world of 2500 AD
visited by Joe, as a background to the bizarre state of affairs in
which he awakes. The real humor of the film lies in the many sight gags
and attitudes present in this future society that are just a shade off
of what we encounter in our daily lives, and which should serve as a
warning. My personal favorite is the depiction of Fox News. The subtle
brilliance in the film lies in the fact that it also digs at "smart"
people, and average Joes like the protagonists. Note the times in the
film when Joe and Rita almost subconsciously conform to the idiots
around them, and you realize that Idiocracy is not created to pick on
any group of people in particular, but on the culture of idiocy in
general. I don't know what to say about the "made for conspiracy
theory" behavior of Fox in releasing this film, but if it's not playing
in your local theater, demand it. We all need to see this film, if not
for the social commentary, at least for the fart jokes...
<|_=00=_|>
A lot of things in this futuristic satire are more theoretically funny
than actually funny (though it does have some laugh-out-loud moments)
but a lot of that is because it seems to have been cut by the studio to
better appeal to exactly the idiots it's mocking. Many situations
aren't allowed to develop, there's obvious overdubbing of expository
material, and worst of all a narrator explains EVERYTHING (most of
which needs no explanation), probably because some preview audience
didn't understand what was going on. In other words, a movie about
dumbing down has been... you guessed it.

One hopes that a longer, better version of this comedy will eventually
surface on DVD, and it will become the cult fave it deserves to be, but
even in this mutilated and somewhat comic- spirit-diminished form it's
one of the more memorable films of the year-- a screech of disgust
against our culture and all the ways it's become trashified,
stupidified and uglified in the name of appealing to the yahoos. I
watched it right after Land of the Dead, George Romero's latest milking
of the single idea that consumers = zombies, which is basically the
same point Judge is making; yet where Romero's counterculture viewpoint
(now zombies = underclass that needs to revolt against the rich) seems
hopelessly out of date, Judge's take is fresh, dead-on and far more
disturbing. Just listen to the yahoos in your movie audience whooping
it up for President Camacho's State of the Union just like their
counterparts on screen, and you'll know that we're all doomed.
<|_=00=_|>
I've never seen a movie get a worse release then this. And that's a
shame, as this is the funniest film of the year! You would think an ad
with the line "From the director of "Office Space"" would be enough to
warrant a big release! But there are no ads, no posters, no website , I
doubt the stars even knew it came out this weekend. What is 20th
Century Fox thinking? Mike Judge's Sci-Fi comedy is set in 2505 but it
could come true in about 10 years (if things continue as they are.)
Luke Wilson and Maya Rudolph get frozen in a top secret army experiment
and wake up in a future full of consumer zombie inbred retards. The
film reminds me of Woody Allen's "Sleeper" ,"RoboCop", "Planet of the
Apes", "Blade Runner" and "Network" and the late great "Futurama". Try
to see it before Fox burns all the prints!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is "the" stupid comedy of the year, and quite possibly the
best thing from Mike Judge since "Office Space". If you are a Mike
Judge fan, or enjoy shows like Futurama, then you are doing yourself a
grave disservice by skipping over this little known, limited release.
Although the DVD touts very few "bonus features", this film is
certainly funny enough to make up for it's perceived "lack of value".

This movie is about an army grunt by the name of Joe Bowers (played by
Luke Wilson) who is part of a top secret Army experiment designed to
preserve Army personnel in peace time so that they can be thawed in war
time to fight for our country. However, things take an interesting turn
as the general in charge of the operation is busted in a prostitution
ring and the experiment is all but forgotten. Bowers, and his sidekick
Rita (played by Maya Rudolph) both find themselves awake in the year
2505, where through the course of natural selection, the population of
America has grown increasingly stupid. Now Joe and Rita have to find
their way to a time machine to get back to the year 2005 with the help
of Frito (played by Dax Shepard).

What I really enjoyed about this movie was Mike Judge's comedic satire
on the course of US History over the last 50 years, and how mankind
progresses over the subsequent 500 years. This is most evidenced by the
advertising in the movie, which has become a staple of the American
culture. With shows like South Park in the mainstream media, it's easy
to see how conclusions could be drawn that in the future, profanity has
become a marketing tool. This is portrayed in the film humorously with
subtle things such as "Fudd-Ruckers" changing their name to
"Butt-F###ers", and a billboard which displays the advertisement "If
you don't smoke Tarryltons... F### You!". I also cannot stop laughing
at Carls Jr.'s role in this future, with their slogan "F### you... I'm
eating", and their automated kiosks self-advertising their "Extra
Big-A## Tacos". (with more molecules)! This film contained everything I
go to the movies for. Excellent, sharp, witty comedy, as well as an
engrossing plot make this DVD one for the ages. Be warned, however. If
you are not a fan of Mike Judge, did not care for "Beavis and
Butthead", or do not have a sense of humor, then this movie probably
isn't a good match for you. Otherwise, I would say this is probably the
funniest movie to come out of 2506... I mean 2006.
<|_=00=_|>
"Idiocracy" is the latest film to come from Mike "Office Space" Judge,
and it certainly follows a similar theme of that film in the fact that
it is an observation of stupidity and how mediocrity can overcome
adversity... relatively speaking. It is a story about Joe Bauer (Luke
Wilson), who is, quite literally, the most average guy in existence.
Joe, and a prostitute named Rita (Maya Rudolph), become the test
subjects for a military project of a hibernation chamber. They were to
remain suspended for only one year, but due to lack of oversight, Joe
and Rita are forgotten about and accidentally wake up 500 years in the
future.

Here's the scary part: This film explains, in a very realistic and
plausible way, how the entire population of 2505 became absolutely
retarded. With no natural predators, the evolution of the human species
does not necessarily favor the quickest, smartest, and strongest people
for progression of genes... just the people who breed the most.
Unfortunately, those people happen to be welfare-sucking, trailer trash
idiots who breed like rabbits. This abundant reproduction of the stupid
people has caused an adverse effect on societal growth and now Joe and
Rita are the two smartest human beings on the face of the planet. If it
helps, imagine the entire population as just a hybrid of rednecks,
jocks, cholos and hoochies. Seeing this nightmarish dystopia, Joe
learns of and attempts to track down a time machine to see if he and
Rita can get back to when they came from, and that's basically the
whole plot.

But despite how one-dimensional I may make it sound, this movie is
higher brow than you can fathom. Nuances are everywhere and anyone can
see glimpses (warning signs, if you will) of modern day dumb-ciety
permeating facets of everyday life and turning it into the train wreck
on display in "Idiocracy." The film has some truly awesome showcases of
realistic retardedness put on a pedestal. I don't want to give anything
away and ruin jokes for you, but let's just say that it is pretty
thorough. I can see how some would say that it is just a lot of toilet
humor, but it, odd as it may seem, has a purpose; to show how dumb and
crass these people are.

This film, unfortunately, is destined to see the same fate as its
predecessor, "Office Space"; no one will see it in theaters, but
everyone will brag about discovering this awesome/funny movie when it
comes out on video. My only complaint for the film would be that the
flow of the narrative sometimes gets broken so they can do a
Hitchhiker's-Guide-to-the-Galaxy type exposition on how things got to
be where they are, but it is a necessary evil and is implemented better
here. Other than that, good characters, funny jokes, and
better-than-average social commentary wrapped up in a funny bow.

Final Note: If seeing our youth becoming gang-banger wanna-be's, acting
like redneck/ ghetto trash and being proud of it... if you are educated
and cultured in anyway and can see how our country is spiraling out of
control into an abyss of stupidity, for god sakes, watch this movie.
