
Many movies in the modern era have experimented with fractured
chronology, but most of the time this technique is used for
entertainment purposes only. "21 Grams" is an intense and thoughtful
film enriched by this technique, taken to an extreme I've never seen
before. We're not talking "Pulp Fiction" here, where a small series of
vignettes are arranged out of sequence. Every individual scene in "21
Grams" seems to be distributed almost at random anywhere in the film.
You have to concentrate when seeing this film for the first time,
because you'll have trouble figuring out what's going on, and even as a
plot starts to emerge, some of the details won't be understandable
until the very end. But it pays off: this isn't like "Memento" or
"Mulholland Drive," where you may need multiple viewings to understand
it all. By the end of this film, the story turns out to be quite
straightforward. It's like seeing a gigantic jigsaw puzzle gradually
pieced together.

Unlike many other films that use this sort of device, "21 Grams" is a
character drama, not a psychological thriller. The story would still
work if it were told in chronological order. Why the scenes are
arranged as they are is not altogether clear, on the surface. I felt
like I was watching a mystery, but after everything came together it
became evident that none of the mystery was contained in the plot
itself. This fact has led some critics to suggest that the scrambled
scene arrangement is nothing more than a cute gimmick designed to make
the film more engaging. But I believe that the device does serve a
legitimate purpose, by drawing out the complexity of the characters and
their situations.

Life is not good for the three principal characters, and it isn't
getting better. Sean Penn plays a 40-something man with a failing
heart, Naomi Watts plays a young woman facing great tragedy, and
Benicio Del Toro plays an ex-con consumed by guilt. Penn and Watts come
off as ordinary individuals reacting as anyone might under the
circumstances, but Del Toro's character is particularly fascinating.
He's been rehabilitated through religion, but he's still far from
perfect. As a father, he has a scary presence that makes him seem
borderline abusive at times. But he has developed a powerful
conscience. Is he right to hate himself for what he did? The movie
never answers that question. I just appreciated that the film resisted
the temptation to make him into a caricature. He is neither hero nor
villain. He is simply understandable on a very basic human level, as
are the other two characters.

We have the feeling that Watts and Penn are wrong to condemn him as
strongly as they do. They do not understand his situation, or that he's
suffering just about as much as they are. On the other hand, we as
viewers can perfectly understand where Watts is coming from. That's
what makes the scrambled scene arrangement so effective: it never
allows any one character to gain our total sympathy. By the time we've
sorted out the plot threads, we've identified with all three characters
on an emotional level while at the same time understanding their
faults. These people are trapped in their own limited worlds, and with
our omniscient viewpoint we can scarcely blame any one of them for
their feelings or actions. We can see clearly what these characters
cannot, which is that they are more victims of cruel fate than people
who are truly guilty of anything.

What is the movie's message? That people shouldn't be so quick to judge
others? That could be one interpretation, but what's nice about the
film is that it doesn't hammer this lesson into us. It just tells a
moving and stirring tale about complex characters, and viewers can take
from it what they please. The title refers to a parapsychological
belief about the weight of the human soul, and it's used in this film
as a metaphor for the fragility of life. If life is fragile, then it's
also precious, and people need not waste their time on vengeance.
<|_=00=_|>


Some movies are like a novel. Some movies are like a poem.  Some films
have
flashbacks and flash-forwards.  Some, like `Memento,' stretch the
boundaries
of convention and take wild risks such as moving the drama from the end
to
the beginning.  `21Grams' is a cinematic poetic explosion, shaking all
the
pieces hard as hell, and then tossing them in the air to fall at random.
Directed by Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu, he gives the audience the puzzle
unraveled, demanding that we piece together the story from interlaced
past,
present and future events.  It is part flashy gimmick, part artistic
mastery, but always compelling.

This is not a film for either the faint of heart or lazy of mind.  Nor is
it
for those who become frustrated by film that dares to step outside the
linear plot and paint-by-numbers formula.  The mishmash of
past/present/future is allegorical in the sense that we all carry our
past,
all hinge our hearts on the future, and all struggle with a `present' as
dotty and haunted as this film so wildly illustrates.

In `21 Grams' it is required that the viewer surrender.  As in life,
there
is no control.  I must admit that I became a bit antsy and pressed for
answers when none were being provided.  You are riveted by events and
players that intermingle in a haphazard mishmash of time with a
rebellious
lack of structure.  You can either go with the flow-or back out to your
car.
Since I saw only one person exit the theater, for any reason, in the 125
minutes running time, I conclude that the fully occupied theater was as
riveted as I was, even to the point of extreme bladder control.

The performances are stunning.  Sean Penn is always good, Benicio Del
Toro
solidifies his Oscar, and Naomi Watts is the big talent to watch.  Her
emotional honesty is beyond acting-I believed her to feel the pain she
displayed.

The `plot' almost seems inconsequential.  The film is about the depth of
human feeling in our brief interplay between living and dying.  It's
about
damnation and redemption, revenge and forgiveness, surrender and
salvation.
It offers no explanations.  It merely illustrates the human experience in
a
trenchant manner that makes us aware that every minute of every day is a
precarious drama that we look upon more lightly than we
should.
The dramatic cortex is the human heart-lost, gained, tormented, anguished
and confused.  The metaphorical context is the fleeting nature of each
heart's temporal beat and our desperately valiant struggle to flesh out
our
mortal hearts' desires.

<|_=00=_|>
A movie directed in inimitable style, Inarritu's 21 Grams is a
provocative, deeply moving filmic work that explores several
fundamental questions: What is a life, what is its value, and can we
place a value on it? Directed in a series of small, seemingly
disconnected fragments that come together as the film progresses, the
film is thus shot in a style deeply unfamiliar to American moviegoers.
At the beginning, most American viewers will find the choppy, nonlinear
timeline distracting and frustrating - a cinematic form of coitus
interruptus where once on the verge of revealing an underlying plot
concept, the fragment abruptly stops and is picked up at an unrelated
point. This style continues throughout, but don't worry. The answers do
come after a while.

It is worth noting that the actual storyline, when told linearly, is
not as gripping as when told in this style. The linear form would
resemble a typical mindless story of the wounded seeking revenge. The
way Inarritu constructs the story allows him to give the viewer a sense
of where various characters are at the same time without the appearance
of repetition. It allows moviegoers to see actual events first, then
form associations later. There is a sense of, "Oh, now I get it!" that
would be conspicuously absent if 21 Grams were told linearly.

Moving on, the performances of the actors and actresses in the film are
incredible. All are believable. The animalistic hatred of Christina
Peck (Naomi Watts) for Jack Jordan (Benicio Del Toro), the deeply
troubled father who regrets his big mistake and has become a born again
Christian, is palpable throughout. Paul Rivers (Sean Penn) is genuine
in his efforts to repay, literally, a life debt. The performances
breathe further life into the series of events that 21 Grams attempts
to chronicle.

By the film's ending, the entire tale of what has transpired is
revealed to the viewer. Since key plot elements often appear in several
of the disconnected sequences, they come to be points of reference that
astute moviegoers can use to sort the rest of the plot. By the end,
everything is complete. The title is finally put into context, and the
attempt to answer the three previously mentioned fundamental questions
is made. Yes, at the beginning, this movie may not seem to make much
sense, and it may even be frustrating to watch. Still, resist the
temptation to get up and leave the theater. Stick around and watch the
whole thing. The pieces do ultimately fall into place. I promise. And
besides, there's only one way to find out.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm actually the opposite of a drama fan- but this movie really touched
me, and although it's quite tough to take in, I loved it.

I think above all, one has to bow to Guillermo Arriaga, the writer, as
"21 Grams" features probably the best script I've ever seen. I guess
the story itself is not that new, but the way how it's done is simply
excellent. The first, say, 30 minutes are just scraps- moments in the
lives of the three main characters that mean absolutely nothing to the
viewer (yet). Adding to that initial confusion is the fact that these
scraps are not in temporal order so that in the beginning personally I
wasn't sure I'd be able to follow- it was more like a music video
that's just not making any sense at all. But then the pieces begin to
come together just beautifully until in the end you can see the whole
picture. Usually in these episode movies everything comes together at
once somewhere in the middle of the film, but in "21 Grams" the viewer
puts the pieces together one after another- like a jigsaw puzzle, and
every bit as satisfying when everything's completed. This truly is a
masterpiece script-wise, and I've never seen anything like it.

That brilliant script is supported by excellent actors. Sean Penn,
Naomi Watts and Benicio del Toro are delivering the most convincing
acting performance I've ever witnessed. Like when Christina (Watts)
screams at Paul (Penn) trying to get rid of all of her anger,
frustration, grief and hate: I usually think these emotional outbursts
don't seem real on screen, but in this movie it is just deeply
touching. I haven't seen "Mystic River" yet, but if Sean Penn was as
good as he is in "21 Grams" then the Oscar finally really went to
someone who truly deserved it. And Benicio del Toro really is every
inch the wonderful actor his reputation claims (I saw him for the first
time but had heard a lot of him before, so I was very curious).

Finally, thank you, Mr. Inárritu for putting everything together this
nicely. You've made a very impressing 100 % quality movie.
<|_=00=_|>
When lives collide, often no one is around to witness the effects of
the collision. Alejandro González Iñárritu, however, has captured the
profound effects in 21 Grams. How much does life weigh? Iñárritu may
not answer that question directly, but he does indirectly answer the
question darkly and beautifully in 21 Grams.

21 Grams tells the story of three lives brought together by tragedy:
the life of a very sick man (Penn), a mother who has lost much (Watts),
and a Christian who has recently reformed his ways (Del Toro). Really,
these characters and their once-"simple" lives are the focus of this
film, and all three characters are mysterious and deep. Each of the
three actors gives an excellent performance, but it is Watts who stands
out in all her angst. All of them deserved Academy Award nominations,
and Penn would've received one along with Watts and Del Toro if not for
his incredible performance in Mystic River.

Arriaga's screenplay is incredible too, leaving the outcome
inexplicable enough to be real and to make sense. Santaolalla's score
is odd enough to fit the dark atmosphere that pervades the film, and
stick around for the credits to hear Dave Matthews' fitting conclusion.
Also, Prieto's and Procopio's cinematography is gritty enough to depict
the unbearable anguish of the characters.

I would praise the direction as well, except that I do have one
complaint regarding it. It is often so choppy and irregular that it
causes the story to lose a tiny bit of its impact. Perhaps this
choppiness fits the film too, but to me it was distracting.

Yet you should definitely check this one out for a sorrowful picture of
torment, disgust, and a strange beauty.

Final Grade: A.
<|_=00=_|>
Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu made a well-deserved leap into the renown
film-making pool with Amores Perros, and his follow up 21 Grams shows
him with plenty of talent to spare. He also gets three (or more,
depends on how effective one thinks the supporting performance were)
forceful, compelling performances out of Sean Penn, Benicio Del-Torro,
and Naomi Watts. They're involved in three interlocking stories- Penn
as a mathematician with a rottening health and a near-rottening
relationship; Del-Torro's found Jesus Christ after being in and out of
jail for part of his life; Watts is a house-wife who may have some deep
troubles within her mind. Each of the three leads doesn't go for cheap
drama, and each one plunges the depths of their own abilities to find
truths that might not be possible with lesser material or a lesser
director. I won't say much more about the stories, however I do have
something to say about the structure of the film. The script brings
some mesmerizing scenes, ones with great tragedy that bring out a
viewer's compassion. 

Never-the-less, there was something about the structure that I didn't
think was all that great. In films like Once Upon a Time in America,
Reservoir Dogs, and even Memento, the scrambled story structure had a
purpose, adding appropriate twists and turns for the audience. 21 Grams
(like Amores Perros in a sense) has that non-linear basis to it too,
and sometimes it works for the audience to react. But I think there
would be a lot more power to how these characters' fates and tragedies
unfold if it was told linearly from start to finish. In many moments in
the film I found myself knowing a little too much before a particular
scene unfolded, or I found myself guessing about something that I
didn't need to (one of the points of non-linear storytelling is answers
first, questions later). It wasn't an aspect that made the film bad,
yet the stock that writer Guillermo Arriaga and director Inarritu put
into this structure over interlocking the stories in order, or perhaps
telling each story separately, is the film's only drawback.
<|_=00=_|>

21 Grams features performances by Sean Penn, Benecio Del Torro and Naomi
Watts that are remarkable not only for their believability, but also for
the
range of gut wrenching emotion they bring to bear.  Telling his story
almost
violently out of sequence, Iñárritu makes no apology for presenting
information in a manner that is often abrupt and/or confusing.  His choice
to juxtapose a myriad of images to reveal the complexities and subtleties
of
the characters challenges the viewer even as it elevates the story.

Each of the three main characters faces a series of crises that unfold in
the fullness of Iñárritu's version of time.  By so carefully painting
characters' surroundings along with their reactions to the events that
change their lives, lead characters are stripped to the bone.  The
supporting cast is nothing short of miraculous (notably Clea Duvall,
Charlotte Gainsborg and Melissa Leo) and completes a wonderfully complex
series of portraits of the three main characters.

Like few films in recent memory, 21 Grams fully reveals what it is to be
human in the clutches of life's most challenging moments.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is very, very good. Unlike some others I do not think the
unchronological storytelling hurts the movie, on the contrary I think that
the pieces that the viewer has to put together in order to get the picture
of the whole story just make it more interesting. 

On the other hand, no matter how good the movie actually is it is one step
short of masterpiece. It is like you are climbing to heaven but you cannot
make it over the last step. The story is good, the filming is good, the
acting is good, but there is still SOMETHING missing for this movie to be
added to my hall of all time faves. Maybe it is the music, this film does
not have a strong score, maybe all the components do not add up well
together... It is hard to describe why, but I was not as stunned as I
usually am after watching movies I rate at 10. 

Thus, I was deciding between 8 a 9, finally I voted 9 but it is a rather
weak one. 
<|_=00=_|>

remember memento?
time flowed backwards, and it was perfect. one of the best movies
ever.
well, it was great to see how the understanding of the story gets better and
deeper when you learned just what happened before.
well, in memento you knew exactly when everything happened- cause the flow
was exactly backwards. in this movie, you have no idea when each scene
happens. so basically, you are guessing the whole time.
the makers of this movie had to do it, cause otherwise the movie would have
been very very boring. when you realize everything, you gather that the
story is not interesting at all. the entire interest lies in guessing "who
is that guy?". "did that happen before of after?" and so
on.
you can just take any bad movie ever written, mix out the scenes randomly,
and get a movie just as good as this one. just make sure there are enough
naked women in it to make the guys happy.
my opinion: don't waste your time.
