

Hmmm...where do I start?  Should I point out to a recent reviewer, who
sarcastically pointed out that Nigeria has an air force and could have
bombed the group fleeing through the jungle, that the "bad guys" are rebels,
not government forces?  Since the rebels just killed everyone in the
President's family, they probably scared off the government pilots, too. 
(Sorry...couldn't resist.)

And since when was a movie so horribly, horribly bad because it couldn't be
filmed in the actual location?  So what if this was filmed somewhere other
than Nigeria?  And so what if the music was not "authentic Nigerian music"? 
I don't remember a title card at the beginning of the movies saying it's a
National Geographic documentary.

This is a good movie.  Less action than many war movies and less thought
than some political dramas.  There are good and bad people of all races. 
There's tension and there are explosions and gunfire.  There is ample
opportunity to reflect on what mankind is capable of doing to each other for
political reasons.

Give it a chance and I think you'll enjoy it.  Better yet, I think you'll be
sombered by it.
<|_=00=_|>
This film was simply incredible. I didn't see it at the cinema, which
upon seeing it later on DVD release, regretting missing first time
round.

It made some incredibly powerful statements and was very difficult to
watch. I rarely admit to this, but I actually found parts of it so
moving, that I cried! And I never cry.

The choice of Bruce Willis was a good one and he plays a deeply
conflicted character, he plays him with depth. I have seen Monica
Belucci in films before. She is an incredibly gifted actress and she
really believed in this project. Her character comes across as having
strong religious and moral convictions, prepared to die to help and
protect others. This comes across in the decisions she takes and the
willingness to stand strong under pressure.

Having seen the Documentary on the special features section of the DVD
afterwards, I could see the incredible lengths that everyone attached
to the filming went to. Each of the actors playing Seal Team members,
went through some very authentic training in preparation and stayed in
character outside of filming during the day. Given the commitment of
all those attached to the film, I can see why the film is what it is.

The director, Antoine Fuqua, from the films I have seen in which he
directed, brings a strong moral theme to his characters and the story.
The whole visual manner of filming, camera angles, close ups etc adds
to the intensity here.

The choice of filter during filming, that gives a subdued and darker
feeling visually, was perfect. The use of Africans as extras was an
interesting and a suitable choice, given their backgrounds. Many of
these extras were showing genuine emotions which was captured on
camera, as they relived traumatic moments in their lives when certain
scenes were filmed.

On that note, one scene in particular made for very difficult viewing,
but totally in context and I would expect it would provoke a strong
reaction from viewers, for good reason. The actual combat scenes are
kept selectively short and in context to the overall film. They are
also very realistic. 

The soundtrack was well suited and complimented the whole overall feel
to the film. I would not say that this film was entertaining, it is
very hard to watch but it is an example of good film that will
challenge everyone who watches it and who has a conscience.

After seeing this film, as with Hotel Rwanda and Tears of the Sun, I am
constantly reminded of our individual and collective moral
responsibilities in the 'civilised Western World' when atrocities are
committed. And it sits badly with my conscience that 'we' in the West
do so little and so late in trying to stop such genocide from
happening. I for one think that every adult should see it.
<|_=00=_|>

Tears of the Sun. A pretty typical actioner which reminded me a little of
Navy SEALs, though grittier and more believable. Willis is his usual mostly
expressionless self here, yet somehow he manages to get the part of the
troubled Lieutenant across very well indeed. The other actors all do their
parts well and leave little that makes you frown in their portrayal of
hardened special forces personnel. It was nice to see Cole Hauser in this
movie. An underrated actor who is only now starting to get decent parts
since his role in Pitch Black. Almost makes me want to go and see 2Fast
2Furious to see how he does in that. Almost...

But back to the movie. The plot won't stretch your mind much and the
"strange" reason why the rebels pursue the refugees so ardently isn't very
hard to guess long before the characters in the story discover it. But the
action is plentiful, as is the brutality portrayed. If you like sanitized
action movies then this film might upset you a little. It's not for those
who think that war is about pushing buttons from hundreds of miles away or
that all soldiers carry a copy of the Geneva Convention in their kit and
consult it regularly.

But if you like gritty, realistic action movies then this will not
disappoint.

And now....a small rant.

Oh dear God! I can't believe some of the truly stupid comments here. The
concept that this movie's sole purpose was as a propaganda vehicle to make
people feel better about the Iraq conflict is laughable to anyone who has a
higher IQ than their shoe size. And as for Hollywood constantly portraying
Americans as the great saviours....well why the hell not? Who in God's name
wants to go and be depressed watching "the good guys" shoot innocents and
ignore suffering. Yeah, that'd do real well at the box office! Movies are
meant to entertain and make you feel good, not come out of the theatre
wanting to slash your wrists. Jeez! Get a grip you people.

Thank you....end of rant.
<|_=00=_|>
'Tears of the Sun' is a movie with a message and an interesting first
hour, but contains too many Hollywood clichés to really be something.
We start with Lieutenant Waters (Bruce Willis) and his team of SEALS
who have to rescue Dr. Lena Kendricks (Monica Bellucci), a priest and
two nuns from a missionary post in Nigeria where murdering rebels are
about to arrive. The priest and the nuns want to stay, Kendricks only
wants to come if the Nigerian refugees can come too. Waters agrees only
to leave them behind as soon as Kendricks is on the helicopter. Then,
from the helicopter, he witnesses the result of rebels passing by and
in an instant he disobeys his orders and turns the helicopter around.

This is the point where the best part of the movie begins. Waters and
his team are on their own now, leading the refugees to the border of
Cameroon. The way his team not always agrees with his decisions but how
they are loyal anyway is one of the interesting things here. Another is
the way the movie dares to show the rebels and their actions, things we
see parts of on the news in places like Liberia and Sudan. It gives us
an impression how hopeless the situation is in some parts of Africa.
The distraction here comes from Kendricks who is an obvious Hollywood
plot device. She is the possible love interest, or at least the needed
female character, and she must annoy Waters by constantly suggesting
things that even to her must sound stupid when followed by a lot of
rebels. Never mind.

Then the third act starts and the movie fails to deliver what it kind
of promised before. Instead of following the dramatic path it changes
into the kind of action film Hollywood likes to produce. A lot of
gunfire, explosions and bodies flying through the air. That's too bad
since an earlier action sequence was able to show both the horrific
actions of the rebels and the trained and nuanced way of SEALS dealing
with a situation. During that sequence I felt a director (Antoine
Fuqua) doing his job the right way, making the movie very intense. He
did the same thing for the excellent 'Training Day' from the year
before. His third act of 'Tears of the Sun' was sort of like an
introduction to his real Hollywood adventure, 'King Arthur'.
<|_=00=_|>
The is a solid "war" movie with U.S. Navy Seals, led by Bruce Willis,
rescuing an American doctor and 70 of her patients from war-torn
Nigeria. This is violent and bloody n parts but definitely not another
"Blackhawk Down" with overdone violence (although I liked Blackhawk
Down).

This is beautifully-filmed, artistic in spots. I imagine this would
look super on HD with a big plasma TV. The sound is excellent, too. 

Critics didn't like this movie. I suspect one big reason is that they
are used to seeing films in which Christians are shown as sympathetic
victims of persecution. Critics also don't like to see the right thing
being exalted.

Willis is perfect for this role as the strong, stone-faced leader.
Monica Bellucci could have been a little more likable as the doctor.
The story gets a little too melodramatic at the end, but it's
tolerable. 

This is not a family film by any means, because of the violence,
perhaps 20 f- words and a dozen abuses of the Lord's name in vain.
Still, an interesting movie with a different slant, and at least has a
noble message.
<|_=00=_|>

7.5 out of 10

Tears of the Sun is hardly perfect.  Director Antoine Fuqua's direction can
get a bit heavy-handed and most of the characters are one to two-dimensional
in development (understandable, given the large cast).  But it's a solidly
made, often thrilling and sometimes thought-provoking film that aims for
serious issues, particularly as a sober outlook of modern warfare and
morals.  It's not entirely successful at the latter, but to even attempt to
stray from typical Hollywood is admirable, and Tears of the Sun is often
more hit than miss.

Bruce Willis stars as A.K. Waters, the head of a mission to retrieve a Dr.
Lena Hendricks (Monica Bellucci) from the Nigerian jungle, after Muslim
rebels have just assassinated the presidential family, and are on a rampage
throughout the country.  Hendricks is located easily, but she will only
leave so long as all able-bodied individuals on her mission can come along. 
Waters reluctantly agrees, but soon finds that he and his group must trek
the jungles with no assistance and with 300 Nigerian soldiers hot on their
trail.

Tears of the Sun works as a thoughtful film, but is more successful as a
tension-builder.  Director Fuqua shows an able hand at building suspense to
a feverish pitch, all the way to the concluding battle sequence, a fifteen
minute setpiece that rivals any recent war film in both intensity and
technical superiority.  The other major action setpiece is a tense shootout
in a village, the aftermath of which is disturbing in its revelation of the
rebels' treatment of civilians.  Tears of the Sun is a violent film, but
never exploitative in its approach.  

The film's two best developed characters belong to Bruce Willis and Monica
Bellucci.  Willis has always been a fine actor, this understated approach
has worked for him before and fits like a glove here.  I'm not quite as
familiar with Bellucci, who I've only seen in Brotherhood of the Wolf and as
one of the brides in Bram Stoker's Dracula, but she's quite good here,
easily the film's anchor when it comes to heart and warmth. I'm certainly
not exaggerating when I say she's one of the most beautiful (and bodacious)
women to ever grace the screen (and I look forward to her in the upcoming
Matrix sequels).  

There are flaws, such as the rather obtrusive musical score and some
pretentious use of slow motion on Fuqua's behalf.  The film's biggest
narrative stumble comes with a plot twist 3/4's through the movie, when an
extraneous plot twist is revealed.  Admittedly, without the twist, the film
wouldn't have been able to build up as much suspense, much less deliver that
final battle.  But when all is said and done, Tears of the Sun is highly
recommended, a Hollywood film that has more on its mind than explosion and
gunfights (which the movie still has an ample amount of).  

<|_=00=_|>

In Nigeria, the rebel troops killed the elected president and his family,
and are performing an `ethnical cleaning', killing the other tribes. The
platoon leaded by Lt. A.K. Waters (Bruce Willis) is assigned in a mission in
the jungle of Nigeria for rescuing the American Dr. Lena Fiore Kendricks
(Monica Bellucci). Once in the location, Dr. Lena only agrees to leave the
place if the team rescue also the other refugees lodged in the mission. In
principle and with the intention of accomplishing his orders, Commander
Waters agrees with the terms of Dr. Lena, but when the helicopters arrive,
he leaves the Nigerians alone in the jungle. However, after seeing the
massacre made by the rebel troops in the mission where he was, he returns
and decides to lead the Nigerians to the safety of Cameroon. This film is a
surprisingly good dramatic action movie. I do not believe that an
experienced and tough soldier would jeopardize his mission, like Lt. Waters
does in this story. However, Bruce Willis is perfect as a tough soldier, who
gets evolved and shows compassion with the situation of the Nigerians. The
citation from Edmund Burke in the end of the story is also very beautiful:
'The only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is for good men to do
nothing'. Although having some flaws in the story, I found this movie a good
entertainment, with a great message in the end. My vote is
eight.

Title (Brazil): `Lágrimas do Sol' (`Tears of the Sun')


<|_=00=_|>
While it's far from classical film making I was quite surprised by how
good I found this movie. My partner and I have both spent some time
working in Africa and she has a special interest in human rights and
humanitarian intervention. When we saw the preview for this movie we
both let out audible groans and eyes were rolled aplenty: America saves
everyone...again. The movie was immediately consigned to the "I
wouldn't watch that if you paid me bin..." but we did watch it and we
quite enjoyed it.

Aside from the slightly too sexual relationship between Willis and the
doctor (they almost kiss - simply no need) the movie runs along pretty
well and was by turns very tense, exciting and fairly moving.

Most importantly I felt it provided a thought provoking picture of what
ethnic cleansing might really be like, something that film makers
hesitate to explore. War time atrocities are one of those things that
we all have a fair idea about but that are rarely portrayed. This movie
did a VERY good job of describing awful atrocities without being overly
gory or, worse, sensationalist and the use of humiliation and
subordination as a weapon was subtly demonstrated.

Technical aspects aside the soldiers were convincingly concerned about
the refugees without overt "We're all such goddamn heroes, aren't we?"
posturing. All the major clichés were utterly avoided, not a single
stars and stripes to be seen, not even the remotest hint of patriotic
zeal, no mournful brass sections but plenty of Hans "I really need some
new material after Gladiator" Zimmer's African melodies. The violence
was visceral without being excessively bloody or stylised, and there
was a sentimentality that deftly avoided being cheesy.

Most importantly Bruce Willis managed to avoid being Bruce Willis for
80% of the time.

The nearest thing I would compare this movie to is Black Hawk Down.
However, BHD is wedged firmly in the action genre and this really
isn't. Yup, there is shooting and violence in it but it manages to not
be about that, which I think is a great thing.

My advice: grab the DVD version, watch the movie, then watch the
trailer/previews included on the disk - you'll wonder if you were
watching the same film, the trailer just does not do it justice.
<|_=00=_|>
As a person who can speak from a reputable stand point, I have to say
this movie is different than many other "war" movies and is generally
regarded highly among many different types of members in the U.S.
military. This films representation brought forth a perspective that
showed a few sides to a mission. Yes there is the desire to finish and
get out. But the film also showed that the situation can change on the
ground as it always does, and sometimes you have to modify. An seasoned
veteran like Lt. Waters who is somewhat seasoned being a Lt. probably
would have the foresight to say it is safe to go ahead and try and get
these people to a border being that was the only way to drag the doc
outta there without hog tying her, even though the orders above were
different. A team leader is expected to use some discretion and Lt. did
that. Although it was borderline crazy operationally it still worked.
Working in that environment is not just like a round of socom. Things
happen and you have to do the best you can for the situation if it is
feasible and you have the balls to do it. Also, the depiction of the
action scenes were practically dead on and impressive. Mr. Fuqua didn't
cheese it up, it was kept fairly raw and confusing as is a real
engagement. The ethnic cleansing scenes, well it doesn't get any more
realistic than that. I can understand why everyone else hates America
for doing these films about ourselves but honestly can you see a french
film showing specwar going into save a village, nope. They would hand
out white flags to everyone. Maybe the Aussies, Israelis, or Brits, but
pretty much beyond those three countries thats all ya got. If at the
least, this is a reminder that even when you think you know about what
our guys are doing in the world, you don't know the half,we lose guys
everyday and people should realize that a silent war exists.
<|_=00=_|>
The world we live in is a dangerous, unstable place, and nowhere is
this more evident than in Africa, the place where many things of our
world, AIDS included, are said to originate. Indeed, about the only
thing that cannot be found in Africa is oil, which makes American
interest in the region difficult to imagine, leave alone explain. So
when we are presented with a story about a war in Africa, it only
stands to reason that we must ask exactly why we see American soldiers.

Bruce Willis gives a delightfully underacted performance as the leader
of an infantry unit sent to retrieve a handful of American citizens.
Things get complicated when the primary objective refuses to leave
without dozens of her patients. Instead of simply escorting one woman
to safe territory, the party winds up in a race to the Cameroon border
with one substantial territorial force in pursuit. Exactly why this
force pursues them, we don't know until the climactic battles are about
to take place, but it works.

Indeed, the actors here are not even noticeable, excepting maybe Tom
Skerritt, who looks as if he spent his salary on diet pills. Instead,
the sumptuous locations and cinematography, along with the action, are
the stars of this film. This is a good old-fashioned action film, in
spite of its very relevant story. What makes it stand out is that
instead of modern action where nobody can see enough of what is going
on for it to matter or make sense, we get our action scenes the old
fashioned way. Blood spurts, detailed shots of the guns going off, or
weapons striking flesh, are a reality rather than a much lamented
unfulfilled requisite.

There are some problems, but they are minor in the grand scheme of
things. When one shows fighter planes dropping air-to-surface weapons,
it is usually an idea to get those weapons right. Using air-to-air
missiles to drop napalm, for example, is not on. At least the dire
action films of the 1980s used weapons in a manner that was convincing.
The believability of a commanding officer allowing such violations of
orders is very difficult to imagine, to say the least. Then again,
given that these minor lapses happen once or twice during a two-hour
film, this can be overlooked.

I gave Tears Of The Sun a seven out of ten. It's not at the level of a
Verhoeven action film, or even a Cameron action film. It is, on the
other hand, a good piece of entertainment with a decent and human edge,
with sequences that have been competently shot. Which puts it ahead of
a lot of films on today's market already.
