
I walked out of "Fun With Dick and Jane" fuming. I went into this other
"comedy" and I stayed. I even laughed a couple of times and smiled a
great deal, thanks , mostly, to Shirley MacLaine. The idea was fun, to
meet the real characters that inspired "The Graduate" and, in fact, the
best moment is the confrontation between Mrs. Robinson (Shirley
MacLaine) and Benjamin (Kevin Costner) There is a lavish party and some
spectacular travelogues of Northern California but Jennifer Aniston, my
dear, take a sabbatical. She was so good in "The Good Girl" But here, a
sub Rachel infuriating thing. What's with her mouth? She twitches and
bites her lips and represses her smiles and it's dizzying and annoying
and anti-comedy. Look at Shirley MacLaine for goodness sake! Has
Jennifer Aniston seen "The Apartment"? I know I'm not making much sense
but it's not my fault. I blame Rob Reiner really and his scriptwriters
and his producers. How many jokes can you make about Pasadena? Please
guys, listen to Shirley.
<|_=00=_|>
Jennifer Aniston plays Sarah Huttinger, a journalist about to get
married to her boyfriend (Mark Ruffalo) when she's called back to
Pasadena for her sister's wedding. There, she meets millionaire playboy
Beau Burroughs (Kevin Costner) who had relations with both her mother
and grandmother, an incident that might have influenced the '60s movie
"The Graduate." 

"Rumor Has It" is a lackluster film from Jennifer Aniston that fails to
take advantage of its interesting premise. The movie had all the right
ingredients to be an entertaining ride. Good cast, good director,
engaging premise and a talented screenwriter. So, what went wrong? Rob
Reiner tried to make a character driven dramedy that just didn't work.
The film was not very funny and they recycled the same jokes over and
over again. How many jokes about Pasadena can you have in the first
twenty minutes? Apparently not enough for Mr. Reiner. The more serious
scenes were deathly dull and this has a lot to do with the fact that
all the characters were unlikable and uninteresting. The actors all
appeared bored on screen and only one person gave a good performance.

Shirley MacLaine gives an engaging and funny performance as Katherine.
She saves the movie completely though she doesn't get a lot of screen
time. Jennifer Anniston was pretty bland, nothing special from her.
That is two flops in a row for her with this and Derailed. Mark Ruffalo
was okay, again nothing special. Mena Suvari gave a decent performance
but doesn't get a lot of screen time. Kevin Costner was a complete dud.
His performance was very mundane and he shared zero chemistry with
everyone on screen.

The appeal between Costner and Aniston seemed force and there was
nothing interesting about it at all. The scenes with Aniston and
Ruffalo were much better and seemed more real. The family aspects of
the movie were okay. There were a few engaging scenes like the bedroom
scene between Aniston and Suvari. Those two played sisters and their
conversation about their mother was nice to watch. Still, they weren't
as good as Cameron Diaz and Toni Collette from "In Her Shoes". The
ending was expected and a little unbelievable actually. I still don't
understand why he took Sarah back considering she cheated on him and
her speech seemed really force. In the end, "Rumor Has It" is simply a
weak film that's not really worth watching. Rating 5/10
<|_=00=_|>
About halfway into the film, a few peripheral characters begin
discussing movies, classic movies--Chinatown, Casablanca, the Graduate.
One asks, "why don't movies like this get made anymore?" An ironic
question indeed for a film that is 8 billion light years away from even
hoping to be in the company of such films and spends the entirety of
its screen time ripping off (poorly) classic films. I'd rather they
re-release truly original, inspired films like the ones they mar than
throw them in a blender and see what hodge-podge comes out.

Jennifer Aniston deserves a nod for flailing discreetly in the wimpy
script and for acting like she even wanted to stand near Kevin Cosner,
who has all the sexual magnetism of a dry flounder.

The movie-- if it does anything-- does one thing, it proves Shirley
McClain's got it and she can fake it even when given a bad script. I
give it a 3 because I laughed at least twice, Shirley McClain gets a
point for sauciness, and the final point for the studio that had the
audacity to have a love connection between a girl and someone who not 5
minutes before she thought was her father--wowzer.

Skip it. Rent the graduate. Rent Casablanca. Make Hollywood give us
better films.
<|_=00=_|>
Rumour has it that 'Rumor Has It' is a pretty good film. This will by
no means be an Oscar contender, but as a pleasant diversion on a
weekend afternoon, or possibly as a date movie (for those who still go
on dates), this could be a winning movie. Jennifer Aniston, late of
'Friends', plays a role that is in many ways reminiscent of the Rachel
role - she is a transplanted New Yorker, returning home to L.A.
(actually, Pasadena, which becomes a running joke) with her
as-yet-unannounced fiancé to attend her younger sister's wedding. We
learn all of this in the first few minutes, possibly before the credits
are done scrolling on the screen - the frenetic pace of 'Friends' is
still here.

Rumour has it that there was a family in Pasadena that the film 'The
Graduate' is based upon - Sarah (Anniston) fixates upon the idea that
this may be her family. She questions her grandmother (Shirley
MacLaine, but don't call her grandmother), who tells of a possible
affair her mother had with a playboy before her marriage (Kevin
Costner, now a dot-com mega-millionaire). Sarah goes off without her
fiancé in search of her mother's past, but finds a past of her own, of
a sort.

Lots of twists and turns in the film have the characters racing up and
down the coast of California in search of the past, the future, and the
truth, which ends up being both expected and unexpected in this
complicated but easily-followed plot.

There aren't major effects and major surprises here. The situational
comedy is very much in keeping with an extended version of a
comfortable television show, even with the star power of MacLaine and
Costner backing Anniston up. The writing is serviceable with occasional
flashes of true wit, and the pace of the film is even and pleasant. In
all, this is a good film, well worth seeing for a bit of entertainment.
Director Rob Reiner does have a talent for good films, and this is one
of them.
<|_=00=_|>
The truth about "Rumor" - it stinks.

How could a film with such an enticing premise and talented cast go so
horribly awry?

When I first heard the idea for "Rumor Has It...," I thought what an
interesting concept: A newly-engaged young woman, Sarah Huttinger
(Jennifer Aniston), comes to Pasadena, Calif., for her sister Annie's
(Mena Suvari) wedding and realizes her family was the inspiration for
Charles Webb's novel, "The Graduate," which Mike Nichols turned into a
landmark film in 1967.

In addition to Aniston and Suvari, you toss in Shirley MacLaine (as the
potential Mrs. Robinson), Mark Ruffalo, Richard Jenkins, Kathy Bates
and, of course, Kevin Costner (as Benjamin Braddock all grown up).

So why does "Rumor Has It..." stink?

Because it just isn't funny. It's flat, tepid, utterly devoid of even
the slightest hint of humor.

I've no idea whether this is because writer Ted Griffin was fired as
director and Rob Reiner, who hasn't made a good film in ages, was
brought in to direct. Honestly, I thought Reiner hit his nadir in 1999
with "The Story of Us." But then he followed that four years later with
the execrable "Alex & Emmma." Surely, that was his nadir. Nope.
Apparently, he could sink lower and he proves it with "Rumor Has It..."
Beau Burroughs is the kind of role Costner should revel in. Yet, he's
completely dull. There's no sparkle in Costner's performance, the glint
in his eye is gone. Compare this rotten turn with his wonderful
performance in "The Upside of Anger" (2005) and you'll realize how
brilliant he could have been.

Aniston tries incredibly hard to salvage something out of her lead
role. But - and I don't know whether this is Griffin's fault because
I've no idea how much of his script wound up in the final cut - poor
Sarah gets nothing funny to say and even fewer funny things to do. As
far as Reiner seems to be concerned, this is a serious role. The
talented Ruffalo gets a thankless role as Sarah's woeful fiancé, Jeff;
and Suvari turns up in a role that is completely unnecessary. Why is
Anna even in this picture other than to give Sarah a reason to come to
Pasadena? MacLaine gives yet another performance we expect from her in
a role that she can now play in her sleep. This time it's the boozy,
yet no-nonsense, grandmother. Blink and you'll miss Bates.

The film's only believable character is Earl Huttinger, Sarah's dad,
played superbly by Jenkins. There doesn't seem anything fake about
Jenkins' performance - then again, there never is - and the scene
between Earl and Sarah in the kitchen is the film's only highlight. You
never doubt for an instant that Earl is a man who deeply loves his
children.

It's a shame that "Rumor Has It..." turned into such a fiasco. It only
goes to prove that even a bright concept and talented cast can't
automatically save a lousy movie.
<|_=00=_|>
It was fun. This has been panned by many, but heck, it's not supposed
to be Shakespeare. It has a great cast -- Shirley McLaine and Kevin
Costner have a great scene together. I liked Jennifer Aniston --
especially in the blue dress. Mark Ruffalo was the nice guy. I laughed
a lot. It wasn't all fluff, either. I thought the characters grew a
little. Jennifer and her sister and father grew closer. I think if you
saw the original The Graduate, this movie might be more interesting to
you. There were some great shots of Pasadena and the California coast.
Definitely is a chick-flick. I went with a girl friend of mine and we
both enjoyed it.
<|_=00=_|>
'Rumor Has It' pretty much has all the technical ingredients: Good
actors, interesting premise (a girl trying to find herself), excellent
cinematography, breathtaking shots of America and a nice score.
However, it's let down by the writing and direction. For a comedy, it's
not so funny. Many of the jokes fall flat. For a drama, it just doesn't
engage and a lot of it looks forced. The movie derails every now and
then and the whole 'romantic' angle between Costner's Beau and
Aniston's Sarah feels icky and looks unconvincing. Jennifer Aniston is
in a confused Rachel Green mode (except here her character is not
likable and she's a little too whiny). Mark Ruffalo does a decent job
as the supportive boyfriend and shares a good chemistry with Aniston.
Their scenes in the beginning are quite fun to watch. It's just the
last scene that was a little less believable as Jeff seems to have
forgiven Sarah too easily. Kevin Costner seems sleazy (when the
character wasn't really meant to appear that way) and he and Aniston
seem to lack chemistry. Mena Suvari has a pointless and thankless role.
The last scene between her and Aniston just seemed ...well, forced.
However, it is Shirley MacLaine who delivers the best performance. She
provides all the laugh out loud moments but her role is too small to be
the saving grace. Simply put, 'Rumor Has It' is a weak and confused
film.
<|_=00=_|>
I was predisposed to like this movie: A good cast and an accomplished
director. Unfortunately, there was also a terrible script, bad pacing,
poor editing and, except for Shirley MacLaine, not very good acting and
very few laughs. I would not recommend this movie to anyone. A complete
waste of my time and money. I know this observation has been made
elsewhere. but Rob Reiner should make a choice between full time movie
making and full time political activism, because he clearly cannot do
both at the same time. The problems with the movie became apparent in
the first few moments during the airplane sequence. There was no
chemistry between Jennifer Aniston and Mark Rufalo, and while that may
have worked to emphasize the point that she was reluctant to get
married, it also meant that the viewer had no rooting interest in
seeing them get together in the end, although true to romantic comedy
form, that ending was bound to happen. Frankly, the dull, humorless
beginning was the real foreshadowing of the entire movie, which was
also humorless and dull. The film only picked up its pace on the few
occasions when MacLaine was on screen. She could have been giving a
masters class in acting to her fellow cast members, but obviously they
weren't paying attention, The real bottom line is that while there was
a kernel of a good idea in this update of The Graduate, the script was
unfunny and the characters were unsympathetic.
<|_=00=_|>
Sarah (Anniston) is engaged to be married to Jeff (Ruffalo) but while
attending her sister's wedding she discovers that her late mother may
have had an affair with Beau Burroughs (Costner) one week before her
(mother's) wedding. Sarah wonders if Burroughs is her real father.

After a couple clumsy, non-funny attempts at humor (Sarah and Jeff
attempt sex in an airplane bathroom; Sarah's father has a silly game to
hold one's breath while driving thru tunnels), the movie yawns to the
opening. The only time I laughed was when Sarah's father feints kicking
Beau in the family jewels as he really did in a high school game when
they were kids. Other than that, there was no humor in here. So much
for comedy. No good lines either although Sarah's grandmother, Shirley
MacLane, does try.

One would think that with all the star power available, the script
would have more punch in it. Jennifer Anniston must have a face coach.
She grimaces, twists and contorts her face way too much as if to convey
the real meaning of her actions just in case you miss them. But, the
face moves aside she does an acceptable job as do the rest of the cast.
There is just nothing anyone can do with this script. It should have
been better. And, let's face it, Costner cannot Dance with Chick
Flicks. Yawn
<|_=00=_|>
This film bored me. Jennifer Aniston is decent but the plot is weak. No
one really leaves an impression though Mark Ruffalo tries hard in a
thankless part. The film draws inspiration from 'The Graduate' but
doesn't come even close to the 1967 film. Kevin Costner has a little
fun with his role. Shirley MacLaine plays the same role she's been
playing essentially for the last few years, a crotchety version of
Shirley Maclaine! Aniston's character is quite simply tiresome and her
emotional journey didn't leave an impact on me. Avoid unless you are
bored with nothing else to do.

Overall 4/10
