
Let me be the first to say that I am not a Mormon, but I found this
film entertaining and informative. While The Best Two Years followed
the classic Hollywood structure, it did it in such a way that built
solid characters, helped progress the plot, and brought Mormonism into
the spotlight without being cheap or abrupt. By this I mean this was a
very solid movie. I wasn't expecting this when I first began my Mormon
adventure through Holland, but by the final credits rolled I was
impressed. I was educated more about the structure of the Mormon
Mission in this film than any book could have taught me. I witnessed a
true building of beliefs and the effects that religion has on those
that are willing to accept it. I witnessed people being people and
living their dreams. It was amazing, and this film only pushed me into
seeing more about the Mormon faith in film.

I would like to comment first that I never realized the 'business' of
being a Mormon and doing one of these missions. From what I gathered
from this film, they document everything and constantly need to report
into a higher authority (outside of God) on how well they are
progressing. I realize that there is some level of accountability that
needs to be in place for those paying for these men to live in Holland,
but I never realized it was similar to a business that you and I shop
in daily. There are goals, rewards, and a never-ending struggle to
completely satisfy everyone that you come in contact with. This was
surprising for me to witness, but also helpful with setting the stage
as to the strengths of our characters.

Outside of this 'business' aspect, this was an amazing tale of
forgiveness and dedication. I stated before that this was a solid film
and a good portion of this is due in part to the reality of the
characters. Each of these different men went (or are going through)
situations that are not uncommon in our lives. We have all experienced
the loss of a loved one to another person, we all have felt dismayed
and confused about the path of life, and we have all had to deal with
that new person that eventually becomes that friend you never want to
let go. Add to this mix an overwhelming feeling of being in a
completely different (yet beautiful) country and you have a majority of
the emotions, themes, and elements used in this film. While the overall
story deals around a Mormon religion, it isn't strange to begin feeling
a sense of excitement for your own religion, whatever it may be. This
isn't an in your face film that makes you think about becoming Mormon,
but instead an opportunity (using Mormon as its foundation) for you,
the viewer, to explore your options with God and your religion. If you
see it as a Mormon film, and only a Mormon film, you will never see the
truth behind this film. This is a film about people and the lives that
we lead.

Not only did we have amazing characters and some very powerful themes,
but also added to this enormous soup bowl of goodness is some of the
most beautiful scenery that I have ever seen. I had never considered
visiting Holland before until after I watched this film. Director Scott
S. Anderson does a superb job of taking us deep into Holland and
showing us the beauty that surrounds it. It only accentuates the beauty
of the story that we witness in this film. He also has perfect comic
timing for a director. His guidance for these characters was directly
on target. I never once felt that I was watching a made-for-TV movie,
but instead a film that is drenched in personal emotion. You could tell
that Anderson believed in not only the film, but also his religion and
experiences. This is a semi-true story based around the life that
Anderson led while away on one of these missions.

So, he ensures that there is not any absurd stories or actions that
distract us from the main focus.

Overall, I must say I was genuinely impressed. I was not expecting
anything from this film when I first begin it, but by the end I kind of
wanted to watch it again. To fully enjoy this film you must realize
that it is a Mormon film and if you do not perceive it as Mormon
propaganda then it will impress you two. It is engulfed in the world of
humans and the emotions that we face on a daily basis. It also gives us
the perfect opportunity to see how one person (Kyle Harrison) can
change the course of several.

Grade: **** out of *****
<|_=00=_|>

The real difference in LDS Films seems to be two things:

1.  Acting.  Many LDS films have had poor acting.  This film had superb
acting.  My wife and I were shocked at how good the acting was.  We kept
waiting for sophomoric acting, and only saw minor glimpses of it a couple
times.  What a treat!

2.  Budget for marketing.  It seems at least 1/3 to 1/2 the money raised for
these low-cost films has to go towards marketing.  Not sure this one did
that, but hopefully word-of-mouth will spread and build up a decent return
for the investors/makers.

I think this film surpasses God's Army because the acting was much more
consistent.  Many will not agree with me.  I still place "Charly" as the #1
LDS film because it had romance (a theme all of these need more of; and not
the cynicsim the often have) and a knock-out performance by the title lead,
Beery (is that her name?).  The actor playing Sam was not as strong, but he
held his own most of the time.

Kudos to an unexpectedly good film with "The Two Best Year" just when many
people were about to give up on LDS film after the abysmal BoM movie and
Pride & Prejudice, which has simply horrible acting.

<|_=00=_|>

From a production values point of view, this is by far the best of the
"Mormon Cinema".  The acting, writing, camera work and even the soundtrack
are all first rate.  The scenery in Holland is very beautiful as
well.

The story, superbly acted by an ensemble cast, is familiar. Essentially, a
newbie missionary shows up and attempts to fit in with more established,
more cynical veterans.  The results:  After the expected bumps and false
starts, they all wind up growing, and benefiting from his presence, spirit
and enthusiasm... much to their own surprise.  This could have been a
movie
about a new salesman joining the firm.... a new athlete joining the
team...
a new peace corps volunteer experiencing a foreign country... etc.  It
works
because the experience is universal enough that we all can relate.  But
this
movie still manages to give this plot vehicle a fresh face.

The humor was all genuine and very sympathetic, but nonetheless satisfying
and effective.  There was very little of the slapstick, low humor that is
usually relied on in this kind of effort.  Also, the movie conveys a sense
of the actors' faith and mission, without ever being heavy-handed or
preachy.  They let you see what they do and why they do it, without
bashing
you over the head with it.

An additional bonus:  They managed to make a movie, set in Holland,
without
a single reference or use of that country's proclivity for loose or kinky
sexual mores.  Holland was simply where the missionaries were stationed...
nothing more. That must be some kind of a modern-day first.

I would encourage anyone, Mormon or not, to see this movie, if the goal is
a
pleasant, feel good, warm-hearted and funny two hours.  That's what the
movie promises, and that's what it delivers.
<|_=00=_|>
I didn't expect much from this movie when I first bought this movie. I
had seen "The Home Teachers" and although it was funny (for a Mormon
like me), it was totally corny and stupid. But when I watch "The Best
Two Years", "The Home Teachers" was erased from my memory. I enjoyed
the movie that much.

It was way better than any other Mormon movie I had seen before. The
spirit was still strong in it, the characters were interesting, and
overall, it was hilarious. I especially enjoyed Elder Calhoun and his
nerdy antics. And even better was Elder Rodgers sarcastic remarks and
dry, yet witty humor. I don't think any other Mormon movie comes close
to this film.
<|_=00=_|>

I was eager to see this film, and when my roommate and I finally did we
were
not disappointed.  Unlike some other Mormon films - the RM and Single's
Ward, specifically - this was a movie with a message.  It was absolutely
hilarious, don't get me wrong, but it was the kind of humour that
transcended Mormon culture: you don't have to be LDS to get it.  There
were
parts of it during which I was literally in tears, it was so funny.  There
were also, however, parts where I was in tears for because I was moved.
Watching the spiritual reawakening of Elder Rogers was wonderful, and by
no
means over-done or ridiculous.  And while Kirby Heyborne has been cast in
almost every Mormon film made, I was pleasantly surprised by his
performance.  His character was radically different from his previous
characters, and he played it very well.
Altogether I loved this movie, and will undoubtedly see it again.  It was
wonderful.
<|_=00=_|>
Now here's a "SPECIAL EDITION" DVD that really is "SPECIAL"! Not only
is "THE BEST TWO YEARS" one of the finest movies made by LDS filmmakers
to date, but the DVD has some nice "Extras" that make it a true
"Special Edition". 

The film is based on director Scott S. Anderson's personal experiences
as a missionary for The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
while serving in Holland. Some years after his mission he wrote it into
play form. A version of that play (as performed at the Promised Valley
Playhouse in downtown Salt Lake City) is included as part of this DVD.
You can watch it all my itself or in conjunction with the movie itself.

The DVD also includes a Filmmakers Commentary and an Actors Commentary
track as well as a Making of Documentary, Outtakes & Deleted Scenes,
Production Gallery and Trailers. Now that's quite a package.

The film itself is very well done, with nice location photography shot
in Holland. The performances are first-rate and the directing and
script sharp. Watching the film and then seeing the play version makes
for an insightful look at how something personal makes it to film.

Note: If you have trouble locating a seller of this DVD, then you might
want to try Deseret Book Company or Seagull Book & Tape. This one is
worth tracking down. A special "Thank You" to HaleStorm Distribution
for doing such a nice job on this DVD release.
<|_=00=_|>
The Best Two Years is truly a movie for those of us who know a guy or
girl on a mission. In the beginning we meet three Mormon missionaries
out in the field. Elder Johnson and Elder VanPelt are doing everything
they're supposed to, but Elder Rogers is having problems. Today, they
will pick up his new companion, Elder Calhoun. As they describe what
the worst companion would be like we get a taste of their sense of
humor. And behold! All their predictions come true. The missionaries go
through a series of trials and triumphs, including Elder Johnson's girl
sending him a "Dear John"! We grow closer to the characters as the
movie progresses and in the end, grow to love them and the word "flip".
<|_=00=_|>
Some of the acting was forced and not up to mainstream movies, but it
is one of the best independent films I ever viewed. The culture shock
experienced by the "greenie" is true to life and quite amusing if you
actually lived through it yourself. The Elders fighting over the mail
and their mood swings based on its arrival was another valid
experience. The girl friends "waiting" back home was another issue I
found amusing. I guess it is just a part of the whole mission
experience captured in this delightful film. The scenery and soundtrack
were fabulous and I expect to purchase the soundtrack soon. I was also
impressed with the director's ability to tell the story without being
too syrupy. I expect Scott S. Anderson's next project to be even
better. An out-standing job!
<|_=00=_|>

The string of LDS comedy films that have arrived on the scene during
the last couple of years have been fun and have always carried some
sort of a positive message even if it takes a little work to figure it
out. The film the Best Two Years achieves everything these other movies
did and then quite successfully keeps on going. Certainly this film is
best described as being on par with God's Army and is probably the only
other movie besides Charly that can make this claim. The movie is
beautifully shot, well scripted, well acted, quite funny and just the
right length. The movie did not draw me to tears as God's Army or
Charly did the first time I saw those movies, however that doesn't make
this movie anything less. This is an LDS movie for an LDS audience, so
don't be surprised if non-members friends/acquaintances don't take well
to the movie. It is an excellent family film and would be particularly
good to make sure that your LDS teens get a chance to see this one,
whether they are thinking about a mission or not.

<|_=00=_|>
Definitely enjoyable and probably great if you are Mormon or even just
religious, but secular folks will find the tone very preachy.

The humor was good at spots, but I found that it seemed forced at times
too.

There were just too many montage scenes as well.

I have watched the other Mormon comedies and found them funnier than
this one.

The length of the film was a problem too. I think it should have been
about 1/2 hour shorter.

I think more could have been done with the topic of Mormon missionaries
in Holland.
