

Nice movie to just lean back, chill and watch hot girls,hot cars and hot
action - there is no need of complex story or reality. And the black guy
is
really funny, so take some friends, some money for popcorn and nachos and
chill out ;)
<|_=00=_|>
I don't think this movie deserves to be called a sequel to "The Fast
and the Furious",not because it is a bad movie,it is great and it does
not fail to entertain most of the public,but for those who really liked
the first one,this one is not a sequel.The first was very original,its
conflicts were original,the movie was really about cars,and driving,and
street racing,this one,in the other hand,presents us conflicts that we
have seen for the last decades,the police couple that don't like each
other,and at the end of the movie they finish kissing and hugging each
other,the guy that falls in love with a woman that could make him fail
his mission,the guy that has a drug empire in Miami,and pretends to
become more powerful,the police that's trying to stop him,this are most
of the conflicts we see in this movie,and we have seen in other
movies,so it's not original.The Fast and the Furious was very original
with great conflicts,it wasn't as fun as "its sequel",but it was
awesome as well.But I think that this is the reason why this movie was
released in the summer,to make critics say "well,is not original it has
some cars stunts that are hard to believe,but is a summer movie,what
the hell".I also did not like the decision of the director of making
the movie in Miami because usually the backgrounds of street racing are
nocturnes,Miami is usually more popular on daylight,street racing is
usually on high ways in big cities like New York or Los Angeles,but it
is clear that the director was just trying to make the movie more
attractive to the summer-movie lovers because a lot of people
identifies Miami with summer.This movie is more like a cop movie than a
street racing movie,you can notice how hard is for the writers to make
a space for races,and how easy is for the writers to find space for
those things that usually a cop has to deal with.Is not a bad movie,but
it is not original,and it cant be called a sequel.
<|_=00=_|>

This one was way better than the first, I don't care what all you other
pladough brains say. It had better cars, women, plot, bad guys, and
action.
You should still watch the first one before you see this, even if it
wasn't
as good, if you want to get some of the stuff they talk about in this
film.
As far as the plot goes, it's a lot more interesting than a boring theft
of
electronic equipment. You're much more rather to watch a movie where the
good guys are up against meaner and more dangerous bad guys who really
have
the thrill of danger in them. Actually only Verone did a good job showing
that off, but the rest didn't do bad. Action sequences are what really
smoke
the original. Finally, a circuit race, and more amounts of races instead
of
cheesy talking for almost a whole act. I'm glad they improved on the races
and action, otherwise I would have hated this movie. God Bless you, John
Singleton.
<|_=00=_|>
With the help of Paul Walker and Vin Diesel's chemistry and some
intense racing scenes, Rob Cohen's The Fast and the Furious (2001) was
an instant hit among racing fans. And like most franchises with
critical financial success, a sequel started to be put into the works.
Similar to many other sequels, it was distributed two years later and
it's difficult to say whether it pleased fans as much as the first one
did. According to this site, this is lowest score the franchise has. It
wasn't bad at all but it was missing a few elements of the first movie,
which left a more entertaining feeling.

The story follows ex-cop Brian O'Conner (Paul Walker) back to Miami
from Los Angeles where he's enjoying his time racing street cars only
to be pulled back by the authorities that he dropped. Heading the
authorities is Agent Bilkins (Thom Barry) from the first installment
and this time he wants O'Conner back one more time to take down a drug
lord. And O'Conner can't refuse because he'd go to jail if he didn't
accept. Plus, if the drug lord is turned in, all of his criminal
charges will disappear. Why does this plot sound like Vin Diesel's xXx
(2002) plot line (except it doesn't deal with a drug lord)? Speaking of
which, why didn't Vin Diesel return? That's one thing that this
franchise consistently needs. Paul Walker is the central character but
Vin Diesel's presence was the icing on the cake.

Is was nice though that the writers kept the continuity together. The
characters do reference material from the first film which shows the
producers want to keep the story going and not divert completely from
the original. But if there's one thing that comes into question, it is
the concept of getting caught having a love interest in the business.
This happened in the first movie and it blew O'Conners cover. Here the
same thing happens in a similar way. You'd think the lesson was
learned. Sigh. The new interest is Eva Mendes and she plays her
character well enough. Accompanying O'Conner is Roman Pearce (Tyrese
Gibson) an old friend who originally has a grudge for some of his own
issues. Even with this though, their chemistry works well.

Playing the drug lord is another interesting actor - Cole Hauser. He
has a very smooth deep voice and resembles a very young Tom Berenger.
He's also able to make his character seem dangerous enough to hurt
someone. That's it for characters. The music produced by David Arnold
of Stargate (1994) sounded better than BT's score from the first film
but it wasn't evident enough. Barely heard a thing. As for action
scenes, the racing is still fast paced and contains much of the same
film making as the first, which kept the feeling the same. Other than
that, the story feels the same as before but without Vin Diesel. 

It's not a bad follow up to the first movie, but not casting Vin Diesel
wasn't smart - it's like missing a piece to a puzzle. Other than that,
it's still a decent watch with better music and well-staged action
sequences.
<|_=00=_|>

Fast cars, pretty girls, high speed chases, solid racing. What you were
expecting maybe "Gone with the Wind"? This is a fun thing to watch suspend
disbelief at the door and enjoy yourself for the time its on the screen.
Reminded me a lot of classic car shows of the seventies(i. e. Starsky and
Hutch, Dukes of Hazzard etc.) You want some serious drama go see something
else. You want an entertaining 2 hours go see this.
<|_=00=_|>
The cars, the stunts and the eye candy (Eva Mendes) are better than the
first. But unlike the first, 2 Fast 2 Furious still boasts a lacklustre
plot. Nevertheless, it's a great "bro" movie for the guys. The
partnership between Roman Pierce (Tyrese Gibson) and Brian O'Connor
(Paul Walker) is amusing and works well as they team up and do next to
impossible driving stunts with each other. The slight romance between
Monica Fuentes (Eva Mendes) and Brian O'Connor is predictable, but it's
not to the same extent as the first one - just a bit of flirtation but
not to the extent of a full fledged relationship. The Miami backdrop
adds to the "upgrade" feel of the second movie in the Fast & Furious
franchise. Flashy and full of action is 2 Fast, 2 Furious.
<|_=00=_|>
This film brings back more of what we loved from the first film with
all the cars, girls, and action and multiplies it. However it is still
inferior to the first film but that dosen't mean it isn't awesome. This
movie has gotten a lot of criticism and i don't understand why there is
so much hate for this movie. Some people complained about the lack of
plot and the casts acting skills but I don't care about that. I watch
these Fast films to be entertained and I was throughly entertained with
this one. Even though it dosen't match up to the original it still
excels in excitement. I mean how could you go wrong with taking the
series to Miami were our eyes will be blessed with dozens of beautiful
beach girls. And the races in this movie are also very exciting to. And
let's not forget the awesome chase sequence in the film as well. Paul
Walker and Tyrese Gibson make a great team and show us why this movie
is so cool. I still love this movie despite the many negative reviews
I've seen and to all the haters I say forget about the plot and just
enjoy the perks. This movie is made for entertainment not Oscar awards
and as far as entertainment goes It was grade A popcorn style.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay so what really counts is realism in my opinion. When he's revving
the engine out and actually doing more than 100mph, I want the
speedometer to report accurately. It's a little unrealistic but hey
it's still a fun movie! The muscle car races are excellent and I
recommend the movie to most people who enjoy fast cars and cute girls.
The next movie should include more extended periods of engines revving
and exhaust like the movie "Bullet". That movie had one of the most
epic car chases ever on camera. Key point being realism, they actually
video taped them in real life. Not in a CGI booth etc. More engines,
revving, and lots of revving and volume! Rumbling of the exhaust of the
engines. So in the theater we not only see the fast cars, but FEEL the
engines rumbling in our seats. How about a movie that the guy is a test
driver, he's running super sports cars across the nation from new york,
to California. California to Bahamas etc while all the way bad guys are
attempting to steal the cars. That's when verone and dahm and the gang
come in to escort them across the nation. High speed racing across the
nation like "Cannonball Run"!!! Shelby Cobra GT500s or 1979 porsche
959, or 1995 lamborghini countach, or 1995 Ferrari F50... Cool amazing
classics!!! Lots of flames from the exhaust and lots of cute girls
screaming and enjoying the ride!!! Good LUCK!
<|_=00=_|>
Clearly many viewers were expecting 2 Fast 2 Furious to double up on
the original. But without all the same cast members, it's hard to meet
that level of expectation. 

Brian is back in the racing scene and has earned his own street credit,
with moves that are just as smooth as his first ride. However, it
doesn't take long for the FBI to reel the ex-cop back into the law to
help bring down a Miami drug exporter. Being a two-man job, Brian
insists that Roman join the crew - a childhood friend and 'criminal'
that wants to clear his record. What follows the reunion is a good film
with action-packed car chases, sexy actors and great suspense.

Having watched all of the following Fast and Furious movies, it's
important to have these two characters introduced early on. Most of you
will agree with me saying, that the sequel is more laid back and
doesn't take itself too seriously. I enjoyed the street racing, the
narrative progression and amusing dialogue, particularly Roman's
observations.

2 Fast 2 Furious is the kind of racing film you should see.
<|_=00=_|>
Without the assistance of a fugitive on the run Dominic Toretto (Vin
Diesel, who is AWOL here), Brian O'Connor (Paul Walker) who's still a
marked man with the FBI leaves Los Angeles and travels around the USA
to compete in drag races and making new friends along the way as well
as a substantial amount of money. It wasn't before long that the cops
found his car and now he has to travels by foot. Until a lady drops him
off at a car lot and his money he purchases a blue car and paints it
silver. O'Connor ventures off to Miami where he reunites with ex-con
Roman Pearce (Tyrese Gibson) as they join forces with the FBI to track
down a shady dealer named Carter Verone (Cole Hauser), but only in
exchange if they erase his criminal records. They are also joined by
Secret Agent Monica Fuentes to bring this sleazy miscreant to justice.

Unlike a lot of sequels where they don't measure up to the first
instalments "2 Fast 2 Furious" succeeds in equalling up to the first
instalment to maybe even being better (even without Vin Diesel). This
movie like the first film is loaded with all the usual formulaic
by-the-numbers mixed bag of clichés like the token slimy gangster and
his dim-witted gang of goons, corrupt cops, by-the-book FBI agent and
his determined sidekick and whatnot. But people who see this movie
aren't here to see that. Hell no! We've come to see exciting drag
races, cars crashing into each other, fight scenes, over-the-top humour
(not Shakespaere), epic fights and most of all cool cars and hot girls.

With Vin Diesel out of the picture, Paul Walker takes the central role
as Brian O'Connor an former LAPD on the run and locating himself in
Miami to capture a sleazy dealer in exchange that for his criminal
charges to be eradicated. And he turns in a wonderful performance, even
though it just feels at time forced, but in a funny way. Why funny?
Because he just seems a bit to old to be talking like the way he does.
His dialogue makes him sound like an adolescent who's been living in
the basement of an LA public school and has picked up on their lingo.
Roman Pearce (Gibson) is O'Connor's sidekick is no Dominic Toretto is
still a capable replacement and has just as much charisma to pull it
off.

This movie is no different than the Land of Make Believe. It doesn't
exist. It's all surreal. It's the threshold where the bad-assed dudes
hang out, where drag racing is a pastime and not an illegality. Where
the ladies let it loose and enjoy every moment of it. This utopia has
our two heroes who constantly bicker like two teens arguing over who's
pizza slice is bigger. In a world like this, there are no real good
guys, and the badder you are, the greater your odds at survivor are in
your favour. In action films this has been a common trend since Jason
Statham starring in "The Transporter" as he played a hero who was a
lackey for the underworld. These days, being a cookie-cutter hero is
obsolete, it's a fight between bad guys and even more bad guys.
O'Connor and Pearce confiscate drug money, but they take it before the
cops grab their hands on the dough. It makes you wondering if the
producers know who's coming to see this film or maybe not. It may feel
at times like they're glorifying the audience watching it giving the
impression those watching it are dumber than rocks.

But once the smoke is cleared the real stars are the awesome cars. They
grind, they release steam and most of all, they make a lot of noise
that it's not too late to purchase some earplugs. The opening drag race
will likely have your heart beating faster than a thousand bees in a
hive. Vin Diesel was not the only one who departed as Rob Cohen took an
exodus as John Singleton took over the director's chair which is quite
surprising since Singleton back in 1991 directed the ever so powerful
drama "Boyz in the Hood". What happened? I guess under a more competent
director should come to no fluke that this film is 5x better than the
first instalment.

We know that the target audience was intended for the teen male
audience between the ages of 15-20 years old. Their girlfriends knew
what was coming to them when they joined them in this atmosphere and
quite frankly, we never outgrow these kind of movies. Fast cars,
exciting action and hot babes, what more do you need?
