

Ridley Scott and Nicolas Cage deliver some of their best and most
intelligent work in a few years, even if Matchstick Men is not quite
either's great contribution for this year in film.  What they have done,
from Eric Garcia's novel (adapted by The Griffins), come off rather
entertaining, if anything else, and boasts much more thought than would
usually be attributed to such a Hollywood film.  Nicolas Cage, who plays
Roy, part anxious/obsessive compulsive, part sly con man, and part father to
a daughter he never knew he had, is a main reason to see this movie.  His
performance is on par with someone like Jack Nicholson in As Good As It Gets
for watch-ability of a truly sad lifestyle, and while Nicholson's
performance was and still is funnier and more charming, Cage gets so into
his character, the little mannerisms that pop up more often than expected,
that we feel for the guy even as his eyes get twitchy and goes over certain
spots in his house like a detective.  He may be the most believable
obsessive compulsive/con man you'll see in a long while.  Add then an
outgoing, occasionally sneaky daughter (Alison Lohman in a performance that
skillfully balances sweetness and irritability, sorrow and playfulness in a
teenage girl) to the mix, along with a protégé-cum-partner (a cool Sam
Rockwell) who has a love/loathe relationship Roy, and there's the map work
for an interesting, if here and there predictable, drama/comedy/crime film. 

Along with the performances, which are all above average (Cage could be
deserved of an Oscar nomination come February, and Lohman could deserve the
win possibly), is the visual framework that Scott pushes in each scene.  By
getting certain camera tricks, and fantastic editing by Dody Dorn (of
'Memento' fame), the viewer can really get into Roy's head even in the
smaller scenes, the ones that have little to do with the plot and only to do
with the neuroses of Roy (there is even a little touch that I loved when Roy
is waiting online early in the film at the supermarket, and the music in the
background is an excerpt of the mental hospital music from 'Cuckoo's Nest').
 This echoes the style that Scorsese used in Bringing out the Dead, also
with Cage, in moving the film to get so into the mood that the story, no
matter how intriguing and important, becomes secondary.   

Which brings me to my own personal beef with the movie, and that is the last
fifteen minutes or so.  It was clever, up to a point, but as it unfolded, no
matter how much I was still emotionally involved with these people, I felt
that the twists (I won't reveal them here) undermined a lot of the rest of
the film.  It will be based on viewer to viewer, but I just thought that it
did a little too much to jab at Roy's lifestyle.  And yet, when I walked out
of the theater, though I wasn't sure I had seen anything spectacular, I
didn't feel like I had wasted time and money either.  Matchstick Men is
witty, sometimes wonderful moviemaking.  
<|_=00=_|>
A rather surprising turn for Ridley Scott there - probably the
"smallest" film he's ever done, which harks back to Thelma And Louise
than to anything else he's done in recent years (Gladiator, G.I Jane,
Black Hawk Down, and back to Alien and Blade Runner). We have a very
personal, up-close light drama here. Con artist movies have been
swarming the theaters lately, but Matchstick Men is far more
intelligent and more surprising, not to mention well-acted, written and
directed, than Supercast films Heist and The Score. Nicolas Cage, after
several years of B-action movies (Gone In 60 Seconds, 8 mm, The Rock,
Face/Off...) makes a welcome return to what he does best - disturbed,
neurotic, sensitive individuals (a comeback that got off to a good
start on the schizophrenic Adaptation) - and delivers an Oscar
nomination-worthy performance as con artist Roy Waller. Roy discovers a
long-lost daughter, played brilliantly by Alison Lohman - also Oscar
material. The relationship between the two is well crafted, and the
story wonderfully written. Sam Rockwell also makes a fine contribution
as Roy's partner.

Elements of the plot may owe much to many other films - The Sting,
perhaps Jacky Brown, and there's a bit of Leon (AKA The Professional)
in Roy's relationship with his daughter, trying to balance a life of
crime with a newfound family, and Lohman's performance is no less
charming than that of Natalie Portman on that memorable classic. Worthy
of praise is Ridley's directing, which proves he can make a small human
theater piece as well as grandiose historical epics and sci-fi
odysseys. The editing is wonderful, well visualizing Roy's condition
and giving the movie an apt atmosphere. Overall, Matchstick Men is one
of the freshest films of the year, and a very enjoyable watch.
<|_=00=_|>

Anyone who thinks director Ridley Scott doesn't have a gentler side (after
all, GLADIATOR, HANNIBAL, and BLACK HAWK DOWN are not exactly 'touchy-feely'
movies) may be in for a surprise with his latest, MATCHSTICK MEN. The story
of extremely neurotic but brilliant con man Nicolas Cage ("I'm not a
criminal," he explains to his shrink, "Criminals hurt people; I don't..."),
discovering a daughter he never knew he had (Alison Lohman, of WHITE
OLEANDER), on the eve of a big 'Sting', offers as much emphasis on his
acceptance of his new parental responsibilities as on the caper he and his
partner (the always watchable Sam Rockwell) are pulling off. Cage plays the
role brilliantly, making his quirky character sympathetic, and Scott proves
again why he is one of Hollywood's premier directors.

The success of a film like this depends on the chemistry between the leads,
and Cage and Lohman are terrific together. The young actress manages to be
'sweet' without being 'innocent', and the tentative steps she and Cage take
to understand each other are both believable, and touching. In one scene, he
attempts to prove to her that he can cook by preparing a spaghetti
dinner...after one bite, the scene shifts to the arrival of the Domino's
delivery boy!

Ultimately, however, MATCHSTICK MEN is a tale of 'The Con', and Cage and
Rockwell's 'Sting' against 'fat cat' Bruce McGill, while appearing
deceptively simple, has a series of twists and turns, leading to a climax
that is both stunning and unexpected. This is the kind of movie that will
have you putting pieces together, LONG after it ends.

It is an intriguing and rewarding film, and shouldn't be
missed!


<|_=00=_|>

The latest effort from Ridley Scott equates to Spielberg's latest, Catch Me
If You Can. It is a nice, technically simple film that follows their more
epic, effects, and set piece driven movies preceding them. Spielberg
followed Minority Report and AI, whereas Scott is following Gladiator,
Hannibal and Black Hawk Down. It is a nice and welcome change of pace for a
master director, as CMIYC was to Spielberg.

The film stars Nicholas Cage, who is making up for some lost years thanks to
his role here and of course in Adaptation. Cage plays an obsessive
compulsive con man who has an obsession of cleanliness and a fear germs and
wide open spaces, and is hyped up on prescription drugs. Cage is superb
here, it is a great performance, amusing and likeable. This is the sort of
quirky character that brings the best out of Nic Cage. Co-starring as Cages
partner in crime is the up and coming Sam Rockwell. I have been a fan of his
since I first saw him in Charlie's Angels and then in his best role thus far
in Confessions Of A Dangerous Mind. He was superb in Confessions and looks
like he could be a top new star. Rockwell plays his character here with
panache. Also starring as Cages daughter who turns up out the blue is Alison
Lohman. Lohman is playing a 14 year old, who Cage has never seen and didn't
know of at the start of the film. Lohman is much older in real life and so
playing a 14 year is something she can do well but with the maturity and
actress of that actual age may not have. Lohman is a lovely presence, she is
charming and sweet and endearing to the audience, she is also a good young
actress.

The film is funny, charming and simplistic. It doesn't tax too much and is a
quick and pleasant, much like junk food, only more good for you. I love it
when Scott does his big epic and more elaborate films but this is a good
change of pace, that Scott must have really enjoyed. It is something he
could do with his eyes closed compared to say Gladiator.

The film is well paced and there is a great twist that lets the film end on
a real high. This is a good use of a great cast, and imaginatively edited.
Overall a pleasing viewing. ****

<|_=00=_|>

Reviewing a movie like Matchstick Men is tough because it's a con movie
and
as such I really can't go into the plot all that much.  So, I'll just give
a
quick little synopsis of the plot, but really if you've seen any trailers
for the movie, you know the plot pretty well.

Nicolas Cage plays Roy, a con man (or, as he likes to say, a Con Artist!)
who has a lot of problems.  For one, he's a compulsive cleaner, he hates
the
outdoors and he has  lot of ticks  Roy needs medication to keep him sane.

One day he knocks his pills into the sink and when he calls his doctor to
get more he finds out that his doctor is no longer in town!  This provides
one of the funnier/saddest part of the movie.  I'm not sure if it was
suppose to be played up for laughs or not, the tone was kind of hard to
tell, but Roy spend the next day and a half cleaning his house, his ticks
got worst and well it made me feel kind of bad for him.

His partner Frank, played by Sam Rockwell provides him with the number
for
another psychologist who can help.  Roy goes to the psychologist thinking
that it'll be easy, to just ask for the pills and he'll get them.  No,
this
guy wants to help Roy and will not give him any pills until he talks.
Which, I must say, shows two things.  One, Nick Cage is great when he
plays
these type of rolls, and two, he's damn funny.  What he tells the
psychologist was both funny and sad.  During that time though it's reviled
that Roy was married at one time, and when his wife left she was pregnant
and he doesn't know what happen to the child who would be 14 by now.

After getting the pills (only a weeks worth mind you) Roy decides to find
out about his daughter, but he can't because he's too scared, so after
getting the number of his ex wife he asks his psychologist to make the
call
when he can.  Later that night he gets a call from him and finds out that
he
has a daughter who wants to meet him.

That's as far as I'll go with the plot because the movie really picks up
from there as he bonds with his new daughter and sets up a really complex
and dangerous con.

Like I said, Nick Cage is great in the movie, but I also want to point out
that his daughter,  Angela (played by Alison Lohman) was just fantastic to
watch.  She really lit up the screen when she smiled and it looked like
Alison Lohman was just having a ball playing her. She was your typical 14
year old (only, and this shocked me when I found out, Alison Lohman is 24
years old!  If you watch it, keep that in mind and tell me she doesn't
look
like a 14 year old.)  who knew just how to work her dad!  Some of the
funnier moments came after he would yell at her, then she'd start to cry
and
Roy would just completely collapse and start apologizing for what he said,
even if he was completely right!  It was just really funny.

Matchstick Men isn't a fast paced movie, it's more of a character study
between Roy and Angela and how she changes his life and makes him
reprioritizes his values and the way he runs his life.


<|_=00=_|>
Roy (Nicolas Cage) has some problems. He suffers from
obsessive-compulsive disorder, panic attacks, and gets totally
hysterical when people leave doors open, don't take off their shoes,
get mud on his carpet, etc. He takes pills for the many problems, but
he accidentally knocked them down the garbage disposal and is a big
frantic mess now, complete with nervous ticks of the face and
exclamations of "mmm..." at the end of his sentences.

That's a problem that severely interferes with his job as a con artist.
He's not a con man, he's not a rip-off man, he's a con artist, with
added emphasis on the "artist" part. He views his job as a beauty, a
sort of majestic way of expressing himself, but not really, that's a
lie, it's just something that makes him sleep better at night.

He hates his job because it makes him feel dirty. It's not fun ripping
off old people or fat people, but he is a high school drop out, how
else can he get a decent paying job?

His partner, Frank Mercer (Sam Rockwell), is a bit more at ease than
Roy. He doesn't seem to mind his job all that much. Roy, on the other
hand, is turning into a complete nut, and after going to a recommended
psychiatrist, he musters up the courage to confront his 14-year-old
daughter, Angela (Alison Lohman), who is eager to escape her
controlling mother and check out her long-lost big pop.

The film has a lot of different stories going on -- the worry-wart who
learns to put aside his nervous ticks, the long-lost father who
reunites with his daughter, and the con artist who tries to give it up
for a normal life. They all succeed as a story, but the film's only
flaw is its wandering, which goes on far too long.

Who cares (and I mean that as a statement, not a question). The film is
one of the great entertainments of the year. It has twists, turns, and
a big streak of enjoyability running through it.

Nicolas Cage is on a winning streak. First 2002's Oscar-winning
"Adaptation," now this (rumored to be entered into the Oscar race for
2004). Who would'a thunk it?

Sam Rockwell ("Confessions of a Dangerous Mind") continues to impress,
while Alison Lohman (a 20-something actress playing a teenager) shines
and convincingly portrays exactly what the character needs.

Ridley Scott ("Alien"), the infamous British director, uses some great
camera techniques here -- filmed in a blue shade with lots of different
camera flashes, he subtly forces the audience into Roy's head,
especially during sequences when Roy is having little breakdowns and
the people and objects around him start moving at warp-speed.

I'll admit that I'm a big fan of con man movies because I find them
amusing. But "Matchstick Men" is not really a con man movie -- it's a
movie about a con man who has to cope with his job and private life.
And a movie about a con man who finds he has a daughter. And a con man
who gets conned. It's all enjoyable, and though the film is long, I
never felt very bored by it at all -- it sustained my interest
throughout its running time. That's rarer and rarer nowadays.
<|_=00=_|>
The little problem that 'Matchstick Men' has is that there is not a
real highpoint in the movie if the ending wasn't there. I think the
movie starts as a very good movie. Roy Waller (Nicolas Cage) and Frank
Mercer (Sam Rockwell) are con artists and the movie opens with showing
how they collect some money. It is not as great as how George Clooney
does it in 'Out of Sight' but it's a lot of fun. After this the movie
shows who Roy is, a guy with all kind of weird things. Spasms, panic
attacks, compulsive behavior. He wants things clean, he wants things a
certain way, or he becomes a little crazy. He has pills for these
things but he loses them and this is how he meets Dr. Klein (Bruce
Altman), a psychiatrist.

Because of him Roy learns he has a 14-year old daughter Angela (Alison
Lohman, who was actually 24). He wants to care for her, spend time with
her, and even reveals what he really is. In a great scene she shows her
father and us how she would be if she had the same job as Roy. Roy and
Frank have a big job planned where they would collect 80,000 dollars
from a guy named Frechette (Bruce McGill). In a way they are taking
money but Roy looks at it differently. He thinks, and he is actually
right, that they just give it to him. Because it is all illegal they
can't complain after they are cheated.

Hoe these three big stories fit in one you have to see for yourself.
The middle part is a little slow, but the ending makes up for that. All
characters are played very well and Nicolas Cage is great. Ridley Scott
has made another fine movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Nicolas Cage plays Roy, a con artist, who has numerous psychological
issues. He is an obsessive-compulsive con artist, with an insane need
for neatness. Roy also suffers from agoraphobia, yet despite these
problems, is an efficient con man. Much like in Luc Besson's Leon
(1994), Matchstick Men adopts the same theme of a criminal figure
taking in a young female apprentice. Although after the exciting
exposition the film has a rather drab middle, the conclusion is
stunning. This film is one of Nicolas Cage's finest, whom I have long
questioned as to ability in acting. Alison Lohman does a fine job as
Angela. Due to the spectacular finish, I am going to give this film
***1/2 / **** or 8/10.
<|_=00=_|>

I found this movie exciting & fun to watch from beginning to
end.
The relationship between father & daughter was extremely heartfelt and
made
the movie tops in my books.
Amazing performance by Alison Lohman; I can't wait to see her in Big Fish.
One of Nicolas Cage's better performances.
In retrospect the plot is a bit far-fetched but makes up with excellent
character development and emotion.
Perfect movie for a father/daughter to watch together. I easily give it
9/10.
<|_=00=_|>
In 'Matchstick Men,' Nicholas Cage plays a con man so
obsessive/compulsive in nature that he makes Jack Nicholson in 'As Good
as it Gets' look like Oscar Madison in comparison. Fastidious to the
core, Roy Waller freaks out at the first sign of dust, dirt or bacteria
invading his personal environment, so much so that he keeps his place
not merely immaculate but almost hermetically sealed off from the
outside world. Somehow, even with this crippling neurosis plaguing his
every waking moment, Roy has managed to eke out a pretty decent living
as a shyster, ripping off gullible common folk with his partner, Frank,
played wonderfully by the gifted Sam Rockwell.

One day, into Roy's life strolls Angela, the 14-year old daughter he
never knew he had. Suddenly, Roy is confronted with the need to
reexamine both his life and his priorities and to make some crucial
decisions about just how this strange young person should fit into the
overall scheme of his existence.

Written by Nicholas and Ted Griffin and directed by Ridley Scott,
'Matchstick Men' provides a stylish, clever and witty psychological
riff on the old scam artist scenario, featuring fine performances by
Cage, Rockwell and Alison Lohman, as well as an intriguing visual style
by Scott, cameraman John Mathieson and editor Dody Dorn which often
approximates Roy's mental and emotional state. Cage once again indulges
in those nervous tics that seem to have become his actor's
stock-in-trade of late, but he does manage to tamp them down long
enough to allow a real character of flesh-and-blood to shine through
the potentially distracting surface. Alison Lohman, so brilliant in
'White Oleander' last year, makes Angela into a multi-faceted teenager
who runs the gamut from immensely likable to slightly irritating – just
about right for a character her age. Rockwell practically steals the
show as Frank, the con man to the core who may be a bit better at his
job than even Roy himself realizes. Hans Zimmer has provided a
humdinger of a musical score, one reminiscent of some of Nina Rota's
work for Fellini back in the early '60's. 

'Matchstick Men' is not a perfect film; it sags in spots, doesn't dig
deeply enough into its themes, and sometimes feels too clever and
calculated for its own good. Still, the movie has an originality and an
assurance that come when a group of old pros get together to have a
good time and end up sharing that fun with their audience.
