
I have resisted watching this film for a long time; I remember cringing
when watching Steve Martin in the remake of 'Father of the Bride' and
did not wish to see an actor, I enjoy, suffering so again. Well this
also was not a patch on the original, but that said there was nothing
wrong with Steve Martin's performance; he does well with the material
as indeed do all the performers. In fact this is well directed, and a
fine film technically: it is just that the script is unbelievably awful
(warning there may be slight spoilers):- 

This is a film about family values, yet it has been written by people
who clearly don't understand family values. There is no family spirit;
no feeling that, with the exception of the parents, any of the family
members cares about anyone but themselves. Of course children can be
selfish; of course families have off-days; but at the end of it all
they pull together, that's what it means to be part of a family. This
family didn't pull together; it was self destructive to an absurd
degree. I come from a big family I have a big family and one thing I
know, as does anyone who is or has been part of a big family, is that
big families need discipline. When you have more children than you have
hands, you have to know that your children will do what they are told
when it matters: this is fundamental it is simple survival. The major
calamities, the scenes of complete mayhem, these at least rang true,
but where was the aftermath: the parents seemed to accept it as there
lot to be the butt of their children's nasty pranks. I don't mean to be
overtly moral, but for this film to have worked it needed to have a
moral backbone, there needed to be a demonstrable upside to helping
each other and a realisation that when hurt was done, that this was
bad: unfortunately this was missing even to the point that we, the
audience, were meant to think it funny that one of the children was
nicknamed Fed Ex to signify that he did not fit in. The first time it
was sort of funny, but when it kept happening and was not challenged it
became unpleasant. At least here there was a consequence, but there was
no acceptance of guilt on the part of the main perpetrator and there
was no evident remorse.

If you watch this film, I am sure there are odd moments of high comedy
that will appeal, but, unfortunately, that is probably all. There is no
pathos, no feel-good emotional payoff. The ending is deeply
disappointing. The parents give up. All they needed was for the
children to help for two weeks, but that was too much for this loveless
family, so the parents give up their dreams, and accept the easy
course. What sort of lesson is this? If threatened with difficulty, if
the right thing to do is too hard – Give up! This film does not have a
nice message. I find it deeply worrying that there are so many
favourable reviews. On reading some of these I am relieved to find that
their authors, clearly, took other things from this film; who knows,
they may be right, perhaps I have misinterpreted the content. There are
others, however, who seem to have read the same message as I, but see
no wrong in it: this I find disturbing!
<|_=00=_|>
When Ashton Kutcher is the funniest thing in your movie, it's time to
re-assess everything you hold dear.

An unworthy, implausible remake of the 1950 film, Steve Martin and
Bonnie Hunt unconvincingly helm a hornet's nest of selfish,
ill-mannered, impertinent teen and sub-teen models in an ostensible
"family comedy" which illustrates quite conclusively why some animals
eat their young.

Focus groups are quick to finger "obvious" causes for juvenile
derailment (video games, violent cartoons, Ozzy Osbourne), yet
subversive media of this ilk - insidiously promoting the now-staple
Hollywood formula of incompetent-dad-tenaciously-grounded-mom, sending
messages of ignorance triumphing over experience, emotions triumphing
over pragmatism - is the real black-milk teat behind every school
shooting and heavy metal suicide.

The MPAA trip over their bibles to quash one-second visuals of female
nipples, then permit ninety minutes of mental and physical terrorizing
of a father by his children (through communal pouting and "precious"
antics), forcing him to relinquish the dream job he needed in order to
keep these selfsame devil-children wallowing in the opulence they have
been spoiled into believing is their inalienable right – all for the
petty sake of lost frogs and puppy love and hovel living.

When a child goes bad, truly, it is the parents' fault - for allowing
movies like these to logjam our cinemas under the guise of
"inoffensive, family-oriented entertainment"!

(Movie Maniacs, visit: www.poffysmoviemania.com)
<|_=00=_|>
Let's see here. We have 2 parents who have 12 kids...naturally this
means that the kids will automatically run everything, get their own
way, and their parents will have no control in everything.
Riiiiiiiight.

See dad. See dad get the job he's been dreaming about which means a
nice raise, a better house in a better neighborhood, and a means to
better provide for his 14 member household. Of course, this can't be
good and the kids will do everything in their power to end this.

See mom. See mom get a fabulous book deal, pursue a career of her own
(temporarily, it was ONLY A 2 WEEK BOOK TOUR!!!), get a shot at being
on Oprah, and really live out her dreams. Of course, this can't be good
and the kids will do everything in their power to end this.

Every chance possible, the parents bend over backward to help the kids
out. The dad even has his football team practice at his house, cuts
press conferences short, blows off his Athletic Director, works his
everliving tail off...all for nothing. The kids still rebel, sneak out
of the house, abuse the eldest daughter's boyfriend, and consistently
start fights, wreak havoc, and do NOTHING to help out in any way.

The "dozen" kids consist actually "nine" kids. Of the remaining three,
one lives COMPLETELY ON HER OWN and two are in high school. The eldest
son does nothing but brood and sulk and the eldest "in house" daughter
(Hillary Duff) is barely on screen long enough to contribute. Why can't
they help out at least once? To sum up the movie, dad gives up dream
job, mom quits book tour early and blows the Oprah shot, and at the end
of the movie, and the kids are STILL at the house they hate, in the
neighborhood they hate, going to the schools they hate...but they all
seem happier somehow. *Sigh* When will Hollywood make good movies
again?

And the moral is........what's good for the parents must be stopped by
the kids at any cost.
<|_=00=_|>
Tom (Steve Martin) and Kate Baker (Bonnie Hunt) have a Baker's
dozen--children, that is. When Tom, a football coach, gets a job offer
to coach a college football team just outside of Chicago, and Kate's
book about raising 12 children finally gets a publishing offer, they
see bright things for their future. The only problem is that their 12
children do not want to move from their rural Illinois home, and things
become nearly disastrous when Kate has to leave for a couple weeks to
promote her book.

While I didn't enjoy Cheaper By The Dozen as much as the original
version of the film from 1950, the 2003 "re-imagining" is still a 9 out
of 10 for me (the original was a 10 out of 10 for me). It's a
re-imagining rather than a remake because although the overall plot arc
has some similarities, these are two very different films, with very
different messages, and very different kinds of families. Both are
rather cartoonish, which works for me--I don't require much realism in
my films. For anyone who is looking for something primarily believable,
Cheaper By The Dozen may not fit the bill.

The major change from the original to the new film is a change from
control to near-chaos. In the Baker's case, it doesn't take long to
realize that the chaos arises from their lack of disciplining their
children. While this may not be realistic (surely anyone planning to
have a family this large would realize that discipline and control
would be necessary to not have one's home destroyed), it does lead to a
lot of comic situations, and that's really the point here. Yes, there
is a message in the end about putting family first, but what director
Shawn Levy really wants you to do is laugh. My wife and I laughed quite
a bit while watching the film, so Levy accomplished his goal with us.
My only slight complaint on this end was that some of the funniest
material involved the eldest Baker daughter's boyfriend, Hank (Ashton
Kutcher), and he just wasn't in the film enough. The material about the
Shenk's, neighbors of the Baker's, was also funny and a bit underused.
This was the reason for lowering my score 1 point.

The rest of the cast is good, although like the original Cheaper By The
Dozen, we barely get to know some of the children, but that's
understandable when we have to deal with 14 characters as well as
ancillary characters. Steve Martin was excellent, as always (I enjoy
his work in even his less popularly appreciated films), and although
Hilary Duff (as daughter Lorraine Baker) seemed a bit odd in the
context of the family, I enjoyed her performance a lot, also. There's
something about her that I like, and it's not just her looks.
<|_=00=_|>
While the CHEAPER BY THE DOZEN opening titles credit the authors of the
best-selling book the original 1950 film was based on (Frank B.
Gilbreth Jr. and Ernestine Gilbreth Carey), don't expect to see a
remake of the charming, early-20th century comedy about two efficiency
experts (Clifton Webb and Myrna Loy) running a complex but happy
family...and this is not a BAD thing!

While the 1950 production is a minor classic, the thrust of the earlier
film was with the parents, and oldest daughter (the late Jeanne Crain).
Clifton Webb was a gifted, acerbic actor, best known, previously, as
'child hating' author Lynn Belvedere, who proved he was as adept at
raising children as he was at EVERYTHING he attempted, in the 1948 hit,
SITTING PRETTY. The film was such a success that two sequels were made,
and Webb would do several more 'family' comedies before his death in
1966. Playing Frank Bunker Gilbreth, the father of twelve, was a
'natural' for the actor, and the 61-year old Webb 'stole' the film with
his self-effacing, 'scientific' approach to child rearing. As his wife,
Lillian, Myrna Loy, who had graduated from being 'Nora Charles' in the
"Thin Man" series, to being Hollywood's favorite wife/mom, shared
Bonnie Hunt's sweetness, sense of organization, and dry humor, but
lacked a sexual chemistry with Webb that would have actually produced
twelve children (perhaps because of the less 'permissive' time the film
was made, or perhaps because of Webb's screen persona). Jeanne Crain,
one of 20th Century Fox's favorite ingénues for over six years, had a
large fan base, which the studio capitalized on (She was actually
second-billed in the film, behind Webb). Her scene at a 1920's prom,
with Webb as her 'date', is a film highlight. While the eleven other
children were given 'moments' in the film, they barely registered,
individually.

Would 2003 audiences have gone to see Martin in a period comedy set
eighty years earlier? I doubt it. And had the original story had been
simply 'updated', would it have been truly faithful to the source, even
in spirit? Unlikely, as so much has changed over the years. Ultimately,
the film makers erred, I believe, in using the title of the earlier
film, but not in the approach of making a 'family-friendly' comedy
about a household of massive proportions.

With Steve Martin, who has become Hollywood's quintessential 'Dad', as
a loving, unconventional father/football coach given an opportunity to
head his alma mater's team, he displays the same kind of sensitivity
that made PARENTHOOD such a wonderful film. Bonnie Hunt, as his wife,
is completely believable as a successful author who could handle her
large family and still-frisky husband equally well. She is, as always,
a treasure!

The children are really the stars of the film, though, and each is
special, and individual, from the eldest daughter (Piper Perabo), who,
at 22, wants the family to accept the guy she's living with (Ashton
Kutcher, in a funny, brief role), to the youngest pair of twins (Brent
and Shane Kinsman), who make an art out of wreaking havoc. Tom Welling
is quite likable, and proves that he is more than just 'Clark Kent'
(For you trivia fans, Kutcher almost got the part of 'Superman' in an
upcoming film, which would have put two 'Men of Steel' in the cast).
The only discordant note is Hillary Duff's annoyingly brittle second
daughter; she may be a 'teen idol', but she is more grating than
endearing.

Director Shawn Levy's previous film, JUST MARRIED, was a loud,
unpleasant, clichéd bore; in CHEAPER BY THE DOZEN, he redeems himself
with a more enjoyable, richer film.

While the movie will never earn the 'classic' status the earlier film
achieved, it stands very well on it's own merits!
<|_=00=_|>

A fairly amusing family comedy, with almost no relation to the book or the
earlier film with this title. Steve Martin plays the father of the group of
12 kids who uproots them all to move to the big city where a football
coaching job awaits.. suddenly the mom (an amusingly bemused Bonnie Hunt)
gets called away on a book tour and dad has to raise all the kids himself.
Interesting casting has Piper Perabo (star of the gloriously underrated
"Coyote Ugly") as the oldest daughter, Hillary Duff as the teenage daughter,
Tom Welling (of TV's "Smallville") as the oldest son and Ashton Kutcher
taking an unbilled role as Piper's live-in boyfriend.. and poking fun at
himself in the process. The rest of the kids are mostly of the unknown but
cute variety,... and the kids get most of the laughs with their various
schemes and screw ups along with Martin's reactions to it all. The ending
drags a bit as things start to get serious and the family is on the verge of
falling apart, but as long as it sticks  to the pratfalls the film can be
very amusing. GRADE: B
<|_=00=_|>

Let's see if this film has all the necessaries of a modern film.

1) Classic title 2) Dad is an idiot 3) New script bearing no
resemblance to the original. 4) Male lead cannot droll without
instructions from female 5) Children are out of control 6) The man is
incurably stupid 7) Mother is a wise saint 8) Father has no clue about
his own home (have I covered that already??) 9) Large families result
from irresponsibility

I saw and loved the original. I held no illusions that this would be
nearly as good. In fact I knew it would require some updates. The world
of the 1950s when the original was made and the 1920s when it was set
are dramatically different.

The story is weak, the comedy is poor, the new plot is bigoted.

In the original, Clifton Webb play an efficiency expert Frank Gilbreth.
In fact, Frank Gilbreth's principles are still taught in course on
efficiency in industry. He was a real person. And a competent one. His
son John Kenneth Gilbreth, went on to become one of the world's leading
economists. To this very day.

In this one, Frank Baker (Baker's dozen ... get it? Hit me over the
head with a joke why doncha?) is a small time football coach who is so
inefficient that he can't get breakfast on the table and wipe up a
spill at the same time. And it's hard to imagine his wanna be drop out
son becoming anything but a bum.

The scene from the original where the woman from Planned Parenthood
came to the door to humorous results was morphed into the yuppy
neighbors, the Shenks, essentially scolding anyone who has or wants
more than two kids. Tina is so obsessed with having only one that Bill
is portray as sexually frustrated ... he ain't getting none lest she
conceive again.

I grew up in a family of 13. While my Dad was not the modern hands on
type, he was aware of where things were and how things worked. He could
cook and do the laundry and get us off to school on time. And he worked
hard to be able to pay for us all to go to Catholic school. He had to
be efficient; every 18 months or so, Mom was squeezing out another sib.

We were well behaved. We had to be. If not, 13 children turn into the
unruly mob shown in this stupid film. I knew other families like ours.
 From nine to fifteen kids. They were all self disciplined families. I
cannot tell you how many people, my sister-in-law included, who have
asked me if it was "that way in your house." People came out of this
movie thinking that large families are rude and out of control.

<|_=00=_|>
I'm sorry but this movie get's on my last nerve. It's not funny or
witty, and it's incredibly cliché. The children are complete brats with
smart mouths and we are supposed to think it's funny. I cannot believe
they are making a sequel to this. And I cannot believe two hours of my
life were wasted watching this repulsive film. I have watched some
AWFUL films, but I can always find at least one nice thing to say about
them. Butfor this movie, I cannot even think of one. My mind wandered
the entire time I was watching it, and I couldn't help thinking "I paid
10$ for this???! Honestly I really doubt even the youngest of children
would find this film entertaining. 1/10, but if I could I would give it
a zero. Thumbs down for Cheaper By The Dozen.
<|_=00=_|>
One of the best family movies ever made! Steve Martin and Bonnie Hunt
are excellent in this modern day adaption of the classic book by Frank
B. Gilbreth Jr. and Ernestine Gilbreth Carey. Although not faithful to
the original, this movie keeps the spirit of the original in that it
shows family as the most important thing while still laughing at the
humor of everyday life.

The supporting cast is excellent! All of the actors playing the Baker
kids deliver excellent performances. Most notable are Hilary Duff (The
Lizzie McGuire Show) and Tom Welling (Smallville). Hilary is great as
always and gets to show that she has true potential as a dramatic
actress. I'm not a big fan of Ashton Kutcher, but I must admit that he
delivers an absolutely hilarious uncredited supporting part.

This movie is a treat for any family. Most parents will find it
acceptable for their kids. The only really offensive portion is some
"thematic elements" involving the oldest 20-something daughter's living
with a guy. This however is portrayed as an improper thing by her
parents. Overall, an excellent and surprisingly clean movie. I strongly
recommend this movie to anyone!
<|_=00=_|>

As a child, I read and loved the book, "Cheaper by the dozen", so I rented
the movie expecting an on-screen adaptation of the book.  I think the only
similarities are the title, and the fact that they have 12 kids.  The
movie
does the book a huge injustice.

Expectations aside, the movie had some plot holes, but I would have
appreciated this kind of film if I was a parent looking for a family film.
It reminded me of the old Disney classics my family rented when I was
growing up.  I'm sure that kids would love the mess and destruction that
seemed to be the focal point of the movie.  They tried to cram too many
sub-plots into it when they could have focused strictly on the family
dynamics and had a great movie.

I'm just glad I rented it and didn't spend $$ at the theater.
