
See, I am a married man. And watching this movie, at home on the sofa
with my wife whom I love above anything and hopefully always will,
almost brought me to tears and easily did her. This movie, no matter
all the overdone/overacted characters and the fact that Adam Sandler is
probably the worst person in the world the act crying, is simply the
best description of love ever. To have the energy to every day win over
the heart of the one you love, is what we all should do, though ever so
often don't have the energy to.

I believe that movie criticism often nitpicks too much on technical
details or other such stuff of -actually- little importance. Show me a
person who is not moved by this film and I show you a person who knows
zip about real love. Real, I mean. I am not a religious person and this
made me feel closer to what people often call God, whatever that is.
Maybe I exaggerate, but I want to. And no work of art, of any genre,
can be asked to do any more. On scale of 1 to 10, this goes to 11. (Can
you see?!)
<|_=00=_|>
The basic storyline of 50 First Dates: Henry Roth lives in Hawaii and
spend his time wooing women who are visiting the island, simply because
there is little chance of commitment. Then he meets Lucy Whitmore. One
day they hit it off, and the next she doesn't even recognise him. It
turns out that she suffers from short-term memory loss, and every day
he tries to win her over once more. Firstly, I have to say that 50
First Dates is a really funny film. It isn't overly stupid, but it's
not subtle either. But underneath the humour is where I believe this
film's true beauty lies. It shows love in a way that I have never seen
in another film before. From the way that her family sacrifices
everything to keep her happy, and blissfully unaware of her condition,
to Henry who, despite the fact that he could have just about any woman
that he wanted, decides that he wants to be with Lucy, regardless of
the fact that he has to meet her for the first time every day. Henry's
character undergoes somewhat of a transformation in front of our eyes.
The film starts off with him coming across as somewhat of a pig (well,
to us women anyway :)), and by the end of the film, we truly admire
him. He even sacrifices his dream so that he can be with Lucy, and help
her to move on with her life. The film isn't really predictable,
either. For example, I spent the entire films assuming that the ending
would be somewhat different. Although romcoms almost always have happy
endings, this one damn near had me in tears. And it wasn't even sad. I
never knew what a feel-good film was until I saw this...highly
recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
This is quite simply a very enjoyable film. It's not, perhaps, a great
film, but it is fun and it left me feeling pleasantly content.
Basically this is a romantic comedy about a man (Henry) and a woman
(Lucy) who meet and fall in love, there is just one problem: Lucy won't
remember, tomorrow.

It is easy to pick holes in films and yes there are things wrong with
this film:- 

- The first 5 to 10 minutes do seem a little out of place: I understand
the need to set the scene, but couldn't help feeling that the pace and
characterisations didn't quite fit with what was to come.

- Some of the characters take away from the story: Doug (Sean Astin) is
a little over done and comes across as more damaged than his sister.
Perhaps the worst, though, is Henry's female (?) assistant: this
character was a mistake and did not belong in the film.

In the end, these flaws don't matter: the film is enjoyable and that is
what counts.

The plot, even if somewhat contrived, is clever and in the context of
the film believable: there is a good beginning, middle and surprisingly
satisfying end. Some of the difficult aspects of the film are not
ignored but properly dealt with. Clearly it is easy to read a sordid
side into the idea of a man meeting a beautiful woman each day in the
knowledge that she will forget everything and they can start again
tomorrow. This is covered and Henry is asked some pointed questions;
without giving anything away, his answers worked and leave us, the
audience, able to enjoy the film, without any unpleasant nagging doubts
or feelings of guilt.

Don't analyse or pick holes; just watch this film. Chances are very
good that you will enjoy it. It is a fantasy a bit of escapism: a first
rate piece of entertainment and hopefully it will leave you, as it did
me, feeling pleasantly content.
<|_=00=_|>

Take a little "Memento," Add a generous helping of "Groundhog Day,"
and
even a little of "Sommersby" and you have "50 First Dates". Drew Barrymore
and Adam Sandler create a synergy that neither has been able to capture with
anyone else. Together, they produce a romantic team comparable to Gere and
Roberts, Day and Hudson, Grant and Loren and Tracy and Hepburn. My wife and
I watch "The Wedding Singer" at least once a year. While "50 First Dates" is
a superior movie, I don't know if I can take the melancholy ending again.

For once I'm grateful for the Khamakazee antics of Sandler's acting
ensemble, particulary Sean Astin and Rob Schneider.  If Schneider wasn't
playing such a farcial role, he would be a natural for an Oscar. Certainly
the animals add a lot to the farce. The goofy
humor makes the basically tragic scenario not only bearable but almost
pleasant. It's also genuinely funny.

Sandler convincingly plays a marine biologist(!!!)in Hawaii who enjoys
"entertaining" the "mainlanders." Sandler doesn't date
"locals".
He wants nothing to interfere with his dream of studying walruses. He
discovers Barrymore having breakfast in a local bar and grill. What captures
Sandler's attention, even more than her beauty, is Barrymore's creativity.
What Sandler doesn't know is that Barrymore has
brain damage. The brain cells which move short term memory to long term
storage are destroyed. She forgots everything she's learned during the day
while she sleeps. So, Sandler, the lothario who forgots his relationships
with mainlanders after one week finds himself in love with a woman who
forgets hers in 24 hours. That's writing genius, something you don't see
very often, and Sandler, Barrymore, and Sandler's acting troupe handle it
perfectly.

Though my wife is physically handicapped, my mother has severe short term
memory loss. So, I really related to the trajedy so expertly portrayed in
"50 First Dates". It's not often I give a movie that leaves me this sad a
"10". The last time, I believe, was "Sommersby". Nonetheless, "50 First
Dates" is a "10," since there is nothing about it I can suggest that make it
better. 

P.S. Looking forward to the NEXT Sandler/Barrymore collaboration.


<|_=00=_|>
When "50 First Dates) came to theaters, I really wasn't interested
enough to go see it. When it came out on video, I waited about 2 months
to see it until it came down to the $1.99 rental price.

Was I surprised! This movie was so entertaining to me, that I wound up
buying it. I only buy about 5 or 6 videos a year, so you can see that I
really must have enjoyed it. It won't win any Oscars, but it will make
you feel good when you watch it.

I am familiar with the condition that Lucy has here having a cousin who
has a similar problem and has had it for several years. I was really
concerned with how a production company can play a condition like that
for laughs, but, somehow, they pulled it off. They treated the subject
matter with dignity showing that the people who have this terrible
condition can (and do) have somewhat normal lives. My cousin does it
the diary way. She doesn't lose her memory everyday, but at different
times. She has gone as long as 3 months in retaining her memory and has
lost it on other occasions after 4 hours. 

I am not a big Adam Sandler fan, having always thought he was a bit
"over the top" in his other films. I thought he was going to do this in
this film as well after the first few minutes of the movie. However,
when he is shown in the diner with Lucy, he shows that he is really a
nice guy who, deep down, wants to find a relationship that is
fulfilling with a pretty girl.

Drew Berrymore is another actress that I don't particularly care for
most of the time, but she is really a sweetheart playing Lucy. She is
just so lovable in this role, it's hard to believe that she has the
Demons in her past. 

Rob Schneider is very good in his supporting role as is Sean Astin as
Doug, the 'roid raging brother of Lucy.

Again, not an Oscar winner, but well worth the $15 or so to purchase it
at WalMart.

Marty
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is so much more than what you think! It takes you on an
emotional roller coaster. It is both hilarious and touching.

I would recommend this to anyone that likes comedies or romantic
comedies. I wouldn't recommend it for children, though. Some of the
humor is too mature.

Even if you're not an Adam Sandler fan, you'll love him in this. Same
goes for Drew Barrymore.

I love this movie, and I didn't think I would. The movie turned out to
be more than what I thought. And it will be more than what you think,
too!
<|_=00=_|>
Lets face it, when Adam Sandler needs a hit movie, who is he going to
call, Drew Barrymore of course, and indeed why not, after the
sentimental success of The Wedding Singer, anything these two bright
young things appeared in together would be nothing short of pure gold.

A perfect case in point is 50 First Dates. Now as a rule i would never
break out in a fever to go see anything with Adam Sandler's name
attached to it, however i broke the rule when i first went to see The
Wedding Singer, which contained many charming and heartfelt moments, as
well as the comedic, aside from that one the only other film of note on
Sandler's resume for me anyway has been Billy Madison.

Like all good things that come to pass, in between the misses more than
hits, along comes the last to date pairing of Sandler and Barrymore. A
movie i missed on it's theatre run but more than made up for it by
viewing on DVD then subsequently purchasing it.

A lighthearted take on the notion of amnesia, with the emphasis clearly
billed around a love story. We watch as local Hawaiian vet, Henry Roth,
played by Sandler stumbles through existence, dating and dumping female
holidaymakers, all the while searching for that perfect one. Into his
life comes Lucy played rather charmingly by Drew Barrymore.

Of course loves young dream could never run smoothly, remember we have
95 minutes running time on this movie, So as soon as they have met and
broke bread, the dawning of a new day arrives, but not without it's
hitch. Without giving too much away, just in case their might be
someone out there who hasn't seen this film, regardless of the hiccups
that ensue throughout.

We are party to many highlights, which include Rob Schneider as Henry
Roth's less than able sidekick Ula, Jocko the Sea lion and many many
more. I personally never tire of watching it, not to the extent of
reaching fifty times but i do regard it as a breath of fresh air, even
if Adam Sandler parlays his usual bag of comedic tricks, but hey the
late great Chris Farley did the same and it worked.

Truly a movie for all seasons, and a must if you are in a relationship.
A resounding 10 out of 10 and that is saying something for a movie with
Adam Sandler in it!
<|_=00=_|>
Not being an Adam Sandler fan, we avoided this film when it was
released earlier last year. The premise sounded too much like
"Groundhog Day". We took a chance the other night when it was shown on
cable, and frankly, we found the movie entertaining. There are more
laughs in this than in another, perhaps more pretentious picture,
"Punch Drunk Love".

Drew Barrymore and Mr. Sandler had worked together before to
surprisingly good results. They show an easy chemistry between them
that serves the movie well. The idea of making Adam Sandler an aquarium
doctor offers a lot of possibilities; his scenes with the walrus are
hilarious.

The supporting cast plays well together. A surprise was Rob Schneider,
not one of my favorite actors, either, but in here, under the direction
of Peter Segal, he delivers. Sean Astin, as the lisping brother on
steroids is quite effective, as well as Blake Clark, as Lucy's father.
Dan Aykroyd puts an appearance as the doctor who treats the young woman
who has lost her long term memory.

Watch it without any preconceptions, as probably it will surprise you.
<|_=00=_|>
50 First Dates is a very funny movie and for Sandler its one of his
best. Adam Sandler plays Henry Roth, a womanizing marine biologist
afraid to commit, who falls for the woman of his dreams, played by Drew
Barrymore. Unfortunately, she has a brain disorder that makes her
forget everything that happened the day before whenever she falls
asleep, so every day, he needs to win her over and make her fall in
love with him anew. The plot is nothing new as this movie is a cross
between Memento and Groundhog Day both very good movies. What makes
this movie work is the chemistry between Drew Barrymore and Adam
Sandler since they work so great together and make the film fun and
also this film is better then Sandler's last effort Anger Management.
Sandler is great in this film and he is one of the funniest comedians
around today. Drew Barrymore is very good in her role as Lucy and she
makes up for the horrible Duplex. The supporting cast is also very good
with the best being Sean Austin. Rob Schneider has a small role in this
film but he still manages to draw some laughs. The last main part of
the cast is Dan Aykroyd and his role isn't very memorable. This movie
has good intentions and some sad moments like when Lucy finds out she
can never have her memory restored or when she sees pictures of herself
from the accident. However, there's also some gross humor so I think
this movie can appeal to everyone under the age of 21. Rating 8/10 one
of the funniest movies of the year and a must see if you want a good
comedy.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay, so "50 First Dates" is mostly silly, but they do a good job with
it. Honolulu veterinarian Henry Roth (Adam Sandler) falls for Lucy
Whitmore (Drew Barrymore), only to find out that, due to an accident,
her memory only lasts one day, so she won't remember him the next day!
How will Henry cope with this? The movie gravitates between goofy and
sensitive, but never gets mind-numbing; Adam Sandler always has
something up his sleeve, and he and Barrymore have a great time with
the material. As is often the case in Adam Sandler's movies, one of the
characters is an embarrassment to everyone else (in this case, it's Rob
Schneider as Henry's whacked-out friend Ula). Great fun.

Oh, and one more thing: don't watch "50 First Dates" if you haven't
seen "The Sixth Sense" first.
