

There are four gospels in the New Testament. Matthew, Mark and Luke are
referred to as the `synoptic' gospels. They see Jesus `with the same eye'.
Their `eyewitness accounts' are remarkably alike. John is startlingly
different in its details, style and tone -- so much so, that this gospel
almost didn't make it into the accepted canon of New Testament
books.

`The Gospel of John' purports to be a faithful retelling of the fourth
gospel. It employs every single word of the text, as rendered by the Good
News Bible translation. The film combines dialogue with narration by veteran
actor Christopher Plummer. The result is an understandably wordy script. One
of my friends used the term `verbose'.

Was it wise or foolish to adopt this approach? That depends on your point of
view. It means that the actor playing Jesus must deliver lengthy speeches,
especially Jesus' farewell after the Last Supper. This runs the risk of
being a deadly bore in cinematic terms. I must confess, I kept nodding off
during this segment of the film. To his credit, the director tries to
compensate by cutting away to a montage of black-and-white flashback images
suggested by Jesus' words. This gives the audience a much-needed visual
breather.

On the other hand, and this is a good thing, using the integral text of
John's gospel obliges us truly to listen -- to hear the Word. I lost track
of how often Jesus said, `I am telling you the truth.' Some might find this
annoyingly repetitive. But it certainly hammers home the theme of John's
gospel. As if in counterpoint to Pilate's cynical barb, `What is truth?' we
have Jesus' ringing declaration, `I am the Truth!' (This is often obscured
by older translations, such as `Amen, amen, I say to you'.)

I found `The Gospel of John' highly instructive, not just for what it says,
but what is does not say. I realized, for the first time, why John recounts
events absent from Matthew, Mark and Luke, while ignoring those familiar to
us from their accounts. It struck me that the author of the fourth gospel
assumes we are already conversant with all this material. For instance, John
does not describe the institution of the Eucharist at the Last Supper, yet
abounds in references to bread and wine. Again, John does not tell us what
became of John the Baptist (he was beheaded by Herod) or Judas the traitor
(he hanged himself). John takes it for granted that we
know.

I also realized how often Jesus says, `I am who I am' (three times) and
finally, `Before Abraham was, I am.' Jesus applies to Himself the phrase
used by Yahweh in the Old Testament as His name. In other words, in John's
gospel, Jesus clearly equates Himself with God (`The Father and I are
one').

As represented in this film, Jesus is thoroughly human in that He suffers
and dies. Yet He also radiates the power of divinity -- not so much in the
form of miracles, as in a sense of righteousness, a certainty about His
mission. Even Jesus' outrage at the commercialization of Temple worship
seems more like the fulmination of an exasperated Old Testament God. We do
not see Jesus tempted by Satan or agonizing in the garden of Gethsemane.
Jesus knows exactly who He is and what He is doing, even though His
followers may not.

The real `stars' of the film are Jesus' opponents, `the Jewish authorities'
(Pharisees, Sadducees and scribes) and their hapless instrument, Pontius
Pilate. The apostles, on the other hand, are curiously lifeless in this film
rendering of John's gospel. Even Judas is given little in the way of
motivation. John's explanation is that he was a thief who pilfered the
apostles' common purse and sold His master out of simple greed. This
explanation may have been enough for the evangelist, but it is far from
satisfying in literary or cinematic terms.

The film portrays Mary, the mother of Jesus, as a woman of mature years. Her
visual representation comes as something of a shock, compared to Olivia
Hussey's incarnation of the Virgin in `Jesus of Nazareth'. I was reminded of
Michelangelo's Pietà. Someone pointed out to the sculptor that the mother
looked strangely younger than the son. Michelangelo replied that, since the
Virgin had been pure and sinless, he could not imagine her aging and
decaying. Jesus' mother in `The Gospel of John' thus runs counter to a
certain iconographic tradition.

The other women in this film, as in John's gospel, get short shrift. We
barely get any sense of Mary Magdalen, or Mary and Martha of Bethany. The
most fully developed female character is the Samaritan at the well, played
by an actress whose face and voice deliver exactly the right note of
hard-bitten cynicism. One only wishes she were not so wild-eyed once she
realizes she is speaking to the promised Messiah.

The same excessive theatricality is found in John the Baptist, Nathanael
(whom Jesus saw beneath the fig tree before meeting him) and doubting Thomas
(whose exclamation, `My Lord and my God!' rings hollow).

A film such as `The Gospel of John' cannot be judged entirely according to
the usual canons of cinematic art. In other words, we cannot judge `The
Gospel of John' simply on the basis of artistic merit or entertainment
value. Ultimately, we must ask: Is the film theologically sound? Does it
succeed in conveying the gospel message? How do we, the audience, respond to
that message and especially the messenger, Jesus Himself?

In the final analysis -- and this is a question all filmgoers must answer
for themselves -- would we heed the Jesus of `The Gospel of John' when He
invites us to `Follow me'?

<|_=00=_|>

Henry Ian Cusick does a fantastic job of capturing the kindhearted, casual,
loving Jesus any of us would want as our friend.  It reminds me of that
drawing of Christ laughing!  

In some of the older portrayals, Jesus comes off as wooden, isolated and
somehow above everyone else.  Not here!  Jesus smiles at others' limited
understandings, but with compassion, as if he wants to teach them something
by his very presence.  

The best special effect had to be the walking on the water.  Beautiful
photography throughout - Filmed in and near Malaga in Spain, it does
Jerusalem and Israel proud!

Please consider inviting your friends to see this film.  It has so much to
offer and it gets the point across - Jesus is the Savior of the world! 

  
<|_=00=_|>

This film was surprisingly very good. Unlike Mel Gibson's "The Passion of
Christ" this movie can serve both Christians and non-Christians as a
cohesive educational experience. But this isn't a boring, conservative
Christian movie. All really good dramas are character-driven and the
potrayal/interpretation of Jesus in this movie is so strong that if I were
the crying type I very well might have. Jesus is very genuine,
compassionate, emotional, yet self-controlled. At first I wasn't quite
sold
by Henry Ian Cusick's style, but his sincerity was really consistent
throughout the movie and I was convinced about 20 minutes into the movie
at
most. Other users have commented on how they were surprised by Jesus's
impatience with the discples or loud tone when speaking to the Pharisees
but
I have to say, if you've read the Gospels then you should expect Jesus to
be
demonstrative and uninhibited, as circumstances dictate.

As others have said, this movie is a faithful adaptation of the gospel of
John. I thought that having every single word of the book either spoken by
characters or narrated was a necessary and intelligent decision to make.
To
hear the Word allows you to consider the actors & director's
interpretation
of certain events & verses, and also to simply consider the Word for
yourself in a comprehensive manner. After all, how often does one ever
read
straight through the book of John?

Watching this movie really helps the Christian understand Jesus'
incredibly difficult situation. I'm not talking about the
crucifiction,
but the fact that Jesus as the Son of God is incarnated into a man and has
to tell men who he really is. To put it more clearly, imagine if God
incarnate stood before you as an average looking human being and said "I
am
the Son of God." Unless you saw a miracle it you would not be willing to
suspend disbelief. I empathized with Jesus when he emphatically said, "I
am
telling you the truth!" so many times throughout the movie.

In conclusion, this movie is really worth your time to watch. Although
it
is very long and you may lose focus at times during the
middle portion I would still highly recommend it. It isn't perfect but
overall it's a fantastic piece of work.
<|_=00=_|>

This film premiered at the Toronto International Film Festival. Amazingly,
it avoided all of the mistakes made in most other attempts to tell this
story. The Bible's presentation of the story of Jesus is based primarily
on
four narratives--each stamped with its author's own personality and unique
perspective.

Many previous films have sampled more than one of the Biblical narratives
on
the life of Christ. Also, they needlessly added scenes not found in the
original sources. The authors of those screenplays in merely sampling from
several sources, lost the unique focus of each respective author and
diluted
the overall effect of the story.

This film is based on John Goldsmith's screenplay which deftly avoids all
the laughably silly cliches of previous film versions. Goldsmith's
screenplay is based on only one man's perspective, that of Jesus' disciple
John. Many stories with which the viewer is familiar, such as the
nativity,
are missing from John's gospel and therefore also from this wonderfully
complex and yet lucid screenplay. Jesus' words are not here presented as
pious platitudes, but occur within a context where Jesus responded to
those
around him.

The dialogue is solely based on the Good News Bible (also known as Today's
English Version) Christopher Plummer very ably supplies the  verse by
verse
narration from the same source. His delivery re-enforces the clarity of
what
is on the screen. Most of the other actors were not known to me--which I
felt helped. (What part could one give to an actor who previously
portrayed
a drug dealer?)

Jesus is brilliantly portrayed by Henry Ian Cusick as Jesus the man with
human emotions, Jesus the visionary resented by the religious
establishment
of his day. This Jesus did not refer to them for his authority. Cusick,
convincingly portrays Jesus the carpenter as a handsome, masculine, very
charismatic man. Cusick is very much equal to the task. I spoke very
briefly
with Cusick after the screening, thanking him for his portrayal of a part
that is loaded with hazards--all of which he avoided. I hope we see a
great
deal more of this fine actor.

The music by Jeff Danna is wonderful--well beyond what I could have hoped
for.

One friend of mine at the screening expressed his concern that this film
in
portraying Jesus' death at the hands of the Jewish establishment might
make
it vulnerable to accusations of Antisemitism. I reassured him that in its
earliest days, Christianity was a sect within Judaism. Almost all the
people
portrayed in The Gospel of John were Jewish. It was not until the
destruction of Jerusalem by the Romans in AD 70 that the Christian sect
became predominately Gentile.

Director Philip Saville has done an enviable job directing a project that
was fraught with artistic traps.

I hope this film receives very wide distribution.
Even Christian conservatives should be very happy with it.


<|_=00=_|>

I read about "The Gospel of John" in the newspapers, and the first thing
that crossed my mind was, "Why another Jesus movie?" With "The Passion"
coming just around the corner, "The Gospel of John" seemed a bit
overshadowed by all of the hype Mel Gibson's movie was getting. Still, I
did
my research, being a fan of Jesus movies, and found some pretty good
reviews. I still didn't expect it to be as good as it was, and as soon as
I
popped the DVD into my TV I was mesmerized for the entire three hours of
the
movie.

Henry Ian Cusick is absolutely amazing in his role of Jesus Christ. His
only
competition would be Robert Powell of "Jesus of Nazareth", but Cusick's
performance was unlike any I'd seen before (and I've seen "Jesus" the
miniseries with Jeremy Sisto, "Jesus" with Brian Deacon, "Matthew" with
Bruce Marchiano, "The Greatest Story Ever Told" with Max Von Sydow, "King
of
Kings" with Jeff Hunter, "The King of Kings" with H.B. Warner, "Jesus of
Nazareth" with Robert Powell, and both versions of "Jesus Christ
Superstar"). His potrayal of Christ is absolutely effortless, which is
even
more impressive considering the fact that he's speaking word for word
from
the book of John. Not only does he do wonders with the script, but his
overall interpretation of Jesus is unique and, for me, very inspiring.
Cusick's Christ knows his mission and carries it out with determination,
and, most of all, authority; but this doesn't hold back his human side
either, and he is very believable as a loving, caring Christ (the single
tear running down his face during the raising of Lazarus was so touching
and
convincing that it made ME cry). Some may believe that his attitude
toward
the Pharisees was harsh, and I'll admit that I was a bit taken back when
he
raised his voice more than once throughout the movie-- but as it
progresses,
his emotions seem appropriate for someone desperately trying to teach a
message of salvation that no one seems to want to accept.

The special effects were very well-done. The scene where Jesus is walking
on
the water is finally convincing...

The only problem I had with the movie was that it seemed to shy away from
the crucifixion. I was a bit disappointed at the way the movie zipped
through one of the most crucial parts of the Gospel, especially with
Cusick's passionate performance throughout the first couple of hours of
the
movie. The end result is about two hours and thirty minutes of beautiful
cinematography and brilliant acting, and a really "blah" finale. The
directors really missed the chance to make an impression by failing to
utilize the most dramatic part of Christ's life. Cusick could have worked
wonders with it.

As for the rest of the cast, each member was perfect. Even the minor
roles
were believable-- the Pharisees and the people on the street gave very
in-depth, and occassionally passionate, performances.

"The Gospel of John" was one of the best potrayals of Christ I have ever
seen. I highly recommend it, and just a heads up--the "Special Features"
addition to the DVD set is a great bonus!
<|_=00=_|>

Perfect for an agnostic, Phillip Seville's three-hour transcription of John
the apostle's life of Christ eschews the common cliches of glorification
found in the Synoptic Gospels of Matthew, Mark, and Luke; makes Christ
human; and presents some convincing evidence for His deity at the same time.
`The Gospel of John' does not
do a Hollywood makeover of anyone in this film in order to prove that Christ
was the Son of God (Mary is older and more wrinkled than she should be),
therefore satisfying those undecideds who sometimes claim Him an ordinary
man and other times suspect He may be divine. 

For sure, He is not the charismatic figure of `The Greatest Story Ever Told'
or `King of Kings,' but Saville makes the miracles pervasive enough to coax
anyone, even an atheist or Jew, to pause and ponder the
possibility.

Because so many are awaiting Mel Gibson's controversial life of Christ with
its alleged hard line about the responsibility of the Jews for Christ's
death, Saville's version may be interesting by comparison.  Because both
films show Jews responsible for Christ's death, there should be no wasted
time debating responsibility when discussing the difference in the films.
The ruling Romans, Pilate in particular, share the decision to crucify Him
as well (The film's preamble asserts that crucifixion was a Roman
practice).

The adaptation by John Goldsmith from the American Bible Society's `Good
News Bible' is faithful to that 1996 colloquial Bible. The actors'
Shakespearean delivery echoes many of the previous filmed versions that
substitute gravitas for good acting.  But a skeptic has to be enchanted by
the simple message and the selfishness of the Pharisees and Romans, even
though they are unwittingly fulfilling `God's purpose.' 

Played by Henry Ian Cusick, Christ has no extraordinary physical features
and no exceptional oratorical skill beyond his few poignant homilies and
epigrammatic philosophy. Don't look for the grand pronouncements of the
Sermon on the Mount; in fact, his repetitious `I speak the truth' has the
opposite effect of creating disbelief in listeners wary when anyone has to
declaim this more than once. 

Yet, His presence changes things: The agnostic or the Jew must take note of
the `teacher's' humanity--he also happens to raise people from the dead and
change water into wine. It's in those miracles, emphasized by the film, that
the mystery of Christ as the Son of God demands the attention of even the
most unmovable agnostic or atheist.

Christopher Plummer's narration, intoned with a bit too much respect, gets
laughable as he describes all too obvious actions when they are happening at
the same time on the screen (`Christ stood up.'). This is not Pasolini's
witty, sensual `Gospel According to St. Matthew.' It is a faithful rendering
of the fourth gospel in understandable idioms with a feisty Christ different
from the usual pacifist with backlighting.

After all, we do base our calendar on the year of the Lord, so somewhere we
must come to terms with the arguably most influential religious figure in
history. `The Gospel of John' is a place to start.


<|_=00=_|>

I saw this movie last weekend.  The weekend before I saw "Passion of the
Christ".  The "Gospel of John" is truly a line-by-line presentation of the
Gospel of John, and I thought the actors did an excellent job.  The movie
was top-quality in all aspects, which was a pleasant surprise.  Too many
past Christian-produced films have been pretty low on the quality
standard.
Anyway, the best part of this movie is that the spoken dialogue and the
narration is actually what's written in the English translation of the
Bible, and that is the most important thing here.  God says that it's "his
word that goes out and does the work it was sent to do", and that "faith
comes by hearing, and hearing by the word of God."  People don't need to
hear opinions, variations, or whatever.  The world's full of that stuff,
and
yes there's a place for it.  However, what will be most effective in
touching people's hearts is for them to read/hear the word of God, and
that
is the main reason why this film is most excellent.

Everyone should see this film.
<|_=00=_|>
I have seen "King of Kings", "The Greatest Story Ever Told", "Jesus of
Nazareth", "The Jesus Film", "Jesus Christ, Superstar", and now, "The
Gospel According to John." This, to me, is the most scriptural
presentation so far. The acting was superb considering the actors had
to contend with a dialogue that was taken straight out of the Bible.
The actor who portrayed Jesus (Cusick) gave a very refreshing portrayal
of Jesus, the man. I especially liked it when he smiled! I remember Max
von Sydow's and Robert Powell's portrayal of Jesus and they were too
"somber"...

It seemed like I was reading the Gospel of John while watching the
film. Though the movie was quite long (the gospel account has 21
chapters!),I was never bored.
<|_=00=_|>

A long movie, with long dialogues.  But those dialogues establish the
claims
of Jesus of Nazareth.
For seekers of Truth, this is a must-see.
For entertainment seekers, this film has a little for you.
No drama is higher than when God became Man and walked among us, then died
to buy forgiveness for our sins!
Highest recommendation!
<|_=00=_|>

I have seen all the Jesus  movies and all are a little bit too stylized.
This movie I felt was
real.  It is verbatim, and it shows what the day to day living was like
for
Jesus and his
times.  I especially liked the carpenter scene.  I have always believed
that
Jesus was as
an ordinary man until the time was right.  That he would have had to work
for a living.
That he would have fulfilled all of his father's  commands, including the
one which state
that we had to toil for our bread.   I felt the frustration but loving
patience of our Lord,
as he tried to convince his people, the Jews, that he was the one and that
their hour was
now.  He succeeded in splitting the Jews into believers and non-believer
and
that
condition exist to this day not only for them but for all who hear the
message.  Jesus is
personal and approachable.  I am looking forward to the PASSION, since
this
movie is
about the last 12 hours of Jesus's life amongst us.  To be told in a 3
hour
movie also.  I
just hope the Gospels are all made an illustrated with the beauty,
simplicity, faithfulness
and Love of this movie.
