

In "Blood Work" Eastwood plays an FBI agent, recovering from a heart
transplant, who is asked by the sister of the murdered  woman whose heart he
received to find her killer. The result is  surprisingly even and
interesting murder mystery in which we see Eastwood piece together the
evidence pointing to the killer while dealing with heart transplant issues
and making nice with his pro bono client. The film has fewer plot holes than
most murder mysteries; leans more toward human interest than derring-dos;
and is another example of Eastwood successfully pushing out the age envelope
in a self-directed film product. Recommended for more mature couch potatoes
into murder mysteries. (B)
<|_=00=_|>
Clint Eastwood's 20th feature directed and starring himself, Blood
Work, is a good sign in times of recent thriller drek. Here is Clint,
72 years old, and actually doing the right thing; being the old sort of
Dirty Harry-esquire type of cop while still being realistic with
himself. Truth be told, he won't do movies forever, much less be a cop
with almost all the right moves, and here we see him as FBI Agent Terry
McCaleb in the beginning try and climb a fence to catch a code killer
(which resonates from past Eastwood projects) and he collapses from a
heart attack (sad but oddly accurate). He retires, and two years later
a woman comes forth to him asking for help in finding a killer. 

And anyway, what makes Blood Work so fascinating (if only up to a point
if seen more than once) is that it's a well crafted thriller, one that
has the usual police procedural from many years back, a bit of a
romance with Wanda DeJesus, and comic relief from Jeff Daniels. So, if
you decide to see this latest installment in the sprawling career of
Clint Eastwood, keep in mind that it has all the style, music, and
nostalgia even in donuts that it had back in the day 30 years ago. And
maybe it's just me, but it will be hard not to grin when you see him
grab a gun. B+
<|_=00=_|>

Clint Eastwood's direction sadly loses its way late in this otherwise
suspenseful drama from the co-writer of "L.A. Confidential" (Brian
Helgeland). Eastwood is a famous detective, but a massive heart attack just
as he is about to catch a crazed serial killer forces him to an early
retirement. Fast-forward a bit and Eastwood has received a new heart from a
woman who has recently passed away. Slowly, but surely Eastwood's body is
accepting the new organ and it appears that a healthy recovery is imminent.
Things change though as a Hispanic woman (Wanda De Jesus) pays Eastwood a
visit one day and explains that his new heart come from her younger sister,
a woman who was killed in a convenient store. Quickly it becomes crystal
clear that the killer in the store is in fact the same man who eluded
Eastwood earlier. Now Eastwood is back one last time with a score to settle.
Through Eastwood's journey he has to indulge a pesky neighbor (Jeff Daniels)
who  wants to assist in the case, dodge cops Paul Rodriguez and Dylan Walsh
and convince doctor Anjelica Huston that he owes De Jesus his time and help.
"Blood Work" does do well for the majority of its running time, but the
punchline comes way too fast and the finale is unsatisfying to say the
least. Eastwood is pretty good as usual and Daniels is excellent in a
comical supporting turn. Everyone else though ends up struggling to keep
their intensity up as the production progresses. The "Hardy Boys" routine
and the unnecessary blossoming romance between Eastwood and De Jesus make
"Blood Work" play more like a television movie of the week than a theatrical
release. With all this said, "Blood Work" does do enough good things to keep
the audience watching and intrigued---most of the time anyway. 4 stars out
of 5.   
<|_=00=_|>
I found this to be one of those films I really enjoyed on the first
viewing, but once you know the surprise ending, the second viewing
isn't nearly as good.

It's a typically-entertaining Clint Eastwood film. He makes few dull
movies, I'll say that for him. Now that he's gotten older, his
weather-beaten face makes him all the more interesting to view.

I didn't find Anjelica Huston's weather-beaten face, however, as
believable. Her tough demeanor, including vocabulary, is not something
a doctor would have, as she plays here. Paul Rodriguez also is stupidly
profane in his role but he does have a few funny lines.

The main attraction of the story is the twist near the end so, as
mentioned, one look is just about right for this film...and it is worth
one look f you want a decent diversion for one night.
<|_=00=_|>
'Blood Work' sees actor/director Clint Eastwood ease into a more
traditional, mature and work-heavy detective story based upon Michael
Connelly's novel. We follow that of FBI profiler Terry McCaleb on the
trail of a serial killer who likes to play games with him, before his
heart eventually gives up on him during a chase. He's a cardiac patient
that receives a heart from a murder victim, and the donor's sister asks
him to come out of retirement (which is two years after the
heart-attack) to use that second chance to help find her killer.

After an excellently dark, brooding opening it goes onto settle for a
cruising old-fashion, but by-the-numbers thriller. It's the eerie
mystery that invokes the tension, not the small-added slabs of violence
and action. It's a character story. Nothing surprises, but its
elaborated make-up and cluey puzzles are absorbingly plotted by Brian
Helgeland's elegantly dry screenplay, as we watch the psychical and
mental decay first break down, but eventually go on to help rebuild our
main protagonist. Mainly through his bond with the lady he's helping
out. Even a connection is kind of hinted between the killer and
Eastwood's ex-profiler like the one in 'Tightrope' (1984). The
relationship that unfolds and expectations that arose, especially after
the killer's unmasking and his cunning intentions being revealed is
unnerving in that endearing sense. The psychological torment and
involvement is well-judged too. This observation can be seen in
Eastwood's rock-like performance, which still shows cracks of
vulnerability.

Looking comfortable in front of the camera, behind is exactly the same
with his economical direction driving the way. Edgy suspense is
well-place and timed amongst a gritty backdrop and dreary colour
scheme. Lennie Niehaus' soothingly savoury blues score, Tom Stern's
sharply pastel cinematography and Joel Cox's swift editing strengthen
the already professionally competent production. First-rate
performances engulf the feature. Wanda De Jesus strong-willed turn is
amiable. Jeff Daniel's lazy; oddball (almost comic) performance is a
fine, versatile addition. A cynical Paul Rodriguez and a solid Dylan
Walsh are good as two jealous detectives. Tina Lafford is pleasingly
sound as a detective/good friend of McCaleb and Anjelica Huston is
fiery blunt as Dr. Bonnie Fox.

A satisfyingly better than average thriller fable headed by the
ever-reliable Eastwood.
<|_=00=_|>
Clintwood's 'Blood Work' may not be the best nor most stylish of its
genre but it remains enjoyable for the most part mainly because of the
cast. It's quite a simple film but I found the end revelation
disappointing and the last half hour is a little too dramatic. During
the entire first hour, Eastwood cleverly avoids excessive violence and
gore and smoothly lets the tension build. Clintwood is supported by a
brilliant cast that includes the fabulous Anjelica Huston, the elegant
Wanda de Jesus, the charming Tina Lifford and the funny Jeff Daniels.
The cast does well but Daniels's performance is ruined by the overdone
last half hour. The film rests on Eastwood and it's great to see him
play such a role at 71 and pull it off so well. The jazzy background
score gives 'Blood Work' a classy touch. Thus, to sum it up, one can
expect a simple but engaging whodunnit thriller which is ruined a bit
by the ending but Eastwood and his cast prevent it from being a waste
of time.
<|_=00=_|>

While it might not be the most stylish or fast paced manhunt thriller,
Clint Eastwood's 'Blood Work' is still a very enjoyable piece of film.
Stylish in its' own manner, this drama returns to the yesteryears of
filmmaking and displays Eastwood's talent as an accomplished Director.
Today's cinema heavily relies on nifty editing effects and fast paced
dialogue to retain the interest of the impatient audience, yet Eastwood
gives us a refreshing and simplistic tale revolving around the resolution
of
various dastardly murders.

Eastwood stars and directs in this manhunt thriller that still manages
to retain the intriguing effect in a film in which the characters; not
actions, drive the film. Based on the novel by Michael Connelly, Brian
Helgeland (A Knight's Tale, Payback) transforms the novel into a great
script. In this film, Eastwood plays the anti-Dirty Harry in typical
Eastwood fashion as he is thrust back onto the case of a vicious serial
killer two years after retirement.

As FBI Agent Terry McCaleb, he is forced off the case after suffering
from a near fatal heart attack. Two years after, he is given a new heart
and
through a freak occurrence with the donor's heart, he is forced back onto
the case allowing for an interesting cat and mouse chase.

Eastwood has his imprints all over the film as he sticks with Musical
composer Lennie Niehaus for his film once again. Niehaus' sporadic and
rare
musical additions are usually jazz based and open the film in an elegant
manner instead of the usual commercialist propaganda that is not needed
when
opening a film of this nature.

Instead, Eastwood treats us to a good old-fashioned hunt in which
the
mystery slowly unravels in front of the viewer allowing for only the clues
to be deciphered. The plot is seemingly eerie and for some reason reminded
me of Screenwriter Andrew Kevin Walker's work (Sleepy Hollow, Seven) for
how
deliciously evil and calculated the motives for the crimes are. As a true
professional, Eastwood lays low on the violence and while there are only a
handful of action scenes, the tension builds as the clues become available
and the audience begins to piece the puzzle together.

The ingenious script calls for some sold acting and the casting is
excellent as Eastwood calls upon Angelica Huston as his perseverant Doctor
and Jeff Daniels who at first seems to be only present for comic relief
but
has a surprisingly more important and unexpected role. Wanda De Jesus and
Tina Lifford are also excellent as they round out the important cast
members
who all play a giant role in the serial killer's meticulous and
mischievous
plot.

As aforementioned, while it might not elicit the suspense thrills one
would find in the Eastwood - Wolfgang Petersen collaboration 'In the Line
of
Fire', the film still is a well-crafted and engineered film that calls for
attention. Yet, one point of contention is a love relationship that
happens
in the film. True:  Eastwood is a legend and could do whatever he wants
with
his films, but somehow seeing a man his age hook up with a younger woman
under those circumstances seemed to yell out 'insanity'. Perhaps to others
it fit the film, but in this particular context, it seemed trivial and
contrived and can make many wonder if Eastwood simply puts those scenes in
to make himself appear to be the epitome of masculinity.  In any event, it
was a treat to see a 'back-to-basics' thriller that pays off at the end
and
avoids the formulaic clichés  usually attached to these projects.

Giancarlo's Rating: **1/2

<|_=00=_|>

I found the first 3/4 of this movie actually pretty solid. I quite enjoyed
it. Though much of it is quite predictable, I found myself interested in the
film... until the end.

It's just the complete unbelievability of the ending that ruined the movie
for me. I won't put spoilers here, but I just shook my head on some of the
scenes...
<|_=00=_|>
Retired FBI detective helps a young woman solve the murder of her
sister--but he's got a personal motive: he himself received a heart
transplant from the victim! Not a bad vehicle for
producer-director-star Clint Eastwood, convincingly raspy and worn, and
still imposing when he has to be. The script is full of police clichés,
and the denouement isn't terribly surprising, but Clint has become a
reassuring presence on the screen, and his human flaws and realistic
aches and pains make him delightfully human. Supporting cast is quite
good, making the best out of a routine, unmemorable script. **1/2 from
****
<|_=00=_|>

There's really nothing new in this cop drama.  Eastwood plays his patented
Tough Cop, mellowed by age and a brand new heart, and does everything you
expect him to, including (but not limited to) defying his doctor's advice;
chasing a suspect then shooting him while suffering a heart attack, but
without once shouting, "Stop in the name of the law," or whatever is
required, even by the LAPD; having the female lead fall for him, despite an
age difference Anna Nicole Smith could relate to; solving the case despite
all the obstacles the authorities can throw at him.  

This is not a bad movie, it's just not a particularly good one.  If you're
hoping for another Unforgiven, or even a Dirty Harry, look elsewhere. 

But even Clint can't bat 1.000.

 
