

I've been getting a little tired of the computer-enhanced extravaganzas that
have been flung at viewers over the past few years.  You know what I'm
talking about--the movies that are short on plot, acting or both which are
bolstered up by loud FX and revolutionary digital animation so that it
becomes "special effects in search of a picture".  I'm delighted to say that
CALENDAR GIRLS has nothing of the kind.  It's all about the plot, all about
the women involved, and all about laughing so hard you cry--or maybe about
being able to forget tears in deep laughter, if only for a
moment.

The acting is superb.  One hardly needs to mention Helen Mirren.  I read one
comment that pans her Yorkshire accent; well, I attended it with an
Englishwoman who is very familiar with such an accent and she specifically
told me that her accent never slipped, so I've no idea where that comment
came from.

Having been involved with the world of cancer treatment recently
(fortunately with a happier outcome for my mother, a survivor of breast
cancer) this movie strikes close to home.  It's completely accurate; it's
not pretty and it's often degrading, no matter how much the oncological
staff tries to make it easier.  The movie is also accurate in the kind of
sentiments it expresses about cancer.  People who have been touched by that
filthy disease will do ANYTHING to fight it.  (I sat on a spin bike for
twenty-four consecutive hours in aid of breast cancer less than two weeks
ago, so I do know what I'm talking about.)  Yes, a few liberties with the
real story have been taken.  So what?  The result is a coherent progression
that is more interested in human beings than plot details.  And isn't that
what it should be about?

I've heard this dismissed as a movie for "older people".  I'm proud to be of
that number--after all, at the age of thirty-five I'm ten years out of the
target demographic at which Hollywood films are aimed.  If by "older people"
they mean people who want a movie to be about something important as opposed
to the latest spectacular light show, I'm glad to be of that number.  I'd
recommend this to anyone who's interested in a movie that is both
hysterically funny and deeply touching.  It has re-inspired me in the battle
against cancer, and if it does that to anyone else, it will have made a
worthwhile difference.
<|_=00=_|>

Did you know what makes the difference between "Art and Pornography"?
Well
it´s the artist. This was one of the stroking scenes of the film
"Calendar
Girls". This film is profundly moving and even more because it is based
on a
true story. The women of the W.I club somewhere in Yorkshire are famous
for
plum jam and speeches on different household or gardening items which are
mostly quite tedious.
The situation changes by the time the husband of Annie (Julie
Walters)suffers from leukemia and can´t get through. Annie´s best friend
Chris (Helen Mirren)comes up with the idea of a nude calendar with the
women
of the W.I. club to raise money for a settee at the leukemia ward at the
local hospital. At first everybody is quite suspicious but the calendar
turns out as a tremendous success which brings the girls even to
Hollywood.

I have rarely ever seen such a heart-warming and inspiring film. This
movie
makes you laugh and cry almost at the same time. (My favourite scene was
the
one with the oregano-joint ;-).) As most British comedies the actors were
fabulous and the jokes did not seem constructed like they do in most
Hollywood productions.

This film is a hymn for all middle aged women. It shows the world that
40+
women can look great even when they are nude. "The women of Yorkshire are
like the flowers of Yorkshire in the last state of their lives they look
best."

This film is highly recommendable for everybody even if you just want to
see
the beautiful landscape of Yorkshire.
<|_=00=_|>

One of the most delightful films of recent years, `Calendar Girls,' a
distaff version of `The Full Monty,' is the true story of a group of
middle-aged English women who became international celebrities when they
designed and posed for a nude fundraising calendar that sold millions of
copies worldwide.  Julie Walters and Helen Mirren head a wonderful cast,
with Walters as a woman whose husband dies of leukemia and Mirren as her
best friend who comes up with the idea of the calendar as a way of both
honoring his memory and raising money for the local hospital.

The risk for any `feel good' comedy is that it will become cloying, coy or
cutesy.  Luckily, `Calendar Girls' boasts an enormously witty screenplay and
first-rate performances by its highly gifted cast.  Each of the `girls' is
given her own unique personality so that we see them not just as a group,
united in this inspiring endeavor, but as individuals working through their
own personal demons on the rode to the project's completion.  The women face
the expected roadblocks and snafus in the form of `shocked,' disapproving
voices in the community, but their belief in the rightness of their cause
brushes all such problems aside. 

This charming film provides more genuine, out-and-out laughs than almost any
comedy of recent times.  `Calendar Girls' is heartwarming, touching and
inspiring – and what more could one ask from a `feel-good' film than that?


<|_=00=_|>
I did not expect to enjoy this movie; from the few descriptions I'd
seen I thought it would be a string of silly gags about nudity. I could
not have been more wrong. The story involves some normal, believable
characters dealing with grief and with the habitual narrowness of their
lives in a creative way. I liked them and believed in them. At times
some of the characters seem a bit to good to be true, but far more
often I found myself thinking "yes, I know people like that." Their
flaws and errors of judgment are handled well. When I first saw this
movie I was totally unaware that it was based on a true story; that
fact just put the cap on it. There's a little bit of saccharine, but a
lot more unfiltered honey.
<|_=00=_|>
Based on a true story. There is a Women's Institute in Yorkshire
England, a tiny little town. The Institute decides to raise money for
new furniture for a local hospital. They decide the only way to raise
money is do a nude calendar with members. The problem is all the
members are 50+! The calendar is done and is a roaring success. The
film focuses on some of the women and how the calendar affects their
families and personal lives.

Whimsical is the best way to describe this. It's one of those British
comedies that has few laughs, but is very lighthearted and has some
serious drama in it. I can't say I loved the movie--the script, while
well-written, is scattershot and the light, low-key tone was TOO
low-key for me. And some story lines are brought up (one of the women
has a cheating husband) and are never resolved. Still, there were some
good laughs in it and there is some just beautiful views of (I'm
assuming) Yorkshire. Especially incredible is a view of the entire town
from on top of a huge rock overlooking the area.

Also we have some wonderful British actresses playing in the lead
roles. The two best were Helen Mirren (who's just great--again) and
Julie Walters (who looks absolutely stunning). Also this is one of the
few films that celebrates the sexuality of women who are 50+. How many
movies do you you see like that nowadays? Of course this is a British
film--Hollywood would NEVER tell a story like this. Also the film does
have some fairly explicit glimpses of female nudity--but they're not
sexual in context and ARE needed for the integrity of the story.

I'm giving this a 7.
<|_=00=_|>
In the small town of Knapely, Yorkshire, England, Annie Clarke (Julie
Walters) has just lost her husband, who was ill with leukemia. Inspired
in his speech to the local Women's Institute, where he said that "the
flowers of Yorkshire are like the women of Yorkshire", and "the last
phase of the women of Yorkshire is always the most glorious", her best
friend Chris Harper (Helen Mirren) decides to make a calendar with
twelve local middle-age women nude to raise funds for the wing of
leukemia treatment in the local hospital. The calendar becomes well
succeeded, making them famous and affecting their lives.

"Calendar Girls" is a good dramatic comedy, with an interesting
screenplay and great performances of Julie Walters and Helen Mirren. It
becomes funnier because of the behavior clichés of the British
husbands. I found hilarious the scene of the breakfast, when the
husband tells his wife that she is nude in the newspaper, and then he
asks for the bacon. This movie is a good entertainment. My vote is six.

Title (Brazil): "Garotas do Calendário" ("Calendar Girls")
<|_=00=_|>

Although I prefer the older films of the forties and fifties, I was quite
touched by this one. Beautifully filmed in the "ee by gum" country of
Northern England ( and with the sun, to boot ), this was a real pleasure for
the eyes. I went to school in Lancashire so many of the sights were familiar
to me ( though this was Yorkshire ) but the countryside is similar and
apparently less wet than Lancashire, being to the east of the Pennines. The
theme of the film was an interesting one and shows that you don't have to be
young to be sexy - I found all our ladies very sexy and the calender had
very good taste - it was delightfully erotic and not pornographic at all.
The film reminded me of Billy Elliot ( also made in Ee by gum country ) but
I liked that less and Full Monty which I found far less interesting. Like
French Cinema, British Cinema nowadays doesn't produce many lively and
interesting films - that prize falls to the Americans - but just once in a
while, a little gem is produced ( other examples are Notting Hill and Four
Weddings and a Funeral ). calendar Girls was just such a gem and I was very
happy to discover it. I was also pleased to see Annette Crosbie from "One
Foot In The Grave" whom I adore as an actress as I do Julie Walters whom I
found most attractive in Educating Rita and who seems even lovlier in
Calendar Girls. Bravo !
<|_=00=_|>
Based on a true story, eleven members of a women's institute group
decide to pose nude for a rather untraditional annual calendar to raise
money for charity.

With an all star cast lead by Helen Mirren and Julie Walters, we go on
a journey through the ridicule and resistance that the ladies had to
endure to achieve this amazing feat, which ultimately raised millions.

Calendar Girls is brilliantly performed and directed, and it has many
heart wrenching tales that lie beneath the main story, each pertaining
to the girls own reasons and drives to fight for what eventually became
a mammoth success.

Heart Warming, Funny, Charming and Entertaining, undoubtedly a winner
on every level.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>

Greetings again from the darkness.  Director Nigel Cole delivers a charming,
touching, funny story with a message.  Based on the true story of a few
society women in England who decide to do a quasi-nude calendar to raise
money for a cancer center.  The well-known story itself holds few surprises,
but the cast is so wonderful and the dialogue so crisp that one can't help
but enjoy the film.  Helen Mirren ("Gosford Park") and Julie Walters
("Educating Rita") lead the mostly female cast who bare it all ... sort of. 
As much as I liked the film, I do believe the two leads should have flipped
roles to make this even more effective.  Also, the pacing is true British,
as many of the lines are missed due to U.S. audience out-loud laughter.  Be
forewarned if you see it in a full theatre ... you will miss a few lines.  A
wonderful movie for all ages and both sexes!
<|_=00=_|>
I had heard of this movie but hadn't gotten to the theatres to see it.
NOW I wish I had. And having just seen it I have to say it was a
terrific movie. 

After reading some of the negative comments on this film, I can only
wonder where the writer's hearts are(Just what were they expecting?
Porn? Sir Laurence? High Drama?)This is a movie about the events in
Yorkshire, England, that we all heard about years ago with those
wonderful English ladies who took it all off for charity. And did it
ever raise a lot for charity!

Great acting and a pleasant and watchable film with all members of your
family. I can recommend it to anyone in the world. If you don't walk
away smiling after having seen this movie you are truly the Grinch come
to life.

This gets an A+, TWO THUMBS UP, TEN STARS!. You name and this movie
deserves high praise.

Wonder where I can get one of those calendars?
