
remember this flick; recall every poorly crafted detail; recite every
stale line repeatedly. Why? Because one day, my friend, this
train-wreck will be playing at your local buck and a quarter cinema @
midnight 30 with a line of freaks rolling along the walls. Each will be
holding a ball of catnip in one hand and a jar of face cream in the
other; and you'll be the #1 popularoso if you can recite along with
this mutt. All I can say is WOW. That is the worst villain of all time:
Marbleface.. my face has become marble from too much toxic face cream?
No, this wasn't directed by a Frenchman. I mean it..This movies is A+
cheese. CGI catwoman to real Berry is stunning. Goes from sleek to
klutzy instantly. If you like this movie like i do, your rolling on the
floor. Every second is purely genius. If you liked it for real, your
bus just pulled up, get away from the comp.

Highlights: 1) This is not Catwoman. Catwoman is Selina Kyle; this is
patience something or other. This movie was too embarrassing to be
connected with such an awesome character 2) My fav part of the lame
costume: the shoes with the toes sticking out. 3) Oooooh the most
sinister thing we can think of: the fiend knows the face cream is
ruining the beautiful girls faces, but wants to profit anyhow. This
kind of villainy puts Lex Luthor to shame! 4) Catwoman's freak out with
the catnip! This is when the Rocky Horror crowd crowd will toss the
catnip balls at the screen 5) You cannot argue with the music too loud
scene. period. A keg's nozzle will NOT squirt that far Patience. How
did you achieve such a feat. You really are a super hero.
<|_=00=_|>
...how movies like this get rushed into theaters.

I honestly believe that when the idea of a Catwoman movie came across
someone's desk several years back, it was a good idea. Unfortunately
what turned up in theaters in 2004 was this mess! Having never picked
up a Catwoman comic book, I cannot judge the film on that background.
Knowing only of the old Batman TV show from the 60's, the 90's Cartoon
and the brilliant portrayal by Michelle Pfeiffer in Tim Burton's
exceptional Batman Returns in 1992. That's all I really have to go on.

However, this 2004 update on the character is flawed. Halle Berry is
awkwardly cast as the lead. Her screen presence was boring and lacked
any real motivation.

With 3 writers, it is no wonder the story goes in all directions, never
sticking to one line for too long. It is disjointed and incomplete. It
almost seems the script was written just to have CGI fight sequences
and Berry in that silly (though hot) costume! Pitof, as director
strings together a film that has no real entertainment value. Though
many scenes are shot beautifully, I do not see where he treated the
character of Catwoman as the focal point. It just seems like he was
making a movie - nothing more nothing less.

All in all the film is bland. Trite. Scripted weakly. Sloppily acted.
Well, you get the idea.

Long live the days when Michelle Pfeiffer wore the Catwoman costume.
She truly demonstrated the characteristics of a true Feline Femme
Fatale. She holds ranks with the women that have portrayed Catwoman -
Berry, though I love her, does not! 2 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
Oh my, where do I begin? Well I could tell you that this is a well made
action movie, but obviously I would be lying my head off. So instead, I
want to tell you the truth. Are you ready? Here it comes "DON'T SEE
THIS MOVIE" Let me tell you why. If you see this movie and are over the
age of 16, you will end up hating yourself for letting yourself rot for
104 minutes without getting anything back, except an increased feeling
of wanting to get revenge on Hollywood. They say that it is very hard
to get your script into a movie. Well, after seeing this movie, I think
a one legged monkey could write a better script, without either pen or
paper. The fact that Halle Berry even uses a male stunt double, makes
me loose all respect for both her and this movie. Besides the stunt
double thing, the movie still sucks. The dialog sucks, the acting is
not even present and the action looks sloppy and poorly thought
through. This movie actually made me like The Core better, which is
pretty much impossible. I rate this movie 1/10
<|_=00=_|>

Directing 0/10, Writing 0/10, Cinematography 0.5/10, Editing 1/10,
Acting 0.5/10, Overall Satisfaction 0/10

Final- 0.5/10

One word is brought to mind when thinking back to my viewing of,
Catwoman- Crap. It might be inspired by my estimation of the film's
display of only 12 minutes of living, breathing actors (which I will
get into more below). Or it could possibly be inspired by the many
errors that there wasn't even an attempt to cover, i.e.- Patience
becomes Catwoman after wandering into a restricted area. How did she
get into this restricted area, you ask? By walking through the door
marked 'RESTRICTED AREA,' in bold, red text, which was simply unlocked
and didn't even have a significant locking device on it. You know, I
might've also hated the movie (not worthy of the word 'film') because
of the pointless-undeveloped story line. And, really, it's not possible
to look beyond the disgustingly audacious 'style' of one-named
director, Pitof, which can only be described as the style of a headless
chicken running through a maze of landmines. Oh, yes, said headless
chicken is also being chased by angry natives wielding machetes.

I mentioned above that I estimated that only 12 minutes of living,
breathing actors were shown during the entire 140 minutes of film.
Almost every sequence of the movie featuring an actor seemed to be
butchered by the insertion of CGI's. I'm dead serious. I'm not just
talking high-flying, sucky action sequences- I'm talking scenes of
Catwoman walking to a motorcycle and calmly getting on it, and the
other one that immediately comes to mind is a sequence where a man (a
baddie) is simply walking. Yeah, walking. It seems agents and managers
are really watching over their clients these days.

Now, two questions I'm asking-

1) What is the point of Catwoman? What the [expletive] does she do?

It's explained in the film that Midnight, the 'magical' cat, chose
Patience to become Catwoman, but something is wrong here- CATWOMAN HAS
NO PURPOSE!! Every other superhero out there has a purpose- They save
people! It seems Catwoman's only purpose is to kill the people who
attempted to kill her and chase a cricket or two. There's nothing else
to her!

2) Where is the REAL back story?

It sure as [expletive] wasn't in the film! Why wasn't she shocked and
attempting to reason and deal with the emotional ass-kicking that would
come with the revelation? She's told she's Catwoman by the cliché cat
lady, she buys a mask and nails and the result is the 'superhero.' It's
adds up, but not into anything of any value whatsoever. Shame on you
terrible writers!

Halle Berry is a good actress. I'm not doubting or denying that. She
fully deserved her Academy Award nomination and win for 2001's
Monster's Ball, but something bad happened here. Her acting started
awful and ended awful. I'm hoping the talents and reputation of Berry
won't be harmed by her inadequate performance. 

Now, My request to Halle Berry- Ms. Berry, I want my money back. I
never thought I could see such a terrible performance from an Oscar
winning actress. Maybe you were just doing your best with the material?
But, you know, that really is not a valid excuse. After reading the
screenplay, you should've thrown it in the face of the agent who dared
display it to you. How could you not notice how awful it was? Make some
better choices and hopefully your career won't plummet as so many
others have.

I recall an interview with Ashley Judd, the original casting choice for
Catwoman, who said something along the lines of, 'Turning down the role
of Catwoman is one the things I regret the most.' Ashley, never say
that again. You have only been saved by not appearing in this
hilariously terrible film.

Listen people, don't waste your money on this glorified..erum..crap.
It's not worth the $6-$15 bucks!

So now you ask, why not just give it a zero? Why the zero-point five?
Well, The editing was sufficiently bad; the acting of Alex Borstein
could've possibly taken some effort, appropriately placed CGI's were
okay, and I like cats.

Directing 0/10, Writing 0/10, Cinematography 0.5/10, Editing 1/10,
Acting 0.5/10, Overall Satisfaction 0/10

Final- 0.5/10

<|_=00=_|>
I'm tempted to write a long piece explaining why this film was so bad,
but I can all too easily summarise by saying "Everything".

It was poorly acted, predictable, unenthralling, clichéd nonsense. And
that was just the first half hour, at which point, for the sake of my
brain and stopping it melting with the sheer tedium, I walked out of
the cinema.

If you're genuinely sad enough to believe that paying good money to see
Halle Berry in a PVC suit is good enough reason to spend time gawking
at this trash, then fine. Who am I to try to persuade you to try and do
something more valuable with your time, like base-jumping without a
parachute?

Utterly abysmal
<|_=00=_|>
I liked it. OK, it wasn't the best film ever, and yeah, there have been
better Catwomen (namely, Julie Newmar and Michelle Pfeiffer), but when
you sit and watch it with no expectations, it's actually kind of cool.

From a superhero point of view it's a little one-sided- there aren't
any real villains, at least, none who pose a real threat. Although
Sharon Stone's character reminded me a tad of Poison Ivy, you know,
super-beauty-products and all that jazz. But I quite liked that it
showed how someone really quiet and shy can turn into a catty, sexy
weirdo.

No offence meant to catty, sexy weirdos.

Catwoman has no real point to it, other than to explain how Patience
gets her powers. It would be good if there was a follow-up where she
beat Batman / Superman / Poison Ivy or whoever, but since the film did
so badly this seems about as likely to happen as pigs flying, hell
freezing over, and Ozzy Osbourne announcing a fondness for Girls Aloud.
Which is a shame, because I didn't think the film was that bad.

They'd have been better off doing a spin-off from the Batman flicks
with Michelle P (or a lookalike) as Catwoman, so the back story
wouldn't be necessary.

Don't hate me for loving Catwoman. Please?
<|_=00=_|>
Wow...I have never seen such horrendous footage in my life! I would
normally never knock something without having seen it in its entirety,
but this film is utter $hit! Put it back in the litter box and throw it
out! 

I've seen about 45 minutes of footage and it really looks like
something someone did as a flash film and they thought "Hmm...this
would look cool on film!!"

I think it's total and utter betrayal of the character's roots is bad
enough, but to compound that by ripping off elements from other
comic-based action films (The Crow, Spider-Man 1 & 2, etc.) is just
adding more nails to this already sealed coffin. 

The only positive reviews I have read seem to say that "It wasn't as
bad as everyone said it was, but it was bad". That isn't a positive
review. The only people who enjoyed this film are pre-pubescent guys
who will never know the touch of a woman without shucking out a few
hundred bucks for it.

This film is a disgrace to comics, movies, and mankind in general, and
any woman who thinks this film is "empowering" is probably some young
promiscuous woman will will be called "MAMA" before she hit age 17.

Beware this movie, and avoid it like the freaking' plague.
<|_=00=_|>
Oh, where to start...imagine all the intellectual depth of Showgirls,
plus all the excessive and ridiculous special effects of Charlie's
Angels, and then throw in some dialog crafted by whomever wrote for
Governor Schwarzenegger's Mr. Freeze in the fourth Batman movie, and
only then are you even close to a movie as awful as this.

I suppose one should not expect much from a director who actually
refers to himself as Pitof. But let's come back to that. Let's move on
to Halle Berry. Note to Halle Berry: Letting Billy Bob Thornton ream
you endlessly on camera is certainly degrading, but it was also a good
career move--and you won an Oscar; feverishly eating catnip and licking
people's faces on camera, however, is not a good career move--and
you'll probably win a Razzie this time. They make you return Oscars for
movies like this. Oh yeah, as for the supernatural explanation for
Patience Phillips/Catwoman's superhero status--she gets CPR from an
immortal Egyptian cat--I am not kidding.

And then there is Benjamin Bratt, who happens to be a pretty solid
actor, but could have very likely damaged a good career. If his
participation in this movie isn't enough to stigmatize him, then I'm
sure he had to pass up a lot of good roles because of all the time he
spent having his foot surgically removed from his former agent's
rectum. There is a scene in this movie--probably the worst, and that's
no small achievement--that is reminiscent of that ridiculous scene in
Daredevil where Jennifer Garner/Elektra and Ben Affleck/blind superhero
have a Kung Fu fight at a playground in broad daylight; in this movie
it's Halle Berry and Ben Bratt playing one-on-one hoops and her doing
Catwoman flips and yet no one appears to be too amazed by this, much
less pants-soiling surprised, and on top of that it has a sort of
VH1/Color Me Bad/early New Edition video feel to it. And I'm really not
sure what city this is all supposed to take place in--Gotham,
Metropolis, the land beneath the whole in the cutting room floor--but
apparently this place only has one detective, the unfortunate Bratt. No
matter what the crime is--burglary, murder, domestic disturbance,
interrupted ballet performance--he's always there.

As for the rest of the cast, that annoying woman from Mad TV--I know
that's not specific enough; I mean the most annoying one who plays what
I guess is supposed to be some bizarre Asian lady--well, she plays
Catwoman's annoying and sort of slutty co-worker comic relief since
Rosie O'Donnell was apparently unavailable.

And then we come to Sharon Stone. Now I know her career is going down
the crapper with all deliberate speed, but it's still hard to
understand this one. The only thing I can guess is that the opportunity
to break into silly, pseudo-feminist diatribes made this a role she
couldn't turn down. Of course Sharon has often lamented the lack of
good roles for older women in Hollywood, and she's absolutely right
about that, but this is not the best way to lodge a complaint, and plus
that's always been a little peculiar coming from an actress whose
greatest cinematic achievement is the conspicuous exposure of her
labia.

Briefly back to this Pitof character--I thought that pretentious
one-named idiot who did the Charlie's Angels movies--McG, I
believe--was bad enough, but this guy is even more shameless and
obviously lacking in talent. What's with these guys who've never made a
movie and are already going by only one name? Don't you have to work up
to that? I mean if is Scorsese wants to go by Marty, fine; if Tarantino
wants to be just Quentin, or even just Q, whatever, but where does a
hack like this get off using one name? This movie deserves every Razzie
it receives, and while some reviewers may say it's not really that bad,
remember, it took a lot of money to make this godawful thing, and if
people don't speak out about how dreadful it really is, they just might
make Catwoman 2. Can you live with that?
<|_=00=_|>

After reading some horrendous (and I mean really, really bad reviews of
'Catwoman', I was definitely considering giving it a miss). I have to
say that after having seen it, I am absolutely at a loss to words as to
why the critics have mauled it so doggedly, and in my opinion unfairly.
Were we watching the same film? What was so bad about it? Sure so the
plot was on the thin side and the dialogue was highly camp, but other
than that I can't see what has provoked the spewing of critical vomit
all over this film. Halle Berry makes an adorable Patience, and
displays her vulnerability believably and effectively. On the other
hand, she really sexes up the screen as Catwoman with the witty
one-liners, the hot costume and the raunchy whip cracking. Once again
Halle has displayed her versatility.

This film is called Catwoman, the name should explain itself. I don't
understand why people are ripping it to shreds or calling it laughable,
e.g. as in the way Patience acts becoming Catwoman, i.e. the catnip
incident (once), the hissing at dogs (once), the tuna (once, which I
found to be amusing), the prancing around. What exactly did you expect
her to do? How else do you act like a cat? How else does a human gain
feline tendencies? Got any better ideas? I didn't think so. Yet we
don't rip Toby Maguire to shreds when he shoots web from his arms (yeah
like THAT makes sense.) There is clearly a double standard approach
adopted by some critics, who contradict themselves more then they'd
care to admit. I'm not saying I didn't enjoy Spiderman as well as this.

This not brain food and you don't have to evaluate your life after it
but hey, people need that once in a while. It's a fun movie... The CGI
was NOT bad, sure it was obvious at times that it wasn't Halle but for
the most part it was done to a high standard. Let's be honest here and
give credit where credit is due the cinematography is superb. It has
such a visual allure, a dark, rich atmospheric look, and it is almost
sexy to look at. The camera work is very original looking, kudos to
Pitof, am I the first person to actually praise him? I think so. The
scene where the Egyptian Mau brings Patience back to life is beautiful
and picturesque. The music creates an epic mood.

Sharon was fun to watch as the 'past it', shallow, bitchy Laurel
Hedare. Alex Borstein shined as Patience's best friend and Benjamin
Bratt did the best that he could with what he was given as dialogue.
Lambert Wilson plays his part, in the usual camp style, but does it to
perfection. All in all the acting is not bad, and unless somebody has a
personal vendetta against Halle Berry, it can't be said that she didn't
put her all into the part. She was sizzling as Catwoman. One critic in
particular said that she looked "as sexy as a hairball in the outfit".
Either a jealous woman or a man with terrible taste in women must have
written that. Halle has undeniable sex appeal in the part. The
soundtrack is typical summer movie fare with the usual dramatic theme
song, mixed with the current popular styles, hip-hop, r'n'b. This is
after all a film that has to appeal to a teenage audience. The action
scenes are exciting and well executed. The ending is suitably over the
top but still entertaining. One scene that I thought was ridiculous was
the basketball scene and some of the dialogue could have been much
better, however the positives weigh out the negatives for me.

This is no Citizen Kane or Pulp Fiction but its no Gigli or Swept Away
either. I have seen way worse comic book movies. Daredevil, Hell Boy
and undoubtedly Hulk were worse than Catwoman. It is, on no level one
of the worst films ever made. What were people thinking writing that? I
went in with the lowest expectations possible for Catwoman and came out
of the theatre having seen a supremely entertaining, undeniably above
average film. Critics should be ashamed of themselves and audiences
should not be puppets. This is worth seeing. There has been a 'Let's
jump on the bandwagon' attitude regarding this film. One person bashes
it and suddenly everybody does. I'm glad I went to see this film so I
could make up my own mind regarding it. I usually do agree with critics
but on this one, I beg to differ. Everybody is entitled to an opinion,
you might not like mine, and I might not like yours but there is no
need to be downright nasty and unfair when reviewing something. There
is such a thing as being balanced. Oh and before people start
complaining about the absence of Selina Kyle, and Gotham city, who
cares, life is too short.

So if you want to some light, leave your brain at the door
entertainment, go to see Catwoman. If you want to see a high drama
Oscar category film, go to see something else. It's fun, sexy
action-packed, camp, stylish summer fare. It is a step above the usual
Hollywood fare in the style stakes. Pitof shows a typically stylish
French attitude. Halle Berry does herself proud. If you want to be a
gullible puppet, believe the 'we're failed artists', overly critical,
intellectually snobby critics. I don't really care if that seems like a
generalisation because it is most likely true. I bet many of them
haven't even seen it. See it for yourself, and make up your own mind. I
look forward to a sequel..

<|_=00=_|>

OK, so this is my first post here on IMDb and i had to do this because
having just seen Catwoman i cannot believe the amount of people who
just simply seem to be voting this low because of the negative press
about it, the word sheep springs instantly to mind.

Now i've voted it as a 10 on the sole principle of my above comment, in
reality i would have given it a 6 or maybe a 7 at a push.

It was by no means a great movie but for how it was hyped and the story
line behind it, i thought it did very well not to make itself into a
bad film.

Please put it into context before damning it so completely, this is a
film about a woman who dies and comes back to life due to the powers of
an ancient cat, who then goes on to investigate the reasons into her
death which were brought about due to a cosmetics firms controversial
new product. A STORY ABOUT BEAUTY CREAM, come on guys how much were you
expecting from this for you to hate it so much, it's not like the
production company hadn't been warning you for several months prior to
release.

If you take this movie for what it is, i thoroughly believe it
competently does what it set out to do, which is entertain. 

Please do not hate this film because you were expecting something else
(a Spiderman 2 or Xmen maybe) hate it if you think it is bad but on
it's own merits, not compared to other films that are out right now.

