

I saw this movie with my cousin at a nine o'clock showing on the first day
it was released.  We expected nothing of it, and we were not disappointed.
The best part was Bob Sagat screaming "there's sh*t everywhere", at the
time
I commented how prophetic that line was.  I just don't understand how they
could make this movie and throw feces all over the memory of the first
one.
The only thing the movie had going for it was that the two guys who played
Lloyd and Harry looked like Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels if you kinda
squinted and turned your head at the right angle.  Oh yea, and when we
left
that movie so brain damaged us we forgot where we parked and spent 5
minutes
looking for his car.  
<|_=00=_|>
Was this movie necessary!? This is a truly terrible film, woefully
unfunny to the extreme. Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels were excellent in
the first film and in a different league to the two actors in the roles
as the young Harry and Lloyd (the guy cast as Lloyd does look like
Carrey, except for the blue eyes). If there was ever going to be
another film about these two characters it should have been a sequel
starring the original pairing, instead we get this stinker. Dumb and
Dumber hardly had an Oscar winning story line but gave us some great
characters and a hatful of ball bouncingly funny gags, in the 'prequel'
the weak story collapses under the weight of even weaker jokes! So
uninspired is this movie that there are even rehashes of jokes from the
original, just done slightly differently but in a totally inept manner.
Dumb and Dumber is a classic, this is a pile of steaming doggy doo
doo's. Do yourself a favour stick with the Carrey film and avoid this
limp fish at all costs.
<|_=00=_|>

Quite simply, this is an awful movie. There is no excuse for people who
made this crap. I thought Gigli was much better film than this. I
believe this one is was worst film of the year and at least worst of
the decade. No story,no acting, no brains, no heart, no comedy - only
waste of time and money for everyone. But that's not all! Also I found
this movie absolutely not funny but it's simply insulting and
disgusting instead. You must protect your kids from seeing it. It's
very sadly to see so talented actors (including Shia Lebeouf, who
looked very good in Holes) involved in this disaster. 

Avoid all costs and stay away as far as you can from this garbage. It
worse than anybody could expect. Don't see it even for free! Trust me!
I never felt so miserably than I watched this trash. Why, Why I have
lost my time and my money for it? Nobody knows. Anyway, you've been
warned.

My rating: F- or 0/10. 

Sorry for my bad English.

<|_=00=_|>
This is the worst movie I have ever seen. I'm serious. Do yourself a
favor and stay as far away from this movie as you can....ESPECIALLY if
you are even just a small fan of the original movie. The actors are
horrible, the plot is even worse, and the jokes are completely
unoriginal. I am the biggest Dumb and Dumber fan, and when I saw this
prequel, I would've rather been stabbed with a pitchfork and dumped in
boiling hot wax than sit through the rest of the movie. It was just so
disappointing. Of course, I didn't really have high hopes for it to
begin with anyway. Instead of seeing this movie, just watch good old'
Dumb and Dumber ONE a couple times.
<|_=00=_|>
I challenge anybody to tell me what the f*** I just saw. I mean is
Hollywood even trying anymore. Well I can't lie, I knew it was going to
be a piece of s***. But I never expected it to stink this bad. The
weird thing about this me being mad thing is, that I'am not mad like
disappointed mad, but I could just start kicking someone's a** mad. Who
funded this undeserving prequel. Why was there ever a prequel anyways.
Please don't waste your life line on this movie.

For one the jokes are so forced on you that you'd have to be a child to
understand the humor. Some of the actors in the movie, I've seen in
very good movies, like the kid who where the donkey head in the parade,
he was good in "HOLES". But I guess he didn't see this hole coming. In
summary don't and I repeat don't expect to find some humor in this
movie because there is none. I hate this f****** movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Words fail to express my dismay at having wasted a half hour of my life
on this film. If it seems unfair to review a movie based on only
watching it 30 minutes, excuse me, but how about the unfairness of
duping viewers into thinking they're gonna see the sequel to 'dumb and
dumber' which was a FUNNY film, with this bait and switch trash? You've
got two (to me) unknown, and sadly, unfunny actors replacing the
demented and dumb, yet humorous originals Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels.
Then you get a story going nowhere My half hour was spent without a
single chuckle; I might have moaned once or twice from indigestion. I
couldn't stomach watching any more; I felt I was gonna hurl.

This is one of the worst sequels of all time.
<|_=00=_|>

So my roommate borrowed "Dumb And Dumberer".

God only knows why.

Anyway, he puts it in the machine and shortly afterward leaves the room to
take a phone call.

He owes that caller more than he knows.

See, as I hadn't paid any money for it, nor even gotten my butt up off the
couch to load the disc, I had little investment in it. Thusly I figured it
wouldn't take much to meet my relatively low expectations for it. After
all,
the first one was pretty funny, right?

Before I continue, it should be noted that this movie had none of the
original cast members, writers, directors, etc from the first
film.

No one, at least, worth noting.

Now, back to the story. Where the first movie had laughs galore (most of
them cheap lowbrow humor, but hey, if I want Shakespeare, I'll read
Shakespeare...) this movie had a sprinkling of "That's kinda funny..." and
"Was that funny? I can't tell anymore..." moments.

The most telling thing I can say about this movie is that I DIDN'T FINISH
IT. Nay, I COULDN'T finish it.

A friend of mine that had the misfortune of being in the room with me at
the
time said it best when he said: "At one point I laughed at how painfully
unfunny it was and I realized that it (the movie) had pulled me down to
it's
level."

Of course he also said: "Another reason dumb and dumbrererererrer sucked
is
that both guys were trying to cop Betty White's "Rose" character from the
Golden Girls but neither of them possesses her panache or supple
buttocks."

Verily, it is a thing of evil.

Having said that, it's not the worst movie I've ever seen. I would have to
give some thought to exactly which movie holds that dishonor. "Batman and
Robin" is pretty close. But no, I've actually finished worse movies than
this. Thing is, in those movies I held out hope that they would get better
before the end. With Dumb and Dumberer, there was no such hope. In fact,
there was utterly no hope at all.

I did get a chuckle from a couple moments though. Like when the two
titular
characters walk down the school hallway with their Special Ed class to the
theme from the A-Team, and... well, that's it actually.

Oh yeah, Mimi Rogers made out with a little hottie named Rachel
Nichols.

The most notable thing about Nichols, other than her being very
attractive,
is that she's in the new Bruce Campbell film "The Woods" which is
currently
in post production.

Apart from that "Dumb and Dumberer" can be summed up by the fact that I
actually got up off my couch to remove this ultra-boring, ultra-unfunny
piece of cinematic spam from the DVD player.

PS: I did put it back in to check the not-so 'Special Features', but I did
not find the apology I was looking for.

Maybe it's an 'Easter Egg'.

I don't recommend checking yourselves, but if someone finds it, please let
me know. I feel it's owed to me.

<|_=00=_|>
...or how to make a comedy without a laugh?

When I first heard that there's a sequel to Dumb and Dumber I was
ecstatic
since this was the best comedy in ninenties and certainly one of the best
comedies ever. But after seeing opening credits (No Jim & Jeff), I was a
little sceptical. Never mind, it still can be good...

Erghh, wrong. The movie was getting worse and worse. The leading
characters
were shown like a couple of retards (very unlikable, since in original
there
aren't THAT slow), who were just trying to imitate Jim Carrey and Jeff
Daniels and failed miserably. Lack of charm, i guess. But the main fault
goes to script writer who provides a lot of already seen jokes as the
rest
of the producers of this crap.

I agree, it would be nearly impossible to beat the original version,
since
it was full of original black humor, but hey, at least they could try
harder. Despite that movie sucked, it has some moments...but since i
can't
remember any if them, i couldn't rate it higher than

3 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
Dumb and Dumberer: When Harry Met Lloyd is really just a dumb comedy,
the only problem is that it isn't funny. It's the first day of high
school and Harry, who previously has been home schooled by his mother,
needs someone to show him the ropes. Lloyd, who lives in the school's
basement with his adoptive dad/school custodian Ray, turns out to be
just the guy. They unknowingly fall into the web of the corrupt
Principal Collins and his girlfriend, head lunch lady Ms. Heller, who
want them to be the first students in a phony "special needs" class in
order to bilk $100,000 in grant money for themselves. Harry and Lloyd
go out to look for more students for this new class, they catch the
attention of Jessica Matthews, a hard-hitting reporter for the school's
newspaper, who suspects foul play. The plot sounds like it has some
potential but the execution is very bad. This has to be the most
pointless film of 2003 and one of the least funniest as well. Most of
the jokes just fall flat and apparently the filmmakers weren't trying
at all. I can see now why Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels backed out of
this one. They are replaced by Eric Christian Olsen and Derek
Richardson. Derek and Eric both play their roles dumb, they just try to
hard most of the time and aren't funny. Eugene Levy is embarrassingly
bad and this has to be his worst film ever. Mimi Roger's role is small
but its nice to see her on screen. She is also one of the few saving
graces in this film. The rest of the cast is mostly unfunny except for
Bob Saget who does have some funny moments. Troy Miller does a poor job
of directing and writing as he didn't seem to really put a lot effort
in. People are defending this film, saying that you can't take every
film seriously. I wasn't taking this film seriously and it still wasn't
very funny. There might had been a laugh here or there but that's it.
The original was fine and didn't need a prequel to explain what
happened before and this film just ruins the original. The running time
is also a good thing as its only 82 minutes long though sometimes it
feels longer. Is this film better then the original? No, not even close
and this comedy should be forgotten. In the end, this film is not worth
the time or money to watch and its better if you just skip this. Rating
3.3/10, rent the original instead.
<|_=00=_|>

It is tough living up to D&D I so you have to take this money for what it
is, a brave attempt to relive the first one.  Do they pull it off?  Kind
of.
It is worth the money to go see this if you don't take yourself too
seriously.

I think that the people that made this movie are having the last laugh, it
will go over $30 million by the end of next week.  For a movie, any movie,
to bring in $30 million bucks on about a $15 million dollar budget is a
coup.  After this is all said and dumb with the DVD sales and the HBO
licensing this movie will make a cool $50 million bucks profit,
easily.

Stop taking yourselves too seriously, go watch a stupid movie and laugh
your
ass off.  Hell, if we can sit through a funny movie, maybe we can all
lighten up a little in these way too serious world.
