
Stars operating at the level of Halle Berry and Penelope Cruz are bound
to disappoint critics along the way, especially when the critics are
just waiting for some sign of weakness upon which to feed. While there
is nothing wrong with any of the acting in this film - these are not
the kinds of roles Oscar winners and nominees are expected to indulge
in. 

What's more, Berry and Cruz signed onto a film made by a production
team which has typecast itself with some fairly disappointing ghost
stories / horror films involving big-names in the recent past.

Finally, this is one of those cases where the trailer was so good that
the film could not possibly follow it. 

So what? 

If you approach this film without expectations, and with an open mind,
you will be entertained. It's a tight, disturbing
psychological/supernatural thriller which, though a little predictable
at times, nevertheless offers some frightening imagery and a few good
solid scares. That said, this is not a film for people who have trouble
paying attention or for people who need straightforward answers. If you
don't really pay attention to what is going on in this film, you could
easily dismiss it as a more adult version of Sixth Sense or just
another dumb ghost story. This film deserves more credit than that. 

Personally, I don't think it's a ghost story at all- but that is a
question best left open.

I have seen a number of films by this team - House on Haunted Hill, 13
Ghosts and Ghost Ship. Of these, I found 13 Ghosts and the House on
Haunted Hill to be entertaining, but not very intelligent. Ghost Ship
was tremendously disappointing - even Gabriel Byrne could not save that
film. Gothika is easily the best of the lot, and also the darkest. The
film is shot in dark blue, black and gray tones, and the use of
lighting is nothing short of artistic. Despite the cliché title, the
occasional plot clichés, and all the negative publicity generated by
critics, I found this film to be surprisingly entertaining,
intelligent, and disturbing. 

Most of the 'plot holes' cited by some reviewers here on IMDb are more
likely gaps in the attention spans of the viewers themselves or
intentional ambiguities designed by the production team. This, unlike
any of this team's previous work, does not provide unambiguous
explanations.

Cruz and Berry are, respectively, patient and psychiatrist in a high
security prison for the criminally insane. The Gothic environment of
this facility is not meant to be realistic, but surreal, and the effect
works. From the first time you see the place, you question its own
reality. The film constantly manipulates mood through cinematographic
techniques like this. 

Shortly after the film opens, Berry finds herself experiencing what
some of her allegedly delusional patients talk to her about. Robert
Downey's portrayal of her friend and, now, therapist, is uneven, but
satisfactory.

To describe the rest of the plot would require spoilers, so I won't
bother. Suffice to say that even the occasional predictability of this
film did not detract from my enjoyment of it. 

The film uses just enough ambiguity to permit the audience to wonder
whether what they are seeing is really happening or whether it is a
product of our protagonist's subconscious mind. And then, in the end,
the film makes you question whether it matters.
<|_=00=_|>

'Gothika' may be looked at as an exercise in style. The plot is about a
psychologist in a women's prison who wakes up one day to find herself on the
other side of the bars, accused of having murdered her husband. She needs to
prove her innocence, but the film is not what you expect. There will be not
too much logic in what follows, and the borders between reality and
halucination seem to be crossed by the director and script writer, not only
by the characters. 

What saves the film is the excellent acting of Halle Berry, Penelope, Cruz,
Robert Downey Jr., and all the rest of the cast, the haunting setting, and
the way the atmosphere is being build. The institution looks like some
gothic building from outside, with blue lighted corridors inside creating an
appropriate setting for the mood of the characters. Rain seems to poor
almost permanently, kind of reflecting the fluid state of mind of the
characters.

This film will not be easy to forget for me. Despite its ridiculous script
and the conventional way the plot is being solved, the quality of the cinema
is above average. Halle Berry is fantastic, and may have bought back her
acting in a James Bond movie. Uneven but still memorable. 7/10 on my
personal scale. 
<|_=00=_|>
I have read many reviews that seemed to think Gothika was a waste of
time. Let me just say, it is not a waste of time. in fact, the film was
very enjoyable. it was shot well and the special effects were
sophisticated and well handled. The cast was full of surprises such as
Bernard Hill(great actor but a strange role). The story was interesting
and there was genuine tension throughout.

Berry's character is a doctor in a mental institute. she wakes up to
find herself an inmate in the very place she works. Her colleague and
friend played by robert downy jnr tells her that she has committed a
horrific crime and nobody knows why. so the plot begins to wind its way
towards a shadowy truth. However, without giving anything away, the key
scenes where important truths are revealed to the audience are simply
too clumsy. information is just handed over visually on a plate and
leaves little to the imagination. some of the tension built up in

the first half of the film is lost. and the truth isn't quite as
gripping and terrifying as we would have hoped(although thats not to

say it is pleasant).

Robert Zemeckis was one of the producers and i think it shows..there is
some great camera work and some really interesting ideas but gothika
doesn't have some of the subtle touches that What Lies Beneath had, but
its easy to see some of the parallels between the two films.

Even though halle berry wears the same look of shocked disbelief
throughout the film, she plays it with conviction. and a supporting
role from penelope cruz certainly doesn't take anything away from
berry.

all in all, gothika provides a good story, an average screen play and
enough innovative ideas to keep its audience. but i would have been
disappointed if i had paid to watch it at the cinema.
<|_=00=_|>
Halle Berry plays brilliant criminal psychologist, Dr. Miranda Grey; an
expert in what is rational, logical and sane. After she encounters a
mysterious young girl, she finds herself confined to the institute in
which she once worked; along side the patients she once treated. She
has to rationalise what is real in her own mind, before she loses it
forever.

The setting and atmosphere that is created in Gothika is excellent, and
the movie is definitely creepy enough to jangle your nerves. Halle
Berry, Penelope Cruz and Robert Downey Jnr all fit into their roles
nicely; the problem is plain and simple. The storyline and script are
too weak to achieve what this movie sets out to do, and because of some
lame dialogue and a flawed plot the movie only manages to be decent;
when it really should have been great.

6/10 It's still worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
Dr. Miranda Grey (Halle Berry) is a psychiatrist who works in a
penitentiary, in the mental institution sector. She is married with Dr.
Douglas Grey (Charles S. Dutton), the chief of department where Dr.
Pete Graham (Robert Downey Jr.) also works. Chloe Sava (Penélope Cruz),
a patient of Dr. Miranda formerly abused by her stepfather, claims that
she is frequently raped by the devil in her cell. After leaving the
asylum in a stormy night, Dr. Miranda has a car accident, and when she
wakes up, she is an inmate of the institution, being accused of an
horrible crime and having no memory of the incident. 

This ghost-story has an excellent atmosphere and photography, and the
initial two-thirds of the story is really intriguing. I really expected
an excellent movie, in the level of "The Sixth Sense", "The Others" or
"El Espinazo del Diablo". Unfortunately, the writer got lost with his
plot and presented a horrible, almost ridiculous, conclusion of the
story. I am a great fan of horror movies and I liked "Gothika", even
with such a silly end, but it could have been better and better. My
vote is six.

Title (Brazil): "Na Companhia do Medo" ("In the Company of the Fear")
<|_=00=_|>
Miranda Grey (Halle Berry) is a doctor at a psychiatric prison. On the
way home one evening, she has to take a detour, and has a supernatural
experience that winds up with her being an inmate in the same
psychiatric prison, now a patient of her former colleague, Pete Graham
(Robert Downey, Jr.). Gothika is an exploration of what happened to
Miranda, as she gradually uncovers a mystery.

This was a very effective combination of a horror film and a
suspense/thriller for me. I rated it a 9 out of 10, only subtracting
one point for a somewhat awkward beginning. While it's not anything
particularly groundbreaking, films do not need to be unprecedented for
me to enjoy them a lot and give them high ratings.

Visually, Gothika follows the late 90s/early 00s trend of desaturated
films that have a predominant color--blue in this case. It creates an
atmosphere that works very well for a horror/suspense film of this
type, and that is heightened by the Gothic sets and production design
(the one shot we get of the exterior of the psychiatric prison makes it
look like an old castle). Although the overall structure is more along
the lines of a pedestrian thriller, the film adeptly weaves horror and
unusual stylistic elements throughout its length, creating a whole
greater than the sum of its parts. The performances are good, and the
script and direction will keep you guessing most of the time. My only
other slight negative criticism is that the ending is somewhat abrupt
and could be seen as leaving some loose threads. However, it wasn't
enough of a misstep that I subtracted another point--my score remains 9
out of 10.

This is a Dark Castle film, so it's perhaps not surprising that some of
the horror-related effects have a similarity to Thirteen Ghosts (2001),
House on Haunted Hill (1999) and Ghost Ship (2002). It's also a safe
bet that if you liked those films (I loved all three), and the idea of
melding them with a thriller, you'll like Gothika as well.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not too fond of these supernatural thrillers, but I must say
Gothika did the job and scared the hell out of me. Mathieu 'Amelie'
Kassovitz did a better job than most of the other directors trying to
make that 'new Ring'.

Miranda (Berry) works in a clinic as a psychiatrist, only to wake up
one day as... a patient. It turns out she killed her husband (and
boss... hmm) quite gruesomely. Miranda tries to find out what happened
while she is haunted by some spirit.

A couple of plot holes and a silly ending don't make it a particularly
good movie, but I had my frights and fun. Better than most comparable
movies.

6/10.
<|_=00=_|>
A Brilliant Criminalogist/Psychologist Dr. Grey (Oscar-Winner:Halle
Berry) at the mental hospital for woman at Woodward. Then one day, she
finds herself as a Patient without knowing why. She finds out that she
murdered her husband (Charles S. Dutton) and she has been seeing a
Violent Spirit (Kathlenn Mackey) trying to help her to see the truth
what happen to Dr. Grey and the Violent Spirit.

Directed by Mathieu Kassovitz (The Crimson Rivers, Hate) made a
extremely familiar but a well made stylish supernatural horror film.
This is the highest grossing film for Joel Silver (The Matrix Trilogy)
and Robert Zemeckis (Back to the Future Trilogy) Production
Company-Dark Castle Entertainment. Kassovitz shows some strong visual
style in the film makes this work. The film gets better with each
viewing. One of the highlights is Matthew Libatique's cinematography
(Phone Booth, Requiem for a Dream, Tigerland).

DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (1.85:1) transfer and an
terrific-Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD has an fine audio
commentary track by the director and the cinematographer. DVD also
features a music video and the theatrical trailer. Berry gives a good
performance but she surrounded by an solid supporting cast like Robert
Downey Jr., Penélope Cruz, John Carroll Lynch and Bernard Hill. The
film is supposed to take place in the Upstate New York but it is nicely
filmed in the country side of Montréal. The film doesn't have much
logic but for a supernatural horror film, this is nicely done.
(****/*****).
<|_=00=_|>

People really must lighten up about movies.  Before they were for pure
entertainment, and could be as good or bad as they wanted to be, but they
were to be watched for pleasure and not to be scrutinised to death.

Gothika was entertaining; it was fun, scary, sinister and spooky.  It was
good and if we look over the predictability and insignificant holes then
we
can maybe see a good movie.  The characters were great, Miranda and Chloe
heading a thoroughly good cast that carried a more than decent movie.  The
directing must be given its due credit, and this is a much better movie
overall than the mess of 'parodies' and 'romantic comedies' that are
tumbling out of the cinema right now like a drowning and persistent tidal
wave.

I personally fell in love with the movie after never seeing a horror
before
in my life.  In my mind it reaches to be one of Halle Berry's best movies
to
date, and my favourite movie of the year so far.  Then again I can sit
back
and let myself enjoy a movie instead of waiting hungrily for holes and
bloopers to come out and entertain me instead.

8/10

<|_=00=_|>
I'm a big fan of horror movies, but deliberately tend to avoid the ones
starring A-list actors and actresses. One of the most essential yet
unwritten rules of the genre states: the bigger the names involved in
the production, the weaker the shocks and the tamer the blood & gore
effects. If this statement were an exact science then "Gothika" would
be one movie to avoid at all costs, with its all-star ensemble cast
including Halle Berry, Robert Downey Jr., Penelope Cruz, Charles S.
Dutton, Bernard Hill and John Caroll Lynch. But this really isn't a bad
movie at all, in fact, and the acclaimed names seemingly didn't form
any restriction for director Mathieu Kassovitz (creator of "The Crimson
Rivers" and the brilliant crime thriller "La Haine"). The good news is
that "Gothika" is a surprisingly grim and darkly atmospheric ghost
story, with a handful of genuinely eerie set pieces and uncomfortable
moments. Perhaps it's the influence of the French director, but it
honestly feels like the movie aimed for chills & shock rather than to
come across as politically correct. The bad news, however, is that the
script is weak and incredibly predictable. The first twenty minutes
still manage to be somewhat mysterious, but as soon as the ghost-story
aspects begin to unfold, the denouement already becomes obvious to
slightly experienced horror fanatics. Miranda Grey is a professional
psychiatrist working in the same all-girls asylum as her husband; Dr.
Douglas Grey. She strongly believes there's a rational explanation for
everyone and doesn't really listens to what her patients, Chloë in
particular, have to say. Whilst driving home one rainy night, Miranda
becomes involved in a nasty car accident because there's a girl in the
middle of the road. Next thing she knows, Miranda wakes up as a patient
in her own asylum and she's accused of murdering her husband. Shortly
after, she has ghostly visions again of the girl she saw on the road,
and it seems as if she's trying to tell Miranda something very
important, so she better learns to really listen. Even in spite of the
sadly transparent and derivative plot, "Gothika" manages to remain
compelling and even somewhat engaging. Halle Berry is a marvelous
actress (as well as one of the most ravishing women on the planet) and
a joy to behold as the 'dame in distress'. She receives excellent
support from the always-cool Robert Downey Jr. and I never saw Penelope
Cruz deliver a better performance. If I were her, I would accept more
crazy-lady roles. This certainly isn't the kind of stuff nightmares are
made of, but it's a worthwhile little thriller nonetheless.
