

This movie is not as bad as it is cracked out to be. I actually went into
the movie with a negative bias by reading all the comments and hearing all
the trashing reviews. This movie was not too bad at all. I found it very
watchable. 

Okay ask yourself whether you like the show Everybody Loves Raymond. Because
that it is how most of the humor is in the movie, minus the laugh track. The
show is a big hit sensation, and the two characters Ray Romano play, in
personality and such, are very similiar. 

The story is pretty outrageous, but in a good way. The movie had the nice
friendly small town feel to it. Kind of like Groundhog Day did, minus the
having the same day happen over and over again thing, and that entire
storyline. 

It is a pretty friendly movie, and pretty funny as well. Had my laughing on
a few occasions. Worth the watch. Don't be intimidated by the reviews. It is
a good movie.
<|_=00=_|>
While not laugh out loud funny, this movie was entertaining and
amusing. Gene Hackman played the best character, a popular ex-President
who moves to his vacation home only to find himself running for mayor.
His character is very stereo-typical of what people think of
politicians being, which is a good thing. When making speeches, he says
what the audience wants to hear, he tries to dig up dirt on the
opponent, etc... And Ray Romano is the opponent, Handy who everyone in
town knows. He doesn't like to take risks and isn't opinionated. He's
been dating Sally for six years, but hasn't popped the question.

Not only do the two run for mayor, they also but heads over Sally. The
recently divorced President asks Sally out and she accepts. Of course,
his people call the press and they are hounded by cameras. The Pres
starts losing book deals and speech tours, so he wants to step down
from running but doesn't want it to look like he got beat by his
plumber. And the race ends in the happiest way possible.

Some of my favorite scenes were the president's golf game, the ex-first
lady calling out the secret service in the woods who are there to throw
golf balls for the president. Fred SAvage and his line of sight with
the pres; the architect who keeps having to shrink the model of the
presidential library. A lot of the political humor was just tongue in
cheek.

FINAL VERDICT: I liked it. At least the plot made sense and it was
amusing, which is more than I can say for a lot of movies now days. So,
if you are looking for some entertainment, I recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>

It lacks a satirical bite, which would have made the movie more relevant and
interesting, but Welcome to Mooseport is an enjoyable comedy anyway. Ray
Romano stars, and he proves himself to be quite an excellent comedian on the
big screen. Of course, the role isn't that much different from his character
on Everybody Loves Raymond, but it's not at all bad to go with what you
know. It's worked with any number of comedians in the past, and it should
work with Romano. Unfortunately, the movie tanked at the box office and was
not liked much by the audiences who did see it. That really surprises me.
Gene Hackman co-stars as the former President of the US, Monroe Cole. He is
moving to the small Maine town of Mooseport, and some of the citizens
persuade him to run for mayor. Unfortunately, others have also persuaded one
of the town's upstanding citizens, the hardware store manager, Handy
(Romano), to run. Handy is more than willing to drop out (he doesn't care
much and doesn't doubt that the ex-President will trounce him), but when
Cole unknowingly hits on Handy's girlfriend (Maura Tierney), the war is on.
The film could have gone any number of ways at this point, and I expected it
to become mean-spirited. But it doesn't. Cole is an egomaniac, which isn't
shocking considering his life, and Handy is an extraordinarily nice guy. A
little stupid, especially when it comes to his relationship, but he's the
guy you'd like to have as a friend. The funniest sequence involves a golf
game between the two candidates. There is one piece of this that is just a
great example of montage and comic timing. The movie is sweet without
getting too sappy. Yet the movie really squanders a lot of opportunities.
This could have been a great political satire, and we need one right now.
Its worst crime is hiring a cast that is more talented than it needs to be,
thus wasting a lot of people in roles that are beneath them, and likely
wasting a ton of money because of it. Marcia Gay Harden, one of the hardest
working actresses in Hollywood today, and one of the best, is decent as one
of the President's handlers. Rip Torn is a dirty campaign manager. Maura
Tierney, so very good on the television show News Radio, doesn't have
anything to do. Fred Savage, for God's sake, has most of the funniest
moments outside of Romano's presence. Whatever complaints I have, I was
always enjoying the movie. It's well worth seeing, and it is a must-see for
fans of Romano. 7/10.
<|_=00=_|>
I somehow do not get it why some don't really like this. I mean, it's
meant to be a comedy. Anyone living in a small town will kind of relate
to this. I may be coming from someone growing up in an urban
environment, but all the excitement of someone famous coming to live in
a town is always so fun and surreal.

Monroe 'Eagle' Cole (Gene Hackman) had served two successful terms as
the president. All he wanted to do is to enjoy his retirement. But his
arrival to his hometown of Mooseport had caused some spectacle of
sorts.

The last thing on Monroe's mind is to run for Mayor but then he was
being persuaded by the local authorities to be one. But then he also
had an opponent and it's in the form of local resident Handy Harrison
(Ray Romano).

What was meant to be a fair fight for the mayor position had led to an
all-out war of sorts, given the ex-president is meeting Handy's
girlfriend Sally (Maura Tierney). It was meant to be a casual meeting
between Monroe and Sally about discussing about having a pet, but the
media had made it into a spectacle. Also around the same time, the
former first lady Charlotte Cole (Christine Baranski) had shown up in
Mooseport to support Handy to be the mayor.

On the polling day, it was quite a close fight. In fact, very close. It
was like no surprise who won in the end.

My knowledge of small-town politics is not that wide, but then I am
aware of the humour being thrown into it.

It's meant to be a fun movie, and nothing else. I do kind of like it.
<|_=00=_|>
Donald Petrie's political comedy is spot-on for me, i mean its not an
amazing social commentary or anything, but it provides some good
laughs, good performances, decent story and plot. I liked Schulman's
wit some of the dialogues were pretty funny and Petrie's direction
suited the comedic manner in which this film was intended for. Hackman
was very good while Romano was not bad either much better here than
Grilled, meanwhile Marcia Gay Harden, Fred Savage and Rip Torn were
also pretty good. Overall a decent comedy, solid film, no complaints
here, should have a higher overall IMDb rating in my opinion.-- IMDb
rating: 5.3, my rating: 8/10
<|_=00=_|>

This movie as not as bad as many would have you believe (including some
reviewers here and almost every critic).  It's not a great movie, but it has
a certain charm and sweetness.  I found myself getting antsy at times, but I
liked the story overall.  I think the main problem is Ray Romano.  For one
thing, he is not a very good actor and for another, he does not have the
charisma needed for movies.  Tim Allen's persona, to give one example,
translates much better to the big screen.  The other actors are good,
though, especially Gene Hackman and Maura Tierney.  Tierney is very
appealing.  She should be in more movies.  When Hackman and Tierney are on
screen, the movie brightens, but when the camera focuses on Romano, the
movie sags.  I doubt that teens and young adults would like this movie, but
if you are over thirty and like romantic comedies, I would recommend it.  6
out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
This film, was by no means, good. but it wasn't that bad to be honest.

There were many comical elements, and a lot of them were intentional.

Ray Romano was very good, and his character was quite likable, but at
the same time a complete jax.

There wasn't really anything that stood out in this film, as "poor".
The acting was reasonably good, the cinematography was OK, the
storyline was a bit far fetched, and very predictable. But apart from
that, and a few cheesy moments, this wasn't too bad.

I was expecting to enjoy this film, because of it's lesser qualities,
however, i found a lot more.

Give it a try, it's not as bad as it looks.
<|_=00=_|>
My summary quote is a line from the movie and not the way I feel about
the picture's message. Just had to get that out of the way. The
conclusion you'll quickly come to after realizing the film's premise is
that no way could this ever happen for real. An ex-President of the
United States running for mayor of any small town USA is just not going
to happen. It would be like an actor of say Gene Hackman's stature, an
Oscar winner for "The French Connection" and "Unforgiven", showing up
in a film like "Welcome to Mooseport". Well, wait a minute.

For a Saturday evening family movie night, this one isn't the worst
choice you could make. If you're a dedicated network TV series fan,
you'll probably catch a lot of your favorites from past shows here,
like Ray Romano, Christine Baranski, Maura Tierney, and wonder of
Wonder Years, the grown up Fred Savage still looking like the same
wholesome kid he was way back when. But that's about as far as you'll
get, with Romano doing his Everybody Loves character, and similar
offerings from the rest of the players who are pretty much typecast
from previous roles. Which is not to say that that's a bad thing if
you're a fan of the principals.

Had this been made today though, think of the possibilities. You could
have had a real life Joe the Plumber against a former President who
took the whole hope and change thing just a bit too far. On the one
hand you'd have a President who's approval index matched that of Monroe
'Eagle' Cole at the height of his Presidency, and on the other you'd
have a candidate who actually knew how to fix things.
<|_=00=_|>

Welcome to Mooseport ***

After watching Welcome to Mooseport, I was thoroughly amused. I was
surprised by the demeaning criticisms that I found throughout the
message boards. I realize that this film is not a film of "excellent
quality" or great artistic merit, but I don't think that it was meant
to be of great quality. However despite what it lacks, it made me laugh
out loud as comedies are meant to do. I laughed on many events as the
Mayoral race progressed. I thought that the minor characters added an
element of almost unintentional witty humor to the movie's overall
sense of humor. I cracked up watching the president's (Gene Hackman)
"people" who consisted of amusing body guards and political cronies as
well as The Mooseport citizens who just made me smile as I watched them
be humorous in their own unique way. 

I found this film quite amusing and suggest to anyone who can enjoy a
simple light laugh. A great movie for the kids (probably kids over 8 or
9).

I give it ***

<|_=00=_|>

Okay, I have to say I just got done watching this movie, and I can't
explain how much I liked it. You honestly can't find too many films
these days that make you feel as good as this one does. Sure, there are
moments where the bit characters are BIT too much, and the story
suffers from some predictability. However, if you are a fan of Romano
or Hackman, or a fan of a movie where you end it feeling great about
the time you spent, then see this movie. Romano fans will get an even
bigger kick out of this movie because he is spectacular in it. It seems
to have incorporated all of his personality nicely into the film. All
of the main characters are just a treat to watch, especially if you get
the DVD. The extras are very nice and complimentary.(Soova commercial)
I can't say enough about this film, great stuff. Can't wait to see more
from Romano! 9/10 rating!

