

Juni Cortez is no longer with the OSS and is now a private detective,
taking
work where he can get it.  However, the President himself requests Juni
return to service as his sister is in danger.  She has entered, and become
trapped in, a deadly video game called Game Over which has been designed
by
the Toymaker.  In it he ensnares children's minds forever.  Juni is sent
in
to rescue her and team up to stop the Toymaker's evil plot.  Enlisting his
grandfather's help, Juni sets out to win the unwinable level
5.

I usually don't enter a film series in the middle simply because it is
often
difficult to appreciate the third instalment of anything without having
seen
what has gone before.  However, when it comes to a kids' film, I was
pretty
sure that I could managed to battle through the labyrinth-like plotting of
the Sky Kids series!  I started watching this film in 3-D (I had a 2 dvd
set) but the glasses were a little uncomfortable and the colours looked
funny all the way through.  After seeing a few items sort of float vaguely
around my television I was quite unimpressed and decided just to go with
the
2-D disk.  The plot is pretty thin (it's never really clear what the
attraction of the game is or what the Toymaker even wants) but it sets up
a
colourful and enjoyable little ride through a computer game - which is
delivered pretty well despite all it's silliness!

The main weapon in the Spy Kids' cannon is it's stars - both actors and
director.  Rodriguez is a very good director when it comes to style and
action and his influence makes this film a lot more fun than others likely
would.  He is slick but also fully aware that he needs to make it `fun'
and
not just colourful and noisy.  It's all a bit silly of course but the 3-D
gimmick is a little bit heavy at times (like the old films in the 50's
that
had actors punching at the screen) but it isn't that bad.  The reason the
silliness doesn't really damage the film is because the actors seem to
play
to it - and a very fine series of performances these are.  Pretty much all
the cast are good fun and their performances are about as hammy and fun as
you can imagine.  Sabara is great fun - a cool kid without any of the
horrid
cutesy stuff that can happen.  I found Vega less fun as she was a little
too
smart for my liking, but she was still fun and the rest of the kids were
suitably fun with not a bad performance between them.  The adult cast will
provide much of the fun for the adults watching - there is a large number
of
Rodriguez regulars in the cast who all overplay to suit the sense of fun
the
film has.

Montalban is great fun. Forever Khan in my mind, he has a great voice and
screen presence and he heavy makes the message of forgiveness work
reasonably well and not just being mawkish like it should be! Stallone
hams
it up and has good fun even if his multiple personalities don't totally
work.  Clooney has fun in his small role but the rest of the cast are all
cameos some of them are used pretty well and got a giggle but others just
show their faces.  However, they don't detract from the film and it at
least
will amuse parents to see people like Martin, Trejo, Cumming, Shalhoub,
Buscemi, Paxton, Wood and Hayek.  The out takes at the end made me realise
how good the performances were - it just never dawned on me that, although
I
knew it wasn't real, that 95% of this was shot on greenscreen - making
acting to anything that little bit harder.

Overall, this is a silly film but it is one that kids will love.  The
sheer
sense of fun that Rodriguez brings to it is infectious and makes for a
great
90 minutes with the kids.  The star cast made it more enjoyable for me and
helped the sense that everyone was just enjoying themselves.  It is hardly
a
great film but it does just what you expect it to do and who can ask
anymore
than that? On the basis of this I will definitely be watching the first
two
films when I cross their paths. Sad - but true!
<|_=00=_|>

What a mess. There are clever ideas here and there, a few laughs, the
occasional decent special effect (I saw this on TV so didn't see it in
3D, which perhaps would have made the generally disappointing effects
more impressive), but the lame, tossed-together script and the lack of
any cohesion to the final product make this only barely watchable. This
movie seems to just be going through the motions; you can't even call
it formulaic because it barely attempts to even stick with any formula,
it's more like random stuff thrown in here and there. As for the
ending, well, it's main purpose was to create an excuse (and not a very
good one) to have cameos by everyone who was in the first two movies
(allowing them to list Bandaras first in the credits even though he's
on screen for only a couple of minutes), and the final showdown is so
utterly moronic that words fail me.

At the same time, I didn't actually hate it. I wasn't in pain watching
it. It was a mindless Saturday afternoon movie and I watched it as
mindlessly as I could and occasionally enjoyed it. But after the very
fun second movie (which I thought superior to the first), this was a
great disappointment. I'd advise skipping it.

<|_=00=_|>

Get your little ones ready for the game of their lives, cuz `Spy Kids 3-D:
Game Over' will tickle their little bitty funny bones. This third
installment of the popular `Spy Kids' series is like its predecessors in
that it's high-tech, high-energy, high-fun, and high on the pro-family
moral
messages. What's more, it's in 3D, which requires disposable glasses,
handed
out at the theater. On the downside, the Spy Kids theme seems worn out,
the
actors have out-grown their roles, and the strong family-values messages
are
disingenuous and schmaltzy. In short, the cow's been milked for all its
got.

But, anyway, back to the fun.

In this new adventure, Juni and Carmen Cortez find themselves on a mission
to stop the release of a virtual-reality video game, aptly titled, `Game
Over'. It is purported to be the best video game ever, and lines outside
toy
stores are growing around the country. But, the ISS has learned that the
infamous `level five' captures the mind of the player, entrapping him
eternally within the game. The threat, of course, is that `The Toymaker',
played by Sylvester Stallone, is really out to control the minds of our
youth, and thus, our future.

It turns out that The Toymaker himself is already entrapped in the game,
so
the only way to stop him is to actually play it. The movie begins when
Juni,
eager to be an `independent PI' at the age of 10, is called back to duty
to
the ISS to enter the game and find his sister Carmen, who had already
tried
to invade it, but was suspended in level 4. Juni catches up to her with
the
dubious help of a few experienced beta test players, who are determined to
reach the 5th level on their own.

The true essence of the film is to simply show the video game, and with
the
3D glasses, the 80% of the screen time that game consumes is definitely
fun
and worth the ride. The funny thing is, `Spy Kids 3D' makes no attempts to
hide the fact that the only reason for the film is to show game. To wit,
the
plot points are meaningless, even to the point where the script itself
acknowledges it: Juni asks why the Toymaker is caught in the game, and the
answer is a humorous hand-wave, `Oh, it just happens.' The plot and
characters are hurriedly scooted along to the start of the game, which
then
goes on and on and on, till the end, when scores of famous cameo
appearances
pepper the screen, all having fun and making statements about the
importance
of family, and yada yada yada.

Oh, it's not that there is anything wrong with such pro-family messages.
But
conspicuously downplayed are the genuine circumstances and feelings that
were the impetus in the first, and best, of the Spy Kids
trilogy.

The 3D aspect of the film involves wearing glasses that give depth to the
objects on the screen. There are two ways to do this, and unfortunately,
Spy
Kids 3D uses the old-fashioned way, from the 1950s, where one lens is red
and the other blue. The film is shot with the two colors shifted in
opposite
directions, and depth is perceived by the distance of the shift.
Unfortunately, this mutes colors so much, that the beautiful and surreal
colors expressed in the digital photography are lost. I can only assume
that
this was intentional, so as to give the video game its own sense of
other-worldliness, which again, was nice.

With all its wild-riding and fun, Spy Kids 3D is just a movie for kids,
unlike the first of the series, which was much smarter and hence,
enjoyable
by adults, too.  So, best to drop off the little tykes at the theater with
a
baby sitter, and go shopping for a while. But, don't buy anything that's
red
and blue plaid, or your kids just may throw up on you.

<|_=00=_|>
This movie starts out with sub par visuals and acting and simply gets
worse the longer this mess drags on. It amazes me how a movie with a
budget of $38,000,000 could be this horrible. Some of the actors have
at least mediocre talent and yet the end has visuals that look straight
out of Microsoft word "Word Art". This movie would have been better if
M. Night Shyamalan directed it! The plot is predictable, the acting is
deplorable and the visuals are downright awful. If your children
seriously want to watch a good movie show them something of actual
quality.Personally I think that the rating of 4.1 is extremely generous
to say the least.
<|_=00=_|>
There's little denying that the Spy Kids series wasn't brilliant. Far
better kids' films have been made. Though I must admit, I have enjoyed
them. They have proved to be extremely flexible with mediocre budgets
and are extremely fun to watch. And Spy Kids 3-D brings you into the
experience - anything in 3-D is brilliant, but I found this an
overwhelming cinematic experience with the 3-D glasses. This may
explain why Spy Kids 3-D did well at the box office. Although, saying
that, the only really good thing is the cinematic experience. This film
does have substance enough to keep you watching through the whole
thing, but there's no denying that it lacks on the intelligence and is
once again, a predictable affair. And there's no character development
either - didn't either of the Spy Kids learn anything from their
encounters in the game? There really isn't much to warrant a DVD
purchase - though you can still view it in 3D on the TV, a lot of the
experience is lost in the translation. Though to be honest, this isn't
exactly a gem for your collection, but it isn't exactly a large mound
of doggy do either. 6/10
<|_=00=_|>

I was bored the other night and thought to myself, "I have never seen a
3D
movie before and all the hype they are giving to Spy Kids 3D, I should go
check it out."  I bought my ticket not expecting a good plot but at least
expecting decent special effect and a 3 Dimensional experience.

The special effects were crappy- The movie would have been better if they
either had just shown the green screen instead of the virtual world or if
the grandfather had died.  I think the producer's objective was to dig
into
the Hollywood Actor Welfare Hat and pull out the names of several really
poor actors.

Defining moment: when the theater had to call an ambulance for me after I
slobbered onto the floor from a seizure induced by probably some of the
crappiest, blurriest special effects I have ever seen.

One last thing- these people that make movies for kids can't use their
audience as an excuse for stupid crap like this.  Anyone who has seen
Spirited Away or Princess Mononoke knows that there is talent and
creativity
our there that can be used to make movies for children.

<|_=00=_|>

Spoilers herein.

By now, you already know that this has a trivial story and apparently
childish morales: 
`everyone is family,' and `forgiveness,' and respect for the otherly
challenged. You know 
that it  seemingly is a second-rate project with a single gimmick. You may
even know 
about the rather offensively off-putting camp in the performances all
around.

But this is still worth watching for two reasons.

The first is that the apparent superficiality is illusory. Casual adult
viewers may think the 
story is Disney-like, revolving around a simple platitude - a platitude that
is one of 
those artificial Sunday School truths we think it is good for kids but that
no one actually 
lives. This is no Disney; in a typical Disney production - say `Lion King' -
there is us 
and there is them. We watch them. The world is simple.

Spanish (and Portuguese!) literature since `Don Quixote' has been founded on
a far 
richer notion. There's us and the book, and within the book is another
observer and an 
observed reality. This creates an ambiguity about who we are and whether we
are in the 
book, or the book is in our world, or (depending on the author) whether the
world is 
created by the `writer' in the book.

It is a sophisticated notion. Very complex. When kids are exposed to it, it
changes their 
facility for abstract reasoning, which is a whole different order of growth
than `do-bee, 
don't-bee' moralization.  

And despite apparent simplicities, this is a complex situation: the many
versions of 
watchers and roles within roles and projections within projections are
non-trivial. Forget 
about all the wiggling sprites and see what this is all about. Its very
structure undermines 
its apparent saccharine morale, and makes it different than `Bullwinkle' and
`Pussycats' 
and `Zoolander.'

Just consider the `short' at the beginning: hosted by our artificial
intelligence guy (Mr. 
Lisp - Lisp is the language of AI) who ran a TeeVee show to entrap kids. He
shows a 
book. The characters in the book are fingerpuppets. He also comments on the
upcoming 
movie. This is a guy who makes movies, who is in a movie, who is commenting
on 
another movie - and does so by showing a representation (a book) of another

representation (fingerpuppets), acting out that movie.

And the second reason? the 3-d of course. Now you may think this is
unimportant, but 
we live in a visual world that is dominated by 2-d images of three
dimensional reality. 
That means that we have generally lost our architectural awareness. Yes, it
seems that 
this is all about those few things that come out of the screen. But it is
far deeper than 
that, even with the primitive technology. This is from a guy who traveled a
thousand 
miles to see a reconstructed `Dial M for Murder' played on dual projectors,
possibly a 
once in a lifetime chance these days.

It matters. If you expose your kids to kiddie films, stick to this, the
Pixar projects 
(`Nemo` is also about space), and the original Muppet Movie. Now that's
parenting 
instead of babysitting.

Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 4: Worth watching. 
<|_=00=_|>

Far inferior to it's predecessors, Spy Kids & Spy Kids 2, this third
installment would have been a moderately entertaining - albeit enormously
insipid - afternoon matinee, had it not been for the awful 3-D. There are
newer, more advanced forms of 3-D entertainment, but director Rodriguez
decided to go with the old fashioned 1950s variety - resulting in a
virtually colorless mess of hazy images rushing past the audience's
confused, aching eyes for an hour and a half. If they release a non-3-D
version on DVD, wait for that and enjoy what little screen time was given to
Ricardo Montelban, who steals what little entertainment value this stinker
manages. Otherwise, save you money for a fall or winter release, when movies
of any value whatsoever are typically released. 
<|_=00=_|>

I just came home from watching it, and everyone is running for the Advils,
it seems that the 3-D gave us all headaches. Anyways, here is my
review.

I have had a 3-D book since I was a kid, and it came with it's own pair of
3-D glasses. You know the old fasioned kind, the red and blue shaded
glasses
that gives everything the red & blue tint. It is a very cool book with the
old kind of 3-D.

Now, I remember in the 80's, all the NEW 3-D movies had a whole new 3-D.
No
longer were 3-D movies limited to the red & blue tint that required the
red
& blue shaded glasses, the glasses that were needed were clear &
POLORIZED....it kept the movie in FULL color and gave the 3-D film a
cleaner
and sharper image.

I heard that this movie was a whole new approach to 3 demention, so I was
excited about seeing this. But imagine my surprise when I bought the
tickets
when they handed me red & blue shaded 3-D glasses.

The only new approach is the computer graphics used in creating 3-D
images.
Instead of throwing real items towards the camera to make you duck in your
seat, now there are computer generated items floating around and flying
towards you. The special effects were, as always, top quality...but
honestly...there was nothing new or special about the special effects. In
reality, you feel as though you've seen it all before.

As for the 3-D effects. I must say how disappointed I was. The color in
the
film during the 3-D scenes seemed dull and almost a sepia tone, except for
the red & blue tint used to make the images in 3-D.

I REALLY expected at LEAST a POLORIZED image for a bolder color and
clearer
3 demention. Instead, all I got was a trip down memory lane with the old
fashioned 3-D.

Now, if you have never SEEN a 3-D movie, dont get me wrong, it STILL is a
spactacular thing to see, and you SHOULD experience it. The kids will LOVE
it.

As for the storyline in this film....well, forget it. This wasn't created
to
carry a plot, it was created to become a cash-cow in the Spy Kids series
and
used 3-D to draw you in. It worked, but this plot didn't.

And if THIS film doesn't KILL Sylvester Stallone's movie career, then it's
ALREADY DEAD! I was never more embarressed for an actor before than I was
for him in this one. This was almost like seeing him wave a white flag and
admit to being an aging Hollywood cast-away who is grasping at ANYTHING to
stay on screen. Think Bette Davis's charactor in "Whatever Happened to
Baby
Jane?"

Oh well. Your kids will love this 3-D mess, and if your easily amused, you
might also.
<|_=00=_|>

My daughters are aged 9, 14, and 15.  They all loved it.  I liked it much
better than the bogus spy kid 2.  That film we had to watch sheep goo on
kids heads for a full hour.  This film was fast paced and made more sense if
you play video games.  There are many references to video game levels and
how much strength left.  I did not care for the one chosen "guy" who was
only in it for a few seconds and please drop the computer nerd stuff and the
movie did not need nerds.

The 3 D was not great but probably better in digital which only a few
theaters have.  The terror of the Wax museum 30 years ago had much better 3
D.  All in all a fun film.  Ricardo Montalban still makes an
impact.

 
