
After watching Inglorious Basterds i was really surprised when i saw
ratings on IMDb. Didn't expected high ratings and top 250 place. If we
can only isolate and rate Christoph Waltz's acting performance i would
agree that this movie deserves 10. But he is not alone, and his
performance can't cover horrible plot, boring conversations, unfunny
characters, alternative QT WW2 fantasy and Eli Roth as Jew bear. 

The opening scene with Denis Menochet as farmer and Christoph Waltz as
SS officer is best part of the movie. Only part that have same quality
and connects tension from that scene with the rest of the movie is a
basement scene. Basement scene was crossroad for me. Michael Fassbender
was great in role of British spy and his character adds some new layer
of logic and realism in movie. In moments you can actually see some
plot finally breaking through the rubbish you watched after the farm
scene. After the basement chapter, movie is going nowhere. 

Empty space. A lot of empty space for movie that last 153 minutes. Long
and boring scenes with boring characters and conversations. Childish
fantasy mixed up with Spaghetti western movies and some atmosphere that
don't belong to WW2 period. Thats why we have basterds to fill
everything else and patch the rest of movie. They failed. Basterds are
weakest/undeveloped and most boring part of movie. Movie is named by
them, yes - Brad is on Movie poster ... but they are horrible. Worst
role of Mr Pitt and i hope last one from Eli Roth. 

Cinema/Shosanna story with David Bowie music was just another QT patch
v1.1 to fill huge empty space between farm and basement. Extremely
boring scenes with Mélanie Laurent (taking off cinema letters, red
dresses, secret love Marcel...) will blast your brain. Yes - headache
is a must. 

Beside 2 good scenes, i really enjoyed listening smooth gradient of
German, French and English language. But again, this is connected to
Waltz and Fassbender and their personal knowledge that Tarantino used
for his fantasy. 

Inglorious Basterds is Hybrid movie where gangsters are replaced with
Nazis adding them wild west background layer with Brad Pitt on movie
poster just to sell tickets. It doesn't work in this case.

5/10 - only for Christoph Waltz and Michael Fassbender.
<|_=00=_|>
I will just start with some quotes from other reviewers that describes
it the best.

"This is easily one of the most overrated films of the year and
probably the worst film Tarantino has ever done." "The ONLY good thing
in this movie was the performance of Mr. Waltz".

"So I was really disappointed, and seeing this movie on place #40 of
the greatest movies of all time is the only thing about this, that
leaves me with my mouth opened" Now for more details go and read "Hated
it" reviews.

One thing I hate about a movie is when it treats audience as bunch of
dumb people. (Spoiler ahead). Now I know Tarantino's style is based on
fantasy and fictitious plots, but come on, Adolf Hitler and 200 top
Nazis Officers will be in attendance of a movie premier in occupied
France and you have only two guards in the whole theater and the
surroundings? Where also an American-African walks around freely with
steel pipes locking doors and setting fire. These 2 guards are then
executed in seconds opening the door for our 2 "heroes" to slay Hitler
at point blank with around 100 rounds... very dumb. At least, challenge
our intelligence and create a smarter plot to kill one of the most
feared tyrants of all time (Go watch Valkyrie). Besides, Mike Myers
impersonation of a British general is more realistic and authentic than
the guy doing Hitler, just picture that.

What ruined it further, is that the only smart and powerful character,
which nailed everyone in the movie, with his psychological and mind
bending interrogations, ends up to be effortlessly tricked by the most
mindless character in the movie.

After watching the movie, I was sympathizing with Nazis, who were
portrayed to have more bravery and humanity than our Basterds!!!
Imagine that.

My recommendations, if you have insomnia, 2hrs 33 min to waste or you
want to give your mind a break, go watch this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of the worst movies I have ever seen.

What is the purpose of this movie? A bunch of Americans enters
Nazi-occupied France and starts slaughtering Germans. You see them
scalping their enemies and beating them to death with baseball bats.
While making jokes, of course.

Some will say that this movie is a parody of a certain genre. For a
parody, it is neither witty nor funny. The contents is zero. It is
exceptionally brutal and disgusting. Underneath lies a subtle political
message, because it is again "the good guys" killing "bad Nazis". The
whole plot is unthinkable if you turn it around. Could you imagine a
storyline where Nazis (while making jokes) kill everybody in the Warsaw
ghetto with flamethrowers? Probably not, but this movie is exactly
about that, with the exception that is satisfies the weird moral
expectations of a certain audience: slaughtering people is so cool when
done by the right people.

This movie only works because of the hidden Nazi-ideology underneath.
It does not regard the enemy as people. And if the latter is supposed
to be an element of the fun, I am happy to say that this kind of fun
will always remain a mystery to me.

Another mystery is how such violence can fascinate the American crowd
while a bit of nudity will freak them out. But if a naked body is
pornography, this movie with all its brutality is pure pornography at
its very worst.

Inglorious Basterds is a pointless, boring and tasteless waste of time
and money.
<|_=00=_|>
That's what I thought, when I heard about the cast of Inglorious
Basterds. And I'm both from Germany and into movies.

That guy is older than 50 and so far he almost only played in mediocre
TV series - and even there he didn't play the main parts. Obviously
nobody ever noticed, what he's capable of. Now, thanks to QT, he got
one shot to change that - and - let's put it this way - that was a
bingo! He is the living proof of what a great caster Tarrantino is.

By the way: I think it's a great privilege to watch the movie as a
German - being able to understand everything. And the German dialog is
written almost as good as the English.

Now I could repeat, what many others have written here before. I'll put
it short: Finally, QT is back.
<|_=00=_|>
Chapter One: Once Upon a Time At A Table (1941)

In which a German Nazi and a French Dairy Farmer talk at a table for 20
minutes; first in French, then in English.

Chapter Two: Three Years Of Inglorious Basterds In Sixteen Minutes...
Without Tables (Mostly)

In which an American Lieutenant talks to his newly formed 8 man Jewish-
American commando unit. There are no tables present. Cut to Adolf
Hitler, three years later. He is angry at his men's inability to deal
with the Basterds. Hitler does have a table. We return to the Basterds
in a flashback. Again, distinct lack of table-based content. 

Chapter Three: German Night in Paris... At A Table... Talking

In which a Jewish woman who escaped from under the table in Chapter One
has somehow managed to become the proprietress of a cinema. The Jewish
woman talks to an Actor at a table in a bar. Later, the Jewish woman,
the Actor, Joseph Goebbels and a Translator talk at a table in a
Restaurant. The Actor and Goebbels talk in German. The Translator
translates the German into French. The Jewish woman replies in French.
The Translator translates the French into German. Goebbels decides to
hold a film premiere at the Jewish woman's cinema. The Actor and
Goebbels leave. The Nazi (who talked with the Dairy Farmer at a table
for twenty minutes back in Chapter One) arrives. He talks with the
Jewish woman at the table. He leaves. The Jewish woman breaks down;
overcome with emotion at having spent so long talking at a table. 

Chapter Four: Operation Table Talking

In which Austin Powers sends a British Officer to join the Basterds and
an Actress on a mission to talk in German at a table in a Tavern. After
21 minutes of talking at a table they all shoot each other. The actress
survives but spends the next 5 minutes lying on a table talking.

Chapter Five: Revenge of the Giant Table

In which, The Basterds decide to continue the operation by talking in
Italian and suicide bombing the cinema. The Nazi takes the Actress into
a small room where they sit next to a table. A hoe that he found under
the table in the Tavern fits her so he kills her. Then he takes two of
the Basterds to a big room, where they sit and talk at a table.
Meanwhile, the cinema burns down, Hitler is riddled with bullets and
the two Basterds blow themselves up for no good reason at all.

The End
<|_=00=_|>
Seriously disappointing performance by Brad Pitt and Q T, the plot is
very superficial and lame, and, unless indirectly intended, this film
actually glorify the Nazis and portrays them as men of honor, and show
that the Jewish people are deceiving, cant keep promises and bloody
vicious. ((THE FOLLOWING CONTAINS SPOILER)) Hitler together with the
most notorious Nazis are attending a stupid plot less movie about the
killing of 300 Italian soldiers in a small cinema theater in Paris is
unbelievably ridiculous. the Nazis laughing and hooraying each killing
in the movie as if watching a basketball game STUPID, the deal at the
end is lame. whats really appalling is that the movie earned great
reviews and is ranked here in the 40s amongst the greatest 250 films.
will not be surprised if it harvested many awards, including Oscars, as
well. the movie is simply a kissing ass to the Jewish people, but hey
reconsider, its not even doing a great job doing that. it truly dwarfed
the whole Nazi - Jews conflict and a pure insult to all who fought and
suffered from the tyranny of the Nazis.
<|_=00=_|>
This usually all sounds a lot better in my head (so forgive me for
rambling) I'm hardly Tarantino's biggest fan (and will *try* not to
stoop to calling him a 'hack'....which is quite hard) I don't like to
mock or critique a movie before seeing it. So with cautious hesitation,
i walked to the cinema today to watch 'Inglorious Basterds'

Now, to call it a 'rip-off of a rip-off' would be unfair here.
Tarantino is happy enough to take the title from Enzo Castellari's
(less than spectacular) Dirty Dozen clone, but not it's plot points
(that, he takes from all other genre of movies) 'Inglorious' opens with
a Nazi officer and his lengthy interrogation against a farmer who is
hiding Jews in his basement. This is such an anti-climax, in that, it's
dialogue is stale, and outcome signposted a mile off. Of course, one of
the hidden Jews makes her escape (but more of her later) We (the
obviously, easily pleased) audience are treated to the introduction of
Lt. Aldo Raine (ha-ha, that name almost sounds like B-movie king ALDO
RAY....ha-ha Quentin...keep those 'tributes' coming) and this character
is played by none other than Brad (DALLAS) Pitt (sorry, DALLAS was
about the only good thing he's ever starred in) and with jaw-jutting,
Mr Jolie treats us to a hound-dogged, southern drawled, smirking
Nazi-killer. Meanwhile Mr Tarantino forgets that actual grown-ups may
be in attendance, so assumes that the teenyboppers won't have heard of
the 'Dirty Dozen'?

Raines 'platoon' consists of (John Cassavettes looking) blood-thirsty
Jewish soldiers, all looking to get the big payback on Adolf Hitler.
Tarantino in all his superior knowledge, pays special attention to two
of these men, by casting his long time best buddy (and fellow
homage-sycophant) Eli Roth (as the baseball bat wielding 'Bear Jew')
The other man is called Hugo Stiglitz (and i'll wager more than half
the QT fan-boys had never heard this name before this movie) Keep up
the good work Tarantino, you've managed about 6 or 7 'hommages' so far
(in the first 15 minutes) keep adding them, and it may detract from the
plot (or lack of?)

Anyhow, cutting a long (and extremely boring and protracted) story
short, both Raine and his men (the 'Inglorious Basterds') and the sole
survivor from chapter one, both have separate plots to kill Hitler at
the showing of a Nazi-propaganda movie, in a french cinema (owned by
the fore-mentioned survivor, now grown up)

More boring (and pointless) conversations follow two and fro, as Pitt
mugs away at an audience past caring. And any genuine suspense, leading
to the assassination of the most deadly tyrant of all time, is
thrown-away by the directors insistence of placing a 1980's David Bowie
song in a WWII movie.

My problems (and there are many) with this movie, is the re-occurring
problem i have with most Tarantino product.....he rarely knows when to
either start or stop. I don't need 'homage' after 'homage' to get the
*joke* (whatever it may be) I knew of Inglorious Bastards, Enzo
Castellari, Aldo Ray, Hugo Stiglitz (and the ultimate crime of the
entire movie) Ennio Morricone's haunting score from REVOLVER. I go to
the cinema to see the stars.....if the best you can do is the dire
Barad Pitt, i'll assume You (Mr Tarantino) are the main draw here? I
don't want the audience directing the movie. I pay to see YOUR vision,
your ideas, your creativity....NOT how you can patchwork (time and time
again) endless scenes from endless movies. It's high time the fan-boys
(on IMDb) employed some 'tough love' on your 'idol' (god knows, if you
don't....the studios should?)

The tired old argument with Tarantino worshippers is "well, if you can
do better...do so" Let me tell you, if i was a 46 year old director,
with the (unfortunate) pull QT has.....i'd want to offer YOU a lot more
than a warmed up muddled re-hash of better WWII movies than this tripe.
The directors he attempts to emulate, made movies so bad by accident,
or due to budgetary constraints. It's a cop out, time and time again,
to hear his fans campaign his lack of imagination as 'art'. I'm sure
he's capable of better (but after giving him the benefit of the doubt,
once more....and not to mention 2 and a half hours of my life.....)
maybe he isn't?
<|_=00=_|>
It just goes to show how wrong you can be. I had not expected to like
this film. I was disappointed by both the Kill Bill films (although i
preferred the second) and Death Proof (although it was better in the
shorter cut of the double-bill release). I love Reservoir Dogs, admire
Pulp Fiction and think that Jackie Brown is Tarantino's most mature
piece of film-making - technically his most superior - including the
last great performance elicited from Robert De Niro. Since then it
seems to me while his films have been okay (i haven't hated them) he
has been treading water in referential, reverential, self-indulgent
juvenilia.

Then i read the script last year for Inglourious Basterds - and i hated
it! Sure it had some typical QT flourishes and the opening scene was
undeniably powerful. There were a couple of great characters. But on
page it was more juvenile rubbish, largely ruined by the largess of the
uninteresting Basterds of the title. It made me seriously contemplate
not seeing the film. The trailers did nothing to convince me. I only
changed by mind when i had the opportunity to see the film with a
Tarantino Q&A following in London. I figured it would be worth enduring
to hear him in Q&A as i know from interviews how entertaining he can be
in person.

So little was i prepared for the sheer exuberant fun and brilliance of
Inglourious Basterds.

Easily Mr Tarantino's best work since Jackie Brown it is a triumph.

Yes the references are there but they do not interfere with the story,
they are not the driving force. Yes Eli Roth is stunt casting but he
works fine, with little to do but look aggressive, and does nothing to
hurt the film as i had feared. While i admired Mr Tarantino for using
stuntwoman Zoe Bell as herself in Death Proof in order to amp-up the
exhilaration of the major stunt scene her lack of any acting ability in
a key role was a problem for the film. The same could be said of
Tarantino's own appearances in several films, especially Robert
Rodriguez's From Dusk Till Dawn, which Tarantino wrote.

What really makes this work is how BIG it is. The spaghetti western
vibe to much of the style, dialogue and performances is wonderfully
over the top without descending too far into the cartoon quality of
Kill Bill. The violence is so big. The audacity so big. Brad Pitt is so
big! In the trailers the Hitler moment and Pitt's performance bothered
me but in the context of the film they are hilarious. Pitt is actually
brilliant here, exactly what he needs to be. He is Mifune's blustering
samurai in Yojimbo, he is Robards Cheyenne from Once Upon a Time in the
West, there is a very James Coburn vibe to him, and of course a
suitably Lee Marvin edge.

Christoph Waltz (who i did not previously known) and Melanie Laurent
(who i first noticed in a brilliant French-language British short film
by Sean Ellis) are sensational and i expect to see both used a lot more
in the future. Tarantino has clearly not lost his eye for casting,
which seemed to desert him in Death Proof. Waltz is equally large in
his performance. Chilling, yet theatrical. He is Fonda from OUATITW,
Van Cleef from Good, The Bad & the Ugly. And Laurent is suitably
Cardinale innocence but tough, a fighter. They both dazzle here.

That every member of the cast gets the fun to be had from what they are
doing while not indulging themselves in just having fun and trying to
get laughs helps tremendously. The laughs - and there are loads - come
organically. Only Mike Myers comes close to tipping the wink and
pushing it too far but his scene is reigned in just enough - with the
help of a fantastic Michael Fassbender who seems pulled directly from
the mold of Attenborough's Great Escape leader.

All the actors shine and Tarantino throws in wonderful flourishes, but
ones that work with the story. The introduction of Schweiger's Hugo
Stiglitz is a riot. After a sensational slow-burn opening and a
glorious intro to those inglourious Basterds the pace never lets up and
over two and half hours flies by.

It also looks beautiful, marking this as a return to real film-making
rather than just self-indulgent silliness. The musical choices, as
always, are inspired from Morricone on.

The film is audacious and hilarious. After a summer when nearly every
film has disappointed me it came as a huge surprise that the real fun
and entertaining, but also involving and impressive film should be this
one, when i would never have believed it from script form. Welcome back
QT.
<|_=00=_|>
I simply cannot believe this movie's current rating on IMDb.

It is currently sitting in the IMDb top 100, nestled closely with The
Bridge on the River Kwai, Raging Bull and the Prestige.

To find this movie in the same standing as those three is truly
staggering to me. Hence I am taking the time to give this film 1 star,
to hopefully help get it down towards its rightful place among the
other pieces of truly worthless cinema with which it belongs.

I can understand that this is a movie that you either love or hate - it
is certainly true that it is both a provocative and original film.
However, what surprises me is the massive bias towards the "love" side,
given the film's content - which can be summarised as an unashamedly
unrealistic and soulless collection of sadistic/casual mindless
violence, strangely blended with dramatic scenes of the kind of things
that genuinely took place under the Nazis.

What I am trying to say is that combining very tense, well written SS
interrogation scenes (which evoke some genuine emotional investment in
the film) with comic book character British generals/Nazi
leaders/Jewish soldiers makes for an extremely uncomfortable
combination for me. At times it feels like someone has spliced together
Schindlers List with Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade.

My best guess is that the film's originality and uncompromising
approach is refreshing to people bored of the same old Hollywood
formulae. Certainly the film is unpredictable. The plot (such as it is)
is extremely meandering and many of the characters' actions are pretty
much inexplicable. *SPOILER* (I point here towards Colonel Landa's
killing of Bridget and his non-killing of Shosanna.) But then again
every single character is so one dimensional that it leaves you with no
idea which characters you are supposed to actually care about anyway.
There is no real shock when anyone gets killed because you don't know
who anyone is or what makes them tick.

Brad Pitt gets the award here for the most wooden and pointless
character to appear - he is truly awful throughout the film and finds
himself in a role where he does not have to portray a single emotion
throughout the film. Nothing.

My final point is that originality on its own does not make a great
film. Yes, Tarantino has made a movie where you see things that you
have never seen before in a major Hollywood release, but that is not
any sort of achievement. The reason a high budget film has not been
made before where the entire German high command has a day at the
cinema in occupied France with almost no guards or security is because
that idea is stupid. Yes, the film is stupid - and no amount of
brushing over with "Tarantino is being postmodern" or "he's being
ironic" will overcome that plain fact.

In summary this is a film that takes an exploitation film script, (that
would ordinarily be filed under "trash cinema") gives it a big name
director/very high quality cast and then takes the plaudits for being
ground breaking.

It is not. It is simply a steaming turd given a coat of gloss paint.
