
Now look, I'm a hard-core James Bond fan. Some might say a purist.I
make no apologies for believing that Timothy Dalton is the closest
thing we've seen to IAN FLEMING's James Bond.

Last night I saw Casino Royale.

This is, for the first time, the truest interpretation of the character
we have ever seen.

This film is amazing. Totally mind-blowing. From the black and white
pre-titles, to arguably the best titles sequence ever. From the African
free-running chase to the beautiful interiors of London. From Judi
Dench's harassed M, to the super cool Le Chiffre. From the stone-cold
government killer, to the heart broken lover.

Style and sophistication are in abundance.

And I love it.

Lancelot Narayan DVD Producer The Lip Sync Group
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this at a cast and crew screening in London last weekend: I'm not
a huge Bond fan, but I do enjoy them on a purely popcorn level and this
was definitely one of the best in recent memory. The tone is much
edgier and nastier than the Brosnan movies, harking back more to Dr. No
or For Your Eyes Only. The action sequences are brilliantly shot and
edited for maximum impact and are some of the best out of any Bond
movie. Martin Campbell, who also made 'Goldeneye', was an excellent
choice and, for me, is one of the best Bond directors. What gives this
the lead over recent Bonds is the more realistic feel: the exotic
locales, fast cars, spectacular action, beautiful women and many other
Bond hallmarks are all here but gone is the campy tone that marred,
say, Die Another Day. Yes, the whole franchise is based on an entirely
ridiculous and cartoonish notion but the more serious and harder-edged
tone works really well here. In this context, Daniel Craig gives an
excellent performance as Bond. I'll be the first to admit that I raised
an eyebrow when I heard he was cast but he really makes it his own.
It's hard to say whether he's better than any of the other Bonds:
Connery and Brosnan felt right for the style of Bond movies they were
in. Here, as suits the overall tone of the film, Bond is much more of a
sadist, a cold-hearted killer with very little sense of empathy and
Craig, with his piercing eyes, suits the role very well. He's charming
and funny when required and totally convincing in the action sequences.
The violence is less cartoon-like and flippant, too, with every punch,
kick and shooting looking like they really hurt. Also, the story is
just much more engaging than many a Bond film; the script's not going
to win awards but it's consistently inventive and intriguing. Whilst
the film has enough of it's fair share of action, the emphasis is
equally on character and storyline and less on gadgets and sheer
implausibility. When there isn't a huge action sequence happening, you
don't miss it: the film's longest set-piece, the poker game at the
Casino Royale, is as (or not more) gripping and entertaining than any
of the chases and shoot-outs. The only minor gripes that I have are a
slightly too long running time: the film drags a wee bit towards the
end and, although it helps the tone of the film, we don't hear enough
of the Bond theme tune! However, great directing and performances from
everyone involved, along with Phil Meheux's excellent cinematography,
Peter Lamont's as ever superb production design and all the other
top-notch craft and technical departments make 'Casino Royale' a classy
and very enjoyable night out at the movies.
<|_=00=_|>
This is among the best bond movies! You have to see it. 

After all the controversy and comments on Daniel Craig's potential as
an actor and doubts over him playing Bond...i'd say forget it and be
enthralled by the new BOND! He's here to stay.

He has that natural feeling about him when you see him on the screen as
Bond, that attitude, style, confidence matched only by Sean COnnery.
The movie as a whole is extremely entertaining and exciting.The acting
is awesome Eva Green actually does a great job and has really improved
her acting from the last time i saw her (in kingdom of heaven), but
then this is a totally different movie.

There's a lot of action mixed with great story which i am sure will
please the true Bond fan.

Please go and watch this because you will regret if you don't, forget
the past this is the New Bond.

9/10
<|_=00=_|>
James Bond is back and he is alive and well. Any questions about Daniel
Craig's worthiness are thrown out almost immediately as we are handed a
film filled to the brim with exquisite action and explosive emotion. I
squirmed in my seat with delight as I have not done since I was a
child. What "Batman Begins" did for that franchise, "Casino Royale"
does, and more, for Bond. For a while it seemed that he might not be
able to well exist outside the confines of the cold war, but here we
are given an entirely modern Bond with enough nods to the original that
we can't be too upset. Maybe it's because this is the last novel yet to
be filmed in the traditional Bond manner and it is Ian Fleming who has
stolen our hearts not this incarnation of the super spy. However I like
to think that someone actually just got their act together and
concentrated on the film itself as opposed to who they could get the
most product placement money out of. Congratulations. James Bond will
live on for at least one more generation, and maybe forever. Great set
pieces and one of the best chase sequences not involving cars ever put
on screen, blended with beautiful locations and even more lovely women
add up to the perfect cocktail with the twisting story line acting as
the lemon peel in the martini, holding it all together. Many will come
out saying that this is the best Bond film ever and I can not rightly
say they are wrong at this point. Only time will tell that tale.
However every fan can be assured that this ranks amongst the very upper
crust of Bond movies, and Craig is no Lazenby. He lends a harsh wit and
a thuggish charm to the character and by the end he's no longer the new
guy, he is Bond, James Bond. A masterpiece of popular film-making and
the movie we have been waiting for all year. See it early and often as
it is sure not to diminish upon reviewing.
<|_=00=_|>
There is only one movie franchise that has twisted, turned and
reinvented itself on so many occasions...

007 has unfortunately dwindled more than it has bedazzled over the last
decades but I am relieved to see that Martin Campbell has put the edge
back into the Bond series.

The originally unpopular Craig grinds through this action packed
feature with ease and in my opinion proves all of his doubters
(including me) very very wrong..

At last we have another true Bond.. Sharp, sophisticated and as tough
as nails... And perhaps correctly more shaken than stirred.

Welcome back 007... Welcome back.
<|_=00=_|>
First off, the negative. Casino Royale is both too long and too short.
Like OHMSS, there are moments when the running time feels its length
and others where you think something's missing because they suddenly
tried to trim the running time by not shooting bits. At times you'd be
grateful for a little bit of exposition BEFORE a couple of the big
action scenes rather than after. And some of the script has some lines
as subtle as a car crash that stink of Paul Haggis' brand of heavy
handedness. The big finale is just a bit too much, as if they're afraid
not to destroy some big building again because that's what they always
do.

Having got that out of the way, none of that matters that much because
this is the best Bond since George Lazenby thought he had all the time
in the world. It's got a strong plot for once and makes it even
stronger by showing us where Bond came from and how he smoothed away
some of the rough edges. And the edges are brutally rough here. The
killings are nasty and the aftermath has to be dealt with in a way
Bonds have never done before.

The real ace in the hand is Craig. He doesn't have Connery's raw star
quality, but he's easily the best actor to have played the part. I
don't know if the film was shot in sequence but for the only time since
OHMSS you get a sense of Bond changing throughout the film as his
cockiness becomes confidence and his brutality becomes cold efficiency.
He starts off unlikeable but human and gradually picks up the Bond
traits we know until he becomes more likable but just a little less
human. It's an interesting journey and Craig is up to it. It's not just
his delivery, it's also his body language. Even his fighting style
changes as he adapts.

Physically he's the most in your face Bond since Lazenby and the action
scenes look brutal for once. Even the not very likely free running
chase is spectacular but believable because you get the idea that this
really is kill or be killed stuff. It's got a real feel of danger to it
that hasn't been seen in the series in years. Only the torture scene
feels like it's holding back (it's almost as tastefully done as the old
TV version) but that's probably fear of the censors.

You'll come out of this one not just thinking that Daniel Craig IS
James Bond, but that no-one has ever played him before. Let's all hope
EON don't lose their nerve with Bond 22 and bring back the sci-fi stuff
and gadgets, because this could be a real new beginning! See it and
you'll believe it.
<|_=00=_|>
Well certain people thought Daniel Craig could not pull it off, but he
has and with style and a cold steel edge, not seen since Sean Connery.

This is proper action hero stuff, but he actually looks like if he
wanted to he could kill you.

With an opening sequence that will stop you from blinking for 20
minutes.

The film is class, from the cinematography, to the three dimensional
villains, and Bond's rapid learning curve.

Like Dr No, you see a killer, just he is on our side.

Don't read reviews, just go and see it, and tell your friends what you
thought, you won't be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
What a difference a great actor makes. Daniel Craig is superb as James
Bond and parting from that point everything in it is enjoyable,
frightening, thrilling just because we're with him. He conquered us
from the word go. The initial chase is one of the best in film history
and as soon as we get to know this new incarnation of the iconic Ian
Fleming character, we're hooked. He's virile but there is room for
ambiguity. He's elegant but as, the sensational Eva Green, points out
is more acquired than inherited. More working class than even Sean
Connery and that works wonders for Mr Bond. The script is more compact
and organic. The locations are breathtaking and what else I can say?
The series have been reinvigorated, rejuvenated and in one single
stroke have secured that this franchise will live forever. A note to
Barbara Broccoli, the producer, your father would be so proud.
Congratulations!
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this at a special premiere and i was amazed. having never been a
Bond fan i wasn't really expecting much from this. After watching
Brosnans invisible car in the previous incarnation I thought it could
only get worse. How wrong was I! this film is gritty and sharp. the
dialogue is sharp and well thought out with Daniel Craig being the
DEFINITIVE Bond. He exudes confidant menace. They have gone back to
basics with this Bond ie character and dialogue driven and not
thankfully gadget driven. Not only is it the best bond film out so far
its one of the years best films out. They have borrowed some elements
from the Bourne series of films which is long overdue on the franchise,
more realistic fight sequences and with Daniel Craig actually looking
like a physically capable man instead of the middle aged paunch of
Roger Moore and Pierce Brosnan who both quite frankly couldn't beat up
a Ritz cracker.
<|_=00=_|>
In the original Bond series, only a handful of films really attempted
to touch base with the novels of Ian Fleming. "Dr. No" showed the
Fleming feeling for character and action, but introduced elements to
the plot that detracted from the 'hard-boiled' spy story that Fleming
thought he was writing; "Thunderball" came close, but that was because
Fleming developed the story on commission for the film. "On Her
Majesty's Secret Service" had the book's plot pretty down pat, and was
made in a kind of 'grand adventure' style, but of course it suffered
from the choice of Lazenby - a professional model, not an actor - as
Bond. "The Living Daylights" showed the producers' interest in
returning to the roots, but Dalton was uncomfortable playing Bond, and
uncomfortable with the wisecracks which had become part of the
character's schtick - and which were really badly written for the
Dalton films. "Goldeneye" was admirable attempt to update the Fleming
milieu for the end of the Cold War, but left the character himself as
yet without an 'updated' definition.

The decision to make a 21st Century version of Fleming's first Bond
novel - and, beyond the update, to remain true to the novel, sans comic
patter, sans sci-fi techno-schtick, sans major rewrite of the basic
plot - promised to present Bond fans of all ages with a direct
challenge. Do we want the hard-boiled spy Fleming first envisioned -
patterned after Chandler's Philip Marlowe and W. Somerset Maughm's
Ashenden ("or: The British Agent")? Or would we really rather have the
suave stand-up comedian and Playboy magazine contributor introduced by
Broccoli, Maibaum, Young, and company, in the second Connery film,
"From Russia With Love"?

Well, the votes are still being tallied on that.

As someone who came to Bond reading "Goldfinger" at the tender age of
twelve (the phrase "round, firm, pointed breasts" has been an
inspiration to me since), the closer the films came to the sense of the
novels, the happier I was.

So of course, this version of Bond is a joyous surprise for me - my
youthful daydreams have been vindicated and at last fully satisfied.
There are indeed elements added to the plot, but they are completely
congruent with it. There is the use of current technology, but no
techno-schtick - i.e., no Q. and no "gadgets". There are the luscious
Bond babes (2 - the minimum Bond requirement), but there is no attempt
to reduce them to photogenic sex-toys.

Fleming's plot actually requires the film's addition of some heavy
action sequences (all done very snappy, with a brutally realistic
edge), because the novel is very claustrophobic; the original TV
version of the story (1955, with Barry Nelson as 'Jimmy Bond'), only
used three indoor sets, because it could - except for the car chase and
an attempted bombing at an outdoor café, Fleming's novel took place
almost entirely within Bond's hotel suite and the gaming room. The
film's opening this novel out to the world is actually quite welcome,
and does not affect the central plot or its theme.

The character of Bond presented in this film may disappoint followers
of the original films, but the news is, this is FLEMING's Bond - an
orphan uncertain of his own identity, a disillusioned romantic trying
hard to pretend he's incapable of emotions, a middle class,
middle-brow, middle-level management type who just happens to kill
people for a living. But he does it extremely well.

The other problem some general viewers may have is the level of
violence in the film; having determined to film the novel
realistically, director Martin Campbell has decided to ditch the
'B-movie' violence of most of the earlier films, and present us the
violence with a hard 'British neo-noir' edge to it. Given the romantic
plot twist toward the end, this would be a perfect date movie - except
that the violence left some of the female viewers in the theater I
attended clearly unsettled. That's not necessarily a bad thing, it just
is part of the gestalt of the film's experience.

Cambell's direction is very good; the writing is crisp; production
values are very high; the photography is stunning. Some of the stunt
work is truly remarkable, worthy competition for Jackie Chan. The
acting is rock-solid and believable for these characters. There is
plenty of muscle for the action-film fan, and some real brains for the
more general viewer to ponder later. 

This film is best viewed with minimal reliance on knowledge of the
previous series. In fact, it functions perfectly well as a 'one-off', a
film without a series.

But of course, the ending invites a sequel. In Godzilla terms, Connery
and Moore having given us the 'showa' Bond, Dalton and Brosnan the
"Heisei" Bond, we now have the "Millenium" series James Bond - not a
prequel nor even a 'reboot', but, really, an entirely new series about
the same character. It is probably too much to hope for, but maybe they
can make the sequels just as good as this.

As a genre film it never quite lifts above its genre; so normally I
would only give it "nine stars" as a film.

However, as a film within its genre, it is top-of-the-line - so it gets
a ten.
