
I don't know how good this movie is and I don't care because I loved
it. It left me kind of numb. Moved, transported, enchanted. That's
exactly how I want to feel when I get out of a movie. "Finding
Neverland" gave it to me, in spades. Johnny Depp, hey Johnny you're the
best we've got. I forgot that it was you two minutes into the movie, I
only knew I loved that character. That in itself is part of the many
miracles the movie has in store. Yours, is a performance of perfect
beauty. Kate Winslet is quickly becoming my favourite actress. Julie
Christie is, was and always will be my "Darling" but Freddie Highmore,
you and your brothers gave me one the best evenings in a movie theatre
I had in a long, long, time. My girlfriend just read my comment over my
shoulder, her comment was very succinct: "You write like a woman" Okay,
let's see if that's a good thing or a bad thing. Good night kids.
<|_=00=_|>
I always tell my students that they can't claim a movie they just saw
as their favorite movie ever because it has yet to stand the test of
time. Every now and then a movie comes along that defies that rule for
me -- a movie that as soon as I finish seeing it I know that it is an
instant classic, if not "my favorite movie ever." American Beauty was
such a movie.

Finding Neverland is such a movie. Every minute of this movie was
simply incredible -- I felt like the kids in the theater on the opening
night of Peter Pan. Johnny Depp is absolutely astounding, as he usually
is, as JM Barrie. The rest of the adult cast doesn't quite come up to
his level, but are uniformly strong. The kids, especially Peter and
Michael, are wonderful. Maybe I just love the British accent, but one
of my favorite scenes comes very early when Barrie meets Michael in the
park -- Michael's accent reminded me so much of the kid in The Little
Prince!

What raises this movie above standard fare, though, are the clever
entries into Barrie's imagination. The magical moments in this movie
seem to literally jump off the screen. Without a doubt, a film worthy
of Oscar nominations for Depp, screenplay adaptation, cinematography
(the pirate ship scene is gorgeous), and best movie of the year. Treat
yourself - despite the PG rating, this is NOT a movie just for kids --
believe... 10/10
<|_=00=_|>
I am not a film critic by any means, and don't aim to pose as one. That
being said, I felt that this movie was by far one of the most touching
and entertaining movies I have seen in my short 22 years. The cast is
fabulous, every actor plays his/her part so to speak. 

The story centers around J. M. Barrie, creator of Peter Pan, and his
journey to writing the well-known play. It highlights his genius, while
also showing the painful isolation that comes with being a mind ahead
of your time. There are some liberties taken when put against the
actual events that led up to the birth of Peter Pan, but don't let this
dissuade you from watching--"Finding Neverland" was never slated as
being a documentary! 

Being a huge Johnny Depp fan, one would think that my judgment would
be tainted by his involvement in the film. However, even I can admit to
a failed Depp movie (i.e. The Secret Window). At first, I thought that
putting Depp outside of his usual character type, a mildly strange
pirate/writer/doctor/investigator/man with scissors for hands, might
signify a substandard film. Boy was I wrong! He nailed J.M. Barrie and
was absolutely captivating throughout the entire film. I hate to sound
like a starry-eyed fan but I thought his performance in this movie was
downright Oscar-worthy! 

Depp is magnificent, but he does not carry the weight of this film on
his own. A slue of other fine actors and actresses, Kate Winslet and
Freddy Highmore just to name a few, give absolutely divine
performances. Do yourself a favor, shell out the eight bucks and go see
this movie!
<|_=00=_|>
I don't cry at movies. No eyes welling up . . as a rule. Okay, I cried
during Henry V (the Kenneth Branagh version) when the French army
slaughtered all the pages in the English camp. I don't even tend to
care for movies that might make me cry. I spend my hard earned big
screen cash on movies with big effects or epic vistas ( think The
Matrix or The Lords Of the Ring) Finding Neverland was a glorious
exception. 

Beautifully acted, sweet but not syrupy and perfect for a break from
all the holiday madness, Finding Neverland was a true gem. I don't
believe its for as young of a crowd as I watched it with ( the 4 year
old beside me was constantly needing plot clarification from her
mother) but both my 47 year old husband & my 32 year old self were
enchanted! In this jaded day & age it was a relief to see a movie that
had romance without overt sexuality, a PLOT , and true emotion without
sentimentality. And where did they find these child actors? Luke Spill,
Joe Prospero, Nick Roud and especially Freddie Highmore were excellent.
Rarely have I seen children perform on screen so realistically and
charmingly. I'm sure they'll all have brilliant futures if they chose
to stay in the business.

I would say something here about Johnny Depp but what is there to say?
Besides, I'm biased- I've never seen a Johnny Depp movie I didn't like,
& I'm sure I've seen every one! Julie Christie was a powerhouse playing
a difficult character in the most likable way. 

Don't let this movie slip under your radar! Finding Neverland will warm
your heart without your having to turn off your brain. By the way, if
you have a soul, take some tissues to use at the movies end.
<|_=00=_|>
Johnny Depp takes us by the hand and in the gentlest most reassuring
way leads into the heart, soul and mind of an artist. How easy is for
the world to judge. How frightened we still are of all we don't
understand. The very nature of innocence is suspect because innocence
belongs exclusively to the innocent. Every time the world claims to
protect it, tends to destroy it. "Finding Nerverland" is filled with
moments of enlightenment. Moving and powerful moments but none more so
than Julie Christie's face as she applauds, converted to the fantasy
transported into her daughter's house. The moment and the enlightenment
are short lived, but, somehow, remains in my mind as a glimmer of hope.
If for a moment she accepts the mystery of it all, maybe we all could.
Johnny Depp is the best American actor of his generation, period. Kate
Winslet is a stunning rarity among her contemporaries. She doesn't look
like anybody else and the camera catches every tiny little thought that
crosses her marvelous face. Congratulations Mr. Forster you can count
on me from this moment on as a devoted fan.
<|_=00=_|>
FINDING NEVERLAND is that rare work of art that transcends the medium
of film and becomes a spirit-altering experience. Strong accolades?
Gush? Perhaps so, but squeeze time out of the clutter of life and the
holidays to see this movie and be transported to a place that
nurturingly reassures us that the cycle of life is indeed good. Find
Neverland!Marc Forster ('Monster Ball') has created a lovingly tender
look at the playwright JM Barrie (Johnny Depp) in 1903 when, down on
his luck with theater flops, unfulfilled by a marriage of Victorian
standards to a beautiful but aloof and social climbing wife Mary (Radha
Mitchell), and with writer's block, he encounters the Llewellyn Davies
family - a widow Sylvia (Kate Winslet) and her four boys, George (Nick
Roud), Jack (Joe Prospero), Michael (Luke Spill) and Peter (Freddie
Highmore) - playing blissfully in Kensington Gardens. Barrie is
captivated, draws the boys to him with his patient and infectious
enthusiasm for play, and bonds with this family, gaining the obvious
seeds for his highest achievement or creation, PETER PAN.How these
seeds grow, despite the soft, yet supportive, growling of his producer
Charles Frohman (Dustin Hoffman) and the not so soft interference of
Sylvia's wealthy haughty mother Madame du Maurier (Julie Christie),
form the storyline of this film. The magic comes from the skill of the
writers (Alan Knee and David Magee) and director, the cinematographer
(never has Victorian London glowed with such elegant gaslight
presence), and the musical score by Jan Kaczmarek. Cameo roles are
treated with tremendous respect: Eileen Essel as Mrs. Snow, Ian Hart as
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, Kelly MacDonald as the first Peter Pan, etc all
are brief but fully realized and poignant. Given this support it is
obvious that the talents of the lead performers will shine, and they
glow they do with such understated performances that make the simple
story of the sanctity of the inner child so cogent that there is not a
dry eye in the house during the thankfully long credits. Johnny Depp
continues to prove that he is one of the finest actors on the screen
today: his Barrie has a flawless Scottish accent and a manner of
movement and facial expressions that make him a gentle hero. Kate
Winslet, never more beautiful, likewise embodies Sylvia with exactly
the right amount of perk and pathos, and as her mother, Julie Christie
is strikingly beautiful and unfailingly solid in a role less than
loving. The boys are artfully recreated, never absurdly over the top,
always very close to the bridge that crosses the craggy canyon between
childhood and adulthood. Growing up has never been better portrayed -
by all of the characters!In a time when too often films that address
magic and imagination rely on computer effects to create creatures that
are comic book absurd, FINDING NEVERLAND relies on simply showing the
stage mechanics of the play, suspending wires and all, even in the
climax of the story when Barrie brings his successful play to the
living room of the ill Sylvia in order to keep his promise to her to
take her to Neverland. No gimmicks here, just solid stagecraft very
much in keeping with the inherent magic of Barrie's enduring play. This
is a brilliant cinematic accomplishment - a feast for the eyes, the
ears, the brain, and the soul. Please don't miss it! Grady Harp,
November 2004
<|_=00=_|>
The real J.M. Barrie was influenced and inspired as a child in Scotland
by the adventurous stories of Robert Louis Stevenson of pirates,
Indians and kidnapped boys. As a young journalist in London in the peak
years of the Gilded Age his vivid imagination took him from novels to
stage-plays. 

Barrie loved games and founded a cricket club with fellow writers
Arthur Conan Doyle and P.G. Wodehouse. An old nugget describing his
personality tells of his comments upon himself and others that often
appeared in the newspapers. He once remarked to H.G. Wells, "It is all
very well to be able to write books, but can you wiggle your ears?" It
was in the very early years of the 20th Century, now 101 years ago and
the same year that in the windy Outer Banks of North Carolina that the
Wright Brothers took flight that Jamie Barrie's Peter Pan soared into
the air on wires in the London stage. 

Marc Forester's fascinating film biography adapted by David Magee from
Allan Knee's play, "The Man Who Was Peter Pan," now comes to us in this
delightful, moving account, 'Finding Neverland.' It presents historical
reality between lushly imagined expeditions to a fictitious Neverland.
It's performed impeccably by Johnny Depp as Sir James Mathew Barrie and
an extraordinary cast under the able direction of Marc Forster.

This is the loveliest film of the year, highly recommended. Bring
Kleenex for the final scenes and see how difficult it is to leave the
theater and return to today.
<|_=00=_|>
**no spoilers** Finding Neverland covers a short period of the life of
Sir James Matthew Barrie (the writer), between the release of his last
play and his classic masterpiece Peter Pan.

This movie totally changed my perspective on Peter Pan. I was
fascinated by the creativity of Sir Barrie. Seeing how the people and
events around the author have inspired the play, and afterwards, how
the play has affected them (Sylvia, her children, her mother and even
an audience of all ages...) It makes you realize that even though the
story of Peter Pan seems simple, it is rich with symbolisms and
metaphors. 

I don't know if this happened for real, but the 25 seat idea was an act
of genius!! (This is all I can say about that without spoiling it for
you)

When I was really young, I remember being captivated by Disney's
animated version of Peter Pan. It had so many fascinating elements (for
a young boy) such as: pirates, Indians, flying kids, faeries, sword
fights... I was never tempted to get into Peter Pan again until today.
Now that I know who the characters were based on, and their connection
to Sir Barrie. But mainly because, Sir Barrie was true to himself when
he wrote the play (towards the end, Peter (the boy) says to Sir Barrie
"you are Peter"). The author strongly believed that the power of
imagination can overcome age, sickness and death, and he tried to pass
it on to everyone, but most importantly to the people he cared about
(when he showed Sylvia Neverland).

I HIGHLY RECOMMEND this movie to anyone who would like to go back in
time and meet Sir James Matthew Barrie and follow the creative process
that led him to Neverland. 

Great performances by Depp, Winslet, Hoffman, and the Davies children
were very impressive; specially Freddie Highmore (the one who played
Peter)
<|_=00=_|>
Every holiday season Harvey Weinstein and Miramax talk up one of their
properties, fully expecting everyone to bow and throw awards at it as
soon as it's released. This year it's Finding Neverland, which has
produced a lot of buzz in favor of Johnny Depp's sophisticated
performance. Although the film deserves all the praise it gets, it is
understandable that moviegoers are a little weary with another dramatic
period piece, with another "oscar caliber" cast, about yet another take
on Peter Pan.

The bottom line is, this movie is phenomenal. Exploring the major theme
of Barrie's play (that of a boy who never grows up), Finding Neverland
refrains from condemning grown-ups, but exalts the wild magic one can
enjoy as a kid. For James, who had to deal with his family's reticence
upon the death of his brother, the real tragedy occurs when a child is
forced to grow up too fast. 

My favorite idea from this film is this: life finds a way to put into
our lives the people we're supposed to be living our lives with. James
and Sylvia needed each other, and they needed each other at that
particular time. Life took care of them.

The film does indeed move at a snail's pace. Consider that part of the
set design. Just as the characters go about 1905 London in top hats and
buttoned-down gowns, so does the movie develop in a manner which would
have been fitting for a time which preceded MTV-generation attention
spans by about a hundred years.

As for the acting, it is wonderful. Depp is understated and gallant,
Kate Winslet is lovely and tragic, and they're both better than I've
ever seen them. Julie Christie is brutally ominous as the matriarch who
can gum up everyone's happiness. Dustin Hoffman, although out of place,
brings a dry wit as a risk-taking businessman. The boys playing the
Davis kids are a lot of fun to watch and play their dramatic parts
perfectly.

If you want something where all the pieces of the magic puzzle that is
movie-making come together with grace, charm, and humanity, you won't
find a more rewarding film than this.
<|_=00=_|>
Finding Neverland is one of the best films I have seen all year. Depp
and Winslet are superb and their supporting cast is very strong in
particular Julie Christie, Dustin Hoffman and Freddie Highmore.
Forster's direction is tight and he maintains a story which had the
potential to drag. Depp delivers a performance that is truly believable
and he interacts with his co-stars well, in particular, Freddie
Highmore who delivers a performance that outshines Depp's. It is a tour
de force of acting talent. Clearly Highmore has a great career ahead of
him. 9/10 for a superb piece of film-making, made diligently but,
unfortunately, up against such strong contention, it had to make do
with a disappointing award haul.
