
Man, I felt like this was a presidential campaign. :) Who would you
vote for in this awesome battle? Me? Freddy all the way, man! I'll give
you that Jason's bigger, but he's such a Mama's Boy, Freddy is just
down right mean. But this movie was so incredibly awesome and such a
treat to horror fans.

If you are a fan of the Friday the 13th series, this had so many
tributes to the originality, sex, drugs, alcohol, stupid teens, and
cliché bad acting. We had our slutty girl, the smart but always sexy
girl who's a virgin, the funny stereotype black girl, a geek, a stoner,
the sensitive boyfriend, and two of the coolest boogeymen of all horror
cinema.

The plot, at first I had questioned how they'd do it. I mean, we got a
killer from Camp Crystal Lake and a killer who haunts your dreams. But
they made Freddy loose his powers and he needed the kids to be afraid
so he could be strong again while feeding on their fear, but how can he
do that when he's not that effective in his nightmares? Of course!
Jason! Jason is like his bubble wrap, he assumes Jason will probably go
away or he'll be easy to throw away after the job is done. But he
surprises Freddy by staying and for the ultimate battle of who's
victims are who.

This was just such a blast to watch. Classic horror cliché's and the
best battle of the ultimate boogeymen were just too cool. The ending is
a cliff hanger, but you have too many votes going towards both sides.
We could never decide who is the best at the gore... Freddy! :D Sorry,
I just needed to say that. But I think all horror fans will enjoy the
battle scenes and the gore. It's just a great tribute to our favorite
killers!

9/10
<|_=00=_|>
I think I had never felt like this before when I walked into the
cinema. It was an absolute dream come true for me. I had prepared over
a year for this film, this once in a lifetime-event. I had chased every
picture, every piece of scoop I could find about this movie on the
internet. It was very painful when "Freddy Vs. Jason" was finally
released in June in the U.S. and I still had to wait until November
until the film saw its theatrical release in Vienna where I live.
Yesterday, the big day had come. Is there a way that a movie that's
been so hyped by myself can still live up to my expectations?
Abso-friggin-lutely!

WOW! "Freddy vs. Jason" is unbelievable. What sounds like a loony's
idea (to be honest, die hard-Freddy & Jason-fans like myself are mostly
loonies) was made into a kick-ass flick for a wide audience. Bring
along your kids, bring along your grandparents and enjoy the roller
coaster ride that is "Freddy vs. Jason".

When I heard that Ronny Yu was going to be the director for this
project I checked out two of his previous movies ("51st State" & "Bride
of Chucky") and wasn't exactly blown away. These movies were okay but
nowhere near as good as I wanted "Freddy vs. Jason" to be. Well, I have
to apologize to Mr. Yu. Not only did he revive both franchises like no
one would have expected it to be possible, he also managed to COMBINE
the two and not make it absolutely ridiculous.

Of course, the horror that made the original "A Nightmare On Elm
Street" so scary and the first "Friday The 13th" so, hmm... dark is
gone by now, but it has been gone for more than ten years. Get over it,
people! A movie called "Freddy vs. Jason" HAS TO BE campy. No wonder
the dialog is incredibly bad at times ("Freddy is afraid of fire, Jason
is afraid of water... how can we use that?"), no wonder the actors are
no Academy Award winners. The right things are deliberately hammed up
and self-ironic (like a boobie-goddess playing the main character, who
is supposed to be a 14 year old virgin. Come on, nobody is really
supposed to take that seriously!)

Let's get to the main attraction, Freddy & Jason. I have to admit I was
rooting for Freddy. I adored this character since he first scared the
crap out of me as a child. I had trouble falling asleep for days and
although I don't find Freddy scary anymore I still love his story, his
attitude and his one-liners. "Freddy vs. Jason" did him justice and
that's also and mostly due to the great Robert Englund. I was down on
the floor laughing my ass off as this man put up yet another great show
with merciless jokes and dark comedy. Let's hope he never retires. As
for Jason, he's better than ever. Sure, it would have been nice to have
long time-Jason-actor Kane Hodder in this movie, but Ken Kirzinger did
a very good job. Ronny Yu wasn't afraid of showing gore and Jason got
some pretty original kills. (Just why is he afraid of water all of a
sudden?)

Another plus for Ronny Yu is the use of colors. Preview pics of "Freddy
vs. Jason" showed that this movie was going to be very colorful, which
made me skeptic at first. Nightmare 4 & 5 had been red, green and blue
all over and it looked very cheap and comic like. Not so with "Freddy
vs. Jason". The colors look atmospheric here. The rain looked a little
fake but that's probably just me.

The story is simple, which is good compared to the far fetched rejected
drafts that are spread across the Internet. Maybe there were a little
too many subplots in the final version, which made the movie slow in
the middle. I could have done without the character that was like a
copy of Kevin Smith's Jay, too. Apart from these little flaws there's
no need to be nitpicky.

The box office success of "Freddy vs. Jason" was just as exciting as
the film itself. It helped bring back classic 80's horror. Studios
considered and made sequels/remakes to movies such as "The Texas
Chainsaw Massacres" & "Halloween" again. The commercial success of
"Freddy vs. Jason" also proved that there's still enough life in both
of these characters to justify more sequels. Freddy was killed off way
too soon anyway. Only 6 sequels? Come on, I want to see more of him,
but make the movies original for Christ's sake! I'd rather see Freddy
die than going to straight-to-video-hell. That's why I hope a
"Nightmare"-prequel will never be made and why I beg producers not to
make a "Freddy vs. Jason 2" or any other obscure vs.-movies. "Freddy
vs. Jason" is the fulfillment of every fans dream and that is that.

Phew... have I said everything? Have I expressed my euphoria enough?
Let me just say this at the end: A lot of people had eagerly waited for
this project to be realized. Thanks Ronny Yu, Robert Englund and New
Line for making it come true!
<|_=00=_|>

Freddy's dead and he can't get the old killing spree going again, so he
wakes up Jason Voorhees to scare the kids into wetting their pants so
Freddy
can feed off of their fear. But like the sorcerer's apprentice, Jason,
once
turned on cannot be turned off, so Freddy faces off with Jason for the
right
to be the #1 serial killer while a bunch of busty idiot girls look on. And
as we all know, after the endless line of sequels, by this entry the
killers' are our friends so really you're rooting for them and not the
idiot
teenagers.

Of the teens, Jason Ritter is the only one who seems to know how to act
(shame about his dad, John Ritter). Monica Keena is cute but she needs to
lose the implants. What is Kelly Rowland doing in here? Robert Englund's
as
funny as ever, and Ken Kirzinger is a capable Jason. I still don't see why
New Line Cinema didn't want to bring back Kane Hodder though. They say
they
wanted to take Jason in a new direction, but they DID NOT take Jason in a
new direction. Jason's still the same hulking mute murderer he's always
been, just a tad taller and bigger than before (and somehow he's got both
of
his eyes back). I don't see a big difference between Kane, Ken and all the
rest, but Kane has professed great fondness and dedication to role of
Jason,
so I feel that if Kane was willing to play the part again (and it's hard
to
find people who are willing to be all painted up in gory make up mind you)
then New Line should have accepted his services. It did feel that they
were
trying to make Jason out to be the more sympathetic of the two killers,
but
that doesn't change the fact that Jason killed the bulk of the film's
teens.

Well, anyway, you get the usual dose of sex, drugs, violence, rock & roll
and below par acting. So truly turn off your brain and enjoy the
mayhem.
<|_=00=_|>
It's A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 8 served with a side of Jason
Voorhees. So unless the audience suffers from delusions as to the
quality of the franchises this movie spawns from, you'll be pretty
happy. It is not a masterpiece of cinema; it is not a masterpiece of
horror . . . look at all the F13 and NOES. You have 17 examples of what
this movie is going to be like.

Take your typical crappy Elm Street plot and cast your typical crappy
Friday the 13th cast, and you have your typical crappy horror movie. Am
I criticizing this movie? Not really since that crap-factor is a staple
to the F13 franchise and the NOES sequels. Does anyone really care? I
hope not. The whole reason anyone should see this movie comes down to
the three words in the title "Freddy versus Jason." If those three
words do not interest you, don't even screw with FvsJ. I mean, I don't
think in film history has the title been more descriptive of the point
of the movie.

While it actually takes awhile to get to the slasher deathmatch, you
know it's coming . . . everyone knows there's going to be a fight to
remember, so Ronny Yu opts to prolong it as far as he can and just jam
packs the ending with Slasher celebrities ripping into each other . . .
because, seriously, 90 minutes of Jason and Freddy hacking at each
other would get downright boring. At least there's some variety and
nods to old school F13 and NOES, some typical nods to the stereotyped
horror formula which isn't scary but seems to be a requirement. Boobs,
booze, blood . . . you know the routine. A high point of the film -
I've been dying to see Voorhees crash a party and just cut through
teens ala Krueger style in Elm Street 2, and I finally got to see it .
. . just enough "other elements" to keep entertaining unless you're an
oldschool fan and tired of hearing the mythology over and over again in
every sequel.

Cut through the "good guys" whom nobody really cares about since Freddy
and Jason have been the stars since forever now, get through the
human's boring backstory which will be forgotten in the FvsJ2 and wait
for the inevitable moment when our "heroes" run from Voorhees where
Freddy turns to the nearest kid and says, "Let me handle this, bitch."
Now, ladies and gentlemen, it has begun . . . now it's on. Now we
rumble . . . now we see why horny teens had such a hard time killing
these bad boys. Freddy makes more fatal blows against Voorhees than he
did to the cast of all 8 Freddy films combined . .. and Voorhees keeps
getting up. For the first time we see Freddy treated like a rag doll
and tossed around/cut up like another camp crystal lake
sex-addict--Voorhees makes no distinction.

So who wins? Everyone . . . unless, of course, you're under the false
impression that you're going to see Welles quality cinema, in which
case why are you even reading about FvsJ?

I could go through and detail the plot, characters, acting, etc like
other amateur and pro critics alike, but quite frankly, I don't see the
point. I mean, this is still Friday the 13th and Nightmare on Elm
Street. I will say that it's a better Elm Street sequel, and it is the
best film featuring Jason.

I enjoyed the hell out of this movie, and I'm barely an Elm Street fan
and am definitely not a fan of F13 . . . take that for what it's worth.
<|_=00=_|>
Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund) is been dead for years in the Real
World and the Dream World. Since Freddy is literally in hell and
forgotten in the real world. Freddy has a plan to bring back Crystal
Lake Serial Killer-Jason Voorhees (Ken Kirzinger) to life in the real
world. Freddy thinks by bringing Jason back to life to bring fear on
Elm Street and Making Teenagers remember in Freddy again. Since Jason
is a instant killing machine, Jason isn't willing to step aside. Now
with a terrified town in the middle, Freddy has to find a way to kill
Jason by going in his dreams before Jason takes Elm Street over. A
Scared Teenager (Monica Keena) finds a way to bring Freddy to Reality
from her dreams. So Freddy and Jason enter into a horrific and bloody
showdown.

Directed by Ronny Yu (Bride with White Hair, Bride of Chucky, Formula
51) made an entertaining Spin-Off to the "A Nightmare on Elm Street"
and "Friday the 13th" Series. Englund, who played Freddy Krueger for
the 8th time seems that he had a blast making this film. Kirzinger
replaced Kane Hodder. Which Hodder originally played Jason in the last
four films. Kirzinger is good as the new Jason. Sean S. Cunnigham, who
produced and directed the original "Friday the 13th" is back producing
this silly but larger than life epic. The film also stars-Jason Ritter
(Which Jason's father-The late John Ritter worked with Yu in Bride of
Chucky), Kelly Rowland (R & B singer from the group-Destiny's Child),
Lochlyn Murno (Scary Movie), Chris Marquette (The Girl Next Door) and
Katherine Isabelle (Ginger Snaps Trilogy).

DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (2.35:1) transfer (also in Pan &
Scan) and an superb-Dolby Digital 5.1 Expanded Surround Sound. DVD has
an ingraining Commentary Track by the director and actors:Englund and
Kirzinger. Disc Two has Deleted Scenes with/without Commentary, Many
Behind the Scenes Featurettes, Music Video, Hidden Features, DVD-ROM
Content and more. 

The Canadian Blu-ray version has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen 1080P
High Definition (2.35:1) transfer and an superb DTS HD 5.1 Surround
Sound. Sadly the Canadian Blu-ray movie has no special features.

The book from "Crystal Lake Memories", the complete history of "Friday
the 13th". The Book has interviews with Robert Shaye, Robert Englund,
Producer:Sean S. Cunningham (The House Series, Deep Star Six, Friday
the 13th), Director Adam Marcus (Jason Goes to Hell:The Final Friday),
Screenwriter:Lewis Abernathy, Screenwriter:Roland D. Moore,
Screenwriter David J. Schow (Leatherface:The Texas Chainsaw Massacre 3,
The Crow, The Hills Run Red), Screenwriter:Ethan Reiff,
Screenwriter:Cyrus Voris, Producer:Noel Cunningham, Screenwriter:Mark
Verheiden, Co-Screenwriter:Mark Swift, Co-Screenwriter:Damian Shannon,
Production Executive:Stokley Chaffin, Director:Ronny Yu (Bride of
Chucky, Formula 51), Executive Producer:Doug Curtis, Casting
Director:Matthew Barry, Actor:Christopher Marquette (Alpha Dog, The
Girl Next Door), Actor:Kyle Labine, Actor:Brendan Fletcher (88
Minutes), Actor:Jesse Hutch, Actress:Kelly Rowland (One of the singers
from Destiny's Child), Actress:Monica Keena (While You Were Sleeping),
Actor:Jason Ritter (Son of the late John Ritter), Actor & Stuntman:Kane
Hodder (Who played Jason Voorhess in Friday the 13th Part 7, 8, 9 and
10), Development Executive:Jeff Katz, Make-Up Effects Supervisor:Greg
Nicotero (Alexandre Aja's The Hills Have Eyes, George A. Romero's Land
of the Dead, Planet Terror), Director:John Carl Buechler (Friday the
13th Part 7:The New Blood), Actor & Stuntman:Ken Kirzinger, Make-Up
Effects Supervisor:William Terezakis and President of Production:Toby
Emmerich.

The film has an strong music score by Greame Revell (The Crow, Dark
City, Pitch Black) that pays tribute to the "A Nightmare on Elm Street"
and "Friday the 13th". This film ended being a Box Office Smash for the
Studio:New Line Cinema. Extremely Entertaining for the Fans of Freddy
and Jason. Watch for New Line Topper:Robert Shaye as the Principal in a
Cameo, which He's one of the Executive Producers of the film. Great
gory fun all the way. Super 35. Written by Mark Swift and Damian
Shannon (They both wrote the watchable but highly flawed remake of
"Friday the 13th"). (****/*****).
<|_=00=_|>

Freddy Vs. Jason (2003)

To start off, I think that any fan of any series of movies will come back
for the next sequel and the next and the next etc., no matter what kind of
garabage is placed in front of them. Freddy Vs. Jason wasn't complete
garabage, it was okay. Freddy Krueger is now powerless since the children of
Elm St. are taking a certain drug to stop their dreams, so he consults Jason
Voorhees to kill the children until Freddy has power to kill again, but
Jason goes on a rampage and won't stop killing in what results in a final
battle of evil vs. evil. Ronny Yu, director of The Bride Of Chucky makes a
neat direction in this movie, and his certain style of filmmaking added a
touch that none of the Elm Street of Friday the 13th films had before. Of
course, Robert Englund returns as Freddy, but Kane Hodder (who has played
Jason in most of the films) is replaced by another actor. Kelly Rowland and
Monica Keena pretty much lead this movie. I also noticed Katharine Isabelle
from 2002's TV movie "Carrie". I have to say that fans of either series will
be pleased, but other horror goers may not. Also, do not, I repeat do not
watch this if you have a weak stomach. It's about one of the goriest movies
I've ever seen. Bottom Line: Fans will be pleased, others will not.
7/10.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie itself is alright. It's exactly what it says! Freddy vs.
Jason. And while we might never see my favorite movie be made (Ash vs.
Freddy vs. Jason), there might be another movie around the corner,
maybe involving M. Myers.

But back to this film. It delivers what it promises, the battle of the
titans. Wrapped up in a nice story. And while all is good, I can't stop
wondering, if there wasn't any way to make more of that particular
premise ... The movie is fine, but it's just not excellent.

And one thing is for sure: Kelly Rowland plays one of the most annoying
characters that I have seen in a long time. Now either she is a good
actress and played that really well ... or she is a bad actress and
that showed on screen (I personally think it's the latter).

A nice teen horror movie, with two of the most recognised horror
characters out there!
<|_=00=_|>

I thought that Jason and Freddy were fossils of the 80s.  I was wrong.  This
movie works well.  I liked it better than the overrated Scream movies. 
Freddy and Jason make a great team.  This is an exciting movie with two cult
figures meeting on screen for the first time.  The fight is satisfying. 
7/10
<|_=00=_|>

Now you're probably thinking 'Oh god not another Friday the 13th/Nightmare
on Elm Street!' However, contrary to the belief of many this film is more
than just a simple character crossover. There are moments where the film,
instead of making you jump in fright, makes you laugh out load and
sometimes
it is easy to predict how a person will die. But other than a few flaws
this
films is a great film to see (especially if you are a fan of either
series).
There is also little need to have seen the previous films, although it
does
help, as it recaps on the characters' pasts (Freddy's more so than Jason
however).
The plot of this movie is that Freddy is trapped in Hell, because the
children of Elm Street have forgot about him, and those that do remember
him
are in an institution and given medication (Hypnocyl) to stop them
dreaming.
So Mr. Kruger decides to acquire the assistance of, someone from Hell who
is
just as sadistic and evil, Jason Voorhees. Jason awakes from his eternal
slumber and heads to Elm Street in the mood for slaughtering more helpless
teenagers. Freddy's plan is that with all of these murders taking place
the
children will find out about Freddy and subsequently he will be able to go
back to his old ways. However Freddy did not account for Jason's blood
lust
and soon finds Jason killing his potential victims. What ensues after is a
battle of two equally evil forces, although most of their fighting is
purely
comical.
This film obviously appeals to fans of Jason and Freddy but it also
introduces a new generation of young adults to two classical 'slasher'
characters (who should not judge the characters just on this film). Freddy
and Jason are seen by many to be two of the best at what they do, and to
see
them finally square off is a great experience. It is good to see horror
characters finally battling it out, if only to answer the question (that
was
always brought up when watching a horror film) of 'who would
win?'

<|_=00=_|>

That's what I felt after seeing this film, Freddy Vs. Jason.  Right when
they introduced the characters I knew them so well, their personalities,
emotions, motives and all, that not one human character could have (or would
have tried to) surprise me with ingenuity in their performances.  So, that's
the downside to Freddy Vs. Jason, a downside that will either poke the
viewer harshly in the ribs, or will just remain as the typical, expectedly
lame backdrop for the match-up.  I felt a little of both, though I tried to
be confident that the main show would be worth the Hollywood-ish
mish-mash.

The main show, however, is the only reason to see the movie:  Freddy Kruger
(Robert Englund), the old gent from Elm Street, is down in hell wanting
another grab at 'his' children, so he implements a sort of decoy in the form
of lake-boy Jason Voorhees, who begins slaying far more than Freddy could
want to see for someone other than himself.  So, he decides that it's time
to kick some a**, and that's when the fun begins.  

To die-hards of both series (I like a few from each series, and personally,
I'm more for Freddy than Jason in the genre because at least Freddy can give
some funny dialog in terrifying moments while Jason stares blankly, except
for when his mother calls him) this is like seeing two legends standing up
in the ring for a prizefight.  Each one has their weaknesses, but they each
know who to throw their punches with style, and (we hope) that they can stay
invincible until the last round.  I won't reveal who wins (they're enough
skeeves on the message boards doing that), but what I can say is that if it
only wasn't for the people in the movie (I'll exclude the Jay rip-off since
he garnered the most laughs) acting so blandly, strategically like how
they're told to do in such a piece, this would've been a near excellent
horror movie.  Never-the-less, that could be considered moot, since that's
what's to ALWAYS be expected for these gobledy-gook slasher pieces.  The
point is, I didn't leave the theater feeling swindled by the hype of the
matching (unlike how I would if they ever, EVER decide to make a Superman
vs. Batman piece of drek).  C+
