
This is a great family film/clean fun. Good to see with others. Fun to
watch with children or as an adult. The focus of the film(plot) is
clear. The characters/actors were well chosen. It wasn't too long, and
it kept ones suspense. This is the type of film, I feel, that helps
people better appreciate the holiday season. The film had no explicit
scenes, so it could be watched with children.

The focus of the film was to make one laugh and to apply the romantic
need for togetherness. Excellently done...
<|_=00=_|>

It's been quite a while since I've seen the first Santa Clause movie, but I
remember being quite surprised by it.  It was a unique twist on the beloved
Santa character with great comic timing by Tim Allen.  But that was a while
ago, and I didn't really know what to expect from The Santa Clause
2.

The movie started off kind of slow when everything is going smoothly. 
Everybody's happy and Santa's meeting with his fellow "legendary figures,"
which I admit was a fairly funny scene, but this movie just started off kind
of boring.  Of course this is normal with any movie until we're presented
with a conflict.  Santa is reverting back to his civilian self and must find
a Mrs. Clause to fulfill the contract and continue being Santa.  So to watch
over the North Pole, a duplicate, plastic Santa clone is made, and slowly
turns to a maniacal boss over his elves.  I thought this was pretty funny,
especially with me being a business major.  I wonder if I'll act like that
after school!

Anyways, back to the story, Santa goes back to his hometown with limited
magic.  We're introduced to a frigid principal that has punished Santa's son
for displaying some Christmas spirit.  More fun ensues as Santa tries to
find and woo the next Mrs. Clause.  To seal the deal, his Santa magic gives
him the edge and results in some very nice scenes of the
movie.

I won't go any further as you get the idea.  Overall, The Santa Clause 2 is
a nice, snuggly movie that will keep you in the holiday spirit.  It's not
groundbreaking material, but it has a nice message and should put a smile on
anyone's face.

My IMDb Rating: 7/10.  My Yahoo! Grade: B (Good)
<|_=00=_|>

OK so I admit I thought this was going to be a dud. The first one was sorta
clever but a sequel... oh dear. I ended up going to watch it anyway, not
entirely by choice.

Well, actually it was pretty good. There were several intertwining plot
lines, lots of laughs that weren't all about Tim Allen being fat and falling
down, and the kids in the theatre seemed to enjoy it too. So, for what it is
(clean family entertainment), it's actually pretty good.
<|_=00=_|>

Released November 1st, 2002

Director: Michael Lembeck

Starring: Tim Allen, Elizabeth Mitchell, Nicole Leroux, Judge Reinhold,
Spencer Breslin, Wendy Crewson, Eric Lloyd, Kevin Pollak, Molly Shannon,
Jay
Thomas, Aisha Tyler, Michael Dorn

Premise: Scott Calvin has been Santa Claus for the past eight years, and
his
loyal elves consider him the best Santa ever. But Santa's world is turned
upside down when he's dealt a double whammy of bad news: not only has his
son, Charlie, landed on this year's `naughty' list, but if Scott doesn't
marry by Christmas Eve, he'll stop being Santa forever. Desperate, Scott
turns to the elves' new invention - a machine that can replicate
anything -
to create Santa II and he leaves his double in charge. Things quickly go
south at the North Pole when Santa II institutes some strange
redefinitions
of what's naughty and nice; worse, when Scott finally falls for a
potential
Mrs. Claus, she threatens to drive a wedge between him and Charlie. In a
climactic battle pitting Santa, Charlie, the new Mrs. Claus, and the elves
against Santa II and his army of tin soldiers, the future of Scott's
family,
the North Pole, and Christmas itself, hangs in the balance.

After a horrorific Halloween, the last thing you would expect would be a
Christmas themed film. But here we are with the sequel to the 1994 smash
hit, The Santa Clause. The movie opened modestly but soon gained
popularity
and was selling to packed houses over the Thanksgiving weekend. It just
made
natural sense for the Walt Disney Company to return with a sequel. The
Santa
Clause 2 was originally slanted for release in 2001 but the executives at
Disney became aware that sequels to moderately old films won't
automatically
become the same hit as the original after 102 Dalmatians flopped in 2000
thanks in part to The Grinch. After the script was revised, Tim Allen
finally returns as the big guy after eight years. But this time around, he
doesn't have his hit TV show to bring in the sure-fire crowd like before.
Will The Santa Clause 2 be as magical as the original or will the sequel
follow the same steps as 102 Dalmatians?

The story goes that Scott Calvin has been Santa for eight years and it
declared the best Santa ever by his elves and the children of the world.
But
his helper elves find that they missed a clause in his contract that
states
that he must get married before Christmas Eve or else he will not be Santa
ever again. On top of this delema, his son Charlie has been found on the
naughty list for incidents at school that involve his principal, who Scott
soon falls head over heels for. But he soon must return to the North Pole
as
the temporary toy replacement takes in new order at the North Pole. The
story was very well done. It introduced all the original characters in
very
nice fashion and brings good attention to brand new ones like Curtis, the
keeper of the Santa handbook. One of the especially good parts was how
they
introduced Miss Mitchell and how she soon came to be the love interest of
Scott Calvin a.k.a. Santa Claus. There were little or no problems with the
story that tries hard to live up to the original.

The characters in The Santa Clause 2 are very funny and do a great job of
bringing the audience into the holiday world of the North Pole. Tim Allen
is
as funny as ever reprising his famous role as the big guy himself, Santa
Claus. Spence Breslin is very amusing as Curits and really shows off his
mature acting abilities in a comedy, which will be needed when he appears
in
The Cat in the Hat with Mike Myers in 2003. Elizabeth Mitchell is great as
Charlie's principal. She really brings the romance into this familty
comedy
that is needed to offset some of the goofiness that happens all around but
doesn't draw too much attention away from other important scenes. All the
original characters are back and do a extraordinary jobs returning to
their
old roles.

Overall, The Santa Clause 2 is as funny or better then the 1994 original
in
many areas of the story and characters. Though the movie does seem perfect
but there are slight flaws to this beautifully wrapped package. The main
problem is the moral lesson expressed in the film. They are stated in
lines
of the film and come off as way too tacky especially with the emotional
music playing. This is okay for a family audience but can get on nerves to
older audience. This does not ruin the film in the least. The Santa Clause
2
does everything it sets out to achieve and does so with great flare. If
this
film does well enough, you might expect another sequel but even if this is
the last chapter in the Santa Clause films then it goes off on a fabulous
note. If there is one holiday film to take your kids to see this November,
take them to see The Santa Clause 2. You won't forget it and neither will
your kids after they are done laughing their heads off. And no worries for
adults, the jokes appeal to both children and adults. Look for hidden
Disney
jokes and even a few Buzz Lightyear lines slipped into the story. One of
the
few films that lives up to the original.

My Rating: ****1/2 out of 5 
<|_=00=_|>
This was much better than I anticipated. It made me laugh a few times.
In the sequel, Santa Claus (Allen) is losing his magical powers. There
was a hidden clause in his contract that he had to marry by a certain
time or he would lose them all. So, he goes back home to date and help
straighten his son out who was on the naughty list. While away, Santa's
lead elves make a plastic replica Santa so the other elves won't worry.
And a lot of the funny parts have to do with plastic Santa as he learns
the enjoyment of cocoa and goes on a power trip. 

I wish the movie would have shown more than one dating disaster with
Santa. Molly Shannon does a cameo as his date and loudly sings this
funny song in a restaurant. And the flying reindeer and tooth fairy
bring even more cuteness to the film. The principle was so annoying and
you knew she was going to be the one. But it felt so fairy tale like
because Santa knows her like a week and he's saying, "I'm so in love"
and all they did was go to a faculty Christmas party. Does Santa stop
the evil plastic Santa and save Christmas? What do you think? Duh!

FINAL VERDICT: It was pretty good for a kid's film. I recommended it if
you don't think movies like this are too childish.
<|_=00=_|>

This was a very fun movie!  Easily as fun as the first.  It had a great
mix
of humor, romance and 'feel good'.  The first movie gave me the feeling
of
joy at the thought of grownups finding the wonder of Christmas again
(Laura
and Neal realizing Scott was indeed Santa).  The second gave me that same
feeling (the staff Christmas party).  I'm kind of partial to these kind
of
movies because I like to take the Spirit of Christmas and share it
throughtout the year.  I liked the attitude of Bernard more in the first
one.  He seemed more on top of things, a little cocky, very in control.
Other than that, I can't think of a thing I didn't like about this movie.
And no bad language!  Great for the entire family. 10/10
<|_=00=_|>

Saw the first one as a child, saw the second one as an adult.  Just so I
don't spoil the magic, I will say only the following:  Tim Allen was
excellent as Santa... he made me feel like I was ten again.  The character
Bernard was just as bossy as I remembered from the first film, but the quips
he fires off were in shorter supply.  I missed the sarcastic humor I
associate with him.  Charlie is growing up, but in the best way possible. 
He had some touching lines near the end to a new character-- I won't ruin
the surprise of whom.

Yes, there was an inappropriate flatulence joke in the movie, but all in all
that was the only concession to bathroom humor in an otherwise classy family
comedy.  Yes, there were plot holes, some of which were large enough to
drive a sleigh through, but after eight years and five writers, the end
product was satisfactory.

On its own: 10/10 for combined effort and execution.  As a sequel: 8/10. 
Good character continuity, interesting new spin.  I'm happy to say I didn't
spot large amounts of rehash.

Recommended for:  families with small children and college students old
enough to remember the first "Clause" and just need to de-stress around
midterms or finals.
<|_=00=_|>

Now, I cannot really describe what sort of expectations I had coming into
this movie. I barely remember the first Santa Clause, which came out over
six years ago, so the idea of a sequel after such a long break made me
rethink its possibilities. Then my family and I went to go see it today, and
for what it is worth, SC2 is pretty decent. Okay, so there isn't a lot of
humor that will appeal to the older siblings or parents in the audience, but
the colorful sets, simple story, and a good cast make it worth the trip. Tim
Allen is just fine as Santa, although for such a good comedian I was hoping
he would improvise some more sly humor or gags into the role. One wonders
what Robin Williams or, heck, Chris Rock could do with the role of the big
guy. The woman who plays Allen's possible love interest was also pretty
good, but her character fell in love with Scott Calvin so fast it seemed
like the script was forcing the relationship. Pretty much everyone from
1996's Santa Clause is back, including Charlie, who is now all grown up and
as cute as a button. They try to present him as somehwhat of a delinquent,
but considering all he does is throw snowballs and do a little light
grafitti work, it seems like he's more of a Disney thug than anything you
would see on the streets of reality. The only actor I could have nixed from
the film and not missed was the chubby kid who was also in Bruce Willis' The
Kid and provided voicework for the Peter Pan sequel. It just feels like
Disney is recycling him into every movie they have, and he isn't even that
good of a child actor. Oh, and did anyone catch the insanely obvious product
placement for McDonald's? Sheesh, I have a problem with such blatant
advertising like this, but at the same time it is kind of funny to watch the
Marketing Gears groan and grind (look, Charlie is having a BIG MAC). Oh, and
the reindeer character eats a lot of brand name candy (including a yummy
CRUNCH BAR). I liked Comet, even if he is an obvious animatronic creation,
and appreciated the fact that the filmakers didn't get lazy and just use
CGI, but what if he had just spoken English? Why the weird reindeer
language? Tim Allen had to repeat everything Comet said just so we could
understand, and that got a little old. What's that Comet? You can't fly? You
say Timmy is at the bottom of the well and he is hemmoraging? Hee
hee...sorry, I couldn't resist. Anyway, this review is getting kind of long,
so I'll wrap it up by saying that The Santa Clause 2 is a great movie to
take the family to, but don't expect long-lasting memories. It certainly
looks better than Adam Sandler's animated PG-13 movie. What was that man
thinking? I give SC2 3/4 stars.
<|_=00=_|>

***** spoilers ahead! *****

This movie had me laughing and moved me almost to tears a couple of
times.
There are some who have not given this movie a good review, don't listen
to
them.  Tim Allen was great, his co-star (what's her name?) was great.
This
was an excellent feel good movie for the holidays.  I liked it better
than
the first one.  The thing with the reindeer talking by making noises was
very funny.  I also liked the parts with the other characters from
legend...
Mother nature, Tooth Fairy, Father Time etc.  Go see this movie, you
will
not be wasting your time.
<|_=00=_|>

It was an entertaining and enjoyable movie. I laughed a lot. The elves were
really cute and adorable, I wanted to adopt all of them and take them home
with me. I saw it at the dollar-movie theater & it was definitely worth more
than $1. If you want a funny, enjoyable, cute, movie the entire family can
go see, even your young kids, then I highly recommend this
film.
