
I saw The D's new film tonight at a special advance screening, and I
was so blown away by its sheer greatness that I felt I had to come onto
IMDb and get the word out. Admittedly, I was already a huge fan of the
D's work - I loved the HBO series and listen to their music weekly
(there's nothing better to sing along to), but this appreciation
actually made me more apprehensive going into to tonight's screening
(for we've all been disappointed one time or another by something we
love when it attempted to make the jump to the big screen). With
Tenacious D's "The Pick of Destiny," this is not the case.

Simply put, this film rocks harder than anything I've seen and is
funnier and more majestic than anything Peter Jackson, Pixar, and Will
Ferrell together could produce. It tells the story of the D before we
came to know them, setting up intriguing histories of Kage and Jables'
upbringings, their comings together, and how they were inspired to
write songs about such things as Lee, Sasquatch, and Dio. Most
importantly, they reveal the true inspiration to the Greatest Song In
The World, "Tribute," and how it came to be (which is different than
the HBO Series' version). After you've witnessed it you probably won't
be able to remember it (hence the Tribute), but your mind forever be
changes by its genius.

I don't go out to movies very often anymore due to the high ticket
price and the hassle of getting parking, paying outrageous concession
prices, etc., but I usually make exceptions when it's starring someone
I really love or concerning something of the the same variety. "The
Pick of Destiny" was so good that I have no qualms going back to see it
again when it releases nationwide, and I plan on convincing all of my
friends to go, too. Last week we saw "Borat" and loved it, but this is
honest to goodness TEN TIMES BETTER. For anyone who truly loves rock
music and comedic brilliance, see this film. These guys' talent is so
great you should have no hesitation supporting their cause. You will
not be disappointed, and the Rock Lords will smile upon you favorably.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie on a fluke.I was standing on 42nd street waiting for a
bus to go home and a sister started passing out free tickets for a
preview of this movie.I gave it a chance not expecting much.The
promotional movie posters I've seen on the subway station walls do not
give this film justice at all.

The movie is about a young rocker who goes on a journey to learn the
craft and art of heavy metal.I'll leave it there.The movie is a heavy
comedy and lot's of fun.If your are old enough to remember when Heavy
Metal dominated the music scene in the eighties you are going to love
this film.Jack Black is an amazingly talented comedian and actor and
assuming he really wrote and performed the songs in this film he is
also a talented musician.

Tenacious D is definitely worth a look!
<|_=00=_|>
Just saw it at as closing film of Austin Film Festival. Going in, a had
seen a few snippets of their act at Alamo Drafthouse, and thought the
trailer was amusing but I wasn't expecting such an epic theme music and
the use of tarot cards is genius in the title sequence. Watch out for
cameos from Ben Stiller and Tim Robbins, and the dark lord himself (who
has a fetish for KG). So much over-the-top fun and the songs are so
catchy. The car chase was by far my favorite scene. I know this will
earn cult status right away and win over some new Tenacious D fans,
just like me. I hope this does well in the theaters. "Follow me, we are
the shadows"
<|_=00=_|>
I was able to see a preview of this movie through UCLA's pre-screening
program, and let me tell you: THIS MOVIE IS UNBELIEVABLY GOOD!!!! I
have seen many movies, but few have made me laugh so sincerely or talk
about the movie afterward as much as this one. I had a decent respect
for Tenacious D before seeing the movie, and now I am MAD about them. I
will most definitely buy their album when it is released on the 14th
and will see this movie again.

If you were on the fence about seeing this movie, GET OFF AND GO SEE
IT!! It is worth the extremely expensive price of movie tickets these
days, as you will surely bust a nut laughing during the whole thing.

Aside from the comedy, the glorious and divine music that flows from
KG's guitar and JB's voice is awe inspiring. The audience is left in a
stupor that such beautiful harmonies and amazing riffs can be created
in conjunction with such ridiculous (and hilarious) lyrics. If for
nothing other than the music itself, this movie is worth the price of
admission.

With a wonderfully coherent storyline tying in almost all aspects of
the traditional "D" history and hallmarks, great new songs, hilarious
comedy, and some pretty awesome cameos, this movie ranks up there with
the best! Go see it!!
<|_=00=_|>
I managed to see the MTV premiere of this movie last night and I needed
to tell everyone that this movie brought the thunder. Obviously this
movie will be most enjoyed by fans of the D as it has plenty of
in-jokes for those that have seen the HBO series and has more than
enough D for newer fans and the mass of soon-to-be converts. The music
really shines with the new songs "Kickapoo" (which is much better than
it sounds), "Master Exploder" (possibly the 3rd best song in the world)
and "Dude (I totally miss you)". There are a load of excellent scenes
(the car chase, the rock-off, the meeting) and cameos (including Dave
Grohl as Satan!). I really could go on for hours but I don't want to
give the movie away. Go see it. You won't be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was amazing!!!! From beginning to end, the movie is packed
with fun, laughs, music, enjoyable rock music, hot chicks, more music,
action, drama, and the f-bomb.

Although some scenes are entirely bizarre and unfitting, they were fun
to watch and enjoyable. All in all this movie left you feeling great
and happy. Especially those that love rock music.

The soundtrack is great, the laughs are plentiful, and the storyline is
simple, entertaining, yet complex. You have to see this movie if you
love rock music!

Overall Vote: 10 out of 10!
<|_=00=_|>
Tenacious D: in The Pick of Destiny tells the fictional tale of the
formation of the band Tenacious D and their quest to find the Pick of
Destiny, a guitar pick with supernatural powers made from the tooth of
Satan himself (played by Dave Grohl). JB (Jack Black) and KG (Kyle
Gass), joined together by fate, must travel to the Rock N' Roll Museum
and steal the Pick of Destiny to become the greatest band on earth. The
movie is hilarious and delivers non-stop laughs. Jack Black and Kyle
Gass work perfectly together, having been real life friends and
co-workers for over 20 years. The film is in part, a musical. All (or
most) of the music was written and performed by The D. All of the songs
are new material and many of them are classic. The soundtrack is
definitely worth checking out. This film will be mostly appreciated by
fans of Tenacious D, but if you are not a fan of The D, I still think
you will enjoy the movie. If you are a fan of the D, then you must see
this movie. The acting isn't as bad as you may think, and the laughs
and crudeness never stop coming. I highly recommend this movie to
anyone looking to get their socks rocked off and laugh as hard as they
have laughed in a long time. Look out for cameos by Dave Grohl, Ronnie
James Dio, Meatloaf, Ben Stiller, Amy Poehler, Tim Robbins, John C.
Reilly, and Neil Hamburger. Also, stay tuned for an extra scene after
the credits.
<|_=00=_|>
If you are a fan of Tenacious D or a stoner, you will absolutely love
"The Pick of Destiny". If you are not, you'll probably be either
confused, annoyed, or bored. Ticket sales for the film won't be much,
but concession stand sales will be at an all time high (no pun
intended). I'll admit, I absolutely loved the movie. Its a surreal,
pointless, and hilarious motion picture detailing the (fictional)
origins of the band Tenacious D. The best way to determine if this film
is for you is to watch an episode of the HBO series. If you enjoy what
you see to the degree that you'd sit through the show for ninety
minutes, than check this film out. Its refreshing to see a mainstream
film with no intentions of appealing to a wide audience.

Its difficult to make an assessment of such a non-linear film, so I'll
just mention a few of my favorite scenes. The opening explaining the
pain JB had at home is the funniest part of the whole film. The rest
doesn't live up to that awesome opening sequence, but its does fine.
The mushroom trip with Sasquatch is disorienting and surreal. The
training of JB to become a great rock musician by KG is great also.
Finally, look for some funny cameos by Tim Robbins, Ben Stiller, and
Meat Loaf. In the end, Tenacious D are probably best enjoyed in half
hour episodes, but fans of the show will find much to enjoy here.
Definitely not for everyone, but one of the funniest films of the year.
(6/10)
<|_=00=_|>
Probably the best comedy in a long time. keeps you laughing nonstop!
the acting is good and there are a lot of hilarious cameos such as Ben
stiller as the guitar store guy. The plot wasn't as good as i had hoped
but the comedy makes up for that. I can only hope for a sequel cause it
seems like they can still do so much more. Even though it was 1 hour
and 40 minutes long i still wanted more at the end :) also there is a
scene after the credits which is actually one of my favorite parts of
the movie!! I suggest this to anyone who loves a good comedy and
Definitely suggest it to fans of The D or Jack Black. You should buy
the album also, the songs are so damn catchy and hilarious, the music
on it is Top Notch as well.
<|_=00=_|>
I am a HUGE Tenacious D fan, and I think this is not the funniest movie
in the world, but the most entertaining. It's not laugh-a-minute but
that's not what the D intended it to be. I went into the movie seeing
all the HBO shows, memorized both albums, and that made it even more
enjoyable. Plenty of inside jokes from past Tenacious D albums, and HBO
shows. Since I knew the new album already, I knew 40 minutes of the
movie because it is a musical comedy. I would say it has the best first
5 minutes of any movie and the best last 5 minutes of any movie. Hands
Down.

See This Movie Now!
