
This is a funny movie. When my husband and I went to see it in the
theater we were actually laughing out loud. And it was not just us, it
was everybody in the theater. Someone looking for a deep and meaningful
plot will not find what they are looking for, however it is one of the
best plots of all the Adam Sandler movies. It would also not be for
anyone who would easily get offended by off-color jokes. Jack Nicholson
is hilarious as the Anger Management therapist. He has some of the
funniest parts in the whole movie. Adam Sandler is not to shabby
himself as the not angry guy learning to be angry through a series of
seemingly unfortunate and random events. 

If you are an Adam Sandler fan or a fan of the screw ball comedy, you
will love this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie in the theater with my father and I have to say even
though Sandler can annoy me most of the time, this is one of his better
comedies. I think he owes that to Jack Nicholson's performance, since
Jack can carry a film so well he also makes the jokes into perfect cues
and great laughs. Adam does a good job as well, both actors worked very
well together and actually have great chemistry. I think everyone would
agree that their version of "I feel pretty" was just so awesome and
beyond hilarious. It was also nice to see that this wasn't a typical
Sandler film filled with predictable cameo's of his friends, so it
showed that he could carry the film without doing the common
predictability.

Dave is a man who designs cat suits for fat cats, he has a beautiful
girlfriend, Linda, and seems to have it together, only he's actually
pretty taken advantage of by his boss and Linda's ex boyfriend. He lets
a lot of things go. One day when he is on a plane, he is accused of
"assulting" a flight attendant and racist marks, despite the situation
actually being the opposite. But he is sent to anger management anyways
and is being mentored by Dr. Buddy Rydell, a bit of a psychotic, but
this proves Dave's "internal" anger and turns out to prove that Dave
does need help and who might be crazier in life.

Anger Management is sometimes a bit silly, but I love this comedy, it's
always good for so many laughs. Buddy was just so awesome in that scene
where he has to pull his car out of the parking spot, but there is
another car blocking him and he just handles it "his way", you'll have
to see. Adam and Jack were great together and I would recommend this
film for anyone. Like I said, it's not a typical Sandler film and
really works well.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
What is the funniest thing about this comedy? Adam Sandler? Hardly. The
best thing about this movie is Jack Nicholson. he's the sole reason
this movie is funny.

So, Dave (Sandler) is this geeky guy, who has never lost his temper in
his life, who by fault of an mistake in an airplane is ordered by a
judge to see a anger consultant Buddy Rydel (Nicholosn), whose
unorthodox anger management methods soon drive this mosey man crazy.
And then there's Dave's personal problems with his girlfriend Linda
(Marisa Tomei).

As for comedy Anger Managment flows pretty nicely and the jokes are
mostly in their correct places and it has very few awkward moments,
which seldom plague comedies of this particular genre.

Can't actually think of anything extremely negative to say about it,
I'm very pleasantly surprised by the flick, it gave me good laughs and
it will probably last multiple viewings, thanks to Nicholson, who
really keeps this movie above the gray mass of comedy sea.
<|_=00=_|>
Adam Sandler (Dave Buznik) is a mild mannered and submissive business
man with an apparent knack for getting himself into unfortunate and
disastrous situations. After a very small misunderstanding aboard an
aeroplane escalates out of control, Dave is sentenced to Anger
Management at the hands of Jack Nicholson (Buddy Rydell) 

Dr. Rydell is a therapist with a tendency for the unusual. As the
therapy progresses things seem to get worse and after another huge
slice of misfortune, Dr. Rydell is forced to move in with Dave and
conduct 30 days of intensive Anger Management.

With good comic performances from Sandler and especially Nicholson and
some hilarious interaction from the support cast 'Anger Management' is
certainly not short of laughs; but it does seem to get a little muddled
along the way. That said the movie finishes well (although totally
unbelievable) and ends up as a comedy film you'd be silly to miss out
on.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>

Anger Management was one of the funniest movies I've seen in a while.
Sandler and Nicholson make a great team in this flick. Sure, it's not a real
90's Sandler movie, but it's funny in it's own way.

The story: An easy going man, Dave Buznik, is falsely accused of abuse to a
flight attendant. So he has to go through anger management classes, taught
by Dr. Buddy Rydell. Little does Dave know of the chaos that goes on in his
group, but it's his doctor he has to worry about more. Don't know why? Well,
let's just say Buddy needs a little anger management himself.

The acting in this movie is very good, with stars like Adam Sandler, Jack
Nicholson, Marissa Tomei, John Turturro, Jonathan Loughran, and many
more.

Score: ****/*****
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is purely wonderful slapstick. Jack Nicholson as the quirky
anger
management therapist Dr. Buddy Rydell and Adam Sandler as patient Dave
Buznik. It's amazing to see how insane yet practical Rydell's (Nicholson)
methods are. A great movie to see if you're a Nicholson and/or Sandler
fan.
<|_=00=_|>

Adam Sandler was great and Jack Nicholson was his usual crazy self.  This
funny, out of character Adam Sandler vehicle was bumpy at best, with a
rather insulting Buddhist monk scene and some unintentionally dumb sequences
as well as some overly obvious cameos which made the movie campy though
tolerably cute.  This feel good, though somewhat over the top anger solves
anger philosophy ends up with a small twist and a satisfying conclusion.  It
was nice to see Adam Sandler can act.  Both Sandler and Jim Carrey are
gaining a lot of respect from me lately.  Different, diversionary, insipid
in places, but a pleasant romantic comedy.  Seven out of ten
stars.
<|_=00=_|>

This is the best Adam Sandler movie I have ever seen.

I am no longer a teenager so I generally avoid Sandler's movies like the
plague.  Beside a couple of Penis-envy jokes this movie is actually a joy
to
watch in mixed company.

Well worth your time.

If this is some of Jack Nicholson rubbing of on Sandler I look forward to
Sandler's next movie.

Nicholson is completely over the top with his role.

Rating 8/10  for a comedy.
10/10 for a Sandler comedy.
<|_=00=_|>

no, i really didn´t expect much, because of what i had read, and because i
am not much of an adam sandler fan. however, i´m faithful to jack and see
whatever he's done on film. and god, did i enjoy myself. i went to the
cinema with my boyfriend and a friend of ours and all three were laughing
on
end. so did the couple next to us and the guys behind us. ok, i´m not
saying
that this was the best film ever, but given the circumstances, saturday
night out after a week of work (including all saturday), this was just the
film that made us happy. and we´ve been talking about some scenes for 2
days
now. in fact, we´ve decided to buy the video once it´s out,because this
will
be just one of the feel-good movies one likes to see every once in a
while.
jack is great in what he does, and every bit of what makes jack nicholson
is
in this picture, sandler is good as well, as is marissa tomey (sp?). fans
of
one of these actors will be deligthed, others maybe not, but hey, it's
comedy!
<|_=00=_|>
What could have been a nice little comedy turns out to be a complete
bore. Jack Nicholson could not be anymore subdued in his performance
here and Sandler, who should have been replaced with an actor like Jim
Carrey, does his usual repressed angry man routine that simply falls
flat on it's face. Nicholson is supposed to be a weirdo and a man of
respectability at the same time but we don't really feel that he is all
that credible as an authority and his weirdness is just annoying
instead of being funny. He tries to provoke Sandler in some kind of
pseudo mental health treatment but how is it that Sandler follows his
advice even though he knows pretty early on that he is dealing with a
nutball.

There are a few decent moments like the opening scene in the airplane
with the snotty flight attendants who insist that Sandler is raising
his voice, but nearly every comedy uses those jokes so that only
generates laughs of recognition than great comedy.

Another amusing scene is with the Buddhist monk who used to be
Sandler's bully. Even though, the scene is highly unbelievable it is
far better to have the bully be exactly the same as he used to be than
having him totally transformed into a good guy. The casting of John C.
Reilly was also right because he looks menacing enough and is still
kind of soft spoken.

Unfortunately, most scenes are just run of the mill psychiatrist jokes
and the end could not be anymore contrived. Sandler has not made a
movie yet that I could sit through saying "That was brilliant!" but his
earlier like "Billy Madison" had ten times more laughs than this.
Nicholson should do a Tim Burton or James L. Brooks film next because
he has done way better with them than anybody else.
