

I often find that in order to be captivating, a film these days needs to
be
stressfully suspenseful or have a complicated story line. This film had
neither, and yet I found myself hoping it wouldn't end while at the same
time, anxiously awaiting its conclusion. I have to admit, I was
distrustful
of Burton as many of his more recent films have had less-than-satisfying
conclusions. Nonetheless, I went to see Big Fish (3 days before its
release
in Canada) with no expectations and was astounded.
This movie is an absolute treat for our hearts, ears and especially our
eyes
with each cartoon/fantasy-like scene painted with Tim Burton's reliable
brilliance and magical touch.
Ewan McGregor is pure sunshine and Albert Finney gives one of the
greatest
performances of the year- he *is* Big Fish.
But I suppose that when you strip away the beauty, the doll-house sets
and
all the abracadabra of cinematography and modern day technology, all you
have is a very simple story, and therein lies the heart of this film;
that
one can create their own legacy, "the story of my life." Not through
either
extreme of extraordinary adventure or unbelievable lies, but through the
art
of storytelling- and THAT is what this film is about. It is through our
*stories* that we are immortal.

Go see this movie, bring the kids, bring your date, bring your parents!
It
is for everyone...everyone who appreciates a visually and emotionally
beautiful irregular story about a regular person's life.

***** 5 stars!!

<|_=00=_|>

What do you say about this movie?

I am at a total loss to describe it.  The concept itself, a son tries to
come to terms with his dying father that he knows nothing about but an
enormous catalog of unbelievable stories, doesn't sound very promising.  It
sounds like a tired old formula, and I expected such when the rental started
playing

It's not.

Werewolves, giants, witches, siamese twins, bank robbers, hidden cities,
sirens, etc. are all present in the fantasy, but they seem unremarkably to
be part of the life of an otherwise ordinary traveling salesman.  Whether
they really are or not is never made completely clear, but that's the
rub.

I once read a review by Harlan Ellison in which the main point was how a
well told lie illuminates the truth in far better clarity than a simple
recitation of the facts ever can.  At one point in the film, the questing
son remarks to his bed-ridden father that he's heard all of his stories
thousands of times, and he has know idea who his father really is.  The
father's reply is, `I've never been anybody but me from the day I was born. 
If you don't know who I am, that's your failing, not mine.'  Later
investigations make the point clearer.  I'll bet Ellison loved this movie. 
It is an extraordinary lie.

Did I like the film?  You bet.  It's Tim Burton's best work without a doubt.
 Is it for everybody?  Probably not.  Many will find it confusing and
pointless, but good fantasy is like that.  All I can say is, relax and let
it happen.  You won't regret it.

<|_=00=_|>

I approach Tim Burton films with a certain trepidation.  Will it be "Edward
Scissorhands" or "Batman II?"  With Burton you could get a quirky comedy, a
dark thriller, or sweet morality tale.  And there's always the possibility
of Danny DeVito chomping down on a raw fish.

 "Big Fish" combines Burton's unusual humor with a heart-wrenching story of
a father-son deathbed reconciliation.  Albert Finney and Ewan McGregor share
the role of Ed Bloom, one of the big fish from the movie's title while an
SUV-sized catfish plays the other.  Bloom is a metaphorical and literal big
fish in the small pond of Ashton, Alabama in this tale told mostly through
flashback.  Jessica Lange plays his wife and Billy Crudup plays the son,
Will, estranged from his father for the past three years.  Father and son
are reunited as Finney lies dying of cancer.

 Ed Bloom has spent his life spinning his personal history into mythological
proportions: an early encounter with a very tall man becomes a battle with a
house-sized giant; a rural village is depicted as heaven on earth; military
service during the Korean War morphs into a behind-the-lines mission that
would make Duke Nukem proud.  Originally a true believer, Will now knows
everything his father has told him was not just an exageration or even a
tall tale but an outright lie.  In his effort to understand the truth behind
his father's stories he learns to love the man as well as the mythology.
And Burton delivers a terrific punchline at the end of the film that left me
both tickled and weeping, a truly weird emotional state.

 Burton deals with mythic themes in "Big Fish."  Besides the surface story
of the generational tension between father and son he explores the metaphor
of the big-fish-in-a-small-pond by examining the impact Ed Bloom has had on
the lives he's touched in his workaday contacts with colleagues, customers
(he's a traveling salesman), and people in the small towns across the South.
Not exactly "It's A Wonderful Life," he still manages to show how all of
us -- even the little fish -- have profound effects on the people around us.
And of course love -- unrequited and reciprocated -- control almost all of
Ed's many adventures.

 The acting is wonderful.  You will actually believe two Brits and a Scot
(Finney, Helena Bonham Carter, and McGregor) are natives of small town
Alabama.  Lange brings dignity and brio to the role of the long "suffering"
wife -- and she still looks great(!)-- you believe she has had a long and
loving life with Finney/McGregor.  DeVito is a delight in the role of a
circus ringmaster.  But the scene-stealer is Bonham Carter in the dual role
of Jenny and the crone witch.

 I rated this movie ten stars and when you see it you'll do the same.


<|_=00=_|>

I've had high hopes for this movie since I first heard about it some time
ago.  After all, most of the Tim Burton movies I've seen (barring Planet
of
the Apes) have been really wonderful.  To say the least, Big Fish did not
disappoint me.  The story - by no means complex or suspenseful - was
simple
enough to allow the viewer to really take in the fantasy and mythology in
Edward Bloom's tales.  One didn't need a surprise ending or secret
identities to make this film enjoyable.  Rather, it was the simplicity
and
universal nature of the story that made it interesting.
While some reviews have mentioned that the film can seem choppy at times,
I
didn't see this at all.  The transition seemed smooth and logical, and
while
sometimes I found myself wishing for more scenes of younger Edward Bloom,
I
never felt bored by any of the movie.  Nothing seemed to
'drag'.
I was also quite impressed with the quality of acting in nearly the
entire
cast.  Billy Crudup didn't really hit his stride until the end, but he
was
tolerable through the first three-quarters of the movie.  Albert Finney
did a
great job of portraying a lion on his last legs, bigger than his body but
unable to show it.  Jessica Lange was amazing and added the emotional
oomph
that Billy Crudup often failed to provide.  And while Ewan McGregor's
role
was not particularly difficult, at no point did he overplay the
character,
and his accent (to my ear anyway) never slipped.
Though this wasn't as dark as Sleepy Hollow or as bizarre as Edward
Scissorhands and Beetlejuice, Big Fish definitely had the Tim Burton
touch
in its scenery.  The colors - whether dull for Elder Bloom's time or
bright
for Younger Bloom - matched the mood perfectly, and everywhere you looked
(especially in Bloom the Younger's timeframe) there was something else to
marvel at.  Tim Burton fans will not be disappointed.

<|_=00=_|>
Will Bloom (Billy Crudup) is informed by his mother Sandra Bloom
(Jessica Lange) that his father Ed Bloom (Albert Finney) is terminal,
and he travels with his French pregnant wife Josephine (Marion
Cotillard) to his parents' home. Will and Ed have broken relationship
three years before, because of the imaginative and fantasized stories
told by Ed Bloom about his accomplishments in his youth. Will tries to
find the true story of the mysterious life of his father, coming to a
surprising discovery in the end. 

I am a great fan of Tim Burton, and I really believe that "Big Fish",
together with "Ed Wood", are his best works. Beginning with a wonderful
and very optimistic fairytale in a magic screenplay, about a very
supportive storyteller and dreamer, who sees the world with beautiful
eyes. The selection of the cast is another point to be highlighted: the
resemblance between the outstanding actress Alison Lohman, from "White
Oleander" and "Matchstick Men", and the still very gorgeous and also
excellent actress Jessica Lange, is amazing. Ewan McGregor and Albert
Finney are also a great choice for the role of Ed Bloom. Although
having a convincing performance, Billy Crudup is in a lower level of
performance, when comparing with the rest of the cast, which has names
such as Helena Bonham Carter, Steve Buscemi and Danny DeVito. "Big
Fish" is the type of movie good to be seen many times. My vote is ten.

Title (Brazil): "Peixe Grande e Suas Histórias Maravilhosas" ("Big Fish
Abd His Wonderful Stories")
<|_=00=_|>
"A BIG FISH in a small pond!!!" the phrase applies to a typical local
yokel who better not leave his sequestered Podunk town or else he is in
for a rude awakening!!.. Venturesome as though he may be, Ed Bloom
leaves his Mayberry, joins the circus, and decides to fall in
love...True love comes along less than once in a lifetime...The
intuition for true love in this movie is succinctly illustrated through
a dark angled idealism, and suddenly, problems with falling in love are
romanticized by a myriad of quirky determination patterns, as well as
utterly human shortcomings!!. Married, having a son, a house, etc, etc,
etc and so on and so on and so on and so forth and so forth and so
forth, pans out to whereby his emeritus years become those of
expounding dissertation about his exciting dare devil nefarious life as
an impervious adolescent.. Spinning Yarns? We know better!!...Try
telling his son that...Too incredible!! Too spectacular!! Too
heroic!!...Ed Bloom's blindly motivational love and devotion towards
the woman he cherishes, makes Romeo and Juliet's relationship seem
platonic... Crazy dreams, the supernatural, and negligence of
compassion via the compelling illustration of the cold cruel world,
make Big Fish a reality as far as being a five star film!!

In the end, Big Fish shows how the aspect of positive human nature
prevails, and how a person's life is intricate and meaningful!! The
impact your father has on you is indelible, and recognition of
unconditional love for your family, and the people around you, manifest
themselves in many distinguishable ways, all of them being
indispensable!! Ed Bloom is the picture-book example of how
exaggerations and erroneous behavior in your life are an integral part
of your existence!! You have realized you are fortunate to be human
because you are not perfect, the adjective perfect is for calculators,
Hallmark Cards, and martinis after work...Ed Bloom had an anything but
John Doe in an orange crate funeral.. A numerous cross section of
socially diverse individuals had a grass roots recognition of who Ed
Bloom was, in that sense, Ed Bloom died a very rich man!! Big Fish was
a melting pot of proclivities and acute misconceptualizations that
established a colorful obituary as being the ultimate trophy we can be
the recipients of for our agenda here on earth!! More significantly,
the aggregate affection, as well as the life experiences all of the
characters in the movie have had, and would not trade for a million
dollars, is something that this film brilliantly portrays, by way of a
hail Mary pass that winds up being the game winning touchdown!!.. It
was this convoluted philosophical disposition that "Big Fish" so
perfectly executed that puts this film in the category as one of the
best films ever produced. Expediting faulted emotions is a sink or swim
endeavor, and, in this case "Big Fish" swam, (No pun intended)
Metaphorically, all of these accolades are a way of saying that the
ending to this film was very powerful and cohesive...surprisingly and
effectively so!! I give Big Fish a five star rating, and a perfect 10!!
This website ranks it as one of the top 250 films ever made!! I totally
concur!!
<|_=00=_|>

Every other year you get a movie that oozes magic and charm. Think
"Chocolat". Think "Amelie". Think "What dreams may come". Perhaps even,
"Being John Malkovich". And this year, it's time to think big... "Big
Fish",
to be precise.
All four of these movies have some things in common. Merely describing the
premise is not nearly enough to do justice to the mood of the film. And
the
mood, the emotional reaction of the audience, is in many ways much more
important than the actual content. Still, there's no way around it in a
proper review: We meet a disillusioned young man and his father, a
charming
old guy who knows exactly how to tell stories to fascinate first-time
listeners and children. Unfortunately, there's barely any of those left,
as
he retold his magical stories once too often. When his health and life are
beginning to fade away, his son wants to finally learn the truth about his
father. Meanwhile, we hear his life story, as he tells
it...
Tim Burton is probably best-known for visual eye candy movies. Few
directors
can compete with the imagination he's shown in movies like Batman,
Nightmare
before Christmas and Sleepy Hollow. Outside the realm of darker, more
gothic
visuals, Tim Burton has so far been somewhat less prolific. Planet of the
Apes was an expensive embarrassment, and Ed Wood is a decidedly acquired
taste. Big Fish, then, is a new direction for him. Yes, it is eye candy,
or
perhaps even eye H"agen Dazs. But this time, the movie has much more of a
soul than his monkeyplanet.
This soul is achieved by two means: a great story (or collection of
stories)
and great acting. If you don't believe that the story is great, watch the
audience. At key moments, everyone was chuckling or laughing, at others, I
heard dozens of sniffs and tissues being unpacked around me. Yes, this is
heartwarming stuff that a colder, more cynical soul would call cheese.
Finally, Burton has found a story worthy of his talents again. And, better
yet, he did not forget to encourage his cast to act. For a case study of
such failure, see Christina Ricci's completely flat performance in Sleepy
Hollow. In Big Fish, the cast is so carefully selected that failure is
simply not an option. Ewan McGregor (playing the father in his youth) may
not have much more to do than smile, be charming and sustain a Southern US
accent, but he does it brilliantly. Much more important are the
performances
of Albert Finney and Jessica Lange, playing the aged father and mother,
respectively. And they both deliver character performances worthy of
prizes.

After cheerleading so enthusiastically for this movie, perhaps it is time
to
take a step back and look at it from a more critical perspective. Yes, it
managed to enchant the audience, but it did so the Hollywood way. Special
effects and big budget feature heavily. This is in stark contrast to the
seemingly much less organized and much more intuitional charm of Amelie.
This movie is also much more comfy about its pace - it takes its time just
like a good storyteller would, but perhaps leaving behind the
five-second-attention-span MTV generation kids in the process. On the
other
hand, I am tempted to say that its biggest vice is that there just isn't
enough of it. Given the episodal structure of this movie, I can almost
imagine what it would have felt like as TV series, or multi-part TV movie.
I
am not sure whether to wish for this to happen or shudder at the thought
of
"Big Fish: The Animated Series" or some such atrocity. Every story told in
this movie is perfect, and a series of such perfect stories would be
wonderful. Yet can perfection be sustained for a large number of stories?
Either way, I wonder what is going to become of Big Fish - a franchise or
a
single movie. It definitely is more deserving of praise, awards and
viewers
than any other movie released during the past six months, including
LOTR-RotK.
<|_=00=_|>

It was either "Cheaper by the Dozen," "The Haunted Mansion" or this. I
didn't exactly feel like watching my favorite comedian run around with a
horde of little kids cracking bad poopy jokes behind them, and I didn't want
to see Eddie Murphy do this either (it was bad enough in last year's "Daddy
Day Care"), so I chose to see the more adult-oriented of these three films,
and I'm glad I did, because Tim Burton's "Big Fish" is a marvelous
film--full of wit and imagination and eerie vibes that sometimes don't fit
into Burton's films the way he wants them to--but actually have a purpose
here.

"Pee Wee's Big Adventure" is simply one of the best films of all time, and
you can quote me on that. That was Burton's breakthrough--then came
"Batman," which was very good but slightly lacking in substance, and then
came "Edward Scissorhands"--one of my sister's favorite films, a beautiful
love story and an eerie fable...but just missing a very small ingredient
that kept it from becoming a great movie (perhaps the same with his film "Ed
Wood"--a very good film, but not exactly one of my all-time
favorites).

I have my doubts as to whether anyone other than Tim Burton could have
pulled off "Big Fish." Here's a movie I expected I would dislike and come
away feeling a little bit empty--but that's only partially true. The movie
doesn't quite exceed on the level it tries to, but as a film, it's one of
the best motion pictures of the year.

It stars Albert Finney as Edward Bloom, an old man who loves to exaggerate
tales of his past and pass these on to his friends and family. One night his
son, William (Billy Crudup), tires of hearing the story about how he caught
the town's largest fish in a lake using a gold ring--so he ignores his
father for three whole years, until his mother (Jessica Lange) informs Will
that his father is dying of cancer, and that he wishes to speak with his son
one last time.

Drawn back to his old Alabama hometown with his new wife, Will finally
learns the truth about these so-called "exaggerated" stories--and we, as the
audience, get to see them in flashback mode. It begins with a young Edward
(Ewan McGregor), a "big fish" who was just too small for his own town and
had to move away to search for brighter prospects. On his journey he comes
across an assortment of odd fellows, including a "Gentle Giant," a failed
poet living in a heavenly town named Spectre, and a strange circus
ringleader who also happens to be a werewolf.

All of these stories that Edward Senior tells his family relate to their
current positions, and to call the film simply beautiful would be what John
Candy once said is "the understatement of the year." My particular favorite
character was the poet living in Spectre, played by Steve Buscemi (a
wonderful supporting actor), who I had no idea played any role in this film
prior to viewing the opening credits and seeing "with Steve Buscemi" appear
on screen.

Buscemi's poet has been working on a particular poem for twelve years whilst
living in Spectre. "Can I see it?" asks Edward. It says, "Roses are red,
violets are blue, I love Spectre." "But it's only three lines long!" says
Edward. "That's the reason you don't show your work to people," Buscemi
says.

Danny DeVito also appears as the circus ringleader, and the most regretful
scene in the film is that in which we see him naked from behind. I shudder
at the thought. But, for what it's worth, DeVito's second re-teaming with
Burton is magnificent--he's a supporting character, but the film certainly
benefits from his performance.

Like all of Burton's films, "Big Fish" teeters on the edge of greatness, but
it never quite crosses the line. This is a marvelous film, full of warmth,
kind-hearted fables and beautiful cinematography, and it's one of the best
films of the year. It's certainly a unique film experience unlike any you've
ever had before. Unless, of course, you've seen "Edward Scissorhands" or "Ed
Wood." Then some of it may look a bit familiar.

Still, I enjoyed it more than "The Lord of the Rings." And I could actually
relate to this film.

Trivia note: "Edward Scissorhands" was a Tim Burton film. The main character
of this film is named Edward. Sometimes when people pronounce his name with
their thick Alabama accents it comes across as "Ed Wood." Mere coincidence
or something more? We may never find out.

4.5/5 stars.

- John Ulmer
<|_=00=_|>
Tim Burton continues to demonstrate his maturation as a director
despite having a soft spot for the fantastic and the weird.

It's probably not a surprise that this film would receive generally
mixed-to-good reviews but was virtually ignored by the Academy. It's a
little too visually eccentric for its own good and that somehow
translates as a film that uses beautiful images as its means to tell a
story, and that in 2003 was not quite the type of movies that were
being told with the exception of LORD OF THE RINGS which in itself is a
triumph of effects serving a story, albeit deeply rooted in fantasy,
but not too dissimilar to this one.

Tall tales are a part of Americana. Here they come under the guise of
hilarious situations and extremely poignant, compassionate moments.
Essentially, this is a humanist fable dressed in deep, poetic magic
realism, because it's the story of a man who is dying and who has one
last thing to do.

This man is Ed Bloom (Albert Finney), and he's over the years become
estranged from his son William (Billy Crudup) because William has
gotten increasingly jaded from these tall stories Ed tells him over and
over again. We can call it the syndrome of someone who has lost touch
with his inner self and has accommodated himself to the norms of
Society and what It considers "normal" and "acceptable."

In his last days he recollects his memories from his much younger days
(played by Ewan McGregor) when he hadn't found his calling until he
came across a witch (Helena Bonham Carter) who foretold him his future.
From then on he had what can be called a "hell of a life," going from
seemingly implausible adventure to another. These exaggerated tales
infuriates William until a crucial event forces him to acknowledge the
essence of the matter -- Ed Bloom's reality -- and in one overwhelming
tour de force of direction, William (clumsily at first, but then more
sure of himself) creates his own storytelling, which I won't talk
about. Suffice it is to say that its transition into reality is one of
the most beautiful and moving sequences I've seen.

This is by far one of the best films Tim Burton has made in his
curriculum of offbeat films. Solid performances are in leaps and bounds
from the main actors to minor players -- the sad expression of a circus
clown who has to shoot Ed because the wolf he is about to kill is
actually Amos Calloway is a haunting shot, for example. Jessica Lange's
quiet scene in a bathtub filled with water, hugging Ed and weeping.
Alison Lohman caught in a frozen moment of time, which enhances her
beauty. The moment when William re-enacts his own story and "carries"
Ed out of the hospital which segues into the otherworldly, emotional
climax. A beautiful ensemble piece, with otherworldly images, this is
only second to LORD OF THE RINGS, a distant cousin, in absolute beauty
and simplicity of its message.
<|_=00=_|>
Subtle, delicate, touching and fascinating pledge for the life as fruit
of dream. About the ambiguous taste of imagination and about existence
like a spectacular trip. About desire and reality like warm bread.

The director of "Big Fish" is Tom Burton. It is only decent definition
of a film -mixture between childhood and small miracles, about a
special image of ordinaries gestures and about hope in eccentric
aspects. The texture is same of grandmother's tales in Christamas Eve
or Sunday morning. A brave hero, strange village, temptation and huge
love, success and discoveries, miracles and public,secret sense of life
and courage. So, in many cases, the reality is only boring passage and
the dream, the childish game, the sound of angel's voice or the strange
facts are heart of magnificent act of contemplation.

It is a moral story but, in same measure is source of a way to look the
world. The life is not a punish or bag of routine. The faith is not
only part of a relation with God but with yourself. The others are, in
great measure, parts of funny miracle and ineffable expectation.

The Ewan Mc Gregor acting is brilliant. Nuances, accents, inflexion of
words, smile or gestures are bricks of a magnificent character,
touching, warm, credible. In some moments, the film is spectacular
dialog between McGregor and Albert Finney interpretation.

In fact, "Big Fish" is a tale. A fairy tale about life's magic out of
words or exterior facts.
