

When I first saw the trailers for this movie, I thought it might be cute,
but I had reservations because everything I've seen Kate Hudson in since
"Almost Famous" has been quite disappointing.  This one, she finally picked
a winner.  It didn't hurt that her costar is John Corbett.  The two of them
actually have pretty good chemistry, and the three kids are cute without
being annoying.  There were lots of tears in this one...more tears than
laughs, maybe.  It is a great "chick flick".  I will have to wait for the
DVD to see the end credits because the theater flubbed up and cut off the
film right after the final music crescendoed and you could tell the credits
were coming.  How annoying.  Anyway, I digress.  Not sure why this is rated
PG13, because I don't remember anything blatantly offensive.  Again, I
wonder why filmmakers can't just be a little more "delicate" and get those
PG ratings.  There are so few movies we can enjoy as a family...this one I
will probably allow my 9 year old to see.  Many people won't because of the
rating.  Too bad.  I recommend this one.
<|_=00=_|>
New Yorkers that happen not to live in the island of Manhattan are seen
as "Bridge and tunnel", a derisive term used by residents of the island
to indicate their superiority to their less sophisticated, or perhaps
less affluent neighbors. Never mind that most Manhattanites are
transplants from other places themselves! 

Imagine Helen Harris' reaction when she is given custody of her three
nephews and has to give up her Village apartment because it's too small
and has to relocate to Astoria! Garry Marshall, a director with a lot
of films under him, is at the helm of this comedy that follows the
adventures of a woman trying to cope with what destiny had in store for
her, even though she never set out to be in the position she has to
face. The screen play is by Jack Amiel and Michael Begler, two men that
has dealt in cuteness in previous works.

Helen, who works for a modeling agency in Manhattan, finds herself in a
predicament when her sister Lindsay and her husband die tragically. She
has been picked to raise two girls and a boy and she is ill prepared to
deal with the situation. Instead of naming the more domestic sister,
Jenny, as the guardian, Lindsay knew something that the other two
siblings didn't know in trusting her three children to Helen.

"Raising Helen" deals with the trials and tribulations of Helen as she
comes to terms with her new situation. She must give up her fabulous
job, with all its perks, and seek employment in a "previously owned"
car lot where she is able to prove her worth. At the same time, she has
to deal with her new family in ways she didn't expect. She also finds a
good man in the Lutheran pastor who falls in love with her from the
moment she enrolls the kids in his school.

Kate Hudson is a beautiful woman with an angelic face that keeps the
viewer recalling her mother, Goldie Hawn. She is as good a comedienne,
as her mother was in her prime. The best thing in the film, or in any
other film where she is cast, is Joan Cusack. She steals the film with
her Jenny, a well meaning person who feels bypassed for a role she was
meant to play all along. Ms. Cusack is a treasure in this movie. John
Corbett, is the hunky Lutheran pastor who falls in love with Helen.
Helen Mirren and Felicity Huffman has small roles as Helen's boss
Dominique and her sister Lindsay.

"Raising Helen" while predictable was targeted for a certain viewer who
loves this type of comedy. Under the sure hand of Garry Marshall it
makes for a pleasant time at the movies.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved Kate Hudson in Almost Famous, and a few people told me this
film was good, so we rented it.

We did enjoy it. It had some very funny moments, and some very tender
moments. Kate Hudson was good, but don't expect "Almost Famous" style
brilliance out of her in this one. The rest of the cast performs about
the same -- good performances, nothing stellar. Except perhaps Joan
Cusack; her performance was very good.

If you have kids, say, about ten years old and older this is a good
film to watch together with them -- it introduces them to a few teen
and adult issues (dating, death, etc.) and shows the sorts of tough
decisions that parents sometimes have to make. And you'll have lots of
fun laughing together too.
<|_=00=_|>
"Raising Helen" is a formulaic romantic comedy that makes you wonder
when Kate Hudson will again find a role that will actually allow her to
stretch herself as an actress, fulfilling the promise she made half a
decade ago in "Almost Famous." Since then it's been mostly downhill for
Hudson, and the ironically titled "Raising Helen" does nothing to help
arrest or reverse that slide.

Hudson plays Helen Harris, a young woman whose budding career in the
fashion industry is suddenly cut short when her sister and
brother-in-law are killed in a car accident, leaving Helen to raise
their three children. Things go from bad to worse, as the once carefree
Helen struggles with the trials and tribulations and life-changing
vicissitudes of unplanned motherhood.

This is a typical Garry Marshall film in that, even when it tries to
deal with "real world" issues such as death, loss, grief, sibling
rivalry, teenage angst etc., it does so in only the most superficial,
glossy and unconvincing of terms. Heck, there's even a hunky,
hockey-playing Lutheran minister on hand - the kind one can only find
in movies - to provide spiritual as well as romantic comfort for those
times when the going gets to be just a bit too tough for the harried
guardian.

The performances are uniformly uninteresting, but I choose to blame the
shallow writing rather than the actors in this case. It's particularly
painful to see actresses of the caliber of Felicity Huffman and Joan
Cusack cast adrift in this sea of "chick flick" platitudes and
feel-good movie clichés - but everyone in this film suffers a similar
fate.
<|_=00=_|>
The single and successful executive of the fashion world, Helen Harris
(Kate Hudson), becomes the guardian of her two nieces and one nephew
after the death of her sister and her brother-in-law. She moves from
Manhattan to Queens, and faces difficulties trying to raise the
children.

"Raising Helen" is another absurd and corny Hollywoodian tale, or
fairytale, or s**t tale. There are some few funny moments, but the
story has an absolute lack of logic and coherence. The changing of the
character of Helen, from a fashionable independent single woman of
Manhattan developing her successful career in the fashion world into a
suburban mother of stepson and stepdaughters is one of the most
ridiculous and corny I have ever seen. I like Joan Cusack, Hector
Elizondo, Kate Hudson and John Corbett, I tried to like this movie, but
the screenplay is a shallow unbelievable crap. My vote is four.

Title (Brazil): "Um Presente Para Helen" ("A Gift For Helen")
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was a nice surprise. It speaks to the young, single career
women who think they have it all.

It has a lesson, and not all movies do. We learn the importance of
family and how hard it is to raise children. But the resounding message
that is sent is that sometimes we think we know what we want, then when
a life-altering experience happens, we rethink what we originally
thought.

I loved the script writing in this movie-- very entertaining and
intelligent. I thought the acting was superb.

I think kate hudson was so natural and endearing. A dumb-blonde? No...
this woman is the woman to watch for... move over Nicole Kidman...you
have serious competition here.
<|_=00=_|>
Without Joan Cusak, this film is a 3. Kate is cute but that is not
enough. The concept is almost absurd. The only conflict is that who
gets the kids. No tragedy or difficult conflict beyond the deaths at
the beginning. This movie really should have been rated PG as nothing
remotely offensive occurs that an 8 year old could not view. The whole
script was predictable from the 20 minute mark. This movie is a waste
of three talented actors as the script is very lacking, and even when
it hits on some salient points it flounders. For example the scene at
the hotel on prom night was a serious miss. Unless you have young
children and want to have the conversation about what happens if mommy
and daddy die then I recommend saving the 2 hours and find something
else to do.
<|_=00=_|>
Three sisters, played by two real actresses and one Hollywood daughter.
One dies, one is overly stuffy and the third — who inherits the
children — has the Devil-in-Prada life. Its the third sister the movie
focuses on, but its Joan Cusack that steals this. She's the "unfun"
sister.

Joan acts with her face to an extent that with anyone else, Jim Carey
for instance, would only be comical. But she makes it real, as if she
is a real character with someone inside pulling strings violently. But
she shows us on the side that she (the actress) really does have this
all under control. We don't have many actresses that can underdo
overdoing it and make it work without having the whole project be
invented around her.

She's really wonderful. I'm trying to find the film she wrote: "The
Cabinet of Dr. Ramirez."

As for the movie: brand name fast food.

Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3: You can find something better to do with
this part of your life.
<|_=00=_|>

Helen Harris (Kate Hudson) is living the high life in New York City and
working for a top-modeling agency, when her sister and brother-in-law die in
an auto accident.  Her good times are over when she gets a letter from her
sister's attorney.  Helen has been given custody of her sister's three
children.  Helen has never raised any children, and she thinks her older
sister, Jenny (Joan Cusack) is better qualified to raise the children.  
Helen accepts the custody of the three children, and they move to a new
apartment in Queens.  Helen loved staying out late and going to nightclubs,
but she now has to take care of the children.  Helen is forced to change her
lifestyle and become a real mom, which in turn gets her fired from her
glamorous job.  In the end, Helen learns what is really important in life. 
This is a heartwarming and cute comedy that will make you tear up.  It is
the type of movie that your girlfriend or wife will drag her mate to see. 
In other words, it will appeal more to women than men.  (Touchstone
Pictures, Run time 1:59, Rated PG-13) (6/10)
<|_=00=_|>
The story of three kids being given to an unqualified relative has been
repeated countless number of times. This time however, Raising Helen
gives the story a nice turn. The story is predictable...and
yet..thoroughly refreshing. Kate Hudson has done a fantastic job and
John Corbett looks dashing as usual. The child actors are really good
and the story pretty funny. It's an honest attempt to make a good
feel-good movie. Joan Cusack is her usual great self...and adds a touch
of reality to her character. All in all...this movie's worth a watch,
especially for those who like watching a feel-good romantic comedy!The
Asian neighbour and Kate's boss at the modelling agency have done
justice to their characters. Kate Hudson is definitely someone to watch
out for...she's going places!
