

If there is a common theme running through Billy Bob Thornton's dramatic
roles, it would have to be a man's search for redemption. It can be found in
SLING BLADE, A SIMPLE PLAN, THE MAN WHO WASN'T THERE, MONSTER'S BALL, THE
BADGE, and again in LEVITY, the film directorial debut of screenwriter Ed
Solomon. Unlike more 'commercial' actors, who would prefer playing innocent
victims framed for crimes (or would be 'heroic' in committing 'justifiable'
deeds), Thornton's characters are guilty of their trespasses, and accept
their punishment as deserved. This gives his performances a sense of reality
that is always interesting to watch.

In LEVITY, Thornton is Manual Jordan, a 'lifer' who has spent over twenty
years in prison for shooting and killing a kid during a convenience store
robbery, as a youth. The act was not a crime of passion, it was simply an
involuntary reaction to a quizzical 'look' the kid gave him, an expression
that would bond the two of them for years to come.

When a parole board decides to commute Jordan's sentence ("Why?" he asks,
stunned by the decision after saying he was content to remain in prison),
the middle-aged man finds himself alone in an alien, indifferent world, with
only the kid's 'ghost' as company. 

Jordan decides to try and help the victim's sister, Adele (the ageless Holly
Hunter), without revealing his identity ("If you're trying to 'hit' on me,"
she quips, "I have to warn you, over the years, my standards have
lowered..."). She has her hands full with a wild teenaged son, and can't
quite figure out this taciturn, long-haired vagrant!

Answering a ringing pay phone, Jordan finds his way to a jaded lay minister
(Morgan Freeman, excellent, as always), who, recognizing him as an ex-con,
provides him with a place to stay, and a job, cleaning and directing teens
from a dance club into the broken-down mission he runs, next door. When
Jordan tells the old preacher that he doesn't believe in God, the old man
snaps, "I'm not asking you to! I'm asking you to work!" One of the rowdy
'club' teens (Kirsten Dunst), the daughter of a 'one-hit wonder' singer on
the skids, finds herself drawn to Jordan, despite his obvious disapproval of
her lifestyle.

As with all the best 'indies', there is a richness of character in LEVITY,
with each actor in top form. Subtly building to a surprising revelation and
an emotional climax, the film may not appeal to audiences who prefer
pyrotechnics to plot, but if you like movies with believable characters, and
an involving story that unfolds at it's own pace, you may find it to be a
very rewarding experience! 
<|_=00=_|>

Greetings again from the darkness.  Simple story made interesting by the
characters and environment.  Billy Bob Thornton is our unconventional lead
character. Very understated performance accurately captures the emotions of
this repulsed, repentant killer.  Sparkling Kirsten Dunst is unusually
gritty in her sad portrayal of the pop star daughter putting up a false
front.  Morgan Freeman is effective as the community "reverend" with a
secret.  Best performance comes from Holly Hunter as frustrated mom/sister
just trying to make sense of her world.  Director Ed Solomon, known mostly
for light weight writing, does a respectable job of capturing the pain of
all the characters.  Bleak world where each individual must furnish their
own reason to keep going.
<|_=00=_|>
I can well understand why this misses the mark for so many people. A
lack of the dramatics, no "twist" like "The Life of David Gale," retro
dialog almost and Kirsten Dunst at her most irritating. 

What you have is Billy Bob on another 'one man's redemption' kick, that
he does just so well. The film is in the dialog, the gestures, the
mannerisms. Holly Hunter's self deprecating comment early in the film
when she admits to Billy Bob her expectation of the standards of her
sexual partners had been lowered over the years , was one of cinemas
greatest ever lines. (You'll know it when you hear it)

Freeman's flaky preacher is a stand-out despite variations to his voice
modulation. Again, it all depends what you are expecting out of this
film. best you expect nothing my friend - just let it unravel. It is
both thought-provoking and emotionally strident.

I enjoyed it very much and would consider a rating of 8 reasonable.
<|_=00=_|>
Thorton stars as a man who is free after serving 23 years for killing a
teenager during an attempted robbery. After nearly two decades of
staring at his victim's face on a newspaper clipping in his cell, the
paroled man attempts to find redemption, in the form of a mysterious
minister (Freeman) and two needy women (Dunst and Hunter).

I saw this film in the 99 cents store. I looked at the cast, which are
great. I looked at the price, which was also great. And I read the plot
in the back of the VHS, which got me to buy this film. It looked
interesting. So there I watched the movie and I loved it! It's one of
the best films ever made.

It was well crafted, beautifully cast, with a great script. I was moved
and gripped. For me, this is Billy Bob Thornton's best performance,
yet, although I haven't watched Monster's Ball, yet. His performance
was superb, like everyone else in the cast, including Morgan Freeman,
Holly Hunter, and Kirsten Dunst.

This film is subtle on everything. It keeps your attention and it is a
good moral film. I never have much to say about great films, and it's
no different here. If you see this film on the shelf, I suggest you to
go buy it because it is your money's worth, although I bought it for 99
cents.
<|_=00=_|>

This first time director, Ed Solomon, makes an incredible change over from
writing films for the masses, by writing and directing this introspective
and moody look into the troubled souls of the fallen. I just caught up to it
on cable. At any rate, it was well worth watching. This is an Indie that
makes a statement without punching us in the head with
it.

Manuel, the lifer that is released at the beginning of the film, ends up
looking for a connection with the family of the convenient store clerk he
shot and killed during his wild youth. Now, Manuel is older and wiser and
knows that he has been spared from the mean streets. It doesn't seem logical
for him to do so, but in a way, is his way to express his sorrow at the
horror he caused by being reckless.

The encounter with Adele, and her acceptance of this odd man is a bit hard
to understand. This woman reacts with caution at first, but realizes Manuel
is harmless; thus begins the friendship between them, without a hint of the
actual identity of Manuel. 

The thing that didn't make sense is the presence of Sofia, a child of
privilege in the seedy club that is near the soup kitchen that Miles,
another mysterious character runs. Once we overcome those hurdles, it is
easy to see where the director is taking us.

Billy Bob Thornton plays Manuel as a man on auto pilot. The world he
encounters when he is released is a world so different from what he knew.
Mr. Thornton gives another phenomenal performance. Holly Hunter makes an
understated Adele. She approaches the character with an economy that is
amazing, yet we know at all times what this woman is feeling.

Although Sofia, the young woman appears to be confused and out of place,
Kirsten Dunst is quite effective as she plays her. The only one that does
not convince us is Miles, perhaps because of Morgan Freeman's approach to
this man. Dorian Harewood has a small, but intense moment in the
story.
<|_=00=_|>
A recently paroled convict, who as a teenager shot and killed a young
convenience store worker, is left to find his way in society; he's
offered a custodial job from a hot-tempered, streetwise pastor, and
hopes to connect with the sister of his victim in order to complete the
cycle of redemption--but he finds it isn't that easy. Billy Bob
Thornton gives a controlled, emotional performance that comes from deep
within. The film isn't quite in balance--and has some quirky, uncertain
moments near the beginning that either don't ring true or just don't
feel natural--but stick with it and you might find resonance in the
extraordinary acting and the way the story arcs in just the right way.
Terrific casting and performances, atmospheric production and locales,
several amazing, emotional moments. *** from ****
<|_=00=_|>
I don't care what anybody says. I thought these was one of the only
films so beautiful in form and attractive in style worth commenting on
(besides i comment pure 10s). It is a beautiful story about a man that
looks at life after having regretfully sined and figures that in his
life, the sin he committed is so wrong, he will never be redeemed, no
matter how sorry, or sad or repented he is upon his sin. the beauty of
the movie is that it slips behind you and leaves him with the path to
ascension before his eyes, proving that no matter the sin, repent and
redemption is possible if the soul asks for it and that is what makes
this movie oh so beautiful.

With superb acting and directing and an amazingly extremist, harsh yet
true look at life that acts as a dagger to the heart of the watcher who
knows what he's looking for. Unexplainably good, just lets say tears
fell out of my eyes, but not because it was sad, more around its
excellence which i believe deserves a room besides those humanistic
movies that simply explain just how people are deep down: not quite so
bad.
<|_=00=_|>
It is definitely one of the best American movies, I saw during last
year. I was watching it with eyes wide open. What a masterpiece, I was
thinking. Let's check the review on IMDb. Surprisingly, I realized that
average vote is only 6,5. Astonishing. Why so underrated? To European,
too sad, no special effects, to slow? Sorry, not every movie should
look like 'Dark Knight'. Some moves are made for people, who like to
think and to feel. Main idea of this movie is inevitable truth. There
is no redemption for conscience. One cannot turn back time. One will
regret one's sins forever. Perfect Billy Bob Thornton, good Morgan
Freeman, touching Holly Hunter. Even Kirsten Dunst (who is not my
favorite actress) is reliable.
<|_=00=_|>

One of the greatest problems in Hollywood today is the misperception that
for a movie to be a winner, you need gunfights, women in tight clothes,
sexual innuendoes, and few dozen explosions. Levity has none of these, and
it shines. 

Billy Bob Thornton play Emmanuel Jordan, a man released from prison for
killing a convenience store clerk. Jordan appears genuinely humbled by his
experience, a man deeply in need of redemption: his  eyes are sunken, his
hair grown long, and one cannot help but think that all he needs to complete
the look is a sackcloth and ashes on his forehead. Too many ex-convicts in
films are leering madman, already planning their next caper. Even the
character's name speaks of a spiritual role: Jordan means, "Descending";
Emmanuel means, "God is with us".

Pulled from the street by Miles Evans (Morgan Freeman), a tired preacher
running a mission, Jordan begins his duties as a custodian, working with
quiet efficiency. He also begins working on his redemption, following the
steps laid out in a medieval manuscript. One of the steps involves giving
back to the ones you've hurt. He seeks out Adele Easley, the sister of the
teenager he killed and begins adding to her life. She is a single mother,
struggling to correct the life of her son, whom she has named Abner, after
her dead brother. Jordan also finds time to work with Sofia Mellinger
(Kirsten Dunst), a teenager who seems to be self-destructing in front of his
very eyes.

It's been said that when one takes a life, you remain one step removed from
the rest of the humanity. That is the way Jordan looks and moves. Early in
the film he is standing in an underground passage, and everyone else is
moving around him. His eyes--which look convincingly haunted--stare at the
jostling crowds with a numbness that leaves you chilled. Though the troubled
youths he works with mock his sallow face, they themselves are living close
to death themselves (gunshots and drive-bys riddle their conversations) but
are unaware of its power or consequences. Jordan, sadder and wiser,
struggles to make them aware the fragility of their lives; like the prophet
he is named after, he has much wisdom to offer, but knows not how to give
voice to it.

One of the great messages of this film is that appearances are deceiving.
Sofia seems to be the happy-go-lucky teenager, but Jordan learns she is
living in a soon-to-be foreclosed house, and has virtually nothing to her
name. Adele, though beautiful, has more demons than her dead brother. Even
Preacher Miles is hiding a wounded soul, and his final secret leaves you
stunned. The cityscape itself (Montreal, Canada) seems shiny, but their is a
cold texture beneath which deals mercilessly with its inhabitants.

Levity is a keeper, and should be seen by all. Like its message, the quiet
cast hides much beneath its quiet exterior.
<|_=00=_|>
"Levity" (2003) Artfully melancholic. Real, perhaps even surreal as
this story quietly, yet gracefully plumbs the depths between reality &
perception, introspection, fate and (mis)fortune. Heart-wrenching in
its sincerity. 

The story revolves about a man freed from concrete walls and bars, but
not of his conscious. What follows is a remarkable journey into the
thought and life of a man seeking redemption. As his journey begins, he
encounters the beginnings of a new life. Laid bare & unpretentious, the
mood is set within the confines of what one may encounter upon
re-entering society. The cinematography is excellent, appropriate and
chillingly in-line with the theme of this movie. Top-notch actors in
supporting roles make this film a "must see". This is, a great film.
