
I walked into the movie theater expecting to see Adam Sandler make a
complete buffoon of himself. However, when I came out I was impressed.
There was a depth to this movie I did not see coming, and it took me
completely off guard. "Click" proved to be a powerful, emotional, and
humorous piece of work. There was a certain philosophical message in
this movie, in which I think, we all take for granted. Adam Sandler did
a great job in playing a work-aholic. It is always great to see
Christopher Walkin in any movie, and in "Click" he played the eccentric
scientist who provides Adam Sandler with his life controlling remote.I
Recommend this to anyone looking for a quality film with a good laugh.
Definitely a 10/10 in my book.
<|_=00=_|>
Being an Adam Sandler film I went into the preview expecting the same
Adam Sander film which I do enjoy quite a lot, sometimes it's great to
escape and not get too critical about the film you are viewing. I went
in with this mentality to Click and I was surprised with how good this
film really is. A lot of the time people that write comments will judge
a film without seeing it and it gives the film a bad name. Ignore what
you hear about this film and take a look, I'm sure you will be
surprised with it also. Adam Sandler has shown that he is capable of
playing a serious character in contrast o the aggressive and funny
character he normally plays in his film, Click is no different, Sandler
is both funny and serious at the right moments, Kate Bekinsale is great
as Donna his wife, and Christopher Walken is excellent as always as
Morty, the Bed, Bath and Beyond Employee. David Hasselhoff, Henry
Winkler, and Jennifer Coolidge are funny in their supporting roles in
this film. Australian audiences expecting to see Sophie Monk in a major
role will be disappointed as she is honestly a very minor character in
the film, in contrast to what the Comedy Chanel is running about her on
Foxtel/Austar.

All in all I do recommend seeing this film, if not to learn a valuable
lesson about priorities in life, but to have a laugh and to enjoy a
film that is better than what was expected of it.
<|_=00=_|>
Going in to this movie I expected to have the normal 2 hour thoughtless
escape from everyday life that these type movies normally deliver.
Instead I laughed. I even cried. I left pleasantly surprised. Leaving
the theatre I couldn't help reflect upon the need to really appreciate
life's little moments and close friends and family more. Walken was
outstanding. Sandler was effective and really funny in his toned down
approach to this more intelligent comedy than the usual Sandler fare.
Kate Beckinsale is very lovable as the wife and mother of his children
and Hasslehoff couldn't have been more perfectly cast as the cluelessly
self-absorbed exec/ boss. I liked it a lot and I'm not normally one to
feel either way about these type of movies. I'd go see it next time
with family and friends that I really should spend more time with
anyway!
<|_=00=_|>
What a pleasant surprise "Click" turned out to be! Based on the
trailer, one can assume that Adam Sandler, playing Michael Newman in
his latest movie, has made a movie that is just like Adam Sandler's
last movie... and Adam Sandler's movie before that... and the one
before that... i.e., the comedy at which you groan, shake your head,
say "what the...", and yet can't help from laughing out loud. That's
what you get in the first hour of this film. That hour is also as much
as the trailer shows, and for good reason.

Director Frank Coraci, who also worked with Adam Sandler in directing
The Waterboy and The Wedding Singer, makes excellent use of a technique
that should be taken advantage of more often by more directors. He sets
us up in the aforementioned first hour of the movie for laughs, and
manages to do this quite a few times, and not just with the moments
seen in the trailer like other comedies. And, based on one's
presupposed knowledge of the typical Adam Sandler movie, one expects
there to be a spiral out of control for Michael, a realization of the
"right thing to do" and everything to end happily with a monologue and
one final punchline, all while remaining light-hearted and humorous.
However, having this expectation makes the power and the drama of the
movie's second hour so much more heartfelt and emotional. This drama
never comes off as forced or unnecessary, because the pacing of the
transition between the two utterly different tempos is perfect. Steve
Koren and Mark O'Keefe, the co-writers of this movie, used a similar
technique in "Bruce Almighty", and it worked very effectively there, as
well.

There's not much to be said about the ending without the possibility of
spoiling it for someone, but suffice to say it accomplishes what it
needs to accomplish without making you feel like you've just been
cheated.

Far and away the best movie I've seen all year; likely one of the best
I have or will seen for many, many years. There's so much more to see
in this movie than what the trailer offers. See it... you won't regret
it.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie surprised us. We cried. Yes, we cried. The trailer barely
tells you what the movie is about. There were some unfunny dumb things
having to do with dogs, etc. (no one in the theater laughed much) and
some cheeseball stuff, but the emotional core of the movie delivers a
wallop that is unexpected. Along the lines of a sort of combination of
"Family Man" and "It's a Wonderful Life" -- more "Family Man" -- this
movie didn't just bring tears to eyes, it makes you cry. Because of
that, I liked it and give it a thumbs up. The annoying stuff is a
relatively small price to pay for the lessons the core stuff teaches.
Lastly, Kate Beckinsdale (the epitome of domestic beauty in this movie)
is absolutely a dream and the actress that played her grown daughter
had eyes that matched -- well done. Enough said.
<|_=00=_|>
Click is by far Adam Sandler's best movie.. and that ISN'T a cheap shot
at his previous films.

Sandler has done a ton of comedy movies with terrible jokes and corny
plots, and until Anger Management really he didn't have much to his
characters other than his goofiness.

He reminds me of Jim Carey before The Truman Show - just comedy, no
substance.

The trailers for Click feature some of the comedic scenes of the movie,
but don't worry there are a ton more that aren't spoiled. That being
said, this movie isn't all that the trailers portray it to be.

If you're going to see Click solely for a good laugh, you'll love the
first 45 minutes and hate the rest of it. The script takes a swerve
closer to the end and, unlike any of Sandler's previous movies, the
"down" part of the movie (where the main character goes through rough
times) is actually very well done. Click goes from being a comedy to a
drama - just for a little while.

The dramatic portion of the movie allows Sandler to act as a regular
human being; a man who faces the real life consequences of putting his
work ahead of his family. It's something a lot of people can relate to,
and all of the characters in the movie contribute to the storyline very
well.

Click provides great comedy and Sandler's best dramatic performance in
a movie. It's clean enough for the kids (okay, the early teenagers), a
good laugh with the guys or girls, and turns out to be a surprisingly
good date movie.

Thumbs up
<|_=00=_|>
I have to say I did not expect to enjoy this movie. My son wanted to
see it and finally I gave in & said yes. I thought I was going to have
to sit through an hour & a half of mindless comedy. WRONG! This movie
did not have a slow moment. There were plenty of laughs for all ages.
The 10 yr olds with me didn't get the meaning behind the movie but
enjoyed every moment of it. When the movie was over people clapped and
were saying that was a great movie. You really must see it! I think a
movie that keeps the attention of children and adults is absolutely
worth seeing. Although it was full of laughs, keep a napkin handy for a
few moments of tears.....
<|_=00=_|>
Where did the old Adam Sandler go? I'm not complaining mind you. I
never really liked the fire breathing, short-fused Sandler and it seems
that with every new movie I like him even more.

I went to see Click expecting it to be some flash-in-the-pan
comedy...but it was much better. The funny jokes weren't a result of
Sandler's screaming, but of plot development. The especially sad part
of the movie was fantastic and showed a completely different side of
Sandler.

The only problem I saw with the movie...they didn't develop Christopher
Walken's and Nick Swardson's characters enough. What little parts they
had were great, though, and I recommend it for anyone who doesn't over
analyze movies. It's a well-spent two hours, and you'll enjoy the film.
<|_=00=_|>
This was a funny and - near the end - a touching movie. That's a nice
combination to have. My only complaint is that it certainly isn't
"family fare" for a nice story and should have been rated "R," not
PG-13. There's simply too much sexual material (and and f-word) for
PG-13. With some editing, this could have been a great story for
everyone.

However, for us adults who like to laugh, there is plenty in here to do
that. The jokes come pretty fast, right from the get-go. The premise
would good: with a (television-like) remote control, you could control
your life. You could fast-forward through all the unpleasant scenes in
your life, or freeze frame something that is happening now, or you
could go back into time with your life. It all sounds good, but as our
main character "Michael Newman" (Adam Sandler) found out, it's not so
cool. That's a key message here, too, that avoiding the bad things is
not necessarily what's best for us. The major message, however, was
that spending time with your family is more important than putting your
job ahead of them, as far as priorities go. That theme leads to some
touching scenes in the final 30 minutes of this comedy. As funny as
this film is, you would be hard-pressed not to have some tears in your
eyes at some point near the end of this film.

Sandler plays a typical role for him, and utters some great lines and
uses sight gags as well for plenty of his laughs. Kate Bekinsale, who
plays his wife "Donna," looks absolutely beautiful, the prettiest I've
seen her since "Pearl Harbor." She plays a nice lady in here, too.
Their little kids - especially the girl (Tatum McCann) - are cute and
funny at times. I won't mention the dog. I can't without being crude.
Christopher Walken is here, and that usually means good news as he
tends to play fun-and-interesting characters. 

Unfortunately - just a warning - this comedy, as so many modern-day
ones are, has its share of crude moments, some language and the
above-mentioned sexual material. Overall, it was extremely,
entertaining, however.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is very entertaining, and will make you think long and hard
about your own life for many hours after you leave the theater. I was
expecting a slapstick comedy, and ended up shedding some tears. This
movie sends lots of messages about life, and teaches us all a very good
lesson. I also loved the soundtrack, lots of great older songs used
throughout the film. I left the theater, and drove to Best Buy to
purchase the soundtrack, but was disappointed to learn there was not
one! Bottomline, GO see this movie, you will NOT be disappointed! Two
thumbs way...............up! I took my 10 year son, and he loved it as
well, however, some of the humor is a bit crude, and may be offensive
to some younger children. For example, there is lots of "dog humping"
shown throughout the movie. But it's the message the movie sends that's
the most beneficial. It will truly make you "think"............
