
I'll admit, I read the novel a few years ago and I was a big fan of it.
So I went into the theater already wanting to like the movie. I wasn't
as concerned with plot details as some other viewers apparently were.
Since I knew what was going to happen, I simply focused on reliving the
story, and seeing how the filmmakers interpreted it. It's such a dense
novel with so much going on, I think Richard Price is the only person
who could've adapted it and still kept the spirit of the original
material. Now, all that being said...was it a good movie? In my
opinion, yes it was. I felt empathy for all the characters (except
Brenda's brother, who I felt contempt for). I was surprised that I was
able to empathize with Brenda's character, but I credit Julianne Moore
for that. She gave a performance that was filled with pain, and
confusion, and fear, and all the emotions I would have imagined Brenda
would be going through. Samuel Jackson played Lorenzo just as I hoped
he would. Not over the top with a bunch of yelling and fist pounding.
But as a man who realizes all too well what can happen when a white
woman points the finger at a black man and yells "He did it!" The
biggest problem I have with the movie is the way that it's being
marketed. If I hadn't read the book, I would've never gone to see it
based on it's trailer. It looks like just another missing child
thriller. So I can understand why some viewers felt cheated when they
saw the movie and realized that it's much more complex than that. It's
about the politics of race, and how they can be manipulated. It's about
the uneasy truce that exists in some communities, and how quickly a
fuse can be lit to ignite tension. And most importantly, it's about
people making choices that they regret, and the aftermath of those
choices.

If you're looking for a missing child thriller, or a theatrical version
of a CSI episode, this probably isn't for you. If a tough examination
of race and class makes you uncomfortable, then don't bother with this
one. But if you want to challenge yourself as a viewer, and get inside
the minds of characters who are trying desperately to hold their worlds
together, then I think you'll get something out of this film.
<|_=00=_|>
"Freedomland" will not be a popular movie. The movie doesn't have
enough action and the action is does contain is more to promote a
message than to titillate. Its message is basically about inner city
racism. Its about the fuss made over a missing white child in a black
community. The story is about a white women who was car-jacked in a
housing project and, unknown to the jacker, her 4 year old son was in
the car's back seat. You'll have to see the movie to see the rest since
revealing the story would completely ruin the movie. I really enjoyed
this movie. I thought the performances by Samuel Jackson, William
Forsythe and Ron Eldard were realistic and affecting. One standout was
Edie Falco. She played a very unglamorous role and was powerfully
affecting. She should get an Academy Award nomination for this role.
She was fabulous. Another standout was Julianne Moore who was very
miscast. I did not like her in this role. She played a very weak,
flawed and emotionally stunted individual whose behavior at times
turned my stomach. I did not like the character. The character was not
written to be liked, maybe pitied and I think that aspect is what Ms.
Moore was trying to evoke. I think she did too good a job at making her
character weak and flawed and missed a toughness that the book's
character had. To live in the environment that she did she would have
acquired more emotional survival skills than the movie's character
portrayed. Ms. Moore's character looked like she wandered onto the set
from a suburban mall. Her looks and demeanor next to the strong Black
women characters made her appear too weak and her obstinacy appears to
be more stupidity. I think Edie Falco could have played this role
better with her strength and then the revelations and breakdown when
the toughness crumbled would have been more effective. The movie is
unfortunately being advertised as a thriller and audiences expecting
action and things blowing up will be disappointed. "Freedomland" is one
of those movies that Hollywood doesn't get or know what to do with but
it is a very worthwhile movie to see. I gave it a 7 out 10. I
downgraded it slightly because of Ms. Moore's performance.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was a real disappointment to me. All the elements for a fine
picture were here. Good story, good actors. Sadly, the picture was not
put together well. First blame should go to the director who was not
able to restrict himself to the story lines he would be able to tell
effectively. Next to blame is also the director who edited the film
with superfluous characters and dead end plot lines. Several very good
acting performances were squandered in this mishmash. Julliene Moore
and Samuel L. were great (As always). Ron Eldard is a favorite of mine.
He never gets the romantic lead, but provides great dramatic wallop.
Unfortunately his character had nothing to do with the story.
Typically, the scene where he overhears the confession of Billy is
meaningless, nothing comes of it and his character disappears
afterward. I'm not sure this was even a good try. Save your money.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was better than people give it credit for. I thought I was
in for an average flick, but I was pleasantly surprised. And no, I
don't mean that you couldn't figure out the gist of the plot, but it
was well done, especially the scores. The music really made the film.
Julianne Moore delivered an accurate ex-drug-addicted, scattered
person, and Samuel l. Jackson was right-on. I'd recommend this film to
anyone who has an open mind. This film is probably a lot closer to
reality than people would like to think, that's what makes it good. No,
it is not a smash 'em up Hollywood style action/suspense film, but it
was good nonetheless.
<|_=00=_|>
I think Joe Roth was aiming for something deeper with 'Freedomland'.
It's not necessarily a bad movie, but it isn't really a good one
either. From an acting stand-point, it's great with solid performances
from Samuel L. Jackson (Jackie Brown) as a determined police detective
and Julianne Moore (The Forgotten) as a whacked-out dead-beat mom who's
son has been kidnapped. Edie Falco is also pretty good with a role
that's anything but Mrs. Soprano. The writing or dialogue, however, is
absolutely terrible. I think 'Freedomland' actually wouldn't be a
half-bad movie if the screenwriter put as much work into the
character's conversations as he did the creativity of the racial
epithets spewed through-out the film. 'Freedomland' annoyed me in a
sense that the movie trailers made it out to be something it's not -- a
taut, mystery/thriller, when in reality it's a film about racial and
economical tensions. 'Freedomland' is pretentious in that it thinks
it's an Oscar-caliber film when in reality it's a slightly
above-average suspense film filled to the brim with tired clichés.
'Freedomland' is enjoyable if you can see through it's smug undeserved
sense of brilliance. Grade: C .(screened at AMC Deer Valley 30,
Phoenix, Arizona, 2/20/05)
<|_=00=_|>
First mistake of this film was marketing (after all, it's all about
marketing) Billing it as a thriller/action movie with some paranormal
slant was wrong. This is strictly a psychological drama with zero
paranormal stuff in it.

Second mistake was to make reality too real and not idealized or
artistic to stay away of the touchy issues addressed: Race, police
prejudice, social differences.

So if you went to the movie theater or the rental place to watch a
thrilling action film staying right on the surface of entertainment and
shock value, you will be disappointed. This is a nicely acted, well
constructed and most importantly, realistic drama in which a white
woman blames the kidnap of her son as a carjack conducted by an
African-American male.

As far as I am concern, there was no stereotyping, just realism. There
was no siding on the moralistic virtues of one or other side. Actually,
this is a quite profound exploration of the reasons to lie, the be
racist, to fear prejudice and to resist the fact that a social
interaction between poor and rich, white and black, civilian and
policemen will probably be fair in a near future not now.

My only concern was to see Ms. Moore so stressed during 90% of the
film, quite impressive performance. Just hope she doesn't take this as
her type-cast.
<|_=00=_|>
Detective Lorenzo Council (Samuel Jackson) must separate the truth from
the lies when a troubled woman (Julianne Moore) shows up at the
emergency room claiming that a black man from the projects carjacked
her, taking her 4-year-old son, who was sleeping in the back seat.

Freedomland is a disappointing film that fails to take advantage of its
talented cast and intriguing premise. The movie fails because Joe Roth
is a terrible director. He tries to handle a bunch of different issues
and he just doesn't mix them very well. He also introduces different
characters and subplots but he doesn't build on them. Also, for a movie
tackling serious issues, it was pretty unrealistic. The whole lock-down
scenario was completely over the top and unnecessary. The kidnapping
story had a bunch of holes and the way the cops handled the situation
was pretty irresponsible. All the characters were stereotypes and most
of them were unlikable. There were a lot of scenes dealing with racism
but the film never actually dealt with them or settled them. The ending
was total letdown and very little was actually settled, making the
whole movie experience pointless.

The acting is the film's only strong point with Samuel L. Jackson
giving the best performance. His performance felt a little familiar but
it was still effective and his emotions never felt forced. Julianne
Moore went completely over the top with her performance. She was
annoying and completely unrealistic. Also, it was hard to feel sorry
for her character because she was so unlikable and her actions were
just terrible. Edie Falco came out of nowhere and she gave a pretty
moving performance. She played the only likable character in the film
and it was easy to feel sorry for her. The rest of the supporting
actors were below average and no one else broke out.

Along with the acting, there were a few other good things about the
film. There were a couple of engaging scenes that could have been
better if the director had built on them. The script was also decent
and it could have been turned into a good film. The movie also had an
interesting style to it and at least it sort of engages the viewer.
While the film was pretty messy, it held my attention until the end. Of
course, the performances helped with that but the storyline had a
chance to build. Unfortunately, it didn't and the movie ends with a
whimper. In the end, Freedomland is an annoying melodrama with very few
redeeming qualities. Rating 4/10
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film on DVD with a friend last night, and we were both
stunned at the amazing performance turned in by Julianne Moore. She
seems to have gotten into a little bit of a "missing child rut" (she
also starred in "The Forgotten", another one with a theme of a lost
child), but here her performance had me glued to the screen. In
particular, there is a scene in the police station where Moore is
talking to Samuel L. Jackson in an interview room which was just an
amazing piece of acting. I hope she gets an Oscar nod for this work.
Some of the reviewers who have read the book seem to have been
disappointed, but not having read the book, I didn't have anything to
compare it to.

This is not a regular thriller with car chases, etc. It doesn't really
fit into any of the categories people normally plug their movies into.
I'm glad I saw it, and I have a new respect for Moore as an actress.
<|_=00=_|>
"Freedomland" falls flat in every possible way a movie can. The story
is boring, the viewer does not care about the characters, and the movie
goes nowhere. The film is set in 1999, which is odd because nothing
during the course of the movie makes it necessary for it to take place
during that time period. 

The story begins with Brenda Martin (Julianne Moore) walking into a
hospital with wounds on her hands after being carjacked. Detective
Lorenzo Council (Samuel L. Jackson) is called in to ask her further
questions. Brenda then tells him the story and blames the carjacking on
an unidentified black male. It also then occurs to her that her son was
also in the stolen car. 

Brenda's brother is detective Danny Martin (Ron Eldard) of a
neighboring police department. Trying to find his nephew quickly he
puts the all black neighborhood where the carjacking took place under
lock down. Since no one is allowed to leave the residents of the area
start to get upset and unruly.

To diffuse the situation Detective Council rushes to find Brenda's son
before riots break out in the neighborhood or Brenda's son is found
dead. As the story unfolds we find that there is more to the story then
we know.

"Freedomland" tries to deliver a twist ending at the end, but everyone
in the audience can see it coming. Ironically the movie openly tells
you many times what the ending is going to be. Though when the truth is
told we are supposed to be shocked and amazed.

Even this strong cast of actors cannot save this movie from being
totally lost. Samuel L. Jackson really underplays his role as Detective
Council. Jackson is probably the loudest actor in Hollywood and the one
role that needs it he does not deliver. Julianne Moore on the other
hand overplays her role as Brenda who instead of a grieving mother
comes off as a lunatic. By the end of this movie the viewer has no
sympathy for her character because she is so annoying and irrational.

The true shame about this movie is how it poorly tries to bring in
themes of racial inequality. It seemed like an original set up by using
the characters in the black neighborhood in lock down. Unfortunately
the points the film is trying to make take a back seat to the boring
story of Brenda and her missing kid. The racial ideas are then never
fully developed and just fall short as a type of afterthought.

Also, what happened to this movie being a supernatural thriller? Every
advertisement has shown the movie involving the child going missing for
some mysterious reasons. The real story has nothing to do with the
supernatural. The movie should not even be considered a thriller
because nothing exciting or suspenseful ever takes place. Instead we
just dragged along with these characters knowing exactly what is going
to happen at the end.

"Freedomland" is one of the worst movies I have seen in a long time. It
really should be an educational video of how not to make a movie
because there is nothing good about this film.
<|_=00=_|>
WOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOW That was horrific,
one of the worst movies I've ever seen, Moore is trying but her
performance is laughable, Jackson can't even save this film about a
missing child, you will know the ending in the first 10 minutes, the
premise is idiotic and the execution even worse, one of the worst
performance by a leading lady EVER, I like Moore in other films( big
lebowski, Boogie Nights, ext) but she is terrible, I don't know if she
is supposed to be mentally challenge or what but she can't or act, the
police station scene was one of the worst exchanges by two top notch
actors ever, the twist was strait as an arrow, very very very bad 1/10
