

Dawn of the Dead

I'm not sure I can recall witnessing an opening sequence quite like the
one
I saw in Zack Snyder's remake of the classic horror film 'Dawn of the
Dead.'
Besides being rather lengthy (it's over ten minutes before we see the
opening credits), it has a bizarre creepiness about it. There's something
about the cinematography employed to show us 'the beginning of the end'
that
I really liked: that extra long image of the little girl skating away, the
skyview of Sarah Polly's car as she rides home from her shift as a nurse,
the picture of perfect serenity, and those intimate scenes we see of her
and
her husband 'the day before.' It all makes it more tragic, when, quite
unexpectedly, morning comes, and with it, the end of all that is sane. The
pure chaos of the scenario, an outbreak of a dangerous break of a virus
that
turns those infected into ghouls, comes so suddenly that it grips us by
the
throat.

This is one hell of a horror movie. Even for someone as jaded as myself,
who
has become totally jaded to any real horror thrills, I was taken aback by
how uncomfortable the movie made me feel. Our heroes, holed up at the now
abandoned local mall, join small groups of survivors and find themselves
fighting each other as well as the zombies when the plague starts creeping
ever close to bringing them all to the brink of annihilation. The zombies
have an easy-to-spot weakness: one shot to the head takes them out, but
they're extremely fast, and a single bite from them leads to hopeless
infection and mindlessness. Although some of the story makes little sense
(for instance, if the zombies can only transmit the virus by bite and the
heroes are in a mall, couldn't they don the heaviest attire imaginable
rather than skimpy t-shirts?), there are lots of great twists and snappy
dialogue along with the required creep-outs, gore, and
slaughter.

And there's some surprisingly great humor. Easily the most memorable of
the
light-hearted, break-the-nerves moments is when our heroes are situated
atop
a roof and challenge a local gun shop owner to take out look-alike zombie
celebrities, which he does with ease. It's a much needed laugh to relieve
the audience of a lot of built-up jitters.

Overall, this is a remake that actually works. The characters, for all
their
strength and weaknesses, are decently fleshed out for a horror movie.
There
a few unexpected surprises that even the most attentive viewer will take
pleasure in. And the action moves along at a clean, fast pace. The few
holes
that exist in the plot and the somewhat unsatisfying conclusion are the
only
real problem areas, but these are to be expected in the genre. Overall, I
definitely recommend it, even to the squeamish. It's messy fun for
everyone.
And make sure you stay until AFTER the credits roll. You'll be glad you
did.

Grade: A-

<|_=00=_|>

I've been to thousands of movies in my lifetime and own hundreds of videos
and DVDs, so I am a fan but not a bona fide film critic.  This is my first
online review.

My wife and I saw the original Dawn of the Dead 25 years ago at a midnight
show and left wired enough to talk each other down till the morning.
Perhaps a quarter of a century has inured us to the violence a bit since
we
just watched it again (rental video) last week prior to yesterday's
venture
to the local multiplex to see the remake/"reimagining" and were mostly
unperturbed by the revisit.

For some reason, I was hooked on the new Dawn months ago from the teaser
and, subsequently, the actual trailer.  The Sparklehorse song in the
former
fit perfectly and the suburban shot followed by killer Vivian and closing
with the burned projector film of the latter was intriguing in its own
way.
So I was primed to see the movie, usually a recipe for disaster since
preview expectations are rarely fulfilled by the finished product.  This
time, however, they were.

The cast was uniformly believable and, more important, empathizable (at
least with the good guys who got sorted out along the way).  Even the
playboy jerk had several relevant lines.  Polley was a good, strong female
lead (with another great rebuttal -- "No, I'm a * nurse" to a query about
her medical skills) and Rhames a cheerable, if reluctant, hero.  The
camaraderie, such as it was, worked, and visceral me-first survival gave
way
more often to self-sacrifice.

So, what's not to like?  The fundamental premise that a classic got
remade?
Doesn't wash.  These are two different movies with the same name and
similar
premises but very different attitudes.  (Better special effects didn't
hurt,
either, although this new version was oddly less disturbing sans zombies
munching on dismembered body parts.)  Speedy zombies (except for the
"twitchers")?  No problem; hey, they're hungry and, as always, persistent.
My attention was held for the better part of two hours; the story was
interesting; the outcome ambivalent; the characters arisen to the task at
hand, becoming coldly rational to the divisions between life and death and
zombiedom; the music weirdly appropriate; the black humor welcome respite.
No, Dawn of the Dead isn't Citizen Kane nor is it a sacrilegious assault
on
the horror genre.  It's solid filmmaking that's entertaining and
thought-provoking.  Otherwise, I suspect Romero would never have put his
imprimatur on the remake.

<|_=00=_|>

If you haven't guessed already, I can't sing the praises of this movie
enough - at last, a zombie flick that is two very important
things.

1) Not a B-Movie;
2) An absolutely cracking A-Movie.

Having just got back from the cinema still amazed with the quality of this
film I don't know where to begin. The good acting, the spot on cast, the
refreshingly unbearable scares, the "Paul Verhovenesque" completely
unnecessary but compellingly disgusting gore, the almost uniquely
un-Hollywood ending... It's all there.

What is even more amazing about this movie is that it's [re]creators have
also managed to tap into what will surely be the unanimous expectations of
the target audience. There are no unwanted and unnecessary messages of
family values, cheese, cuddles, and love will conquer all, which is
fabulous
because it leaves far more room for classic lines like, "Tell him to shoot
Burt Reynolds" and then the ketchup-tastic head shot that follows. Now you
have to admit, that line really can't fit perfectly in to many movies but
in
the ever consistent mood of Dawn of the Dead, it's right at
home.

Ving Rhames is easily the second best thing in the movie (second only to
the
fast moving, constantly hungry and occasionally limbless zombies) once he
actually starts speaking, and it is welcoming that Sarah Polley's Ana is
as
composed as she is subtle which is great for the audience because for a
change the lead female character is not screaming every 30 seconds
because,
oh my god, someone is trying to bite me whilst drooling oodles of blood
and
saliva all over my nice white t-shirt. again!

Her character is only clichéd and therefore flawed once throughout the
campaign. As the genius of the group, she is the first to work out that
when
people are bitten they become very ugly, very quickly and develop a
penchant
for biting others. However she is still inexplicably opposed to killing
the
aforementioned soon-to-be cannibals. I don't know about you but whilst she
was still talking through the morale dilemma of killing would-be zombies
before they turned, I'd already be choosing which sponge I was going to
use
to clean my shoes after removing my trusty shot gun from a red blob that
used to be somebody's face. Maybe that's just me though. us Sagittarians
are
very impulsive.

Since we all have limited attention spans and I'm mindful of not giving
too
much away about what happens in the move, I'll wrap up by saying that
those
of you out there who enjoyed this film's original version and have gone on
to enjoy films like Starship Troopers, Robocop, Resident Evil etc., then
this is definitely the film for you. And even if the above are not
representatives of your particular favourite genre, consider this. I went
to
the cinema with four friends tonight, one of whom stated before paying his
money for the ticket, `I don't know why I'm bothering, I hate [rubbish]
like
this'. He was the one laughing the loudest and coming closest to vomiting
throughout the film, and all of us came out saying, `how many Oscars has
this been nominated for'..? Sarcastically - yes, but if it was nominated,
it'd get my vote. The only thing that could have made it better was Steven
Segal instead of Burt Reynolds but you can't have everything.

<|_=00=_|>
I reviewed this film back in March 2004, and said, "Wow! I just got
home from seeing dotd-2004 and can't wait to add it to my collection."
Well, I just added it - the Unrated Director's Cut in widescreen
edition. After watching it this weekend, I just had to add a footnote
about this version of the film. 

IT MAKES A GREAT FILM EVEN BETTER.

Comments from other reviewers have sometimes made reference to a lack
of character development in the film. The UDC version restores this
kind of content, and is one way that the UDC version improves on the
theatrical release. I see better character development in this version
of dotd-2004 then in the (1978) original version of Dawn.

The other improvement the UDC version makes is to restore some really
excellent gore shots. If you're into that thing, of course. And if
you're not - well of course you're into it - that's why you're checking
out this film!
<|_=00=_|>
I went into this movie completely excited. And I wasn't even really
disappointed either. The acting was very good, and I actually loved how
they didn't follow the exact storyline. They took the basics of the
original Dawn of the Dead and made it more contemporary. I knew they
wouldn't be filming the movie at Monroeville Mall (the mall just 15
minutes outside of Pittsburgh where they filmed the original) but it
was still awesome none the less. 

The script worked rather well, and the movie flowed nicely also.
Granted I wasn't a huge fan of the fast moving zombies, but I suppose I
can let that go because truthfully, maybe before rigor mortis sets in,
you'd be able to move quickly, who knows? But I do know that I was on
the edge of my seat through many parts of the movie, and you start to
really care about the characters in the movie. I am anxiously waiting
for 1 week to pass so that I can get my copy of Dawn. I already have it
pre purchased.

8/10 rating. 

The movie missed a perfect 10 for the simple fact that zombies SHOULD
NOT run that fast.
<|_=00=_|>
Shortly after a number of strange cases begin to appear at the hospital
where Ana (Sarah Polley) works, a bizarre zombie "epidemic" hits the
Milwaukee, Wisconsin area full force. Sarah escapes her immediate
threats and meets a number of other humans who decide to seek shelter
inside a large shopping mall. As they learn that the zombie outbreak is
much more widespread than anyone could have imagined, their chances of
survival grow increasingly dim.

I know an awful lot of genre fans rail against remakes, but like the
update of The Texas Chainsaw Massacre (2003), this version of Dawn of
the Dead is so good that we should instead be clamoring for more.

Writer James Gunn and director Zack Snyder knew that they had to come
into the remake with both barrels blasting. Hardly five minutes into
the film we're already into hardcore, high tension, gore-filled horror
material. In lesser films, our introduction to full-fledged zombie
activity would have been dream material as a kind of teaser. Gunn and
Snyder dispense with such weak-willed tactics and immediately launch
into Armageddon. We quickly move to a wide shot of explosions, brutal
car crashes and other mayhem.

We do finally get a breather while we're learning our cast of
characters at the mall in nicely written scenes that bring out
personality and depth to the relatively large cast, but horror fanatics
need not fret that the film will evolve into a drama--tension and gore
are never far removed from the film.

Gunn and Snyder earn credit for both paying homage to their source
material and taking off into other interesting directions. This remake
is just as intense and titillating as Romeo's original, but with a
different spin.

The cast is excellent, the cinematography and editing exciting and
innovative, and the makeup and "creature" effects are top notch.

Even though I've seen greater quantities, the DVD for Dawn of the Dead
also has some of the best extras I've seen on a disc in terms of
quality. You get two excellent short films that effectively extend the
feature. In one, a new character from the remake, Andy (Bruce Bohne),
who runs a gun shop across the street from the mall, gives us a
15-minute video diary of his last 15 days. It's similar in some ways to
the feel of The Blair Witch Project (1999), but for my money, it's much
better than that film. In the other, we get a 30-minute condensation of
the news broadcasts following the outbreak of the zombie "epidemic".
This also easily beats any mock horror documentary (such as The Last
Broadcast (1998)) with its hands tied behind its back. Make sure you at
least rent the DVD to check out these extras.
<|_=00=_|>

As a HUGE fan of the original Dawn of the Dead I was very skeptical of
this
remake.  I wasn't expecting an Academy Award winning blockbuster or
anything, but I did want to see the remake do the original justice.  I was
impressed with the filming more than anything.  This is an action movie
rather than horror.  The outdoor scenes are filmed with a grainy,
hand-held
camera which gave the audience the feeling of being disoriented much the
same way the characters would have felt.  The movie was not made in the
MTV-generation style that the Texas Chainsaw Massacre remake was.  Dawn of
the Dead stuck to the same mythology of the first without giving it a
complete reimagining.  I could imagine the two movies co-existing, but in
different parts of the world.

One of the key differences that I did like was the idea of the zombies
running.  This made them come across as more menacing rather than being
the
slow clunkers that are seen in the original trilogy.  The idea of being
able
to walk right past them was abandoned.  I also feel that the movie did a
good job of showing how quickly people would turn on one another and watch
out for themselves only.

One of my favorite "realisms" of the movie is how the characters are too
attached to their loved ones to shot them when they become zombies.  I'm
certain that many of us would react in the same manner if something like
this were to actually happen (yes, I know it's impossible).  Also, it was
interesting to have so many people make it to the mall instead of only
four
as in the original.  Of course some of these characters fit the generic
stereotype of a movie such as this, but I'm not surprised considering
modern
audiences would need such characters to maintain their interest.  This was
a
movie made for film viewers, not film makers.  We have the strong and
silent
male hero, the quick-thinking blond heroine, the official dumb jerk, the
official slut, the young and naive girl who loses everything and needs the
group's protection, the angry challenger for group leadership who has a
change of heart and becomes heroic, the young trainee who disagrees with
the
angry challenger yet follows due to a sense of duty, and the stupid
follower
who gets his comeuppence.

One aspect that was missing from this remake was the original movie's
social
commentary on the commercialism of people.  Ken Foree's character of Peter
mentioned this in the original whereas Ving Rhames' Kenneth was more of a
silent action hero never having much to say.  This was another reason that
I
saw this as a simple action movie -- though I will say that Rhames has
more
acting ability than Governor Schwarzenegger, Sly, Seagal and Van Damme
combined.  Rhames also LOOKS like an action hero rather than today's
prettyboy "action heroes" such as Tom Cruise, Ben Affleck, Nicolas Cage
and
Keanu Reeves -- who all look like they couldn't fight their way out of a
cooking class for senior citizens.

All in all this movie was not better than the original and won't be
nominated for any Academy Awards, but if you're looking for entertainment
and can stomach the blood it's worth checking out.  I can't wait to buy it
on DVD someday.
<|_=00=_|>

How will mankind behave in the end times? Will we turn into raving
lunatics
and attack one another? Will we try to slavishly hold onto some fabric of
our society? Will we kick back and accept what is happening?

`Dawn of the Dead' in some ways tries to answer that question. The movie,
a
remake of George Romero's classic 1978 sequel to `Night of the Living
Dead,'
throws a group of people together while society crumbles around them and
allows the viewer to watch as humans seek to survive an onslaught of the
undead.

The movie opens with the unimaginable happening. Hordes of zombies have
overtaken Milwaukee and numerous survivors are both fighting off the
monsters and trying to escape the city. One such group includes Ana (Sarah
Polley), a nurse who is running scared after losing her husband, Kenneth
(Ving Rhames), a tough-as-nails cop, Michael (Jake Weber), who tries to be
two-steps ahead of any dangerous situation, and Andre (Mekhi Phifer),
whose
trying to care of his pregnant wife.

Seeking shelter from the waves of zombie attacks, the group decides to
head
toward a local mall and hole up there until help arrives. Once inside they
join with security guards and use the shopping center as a refuge from the
undead while trying to piece together what's left of their
lives.

The plot is pretty straightforward, and relies mostly on cliché themes to
move the story along. So as a rule, most films such as this tend to be
predictable and quite tepid. Luckily, `Dawn of the Dead' has strong
personalities to fall back on, making it thankfully every bit a
character-driven drama as it is a horror-action piece.

As Ana, Polley convincingly plays a waif turned survivor with just the
right
amount of emoting. She is strong and vulnerable at the same moment, trying
to remain reasonable in unreasonable times. Weber also fits this bill as
Michael, a man with a shady past full of regret who tries to fill others
with hope while remaining a stark realistic.

Rhames' performance clearly commands the most attention. As Kenneth, he
becomes the group's de facto leader and top man of action. He keeps the
clearest head when trouble is afoot and leads the group out of one scrape
after another. Rhames gives the character a silent strength that provides
the film with a much needed human edge.

First time director Zack Snyder moves the film along briskly and
effectively, keeping the action scenes tight and the dramatic scenes
quiet.
There is no heavy-handed sermonizing here that tends to infiltrate most
big-budget horror movies -- Snyder wisely lets the images speak for
themselves.

The horror itself is shocking and grabs your attention, which is a plus
considering most of the recent crop of thrillers. The fact that it is
happening to sympathetic characters that we care about is another feather
in
the movie's cap.

All to often most horror movies are just excuses for numerous poorly
developed characters to be killed in awful ways for the enjoyment of the
audience. As far as recent zombie movies go, `Dawn of the Dead' thankfully
remains closer to `28 Days Later' than `House of the Dead.'

However, despite all the movie's strengths, it still pales in comparison
to
the original. Romero's `Dawn of the Dead' took the premise of people
trapped
in mall and used it to make some pointed social commentary about
consumerism. The first '`Dawn' had human characters selfishly hoarding
material goods for themselves, using the mall not only as a refuge from
zombies but also as their own personal palace that provides them with more
items than they could ever need.

It's to the detriment of the new film that it never takes the concept to
this level. Here, the story seems to take place in a mall because it's a
cool place for a horror movie, not because it can draw out anything
interesting in the characters themselves. Also, in the original the
zombies
wanted inside not only to eat the humans but also because they are drawn
to
the shopping center since is was an important place to them when they were
alive.

It's a shame that this time around viewers won't get the chance to see
zombies wandering around JC Penney or stumbling up and down escalators,
the
joke being humans amble about aimlessly themselves like the undead at the
mall.

`Dawn of the Dead' is a very bloody and terrifying film but it lacks the
superior gory effects from the 1978 movie. That should not stop the
squeamish from twitching in their seats due to the horrific content
onscreen.

Good acting and smart thinking elevates the proceedings among most other
horror offerings, but compared to Romero's original it lacks the
observations necessary to make it a classic. The first film remains an
intelligent critique on human actions during the apocalypse, while this is
just a suspense drama that is dressed to kill.

8 out of 10 stars. Not as good as Romero's original, but still one heck of
a
shot in the arm to cure the memory from most modern horror
misfires.
<|_=00=_|>

Returning from a busy day in the hospital, Ana spends time with her
husband
when a neighbours daughter comes into the house and attacks her husband.
He
dies before returning to life and attacking Ana. She runs and escapes in
her
car, driving through a neighbourhood rife with violence and fires.  After
crashing her car, she hooks up with a group of armed survivors who take
refuge in a mall.  The group settle in and fortify their position as an
army
of the undead gather outside.

Before I start my review, let me just say that this will be biased as I am
always easily won over by zombie movies.  The fact that they just keep
coming (fast or slow), lack character and only want to kill really just
freaks me out.  So I tend to get easily scared by the genre (even if
`enjoy'
is perhaps not the right word) and be easily more negligent towards their
faults.  Despite telling myself that I wouldn't bother with this film as
it
would scare me, I went for it anyway in a fit of `confront your fears'
type
of stupidity!  The film starts with a creepy opening and pretty much
manages
to keep the pace up for the whole film.  It, like the zombies, moves fast
and brutally throughout and is very, very tense.

Others have complained about the lack of gore - however I found the
graphic
exploding heads to do that more than enough for my tastes!  Better than
gore
is the atmosphere.  The use of news footage is not original but it
succeeds
(along with the aerial view of the town) in creating the impression of a
world turning to sh*t.  I don't know about you but this scares me and the
film did it well.  The speed of the zombie attacks makes for a thrilling
ride and it did make me very tense - Snyder managed to make the whole film
a
threat (especially for a first time director) and I honestly have a very
stiff neck a day after seeing this simply because my body was tensed up
for
the whole film!

The pace of the film also serves to cover the real problems in content and
plot.  Unlike the original there is no satirical swipe on consumerism -
the
fact that the zombies are just wandering aimlessly around the mall like
they
used to in life is pretty much ignored here - but times are very different
now I guess.  The plot itself also has quite a few stupid moments where
the
characters act in a way you know they wouldn't in real life.  For example
people go on suicide missions for little real reasons and you can tell
that
the script is just doing it to create more action.  However, when you are
into it, these things don't really seem to matter.  The film may be a
little
silly when you think about it but it does have a good ending - downbeat
and
realistic (or at least as realistic as it can be!) and left me with no
hope
of a happy ending - in this regard it is everything that `28 Days Later..'
is not.

The cast is good even if the script places their characters secondary to
the
action.  Polley is used to slightly more substantial roles but still does
well here.  Rhames is lumbered with a religious background that is never
explained, but he is a great presence throughout.  Weber is the standout
role however.  His character is a slightly less cartoon version of Evil
Dead's Ash.  He is the unwilling hero but yet he seems to accept all the
obstacles he comes across.  He also manages to be one of the group that
the
audience cares about - most of them are fodder and we know it!  Phifer is
a
good actor but seemed too `gangster' to really be driven to this degree by
his family.  The rest of the support cast are mostly just there to get
eaten
but they do OK.

Overall this is not a great film - but it is an effective one.  As a film
it
lacks subtext, comment and plot logic. However as a thriller it is fast
paced, gripping and tense with a satisfyingly bleak conclusion.  Snyder
does
a good job as a first timer and creates an atmosphere that is gripping
even
if it lacks originality.  Like I said, I don't deal with zombie movies
very
well and am easily scared but I reckon that this should satisfy many a
Saturday night thrill-seeking crowd even if it does nothing for your brain
apart from it's risk getting eaten.
<|_=00=_|>
***********Spoilers Within********** When I first hear they were
remaking Dawn Of The Dead, I imagined it would turn out much like any
number of movies that should have never been remade. I swore up and
down never to see it, and when it actually got better than average
reviews, and was #1 at the box office for a few weeks, I simply thought
"well, there must not be anything else better playing".

Usually when I watch a crappy movie, I turn to someone in the room and
say "wow, I could have made a better movie than that" (yeah, I'm THAT
guy). However, after a friend of mine brought Dawn Of The Dead over, I
said "If I was going to make this movie, that's exactly how I would
have done it".

The remake of DOTD is probably one of the best horror movies I have
seen. It has enough blood and guts to satisfy the gore freaks, but not
too much to offend the casual viewer. I also really liked the
(intentional) humor throughout the film. What really surprised me is
that unlike most horror movies, you really get to know and care about
the characters (most of them at least). You cheer when some of them die
and frown when others stay alive.

In most movies, the characters are quite two dimensional, and you can
generally pick out from the first five minutes which ones will live and
which ones will die. With this movie, villains become heroes and heroes
become villains. I wanted so badly for the character of CJ to die, but
by the end of the movie, I was sad to see him go.

All in all, this was a wonderful remake, and I hope remakes of other
movies are just as good as this one.
