

The people that don't like this movie expected way too much from it.
People
have said that it is a standard horror flick, but they're wrong. This
movie
is a parody of the horror genre. If you watch the movie knowing that
they're
not making a serious horror movie (and that isn't hard to realize), then
you're opinion would change drastically. This isn't supposed to be a
smart-funny either. It's just something that you watch for a good time
with
friends. They're too many serious movies in theatres anyways, it's nice to
have some relief from uber-serious movies with something that doesn't have
several plot twist and emotional rollercoasters. People, just lighten up
and
realize the entertainment purposes of this film. It's not for over-mature
parents or little school girls. It's for the teenagers that have to sneak
into the movies because they're 17th birthday is in 2 weeks, it's for the
general person that wants to laugh and escape bills and the real world.
It's
not a movie that will make you cry, it's a happy movie for happy people.
Got
it? ...Good
<|_=00=_|>

I have been sitting and reading the completly brutal reviews of this movie
for about two hours now and I guess me and my two friends are the only
ones
that found this movie HILLARIOUS.

As the movie started, I was thinking "Oh great, Scary Movie 4". But the
more
that Club Dread went on, the jokes got better, and I couldn't stop
laughing.
From Sam the fun police to Jenni (played by the super hot Brittney Daniel)
each charecter was histarical. Especially Cocanut Pete who everyone seems
to
think was a unfunny atempt at Jimmy Buffet, in case you didn't notice, in
the movie they take a shot at him being a Jimmy Buffet rip off "Play
Maragrita Ville!".

And before you dismis my recamendation as yammering from a Broken Lizard
fan
boy don't think so soon, I have never seen any other Broken Lizard flicks,
but after this wonderfully executed movie, I plan on it.

I think it sums up to you have to have a certain since of bizar humour at
some points and just keep a open mind when watching the movie. It wasn't
the
best movie I've seen by far, but I am going over lines in my head this
morning from two nights ago and still laughing.

Broken Lizards Club Dread is a extremly funny movie that doesn't deserve
to
be bashed like it is. It is a very funny..... comedic slasher. The Jimmy
Buffet rip offs and cheesy ending is exactly what Broken Lizard was aiming
for, and if you look at it like that, many of the "mistakes" become funny
as
oposed to angering.

The Final Numbers
8 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>

Club dread is a cinematic treat. Fans of super troopers will understand
the
clever brand of comedy applied in this film. The accents aren't supposed
to
be realistic, the situations aren't supposed to be suspenseful, and most
of
all the acting isn't supposed to be oscar worthy. It's a joke people. It's
a
movie made by a comedy troop co-starring Bill Paxton. They're not exactly
shooting for the stars. What they are trying to do is make you laugh. Let
down your guard and admit that you like unnecessary nudity, brutal
murders,
and fake accents. If you didn't like super troopers you probably won't
like
this movie but on the same token, if you didn't like super troopers you're
an uptight loser with no sense of humor. This movie is flat out funny when
taken for what it is, so please do so. If you're looking for a life
changing
dramatic experience go see The Passion of The Christ but if you want to
have
a good time laughing at stuff you know is funny, even if you won't admit
it,
see this film. Smoke some, drink some, or go sober, but have a good time.
Peace.
<|_=00=_|>
With that being said, I loved this movie. With such terrible slasher
spoofs as Scary Movie (I never bothered seeing the sequels) that was
just one giant oral sex joke, this was a great breath of fresh air. The
plot was typical (part of the spoof) and the acting at times hokey (yet
again, part of the spoof), it's easy to get distracted away from the
subtle humor and very entertaining dialogue.

Though the acting isn't classical actor's guild stuff, the characters
are great. Especially Pete, Putman and Juan. I guess since I have seen
the counter culture that this movie is mocking while spoofing the
horror genre, it only makes it that much better.

If you're expecting a ground breaking horror movie, you will be
disappointed. If you're expecting Super Troopers, you'll be let down.
If you're expecting ground breaking in the spoof department... you
might want to look elsewhere. If you just want a funny movie that
doesn't try too hard and is entertaining on a subtle level, check this
one out.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>

The Broken Lizard guys, Erik, Paul, Jay, Steve, Kevin, once again put
their
warped minds together and came up with something creative, fresh, funny,
and
scary. Just like Super Troopers, the first big installment from Broken
Lizard, this film WILL satisfy those who seek a good time. It's full of
sly
jabs and not-so-subtle laughs that are only going to get better with time.

I'll admit, this film is not going to win any awards - not from the
critics
anyway. But, if you want to take a time-out from deep, thought-provoking,
and ultimately
way-too-realistic-movies-that-remind-you-of-your-own-sad-life
(like Lost in Translation, for example) a trip to an Island paradise
filled
with lots of tanned, toned skin, a fun sound track, delicious suspence,
and
the ever funny Broken Lizard guys, is going to be the perfect
remedy!
<|_=00=_|>
I see a lot of Super Trooper fans that hate this movie. Personally I
enjoyed this movie far more than Super Troopers. I don't understand why
anyone would try to compare the two movies though. They are two totally
different style movies. Kevin Heffernan as Lars & Brittany Daniel as
Jenny were both hilarious together. I personally thought it quite
hilarious that a spoof of slasher flicks was actually a better slasher
flick than most serious slasher flicks while being hilarious at the
same time. It seems to me that the reason most of the critical people
don't like this movie is that they took it seriously. That is the
problem.
<|_=00=_|>
Club Dread was one of those in-between films. It wasn't bad, although
it had bad parts. But it wasn't really good, although it had good
parts. I had never heard of Broken Lizard or Jay Chandrasekhar, nor had
I seen Super Troopers. So maybe I just don't get it. There was a lot of
opportunity for nudity passed on, and I think that might have been part
of the wry, just-under-the-radar humor that this was so full of. It has
been called a horror movie spoof, but that's not completely accurate.
It is a full-fledged slasher film, but they are obviously having a lot
of fun with it. But not all of that fun making and thinking up this
film translates into fun watching it. But I will give them credit for
putting something out that isn't the same as everything else out there.
Kudos for Brittany Daniel who made this easy on the eyes, too. I'd say
check it out, but just don't have unrealistic expectations.
<|_=00=_|>
In Pleasure Island, Costa Rica, a serial killer slashes the employees
of the Coconut Beach Resort, a paradisiacal place for having sex and
fun. He advises the staff to continue working, otherwise he would
slaughter the guests also. In a environment of suspicious, and with the
afraid employees trapped in the island without communication, the
number of deaths increases.

"Club Dread" is a funny slash movie. The forgettable story is very
attractive, with beautiful naked girls and a nice cast. I liked this
hilarious movie, a spoof of "serious" horror slash movies, showing a
good combination of gore and comedy. If the viewer sees without great
expectation, he or she may have a good surprise. My vote is six.

Title (Brazil): "Pânico na Ilha" ("Panic in the Island")
<|_=00=_|>
At first viewing of this comedy by Jay Chandrasekhar I dismissed it as
a completely cheesy and off-the-wall spoof movie we have all seen many
times already, and I was right! The biggest difference is that this fun
film tries to be something all it's own, while still spoofing all the
ridiculous slasher movies from the 80s. Bill Paxton was hilarious in
this movie! It makes me completely forgive him for being in Titanic.

I'm not going to go on and on about this film. I'll simply say that if
you are looking for another Super Troopers movie, you will not find it
here. But Broken Lizard delivers a pretty entertaining movie that will
not disappoint those looking for a fun ride.
<|_=00=_|>
Anyone who didn't like this movie wasn't really paying attention. This
is a classic and deserves way better than in the 5's. Anyone who is
reading this before they watch it needs to know that IMDb fans have
screwed this one up. I gave it a 10 to boost it even though it probably
won't but it really belongs in the high 7's. The writing, acting,
direction, humor, and delivery are all brilliant and if you're a broken
lizard fan it makes it even better. They all play great characters in
this one and while it wasn't as popular as say "Super troopers" it was
definitely as good if not better. The ending probably made a lot of
people dislike it but IT'S A COMEDY PEOPLE! I personally love this
movie more than any other broken lizard title and felt compelled to
review it when I saw it had such a low rating. Seriously if you're
avoiding it due to it's IMDb rating, you're missing out.
