
Though ostensibly based on a true story, 'Against the Ropes' is pure
movie hokum from start to finish. 

Jackie Kallen made a name for herself as one of the few successful
female managers in the history of professional boxing. In the movie's
prologue, we meet Jackie as a young girl so obsessed with the sport
that she spends her off hours at the gym helping her dad train her
uncle, a fighter who died very early in his career. Years later,
Jackie, on a dare, agrees to manage her own player - if only she can
find a talent who will be willing to put his life and his career in the
hands of an untried but determined woman. She alights on Luther Shaw, a
drug-dealer-with-a-heart-of-gold whom she picks up in the nearby
projects. Luther is, for the most part, a fictional character, a
composite, we're told, of several of the fighters Kallen led to victory
in the ring.

Regardless of how much of this is fiction or nonfiction, 'Against the
Ropes' fails to generate any heat either as a character study or as a
human drama. We're supposed to find all this interesting simply because
Kallen is an attractive woman trying to prove herself in a man's world.
Yet, the story is hackneyed, the dialogue corny, the characters and
their conflicts trite and underdeveloped. The Cheryl Edwards screenplay
is so sketchy and poorly articulated that we often don't understand why
characters are behaving the way they are, particularly when it comes to
the rough-and-tumble relationship between Jackie and Luther. One moment
they are getting along swimmingly, and the next Jackie is strutting
around blowing her own horn while Luther sits pouting in the corner.
Whole episodes, which could have gone a long way towards explaining the
characters' motivations, seem to have been dropped from the finished
product at the last minute. 

Kallen is obviously a change-of-pace role for Meg Ryan who generally
plays the innocent ingénue lead in romantic comedies. Yet, despite the
fact that she is a trifle more serious here and even gets to work with
an accent (the mark of any 'serious' performer looking to buck up her
credentials), the movie itself is so lacking in tension and grit and so
determinedly upbeat and optimistic that it really doesn't give the
actress a whole lot of opportunity to truly stretch those acting
muscles. In fact, in the final scene, the film turns into little more
than a vanity production for the waning star. Omar Epps fares a bit
better, turning in a performance of strength and dignity, though the
script lets him down by failing to develop his character to any
appreciable extent. 

The one fight scene is only moderately well executed and comes way too
late in the film for anyone interested in the sport to still be hanging
around ringside at that point. In fact, no one comes even close to
scoring a knockout blow in 'Against the Ropes' - not Ryan, not Epps and
certainly not the audience. 'Against the Ropes' is a sucker punch all
the way.
<|_=00=_|>
Meg Ryan plays a Jewish woman from Detroit who strives to become a
successful boxing manager despite facing many obstacles, including an
unscrupulous boxing promoter, played by Tony Shalhoub. Against the
Ropes looks at the relationship between Kallen and her first
professional boxer, played by Omar Epps.

Against the Ropes is your typical Lifetime movie of the week feature
that somehow made it to theaters. It had nice intentions but the film
is not very good or strong. The story is very uninspired and it
reminded me of Erin Brockovich. Against the Ropes tried too hard to be
like Erin Brockovich and other boxing films without really being its
own film. Also, most of the film is pretty dull and there are no real
good performances. Meg Ryan is okay as Jackie Kallen. She was a little
weak in the dramatic scenes and sometimes her emotions felt really
fake. Her outfits were really trashy and this took away from her
already less than stellar performance.

Meg Ryan is paired up with Omar Epps and he gives a decent performance.
However, his chemistry with Meg is really weak. This hurts the film a
lot since the whole movie was basically their relationship. Tony
Shalhoub gives an okay performance but there really wasn't a lot for
his character to do. Charles S. Dutton gives an okay performance as
Felix. Again, there really wasn't much for his character to do. Dutton
also directs the film and he does an okay job. He could have developed
the characters a little more and he could have done a better job at
capturing the relationship between Jackie and Luther. The film is very
predictable and very simple. The boxing scenes are good but they pale
in comparison to other boxing films like Rocky. In the end, this really
is a weak film that's not worth watching. Rating 4/10
<|_=00=_|>
I sat through all of this... and I have to say that it is another
colossal and predictable waste of celluloid... Mz. Ryan is terribly
miscast and nowhere near tough enough for this type of role... and that
lace-up leather number she has on really accentuates the worst of her
physical stature... I wish I could say something good about this
movie... Meg Ryan has given us some pretty good movies in the past, but
I can't seem to find any redeeming qualities... The whole thing needs a
remake, with a different cast, as I believe that Jackie Kallen's story
is valid to boxing history and should be told...

I thought that Tony Shalhoub, the actor who is Jackie's rival (also
plays Monk on TV)has turned in a sight better performances than this
before... sorry, but this is one dog of a movie you should avoid...
<|_=00=_|>
The movie focuses to Jackie Kallen(Meg Ryan), a Jewish girl from
Detroit, a secretary plenty of wide dreams. After a stake with a famous
commissioner(Tony Shalhoub)she becomes a boxing promoter of a young
boxer(Omar Epps).Then she hires a retired coach(Charles S. Dutton) for
training the inexperienced boxer.

Although is a fictional story is based on true events referred by
United States's most noted boxing manager. In addition, are narrated
her relationship with the tough boxer, her fight to survive into boxing
world, a sport strongly dominated by male sex. It's developed with
humor, love and a little bit of drama. The casting is frankly
excellent, a sympathetic though selfish Meg Ryan, a two-fisted but
sensible Omar Epps, today well known as the doctor in ¨House¨, such as
Tony Shaloub by ¨Monk¨series; furthermore Jose Cortese and Tim Daly(son
of James Daly and brother of Tyne Daly) as a sports reporter. The
motion picture packs an enjoyable cinematography by Jack N. Greene(
Clint Eastwood's usual cameraman) and catching soundtrack by Michael
Kamen(Weapon Lethal, Die hard). The movie is professionally directed by
usually actor Charles S Dutton in his first movie, he has followed
directing television movies. Rating : Acceptable and entertaining . The
film will like to Meg Ryan fans and boxing buffs but displays nice
combats.
<|_=00=_|>
Meg Ryan pulls a great performance as the underdog of this movie.
Playing a real person is never easy and being a woman in boxing holds
as much discrimination on its own without adding that she works it with
sex appeal. You can't hate a story when it comes from true events and
both Shaloub and Ryan pull off their characters with finesse. Don't
hate her because she's not in her much loved romantic comedy persona;
love that she pulled off the Midwestern girl honoring her father's
memory and her uncles love with dedicating her life to boxing.
Comparing Omar Epps to Tom Hanks is so inappropriate in this film.
There is never meant to be a love connection between Epps and Ryan.
It's more of a mothering relationship; the son she never had and the
mothering he never received. You are either going to love or hate this
movie. Be assured you'll watch it till' the end and will have an
opinion one way or the other.
<|_=00=_|>

This was a huge, huge disappointment. It's a lot like a weak boxer. The
story starts strong, but about halfway into things it loses it's legs. They
should have thrown in the towel during the final act, because this movie was
not holding itself up.

It's bad enough that the story has nothing to do with the real life of
Jackie Kallen, these characters have nothing to do with reality at all. Even
as a piece of fiction, I couldn't buy what they were doing. The characters
black and white, good and evil, and there's nothing complex about them. This
movie doesn't try to challenge you to think at all. Tony Shaloub plays a
thinly veiled Bob Erim caricature who is always evil. He's never nice to
anyone. Omar Epps plays a thinly veiled James Toney, minus Toney's
uncontrollable temper, and with a much higher IQ. Epps' character Luther
Shaw is just a kid who's had a run of bad luck and needs a chance. He's a
hero. Ryan is also someone who just needs a chance. He and Ryan's characters
have to learn to trust each other, believe in themselves, and have enough
heart to follow their dreams. In this world, good always triumphs over evil
and people always get their dreams.

Here's how Kallen describes the movie on her own site:

"The true story of boxing manager Jackie Kallen - dubbed the First Lady of
Boxing - a former Detroit TV personality, publicist, and suburban mom, who
broke into the predominantly male boxing community and guided the careers of
several fighters, including champions James Toney and Thomas Hearns. Kallen
later went on to become the commissioner of the International Female Boxers
Association."

This movie is an insult to the sport of boxing. When you think about how low
boxing has sunk recently, anything that insults boxing has to be absolutely
awful. The big fight sequence at the end of the movie has to be one of the
worst boxing scenes in the history of the movies. Think of the ridiculous
boxing sequences in the later Rocky sequels, and then imagine trying to make
them even more absurd. The characters do nothing but take cheap shots and
then smack each other with devastating blows squarely on the jaw.

The saddest thing is the real story of Jackie Kallen would have made a great
movie. Meg Ryan portrays her as a spinster working as a secretary for a
boxing promoter in Cleveland. The real Jackie Callen was married, had a son,
and was the publicist for the Kronk gym in Detroit. Callen's first big
fighter, James Toney, was from Ann Arbor. The script doesn't even set the
story in Michigan where things really happened. 

In this world there's no Don King, no mafia, no sleezy gamblers ... it's
just not the real world of boxing. There's also no controversial fight
between James Toney and David Tiberi. In the real world, so many people felt
the scoring of that fight was so wrong that the fight must have been fixed.
That decision (for Toney) launched an investigation into boxing by the US
Congress. 

For her part, Meg Ryan offers no surprises and just plays another blonde who
smiles a lot. Really, this is a role that should have been played by Marg
Helgenberger of CSI. Ryan is too innocent. Helgenberger would have brought
credible toughness and credible sexuality to the role. Charles Dutton is
always amazing, and Omar Epps looks like an up and coming action star, but
the script isn't up to their talents. Tony Shaloub also does a lot with a
poorly written character.

If this movie really had told the real story of Jackie Kallen, it would have
been worth seeing. Instead it tells a predictable fictional story about
unoriginal characters that lack believable human traits.

Don't bother.

<|_=00=_|>
I don't follow boxing, but the lady that Meg Ryan portrays is
apparently the female ground-breaker as a boxing manager. The movie is
set in Cleveland, on a dare she finds a local black man who appears to
have potential, she gets a retired trainer to look at her kid, and
together they make a winner. Tony Shaloub is the best here, as the
ruthless local boxing manager and promoter who gets his cronies to
blacklist her and prevent her boxer from fighting in local fights. So
she has to take him to places like Buffalo, NY and cities in Florida to
win fight that will eventually get him a title fight. A different role
for Meg Ryan, she changes her voice and has to play a "hard" woman. In
the DVD extras, the real lady boxing manager is interviewed and it is a
nice addition to the story that was inspired by her life, but many
things have been changed so it is not really a biographical sketch. The
movie is better than its IMDb rating would indicate.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a not-very-well-written film that nonetheless has redeeming
features. The story arc is clichéd, (underdog succeeds against all
odds, hubris sets in, everything lost, then redemption), and Meg Ryan,
who I think is a better actress than some, is badly miscast here. She
just can't come across as tough enough for this role. The slutty
clothes her character wore, although looking very nice, didn't fit.
(Even though I'm sure she was channeling Kallen) Omar Epps put in a
very nice performance, and I have to compliment Kerry Washington and
Charles S. Dutton for their work, although there was not enough of
Washington. Also Tony Shalhoub who I haven't much cared for, shows his
chops by going against type playing an imposing and menacing character.
I see that Dutton directed and did well, inasmuch as I never noticed
the direction. This film has deep faults, but somehow works, at least
to a point. I thought it was OK.
<|_=00=_|>

I had the pleasure of going to the premiere for Against the Ropes in LA on
February 11, 2004. I thought the movie was excellant. I am Charles
Dutton's
neice, and a very big fan of Omar Epps. The movie was very well written,
and
directed, and the cast did a fantastic job. Meg Ryan definately played her
part, and made it be known that there is no such thing as "a man's sport".
I
give the movie, it's writers, directors, and it's cast 2 thumbs up. This
will definately be a movie that I will purchase on DVD when it comes
out.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie has been described as a cross between a boxing film and a chic
flic.  Some women can't stomach boxing films and many men really loathe
chic
flics.  Nevertheless, if you can overcome your aversion to one or the
other
this movie can be quite entertaining.  Even though they are few and far
between, I like boxing movies, and I thought the fight scenes in this
movie
were pretty good.  Lots of stereotypes in this film, of course, but then
that's what most boxing movies are all about.  Good versus evil and - at
least in this one - maybe even men versus women.  Anyway, it's not high
art
- just a pretty good movie.
