
I just came from an advance screening of Astroboy where I dutifully
took my kids at 10 am to watch "this" thinking that if I was lucky I
would be able to doze off for a few minutes during the movie. Boy, I
couldn't! The story was captivating from the beginning. Yes, it was
very directed at kids, you know, the far off humour and such, but when
I saw Toby, the genius' "kid", I felt that the movie was after all NOT
just a Pinocchio rip-off where an old man made a robot-boy because he
was bored or lonely... the reasons behind the creation of Astroboy were
tragic and even mature. Of course, if you are a manga aficionado, you
may be thinking "duh! that's how's supposed to be", but I am NOT. I
barely watched a show now and then when I was a kid (I'm 36 years
old... too young for Astroboy), so I wasn't really aware of the story.
So I thought, well, this development has to be a fluke inherited from
the original story, from then on it should go downhill... but it did
NOT. The story is full of tragedy, though decisions that if you think
them through you can even understand (like a father understanding that
memories cannot truly replace his son), and redemption that may be
obvious to superheroes experts, but are very well exposed to a new
generation of kids that will witness a clear fight between good and
evil (positive and negative forces) adorned with an excellent and
adequate portion of comedy. Not just a kid's movie, but a movie that I
will surely watch again when my kids "force" me to buy it and to watch
it with them dozens of times. Go, Astro!
<|_=00=_|>
Unlike many of the other reviews(it seems), I don't have an ax to
grind. I vaguely remembered the character and actually thought it was a
French cartoon. If it was on TV, I never saw it.

As such, my expectations were fairly plebeian - just a family film with
good production values and some entertainment value. Well, Astroboy IS
well produced and IS very entertaining. There was plenty of comedy to
keep the film light and lots of action to keep things moving.

I might agree with those who think the portrayal of Toby's(Astroboy's)
father was rather cold. However, it fits with the sequence of events
and one assumes that the producers were following the original story
(I'm not going to read the comic book to find out).

There are many endearing characters in the film and interesting
villains to boot. The animation varied from good to excellent and the
pacing avoided any significant lulls. All in all, well and cleverly
done. Good job, Imagi, and all the talented people who contributed.

I recommend this to anyone who wants some light-hearted entertainment.
My family loved it.
<|_=00=_|>
I never expected to see some high-art film when I saw the trailer for
the movie. It's Astro Boy, the kid fighting evil aliens or robots on
Saturday mornings. I expect it to be just a movie about a young super
kid fighting.. well.. robots and aliens.

So when I walked into the movie I was pleasantly surprised that there
are more than fighting in the movie. I was touched in many places where
the father (Dr. Tenma) and son (Toby/ Astro)'s bittersweet relationship
is shown. The acting is GREAT! Both by the actors (Nicholas Cage,
Donald Sutherland, Nathan Lane, they're all great) and by the animators
in Hong Kong.

There are also many funny moments, although not enough time was given
to laugh at them. I wish the pacing was a bit slower at the start of
the movie (but I read many people were bored at the start of the
movie). Well.. the problem is that they need to zip in all the story
about the beginning of Astroboy, in about 15-20 minutes time.

I love the little robots like Trash Can and the RRF. They are such
relief makers in the movie. Most of the funny moments came from them.

I read reviews about certain political agendas etc, in the movie. But i
disagree. Those statements are only made to support the story, and
shouldn't be looked at with too much thought. Remember this is a kid's
movie, and should be taken lightly as an entertainment source, don't
think too much about it.

I don't really get why the box office for this movie is so bad. I mean,
this is WAY BETTER THAN Bee Movie, or Space Chimps, or Open Season 2...
SERIOUSLY. It deserves better.

I went to see this movie on a Saturday and there were a lot of parents
with kids in the cinema. When the movie finished the kids were happy
and thrilled and said "That was awesome!" Take your kids to this movie.
They'll love it.
<|_=00=_|>
Before going to see Astro Boy I decided to read some of the comments
that were posted here. I read reviews by some who liked the movie as
well as by some who did not like the movie. With an average score of
6.4 I went to see the movie with relatively low expectations although I
got the feeling that those who did not like the movie were mostly upset
about the movie not being "true" to the original TV series and were
having some issues with certain characters reminding them of other
characters such as Pinocchio. Well, I did not see the original TV
series so I did not care whether or not the movie and the TV series
were similar enough. I also did not mind that some of the side kicks
may have had some resemblance to characters from other movies. The
bottom line is that my 5.5 year old and I loved Astro Boy!
<|_=00=_|>
For some reason my expectations were not high for this movie, the IMDb
rating was pretty average and there was not much hype surrounding it's
release. It seems any computer animated movie that is neither Pixar nor
Shrek has a difficult time getting noticed. Having seen this movie now
I can whole heartedly say that this movie is as fun and action packed
as any movie from the Pixar stable. 

The visuals are excellent and on a par with the latest computer
generated movies, the story is heart warming and touches on
philosophical themes often related to more adult titles like Blade
Runner or even Ghost in the Shell, the action is well handled and true
to the cartoon origins of the title and ultimately there is enough
depth and charm in this movie to satisfy both kids and adults. The only
drawback I feel this movie has is the somewhat out of place voice
acting of some of the main characters, it seems that the producers
wanted the film to be attached to some big name actors rather then
finding voice actors that would suit the specific
characters,specifically I felt that Bill Nighy voice was out of place
as the Professor and perhaps Nic Cage could have brought more energy to
the role. It did feel as though the voice work was done after visuals
and not vice versa which led to a somewhat flat performance by some
actors. That, however is just me being ultra critical, overall this is
a top draw movie and worth a look. Give it a try.
<|_=00=_|>
This was a really good movie. I really enjoyed this. Granted I'm not a
fan of Astro Boy, but I still enjoyed this film. The voice actors
delivered great performances. Nathan Lane was brilliant as Ham Egg, as
was Kristen Bell as Cora. Freddie Highmore did great as Astro, and as
much as everyone groans whenever Nicolas Cage is mentioned, he did a
wonderful job as Dr. Tenma. The action in this film was great. I was
never bored during the film. It had a lot of great stuff, and some
funny moments. It's a great animated film that delivers on action,
great performances and awesome sequences. I had a great time with Astro
Boy. I hope it does for you too.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't know who said they thought this was a Rip-Off of Pinnochio but
it isn't and never was. I don't know why people insist on taking movies
and trying to find other movies "they ripped off". For me as a kid it
was one of my favorites and every time my 11 year old grandson comes
over we watch one of the old B&W episodes I have on DVD. I took him to
the theatre to see this just me and him and we were both like a couple
of kids.(I'm 55) I'm not going to spoil it for anyone that has not seen
it but I believe it is a great family movie, or at least one you can
let your child watch without supervision. I enjoyed it a lot. My
Grandson looks forward to our weekly viewings now with his Grandpa. As
a long time ASTROBOY Fan I wish we could figure out if it is one word
or two ? All my old stuff the ASTROBOY runs together. Anyway I believe
this is a fun entertaining movie and not for all, but give it a try for
your kids and grandkids. I think they will enjoy it.
<|_=00=_|>
The first fifteen minutes of its dialogue was groan-inducing...this,
combined with Nic Cage's droning voice is enough to turn the viewer off
quickly.

Fortunately, you can't judge this one by its opening act. As soon as
Astro leaves Metro City, the film really picks up. This is surprisingly
intelligent, fun, nostalgic and engaging.

The film manages to canvass some rather complex ideas regarding
robotics, which really raise the quality of the story to a higher
level. Characters have some shades of grey which are much appreciated.

The animation is strong, though it is a little too Western in
appearance at times, and it would have been nice to see a bit more
anime style.

Unfortunately, the lack of the classic music theme does leave a gaping
hole.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is about a top robot scientist, who copes with his sons death
by building a high tech robot to replace his son.

I find "Astro Boy" very well made. It has got an engaging and exciting
plot with plenty of action. There are also plenty of emotional elements
to touch people's hearts. The leading character, Toby, is well
portrayed. he is such a good boy with a sad background. It is easy to
sympathise with his situation, making viewers connect with him and
hence be engaged by the story. Visuals are great as the sets are
vibrantly composed, making every scene a joy to watch. "Astro Boy" is a
fun film to watch. Both kids and adults will all be entertained by it!
<|_=00=_|>
Astro Boy has always been the symbol of the golden era of anime as well
as the golden era of American licensing of anime. This movie presents
Astro Boy in a slightly new way.

The story for it is rather simple, but doesn't fail in keeping one
entertain throughout it's time run. Those who seen the three anime
adaptations would already know the origin of Astro Boy's creation.
That's still included as well as appearances of a couple of
recognizable characters. And a couple of new additions that fit in for
this movie.

Now to list the good and bad thing about this movie. The good thing is
this movie remains true to the concept and Astro Boy a like. It still
takes place in the future where robots and humans live together. As
well as robot civil rights which was a common topic in the previous
Astro Boy adaptations on robots being questioned whether they should
have the same rights as humans or not.

Bad thing is that the movie could of been a whole lot more if the
writers made the movie feel more close to the anime with the addition
of more characters or have Dr. Elefun & Daddy Walrus have either bigger
parts or have at least have the same feel as their anime counterparts.
I also think this movie tried too hard in Americanizing it by adding
certain human characters that look like they belong in a different
movie or the fact that they were trying to make it look more American
by having the characters eat pizza instead of tempura.

The die hard fans of Astro Boy will likely to still enjoy this movie.
It's not a mirror copy of it's anime counterpart but doesn't fail in
being entertaining. To me it's something that will make popcorn taste
better while watching it.
