

Without a Paddle was a good movie if you're looking for nothing more
than a laugh. Going to see this movie will pretty much guarantee a
night well spent and a good time out. Although, this movie is pretty
cheesy. The plot is cheesy. The laughs are cheesy. But, luckily it has
some genuinely funny moments too to bring the movie through to its end.
The acting is mediocre at best, but great acting isn't necessarily
needed for a movie of this kind.

Nobody expected it to be an Oscar winner. Also, this movie doesn't need
to get its laughs from raunchy moments and attempts at teenager humour
like some other "road trip" movies. Overall, this movie is pretty good
for its kind and would be a good date film or a good movie to see with
friends.

<|_=00=_|>
Okay folks, now, I am not the type of guy that enjoys toilet humour in
films, but this one I am a sucker for. This is just a hilarious movie!
I guess it just reminds me a lot of the times that friends and I used
to go camping.

The story is about 3 childhood friends, who are brought together after
the untimely death of another childhood friend. Going back to the
treehouse that they used to hang out at, they find a treasure map from
their dead friend, and decide to go on the trip to find the money.
Along the way, they encounter everything from a bear, tree-hugging
hotties, and a couple of pot growing rednecks.

This film has some of the funniest scenes that I have seen in a long
time. Again, a lot of it is toilet humour, and people looking for a
serious comedy, may not get the humour and walk away in disgust. The
scene with the paper bags had me rolling on the floor. One of the
funniest scenes in a long time. Plus, there are a lot of Star Wars
references in this film, and that is always a plus from me! Check out
this film, you will be pleasantly surprised! I guess I have not lost
all hope in newer comedies as previously thought.
<|_=00=_|>

The whole rating system is kind of skewed. Some people rated this film
low because it wasn't Larwrence of Arabia but then it wasn't meant to
be. It's like comparing actors when they play different roles. You can
only really compare them playing the same role.

Anyway I went to the film expecting a goofy stoner type of mindless
entertainment. Just a laugh. But I was pleasantly surprised that not
only was it funny but some deeper thought had gone into it. The plot
was more substantial than I expected, there were bits of philosophy
sprinkled throughout which accentuated the positive side of life, and
the cast was pretty good too. I'm not sure what inspired Burt Reynolds
to play his character but he did it well as did all of the players.

But mainly the movie was funnier than hell. I almost embarrassed myself
I laughed so hard during the first bear sequence. The image of Mott
saying 'help' as he looked back while being carried off had me laughing
way too high way too long but it and some other scenes were hilarious
and I couldn't help it then either.

All in all a good film for the genre. And surprisingly while I think it
appeals to the stoner crowd it's cool in that it incorporates it
without promoting it though it doesn't avoid it either. In fact I was
struck by the fact that the bad guys were red neck smokers and the good
guys were dopey beer drinkers but apparently nothing more.

Lastly the film cleverly pays homage to other films throughout.
Deliverance, The Matrix, and others are covered and probably a few I
missed.

<|_=00=_|>

I got free tickets to see the movie, part of a local radio station's
promotion. I didn't expect much, but hey, who can turn down free
tickets? I was right about free tickets and wrong about the movie. I
didn't expect much and was incredibly surprised. This is one of the
funniest movies of the year. 

Don't expect cerebral humor. You won't get it here. In fact some of the
humor is just plain gross. It's physical and at times crude potty
humor. And if you're a stuffy grown-up who just can't let go and enjoy
yourself for an hour and a half, then don't bother going to see Without
a Paddle. But it you want to cut loose and have fun and laugh 'til you
hurt, then this is the movie for you.

Seth Green, as always, plays it straight and ends up being the funniest
one of all. And in Without a Paddle he certainly shows that he is one
of the most self-assured, well-adjusted people on the planet, or he
wouldn't have been able to handle a script that was one big "Pick on
Seth" Festival. Green's character, Dan, is phobic, funny, and feckless.
Poor Dan can't catch a break throughout the whole movie, but he sure
keeps on trying, and in the end he's still short but a mighty big man.
We just gotta hope he buys a new cell phone, and once you see the
movie, you'll know why.

Lillard still is reminiscent of Shaggy from both Scooby Doo movies, but
man oh man, that dude sure can surf a canoe like no one else. More than
just a surfer dude, though, Lillard's character, Jerry, turns out to be
the deep one who proves a spiritual anchor for his two childhood
buddies, both during the adventure and after. Well sort of...as
spiritual as Without a Paddle gets. Not anything sappy. Just enough to
give it that "Awwww..." factor.

Burt Reynolds has come a long way from his Cosmo centerfold days in his
appearance in Without a Paddle, but his character still seems to be
stuck in the glory days of the 70's in many ways. Delightful, charming,
and crotchety all at the same time, Reynolds is a cute addition to the
cast.

Hick farmers, stoned doggies, "natural" beauties, a nasty sheriff, and
a third childhood buddy round out the main characters, along with some
secondary folks. Stereotypes abound, anything even coming close to
sentiment is closely followed by more laughs, and a message is thrown
in seemingly only as a token. The only bad thing is that sex is thrown
in as a token too. Way too much of it, and it seems like a distraction
rather than an addition to the humor. The worst of it is that the sex
makes it less of a film for family members to enjoy together. Too bad,
otherwise it's a great film for non-uptight parents and their kids.

This is not going to be an Oscar nominee. It's probably not the
highlight of anyone's movie career. But I'll bet it was a heck of a lot
of fun to make. And it's one funny film to watch. I highly recommend
it!

<|_=00=_|>
"Where are we?", Seth Green asks, clueless, as the guys are standing in
a street in a nondescript little Oregon village. "Corner of Bumfuck and
You Got a Purty Mouth", Matthew Lillard snarls in way of answer.

Now, you need to know and appreciate John Boorman's thriller classic
'Deliverance' in order to get the full implications of this scene and
countless others in 'Without a Paddle'. The film can be enjoyed by all
& sundry, but those in the know will be rolling with laughter more
often.

'Without a Paddle' establishes itself in a niche of its own among goofy
modern comedies. It is really well written, not just the one-liners,
but also the situations as such and the exposition and development of
material. The actors all shine, especially young Dax Shepard as the
loser type of the three buddies in their late 20s that go camping and
looking for a buried treasure in a canoe up Spirit River. There they
meet up with wild man Burt Reynolds, who was acclaimed for his
performance in the original 'Deliverance', actually the character that
Shepard inherited in this 'remake'.

There are no actual thrills in 'Without a Paddle' (unlike
'Deliverance'!!!), it sets its sight on glorious comedy. The huge
surprise is that the gags are relatively 'tasteful', for want of a
better word. It is not ALL about tits, dicks and feces.

Recommended. Absolutely.
<|_=00=_|>
To be honest, I was expecting a bit of a disaster with this movie but
it turned out to be far better than I thought. Sure! It's no classic,
has its flaws but it just refuses to take itself seriously. The three
leads are very strong - Seth Green just edging it cos hes just adorable
in this! Some very, VERY funny moments in this, maybe a little too many
moments where the films tries to over emphasise some messages but that
will be clear when you've seen the film. Also a total "where have I
seen you before" moment with the girl from Clueless! However, I fully
recommend you give this film a try, you won't be disappointed! 8/10 for
comedy with a heart!
<|_=00=_|>
The film talks about a trio friends(Seth Green,Dax Shepard,Matthew
Lillard),later the death a childhood's friend ,they propose the making
a hick by canoe into woods of Oregon territory.Their aim is the looking
for of D.B Cooper bounty for carrying out the promise they made when
were little boys .Cooper was a mythic high-jacker(nowadays famous by
character played by Muse Watson in ¨Prison Break¨)who jumped from the
airplane(1971) and parachuted,disappearing posteriorly,although his
bounty was partially found.The misfit group fulfill a canoeing along
the Columbia river where find numerous risks,rapid streams,waterfalls
and get worse, besides in the surface encounters dangerous animals like
a bear and a drug-cultivating rednecks.But also they know a beautiful
girls(Rachel Blanchard and Christina Moore) living on a tree and an
older mountain man(Burt Reynolds).

The picture mingles comedy,adventures,action,cynical sense of humor and
is pretty bemusing.It's a crossover among ¨Deliverance¨even with the
presence of Burt Reynolds and ¨City slickers¨as a Philadelphia young
people who are going to countryside excursion.The movie displays
several ingredients for the entertaining as glimmer outdoors,stirring
canoeing,sexy-girls and thrilling pursuits.The humor is intelligent and
bold though sometimes is gross-out.Most of the laughters and sight gags
galore work acceptably,especially the jokes between the three
friends,as when they flee of the dangerous rednecks and dropped
underwater or when the damp trio sleep gather together.Wonderful
landscapes are splendidly reflected by the cameraman Jonathan Brown and
appropriate musical score by Christophe Beck.The motion picture is
professionally directed by Steven Brill. Rating : Passable and amusing.
<|_=00=_|>
This PG 13 comedy has been greatly maligned by some big time critics,
the New York Times and other's. I think the main irritation is the
homosexual eroticism, a joke if you will about Deliverance style banjo
boys and close quarter survival in the nude. Some may be offended,
sensitive gay's, little old Grandmothers, and redneck tobacco sputters.
I assure you; however, this is a funny movie. City Slickers 1 and 2
covered this ground once before, but frankly, I liked Without a Paddle
more. It's sentimental for all the right reasons. The boys truly love
each other and when they become twenty something's, they retain some of
their boyish quirks, each with a flaw, the short, picked-on boy grows
up to be the short picked on doctor. You get the idea.

The Cascade Mountains both real and simulated is a beautiful green
backdrop to the slapstick antics of angry bears and pot growing
dummies. The tree girls are a breakdown and laugh idea. Their defense
of a tree is brown bag humor, but gee, that hits a visceral laugh note
in even the stuffiest fool.
<|_=00=_|>
What sounds like your average, everyday sort of male bonding roadtrip
film is essentially...well, just that, in fact. Three childhood friends
(Seth Green, Matthew Lilard, Dax Sheppard) reunite at a friend's
funeral, and go off on a camping trip downstream to try and find the
lost treasure they always dreamed of finding in their youth in his
honour. They promptly and predictably fall into all sorts of mishaps in
the wild and really give a bad reputation to man's survival ethic.

This kind of comedy is always somewhat stifled when a life lesson is
included: in the case of Without a paddle the message is 'Appreciate
the life you have...you never know how long it will last'.
Unfortunately, we go to a film like this to be entertained, not for
morals, and its inclusion merely deters from the fun.

The three leads are what make the film decently funny: Seth Green is
excellent as he begrudgingly reveals his various phobias from
everything from the dark to ceran wrap. ('I'm afraid it might get stuck
over my head, it's very sticky) Matthew Lilard puts his wide range of
comic facial expressions to good use, and Dax Shepard is always a
source of laughs as the tough-guy slacker of the group. 

The comedic material is mostly original stuff, but there's nothing
outstanding to be seen, apart from a few memorable moments. (one finds
Dax Shepard riding his motorcycle into the graveyard at the burial of
his friend, and bellowing out to the funeral attendees 'Where did you
guys park?') The inclusion of Burt Reynolds' crazy mountain man is a
comedic plus, but the nature loving hippy-girls and uncouth drug
traffickers which pop up periodically aren't as funny as they should
be. In fact, such can be said for the entire movie. 

The odd laugh will definitely turn up, but there are many better
comedies around, so unless you're simply up for an evening of mostly
forgettable fun, you might want to leave Without a Paddle wallowing in
the shallows.

6.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
Tom, Jerry (!), Billy and Dan are four young kids who fantasise about
going on a treasure hunting adventure in the wilderness of the Pacific
Northwest. A legendary rascal called D B Cooper has botched a million
dollar heist and left the money in the mountains. The kids make a pact
that some day, somehow, they will find that money. Years later, Billy
is killed in an accident and the rest reunite for his funeral.

Tom (Dax Shepard) is now a sleaze, who cannot hold a steady job to save
himself. Jerry (Matthew Lillard) is bored to death in a dull office and
by a nagging girlfriend and Dan (Seth Green) has become a very wimpy
doctor. Their childhood sense of curiosity and adventure has been
extinguished. That is until they happen upon D B Cooper's treasure map
in their old tree house gang hut.

Desperate for one last act of stupidity before acknowledging their
thirties, the trio sets off on a rafting/camping trip, with D B's
treasure as their ultimate goal. Of course, many obstacles and
disasters prevent them from getting there so easily. Sounds like a
grown-up Goonies? It is. And it's loads of fun.

Without A Paddle is funny and exciting, with non-stop action and set
pieces. Great widescreen photography, pretty scenery and a particularly
gentle score make for perfect escapism. There is not one second of
boredom. Shepard, Green and Lillard (as always) are brilliant together.
Chemistry is difficult to conjure up with three main characters, but
they pull it off perfectly.

As an Indiana Jones-lite coming-of-age comedy, with the tiniest bit of
character drama, Without A Paddle succeeds in every area. But not
really a film you would want to watch again.
