
Get Shorty was an excellent film. It was funny and had the perfect
balance of highly comical acting and a serious plot. Be Cool is like
some cheap knock-off trying to pass for a sequel. John Travolta as
Chili Palmer seems to have forgotten that he was ever in the mob. He
plays it like he's a bored movie exec, rather than a bored movie exec
who used to be a Shylock. Uma Thurman, great in nearly every role she's
ever played, comes off as strained and confusing. Is she supposed to be
ditzy or clever? The chemistry between her and Travolta is strained and
uncomfortable. Other than that, just add every movie cliché you can
think of. A well-educated rap producer by Cedric the Entertainer, an
inept gangster wannabe in Andre 3000, the girl with heart, soul, and a
good set of pipes in Christina Milian, a gimmicky black dude wannabe in
Vince Vaughn, and a stupid celebrity cameo by Stephen Tyler. The only
funny part was the Rock, who invents his own new cliché as a gay Samoan
bodyguard actor wannabe. Probably the biggest crime is the plot: IT
MAKES NO SENSE. Get Shorty was clever with Chili playing one group
against another and coming out on top. But this film tries that with
about a million different characters. And even Chili doesn't seem to
know what's going on. Fans of Get Shorty be warned: this is a very
different, very worse movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Back in 1995, Barry Sonnenfeld directed a movie that ended up on many 
critics best of lists by the time the year's recaps were being printed 
in entertainment publications. The movie was Get Shorty and it gave 
lead star John Travolta his second big hit in as many years after Pulp 
Fiction put him back in front of the paparazzi's lenses. Based on a 
novel by Elmore Leonard, the film focused on wise guy Chili Palmer 
(Travolta) and his attempts to break into the movie business.

I, for one, was completely captured by the diverse characters and crisp 
dialogue of the original. So much so, that when I heard there was going 
to be a sequel, I seemed to forgo my usual shivering that occurs when a 
studio tries to rehash what was a good idea over ten years later.

The sequel, also based on a novel by Leonard, is this time directed by 
F. Gary Gray who's Italian Job in 2003 was one of the years highest 
grossing films. Couple that with the cast now expanding to include Uma 
Thurman, Harvey Keitel, Cedric the Entertainer, The Rock, Vince Vaughn 
and James Woods and you have all the makings of a great continuance in 
the exploits of one of the more interesting characters of the 1990's.

This time round we pick up as Chili (Travolta) is leaving the movie 
business after being disappointed in both himself and the industry for 
participating in the making of a sequel to his successful first film. 
Thanks in small part to his friend, Tommy Athens (Woods) and the 
misfortune of his death, Chili decides to look into the lucrative and 
dangerous music industry.

This first leads to the famous Viper club where Chili meets singing 
sensation Linda Moon (Christina Milian) who as lead of an upstart trio, 
can belt out tunes like Whitney Houston (that is, the Whitney before 
Bobby Brown started bringing home the small packages of sugar).

Linda is under contract with Raji (Vaughn) who, with his overly 
apparent gay bodyguard Elliot Wilhelm (The Rock), plan to ensure Linda 
fulfills the final five years of her contract even if that means 
putting Chili on ice.

So with Linda's future in the balance, Chili weaves an interesting web 
which will include a record producer (Thurman), a gangsta sound mixer 
(Cedric), the Russian mob, the police, Aerosmith's lead singer Steven 
Tyler and a whole lot of angry gun pointing. Woo-Wheee! That sounds 
exciting. So why wasn't it? Be Cool tries too hard to, well, be cool. 
But the result is a film that unlike the original, has no heart and no 
soul. Be Cool feels instead like it was directed by a Saturday Night 
Live producer as there are individual scenes or skits that don't string 
together over a whole movie. Take for example the scene where Travolta 
and Thurman dance together for the first time since Pulp Fiction, as 
Black Eyed Peas performs live in the background. The scene is forced 
and should have ended up on the cutting room floor. Instead, it is 
coupled between two other needless chapters that do nothing to push the 
story forwards with any real thrust. The Aerosmith concert, and The 
Rock's trip to a boot shop are also prime examples of individual 
moments that don't amount to much of a movie when put together.

But those aren't the only issues with the sequel - which could probably 
be renamed Product Placement with the amount of 2-Ways and Diet Pepsi's 
that seem to stare at you more intensely than Chili's serious look. The 
story contains just about every stereotype imaginable and each one has 
just enough screen time to become slightly offensive or embarrassing. 
Whether it is the gangsta entourage or the gay muscle guy that has a 
movie poster of Sylvester Stallone's Rhinestone on the wall, no 
characters is above offering us anything we haven't seen many times 
before and in much better films.

With the magic all but gone from the first film, we end up with an 
inferior product that is the second film in the past six months 
(Ocean's 13 being the other) that cram a bunch of stars onto a marquee 
only to end up as a movie that no actor would bring to an open 
audition.

Be Cool was a major disappointment. I so wanted it to be the Get Shorty 
of the new millennium and I ended up with a film where the outtakes 
must have been a gas, but experience left me with a stinker.


<|_=00=_|>
In the sequel to 1995's 'Get Shorty,' John Travolta is all swagger and
one-liners, reprising his role as shylock/movie producer Chili Palmer.
This time around, Chili abandons the fickle film industry for the
ever-so-stable world of music, in an effort to discover the next big
pop sensation and thus save the beautiful Edie's (Uma Thurman) ailing
indie record label. When Chili takes a promising young singer
(Christina Milian) under his wing, however, he finds himself in hot
water with a wannabe gangsta/mogul (Vince Vaughn), a gay bodyguard (The
Rock), and a slew of Russian mobsters. With a bounty on his head and
time running out, Chili realizes there's only one way to come out on
top: 'Be Cool.' 

This was a comedy. And with comedy you allow for the nonsense. The
nonsense makes us laugh. However, the comedy in this movie was clichéd.
There was a white guy acting black, a gay aspiring actor, shady record
producers and homicidal rappers. Of course John Travolta danced with
Uma Thurman. Count the movies John Travolta doesn't dance in. And to
boot, Cedric the Entertainer was not funny. It hurts me. The first
introduction audiences had to Chili Palmer was unique. But in the
sequel, we already knew Chili's cool as ice, no nonsense approach to
project management. The only thing we had to look forward to was the
immense supporting cast, most of whom were incredibly disappointing.
I'm not going to say it was totally unfunny. I laughed. But also, I
cried. I cried. It's strictly a numbers game. Put 75 people in the cast
and someone is bound to make you laugh. As for the completely insulting
product placements, note to Hollywood producers, AUDIENCE IS NOT
SUPPOSED TO KNOW.

I feel bad now. Then again I don't. I've often said that sequels are
never as good as the first. The Godfather II's are the exception, not
the rule.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to a screening of Be Cool today and I have to say it was very
entertaining. I haven't seen Get Shorty so I cant really compare the
movie to anything but Vince Vaughn and The Rock were laugh out loud
funny and Andre 3000 was very good in his first major role. Christina
Milian was not really used to her potential as an actress but displayed
her ability to sing very well. The other performances from the actors
in the movie you would probably expect without any surprise. I still
cant get over how funny The Rock was and am extremely pleased thats hes
done so well for himself and hope he does more comedies. Overall, its a
good movie that should not disappoint too many people.
<|_=00=_|>
This is no "Get Shorty" but it's full of so much self-deprecating humor
that you can't help but cut it a break. I laughed quite a few times,
and there's a lot of fun moments. However, the film is a bit uneven.
It's a comedy, but then, how funny is the Russian Mafia? The movie
tries hard to find the humor in hit men and quirky characters, but it
often seems to be trying a bit too hard. The movie is so crammed with
celebrities that it's distracting and the parade of glitterati takes
you outside the film more than once. It's less brutal than "Get Shorty"
and the language is much milder, but it also lacks the freshness and
irreverence that made "Get Shorty" so much fun. As sequels go, it's a
pretty good movie, and John Travolta and others in the film are so
obviously having a good time, it's impossible not to get into the
groove. There are many charming performances, including The Rock and
Andre 3000, both showing a real knack for comedy. Definitely worth a
visit to the multiplex, as long as you keep your expectations in check.
<|_=00=_|>
I laughed twice watching this movie and in case you were wondering, I
wasn't having a bad day nor was I subjected to anything else that
would've skewed my opinion while watching this cinematic bowel
movement. This movie is bad. I wanted to enjoy it and I just couldn't.
With all of this talent, you'd think this would've been at least
watchable, right? Wrong.

Let's play Sucked and Didn't Suck! John Travolta- Very likable. Though
obviously buried under too much makeup, I found him to be enjoyable to
watch. Didn't suck.

Uma Thurman- After Kill Bill 1 and 2, the girl deserves more than this
atrociously written character. This character's big moment was showing
someone how to operate a T-Mobile Sidekick. Sucked.

Vince Vaughn- The done to death role of white guy who thinks he's black
goes to Vince "Money" Vaughn. Is this character template still
considered to be funny? I love the guy but I want to see him in
something better than this. It felt like he was slumming. Sucked.

Cedric the Entertainer- This guy is good. He delivers a great monologue
after being called a racial slur (you can probably guess as to what it
is) that was probably the best part of the movie. He was funny and
truly elevated the material he was given just with his presence. Didn't
suck.

Harvey Keitel- Sucked due to a phoned in performance.

James Woods- Sucked but not his fault. Actually, yes it was. Reminded
me of his role in Casino for some reason. I don't like manic James
Woods, I like slow burn James Woods. Victim of bad writing, maybe?
Andre 3000- Sucked but he went down swinging. I think he has potential,
as long as he's not being directed by a hack on his next picture.

Christina Milian- She's absolutely beautiful and obviously talented but
this movie isn't going to make her a star. Didn't suck but needs a
better vehicle for her talents that isn't directed by a hack.

The Rock- This should have been the role that catapulted him to movie
stardom but as directed by F. Gary Gray, winds up sadly mishandled. In
this movie, the Rock projects this charisma that makes him so likable
that I wound up feeling sorry for him. He tries really hard and while
he doesn't succeed completely, he gets an A+ for effort from me. This
guy is not afraid to embarrass himself and go completely against type,
playing a gay bodyguard with his eyes on stardom. I really want to see
him make it big. He has what it takes as long as he's not being
directed by a hack.

Which brings me to what I feel was the weak link in this production. I
might as well just come out and say it, right? F. Gary Gray's direction
was about as solid as really bad diarrhea. Wow, it was bad. Who had the
bright idea of letting this guy direct? The Negotiator was good but
what else on his resume convinced people that he was the man for the
job? Between his direction and the atrocious writing, I'm willing to
chip in for both culprits to get a nice lead salad to the knees. Wanna
see John and Uma dance? I might be able to think of another movie with
those two that I could recommend watching instead of this. Not worth
the ten dollars and fifty cents it cost me to get into the theater.

This movie could've been okay and it wasn't even "just okay".

RATING: * out of *****.

P.S. Fergie from Black Eyed Peas is noteworthy to mention. Sizzling!
<|_=00=_|>
Having watched Be Cool I feel I wasted my time and money on a huge pile
of rubbish! John Travolta had one expression only - bored! Other fine
actors like Uma & Harvey acted embarrassed to be seen in such utter
tripe! The script was horrible, full of clichés and so NOT funny! I
hated how much time was devoted to Christina singing. As a movie lover
who always finds something good to see in every film, I was astonished
how bad it was and nearly left after the first 30 minutes. I've nothing
against the actors, in fact I like their films normally but this was
poor acting, bad script in the extreme! Even the dancing scene was poor
and unexciting. The Rock was the only likable actor in the whole thing
and caused me to smile just a little. I am going to rewatch Get Shortly
and remind myself what I liked about John as Chili!
<|_=00=_|>
I'm a fan of Get Shorty. This is the sequel for the movie that needed
no sequel.

Chili is back but Rene Russo is gone without a peep. Unfortunately
Chili's game was played out in the first movie and rather than find an
interesting personal arc for him, they just have him stand around
repeating lines from the first movie. It's pretty tepid. Travolta looks
old here. It's like they move people around him because his bones are
getting creaky. His pink lip gloss and the blue eye contacts are very
weird. The 2nd bad role is Edie (played by Uma Thurman). She's a music
producer, a role that requires her only to be the female Reuben
Kincaid. ("Hey these kids have a great new sound.") In any scene she
strikes the wrong pitch motivationally or emotionally or both. It's
painful to watch. Despite it's plentiful problems, Be Cool gets better
after a very unpromising start.

I certainly got my laughs out of it (Vince Vaughan running around on
fire, Cedric the Entertainer, Ludicrous, the Rock, a t-shirt that says
"widow" on it), but it offers no great memories after it's over. It's a
helium-light love fest from the first frame. There's no one as
pricelessly idiotic as Gene Hackman in the first movie. It's just about
doing good in the world, for a couple of kids who deserve a chance
(Beyonce & the Rock). Ho-hum. The first one wasn't preachy.

Working in (repeatedly) gags & lines from the first movie is annoying
as is the dumb concession to the Rock's wrestling fans (he raises his
eyebrow twice) as are the droll inside jokes: Steven Tyler saying "I'm
not the kind of singer that make appearances in movies" ar ar.

The all-star spectacular line-up is part of the problem. The first
movie wasn't burdened by "stars."

For a buck rental let's call it even.
<|_=00=_|>
John Travolta reprises his role as Chili Palmer, Hollywood gangster,
who now turns his eye to the music business. Using his "negotiation
skills," he tries to run an independent record label with the wife of a
murdered friend, played by Uma Thurman, and try to get his young singer
(Christina Milian) a hit record.

Before I saw this sequel, I had heard that it was a terrible film.
However, Be Cool is still an enjoyable comedy even if it's not as good
as the original. The movie focuses on the music industry this time
around instead of the movie industry. The music business is portrayed
very poorly in the movie and they use a bunch of lame stereotypes. I
can't tell if this was the intention or not since Get Shorty did a nice
job of spoofing the movie industry. The same can't be said for the
sequel and the attempts just come as lazy.

An impressive cast is what saves the movie from sinking. The best
performance is given by The Rock and it's nice to see him in a
different type of role. Vince Vaughn also gives a funny performance
though he started to get annoying before the end. Surprisingly, Uma
Thurman gives an average performance and I was expecting more from her.
John Travolta returns as Chili and he does an okay job. His performance
is kind of dull though. Christina Milian gives a horrible performance
and she's also not that good of a singer. Cedric the Entertainer gives
a good performance though he isn't in the film for very long. There are
also a bunch of cameos including Steven Tyler and James Wood.

F. Gary Gray directs and he does a poor job. He just doesn't handle the
film very well and the movie is kind of a mess. There was also a ton of
product placement and it got annoying after awhile. Also at 118
minutes, the film is too long and there are a lot of slow spots. The
film needed to be edited badly and it clearly wasn't. Fortunately for
the film, the actors are able to rise above the weak direction and
script and they deliver some funny scenes. Sometimes, the film tried
too hard while other times it was actually pretty funny. Compared to
the original, the sequel doesn't measure up well. However, Be Cool is a
fairly harmless and forgettable comedy. In the end, Be Cool is worth a
rental and that's it. Rating 6/10
<|_=00=_|>
The Shylock turned movie mogul is back for a sequel, and this time he
is interested in music. The movie industry is just too fake whereas the
people in the music industry are real. Chili Palmer, played by John
Travolta, has the same antics and same behaviorisms. He is still
smarter than the next guy, tougher than him too, and he can beat up
your bodyguard.

More characters are introduced in "Be Cool" and they are more
outrageous. Actors such as Vince Vaughn, The Rock, Cedric the
Entertainer, and Andre, bring some good flavor to the movie. Just like
with "Get Shorty", there are other sub-plots that all tie together into
the main plot and main character. The movie has more-or-less a similar
theme and flow to it as "Get Shorty". I think there were a few more
funny parts in "Be Cool", but it lacked the originality of "Get
Shorty." 

I noticed that there was a different director for this project. His
resume' isn't that long, but he has done "Friday", "The
Negotiator","The Italian Job", and he is on "The Brazilian Job"
project. These weren't that bad, nor was "Be Cool". If he continues to
improve from here, he will wind up with a very nice career.
