

I hate romantic comedies. I detest them. You can list the actors I avoid
watching: Hugh Grant, Sandra Bullock, Richard Gere, Julia Roberts.
Romantic
comedies make me cringe and I avoid them like the plague so you can
imagine
the foul mood I was in when I was forced to watch this
film.

And the introductory voice-over by Hugh Grant as we watch an airport full
of
people hugging made me want to commit an act of violence - either against
the people who forced me to watch this film or against myself just to end
the torture.

Then the most unbelievably shocking thing happened. Bill Nighy and Gregor
Fischer came on screen, mocking one of the most hated love songs in
Britain,
"Love is all Around" and I found myself getting sucked into the
film.

By the time I reached the end of the film I found myself facing the
impossible, there was one romantic comedy out there that genuinely is a
comedy and actually likeable. No-one was more shocked than
I.

Many different kinds of love are covered (although not all kinds), there's
8
storylines and the biggest cast list I've seen in a long time. Somehow, it
works. You'd think it wouldn't, I know I certainly didn't.

If you're looking for a full-length story, this is not the film for you.
It
snap-shots the important events leading to the resolution of the couples
involved, nothing more. If you want a classic romantic film, this might
not
be the film for you. This is funnier than most straight comedies I've seen
in recent times, however (I'm just as harsh a critic of comedy films as I
am
of romantic films).

It's not trying to be the meaning of life, it's not trying to look at the
big picture. In fact, it's only trying to do one thing, and that's say
positive feelings crop up in the most unexpected places or are more
prevalent than people think. One of the storylines, one that is cited
constantly in reviews as one of the failed storylines with a sad ending is
actually bittersweet. It doesn't end with failure but the failure of one
type of love in favour of a different kind.

This film isn't perfect, I'll never find the perfect romantic-comedy
because
I hate the genre so much, for example, one of the storylines did annoy me
intensely and yet ironically still made me laugh in places. However, the
flaws in the film are vastly outweighed by positives. It's superficially
complicated but is really a very simple film.  It makes a statement: "love
actually is all around" then shows why it makes that statement and doesn't
attempt to do or be anything else.

And like the fact it covers different kinds of love, it covers different
attitudes and portrayals of it - so a couple are realistic, a couple are
classic fantasy, a couple are pure comedy and a couple are pure rom-com
tradition.

I have seen no reviewer give this film a middle-of-the-road review, and
I've
read many reviews. I think, in the end, Love Actually is up to the
individual. It's like Marmite. You either love it or you hate
it.

Speaking as a cynical, misanthropic, Marmite-hating, Romantic-Comedy
hating
member of the human race, I actually liked Love Actually.


<|_=00=_|>
It has been a long time since I have seen a movie so rich in character
that I did not want it to end. Love Actually is not a love story, it is
a story about love. Love that reinvents itself, multiplies itself,
opens itself up, and even devastates.

I am sure the film has its critics who say it drips in buttery corn.
But when you are able to retreat inward and let it take you over, it is
impossible not to feel. It is a rare treat - a film that makes you
feel. During the process I was sad and happy and relieved. I was turned
on, turned off, dizzy and grounded.

I was in love one time and it reminded me of that. The power of cinema
can be that amazing, it can be that intense. The title of the movie is,
perhaps, meant to confuse. Yet I believe it is designed to ask. Love
Actually is ... what?

Is it lust? Or a deep appreciation of the past? Can it be conquered by
language or political barriers? Race? Infidelity? Age? Can it be all of
the above plus more? Maybe a mingling of several?

It is rare for a film of great acting to be married to a terrific
script. Yet it is something else for it to speak right to the audience;
not talk at them, not try to sell them a film. Let them experience the
film. Let it wash over them little by little until there is nothing
more of them left.

**** (A)
<|_=00=_|>
This movie does come off as a bit shallow, and it contains characters
who are one- dimensional caricatures of themselves. But guess what --
this movie is clearly in the romantic, holiday fantasy genre -- just
like It's a Wonderful Life and A Christmas Story are. And most people
love those movies, so I don't get all the negative reviewing of this
film. To me, this movie is clearly a fantasy piece, and as such it
should not be subject to all the driveling negativity that would better
be directed toward something terrible that masquerades as serious
dramatic work. Would the British PM ever go knocking door to door with
just one bodyguard? No Way! Do Londoners actually care what song is
"number one for Christmas" more than Americans do?? (I'm seriously
doubting it -- who other than a few teenagers and record promoters
actually cares about charts?) This is clearly a work that's not to be
taken as a "serious" movie, though it's seriously fun if you'll take it
for the fantasy that it is. 

I love this film. Despite the clearly fantastic story lines, I like the
characters, and the amazing A-list cast does a great job. I caught it
first in theatrical release, then I watched it three times back to back
on a plane to London because the other choices were the abysmal
"Cheaper by the Dozen" and "Duplex." Since I've caught it on HBO, and
I've quickly realized it's one of those movies you can watch repeatedly
when flipping channels for a quick "pick me up" that only fantasy
movies can provide. My favorite movie of that sort is Groundhog Day, if
that clues you into my argument. 

The multi-threaded storytelling in this borrows from the likes of
Magnolia, and the fact that it's a light hearted holiday theme flick
place that device in interesting contrast. 

I see Love Actually as a new holiday classic.
<|_=00=_|>
This was a most intriguing film. There are of course other reviews of
it here, but the one common theme that seems to exist in all reviews is
the simple fact that you can never please all the people all of the
time.

For myself I loved the film and the way that all the stories were
intertwined. You could spend ages just trying to work out where the
various connections between the story lines actually were.

But there were two very special moments for me in this film. One was
where Mark (Andrew Lincoln) finally told Juliet(Keira Knightley ) how
he REALLY felt about her, through the medium of the messages on the
cards, (surely many of us have experienced that sort of unrequited
love), the other was the brilliant brief speech given by the Prime
Minister (Hugh Grant) to the press conference at which the American
President was present. (Both of these appear as quotes elsewhere on
this site.) I felt that it was a very brave move on the part of the
writer (Richard Curtis) to allow the Prime Minister in the film to
state what so many ordinary British people are feeling about America
and its politics right now. 

I also feel that we, the British, are finally beginning to move away
from under the Hollywood shadow, and are starting once again to produce
some really excellent films of our own. And for me, this film just
underlines this fact. May this trend continue. 

Claire Rosemary Jane.
<|_=00=_|>

What I appreciated most about Love Actually was that for the most part,
it
realistically looks at relationships happy and sad, successful and
unsuccessful, with a future and without.  It addresses different forms
and
levels of love, sometimes straightforward and carefree, sometimes complex
and contradictory.  There are schmaltzy happy moments and touching sad
ones,
moments of great strength and moments of foolish weakness.  The movie is
made up of many threads, and of course some threads are stronger than
others.

The most interesting parts of Love Actually are the times when it
addresses
the tragic situations where love is self-sacrificing, contradictory, or
fragile.  One character's unrequited love is revealed as a noble
sacrifice
made for another's happiness (the method of finally achieving closure and
moving on, however, could only work in the movies).  Another character is
shown to be caught between conflicting duties that will, we are led to
believe, prevent her from ever being truly happy.  And the strength that
a
third shows when love is shown to be fragile and her world collapses
around
her is tragically inspiring.

These noble, tragic threads are interwoven with lighthearted comedic ones
to
produce a fabric that holds together well.  While some characters have to
fight for their love, others have simple, happy, straightforward
relationships, with love (or whatever) falling in their laps like a
parcel
from Santa Claus.  And the purely comic moments, like Rowan Atkinson's
appearances and Hugh Grant's Christmas-caroling bodyguard, are delightful
in
and of themselves.

There are of course plenty of nits to pick.  Hugh Grant doesn't make a
very
believable Prime Minister, and even his very pointed speech to his
American
counterpart -- especially relevant in light of Bush's recent state visit
to
England -- don't redeem the odd casting.  Others in this forum have
commented on the number of fat jokes in the film, and while I agree, I
feel
I should point out that the entire point of the first such joke is that
the
character who has fallen for the "fat" girl clearly doesn't think of her
as
fat, and doesn't understand at first who the other is talking about.
It's
true that calling her fat is ridiculous; she's only large in comparison
to
Keira Knightley, who must be carrying some vital organs around in her
handbag because there's certainly not enough room in her torso!  But that
one time would have been enough; the "fat" theme gets tiresome later on
in
the movie.  I also agree with those who have said that much of the nudity
is
completely unnecessary to the plot, and that at least some of the comedic
threads in the movie are formulaic and unoriginal.

In the end, I feel that Love Actually is for the most part a thoughtful
and
entertaining look at relationships, which does not shy away from taking
the
bad with the good.
<|_=00=_|>
It made me laugh, it made me cry, it made me smile, hug everyone, tell
everyone how much I loved them!!! I think the music is the true soul of
this movie. Cheers for the director!!! So many beautiful films he's
been doing for so long!!! There was no need of marvelous photography,
neither splendorous costume...but every detail was placed perfectly.
Excellent actors and performances. It was a very good combination of
experienced ones and some others one had never seen before. I liked
very much how the director showed how open minded the English people
are, by the way Liam Neeson talked to Sam and some other aspects on
other dialogues as well (related to sex) It is remarkable also the way
they mention the American society. Not criticizing the people and the
culture, buy yes the government. CONGRATULATIONS ENGLAND!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
This was a lovely script, and I was surprised I hadn't heard much about
this movie before I caught it on HBO. I turned it on to keep myself
company while working and ended up glued to the screen. I really
enjoyed it.

The movie is a series of vignettes about several different people that
seemingly have no connection to one another, although by the end the
connections are finally all present and accounted for. There's a fair
amount of subtle satire and a generous portion of irony; the characters
are quite human and often don't do the right thing. I was caught
off-guard by the incredibly successful results of the trip to America,
but I laughed pretty hard and decided I wouldn't have written the
script any other way. Not everyone ends up getting what they want, but
then again that's love, er, actually. Nice little film.
<|_=00=_|>

Like most guys I would never have seen this movie on my own or with male
friends. However my girlfriend was in town and I thought a romantic
comedy
would make an ideal movie for us to see together.

I had heard about the reference to 9/11 made at the beginning of the
movie
and was dreading having to sit through that part. However I was
pleasantly
surprised to note that the reference was very minor and not particularly
cringe worthy either so I am not quite sure why it annoyed some people so
much.

As regards to the movie overall I quite enjoyed it and would definitely
recommend it as an ideal date film. A lot of the reviews here have
disparaged the movie because they thought it was too glib about love and
very unrealistic. But I think you have to accept that the movie was made
to
make people laugh and bring the spirit of love into the Christmas holiday
period. If you watch the film in that context then it does its job
admirably
well.

However for me the best moment in the film was the press conference given
(standing side by side) by the American president and the British Prime
Minister. I actually felt like standing up and cheering when Hugh Grant
(as
the Prime Minister) finally tells the American president to his face and
in
front of the worlds press that Britain will no longer kowtow to American
wishes but will have an independent view of its own.

Considering that America is the biggest market for movies it was
extremely
brave of Richard Curtis to write this scene and he deserves a lot of
credit
for portraying the American president as rather loathsome and putting
into
context what the `Special Relationship' really is all about.

As Richard Curtis must have known the movie had done okay but not great
in
the States. However it has cleaned up here in the UK and I'm sure will do
very well in the rest of the world too.

So Bravo Richard Curtis for standing up for your principals; you are a
hero!


<|_=00=_|>

Any picture that can have me rooting for Rowan Atkinson (who I usually
detest as Bean, actually) has to be very well-crafted for my
part...

Rowan was the Angel Of Conscience in the film he helped the son of the
just-widowered Liam Neeson's character by pass Customs to pursue true love
of a little school-mate who happened to be a fine young Afro-American
girl(this was where love did not know Race... Color-Blind), but he did
everything to make Alan Rickman as the publisher think twice before he effed
up his marriage for a bit of materialistic fluff! (The gift-wrapping
sequence in the department store was annoying, hilarious and Bean-esque all
at the same time w/o conflicting.. Amazing!!)

Bill Nighy as the old rocker who discovered platonic love was marvelous;
Hugh Grant (brother of Rickman's wife in the flick) as the goofy good PM who
effed up Billy Bob Thornton's "Bushy" prez was superb and I liked the girl
from EastEnders as his love interest, it shows true love knows no class!
Love knows no language was shown in Colin Firth's attraction to his
Portuguese assistant when recovering from Romance betrayed - another aspect
of love, actually...

Kiera Knightley and her weird triangle was a great twist, I thought the
white guy had a crush on her husband not her! Ten stories linked in the
weirdest ways and showing that love is Universal! As for the tunes, they
were sublime and it was weird to see Bill Nighy's send-up really did do well
in the UK Xmas charts! The Power of Love, actually!
<|_=00=_|>
In London, from five weeks before Christmas up to a month after
Christmas, the lives of different persons are linked by love. The Prime
Minister (Hugh Grant) and the member of his household, Natalie (Martine
McCutcheon); his sister Karen (Emma Thompson), her husband Harry (Alam
Rickman) and Harry's secretary, Mia (Heike Makatsch); Harry's
employees, Sarah (Laura Linney), a woman with a serious problem in her
life, and the designer Karl (Rodrigo Santoro); the writer Jamie Bennett
(Colin Firth) and his Portuguese maid Aurélia (Lúcia Moniz); the
grieving widow Daniel (Liam Neeson) and his son, Sam; a porn actress
and her colleague; the singer Billy Mack (Billy Nighy) and his manager;
the just married couple Peter (Chiwetel Ejiofor) and Juliet (Keira
Knightley) and their best man Mark (Andrew Lincoln); a British young
man that travels to USA, trying to score women in that country. 

"Love Actually" is a delightful homage to love. There are different
situations, some of them dramatic, others funny, sometimes touching but
never corny. The interconnection of the stories has a perfect timing.
The cast is a constellation, highlighting the shining beauty of Keira
Knightley and the nice role of Hugh Grant. There are many wonderful
moments, such as the collective interview of the Prime Minister and the
American president; or the moment when Karen finds that her Christmas
gift is a CD of Joni Mitchell; or when Mark declares his secret love
for Juliet; or the relationship of Daniel and Sam; or when Daniel meets
Carol; or when the manager of Billy makes a comment about Elton John;
or the narration in off in the beginning of the movie. I believe I
could list many other magnificent moments, but better off the reader of
my review rent or buy the DVD and have a good time. My vote is nine.

Title (Brazil): "Simplesmente Amor" ("Simply Love")
