
Jack Ryan (Owen Wilson) has a tendency for bad decisions and bad luck,
including ending up on the wrong side of the law, so he's fled to
Hawaii. Unfortunately, his luck is going just as badly there. He hits
his boss, loses his job, and is thrown in jail. After he gets out, he
sees Nancy Hayes (Sara Foster) and falls for her, even though she's the
mistress of an island bigwig, Ray Ritchie (Gary Sinise), and then some.
Together they hatch a scheme to rip-off Ritchie, but how many people
are involved, and how? 

Was it that this large, talented cast was just looking for a paid
vacation in Hawaii? I've liked most of the cast's previous films--I've
seen tens of them from each principal cast member, and think there have
only been a few I would pan. I've liked all of the adaptations of
writer Elmore Leonard's work that I've seen so far (although
admittedly, I haven't seen anywhere near the majority). But The Big
Bounce is just a big, boring mess. I haven't seen any of screenwriter
Sebastian Guiterrez or director George Armitage's previous work, so
maybe we can blame them.

The biggest problem is that nothing much happens in the film for over
half of its length, and when something does happen (primarily at the
very end of the film), it is so poorly constructed that it's not very
clear what's going on. Most of the film is more of a realist drama
about, well, nothing, where Armitage seems to have directed his cast to
say all of their lines with bizarre pauses, like they're severe
asthmatics, and where Guiterrez' dialogue seems to primarily consist of
banalities and non-sequiturs. There were a few moderately funny bits
(the break-in at the cop's house, Bob Jr. (Charlie Sheen) visiting
Nancy at an awkward time), but even those weren't laugh-out-loud
hilarious when they should have been, and more often than not the
script's attempts at humor fell flat, as did its attempts at realistic
dialogue, intrigue, and just about everything else.

The large cast is primarily wasted. The only person not cruelly
underused is Owen Wilson, and Wilson seems to be at a loss with the
material. There are some nice shots of scenery, even if a lot of them
are composites. I also thought the soundtrack songs were okay to good.

I haven't read Leonard's book yet, but I can't imagine that it's as
uneventful, dull and ultimately confusing as this film. Even if it
were, surely a script could be constructed out of the material that
gradually weaves the various main characters' threads in a compelling
and humorous way, leading up to an exciting twist ending. But such a
script isn't to be found here.

Even if you're a big fan of the cast or Leonard, The Big Bounce is only
worth watching to demonstrate that talented ingredients will not
necessarily produce a successful film.
<|_=00=_|>
Whether it was intended to be viewed this way or not, this movie was
exactly that, a movie(which are supposed to be fun). It didn't make you
think too hard(or at all), It had a beautiful cast in a beautiful
location, a great soundtrack, and a quirky fun story. Sometimes these
type of movies are just what the doctor ordered. So what that it has no
deep and meaningful theme, or that there are spots in the movie that
make absolutely no sense!!!! It suffered severely in the box office due
to very poor marketing prior to its release as well as a nation full of
people suffering from groupthink, and the critics are the ones pulling
the strings. I found the movie extremely refreshing, a nice break from
deep thought, and i chance where i could just sit down, fix my eyes on
the TV, and smile :D
<|_=00=_|>

This is one of those movies that will slip through the cracks, but it's
really not "bad". It's actually pretty GOOD, right up until... it
doesn't have an ending. The ending seems to imply yet another twist -
but it makes NO sense, and leaves more questions than it answers. The
ending seems like they ran over-budget or over-time, and just stopped.
The ending, it must be warned, SUCKS.

Maybe they couldn't afford a real ending; but the movie is pretty good
up until then. It's a fun ride to a dead-end. Morgan Freeman settles
into his part like he'd been waiting for it. Gary Sinise has a stifled
role, but delivers his lines beautifully. Charlie Sheen is very nearly
perfect as a slightly-dim, slightly confused henchman, and playing
subtly against-type. Bebe Neuwerth appears as a boozy wife and gives
far more to the part than is on the page, also against type, and
perfectly-acted. Vinnie Jones stands-out too... 

This movie could NOT fail - but it does. When it ends, you want to kick
someone - the director or producers or studio financiers - for stopping
what COULD have been so great! This movie has a painfully tiny scene
with Willie Nelson and Harry Dean Stanton playing dominoes... I'm only
a fan and don't know him personally, but I just KNOW that Elmore
Leonard himself would stop any plot just to listen-in and watch to
listen to those two guys play dominoes! 

Owen Wilson is actually quite brilliant with the intricacies of the
Elmore-dialogue that survive in the script! Don't say I'm wrong until
you watch his scenes with Morgan Freeman in this movie. NOBODY was
carrying anyone, and that's the truth. See the scenes with Charlie
Sheen too - and there's a bouncing something there they keep between
them. Someone on IMDb wrote "Charlie Sheen looks fat and stupid and
like an ass" or something equally blind. What he DOES is play a
different kind of self-effacing part, a *character* a bit of a boob -
but also good and a bit "whipped" - do yourself a favor, and watch how
NOT "Charlie-Sheen" he plays it - you might recognize a thing they call
"acting".

Ahem, Sara Foster was the femme fatal, and the camera followed her far
too much. She's gorgeous and who can blame the camera, and she gave a
perfectly creditable performance; really, she was fine. Given something
over a dozen better actors constantly on-hand (and the seeming final
plot!) her time could have been cut a bit... but with this cast, and
the first 80 minutes, this really could have been GREAT. Ignore it as
the Sara Foster swimsuit video. There are some great performances
hidden here. See this movie, and pretend the sequel is coming - or
something. 

Or don't see it - because you'll just wish it ended better.

As a shaggy-dog-story, this should end with a punchline. I'll end it
the way movie ends instead, with build-up and seeming logic and then
just stopping.

<|_=00=_|>
Based on an Elmore Leonard novel, Owen Wilson plays Jack Ryan, an
affable surfer who gets pulled into a crime caper by Nancy (Sara
Foster), the beautiful mistress of a wealthy developer in Oahu, Hawaii.
Soon, he and a judge, played by Morgan Freeman, are plotting against
the developer, but Jack finds that he got more than he bargained for
with Nancy.

I have never read the novel so I can't compare the movie to the book
but I doubt the book is this bad. If Elmore Leonard doesn't like it
then it's probably a disgrace to the book. The story itself isn't very
fresh or new though the film does have an impressive cast.
Unfortunately, the cast did little to help this very poor film. It
ended up being a big waste of time and talent. The movie is just very
dull and stupid. There really isn't a very clear idea of what type of
genre this movie is supposed to be in. It wasn't a comedy because it
wasn't funny at all. It wasn't a thriller because it offered no
surprises. It was a crime caper except it wasn't very exciting and it
offered no intrigue at all.

The acting is surprisingly flat and dull. Most of the actors seem to be
more interested in a paycheck than anything else. This is Owen Wilson's
worst film to date and it's also his worst performance. He just didn't
seem to be trying at all. Gary Sinise wasn't used much which is a good
thing because his performance was pretty mundane. Charlie Sheen tried
way too hard to be funny and he ended up just being annoying. Morgan
Freeman just gave a dull performance and Sara Foster was pretty weak
but she is beautiful.

I blame director George Armitage for this garbage. He had the right
actors and the right story, he just couldn't keep a good focus on it.
There were a bunch of ideas going all over the place and the film was
just so messy. He doesn't keep the audience guessing because they most
likely won't care. He doesn't keep the audience entertained because
there are very few engaging scenes. He really has nothing important to
say either and The Big Bounce is just a very unnecessary movie. In the
end, The Big Bounce is simply not worth watching. Rating 3/10
<|_=00=_|>

Greetings again from the darkness.  What a total waste of a cool cast. 
Having never read Elmore Leonard's novel, I can't say whether the movie
butchered the book or not.  I can say that this is an extremely unfunny,
poorly made movie with a ridiculous story that had me flashing back to those
Elvis in Hawaii movies ... only without the charm and music!  Director
George Armitage ("Miami Blues", "Grosse Point Blank") either hated the story
or called in sick everyday.  Supermodel Sara Foster lacks the acting chops
for her vital role in this triple-crossing fiasco.  Talented screen veterans
Morgan Freeman and Gary Sinise are totally wasted in this and comics Owen
Wilson, Bebe Neuwirth and Charlie Sheen require some funny material to work
their magic.  Have I mentioned that the script was awful?  Everytime I got
my hopes up, I was left feeling empty.  The domino game with Freeman,
Wilson, Willie Nelson and Harry Dean Stanton could have been a classic
scene, but instead fell flat.  Even an early scene with football heroes Tony
Dorsett, Mike Renfro and Pete Johnson goes nowhere because they are just
treated as window dressing.  When a movie wastes Vinnie Jones ("Lock, Stock
and Two Smoking Barrels") we know it has nothing going for it.  The scenes
of Hawaii and the beautiful shoreline and water are the only good things to
be taken from this.
<|_=00=_|>

I tell you who, they are scamming us, that's for sure.

After reading on the back of the DVD case in Blockbuster the words 'A
comedy', 'Get Shorty' and 'Based on the Novel' and seeing the all star
cast line up, I thought this looks like a potentially great movie, but
when I got it home, got myself all comfortable by sitting down with
Pizza, Wine and friends, and then switched it on, I felt like I had
been given the wrong movie. Our night was ruined because of this, it
just put us all on downers, and everyone left early.

This was a flat stale piece of un-funny junk, no wonder people take to
downloading movies, they feel they don't want to risk parting with
their money.

I could direct and write a much funnier movie than this dribble with my
eyes closed. I feel really sorry for these great actors who were
dragged into this mush. Although I am sure they had a great vacation
together in Hawaii and enjoyed the pay cheque, it did not do their
reputations to great.

This film was painfully dull to watch, so much it hurt, and now to add
insult to injury I have got to go all the way back to the video shop to
take the damn thing back.

Sigh!

<|_=00=_|>
Considering the cast and the fact that it was an Elmore Leonard
adaptation, I wanted to see this flick. However, it was disappointing.
The film (though very small) moved at an extremely lethargic pace with
hardly anything happening (except in the last 5 minutes or something).
I haven't read Leonard's book so I can't comment on how fair it was to
the script. There isn't much of a story as pretty much nothing happens
in more than half the movie. The non-compelling ending is very badly
written and we are left to figure out the plot holes. Why just the
ending, the whole film is boring. The dialogues are, now I don't use
this word often but, lame. A few funny moments include the breaking in
the cops house, the fight between Sheen and Wilson while the girl
watches.

Sadly, the cast has been wasted. Wilson and Foster have no chemistry.
Being a talented actor, Wilson deserves a better movie. Poor Morgan
Freeman hardly has anything to do except utter a few wise (not really)
words. Sheen and Sinise have insignificant roles. Newarth springs a
surprise but is hardly there. Foster is alright.

On the flip side, the cinematography gives us a wonderful tour through
exotic Hawaii. It makes me want to go there and at times, I thought
maybe the director and cast just happened to be there on holiday and
decided to make a film. The soundtracks quite okay too. Thankfully it's
a short film too so one not need to suffer too much. Even to fans of
the cast and Leonard, this will be a disappointment.
<|_=00=_|>
I really like movies that center around some impossible con with twists
thrown in. But, this movie, which advertises itself as a funny con, was
terrible. The final five minutes which explains who was setting who up
was dumb. Plus, the whole con was to only get $200,000. I want someone
to try to steal a priceless neckless or gold bars like in Heist. As for
the funny part, there are no laughs. And even Morgan Freeman is bad in
this. They show surfers as a transition between scenes; what does that
tell you about a film.

FINAL VERDICT: It is short, only 80 minutes long, but it is not worth a
viewing.
<|_=00=_|>
It's movies like this that give modern-day films a reputation as
"garbage," especially among classic-film lovers. I try to defend
today's movies to them when they tell me today's movies are all morally
bankrupt. Well, in this case, I have no rebuttal. I agree, this is
another example of a modern effort that puts too much stock on the
sleaze and winds up on the weak side of being classy. It's also another
good example of a PG-13 movie that should have been rated "R." There
are tons of examples of that in the last 15 years. Parents: be more
leery of PG-13 than another rating. 

Usually, a movie that features crime and comedy is going to be either
really good or really bad, depending on the quality of the jokes. Here,
very little was funny and by halfway, I could care less about the crime
angle. If you are to inject humor into a heist story, make sure it
works, or you are going to wind up with a mess like this. Also, the
movie seemed to be more of an environmental propaganda piece than
anything else. Did Al Gore have a hand in this? It would explain how
boring this wound up and all the bias. It just looks as if the
filmmakers didn't know what direction go to and wound up with a sub-par
performance in all the categories.

Owen Wilson plays a smart-ass surfer dude. If his character "Jack Ryan"
is the hero of this film, it's no wonder I got turned off in a hurry. I
didn't find him a "likable guy," as some others did: just a wise guy
who had the cute answers to everything. I have found Wilson to be
similar to the crime-comedy genre: he's either very entertaining or
very annoying.

Speaking of actors, I was very disappointed to see two of my favorites
- Gary Sinise and Morgan Freeman - involved with this turkey.

I don't blame Wilson for everything. He didn't write the dialog. He
didn't cast Sara Foster as the lead female. He didn't write a
screenplay in which none of the characters are likable enough for us to
care about them. At least I have company as I see most other reviewers
here thought this movie stunk, too.
<|_=00=_|>

 The Big Bounce looked set to become another laugh-free, empty, crude
comedy, with lots of sexual humor and an overload of women in bikinis; a
type of movie that people seem to want to make these days (although it has
to be said that these days this kind of movie is sadly quite
successful).
 
 Actually, it's a vacuously enjoyable, if occasionally rather desperate
comedy with some nice, sun-bleached photography, and a few funny
scenes.

 And on closer inspection there are actually a lot of things going for it.
First of all helmer George Armitage also directed the fabulous and
completely hysterical black comedy Grosse Pointe Blank with John Cusack; it
has Owen Wilson, one of the better young comedians, who proved himself in
films such as The Royal Tenenbaums and Shanghai Noon (in which he was by far
the funniest thing); there is also the reassuring presence of Morgan
Freeman, a man who usually elevates films from bad to mediocre.

 Despite all this it has to be said that the Big Bounce is most certainly
NOT a great film.
 It has leads that are pleasant to the eye, a simple storyline that doesn't
require the brain to be switched on and both the relaxed leads and the
enjoyably laid back direction act accordingly, delivering appropriately
mindless entertainment that thankfully doesn't depend on much activity from
the brain.

 Definitely don't go if you want some sort of mental activity, because The
Big Bounce is nothing (at all) more than a fairly good and very brainless
laugh that lasts a short 90 minutes.

 And there really shouldn't be much left to remember the morning
after.
