
They don't westerns that much anymore, at least on the big screen.
People in the Baby Boomer generation grew up with them on television.
Western films were big at the box office in several decades, too.

Well, at least Kevin Costner must have a heart for the genre as he been
involved with several major western productions in the last 15 years,
this the latest. 

The best thing I can say about this film right out front is that it may
be the best western I've ever watched. I can't give it higher praise
than that! Since I've seen so many, for so long, it's especially high
praise.

I make this bold statement because of the following: 

1 - Fantastic scenery and beautiful cinematography. If it looks
spectacular on my 24-inch flat-screen, I can't imagine how awesome it
would be a big plasma set.

2 - Characters you really care about, led by three actors who almost
always give solid performances: Robert Duvall (the best in here),
Costner and Annette Bening. Duvall, by the way, gives one of the best
short "speeches" I've ever witnessed in a movie. It was nice to see
Bening actually play a wholesome woman for a change. The two men who
are out on the range with Duvall and Costner also were excellent.

3 - Just the right amount of action. When the action does occur, such
as gunfire, the sound is incredible. This might be one of the best
movies, audibly-speaking, I've ever heard, which is another reason for
ranking it Number One. There are no lulls but not a ton of action,
either.

4 - Just the right amount of romance. It doesn't get sappy, it doesn't
overshadow the basic story, but it adds a nice, soft touch to what
could be a very rough and unpleasant tale. And, in a different twist,
it's the romance, not the usual climactic gun battle, that ends this
film.

I can't say enough about this movie except that I'm sorry more westerns
like it aren't made today.
<|_=00=_|>

Costner's third film as a director, his fourth if you include his work
with Kevin Reynolds on Waterworld (1995), is another Western. One says
'another', but upon reflection it is obvious that it's a genre that,
creatively, he's hardly left. After the highly successful Dances With
Wolves (1990) he directed with Kevin Reynolds - albeit in uncredited
fashion - the critically mauled The Postman (1997). The latter was
nothing less than a reworking of the familiar Pony Express story, and
for good measure threw in explicit references to John Ford along the
way. Waterworld's ocean setting did nothing to disguise the fact that
that was a film that owed another massive debt to the great American
genre: sea fort, lone riders, wide-open watery frontier and all.
Costner also did sterling work as Wyatt Earp in Kasdan's 1994 film of
the same name - a substantial project, and one close enough in manner
to his own to suggest more than a passing creative influence from its
star. 

In Open Range, Costner again has the lead: as Charley Waite, former
gunfighter, now sharing ownership of a free grazing cattle drive.
Together with Boss Spearman (Robert Duvall), and two others they reach
Harmonville where they soon encounter a corrupt town Marshal (James
Russo) and rancher (an excellent Michael Gambon) who threaten their way
of life. They also discover others who prove sympathetic to their
cause, like the sister of the town's doctor Sue Barlow (Annette
Bening). There's growing suspense as an inevitable showdown looms ("Men
are gonna get killed here today, Sue, and I'm gonna kill 'em...")
Waite's personal life, and his romance gradually comes to the fore
until its crisis, as well as the combat, mark the end of the film. 

On screen Costner shares equal honours with the septuagenarian Robert
Duvall, whose personal philosophy that "Man's got a right to protect
his property and his life, and we ain't gonna let no rancher or his
lawman take either," informs much of the main action. Crusty and
fearsome, Spearman's dauntless words recall those of John Wayne's J.B.
Books in The Shootist (1976) who expressed broadly similar sentiments:
"I won't be wronged. I won't be insulted. I won't be laid a-hand on. I
don't do these things to other people, and I require the same from
them." In either case its an old man speaking, one fiercely independent
after a life of hardship and who won't be trifled with. Open Range
takes its main impetus from exactly that sort of unwelcome
interference, and resembles Eastwood's Unforgiven in that a good deal
of the narrative consists of a determined settling of accounts, an
unrelieved search for moral recompense outside the law after an initial
trespass against the innocent. What is started almost casually is
finished deliberately and by the authority given the wronged: "Ours
ain't writ by no tin star, bought and paid for, Marshall. It's writ by
us, and we aim to enforce it," says Boss. Like Eastwood's film, Open
Range also features a retired gunman who has recourse to his skills to
help salvage a situation, and some of the best scenes with Costner's
character concern his dispassionate and professional preparation for
gunplay. Like William Munny before, Charley Waite has something of an
avenging angel about him, whose cold consideration of his trade is
filmed completely without irony.

Open Range has all the hallmarks of Costner the western auteur: an
expansive, almost leisurely tone, supporting roles for loyal canines, a
certain solemnity and respect for his conservative cinematic
predecessors being foremost amongst them. As others have said, Costner
directs as if Peckinpah and Leone had never existed, and the present
work is no exception. Characteristically, it contains none of the
self-indulgent nostalgia or cynicism common in the genre since the
1960s. Despite a visual quote from The Wild Bunch (1969) for instance,
as men take their long walk abreast to the confrontation, the final
shootout of Open Range owes far more to the traditional showdown of
Gunfight At The OK Corral (1957) than the apocalyptic finale of
Peckinpah's masterpiece. Slow burning, character driven and ruminative,
Costner's latest has been criticised by some for its too-deliberate
narrative pacing. For an MTV-generation viewing audience, unused to an
older, more leisurely way of showing things, such issues are
understandable, although no one used to a filmmaker taking his time to
tell a good story will complain. Indeed, part of the great success of
Open Range is the way it single-mindedly sustains an atmosphere of
fateful suspense.

One thing that no one disputes: Duvall is magnificent in his part, a
performance that may well prove a capstone to a long and prestigious
career. Costner apparently had the actor in mind for the part from the
first, a decision justified entirely and one of the highlights of the
film. In fact if the film's has a weakness it can be put down to that
fact that Spearman holds the stage so successfully, and for so long.
Waite's own romance, starting so tentatively, is somewhat overshadowed
by the more urgent prerogatives of his partner and when it finally
flowers, it leads to some scenes which could have, with prudence been
cut back to greater effect. Having said that, Costner's awkward
farewell to Miss Barlow, saying so much with so little, just before the
fight begins, is another memorable scene where sentimentality is kept
happily at bay. It is once the violence is over, and the great tension
is dissipated, that matters are drawn out a little too much. A little
stoicism might have led to a more memorable close.

Like many good westerns, Open Range's central concerns lie around
personal freedom and moral rectitude - the balance between which gives
a good deal of the narrative its necessary tension. Like crossing the
flood, which pours down the main street of Harmonville, the
participants have to choose one side or the other. It's a film
ultimately less about a gunfighter settling down, than of how men abide
their self-justified actions. In the disc extras, Costner draws an
illuminating parallel between the scene in his film in which Spearman
and Waite confront the jayhawkers and The Oxbow Incident. In Wellman's
1943 classic, a rushed lynching leads to a disastrous error and mutual
guilt. In Costner's film, to whom guilt is assigned is never in doubt,
and indeed Spearman initially has to hold Waite back from overstepping
the mark - an action which he comes to regret. "I never had any problem
with killing," says Waite at one point. Like Eastwood's Munny, once
justified he seeks stark retribution without compunction.

There's only one gunfight in Open Range, but it is worth the wait.
Spread out almost as leisurely as the rest of the film, Costner and his
cinematographer James Muro use a range of shots throughout the violent
events to achieve effects both chaotic and planned at the same time.
(Incidentally for a filmmaker who prides himself on accuracy, Costner
has his hero 'fan' off shots, a notoriously inaccurate way of
discharging a gun, but that's a minor distraction.) It's a notable
confrontation, an extended set piece sequence that is one of the
director's best and confirms his film the finest western since
Unforgiven.

<|_=00=_|>

(This is my first written review, so bear with me)

I've seen many of Kevin Costner's movies (both acting and directing), and
even more westerns, and I'd have to say that this movie is the best in
either category.  I've always thought Costner a sub-par actor, but I
couldn't imagine anyone else playing the role of Charlie.  He had it
down.

The rest of the cast was superb as well.  Luna (Button) and Benrubi (Mose)
are both destined for greatness.  Gambon (Baxter) and Duval (Boss) have
been
around long enough to do things right.  Bening (Sue) is a better (and
better-looking) actress than ever before.  The supporting cast, and the
characters they create, all flowed together so strongly and believably
that
I would've watched a movie about a week in the life of the town before
Mose
showed up that fateful day.  The shopkeeper and Percy (Jeter) particularly
shined, but every single citizen of that town gave the impression they had
a
story to tell.  But I digress, because cast and characters alone do not a
movie make.

The dialog in many movies today is too geared to what the audience needs
to
hear.  Rather than a fly-on-the-wall point of view on a realistic event,
we
normally get verbose exposition and other generally out-of-character
dialog,
so that the less intuitive viewer doesn't get left behind.  In "Open
Range",
we're given a story.  Four men and the task they must accomplish, with
only
the words any four men in a similar situation would say to each other.
There wasn't anything directed to our tutelage alone, simply a bare-bones
character drama.  It felt real, like I could have been right there in the
midst of things.  That is the way movies SHOULD be.  I applaud the
creative
minds behind this, and Costner, the ringmaster, above all
others.

I have not seen another film that captured the beauty of the title
character
(the open range, nyuk nyuk) in such a light.  While I'm sure that at least
some of the footage was shot in a studio, and picturesque backdrops
appeared
to be inserted in the terrain at some points, the believability that this
was 1880's "Old West" was always there.  From the wide open skies and
rolling hills to the pebbled creeks and fresh-built townscapes, I was
thoroughly impressed.

The set/art direction weren't the only elements that capitalized on this
beauty.  Often, the camera operator (and undoubtedly Costner himself) had
found amazing camera angles/motion to accentuate the finer elements of the
sets. One such picturesque moment came in the form of an establishing shot
of the cool, clear pebbled creek, shot from just inches above the surface,
as the horses drank the purity of nature itself.  Another shot shows the
hills/mountains with lightning crashing around them as a storm billows its
way to town.  Was this an effects shot or not?  I don't rightly know, and
I
was too impressed to care.  The movie is beautiful.

There is also a beautifully mastered scene in which Charlie awakes from an
unsettling dream and at first doesn't know the dream from reality.  The
use
of camera motion and picture superimposition here isn't so over-the-top
that
it feels out of place in the rest of the "artistic" film.  It's hard for
someone to accomplish that.

All technical terms aside, this film was born from talent.  The writers,
actors, and most importantly the director knew how to make a film
enjoyable.
When a movie just plain works, it's because the producers have assembled
a
group of personalities that work well together.  This movie obviously had
that.  I'm very much looking forward to whatever it is that Costner
decides
to bring us next.  I have been shown the light.

9 out of 10, "classic"
<|_=00=_|>

Personally, I didn't find it long. I've seen many great Westerns--such films
as "Will Penny," "Shane," "The Unforgiven," and several other Eastwood
movies spring to mind--and this was right up there with them. My thanks to
Kevin Costner, Robert Duvall (of course), and Annette Bening for giving me a
wonderful experience at the movies. It doesn't happen all that often
anymore. To those who say, "They don't make 'em like they used to," my
response is "This one's better."
<|_=00=_|>
In "Open Range," we are drawn to two men running from their pasts, an
aging lonely cowboy, Boss Spearman (Duvall), and his long time second
hand man Charley Waite (Kevin Costner). They drive their herd of cattle
from a vast prairie to another with their two young helpers: the giant
Mose (Abraham Benrubi), a gentle fellow who mostly works as wagon
driver and cook and Button (Diego Luna), a teenaged orphan eager to
prove himself to his elders 

The plot is launched when the four free-range cowboys encounter the
town boss, the merciless Denton Baxter (Michael Gambon), a menacing
Irish immigrant who actively hates free-grazers, and wants their herd
vanished from the territory one way or another 

To make his feelings known, Baxter and his henchmen severely injure the
two young cowboys

Boss treats the boy's wounds himself, and then takes him, with Charley,
to the town's doctor where Sue Barlow (Annette Bening), the doctor's
middle-aged sister, cares for him There, in their confusion and anger,
the duo realize that they're now on their way for a high noon gun
battle, not only for revenge, but to protect their way of life as well

Costner's character, Charlie Waite is an enigmatic, sensitive type who
does not show much emotion He has been taking orders from Boss for a
decade, but their coming confrontation with Baxter and his thugs begins
to reshape their relationship Charlie has a troubled violent past of
which he's not proud, but it's a past which will help him in the bloody
fight to come

As the story goes relentlessly toward the clash between Baxter's brutes
and the two cattlemen, Sue unexpectedly catches Charley's eye She is a
strong capable woman who discovers exactly what Charley is when she
first meets him Charley was more than a little worried What if Sue
sees his malicious side, it might scare her off

Duvall is exceptional as usual He is strong and flexible He steals
the show with a charismatic portrayal of a man who exudes kindness as
expressed in his concern for the wounded young boy In one of the
movie's few striking moments, Boss buys an expensive Swiss chocolate
from the town's general store and then offers the storekeeper a piece
of it when he finds that he has never tried it himself because he can't
afford it Duvall handles this scene relaxed and with all the
graciousness and warmth 

The film's cinematography is superb, due in part to the green, forested
mountain slopes against the stunning snow-capped peaks, marked with
occasional torrential thunderstorms
<|_=00=_|>

A traditional, well-made western - suitable for most ages, features good
guys herdin' cattle, bad guys tryin' to steal the cattle, codes of honour, a
corrupt sheriff, a fantastic shoot-out, and Annette Bening being lovely in
the wings. Open Range doesn't do anything particularly new, it just does it
particularly well. For actor/director/producer Kevin Costner, it seems to
have been a labour of love and one that has paid off handsomely. The
characters are well fleshed out, it has plenty to appeal to adults (men and
women) rather than being just a boys-with-guns film. The qualities of the
main heroes are likeable - they value the trust, respect and confidence that
is given them and realise the value of these things. Open Range is no high
and mighty moraliser however; there are plenty true-to-genre one-liners,
such as "You're nothing!" (grim-faced, cornered bad guy) - "Maybe so," (good
guy pointing a gun at him), "but I'll still be breathing in another minute!"
Towards the end of the film they also battle with their own inner demons.
What starts out with all the flavour of a Boys' Own adventure (complete with
cutesy dog) turns out to be a well-rounded minor classic. Long live the
Western!
<|_=00=_|>
The cowboys Boss Spearman (Robert Duvall), Charley Waite (Kevin
Costner), Mose (Abraham Benrubi) and Button (Diego Luna) are conducting
their cattle herd through the fields of the West. Boss and Spearman
have been friends for ten years, and they have an special affection and
friendship for Button, Mose and his dog Dig. Boss requests Mose to
return to a small town nearby and buy some supplies for the rest of
their journey. Mose never comes back, and Boss and Charley decides to
check what happened with him. They find Moses beaten and arrested in
the jail by the corrupt Sheriff Poole (James Russo), accused of
fighting against the men of a powerful local rancher, Denton Baxter
(Michael Gambon). Boss and Charley bring Mose to the local doctor,
Barlow (Dean McDermott), where Charley falls in love for his sister,
Sue Barlow (Annette Bening). They return to their camping, they are
attacked by Baxter's men and Mose and Dig are killed and Button is
seriously wounded. The two old cowboys return to the town looking for
justice. "Open Range" is one of the best contemporary western, with the
characters very well constructed and an engaging low paced story having
action, drama and romance. The performance of the cast, highlighting
Robert Duvall and Kevin Costner, and the direction of Kevin Costner are
magnificent. I believe in the future "Open Range" will be considered a
classic in the genre. My vote is nine.

Title (Brazil): "Pacto de Justiça" ("Pact of Justice")
<|_=00=_|>
When this film reaches the climactic shootout, it is a real cinematic
treat. Costner has a great feel for creating and choreographing complex
action scenes. There is one wide shot in particular that contains many
actors involved in a number of separate interactions carried out in a
masterfully-planned sequence. It is worth watching several times and
paying close attention to each individual shootout going on within the
larger scene. Costner has mastered the art of filling the screen with
complex action.

The cast is outstanding and the love story is compelling and not
typical Hollywood. As a real Western fan, I enjoyed this one enough to
watch it several times. I think the plot offers something for everyone
and I think it is one of those rare films that appeals to both men and
women. It is certainly worth checking out.
<|_=00=_|>

Why studios don't make more westerns is beyond me. Some of them are
downright unwatchable like "Young Guns" and its sequel but there have been
some extremely well made films like "Unforgiven" and "Tombstone" so I'm at a
loss as to why more are not made. Thank you Kevin Costner! This story is
about four men who are herding their cattle through a certain area and they
stop near a town to get supplies. The crew is headed by Boss Spearman
(Robert Duvall) and his second in charge is Charley Waite (Costner). They
send Mose (Abraham Benrubi) to get supplies and after a day or so he doesn't
return. Boss and Charley go to find him leaving Button (Diego Luna) to watch
the herd. In town they find Mose beaten badly and locked up in the local
jail. A rich rancher named Denton Baxter (Michael Gambon) hates
"Freegrazers" and tells them to take their man and keep moving. Baxter
controls the sheriff (James Russo) and also has many thugs on his payroll.
Back at the herd some of Baxters men have been following them so Boss has an
idea of going after them instead of running. That night they confront them
and smash their rifles but when they get back Mose has been killed and
Button is wounded badly. They take him to the local doctor and meet his
sister Sue (Annette Bening) and Charley takes a shine. Boss and Charley
don't like to be told where to graze their cattle and they want revenge for
the death of Mose. A final gunfight in town is inevitable and Charley
reveals that he killed many men in the war. This film was directed by
Costner and its very well made. He seems to have found his mark as a
directer with this genre. Costner allows the story to unfold on its own
terms and the pacing is deliberate which is welcomed after watching so many
Hollywood films and their quick edits. The film should be seen on the big
screen to be appreciated. The scenery is beautiful and their are so many
shots with skylines and mountains and wide open prairies and these shots
help tell the story in the film. The scenery is important and gives the film
a look that helps you relate to the characters when they speak of not
wanting to be told where they can go. The characters are well written and
they let out things about themselves little by little as the story is told.
Duvall's character is a man of high pride and also a stubborn side and he's
not afraid to stand up for himself even if it means he might die. Costner
plays a man with a hard past and he seems to be living his life and coming
to grips with his experiences in the war at the same time. Charley states
that he doesn't have a problem with killing and we believe him. The romance
between Costner and Bening seems forced and Bening looks a little to old to
be a woman that never married. The film goes on about 15 minutes to long and
Costner has not one, but two goodbye scenes with Bening. This is a minor
complaint because this is a very entertaining film and after a summer of
watching hyper-kinetic Hollywood junk, It's a movie that is very welcomed.
Hear that Hollywood?  
<|_=00=_|>
Open Range is without doubt one of the best family movies I have seen
for a long time. Although not quite as good as "Dances With Wolves"
Open Range, funnily enough, not only stars Kevin Costner but is along
the same theme in as much as it tells a story about the early American
way of life. This time about the "Free Range" cattlemen and the
different hardships they had to cope with. And for once my family could
sit down and watch a movie without all the smut, swearing and extreme
violence that unfortunately, all movie makers of late, seem to think is
necessary to sell them. The storyline was simple and easy to follow at
the same time as it retold a fine piece of early American history. 

Although the actors had a simple storyline to work with, I felt their
performances made the movie all the more realistic. Kevin Costner in my
opinion is a fine actor, but put him in with an under-rated master such
as Robert Duvall, and you can't go wrong. Their easy going,straight
from the hip portrayal of the main characters was one of the reasons
that as soon as I had finished watching the video I rewound it and the
whole family watched it again.
