
I'm not sure what the original comment leaver saw last night, but it
certainly wasn't Silent Hill.

I saw a critic screening last night, and must say I was highly
impressed. As a fan of the games, and anything related to them, my
faith has been firmly established in Gans and Avery, and I can only
wish for sequels.

The atmosphere was perfect, the acting was on point, the creatures were
amazing, well, everything was amazing.

The town itself looks just like the town we love, and it's almost like
coming home again. You'll see what I mean when you finally get to see
the film.

Just be prepared for a disturbing, bloody (oh man, the blood), and
genuinely creepy ride.

I'd say more, but giving spoilers would be like slapping you in the
face.

Go see it!
<|_=00=_|>
First off, the downsides: Some parts of the movie seemed a little drawn
out, the film was two hours, and at certain times, you could feel that.
It's far-fetched, and I can imagine some people rolling their eyes at
the storyline, and there WILL be some people walking out saying "that
was a stupid movie". (As many people responded to Final Fantasy: The
Spirits Within.) Of course, some of them will be saying that in
response to the sheer amount of gore and violence, which brings me into
the 'upsides': This movie certainly had it's 'wow' moments with shock,
anticipation, and gore, especially near the climax. Scenes and even
alleyways and monsters from the games were almost identical. If you've
played the games you will get a lot of deja vu. (For example, the
camera goes crooked at exactly the same time and place it does in one
of the scenes in the game.) Also, a lot of the sounds and music tracks
from the games are used, and so are the monsters. The entire feel of
the games is preserved in the film, and you will have trouble keeping
your feet on the floor the entire movie. The creepy presentation works,
and if you haven't played any of the games, this movie will scare you
in new ways.
<|_=00=_|>
For everyone who has seen or is going to see or is thinking of seeing
silent hill, do not go into it thinking ohhh its going to be a scary
movie,,, because its not suppose to be. Its for intelligent drama based
crowds who like good visuals, story line, acting, and mystery. This
isn't doom and this isn't resident evil, this is a well written
drama/mystery that happens to be very disturbing in its visual and
story. People who have not played the game go see it with an open mind
and not look at it as a video game movie because even without the game
it could stand on its own as a great movie. So that said, if your
looking for pop crap gore then don't see silent hill, if your looking
for a memorable movie you well think about for years to come then do
see silent hill. WELCOME TO SILENT HILL....
<|_=00=_|>
Someone said worst movie ever- dude- ever see UltraViolet or Scary
movie? Please easily those are the worst movies that should NEVER have
been made.

However. this movie was excellent. I have a feeling the person who gave
this movie one star was someone who did not play the video game, maybe
even did not realize it was based on a video game. I can see how this
movie could present a problem to those who are non-gamers. However Most
of my friends never played the game either, and they still enjoyed the
movie very much.

I wasn't as disturbed by the changing of the characters as I thought
I'd be. (Harry Mason to Rose for Example.) I totally understand how
Harry wouldn't cross over well. while he was a cool character (From a
girl perspective) he was kind of a wuss. lol.

the actors they picked to portray the characters were superb. they did
a very good job portraying the intensity, the scary and sometimes
disturbing nature of the movie.

I saw a sneak peek where most of the movie goers did a lot of gasping
and clutching of their friends or dates, covering of eyes... it was a
pretty creepy film, and the only horror movie that actually got my
pulse to race. Normally I hate horror movies because they're more
ridiculous than scary.

but this movie was scary, well acting, well written, and I loved the
monsters. It was much more realistic to use people rather than complete
CGI characters. it made it more creepy. I liked that touch. Definitely
proves that old school can be more scary than technology. Although they
don't completely ignore the modern day novelties. Its a perfect
combination of both.

Pretty much- I miss Harry- I can understand why they did away with him
(I'm glad it wasn't for a stupid reason like them wanting a tough cigar
smoking buff man chick thinking that's "P.C.") but the character
changes work, the actors in their parts work, the script works, its
creepy, its scary, its a great movie. Some who have not played or
haven't heard of the Silent hill games may not get it... but for the
most part, I think most should enjoy this movie, gamers and non-gamers
alike. This has to be one of my favorite movies this year.
<|_=00=_|>
Agree 100% with agentmatheus: This is, hands down, the best VG adaption
bar none! Seriously, it truly is like you are living the game. Granted,
several characters have been changed, but that's to be expected.
(Having a woman as the main protagonist, ensure's the main character is
more vulnerable, than if it were a man). The set-pieces with the
creatures are even more disturbing than their VG counterparts - I kid
you not! The production design is truly superb and you get the feeling
that Silent Hill really does exist. 

If I had to nitpick, it would be that they didn't include any puzzle
elements in the film, as per the game; it could have been cool to have
Rose solving some mad brainteaser, but you can fully understand that
they didn't include this sort of thing (well, apart from her memorizing
the hospital floor-layout), otherwise it could have slowed down the
whole pace of the film.

I was so skeptical about this movie, as traditionally, Game-To-Movie
adaptations are, let's face it, crap! - But they have completely pulled
it off, and I await a second installment with heavily baited breath.

Again, it really is the best horror movie in years! HIGHLY recommended.

Check this film out as soon as you can.

Craig
<|_=00=_|>
You have to approach any movie adaptation of a video game with extreme
trepidation. Think of the other corkers we've all caught on TV in the
past: Super Mario Bros., Mortal Kombat, Resident Evil. Stinkers, one
and all. Doom was vapid, but at least got close to the source material.

So what about Silent Hill? The movie opens with music lifted straight
from the game itself - in fact, the entire movie contains original
tracks from the game as well as some remixed score. Just as it was a
fantastic and brooding background when playing the game, it works very
effectively on screen.

As for the film itself, the story is a composite of story elements from
the first and second games, but the final act is a monstrous and highly
original thirty minutes that kept me guessing (as well as being
completely grossed out). Indeed, the violence is pretty gruesome..
clever mixtures of CGI and fully made-up monsters which really add to
the foreboding atmosphere.

At first, I felt nervous watching this.. not because of the visuals
(which are absolutely SPOT ON.. I've never seen ANY movie adaptation
that is this close to the source material.. all the comic book movies
from the past few years still stray furiously).. but because of the
weak opening. After I'd resigned myself to the fact that the movie was
going to be disappointing, I was pleasantly surprised as soon as the
main character Rose gets to Silent Hill itself. If you're a fan of the
game, you won't be disappointed. If you're a horror hound, you'll love
the creatures and the visuals. If you're expecting a deep movie about
the relationship between estranged mother and daughter.. you're in the
wrong theatre.

Highly recommended. Best horror movie I've seen in a long time.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was simply incredible. To all Silent Hill fans, I say, yes,
PH was nothing more than a fanboy favorite and they changed the
storyline a little from the first game, but I have never actually felt
dread like I did in this movie when I heard the air-raid siren
indicating that "the darkness is coming". I actually remember feeling
the same dread while playing the game. The ending, while a bit of a
letdown due to a lack of definite closure, was definitely very
Silent-Hillesque in that it had a certain meaning that IS possible to
find if you look closely enough into the clues.

Phenomenal movie, I suggest you see it ASAP.
<|_=00=_|>
Fans of the game will enjoy this film. Critics should be impressed with
the set design, effects and cinematography; but I'm afraid most of them
will miss the boat entirely. As far as a game to film translation, this
is one of the best ever made.

There are scenes in the film that are direct recreations from the game.
Sounds, music, colors and even meticulous set design that pays homage
to the game series. In as far as a horror film, there were scenes in
this movie that are incomparable. Really disturbing, solid moments of
horror.

Pyramid Head is this decade's Pinhead. A new cultural icon to be
feared, and loved.

Good movie. Keep an open mind, and enjoy. This is one of those films
that actually deserves its R rating. Don't take the kids, unless you're
into the whole "terrible parent" thing.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, I have just returned from seeing silent hill. Did I like it? Yes!
Did I love it? HELL YES! 

The movie pretty much has a solid pace. The cinematography is beautiful
and the special effects are great. So what about the story? It does get
a bit convoluted, especially when we have scenes solely there to
explain WTF is going on.....Sean Bean is a terrible actor, he was bad
in LOTR, he was bad in that crappy ITV show he was on and he is pretty
crappy in this.....I wish they had cut him from the film entirely..his
scenes added nothing, except some explanation on silent hill and to
remind us that Rose is in another reality to them...also I was a bit
annoyed that PH was really only in two scenes...HOPEFULLY he will get
used more in later instalments. The ending was a bit upsetting, I get
why it happened...I just got a little chocked up (yes I am a wimp, so
sue me). The score is wonderful, I really could listen to it all
day....I don't know the names of the songs but I would definitely buy
the soundtrack. Rhada is a amazing actress, she has a face which can
tell a billion tales with just a slight twitch and she is very
believable as a mother looking for her child. Cybil actually was my
favourite character, in the beginning she is pretty much a tough ass
bitch, but she does become more human towards the end.....what happens
to her is pretty graphic,which leads me to another point.....this movie
actually is pretty gruesome in parts, a little to gruesome for a silent
hill movie. The tension in the film is nail bite ting, the nurse scene
actually made most of the audience jump and someone screamed LOL! Thats
what is so amazing about this film, you get the same feeling you got
when you were playing the game by yourself, complete stillness and
fear. 

Overall this was a great movie, the visual and grand scale of the movie
is so astonishing to watch. It really has some striking visuals...i.e
grey children first attack, the first change to alternate silent hill
and the final battle which holds much of the gore. 

A almost perfect horror movie.
