
Sure, this is mostly a kids movie but as you have probably read many
times, there is enough humor aimed at the adults to keep them
entertained while with the kids. This is definitely good for all ages.

Ewan McGregor stars as Rodney Copperbottom but it is clearly Robin
Williams who steals the movie as Fender. He clearly overshadows
McGregor, Halle Berry, Amanda Bynes, Mel Brooks, Greg Kinnear and all
others involved. Of course, this is really about the animation.
Everything about Robots is rendered exquisitely. The time and effort
that must have went into making this movie is astonishing.

I have read a few comments and reviews concerning Williams being
annoying but that is absolutely 100% UNTRUE! I thoroughly enjoyed
William's performance, which is saying something considering it is only
his voice. Robot's marketing of William's character was not misleading.
It is exactly as seen in the trailers. If you thought it was annoying,
then why see it? Some people need to smarten up I suppose.

Don't believe the haters here. Most only want to go against the grain.
If you did not enjoy Williams' performance in the trailer, then please
don't be disappointed when you see the same thing in the movie. I can
honestly say that this is a great movie-going experience for everybody.
<|_=00=_|>
I attended an advance screening for this film with my daughter and her
friend (both 3). They enjoyed it, but I think older kids will be much
more into it. There was also a lot of humor that will be appreciated by
adults. I have seen all the computer animated films of recent years(Toy
Story, Monsters Inc., Nemo, etc.) and I feel this one ranks up there
with the best. This movie is visually stunning. The robot world created
for this movie is unbelievable. There are some pinball like sequences
that I found fascinating (Rube Goldbergesque for the older folks). This
movie is quite funny. I am usually not a big Robin Williams fan, I find
that he can be too in your face and distracting. That really was not
the case in this film. The plot of Robots was good, but I did not walk
out of the theater talking about the story lines. It was all about the
visuals.
<|_=00=_|>
Robots is probably the most technically amazing computer-animated movie
I've ever seen. When you stack it up against a movie like the original
Toy Story, it's astounding how far they've come in about 10 years.
There is a scene were a drum of tiny ballbearings falls over, and each
ballbearing is rendered perfectly. Amazing.

The voice acting in Robots is just fine, with the ensemble cast
providing a nice mix of auditory delights(although I saw Jim
Broadbent's (the dad in Bridget Jones') name in the credits and was
unable to identify him in the movie. Greg Kinnear did a fine job and
Ewan MacGregor was also decent. The biggest question mark was Robin
Williams. Before the movie I found myself wondering how he could top
the 'Genie' performance in Aladdin. The answer is he doesn't, but his
character is responsible for a few VERY funny bits and I think he
pulled it off well.

Now humor in the movie... It was clear to me that at least 80% of the
adults in the audience weren't getting many of the references. If you
are old enough/smart enough to catch these, they are hilarious. My
favorite being when Rodney is repairing Bigweld's head and Bigweld is
singing 'Daisy' very slowly. Priceless.

All in all a great movie, and I also suspect this movie will improve
with subsequent viewings. Where a Shark's Tale just becomes tiresome
after one viewing, I am looking forward to viewing this movie again.

Lastly, my 6 year-old son LOVED the movie. We saw it in IMAX and it
completely blew him away.
<|_=00=_|>
Animated movies are usually pretty good but nothing that great to me.
However, this one is a "keeper." It gets high marks for all the jokes
in here, lots of which are adult-style but not sleazy or filled with
sexual innuendos, although there are a few of those, enough to make
this PG, not G. However, the vast amount of clever lines is the main
attraction here.

Actually, the jokes come so hard and fast, it's hard to keep up with
all of them. The visuals aren't gorgeous, as many modern-day animated
films have become, but they are interesting. Not only is there a ton of
gags to hear, but there are to see, too. You almost have to stop it
frame-by-frame to see all the funny stuff penciled in the artwork.

The story couldn't be simpler but it manages you keep your attention
and doesn't overstay it's welcome, although I think animated films are
more effective it they don't go over 80 minutes. This one is closer to
90.

There is a good message in here, too. Maybe I'm mistaken but what I
heard was the idea that just because people might be old, decaying and
not as productive for society, it doesn't mean you have to discard
them. Life has value and is precious from conception to dying of old
age. Amen to that!
<|_=00=_|>
The first 2005 film I've seen, and, really, it's the only one released
so far this year that I have had even the littlest desire to see at the
theater. It was worth seeing, but it's forgettable. The visuals are
absolutely eye-popping. The film's best sequence is a Rube
Goldberg-esque public transportation system across town. I think if
that had gone on for 90 minutes, we would have had some kind of
masterpiece on our hands. Instead, we get a dull story of a group of
nearly outmoded robots rebelling against an evil company that is no
longer building spare parts. The head of that company used to be all
for the common folk, but he's disappeared and left a despot in his
place. The underground area, where they melt scrap, is really cool, and
reminded me of The Nightmare Before Christmas. Madame Gasket, who rules
this part of the city, was the most interestingly designed character.
Robin Williams is very annoying, but, to his credit, he is playing a
character here, not just himself. I wasn't thinking "Man, is Robin
Williams annoying," but rather, "Man, that character Robin Williams is
playing is annoying." I doubt that could be taken as much of a
compliment, though. All of the other main characters are especially
forgettable, especially Halle Berry's character, who is supposedly the
female lead. I think most of the audiences wanted the protagonist to
end up with the second female lead, who is a tad more interesting. And
I think the filmmakers realized this, too, because the hero only barely
ends up with Berry at the end. The movie is also in need of laughs. I
chuckled a bit, but that was all. The funniest moment is the robot who
does the robot dance. As much as I can complain, though, I would still
highly recommend (renting) it for the visuals alone.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm an animator and I can appreciate the work that went into this film.
Its visually interesting, but at the same time cluttered. So from a
technical stand point it had its pros. Overall the story was mildly
interesting. It started out really slow and I wasn't sure whether I
would be able to get through the whole movie. But it did pick up a
little bit as the movie went on. Now for the major negative points. 

- There are too many characters. The supporting cast is numerous and
uninteresting. It comes off as if the art department designed a bunch
of robots first then decided they didn't want to give up any of the
designs.

- The characters personalities are kind of flat. Even the main
characters don't really invoke an emotional connection. The secondary
characters are just robots that happen to talk once and a while.

- I don't know what is with the trend to put in popular music into
animated pictures but it just seems so off when you are watching in.
When the story is progressing and then a bunch of characters break out
into a dance routine set to a Britney Spears song its like someone
suddenly turned on another TV in the room. And this kind of thing
happens numerous times. Its even noticeable in the fight sequences and
some others which appear to be designed to show funky and interesting
animation rather than advance or even fit into the story. 

Bottom line, Blue Sky Studios did a much better job on Ice Age. Just
like PDI did a much better job on Shrek compared to Shark's Tale (Which
was garbage). They just need to get some people involved who can trim
the fat of the story and keep people who think they are directing a
music video out of the editing room.
<|_=00=_|>
'Robots' is an entertaining animated film that is both funny and
delightful. The animation is wonderful and has its own style. Even
though it's not exactly of the Pixar quality, that actually works for
the film especially with the motions. Colour has also been impressively
used. The robot world is spectacular to watch. The designing is
brilliant e.g. the train station and robot city.

It includes a huge impressive ensemble of voice actors (sadly most of
the cast is wasted) but not all the actors were efficiently used and
many suffer due to poor character development. Ewan McGregor and Robin
Williams have most of the lines and they do reasonably well.

The film has a soul but the screenplay doesn't stick to the main plot.
There are several plot holes and perhaps (as fun as they are) too many
characters that lack development. In spite of its flaws, it's very much
watchable, especially with the family. It is visually stunning and
there are many funny moments, but there's surely something missing. You
don't take anything away with you after the film's finished.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't think that (with the notable exception of one thread here on
IMDb) this movie gets enough credit. The animation was darn good, and
the humor had me laughing an awful lot. As a comedy this certainly hit
the spot. I think if you enjoyed Ice Age, you could certainly find
yourself enjoying this film as well.

Sure, as some have pointed out the "characters weren't really
developed" and "there were a lot of characters involved". *shrug* Who
cares? I didn't sit down to watch this expecting to have a well-written
Shakespeare play acted out before me. I sat down expecting to enjoy
myself, laugh, and forget about the world around me (for the time
being, at least). This movie gets a check in all three columns.
<|_=00=_|>
From the previews, I expected this to be just another animated movie to
cash in on the success of other computer animated movies like Shrek,
Finding Nemo, Monsters Inc., etc. In a way, I guess it is, but it is
MUCH better than I would have thought from just the previews. This is a
good example of a film that did not give away most of the best parts in
a short trailer.

Robots is a pretty simple story about a young, naive robot named Rodney
Copperbottom (Ewan McGregor) who ventures into the big "Robot City" to
find success as an inventor and make a better life for himself and his
parents. He seeks out his hero, Mr. Bigweld (Mel Brooks), who promises
to personally check out each invention. Rodney finds that Bigweld is
nowhere to be found and the company has been taken over by the evil
robot, Ratchet (Greg Kinnear). Rodney and a crew of misfit robots, led
by Fender (Robin Williams), who he met when first arriving in Robot
City, take it upon themselves to figure out the mystery of Bigweld's
disappearance and to expose the evil Ratchet to the public.

Again, the story is simple, if anything, so the kids can enjoy it but
as you hear quite a bit with this new breed of animation movies, there
is enough humor for the average adult to enjoy as well. However, like
Finding Nemo, the real treat with this movie is the animation itself.
The beautiful sceneries and the slick new robots are awesome and pretty
original. Even the old, rusty robots are nice to look at. Also, as most
probably expected or have probably even read already, Robin Williams
takes this movie up a notch. That man is incredibly gifted when it
comes to entertaining. This movie is surprisingly good. 9/10
<|_=00=_|>
I left this film feeling high. Not because I literally ingested
anything before arriving at the theatre, but because the movie provided
that familiar feeling of one's brain being reduced to a muddled
receptor for bright colors and funny noises.

So about the story: boy robot leaves his home for the big-city, must
defeat evil robot trying to control the robot world. During this epic
quest he encounters a series of Disney-ish archetypes, including: wacky
robot sidekick (voiced by Robin Williams, natch), bland robot love
interest (Halle Berry, spending all of maybe three hours in the
recording studio), and a spunky tomboy robot (voiced by some
unmemorable tween star).

The storyline, such as it is, could probably fill a single half-hour
slot on Nickelodeon. There are a few funny bits of dialogue (provided
by off-Broadway scribe David Lindsay Abaire), but mostly the script is
just the filler before the next elaborate visual sequence dreamed up by
the animators.

And don't get me wrong: those visual sequences are pretty cool. I can't
quite decide which is more impressive: the hyperkinetic ride through
the immaculately detailed robot city or a complicated sequence
involving thousands of dominoes. The art department clearly put a
mind-boggling amount of effort into creating a fully realized world.

But that, unfortunately, is all there is. An awesomely rendered
environment with nothing in the foreground. Many of the characters,
particularly the protagonist, feel like little more than rough
outlines. The relationships between characters feel like tacked-on
afterthoughts. This is compounded by the most lackluster and
non-distinctive voice work I've ever heard from major movie stars (Ewan
McGregor and Halle Berry sound so bored, I would have preferred they
hire interns from the accounting department).

I recommend this film slightly, simply because of the stunning visuals.
But otherwise, with the success of truly subversive CGI films like The
Incredibles and Shrek, Robots just doesn't cut it.
