
When Anchorman came into theaters, I avoided it like a dead sewer rat.
When it came onto HBO, I pretended it didn't exist. In fact, I would
not have even LOOKED at it had my remote control not stuck on the
stupid channel. So I watched a few minutes. I didn't laugh. I wasn't
surprised.

Then one day, surfing the premium movie channels, I was thoroughly
unimpressed by the offerings. So I turned on Anchorman, about 5 minutes
in. For the next hour and a half, I proceeded to laugh hysterically.
Scene after scene, line after line, I found new reasons to laugh. By
the end, I could hardly breathe.

Unconvinced that I had stumbled upon a a re-watchable movie, I tested
and retested it over and over. And over. Result confirmed.

Anchorman tells a simple story: acclaimed (and consequently arrogant)
news anchor Ron Burgundy is forced to adapt when an attractive new
female member of the Channel 4 news team (Applegate) begins changing
the way he and his quirky news team work. That's it. This story is
predictable, prescription-esquire, boring. But Anchorman does not draw
it's strength from story. It draws from the hilarious situations. It
draws from randomness. It draws from brief--but memorable--cameos. It
draws from those 100 or so unforgettable one-liners.

That is, if you're looking for cinema, for a fine work of
craftsmanship, a eloquent script, and an Oscar nomination, go watch a
FILM. If you find randomness hilarious, then watch this MOVIE.
<|_=00=_|>
In a year packed with comedies that were all a bit stupid and silly
(and all seemed to feature Ben Stiller), Anchorman: The Legend Of Ron
Burgundy reigns supreme above them all. This is a movie that is well
aware of its own stupidity, and best of all, it is able to embrace it
skillfully so that it is exactly as silly and immature as it wants to
be. It is such a great comedy; I'd consider it the Naked Gun of our
generation.

As apposed to many, many, other comedies, Anchorman actually gets
better as it moves along. Most of the time a comedy like this will use
up all the laughs in the first hour and then try to take a serious,
lovey-dovey turn in the last act. There are more laughs in the last
half hour than in the first half hour, which usually is never the case.
It's as if there was some mathematical comedic formula that spread the
laughs out in a way that it was consistently funny. Or, maybe they just
got lucky. I dunno.

I loved all the characters in the movie, every role no matter how small
had a great moment or two. Will Ferrel of course, the star of the movie
who is just perfect as Ron. He's so so funny 'cause he's such a lovable
idiot. Even Christina Appelgate, who was in a role that quite honestly
anyone could have done, is able to make it her own and provide some
laughs. There is a scene that has a lot of cameos that was hilarious as
well. It was one of those moments that takes you completely by
surprise.

So, what else can I say except that I loved Anchorman! It's the best
"stupid" comedy I've seen in years. This is Will Ferrel at his best and
it will be hard to top.

My rating: 9/10
<|_=00=_|>
This summer I've seen several intentionally stupid funny movies, and
enjoyed them. Adam McKay's "Anchorman: The Legend of Ron Burgundy" is
no exception. Seems that my taste for high concept cinema has been
influenced by the summer-- well not really. This movie written by McKay
and it's star Will Ferrell is an outrageous and completely over the top
comedy. Applaud Will Ferrell as the mind bendingly stupid and self
absorbed, San Diego newscaster, Ron Burgundy. Will Ferrell is genius in
playing Ron straight without character dispersions. Ferrell creates a
great deadpan sense with his cohabiting dog, Baxter, and the fact that
his character Ron Burgundy will read ANYTHING on the teleprompter, his
tragic flaw, well at least one of several, is priceless. Ferrell also
never crosses the line of being a complete jerk which is an amazing
accomplishment. In fact, Ferrell gives Ron a muted charm-- he really
does grow on you. 

Basically, "Anchorman" is an extended sitcom. Ron is informed by his
station manager, Ed (a funny Fred Willard), that he will have a
co-anchor, Veronica Corningstone (a hot Christina Applegate). Turns out
that Veronica was a woman whom was immune to Ron's vast charm at a wild
news crew party. Veronica is beautiful, ambitious, and smart. She too
has aspirations of being a Network Anchor. The Boys Club news crew
which include sportscaster Champ Kind (David Koechner), feature story
guy Brian Fantana (Paul Rudd), and the dumb as a post weatherman Brick
Tamland (Steven Carell) all make their play for Veronica. However, she
falls for Ron in spite of himself. Ron eventually woos her affections
in a totally wacky jazz flute display. The screen writing is so skewed
in a good way, and it has absolutely no shame. There is a classic scene
with Ron's dog Baxter, and a bridge that according to my bud, John,
shatters a fundamental script writing rule. In another memorable scene
Ron gives an erroneous translation of the name San Diego to Veronica
that is hilarious. "Anchorman" also benefits from cameos of talented
actors, most notably Vince Vaughn as Wes Mantooth, the rival station
anchor. Christina Applegate looks great, and truly has a talent for
comedy. 

"Anchorman" is completely over the top, and ignores any boundaries.
That really makes it work. "Anchorman" is broad stroke farce done well.
Will Ferrell demonstrates great comedic gifts. I want to see what he
creates next. For now, "Anchorman" is just great fun, and very funny
stuff.
<|_=00=_|>
I was never as excited about this movie as my boyfriend was, mostly
because I chalk Will Ferrell's humor up to the level of fratboy hijinx,
sex jokes, and toilet humor. But I was willing to chill on the couch
and watch the hour and a half comedy. I liked him okay on SNL, and I
was mildly amused my Old School. I thought it would be a nice way to
relax on a Monday night.

And relax I did...almost to the point of falling asleep. Not only were
the jokes not funny, there were so few of them. Long periods of
boring-ness separated the gags, which included, and I still cannot
believe this, Will Farrell and Christina Applegate riding around on
animated unicorns, Paul Rudd spraying on cologne that contained chunks
of raw meat (panther), Luke Wilson getting his arm chopped off (not
even worthy of the Monty Python memory it conjures up), and Will
Farrell ACTUALLY EATING A PIECE OF FECES.

Have we come to this? Is this what's supposed to make us laugh now?
Even the most quotable line from the movie, which the men in my life
will not stop repeating, is "you smell like big foot's dick." Even that
just isn't funny. (note: watch Napoleon Dynamite if you want some real
quotable material.) The only redeeming qualities of the movie are
Steven Carell and Jack Black's brief scene with Baxter, the dog. If
you've seen it, you know what I'm talking about.
"Biker...Punted...Baxter" Save your time and your money on this one. I
sure am glad I didn't have to pay to see it...
<|_=00=_|>
May contain spoilers. Word of advice: Don't see this movie. I saw the
previews for it and they convinced me that it was hilarious. Anyway, I
like Will Ferrell, so I went to go see it in the theatres. I don't know
why I didn't walk out. There was absolutely no plot. I had no idea what
was going on. 90% of the movie is literally just Will Ferrell, Steve
Carell and some other people standing around in tacky suits shouting
nonsensical, unfunny phrases at the top of their lungs. The actors
clearly think that they're the funniest people on the planet and they
couldn't be farther from the truth. At the end of the movie the writers
suddenly remember this is supposed to be a movie and not random clips
of the actors goofing off in front of the camera, so Christina
Applegate gets trapped in a bear cage or something, Will Ferrell saves
her, the end. Or something.
<|_=00=_|>

My expectations were low. I've liked Will Ferrell's brand of soft-edged
mania well enough in the past, but not enough to go see a movie just because
he's in it. I went because I remember San Diego in the 1970's, and even the
network news in that sleepy city in that era.

As I say, my expectations were low, and I was still very disappointed. I
realize it's the 14-year-old inside this was aimed at, not my 41-year-old
outside -- but I know a lot of teenagers, and none of them are stupid enough
to enjoy this. The script was atrocious, even when you're not bothering to
score for plot. Most of the jokes and set pieces were lame -- even
"Afternoon Delight" fell flat. 

The performances were no better. Will Farrell was not much more than
present. I've seen him show more heart in SNL sketches, or even as the cop
on the trail in the Jay and Silent Bob movie. Fred Willard, so brilliant in
Best in Show, looked sad and tired. Most strangely, the comedy casting at
the center was deeply flawed. Two of the three sidekicks were worthless:
just...not...funny. Not even for one second. Steve Carell was funny, or at
least absurd, for about five seconds. 

You know you're watching a bad movie when the senseless cameos and animal
dialogs are the only things you can summon up as enjoyable memories. Waste
no money or time on this turkey!
<|_=00=_|>

The most devoted cineastes and the average hoi polloi moviegoers both
need to kick back and laugh, without probing or analysis, at a
goofball, outrageously funny comedy with zero depth. And that's exactly
what director Adam McKay (also co-writer with star Will Ferrell)
provides in "Anchorman." A very warm summer day, like today, was
perfect for the quick gags and physical comedy of this nutty flick.
Maybe it's even more of a relief for us folks who are still arguing
with each other about "Fahrenheit 9/11" and "Control Room,"
documentaries that make us confront a difficult present and a tenuous
future.

Will Ferrell is TV news anchor Ron Burgundy in 1970s San Diego. This is
Pre-B.W. (Barbara Walters), a dark age when men reported the news
almost exclusively. Burgundy, shallow and self-absorbed without
redemption, chases skirts and is so genuinely stupid he reads ANYTHING
on the teleprompter. His news crew consists of adulators and one
misfit, Brick Tamland, played with unremitting mental blankness by
Steve Carrell. Burgundy's dog is a delight, a pooch who can bark in a
few languages.

The "Men's Club" is jolted by the station honcho's decision to add a
woman to the newsroom, largely to appease the network satraps. He says
it's necessary in the interests of "diversity," a word one staff member
doesn't even understand. Enter pretty but tough Veronica Corningstone,
Christina Applegate. Applegate makes what really is a tough comedic
role work completely.

A misadventure by Burgundy results in Veronica's pinch-hitting chance
to anchor the evening news. Veronica scores big time. She and Ron are
already lovers and she expects him to be thrilled that his absence was
her big break. No way and the rest of the film is Ron's Revenge and
Veronica's Counterattack.

A subplot is the rivalry between Ron and his crew and the mobile news
gatherers of competing stations. This ends in a donnybrook reminiscent
of the silent film era having no rhyme or reason. The other stations'
combatants are led by Vince Vaughn, Ben Stiller and Tim Robbins.
Robbins, one of the most intelligent and versatile personalities in
film and stage today, should be watched closely. He almost loses his
composure acting the zany script. Even Jack Black makes it into the
flick as a dedicated junkie.

Don't miss the outtakes as the end credits role, especially Ferrell's
last comment on what the movie really is.

Pure summer fun-laugh, be happy.

8/10

<|_=00=_|>
"Anchorman: The Legend of Ron Burgundy" takes us back to those halcyon
days of the 1970's, when the hair was as big as the lapels and women
were just beginning to assume their rightful place in America's
television newsrooms.

Will Ferrell plays a Ted Baxter-type anchorman (is it mere coincidence
that his dog is named Baxter?) - vain, narcissistic, none too gifted in
the brains department - who has worked for years as the sole news
dispenser at a top-rated San Diego station. All is going well for Ron
Burgundy until the station manager decides the newscast needs a bit
more "diversity" and hires a female reporter named Veronica Cornerstone
(Christina Applegate) to come on board. Cornerstone is a brainy,
blow-dried blonde with a driving ambition to be the first female anchor
on network news. Since most of the men who work at the station,
including Burgundy, are dyed-in-the-wool misogynists, Ms. Cornerstone
faces an uphill battle of sexist comments, schoolboy pranks, and subtle
(and not so subtle) undermining as she climbs her way to the top
(though she is not above pulling a few dirty tricks herself to get what
she wants). Things really get dicey when Burgundy and Cornerstone begin
dating and quickly fall in love, a situation rife with potential
disaster as Cornerstone begins to encroach on Burgundy's professional
territory.

"Anchorman" is a light-hearted, enjoyable little comedy that, unlike a
full-throated satire (say, like "Network"), often goes for the easy
laugh instead of the incisive barb. The movie is at its best when it is
parodying the corny graphics and the tendency to over hype the trivial
("Panda Watch: Day 46") that define modern newscasts - and at its worst
when it is indulging in silly, often scatological jokes and slapstick
throw away bits. Like most mainstream comedies, the humor in
"Anchorman" ranges from the mildly funny to the downright hilarious,
the latter including a clever "West Side Story" parody involving a
rumble between rival news teams, and a conversation between a dog and a
bear that ends the movie on a ludicrous but knee-slapping high note.

Ferrell (who co-wrote the film) is his usual manic self, unctuous but
likable, and Applegate, Paul Rudd, Steve Carell, David Koechner, and
Fred Willard do fine work in supporting roles. Moreover,
writer/director Adam McKay provides a smattering of guest appearances
from such well known stars as Jack Black, Luke Wilson, Tim Robbins,
Vince Vaughn, Jerry Stiller and even Ben Stiller, many of who are not
listed in the official credits.

"Anchorman" goes down easily - a bit too easily, perhaps, for a film
that, with a little more courage, might have become a scathing satire
on an industry that could do with a little merciless skewering right
about now. Still, "Anchorman" is fun while it lasts - and these days
we'll settle for what we can get when it comes to laughs.
<|_=00=_|>

I went to "Anchorman" expecting another super-mainstream,
lowest-common-denominator, SNL-derived romp. Now, these aren't the
worst movies in the world, to be sure. "Happy Gilmore" and "Old School"
are pretty agreeable ways to while away the time. But usually about an
hour in to these affairs, I've had enough of the broadness and
predictability, which starts to get downright oppressive. It's not just
that they're lowbrow--it's that they're so overwhelmingly,
disappointingly conventional.

Luckily, this isn't what "Anchorman" is. "Anchorman" is a refreshingly
off-kilter outing from an unlikely source--Will Ferrell, the current
reigning lord of middle-of-the-road fratboy Sandlerism. The film has a
lot more in common with Mel Brooks and Zucker-Abrahams-Zucker than
anything in the SNL family tree. It prizes out-and-out silliness and
absurdity over bathroom humor and penis jokes (though there's plenty of
the latter, don't worry), and pulls it off admirably. In essence, the
key to this stuff is never letting off of the goofiness even for a
second--the audience should never be allowed to take anything
seriously.

"Anchorman" achieves this with exceedingly silly and bizarre dialogue
complemented by killer comic performances from Ferrell, Paul Rudd,
Vince Vaughn and Steve Carrel. You'd have to be lobotomized to maintain
a straight face through lines like "It's made with bits of real
panther. So you know it's good." and "I'm riding a big, furry tractor!"
The direction and pacing are also pretty solid at times, and the
requisite celeb cameos are very nicely done (especially in one
particular scene which I wouldn't dream of ruining).

The film's not without its flaws, certainly. Chief among them is the
wasting of one of the best comic character actors in the biz: Fred
Willard. If ever there was someone born to play a smarmy local TV
newsman, Willard is it. But he's inexplicably cast here as a dull
station suit, while David Koechner plods through the sportscaster role
that was clearly meant for him--passable but certainly not as inspired
as Willard would have been. Also, I think that the story would have
benefited if Vaughn and his cronies, the closest thing to villains in
this lightheaded romp, had a little more face time.

But these are comparatively minor problems--the point is that Ferrel
has given us something that's really funny in a way that's appreciably
different from the endless SNL movie-mill. It's not Monty Python, but
it is a healthy departure from what has become the comic mainstream.
Most importantly, the laughs are frequent, long, and deep--check it out
and you won't be disappointed.

<|_=00=_|>
Personally I just can't believe why such big names in film comedy
decided this would be a good film for their careers. The only thing I
can think of is that they all realised how many comedy stars were going
to be in it and thought 'why not?'.

I did not see this in the cinema, and friends who I must say have a
very similar comedic taste to mine told me about it, and swore by it as
"comedy genius". Yes, I like stupid films, and this is a stupid film,
but this really takes the biscuit, its pathetic. I didn't really like
the look of it but when my friends told me it starred Will Ferrell,
Vince Vaughn, Paul Rudd, Steve Carrel and cameos from Ben Stiller,
Luke Wilson and othersI thought, how can this be a bad movie?! Well,
it was. Poor plot (come to think of it, there didn't seem to be a
plot), and even worse jokes. This really goes to show that these actors
cannot be funny people, because if they were they could have nailed
this film even though it has no plot. The only saviour of this film was
Steve Carell as Brick who's complete randomness is admittedly hilarious
but unfortunately not enough to make this a good film. Instead you are
subject to poor, cringe worthy gags, and sparse prolonged periods of
nothing. Apart from that, I was disappointed in my friends for telling
me to watch it, I really did try to like this film and find it funny,
but I just couldn't. You need the brain of a very dull 10 year old that
finds fart noises funny to find this film even mildly amusing. Everyone
I know either loves it, or hates it. So if you like plot-less stupid
films, with very very few moments of any comedy value at all, watch it.
If not, buy something else. But if it is on TV, its worth watching 10
minutes of it just for the jaw dropping amazement of how poor it is.
