
I saw this film on September 1st, 2005 in Indianapolis. I am one of the
judges for the Heartland Film Festival that screens films for their
Truly Moving Picture Award. A Truly Moving Picture "...explores the
human journey by artistically expressing hope and respect for the
positive values of life." Heartland gave that award to this film.

This is a story of golf in the early part of the 20th century. At that
time, it was the game of upper class and rich "gentlemen", and working
people could only participate by being caddies at country clubs. With
this backdrop, this based-on-a-true-story unfolds with a young, working
class boy who takes on the golf establishment and the greatest golfer
in the world, Harry Vardon.

And the story is inspirational. Against all odds, Francis Ouimet
(played by Shia LaBeouf of "Holes") gets to compete against the
greatest golfers of the U.S. and Great Britain at the 1913 U.S. Open.
Francis is ill-prepared, and has a child for a caddy. (The caddy is
hilarious and motivational and steals every scene he appears in.) But
despite these handicaps, Francis displays courage, spirit, heroism, and
humility at this world class event.

And, we learn a lot about the early years of golf; for example, the use
of small wooden clubs, the layout of the short holes, the manual
scoreboard, the golfers swinging with pipes in their mouths, the
terrible conditions of the greens and fairways, and the play not being
canceled even in torrential rain.

This film has stunning cinematography and art direction and editing.
And with no big movie stars, the story is somehow more believable.

This adds to the inventory of great sports movies in the vein of
"Miracle" and "Remember the Titans."

FYI - There is a Truly Moving Pictures web site where there is a
listing of past winners going back 70 years.
<|_=00=_|>
Bill Paxton has taken the true story of the 1913 US golf open and made
a film that is about much more than an extra-ordinary game of golf. The
film also deals directly with the class tensions of the early twentieth
century and touches upon the profound anti-Catholic prejudices of both
the British and American establishments. But at heart the film is about
that perennial favourite of triumph against the odds.

The acting is exemplary throughout. Stephen Dillane is excellent as
usual, but the revelation of the movie is Shia LaBoeuf who delivers a
disciplined, dignified and highly sympathetic performance as a working
class Franco-Irish kid fighting his way through the prejudices of the
New England WASP establishment. For those who are only familiar with
his slap-stick performances in "Even Stevens" this demonstration of his
maturity is a delightful surprise. And Josh Flitter as the ten year old
caddy threatens to steal every scene in which he appears.

A old fashioned movie in the best sense of the word: fine acting, clear
directing and a great story that grips to the end - the final scene an
affectionate nod to Casablanca is just one of the many pleasures that
fill a great movie.
<|_=00=_|>
As a recreational golfer with some knowledge of the sport's history, I
was pleased with Disney's sensitivity to the issues of class in golf in
the early twentieth century. The movie depicted well the psychological
battles that Harry Vardon fought within himself, from his childhood
trauma of being evicted to his own inability to break that glass
ceiling that prevents him from being accepted as an equal in English
golf society. Likewise, the young Ouimet goes through his own class
struggles, being a mere caddie in the eyes of the upper crust Americans
who scoff at his attempts to rise above his standing. 

What I loved best, however, is how this theme of class is manifested in
the characters of Ouimet's parents. His father is a working-class drone
who sees the value of hard work but is intimidated by the upper class;
his mother, however, recognizes her son's talent and desire and
encourages him to pursue his dream of competing against those who think
he is inferior.

Finally, the golf scenes are well photographed. Although the course
used in the movie was not the actual site of the historical tournament,
the little liberties taken by Disney do not detract from the beauty of
the film. There's one little Disney moment at the pool table;
otherwise, the viewer does not really think Disney. The ending, as in
"Miracle," is not some Disney creation, but one that only human history
could have written.
<|_=00=_|>
Although I'm not a golf fan, I attended a sneak preview of this movie
and absolutely loved it. The historical settings, the blatant class
distinctions, and seeing the good and the bad on both sides of the
dividing line held my attention throughout. The actors and their
characterizations were all mesmerizing. And I was on the edge of my
seat during the golf segments, which were not only dramatic and
exciting but easy to follow. Toward the end of this movie, "Seabiscuit"
came strongly to mind, although "The Greatest Game Ever Played" is far
less complex a story than that film. In both cases, the fact that the
events really happened deepened my interest.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film in a sneak preview, and it is delightful. The
cinematography is unusually creative, the acting is good, and the story
is fabulous. If this movie does not do well, it won't be because it
doesn't deserve to. Before this film, I didn't realize how charming
Shia Lebouf could be. He does a marvelous, self-contained, job as the
lead. There's something incredibly sweet about him, and it makes the
movie even better. The other actors do a good job as well, and the film
contains moments of really high suspense, more than one might expect
from a movie about golf. Sports movies are a dime a dozen, but this one
stands out. 

This is one I'd recommend to anyone.
<|_=00=_|>
Actor turned director Bill Paxton follows up his promising debut, the
Gothic-horror "Frailty", with this family friendly sports drama about
the 1913 U.S. Open where a young American caddy rises from his humble
background to play against his Bristish idol in what was dubbed as "The
Greatest Game Ever Played." I'm no fan of golf, and these scrappy
underdog sports flicks are a dime a dozen (most recently done to grand
effect with "Miracle" and "Cinderella Man"), but some how this film was
enthralling all the same.

The film starts with some creative opening credits (imagine a
Disneyfied version of the animated opening credits of HBO's "Carnivale"
and "Rome"), but lumbers along slowly for its first by-the-numbers
hour. Once the action moves to the U.S. Open things pick up very well.
Paxton does a nice job and shows a knack for effective directorial
flourishes (I loved the rain-soaked montage of the action on day two of
the open) that propel the plot further or add some unexpected
psychological depth to the proceedings. There's some compelling
character development when the British Harry Vardon is haunted by
images of the aristocrats in black suits and top hats who destroyed his
family cottage as a child to make way for a golf course. He also does a
good job of visually depicting what goes on in the players' heads under
pressure. Golf, a painfully boring sport, is brought vividly alive
here. Credit should also be given the set designers and costume
department for creating an engaging period-piece atmosphere of London
and Boston at the beginning of the twentieth century.

You know how this is going to end not only because it's based on a true
story but also because films in this genre follow the same template
over and over, but Paxton puts on a better than average show and
perhaps indicates more talent behind the camera than he ever had in
front of it. Despite the formulaic nature, this is a nice and easy film
to root for that deserves to find an audience.
<|_=00=_|>
I was extraordinarily impressed by this film. It's one of the best
sports films I've every seen. The visuals in this film are outstanding.
I love the sequences in which the camera tracks the ball as it flies
through the air or into the cup. The film moves well, offering both
excitement and drama. The cinematography was fantastic. 

The acting performances are great. I was surprised by young Shia
LaBeouf.He does well in this role. Stephen Dillane is also good as the
brooding Harry Vardon. Peter Firth, Justin Ashforth, and Elias Koteas
offer able support. The film is gripping and entertaining and for the
first time in my life actually made me want to watch a golf tournament.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie gives golf a high mark, it was well acted and well directed.
Giving you a view of history that some non-sports fans will enjoy. The
historic factor alone gives it a high rating, the Brookline golf course
was really done well. I am in the northeast and have seen Brookline as
a fan, and as someone who loves the game. The movie was well done on
all levels. A MUST SEE 5 stars. The acting was superb, Disney has
another winner in its bag of Great movies. If for no other reason watch
the film to give hope and encouragement to young people whom may not
see the hope in their life. I would tell you that the setting, while in
the late 1800's and early 1900's is very realistic. The costumes and
dialect were right on the mark as well. Above and beyond the call of
duty for a golf film. A Must see for fans and non-fans alike.
<|_=00=_|>
Wow, here is another great golf movie. That's at least three in the
past few years that I've really enjoyed, that were well-done,
beautifully-filmed and inspirational. The other two were "Bobby Jones:
Stroke of Genius" and "The Legend Of Bagger Vance."

This is a true underdog story, if there ever was one. To have an
amateur defeat all the professionals and win the United States Open
Golf Tournament is an unheard-of feat. I believe this is the only time
in the 100 years it has ever been accomplished. How much of this film
is fiction embellished for dramatic effect, I don't know. I do know
that I plan on reading the book, and I know that in real-life, Francis
Ouimet had a three-stroke lead in playoff with just two holes to go,
unlike what we saw in the film.

Whatever. Francis Ouimet's victory over golf legends Harry Vardon and
Ted Ray is fact. It is an amazing story and the filmmakers did a super
job in presenting it here. It isn't something just for golf fans; this
is a fun movie. Kudso to actor-turned-director Bill Paxton for an
outstanding job.

Yes, a lot of this is just plain golf but there are subplots such as
Ouimet's relationship with his father and with a pretty young woman who
is obviously interested in him. It's also a touching story of someone
giving a little kid a chance. The movie also deals with Vardon's demons
of coming from the wrong side of the tracks and trying to make it in an
elitist's sport, which it was at the time for both Europeans and
Americans.

Shia LaBeouf is winsome as Ouimet as is Steven Dillane as Vardon. For
those who don't know, Vardon was like the Tiger Woods of his day, maybe
even more unbeatable. In the film, Vardon is pictured as a warm, nice
guy; a genuine human being. the other major competitor, Ray (Stephen
Marcus) is shown as somewhat of a brutish nasty guy. 

The fourth main character of this golf story might be the coolest
person in the film: a fifth-grade boy who winds up being Ouimet's
caddie in the Open. He (Josh Flitter) brings a lot of humor and charm
to the movie.

If all of this - a playoff with the huge underdog against two mighty
pros and having come down to the last hole - were not true, you would
think, "Oh, man, this is so hokey. Who could believe this?" That's what
makes this true-life story fun to see finally captured on film. As with
another sports film of 2005 - "Cinderella Man" - here is another
excellent movie that got unjustly ignored when it came to awards. I
guess nice films don't win awards.....just the hearts of their viewers.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not a sports fan - but I love sports flics! So, why ... what is a
great sports flic ... this one. And the storytelling style, is very
fine.

If you are looking for a reliably fantastic 2 hours of entertainment,
"Greatest Game" qualifies mightily. Here is a movie that moves. Bill
Paxton has gone to the same Director school as Ron Howard - a.k.a.
Richie Cunningham, "Happy Days". That is not bad. Look at the immense
body of fine work that Ron did after moving behind the camera.

Bill like Ron was a great actor, but will be a superstar director if
"Greatest Game Ever" is the indication of things to follow.

Wonderful cinematography - fantastic direction - fine acting,
especially by Elias Koteas, Shia LeBeouf, Marnie McPhail, Josh Flitter,
Stephen Marcus, Justin Ashforth.

This is a must see film not just as "feel-good", nor "sports film",
this is very good cinema.
