
It was a real ordeal to get into the screening. The anticipation was
palpable. The film arrived surrounded by a plethora of innuendo. "A gay
western" "Heath and Jake's hot scenes" As soon as the film started
every imaginable preconception flew out of the auditorium. This is a
remarkable, moving and powerful love story. The setting is that of a
modern western "The Last Picture Show" comes to mind. Ang Lee's
attention to detail verges on science fiction. You can actually smell
the place. Extraordinary. I'm not going to reveal anything about the
story - Gian Luigi Rondi a legendary Italian film critic, revealed the
ending to a television audience, what was he thinking?! - The film will
be enjoyed much more allowing the story to unfold without having
passages underlined and attention drawn to this or that particular. I
felt compelled to write this comment because I'm overwhelmed. It has
changed my perception, I must confess, about certain aspect of same sex
love because I didn't think of same sex when I was watching it, I saw
two human beings (amazing performances by both actors)I have the
feeling "Brokeback Mountain" will make history, deservedly so.
<|_=00=_|>
The feeling lingers. The images come back, not to haunt you but to
reassure you. There is an element of hope within the melancholic
sadness of this Ang Lee masterpiece. There hasn't been such a limpid
definition of love since the world was still innocent. Limpid, yes,
that's the word that comes to mind, remembering the shy lopsided smile
of the extraordinary Heath Ledger. Who could possibly have predicted
that Heath Ledger was such a giant, unquestionably destined to a
legendary career. Well, Ang Lee I guess. Lee seems in total control of
his canvas. Every frame is a moment, the silences are exquisite, the
humans are as humans are and we're allowed to dive into their hearts
without tricks without illusions. Raw, limpid, poetic and above all,
true. I can't wait for the world to meet Jack and Ennis in this
startling Ang Lee, Larry McMurtry universe.
<|_=00=_|>
What an extraordinary accomplishment! Ang Lee presents us with
something we've known about but we've never seen. Profoundly honest,
stunning to look at, superbly acted. I could go on with the
superlatives because I feel lifted by the experience. You've all heard
the ins and outs of the subject treated here. Well, forget it, the
words used are used words and do not apply here. "Brokeback Mountain"
introduce us to something utterly new, daring you and me to be
indifferent. The film is about us, really. Love as an unexpected blow
that makes you find and confront yourself. Jake Gylenhaal gives a
performance that you'll never forget. Michelle Williams and Ann
Hathaway are incredibly good but the film belongs to Heath Ledger. I'm
not going to talk about revelations or Oscar buzz, I'm just going to
let you know that what he does in this film is so courageously
beautiful, so truthful and so transcendental that his Ennis del Mar is
bound to become a point of reference not just for us but for
generations to come.
<|_=00=_|>
The film was received by a long and heartfelt applause at the Venice
Film Festival. I was kind of numb. Ang Lee, the magician, had dazzle
his audience with another masterful trick. I'm not going to spoil the
experience for you by telling you much about the film but as a way to
share my own personal journey "Brokeback Mountain" inspired me to
undertake, let me say that it's been one of the most unexpected
emotional rides I've ever had in a movie theatre. A love story like no
other, told without inhibitions, without cheap shots. With an honesty
that is more unique than rare. Heath Ledger is, quite simply,
extraordinary and Jake Gyllenhaal's commitment moved me and enthralled
me. I can't wait to see it again.
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw this at the Toronto International Film Festival (TIFF) to a
packed house (with Ang Lee present for today's screening). And I have
to say, it absolutely transfixed me and was worth the watch. Out of 24
movies I screened at the TIFF this year, this was the only one I rated
a 10/10! Three things really stood out for me making this a stand-out
of a film:

1) HONESTY: Heath Ledger and Jake Gyllenhaal really pulled this off. I
wasn't expecting performances so real and nuanced, and was warmly
surprised. Kudos, also, to Mr. Lee for making such a poignant and
refreshingly honest film!

2) STORY: Great story-telling. In fact you're not actually being *told*
a story. The story unfolds and the viewer watches what happens pulling
you in. What a great experience! In fact, I want to experience this
story again -- I'm going to look for the short story.

3) NUMBING: In a thought-provoking kind of way. I left the theatre
digesting the story even as I sat on the streetcar thinking about the
characters. I cared for them, and wondered what could/might happen to
them after the screen went black. My mind was playing out scenarios and
in that sense, it was numbing, in a thought-provoking, emotionally
heavy way.

This is powerful cinema and is definitely worth checking out. It's the
best Ang Lee film I've seen to date (I've seen most, but not all of his
feature films).
<|_=00=_|>
I'm 23, and I find it hard to write this review. I saw the film exactly 
one week ago today and not a moment has gone by when I don't ache. It 
finds me in the shower; it haunts me in bed; it has filled my mind and 
clings to my thoughts, and it won't let up. I try to lie to myself, to 
find some solace by saying that it's just a movie, but I know better. 
Jack and Ennis are alive, and they represent so many aching people, so 
many untold stories. There is no contrivance, no manufactured 
importance; there are no tricks. Brokeback Mountain tells, with painful 
honesty and frankness, the story of two men's lives and nothing more. 
Whether you are gay or straight, it doesn't hit close to home: it hits 
you. Brokeback Mountain is a place we all most desperately yearn to go. 
It's where we can be free.

It feels funny to say that Brokeback Mountain is my favorite film of 
all time, because I think it almost an injustice to call it a film at 
all, or to critique its incredible technical sophistication. Somehow 
Brokeback Mountain transcends that. I could hear a thousand speeches 
celebrating diversity or read a hundred love stories and not be 
absolutely broken in just two hours as I was after this film. I've 
never felt waves of nausea come over me as I did sitting in that 
theater, my face contorted as I watched truth and honesty spill from 
the screen and onto moviegoers who had no idea what they were in for.

I am usually the first to point out bias, so I know my words might be 
mistaken for favoritism or blind loyalty. They should not. This movie 
will change your existence. I find so many things in my life trivial 
now in the wake of this film---for me, watching it was truly like 
having a near-death experience. And am I better for it? Yes. Broken and 
undone, but better.

For once in my life, I feel hope, and I've seen love.
<|_=00=_|>
I didn't believe for a moment that the film could live up to the hype,
or to some of the comments posted here, some of them read like love
letters to the film, to the director and the actors. Well, now, after
seeing the film, I feel like writing a love letter myself. The film
took over my senses and transported me. The tragedy that envelopes the
lives of Ennis and Jack is caused by an ancestral ignorance that is
part of our DNA and if you don't believe me read some of the hateful
comments posted here alongside the love letters. That's the heart of
the matter. After the summer in Brokeback Mountain, Ennis and Jack go
their separate ways and Ennis hits a wall with his fists crying, trying
to destroy his longing, self loathing, guilt, horror. Imagine in a
world without ignorance and therefore without hatred, Ennis and Jack
could have celebrated their love and attempt an honest life together.
Imagine also if things were the other way and heterosexuals were the
dark minority, imagine falling in love with a girl and having to keep
it secret, never been able to tell or to show publicly your love for
her. Men like Ennis, and there are many, have to curve their own
emotions and conform, entering and developing unhappy marriages and
why? Read some of the comments here and you'll understand why. There is
one that condemns the movie and what the movie may do for his kid and
his vision of cowboys without actually having seen the movie! That's
the heart of the matter. I will go and see the film again tomorrow, if
I can get tickets, I'm taking with me a group of people that hate the
movie already without having seen it. I won a bet so they will have to.
I'm taking them to diner later to talk. I intend to report the results
if you let me. But for the time being let me tell you, "Brokeback
Mountain" is an extraordinary film. Jake Gyllenhaal, Ann Hathaway and
the magnificent Michelle Williams give superb performances but it's
Heath Ledger's film. He gives us something that nobody could possibly
have expected because what he gives us is not only, honest and moving
and powerful but totally and utterly new.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw Brokeback Mountain at the Venice Film Festival (with Heath
Ledger, Jake Gyllenhaal, Anne Hatheway, and Ang Lee in attendance)and
it's been haunting me ever since. I had read Annie Proulx's short story
in the "New Yorker" years ago and it haunted me as well. What is it
about this story? It's a love story that starts out without love--and
finishes with a love that never ends. Congratulations to the director
and the entire cast, you did a great job. I wish you much success,
although with the theme being so "delicate", it may have trouble
finding a big audience in the U.S. The audience here in Europe, I can
say, thought it was great.
<|_=00=_|>
Unable to wait any longer for the official December debut of Brokeback
Mountain, I flew from Texas to the Toronto International Film Festival
this past weekend specifically to see the Canadian premiere of the
film. It was truly one of the top two movies I've ever seen in all my
36 years. I had read the short story by Annie Proulx twice prior to
seeing the film. The movie unfolded exactly as I had pictured the
events and characters in my mind. Larry McMurtry and the author did
well to portray the harsh lives of two very poor young men who had
nothing but the raw beauty of rural Wyoming and themselves to bring
them comfort in an otherwise unforgiving time in their lives. I was
seriously moved by this movie. You'll find that it will be forever
etched in your mind as it tends to haunt you afterward with a
bittersweet yearning for that impossible, unfinished love the two men
shared. If you have a chance to read the book, do. It will explain some
of the scenes in the film that otherwise don't make sense. Seriously -
this film will live with you for a long, long time.
<|_=00=_|>
I was lucky to get a ticket to the second screening of Brokeback
Mountain at the Toronto Int'l Film Fest in September, months before the
well-deserved hype kicked in. This is an absolutely beautiful movie.
From a gay man's perspective, the love story was both satisfying and
heart-breaking.

Heath Ledger and Jake Gyllenhaal give equally moving and accomplished
performances, although the story tends to focus more on Ledger's
character. Heath is note perfect in this role. I didn't detect a false
moment once from him. Regardless of whether or not he wins the Oscar,
his performance in this movie will be watched and admired for years to
come as a landmark in acting. I truly related to his character's
internalized homophobia. Every gay man has been there before. In many
ways, he represents the embodiment of shame and self-hate, a product of
his American, western culture. The flashback showing his father take
him as a boy to look at the dead body of some murdered gay man should
be shown to every Christian fundamentalist out there who ever argued
(and continue to argue) that homosexuality is a choice and that gay men
and lesbians are nurtured by their environment. I've seen the movie
three times now, and Heath brings tears to my eyes every time - he's so
good. 

Jake is also incredible, sweet, nuanced, loving. He had the difficult
part of being essentially the "love interest" rather than the main
character. By the end, he personifies the tragedy of hopes that never
come to be - as captured perfectly by Lee with the cut between the
flashback of Jake's longing and beautiful face next to Jake 20 years
later worn down by the weight of dashed dreams, wondering what could
have been. This is one of those movies where you find that you fully
appreciate both performances of the two men, Heath and Jake, equally,
but perhaps one before the other over time. I was first blown away by
Heath's performance, which seemed to eclipse Jake's performance - but
over time, I've learned to truly appreciate what Gyllenhaal did here
and how utterly perfect his portrayal really is. 

The other performances in this movie are all first-rate, especially
Michelle Williams who is the portrait of vulnerability in this movie.
She deserves all the accolades she's received for this performance.
Anne Hathaway did well too with very little screen time, but knocked it
out of the park with the phone call scene at the end (incidentally, the
only scene her character even had in the original short story.) 

The movie should become both an American love story classic, as well as
a gay classic. Glad to have someone of Ang Lee's talent take on a
project like this. What an amazing man he is!
