

(SPOILERS for both the original and the remake) 

This was not a bad movie on its own terms. Good cast, stylish direction
by Jonathan Demme (though now in his trademark style: huge close-ups of
people looking right at the camera), some nice suspense. 

But everything – and I mean everything – that made the original
'Manchurian Candidate' an unforgettable classic has been forcibly
removed or revamped into dumbed-down mediocrity for our sped-up,
sound-bite-ridden, politicized times. 

Part of the problem, indeed , is that we can't make a 1962 movie today.
We're way in the future now, and the quiet, rather straightforward
simplicity of the original could not be put on the screen today (Van
Sant tried it with his shot-by-shot 'Psycho' and it didn't work.)

So instead of beginning (after a brief prologue) with a brilliant
credit-sequence and David Amram's deeply sad and aching score, the new
one begins with a herky-jerky burst of loud rock music and a
helter-skelter barrage of images of war. It's 2004, kids, enough of
that quiet emotional crap. 

 From the start, the original had emotional resonance via its music and
credit portraits of the pensive lead players alone. From the start, the
new movie has no emotional resonance at all. The biggest shock is how
the emotion has been sucked out of the story, entirely. 

In the original, when Raymond killed the Senator and his daughter, the
daughter was Raymond's new wife, the woman he deeply loved, the only
person in the world who might possibly save Raymond from the
pre-programmed horror of his life. Raymond's killing of those two
people was the turning point of the entire film – and filmed by John
Frankenheimer as a dazzling Wellesian cinema sequence with the symbolic
wit of the film's dark comedy (the milquetoast liberal Senator dies
shot through a carton of milk, his bleeding heart bleeding the milk of
human kindness.) 

All gone now in the remake's bizarre attempt to merge the murder scene
with Raymond's great 'jump in the lake' scene from the original. The
Senator's daughter (who looks oddly like Marilyn Manson) barely cares
about Raymond anymore. His killing her is of little emotional pain. 

The karate fight is gone, which means the new film is action-free, but
something else important is missing: 

In the original, Raymond sees his 'houseboy,' and doesn't recognize him
as the man who betrayed and tortured him. Marco sees the same
'houseboy,' recognizes him on sight, and launches his furious payback
attack.

There was a POINT to that. Raymond was weak, controllable. Marco was
tough; his brainwashing didn't take. The contrast of tough Marco and
sneering, weak Raymond, and their bonding as fellow brainwashees, was
emotional and meaningful. The new Marco and Raymond prove, near the
end, essentially interchangeable. 

The simply magnificent 'garden party' dream sequences of the original
have been removed and replaced with generic herky-jerky mind-bend
sequences (we saw just last week in 'The Bourne Supremacy.') 

The wonderfully symbolic playing cards/Queen of Diamonds theme has been
replaced by the old microchips-planted-in-my-brain canard (we saw just
last month in 'The Stepford Wives.') There is no longer a visual
linkage between the Queen of Diamonds and Raymond's mother. 

The wonderful trigger line: 'Why don't you pass the time by playing a
nice game of solitare?' has been replaced with a banal 'Sergeant Shaw.
Sergeant Raymond Prentice Shaw' – so that when Streep utters the words,
she had to bark them like some sort of nutcase drill sergeant (Lansbury
simply offered the chilling invitation to her son.) 

Classic movies bring the right actors together in the right
combination. As good as they are, none of the four leads here –
Washington, Streep, Schreiber, Elise – make the emotional connection
that their four forbears made. 

Streep is the worst, indulging her usual tics and self-referential
mannerisms to make Mrs. Shaw a one-dimensional political ogre rather
than the grand monster that Angela Lansbury was (here,the Manchurian
Global baddies look at Steep near the end as if thinking 'We hired this
idiot politician to front us?') Times being what they are, Streep will
get an Oscar and mumble speeches like "For little old me? I don't
deserve this." She doesn't. 

Washington is a highly skilled actor who captures this version of Marco
well – but Sinatra's Marco was a tougher character (that karate fight)
rendered far more sad and soulful in Sinatra's best performance.
Sinatra was always a great singer of lost loves and causes – he carried
that emotion forward to his work as Marco. Washington can play tough,
but doesn't really get to, here. Washington's fierce intelligence also
neutralizes his emotional connection to the story. It's not whether
Sinatra or Washington is the better actor (both won Oscars), its
Sinatra's fitting the tale better.

Liev Schreiber has it in him to match Laurence Harvey's singular
performance in the original (so unlovable – and yet so sad; a killer
beyond his ability to control it), but the new script doesn't give
Schreiber a chance.

And yes, Rosie is explained in this movie – as a character we've seen
in 100 movies and 1,000 TV shows. The mystery is gone. Kimberly Elise
is given nothing new to play. And she is not the star -- yet -- that
Janet Leigh was when she played the role. Identification with Leigh
(right after "Psycho") was more intense. 

The ending of the new film mangles the meaning of the original. The
switch of assassins requires the elimination of the tragedy of the
original, and forces a expository epilogue in the modern 'gotta explain
it all" tradition.

And the loss of Joe McCarthy, World Communism, the Chinese, the
Russians, and the Koreans in favor of gutless Hollywood PC villainy (an
evil corporation, white guys smoking cigars, and a South African white
scientist) is standard issue. We've seen this movie before – and it
wasn't 'The Manchurian Candidate.' 

That the new 'Manchurian Candidate' is worth seeing at all is because
the source material is so good they can't totally wreck it, and because
the star actors are interesting enough even if they never soar where
the original took its characters. 

It's a three-star movie of four-star plus material, and in destroying
virtually everything that made the original such a special film and
great classic, the new 'Manchurian Candidate' deserves a drop of at
least another star.

<|_=00=_|>

I have to admit, I was horrified to see that someone was remaking the 1964
near-masterpiece.  I had no intention of seeing it, but then I happened to
catch Demme and Washington on "Charlie Rose", and Demme put my mind to rest
that he was not trying to remake the original picture.  I was still skeptic,
but I decided to have an open mind and check it out for myself.  I'm glad I
did.

The only thing this film has in common with the 1964 film is a political
background, a domineering mother, and the brainwashing angle (which is done
significantly differently here). This film is about what's happening now,
and it's as gutsy as any film in today's political climate can possibly get.
 The story is told through the inflamed, paranoid POV of a Gulf War veteran
who tries to unveil a plot between a corporate hierarchy (that's involved in
the defense industries and medical technologies among other things) and
certain politicians who want to stake their influence on a vice presidential
nominee.  This 'influence' is achieved through the brainwashing of the
nominee as well as several soldiers who had been stationed with him in
Kuwait.  

Political machinery and defense industries have always been dangerous
bedfellows, but when the politicians actually have worked in, and have
personal interests in those industries, the motivations of such a
partnership can be used to exploit the public in all sorts of ominous ways. 
This film brilliantly places the sort of paranoia that can derive from such
precarious matches as a sign of our times.  Consciously or subconsciously,
conspiracies are on all of our minds.  Today, because there is so much
secrecy in the current administration, no one knows just how terrible OR
innocent these guys might really be. And where there is secrecy, there will
be conspiracy theories galore.  Paranoia is so commonplace in such a society
that it is technically very easy for plots and lies to thrive healthfully. 
We tell ourselves, "the government is honest and probably has good reasons
to keep secrets from the public, so those who see plots and conspiracies
must all simply be deluded and paranoid.  Right?"  

The fact is that politicians can easily lie, and the media, instead of
demanding the truth, puts outrageous spins on those lies claiming to present
them as 'facts'.  This becomes an almost intolerable static that begins to
blot out all meaning.  One of the most ingenious things about this film is
in its use of that kind of static.  Throughout much of the film, there is a
cacophony of radios and TV spewing out their obligatory spins
simultaneously, as well as the nearly constant sounds of traffic and people
talking over one another.  The people in this movie can hear, but no one is
listening.  There's also a proverbial static between science and technology
and the moral questions that remain elusive. The survivors of the
brainwashing experiment mentioned above, have little chips implanted in
their backs that somehow aid the brainwashers.  The chips could be some sort
of homing device, or perhaps some sort of hormone moderator that's supposed
to keep the men in the mental state that makes them more easily susceptible
to hypnotic suggestion.  Well, chips that can serve as homing devices, or
that can regulate hormones and amino acids such as tryptophan, are in the
experimental phase today. In other words, this isn't way-out science fiction
here!

Okay, I know I'm sounding like I'm paranoid and that I'm saying that
everything in this film can and will happen.  Don't worry, I know this is
just a movie and that the events depicted in it are EXTREMELY unlikely to
ever take place.  What I'm focusing on is how well the film takes themes,
facts and situations that are topical and at least emotionally legitimate,
and presents them in the context of a whopper of a good thriller.  The film
is fresh and audacious and honest in all of its approaches, with the one
exception of Meryl Streep who seems to think she's in a Bette Davis movie. 
In the original "Manchurian Candidate" Angela Lansbury played her role, and
she was appropriately icy, deliberate, and almost iconic in the way she
carried her power.  For some reason Streep tried to go to self-consciously
comic proportions (you can almost see her winking at the audience saying
"don't you just LOVE how bad I am?").  The rest of the performances however,
are appropriately sober and solid.  I never caught Washington acting, and
Schrieber is masterful in the way he consolidates the conscious and
subconscious friction of his character's agony into an invisible but
palpable tension.  The score by Rachel Portman is eerily reminiscent of
Howard Shore's score for "Silence of the Lambs", and just as exciting and
effective.  And I can't help but thrill over Wyclef Jean's fantastic
rendition of the CCR song "Fortunate One": a version as appropriate to this
decade as the original version was to the late sixties (check out the
lyrics: replace 'senator's son' with 'president's' son, and see if George W.
Bush doesn't come to mind!).  

Finally, is this film as good as the original version?  They're so different
I honestly can't compare.  I can only say that this film is as appropriate
to the political and sociological climate of today as the original was to
its day.  Don't forget both versions were based on a novel, so comparisons
should be made in that context more than anything else (I haven't read the
book so I can't comment on that).  There are some loopholes in the current
film's plot, and I do love the cinematic style of the original film more
than this one. But as I was only a kid when the first film came out, this
film has a slightly stronger emotional impression on me than the other one. 
I only hope all it stays science fiction!

<|_=00=_|>
Although the marketers insist that it isn't a straight remake of the
original, it obviously is – all they key elements are the same. The new
twist is supposed to be a post-modern take on America, because every
liberal with a camera loves to point at the United States and laugh.
Yet somehow it just feels simple and lazy. All the observations are
obvious; the supposedly sly political commentary is about as elevated
as Al Franken pulling a funny face, or Michael Moore ingratiating
himself to Canadians by assuring them how stupid Americans are.

Denzel Washington is the epitome of cool. I don't think he can give a
bad performance. He gives this movie all his effort, and I would say
that his performance and the brief one by Jeffrey Wright as Al Melvin
are the best parts of the film. But even Washington can't overcome a
scenery-chewing, cringe-inducing overacting seminar given by Meryl
Streep, the exercise in blandness that is Liev Schreiber, and a
generally inconsistent, heavy-handed, and patently ridiculous
storyline.

The movie starts off on the wrong foot with a jarring and
poorly-constructed opening. We are subjected to about five minutes of
soldiers playing cards in the back of an armored vehicle, while
different loud rock tracks cut in every few seconds. This is the credit
sequence, and it is not crucial to the movie. But it completely fails
to draw the viewer into the atmosphere the filmmakers are trying to set
(Wyclef Jean destroying John Fogerty's "Fortunate Son" doesn't help).

Then we have brief action in Kuwait and a sudden jump cut to the
present day. Raymond Shaw is running for the Vice President position,
and everyone believes he heroically rescued his entire squad in Kuwait.
Marco is on the lecture circuit, speaking to Boy Scout troops about his
time in action. He is confronted by former squad mate Melvin, who tells
him that he is having bad dreams and who shows Marco a journal of
drawings and notes. Marco reacts strangely to this – rather than
admitting that he has these bad dreams himself, he holds Melvin at
arms' length. We all know at this point that Melvin will turn up dead
later in the movie, so it's best to say your goodbyes now.

This is where the first plot hole of the movie shows up. Suddenly Marco
is completely involved in this conspiracy theory, merely by seeing
Melvin's journal and having some more bad dreams. Are we expected to
believe that in the years following the incident in Kuwait, the men of
the unit never got together to discuss what happened? That none of
their superiors found it odd that they gave the same word-for-word
description of what supposedly happened, or had the same nightmares?
Marco tries to speak with Shaw, who is busy with his campaign and
incredibly controlled and domineered by his mother. On the way to speak
to Shaw, Marco is approached by a woman named Rosie (the required love
interest) who mysteriously invites him to her New York apartment. Here
we have another plot hole, as Marco discovers an implant in his
shoulder while showering (so he never touched his shoulder for over ten
years before this?) but loses it down the sink. Marco then arranges a
meeting with Shaw and in a curiously homo-erotic scene bends him over a
table and bites his back. This allows him to steal Shaw's implant,
which he then gives to crazy scientist friend Delp (another plot line
that goes nowhere) who for some reason gives Marco a massive electric
shock to the head. I'm sure he explained why he did this, but his
accent was so damn thick I couldn't understand a word, and in the end
it makes no difference whatsoever.

More of the conspiracy is revealed as the presidential election draws
near. Marco continues investigating, clicking a Google link as dramatic
music plays. Turns out that Rosie may be a federal agent. Shaw himself
waffles (he's a flip-flopper!) between robotic guilt and robotic
ambition. Meryl Streep eats a couch. Shaw wades into a river in a full
suit and kills a man with a kayak, then drowns his one true love.
Nobody finds this suspicious. Then suddenly the federal agents who
didn't believe a word of Shaw's story completely trust him and escort
him to a private room with the man, on the eve of the election; both
men are triggered and start the assassination plot … which has a
bizarre twist at the end.

There is one aspect of the storyline – a dropped plot line – that
particularly frustrated me. In the original movie, it was killing his
childhood sweetheart that caused Shaw to rebel. In this version we are
subjected to a few torturous scenes of Shaw insisting that Jocelyne was
his one true love, despite the fact that the two actors have absolutely
zero chemistry (to be fair, what woman could love a robot). Then Shaw
offs her in a river with her dad and the entire plot line is dropped.
This just makes no sense. In fact, the entire scene where Shaw kills
the Jordan family is ridiculous – killing a man in the open in his
kayak? This screams screenwriter phobia.

Why go to all this trouble just to get a guy elected president? It
doesn't appear to be very hard to do, particularly if you have the
right last name. But at this point in time the demonizing of Americans
has become a cottage industry, and everyone wants a piece of the pie.
It doesn't seem to matter to the people who buy this stuff whether or
not the story is believable, coherent, or even entertaining. As long as
it's critical of the United States it's in. If that's your mindset, I
suggest you cozy up with this tepid remake and lather up your back for
a good patting. Otherwise it's just more grist for the cable TV mill.
<|_=00=_|>

Here's something I never thought I'd say: I enjoyed parts of "The Manchurian
Candidate" remake; it isn't as bad as I expected it to be.

And much of the credit goes to the three main players - Denzel Washington as
the paranoid veteran, Liev Schreiber as the titular character and Meryl
Streep as the power-hungry, Oedipally motivated Senator Eleanor Shaw.

Screenwriters Daniel Pyne and Dean Georgaris reinvent and contemporize
Richard Condon's novel and the 1962 film. While John Frankenheimer's film,
written by George Axelrod, was the apotheosis of the Cold War thriller and a
scathing indictment of McCarthyism, Jonathan Demme's remake is less subtle
in its approach and paranoia, but takes barbed jabs at current politics, the
corruptibility of our elected leaders and paranoia disguised as patriotism
in a post-9/11 America.

The remake also owes a debt of gratitude to Alan J. Pakula's brilliant 1974
paranoia-conspiracy thriller, "The Parallax View."

Although it isn't clear whether Raymond Shaw is a Republican or Democrat -
his mother certainly seems more Republican in her outlook and politics -
Demme and his writers' point is that all American politicians are bought and
paid for by big business. As we all know, we never heeded President
Eisenhower's prescient caution about the military industrial
complex.

The villainous Manchurian Global clearly was inspired by Halliburton -
there's even mention of the company getting no-bid contracts. Pay close
attention and you'll hear pointed references about the use of private
contractors by the military, malfunctioning touch-screen voting machines and
our government's "compassionate vigilance." Also, look fast and you'll see a
news crawl about a Wal-Mart-type chain and a newspaper story about our
treatment of Muslims.

Washington's awfully convincing as a man fraying at the edges, whose grip on
reality seems to be slowly slipping, and there were a few moments where
Schreiber almost reminded me of Laurence Harvey. 

Streep, on the other hand, proves why she is undoubtedly the best actress
this nation has ever produced. Her Eleanor spits venom. We're utterly
convinced why Raymond's such a cuckold. We can only imagine what his poor
father must have endured. Streep occasionally comes close to being campy,
but so completely dominates the screen that she scares us even when she
chews ice.

But several other talented actors, including Jon Voight, Vera Farmiga, Dean
Stockwell and Ted Levine, are used to little or no effect.

Some crucial plot elements make no sense. The Dr. Noyle scenario, for
instance, proves to be illogical, especially when we learn more about him.
Neither Pyne nor Georgaris attempted to rectify this deficiency. Also, the
mysterious Muslim women are superfluous. I wonder if their bit wound up on
the cutting-room floor.

The film contains an unmistakable cynical tone. As much as it's clearly an
indictment of big business' control of politics, it also denounces our
leaders' insistence on keeping the public on edge with terror alerts. And as
Senator Shaw points out, "The assassin always dies. It's necessary for the
national healing."

But after maintaining its cynicism for much of the film, it comes apart
completely at the end. Demme and his writers cop out with a pointless and
weak denouement. That gunshot you hear is Demme shooting himself in the
foot.

It's almost as if they gave in to appease some mindless preview audience or
dimwitted studio hack. Or, maybe they envisioned it just like this. Given my
admiration of Demme, I'd like to think otherwise. Hope I'm
right.
<|_=00=_|>
Three months ago I watched the original Manchurian Candidate on DVD. I
was amazed on how good this movie is, and how well it holds up after 42
years of its release in movie theaters. 

So, yesterday when I watched the 2004 version directed by Jonathan
Demme it was impossible for me not to compare the two films. 

Without the existence of the original, Demme's effort could be defined
as a good (not outstanding) political thriller and it's easy to think
that this definition is compatible with the general opinion of today's
audiences. 

But (a big but) in reality there is an original, and it is so good, so
brave, and so well written that this new version almost feels
pointless.

In adapting the story to modern day Jonathan Demme made more wrong
choices than good ones diminishing the power and intensity of the
original.

This remake took out some key dramatic elements that work marvelously
in the original film inserting some new and poorly written plot twists
changing and damaging the dramatic resolution. 

This version is inferior in almost every level (the only exception is
the acting). It is less powerful, less edgy, and less intelligent.

Fortunately for Demme the original picture is not as well known as
classics like 'Casablanca' and this will allow his film to find a
moderate positive acceptance.
<|_=00=_|>
I have not seen the original John Frankenheimer's "The Manchurian
Candidate", which is considered one of the best political thrillers
ever made. So it was curious that Jonathan Demme (a great director
whose previous work included "The Silence of the Lambs") chose to
remake the "The Manchurian Candidate". Still basing the story on the
novel by Richard Condon, and the 1962 screenplay by George Axelrod,
screen writers Daniel Pyne and Dean Georgaris have updated the Cold War
political thriller to the global nuclear terrorism threat on our
homeland, and introducing the clandestine presence of a ubiquitous
corporation like Manchurian Global. Demme along with reinventing a
contemporary storyline, assembled a powerful cast, Denzel Washington,
Meryl Streep, and Liev Schreiber. Streep as Senator Eleanor Shaw, the
mother of Vice Presidential candidate, Raymond Shaw (Schreiber), is
absolutely powerful and compelling. She is playing against type-- her
Eleanor Shaw is a Machiavellian Lady MacBeth. She is ruthless and
smart. Streep's performance is awesome. 

During the Gulf War Sgt. Raymond Shaw (Schreiber) saved his fellow
soldiers when his CO, Maj. Ben Marco (Washington) is knocked
unconscious. Shaw receives the Congressional Medal of Honor for his
bravery. Back to the present day, Eleanor Shaw (Streep) imposes her
sheer will and brokers the Vice Presidential slot for her son, the War
Hero, on her Party's ticket. Eleanor has political ties with the very
powerful Manchurian Global corporation. Meanwhile, Maj. Marco is
plagued by incoherent memories of what happened in Iraq. Were his
memories actually manufactured? His investigation seems to point to
brainwashing and a conspiracy. And what is the ultimate goal? 

Demme is a good storyteller. He keeps the story taut and paced. He also
enlists effective performances from his talented cast. Denzel
Washington is good as Marco. He is also playing somewhat against type.
His Major Marco is a broken man regaining some of his honor, and he
plays it very close to the vest. Marco is a not a charismatic
character, but Washington imposes his own force on the character.
Schreiber is amazing as Raymond Shaw. Outwardly, he might have played a
puppet in an elaborate power play; however, he gives Shaw a strength of
character that is riveting with internal conflict. Meryl Streep really
steals the movie as Eleanor Shaw. Her performance is so commanding.
Even in her ruthlessness and singularity, she can not be dismissed as
plain evil, because ultimately her intentions are noble. That conflict
embodied in her character makes "The Manchurian Candidate" worth
watching.
<|_=00=_|>

While the 2004 remake of "The Manchurian Candidate" is ensemble acting
at its finest, Meryl Streep seems to be having a bit too much fun
playing the villainess Eleanor Prentiss Shaw. She doesn't have the same
blood-curdling constitution as did Angela Lansbury.

"What was I supposed to do, call a MEETING?" she exclaims as her wimpy
male colleagues in the shadowy Manchurian Global upbraid her for
ordering someone killed without consulting them. Problem is, she was
radiantly glowing when she uttered the line, which produced laughs in
the NYC theatre I was in.

When she showers Liev Schreiber with overly affectionate kisses and
hugs, one again suspects Meryl was having a bit too much fun on camera
with someone she finds quite attractive -- don't we all? -- in real
life.

On its own, the 2004 remake is fine cinema. But the problem with all
remakes is the inevitable comparison with original. And sadly, as much
as I like the 2004 version, my vote goes with Angie Lansbury and
Laurence Harvey.

<|_=00=_|>
The 1962 version of "The Manchurian Candidate" - starring Frank Sinatra
and Lawrence Harvey - caught the conspiratorial mood of the time when
so many Americans saw a commie round every corner. The current 'war of
terror' might have seemed like an apposite time to attempt a remake.
I've been a fan of Denzel Washington since he played Steve Biko in
"Cry, Freedom" and I regard Meryl Street as the finest actress of her
generation, so the chance to see the two starring together for the
first time was an attractive one. Since I'm a political animal, the
vehicle of a political thriller appeared to add to the attraction. But
Jonathan Demme's remake of John Frankenheimer's classic, although it
has a certain style, is overall a real disappointment. Frankly it is
lackluster when it is not simply silly.

Streep gives a bravado performance as the manipulative mother of the
Vice-Presidential candidate who is under external control and
Washington is always watchable, but Liev Schreiber as the brain-drilled
war hero and politician is robotic even when he is not 'activated'. The
'up-dating' of the story to make corporations rather than Communists
the enemy is a well-worn theme, ranging from the Peter Sellers' movie
"Being There" to the more recent television series "24". What this new
version of Richard Condon's 1959 novel tells us is that Americans are
no less fearful and paranoid than they were in the Cold War and
Hollywood is no better at remakes than it ever was.
<|_=00=_|>

*READ AFTER YOU'VE SEEN THE FILM, CONTAINS POSSIBLE SPOILERS*

For anyone who believes this movie was an excellent suspense thriller and a
superb film...you have been brainwashed worse than Raymond
Shaw.

This film, or more importantly, this screenplay is only the latest entry
exemplifying a very alarming trend in major Hollywood suspense thrillers. 
Most notably, the film `Godsend' came to mind almost immediately after
seeing `The Manchurian Candidate' as a prime example of the same flaw, as
well as to a lesser extent the films `Training Day' the cryptic Mamet
thriller `Heist' and the `Indy' non-Hollywood but equally flawed (and for
the same reason) `Cabin Fever.'

What these films have in common is the single major problem with dramatic
screenwriting today; the lack of a well-planned, well-executed,
well-developed, payoff laden or at all logical third act.  For those who may
not know what I'm talking about, if you were enjoying `Candidate' quite a
bit as I did in the beginning, then felt it slowed down a little and got
less scary and weird in the middle, but was still very entertaining, and
then at the end took one of the biggest *dumps* (for lack of an expletive)
that a bad script can, you've identified the problem too.  Think of the
terrible plot holes and enormous flaws in the logic of the plot starting
about half way through and getting worse and worse till the out-of-nowhere
ending.  For instance, if these people, Manchurian Global, were able to do
this kind of mind control effectively, why would they even have let Ben
Marco go back to his normal life, why wouldn't he be as under control as
Raymond Shaw all the time?  The answer, because then the movie would suck
and the story would cease to exist.  Much more importantly, at the end, why
or rather HOW could Marco fail in his objective to assassinate the president
when in every other instance a mind controlled character does what they are
told to do?  The answer, because then the movie would have ended on a
logical, but unfortunate unhappy ending.  Is it an accident Marco killed the
wrong people, did Manchurian Global give him another order AFTER `Mother'
did?  If you start thinking about a number of things like this that happened
as the film progressed and try and apply logic to them, you'll find yourself
quite muddled and confused.  You'll be left with snippets of information and
jumbled footage and scenes that paint a clear picture that some critical
screen elements and scenes you needed to see are in fact completely missing.
 In addition to the horrendous third act, the general editing of the film
was poor, even the opening credits sequence featured unhinged jump cuts and
strangely juxtaposed sequences that were jarring at best.  This is what
happens when an edited film is edited AGAIN, for the wrong reasons, and by
the wrong people.  It's dumb Harvard MBA Studio Execs using bad box office
science to make a BAD movie which tests extremely well with
monkeys.

The problem is that what was a good screenplay with several very interesting
ideas and great political intrigue was either abruptly finished the way
studio executives thought it should be without any concern for logic, story
development, or the plot, or it was a major hack job on the third and most
important act of the screenplay.  The film `Godsend' has this same problem,
great first act, okay second act which starts to go bad half way through,
and then a TERRIBLE third act and ending which ruined the whole film. 
`Heist' has a very similar problem, mainly third act related, and the list
goes on, including `Cabin Fever' for example, same exact problem: cool idea,
starts off great, then the third act comes and SUCKS.  `Training Day,'
ironically another Denzel Washington film, also has this same problem, a BAD
third act where everything starts unraveling the wrong way for no reason at
all.  On that film I can at least say after hearing from the writers' own
mouths at a Q&A that I know they were not to blame, as they had a much
different ending in mind originally, then they were told what to change and
how to change it.

I urge you, please, DO NOT tolerate this kind of banality or we will as the
`mindless' audience will continue to get films marketed on excellent, highly
proficient and well-edited trailers as `Candidate' had, high levels of
supposed intrigue, and great performances that fall apart like a house of
cards the minute a single gust of `logic' is blown by way of the
story.

If you left the theatre entertained but unsatisfied, demystified, and
feeling unfulfilled by this film and you don't know why, I've had the same
dream too, it's not you, and it's not something you missed.  Other people
seem to think there isn't a problem and that `everything is under perfect
control' with this film, but it is not, there are major things wrong here
that should have been fixed by any writer or studio executive with half a
brain, but instead they were left blatantly exposed, like another huge logic
plot hole concerning `Dr.' Noyle and why there were press clippings of him
doing things for Manchurian Global and then AT THE SAME TIME press clippings
and research saying that he's a known illegal, banned in Western countries
certified `mad scientist.'  Keep thinking about that one for awhile, or just
take some more of your medicine or turn on FOX to hear what MOTHER has to
say.
<|_=00=_|>

Spoilers Perhaps it was to my disadvantage to have seen the original
Frank Sinatra, Lawrence Harvey, Angela Landsbury film, "The Manchurian
Candidate," from 1962. You see, it sort of jaded me. I mean, after all,
you should never mix very good films with ones which are not, well, not
quite as good.

John Frankenheimer's Cold War drama was steeped in dark atmospheric
brooding reflecting the paranoia of the times (it was released during
our closest brush with nuclear war, the Cuban Missile Crisis - and it
was reported that President Kennedy admired the movie) and had a
distinct anti-Communist message. 

This updated Paramount version doesn't really have a point to make and
therefore loses any political direction or motivation it might have
taken.

In 1991 Kuwait, US Army Captain Bennett Marco (Denzel Washington) and
his unit are ambushed by a pickup full of Iraqis. During the firefight,
Marco is knocked out and we're left to wonder what actually happened
that night.

The film then advances to the present day with (now major) Marco giving
a talk to a group of Boy Scouts, praising the efforts of one of his
men, Sgt. Raymond Shaw (Liev Schreiber) who saved the unit and earned
the Congressional Medal of Honor.

After the talk, Marco is met by a disheveled former member of that
platoon, Cpl. Al Melvin (a fine, but all too short, performance by
Jeffrey Wright), who tells him about his weird dreams and saying that
things may not be exactly as they seem. This starts Marco - who himself
is haunted with night terrors and hallucinations - on a wild
investigation of what really happened that night in Kuwait.

Was there hypnotism or brainwashing involved like the first "Candidate"
movie? Could be.

Meanwhile, Shaw, guided by his overbearing, Hillary Clinton-like almost
incestuous mother, Senator Eleanor Prentis Shaw (Meryl Streep in the
role that won Landsbury a Best Supporting Actress nomination), has
capitalized on his heroics with election to the US House of
Representatives from New York. Now mommy wants him to be the next
Vice-President, convincing the party to dump venerable five-term
Senator, Thomas Jordan (John Voight, "Midnight Cowboy," "Coming Home")
right before the convention.

Guided by powerful members of the Manchurian Global Corporation
(whatever that is), mom wants her boy to eventually replace the party's
presidential candidate, Robert Arthur (Tom Stechschulte).

Here's where I ran into trouble, however. Why do they want to get rid
of the President (once he's elected)? What's the motivation behind such
plans and how many people are actually involved in it? The picture
doesn't really answer any of these questions. We know something
sinister is going on, we just don't know what it is or why it's
happening. The corporate angle is played off as sinister as possible,
and there's certainly no denying that great global conglomerates rule
much of our lives, but it just isn't frightening as presented by
director Jonathan Demme (Silence of the Lambs).

Maybe it's because we don't know enough about who's behind Manchurian,
just a brief glimpse of a few of its leaders, including Dean Stockwell.
Manchurian is evil simply because Demme TELLS us it is evil.

After Melvin is found dead in a river and Marco finds bizarre notes and
drawings in the late corporal's apartment, the major begins his search
in earnest. Of course, as in any film of this type, Marco is completely
alone, no one believes him and everyone thinks he's insane. Supporting
characters, such as the annoying Rosie (Kimberly Elise), whom Marco
meets on a train (and is immediately invited to share her New York
apartment), are then thrown in for no apparent reason, and Marco is
arrested for assaulting Shaw in his campaign headquarters.

During the altercation, he bites that VP candidate, and pulls out a GPS
device of some kind, just like one he had discovered in his own body.
Marco is still unable to convince Shaw of what's going on, but Senator
Shaw hypnotizes the major into killing the President-elect (was there
any doubt he would win?!) at his victory party. Instead, Marco kills
someone else, but is totally exonerated while the whole thing is blamed
on Manchurian Global, and everything ends as convoluted and confused as
ever.

Film also speeds up, slightly, only to slow down to a dead crawl,
putting many into a stupor, the kind Maj. Marco and Sgt. Shaw must have
been in that night in Kuwait.

Washington, as usual, is first-rate as the put-upon loner struggling
against the power of the state, while Streep may earn another Oscar
nomination for her wildly over-the-top performance as the soiled
mother. Schreiber appears throughout picture as appropriately dazed,
but Voight is completely wasted.

