
Barbershop 2: Back in Business is a decent sequel with some enjoyable
moments. Ice Cube, Cedric the Entertainer and the rest of the guys at
the downtown Chicago barbershop return for another round, but the usual
sense of community and their outrageous discussions is threatened by
urban developers who hope to replace the small barbershops with big
national chains. Like its predecessor, Barbershop 2 is pretty much plot
less as the characters are what people want to see. I thought the first
one was decent but nothing special and that's exactly what I think of
this one. Ice Cube, Eve, Sean Patrick Thomas, Troy Garity and Michael
Ealy are all back and they are enjoyable this time around as well. The
one person I couldn't stand was Cedric the Entertainer, he had some
funny lines but most of the time he was really annoying also those
flashback scenes he was in were really stupid. There's a couple of new
additions including Queen Latifah. I thought she was very funny and I
might check out Beauty Shop sometime in the future. The other addition
is Kenan Thompson, he isn't very interesting in the film but also
doesn't have a lot of scenes so that's nice. Kevin Rodney Sullivan
directs this time around and he does a good job replacing Tim Story,
who was apparently busy with Taxi and The Fantastic Four. Absent from
the sequel is Anthony Anderson who isn't missed, in fact you probably
won't notice. The film talks about a lot of different things like R
Kelly, The Washington Sniper and others, you may not agree with what
their saying all the time though. The sequel is a bit more warm hearted
this time around but the dialog is still sharp and funny. Rating 6/10,
In the end, if you liked the first one then you will probably like this
one but if you didn't then its best if you avoid the sequel.
<|_=00=_|>

"Barbershop 2: Back in Business" is a logical and somewhat more expansive
continuation of the original "Barbershop" film. However, it suffers from
sqeuelness; a lack of appreciation because it can't be as fresh at the
first. "Barbershop 2" also spends more time outside the shop with some
backstory history, competition from a Nappy Cutz franchise across the
street, Queen Latifah's salon for a heartbeat, etc. and less time with what
made the original film special and charming; the good natured repartee
between barbers, Eddie's (Cedric) racial worldview philosophy,
barber/customer interaction, zingers, etc. Bottom line is simple. Watch
"Barbershop" first. If you like it, give this film a try. If not, not.
(C+)
<|_=00=_|>

Most of the major characters return for this impressive sequel that nearly
works as well as its very good predecessor. Barbershop owner Ice Cube and
his fellow cutters (out-of-place female Eve, African immigrant Leonard Earl
Howze, super white boy Troy Garity, ex-con Michael Ealy and loud-mouthed
veteran Cedric the Entertainer) have a new problem on their hands. Business
opportunist Harry Lennix wants to open a Nappy Cutz (a fictional Super
Cuts-styled rip-off) shop across the street. Immediately the group is
worried about the possibility of being run out of business by the upstarts.
Former barber Sean Patrick Thomas (now working for Illinois state governor
Robert Wisdom) realizes the situation and does what he can to help.
Naturally though Wisdom is just as crooked and suspicious as Lennix so thus
another dilemma occurs. Ice Cube is also constantly bothered by one of his
wife's (Jazsmin Lewis) relatives (a priceless turn by Kenan Thompson).
Thompson also has the itch to become a stylist and hangs around the shop in
spite of the fact that no one trusts him with their hair. Also along for the
ride is beauty shop owner Queen Latifah who doubles as Cube's old love
interest and Cedric's acid-tongued equal. A little history into Cedric's
background is hilarious, heart-breaking and thought-provoking all at the
same time. He thinks about a lost love (Garcelle Beauvais) and also
remembers Cube's kind and decent father (Javon Jackson). Flashbacks to a
Civil Rights-torn landscape of 1960s Chicago becomes a strangely poignant
part of a franchise that people do not think of as serious. All in all
"Barbershop 2: Back in Business" is a noble work. Once again the screenplay
and direction are adequate, but the amazing characters are still the series'
primary calling card. Lennix and Wisdom are really not quite as good as
antagonist Keith David was in the original. I also missed neighborhood
trouble-makers Anthony Anderson and Lahmard Tate, but their absences do not
shatter the overall effectiveness of the sequel. 4 stars out of 5.      

<|_=00=_|>
Barbershop 2: Back in Business

Starring: Ice Cube, Eve, Troy Garity, Michael Ealy, Sean Patrick Thomas
and Queen Latifah 

Genre: Comedy

Rated: PG-13

We continue the adventures with the barbers and Calvin Palmer (Ice
Cube) on the South Side of Chicago. In this sequel to the 2002 hit
Barbershop, Calvin's shop is threatened again but this time by a greedy
developer who is opening a mega-franchise barbershop right across the
street from Calvin's shop. The whole gang from the first movie is back
including Eddie (Cedric the Entertainer), Terri (Eve), Jimmy (Sean
Patrick Thomas), Ricky (Michael Ealy) and Isacc (Troy Garity). Also in
this movie we have a new character named Gina (Queen Latifah) who is a
stylist at a beauty shop next door. As Calvin does what he can to
counter this threat, life goes on in the barbershop, with more of the
same tart dialog and life complications in various hilarious ways as in
the original. I missed Anthony Anderson and Lahmard Tate in this sequel
because I thought they were hilarious in the first one but this sequel
was still funny and besides at this time when this movie was filming,
Anthony Anderson was busy doing Agent Cody Banks 2, Scary Movie 3,
Harold and Kumar Go to White Castle and his TV-series, All About the
Andersons. Just another day on the South Side of Chicago.
<|_=00=_|>

The same crew is back in a sequel to the hilarious comedy about a group of
barbers who cut hair and discuss life inside their little barbershop
community.  Calvin (Ice Cube) is the owner of the barbershop with Cedric The
Entertainer as his oldest barber.  Queen Latifah has been added to the cast
with a beauty shop next door.  The south side of Chicago is changing with
developers buying up everything and moving everybody out of the old
neighborhood.  Calvin is about to have new competition from a chain
barbershop opening across the street.  To fight the new barbershop, Calvin
tries to upscale his barbershop with paintings and glass sculptures.  Calvin
also orders his barbers to be quiet and just cut hair, and stop the
tradition of being able to say anything you want inside the barbershop.  If
you liked the first movie, you will like this one.  Some of the discussions
are outrageous, especially, the ones with Cedric.  I laughed through the
entire movie.  (MGM, Run Time 1:38, Rated PG-13) (7/10)
<|_=00=_|>
The plot involves a new, hipper franchise barbershop that is moving
across the street from Calvin's barbershop. So, he feels like he has to
change and improve his shop by getting newer stuff and such. Sounds
real exciting huh. As for the rest of the film, a lot of it involves
the same material from the first film. The people that work at Calvin's
stand around, talk loud, and mouth off to each other and the customers.
Once again Cedric the Entertainer was mildly funny, but it is more like
he's doing a stand-up routine than anything to do with the movie. And
Calvin is faced with another moral issue involving taking a large sum
of money. He's already shown that he will do the right thing in the
end.

FINAL VERDICT: Nothing new. I don't recommend it unless you thought the
first Barbershop was the best thing since sliced bread.
<|_=00=_|>
Lukewarm but watchable and laid-back follow-up to Barbershop. Shop
owner Cube and his rambunctious co-workers are enjoying the success of
their thriving business, until a new, technologically advanced shop
prepares to open across the street. The shop is run by a smarmy
political suit who not only threatens to put them out of business, but
has also convinced the majority of the neighborhood inhabitants to sell
out as well. First film was likable enough but didn't exactly cry out
for a sequel, though there are some occasional laughs. Uninspired
script doesn't have much of a story to tell, but it's still
well-performed and made worthwhile by an enthusiastic cast, especially
Cedric the Entertainer who seems to be having the most fun of all. **
<|_=00=_|>

I wasn't as 'up' for watching Barbershop 2 as I was with the original.  Just
the idea of a sequel existing didn't really excite me....although anyone
with sense had to know the makers were going to cash in on another movie,
seeing how much of a sleeper hit the original was.  Seeing the trailer for
this months ago, it just didn't seem to have the same spark the original
had.  After watching this last night, that feeling hasn't really changed.  I
enjoyed Barbershop 2, but it's miles behind the original, especially in the
comedy area.  The original was a 'cute' movie, it tapped into everyone's
childhood neighborhood memories of the local barbershop that was a mainstay
in the community....all while having a nice story behind it (Ice Cube not
seeing the importance of the shop and threatening to sell it).  The sequel
just seems to go with the motions; you can tell that its trying its best not
to rock the boat, particularly with the jokes.  The story in BS2 is arguably
more relevant than the one in the original:  a bigger, more attractive,
industrialized barbershop chain comes into the neighborhood, threatening the
'mom & pop' stores on the block who have to fight to survive.  As far as
comedy, the movie on a whole isn't as funny as the original, as it takes a
more serious tone.  Its obvious that the makers tried their very best not to
step on anyone's toes or, if they did, not step on them too hard.  The
success and exposure of the original, in this case, worked against them, as
I felt the makers held back a little too much as far as the comedy goes. 
Nevertheless, I enjoyed Barbershop 2, but I just hope the franchise doesn't
get too bland, with the seemingly inevitable spin-off coming (Beauty Shop). 

*** out of **** stars.
<|_=00=_|>

"Barbershop 2: Back in Business" is a better-made, if not necessarily better
film than the original.  I loved the first "Barbershop" movie that came out
in 2002.  The sequel is a lot more in depth with its characters and we learn
a little more about each one and how they have improved since the first
film.  If "Back in Business" has any flaws, it's that there is not enough
action inside the barbershop, where most of the action took place in the
first film.  There is a little more drama with "Back in Business" that never
slows the film down; a little drama never hurt anyone, did it?  Either way,
I did thoroughly enjoy myself watching "Barbershop 2: Back in Business" and
I rated it a 9/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Barbershop 2: Back in Business (2004): Dir: Kevin Rodney Sullivan /
Cast: Ice Cube, Cedric the Entertainer, Sean Patrick Thomas, Queen
Latifah, Eve: Here is a comedy that not just continues the story of the
hit film but it also addresses being yourself and making others
comfortable with your world. It opens with a 1967 flashback centering
upon Cedric the Entertainer escaping the law and finding refuge in a
barbershop that he would remain at for the next forty years. Business
is going well until a bigger corporation begins buying up businesses on
the block and establish a rival barbershop. Structured in sitcom
fashion with a clever conclusion. Director Kevin Rodney Sullivan gives
a realistic view of the barber scene. Ice Cube is excellent as the
second generation manager who struggles against the decline in business
in the area as well as competition. Cedric the Entertainer is given a
back story involving romance on a subway. Fine supporting work by Sean
Patrick Thomas who left the barbershop and took up politics, which come
into conflict with his old friends. Queen Latifah plays Cube's
ex-girlfriend who remains friends and opened a beauty salon next door.
She and Cedric do not get along. Eve also makes an appearance from the
music industry. While much of this is predictable it is still a
worthwhile and entertaining sequel deserving of business. Score: 8 / 10
