

Have you ever tried to figure out what something is when your eyes are
closed?  You grab something round its cool and smooth to the touch.  It
feels solid so it's not some kind of Nerf ball or anything.  Here you are
standing in the middle of a room clutching something and you can't quite
tell what it is.  The object was an apple, but that's not the
point.

MAY the new film by first time director Lucky McKee is just that kind of
movie.  At first maybe it's a romance, then again maybe it's a thriller,
hmm.. Maybe it's some kind of comedy, light hearted or dark. At first
glance
you might just think it's a horror film.  But May doesn't aspire to
labels,
it lives in that world beyond them and that's what works and doesn't work
for a film like this.

MAY is one of those movies like Mullholland Drive, From Dusk 'Til Dawn, or
Femme Fatale.  There is a moment in the film that will either grab you and
pull you in, or turn you off and produces nothing but loathing.  For me
that
moment came as the blind kids are well.. I don't think I want to share
that
sequence with you, but for me it worked.

MAY tells the story of a young women named May (Angela Bettis, Girl
Interrupted) who seems really sweet on the outside, with just a touch of
crazy attached.  She had an overbearing mother (Merle Kennedy, Bubble Boy)
who wanted her little girl to be perfect.  It's just too bad she needed to
wear an eye patch to correct a lazy eye.  The kids in school all laughed
and
called her a pirate.  To comfort the girl or make her crazy the film
doesn't
really say, May's mother gives her a prized possession, a freaky looking
doll that has to stay in pristine condition in a glass box.

Somehow May survives this weird childhood and grows up to be stable but a
little nuts.  She falls for a guy with perfect hands (Jeremy Sisto, Wrong
Turn) and a girl she works with (Anna Faris, Scary Movie) falls for her.
Everything is perfect until these people turn their back on May, and well
that's when the fun begins..

Angela Bettis is excellent; she is really beautiful, really vulnerable,
and
really expressive without doing much.  She gives May this quality that is
understated and yet still intense.  I like how she says more with one look
than lots of silly dialogue.  She very much reminded me of a female Travis
Bickle. She has a longing for what she can not have and is dealing with it
the only way she know how.

Like in TAXI DRIVER, there is a moment when May is on the phone with Adam
(the Sisto character) and he wants nothing to do with her anymore.  Anyone
else would have gotten the point.  But not May and so when the realization
comes, just as when Travis Bickle was dumped by Betsey something inside
both
of them snaps.

Another bright spot is Anna Faris.  Why she pigeonholed herself in those
stupid comedies is beyond me.  She is excellent as May's lesbian workmate.
She is bright and spunky and really funny.  I'd love to see her do some
more
legitimate acting work.  Hopefully this is the kind of film that she could
use to get better roles.  Who knows!!!

Director McKee makes it look easy.  He has crafted a fascinating look into
the eyes of a crazy person, by doing what few films can.   He allows us to
see that part of ourselves that is manifested in May.  We've all at one
time
or another been treated like crap, made fun of, been ridiculed, and maybe
some of us have tried to go over the deep end.  I felt pity for May even
if
I shouldn't have.  This is a powerful movie, and one of the best I've seen
all year.

If Hollywood ever got off its rear end and decided that a film like MAY
deserved to be shown at the same multiplex as FROM JUSTIN TO KELLY maybe
their would be better quality films out there that the general market
could
consume.  Until then it will probably only be discovered by lovers of
film.
I guess that's not so bad.

There are probably others out there that could find fault in a film like
MAY.  It's that kind of cinema, either you love it or your hate it.  There
is not much middle ground.  But do yourself a favor, go and rent this
movie.


<|_=00=_|>


Whoa! I'm speechless! May is one weird, fun, funny, sad, and disturbing
film. It's just so many things. It's a strangely beautiful character study
about a lonely girl who just wants a friend. I couldn't help but feel for
her. She's weird and shy, but in a cute, sweet way. I was intrigued by
her,
and wanted her to find happiness. No matter how pathetic her character
would
become, I just couldn't stop caring. I wanted to reach out to her, and be
her friend. Nobody deserves to be so lonely. All she needed was a friend.
But things just don't exactly work out that way. Once she began to crack
and
take the plunge into madness, it was understandable how it could happen.
That doesn't mean that the events that unfolded weren't shocking, because
they definitely were. But we see why our heroine does what she does. We
can't help but want things to be different though, and for her to go down
a
different path, but when she doesn't, we come along for the ride anyway,
following her wherever she takes us.

Angela Bettis gives an amazing performance as May. So far this is the best
female performance of the year, and when the end of the year comes, if
it's
still not THE best, it will be one of THE best. She makes us care about
her
character from the beginning, and we never really stop, even when she goes
psychotic. Bettis shows so many emotions, and makes us feel all kinds of
things. She was very natural, and sometimes her body language spoke to us
more than her words. We just knew what she was feeling, and could feel her
cracking more and more as the movie went on. She was sweet, sad, scary,
pathetic, and yet strangely attractive. It's too bad the Academy are such
prudes, because this girl is so deserving of an Oscar nomination that it's
not even funny. Unfortunately, it's obvious her performance will be
overlooked by them. May just isn't "Oscar material." Plus, the movie
didn't
make enough money and isn't well known enough for them to even consider
honoring anything to do with "May." But even if they don't honor it, the
fans will always remember it. I've seen Bettis in other movies, but after
seeing this, I will always remember her as May... I've always been a fan
of
the underrated Anna Faris. She's a great comedic actress. I found her to
be
a lot of fun as Polly. She's funny and sexy. This is sure to be one of my
favorite supporting performances of the year. Faris was a welcome addition
to this twisted little film.

Writer/Director Lucky McKee proves to be a great new talent. It's hard to
believe this is his first feature film. Very impressive if you ask me. I'm
looking forward to whatever he does next. If it's anything as wonderful as
"May," then it should be great... Also deserving of a mention is composer
Jaye Barnes-Luckett. She does a terrific job here, always providing the
right music at the right moment. If she keeps this up, she'll have a
bright
future ahead of her.

I'm still blown away by this film. There's so many praises I have for it,
that I doubt I could remember to mention them all. It's original, well
acted, well written, well directed, etc... It's just twistedly wonderful.
It's too bad it wasn't given a better release in theaters, but it's not
exactly a mainstream movie either. It still deserved better than what it
got. At least I can find comfort in knowing that it's sure to become a
cult
classic. Word of mouth will help it a lot. It's definitely not for
everyone
though. It's weird, morbid, quirky, wicked, and gutsy. It doesn't shy away
from much. In fact, it has one of the best and most realistic slit throats
I've ever witnessed on screen. But don't let that scare you, it's
definitely
worth a look for any horror fan, or any film fan in general. I'm proud to
have this haunting film as a part of my collection. It's simply
A-MAY-ZING!

Grade: 9/10 (A-)
<|_=00=_|>

Some movies use gore to distinguish themselves from other horror movies in a
unique way, and boy, do they ever succeed. DEAD-ALIVE, EVIL DEAD,
RE-ANIMATOR. Others, rather than settle for OTT gore, try to creep you out
with old-school tactics that wriggle under your skin into places that are
anything but comfortable...places that you only visit in your dreams. THE
OTHERS, THE SIXTH SENSE and SIGNS are those kinds of films.

And then you get those rarities...those exceptional films that are not for
everyone, that manage to be both creepy and gory at the same time, in a way
that's not quite easily classifiable, and so they are never considered
"mainstream" by mass audiences in the multiplexes, or critics into selling
sound-bites rather than writing decent reviews. 

Films like TOURIST TRAP, THE FUNHOUSE, George Romero's MARTIN, ALICE, SWEET
ALICE, SISTERS and SILENT SCREAM are some prime examples. To this list, we
can now add MAY.

The less you know about this film going in, the more shocking the denoument
is. And even those who have heard quite a bit about it, shouldn't be too
quick to make assumptions. MAY goes in a direction that most films of this
genre hint at, but never commit to. The result is a tale alternating between
twisted tenderness and tremendous terror, like nothing you've seen in a long
while. And in the true tradition of creepy/gory/blackly comic films, there's
no middle of the road with this one. You will love it or absolutely hate it,
but either way, you will not walk away from it unaffected.  First-time
writer/director McKee has seen to that, and then some.

Angela Bettis may need some serious therapy, following up her role in the
CARRIE TV remake with this one. I'd be tempted to call it a pattern, since
May does share a lot of similarities with Carrie White; the overprotective,
overbearing mothers, the role of societal outcast set at an early age. But
that's where the similarities end. Where Carrie's weapon of choice was her
soon-to-be-not-so-latent telekinetic powers, May's power lies in her very
deceptive talent to appear shy, docile, reclusive and weird, but supposedly
"harmless."  Obviously lacking in the social interaction department, she
still has a quality about her that elicits our empathy and sympathy.  The
characters she meets in the story feel the same way and...well, you have to
see what happens to belive it.

Indie faves Jeremy Sisto (SIX FEET UNDER), Anna Faris (the SCARY MOVIE
series) and James Duval (A RIVER MADE TO DROWN IN) round out the principal
cast. Not to mention May's first 'friend' that serves as a catalyst for the
story...a doll given her by her mother, which may have you swearing off
dolls for the rest of your life!

I'm not going to give away the main plot, leaving that to other reviewers
and their assessments. I will say this: if your horror movies usually have
to be series sequels with a number plastered in front of them, MAY might be
too much imaginative derangement for you to handle. But if you're in the
mood for something completely different, then rent it NOW, by all means.
Just make sure you have a good, stupid comedy to take your mind off of it
afterward. Trust me on this; even if it's DUDE, WHERE'S MY CAR? for the
fifteenth time, TAKE IT. You'll feel...well, maybe a little better after
watching this. 

<|_=00=_|>

I'm so glad people are re-discovering horror as a serious genre because the
endless SCREAM rip-offs were getting more tiresome than even the previous
decade's endless HALLOWEEN rip-offs.  MAY not only operates as a great
horror film, it also is a wonderful character study of social dysfunction. 
Angela Bettis is wonderfully painful to watch in her attempts at love. 
She's an actress to keep your eyes on in the future.  The ending gets a
little more standard but is just creepy enough to keep you on the edge of
your seat.  
<|_=00=_|>
I cant say much about this movie other than its wonderfully strange. It
has an appeal that is not only beautiful but scary and intelligent and
never asks the viewer to understand whats going on fully it just guides
you through the story with a slightly sick feeling in your stomach
because deep down in some small way you know that you relate to the
central character even if its just for a passing moment.

This is not a run of the mill slasher type horror movie and explores
the characters more than most in the genre especially the first
relationship between may and the man with "perfect hands" i wouldn't
rent the movie if your looking for a no brainer but if you want a
horror with a little more substance and just the right amount of dark
humour this is the one for you.
<|_=00=_|>
I bemoan horribly low-budget movies, but this production is proof
positive that money does not make the movie. I am still so disturbed by
this effort that I am finding it hard to find the words...

This movie was absolute brilliance. It was creatively written,
realistically portrayed, inspirationally directed, and disturbingly sad
and dark at the same time.

Angela Bettis is astounding as May. May was born with a lazy eye which
caused her have to wear an eye patch. Her mother, a neurotically
judgmental woman, raised May to believe that her only choice for
friendship was to either hide her differences, or withdraw into her own
fantasy.

But there are more differences within May than even her mother could
see, and after May realizes that people are not perfect, she goes to
any and all lengths to make herself seen.

This is one of the darkest, saddest, most disturbing movies I have EVER
seen. Bittersweet and truly mad.

It rates a full 10/10 on the "B" scale.

That's an 8.9/10 from...

the Fiend :.
<|_=00=_|>
"May" is not a movie I would nominate for an Oscar, or any sort of
award, but it is original. Many scenes totally creeped me out, but what
can I say? It's a horror flick! And I commend the director for being
unapologetic about this sick, demented material. The film is well-made
and well-acted. Just don't expect the feel-good movie of the year. I
can watch Jason Voorhies slice a victim's head off with a machete while
eating a 3-course meal, but watching a room full of blind children
crawl all over a floor and cut themselves with broken glass is pretty
damn disgusting to me. Fans of the horror genre definitely won't be
disappointed. (7 out of 10)
<|_=00=_|>
"May" is actually one of my favourite American independent horror
movies.It's wonderfully original and twisted film that will leave the
viewer stunned.When May was a little girl,her mother made her wear an
eye patch to cover her lazy eye.Unable to make friends,she had only a
sad little doll.But with contact lenses to improve her appearance,May
(wonderful Angela Bettis)earns the attention of her lesbian
co-worker(Anna Faris)and the handsome man down the street(Jeremy Sisto
from "Hideaway" and "Wrong Turn").May,however,proves to be too strange
for even the oddest of her companions and once people get to know her
they soon start to avoid her.Lonely and rejected May kills everyone who
offended her.The character of May is truly bizarre.The acting is pretty
good and there is plenty of gore,especially in the second half of the
film.The climax is very haunting and memorable.Overall,I'd highly
recommend this film for fans of horror.9 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
May is simply one of the greatest horror films from last years.One of
the greatest things from this movie is that it isn't a traditional
horror movie and the director took his time to introduce us May.The
ending is creepy and disturbing.Angela Bettis is really,an excellent
young actress.Her performance on this movie is SPECTACULAR.I think this
film isn't for sensitive persons:some images from this movie are way
creepy and disturbing.But if you are a fan of horror films,I totally
recommend this movie because you will love it.And I die to see The
woods,the new movie from Lucky Mc Kee(the director of this movie).

Rating:10
<|_=00=_|>
I ordered May on DVD from play.com a couple of days ago and it came
through this morning so I sat and watched it and I must say I was
rather impressed. I had read comments on the IMDb saying that it was
good to see something new in the horror genre and about the excellent
performance by Angela Bettis and this inspired me (along with the fact
Jeremy Sisto is in this film) to buy it.

Anyhoo, to the point! May is a wonderfully fresh movie in amongst all
the blood and guts horror films of today. It moves slowly but it holds
your attention well with brilliant performances by Angela Bettis,
Jeremy Sisto and the supporting cast.

Not much more I can think to say about this, my mum and brother are
arguing in the next room and distracting my train of thought. It's a
crazy life.

Basically, a very good film. Horror fans would love this, as would
people who just appreciate good, lower budget films. I bought this and
enjoyed it very much and thought it was a good purchase. You might not
feel the same so I won't *tell* you to go out and buy it, but I would
advise that it is worth it.

8/10 from me, Cat §quire
