
G-G-GOAL!!! I'm so pleased that there's finally a decent movie about
soccer, a sport which for the longest time, doesn't seem to get movie
producers excited to put out on screen. Having FIFA sanction this film
means getting some realism injected, and lending to the authenticity of
is the English Premier League club Newcastle United, together with a
host of real life soccer superstars like Beckham, Zidane and Raul.

While the settings and the game results are real, we follow the
fictional story of an illegal Mexican immigrant to Los Angeles,
Santiago Munez, street footballer extrodinaire. He gets his lucky break
when an ex-Newcastle United player turned scout, Glen Foy, chances upon
his games, and invites him over to England for trials.

For a guy who's struggling to make ends meet, this presents the perfect
opportunity to take a stab at his dream. But tension builds as his
father disapproves and is skeptical at both the chance as well as his
son's gift to make it big. So he leaves his real dad and family behind,
to follow in the footsteps of Foy, his surrogate father in England.

The highlight of the movie is not the real football games that the
actors get seamlessly transplanted onto, but rather the many trials and
tribulations that Munez goes through to earn his rightful place in the
squad. His disastrous first appearance almost made him take the first
plane home, and I'd bet many in the audience thought it would be a
breeze actually for him to make it to first team. Thankfully, the focus
was on his sheer determination to overcome the lack of niceties towards
newcomer rookies like himself, and the difficulties and temptations
which fill his 30 days trial that Foy literally begged for.

What you read in the papers of the decadent lifestyle of footballers
are all in here - the booze, the parties, the clubbing, the women, even
video games (taking a stab at David James maybe?). Munez gets
introduced to these by fellow teammate and cocky new German acquisition
Gavin Harris, whose partying lifestyle takes a toll on his game, and
becomes the Toon Army's boo-boy. It's fantastic how these two
characters contrast each other, and help each other along the way.

For non-fans of the beautiful game, fear not, you're not gonna be
alienated in this movie, as it doesn't sink into technicalities like
the dreaded offside rule. You'll enjoy the movie simply because of the
strong human drama weaved into the story, as well as the familiarity of
easily identifiable themes of hard work, right ethics, living your
dreams and fulfilling your aspirations.

Newcastle fans however, will rejoice, as the hallowed grounds of St
James Park gets put on the silver screen. For fans without the
opportunity of visiting their beloved club, they can gawk at the
dressing room, the gym, the dugout, the pitch up close, the city
neighbourhood, and "mingle" with fellow fanatical Geordies. Club
captain Alan Shearer makes appearances too, as do the many other first
team players. But the screen version of the club manager looks
uncannily modelled after Arsenal's Arsene Wenger. Fans of Fulham,
Chelsea and Liverpool can also see their heroes on screen as well.

Santiago Munez is played by a relative newcomer, Mexican actor Kuno
Becker, who was put on real soccer training to improve his skills and
make him look credible and natural with the ball at his feet. At
certain angles with his short crop, he looks like Michael Owen, who now
is playing for Newcastle (he wasn't when this movie was filmed).

I so dig the soundtrack, especially the guitar piece which opened the
movie, and track from the trailer which also made its way into the
movie - Kasabian's Club Foot, and various pieces by Brit-band Oasis. A
pity it's only out in the stores on October 16 (based on Amazon), but
I'll be there to pick it up when it hit the shelves.

The ending, even though it wrapped up all the pieces nicely, is a bit
abrupt, but I guess it would lead directly into the planned sequels of
a trilogy, which involve Real Madrid and the World Cup. This is one
movie which can spark someone's interest in soccer, and I'd recommend
it to both fans and non-fans alike. Don't let this movie dribble past
you!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was tops! It's a great film pretty much anyone in your
family could see and enjoy. The way it was released here in the States
as a PG film with some scenes edited out, it's inoffensive enough. I've
since gotten the DVD bootleg floating around here in New York and have
seen the edited scenes. They really weren't necessary to make the film
a good one (so you're not missing anything if you're only seeing the
version released here in the States).

It was really nice to see less known actors in the roles. I'm
personally sick and tired of the same little old crowd always getting
parts in everything. It's a fantastic mixture when you can get an actor
who is well known in Romania (Marcel Iures) but relatively unknown in
the rest of the world and Kuno Becker (again known in Latin America but
unknown to everyone else) and put them in a British film with a U.S.
actor (Alessandro Nivola) along with British actors. Really clever,
nice ethnic mix and an unusual one--less predictable than the usual
casting that goes on out there--kinda opens the pool of actors that
we're currently exposed to all the time.

A lot of people are complaining about the football (soccer) aspects of
the movie saying that it's not real, etc. But I think they're failing
to see that the movie is not about the sport itself (although I think
there's a fair amount of that in there as well) as much as it is about
the people who play it and some of the backstage politics that are
linked with it. I thought these were shown tactfully and were just
enough as they were coupled with the human factor --the lives of the
players, their loves, their hates, competitive spirit, etc.

What was good about having a Latino as a protagonist in the film is
that it shows the wider scope of fans football has. It is not only
popular in Europe but in Latin America as well. The film could have
easily gone down the eurocentric route of making the story about a
European case, but this made it a bit more unusual and interesting.
Since Santiago was an illegal immigrant who obviously took the great
risk to come to the States and didn't really have much going for him
here (as is the case for most illegal immigrants anyway and is becoming
more and more true with the newer policies being undertaken here) his
risk of going to England to try his luck there is completely plausible
to me. I have actually seen similar things tried by other Latinos going
to Europe to see if their luck is better there than here for obtaining
residence, etc. 

Some people may feel that the portrayal of the Latino family was
stereotypical, but on the whole, I thought it was positive with the
characters being honest and working hard for a living rather than being
common hoodlums as they are sadly put forth in many films. Santiago was
shown to be a modest young man who is not too full of himself and a
generally likable character.
<|_=00=_|>
Overwhelming under-dog story that has been done a hundred times and is
definitely cliché-riddled, but I loved it nevertheless. "Goal!: The
Journey Begins" is the first of a trilogy as a young Mexican illegal
immigrant (Kuno Becker) in Los Angeles has a chance at the brass ring
in England of all places playing soccer for one of their professional
teams after being discovered by scout/former player Stephen Dillane.
Tony Plana (always under-rated and excellent) is outstanding as
Becker's cold father and Marcel Iures gives an incredible performance
as the British team's head coach. Becker also unwittingly teaches a
brash superstar (Alessandro Nivola) who has forgotten the real reasons
why he plays soccer why the game is so important and also finds
companionship in a strange land with beautiful nurse Anna Friel. Great
cinematography and a wonderful score make for a very moving and
entertaining experience as the film touches strong emotions of love,
friendship, sacrifice and ultimate success against all odds. A bit long
and not totally original, but still done well enough to be a winner
that does accomplish its goal in the end. 4 stars out of 5.
<|_=00=_|>
In 'Goal' Kuno Becker plays Santiago Munez, an illegal alien living in
Los Angels. Despite his hardships, Santiago loves to play soccer. So
much so, that he is really quite good. Good enough to get the notice of
a former scout of Newcastle United. Santiago gets the opportunity to go
to England and try out for this premier football team. But if he does
not make it, he will not be able to return to Los Angels.

This is a heartwarming tale of one man's struggle to become something
more. Despite the obstacles and the disapproval of his father (Tony
Plana), he goes for the goal. Only to find that it is not going to be
that easy after all.

I would say this film is 'Bend it Like Beckham' meets 'Gattaca'. Not
that Santiago needs to meet any DNA tests, but he is in a world that is
virtually unknown to him. He has to keep secrets about himself in order
to fit in because most expect him to fail. Some will even try to make
him fail.
<|_=00=_|>
I think we would all likely agree the "rags to riches" story has been
done to death by Hollywood. But, when someone comes along and gets it
right the results can be truly excellent. Perhaps the best know of this
genre is original "Rocky" movie. "Goal - the dream begins" gets it
right, even though it is loaded with all the clichés that generally
accustom this kind of movie. "Goal" has the whole recipe here - the
unknown with the heart of gold, a unique and virtuosic talent, from a
downtrodden and hopeless setting, the brooding and unsupportive parent
who refuses to accept his child's potential, the doting grandparent who
can see the potential that lies within our hero, the outsider who
promises a way to fame and fortune and so on... But, like the first few
"Rocky" movies, this one delivers without falling into the usual
schmaltzy pitfalls.

Kuno Becker is very well cast as promising young player Santiago Munez.
He is earnest, honest, and gives off that glow of burning desire to be
the best. My only knock is that he doesn't quite physically look the
part at times. When they line him up with real professionals he looks a
touch slight and skinny, not quite boasting the musleclature of a
professional athlete. The supporting cast works out well, too. No real
complaints to offer as everyone seems to be a very good fit. Alessandro
Nivola's dialect could use a spot of work, but no one outside of the UK
will really pick up on this. I very much liked Marcel Irues as
Newcastle United's Manager. He seemed to be a totally natural fit for
the role and is a shoe in for the lead if someone ever decides to make
the "Aime Jacquet story".

Where this movie really takes off is on the pitch, whether its a park
in LA, the training ground in Newcastle, or St. James Park, the home of
Newcastle United. The soccer scenes are exceptionally well done and
look realistic. Real players feature prominently all over film, both on
and off the pitch, and not just in walk on cameos, ie "Bend it like
Beckham". The action is convincing, the tackles are crunching, and the
goals are authentic and not the usual over the top spectacle (anyone
remember Pele's winner from "Victory"?) Becker fits in well with the
action scenes, though it's odd how you never really see all of Becker
on the ball and usually just the waist up, kind of like they found some
else to do all the little flicks and stepovers...

And for all those who say "it can't happen", I beg to differ. This
movie is not fantasy. In fact, they could have made a biopic about a
young Calgarian from Western Canada who somehow manages to make Bayern
Munich, works his way up through the reserves, and in his premier
season with the senior side wins the league and European Cup, makes the
England side for World Cup 2002, and returns again to be the best
England player in World Cup 2006! Maybe someday someone out there will
make the "Owen Hargreaves story".

All in all, great stuff and I'm already looking forward to Goal 2 & 3.
<|_=00=_|>
Until recently in history, whenever the world of film and the world of
football combined, the results had often been negligible. With the
GOAL! trilogy, a new precedent has been set for not only the genre, but
also for the global sport itself, in terms of its plausibility in film
towards its millions of demanding fans worldwide.

What this film does on the base level is to authentically present the
game in high quality realism on the silver screen. However, that alone
does not lend the film its credo. What makes it stand as the definitive
standard bearer for films of football (given how every other sport
especially American ones have managed to succeed filmwise- Bull Durham,
Space Jam, Mighty Ducks, Remembering the Titans, etc) is that it
carries many thematic layers on its back, pushes the frontiers of the
genre with depth in the storyline, and finally aces in delivering a
film that merges drama with sport, hype and overall verisimilitude in
all content elements.

Obviously, every critic knows that the methodology of such a delivery
is that it requires realism, and in cinematography especially- exactly
what the film provides, and as a result gives it that definitive edge.
Soccer films have never been entirely authentic, due to factors as
diverse as action mapping, as well as dramatic scope. Furthermore, fans
of the sport knew that nothing in cinema could ever approximate the
sheer unscriptable drama of the actual game. Until GOAL! came along.
When FIFA commissioned and granted the rights for the film to Danny
Cannon, the air of realism was set in motion already, because albeit
being fictional, it carries the authority of the universal game as fans
know it because of its simulated parallels- real clubs, real superstars
like Zidane, Raul, Shearer, etc, and realities of the game's actual
hierarchies and bureaucracies have been surmised- reserves, leagues,
scouts, agents and pressures.

AG Salomon/Adidas may have pumped advertising dollar into this film for
placement of their teams (Newcastle United, Real Madrid) and sponsored
players for marketing, but in a sense, when the result is this
authentic, can you blame the corporations for input? In fact, fans
might even have to thank them for producing what can be the first high
profile and quality football film on record. Just recall the maudlin
world of football film until the recent revival of films of the genre,
which incidentally mirror the revolution of football and its branding
that began in the 1990s and the likes of superstars like Beckham. In
recent years, this revival has seen film entries usher in on the
commercial success of football, from 1996's 'Fever Pitch' to 2002's
Bend it like Beckham, but never has a film about the game itself been
done the way it has been done here, in such centrality.

In fact, the very dearth of such films is an understatement and may
well be the fuel for the GOAL! trilogy's impending success. Even
football legend PELE alluded to the paucity of football films- or at
least those of the simple concept explaining structures of wealth,
class and the disparities of rich and poor in congruence with football.
The plot by Butchart and Jeffries in this film stands out because of
this - featuring the barrios of S.America; the institution of organized
football religion in England, and a rag to riches drama, where Becker's
character combines innocence and disappointments with success and
'aspiracion' in true underdog fantasy. The script is far from genius
but it has depth- genuine troughs (poverty, death, rejection) and
hurdles- competition, adaption and temptation (the clubbing scenes were
almost a revealingly accurate précis given footballers' reputations in
Europe). In fact, perhaps the only inaccurate part was about how Becker
signed without a work permit and contract given he had to have been
playing in at least 70% of all matches with his International side.
Nonetheless, the film manages at the same time to convey the global
scale of this billion dollar world obsession with the fantasy without
compromising the sheer magnitude, and challenges of it all. Throw in
all the other elements ranging from romance with Anna Friel's pragmatic
nurse character to the gamut of football archetypes (Nivola as the
playboy with conscience, Iures as the stoic gaffer, Dillane as the
gentlemanly scout, the mercenary agents, an even a Souness-like
hardman), on top of the fact that footage of actual matches in England
has been seamlessly edited in, and you can see why the film accounts
for a thorough representation of the sport. Perhaps even most exciting
of all, the film shows behind the scenes footage of the teams and
stars- training, grounds, gyms, dressing rooms, city streets, pubs,
Toon Geordies.

How many people remember a football film that was done this way? More
often than not football films have been towed by comedy or played side
appendage to broader issues. From Thorold Dickinson's Arsenal Stadium
Mystery (1939) about crime, to biopics like Yesterday's Hero (1979), or
Gregory's Girl (1981) about gender, or even Eran Riklis's Cup Final
(1991) about the PLO in war, most films have broader issues. The rest
survive on humour, Mike Bassett (2001), being the typical example.
GOAL! scores and sets the precedent for the genre from now on. In fact,
there has been a rush of football films since, well accounted for at
Cannes or the Berlinale festival, and probably well into World Cup
2006.

Films at Cannes included 'The Longest Penalty in the World' and "Romeo
and Juliet Get Married" - a strained marriage between a Barcelona fan
and a Real Madrid fan while Berlinale had 'Offside' an Iranian film.
The market for soccer films has always been there, its just a case of
whether filmmakers could break the deadlock with quality and
authenticity, and GOAL! could well be the catalyst for the floodgates
to open.

By Stephen Thanabalan
<|_=00=_|>
Right from the beginning this movie dose a great job of keeping your
attention. It shows how hard it really is for any athlete, in this case
a soccer player to make it pro. Even though the movie is not based off
of a true story it feels as if it should be and there are many
obstacles that(Munez)has to overcome throughout the movie. Overall the
movie has become an all time favorite of mine and i have already seen
it twice. It is a sleeper and if you are a fan of the English premier
league or just of soccer in general you should definitely go and see
this movie. Its worth your time and money and i think that you too will
fall in love with it just like i have. So please go see the movie Goal
cause you definitely won't be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
Yes, this is another sports biography that offers a stage on which to
play out the drama of the possibilities of dreams of the
disenfranchised to become a reality. There are many, many films like
this one and will doubtless be more: something there is about the 'team
spirit' in the identity crisis of whether or not the poor (financially)
new guy will be able to make the physical grade that draws large
audiences. It is a formula and it often works despite weak structure
and production values.

In the case of GOAL! THE DREAM BEGINS the viewer can put aside the
doubts as to whether the film can make it on its own: this little low
profile movie is well written (Mike Jefferies's story adapted for the
screen by Adrian Butchart), well directed by Danny Cannon who knows
well how to integrate live sports scenes into the drama, and
consistently well acted by a troop of excellent actors, beginning with
the very vibrant, handsome, and charismatic Kuno Becker ('Lucia,
Lucia', 'Imagining Argentina', 'Once Upon a Wedding', 'English as a
Second Language'), a 28 year old Mexican actor with an assured future
in the lead role of Santiago. The supporting roles are classy
contributions by the gifted Alessandro Nivola ('The Sisters',
'Junebug', 'The Clearing', 'Laurel Canyon', 'Love's Labour's Lost',
'Mansfield Park' etc), the very beautiful Anna Friel, Stephen Dillane,
Marcel Iures, Tony Plana, Miriam Colon to mention only a few.

The story is secondary: as a child devotee of soccer Santiago
immigrates illegally into the US with his family, grows up in Los
Angeles working as a gardener, a dishwasher and other menial tasks
while he consumes his spare time with developing his unique talents for
soccer. Despite his father's insistence that he remain with the family
business of gardening, Santiago is discovered by a scout on vacation
from England, a bond develops and soon Santiago is off to Newcastle to
pursue his dream of being a professional soccer player. The rest is
pretty obvious - the ups and downs of an asthmatic kid competing in the
wild world of sports. The star of the moment is Alessandro Nivola and
despite the differences in their goals and social life they become
friends who help each other in tender ways. There is of course a love
interest, telephone calls and encouragement form Santiago's
grandmother, adjustments to life in the UK -all altering the road
toward Santiago's eventually attained goal.

The film is a bit lengthy (two hours) for the content, but then we
understand this is the first of a trilogy, so get used to the story and
the characters as they all remain constant for the next two
installments. Whatever reservations you may have about sitting through
another predictable sports movie just relax them: Kuno Becker alone is
worth the time invested in this very fine little film. Grady Harp
<|_=00=_|>
This film is basically Rocky but with a football. It's a rags-to-riches
tale of a promising Mexican youngster with nothing in life, apart from
incredible footballing skills.

Some of the CGI football shots are poor, but the budget for this film
was not massive, and they did what they could. The use of cameos from
the likes of Shearer, Zidane, Beckham and Raul added to both the
credibility and believability of the overall piece.

The film is sad and at times funny, and can be enjoyed by the whole
family, including people with no interest in football. It's a story of
triumph over adversity, and of people pulling together to help someone
get ahead in life, by doing what they do best.

Overall, this is the best football film ever made, in my opinion. You
can tell that the people who made it knew their subject matter -
something that simply cannot be said for Green Street (Hooligans) which
concentrated on fan violence, rather than the beautiful game.
<|_=00=_|>
GOAL is a very good soccer film, sort of a throwback to all the sports
films of the 1940's-50's. There were some unexpected surprises, too. I
never knew that Newcastle could look so good. I had only seen it
depicted in the wonderful "Auf Wiedersehen, Pet" TV series, and then
parts of it were being dismantled by the Auf Wiedersehen crew -
including Christopher Fairbanks, who has a smallish role in GOAL. Do I
recommend GOAL for soccer fans? Most certainly; and for fans of British
movies, too. There are one or two very minor things about the movie
that leave me a bit puzzled, though.

How can Tony Plana, the actor playing the hero's Mexican gardener
father and illegal border crosser, realistically play that role when
he's got a mouth full of those artificially big, bright Hollywood
teeth? I just couldn't get past it - an illegal gardener without a
green card but who's got thousands of dollars in dental work blazing
across the screen! No self-respecting actor should ever get involved
with this absurd fad of capping, whitening, bleaching and brightening.
It's fake, fake, fake. As good an actor as Plana is, I'd have
disqualified him from the role for that reason alone.

My other comment is really a question. Who is playing the broadcast
commentator in the film? The credits say it's someone named Rob Lee.
However, the voice seems to ring a bell for me, yet I can't find anyone
in football broadcasting named Rob Lee. Whoever it is, he's doing a
fine job and sounds very authentic.

I really liked the film.
