
With it's G rating, I figured this for mostly upbeat and easy for
youngsters such as my 3rd grade daughter. However, the movie is much
deeper than that, and while it has many feel good moments, it is more
about tough times and imperfect lives than anything, but shines
wonderfully.

My 3rd grade daughter loved it, but my 7th grade daughter, who we
thought might be too old for it, loved it even more!

I would definitely recommend "Because of Winn-Dixie" to families
looking for a movie to watch together and who want thought provoking
questions for their children to ponder and ask about. Well done, not
too sappy, plenty of realism to go along with the fantasy.

The dog wasn't cartoony at all, the smile was understated and natural.
This movie is more about relationships and hope despite tough times
than anything else.
<|_=00=_|>
First, I want to dispel any rumors about this being a "sappy" movie.
This movie is an adaptation of a well-known children's book, and should
be judged as such. For those of us that want more from our
entertainment than shoveling base garbage, it provides a nice change.
This movie is in the same type of movie as an "Anne of Green Gables" or
other juvenile movie. It has no nudity, profanity, nor did we see
anybody sleeping with anybody. A nice change.

What a wonderful movie. The story is very similar to Pollyanna (at
least in the girls ability to involve herself in the community). It has
a very positive message, and there is not one thing that I would feel
bad taking any of my children to see. As a matter of fact, they will
all see it by the week's end. I haven't read the book, but my 13
year-old daughter has and told me how good it is. I will have to read
it now. It was an engaging tale, and technically was very well done.
The acting was good (some very talented actors were involved) and there
was some very good film work. The moving clouds with the scene changes
were a nice touch and the music was very appropriate. I know there has
been a lot of talk in the media about Dave Matthews in this film, and
he was a nice addition. His acting was OK, but his music was definitely
a welcome addition. His guitar playing in various spots was warm and
fit like your favorite chair.

There were a number of good messages throughout the movie. Some were
very overt (the discussion between Gloria and Opal about judging
someone on an event without knowing the whole story), and some were a
little more below the surface (time moving on, bringing new challenges,
and keep living). In case you don't get them, they usually give you a
clue in the dialogue somewhere. It sure gave me lots of topics I could
use to teach with my children. The most important theme is the primary
theme for the movie. The truly important thing in life is the
relationships we have with others. Opal demonstrated by becoming part
of the lives of those Winn Dixie led her to.

This is one movie that will go on my video shelf (when it's not in the
DVD player).
<|_=00=_|>
Based on the Newbery Award-winning children's book by Kate DiCamillo,
Because of Winn-Dixie, brings some much-needed sincerity to this
Spring's forthcoming line-up of family films. Winn-Dixie, which comes
to theatres February 18, stars newcomer AnnaSophia Robb as 10-year-old
India Opal Buloni, who finds herself struggling to make friends in her
new home, the small town of Naomi, Florida. Jeff Daniels plays Opal's
father, known throughout the story simply as Preacher. Opal and
Preacher's relationship is strained due to the fact that Opal's mother
abandoned them both seven years earlier. Their relationship is changed,
however, when Opal is sent to the local Winn-Dixie store for some
groceries and brings home a goofy, bumbling mutt with a knack for
making friends and a unique ability to smile. She names the dog after
the store in which she found him, and soon they are constant
companions. With Winn-Dixie's help, Opal gets to know the eclectic
community of Naomi and her exploits bring together some of Naomi's most
unusual citizens. Though the premise may seem conventional, the movie
possesses many qualities that are lacking in most family films.
Director Wayne Wang, whose previous films include The Joy Luck Club and
Anywhere But Here, avoids much of the whimsical elements that turn off
older viewers, portraying some of the more far-fetched scenes through
imaginative flashbacks that occur only in Opal's mind. Though Because
of Winn-Dixie succumbs to many family film clichés including slapstick
physical comedy and plenty of sappy moments, it is redeemed by moments
of pure quirkiness and originality. The film is also unafraid of
dealing with adult themes such as alcohol abuse.

The film's cast is supported by veteran talents like Cicely Tyson and
Eva Marie Saint and counterbalanced by the fresh faces of the younger
cast members. Songwriter Dave Matthews makes an impressive effort in
his second film appearance as Otis, an introverted pet store clerk who
plays guitar to soothe the animals. Though AnnaSophia Robb's
inexperience sometimes shows itself in comparison to her co-stars, she
imparts a sense of genuine naïvete and childlike curiosity to the role
that would have been difficult to achieve with a more experienced child
actress. Robb can next be seen playing Violet Beauregard in Tim
Burton's upcoming adaptation of Charlie and the Chocolate Factory.
Because of Winn-Dixie is a tale rich in values with themes of
forgiveness, tolerance, and hope for the future. It is a classic story,
told with imaginative eccentricity and style. Rather than taking the
kids to see yet another Winnie the Pooh movie, do yourself a favor and
take a chance on something original.

The Verdict: 3 ½ Stars
<|_=00=_|>
Today, I took my three year old to see her first movie. This, you must
understand is a task, as you must always be careful about language and
"mature" situations that so many people today see as normal.

I am not going to give a synopsis of the movie, as most of the other
reviewers do. Go see the movie yourself. I will only say that both my
daughter and myself were totally engrossed with this touching and
well-played story. The characters were very enjoyable and I thought the
actors did a fine job.

I noticed that everyone in the audience, children along with their
parents had big smiles on their faces as we all got up to leave at the
movie's end. I really enjoyed this movie, and so did my young daughter.
<|_=00=_|>
No matter what others say, I think that Winn-Dixie is a great movie
that every member of the family can watch and enjoy. It is funny
without being too silly and dramatic without being too sappy, and has
some very good morals. There are no sex/violence elements to worry
about; they are practically nonexistent, and the movie was kept very
true to the book. The actors are very excellent in their roles,
especially newcomer Annasophia Robb. This is a deep movie,too, with a
great handling of its thematic elements and a great amount of
substance. This is not an average made-for-TV type movie, but an actual
memorable film. My advice is, if you're looking for a great family
film, to see Because of Winn-Dixie.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was wonderful. The movie is about a young girl who finds a
dog when she visits Winn Dixie to do grocery shopping for her father,
who is the pastor in the small town in which she lives. This movie
deals with love, forgiveness, and the importance of friendship.
Together, Opal and Winn Dixie befriend many lonely residents of the
small Florida town, and find that their lives are enriched, in addition
to improving the lives of the lonely people in this town. This movie
involves examples of forgiveness, and concern for others. This movie
kind of reminds me of the movie My Dog Skip, starring Frankie Muniz.
This is because both movies involve an animal helping a child become
friends with many people in a small town.
<|_=00=_|>
Opal (AnnaSophia Robb), is a 10-year-old girl who has just moved to a
small town in Florida with her preacher father (Jeff Daniels). The move
has caused Opal to lose all her friends, and now she must start all
over again. Life has been a little tough for Opal, since her mother
abandoned them when she was three. Opal's father asks her to pick up a
few items for dinner at the Winn-Dixie supermarket. While in the store,
a big dog is running loose in the store with clerks chasing after him.
The store manager wants to call the dog pound, but Opal says that the
dog is hers, and his name is Winn-Dixie. Opal take the dog home, and
must convince her father to keep the dog. He agrees to keep the dog
temporarily, until a new owner can be found. They go around town
putting up posters of the dog, and later in the day Opal goes around
and takes the posters down, because she secretly wants to keep the dog.
Opal discovers that Winn-Dixie is able to make friends with everyone he
meets, and now Opal has some new friends, because of Winn-Dixie. This
is a good heartfelt story of the bond between a little girl and her
dog. The story shows that a dog can bring happiness to a lonely girl
and open up hearts of the people in town. I don't know how they did it,
but the dog can actually smile. You can take your children to see this
touching story. (20th Century Fox, Run time 1:46, Rated PG) (7/10)
<|_=00=_|>
This movie starts a little slow, I only went to see it because Dave
Matthews is in it...it starts slow yes, but it has it's moments, good
moments, funny moments. I think there are a lot of lessons in this
movie and that makes it a great movie to go see with the kids...only
one or two cuss words, not bad ones either!! I think if nothing else,
the kids will enjoy the dog in this movie. I enjoyed seeing the dog
because his actions reminded me of my own puppy. I can't wait to see
other Annasohpia Robb movies.. she's a good little actress and
adorable, very adorable...Dave was good too (I also liked him in "Where
the Red FernGrows"). I've always enjoyed Jeff Daniels in movies and he
didn't let me down in this one either.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was a pleasant surprise in it's overall acting and charm,
with a wonderfully directed cast. Winn-Dixie was a fun movie and the
dog was really not the star of this one. While the dog had charm, it
was little India Opal who stole the show. With Dave Matthews and Cicely
Tyson playing wonderful roles, the characters in this film steal your
heart. Opal charms the old folks of this town who seem to have lost
their joy. Once the candy factory was shut down the citizens hearts
left with it. It is Opal who brings the citizens back together and
opens up a closed community by throwing a party for the people in the
town.
<|_=00=_|>
Opal, the daughter of a preacher, is a girl with a mind of her own.
When she meets Winn-Dixie, she has found a pal. Her father is a man
that is in pain. He is trying to reconcile himself to his present
circumstances. Arriving at the small southern town, he must do good
work in order to attract a faithful congregation. He doesn't have much
to fear, just leave it Opal to get everyone together in a place where
people have grown apart.

The great book by Kate DiCamillo, is an excellent book for young
adults. Joan Singleton adapted it for the screen and Wayne Wang
directed a nice cast that produced a movie that, while some would think
it's too sugary for their taste, it captured perfectly the essence of a
small southern town.

The sweet AnnaSophia Robb plays the leading role. This young actress is
a natural, or so it seems. Jeff Daniels, one of our best actors is seen
as the preacher who can't forget his wife and who has to come to terms
with himself. Cicely Tyson and Eva Maria Saint are perfect as two of
the town's oldest citizens that are won over by Opal's goodness. Elle
Fanning is seen as Sweetie Pie, a lovely girl. B. J. Hopper and Dave
Mathews also contributed to the film.

This film was clearly targeted for young audiences. It has the right
ingredients that prove to be a magical combination for family movies, a
girl and a cute dog, a sure formula for appealing to audiences. Wayne
Wang, an unlikely choice for director, brings all these elements
together for a film that will not disappoint.
