


Roger Ebert says he has a theory that `people more readily cry at movies
not
because of sadness, but because of goodness and courage.'

This is certainly a reason why Gary Ross's Seabiscuit tugs so effectively
at
the heartstrings. But the main one is the way the movie shows the triumph
of
the underdog spread fourfold among three men and a horse. And again the
timing is right in the American release. Just as Danny Boyle's 28 Days
Later
was delightful because it was a low budget movie that could compete with
a
lot of loud and dubious blockbusters, Seabiscuit earns our gratitude by
being a blockbuster without explosions or exhibitionism, an epic of
restraint, modesty and -- yes -- `goodness and courage.' The loudest
sound
you hear is the starting bell for the races. There are those of us,
mainstream folk, who've been starving for such fare. I saw people in the
audience in the early matinee who plainly were alive in 1929 and 1938,
and
they wept and applauded throughout with awe and gratitude. We shall see
how
the younger generations respond.

An enthusiastic response is justified. There is nothing in Seabiscuit
that's
very original; it awakens involuntary flashbacks to many traditional
Rocky-esque sports biopics as one watches. But Gray and his chief
collaborators, the talented author Lauren Hillenbrand and the splendid
cast
headed by Jeff Bridges, Chris Cooper, and co-producer Tobey McGuire, have
nonetheless provided us with a quite wonderful movie, as much for its
surefire writing and brilliant editing as for any of the acting.

Everyone must agree that the three men behind the most famous horse of
his
time are played by three of the best actors Hollywood now has to offer.
Critics are in accord in saying Cooper's performance is the subtlest and
the
most real: he models the principle that Less is More. Tobey McGuire isn't
given quite enough to do; his greatest accomplishment may be his lean
look;
he's barely recognizable, and as a former redhead myself I don't think
the
dye job is as bad as some have claimed. Bridges is, in his way,
magnificent,
but glossily iconic and therefore somewhat opaque. His resemblance to
Franklin D. Roosevelt is pushed a bit too hard, as is the whole uplifting
populist message - the `we didn't fix the horse. He fixed us - and we
fixed
each other,' and `sometimes all somebody needs is a second chance,'
stuff.
(It's pretty corny. But within the context of this beautifully made movie
that believes in itself, we buy it.)

It's important, anyway - if young people do come to see Seabiscuit - for
them to get the simplified, but nonetheless just portrait of the times
provided with authentic stills and footage, and the voiceover narration
by
iconic historian David ("The Civil War") McCullough. The travelogue of
the
Depression and Prohibition years includes a quiet but heartfelt plug for
FDR
and that, too, is moving, especially in today's post-Yuppie mood of
numbingly exploitive jingoism.

Indeed each of the three actors gives a powerfully understated
performance -
they're like thoroughbreds who're never given their head - whose litotes
(a
word schoolboys learned back then) enhances the movie's epic quality by
never letting us forget that their triumphs were snatched from
deprivation
and adversity.

The long time devoted to the three men's backgrounds early in the movie
isn't ill spent. It establishes the leisurely pace that is the essence of
epic. But these back-stories aren't as necessary as the filmmakers may
have
thought. And despite the slow movement, there isn't deep detail. There's
barely one scene to establish Red Pollard's (McGuire's) literate,
close-knit
family before he's cast (heartbreakingly) out of it. Charles Howard's
(Bridge's) loss of his son is too telegraphic, though it's a fine touch
to
show him wailing with the boy's body but with his voice barely audible:
it's
one more example of the movie's sense of the period and of its restraint.

Right from the first the horse races are astonishing in the camera's
closeness and vividness, the way we feel the danger and physicality of
the
jockeys' brutal competition with one another. Since we know Pollard is a
failed prizefighter and general scrapper, we take in stride that fact
that
he's physically fighting with other jockeys during the early races. This
is
a movie about horse racing and the races had better be terrific, and they
are. It's when we see the power of those sequences that we realize
Seabiscuit has the makings of a popular classic.

Jeff Bridges' performance in particular seems etched in stone. There are
touches of Jimmy Stewart, Joseph Cotton, even Orson Welles in his role
and
his looks. The chameleon Bridges comes carrying traces of Coppola's
Tucker,
but he has entered into the period and the tradition with utter
conviction.
Cooper's austere minimalism, because it is the essential spirit of the
movie, its understatement (litotes), is the central performance. He is a
man
who communicates better with horses than with men. McGuire's performance
is
the noisiest, but he too reflects the social restraints of the period,
and
his wings are clipped before the final triumph can take place. This was a
time when people had superiors and recognized it by calling them Sir and
Mister. Everyone male wore a suit and tie, even jockeys off duty.

Seabiscuit's ability to tug at the heartstrings first appears when Red
Pollard is let go by his destitute father so he can be a jockey. The
moment
is deeply sad because what seems an act of heroic renunciation by a
loving
parent is in fact abandonment, and it feeds the young man's rage
thenceforth. And it's more complex than that because it grows out of the
enormous pressures of the Depression, a time when millions in America
wandered westward deprived of everything but their cars and a few
possessions.

Not only Bridges' performance but whole sequences of Seabiscuit seem
etched
in stone and contain examples of textbook-perfect editing that possesses
sweep and complexity and advances the story while keeping our focus on
the
prevailing mood.

This is, of course, the classic American story of triumph out of defeat
and
resolution out of conflict. As is a little too clearly pointed out, all
three men, Charles Howard, Tom Smith, and Red Pollard, have had great
devastation and loss in their lives (echoed by the whole country's
economic
devastation, failure, and loss of nerve; and it's implied -- with some
failure of restraint -- that Seabiscuit's underdog triumphs were as
needed
as the New Deal). Their horse was rescued by Smith (Chris Cooper) when it
was going to be shot because it seemed unruly and untrainable. Out of all
this failure and tragedy the men forge their victories: Seabiscuit, the
horse that lacked breeding, was untrainable, and was `too small';
Pollard,
abandoned by his parents, beaten in many prize fights, secretly blind in
one
eye and `too big' to be a top jockey; Smith, a gifted horse tamer and
trainer reduced to riding the rails and hoboing; Bridges, the self-made
millionaire devastated by the destruction of all his hopes in a ruined
economy and the sudden death of his young only son. They bond together to
make Seabiscuit into one of the greatest racehorses in history. Who
wouldn't
be moved by this? Only the conventional fat man who's War Admiral's
snobbish
Maryland owner. It's all about heart, and Seabiscuit's got it.

William H. Macy's caricatured portrait of an alcoholic radio announcer is
a
highlight, in the sense of a bright spot on a painting. It's a shrill and
brittle performace that we tolerate because of the moments of relief
Macy's
little comic vignettes provide. Subtlety is sacrificed to provide an
effect,
and to brush in a bit of humor amid all the earnestness. One only wishes
there were more of a progression; that the character didn't sip from the
same bottle in every scene but got drunker, or soberer, as things went
along.

We have to allow for the exigencies of filmmaking that required ten
horses
to be used for Seabiscuit, leading to the irony that this unique horse is
a
composite.

If you accept its conventionality, Seabiscuit is not just a good movie
but a
great one.


<|_=00=_|>

It's fitting that a film about underdogs giving it all they've got has
been
released among the standard summer action fare. No other movie this summer
has capitalized upon the David vs. Goliath theme so thoroughly and
effectively as `Seabiscuit' has.

The story of `Seabiscuit' is actually the tale of four long shots: Charles
Howard (Jeff Bridges), a wealthy self-made man and natural salesmen who's
suffered both personal and financial loss through the Depression, Tom
Smith
(Chris Cooper), an aging horse trainer unsure of his place in the world
with
the ending of the frontier, Red Pollard (Tobey Maguire), a short-tempered
jockey with various handicaps against him, and Seabiscuit, an undersized
mustang whose been mistreated his whole life.

It's the Depression, and times are hard on everyone. The assembly line
philosophy of business is starting to squelch independent spirit and
people
are looking for anything to help escape the dreary day-to-day of life.
During this maelstrom of hopelessness, horse racing quickly gathers
favoritism among those wishing to witness a spectacle in otherwise bleak
times. It's under these circumstances that the film's four main parties
come
together. Howard, seeking a new business venture in horse racing, hires
Smith as his horse trainer and Pollard as his jockey, and upon Smith's
insistence, purchases the ill-tempered Seabiscuit.

It's not long before Seabiscuit becomes the `little horse who could,'
gaining favor among the sporting fans on the West Coast. But despite the
popularity the mustang and his team gains, they are seen as just a cheap
novelty by the East Coast horse racing elite, led by Samuel Riddle, owner
of
the 1937 Triple Crown Winner War Admiral. This mushrooms into a media
circus
as Howard tries to gain public favor in order to force Riddle to put his
money where his mouth is.

The story should have felt cliched and by-the-numbers, but a funny thing
happened: the film makers took a nearly forgotten moment in time and
managed
to invest it with immediacy and suspense. The near mythic meeting of
Seabiscuit and War Admiral on November 1, 1938 at Pimlico is an extension
of
the movie's overall theme; Seabiscuit, the representative of underdog
hopes
and pioneering dreams, and War Admiral, the recipient of champion breeding
and training, a product of assembly line thinking.

Bridges and Maguire give spirited performances, with their characters
forming a father and son bond that both men desperately needed. Cooper,
who
won this year's Best Supporter Actor Oscar, can give this kind of
performance in his sleep, bringing a quiet, stoic depth to the Smith
character. The supporting cast is top drawer as well, especially William
H.
Macy as `Tick Tock' McGlaughlin, the initially skeptical radio sports
commentor who becomes a full blown Seabiscuit supporter.

Director Gary Ross captures the time period marvelously, with broken human
beings slowly recapturing their dignity and pride against a landscape of
barren ruin. The conflicts are fought not on traditional battlefields, but
atop magnificent beasts along a circular track, and Ross wisely utilizes
this metaphor to full effect.

Many film goers this season will most certainly pass on `Seabiscuit,'
choosing instead to see standard fare like `American Wedding' and `Tomb
Raider: The Cradle of Life.' Others will undoubtedly avoid it because it
looks to artsy to be entertaining. For whatever reason, it will be a shame
that this film will not do well financially; the horse race scenes are
some
of the most intense I've ever seen, and the animals are pure poetry in
motion.

9 out of 10 stars. A nearly flawless motion picture.
<|_=00=_|>
I can't say a bad thing about this movie. There wasn't a single moment
that I didn't like. Everyone who acted in this movie did no less than
perfection. The movie has so much depth, has so much feeling and
emotion and none of it feels forced, phoney or corny/ham handed. The
development of the characters and the plot feels very natural and real
and the movie flows at a comfortable pace. It's a movie you can cry
tears of joy about and not feel weird about it. And to think I was so
naive and close minded that I didn't see it in the theater because I
told myself, "Who wants to see a movie about a racehorse?" If only I'd
known how ignorant that statement was. I'd pay several times the
admittance to have seen this in the theater, just to have had that
added experience of seeing it there. This movie easily makes my top 5
of all time and is probably the best movie I've ever seen, and although
I've seen it a few times now I still have a strong emotional response
to it every time I watch it and feel my appreciation of it not waning,
but only enriching. This movie is truly a "Must See." I hope you like
it as much as I do.
<|_=00=_|>
As the depression era kicks in, Americans were grasping for any sort of
inspiration they could get, enter equine supreme, Seabiscuit.
Considered broken down, too small and untrainable, Seabiscuit went on
to become a bastion of great racehorse's, and in the process bringing
solace to those closest to it.

Back in 2003 upon its initial release, critics were very divided as to
the merits of Seabiscuit as a picture. Some were concerned that this
adaptation from Laura Hillenbrand's highly thought of novel missed too
many crucial elements, others were merely touting the tired old charge
of the film purely baiting Oscar {something that is levelled at every
film in history about hope and second chances}, the more astute critics
of the time however lauded it as the delightful and inspiring piece it
is.

It would be churlish of me to not agree that Seabiscuit is laced with
sentiment, rookie director Gary Ross barely wastes a chance to tug the
heart strings and paint an evocative sequence, but if you have got it
in you to accept this true story for its base emotional point, then it
is one hell of a wonderful experience. Seabiscuit is not just about the
equine beauty of the picture, it's also a fusion of three mens personal
wavering, who for one reason or another need the horse for far more
important crutches than those provided by financial gain, make no bones
about it, Seabiscuit is a very human drama. Knowing how the picture
will end never once becomes a problem, because the historical accuracy
in the story makes one yearn for that grandiose ending, one to gladden
the heart in the way it must have done to thousands upon thousands of
Americans back in the day.

Ross wisely chooses to filter in as much realism as he possibly can,
archive stills and narration serve as exceptional points of worth to
the narrative structure. Then there is the first rate cast to fully
form the emotional complexities that Seabiscuit provides. Jeff Bridges,
Tobey Maguire {waif like}, Chris Cooper, Elizabeth Banks, top American
jockey Gary Stevens and a splendidly jaunty William H Macy, all can
rightly feel proud of their respective work on this picture. But it's
with the thundering race sequences that Seabiscuit really triumphs
best, magnificent beasts hurtling around the race track is excellently
handled by Ross and his cinematographer, John Schwartzman, whilst a nod
of approval must go to the sound departments efforts, it's definitely
one to give your sub-woofer a work out.

Seabiscuit was nominated for seven Academy Awards, winning none,
perhaps the Academy also felt like those critics who thought it was
trying too hard for a Golden Statue? But now after the dust has settled
some years later, it pays to revisit Seabiscuit and judge it on its own
emotional terms, for it's a tremendously well crafted picture that is
of course as inspirational as it most assuredly is tender, a fine fine
picture indeed. 9/10
<|_=00=_|>
A wonderful story of the underdog who rises above adversity to become a
champion.

A very good wholesome movie for the entire family. Good period settings
and costumes and interesting plot of a broken down horse who brought
three broken down people together who all ended up happy. A simple,
believable concept. Good scenery throughout also.

I have read a lot of negative comments about this movie by those who
called it boring and tiresome but that simply isn't true. Does a movie
have to have profanity and lots of CGI imagery in it to be considered
good ? I don't think so. 

Acting was very good but I thought the most believable scene was when
Red's parents gave up their son because they couldn't afford to keep
him anymore.

That scene was very sad and based on fact where parents were placed in
the terrible position to give up their children like that during the
depression.

What struck me funny is that Red Pollard never reunited with his family
after he became one of the most famous jockeys in the country but I
guess thats the way it was back in those days.

Wonderful cast and exciting horse racing scenes that brought the viewer
into the race and projected the energy and danger involved. It is
interesting to note that horse racing was a bigger sport in its heyday
than football or baseball. Bill Macy was also memorable as the funny
and witty radio announcer

A good movie for the entire family.
<|_=00=_|>

A fabulous movie! It offers credibility to the old saying that 'if there's
a
will, there's a way.' It's a great reminder that there had been people -
of
yesteryears - who had been brave and courageous to accept the underdogs
with
heartfelt benevolence.

As a film, revolving around the inspiring story of Seabiscuit, it works
well. It connects the cultural icon with the life paths of three men of
different social standings, leading me through a mixed journey of
tragedies
and jubilation, risks, disappointments and exuberance. It shows how these
men and beast overcome incredible odds to achieve their goals. The bonding
of the quartet is wonderfully captured in this film. Watching the horse
transformed into a winner is as aesthetically beautiful as seeing
'Cinderella' transformed into a beauty by her three 'fairy godmothers.'
This
film has a compelling story that salutes the American dream.

This adaptation of Laura Hillenbrand's book, unfortunately, does omit a
great deal of the interesting biographical accounts of the trio's lives
and
the historical impressions of the nation's era between 1903-1940. But
Director Gary Ross (watch out for his cameo appearance) does provide
sufficient background to the lives of Charles Howard, Jim Smith and Red
Pollard to justify how the trio becomes ultimately involved with the life
of
Seabiscuit. The small spirited bay is first introduced as a colt, and Red
as
a young kid, both ultimately separated from their parents, and both
subjecting the viewers never to forget their crooked legs and their
predisposition for indolence!  Strangely, the film does show many
similarities, in traits and circumstances, between Seabiscuit and Red.
Jeff
Bridges, Chris Cooper and Toby Maguire are impressive in their roles. They
are convincing sources to what is meant by perseverance and triumph.
William
H. Macy does 'tick-tock' through several scenes to provide the comic
relief.

The film is filled with dramatically charming appeal and beauty, yet it
has
not failed to expose the brutality of horseracing.  even if Seabiscuit's
glory had distracted millions away from the political, social and economic
woes of their times. The visuals for the story's historical era are
wonderfully detailed, creating a sense of realism to the period, the
characters and events.  The choice of Randy Newman's music scores helps
build up the viewers' emotions especially in the race scenes.

Seabiscuit is a winner!

A-


<|_=00=_|>
"Sea Biscuit" is a story about a long shot horse and a man who discover
each other on the road to equestrian glory. An extremely rewarding
journey though the lives of man and beast. Every aspect of human
emotion, bonding and courage is explored with an "equine" tinge. Set in
a time when horse racing is more passion than business, Seabiscuit
glorifies the positive appeal of horse racing. Every derby event is an
emotional doorway which lifts your spirits. Be it the Santa Anita or
the Pimilco, you are just just hanging on the edge of your seat
praying, vying and hoping for a Seabiscuit win. Such is the emotional
grasp and visual brilliance of Gary Ross's direction and Scwartzman's
cinematography. Being a thoroughbred race horse by birth, Seabiscuit
treads the race track under the watchful eyes of trainer Tom Smith
(played by Chris Cooper) and jockey Red Poddard (played by Tobey
Mcguire). What follows is a sequence of predictable vicissitudes. Why!
This movie wasn't advertised in the mystery genre either! 

A frail looking (really) Tobey manages to deeply bond with the horse at
least on screen, kudos indeed. Nobody else could have possibly fit into
his role as well as he did, physically too. Chris Cooper is the silent
marvel. There is a completely subtle tinge to his acting which lays
low, yet beautifully exuberates class. Seabiscuit is simply one of
those "silent' movies which just hurtles you beyond imaginable
frontiers. Sit back and relax and let the long shot consume you.
<|_=00=_|>
I have not read the book or anything about the story this movie was
based on - I might have to now since I enjoyed the movie so much. The
point of my writing this is to say: if you haven't read the book, you
will probably like this movie. I'm sure the book portrayed so much
more, but I don't think you can directly compare movies and books. In
most cases, I have never loved a movie as much as a book - but that
doesn't mean the movie should be disregarded. In some cases emotion can
be better portrayed on film. (please note that all my "quotes" are
paraphrased from what i remember and only set aside in " " to
distinguish it from my writing). 

That said, I completely disagree with the first reviewer above who did
read the book first. I really DID get the message about what Seabiscuit
represented at that time: a second chance, rising above expectations
against all odds, and most of all - HOPE. When I told someone I just
saw Seabiscuit, they said, "oh, that's about the horse, right?" and I
said, "no, it's really a story of hope and rising above tough
circumstances - but there is a horse in it." I was surprised at how
much history and how many images of the depression were gracefully
woven into Seabiscuit. I thought it worked very well and added to the
realism of the film. 

I also definitely understood that Red Pollard's family was wealthy, and
that they lost everything in the depression. It's pretty obvious - the
whole family is shown around a great big dinner table in a very nice
house; his father even buys him his own horse. Next time you see them,
they are basically living out of their car with a whole bunch of other
folks doing the same - a kind of depression era makeshift camp.

It's also made clear later on in the movie that he never saw his family
again - there are auditory flashbacks to his parents saying they will
call him; how he almost dumps all his books into the water; the fact
that next time we see him he's a young man and there's no mention of
his family ever again in the movie. Seems like they just disappeared -
and they did. Red also displays anger and frustration that is noticed
by other characters. To me, this points to a sense of abandonment by
his family. 

Also unlike the other reviewer, I DID care a lot about the race with
War Admiral - in fact, i almost had to just skip to the end first
because I was so nervous about it! This was NOT just a story of profit.
In fact, it never seemed like that was Howard's goal at all - his goal
was to prove that the underdog can and will win - to prove that heart
and spirit mattered as much as (or even more than) wealth and breeding.
That seemed to be the point of the match race with War Admiral. 

This is a story of rising above profit to reach an even greater goal.
It's an uplifting story, as you can see in the crowd's faces as Howard
tells them, "just because he's beaten down by a nose, doesn't mean he's
out." and "When the little guy doesn't know he's the little guy, he can
do great big things." You can picture the men and women, unemployed and
hungry, telling themselves these same words. Things will get better; we
may be down, but we're not out. In the words of Tom Smith, "You can't
throw a whole life away, just because it's banged up a bit." Red's
words at the end are touching as well, "seabiscuit fixed us, and in a
sense we fixed each other.'" Red overcame his anger, his fear, his
sense of hopelessness. So did Seabiscuit. And if they can, so can you.
<|_=00=_|>
After the American Depression, the millionaire Charles Howard (Jeff
Bridges) gets married again with Marcela (Elizabeth Banks) and decides
to invest in a race horse. He gathers the old couch Tom Smith (Chris
Cooper), the problematic jockey Red Pollard (Tobey Maguire) and the
horse Seabiscuit, all of them losers, and he believes on them, giving a
second chance to them. Seabiscuit becomes a winner and legend in a
difficult period of the American life. "Seabiscuit" is a beautiful film
with positive and wonderful messages. Charles Howard has the best
lines, such as: "When the little guy doesn't know that he is little, he
is capable of big things"; or, "Sometimes all somebody needs is a
second chance". The excellent and underrated actor Chris Cooper has
probably his best performance along his career. Although having 141
minutes running time, the viewer does not feel time passing. I
particularly liked not only the direction, performances, locations and
reconstitution of a period, but mainly the never corny and very
positive messages in the excellent lines and screenplay. My vote is
eight.

Title (Brazil): "Seabiscuit – Alma de Herói" ("Seabiscuit – Soul of
Hero")
<|_=00=_|>
Unlike most people, I haven't had that many cases in which I didn't
particularly rave over a good movie because it couldn't live up to the
book....but that was the case here.

This is a good movie. I realize that, but Laura Hillenbrand's book,
from which this movie is taken, is hands-down the best sports book I
have ever read. So, I eagerly anticipated the movie. I found out what
so many other people discovered when their favorite was made into a
film: it can't live up to it. In fairness, no two-hour film can do
justice to a good book.

In this case, there were many things the jockey, owner and trainer went
through that made the story so compelling, and they weren't in the
movie. I won't detail them. Just read the book. But you can't
appreciate what these men and that gutsy racehorse really accomplished
just by the film. It only scratches the surface.

I can accept those omissions because of time constraints but I cannot
accept Hollywood inserting offensive language into the movie that was
not in the book, such as a dozen usages of the Lord's name in vain,
NONE of which was in the book. That's inexcusable.

The movie's strength was its beauty, just magnificently filmed. Man,
this is a gorgeous film, from the first shot to the last. Director Gary
Ross and Director Of Photography John Schwartzman put a lot of loving
care into this film and it shows. The actors were fine, too. No
complaints there. 

If this film appealed to you, I cannot recommended the book enough.
Please check it out.
