
This is singularly one of the worst films I've ever seen. After seeing
a wide selection of decent horror at Fantastic Fest a few weeks ago, I
expected this to have some substance because it was picked to screen at
the Austin Film Festival. All I can think of is that someone must have
blackmailed the programmers because it's terrible.

The dailogue is either very cliché, or very stilted (and often both).
There are serious continuity issues. The gratuitous sex scene was so
completely sudden it seemed like an excerpt from a porn movie. The wigs
are terrible, and the costuming as bad. There is no character
development, and the motivations shown on screen seem more like red
herrings than anything else.

I can't think of anything redeeming about this film other than I didn't
pay money just to see it.
<|_=00=_|>
This was, without a doubt, one of the worst movies I have ever seen. I
knew a little bit about the video game this is based upon going in, and
while I can't say I was a fan or knew all that much about the story, I
figured I was going to get a kinda Buffy/Medieval Times kinda feel. I
was SO wrong. The acting quality that I had expected was not there at
all. In fact, even Ben Kingsley, who I thought would be good (I've
liked other things of his) was awful. Kristinna Locken was so
emotionless that you wanted to cry from frustration. Michelle Rodiguez
was the only one with some convincing effort, but even then, she
couldn't pull her character out of one-dimension. Although, the actors
didn't have much to go on to begin with. The dialouge was laughably
cliché in parts and simply pathetic in others. It did NOTHING to help
convey the characters emotions or thoughts, nor did it do well with
explaining the story, trying for flashy and confusing explanations when
simplicity was needed and other times being far too simple. All in all,
this movie was horrible.
<|_=00=_|>
I almost forgot that I had seen this a month ago. I remember being
excited more for the fact that Uwe Boll was in attendance so I could
hear what he had to say about film-making.

Well, let's say his comments before and after the movie are revelations
as to why he makes such crappy films. First off, he can't grasp why
people savage his movies so much. He feels that the internet community
gives him a hard time because he's German and he makes his movies with
Nazi money (his quote, not mine. Of course, he was joking, right?)
Secondly, he couldn't care less if the actors he has are right for the
roles. In fact, finding actors is his last thing he does to secure
financing for his films. Apparently, he thinks the story is strong
enough to carry the film. So, this is why we end up with actors like
Ben Kinglsey working alongside Michael Madsen. Really, the only thing
they had was the time to do the movie and the earning of a paycheck.
So, if this doesn't strike you as soulless film-making, I don't know
what does. In essence, by waiting until the last possible moment to
hire actors, he can make his movies with a secured budget.

Th reason why I write this is because I heard his new "epic" In the
Name of the King will be a four hour film split in half like Kill Bill.
This depressed me to no end. Uwe Boll really is the next Ed Wood, even
though Ed Wood cared about his actors and films.
<|_=00=_|>
Just kidding...just kidding!! Why, after wasting nearly 2 hours of my
life watching this trash, should I waste another hour or so dissing
this movie, when everything about it has already been killed stone dead
by previous reviewers? Because, dear friends, I am so excited I just
had to share with you my delight at finding the "worst cameo of all
time", so magnificent in its awfulness that it could (with sheer effort
of will) only be equalled, but never beaten.

It was Sunday. Raining. What the hell, "Bloodrayne" sounded good. Hmmm,
Masden, Kingsley, Zane...can't be so bad.

After around 20 minutes or so of this "crowning turd" of a movie my
"intellectual defence mechanism" automatically kicked-in and took my
mind away to my next vacation, what to have for dinner, and the
contents of my Partner's trousers. Sailing away on a sea of
serenity(did I actually fall asleep?)I thought myself immune and
totally protected from the train wreck of a movie unfolding on the
other side of my eyelids. But then....wait! What's this? Snippets of
dialogue totally unconnected with the Tequilla Sunrise I was drinking
began to pervade my mind. Slowly at first, but growing in intensity.
Warily, fearful that I may inadvertently catch another glimpse of Ben
Kingsley's excruciating acting/staring, I opened one eye. Was I
seeing/hearing things? I pulled myself up in the chair and opened the
other eye (after assuring myself that Kingsley was nowhere to be seen).
There, in front of me...what can never be described by a thousand
monkeys on a thousand typewriters for a thousand years. The root canal
work of movie making, the Xanadu of awfulness....Meatloaf trying to
character-act.

I checked out the other movie-goers...hmmm, not many left....and they
were all, very much like myself, staring wide eyed and open mouthed at
witnessing the birth of a legend. Seriously, it was like watching the
first moon landing all over again. This is one piece of crap for
man...a whole turd for mankind.

I am sorry that I go on a little, but I cannot find words to describe
the cameo piece by Meatloaf, in fact probably such words do not exist -
they must be invented - "discrapungent" - try that one. I can only try
to capture the magnificent awfulness by describing the effect that it
had on myself and, I suspect, the other viewers.

If you haven't seen it (and I beg you all to do so) cut along to any
cinema brave enough to show it and set your alarm clock for around 50
minutes. If you have trouble sleeping at the beginning, don't worry,
Ben Kingsley will stare you into blessed catatonia....trust me.
<|_=00=_|>
When I heard that Uwe Boll had challenged several of his critics to a
boxing match, I thought it was an example of the man failing to
understand reactions. Rather than come out looking like a misunderstood
hero, he comes off as a spoiled child. So when I hear people calling
Uwe the new Ed Wood, I just want to point out that this demonstrates
ignorance regarding Wood. It is insulting to the poor guy. You see,
Wood made one of the most daring (if staggeringly inept) films that
challenged people's perceptions of transvestism and gender roles, long
before this became a common theme in Hollywood. His major feature was
that he lived only to make films, and did so because of motives other
than cash. Boll, on the other hand, says absolutely nothing in his
films that is of any value, and has shown himself in the media to be
the most cynical, thoughtless idiot that ever drew breath. Another
classic example of the difference between Boll and Wood, perfectly
illustrated by BloodRayne, is that Wood's films made narrative sense.

If you have not played any of the video games upon which BloodRayne is
based, then it will make very little sense to you. The parts about
Rayne being the child of a vampire and a human, I get, but the film is
loaded with references to artifacts that the villain needs in order to
gain power, which Rayne must obviously stop him from acquiring. This
reminds me of the sequence from Bakshi's adaptation of The Lord Of The
Rings in which the explanation of what the One Ring is and what it does
was meant to be delivered. By failing to deliver this critical
information in a manner that makes sense to the viewer, both films end
up disjointed and pointless. Only BloodRayne makes it much, much worse
by jumping around from location to location, showing confrontations
between Rayne and various enemies without a pause for explanation as to
why this is significant. Ten bucks to anyone who can figure out exactly
why Boll chose to end the film with a bunch of flashbacks to disjointed
events that have no connection to the film's "present time", when the
climactic slaying would have done just fine.

Another of Boll's few talents is to classically miscast. Kristanna
Loken is surprisingly good as the titular character, and puts in a far
better performance than I would have credited her with after that
abysmal Terminator rip-off. It is certainly far better than the film
deserves. Michelle Rodriguez looks extremely angry to be there. Matthew
Davis has this stupid expression on his face all the time that appears
to be him begging for some direction. Michael Madsen, Billy Zane, and
Udo Kier literally are on autopilot. But Meat Loaf, the poor guy, seems
to be trying to take his role seriously, and never have I see an actor
look so uncomfortable in his work. He almost looks as if he is going to
have a stroke from all the "what the hell am I doing here?"
instructions his brain is trying to process. But the real gem here is
Ben Kingsley, winner of one Academy Award and nominee for three others.
He seriously looks as if he is going to burst out in laughter at any
second during his scenes with Loken. And who can honestly blame him?

A mention must be made of the abysmal special effects here, too. Boll
at least knows that the audience for a film based on this video game
expects to see blood, and a lot of it. However, like every other aspect
of his films, the delivery is so staggeringly inept that it makes one
wonder how Boll can be so blind to this. Not only does the head of one
opponent look despicably fake, the looks on the faces of the extras
when they are shown chopping things up with their swords is utterly
hilarious. Someone had to direct them to assume that expression, as
swinging an actual sword hard enough to sever a limb involves enough
exertion that one at least pulls some kind of face in the process. They
said it best in Showdown In Little Tokyo - beheadings are not as easy
as they look. Yet Boll seems to think he can silence individuals who
feel he is utterly inept as a director by hitting them. If I could say
one thing to his face right now, it would be that keeping silent and
working on making a genuinely good film would have worked a lot more.

So I mean it when I say this film is not as bad as many others have
said - it is even worse. A competent director like Wolfgang Petersen
would have connected the story together properly, and at least shot the
violence in a convincing fashion. A brilliant director such as Paul
Verhoeven would have found a way to satirise the social mores of the
eighteenth century, and delivered enough convincing violence to give
the MPAA fits at the same time. As much as Boll would like to pretend
otherwise on the basis of sales figures in countries where they would
probably not understand the abysmal dialogue anyway, he is nowhere near
the league of Petersen or Verhoeven. And that is a big part of what
makes his films so insulting to the general public. Boll would like us
to believe that he is some kind of misunderstood genius who keeps
striking out with critics because they do not understand his message.
Well, Boll, the disjointed plot aside, I understand you just fine. The
thing is, when I do understand your films, I do not want them anymore.

So I gave BloodRayne a two out of ten. A one would only further its
position on the bottom one hundred, and it is deserving of infamy in
neither sense of the word. Avoid.
<|_=00=_|>
So women sometime before the XIX, but after the XVI century traveled
alone on horseback, half-naked, always cold, carrying swords in their
backs, and the cities were a model of pulchritude. Yeah, right. It does
not even work as a metaphor. When the director wants to show us an evil
character, there is a Ben Kinsgley with an over-sized wig remembering
in black and white his cruel dialog: "Tell me where is my damphir" "No"
says the mother. "Tell me" "No" Pum! Pow! The scariest thing of this
movie is to see such potentially good actors in such lame dialogs. You
will experience anguish as an spectator, as you feel other people's
shame (the actors). Even if you like awful movies (sometimes I do),
please do not waste your money in this one. The director might be
encouraged to punish us again. I wish IMDb had negative stars.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm already frustrated because the rating system only only goes down to
1 instead of -10....Because Uwe Boll has done it again! He has managed
to make a completely god-awful movie, and has caused to me lose respect
for the "actors" in this filth. Granted the only one that had my
respect was Kingsley...well, not anymore. The non-existent "story" was
worthless. There are actually ignorant people that LIKE this crap, and
it's sad, because anyone who rates this more than a 1 is probably some
15-year-old kid who got off on that "love scene" that looked like it
was straight out of a Ron Jeremy flick. Kristanna Loken's got the
personality of used toilet paper, and Michael madsen...well....he just
kinda looked like he was drunk..wouldn't put it past him anyway. The
only reason why Uwe Boll is still allowed to make movies is because
ignorant movie goers and the few fans he has defend him to the death,
he is horrible and he should be barred from ever touching a camera
again.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay, I actually kind of liked this movie. Why? Well, as far as pure
entertainment goes, I was actually entertained. I laughed at a lot of
the acting and dialog, and the fight editing was a nightmare, but in
the end, I still had a decent time with the movie. It gave me what I
expected, but with some decent (and some really bad) acting.

Let's start with the Ed Wood pluses, also known as the "so bad it's
good" material. For starters, Ben Kingsley. I have never seen such an
accomplished actor do such a terrible job in my life! I couldn't stop
laughing whenever he was on screen. I mean, it really seemed as if it
was just a wax dummy of him set on a chair. His dialog was uber flat,
and I honestly think they just got a sample of his voice and had a
computer read his lines. But... he made the entire movie uber campy. It
just felt right. Also, there is the clunky dialog. Some of the dialog
does work, namely when the characters speak in more modern dialects,
but when they try to get all old English or whatever the words become
clunkier than a cart with square wheels being pulled by a man with no
arms and legs. Michael Madsen also phoned in his performance, but it
was ten times better than the "acting" he did in Sin City. And by the
end of the movie I had very few problems with him. He did what he had
to, nothing more. So, there are the bad parts. They seem minor, but oh
are they major. Namely because they are all constantly apparent. One
bad part that wasn't funny was the constant shots of people riding on
horses. It got old very fast.

The actual good parts come in the form of a few things. For one is
Michelle Rodrigez. She really, honestly tried with this movie, and came
off as very credible. Her accent, her movements, everything... it just
worked. She made this movie watchable. Also, the lead was very well
played by Kristina Lochen (sp?). Her dialog is junk, but she can fight,
and she plays the tough girl very well. And she looked the part. And
Billy Zane, in a small role, is a blast to watch. He eats the cheesy
dialog up, and you can tell he is enjoying himself. They should have
given him more screen time! A big plus for this movie is the fact that
there is actually a coherent story this time. Yes, actually story in a
Bolle video game movie! It's not a great story, but it's a fleshed out,
coherent story. Alone in the Dark and House of the Dead both were
messes in the story department, basically moving from action scene to
action scene. Here there is more time for characters to talk, interact.
For any other director this movie would be a total disaster, but
looking at Bolle's past video game adaptations I would have to say that
he is improving in leaps and bounds. He's still not a great director,
but he's getting better.

The usual problems come up though. The fight scenes are horribly
edited, with some very bad film speed affects being thrown in. He needs
to stop doing that, because he actually gets the fight angles right. He
shoots from more of a distance, allowing the audience to see the
action. Sadly the editing is so off, and some of the effects so
distracting, that some decent action seems incoherent and choppy.

Over all, well, this movie is far from being good, but it does what it
set out to do. It's actually about on par with the first Mortal Kombat
movie. I am not a fan of the director by any means, but I have to say,
I had no problem with this movie. I got a kick out of it. It has it's
cheese value, and I knew that it would. If you go in expecting anything
but pure cheese then you'll be disappointed. If you go in and plan to
have a few laughs, crack a few jokes, and just enjoy the film, then you
actually will have a good time with it. I know a lot of people are
going to just breeze past this review, but I have to say, I have seen
some REALLY bad movies, and this isn't one of them. It's got a decent
plot, some good acting (and some REALLY bad acting), and it's got
action.

I have a feeling that the Dungeon Siege movie will suck though. It's
like... three fricking hours long! TO MUCH!
<|_=00=_|>
Walking into a screening of Boll's latest cinematic turd, I tried to
keep an open mind. Not an easy task, mind you; after the steaming piles
that were "Alone in the Dark" and "House of the Dead", not to mention
the trailer for the movie I was about to be subjected to, I had come to
associate Uwe Boll's name with everything I hate about Hollywood and
the trash they churn out on a weekly basis. Even then, I was
unprepared.

Deviating tremendously from the source "material" (which wasn't
inspiring in and of itself), Bloodrayne follows cosplay-wannabe Rayne
as she hunts down Ben Kingsley's "Kagan", lord of the vampires. Whereas
I've been a fan of Kingsley since "Sneakers", but his performance in
this film is about as intriguing as watching paint dry. Michael Madsen
looks like he's about to yawn in almost every scene (probably bored to
tears). Kristanna Loken, besides being grossly miscast, couldn't act
her way out of a paper bag...someone save this girl, please! Only
Michelle Rodriguez could be considered even tolerable, but her
performance is nowhere even close to on par as it was in "Resident
Evil".

Awkward dialogue, terrible camera work, poorly choreographed fight
scenes (were they even choreographed at all?), sex for the sake of sex,
and a plot so simple it seemed possible to screw up (and yet he did),
Boll once again proves his directorial ineptitude. This guy couldn't
direct traffic if he wanted to, as proved (once again) by this train
wreck of a film.
<|_=00=_|>
Where to start with this one? I'll point out that i watched it only
because i heard that Kristanna Loken shows her boobies here. I didn't
play the game nor have i known anything about the plot from that point
of view. So i'm writing this solely on the movie experience.

I must point out that the movie has its good sides.

Most notably Ben Kingsleys horrible, horrible, HORRIBLE wig. I couldn't
stop myself to burst into laughter anytime he was on screen. Its simply
hilarious and worth the admission price alone.

Another good thing is the guy with the mullet (Matthew Davis). He
looked almost as ridiculous as Ben Kingsley with a wig. By the way, I
had no idea that mullets were that popular in 19th century Romania but
the filmmakers sure proved me wrong. Maximum respect for the mullet
Matthew, wear it proudly.

Of course you do get to see Kristanna Lokens boobs in a raunchy, makes
no sense at all, sex scene so that also is a good thing.

I must point out that fight scenes, although they occur pretty rarely,
are pretty rich with gore. They really surprised me there and i must
say that i wasn't disappointed by that aspect of the movie. And you
wont be either. Of course if you aren't into the bloody mess type of
stuff the fight scenes will suck. But hey, who isn't into bloodbaths
anyway? So some really good stuff there as well.

Now for the not so great aspects of the movie.

First of all the dialogs are completely and utterly, mind numbingly
stupid. Its like a 6 year old wrote all the dialogs. The screenplay is
very bad too. Think "American Ninja 2" in 19th century Romania when you
think about the screenplay and dialogs in the movie. Really, really
naive and infantile stuff there. Also they stole one ninja trick from
American Ninja 2, you'll see it in one of the final scenes in the
movie. I guess you could call it a homage to it though. Come to think
of it, no, you couldn't. Its just plane old plagiarism.

Acting sucks too. Ben Kingsley just stares in the camera with his bad
wig, Kristanna Loken does a lot of moaning and thats about it. Don't
expect wonders from Michael Madsen either. Billy Zane does his thing
regardless of anything, so if you like his style he could be
acceptable. I like it.

Oh yeah, they have a MeatLoaf cameo. Now thats what i call weak. Then
again, the topless babes in his scenes totally make up for his fat ass.

The director Uwe Boll isn't really that bad as people say he is. He
gave us blood and tits, yes. And in a pretty good way, i might add. But
he delivered nothing more. Blood and tits go without saying for modern
day directors anyway. So i'll point out that he sucks as well but not
as much as meatloaf.

Although this movie is really bad I'm not sorry i watched it. If you
want watch it and if you'll appreciate the trashy aspects in the movie
you wont be sorry either.

I'll give this one a 4/10.
