
Once more, a great injustice has been done by IMDb voters. Dark Water
currently has a rating of 5.4, with 16% of the voters giving it a 1!
Note that 16% is 251 users, so it's not that a lot of people thought it
was bad, it just that not many people saw it and/or voted.

It's quite obvious what happened. In what must be the most idiotic
marketing move of the century, Dark Water was promoted as a horror
movie. Not only is the original Japanese version not that scary to
begin with, and focuses more on the drama and the human aspects of the
story, but in the remake, the horror element completely gets thrown out
the window in favor of an intelligent, mature human drama. I can say
that 75% of the people who were with me in the theater had no idea what
kind of movie this is going to be. Needless to say, about an hour into
it they began shifting in their seats, chatting or giggling. Most of
them were teenagers, who came looking for cheap thrills and got a
"bore-fest" instead. The same kind of teenagers who, I bet, later voted
it a 1.

True, the movie could have been edited a little tighter, and some
sequences could have been left on the editing room floor, but it's not
boring. It does take its time establishing and developing the
relationships and the characters, but since the movie is all about the
characters, that's a good thing. It's quite an ambitious drama, and as
such, it doesn't always strike home. The script, I think, is the main
problem. Since it presents us with very real people with real problems,
but doesn't seem to know where to take them from there. As a result,
the plot is thin. It's certainly not an event-driven movie. It remains
unclear what the main conflict is for the heroine. The writer wasn't
fine tuned on what he wanted to say, or maybe the director, Walter
Salles, mishandled the material. For me, the story was about learning
to let go, and the difference between loving someone and wanting them
to be happy, and loving someone so much that you want that person to
belong only to you. It's the difference between being willing to
sacrifice vs. a selfish and possessive kind of love. I think the movie
should have put more weight on that.

Other than that, the film does strike the right chords more often than
not, and provides a lot of touching, sad moments. The acting is
wonderful and three dimensional. All of the cast does an excellent job,
but especially Jennifer Connelly, who proves once more she is the best
American actress working today. The cinematography and the art design
are beautiful, with a lot of attention to atmosphere. Also, Walter
Salles shows some neat directing techniques in playing with the
viewer's minds, making us doubt what's real and what's imaginary, and
giving visual expression to the heroine's ever deteriorating state of
mind.

All in all, I'd rate this movie a 7.5. But 5.4?!!!! That's lower than
Fantastic Four, for crying out loud. I just hope that it finds the
right audience when it's released on DVD.
<|_=00=_|>
Don't know about you all, but I've sort of had it up to here with
teenagers. Walter Salles' *Dark Water* flopped because of teenagers.
The geniuses up the highway from me at the Walt Disney Company tried to
market this psychological drama -- in SUMMER! -- to teenagers as a
slasher film . . . OOPS. When the teenagers discovered that the film's
primary concern was with a troubled single mother, fresh from a nasty
divorce and currently embroiled in a custody fight, they lost patience
with it (the screen offering no steaming entrails oozing from savagely
slashed pregnant abdomens and such) and commenced downloading
ring-tones from Katazo on their cellphones in the darkened theaters.
The epilogue to the sorry saga of this film's release? The teenagers
infest this website with their 1-star reviews and poor grammar and ALL
CAPS SENTENCES. Look, I've got an idea: I think it's high time that the
folks at IMDb create an entirely separate website -- let's call it
"IMDbTeen" -- in which the children can vent their spleen and leave
THIS site for the rest of us to discuss movies. And no, banishing the
youngsters to the discussion boards won't cut the mustard -- the
Ritalin-addicted kids, thumbs sore from their PSPs, have obviously
found their way to the review pages. Or perhaps IMDb, which is owned by
Amazon, can follow their corporate parent's lead and force teenagers to
identify themselves as such -- the rest of us can then ignore their
comments.

Pardon the W.C. Fields rant, but *Dark Water* is too good a film to be
hijacked by walking pimple sacks, sorry. Here is a great work of art
that has been virtually disowned by its director because of the poor
box office returns. Hey, Salles, if you're reading this, there's no
reason for you to hang your head in shame over this picture. I, for
one, appreciated your baroque homage to Polanski's *Repulsion*, and can
even state that the performance you get out of Jennifer Connelly
actually surpasses Deneuve's work in that earlier film. Connelly
thoroughly inhabits the role -- an unglamorous one that asks this
beautiful actress to dress in ratty clothes while suffering from
constant migraines. She convinces us as a desperate case, both
financially and emotionally, and also convinces us that Dahlia is an
honest-to-goodness mom (Connelly has a couple of kids in real life,
which not only helps, but is a necessity on an actress' resume if she
presumes to play this part). And it's not just Connelly who scores in
the acting department: John C. Reilly as the superintendent delivers an
immortal monologue (mostly improvised, according to the DVD extras) as
he offers Dahlia and her daughter a grand tour of the hideous housing
project on Roosevelt Island that is the setting of the movie. "Where's
the living room?" asks Dahlia. "This is it," effuses Reilly, "It's both
bedroom AND living room! It's what they call a DUAL-USE room. Look at
it -- it's huge!" Anyone who has ever dealt with a real estate agent
will recognize Reilly's canny mix of friendliness and utter
untrustworthiness. A-class talent such as Pete Postlethwaite and Tim
Roth also make significant contributions as the building's janitor and
Dahlia's lawyer, respectively.

But the prime virtue of the film is in the photography and set design.
*Dark Water* is that rarest of horror films: it's set in the city.
Roosevelt Island, to be precise, that run-down spit of land across the
river from Manhattan, encrusted with Soviet-bloc inspired tenement
housing. ("The Brutalist style," as Reilly would have it.) Salles' DP
has a field day in this environment, getting some nice aerial shots of
the brick and cement rat maze, as well as some low shots pointing up
toward the tenement towers' imposing height. The weather is usually
rainy (the incessant leitmotiv of the film is water, obviously), the
sky is gun-gray, smokestacks dominate the horizon, the overall color
palette consists of institutional gray, poverty-row brown, icky black,
depression blue. The interiors, specifically of Dahlia and Ceci's
apartment -- along with the mysterious 10-F directly upstairs -- is a
fond homage to Catherine Deneuve's greasy, miserable apartment in
Polanski's *Repulsion*, with some nods thrown towards the Coens'
*Barton Fink* along the way (especially in regards to the peeling
plaster and moist dry-wall and overall dilapidation).

But is *Dark Water* really scary? Presumably, this would be the point.
It's probably not scary enough to scare the pimple sacks, but it's
scary enough for those who've had to deal with life's most fundamental
problems, such as raising a child alone, or finding oneself crippled by
either physical or mental handicaps, aggravated by an unhappy past,
WHILE raising a child alone. In other words, it's scary enough for
grown-ups, who can find terror in watching their children cross a busy
intersection. And in any case, Salles delivers a few choice jolts along
the way, which I won't spoil. But the genius of the film is in its
atmosphere: an unrelenting brooding menace that feeds off of urban
misery. *Dark Water* is depressing and scary.

And splendid. 9 ardent stars out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
I have never posted a review on this site, but I feel that I should
inform some people on "Dark Water".This is NOT a horror film.Yes,it's
being marketed that way but it's not.This is a drama about a mother and
daughter trying to make it on their own with a bit of a ghostly
twist.Jennifer Connelly is amazing and has become one of my favorite
actresses.In this,she is strong and fragile.She almost made me cry once
or twice as she tried to hold things together and convince herself that
she is not crazy.The little girl playing her daughter is sublime;The
next dakota fanning maybe. This film is slow paced,there are NO big
scares,no blood-just tension and mystery under the surface.The pace
brings you to really care about the characters and not root for dahlia
because it's Jennifer Connelly,but because it's Dahlia.It has one of
the saddest yet hopeful endings I've seen in a while.This stands head
and shoulders above "The Ring" (which I liked) and "The Grudge".Give it
a try if you're looking for a good drama.
<|_=00=_|>
This is not a "child talks to dead people" movie. You should rejoice.
It's not a "woman fights supernatural forces" thriller. You should get
down on your knees and thank the powers that be. This is not "just an
unnecessary re-make of the Japanese original". It's better. 

Nakata is famous for taking the long view of his characters. Keeping us
safe emotionally from them in order to bring the horror to life. Salles
trumps him by pulling us right into Dahlia's arms where her fear,
paranoia, and despair are absolutely palpable. 

This is the story of a single mother trying to survive after a nasty
divorce. Trying to hold onto her daughter so she can overcome her own
history of abandonment. The ghosts (whether real or imagined) are
peripheral to her dilemma. 

The American Dark Water, gives us the same foreboding leak, the same
bleak horrific photography, the same basic plot line, and yet by taking
the emphasis off the ghosts reaches a much stronger emotional
resonance. 

Highly recommended for those that submit themselves to movies, rather
than submit movies to themselves. You know who you are.
<|_=00=_|>
Don't be fooled: you're not going to go see a horror movie. You're
going to immerse yourself into a strange, morbid atmosphere that will
carry you through an intimate, beautifully filmed story where it's the
atmosphere and the characters that count. Yes, there's a few horror
elements, but they are a subtle, underlying subplot that does not
interfere with the delicate, smooth direction of Walter Salles. Nothing
in this film is meant to scare you, but rather to leave a sense of
discomfort after you've seen it. A sense of paranoia, like the main
character's. And Jennifer Connelly is absolutely fantastic here. Much
stronger than the original: here, the characters are real, and Salles
connect us to their turmoil right away. Reminiscent of a Henry James
novel, where fear builds up in the background as you share more and
more of the main character's feeling. In a word: sophisticated.
Different. The only similar experiment of this kind of subtle fear,
injected in your imagination as you watch the film, is an Italian short
I saw at last year's Frighfest, entitled "Xchange". While you wait to
be scared on screen, the story almost subliminally built horror in the
audience's mind. A must see.
<|_=00=_|>
Of all the recent remakes of Japanese horror films, I have to say that
Dark Water is the only remake that actually surpasses the original. I
think the reason that so many people are so hard on it is because they
went in expecting to see THE RING or THE GRUDGE. They went in expecting
to see a scary ghost movie. Dark Water is not really a horror movie, at
least not in the traditional sense. It's actually more of a drama set
in a haunted apartment complex. If you go in expecting to have stuff
jump out at you, you will be disappointed.

It's sad that everyone expects horror films to have a bunch of jump
scares in them these days. Whatever happened to the slow buildup of
tension and paranoia of something like ROSEMARY'S BABY? If you go into
Dark Water expecting something more akin to Rosemary's Baby or a
Hitchcock thriller, you might just end up enjoying this film.

As far as comparing this remake to the original, I will say that I felt
that Jennifer Connelly was a much more compelling character than the
mother in the original movie. Overall, the characters were fleshed out
better. I understood the conflict between the mother, the father and
the little girl much more in the remake. The original just sort of
glanced over many of these details. Some of the shots were actually
more effective than the ones in the original, and the ending in the
remake is more satisfying and better executed than in the original.
Generally, I think that J-horror is better left in its original
incarnation. As much as I liked the Western version of THE RING, I felt
like the only reason they remade it was to cast Naomi Watts as the
lead. THE GRUDGE, they should have left that one alone. Nothing was
gained by Sarah Michelle Gellar. But this one, this one is actually
better than the Japanese original in my opinion.

This movie is not for everyone. It is a slow, poignant drama set in a
really creepy location. It would probably play well in a double feature
with ROSEMARY'S BABY. If you want to have stuff jump out at you, watch
THE GRUDGE. If you want to watch a movie that has a little more depth
to it, watch DARK WATER.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm at a loss to describe why so many people here have panned this
movie. I can only suppose that those who didn't like it went to see
this expecting a horror movie. And since no monsters jumped out and
hacked people to death, I imagine teenagers (apparently the main
demographic that posts here) were bored to death with it. They couldn't
understand why there wasn't a mutilated corpse every half step. Their
A.D.D.-addled brains couldn't sit still long enough to decipher the
complex plot points or to appreciate good character-building (something
sorely lacking from movies nowadays.) Comparing this movie to "The
Ring" is like comparing "Godfather" to "Rainbow Brite and the Star
Stealer." The movies are in two completely separate genres.

I blame the marketing department. The promos did make it look like a
fright-fest. One might have expected ghosts to be flying around the
room a la "Poltergeist." I suppose they must have assumed that those of
us who like movies that actually engage us and make us think weren't a
very big market. Instead, they chose to market it to the "slasher
movie" ilk, and they, being simplistic, got headaches trying to sift
through an actual PLOT. Then they went home to listen to their Korn CDs
and smoke pot.

Anyway, that being said, I approached the movie with all the
preconceptions I just mentioned. And if you do have those
preconceptions and are unwilling to give them up, the movie will drag
on mercilessly for you. However, I switched modes quite easily, and
became intrigued with the plot. It led me one way and then another,
every time giving me something new to think about.

Nobody can criticize the acting here, either. Jennifer Connelly is
superb as always, but the young daughter is quite skilled as well, and
I expect to see her more often in the future.

I won't get into specifics, but the ending is something I really wasn't
looking for.

As I left the theater, all the adults (most of whom didn't know each
other) were talking about what a great movie it was as we filed out the
doors. The teenagers in the theater were too busy making out to notice
the credits rolling.

View if you're mature. If you're not, save yourself the brain-strain
and go rent "Seed of Chucky" and leave the grown folks alone.
<|_=00=_|>
New York City under the rain. The atmosphere of this film is so
oppressive from the start that it sets the mood precisely. Things are
not going well for beautiful, stressed Dahlia Williams (Jennifer
Connelly). Her life has not been easy: abandonment, neglect, bitterness
and mygraines. She left a career in book-editing to become a housewife
and full-time mom. Her husband does not love her anymore. Her whole
life is focused in her bright, charming six-year-old daughter, Cecilia.
Right from the start, it becomes apparent that Dahlia is overdue for
what may seem like a regular nervous breakdown, but when they move --
rather hastily- into a small, dingy apartment in Roosevelt Island, the
tale slowly but surely unfolds to reveal something much more elaborate,
sinister and ultimately heartbreaking going on.

I have seen the original Japanese version, and liked it enormously. I
think that gifted Brazilian auteur Walter Salles has done it justice:
this is a film that is *not* your regular horror story. Its
composition, as scripted by the talented and sensitive Rafael Yglesias
is closer to the Henry James tradition of serene Gothic tales than to
the strident antics of today's conception of horror (Ring, Ring 2,
Boogeyman, The Grudge, etc.) In hindsight... this is NOT a horror
movie. It's a beautifully made -- the photography by Affonso Beato is
gorgeous in its use of light and dark- and stylized film. Angelo
Badalamenti lends his talent to create a beautifully moving score that
serves perfectly the ominous ambiance and also the touching moments.

This is a film with a heart and it's notably well-directed by Salles.
The actors are flawless: Dougray Scott is the father in turmoil, John
C. Reilly a tactless but cheery real state agent, Pete Postlethwaite is
strangely captivating as the curmudgeonly super and Tim Roth makes an
impression as a sweet-natured, kindly and endearing lawyer (yes,
DIVORCE LAWYER!)who literally works out of his car and who might or
might not carry a torch for Dahlia, as he is pretty much on the
doldrums himself.

The little girl playing Cecilia, Ariel Gade, is impressive on her
screen debut. It's hard for such a young actor to pull such a nuanced
performance. She gives such prodigies as David Dorfman or Haley Joel
Osment, a veritable run for their money. And then some.

The real star here is Ms. Connelly. She is virtually in *every* scene,
and that, for a performer is taxing. She carries the baggage of Dahlia
with dignity and grace. She is a REAL woman in an ugly place at an ugly
moment: you can see the brackets around her mouth, you can feel her
anguish, impotence, horror at being on the verge of losing her mind or
worse yet... being *driven* (perhaps) to the brink. Her scenes with
little Miss Gade are touching, authentic and the core of the film. You
come to care for them as mother-and-daughter.

Jennifer Connelly makes this her movie and this is one of her best
performances. Sadly, this will be overlooked for awards and it is a
pity. She gives what some call a "bravura performance".

This is great film. EVERYTHING that wretched American-made sequel to
THE RING was not and tried desperately to be.

It's elegant, moody, touching, moving and yes... disturbing and
angst-inducing.

The wait was worth it. Go see it with open eyes and no expectations. It
even transcends the sensitivities of the original... this film is its
own, and holds it rather well.

Certainly, DARK WATER will be marketed as a scary film, which it is
not. It's a mystery fable about life, death, pain, love, joy and
sorrow.
<|_=00=_|>
Having seen both the Japanese original and Walter Salles' remake i find
the remake was the best thing that could happen to this story. Salles
picks up the original story without making just a copy. He fills the
gaps (and there were plenty), corrects a lot of little flaws and adds
the credibility that was lacking in the original. The original was in
parts a horror movie, and a very poor one so. Predictable behavior,
foreseen turnings, forced mysteriousness - the usual problems i have
with so many horror movies. The other part is a family drama, with a
weird happy end. The happiness of which intrudes into the horror story
and further degrades it. Salles goes more than a step further here by
not making a simple horror movie. Rather he's making a stressful movie.
Stress? The stresses of everyday life in a difficult situation. A
recent divorce, fighting for the custody of the child, low budget,
cheap noisy apartment with wet ceiling, trouble at school, no contact
with neighbors, careless caretakers and managers. It's a context fueled
by very real issues people are struggling with every day. The
mysterious components only add to this and drive it, until they finally
take over. Very dense atmosphere and Jennifer Connelly's excellent
acting make you feel this stress. What more can you ask for?
<|_=00=_|>
Before I say anything more, I want to acknowledge that this is not a
horror film. I'm not sure if it was even marketed that way, but it is
not. It is more drama/psychological thriller. So, before commenting on
how it is a bad horror film, please re-evaluate before slandering.

On the film: This is one of my favorite films of the year. The acting
by all characters is superb. Connelly plays the character of Dahlia to
the tooth. Ariel Gade creates a strikingly, somewhat scary picture of a
young Jennifer Connelly. (For now, I will stick with the two main
characters) On the story: It is a story about a family being torn apart
and the emotional instability of such effects. The supernatural portion
of the story adds a feature one can only understand by watching the
film. Connelly remarkably recreates scenes of insecurity and the pain
of memory and also the pain of sacrifice.

See this film, not only for the characterization created by all of the
actors, but for excellent cinematography, emotional depth, and the
score (created beautifully by one Angelo Badalamenti). Also, pick up
Koji Suzuki and also see the original Japanese film.
