
And I only watched the first 25 minutes. It is inconcievable to me that
anyone could make a film this hopelessly, endlessly, mind-meltingly
bad. This is not a bad movie - it's a war crime. Somehow the producers
actually managed to cast supporting players bad enough to make Kelly
Clarkson and even the talent free Justin Guarini seem good by
comparsion.

The alleged "choreography" ammounts to nothing more than frantic
flailing of limbs. Accents come and go with wild abandon. The songs
are, to put it charitably, forgettable. I'm surprised "American Idol"
judge Randy Jackson isn't credited as a writer, because the dialouge is
that witless and badly phrased.

This is the worst thing humanity has ever done.
<|_=00=_|>

Yes, it finally came on cable. And, in order to keep up my credentials
as an expert on badfilm, I had to deal with this monstrosity sooner or
later. So, without further ado... 

Oh...my...God... 

Who thought this was a good idea? Trying to make a quick buck off of a
flavor-of-the-week TV show I can understand, but who thought this had
any chance of success? Too retarded for anyone over 14; too campy and
too much like a "Gidget" remake for the 9-14 set; too much skin for the
"Barney the Dinosaur" crowd. Not enough plot for a 30 minute sitcom,
and every teensploiter movie cliché ever, without either the humor (the
saving grace for the good ones) or the nudity (sometimes, the saving
grace for the bad ones). Anyway, a few random notes: 

1. One of the first songs was Kelly Clarkson's remake of "Vacation" by
the Go-Go's. I always considered this to be a light, bouncy pop song.
That was, of course, until Kelly and her overproduction team sucked the
life out of it. Now as bouncy as a Complin Service, this one made me
wish for a brief return of the early, punk, Go-Go's, who probably would
have roughed up anyone who did one of their songs this badly. 

2. Justin, teen heartthrob? He is so thin I might be able to tie a
string to him and fly him on a high wind day! With that 'fro, he looks
a little like a pipe cleaner. Note to the Director: having Justin wear
a black shirt when all the other guys in a song set are shirtless is
not hiding anything; he sticks out like, well like a black pipe cleaner
in a sea of artificial tan.

3. Aw, look: the obvious backstabbing friend/ nemesis slut girl with
the hee-haw southern accent is trying to steal Kelly's scenes away from
her by overacting in contrast to Kelly's underacting! Sorry, young lady
obviously chosen for your ability to pack a small swimsuit: nobody who
cares is watching. 

4. Justin's "nerd" friend/ sidekick: you can almost see the lineage
trace lines, going back through far superior nerd/ sidekicks ("Better
off Dead," "Ferris Bueller's Day off"), all the way back to the early
"Beach Party" movies and Rebel Without a Cause. In fact, his clothes
seem to be lifted from the outfits from the early "Beach Party" movies'
nerd/sidekick wardrobes; if they actually date from the early 1960's,
they might be considered retro/cool in some circles and thus worth more
than the rest of this film. 

5. Oh, the intense chemistry between Justin and Kelly... Really, I am
serious. Oh, yes. Alan Rickman and Kate Winslet, in Sense and
Sensibility, were an overflowing cauldron of unrestrained sexual
passion compared to these two. If Justin was trying to dispel those
"man's man" rumors, this did nothing to help. 

How to get the movie to go from sluggish to dead in the water: Justin
and Kelly, alone, in a scene for more than five seconds. 

6. Kelly's nice black friend is being taken to a ritzy Latin nightclub,
which is located in...an abandoned corrugated metal shack??? I need to
check that abandoned building on the next block; the Cotton Club might
have started a branch there. Mitigating factor: the Latin dancers were
way more talented than the blandly white beach dancers in the other
scenes.

7. OK, Kelly, so you admire Bjork. I can see you appreciate her
independence, willingness to go her own way, and most of all given your
situation, her career longevity. If you want to do a homage to Bjork,
altering your bland, middle-of-the-road song delivery would be a good
place to start. Your hairdo was, in fact, not a good place to start.

8. Hee-haw girl does a bad impersonation of Madonna's "Material Girl"
video. Which means, of course, she is doing an even worse
second-derivative impersonation of Marilyn Monroe. This has no purpose
other than to satisfy some requirement in her contract that she got to
be the lead in one song number. 

9. Telepathic singing? Oh, no- "Glitter" flashbacks! 

10. Justin in a game of hovercraft dodge-ball? The stunt double must be
a girl to get the sizes right. Oh, look, the danger: he has lost
control of a motorized inflatable hovercraft in three feet of warm
water!

11. Hee-haw evil girl is proud of notching up various studs, and now
she is hitting on- Justin??? 

12. THAT was how evil hee-haw girl's plots were discovered? Did the
budget get pulled, and they needed a way of wrapping up the plot faster
than you could say "Deus Ex Machina?" 

13. The final massive musical number: a K.C. and the Sunshine Band
cover! While deeply painful on so many levels (including watching
nerd-boy dance), at least they mangled an already bad song, rather than
torture a once respectable song. 

Anyway, yes, this movie is just as bad as you have heard.

<|_=00=_|>

IMDb should consider creating a "0" rating below the current "1".

The description should read "dreadful".

Truly, a complete waste of time and resources.

This is the one aspect of being a father I can do without: Having to
sit through an 82 minute eternity of this garbage.

The acting by these two American Idol "stars" is naturally primitive,
however, one would think ("one" being the producers who are responsible
for the millions of dollars it takes for a major motion picture) that
someone would have given these kids acting lessons.

What may even be more frightening is that this picture probably made
oodles of money.

Sometimes it is embarrassing to be an American.

Miss this one.

<|_=00=_|>

There are bad movies. There are really bad movies. And then there's this
one. Morbid curiosity compelled me to seek it out, just so I could see for
myself exactly how dreadful it was. I got about eight minutes into the
'film' before I suddenly developed an overwhelming urge to run around
hitting things very, very hard.
Still, 'From Justin To Kelly' really is a must see flick if you have any
dreams of breaking into the movies, because believe me, if utter garbage
like this can be solicited, then quite literally anybody's got a shot.

<|_=00=_|>
Before Kelly Clarkson actually started producing some decent pop, this
was pretty much the only product of American Idol for a bit. And what
an product it was. The sheer lack of enthusiasm put forward in this
movie is, to say the least, daunting.

Set during a spring break, Kelly, the clichéd Texan girl who wants to
be a big singer but is stuck in a lowly bar, runs into Justin, who
smiles an abnormally large amount and has a really, seriously
ridiculous perm. I mean, come on. It looks like cotton candy. They both
go to Florida, and watch loads of "babes" and do a bunch of PG-13
related spring break hi-jinks, of which there aren't many. Hence why
they're college hi-jinks. Doi.

Anyway, after a rather dumb meet cute between Justin and Kelly, the
plot, which would have difficulty filling up a 22 minute sitcom let
alone this 90 minute trash fest, begins to unfold. Basically, Kelly's
blonde friend wants Justin, and he wants Kelly, so to get revenge on
him, she gives him her phone number, and then makes it look like Kelly
doesn't care about him. I'm sure you can imagine the complex and
thought provoking scenarios that this could spin out into, but don't
hurt yourself.

A quick note on the musical numbers: you have a mute button. Employ it
LIBERALLY. Thank you.

Obviously, From Justin to Kelly is meant for twelve year old girls, who
have seen the same plot a couple of dozen times before, only this time
it doesn't involve Barbie and/or Fairies (insert joke here). If you are
a twelve year old girl, go rent Sleepover. It's much better than this,
and it has cute boys. If you're not a twelve year old girl (which is a
good thing), stay, stay away from this factory made piece of crap.
<|_=00=_|>

Couldn't believe my eyes at this shameful, pathetic excuse for a movie. It
isn't even a movie, just an excuse for the producers to squeeze a few
extra
dollars out of last year's American Idol finalists. I feel sorry for
director Robert Iscove; not because I think his films are any good, but
because this movie will permanently discredit him as a director. 1/10, and
that's only because there's no '0' option.  
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is terrible because it was made 40 years too late. The American
Idol hype fueled the studios ambition to crank out a quick blah blah story
about Justin and Kelly. The end result, a soup sandwich with no audience.
The fact that what works on television doesn't always work on the "big
screen," is true in the case of From Justin to Kelly. The production value
is professional and many of the dance numbers took long hours and hours to
practice and to get right. Still, nobody cares. The movie itself (on paper)
was a joke to begin with. There are only a handful of lines worth hearing
through this 90 minute movie. The rest can be considered pop-culture junk or
better yet, left overs that nobody wants to have for dinner.
<|_=00=_|>

I was forced to go see this with a friend for her birthday. I knew it
would be dumb but thought that it would at least be something to laugh
at. It was one of those rare movies that is too bad even for perverse
entertainment. As it began I thought well the story will be stupid but
maybe it will have good songs. The songs were the worst part! The
transitions into these musical numbers were so awkward. And the songs
themselves were not remotely entertaining. Kelly comes off as likable
in the movie but I grew to despise every other character in the space
of 15 minutes. I don't see this becoming a cult classic. It also made
me feel relieved that I never went to Florida for Spring Break. Kelly
Clarkson is a sweet girl but she should stick to singing and get a new
agent.

<|_=00=_|>

This is a poor attempt to capitalize on the popularity of the American
Idol
show.  Unfortunately they chose to use the people rejected from the show
as
cast.  Save the ticket fee this one comes out on video in July.  Or you
can
keep an eye on the Late, Late, Late Show, you will see this one with its
twin Glitter.
<|_=00=_|>
Unlike some of the entries in the endless parade of crap reviewed on
this site, you might actually have heard of "From Justin to Kelly: The
Tale of Two American Idols". This name recognition could potentially
raise two problems. First is the prospect that you might already be
familiar with the movie and thus take issue with something incorrect I
might write. This differs from a review of "Idiot Vampire Movie #277"
or whatever other nonsense I write about, where only four people on the
planet have seen the movie in its entirety and I could have written the
entire thing using a Ouija board without anyone knowing better. The
second problem might be that you have actually seen the movie and so
this review is redundant. Of course, anyone who watched this movie
probably had enough pent up self loathing that they have already ridden
the vein pain train in a lukewarm bathtub. In which case,
congratulations on being dead! It is obvious you didn't quite make it
into Heaven, which has a standing gag order against anything related to
"American Idol". Better luck next time.

What do you get when you take two flash-in-the-pan celebrities from a
reality TV show and fling them in front of a camera without any lessons
in screen acting, line reading, or simulating basic human emotion?
"From Justin to Kelly" decided to find out. I suppose it's fitting that
one of the worst shows on television today would have managed to spawn
a Hollywood film that manages to raid the lint traps of sheer
ineptitude so severely that it makes "Battlefield Earth" look like a
sci-fi epic for the ages. Not only could neither Justin nor Kelly act
their way out of a paper bag, but they wouldn't be qualified to deliver
bag lunches to the other soap actors on set. Thankfully, one half of
the dynamic duo has already returned to blissful obscurity. We can only
hope this movie will soon follow. I am not sure if this movie is taking
place in an alternate timeframe where Kelly was never discovered and
instead was forced to perform to audiences numbering in the single
digits, or if it's supposed to take place in 2007 when the same will
probably be true.

I suppose I can't fault the producers of "American Idol" for wanting to
make another quick buck off their inexplicably popular TV show. Nor can
I really fault two okayish singers lucky enough to land a starring role
in a movie out of the blue because they weren't as horrible as everyone
else. Someone has to be responsible for this mess, though, and I guess
the most obvious blame falls on the people who voted Justin and Kelly
into their positions as the final two American Idols: namely, the
American public. This is all your fault, jerks. You should be ashamed.
