

Never Die Alone opens up with a scene that full blown gives away a pivotal
event in the film, where we see the main character, King David, lying in a
casket, eyes closed, hands on his chest. It's no big secret that he's dead,
to me, this movie isn't about the events, but simply about the story and the
characters, and that's really all that matters. What I like first about this
movie is that it has the power to make the audience not care if the ending
is revealed, or if any other event is told before it happens. I don't think
this movie is about the ending, but it's simply about King David and his
monstrous nature/personality. 

Again, the movie opens up with King David in a casket, obviously dead. He
gives a narration, and talks about reincarnation and how some say that when
you die in one life, you'll pay back for your mistakes in the next one.
Immediately, one can wonder why this man would mention this.

King David comes back to his hometown to make amends with a drug dealer that
he stole from. This drug dealer is Moon. David offers to give back the 15
thousand he stole in drugs, plus another fifteen thousand for interest. Moon
sends two of his boys, Blue and Mike, to make the pickup. During the scene
in which Moon tells the two to meet up with David, Mike's reaction sparks up
some question, because he gets noticeably angry. We the audience question
the history that David and Mike, and ask what the deal is between
them.
The pickup goes wrong, and King David ends up getting stabbed in the
process, right across from a bar. In the bar across the street is aspiring
reporter, Paul, a man who hangs out in ghetto areas to gather up information
on his novel. David comes to the aid of David, and drives him to the
hospital. During this beginning scene, we actually start to feel sympathy
for King David, as he pleads to Paul to `Not let him die alone.' This line
is somewhat sad, but at this point we have no idea what kind of person David
is. 
David of course dies, and hands over practically everything he has to Paul,
probably because he was caring enough to bring him to the hospital and not
let him die in the gutters. Among the things Paul gets from David are
jewelry, money, and a nice car. Paul eventually finds a collection of audio
cassettes, each one an audio diary chronicling the last ten years of David's
monstrous life. Then the real story begins.

Through these audio tapes, we realize that David probably never wanted
redemption and had no apology for the monstrous acts he's done. We at first
feel sorry for his character, and not want him to die, but as the movie
chronicles the last ten years, all of that care and sympathy that we had the
character disappears as we see King David for who he really is: A monstrous
man who has no compassion for anyone. King David charms women, gets to know
them, then hooks them on cocaine, THEN switches them to heroin without them
knowing, so that they have an unwanted dependence on him. King David is an
unapologetic man, who seems to purely like the suffering of others. He
single-handedly destroys these women's lives without remorse. He is able to
look back on these events and tell them as if he were proud about them. This
is his character. Unlike most drug movies, the character isn't sugarcoated,
the character isn't sold as a cold blooded killer who still feels remorse
for some people. The King David character is the complete opposite. He is
written truthfully, without trying to hold back the grim events in his life.

DMX has made a few films in the past, the two most recent (I'm pretty sure)
are Exit Wounds, and Cradle 2 The Grave, both mindless action films for the
genre fans. Those two movies were there to simply make money, and to
entertain people with fights and explosions. I liked those two movies, but I
don't those movies were able to expand DMX's acting talents because of what
kinds of movies they are. Never Die Alone brings out the performance in DMX
that most people probably didn't even know existed. Unlike in Cradle 2 The
Grave and Exit Wounds, DMX is able to give his character depth, and is able
to define him in ways that most actors cant do. He is able define his
character in the most monstrous way possible, and even though this character
is monstrous and evil in the movie, DMX cloaks this evil vindictive side,
and is able to appear normal, and I think this is the dynamic force of the
character, he knows he's evil, he knows he's a horrible person, but he acts
as if it's all just an everyday activity to ruin people's lives, and DMX
pulls this characteristic off amazingly well. He wrecks people's lives, and
he does it with so much ease and so little care, and DMX really brings this
character trait to the surface. 

David Arquette plays an aspiring reporter, who, like I mentioned earlier,
finds King David's audio diaries and discovers the truth about the man he
just met. Arquette's character isn't onscreen very much, and he only
interacts a few times with other people, with the exception of King David.
His character isn't really developed, but he's one of those film characters
where he can be developed and presented with only a few sentences. What we
can learn about this character is that he simply is willing to go where most
people wouldn't dare to go, and he never intends harm to anyone else. The
character is simply there to be the good hearted person who doesn't enforce
any kind of hate or violence. He's the modern character of the movie, the
everyday person. His character is drawn into the complex character of King
David. Before he listens to the cassettes, he obviously doesn't know who
King David is, but he probably thinks that David isn't that bad of a person,
just like the audience. But as he listens to the tapes and hears the
monstrous things he's done, we cant really tell what he thinks about the guy
afterwards. We don't know whether he still feels some kind of remorse for
him, or if he feels that he deserved to die. There might still be some
remorse left in Arquette's character, but the movie doesn't really emphasize
whether that care and remorse was diminished after he listened to the
tapes.
Each time this character was onscreen, I sat there wanting the movie to go
back to King David's `adventure', mainly because Arquette's character wasn't
interesting, and the movie tended to slow down every time they showed him.
However, regardless of that problem, it doesn't hurt the movie that much,
but I think it could have been fixed in some way.

The nature of this movie is dark and grim, so of course, the movie's setting
has to be dark and grim, and it is. The lighting effects obviously reflect
the movie's nature, and maybe even it's main character. The locations are
perfectly fitting for the dark and depressing tone that the movie tries to
set, and the lighting most of the time is perfect, because it maintains a
depressing look that has lots of style. Whether or not the movie's look was
done just for the sake of looking good, of if it was done to reflect the
characters and situations, either way, it was very stylistic.

With DMX's name printed above the title, and with DMX on the front cover
with two handguns at hand, most people will think this movie is another
mindless action film in the tradition of Exit Wounds and Cradle 2 The Grave.
I thought that it was an action film at first, but I had no idea that it was
a serious movie dealing with serious characters and serious situations.
Never Die Alone is a smart, taught, dark, and stylistic low budget drama
that'll either disgust audiences or serve them a dark drama that takes you
into the monstrous world of a vicious drug pusher, either way, the audience
will despise it for the first reason, and maybe love it for the latter
reason. I liked it for the latter. 

Score: 9 ½ out of 10.

Very underrated dark drama that deserves some more recognition. Easily one
of the best films of 2004.

<|_=00=_|>
Since truth is indeed sometimes stranger than fiction, often the movie
with the most unlikely scenario is the one that turns out to be the
most believable. This is the case with "Never Die Alone," an urban
crime drama with a plot just loopy enough to keep us interested and
just goofy enough to make us believe it.

David Arquette plays a white reporter who hangs around in a
predominantly black section of the city soaking up the "atmosphere" for
articles and books he hopes to write. One night, he attempts to save
the life of a black drug kingpin (played by DMX) by driving the man to
the hospital after he's been left for dead in a revenge killing.
Immediately before his death, the man, who goes by the name "King
David," bequeaths his car and other earthly possessions to this inner
city Good Samaritan. Included in the haul is an assortment of tapes
David recorded detailing his experiences as a successful drug pusher in
LA. Thus, as Paul listens to these recordings, a full picture of the
kind of man David was soon emerges.

The best thing about "Never Die Alone" is that it doesn't flinch from
displaying the ugly, harsh realities of its blood-splattered world. It
shows how even the innocent and the good eventually fall victim to the
evils of drug addiction and crime. The film is not afraid to kill off
characters in a random way, often surprising us with just who ends up
dying and who ends up surviving. And it does not attempt to sugarcoat
"King David," for despite all his comments about redemption and making
up for the evil he's done, David is one hell of an amoral bastard who
does some pretty horrible things to some truly undeserving people - and
the film does not shy away from depicting that reality.

Although, on the surface, the film seems like just another in a long
line of sordid crime dramas involving crack heads, dope fiends and
armed-to-the-teeth ghetto gangstas, "Never Die Alone," perhaps because
it is willing to hold nothing back in what it chooses to show us, has a
certain ring of truth about it. Whatever the reason, "Never Die Alone"
is a cut above the average.
<|_=00=_|>
When the unemployed white journalist Paul (David Arquette), who lives
in a ghetto, accidentally witness the execution of the Afro-American
King David (DMX), he takes the wounded man to the hospital trying to
save his life. David dies, but officially leaves his car and his
possessions to Paul. Paul finds some cassette tapes in the car, and
while listening to them, he becomes aware that David was a hideous drug
dealer.

When I decided to buy this DVD, I had no information about this movie.
What a great surprise for me: it is a dark trip to the underworld of
the drugs, indeed a contemporary film-noir, with sordid elements. The
very dark cinematography fits perfectly to the story creating an
atmosphere very adequate to the theme. The screenplay is very well
written, but there are many important deleted scenes available on the
DVD that explain many situations and connections of the story. DMX,
David Arquette and Michael Ealy have excellent performances, but I
found the character of Moon too much clichés of the powerful
Afro-American drug lord. The scene of Mike leaving the tunnel in the
end of the movie is another clichés that works perfectly, indicating
the possible redemption of this character. "Never Die Alone" is a
surprisingly good, violent and very real movie, which does not spare
the characters addicted on drugs, showing the consequence of their
vicious and their destiny. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Nunca Morra Sozinho" ("Never Die Alone")
<|_=00=_|>
.....but it just misses the mark here.  I have been a fan of
Donald Goines
novels since I was a teen.  I have often wondered why so-called gangsta
rappers of our generation have glorified fictional icons like Scarface (Al
Pacino) when there are better real life examples of hardcore gangstas like
Donald Goines and Iceberg Slim who wrote about their turbulent lifestyles
in
graphic, candid detail in several real-life novels.  When I heard about
NDA
I was excited that maybe someone had finally picked up the ball.  Too bad
this film falls just short of the mark.  It tries very hard to lock onto a
theme but comes across as disjointed and rambling.  DMX aka Earl Simmons
produced, as well as, starred in this flick.  DMX's gruff demeanor is well
suited for the Donald Goines anti-heros, but he needs to work on the
acting
skillz a bit.  A very good supporting cast of known and not-so-well known
actors.  All in all I would say that this film is just a small step above
the flick Belly -- just a little more violent and very crude.   2 out of 5
stars.
<|_=00=_|>
For starters story is very smart. That's the stand out thing in the
movie. Interesting how one person can affect so many. But it seemed
very short.

Acting wise it was average I guess. I'm a fan of DMX and think he isn't
a bad actor. But most characters he's played are pretty similar. Good
job by the supporting cast as well. David Arquette was the a stand out.

Overall an enjoyable movie. I was looking forward to seeing this movie
very much for some reason, and it didn't let me down, but it wasn't
perfect either. Once you've watched it you'll probably think something
was missing because of the shortness, but there isn't (I think!). I
look forward to reading the book.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a story about revenge. If it were about somebody named Hamlet
or Oedipus or Corleone then the violence would be described as in
service to the art of the story. In this movie two young men, one black
the other white, get caught up in a story of illegality and revenge.
The two wind up tied together around the story of a third man, who one
tries to rescue and one kills.

This is not a great movie; the soundtrack is predictable and the pacing
is uneven. Still, when the dead guy starts talking, the viewer's
perception changes, and that kind of moment indicates something is
happening in the script and on the screen that is important. "He had
this nobility..." the white character enthuses about the dead dealer to
his black girlfriend. She is less than impressed. This is a movie where
no one is noble: why is the white character hanging with a black
girlfriend? Does he like her or does he need "street cred." 

If race wasn't a part of this movie, then this would be a movie about
characters who take a series of missteps and pay for them. However, in
the reviews of this movie, because the main characters are black, it is
a movie about depravity. Like the narrative of victims of Hurricane
Katrina innocence or guilt... salvation or damnation... is determined
by the color of skin. For a viewer who doesn't see skin color first,
this is a well- acted, disturbing revenge story.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this movie as I read one or two viewers opinions of it. Both
must have been white men or women who have lived a protected life. A
life that has never been touched by the harsh realities that life as a
black person in a large city in the USA faces.

I agree that there is no clear hero or villain in this movie. What
upsets me about the reviews I read was the lack of compassion the
reviewers of this movie had about it.

The reviews of this movie that I read clearly have not experienced the
terrible reality that this movie portrays.

I believe that the persons that dished this movie have never been
tested by environment of poverty.

I have. I'm white. I can tell you that to spend your youth in settings
of LA will test the mettle of anyone.

It seems obvious to me that viewers commentaries that I read have not.

I didn't like the movie but I thought it was honest.
<|_=00=_|>

*minor spoilers*
Just came from seeing this at a matinee, Never Die Alone is probably one of
the most depressing urban films you will ever see.  The film is based on the
novel by Donald Goines(one of my favorite authors) and stars DMX(Belly, Exit
Wounds), Michael Ealy(Barbershop series) and David Arquette(Scream series)
with very good direction by Ernest R. Dickerson(Juice, Bones, HBO's The
Wire) whom I always knew was a very good director.  I'll start by saying
that Bones really could've been a good movie but even Dickerson's hard work
didn't pay off in the lackluster horror film but he comes back with a bang
with the uncompromising Never Die Alone.  DMX, who also served as producer,
turns in a great performance as King David an introverted, callous drug
dealer who is killed when he returns to his hometown after burning many of
his bridges - very reminiscent to Belly's Tommy Buns, however you see the
lives that he's destroyed in this movie.  David Arquette plays a jewish
journalist caught in the middle of a turf war after witnessing King David
get killed on a city strip - his performance as the naive writer isn't too
shabby neither but Michael Ealy, the true hero of the movie, was the one who
shined the brightest alongside DMX. Ealy's character, Mike, had his own
personal problem with King David in which he kills King David over but at
the same time King David had another problem with a kingpin by the name of
Moon(Clifton Powell) who Mike happens to work for.  Reagan Gomez-Preston is
also in this as Juanita - a character with alot of depth - she turns in a
good performance as well.  Some would call the movie mysoginistic but I
wouldn't, it shows you just how f*cked up the drug game can be for some
people and how it affects other people's lives...  Very disturbing scenes
including a graphic overdose scene in a flashback, a kid getting his head
blown off with a 12-gauge shot-gun and an icepick to the eye-ball pass for
an R rating - I give it a perfect 10 of 10, it worked very well... good job
Ernest Dickerson 
<|_=00=_|>
I wanted to let you guys know that this is one of the best movies I've
ever seen. It's got a clear message in it and uses images to tell the
story. The light at the end of the tunnel at the end of the movie is
very touching and well thought. I don't understand why the rating is so
low. I admit it's annoying that he talks all the time. but that's
necessary to know the story. I think it's based on a true story, maybe
that's the reason of the low rating, because of it's cruelty. But hey,
that's life. Hope you'll enjoy it as much as I did! This really is a
masterpiece. I thought the storyline was well connected and had a clear
message in it, all the time. Hope this was useful to you.
<|_=00=_|>
I must say I was surprised by this film! I thought it would be another
film about 'shooting em up' or something. Actually I had never even
heard of this movie before I watched it.

It stars DMX as a drug dealer named "King David" and the movie starts
out with him in a coffin. Then it explains how he got there. He was a
really, really, bad guy. David Arquette is an aspiring writer who finds
King David after he was stabbed. King David left the writer his car and
belongings to repay him. The writer finds tapes he made during the last
few months of his life.

The movie really is about how what we do affects so many people. If you
choose to treat someone badly, they will do the same to others and it
will come back on you. It was so true in this case. A movie that is
really worth seeing. If you like banger movies with a message (not
glorifying violence) I also recommend South Central, Jason's Lyric, and
of course, Boyz in the Hood. I heard that DMX is quitting the music
business and sticking to movies. I think he might do alright with the
movie thing. Special Feature: See what happens to good girl Azaria
(Drew Sidora) from 'The Parent Hood'!
