
Wow. Movies like this are for me both a big surprise and a guilty
pleasure to watch. At first, I was doubtful that the Rock had the
screen presence or the acting ability to pull off a movie like this,
since I had only known him before as "the eyebrow guy from wrestling".
This movie proved me wrong and has rapidly moved up into my list of
favorite films.

Beck (The Rock) is somebody who chases down people that have irritated
the mob, be it financially or socially. This is not his job of choice,
however; he would rather own a restaurant. His bosses give him one
final job: bring Travis (Sean William Scott, in a refreshing departure
from the "horny idiot" style of movies) back from South America to the
States. Beck finds Travis, but immediately runs afoul of Hatcher
(Christopher Walken), who owns the mining town Travis lives in and
wants something valuable that Travis has been looking for in the
jungle. Then there are fights, running around from evil guys, more
fights, monkeys, hallucinogenic fruit, and other such entertaining
things.

Scott brought some well-done comic relief into the film with his quirky
upbeat character. I could not stop laughing when Travis really tries to
take on Beck in a contest of physical strength. It's like watching a
caterpillar try and beat a Mack truck. Christopher Walken, as always,
is a pleasure to watch. The man makes a perfect psychopath and I always
brighten up when I see him on screen.

"The Rundown" is an excellent film which I would recommend to anyone
who loves kinda-brainless (in a good way) action films. Bravo to the
Rock. May he have a long and fruitful movie career.
<|_=00=_|>

And very funny.

I can honestly say I seriously doubted I would like this film and I
only went to see it because it was on and I was there. I'd never seen a
movie with The Rock before or even watched any wrestling so I was kind
of dubious as to whether or not he would be any good. 

In fact he was a great actor, full of personality and charisma, willing
to make fun of himself and was great with the action. The Rock is
definitely the next Arnie. Vin (Donald Duck) Diesel is the next Jean
Claude Van Damme.

Seann William Scott was also pretty funny in a rare NOT Stifler
performance. As an actor he does have genuine talent that's usually
wasted in low-brow teen sex comedies. 

The Rundown is a sort of Indiana Jones-lite movie. The Rock plays a
bounty hunter/chef who is sent to track down Seann William Scott south
of the border. Against his will The Rock ends up on a trek through the
depths of the Mexican jungle looking for some ancient artefact.
Unoriginal it may be but director Peter Berg keeps it moving with
plenty of stunts, action and laughs. Christopher Walken's villain is a
bit of a cardboard cut-out but how evil are you allowed to be in a
PG-13?

I look forward to the next movie starring The Rock. With talks of a
third Conan movie I can only imagine him being the best choice. And
keep a lookout for Arnie in the nightclub at the very beginning. 'Have
fun' is his only line. And fun The Rock will certainly have as the next
BIG action hero.

Keep a lookout for Scottish actor Ewan Bremner (a zillion times the
'star' Ewan MacGregor is) in a funny role as a slob pilot.

<|_=00=_|>

With the demise of box office power for the action man and a loss of
interest from the public to watch the bad-ass hero, who says little but
kicks a lot of butt, the kings of the genre Arnold Schwarzenegger, Sly
Stallone and Willis's careers as action men seems all but over. Van
Damme and Seagal were gone long ago. Should the main three want to do
mainly action movies for the rest of the careers then they may need to
do so in the DTV market. However, it does seem like the action movie
could be getting a second wind. We have a plethora of new action
heroes, none of whom will have the staying power of Schwarzenegger and
also respected actors who play everyday men like Tom Cruise, Matt
Damon, Nic Cage and Will Smith have turned in their fair share of
action movies. The Rock does seem the ideal new action man, with his
only real competition from wooden pretty boy Paul Walker and the now
seemingly cursed to do crap movies, Vin Diesel (who in truth would be
best as a baddie, like in Pitch Black.). The Rundown, while a box
office disappointment has performed well on video but more importantly
audiences really enjoyed it's delightfully 80's feel. It could almost
be taken from Sly or Arnolds early career. It's not loaded with a hip
new soundtrack, extreme sports or slick vehicles and loads of special
effects merely to lure youngsters in to see it. It's modernised and
stylised version of films like Commando (albeit much better than
that.). The simplistic, one-liner laden films I used to love.
Throughout the mid to late 90's as audiences got tired of that, and a
lot of seeming re-hashes and Sly and co doing movies very similar to
ones they had done before, meant that producers tried to give
characters to these guys with more depth, without getting someone to
write it decently and of course in the case of Schwarzenegger, trying
to give a 3 dimensional person to someone who can't act. 

Now as for Sly and Willis they have wasted a lot of their career doing
action movies because it doesn't stretch them as actors. They are good
actors given good roles, people forget Stallone got an Oscar
nomination. The Rock is more like Arnold. He's limited in his acting
chops but has a charm and likeability and a good presence and we can
expect no more from him than simple roles, where his prerequisite is
simply to cause carnage and emote on the odd occasion. I am glad we
could see a reinvention of 80's action movies, Jackie Chan breathed new
life ot the martial arts genre throughout the late 90's and the first
years of this decade, but they seem to be wearing thin now so it seems
some good old fashioned superhuman carnage could be on the cards,
there's even the possibility of a new Die Hard, Rambo, True Lies and
some new films like Spy Hunter. Even Van Damme and co in DTV land are
going back to basics and not trying to test their acting, because truth
be told for 99% percent of these action stars it's a test where failure
is inevitable and it's not what their fans really want. 

The Rundown is simplistic stuff. You have a simple premise and a
setting that is prepped and ready to be blown up. You have a strange
mix of central characters, with The Rock and Sean William Scott.
Meaning there will be plenty of fast jive talking and one liners. You
have your thespian in their as the bad guy. Christopher Walken in this
case and your ready, you have the basis for a good fun action movie.
This is great fun. Arnold and Sly would be proud to have this on their
CV. In fact it is on Arnies CV because he has a cameo at the start
which is effectively him passing the torch on to the Rock. There are no
twists and turns of any really note but the important thing is that it
is nicely paced it has a nice glossy sheen to the cinematography. There
are few hints at them aiming for a particularly young and hip-hop or Nu
Metal demographic like Fast And Furious or Jet Li's films have done,
thankfully. It's cool without going over the top and blowing it's wad.
I like the fact this isn't made for pimply teenagers first and
foremost. It's made for action lovers, it's a loving and subtle gift to
young adults, 20 something's who watched the action films in the 80's
and early 90's when they were undemanding, untainted fun and far form
the marketed tripe we get now. 

The Rock is good here. He has improved so much from The Scorpion King.
He has charisma he's got a natural screen presence and a charm. In fact
he's more natural than Arnold with his acting, he even has more of a
vulnerable side (although not that much). I do think that given time
the Rock will be better than his sensei. He has after all only just
started. He won't however have as high a standard of movies. Let's not
forget Arnold hasn't only done good action films but good films and
classic movies with the first 2 Terminators. What the Rock now needs is
a box office hit. He hit it big with Scorpion King but since then his
movies have not been hits, Walking Tall being a flop. His next, Spy
Hunter which sees him team with action maestro John Woo has got
fantastic hit potential and potential to be as good as this film. Sean
William Scott is also good. He does his Stifler thing again and it's
good. It's almost as much to do with how the Rock plays and reacts off
him that makes his role funny. Of course Christopher Walken is good and
he has a trademark and hilariously intense speech about the tooth fairy
that will have you in stitches. Rasario Dawson is also good.

The action is great, some of the best this year I have to say. It's old
fashioned carnage, not reliant on CGI. It's imaginative stuff and well
thought out as well as being well edited. The Rock is a great
ass-kicker. He performs most of his own stunts and has real natural
ability to put on a show with his fights, thanks largely to his WWE
background. Peter Berg handles the set pieces with poise.

This is a highly entertaining flick, bringing back pleasant memories
and is one of the best action films in years. ****

<|_=00=_|>
Yup, this is way hokey and one of the dumbest movies I own in my
collection, yet it's very likable and mostly a fun film with great
style and scenery.

An adventure story, played strictly for entertainment value, it mostly
succeeds because Dwayne Johnson, better known as "The Rock," is a very
likable hero. He's clean-cut, well-spoken, modest, etc. Supposedly this
film was supposed to be The Rock grabbing the action mantle, so to
speak, from the king - Arnold Schwarzenegger - who will no longer make
movies. They even have Arnie make a quick cameo, wishing The Rock good
luck! That was a good touch.

Meanwhile, Rock's cohort in this film, Seann William Scott, gets by
with his sense of humor. It almost plays like one of these "buddy
movies" except that these two guys ("Beck" and "Travis," respectively)
are not on the same page about anything. In no other film can I recall
two characters getting beat up and annihilated like these two
guys....but they never seem the worse for wear! Unbelievable!

Rosario Dawson adds some female sex appeal and Christopher Walken adds
his normal entertaining take on being the villain. His dialog was very
good in here. 

I didn't realize until the second time I watched it (which is where I
stand now) just how stylishly this was filmed. This movie reminded me
of many made by either Robert Rodriguez or Quentin Taranatino with the
gimmick photography. It makes it all the more fun to watch. Add some
excellent sound, tremendous Hawaiian scenery simulated to look the the
Amazon jungle in Brazil......and you can put up with the stupidness of
the story and have a good time.
<|_=00=_|>
Directed by Peter Berg, starring The Rock(The Mummy Returns), Seann
William Scott(American Pie) and Christopher Walken. The film was
considerd a flop when it hit theaters but made a surprisingly large
amount of money in DVD sales. After the film Seann William Scott got
into action films and did The Dukes of Hazzard.

The Rundown is very similar to the Robert Deniro film Midnight Run, but
with Indiana Jones twist. The plot goes as follows: In order to get out
of hock with mobster Billy Walker, restaurateur-turned-"retrieval
expert" Beck has to go down to Brazil and retrieve Billy's
archaeologist-wannabe son Travis, who is searching for an ancient gold
idol called the Gato del Diablo. The bounty hunter discovers that his
quarry isn't the bad guy he'd been warned about, and the two team up in
pursuit of riches stored in a mine in the Amazon.

I enjoyed the movie. It is a great buddy comedy. Look for Arnold
Schwarzenegger in the opening night club scene, "Have fun" is his only
line. Well enjoy the movie, if you like it I suggester you check out
Midnight Run and Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson's other action film Walking
Tall.
<|_=00=_|>

	After seeing The Rundown some odd sensation in me suggested that if
director Peter Berg had been more interested in surveying his characters in
his ultra-stinker debut, Very Bad Things that he could have had a
masterpiece on his hands. With that assumption stated it is hard to believe
that The Rundown is one of those rare films that physically pits its heroes
above their action. Allowing a story to build around natural causes instead
of setting up backdrops in order to initiate planned action sequences.

	Existing somewhere between a big, dumb summer popcorn flick and a sincere
alternative, staring into the eye of adventure, this is a film that is
entertaining on almost all levels. We are given assurance to this early on
in the film from none other than Arnold Schwarzennger when he tells star,
the Rock to `have fun' while walking down the hall of a nightclub. Having
had such a mighty torch passed to him so early on it would be a dishonour to
expect anything less than off the wall amusement from the Rock. He in turn
gives a performance in Beck that is so crisp and fresh that we believe he
has the potential of a hero. 
	Beck works for the bad guys, taking jobs that no man without a purpose
would ever question. But the Rundown is a good movie, and a good movie knows
enough that its characters need dimension. Thus Beck is a man who does have
a purpose. He is aspiring to open his own restaurant. But in order to get
the money to achieve his goal he takes one last job. The job finds himself
traveling to Brazil to a small town called El Dorado in order find his
bosses son Travis (Sean William Scott of American Pie) and bring him home,
not an easy task as the duo quickly develop a strong love/hate relationship.

	Along the journey we find another layered characteristic about Beck in that
doesn't like guns.  `You're the only American I know who doesn't like guns,'
says an onlooker. But he doesn't like them because `bad things happen when I
use guns.' And from watching Beck in hand-to-hand combat it is not hard to
image what life would be like with a gun at his disposal.

	What follows in the jungle is an action flick that I've already seen, in
Gunmen and Indiana Jones. But Gunmen was a joke that no one seemed to be in
on or, maybe it didn't realize it had one, but the Rundown does. Making it a
lot easier to have a sense of humour about something that sees caricature in
itself.
	 We then encounter a villainous mine owner named Hatcher in Christopher
Walken who says all the things that we tend to wonder when unbelievable
circumstances are questioned in a serious film. Walken, an actor so aware of
himself and his purpose that he seems to make even the most senseless
dialogue meaningful, is given the films single best line. When asked by one
of his henchmen if he thinks Beck and Travis are dead after driving off a
cliff, Hatcher replies, `what am I, psychic.' He later outdoes himself and
his character again when, after a stampede erupts in the middle of a town he
utters impressively, `that's a lot of cows,' while watching a video monitor.

	 But Walken isn't the only key player with something unique to show.
Rosario Dawson gives the most curios and understanding action performance
from a female since Linda Hamilton stared in the Terminator, and the Rock
proves that, although his acting range may be limited, that is no excuse for
one dimensional character association. Scott also shows that his
smart-alecky nature is not just reserved to the American Pie movies.    

	Then, in a near change of pace, somewhere around the halfway mark the
Rundown changes from a mission of retrieval to a hunt for lost gold, and
manifests other sub plots involving loyalty and a running joke about
sexually active monkeys. Under the conditioning of a movie with the soul
intent of an action basis this could have been a problem, but because the
core of Berg's focus lies in the chemically imbalanced structure of his
characters, we tend not to make a point of it. 
	The motivations in Berg's direction come in his desire to avoid playing
with ideas of violent behaviour. Analyzing his characters and explaining
what prompts their involvement in violent circumstances. Making the
obligatory action climax seem like more of a reward for good behaviour
rather than a set-up for no better reason than to follow standards.

	The an example of this happens in one of the best scenes from an action
film I have seen all year, in which Beck is tempted into using a gun. In a
genre that lives by the motto of `shoot first, ask questions later.' The
idea of what would convince a man of honour to go against himself for the
benefit of his temperament is equally as fascinating as it is exciting in
its conclusions. 
	The films cinematographer Tobias A. Schliessler, also disserves great
credit for his masterfully filmed action sequences, that at times may also
seem like too much, but when this degree of care and technique is put into
something, its a strong tendency not to be bothered with such small
criticism.  As a result, making for some of the most poetic and electrifying
action sequences since Daredevil. 
	Although the Rundown may not be a perfect film, overlooking problems in
pacing and the neglect of some under developed ideas, it is still one of the
most enjoyable times I've had at the movies this year. Making me believe
that what the Rock is cooking smells like nothing less than a great career
as an action star.     
<|_=00=_|>
Combination action, adventure, broad comedy, and buddy movie has The
Rock well-cast as a 'retrieval expert' fed up with his occupation and
looking for a way out. He agrees to one last job in which he travels to
a remote village in South America to find his employer's delinquent
son, but in the midst of his search he tangles with the town's greedy,
megalomaniacal boss, embittered citizens, and gets caught up in a
search to find a rare and priceless artifact. Engaging, high-energy
action scenes, enthusiastic performances, and moments of genuine humor
make this a blast from start to finish. Formulaic to be sure, but lots
of fun with Walken adding a hilarious presence as Hatcher. ***
<|_=00=_|>

The Rock's newest one this weekend and found The Rundown to be
quite
entertaining.  Sure, the plot is nothing to sneeze at but
casting
Christopher Walkin as the lead villain was wonderful.  He has a
very
unique way of playing with the dialogue to make it quite funny. 
Seann
William Scott is pretty darn hysterical and plays the second banana
well.
The impressive find is Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson's performance.  The
guy
is getting better and better.  I found his first one, The Scorpion
King,
to be fun but not worth collecting.  This one might have to be
bought
though.  His years of using a script and improvising in front of
a
multi-thousand seat auditorium has translated well to the screen and
he
has a sense of timing and ease in front of the cameras that has been
hard
won.  He obviously can handle the action aspects of the movie too but
(as
with most action stars) I hear he wants to stretch his wings and
perform
other stuff.  That has the potential to be fine down the line but
lets
see how he continues with the Action/Comedies first.  Should
be
interesting to see how they do the Walking Tall remake.  The original
one
was a pretty powerful movie with some seriously tense sequences.

Hopefully it won't be changed to much.  Anyway, gonna have to give
this
one 3/4
<|_=00=_|>
The Rock has done it again! He has made another big screen hit, and
this time, he has used every trick in the book from the WWE. The
results: The Rundown! Playing a bounty hunter is definitely a good role
for The Rock. He doesn't play around, and I think he should thank
Martha Stewart for the cooking ideas. Better yet, it should the "E"
man; Emeril Lagasse. For the voice he lends to the The Rock's
character. I liked all the scenes in the movie, and even though they
were pretty fast paced, the fun factor was never lost. Take the jungle
scene, where all the rebels fight Beck, there was a lot of action
there. And I think the humor was the backup factor there too. Rosario
Dawson provided a lot of quality as well. I liked the part where she
gave Beck(The Rock) and Travis(Seann William Scott) some of that funky
fruit. And then they had to wake up with the monkeys, with what Beck
had to put up with earlier in the movie. Christopher Walken was good
playing the bad "a". It was funny, when he had the .44 automatic shot
out of his hand, and had to choose Option A, the hard way. This movie
had a lot to give, action, adventure, and comedy. What more do you
want? Rating 3 out of 5 stars!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie will appeal to all who like action for the sake of action.
"The Rock" does a moderate job of acting in this movie-but his
performance would not win him any awards. I love the fight scene in the
beginning against the football team. Overrated and improbable: of
course...but it really appeals to the thrill seeker in me for some
reason.

Sean William Scott plays off The Rock's character very well. I was
disappointed with his performances in American Pie/Wedding. I thought
he was a foul-mouthed, obviously stereotyped actor. I was pleasantly
surprised at his different acting ability in this movie.

This movie is a B+ flick with good fight scenes and low budget story
lines. Good for mindless entertainment.
