

Well, to start off, I have to say that Biker Boyz isn't a good movie. 
However, it is better than the other recent bike movie, Torque, if only
because it tries to do something with itself.  But it fails none the less,
perhaps for being too ambitious.  The bike crowd watches the movie hoping to
see realism and some good racing. Instead they get straight-shot drag style
races, which in real life involve little to no actual talent on a machine. 
Also, they'll be racing 160 mph one minute, and dead stopped the next.  It
takes some time to come down from speeds like that.  The movie also
frequently ignores the force of wind that would be present at high speeds,
with the racers hardly tucked in at all.  The final race, much like many in
Torque, takes place on a dirt road.  Apparently they aren't aware that these
high end bikes are often called street fighters.

Despite all that, there's actually an effort to tell a story.  It's an
admirable effort, but many of the parts just slow the movie down.  It's
often a painfully slow movie. Odd, since it's about a bunch of guys that
race at speeds in excess of 100 mph.  The story is a coming of age one, for
both Kid and Smoke.  They are both forced to confront issues, and in the end
reconcile them.  The biker clubs are set up to mirror, I think, a sort of
community, and therefore Kid's efforts to rise in the clubs are supposed to
represent his finding his place in society.  The pieces are there, they were
just poorly assembled. Folks most likely were expecting a quick, guilty
pleasure like the Fast and Furious movies, and instead got a slow movie with
mediocre action sequences.

The acting isn't nearly as bad as most are saying. It's not Fishburne's
finest moment but it's not like it stained his reputation or ability, just
look at his fine work in Mystic River.  The writers made an effort to have
three-dimensional characters.  For example, After Dog's dirty racing forces
Kid to drop his bike at the track, he lends him his own bike to take on
Smoke. Granted, it's for his own reasons, but it's not like he's the evil
villain parody going "mu-ah-ha-ha" off in the corner.  I have to agree with
another user that said it portrays black Americans in a positive way.
They're not all stereotypes, they have their own personalities.  Smoke is
confident, but level headed. Soul Train seems the stereotype, but we see a
totally different side of him when we find he's a lawyer. 

So, it's not a good movie, but it makes an effort to be one, which counts
for something.  For all it's lack of realism, it gets points for not having
the absurd stunts that Torque did, like flipping a huge street bike (with a
helicopter jet engine, mind you) mid air, and riding on top and through the
passenger sections of moving trains.  Biker Boyz isn't good by any means,
but it's not quite that bad.
<|_=00=_|>


I'm sure there's a Greek tragedy or Shakespeare play with the same basic
premise: Son aspires to be one of the great princes instead of a courtier,
son loses father, son disappears, only to return as the heir apparent to
the
Prince's crown and all that....  such a plot has such promise.

But when you bury it under a bunch of expensive sportbikes, T&A shots,
and
juvenile stunts... blech!

As a moviegoer, I thought this was barely worth the matinee price.  As a
Shakespeare fan, I thought it overdone, washed out.  As a motorcyclist, I
thought it shameful (Passengers in shorts, spaghetti-strap tops, and
heels?
Racing w/o helmets?  Stunting on a public freeway, in traffic, at night?
These are NOT the role models you were looking for...)  I will point out
that a FEW lines in the movie did hint to the dangers of riding,
especially
'extreme' riding.  The crashes were definitely hopped up (not sure if a
500
lb superbike would sail spinning thru the air like a frisbee...) but no
punches were pulled as to how badly you can get hurt on these things if
you're not careful and FOCUSED.  And Fishbourne's character, although
definitely the most bad-ass in the whole bunch, showed how far skill,
finesse, and restraint will go beyond blind luck, guts, and adrenaline.
That
is to say, he was on top the whole time, even to the last
frame.

With the budget this film had (pretty much, the bikes alone are each
worth
20G's or more) they COULD have made something with more emotional impact,
more story, and a LOT less gratuitous teenage hormone inducer.  So, if you
see this movie, resist the impulse to go out and get a bike.  The real
world
ain't like this at all.  Riding like this in the real world will get
someone
(probably YOU) killed.


<|_=00=_|>

The days of Harley-Davidsons mastering the road are over. Nowadays color
and
plastic coat the fastest and most coveted motorcycles in the land, and
`Biker Boyz' heralds the passing with unrestrained glee.

Set among African-American biker clubs in Southern California, the film
follows Kid (Derek Luke), a prodigious young motorcycle racer, in his
quest
for the title of `King of Cali,' currently held by Smoke (Lawrence
Fishburne), leader of the Black Knights bike club. Smoke hesitates in
accepting Kid's challenges, citing that Kid is not a member of a
legitimate
club. In one scene, Kid addresses Smoke's assistant with anger and
frustration: `Are you racing? Or are you just blowin' smoke?'
Kid begins his own club (the aptly named `Biker Boyz') and sets out for
the
crown of fastest biker. The rest of the film follows a sort of formula we
have seen before, with the underdog taking on the inhumanly skilled
antagonist at the end.
Though the plot is weak, the talent both onscreen and off push the film
into something the script alone could not hold. The actors, for the most
part, excel in their respective roles. Fishburne turns what may have been
a
trivial role into one exuding sincerity and masculinity, holding to an
effectively pensive and reserved demeanor. His presence on the screen
legitimizes the film as not just another `Days of Thunder.' Fishburne's
charisma must have extended to the rest of the cast, as even Kid Rock,
who
made his film debut in 2001's deplorable `Joe Dirt,' portrays his
character
with gusto and road-wise scruffiness.
Director Reggie Rock Bythewood makes his presence felt in the film.
Bythewood made a splash at Sundance a few years ago with his debut
`Dancing
in September.' With `Biker Boyz,' he manages to pull off something
slightly
extraordinary: he makes motorcycle racing entertaining. The camera
freewheels around smoking tires, colorful racing suits and bouncing
nightclubs with dizzying ease. His film is loosely based on a feature
from
the Los Angeles New Times on the biking subculture in California, and
Bythewood tries to bring a sense of biker culture to the screen. The
nonfiction foundation of the film shines through, displaying a bizarre
sense
of camaraderie between cyclists similar to that of a fraternal order.

Despite its basically inane premise, the movie is not all bad. The poor
title and plot outline summons memories of `Rollerball' and the like, but
do
not be deceived. `Biker Boyz' inspires some sense of genuine excitement
and
intrigue. As entertainment, it works on the same level as last year's
`Spider-Man.' It cannot be praised as a piece of art, but the
craftsmanship
of the film is undeniable, which grants it a begrudged
recommendation.

<|_=00=_|>

The movie is barely even entertaining unless you are with a group of
drinking buddies making fun of it.  The only reason to watch the forced
plot, weak dialogue, music video camera work waste of time is if you love
motorcycles, and like watching stunts performed on them.  Even then, if
you
really want to see that, just go get a specialty film.  FOR BIKE
ENTHUSIAST
ONLY.
<|_=00=_|>

To begin with, I wasn't expecting really much from the film at all. More
or
less, I anticipated a "Fast and the Furious" with motorcycles. However,
even
to those expectations, the film falls way short. I was given the rather
EXPECTED mediocre plot and cast of stereotypical characters; in addition
to,
the rather UNEXPECTED monotonous action sequences and poorly
coordinated/directed stunts.

While I spent 90 minutes wondering why these "hardcore" street racers had
chromed-finished, colorful, graphic-designed bikes that looked like they
were ready more for a show than any race, I kept watching these races that
felt like the bikes were going 25 mph rather than the 200 mph their
speedometers were reading. Each of the ~ 5 races in the film are pretty
much
exactly the same, and the final race is, to say the least, predictable and
lame. I won't even begin to discuss the 'realism' of any of the races
because I don't believe the movie is to be taken that serious in the first
place...which is unfortunate.

The verdict? Its a shame to say "save this movie for a rental night",
because a movie of this nature should have only been appreciated on the
big
screen. 
<|_=00=_|>
Kid is the son of Tariq aka "Slick Will", engineer to Smoke, who is the
leader of the Black Knights motorcycle group and a legend on the
streets. When Tariq is killed in a motorcycle accident, Kid drops off
the scene for six months but returns determined to become more than
just a prospect. His ultimate aim is to challenge Smoke himself and
make his mark by taking down the biggest dog there is but first he must
go legit and set up his own motorcycle gang with friends Stuntman and
Primo.

Opening with a really nice tracking shot (or series of shots, I'm not
sure) this film had my interest early on but very quickly blew it. With
an obvious and predictable establishing scene, the narrative arch is
established and thus I began my weary trudge from start to finish,
through countless music video scenes, unconvincing dialogue scenes and
loads of motorcycles. It is very basic stuff and it never aspires to
much. The characters are cut out of cardboard and the dialogue is
awful, this might cut the mustard if the film was an out and out action
film but it isn't. Instead it is supposed to be a character driven film
and thus it is a big problem for it to not have characters or
convincing dialogue. Sadly it is a mess in regards the writing and
plotting and only the forgiving will find the material worth two hours
of their time.

The action is pretty weak. I didn't think any of the races were
exciting and although they are well done, all of them could have sorely
used the emotions of the characters to feed into them. As it is the
failure of the plot means that much of the film is lacking and feels
rather pointless. Occasionally it hints at depth and humanity but the
occasional spark is totally drowned out in a sea of noise. The music
video goals of the film are met but personally I'm glad not to be in
the demographic sector that is tricked into thinking that this makes
for a good film.

The cast are mixed, containing people that I expected better from and
people that deserve stuff like this. Fishburne may well have expected
more from the film because at times you can see him reaching, sadly he
cannot achieve the impossible and any glimmer of a good performance is
swamped. Luke struggles from the start. He is pretty and charismatic
here but he can't deliver emotion and understanding that isn't in the
script and his narration is terrible. The support cast are roundly
average with obvious performances from Jones, Hounsou, Fehr and others.
Good is sexy but pretty vacant while I'm not sure why Bonet bothered to
turn up for so little.

Overall then a fairly pointless film that shrugs off any character
potential it may have had in favour of MTV visuals, clunky dialogue and
mostly average performances at best. You can see the potential in the
story but across several aspects the film fails to deliver this
potential and just churns out a totally unnecessary film that doesn't
deserve any of your time.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is absolute rubbish. Not only is the plot incredibly
predictable,
but the realism is non-existent. As someone who's been riding street bikes
for many years, I was horrified to see the characters racing with very
powerful bikes on gravel roads, clearly smaller capacity bikes beating
faster ones on a straight road where no real skill (apart from a good
launch) is needed and one of only two female bikers in the movie suffering
the usual lesbian stereotyping.   I can almost see the movie executives
sitting in an office and going "hey let's cash in on Fast & Furious by
doing
almost the exact same thing, but with bikes".  Crap, rubbish and a waste
of
good actors' talent.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie was a complete flop. Had Bythewood been smart enough to use
the
original unedited script as opposed to the one he and Craig hacked
together
he would have had a great movie under his directing debut. As it stands
he
has put together a flop (as evidenced by all the critics) and it shows
that
plagery gets you nowhere Reggie. You should have known
better.
<|_=00=_|>
My name is Simon Jago and below is my review of 'Biker Boyz'. I have no
intention of elaborating my comments but have to produce a minimal
amount of words in order for my comment to be published.

Here's the back story to my viewing experience of 'Biker Boyz'. It was
late on a Saturday night and I was writing my Dissertation for uni, and
turned on the TV to have something on in the background. 'Biker Boyz'
started and I thought I'll give it the benefit of the doubt and leave
it on, boy was I wrong:

REVIEW: 'This film is nothing more than a collection of established
black actors, exploiting themselves in a horrible fast and the furious
rip off with bikes.'

BEST BIT: The tunnel vision that Laurence Fishburne uses to filter out
the nonsense in the film to enhance his racing in a straight line
abilities. 

SPOILER: THE OTHER GUY LEARNS TO USE IT AT THE END
<|_=00=_|>

I saw Biker Boyz last night.  While the plot was horrendous and hard to
follow, I thought the acting wasn't bad.  The editing and cinematography
was
done to try to give the audience the feel of being on a bike at 100+
miles
per hour.  I wouldn't say see this movie if you are looking for quality
plot, but as your basic standard hollywood fare, it's no worse than some
of
the other crap that's out there.  I really also enjoyed how the movie was
NOT violent and they showed how Black people can have a great time w/o
guns
and violence (notice the only weapon in the movie is brandished by the
Italian gang).  I also really enjoyed Orlando Jones' performance.  See if
you can try to spot the many appearances by stars from the past - Sally
Richardson, Kadeem Hardison and others!


