
Cut the pretentious crud. This film is obviously intended to entertain
a younger audience, and it does a good job at doing that, while
somewhat tactfully putting in some jokes for the parents. No, it's not
spectacular. If you watch this movie expecting something "Grade A",
you're not going to get much out of it.

The plot: generic, predictable. But obviously so, considering it's
called "Gnomeo and Juliet".

The cast is an oddball compilation of respectable actors, with the
exception of the obscure addition of Ozzy. But what is really keeping
this movie going is the cuteness of it. That is the selling point, and
what makes it most appealing. If you go into this movie expecting
something more, you will be left disappointed. So I suggested you
loosen up, look for a laugh, and you'll enjoy it more. It's not a bad
film.
<|_=00=_|>
I took my twins (age 5) to see this today and they were THRILLED to
bits!! I disagree with the reviewer that says it's a "girls'" movie! My
Hot Wheels/Bionicle loving sons, loved it and they didn't think it was
girly one bit and neither did I!

I also did not think it was a Toy Story rip off as there have been a
ton of movies featuring toys that come alive long before Toy Story
anyway. Yes, garden gnomes and decorations come to life but that's were
the similarity between the two ends.

I did not go in expecting to see a cartoon version of Romeo and Juliet
so I was not disappointed one bit and thankfully, this story does not
share the tragic end of the original tale. I did like the characters
quite a bit, I LOVED how the gnomes were fragile, I loved the clay
clinging sounds they made, how realistic the textures were.. it did not
feel like a "dime a dozen" animation at all!! It was bright, it had a
solid plot, and it was going somewhere (unlike let's say, Alpha and
Omega or Happy Feet).

My boys were begging as soon as the titles rolled to watch it again so
we just might be returning to the movie theater with some friends this
weekend. I wouldn't mind seeing it myself and I was glad we did go see
it because after I read the previous review, I had my doubts if it was
going to be any good but it was!!! My boys "got it" much better than
say, Shrek... so it will appeal to a younger crowd as well in my
opinion...
<|_=00=_|>
In the beautiful British town of Stratford-Upon-Avon there's a street
where the owners of two neighbouring houses have no idea of the rich
lives being led in their backyards. In these backyards there are two
groups of garden gnomes - one garden is ruled by the blue hatted
variety, the other is ruled by the red hatted variety. An age old feud
- of which the reason has long since been forgotten - is keeping them
apart, but unexpected events might just be enough to get them back
together again.

Loosely based on the Shakespearean tragedy Romeo And Juliet this
animation film keeps the middle line between tragicomedy and romance.
Like many animation films being made these last years it combines fun
things for kids with fun things for adults - without hurting either
group (the innuendo that is fun for adults is not seen by kids whose
innocence protects them from it, the deviation from the original tales
to make it fun for kids is not so warped that it makes it
unrecognisable for them parents).

The animation is great - the gnomes and the gardens are just lovely to
watch. The setting with gnomes is flawless - the sounds, the
implications of being a garden gnome - it works out really well.

If there would be one bit of negativity for this film it is that its
trailer is a bit too biased towards an audience that wants to see
romance instead of a bit of light comedy.

8 out of 10 midsummer night's dreams
<|_=00=_|>
Okay, so I bought myself a pack of 10 movie-tickets from Hoyts and
thought "what the heck" lets see a movie with the family. So, we went
for Gnomeo and Juliet and we really, really enjoyed it. Yes, the movie
is predictable from start to finish, but I say: "So what!" It's
supposed to be a family/kids movie and we all know that this movie is
not going to end like the real Romeo and Juliet. The characters are
funny, the voices are great, the flamingo(s) even better. The
Terrafirmanator is cool - I would like to order three and have them
delivered within the next 5 minutes. Mixing in the music of good old
Sir Elton John makes the movie even better - it becomes so English!
Mmmm... the end-scene did remind me of Shrek a lot (just a lot softer,
which makes sense them being a bunch of garden gnomes - they are quite
fragile), but it's still very, very positive. Yeah, I believe Gnomeo
and Juliet is a must see for the family - you won't regret it. Oh,
please observe the sound when the gnomes happen to touch each other - I
think the sound artists have done a fantastic job!
<|_=00=_|>
My teenage daughter and I have just returned from seeing this film and
we both enjoyed it very much. In my opinion, the film was not just
aimed at children; I remember all the Elton John songs from the
original!(and no, I'm NOT a die-hard fan!) The Elton John songs were
used very appropriately. I particularly liked the song "Saturday
night's the night for fighting" used for the drag race! It was fun to
pick out the Shakespeare references; the removal firm was Rosancranz
and Guildenstern, for instance. In other cases there were misquotes;
for instance "a rose by any other name" - "a weed by any other name" A
good bit of fun!
<|_=00=_|>
When I first saw trailers for "Gnomeo & Juliet", I groaned at the
thought: Romeo and Juliet as told by garden gnomes? Really? Aside from
the obvious absurdity of the concept, I wondered exactly how faithfully
they'd stick to the story. The ending of Shakespeare's original story
would prove awfully dark for the young audiences that would be
naturally drawn to this.

So, with these reservations in mind I saw the film last night with my 7
and 10 year old daughters, and found myself enjoying the movie much
more than I expected to. Is the concept absurd? Sure, but the writers
made plenty of clever use of that absurdity, with some great sight gags
and setups.

I won't go into detail on the issue of the original's dark ending, but
the writers here found a sly way to acknowledge that original ending
without having to actually incorporate it in this loose remake.

Elton John is credited as an Exec Producer (and his partner David
Furnish has a Producer credit as well). The movie makes liberal use of
EJ's music, generally to good effect.

And my daughters both loved it. Great family fare.
<|_=00=_|>
Gnomeo and Juliet is the latest re-imagining of Shakespeare's tragedy,
Romeo and Juliet . I will admit that I didn't go into this film with
high hopes, but while its not an instant classic, I was pleasantly
surprised.

Two households, both alike in dignity, In fair Verona, where we lay our
scene, From ancient grudge break to new mutiny, Where civil blood makes
civil hands unclean...

The film begins with an amusing homage to these lines, before we really
get into it. The garden gnomes of two neighbouring backyards, the Red
Gnomes and the Blue Gnomes, have an ongoing rivalry as to who's garden
is best. They constantly try to sabotage each other and dislike each
other immensely. After a lawnmower race in which Tybalt the Red gnome
(voice of Jason Statham) beats the Blue gnome Gnomeo (voice of James
McAvoy), Gnomeo and sidekick Benny decide to sneak in by night and
vandalise the Red's garden. Meanwhile Juliet (Emily Blunt), protected
and thought too fragile by her father Lord Redbrick, is desperate to
prove she is otherwise. Gnomeo and Juliet meet, and the rest is history
as they say.

Of course, the film can't follow the original play exactly - this is a
kids movie! It's not a tragedy, it's a comedy. This is where I expected
to be let down - I honestly didn't think I would find it funny, but I'm
glad to say for the most part, I found this film charming and funny. It
could have been funnier, but the younger audience will love it, which
is the important thing I suppose.

Shakespeare fans will have fun spotting the little references to the
Bard's works (including a cleverly worked in quote from Macbeth of all
plays). I did. For instance, the owner of the Blue Gnomes is Miss
Montague (Romeo's family in the play), while the owner of the Red's is
Mr. Capulet (Juliet's last name). The owners themselves hate each
other. Spotting the celebrity voices is fun too. Michael Caine is Lord
Redbrick, Maggie Smith is Lady Bluebury (I didn't notice this) - I
particularly enjoyed Patrick Stewarts brief appearance as a statue of
Shakespeare, with whom Gnomeo has a brief conversation. Shakespeare was
a smug guy. The voices were all well cast, and the animation is of a
good quality.

Complimented with a fun Elton John soundtrack (he was an executive
producer, go figure), this film is enjoyable, and a good one for the
kiddilinks.
<|_=00=_|>
First of let me just say that this is a kid's movie and its only
purpose is to entertain children. So if you're an adult trying to find
a reason to pick it apart, you need a new hobby! I'm someone who enjoys
seeing animated children's films because they're fun and refreshing. I
don't worry about holes in the story, the score, the acting, the
cinematography because at the end of the day if my nieces and nephews
are entertained then the movie did it's job.

This is a fun flick and has a very interesting take on Romeo and
Juliet. I especially loved the scene towards the end where the main
character Gnomeo was chatting it up with a William Shakespeare statue.
The beginning was funny as the random Gnome tried to explain the plot.
I enjoyed it.
<|_=00=_|>
I honestly don't know why someone would think that it would be a great
idea to recreate a Shakespeare play with garden gnomes, but apparently
somebody in Hollywood considered that this idiotic premise would work
in some way.

Well, as everyone expected, this didn't work.

Besides of the extremely idiotic premise, this movie failed to be
remotely funny or interesting, and had many lame and clichéd
characters. The jokes from this movies were so bad that I'm sure that
even a little kid would find it boring and unfunny.

The only saving grace from this movie is the animation, which was cute
and well made. Sadly, everything else was terrible.

"Gnomeo & Juliet" should have been an sketch from some comedy show
instead of a real movie. If you want to see some good animation
inspired by the William Shakespeare plays, see the series "Shakespeare:
The Animated Tales" and skip this film.
<|_=00=_|>
The lite-version for kids, part of the fun here is the identification
of the actual Romeo and Juliet references from names used right down to
the incidents based upon William Shakespeare's most romantic tragedy,
because it is quite ingenious of the entire team of scriptwriters (the
many cooks here not spoiling the broth, thankfully) to have taken key
elements and painting quite a different, uplifting film if you will,
since this is after all something for the young ones to appreciate.

Taking place between garden gnomes of adjacent gardens of bickering
neighbours, the Reds (Capulets) and the Blues (Montagues) have this
long standing feud that will make the romance of their children Gnomeo
(voiced by James McAvoy) and Juliet (Emily Blunt) quite impossible, if
not for the lovers to meet in secret. Expect plenty of comedy scattered
throughout, which surprisingly is more adult, so accompanying the
minors will not make this one boring affair. The A-list voices will
also be top draw, although animation may look a little stiff since it's
modelled to perfection the porcelain clay that the gnomes are possibly
made out of.

Elton John's music got touted out loud through the film's marketing
machinery, but frankly they don't really stand out unlike a musical
since they were mostly used in the background, nor were inventively
utilized such as those in the mold of Across the Universe which had
plenty of The Beatles' tunes gelled together seamlessly into the
narrative.
