
The movie is very good, very well shot and the director deserves praise
for his work. Kaye gives a memorable performance. The story is good,
with a strong melodramatic theme, as the film is not so much about Djs
than about handicapped hearing impaired people. It is sad and sweet at
moments with very moving moments. Some touches of black humor, very
British, a bit of swearing and two macho crass jokes don't spoil the
overall feeling of despair and total compassion you feel for the human
beings portrayed. The music is good not so much the dance music but the
score. The picture is superb knowing it was shot on digital. It's a low
budget movie which looks like a 10 million dollar film. And a
meaningful film. Not to be missed. A true achievement.
<|_=00=_|>
This amazing movie just won the grand prize at this weekend's US Comedy
Arts Festival and it totally deserved it! I normally would have written
this movie off without ever seeing it because I figured I'd hate it
since I'm not into the DJ thing, but the audience in attendance, myself
included, at the two screenings were floored! I even went back the
second night to see it again and Ben Stiller had volunteered to
introduce because he loved it so much and wanted to give it some extra
attention. I think they said it's coming to theaters around April but
I'm not sure. Anyway, you MUST go see it. Paul Kaye (he won best actor
for the film, too) was supposed to be there but I never did see him.
Too bad... This film wouldn't have been the same without his spot-on
portrayal of DJ Frankie Wilde and I'd like to have seen his acceptance
speech.
<|_=00=_|>

I was fortunate enough to score a ticket to the 9:45 AM screening of
this film at the Toronto Film Festival. It's not usual that I'll be
anywhere at eight AM, let alone standing in line, but as a fan of
FUBAR, I simply had to see this movie. I'm not going to give anything
away, nor will I waste space with a synopsis, but I will tell you that
this is one of the best films I have ever seen. Paul Kaye does a
remarkable job capturing both the humorous and painful essence of
Frankie Wilde, a God-like worshiped DJ hammered with immense fame,
beautiful girls, endless drugs and the physical toll of his role in the
music scene. I'd never seen Paul in a film before, but after this I'm
sure he'll be everywhere and I think that's awesome because his
performance was Oscar worthy. Alongside Paul, is Mike Wilmot playing
the part of Max Hagard and after his hilarious performance I cannot
imagine anyone else in the part. Wilmot nailed it with grace, for he
would spit out his lines with such conviction and meticulous
comic-timing that he often caused gut-wrenching laughs and applause
from the theater crowd.

Actors aside, it's the brain of Michael Dowse that we have to thank for
such a film. Shot on a Sony 300 (I think) it has a crisp vivid look
that sucks you in from the first frame. For the record, I hate house
music, but I found myself so engrossed in the film that my head was
bobbing to the beat. I didn't know what to expect after FUBAR, well
okay "funny" was what I prepared myself for and it came in waves of
hilarity. But it was the charming story, stellar performances and
clever dialogue that make this picture stand way above the crowd.
Seeing "It's All Gone Pete Tong" was a total cinematic sensory
overload. At times I felt like someone was main-lining cocaine and
scotch into my forearm while at others it was as if I was getting a
warm hug from a loved one. FUBAR rocked and put Micheal Dowse on the
map but "It's All Gone Pete Tong" that can, should and will, take over
the world. Without blinking I give this 10/10 and encourage you to
check it out and see what the hell I'm raving about.

<|_=00=_|>
This film played the second night at Gen Art's 10th Annual Film
Festival. I was expectedly waiting for the "big name" films Standing
Still and Southern Belles but one of the Gen Art staff recommended I
watch Pete Tong. Knowing a little bit about dance music (Moby, Paul
Oakenfold, Fatboy Slim) and having watched just a couple of flicks (Go,
Groove, 24 Hour Party People), my expectations were low. The theater
was packed. Within the first 10 minutes, I was hooked. The opening
sequence has Paul Kay (Playing the famous DJ Frankie Wilde) descending
from the ceiling of a Ibiza club on a guide wire and then falling into
a pool! The music THUMPS THUMPS THUMPS and the theater had the volume
jacked so that you could feel the bass and vibrations. The plot is
fairly predictable but the main actor does an amazing job. The film is
well shot with beautiful colors, but lots of close-ups. Don't sit too
close to the screen on this one. The furry Coke Badger gives us a
humorous glimpse at the personification of addition. All in all, a fun
show with a (Happily) cheesy ending. The film ended up winning both the
Best Picture and Audience Awards.
<|_=00=_|>
Paul Kaye is the perfect type for this DJ-character in the Ibiza music
& party scene. I'll keep it briefly. The film got lot's of aspects as
my summary explains. A genius in his own right. 

We saw the movie at the International Film Festival in Rotterdam (the
Netherlands). It was a surprise movie at the last evening of this
Festival. It really surprised us. Nighty minutes after the movie ended
we were still laughing and talking about this unique movie. Something
to remember: the alternative 'scarface' scene. It's the brain of
Michael Dowse that we have to thank for such a film 

Go see the movie and have fun! Even if you don't like house music.
<|_=00=_|>
I cannot say that I have ever been a clubber, but I loved this film. It
is less "Human Traffic" and more "Spinal Tap", perhaps even funnier
than Tap. The plot concerns a superstar DJ on the Spanish island
clubbing mecca of Ibeza, who becomes completely deaf after many years
of excessive noise, drugs and general abuse. The mock-documentary
charts both his decline and then his subsequent coming to terms with
his "condition". It may not sound like a premise for comedy, but It's
All Gone Pete Tong is often laugh-out loud hilarious. In particular,
there is a sequence with the temporarily insane and desperate DJ
involving fireworks and a swimming pool which manages to convey visual
slapstick simultaneously with the very blackest of black comedy. I
loved it. In short, this is destined to become a long term cult British
movie, which may well prove to be a massive hit. I hope so. Oh, there's
an unusual feelgood ending too. Go see it.
<|_=00=_|>
Considering the beating this film got in some reviews, I went to see it
the other day, not expecting much from it. Surprisingly though, the
film was pretty damn good! Paul Kaye (some of you will remember his
often hilarious Dennis Pennis taking the mickey out of celebrities at
film premiers) plays Frankie Wilde a mega famous DJ who's bringing
dance music to Ibiza. All's going well for Frankie, he's rich,
successful, has a wife and a string of sexy ladies on the side. All
this goes down the drain when Frankie starts to lose his hearing, which
of course, is not that good for a famous DJ. Kaye delivers some funny,
upbeat lines throughout the film and so long as you don't mind his
gurning for laughs, you'll enjoy the flick. Despite his arrogance and
dirty coke and drink habits you find yourself cheering Frankie along
and when he meets Spanish lip-reader Penelope you almost want him to
get his hearing back for good. Although a gag-fest, filled with dirty
humour and teenage-boy jokes, It's All Gone Pete Tong is a funny, witty
film which will happily fill an hour or two in the coming summer
months.
<|_=00=_|>
This film screened at the Cleveland Film Festival on Friday, March 18.
It was paired up with a very funny short called "Winner Takes All".
Everyone busted a serious gut about this short. I can't say anything
about it else it'll spoil it for you, but look it up.

It's All Gone Pete Tong is a story about Frankie Wilde, a DJ who hit
the decks of Ibiza. For anyone who's a club/trance fan, you'll
recognize a lot of familiar faces in the film: Pete Tong (of course),
Carl Cox (one of my favorites), Sarah Main, Paul Van Dyk (my #1),
Tiesto (he looks a lot different on screen) talking about the life of
Frankie Wilde.

One of the people next to me commented that this started out like
Requiem for a Dream. While its not that severe, this does have heavy
drug and alcohol use. This was too much for some people in the audience
and they left.

But the storyline is amazing. Give this film the time and you'll see
how the director and the actors create a very simple but uplifting
story about redemption and change and romance.

The soundtrack, covering everything from dance to the Beach Boys (with
an appropriate track at the end) is simply to die for. The film rep
said this may not have a soundtrack in the US. I hope not.

If drugs and alcohol use are not for you, I'd skip this film. But if
your looking for dry British humor with a ready heartily story along
with terrific music, see this film and enjoy, just have some patience,
its worth it.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay, a couple of things. First, I'm a big Paul Kaye fan, so I'm
biased, and it all started with Dennis Pennis. For those of you who
don't know Dennis, he's the original Ali G and IMHO much funnier.
Search for "jeff meets dennis pennis" and you'll get a taste of
Paul/Dennis and his ambush of Jeff Goldblum, who, I have to admit,
rolls with the punches.

As a Paul Kaye fan, I was disappointed with Blackball. This movie (Pete
Tong) was the first big Paul Kaye movie I really was looking forward
to, until I read that the director was the same person who directed
(and wrote) Fubar, which I cringed through and had to leave the room.
(I would have turned it off, but the others were having a blast. Why? I
don't know).

So, hearing that Paul was paired up with a director whose work I wasn't
entirely enthralled with wasn't confidence building. I heard it won a
couple of awards (Best Actor! Go Paul!) at the Aspen Film Festival in
February and my confidence increased.

A sneak screening changed my initial impressions completely. The first
half hour is really tough and I had to fight my urge to give up on the
film even though Paul does an amazing job. See, I told you I was
biased, but I'm not the only one. Ask those Aspen people. However, the
last two thirds of the movie completely changes from a dark comedy into
a light-hearted and empowering film. The music and the colors are
fabulous and shows Paul's (as deejay frank wild) breadth. The film is
really a "simple" redemption film, of a man who finds out what's
important in his life and proves it for himself.

There's a love interest as well, and this works as a date movie. All
the reviews and descriptions as a "dance" movie (I don't even know what
that's supposed to mean) isn't entirely correct. While there is dance
and rave in the film, it's really a backdrop for this simple story of a
complex man who has to make some tough choices in life (and deal with a
disability that is his worst nightmare).

Paul did an extraordinary job and I have to admit that the director
really surprised me with this film, as it was nothing like his previous
work. It's a difficult ride, but one worth taking. There's no "big
surprise" ala 6th Sense nor is the beginning entirely too painful, but
it's not all fun and games, either. Watch it and enjoy it and it'll be
worth it. All least do it for Paul!
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw this movie in LA at the premiere, and it was GREAT! Kept me
interested, excited, and laughing all the way until the end. there was
this one part when My girlfriend and I were the only ones laughing at
one part of the movie, and everyone else was dead serious, and I think
the audience could have had a little bit better sense of humor, but
whatever, I had a great time. I FULLY recommend this movie to... well,
everyone! Lots of fun, Inspiring, Exciting, Dramatic, Cinematic,
Captivating, The plot moves very well, and some great music to boot! GO
SEE IT! :) I heard its going to be coming out in theatres tomorrow,
although, I'm not sure where.
