

This has to be one of the funniest movies ever made. I laughed so hard
during this movie. I've heard a lot of bad reviews for this movie, and
I can't believe what some people have said. Apparently some copies of
this movie were taped over with that godawful Jennifer Aniston debacle
"Picture Perfect", because that is the only explanation that I have for
the people who have said those things. Seriously, Old School has some
of the funniest scenes in movie history...and I've seen a LOT of
movies. Mandatory for all movie fans to see. One of the greatest movies
ever created! If you haven't seen this movie yet, go get it NOW! Buy
it, rent it, borrow it, steal it, whatever, just see it somehow. 10/10

<|_=00=_|>

Caught a preview showing last night, and I'm a little surprised myself to
report that the aptly named Old School is actually a welcome return to a
formula all but abandoned by Hollywood for much of the past couple of
decades - that of the unapologetic, raucous, cheap laughs for
cheap-laughs
sake, male-bonding fraternity picture. It is Animal House. It is Porky's.
It
is every cliche one comes to expect from such a picture - from wild frat
house parties to girls wrestling in KY jelly. And, strangely enough, it
delivers... with a good cast and a fresh twist. For the group of guys
that
assemble to start the fraternity that is the heart of Old School are all
in
their early to mid thirties. They are family men. They are husbands. They
are fathers. They are boyfriends involved in serious relationships. They
have all grown up.

Or so thought Mitch Martin (Luke Wilson), the "Godfather" of this return
to
the dorm comedy. When Mitch returns from a business trip to find that his
girlfriend (Juliette Lewis) has been hiding from him a rather unnerving
secret sex life, the guy begins to question the choices he's made in his
life. And his friends are there to help. Best friend and self-made
successful businessman Beanie (played with perfect comic timing by Vince
Vaughn) suggests they take advantage of Mitch's new found freedom and
start
a fraternity. And it isn't long before every disillusioned and
disenfranchised thirtysomething wants to join - to either recreate their
days of reckless youth, or finally belong after years of being an
outsider.

Among such misanthropes is Frank the Tank, a character that Will Ferrell
makes his own. Literally baring all for the camera, Ferrell, like
Saturday
night live alum John Belushi before him, plays the wild but affable frat
brother - the sad clown, the loveable loser. Ferrell gets all the best
lines, but a few are reserved for the sardonic Vaughn. Wilson, to his
credit, plays it straight, and the supporting cast (including Leah
Remini,
Artie Lange, and even the usually annoying Andy Disk in a hilarious
cameo)
is quite good.

Certainly, Old School is not Oscar material. It's not meant to be. And it
makes no pretension to comedy of the kind that My Big Fat Greek wedding
brought back into vogue. This is not a feel-good romantic comedy. But it
is
also not to be dismissed as some insipid throwaway college romp. Old
School
is intentionally sophomoric (all the more so, as it is director Todd
Phillips' second big studio comedy). It is genuinely funny in parts, and
a
healthy hour and a half return to those days of reckless abandon that
many
of us dreamt we either had back - or had had in the first place.


<|_=00=_|>

Much like the tradition of the raunchy 
flicks of the 80s, Old School encompasses 
the age old tradition of tactless and tasteless 
film creation. Buy the oddity of the situation, 
this is one of those films I can tolerate. 
Mid-life malaise couldn't have been drawn 
better in the lives of Mitch, Frank and Beanie. 
Men who serve no purpose in society, 
especially to their significant others. But 
that's the significance of the frat house. No, 
it isn't about being drunk and hitting on 
19-year-old girls, its about reaffirming your 
role in society and making the inner soul 
feel good and relaxed. So, say what you 
want about the random nudity and cussing, 
this film is a life affirming film for all men 
hitting their 30s.
<|_=00=_|>
Frank (Will Ferrell), Beenie (Vince Vaughn) and Mitch (Luke Wilson)
three men who form a fraternity to legally stay in the house Mitch just
purchased. This movie is jam packed with endless comedy of course it's
Will Ferrell you can't help but laugh at the dude every time you see
him. Old School when it hit DVD was the number one rented movie in
North America thats quiet good for a movie anyone barely heard of when
it first came out. But this movie caught the eyes of many fans. It
should have a higher rating but I guess some people thought it was
average. but to tell the truth it kicked some major comedy's to the
curve. Not using so much of a teenage scene they conquered the mix of
adulthood with college students forming a fan base for both a younger
and older audience. By younger I mean 16 and up but usually movies
either aim for 16 to 25 years of age. But this movie provides an
entertainment that everyone can enjoy yes even your grandma. This movie
definitely deserves a 10 and I have the power to do that. Buy this
movie for god sakes it's a great movie to add to the comedy collection.
<|_=00=_|>

Like many others, I heard a lot of buzz about "Old School" before it was
released.  Things like "it's the new animal house" or "an instant classic". 
Well, unfortunately that didn't turn out to be the case.  However, that
doesn't mean its a bad movie.  In fact, I loved it and would highly
recommend it.

As someone in the same age group as the main characters, perhaps I related
too much, but the idea is great:  Three 30-something guys who are solidly on
the path of a normal, mature life (marriage, kids, real job, etc...) decide
to start a fraternity and recapture their college glory days.  No, there's
no real reason to do this, and no, its not realistic at all. 

But who cares?  Anyone who has ever been to a raging college party, done a
few beer bongs and whippits, screamed along with some loud music, and hooked
up with a random coed can immediately relate to this film.  Not to mention
there really are some gut-busting funny scenes throughout.  Luke Wilson is
the perfect actor for the steady, reserved professional guy.  Will Ferrell
is hilarious of course, and Vince Vaughn does what he does so well, playing
the instigator trying to help a best friend have fun again.  Unfortunately
one of his funniest scenes only made it to the deleted scenes section of the
DVD.

Which brings me to my main gripe with this movie: what was left on the
cutting room floor.  The deleted scenes, which can be seen on the DVD of
course, aren't just trivial sections that you can understand were cut, some
of them are classic.  The movie was only an hour and a half long, and for
the life of me I can't figure out why the 10 minutes of deleted footage
didn't remain.  I think some of them really would've changed the entire feel
of the movie.  The last act kind of changes into this "Rushmore"-ish Wes
Anderson knock off, and I think at least a few of the deleted scenes
would've helped it make more sense.

Despite that, this movie ranks alongside Dumb & Dumber, Meet the Parents,
Kingpin, and American Pie as one of the best comedies of the last decade or
so in my humble opinion.  No it's not a classic, but it will stand the test
of time as a very good comedy that you'll laugh at with each
replay.
<|_=00=_|>
This is the best comedy since Tommy Boy. Every college educated male
between the ages of 25-50 knows someone just like Frank and Beanie.
Absolutely hilarious. Will Farrell is perfect as Frank but Vince Vaughn
steals the show. Half of everything Beanie says in this movie is just
classic. The plot goes a little off towards the end, but it doesn't
matter because my friends and I have been repeating some of the lines
for the last 2 years. With all the really lame comedies that have come
out in the past 5 years it is nice to see something that will stand the
test of time- a modern Animal House. A little too cheesy towards the
end but still a top 10 comedy of all time and a must own on DVD.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw Old School yesterday night on a french channel completely by
chance. I knew nothing about it. It's a wonderful movie. I hadn't
laughed like this since years. The main characters are caricatures but
hilarious (especially Franck the tank...), the story is completely
stupid (but fantastic) and the parties these thirty year old men who
don't want to grow up organize are contagious and push you to go back
to university with a good beer... Some celebrities make successful
appearances (Juliette Lewis, Sean William Scott...) playing completely
deranged characters, adding energy and fun to this well rhythmic
comedy.

Old School reminds me Fight Club for the notorious "Godfather" as
famous in this high school as Tyler Durden and a lot of incredibly
funny sequences of this movie would be adopted by Monty Python
themselves.

And above all, Old Scholl spares us an horrible ending like : "Well, I
was a child, making mistakes, but now I understand a lot of things,
honey, and I want to go back with you, our house, kids, dogs, canaries
and God knows what else...". This film remains faithful to its
principles and THAT'S GREAT!! 

What else can I say : see this movie and be in a good mood for the rest
of the day; I'm gonna see it once more now.

Thank you Todd Phillips.
<|_=00=_|>

I just got out of Old School and let me say I laughed myself silly. Todd
Phillps has made a great follow up to Road Trip and the same way Tom
Green
stole the former, Will Ferrel steals every scene he's in. Luke Wilson and
Vince Vaughn also have equally funny scenes. If you want a funny movie
then
this is for you.
<|_=00=_|>

*Slight Spoilers*

Is this a classic?  No, not even in the "frat comedy" genre, but it *is*
funny!  And, for a comedy, that's enough.

Some jokes are worn, and some set-ups will make you groan.  But there are
plenty of laugh-out-loud moments thanks to the fantastic
cast.

The material may be old but you understand immediately that Vaughn, Wilson
and Ferrell are having a blast making this film.  Their energy permeates the
movie.  From their delivery to body language to timing, all three are on
target.  The supporting cast of unusual characters adds to the
joy.

My favorite is Vaughn.  Though the movie revolves around Wilson's character,
Vaughn is the glue that keeps it all together.  Leah Remini has a too brief
turn as Vaughn's wife and steals her few scenes.  Jeremy Piven is a
wonderfully hateful Dean.

Lewis' character was the only weak point.  I know she was meant to be one of
the mechanisms leading to Wilson's new "house", but it seemed weak and out
of place.

If you're not offended by raunchy comedy, this movie will satisfy!  Rent it,
grab some popcorn and enjoy!  Be careful drinking your cola though, you may
end up snorting it out your nose.

6 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
Luke Wilson (as Mitch), Will Ferrell (as Frank), and Vince Vaughn (as
Beanie) star as three dumb old dudes who open a "frat house" and act
stupid. But, this is no "Animal House". Think frat, fat, and fag jokes.
And, they're not even funny. Snoop Dogg and James Carville appear as
lame versions of themselves. If that's not enough to turn you off, be
forewarned - the performers you'd least like to see naked take off the
most clothes, with Mr. Ferrell's bare ass hanging around for an
interminable length of time. Apologies are in order.
Director/co-writer/co-producer Todd Phillips may have taken it the
wrong way when someone told him, "This movie should be shot." 

* Old School (2/13/03) Todd Phillips ~ Luke Wilson, Will Ferrell, Vince
Vaughn, Jeremy Piven
