
* ½ out of ****

I've mentioned it before and I'll say it again; I'm a sucker for
mystery thrillers, especially when they involve methodical serial
killers. So despite the fact that Twisted was clearly one of the worst
reviewed films of the year, I still rented it based on both my
preference for the genre and for the film's cast, as I am huge fans of
Samuel L. Jackson and Ashley Judd. Andy Garcia, Russell Wong, and
Leland Orser are in the film, too, and that's definitely not a shabby
supporting cast.

The film stars Judd as San Francisco patrol officer Tess Shepard. After
busting a murderer, she's promoted to inspector by the commissioner
(Samuel L. Jackson), who also happens to be her legal guardian thanks
to a rather sordid past. Tess' new partner is Del Marco (Andy Garcia),
and they're quickly assigned to their first case when a corpse is
discovered by the shore. The crime is murder but there's a catch; Tess
recognizes the dead man, a mere stranger she picked up at a bar a month
ago. Another murder occurs, and it's yet another man Tess slept with.
And considering she keeps blacking out the night each of the men is
killed, she begins to suspect if she's the very own killer they're
looking for.

For all that's very wrong with this film, Twisted isn't nearly as bad
as I though it'd be. Don't take that as high praise, because the
movie's still bad, just not horrible enough that I'd put it on any
personal bottom 10 lists. 

Because I saw this film just a day after Taking Lives, there was the
occasional bit of déjà vu. Remember how I mentioned that film
introduced us to the heroine by showing how clever and resourceful she
was? Pretty much the same case here, except we also see that Judd's
Tess Shepard can kick ass. Her cleverness is displayed through her
ability to perfectly describe people and objects she's seen after a
brief glance; a fine ability, no doubt, but not something that really
impresses in terms of plot and characterization.

The movie's various attempts at building a sense of mystery are
suspense are quite pathetic. Examples? Judd keeps hearing a metallic
clinking outside her apartment every night before the murders, and she
keeps drinking alcohol on those same nights and consequently blacks
out. This is a repeated process, so you'd think it take her more than
the majority of the film's running time to figure out her drink might
be tainted with a drug or that whoever's making that noise might
somehow be associated with her blackouts. 

Figuring out the identity of the killer is almost too easy. Just follow
Roger Ebert's little movie rule about how the culprit is almost always
the person who has no other reason to be in the picture and you'll be
able to narrow it down real fast. 

Twisted is blessed with a surprisingly high-profile cast, and while
most everyone is nothing less than decent, it's a bit of a surprise
actors of such high-caliber would choose a script that plays out more
like 'TV movie of the week' material. I can maybe see the appeal to
Ashley Judd in playing a tortured but tough heroine, but Samuel L.
Jackson has arguably the film's most thankless role, and he's barely in
the picture for more than fifteen minutes. Competent acting is always a
great plus in the genre, but it also takes plot and suspense to
actually make a thriller with thrills and this movie has absolutely
zilch in that department.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me begin by saying - I love mysteries/thrillers and I really like
Ashley Judd. I think she's pretty and a really good actress. But this
movie is really lame.

They movie makers cheat throughout the entire movie. It's hard to
explain without giving away the ending but the red herrings that they
toss in are just unfair to the viewer.

Every time Ashley Judd drinks down another glass of wine and started to
pass out, half of our audience started squirming in their seats (out of
embarrassment), the other half just laughed out loud. It was pretty
ridiculous. To top it off, the dialog throughout is mostly stupid.

The ending is as bad as the rest. No way I would ever watch again.
<|_=00=_|>
I had heard several people say, "Don't rent this movie; it stinks," but
took a shot anyway because Ashley Judd is appealing to me. Well, I
wouldn't buy the film but it worth the rental. It wasn't bad at all. It
was a decent "serial killer movie" except for the ending which went on
too long and got a bit sappy, but a lot of movies are know for that.
However, by the end, all the characters (including Judd's "Jessica
Shepard") had worn thin and I was glad to see it end.

I also had heard that the ending was easy to figure out but I didn't
find that. Actually, I thought I, but I guessed wrong and I assume
others did as well. So, don't believe everything you hear; it's a
decent film. Nothing to spend a lot of money on, but you could do a lot
worse. With Judd, Andy Garcia, Samuel L. Jackson and David Strathairn,
the same could be said about the cast
<|_=00=_|>

To hear Director Philip Kaufman tell it, "Twisted" was supposed to be
the best film noire picture since the classics of the 40s. Not so. It
has most of the elements of film noire..the dark lighting, the darkened
streets and a murder mystery. But it doesn't quite work.

Officer Jessica Shepard (Ashley Judd) is a kick ass police officer who
has just been promoted to Homicide Inspector. Now it seems that the
comely young officer also has a penchant for violent behavior and one
night stands. Her mentor is none other than Police Commissioner John
Mills (Samuel L. Jackson) who has raised her and nurtured her career
following the tragic deaths of her parents some years earlier.

Shepard's new partner turns out to be Mike Delmarco (Andy Garcia) whom
she had unknowingly met the previous evening during a party at a bar in
her honor. Suddenly, Jessica's one night lovers begin turning up dead,
brutally beaten. At the same time, she has been experiencing blackouts
immediately before the murders. She then begins to suspect that she may
be responsible.

Sounds good huh? I though so too but on watching it I guessed who the
murderer was almost right away. This took away any suspense the
director was trying to build by placing suspicion on other characters.
We do get some nice shots of San Francisco though.

The petite Ashley Judd is just not convincing as a tough love 'em and
leave 'em cop. She does her best work in the psychological scenes where
she comes unraveled at the thought that she may be murdering these men.
Jackson does the best he can with limited material. He is off screen
more than he is on. I thought that his character could have been
fleshed out a little more. Garcia, playing an Italian again, does what
he can with his role. TV's Camryn Manheim puts in a appearance as the
forensic examiner Lisa.

Not nearly as good as Director Philip Kaufman would have you believe.

<|_=00=_|>
My expectations were fulfilled. I mean I knew that this one was not a
top thriller but at least it was much more better than the last ones I
see. I spent an entertaining evening with my wife that didn't fall
asleep this time. This movie kept your attention from beginning and
during all the time you are asking who the real murder is. The
performance of Ashley Judd in her psycho role was very good and for all
fans of her this is a must see. Yeah, it's a good psycho-thriller with
a surprisingly end. I am wondering why so many critics are negative
here. There are no doubt more movies who deserved less good votes than
Twisted. IN THE CUT is another thriller you shouldn't miss if you liked
this one. My rating with my wife: 6.5/10. Too underrated on IMDb!!
<|_=00=_|>
Why does someone as talented as Ashley Judd keep making such rotten
movies?

Does she read the scripts before she commits to them?

There was a time when Ms. Judd made terrific films - "Ruby in Paradise"
and "Smoke" - she has a cameo and what a superb performance it is.

"Twisted" is just a mess of a movie. Not only is this film dreadfully
paced, for a suspense thriller it is surprisingly devoid of suspense
and thrills.

The story is utterly predictable. There are no plot twists and if you
cannot figure out who the villain is about 10 minutes into the film,
find yourself another hobby. The material is so beneath the talents of
Ms. Judd, Samuel L. Jackson, Andy Garcia and director Philip Kaufman.

I can only hope that this film will finally prove to Ms. Judd that it's
time to give this genre a break - for good - and sink her teeth into
better roles.
<|_=00=_|>

Before I start commenting on this film let me tell you that although I won't
reveal any spoilers it really wouldn't matter if I did since you already saw
this movie. The reason you already saw this movie it's because the movie is
generic and predictable.
This movie has every possible and imaginable cliché a "who done it" movie
could have: there's the disturbed hero that had an unfortunate childhood
trauma and happens to be the prime suspect of the slaughter, there's the
unrevealing partner who seems to be too nice to be true, there's the mentor
who took over the hero's guardianship when her parents died, there's the
ex-love interest who's far from the perfect date, there's the jealous
co-worker who's trying to take the hero down, and there's the predictable
plot twist at the end. Does this remind you of something? If you're thinking
"A Time To Kill", "Eye Of The Beholder", "High Crimes" or "Double Jeopardy"
you've got it! Ashley Judd only takes part in generic "who done it" films.
What's even funnier is that the posters for these films look exactly
alike.
The acting itself has its highs and lows. Sam Jackson is, of course, the
star of the company alongside Andy Garcia and both eventually have to carry
the whole movie since Ashley Judd can't even wake up convincingly. Some
moments in this film I thought I was watching and amateur
group.
Filmmaker Philip Kaufman seems to like going ups and downs in his career and
create generic and bad movies (Henry & June, Rising Sun, Twisted) after
brilliant movies (The Unbearable Lightness of Being, The Right Stuff) so
this seems to be yet another low point in his career thought he can't be
blamed that the plot is so generic.
A movie with this cast should have done a lot better, and Ashley Judd's
career needs better scripts. She's not totally untalented, she just doesn't
do these sorts of rules any justice. She's definitely not suited to be wear
the "tough girl" gimmick.
Only watch this movie if you have nothing else to do since you've already
watched it anyway. Too generic.
<|_=00=_|>
Ashley Judd plays police detective Jessica Shepard, on the hunt for a
serial killer who is murdering the men she recently dated. When Jessica
starts blacking out before each murder, the police commissioner (Samuel
Jackson) and her partner (Andy Garcia) begin to suspect that she may be
more directly involved with the murders. 

Twisted may boast an impressive cast but that's about all it has going
for it. The story is pretty unoriginal as this is just a female version
of Tightrope. While having a tough female cop in the lead role is a
little interesting, it doesn't save the film from being really bad. The
film tries to trick the audience offering some twists and turns but
they all fail. Twisted is a poorly written thriller lacking twists. If
you really think about it, you could probably figure out the ending
before the thirty minute mark. It's just so obvious that you wonder why
they even bothered making it in the first place. 

Ashley Judd stars in this movie and she really needs to move on to a
different genre. High Crimes, Eye of the Beholder, Kiss the Girls,
Double Jeopardy and now Twisted have all starred Ashley Judd and I
think audiences are getting bored watching her in the same role in
every movie. In Twisted, she gives her usual performance though she
looked a little bored throughout the film. You would think having Andy
Garcia and Samuel L Jackson would help but apparently no talented actor
can save the movie. Jackson also appears bored throughout the movie and
this a paycheck movie for him. Andy Garcia gives an okay performance.
It was just a little over the top. 

It's a by the numbers thriller and if you pay close attention to the
film you can figure out the killer five minutes into the movie. If you
sit back and relax you may enjoy it more but they could have hidden the
identity of the killer a little better. All of the three main actors in
this movie are way above this material and I was surprised to see all
of them in this. In the end, Twisted is another dull entry into the
genre and it's only worth watching if you're a die-hard fan of anyone
involved. Rating 4/10.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a good suspense thriller which keeps you guessing. That's what
a thriller should do, isn't it. This one certainly does it. It races
the pulse and is edge of seat. Sheppard ( Ashley Judd ) does a good job
and is convincing in the role. The reason I liked this one is because
it is fast paced. There is nothing to bore us that should not be there.
The story starts quickly and we start guessing thinking who is it. who
is it? And the answer comes at the end in a very convincing way. It
compares to thrillers in the John Grisham genre. watchable? Definitely.
I would say collectible. The only thing wrong seems to be that probably
sheppards' parents murderer would have been caught by then especially
if her father was a cop.
<|_=00=_|>

Seeing one popular site with a verdict of 101 bad reviews to just 2 good
ones, I almost didn't go, but my S.O. likes some pretty so-so movies if
they
are exciting or suspenseful, so I took her.  I did not find the plot so
obvious.  I actually enjoyed it a lot--a bit raunchy of course, but
"normal"
for this kind of flick.  I actually recommend it as a thriller.  Reviewers
are really a bunch of whole assets, arent they?  They probably are not too
good at acting, screenwriting, directing or producing (though they might
do
okay as continuity persons!).  Jackson, Garcia, Judd and several lesser
players are just fine.  Reviewers write to keep themselves working for a
living, and that requires them to diss a goodly percentage of the movies
they review.   
