
Michael Burke both wrote and directed this first class, finely wrought
exploration of coming of age in the emotional battlefield of rural
bigotry. Rarely has so much been said so successfully with so little
dialogue. Burke is clearly a gifted filmmaker about whom we should be
hearing much! The film opens with what appears to be an idyllic country
road over which a person on an old bicycle is delivering eggs. As the
credits are ending we see the person on the bicycle walk up a steep
incline then fall to the ground. As the actual film opens we discover
that this person was the mother of Duncan (Emile Hirsch in a career
making performance), a fourteen year old young lad who is left mourning
with his distant father Edgar (Richard Jenkins). Unable to wholly cope
with the loss of his mother, Duncan holds closely to her remnants - a
chicken as a pet who his mother taught him could be calmed by putting
the chicken's head in Duncan's mouth, an old fake fur coat he wears to
bed, and some kitchen skills he learned at her side. Edgar is resentful
that Duncan isn't more helpful on their small farm and is shaken by
observing Duncan's means of mourning his mother.

Duncan is a loner, hungry for relating, and encounters neighboring
Perry (Tom Guiry, in another gripping performance), a seemingly macho
kid who apparently is beaten (if not more) by his low-class father. The
two bond, slowly, out of mutual needs. Perry defends Duncan's
ridiculing by the local rowdy kids and even encourages Duncan to join
the drinking bouts with the group. Yet Duncan remains an outsider,
longing to be included, and when certain events occur with Perry (Perry
urges Duncan to put on his mother's wedding dress in the secrecy of the
barn and then progresses to having Duncan perform sexual acts with him,
declaring all the while that he, Perry, is not gay...) only to have the
incident be partially discovered by Duncan's father. At odds with what
to do with his strange acting son, Edgar forces Duncan to work at
meaningless jobs on the farm, help with the haying, and makes Duncan
observe the burning of the mother's clothes and belongings.

Duncan seeks Perry's consolation after the above events and despite
Perry's homophobic comments, Duncan manages to gain the kiss from Perry
that he so desires as a resurrection of affection desperately missing
in his life. Perry is further abused by his own father and participates
to a degree in an incident of harassment by the local rowdies of Duncan
and his pet chicken. It is the method in which this final confrontation
ends that speaks so strongly about Duncan's needs and Perry's buried
feelings. After the confrontation Duncan rides his bicycle home to
where his father finally perceives the agony chewing Duncan's soul and
the movie ends in one of the most life affirming moments ever captured
on film.

The photography is magnificent, the musical score is spare and
enhancing, and the acting on the part of every member of this well
directed cast is superb. This is a film that deserves wide audience
exposure, and especially for those young people who are struggling with
their sexuality in the ugly isolation surrounding the lives of the main
characters of this excellent film. Grady Harp, March 05
<|_=00=_|>

`The Mudge Boy' is a tragic film about the failure of masculinity.
Masculinity, at its most advanced, mature, and evolved is a protector of
women, a mentor to children, a caretaker of animals, and a steward of the
environment.  We do not get to see this mature masculinity very often and
its very rarity has led so many to believe that the only form of
masculinity
is its degraded form of tyranny, irresponsibility, violence, and mindless
cruelty.

This film is close in genre to a prison movie or film noir.  Its males,
except for young Duncan, the Mudge boy himself, are all so degraded that
they are fermenting in their toxic wastes and are unable to produce any
positive energy even if only just to get the hell out of there.  Their
isolation cells are not made of steel bars, but of the wood of dense
Vermont
forests and the walls are not made of stone bricks, but of rolling green
hills covered in pasture.  Their prison is made of insularity and
ignorance.
The film is so relentlessly dark and uncomfortable to watch with its
atmosphere of ever-existing potential and erupting violence, and with any
hope of redemption wrung at the neck, that I think of this as a new genre,
"rural' film noir, instead of urban, and something that should be
categorized alongside a movie like `Deliverance'.

Femininity, with its life-giving fecundity, fares only slightly better in
this film with at least one female having enough compassion to not only
extend tenderness to someone weaker, but also attempt to protect herself
from physical exploitation.  But even she is ultimately helpless and alone
in the face of relentlessly rampant violent and unrestrained male energy
to
which women are only as useful for copulation as animals are for the
extraction of eggs and milk.  The Mudge boy's mother, too, who in her
absence seemed to leave her husband empty of all reason to live, had only
herself been sucked dry of her life blood and left to die with an empty
heart.  The illusion of escape afforded by alcoholism was not enough to
protect her with her basketful of tender eggs from the same fate of her
beloved and memorialized chickens.  How much better will her son fare?

So much of the Mudge boy's mother lived on in her son, but so did so much
of
his father, who was unable to communicate the needs of his heart and thus
left his son alone with this rejection of their mutual need for
tenderness.
Although this film is presented as a gay film, and even won the Grand Jury
Prize at the 2003 Los Angeles Gay and Lesbian Film Festival, this is much
more a father and son film, and a story about how ultimately lost
masculinity can be without fully developed and receptive
hearts.

In this film's setting, the gentle, caring heart of the Mudge boy could be
considered feminine and weak by those who confuse such qualities with the
homosexual, but I think the boy's desire was only for tenderness and
understanding, as was his father's desire.  And in this involuted,
backward
setting, rather than that being enough for the men to earn what they
wanted,
what was required was for the Mudge boy to finally sink to a level so low
as
to chew off the very portion of himself that yearned for and needed such
love.  In the swallowing of what was precious in him, he was finally able
to
attract what he had wanted.  But I wonder if by then, it was already too
late to matter.

<|_=00=_|>

This film has given me the inspiration to find a writer and help me to
find a way to tell a story that is so similar,that story being my life.
I felt every emotion, I felt the pain and the heartache of doing
anything to fit in. But my life went further starting at a very young
age. I too did things with males relatives, had things done to me by
neighbor boys, friends of the family, and strangers; just to be told
this didn't happen, and if anyone finds out you will pay. There is so
much to tell, and I am today so glad that for the first time I can look
on the screen and see that there are others that have felt the
loneliness, the rejection, the confusion, and the guilt, that a young
boy had to endure just to fit in. Duncan isn't the only so called
"freak" or "weirdo". Just to feel Duncan again I will see "MUDGE BOY"
again tomorrow.

Thank you to Mr Burke for finally being so bold, all my life I sat in
dark cinemas looking for that one film that would let me know I wasn't
alone, these things happened to others too. Thank you again for this
great piece of cinema.

<|_=00=_|>
I got to give this film a chance. There's a story told, and it is very
strong, I know. It could be seen as gay, stupid, mean. Yes, the movie
is extremely mean and that makes it difficult to watch. You have this
quiet, interesting kid, and then all the jerks; hanging out drinking
beer, having sex. These are the type of relationships Duncan (Emile
Hirsch) had never thought about until they arrived.

The movie makes a great job in narrating the two sides of the story.
Duncan's mom died; the boy is living with his cold, severe father,
Edgar (Richard Jenkins). Duncan remains unnoticed all the time; he
spends the hours by himself. Sometimes he rides his bicycle, just to
get out a little bit, or plays with his chicken. This chicken, together
with many of the things (a sweater, a lamp) Duncan has, belonged to his
mother: "It was her favorite", he says later when a girl asks about it.
Edgar, otherwise, is hiding his pain, but why? He loved his wife but
now has a boy to take care of. Maybe Edgar is scared to see Duncan
suffering because of his wife's death. Maybe Edgar doesn't even want to
take care about Duncan, although he seems to be doing an effort. When
they both sat at the table for dinner (prepared by Duncan), the boy
asks his father about his day: "It was fine", Edgar answers. Then
Duncan asks about the food: "Ok", his father says. After this, Duncan
starts talking to himself, asking questions about his day, just because
his father hasn't asked him about it. This is the relationship they
handle. Eventually, Duncan will start working for his father: "You're
strong boy", Edgar says. But is he? The other side shows to us the
relationship Duncan creates with the other boys, the ones I couldn't
call friends, and the problems he has with them. He wants to get along,
we can see. Even more when he meets Perry (Tom Guiry), and starts
buying beer and going out at night with elder people. His father is
being good about it because he knows that Duncan could use some
friendship. But then Duncan is stealing alcohol from his father for
them. They all go to a party, and some people start to bother Duncan:
"Chicken boy, chicken boy". Perry gets angry and punches them. Duncan
can't believe it. He likes Perry, they are probably friends, but does
he like Perry in another way? Is Duncan gay? Is this a question we
should ask to ourselves? Probably, because Duncan and Perry experience
things together. You could know Perry wanted to do it, to try something
different, or to teach some sex lessons to Duncan; the boy with no
experience (touching his own nipples in his bed). All of these could
be.

Emile Hirsch is a very good actor. I have seen him in all of his
movies, except for "Imaginary Heroes". He trapped me in "The Emperor's
Club" and in "The girl Next Door". Great acting jobs, in not great
movies. Here he is just great (again), with all of his weird faces. He
is weird; also calm and gentle. Many things. Richard Jenkins is superb,
in showing what I named "silent emotion". Very interesting how a man
can feel very much, but say very little. Tom Guiry is the one that
steals the show in the end. He is brave and risky, as no other young
actor. He says his lines so strongly that they get to you, just as in
"Mystic River".

And of course, we can't forget the creator of the whole project;
because this is an indie gem. Michael Burke wrote a beautiful and real
script. He directed his actors so naturally that everything seemed
perfect. His editor also did a hell of a job putting all those still
shots together. Very good film-making (I love still shots).

When the film ends, we could feel like there is something missing,
something unsolved. But anyway: is there anything else to solve?
<|_=00=_|>
The sensitive hero, Duncan Mudge, beautifully played by Emile Hirsch,
is victimized by a society characterized above all by fear and the
cruelty this fear generates. In another lovely film with a similar
theme, ("Get Real"), Steven, the main character asks, "What is everyone
so afraid of?" Indeed that is the question that lurks at the core of
this film. The answer is, of course, that everyone is afraid of being
who he/she really is, thus earning the ridicule of everyone else who is
suffering from a similar fear. Duncan seeks acceptance and affection,
which he cannot get from his uncommunicative father, from a neighbor
boy, Perry, whose instincts are in conflict, who is only half eaten by
fear. Duncan tries to reach the better other half of Perry and crashed
into Perry's ambivalence and is exploited in the process. Another
reviewer here has said that Duncan is stupid. Can't Duncan see what is
happening, why he is treated so cruelly by his peers? Why doesn't he
give up his quest to be himself and conform? Isn't that what all of us
do? I am put off by the question so often raised of whether this is a
"gay film," or whether Duncan and/or Perry are gay. What bothers me
about that is the need to categorize, to fix a label on a person, to
commodify him. This provides an escape from seeing and relating to
someone else as a complex person in his own right, not someone who fits
in this box or that box. This need to classify, to objectify and to
control is also a product of fear. I think it was H. L. Mencken who
defined Puritanism as "that haunting fear what someone, somewhere,
might be different." We are still in essence puritans.
<|_=00=_|>

A young farm boy (Emile Hirsch) is dealing with his mother's death and a
father who acts like he doesn't even exist.  He also begins to realize he's
gay and attracted to another guy.  How does he handle all this at
once?

This is basically a character study--very quiet and slow but absolutely
fascinating.  You really get into this young boy's head and understand the
pain he's going through.  There are some very disturbing scenes (a rape and
the ending) but they ARE necessary for the story.  Also there's some
beautiful photography and great performances by the entire cast.

Highly recommended but not for everyone.  

<|_=00=_|>

The Mudge Boy represents some of the finest cinema to come out of Sundance
in 2003.  The story moves at a leisurely pace but excels in character
development and dialogue.  Burke revels in his setting- a rural, emotional
wasteland painted with eerily quiet, majestic landscapes which idly
conflict
with the title character's introversion and despair. Emile Hirsch affects
a
delicately nuanced, charismatic performance as the title character,
struggling with the death of his beloved mother.   Richard Jenkins demands
every speck of attention possible while he's on screen; it's a pure
delight
to watch this fine actor work.  I usually don't pick out smaller
performances, but Zachary Knighton as the chief bully's "sidekick,"
Travis,
is superbly threatening and commands the screen, as well.  His performance
is staggeringly three-dimensional and defies every cliche of "teenage
bully"
portrayals ever committed to celluloid.  There's a big future for this
guy.
Overall, this film deserves to be seen by anyone who appreciates
uncliched,
moving drama filled with wonderful performances.

<|_=00=_|>
It's always difficult to watch a film where we know more about the
protagonist than he (or she) knows about himself. That's the case here:
it's obvious to us viewers from fairly early on that Duncan Mudge has
some significant homoerotic attractions. When he would turn out to be
"gay" or not when his adolescence is over we don't know, and it's
really irrelevant (except that he seems a little on the old side for
still being in that sexually indeterminate stage). What we are asked to
deal with is a sensitive young man in a particularly insensitive corner
of a culture that is becoming more and more callous to the inner lives
of young people by the day. We're not told exactly when the action
takes place, but we have to assume it's pre-Internet; otherwise we'd
fault the character for not reaching out that way. In any case, Emile
Hirsch does a fine job with a difficult role, and leaves us wounded on
his behalf, but not without hope that the whole experience will in the
long run have made him, and perhaps us as well, a better human being.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a remake of the short film Fishbelly White by Michael Burke
(1998). The plot line and characters are all the same, but the story is
fleshed out in The Mudge Boy.

In Fishbelly White, Duncan's character is more homo-erotic; the
under-the-track-scene is more deliberate and graphic and explains much
of what is left out of The Mudge Boy. In Fishbelly White, Duncan bites
the head off his favorite chicken during the pick-up scene with the
drunken youths and the rape scene never occurs.

The two films make for an interesting comparison of the two director's
visions.
<|_=00=_|>
The start of the movie you meet Duncan who is a very strange boy. He
sticks Chickens heads in his mouth to calm them down, and it looks very
strange. Duncan is someone you would think does not have many friends,
and as the movie develops you realize that he doesn't. He is "friends"
with a boy who is about 5 years older than he is. Ducan is strange very
strange, and Perry understands that and tries to bring Duncan from the
"edge". The movie culminates with Perry,who is very confused,raping
Duncan, and Duncan's father walking in after Perry finishes. A couple
of days after the incident Duncan goes to meet Perry late at night to
talk. The watcher does not know if he wants to talk about what happened
or if Duncan is truly attracted to Perry. The climb into a beat up old
truck where after Perry naturally tells Duncan that they cannot be
friends anymore, because what they did was Queer, and he ain't no
queer. Duncan says that he hasn't told anyone, why couldn't they be
friends. Perry tells him that it is queer, and then kisses him,
screaming is that what you want? Duncan says no, and then kisses him a
lot more tenderly than Perry did to him, and Perry lets it go, but then
pushes him off him, and leaves. The next day, Duncan is at the local
shop buying a soda, and he walks outside to find "chicken" which is his
pet rooster. He finds out that Perry and his friends have taken it.
They start to play keep away and Perry grabs it and acts like he is
going to break the neck,but he gives it back to Duncan and tells him to
go, show them how is mom, who is dead, taught him how to suck dick. So
he "calms" the chicken, but instead of letting him out of his mouth
bites his head off. Then the movie cuts to Duncan walking home and his
father seeing the chicken and knowing that something is wrong. He grabs
Duncan as he is crying and just hugs him and won't let go.

This movie was really good, but the story that developed was over too
quickly. It leaves the viewer feeling like nothing was resolved. Duncan
is still weird, and friendless, and Perry who raped him never got
anything that he possibly deserved. It just kinda ended. This was the
only downside of the movie. I would watch it again, definitely.
