
The DVD extras with some movies make the film seem better than it did
just watching it. "The Company" is a good example. 

I'd wondered, briefly, why star Neve Campbell also got producer credit.
The DVD 'making of' documentary explains that the whole project was her
idea; she'd been a dancer long before she took up acting, and wanted to
combine the two. She chose Altman to direct, because of his skill at
portraying relations and interactions among people in groups. 

Altman did a fine job depicting dance, both rehearsals and
performances. Campbell showed she can still dance. Malcolm McDowell
gave a great performance as the acerbic company director. The Joffrey
dancers were brilliant. Altman has created a dazzling cinematic album
of what the world of dance is like at the beginning of the 21st
century.

But the story arc was weak. This was no accident. In a recent (October
2004) interview, Altman said: 

Question: "Why do you think you're drawn to stories about big groups of
people sharing the same space? Did it have anything to do with growing
up in such a large, close-knit family?" 

Robert Altman: "Possibly. I don't know. That's a little too cerebral
for me. I'm not much interested in stories anyway. I'm more interested
in reactive behavior." 

That sums up "The Company" very nicely. The movie is a montage of
scenes of "reactive behavior" among realistic characters, and in this
it is more like real life than a more structured story would have been.

Of course there is some story structure here, involving the creation of
a new dance. This story is engaging, because the outside choreographer
is a fey flake, and dance disaster seems foredoomed. But the dancers,
being good soldiers, follow his orders diligently. And despite all
expectations, at least all of my expectations, their climactic
performance is superb.

But this story is not central to the movie. Again like life, it unfolds
amidst all sorts of other organizational and interpersonal drama.

And for this reason the movie left me unsatisfied. Part of what I look
for in movies, and in books, is a story arc: a beginning, a middle, and
an end. I look for this precisely because life is rarely that neat.
Many directors deliver this arc (and many more try to, and fail).
Robert Altman chose not to try. He is free to do that, and I am free to
rate this movie 7/10.
<|_=00=_|>

"The Company" is a lovely commercial for the Joffrey Ballet of Chicago
(for
New Yorkers this is in fact the same modern ballet company that used to be
based at City Center but left the competitive dance fund raising
environment
here to have the stage to itself in Chicago).

A labor of love for producer/story writer/star/former dancer Neve
Campbell,
she was determined to make the first film about a whole company, not just
using the dance world for a backdrop of individual melodrama, and with
long
passages of actual performances.  So she brought in the primo director of
ensembles, Robert Altman.  But clearly she made compromises to get the
film
made that put his creativity as a director in a straight jacket and only
lets his trademark talents fleetingly shine through.

The key was getting the Joffrey's cooperation and I can only imagine the
tough negotiations that resulted in this pretty much being a whitewash of
the ballet world, or of any creative endeavor, in sharp contrast to the
behind-the-scenes reality shows "Project Greenlight" on HBO or "The Fire
Within" about Cirque du Soleil's "Varekai" that was on Bravo. I surmise a
long list of thou shalt not's that appear to include items such as:

-- no views of the non-artistic administrators, board, or fund raisers
(there's a passing exhortation to a flashy choreographer Robet Desrosiers
to
stay within the budget, but he gets the complicated costumes and sets he
wants anyway);

-- no homosexual relationships (there's a passing reference to the dancers
AIDS has taken including "Bob", which cognoscenti have to know refers to
the
company's founder Robert Jeffrey, and Malcolm McDowall as the egotistical
artistic director "Alberto Antonelli," a stand-in presumably for current
company director Gerald Arpino, urges fellow Italian-American men not to
make their boys, like he had to, "hide their ballet shoes");

-- no eating disorders (we do twice hear "Mr. A," half-jokingly, urge the
company to eat salads and vegetables and there's one fast, quiet exchange
in
passing that I think was about diet pills);

-- blame dancers' problems on dysfunctional parents and mentors, recalling
that vivid song from "A Chorus Line" - "Everything was beautiful at the
ballet" as dancers seek to escape messy situations through temporary
perfect
beauty.

Altman does get to assert his artistic priorities in a few ways.  He
effectively seizes on the ageism in dance, showing that it's not just the
tyranny of aging bodies, as would affect any athlete, but that dancers
with
experience speak up for themselves and are more difficult to control in a
viciously autocratic environment than ambitious, financially desperate,
and,
literally, pliable young dancers.

It's also the first time I've seen a camera expose the swarm of acolyte
assistants to the director, revealing them as ex-dancers whom "Mr. A"
still
dismissively calls "babies" and who resent the new stars even as they
dance
vicariously through them.

The other beautiful Altman touch is when the significant character
developments take place not center stage in a crowd but through a look or
line happening way in the corner of the screen, like the expression on
James
Franco, as Cambell's chef beau, when she avoids introducing him to her
family amidst a rush of congratulators.

But visually and musically the Joffrey is a wonderful choice, as the
choreographers represented range from Arpino to Alwin Nikolais to Laura
Dean
and MOMIX. A centerpiece danced by Campbell is a sexy Lar Lubovitch pas de
deux to the signature song "My Funny Valentine" which is used as a
leitmotif, for reasons that still seem murky to me after hearing Altman
explain why on "Charlie Rose," throughout the film in versions also by
Elvis
Costello, Chet Baker, and the Kronos Quartet. The music ranges from
classical to jazz to the ethereal pop of Julee Cruise, Mark O'Connor's
in-between "Appalachia Waltz", and the lovely score by Van Dyke Parks.

<|_=00=_|>
THE COMPANY shows several slices of lives (that of the company, and
those of various other characters) over a period of a few months or so.
So many things happen during that time: large, small, hugely
significant, totally mundane, sad, frustrating, thrilling, indifferent.
Through it all, there is so much beauty, emotion and human reality.
There is also a LOT of wonderful dance, and fascinating, very
authentic, glimpses at preparation for, and creation of, real
professional ballet performances.

Anyone needing a continuous, linear, 'a, to b, to climax and neat
ending' plot will not find that here. The movie has its own rhythms,
and was completely engrossing throughout for me, as well as
entertaining. I love traditional, straightforwardly plotted movies
(good ones, that is, of which there are many), but this movie is its
very own animal, and it's wonderful. It is absolutely the most honest,
true-to-real-life movie (that I've seen, anyway) ever made about the
life, work and culture of a professional ballet company (not that they
are all alike, but there is much that is universal) and some of the
people (friends, family, audience members, etc.) who interact with it
at times. And, what a treat to have a 'ballet movie' with authentic,
good-to-excellent professional dancers in realistic stage performances.
(CENTER STAGE was mostly sickeningly ridiculous, as was its 2008
sequel, to an even greater degree) and the audition scenes in SAVE THE
LAST DANCE were EMBARRASSINGLY bad--they even misspelled
Juilliard--oy!)

Always, audience members need to open themselves up, and try to
experience a movie (or any piece of art/entertainment) on its own
terms. You may like it or not, think it succeeds or not. But you don't
go to TERMINATOR 3 expecting it to operate like an intimate, quiet,
nuanced character study, and then condemn it because it didn't meet
those expectations. With this movie, you need to understand and accept
that you'll be seeing assorted moments, just various pieces and details
of lives, and let go of the idea that they'll form into a finite
"story" (shouldn't be too hard for Altman fans). For me, the pieces
were fascinating enough to make the whole extremely rewarding and
beautiful.

By the way, I did find myself caring very much about the characters in
THE COMPANY, although differently than I might about the characters in
a more traditionally-plotted movie. The characterizations are very
real, not "actor-ish," from those who *are* actual actors, as well as
those who are not. So many beautiful sequences, but one that really
struck me as I watched was as Ry (Campbell's character) arrives home
late, after an exciting, triumphant night, prepares for bed, and begins
to cry. This sequence is alternated with scenes of one of the male
dancers alone in a studio, listening to music, moving to it, trying to
begin choreographing a dance. So true to life, and moving.

This is really a wonderful movie, and I hope there are enough people
around who appreciate and enjoy this kind of thing, for more such
movies to be made. Kudos to Mr. Altman, Ms. Campbell, and all the
others involved.
<|_=00=_|>
Some of the dances are tiny religious experiences. The film doesn't
look nearly as good as some of Altman's others, but there are flashes
of awesome beauty: a topless male dancer alone in a room with golden
beams of light, and Neve Campbell in her bath. The movie looks at the
queeny pretensions of the boys (and their fathers), the dancers' sex
lives (who are more '60s than their instructor knows), and the company
leader, played by Malcolm McDowell, whose occasional flakiness is
caught by one black dancer. I couldn't help but think of McDowell as an
Altman self-criticism: an elderly director working with small budgets,
prone to artiness, who champions art as being organic, who rounds up a
large crew of performers and calls them "babies." The day-in-the-life
shapelessness of the movie didn't at all bother me, though one
character, who asks to stay in a dancer's apartment, is dropped pretty
quickly. And James Franco is in it. 9/10
<|_=00=_|>
This gorgeous production by Neve Campbell is a brilliant presentation
in almost documentary form (but completely directed and scripted)
offers the audience a fantastic look at the world of dance without
make-up, without pretense. The dance numbers and the behind the look
scenes along with a day in the life of dancer comes across not as some
dry, boring experience, but a absorbing, compelling rhythmic, musical,
and oftentimes emotional witness to the world of dance. Unlike Chorus
Line, this movie avoids the typical stereotypes - but offers a glimpse
of actual moods, events that have occurred among various real dancers.
The dancing is superb, the presentation on par with the best of them.
This is a must see movie for anyone interested in an empathic look at
the dedication and heartache of dance. Eight out of Ten Stars.
<|_=00=_|>

First, I believe I have seen every dance movie ever made, but I can't
ever remember one I enjoyed so much. I personally have been affiliated
with the Dance world for most of my life. Not as a dancer but as a
Stage Manager. The fact that Ms. Campbell and Mr. Altman allowed the
audience to share most, if not all of the Ballets in their entirety was
most enjoyable. The usage of High-Def allowed the audience to really
feel as if they are there. I had the privilege of watching Ms. Campbell
work on "Party of Five" while she was at Sony, where I have had
continued employment for almost 10 years. I had great respect for her
then as an Actress but have a entire new admirations for now as a
dancer. I would love to see "The Company II"

<|_=00=_|>

Yet another marvelous, marvelous film from Robert Altman. I hope that he
makes a hundred more movies before he leaves us. What really needs to be
said about The Company, though, is this: kudos to Neve Campbell! This is
certainly an Altman film, but it was Ms. Campbell who organized this whole
project and pulled it off. Who knew that this young beauty had merely been
slumming the whole time? Her years in awful television drama and slasher
flicks paid off. She came up with the story, put up some of the money, and
she was the one who convinced Altman to take the job. Not only that, but she
comes off as almost too modest with the relatively small role she has in the
film. Of course, she's in it more than anyone else, and we get to learn
about her life more than anyone else's, but the spotlight is simply on
ballet itself. And what a beautiful art it is! The film works like a
musical, with ballet numbers popping up throughout the loose narrative. Most
are unannounced: these are just some of the performances the company (the
Joffrey Ballet Company of Chicago) give throughout their season. The final
setpiece (a hallmark of Robert Altman's cinema) is built up to through most
of the film. The Company works much like a documentary, a documentary that
makes no commentary on its subject. It's all just observation. In many ways,
it's not like a regular Altman film, because another of his hallmarks is the
swift and thorough characterizations his subjects receive. By the end of
Nashville, those 20+ characters are so potent in our minds that the audience
could write novels based on them. Not so with this one, where we really only
get wisps of the people. It's a subtler approach than Altman's more famous
films; it's a grace, I suppose, that fits the subject. We watch the everyday
events that occur in the company, the successes and the failures, the fading
careers and the beginnings, the egos of the stars and the humbleness of the
chorus. The film also follows the characters (this time mostly Neve's) lives
after the season is over. Campbell has to work as a bartender in a trendy
club. Along the course of the film she meets a handsome young chef played by
James Franco. Malcolm McDowell shows the strongest personality in the film,
mostly because he's playing the company's head. The kind of humor that is
specifically Altman's is not common in The Company, but when it does pop up
it's always around McDowell. This is a wonderful film, not to be missed.
It's also the rare film that I really wish I could have seen in a theater.
Perhaps one day, at a distant Robert Altman retrospective, I will have that
opportunity. 9/10.
<|_=00=_|>

The Company is the best ballet movie I have ever seen, and I have seen
quite
a few. Most ballet fans will tolerate a silly, self-conscious,infantile
story just to see the dancing. There was nothing to endure, however, by
watching The Company. The dancing was wonderful, refreshing, and, at
times,
hypnotically beautiful; for that alone I will purchase the DVD once it is
released. The story, though, was a very pleasant surprise. The dancers
were
adults; they were stoical, determined, talented professionals. There was
no
whining melodrama, only dedication. There was no sordid, steamy sex scenes
with subsequent sleazy betrayals, but sweet, sensual, real love. Even
those
in power were not the usual glamorous megalomaniacs; they were dedicated,
passionate, and astute. It's been a long time since I have been so
delighted
with any movie, let alone a ballet movie. What a wonderful departure from
the mundane, silly world that Hollywood generally makes of
ballet.
<|_=00=_|>
The ballet sequences are probably the most breathtaking we've seen in a
fiction film. Altman succeeds in putting ballet in the fore, instead of
characters or story. This was his intention, and on this front he gets
a 8/10. However, where there are not ballet scenes, there is a story:
Neve Campbell wrote it. And she seems not to have seen any other
romance movie since the dawn of time. Its just the kind of romance
subplot a little girl WOULD write: with soft lighting, flickering
candlelight, a beautiful boy who does nothing wrong, listens to your
problems, sleeps with you, and lets you get on with your dancing. He
appears when it is convenient for both Neve and Bob Altman to insert a
romantic scene: and just as gimmicky a brushstroke as this, is his
entrance always being marked by the same song, My Funny Valentine. It
was nice how they had four different versions of the song, for
different moods: the upbeat poolhall number for their meeting, the
romantic one for the seduction, and a more melancholy one when she's
missing him. Anyone who knows this song (most of us), feel how gimmicky
a device this is when it arrives again.

So far is this from the dramatic conflict between love and dancing in
Powell and Pressburger's The Red Shoes that we're almost barren of any
narrative drive or dramatic conflict at all. That's my main problem
with The Company - nothing goes wrong. Or when it does go wrong
(raining on the night of a performance), it always serves to improve
the moment for the protagonists: indeed it is an incredible scene, Neve
dancing a duet with a Joffret dancer. A moving, beautiful dance. But
that's precicely the problem: there is no problem!

Malcolm McDowell is no good. He gets a C-. He tries, but its so obvious
throughout that he knows not a jot about ballet, and he just walks
around play-acting at a ballet coach from the movies, while the real
Joffret coaches tell the dancers what they need to know. And his
calling everyone "babies" is a clumsy attempt to create character
through a catchphrase.

6/10

Beautiful ballet scenes, A+ for putting the dancing centre-stage, so to
speak (as opposed to the tawdry melodrama called Centre Stage). But all
we've got to go on narrative-wise is a thin-as-a-ballet-ribbon romance
subplot. If this wasn't there, actually, it might have been a very
successful art movie - but its gimmicky presence is so clumsy its a
fault.
<|_=00=_|>
Lets hope that Altman makes films for another 20 years and that he
stays as adventuresome as he currently is.

In 'The Long Goodbye' Altman invented a rather new camera stance,
literally asking the actors to improvise staging and having the camera
discovering them.

It took a few decades for him to get back to such experiments with
'Gosford.' Now he takes it even further with perhaps the purest problem
in film cinematography: how do you film dance?

Forget that this features Campbell in a vanity role: she is good enough
and doesn't detract. Forget about any modicum of plot: there isn't any.
And unlike 'Nashville' or the similarly selfreferential 'Player' there
is no cynical commentary.

The commentary itself is selfreferential this time. Yes, this time the
center of the film is how 'Mr A' orchestrates movement and images. This
is most of all about himself, and is far, far more intelligent and
subtle than say, 'Blowup.'

But along the way, you get possibly the best dance experience on film.
That's because they've been able to use many cameras. There are not as
many as 'Dancer in the Dark,' but each camera dances, engages with the
dance and the dance of people and objects around the dance. So we get
four layers of dance: the actual ballet, the orchestration of people
around the production, the dancing cameras (enhanced by non-radical
appearing radical editing) and the dance within the mind of Mr A who
encourages, follows and captures them all.

Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3: Worth watching.
