

I am writing this message on all the bad negative bashing on Lizzie
Mcguire. First off I want to say I have a pretty good and diverse taste in
films. I am into mostly classics of the 60s and 70s such as Chinatown, the
Godfather and other movies of the time peroid. But like other genres also
like horror, sci fi, good dramas. And every now and then a good old
fashioned family film is fun to watch. I had read about Hillary Duff and
that her show lizzie Mcguire was a big hit which my little niece watches
it
so I was like what the hell try it out. I loved it! It was real cute and
fun
with a little message behind it-what family film doesn't. I think Hill is
so
much more nice and sweet then all these other sleazy trampy young girl
stars
out there. Hell I have to admit even the songs weren't that bad, kind of
catchy. That girl from Mad TV was great! I laughed my ass off as soon she
came into the picture. She rules!

So anyway about all these bad messages posted about this film and
Hillary. I know people have the right to their opinions but come on it's a
family film! What do you expect Chinatown! Disney makes makes movies for
everyones viewing. Can't expect something deep and disturbing. You can't
review this film to heavy because it's family oriented. And as far as
Hillary goes come on she's only what 16, 17? Can't expect her to do
academy
award work-esp for Disney! Maybe she will get better when she is older, if
not who cares! She seems like a real smart down to earth gal with a good
head on her shoulders. She is smart to not stooping low and cutting down
Avril like she has been doing to her, saying things like she's such as
mommys  girl and belittling her. With all the violence and hardcore
language
in films today sometimes it's nice to watch a nice, feel good light family
film which is is what Lizzie Mcguire has to offer.

Hill if you are out there I am behind you 100%! Keep up the good work!
Dave from PA. PS just ignore Avril. You are above that
<|_=00=_|>
My girls are 8 and 5, are fans of the Lizzie TV show, and they love
this movie. It's funny, exciting, inspiring and sweet. I don't know how
many times I've had to rewind the last music scene for them to watch
and dance to. The soundtrack is very good with a large variety of
artists and music styles. This is one "kid" movie I enjoy watching even
though I've already seen it again and again. Hilary Duff is very
convincing in this roll, and the rest of the cast do a great job, esp.
"Miss Ungermyer" and "Matt" are very funny. This is a great ending to
the Lizzie TV Series. I would recommend this movie to anyone who likes
the "Lizzie" series, young girls from five to fifteen and anyone else
not too "cool" to watch a fun lighthearted movie. Great "pajama party"
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
The Lizzie McGuire Movie is a nice film to watch if you have nothing
better to do as its harmless entertainment. Lizzie McGuire and her pals
Gordo, Kate and Ethan all pack their bags on a class trip to Italy.
Once there, Lizzie is mistaken for pop star Isabella and begins to
falls for Paolo, who is Isabella's ex-boyfriend. When Lizzie's mom, dad
and brother Matt get wind of this, they all jet their way to Italy.
While, Lizzie is transformed from a normal teen to a beautiful pop
star. The plot follows the last episode of Lizzie McGuire and this film
is pretty much just another episode. I do watch the TV series sometimes
and its not a great show but it isn't terrible either. Hilary Duff
stars as Lizzie and she does a good job of playing her. Many people
claim that she is a terrible actress but she does have some charm in
the roles she plays. Most of the cast from the show appear in the film
except for Lalaine. Adam Lamberg plays Gordo and I think he does a good
job, kind of an annoying character though. Robert Carradine and Hallie
Todd play Lizzie's parents. They both do a good job but don't really
appear in the film very much. Some other characters that appear are
Matt, who is Lizzie's brother and Kate, who is Lizzie's ex-best friend.
There are a couple of new people in the film as well, like Alex
Borstein. She steals the film and gives a funny performance. Yani
Gellman plays Lizzie's love interest and I thought he did a poor job
but it was his first major role. Jim Fall directs this film the same as
if it had been a regular episode so don't expect anything out of the
ordinary. While, I did enjoy the movie, at times it felt like it was
just made for money purposes and not entertainment value. It does feel
sitcom-Ash which isn't surprising. Though that sometimes does get
annoying. It was predictable but that was expected. It was kind of
cheesy at times but its still good fun. It wasn't made to win Oscars,
it was made so its audience could have some fun and I think most people
will. It's a short, inoffensive film and just don't expect too much. So
if you like the show then you will probably like the film since it's
the same. If you hate the show then you should just skip this movie. In
the end, this is harmless entertainment that wouldn't hurt you if you
watched it. Rating 7/10
<|_=00=_|>
After graduating from high school, Lizzie is allowed to be part of a
group of students that goes to Italy on a tour of historical monuments
with the iron willed Ungermeyer. Out on one of their tours a famous
singer mistakes Lizzie for his singing partner Isabella. Explaining how
Isabella needs help and how Lizzie can help by pretending to be her,
Paolo gets her to go along with the mistaken identity (for the
resemblance is uncanny). However she begins to fall for him but he may
not be all he seems. To make matters worse Lizzie's brother finds out
via the web and begins to stir trouble.

I have never seen the TV or even heard of it (or the girl involved) but
I was on a 9 hour flight to Atlanta and this was the movie that they
were showing to help me pass my time (damn you economy class!) so I
gave it a reluctant go. The film sets it's stall out straight away with
a lively musical number and the cliché of teenage girl and nosy little
brother etc. The animated add ins are not nearly as funny as they think
they are but they are all part of the charm and energy that made this
film watchable.

While it is clearly aimed at girls younger than McGuire herself, it is
quite sassy and energetic. The plot is utter nonsense from start to
finish but it bussles along just about well enough to get by. Duff
herself is quite nice in the role – she is quite bubbly plus she isn't
exactly hard on the eye! Borstein as Ungermeyer is worth a laugh or two
but the majority of the teenage cast are average – esp Gellman who is
given very little to do outside of talking 'ina da stereotyped
Aitalian's accento!'.

Overall I stress that I have no intention of ever actually watching
this movie again, but can't pretend that it's sassy, bubbly and
energetic style helped me forget my flight for 90 minutes and also just
about manage to find the find the fun hidden within the absurd plot.
<|_=00=_|>

Lizzie McGuire(Hilary Duff) has finally graduated from middle school and now
her class is taking a two week trip to Rome along with her best friend
Gordo(Adam Lamberg), the snobby and popular Kate Sanders(Ashlie Brillault)
and the airheaded but hilarious Ethan Craft(Clayton Snyder). Once Lizzie
arrives in Rome, she meets Paolo(Yani Gellman)who is a famous pop singer and
he mistakes Lizzie for Isabella, who is part of his pop duo and looks
identical to Lizzie. Now Lizzie starts sneaking out of the hotel where her
class is staying just to see Paolo and spend time with him. Paolo convinces
her to pretend to be Isabella so that they can perform together at a big
music show. But Paolo is not as perfect as Lizzie thinks and he might just
not be the right guy for her. In the meantime, Gordo starts falling for
Lizzie and tries to warn her about Paolo.
I thought this was a very sweet and harmless movie. I didn't think that I
would enjoy it as much as I did. I am a big fan of the Lizzie McGuire show
and I was also not disappointed with the movie. Sure, it's made for young
teenage girls so obviously not everybody will enjoy it. I thought it was a
very fun movie, it also had a lot of funny moments, especially thanks to
Alex Borstein who played Lizzie's teacher. Hilary Duff is so beautiful, I
couldn't keep my eyes away from her. Anyways, I really enjoyed The Lizzie
McGuire Movie and I would give it 8/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Why is the rating for this movie only 4.8/10? Yeah, it's not exactly
first-class entertainment, but it definitely deserves at least a 7/10.
It's good, clean fun, and very entertaining for children and adults
alike. It's Lizzie McGuire (probably the only decent programme on the
Disney Channel - oh why did they stop it?) and her pals having an
adventure in Italy! But whilst this is just an ordinary Roman history
trip for everyone else, Lizzie gets whisked away to stardom when she
meets Italian popstar, Paolo Valisari. Full of friendship problems,
other catastrophes, Matt and Melina's usual (international) shenanigans
and a little bit of (clean) romance, the Lizzie McGuire movie fails not
to entertain. It's the perfect film to watch on a rainy day (or whilst
driving through hot, remote areas of Turkey in a coach - that's how I
watched it).
<|_=00=_|>

*MOST PROBABLY CONTAINS SPOILERS*

STARRING Hilary Duff as Lizzie McGuire, Adam Lamberg, Yani Gellman,
Alex Borstein

Let me start by saying that I'm no snob when it comes to watching
movies. I'll usually watch (and enjoy) pretty much anything: be it,
say, classic Hitchcock; laughable Irwin Allen disaster pics; mindless
action flicks; or even cutesy-pie movies aimed at prepubescent girls.

That, dear IMDb surfers, brings me to The Lizzie McGuire Movie, a
slightly amusing, hammy, mid-teenage girl flick that eschews any real
character development in favour of Duff's apparent charm and seminal
comedic ability to fill the ninety or so minutes. I should add that I
have never seen (and will probably never see) an episode of Lizzie
McGuire, the now-defunct Disney-owned television show that spawned -
surprise, surprise - this Disney-owned family release. I suppose this
movie was a farewell to the Lizzie McGuire character - but I swear
it'll be lost on you if you are one of those who has not seen the
television show. Take, for instance, the whole subplot about Lizzie's
younger brother and his blonde cohort's reason for trying to show up
Lizzie at every turn (which was totally lost on me), and classmate
Kate's reason for being such a bitch to Lizzie (??).

But anyhoo, bubbly Lizzie heads to Italy with her classmates to see the
sights of Rome, but spends very little actual time with them. (The
extras playing her classmates must have felt quite wooden making this
movie, having nothing much to say or do.) On the other hand, Lizzie's
motormouth teacher (Borstein, a former MAD TV regular) plays (or should
I say, overplays) the role of Miss Ungermeyer, and, as a result, comes
across as very grating. The scene where teacher and students visit the
Trevi Fountain is especially grating (and cringeworthy). Ungermeyer,
with an American flag conspicuously in hand, cuts a swath through the
local population - and 'mows down' any cultural sensitivities by
obnoxiously barking "Scusi" and "Grazie"at the locals.

Without venturing into too much detail about the fairly tame and
somewhat lame storyline, Lizzie's transformation from school student to
fresh-faced singer is mildly amusing (but an oh-so-obvious marketing
ploy by Duff's music label). TIRED is one word to describe this same
old 'girl comes out of her shell' storyline that's been done a million
time before. Private Benjamin, Protocol, Educating Rita, Romancing the
Stone, Legally Blonde, and The Princess Diaries, come to mind as a few
(more successful) titles of this particular genre.

So, if you're looking for screen chemistry, you may find some between
leads Duff and Gellman. If you're looking for a movie that showcases
Rome's beauty, this movie won't disappoint. If you're looking for
something above average, with a touch of magic to it, you probably
won't find it here.

5/10

<|_=00=_|>

This is a really charming little movie about a girl who travels with her
class to Rome, and becomes a rockstar there because she looks so much like
another rockstar there (who is played by the same actress). The main story
is mostly harmless, but it contains a lot of funny characters. I absolutely
loved it and in fact already watched it twice, and if it stays in cinema a
little bit, I might even watch it another time.

<|_=00=_|>

I rented this movie instead of seeing it in the theaters, because I
expected
a simple little teen romance film.  It has romance, but it had a
surprisingly better story than I expected.  I actually, went back and
watched the final sequences over again.  The movie appears a straight
forward and pleasant film until just before the end when you get hit by a
very unexpected twist.  I'm old enough to play Lizzie's dad and yet
throughly enjoyed this film, it's not just a teen date
film.
<|_=00=_|>

I ended up seeing this show because my daughter is a big fan of the TV show.
 It was moderately entertaining and amusing.  I am certain, if I were a
adolescent/pre-teen girl, that I would enjoy it a lot.

My biggest complaints, as an adult viewer, were the fairly obvious potholes
in the story.

#1. Paolo sang worse than me, which is truly amazing.  In reality, if he was
ever to get to the point of being a star with the ability to have all the
fancy manipulations used to make his voice sound delightful on the studio
cuts he was lip-syncing, he would have to a fairly decent singer to get any
kind of break.

#2. The setting was in Italy, but everyone seemed more comfortable using
English, except for the hotel clerk, whose language trouble was comic relief
and the two girls the boys try to meet.

#3 Lizzie is substituting for is masquerading as an Italian popstar in a
scenario full of Italians, but no one seems to notice she can't speak any
Italian, except for "ciao" and a couple other words.

#4 At the end, when the family and friends burst through security at the
awards ceremony, like that could happen, they end up front and center, like
those seat were just sitting there reserved for the first group of gate
crashers to coming busting in.  And the crows seemed to be predominantly
kids and average folks, not the pretentious wannabes and celebrities that
surely would have made up the crowd at a real award ceremony.

The one thing I did like about the movie, and the TV show, is the approx. 3
year younger looking little cartoon Lizzie that regularly pops up.  It is a
really good way to handle inner dialogue and does really add something
positive to the show.
