

When I was growing up, one of my favourite authors was Isaac Asimov. I
loved his books and his ideas about robots. The man was a genius in the
way he wrote, he invented the three laws of Robotics, as the very
beginning of the movie tells us, they are: 1) A robot can never harm a
human. 2) A robot must obey all human orders unless it conflicts with
the first law. 3) A robot must protect itself unless it conflicts with
the first two laws.

Because of this and because of the fact that I knew Will Smith was the
leading actor in this movie I went into this movie with lowered
expectations. I expected to see a corny movie full of explosions and
killer robots. 

I did get that, or at least the explosions part, but imagine my
surprise when the movie ended up exceeding my expectations and more.
Even though during the ending credits it says that the movie was
suggested by the books by Isaac Asimov most of the movie seemed to play
quite well with Isaac Asimov's ideas about robots. The movie played
with concepts that Isaac Asimov played with, if the three laws can be
made, they can be broken. And it was an Asimov-ish "whodunit" as well. 

Will Smith managed to pull off a stunning performance as "Del Spooner",
a Chicago detective that is suspicious of robots and is against
technology. His acting is much more like his acting in "Enemy of the
State" than his performances in his other two Science Fiction flicks,
"Independence Day" and "Men in Black". He is a believable character,
one that you end up sympathising with as you learn why, exactly, he
hates robots so much.

A highly critiqued point usually comes from the fans of the book in
that Bridget Moynahan plays Susan Calvin. It is true that Moynahan as
Calvin is much younger than the Isaac Asimov version, but beyond that I
found her to be a pleasant surprise as well. She plays her persona very
well, delivering a wooden, robot-like performance. She is obvious in
the fact that she likes robots much more than humans, and her dislike
of Spooner is amusing. Over the course of the movie she thaws a little,
but not an incredible lot. I find her to be a believable character. 

The pure stroke of genius in this movie is the robot, Sonny, who at
first reminds one of Data from Star Trek. His character evolves over
the course of the story, and Alex Proyas does a good job at keeping us
guessing at whether the emotional robot is a "good guy" or not. 

This movie, which I've now seen twice, has been raked over the coals so
to speak in the realm of artistic licence, but I felt that Isaac
Asimov, if he were here, would have been rather pleased with this
movie. The only two points of conflict, perhaps, would be the amount of
violence against actual robots in the story (he was never that violent
in his short stories/books) and the very typical Hollywood blow'emup
climax, which, yes, smacked heavily of Terminator for a while there.
The ending, I felt, repaired and wrapped up nicely, making up for
whatever excessive action went on before it.

Two notes about the cinematography in this movie, first of all, the
Matrix scene was not necessary. A character was being chased and did a
Trinity pause in mid-air pose, which pulled me out of the movie for a
couple seconds. Luckily it wasn't too hard to get back into the movie.
Second note was something that I felt was very innovative on the part
of Alex Proyas, which was the "camera moving with moving object" shots.
I noticed at least three of them in the movie. Very nice film work
there. I'm sure it will get horribly overdone in the next few years,
but for now it is nice. The CGI also gets honourable mention for making
the robots meld so well with their surroundings. Finally CGI has
reached a point where they don't seem fake, even for a moment. 

In regards to nudity in the movie... I've read a couple of reviews
which notice the Moynahan nude in fogged up shower scene, and forget to
notice the Will Smith completely nude with no fog shower scene. I must
say, as a female viewer it is nice to get the generous end of the stick
when it comes to seeing something as, dare I say appealing? as Will
Smith's very nicely developed body. 

Lastly and in a point that has nothing to do with the movie and more to
do with questions brought up by it-- It took until a day later and
thinking about the movie some more that I realized that "I, Robot" was
also very socially different. As in two of the main characters,
including the hero are black males, one woman, and one (male) robot. I
didn't find this odd at all in watching it, perhaps because Will Smith
is such a recognisable character, but after thinking about it, I felt
that this is a very positive sign. It shows, to me, that society is
changing. I feel that I wouldn't have been able to see that, even 10-15
years ago and thought nothing of it. I've noticed this before though...
that the most gender/social equal views seem to come from science
fiction in our media... it is interesting.

Now, of course the movie does bring up some ethical questions like if
it's all right to make a servant/slave class out of robots, etc., but
all in all I really liked this movie. Any movie that makes you think is
a good movie, any movie that gives you fun, drama, action, mystery, and
makes you think is a great movie. Thank goodness I, Robot is all of the
above.

<|_=00=_|>

The maker of a film adaptation has three choices. First, he can try to
translate the original medium as faithfully as possible, striving as
much as possible to preserve the spirit and content of the original
while re-imagining the story as a film. Peter Jackson's Lord of the
Rings films exemplify this approach. Second, he could instead try to
capture the essence of the original, while largely abandoning the
particulars of the original, as in the intelligently satirical but
hard-hearted film version of Starship Troopers. Third, he can try to do
something original with the material, drawing inspiration from the
written story, but creating a unique film with a unique vision. I,
Robot is more the the third than the first or second. While little
remains of Asimov's stories in this killer robot metropolitan fantasy,
the film is informed by, and offers no disrespect, to the good Doctor's
creations. 

Will Smith plays a Jack Slater-styled maverick cop. If it's old, it's
good.

He wears vintage converse, listens to Stevie Wonder, and apparently
regards sweet potato pie as a food group. Will Smith's acting is a
naturalistic shuffle, a Columbo-like pastiche of mumbling, sarcasm, and
unexpected outbursts of charisma and off-balancing interrogation
techniques. He delivers his one-liners with unnecessary seriousness.
While in Men in Black, he aimed for the ballparks with his
power-swinging action-comedy style, here his conscientious style gets
in the way, suggesting a character who stands in front of the mirror
practicing his zingers like a Tuesday night comic. It's not entirely
Smith's fault, as the movie itself can't seem to decide if he's
standing in for Bogart or Schwarzenegger, or if the character had a
life of his own before the film starts rolling. His performance is
intelligent, marred by occasional "Gotcha, suckaz!" moments that remind
us that all films made in Hollywood are made in Hollywood. 

His opposite, Bridget Moynahan, fits her role more surely. She's an ice
queen in the classic action movie tradition, a stiff-necked,
self-important, lonely woman who has been absorbed by her work so
completely she remains a teenager at heart, awkward, vulnerable, and
searching for the approval of others. Moynahan's bug-eyed discomfort
and clipped, TV-sarcastic delivery are those of the quintessential
comedy sidekick. Nonetheless, in rare moments, she invests the
character's personal revelations with warmth, doubt, and a glow of
determination and moral purpose. While Smith vacillates between
supercop and Bogie, Moynahan seems to have found a happy medium between
the Saturday matinée and the midnight marathon, a mixture of fun and
humanity with a carriage of seriousness appropriate to what is
essentially a monster movie.

The robot, Sonny, is a character himself, a curious, frightened
creature that seems capable of anything. Could Sonny be the murderer?
We hope not, and yet, we see the grim possibility that a machine might
consider itself more than a human being. We understand Sonny's drive to
live and grow. As human beings, we know what lengths we would go to to
ensure our survival, whatever the moral charges facing us. 

A top scientist has been murdered, and there are no human suspects, so
the powerful US Robotics corporation (no relation to the modem
manufacturers) convinces the powers-that-be to consider his unexpected
death a suicide. Spooner (Will Smith) alone searches for the truth of
the matter, fueled by hatred for robots and a personal debt to the dead
scientist. Dr. Calvin (Moynahan) feels his intrusive investigation is
unnecessary, although new pieces of evidence appear that gradually
shake her confidence. Robots are programmed by the Three Laws to serve
humanity, but Spooner is convinced one of the new NS-5 units, a unique
prototype, is the murderer. As Spooner gets deeper to the heart of the
mystery, the story explodes with robotic violence. Like all good
mysteries, the real question is not "Whodunnit?" but "Why?" The heroes
do some things for the wrong reasons, and the villains do some things
for the right, rational reasons. Although I, Robot hardly pauses for
introspection, it does asks us, "What makes a human being superior to a
machine?" There are twists and surprises, although in the end, the
movie plays out in the only way it can, a band of brave heroes trying
to throw the ring into Mt. Doom while the armies of evil march. And
yet, the movie leaves us wanting more. What is the future of humanity?
How will we control our machines, and how will we prevent the machines
from becoming our masters? 

While not as ambitious as A.I., it is more successful, and while not as
intelligent as Robocop, it is better played. While the movie does
suffer from inconsistencies in mood and philosophy, such hiccups are
secondary to the emotionality and drive of the film, its fury of
thought as well as action. In moments, I, Robot is a terrifying vision
of the future. Too few science-fiction movies manage to scare us with
the power of technology, but future shock is vital to the
science-fiction story. Modern science-fiction truly began with the
detonation at White Sands. The Atomic Age has given way to the Digital
Age, but we still have not solved the problem of how to wrest the power
of technology from the creatures of the id.

<|_=00=_|>
It is the year 2035 and the world has forgotten the lessons we learnt
in the 20th Century from films like Bladerunner and Terminator. Robots
are the new must have accessory, carrying out menial tasks for
households and boosting profits for businesses that have workforces not
requiring payment. While this is now the norm, Officer Del Spooner
refuses to move with the times and, due to an incident in his past
refuses to accept the robots as anything approaching human. When an old
friend, Dr Lanning – head of the robotics company, is found dead
everyone suspects suicide but Spooner suspects a robot that flees the
crime scene. Despite the robotics company lawyering up, Spooner
continues his investigations and, several more malfunctions later, he
begins to uncover a much bigger problem with the robots.

When the film opens with a flashback scene that cuts to a bitter,
old-fashioned cop who dresses like Shaft and don't take no rubbish from
his weary captain I immediately started to worry that this would simply
be a clichéd cop thriller in fancy clothes and, in some ways, that is
what it was. But it is also good fun and, along with Spiderman 2,
stands out as one of the best of this years generally disappointing
crop of blockbusters. The plot is interesting enough to keep the film
going and, although it goes just where you will expect it to if you've
seen Terminator (or had any involvement in popular culture) it builds
gradually with an intriguing investigation leading to a very impressive
climax. The set pieces are well directed and are mixed well with the
drama and the film delivers just what I had come expecting – fun,
excitement, effects and an involving story.

Of course this is not to ignore the fact that the film has its weak
points. The worn 'tough cop' clichés are heavy on the ground and show a
script that hasn't put as much effort into its characters as it really
should have – this is also seen in Calvin, who's background with
Lanning is hinted at but never followed though. The film also hints at
a very intelligent story around the robots but again it never totally
follows through in as much detail as it could have done. The structure
of the society is not clear – if robots have taken many jobs how can
everyone afford a robot? Spooner lives in a poor, overcrowded area with
graffiti on the walls but yet everyone owns a robot. While I accept
that the film couldn't go into the whole universe behind the scenario,
it could have shown us an underclass just as easily as it showed us
what I suspect were the middle classes. Likewise the final shot of the
film implies that there is more to the robot-ethics of the story but
mostly this is put to the side in favour of running and shooting. But
these are minor complaints when you accept that this is not art – it is
a blockbuster and, in this way, it succeeds and is an enjoyable film. 

Matching the lazily written character that he is given, Smith plays it
like Shaft. He eats pie and takes lots of sugar (but yet has a superb
body – can't wait for that part of the future!), makes wisecracks and
sneers a lot.

He tries to bring something individual out in Spooner but mostly he
settles for playing along with the clichés and delivers a familiar
performance but one that fits well with the aims of the film. Moynnahan
is a bit dry but actually works better than the usual screaming love
interest that we get served with – thankfully the film resists the
temptation to impose a romance on us. Tudyk looks the part and does a
very good 'HAL' voice but he is constrained by his character and can
only work within that – but he works it well enough. Greenwood is a
good part, Cromwell's familiarity helps us care for a character who has
died before the film even starts, McBride is the gruff, weary captain
but basically the film is Smith's and his Shaft is quite fun. Outside
of the real things, the effects are great – they look real and match
the design of the future which is at the other end of the scale from
the usual grim future that we all suspect will be nearer the truth!
Alex Proyas may not be a great master of the narrative but he does OK
here while also indulging his first love – the visual effects and
style.

Overall this is an enjoyable summer blockbuster and stands out in the
crowd of average sequels and trashy attempts at blockbusters that have
crawled in and out of our cinemas this year. Yes, it's full of the
usual tough cop genre clichés and the sci-fi element doesn't get as
interesting or morally complex as it should have done but this is an
action movie and I found it to do all the things I needed to do to
entertain me – set pieces, interesting story, fun, effects that are
actually special and a film that builds to a satisfying (if overblown)
conclusion. In the cold light of day it is an imperfect film but it is
easily one of the better blockbusters of 2004.
<|_=00=_|>

Like the Matrix and many other major movies, I, Robot has its foundations in
philosophy, in its case the question of epistemology(The study of knowledge
itself and computers being self-aware).

Will Smith is Spooner, a cop with an apparent attitude problem. Set in the
future, I Robot sees Spooner embarking on a puzzling case of suicide where
he believes it was actually murder. By a robot.

In this future society (With more than a homage to Blade Runner) robots are
used as slaves of humans in all facets of life. They have 3 rules of conduct
hard coded into them which essentially state they cannot harm humans. So the
postulation by Spooner that a robot killed a man after a history where no
robot had ever committed so much as a mugging presents a big problem to both
his peers and his boss.

Suffice to say the story's plot thickens and a number of twists and turns
emerge before the truth is revealed.

Will Smith is an absolute surprise here. Having previously been a
light-hearted comedy actor he puts in a truly excellent and believable shift
as a wise-cracking cop with a dark past.

However, the real star is the special effects and visual trickery.
Impossible but ingenious camerawork and some jawdropping animation really
make I, Robot feel truly alive and utterly believable, while never being
dull for a second.

It arguably doesn't delve too deep into its philosophical undertones, but it
doesn't really need to. It's a traditional Hollywood blockbuster action
flick but it unquestionably has a brain and is a clear cut above the likes
of Armageddon et al.

Very enjoyable.

<|_=00=_|>

Director Alex Proyas, helmer of such cult favorites as 'Dark City' and
'The Crow', steps into the Hollywood limelight with his first attempt
at a mainstream Hollywood blockbuster.

'I, Robot' chronicles the life of Detective Del Spooner (Will Smith)
who has a techno-phobic view of the world's newest appliance, a
life-like robot created by the world's leading technology giant US
Robotics. A link in Spooner's past is linked to his phobia of the
automaton movement sweeping the nation. According to US Robotics, there
will be eventually 1 robot to every 5 humans.

Spooner is called to the offices of US Robotics when a leading
scientist (James Cromwell), with a secret link to Spooner, has
apparently committed suicide. His death seems to have mysterious
circumstances which could link to a robot. With man's complete trust in
the new robot technology, it seems too ludicrous to every one except
Spooner.

As the mystery deepens, Spooner unravels the very fabric of the robotic
giant, locks horns with CEO Lawrence Robertson (Bruce Greenwood) and
learns more about his automated enemy with the aid of scientist Dr.
Susan Calvin (Bridget Moynahan). Through the course of these events he
may learn more than he could ever imagine.

It is hard to defend a film like 'I, Robot' but I am going to try. For
sci-fi purists, Isaac Asimov's legendary work about the robot and how
he will intricate into our society has filled the minds of readers for
over 50 years. But the similarities between the film presented here and
his work are few and far between. Kind of like last week's release of
Jerry Bruckheimer's 'King Arthur'. Both films take sacred subject
matter and re-invent it with a new twist. I would have to say that 'I.
Robot' is better in a lot ways.

At the core of 'I, Robot' beats the soul of Asimov as his 3 laws
regarding robots are sacredly left intact and the film does abide by
them. Also a lot of the characters have similar names to the people in
the text. It is almost like taking Star Trek's 'prime directive' and
some of the now classic characters and setting them in a new idea of
the future. The core is left intact but in some ways it has been
updated and refreshed.

The story, special effects and extremely zealous direction, however,
all seem to be brought forth by the collaborators who cobbled this film
together. There are influences of 'Robocop', 'Short Circuit', 'Blade
Runner' and even the classic comic-book series 'Magnus: Robot Fighter'.
Each of these robot influences echo back to what makes 'I Robot' so
intriguing, a joy to watch and memorable. 

Sure the story does have a lot of sci-fi influences and clichés aside
from robot films including 'Star Wars' and 'Planet of the Apes' but
don't these benchmark sci-fi films influence everything coming down the
turnpike these days. It even has the classic sci-fi cliché of the
social outcast claiming there is an invasion coming except no one
believes him. But that is not what should bring us into the film.

You really need to give credit to director Alex Proyas because it is
his magic as a filmmaker that holds this film together. He knows where
to play it straight and where to let his lead actor bring on the charm.
Also you really have to admire the man's technical ability. His
brilliant inter-laying of robots into the photography is astounding.
Proyas is an A-list director in the making and 'I, Robot' shows that he
can deliver a big Hollywood film.

I also give credit to Will Smith who starts out being very
unapproachable with his character but as the film goes we really become
fond of his hero. Smith's Spooner does have a lot of his previous
sci-fi heroes inter-laced into Spooner but it comes off as more of a
homecoming than an annoyance. In some ways I think Proyas had something
to do with that especially in the chase down scene towards the
beginning of the film. It almost felt like 'Men in Black' again.

As for Smith's co-stars, Cromwell's Lanning is a throwaway character
used mainly for effect, Moynahan is timid and sometimes robot-like but
it is a sturdy performance and Greenwood is menacing and a good match
to face off against the rebellious Smith. 

The reason I was so fond of 'I, Robot' is because for once it was a
summer film that didn't apologize for trying to be entertaining. The
special effects, the performances and the direction are all what people
want to see in the summer and this film is loads and loads of fun. It
is a great giant popcorn film with a light layering of message. 

My only small problem with this film was that it is supposed to be set
in Chicago in 2035. I didn't buy it but if it was 2135, then maybe.

Sure the film doesn't pave new ground but why does every film have to.
It is pure summer fun and what is wrong with that.

If you want Asimov and sci-fi purism then you can always read the
novels. Stop apologizing and most of all stop belly-aching, just give
the film a chance. If you like science fiction films and want to be
remembered how much fun they used to be then this picture is the
perfect ticket for you. So Says the Soothsayer.

<|_=00=_|>

"I, Robot" was this year's most entertaining Blockbuster: a lot of action,
witty dialog and a fine plot. In fact, I thought the plot was so good that
it was a waste to turn this project into a Will Smith vehicle. Not that he
ruined the movie or anything but his funnyman performance - and the witty
dialog - just kept the story from getting deep. So many other recent
Blockbusters were unnecessarily lofty (*cough*SPIDER-MAN2*cough*MATRIX2&3*cough*cough*)
and could have used some irony. With "I, Robot", however, it would have been
a great idea to go for a more philosophical approach.
The direction is very spectacular and fast paced, which isn't a bad thing,
but it doesn't help to create an intriguing atmosphere,
either.
The special effects look great for the most parts, except when they are used
to create landscapes. Sometimes a location looks like it was taken directly
out of a video game.
Anyway, "I, Robot" is a fantastic way to spend 90 minutes, but it's no
masterpiece and won't be remembered among classics who deal with similar
topics ("Blade Runner", "The Terminator", "The Matrix 1"). Pity. The
potential was there.
<|_=00=_|>
I thought the concept of the storyline was good, as it could be
conceived as realistic. Given the ever increasing advances in modern
technology, one can, indeed, conceive the possibility of this kind of
future occurrence.

I did not really see any flaws in this movie or in the actor's
character but the philosophical aspect of the movie questions at what
point does artificial intelligence cease to be artificial and true
consciousness arise? Anyhow, I did like the A.I. in this movie and
would definitely recommend, especially if you like Will Smith movies
are the Terminator series. I do, however, prefer there to be no sequels
to this movie due to the fact that a sequel would probably be no more
than a revamped version of the first one. With that being said, I
recommend seeing it. 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
I can't really think of any redeeming features of this utterly bad
rendering on Asimov than the art direction. Forget the product
placement disaster, the unconvincing performance from Will Smith and
the gargantuan plot-holes. This wasn't only laughable and but painful
to watch. Even the action was boring. A mixture of MTV inspired
production values and utterly bad dialogue probably aimed at very small
children.

What a shame that sci-fi this bad can still be made after we've had
Bladerunner, Minority Report or to a lesser extent Dark City (by the
same director). This one really belongs in the bottom 100 list. Truly
awful.
<|_=00=_|>
When it comes to worn out cop dramas, I Robot fits the bill. Not only
was the acting sub-par, the plot was boring and completely predictable.
This does, however, fit the typical cop drama formula. All the elements
were there: 1. Rogue cop has to solve fallen friends suspicious death.
2. Rogue cop is restrained by unyielding, by-the-book police captain.
3. Rogue cop loses job while pursuing case yet continues investigation.
4. Rogue cop teams up with civilian. 5. Rogue cop and civilian follow
ambiguous (at best) clues which lead to epic battle. 6. While battling
hundreds of foes, Rogue cop has time for corny one-liners. 7. Rogue cop
and civilian save world. Take this formula, add plenty of over the top
special effects and some absurd plot twists, and you've got I Robot.
<|_=00=_|>

To fully understand the new 20th Century-Fox release, "I, Robot," one must remember the three robotic laws first put forth by Isaac Asimov's classic sci-fi book of the same name. 

1) A robot can never harm a human; 2) a robot must obey all human orders unless it conflicts with the first law: and 3) a robot must protect itself unless it conflicts with the first two laws.

There it is.

Now, however, comes the problem. It's 2035 Chicago, complete with zooming, streamlined computer-controlled traffic and glittering million-story skyscrapers (I think things will be a bit more bleak in 30 years myself, but ...). There are also hundreds of thousands of robots scurrying about walking dogs, delivering male, collecting garbage, etc.

When Professor Alfred Lanning, the father of robotics (James Cromwell, "Babe," "LA Confidential"), falls from the top of the US Robotics building, everyone naturally assumes it's a suicide. 

Everyone except CPD detective Del Spooner (Will Smith).

Things just don't look right to him (how the Dr. is thrown through protective safety glass, for instance), but as he postulates his theory that an android may have committed the crime, his boss, Lt. John Bergen (Chi McBride), along with other officers, think he's insane. After all, remember the three laws?

Of course, in a film like this, where the loner is fighting against everyone else for something he/she believes in, we the audience are in on it, but despite much evidence, no one else believes him.

Except for Dr. Susan Calvin (Bridgette Moynahan, "Coyote Ugly," "Sum of All Fears"), a researcher at USR, who finds an extraordinary android named Sonny, who sounds very much like HAL the Computer in Stanley Kubrick's 2001: A Space Odyssey (the amazing creation is voiced by Alan Tudyk).

Sonny dreams, emotes and runs away from Spooner when he feels trapped. Your average, run-of-the-mill robot he ain't.

In the meantime, new NS-5 creations, more lifelike, yet much more subject to violence, are pouring off the assembly line to replace the older, more docile versions, while Spooner and Calvin investigate to the highest pinnacles of USR and the government.

But no one is going to sit still while a loose cannon rogue cop tries to upset the apple cart. On several occasions, Spooner is attacked by the mechanical creatures, just barely able to survive another run-in with the automatons. 

Spooner also harbors a secret which motivates him to hate and fear the 'bots even more than most.

Not is all as it seems, however, and there a few neat little twists thrown in, as well. 

I've never been a big Will Smith fan (recalling "Bad Boys" I and II, "Independence Day," "Wild, Wild West," etc.), but he does give a pretty low-key, sincere performance here. Director Alex Proyas ("Garage Days," "Dark City"), working with the biggest budget he's ever had, also blends creative special effects (the robots are amazing) with a decent storyline that keeps the action pumping with few slow spots. In addition, he doesn't allow the graphics to overwhelm a pretty good plot (that Isaac Asimov sure could write, couldn't he?).

