
First of all I think people need to understand that film is a lot like
music, you can't listen to a new Justin Bieber song and complain
because it's not a Mozart masterpiece. And you definitely can't watch
Jurassic World expecting a mind-boggling, emotional Inception type
film. I would put Jurassic World in the same category as most Michael
Bay films, the story line won't make you think, the characters won't go
through any psychological changes but you will be thoroughly
entertained by the special effects. I think it's fairly obvious
throughout the original trilogy and this film that we are the visitors
to the attractions, Steven Spielberg gave the parallel Earth a new
unimaginable attraction, one which surprised the audience so much, it's
rated as one of the best films ever. Period. Fast forward twenty two
years past the films of Interstellar, Lord of the Rings and Harry
Potter, we as a human race have seen a lot of original, unique things,
a plain old dinosaur film will not bring us the same thrills as it did
in 1993. Therefore we are once again, the visitors to the attraction.
We will never feel the same buzz as first seeing that T-Rex crashing
the gates over, or the same chill down the neck when first hearing that
Raptor shriek. However, we can still be entertained. Which is what
happens throughout the film. The characters are fairly bland, there are
only a couple likable ones, but they all seem to grow on you near the
end, the bloodbath that is left by the new Dino is quite emotional and
gives you a side to pick fairly easily, the surprises throughout the
film keep it exciting and the special effects, well we are in 2015 and
they did have a lot of money to spend so lets just say they are
incredible as expected. If you're looking to be on the edge of your
seat for two hours and trust the film to not bore you, then you have
nothing to worry about, the line graph representing excitement just
climbs up and up, if you're expecting another Shawshank Redemption,
well please don't slate the film when it doesn't satisfy your needs. I
think that films should have two ratings, one for overall, and another
for it's main sub-category, for example as an overall film I'd give it
a 7.5-8, it's sub-category of excitement I'd give a solid 10, a
comparison to the first Transformers which I'd give an 8 for excitement
and a 5 overall. Therefore I really do recommend this film for anyone
who like me, enjoys special effects, good excitement and two hours to
just sit on the edge of my seat and thoroughly enjoy my time. I can
only say I can't wait for the second one and I'm sure you will too
after you watch it.
<|_=00=_|>
The 4th film in the Jurassic Park series and the second sequel that
Steven Spielberg did not direct starts off well enough with enough call
backs to the first film of the series but quickly turns into a monster
movie with a run away super killer dinosaur that was spliced by the DNA
of other prehistoric creatures for the sake of selling extra tickets.
If my description of the plot Is pretty simplistic,it's because the
story is that simple. So forget the dangers of science morality tales
that both "Jurassic Park" and "The Lost World" gave to it's stories and
just accept that the series has become a standard creature feature that
just swaps out it's main monster for every new installment. The last
film in the series "Jurassic Park 3" pretty much threw away the whole
plot lines of the first two films just to give us a chase film with a
dinosaur that was never even seen in "The Lost World" and that film was
set on the same island. While "Jurassic Park 3" just went on a painful
90 minutes long montage of talking raptors, horrible scenes of family
bonding and an visible annoyed Sam Neill looking like he's about to go
postal on the people working on the film set, Jurassic World manages to
be a hell of a lot more enjoyable experience for the viewer in terms of
just trying to inject a sense of plot and continuity to this other wise
creature feature.

As a standard creature feature, the movie works well and gives you your
money's worth of dinosaurs doing collateral damage to property and
personnel with the occasional park visitor being killed for good
measure. Throw in your slack jaw good guy ( Chris Pratt) who feels that
the creatures are misunderstood and works with good guy dinosaurs(I
Kidd you not) to help stop the super killer dinosaur. Throw in an human
adversary for our hero to fight with ( Vincent D"Onofrio) who would
blow the whole island up to get this monster and add an human element
like two lost children who are related to a employee at this crazy
theme park who by the way has the hots for our hero and you have the
entire story right there.

It's hard enough to keep a franchise going, especially when you're
dealing with dinosaurs walking the earth. You will eventually hit a
wall in terms of storytelling if your primary goal is to keep turning
these films out with out any care what so ever. We saw that with
"Jurassic Park 3" where all the plot points from the previous two films
were abandon for a B Movie creature feature. "Jurassic World" tries
hard to correct that by having the movie be about something a little
more and try to connect itself to the first film of the series. And Its
much better film for it but it still ends up a creature feature all the
same.
<|_=00=_|>
Jurassic world is the #1 movie in America. This movie deserves the
right to be called back especially with all the money it earned
especially in the first week it was out. It's been 14 years since the
last time I saw Jurassic Park. I never would have thought that they
would be making a Fourth one and when I heard they were making a new
one I was ecstatic. It brought back all the memories of the first 3
films. When the day came for Jurassic World to open it had to go see it
on opening day and I did. The movie gave us the same feeling Jurassic
Park 1 did "Welcome to Jurassic World". The new park looked amazing
showing that John Hammond'so dream finally came true. The music was
more amazing than ever, the original Jurassic Park theme was re-prised
to show how much thing had changed in 14 years. The main attraction of
this movie was the Indominus Rex and hybrid of T-Rex, Raptor, cuddle
fish, and Tree frog and terrifying intelligence. At the end of the
movie we get to see the original T-Rex from the first movie roar for
the last time after the park was closed for good. This movie brought
back so many memories for so many people. I can't wait for the next
one.
<|_=00=_|>
This film combines the stories taken from king Kong and The lost
world,25 version.Bryce Dallas Howard Plays a Bitchy corporate executive
,who can't get with her nephews on Christmas holidays ,played by TY
Simpkins and Nick Robinson, that her sister has sent them for
visit,played by Judy Greer.Bryce works for a huge corporate amusement
park that focuses on dinosaurs.Bryce can't make time for her nephews,so
they wonder on their own.She a a troubled working and personal
relationships with a dinosaur trainer and activist play by new movie
star Chris Prat.Though owner and designer of the a park Irrfan Kahn
,who is more concerned about people having fun than how much profit has
increased.Chris has a problem working relationship with Vincent.Vincent
believes that the dinosaurs should focus on killing each other ,but,
Chris believes they should be trained for peace.Well, there is one
dinosaur that was create artificially ,for a new part of the park ,to
be open soon.I call him T.Rex Kong. A problem arises he not following
instructions and eats another dinosaur .All hell breaks loose when he
jumps the wall and terrorizes the customers the customer of the park
making a nice meal out of some of the worker and security guards .The
dinosaurs were so realistic and were digitally created . Earlier
Jurissic Park had used some puppets .The movie is made in style of an
amusement park .It seems that the character development is shorter for
the sake of the action.In some out takes that was shown ,flat,
indicated that may be some of the shots should have been kept of the
character development.It was not even.Did you see the little old
fashion camera that the smaller nephew was carrying?could indicate
Hollywood dislike towards home digital cameras?Chis originally did a
you tube joke about him getting a job in Spielberg's next Jurassic
movie .I think it was you tube.His dreams came true. Another problem
was that the characters and the whole atmosphere of the movies and sets
were cold and stoic.Even the kissing scene was cold and the family
reunion scene,which Claire's sisters husband was played by Andy
Buckley, was also not warm..E.T ,Poltergeists and Star Wars was far
more Warmer.What's the problem?I am afraid it's a real world currently
problems in general.Hollywood has always pretentiously serve the
establishment ,for profit,then claims they serve the masses.This movie
reflects our phony liberal side of big business and the wealthy running
our government and exploiting the animal rights and environmentalist
,who are desperate for a quick answer to protect animals and the
environment as well a s fanatics and those who have a contempt against
the human race ,due to constant warmongering ,for profit and political
power.This reflects pitting animals and the environment against humans
,very subtle, in this film,but,this is an outer problem.In spite of
this it is an excellence film,Gorgeous sets and realistic dinosaurs
,Bryce in her 1970's hair do,which has become popular again and
handsome leading man Chris Pratt.I was certainly satisfied with this
movie.Both 3D and flat were good. The sound was arousing and excellent
.No out of synchronizing problems here,since both images are in a
folder stabled .Great for Dino fans and 3D fans. 10/21/15
<|_=00=_|>
It's been awhile I think that I have labeled a film "a thrill ride" but
seriously though this film was a real thrill ride. It takes place about
twenty years after the events of the first film. There is now a
functioning theme park on the original island. They get thousands of
guest and they have tons of money making attractions. But then the
people who run the park get a little greedy wanting to make more money
and bring in more people so they create a new attraction, one that is
more dangerous and scarier then the T-Rex. This film was fantastic.
Chris Pratt and Bryce Dallas Howard lead this film very well almost as
a good as Sam Neill and Laura Dern did in the first film. The kids as
well Nick Robinson and Ty Simpkins did a good job. Colin Trevorrow also
was a great choice to helm this film and he did a fantastic job
directing. Now yes this film was a sequel and a great one at that. It's
been a long time since I have felt that a sequel is just as good as its
original. This film to me is really good and just as good as the first
film. The special effects were great and one of the best parts was the
music. I have been a Jurassic Park fan since I was a little kid and
this is actually the first of franchise that I have seen in theaters as
well. So this was definitely an amazing experience for me and hearing
that original score in this film literally gave me goosebumps.
<|_=00=_|>
As a young boy, dinosaurs were the greatest thing on earth (well, the
greatest thing that once WAS on earth) for me. I knew most of their
names (like Gray in JW) and had my plastic dinosaurs fighting
themselves, evil, and sometimes also good. You can imagine my
excitement when I first saw Jurassic Park and I was truly blown away by
the idea. I still somehow wish that I could actually experience the
events in the movie, although I understand the critic that the author
of the novel, Michael Crichton, wanted to express. Much of that critic
is lost in the third sequel to the original movie, 22 years after its
original release, at least it's hidden very deep in the plot. The
scientists have created a new super- species, filled the missing pieces
of DNA up with genes of amphibians that all have certain
survival-powers, and it all goes terribly wrong, much because the
dinosaurs are being underestimated as they always were. So is it a
reboot of the first movie? At least a bit. They are referring to the
first movie all the time, examples: A control guy wearing an Jurassic
Park shirt proudly says he got an original shirt (shown in part 1
several times) for $150 from eBay, they run through degenerated
original buildings and one time the kids even drive an original van
that they repaired competently. New park-owner Masrani says that John
Hammond told him on his death bed to "spare no expense", which was one
of the funniest scenes in the movie, yet Masrani doesn't want to
commercialize the park too much. That's where the movie starts being
perfectly self-ironic: one control guy (the one with the classic shirt)
jokingly suggests, in order to please the investors, to name newly bred
species after companies, "so how about Pepsi-Saurus"? The movie indeed
is full of product placements, I counted at least 9 brands and logos
that are shown or mentioned during the film. So what is the purpose of
the movie? Mainly, I guess, it's meant as a nostalgic, yet up-to-date
experience/excuse for all those fans who were bitterly disappointed by
the Parts II&III. It's exciting, contains a little love story, it's got
wit, social criticism and excellently animated dinosaurs. It shows that
22 years after Jurassic Park, movie heroes are still being chauvinist
and women are still stronger and braver as they are pictured in most
(other) movies. And, finally, it fulfills every fans biggest desire:
man and dinosaur, at last fighting side by side. That's probably why
I'd give it an even better rating than the original Jurassic Park
movie, although of course classic scenes like the shaking water glass
will probably never be outperformed. Résumé: Director Colin Trevorrow
manages to create an enthralling and visually stunning homage to the
original which at some points brilliantly steps out of the shadow of
its role model and finally puts the conciliatory end to the dinosaur
universe that we, the fans, truly deserved.
<|_=00=_|>
A really thrill of a ride. The Indominous Rex was a really cool idea
and handed well. A lot of action and storyline. Most characters
developed well and the last scene was a peach! However, there were some
faults but they didn't destroy the film in any way, shape or form.

The park was introduced in a very modern way and the teenager was like
he would be, on his phone when there are dinosaurs!!! Staring at girls
of course while queuing for the Gyrosphere was also very relatable.

Glad the Trex animatronic came back...and didn't die because that would
have disappointed me as it would have been a Jurassic Park 3 repeat.
Though my jaw-dropped at the awesomeness that was when the Trex and
Velociraptor fought together against the I-Rex. Seriously a really good
film and (in my opinion) competes for the best of the four films.
<|_=00=_|>
Successfully expands from park to world. Truly, it's a Jurassic world
after all. Even though Steven Spielberg didn't direct it, he's still
the executive producer. The visuals were thrilling and spectacular and
so was the plot line. As the time passes on, the visuals get more
artistic and realistic. This trilogy series never wears out it's
welcome, I wonder what they will think of next Jurassic Space? I hope
this film continues to receive critical acclaim as it's a dazzling
popcorn thriller and it's emotionally and visually exciting.

I think in the fifth film, there should be dinosaurs in space or the
dinosaurs are attacking aliens. The CGI gets better as the years go on
and it successfully replicates and in some ways improves the behaviours
of the dinosaurs when they react with humans with the dinosaurs violent
behaviours sure to thrill the entire audience!
<|_=00=_|>
I loved this movie. I don't understand some of the negative ratings
here. This is not a Fellini movie we're reviewing. It's dinosaurs. And
plenty of them. I think this is every bit as good as JPI and way better
than the other two. There's plenty of action. There are strong
characters, big dinosaurs, spectacular special effects. Add a star
because it's scary without being gruesome. The plot is plausible in a
movie that's based on a totally fantastical platform to start with. Go
see it. Definitely one to see on the big screen. It's got a huge box
office for a reason. People spontaneously clapped at the start of the
ending credits. It's been a long time since I've seen a movie where
that happened.
<|_=00=_|>
JURASSIC WORLD I do so love when a movie series returns to its creative
roots. JURASSIC PARK was an epic film, and then Spielberg and company
found a way to destroy its flavor with two banal sequels. After a
lengthy hiatus that included much soul-searching, and dumping Jack
Horner, JURASSIC WORLD brings the franchise back to the wonderfulness
of the original.

I try to not watch trailers before I see a movie. Often, they are
misleading. At best, the reveal too many key plot elements or scenes.
Unfortunately, the trailers for JURASSIC WORLD permeated media in a
major advertising campaign blitz. What I saw in the trailers alarmed
me. Did I actually see Velociraptors work along side the film's
protagonist Chris Pratt, as a unified force? It reminded me of ALIENS
VS. PREDATOR, where viewers were force-fed the notion a petite black
woman was the only human representative capable of defeating a horde of
aliens by teaming with the creatures who hunt humans for sport. Please.
The concept was idiotic, and though they tried to salvage the movie
series with a follow-up, the initial theme essentially destroyed the
franchise in the world of celluloid.

The raptors, in the same frame with Pratt, are not friendly creatures.
Luckily, there are no "we are family" moments between species. I'll
test your memory here, but think back to the second film in the
CREATURE FROM THE BLACK LAGOON series; THE REVENGE OF THE CREATURE. In
the film, John Agar, experimenting on the intelligence of the gill-man,
uses an electric prod to teach the word "stop" to the Creature. Through
Pavlovian testing, the Creature hesitates at the sound. It establishes
a necessary reaction for the climatic scene. The raptors work much the
same manner in JURASSIC WORLD. It is done well.

Now, consider Jack Horner. After JURASSIC PARK, Horner attempted to
garner his fifteen minutes of Andy Warhol fame and used rather sketchy
paleontology findings to discredit the Tyrannosaurus Rex. He claimed
the King of Dinosaurs was nothing but a mooching scavenger. Somehow, he
convinced Spielberg to shift attention away from Rex. It was a bad move
that culminated in a horrendous JURASSIC PARK 3, where a Spinosaurus,
which in reality measured only 20 feet compared to T-rex's 50 feet,
fights and defeats Rex. Horner's new Rex theories were dismantled by
his peers and colleagues within a year. He is now in the café of
scientific oblivion, sipping coffee with the two researchers who tried
to convince us of global warming with a fabricated hockey stick graph
model. Rex is back in full glory in JURASSIC WORLD. In fact, he
received cheers and applause from the preview audience when he appeared
on screen. They were louder than any reaction to superheroes.

JURASSIC WORLD makes many references to the original, and basically
ignores everything from the sequels. It is twenty years past John
Hammond's disastrous attempt to bring dinosaurs to a theme park. In
that time, technology has improved, enabling Hammond's dream to become
reality. Thousands of people visit JURASSIC WORLD on a regular basis,
but as with all things, dinosaurs become mundane with the public and
the park must find new and exciting ways to keep ticket sales booming.
Enter Indominus Rex, a genetically built dinosaur hybrid, meant to add
an element of fear and terror to park visitors. BD Wong returns as Dr.
Henry Wu, and is the culprit behind creation of the new Rex. He is
reminiscent of Dr. Susan McCallister, played by Saffron Burrows, in
DEEP BLUE SEA, who created superior sharks, but opted not to tell
anyone about the enhances features.

In keeping with the Spielberg tradition of constantly putting children
in danger, Ty Simpkins and Nick Robinson star as Gray and Zach, who are
visiting the park while their parents attempt to end their marital
bliss. There can never be happy families anymore in films. It doesn't
fit the template of a dysfunctional society, so loved by liberal
Hollywood ideology. Entrusted to the care of their aunt, the boys
naturally find a way to immerse themselves in park havoc, while they
discover the bond that exists between brothers. Meanwhile, Auntie
Claire, played by Bryce Dallas Howard, while chasing the All American
Woman Executive Dream, has the hots for Owen (Pratt), who is in this
story what Robert Muldoon should have been in the first. All these
subplots are secondary and just provide hurdles for a tale about a
genetic freak, and the dinosaurs who hate him.

Critics were able to see JURASSIC WORLD in 3D. It is worth it. The
dinos, especially the raptor attacks, are superb. The dinos look great,
thanks to Ed Verreaux's production design. Cinematography by John
Schwartzman is excellent and provides several iconic moments sure to
appear on posters and memes. Music, though featuring additional tunes
by Michael Giacchino is basically variations on John Williams memorable
score.

All in all, JURASSIC WORLD brings the series back to where it belongs.
You can watch the first one, skip the second and third, and jump
straight to this one and have a better franchise. The movie is filled
with dinosaurs and dinosaur action. It's worth repeated views and
deserves a spot on your home video shelf. As such, it exemplifies
excellence in film entertainment and captures the coveted Fist of Fiore
Award for 2015. You'll like this one; it's a keeper.

10/10
