
Well, my friends, I have just returned from the earliest possible
showing of "Brothers Grimm" in my area, and I can assure you it was
well worth getting up a few hours earlier than usual to watch. However,
I would caution anyone who doesn't like Terry Gilliam's work, Matt
Damon and Heath Ledger, or the REAL brothers Grimms' stories that this
is not your average fantasy. The story is set in french-occupied
Germany in the 1700s, a real time in which real people actually lived.
Even some of the magical aspects of the story are explained by real
events (I won't spoil it for you). So quite a bit of the plot deals
with the realities of the day and age along with the fantastical
aspects of the forest and its inhabitants.

That being said, the story also deals with the opposite side of
unreality-- the dark and unnaturally gruesome. This is where I think
the writer hit on a brilliant point; while the real brothers' stories
have happy endings and some lighthearted moments, most if not all of
their stories involve some degree of blood and gore. My hat is off to
Ehren Kruger for being true to that aspect of their work.

The only aspects of this movie I disliked were the unresolved ending
(which I won't spoil, either) and some of the acting. Lena Headey's
performance did not impress me, but it could just be lack of material
to work with (a very overdone character) and the fact that I've never
seen any of her other work. Matt Damon is interesting to watch as
usual. Peter Stormare and Jonathan Pryce are wacky to the point of
annoyance as an Italian torture specialist and a French general. The
only truly wonderful performance, however, is that of Mr. Ledger, whose
bumbling, scholarly, tag-along Jacob was both a sympathetic character
and a side we rarely see from this multi-talented actor.

This is not a movie for everyone (I wouldn't bring children with the
tendency for nightmares or irrational fears, for example). It's not a
movie you'll learn from or probably want to see hundreds of times. But
for the moviegoer looking for beautiful cinematography, a few good
laughs, and a fairly suspenseful story, look no further.
<|_=00=_|>
Rather than fight yet another war with Hollywood (see: "Brazil", "The
Adventures of Baron Munchausen", and "The Man Who Killed Don Quixote"),
Terry Gilliam took off his gloves and allowed the Weinsteins and
Miramax to force their will upon him. With his new film "Tideland"
coming out soon, Gilliam chose to focus his efforts on molding it,
while allowing "The Brothers Grimm" to go wherever the studio wanted to
take it. The result is by far the most commercial film to Gilliam's
name, but in this case watered-down Gilliam is better than no Gilliam,
and his first film in seven years ("Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas" in
1998) is a fun one.

"The Brothers Grimm" certainly looks like a Terry Gilliam movie, loaded
with extravagant visuals and wide angled shots, although the $80
million budget did allow for his first use of CGI (it really isn't too
bad, though), and it does not have the incredibly surreal feeling to it
that most Gilliam films have. It takes a bit of time to get used to
Matt Damon (as Will Grimm) and Heath Ledger, moreso Damon, as Ledger is
surprisingly good as Jacob Grimm. The film was much more humorous than
I had expected, and has plenty of subtle Gilliam humor. Many will find
Peter Stormare' Cavaldi character to be extremely annoying, but I
thought he was hilarious, and one of the highlights of the movie.
Jonathan Pryce returns to another Gilliam movie as Delatombe, and does
a decent job, although his character was a little overly obnoxious at
times. Lena Headey is good as Angelika, and Monica Bellucci also pulls
off a good performance, although unfortunately she does not get a
significant amount of screen time.

The plot of "The Brothers Grimm" wanders a lot, and I actually thought
the movie was winding down at around the 90 minute mark, but this works
somewhat to the film's advantage, as it makes a fairly straightforward
plot seem slightly less predictable. The film is much sillier than the
promos may lead to believe, and that probably will not come us much of
a surprise to big Gilliam fans. Unlike previous Gilliam movies,
however, there really is no substance behind what we see on screen, so
what we get is really the first 'popcorn flick' with Gilliam's name on
it. Like all Terry Gilliam movies, the reaction will be mixed, and
there will be some people who absolutely love it, and some who name it
their worst film of the year. As far as I'm concerned, "Grimm" does not
hold a candle to Terry Gilliam's previous films, but it is one of the
better 'big summer movies', and I certainly felt my time was well spent
watching it.

3 stars (out of 4)
<|_=00=_|>
Being a fan of both good old-fashioned fantasy movies and of director
Terry Gilliam, I was really looking forward to this one. I was slightly
put off when I heard Gilliam's complaints about the constant
interference of the Brothers Weinstein, but the director does have a
history of being dissatisfied with the production of projects which
actually turn out pretty good in the end, so my hopes were still pretty
high.

Rather than being a historical biography of the famous authors, this is
a fantastic make-believe story of the possible inspirations behind the
stories of the Brothers Grimm. The brothers travel around Europe
working as con artists, fooling simple peasants into believing they are
witch-hunters and monster slayers. However, when they are captured by a
French general and sent to investigate a town which is believed to have
been targeted by similar con-men, they discover that there may be some
truth behind the fairy tales. The very woods surrounding the town seem
to be alive, a big, bad wolf stalks through the darkness and an evil
power seems to emanate from a mysterious ancient tower ...

So, Gilliam tries his hand at doing a commercial summer blockbuster.
And the results are, well, interesting. Primarily he shows that he can
produce some great action sequences, and there are some really great
visual ideas here, many of which I'll admit are entirely thanks to
top-notch CGI work. These are the moments when the director's creative
magic appears to shine through, and there's enough of them to make this
movie worth watching. Overall it does feel strangely derivative for a
Gilliam movie, but I suppose that's to be expected when he sacrifices
creative control to the studio. In the past I've heard that Gilliam
simply sees himself as a "hired hand" on such projects.

However, where it fails is in the mixture of action and drama, in
repeatedly placing it's characters in peril whilst also making us care
about them. Unfortunately this has been a problem in a lot of these
big-budget fantasy/action movies lately, including last years
equivalent -- "Van Helsing". The other movie with which this shares a
lot in common is Tim Burton's Gothic horror "Sleepy Hollow", which was
far superior to either. The main problem with the "Brothers Grimm" is
that there's little to no character development in the first hour of
the movie, and then almost all of the conflict between the characters
is suddenly introduced in one scene. This is what we call bad pacing.
And the way the characters are written seems somewhat inconsistent
(although both Damon and Ledger manage to turn in decent performances
all the same), and we never really get a "feel" for their
personalities.

For your average light-hearted Hollywood fantasy, this is perfectly
fine. But from a director with a history of making fascinating,
important works of surreal art, this is somewhat short of what you'd
expect.
<|_=00=_|>
Like his Baron Munchhausen, Gilliam's Brothers Grimm has been horridly
misunderstood by critics and public alike. What I get from the comments
and reviews is the sense of thwarted expectations, although I have
little idea what the anti-Grimms expected in the first place. People
dislike the kitten scene because it's a cute kitten. This I find
entirely in the grotesque spirit of the original folk tales. We've
learned to take our fairy tales Disneyfied, apparently. I've also heard
complaints about the quality of the special effects as sub-ILM quality.
Frankly, that's what I liked about them. They *didn't* look like ILM;
they looked personal. I admit I found the basic premise a cliché (two
con men who make their living on the superstitious gullible find out
that, in this case, the magic is real), but its working-out overcomes
this basic flaw. This is a movie that shuns cliché. The brightest
scenes, for example, almost always contain the greatest menace.
Relative safety is drab, dirty, brutish, nasty, and short. Ledger gives
an amazing performance -- I had previously regarded him as a Troy
Donahue update. Matt Damon shows he has the chops to cross over from
small "indies" to big performances in the old leading-man vein. Peter
Stromare and Jonathan Pryce do a highbrow Martin & Lewis -- Stromare
all over the place and Pryce coolly self-contained -- to hilarious
effect. The faces alone in this movie are wonderful, hearkening back to
the glory days of Leone. There are so many telling details in the
background ("Bienvenue a Karlstadt") -- let alone the foreground --
that show Gilliam's mastery. Harry Potter (which I enjoyed), Lord of
the Rings, and Chronicles of Narnia are for the kiddies and show us
worlds we can, with effort, control. Gilliam doesn't offer any such
comfort, not even at the end. The sense of menace is overwhelming, and
Gilliam achieves it without super-special effects, usually camera
movement (the shots following Little Red Riding Hood through the forest
made my jaw drop). A brilliant film, operating at a high level we don't
see much of these days. Someone compared the movie to Burton's Big
Fish, another film dismissed or ignored by critics and public. Although
Burton's and Gilliam's sensibilities differ, I take the writer's point.
The confident, poetic handling of myth and archetype in both
astonishes.
<|_=00=_|>
Terry Gilliam, the only American member of the Monty Python troupe, and
director of such quirky classics as "Brazil," "Time Bandits," "The
Fisher King," "Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas," "The Adventures Of
Baron Munchausen" and "Monty Python & The Holy Grail," among others,
does it again with bizarre combination of Munchausen and Tim Burton's
"Sleepy Hollow," with a little bit of "The Village" thrown in.

This dark-humored film relates the completely-fictional story of the
famous German brothers, Wilhelm (Matt Damon) and Jakob (Heath Ledger)
Grimm, who created dozens of fairy tales and nursery stories for
children in the early 19th Century. True to Gillian's idiosyncratic
style, though, the movie plays nothing straight down the line. In this
case, the brothers are con artists, traveling through the
French-occupied German villages (remember Napoleon was big in those
days) and playing on the fears and superstitions of their idiot
occupants.

Wearing goofy armor, shouting made-up incantations, and using hidden
assistants, sleight of hand and other trickery, they fool these hicks
into paying them big money, that is until they are finally captured by
French forces, and sent to a town where several young girls have gone
missing. The two arrive with little fanfare, as well as several French
soldiers and Cavaldi (Peter Stormare, "Birth," "Bad Boys 2"), the evil
Italian inquisitor of Gen. Delatombe (Jonathan Pryce, "Brazil") to try
and solve the mystery. If they fail, they will be tortured and
executed.

Since, of course, they are fakes, they have no idea what they're doing
but, with the assistance of a female trapper, they discover a crumbling
tower deep within a foreboding forest. The woman remembers her father
telling her the story of an evil queen who sealed herself up there to
avoid a plague that was killing her subjects. It seems this tower and
whatever now lives inside of it may be the cause of all the trouble.

Borrowing heavily from "Sleepy Hollow," the two have gadgets and
inventions which were far ahead of their time (and thus completely
illogical to those around them). Their efforts to solve the
disappearances are clumsy and awkward, but somehow they stumble onto
clue after clue. All the while they exchange silly and witty bon mots
while trying to outsmart the bad guys and themselves. Even better
performances come from Pryce and especially Cavaldi, who is evil,
smarmy and pathetic.

Always a stickler for historic details, Gilliam's costumes and set
design are perfect for 1804 Europe (the film was shot in Prague), when
Napoleon was at the peak of his powers and the continent was pretty
much under French control.

Weaved throughout the film are any number of the Grimm fables,
including "Cinderella," "Sleeping Beauty," "Rapunzel," "The Frog
Prince," "Little Red Riding Hood," "Hansel And Gretel" and "The
Gingerbread Man," among others, while the iconoclastic Gilliam throws
in subtle and not-too-subtle jokes, dialogue and situations.

Here, many who may not understand or appreciate the director's roots,
may turn away and condemn the project, misinterpreting Gilliam's
often-frantic camera-work and reliance on special effects as a metaphor
for his lack of vision or ingenuity. Nothing could be further from the
truth. "Grimm," while certainly not up to the standards set in some of
his earlier work, is nonetheless an interesting, creative and
visually-intriguing film. Yes, it does tend to bog down every now and
then, while the violent comedy, at times, is a bit forced, but,
overall, that detracts little from the entire film.
<|_=00=_|>
The Brothers Grimm is a different movie than what I expected. It turned
out to be similar to Big Fish in a way, but a little darker and with
some awesome special effects.

Will (Matt Damon) and Jacob Grimm (Heath Ledger) start off as shysters,
bamboozling local town people by setting up elaborate and
"supernatural" schemes and charging heavily to ward off monsters,
witches or anything else.

The story actually starts getting interesting when they run into an
actual supernatural occurrence (or fairy tale). It seems that children
have been vanishing in some "enchanted woods" and the French believe it
is a scam similar to ones the Grimms have pulled.

While fighting off beasts and such, The Brothers Grimm encounter people
who obviously inspire stories such as Little Red Riding Hood, Jack &
The Beanstalk, Snow White and others. Altogether, things fill out quite
nicely. It never comes straight out and says that Grimm's Fairy Tales
comes from these stories but it gives the audience enough credit to
figure that out on it's own, even though it is quite obvious.

Lena Headey deserves to be mentioned as the lovely Angelika. She plays
a hardened and tough hunter/trapper who helps The Grimms and is also
the love interest, which I guess is expected. Also, Monica Bellucci was
a good addition as the "mirror queen".

I enjoyed this movie quite a bit. Like I said, more than I thought I
would have. The special effects were very nice. The trees move
realistically like snakes. More believable than some of the giant snake
movies I have seen, anyways. I can recommend this movie. If you like
Tim Burton style of movies, then you should like this one as well. 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
People have a curious tendency not to notice how bizarre and gruesome
children's fairy tales often are. Terry Gilliam's "The Brothers Grimm"
does notice. Unfortunately, that's just about its only insight into the
subject. The film shows no understanding of what makes fairy tales
memorable and exciting, or why they have endured through the ages.

A much better handling of the subject is the 1962 film "The Wonderful
World of the Brothers Grimm," which intersperses a realistic though
nonfactual account of the brothers' lives with dramatic recreations of
the tales they collected. I'm not saying that Gilliam had to do a
retread of the same material. I would be very happy to see a remake
with a radically new approach, as long as it respects the underlying
subject matter. Gilliam's film does not. Its storyline is mostly a long
string of fantasy and horror clichés that remind us far more of
contemporary movies than of classic fairy tales. The Big Bad Wolf, for
example, has been reduced to a standard-issue wolf-man (brought to life
with digital effects that are just a tad too jerky to be excused in our
age of high-tech movie-making).

In this version, the brothers (Heath Ledger and Matt Damon, both
inexplicably adopting English accents) are con artists who go from town
to town posing as conjurers who can protect the local populace from
evil spirits. A French general (Jonathan Pryce) catches on to what
they're doing and forces them to work for him, on pain of death. But
when they're sent to a new town, their old tricks prove useless against
an age-old curse that really does haunt the woods.

The movie belongs to the old genre where famous writers become
characters in their own stories. It's a genre I've never much liked,
maybe because it suggests a failure to comprehend the powers of human
imagination. ("No one could have made up these stories; they must have
really happened!") But I have enjoyed a few films of this kind, such as
the 1979 movie "Time After Time," where H.G. Wells builds a time
machine and travels to the 1970s in pursuit of Jack the Ripper. This
type of story has to work hard to achieve the willing suspension of
disbelief. "The Brothers Grimm" fails on that front because it changes
its reality too often. In an early scene, we're shown an intense battle
with an awesome-looking banshee. Then the whole battle is revealed to
have been staged. And then, later on, we're asked to believe that magic
really does exist in this world after all. These repeated shifts in the
story's reality are profoundly disorienting.

The source of disarray in the woods is an undead queen (Monica
Bellucci) trying to regain her youth in an elaborate spell that will be
completed once she sacrifices a series of children from the town. She
resides in a tower in the woods, appearing as a skeleton on one side of
a mirror and as a beautiful woman on the other. Her magical control
over the woods serves as an excuse for numerous scenes of mysterious
enchantment, most of which have a very tenuous connection to the
central plot. The trees in the forest seem to have a life of their own,
walking around when no one's looking. A mysterious creature lurks at
the bottom of a well. The wolf-man is a servant of the mirror queen,
using magic to ward off would-be visitors. But a coherent story never
emerges from these elements. The screenplay seems to make up the rules
as it goes along, inventing whatever is convenient at any given moment.
Every now and then, some familiar quote is referenced--"Who is the
fairest of them all?"; "What big eyes you have"; "You can't catch me,
I'm the Gingerbread Man"--but always gratuitously. The movie's magical
story is formless and convoluted, lacking any consistent narrative
logic. It comes off as a series of elements arbitrarily glued together.

As a result, the magical sequences lack payoff. We keep waiting for
something wondrous to happen, then nothing does. In one sequence, for
example, two children named Hans and Greta are making their way through
the woods, leaving a trail of bread crumbs in their wake. We eagerly
await the children's encounter with the gingerbread house run by the
cannibalistic witch, or at least something of comparable interest. But
just about the only thing that happens is a mysterious sequence
involving a levitating shawl. Like many other sequences in the film,
this one doesn't go anywhere and has only the faintest connection with
the mirror queen story.

No doubt there's an important theme at work in scenes like this. The
movie is suggesting that the classic fairy tales are the result of
accounts that have been embellished over time. But other writers have
handled this theme much more effectively. Gregory Maguire's novel
"Wicked," for example, turns "The Wizard of Oz" into a sophisticated
adult fantasy with complex character motives and sly social satire. In
that novel, there is a definite implication that we are being told the
"real" story, and that the conventional version is the corruption. But
the novel handles this conceit by expanding on the story, not degrading
it. There's no point in creating a revisionist fairy tale if it's going
to be less fleshed out than the original.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't think myself overly literary for reading Bruno Bettelheim's
"The Uses of Enchantment," but forgive me for being obscure. In his
book, Bettelheim analyzes common fairy tales for their underlying
psychological and cultural meanings. He makes a great argument for the
telling of fairy tales, even if they are slightly (or more than
slightly) graphic, which is why I am partly able to explain my
fascination with this film.

It's not really overly good really, as you've probably seen more of a
seven out of ten, but yet it fascinates me. Perhaps it's the
psychological element between the two brothers (which is done quite
well) about the importance/existence of magic, or the surreal score
peppered with Brahms and Dario Marianelli originals. (I have no idea
who this guy is, but the soundtrack is so weird that I want it.)
Perhaps it's the horror invoked by the fairy tale images of our
childhood, brought horribly to life in the (thankfully) twisted mind of
Terry Gilliam.

Oh, a little note about Terry Gilliam. You're going to have to forgive
him because his pace can be a little bit feverish, and he tends to lose
the viewer that's not paying attention. (He did make "Time Bandits" and
"Monty Python and the Holy Grail," and you know how much of THAT made
sense.) Do not question how the Grimm boys get from one end of Germany
to another so quickly. Your head will explode.

Basically, this film makes me happy for a couple of reasons: one, the
dialogue. It's strangely antiquated one minute, then purely Hollywood
the next. (Don't worry about the anachronisms they're supposed to be
there, they're funny.) Two, his name starts with Heath and ends with
Ledger. Now, I didn't used to like this guy. I thought he was just a
deep throated Aussie, but the boy's got range. I didn't know he could
lack confidence so well. (Now I'm teasing, but really, he's quite
good.) Damon was wonderful as always, proving over and over again that
he may not be the prettier, but he's the smarter half of "Ben-att".
Three, they're fairy tales in their ghoulish, bloody glory. Wait till
you see both Little Red Riding Hood scenes, you'll totally freak out.
It's nightmarish in such a way that you can't take your eyes off it.
It's not morbid fascination, like a car accident, but something deeper,
the sense of childlike wonder that make kids watch the most disgusting
thing (like insects or TOADS) for hours.

What is the point? You might ask. Why should I see this piece of
rubbish instead of "The 40 Year Old Virgin" for the 6th time? Or, in
the long run, rent "The Princess Bride"? (You should rent both by the
way, it'd make a lovely double feature.) Well, I still can't watch the
waxing scene, but here's the real point: Fairy tales have a purpose.
They give us comfort when we are in crises, and delight and frighten us
when we need to have fun. What we see in Ledger's character (Jacob) is
the child who shelters himself with fairy tales. What we see in Damon's
(the older, Will) is the adult who wants to take him away from him. And
as Bettelheim says, fantasy is not nearly as cruelly unforgiving as
reality, so let him keep them. I still need a little Sleeping Beauty
now and then. There's something strangely comforting about waking to
true love's kiss.
<|_=00=_|>
I have to begin this review by letting you know right off that I
thoroughly enjoyed this movie. I haven't adored everything Terry
Gilliam has done, but I don't hate his style, either. Rather, I judge
each movie by its own merits.

This work is adventurous, exciting, and story-driven. Most would
probably consider this work action-driven, but I find there IS a good
solid story behind the action. It has moments of suspense,
breath-taking imagery, and stylized humor. It is a great movie.

A great movie, which has obvious flaws. 

Regardless of how much I enjoyed this movie, there was one element
which nagged at me the whole time I was viewing this work. Mind you, I
have not seen this on DVD, so I am unaware if they have created the DVD
"fix" for this yet, or not. I could not help but notice, in several
places, the editing seemed stiff. 

I am fervently hoping that this came from a paring down of those
scenes. If such is the case, then I am also (just as fervently) hoping
they give us (the US & Canada) a Region 1, 2-disk Director's Cut with
those scenes edited BACK IN! I hate it when they include the deleted
scenes outside the movie. Put those back where they belong!

On the flip side...

With the release of Underworld in 2003, the sub-sub-genre of
Action/Horror has taken a turn at the box office. Just as, "The Worst
Witch," revived the interest in Magick and fantasy, and generated an
audience for the later, "Harry Potter," series, so did, "Underworld,"
revive the Horror genre and the appreciation for the blending of Horror
and Action. 

This work, "The Brothers Grimm," as an Action/Horror, does not foot the
bill. There is too little Horror and the action is sometimes a bit
subdued. There are places where CGI and/or choreography is obvious
thereby breaking the Spell so competently woven by the story and virtue
of the characters. However, it IS too dark for the kiddies, and still
quite enjoyable.

I was not disappointed, but I was not elated over the final product,
either. Here's hoping for a GOOD "fix" (and a timely release) of the
2-disk Region 1 Director's Cut DVD release.

It rates an 8.6/10 from...

the Fiend :.
<|_=00=_|>
Are you familiar with the Grimm fairy tales? Did you like the way
"Shakespeare in Love" explained how Shakespeare might have gotten his
ideas for "Romeo and Juliet?" Did you like "Shrek?" Are you a fan of
Matt Damon or Heath Ledger? Do you think Monica Bellucci is hot? If
your answer to any of the above questions is "yes," and you are willing
to suspend disbelief (because boy is this movie inconsistent if you
actually think about it) this film will provide an entertaining
diversion. It's funny, interesting, exciting, and even a little scary
(so don't bring your little children if they get scared easily).

The premise - Matt Damon and Heath Ledger are the Brothers Grimm,
famous around French-occupied Germany for driving away demons, though
they are, in fact, con artists with fancy gadgets and conspirators for
special effects. They use the money they collect for their "services"
to finance their operations. The French occupying government catches
them and sentences them to death, unless they out-con the conman who is
causing little girls to disappear in a town alongside the woods. In
this town and the neighboring woods are the inspirations for numerous
Grimm fairy tales, including Hansel & Gretel, Rapunzel, and Little Red
Riding Hood.

The characters aren't the most deep of film characters, but they are
developed enough to be distinctive and convincing. Will Grimm (Matt
Damon) is the brains behind the team, with a very realistic desire to
protect his brother, even as he harbors a constant anger at him for
blowing the only opportunity to save their little sister's life when
they were children. Jake (Heath Ledger) is the dreamer, convinced that
there is truth in legend, and that with courage and effort, any problem
can be solved. Predictably but not boringly, the two of them provide
the perfect team to fight what turns out to be a real-life, magical,
evil danger.

The special effects aren't the best; some of the cgi creatures move
quite jerkily, but when they're good, they work. The sets are
beautiful, and fit the Grimm fairy tale world well. The costumes are
likewise gorgeous and apt.

If you think about this film enough to ask questions like, "if evil
magic was real, how come the brothers are famous instead of having been
discredited the first time they pretended to fight off a real evil
presence and it continued to haunt people?" then you will be
disappointed. However, if you are willing to suspend disbelief, you'll
be in for an entertaining summer popcorn treat.
