
"The only thing that matters is the ending. It's the most important
part of the story. And this one, is very good." This line, from the
short story by Stephen King, and repeated with such muted insanity by
Johnny Depp, is Secret Window in a nutshell.

A lot of people didn't enjoy this movie, because the ending is clichéd
and predictable, but I loved the rest of it because of it's true
subject matter.

The movie is about writing and the insanity of writers. For those of
you unfamiliar with the process...imagine spending months or even years
of your life working on a painting that you yourself can never see. You
become so close to what you create that you have no idea if it's any
good, and the growing doubt of your own ability along with the fear of
wasting so much time and effort will most definitely have you pulling
your hair out.

That's what Secret Window captures so perfectly. It's obvious Stephen
King knows exactly what's going on in Mort Rainey's mind, and Koepp, a
successful and busy screenwriter, probably connected with the material
for the same reason.

Early in the movie, Mort walks around his house on a typical day when
he's working on his latest novel. He does nothing. Sleeps. Talks to his
dog. Then finally sits down at the typewriter and writes a single
paragraph. He then reads it, realizes it's bad writing, and deletes it.
But he does it with a SMILE. And he goes back to sleep happy, because
he DID something on that day.

That's the world that Mort Rainey, as a serious writer, lives in.
Completely obsessed with trying to paint a blind masterpiece, and
scared to death of failure. So you can imagine that when Mort finally
completes something that he's proud of, it goes down as one of the
great days in his otherwise nervous and stressful existence.

And King has magnified the situation, by stripping our writer of
everything else that might make him happy. Mort's personal life is a
complete mess. His wife has left him for another man (a subplot staged
with perfect awkward bitterness), he has no friends and is living alone
in a cabin in the woods. So Mort is a writer and nothing else. The only
thing he has left is the hope of his latest novel. And that naturally
takes all his effort and gives him nothing but stress and doubt in
return. So the only thing that can possibly be keeping him going is his
previous work. The satisfaction that comes from having climbed the
mountain in the past and created something that truly makes him proud.

And THAT is when the horror begins. Our villain appears, and accuses
Mort of plagiarizing one of his previous stories. (If you've followed
my description to this point, your stomach should turn a cartwheel at
this moment.) Shooter threatens Mort's life, and Mort is left trying to
find an original copy of the story to prove to his stalker (and perhaps
himself) that he does have a shred of value as a human being.

And of course, as the story goes on...we get a full exploration of the
affects of immersing yourself in a fictional world. It goes on to show
the paranoia and madness that can come from men when they don't have
the steady influence of reality to keep them anchored.

The ending of the story is very predictable and cliché, but I can
forgive it, because it is a total natural for this material. Secret
Window is a perfect examination of the inner madness that exists in
people who create subjective art for a living. Depp's performance is
pitch perfect, and people who understand the situation will most likely
love this.

If you aren't, however, you won't be able to identify.

7.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of the few movies that you will either love or hate. There
is no middle ground. The people that have slammed this movie must not
have understood a lot of the symbolism. Seriously, some of it is
obvious but a lot of it would require you listen to the Director's
commentary to catch.

While aspects of the story are predictable, you will never see the last
couple minutes coming. Koepp made a film that HE believed in, with a
finale that may not sit well with the general public. For this, I
applaud him.

As I've noted on the message board, Koepp borrowed a page from
Hitchcock's book and relied on our imagination to fill in the gaps
during the violent sequences. Some of it is shown but certainly not
all. Without question this film tested the limits of the PG-13 rating
but Koepp did not take the easy way out and turn this film into an
R-rated gore fest. This film proves that PG-13 films can be gritty and
poignant.

Depp's performance is amazing, as can be expected. The cinematography
is awesome. Watch this film with an open mind, taking to heart each
character's motivations.

If you've already seen the film I would strongly suggest you watch the
Featurettes and listen to the Director's commentary on the DVD. You may
find this to be quite an eye opener.

My Score: 8/10 stars
<|_=00=_|>

"Secret Window" is another one of those eerie thrillers where danger
lurks within the shadows. We can almost feel it, and so can the hero,
as he walks through his house, armed with a weapon, ready to defend
himself at all costs. He hears a noise from somewhere behind him, spins
around, and suddenly realizes it was just his imagination. He sighs,
puts down the weapon, turns around, and BOO! There's the bad guy, who
has somehow managed to enter the locked home and avoid being detected.
What if, I wonder, one of these times, the bad guy was seen as he
entered? What if the Fisherman from "I Know What You Did Last Summer"
had been spotted, and confronted, by one of the teenagers? What if
Norman Bates' "Mother" had been exposed from the start? Then there
presumably would be no movie, of course.

Although we know where "Secret Window" is headed quite early on, David
Koepp (writer of "Panic Room" and director of the well-made "Stir of
Echoes") manages to sustain the audience's interest through a series of
suspenseful camera shots. Some are inventive, while others are merely
fun to watch because we can guess where Koepp got his inspiration.

Mort Rainey (Johnny Depp) is a successful author who lives up north
with his beloved dog and a laptop. He apparently abandons his social
life, never gets a haircut, and wears quite silly-looking glasses. He
has a sarcastic personality and presumably does not get along very well
with the local residents, who generally keep to themselves anyway.

Mort's life is changed forever when a strange man named John Shooter
(John Turturro) shows up at his doorstep claiming that Mort has
"stolen" his story. Mort is handed a dirty manuscript. Within the pages
are passages literally identical to those from Mort's own book, "Secret
Window," published in 1994, three years before John claims he wrote
his. "Secret Window," the novel, is about a man whose wife cheats on
him. Fueled by rage, the fictional character murders his own wife and
buries her in the "secret garden" located outside of the "secret
window" of their home.

It is said that art imitates life, and through a series of flashbacks
we learn that Mort's novel bears an eerie similarity to his own
problems -- "six months ago" his wife (Maria Bello) had an affair with
Ted (Timothy Hutton). Mort assumes that John Shooter has some sort of
connection to his past, and hires a detective (Charles S. Dutton) to
find the mysterious man, who always seems to appear out of nowhere when
Mort is alone.

Depp's performance is the highlight of the film -- if Depp is imitating
Stephen King (the author of the short story "Secret Window" is based
on), he succeeds. Barely recognizable hidden underneath a layer of
geeky clothing and a generally disheveled appearance, Depp once again
proves that he can tackle any sort of role as an actor -- from a scared
teenager who has to stay up ("A Nightmare on Elm Street") to a Hunter
S. Thompson lookalike ("Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas").

Koepp, who wrote the screenplay for the film, realizes that the key to
the story is Depp's performance wisely allows his primary actor to let
loose. Meanwhile the co-stars all deliver fine, convincing performances
and although the grand finale is a bit of a let-down, and terribly
predictable, the movie's style is interesting. "Secret Window" is
better than most in its genre, although by no means is it a masterpiece
of any sort. Just an enjoyable Friday/Saturday night matinée, and
worthy of recommendation if you're not looking for anything special.

I could criticize the "twist" of the movie and say that it has become
one of the most overused solutions to Hollywood film thriller/mysteries
of the past decade, but I won't spoil it, and let you decide for
yourself whether it does the story justice.

<|_=00=_|>
This captivating thriller, based on a novella (Secret Window, Secret
Garden) by Stephen King, is a true stroke of movie genius. Many
reviews, make the claims that this movie is "outworn", "cliched" and
even "predictable"! With these claims, I strongly disagree. The writing
for this film is incredibly clever and complicated, I myself had to
watch the film 2 or 3 times before I could fully comprehend all of the
twists and turns that are interwoven throughout. Not a film for the
faint hearted - although the majority of the violence is only implied -
there are a few gory scenes, which all include a screw driver and a lot
of blood. Despite how this may sound, this is not a "full on gore
movie" by any means. Quite the opposite, it is a very deep
psychological thriller which will leave you with a lot to think about.
A truly moving performance by Johnny Depp, who plays the role of Mort
outstandingly, so that you can really connect with Mort, and empathize
with how he is feeling. John Turturro, another incredible actor, plays
Shooter with a real eeriness,with the perfect amount of emotion and
madness. A truly fantastic film, which will leave you jaw dropped (no
exaggeration) by the time you reach the end. Plus Johnny Depp is
gorgeous as Mort Rainey, and that can't be bad ;)
<|_=00=_|>
Director David Koepp has written some nice screenplays ('Carlito's
Way', 'Panic Room') and I liked his 'Stir of Echoes'. Here he comes
with a thriller based on a Stephen King novel that is not very good but
has some qualities. The best quality here is another terrific
performance from Johnny Depp. No matter what he does, he succeeds in
making a film entertaining even when it should not be.

Depp is a writer named Mort Rainey, recently divorced because his wife
(Maria Bello) cheated on him. Now he lives in a cottage near a lake,
alone, writing his new book. One day a man rings his bell telling
Rainey he has stolen one of his stories. Rainy is unaware of this fact
and he can prove it; a magazine printed his short story a couple of
years before the man, who is named John Shooter (John Turturro), claims
he has written his version. Shooter wants to see this magazine before
he believes it, causing quite some trouble in the meanwhile.

This is a film with a secret, something we understand pretty soon. I
will not reveal it, but most people will come up with an idea and find
out they are right. Even though it has a secret it plays too much like
a lot of thrillers we have already seen. Interesting performances
(Bello is pretty good as the wive too) and some dry humor does not
change that. There is one other thing I liked. Koepp payed some good
attention to what David Fincher did with his 'Panic Room' screenplay,
especially with the camera. There are some great shots here and
together with Depp they make sure 'Secret Window' is not wasted.
<|_=00=_|>
Johnny Depp plays Mort Rainey, a writer with wife problems. Mort
secludes himself in a wilderness cabin to write. Soon, he gets a visit
from a strange Southern mountain man named John Shooter (John
Turturro). Throughout most of the plot, Mort tries to deal with this
threatening man who won't go away, and confronts his wife and her new
lover.

"Secret Window" is a moody, Hitchcockian thriller with a major story
twist. Pacing is slow. There's lots of waiting for something to happen,
which enhances a sense of foreboding. And Depp's performance is
terrific.

With hair that looks like a mop, and a delightfully slovenly
appearance, Mort mopes around the cabin, talks to his nearly blind dog,
and tries to placate Mr. Shooter. He also spends a lot of time on the
phone, mostly with Shooter and with his disconsolate wife.

Casting and acting are fine. Production design is great; love that
cabin where Mort lives. Camera work, lighting, special effects, CGI,
and editing are all quite good.

Although I liked the film's twist, some viewers will be disappointed
with it, perhaps because the underlying idea is not terribly original.
The risk for the director is that the entire story hinges on this one
twist. If a viewer discovers the twist ahead of time, or finds it
unsatisfying for any reason, the viewer likely will render a negative
verdict on the entire film.

My only serious complaint with the film is that, at times, the plot
discards logic so as to maximize gratuitous violence, the result no
doubt of the film's source material, a horror story by Stephen King.

Overall, "Secret Window" is a generally fine thriller, enhanced
especially by the splendid performance of Johnny Depp. Just be aware
that one's reaction to this film likely will depend on one's perception
of the story's major plot twist.
<|_=00=_|>
The second novella to be adapted from the Stephen King compilation
"Four Past Midnight," SECRET WINDOW is one of King's adapted stories
that while not being great or especially memorable, somehow manages to
tell its premise quite chillingly while maintaining itself closer to
B-movie status and (equally) true to its dark core.

The story is actually quite familiar ground: Stephen King commented
that while MISERY depicted a writer being held prisoner by a demented
ex-nurse and rabid fan who does unspeakable things to him to ensure her
favorite character, Misery Chastain, lives on, and THE DARK HALF
introduces a Twilight Zone-ish take on a split personality where
another author is tormented by a dangerous man, SECRET WINDOW blends
both into what results in "the perfect ending" to the missing pages of
an apparently plagiarized story. And while the plot is clearly clichéd
within every inch of its life, director David Koepp manages to generate
some good suspense which allows us to care for this poor chap Mort
Rainey (underplayed by Johnny Depp who by doing so makes his character
totally human) and fear the rage just underneath John Shooter (a creepy
John Turturro), all the while not quite giving us everything in black
and white so as to suddenly introduce a left-field turn of events. As a
matter of fact, once the "twist" arrives, it seems plausible and even
expected, but is even more chilling in the inexorability in which it
fulfills itself.

One thing that works in Stephen King's books are his constant uses of
internal dialogues which here is finally brought into a great forefront
by splitting Rainey into two separate entities and having them talk to
each other in a crucial scene. This only intensifies the notion that
Rainey is unraveling as a person and will more than likely fall prey to
the darkness that seems to be closing in. It's a technique which isn't
used often when adapting his novels to movies and which tends to work
against suspense, and finally, someone got it right. It never feels too
long a movie even though it runs just shy of an hour and three
quarters, and this is due to the deft direction. Good suspense, great
psychological horror that comes through an incredibly tired plot, and
that's good film-making.
<|_=00=_|>
I've seen psychological thriller's that try to scare you more than melt
your brain, this one I'm proud to say does both. It's a very, very
malicious and haunting thrill machine. I t brings the very essence of
how horror and Psycho thriller's are suppose to be done, not with over
the top gore and CGI, but with old school conventional means.

Secret Window is as sinister as it is smart it rolls along at a very
steady pace and brings more to the table than what was required. It
shows you what the decent into madness and utter chaos looks like, it
shows you the depth and moral ambiguities of a torn man who's lost
everything. With that said you can examine the physic of the mind as it
cracks under extreme and constant pressure and how your choices do
affect who you help, or who you hurt. This film's pace and dark style
is meant to reflect horror films of the 40's, 50's, 60's and early 70's
before gore became cool but that makes this film such a joy to watch
and study. And that makes it a great film, not a good film, a great
film.

Johnny Depp( who was fantastic here.) gives a very eccentric and
brilliant performance as the conflicted writer Mort Rainey, John
Turturro does exceptionally well as the sinister and vicious Shooter
and he almost outclasses Depp in this film. Charles S. Dutton does well
with the few scenes he's. But the main let down and I think the reason
for this film's poor reviews from critics were the bland and very lame
performances of Timothy Hutton( he won an Oscar he can do better than
this.) and Maria Bello, they really lowered the caliber and class of
this film and forced Depp to try harder to make them look good and make
there time on screen with him good, but he succeeds and they fail. But
Turturro and Depp hold up strong.

Secret Window is a very Keene and captivating psychological/horror
thriller that is surefire mind boggling entertainment and out of this
world fun. This movie is great rainy day entertainment or any day
entertainment for that matter it's just all around a fantastic and mind
boggling film that makes you question the sanity of writers and the
world they live in ( speaking as one myself.) it brings to question as
the thoughts in our mind really our conscious or our selves just
speaking out to right the wrongs doe against us It's a film that ask
those questions and then you have to answer. All in all Secret Window
was a sinister, malicious and thought provoking film that delivers a
movie going experience like no other.
<|_=00=_|>

I make no excuse for the fact that whatever Johnny Depp does I rate highly.
He has amazing depth of character acting  and each role he has ever played
is different and never type cast it's therefore all the more disastrous that
he should lend himself to such a predictable and very obvious narrative,
that said perhaps he is the film's saving grace.
Within the first quarter of an hour or so it is quite clear exactly what is
happening because there are so many clues right in front of your very eyes,
also if you are familiar with both the work of Stephen King and this genre
of film you will guess the ending in its entirety. 
 The opening paragraph of the book 'Secret Window'that John Shooter accuses 
Mort of plagiarising is a giveaway, the location of the cabin is another
clue and although the films tries to build up to a climax  any  shock is
totally eroded away by literally stacks of 'in your face' scenes and one
liners. When Mort tells his minder friend that he has a witness who waved to
him from his truck if you listen to what that witness actually said you will
know immediately how this will all end and thus for any moderately bright
person the film ends right there.
All this is a great pity because the film could have been so much better
given the basic premise and the acting skills of Depp. As a avid film fan of
all genre I am getting mighty sick of the same stuff being churned out again
and again and AGAIN. It is about time that we had some originality coming
out of Hollywood. The problem is that when something as good as say Fight
Club or The Sixth Sense provide us with such original and excellent endings
other movie makers think that it is always a money spinner just to
regurgitate the same ideas but with different actors. 

To those of you who have no yet seen this film by all means give it a go if
only to just admire the work of Depp but I guess you will feel somewhat
cheated by feeling you have been here before.
<|_=00=_|>
I have always wanted to see Secret Window; when a movie has such varied
and mixed reviews it is always intriguing to see the movie itself and
find out which side of the line you sit on. I recently viewed Secret
Window with a friend from the safety of my own home. It's only a short
movie, which in itself has appeal, and if it were any longer the
suspense element would have most definitely fizzled away. The first
hour or so nothing much happens, the story line just plods along and
you wait and watch to look for anything you have missed and wonder
whether the story is going to go anywhere. The first portion of the
movie is not a complete failure, however, as Johnny Depp once again
shines in his role and keeps the viewer somewhat interested. Once the
twist kicks in, the movie takes the viewer to a whole new level. My
friend and I were simply intrigued in horror. It simply is brilliant
and I would recommend this to anyone who loves being taken on a journey
through their imagination.
