
It's funny how Steven Spielberg and Tom Hanks, two of Hollywood's most
powerful men, who could literally do any movie they want, end up making
something like The Terminal. Instead of reaching for new heights of
film-making like including the latest in special effects, or new
original ways of storytelling and editing, Spielberg goes back to a
simpler form. That in itself is surprisingly refreshing. Filmmakers try
so hard to be inventive and change the typical form of the classics,
that when someone finally does go back to that Capra or Wilder fashion,
it ends up seeming original. That's what The Terminal goes for. A movie
about characters, not plot. About emotion, not CGI. It's a true
heart-felt piece of work. It's funny, it's cute, and it always keeps
you interested.

Tom Hanks leads an exceptional cast as Viktor Navorski, a man stranded
in JFK airport, not welcome in the U.S. and having no country to come
home to. Throughout the experience he makes friends, a love interest,
and a rival. He changes all of their lives, of course. That's to be
expected from a movie like this. Tom Hanks is totally believable,
accent and all. It's a performance well worthy of an Oscar nod.

I loved The Terminal for many reasons, but one big reason is it's
simplicity. And more importantly, because it is good at being simple.
It doesn't contribute anything new to movies, it doesn't try to. It is
what it is. A great, feel-good film. Something that is getting rarer
and rarer these days. Sometimes you'll want to see a gritty, wrenching
melodrama, but other times you'll want to see The Terminal.

My rating: 10/10
<|_=00=_|>
I've seen some really good movies in 2004 but so far, this maybe the
best. The Terminal is an incredible fairy tale of a movie-it's quietly
captivating, rich in interesting colorful characters and superbly acted
and directed.

Tom Hanks as Victor Navorsky is quite simply entrancing to watch. He is
an amazing character actor and in The Terminal he again creates a
character who is instantly embraceable. You care about Victor and want
things to turn out OK for him as much as his friends in the Terminal
do.

This is a movie that actually got some bad reviews and I'm baffled by
why. Although, I usually can see flaws in even the movies I think are
8's and 9's there isn't much to be critical of here. Some people have
said it's to "feel good". That it's lacking in reality. I don't
necessarily see those as negatives, there are many good movies that are
feel good or unrealistic, just as there are some bad ones. The Terminal
has a lot that's likable about it. 

Firstly, there's Hanks himself and I will admit if any other actor had
played Victor it might not be the movie it is, Hanks is simply amazing,
you forget who he is within the first five minutes. I won't mention
everyone by name, but the rich array of supporting actors/actresses
were all good as well. It is an unusual movie that really isn't either
a straight comedy OR a straight drama-it perhaps falls through the
cracks of genres but I'd call this mostly a heartwarming and completely
absorbing character study of one man's attempt to make a life for
himself in an airport terminal. It's a very different type of movie-for
all the strategically placed product adds, there's something quietly
uncommercial about Terminal and watching it is an interesting
experience. 

The movie is about 2 hours and you get a lot in those two hours. For me
what was striking was how genuinely interesting this movie turned out
to be. I'm one who finds airport terminals fascinating anyway-all the
hundreds of and thousands of people rushing about to hop on a plane and
start some new adventure....but to actually live in a terminal-an
interesting (and rather strange) concept-Hanks acting here is quiet and
understated and at a level surpassing merely "talented". He manages to
make nibbling a cracker fascinating. I would give this a 10 of 10 and
know there are many who may think it's not for them but I found this
movie to be a beautiful fairytale of a picture and hope at least Hanks
gets an Oscar nod. I also hope that skeptics give this movie a
chance-as good a movie as any Hanks film I've ever seen. 10 of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
I have to say it is a great one that first shows the meaning and beauty
in our life about waiting and promise. Amelia is waiting for her dream
to come true for eighteen years, for herself; Navorski's dad was
waiting for something he honored so much for his life; and here comes
Navorski, who waits for making his father's left dream come true, for
fulfilling his promise, for the woman he fell in love, in a "crack"
between the US and his own country. 

He has done everything for others around him. If there is a great
example of "egoless", he is one. Letting go ego, is the greatness that
even Amelia found out when she gives up and scarifies something most
important in her life to help Navorski. 

This simple story conveys some wonderful philosophy for people living
in this country busy around everyday for business, families, and so on,
to slow down and reflect on something. As the retired officer said to
officer Dixon, there is something we can learn from Navorski.
<|_=00=_|>

An Eastern European (Tom Hanks) from a fictional country literally gets
stuck at JFK Airport in New York after his landing coincides with the point
at which a war causes his nation to no longer exist. Thus his paperwork and
passport are no good. Hanks is in the U.S. for a mysterious reason and that
reason becomes the hook in this wonderful picture. While stuck, Hanks sees
more of America than he could have ever imagined. However he constantly has
trouble with airport supervisor Stanley Tucci (in a perfect role). Runway
worker Diego Luna makes a deal with Hanks so he can learn about passport
officer Zoe Saldana (a woman who Luna has loved from afar) via Hanks'
attempts to have his passport accepted. Also Hanks meets an elderly Indian
janitor (Kumar Pallana) who has been in the states for decades, but the
reason he is there also becomes a key point. While all this goes on, Hanks
falls in love with 30-something flight attendant Catherine Zeta-Jones
(perfectly illuminating and beautiful as usual). Zeta-Jones is sad and
disillusioned with men (Michael Nouri of "Flashdance" in particular) and
past relationships that have failed for one reason or another. Director
Steven Spielberg has never really been known for romantic pictures ("Always"
in 1989 is an exception), but he proves that he can definitely handle a
production like this. The cast is excellent with Hanks making all those
around him better. This story was co-written by Andrew Niccol (even though
he strangely did not pen the final script), an under-rated screenwriter who
struck gold in 1998 with "The Truman Show". Many of the good things from
that script are also presented here in diverse and creative ways. By the
way, the art direction/set decoration is amazing as everything within the
titled location was built from scratch in a studio. Spielberg was not
allowed to film any airports due to obvious security reasons. From top to
bottom, "The Terminal" flies high. 4.5 out of 5 stars.   

<|_=00=_|>
Tom Hanks and Steven Spielberg, two of the biggest names in Hollywood,
two people who could literally make any film they wanted to, and
instead they settle on a feel-good dramedy... good thinking Steven.
'The Terminal' is a charming adaptation of a true story about a foreign
civilian stuck in an American airport terminal lounge after his country
faces war. The thing that makes this film worth watching are the
excellent performances from the amiable cast and the sympathetic
direction from Spielberg. After watching some of the behind the scenes
as well, I was amazed at how the crew had built a full-size replica
airport in a hangar in LA complete with working escalators, the
attention to detail is astounding, and this makes the film that much
more worth sitting through. 'The Terminal' is an entertaining
comedy-drama that explores humanity and sentimentality, a spectacular
flick from Spielberg and Hanks.
<|_=00=_|>
The film begins with a cool look (green and blue), because Spielberg
doesn't think of Immigration as a warm place to be for the few minutes
it takes to clear a passenger and get him on his way… So all the cool
tones are evident until Viktor starts to settle into his new home… He
is going to be stuck in New York's JFK airport for an unspecified
amount of time… From this moment we see Viktor stuck, trapped, unable
to enter United States and that's the fun of this film… 

Tom Hanks is really so calm, so likable, so emotional, so funny and so
real in what he does… Here, he's a very dignified person who is
extremely trusting and always full of positive hope… You couldn't
insult him if you try… It's very hard to hurt his feelings… He finds
the bright side of every angle problem he faces and finds a way for him
to live with the situation… He has the virtue of patience, and the
testament to hard work, perseverance, and humility… He loves people,
and he experiences the culture in an odd way… 

Hanks plays a Krakozhian capable gentleman whose name is Viktor
Navorski who finds himself without a passport and a visa once both are
taken from him by the powers-that-be at the terminal, because his visa
no longer counts, since his country is no longer in existence, and his
passport is no longer valid… 

Catherine Zeta-Jones brings vulnerability and insecurity to her unhappy
character… She plays the gorgeous flight attendant Amalia Warren, a
very sensible woman who's always looking for love, trying to find the
person that will be her prince… She really wears her emotions on her
sleeve and is lonely… She wants some strong relationship in her life…
Viktor and Amelia have oceans of things in common and it ends up
playing itself out and that's a nice thing to play… 

The story leaves a lot for reflection, and in some ways, Viktor's
stillness allows him to be a mirror for the people working in the
airport to meditate on their own lives… 

"The Terminal" is a charming film… It looks beautifully and elegantly,
but realistically…
<|_=00=_|>
Although I should not have been surprised, Spielberg and Hanks, had
greatness written all over it. But I got suckered into a lot of the bad
press around the film and suppose I judged it before I had watched it.
Anyway, I have now watched it and I liked it.

I thought the first half of the film was absolutely fantastic, the
humor, the acting, the character development - they were all good. I
thought the second half of the film suffered a little from becoming a
bit over emotional, the love story seemed out of sorts and the way the
entire airport staff seemed to know every thing about everyone else was
a bit far fetched, I worked in an airport for many years and knew
virtually no-one from outside the people I worked with on a daily
basis, but maybe that's just me! But I forgave the film these slight
nuances and allowed myself to enjoy it. I don't think Hanks or
Spielberg will win any more Oscars, but it was a very enjoyable way to
spend a couple of hours on a Sunday night!!
<|_=00=_|>

…'The Terminal' is the latest Hanks/Spielberg collaboration, and though
it's not quite as good as 'Catch Me if You Can' or 'Saving Private
Ryan' it still makes for a fun watch. The plot, as everyone already
knows, is about Krakozhian (sp?) immigrant Victor Narvorski (Tom Hanks)
whose home country – the fictional land of Krakozhia (think Russia or
Czechoslovakia) – is torn apart in war while he is in a plane headed
for New York. When he lands JFK airport head Frank Dixon (Stanley
Tucci) tells him that since he literally doesn't have a country he must
stay in the airport terminal until all the hoopla settles. Dixon thinks
that Narvorski will ignore him, escape into New York and 'become
someone else's problem'. What Dixon doesn't know is that Victor is an
honest man, and he will obey the rules and stay in the terminal until
he's allowed to leave.

The character of Victor Narvorski is one of those classic movie
characters who has no conceivable flaw (other than a minimal
understanding of the world around him – and an accent) and dose
everything he can to help everyone else. Similar characters that spring
to mind are Peter Sellers' Chauncey Gardner from the 1979 satire 'Being
There' and John Goodman's Charlie Meadows from the Coen movie 'Barton
Fink'. All of these characters are dim-witted, but great people who put
their own lives on hold to help their friends.

Some of these friends include Airport worker Enrique Cruz (Diego Luna),
who Victor helps get hitched with a beautiful security guard (Zoë
Saldana) and Amelia Warren (Catherine Zeta-Jones) a nice, flighty
flight attendant who Narvorski inspires to get out of a troubled
relationship with a married man.

The Hanks and Zeta-Jones characters strike up a little romance, but
luckily its not too overblown, it's more of a subplot than anything.

It takes sometime but soon Narvorski is accepted into a small group of
Airport workers including Cruz, kindly Joe Mulroy (Chi McBride) and
janitor Gupta Raja (Kumar Pallana), who at first thinks that Narvorski
is a federal agent out to get him. These characters are all well
written and even better acted, but I thought they could've been awarded
with a little more screen time. After all, the three are very good
actors. But I guess Luna is still riding off the success of 'Y U Mama
Tambien' and McBride, despite the fact that he's been working for many
years, is still trying to find a big role that's right for him (which I
doubt he'll get from 'I, Robot').

It's Pallana who has the biggest role here, and man, does he deserve
it. Very old, and very foreign, he was brought to surprising cult fame
when Wes Anderson gave him the role of 'Pagoda' in the 2001 hit 'The
Royal Tenenbaums'. Who doesn't remember the short, quiet, hilarious
butler of the Tenenbaum family? His role in this is a great follow-up;
he is funny, and surprisingly touching and dramatic in a very tense
scene near the end that I wont spoil. In any other movie the role of
the Indian janitor would be an easy target, but this character isn't
funny because he's Indian, but instead funny because he's clever, a
little cynical and wily. He stole every scene he's in from under Tom
Hanks, or Zeta-Jones, or whoever. This is a long shot, but I think the
man deserves an Oscar nomination.

The acting in this movie is the greatest factor – well, that and the
huge Terminal set built only for the movie. Some critics are
complaining about an underwritten and underused Catherine Zeta-Jones.
Whatever. I call her under-necessary (Note: not UNnecessary,
UNDER-necessary). I'm glad that her less-than-interesting character
wasn't overused, I'm glad the movie wasn't turned into a straight-out
romance.

The films deepest and most interesting character is Tucci's Dixon. On
the surface he looks like your usual villain, but that's only to
simpleton viewers who don't make any attempt to understand their movie
characters. Dixon is not a villain. As it's established in the
beginning, Dixon has been working the same job at the airport for
seventeen years and wants desperately to climb up the latter. Because
of this, he makes sure that he follows every single rule; he's the
epitome of every by-the-book bureaucrat that we all love to hate. His
motto is that in his work there're three important things, 'The person,
the document and the story'. In the best scene of the movie Dixon
refuses a Russian man to bring medicine to his dying father in Canada
because he doesn't have the right form. This scene represents
everything about the character of Dixon.

I was also interested in the relationship between Dixon and Narvorski.
Dixon is at first refusing Narvorski because it's the rules, but as the
film goes on and Dixon is further perplexed by Narvorski it stops being
about rules and starts being about hatred and jealousy for Narvorski's
joyful existence. He refuses to let Narvorski go to New York when he
should be allowed to. In the film's most fulfilling scene Narvorski
escapes and Dixon decides to give up chasing him, and you can see in
his eyes that he's realized how ridiculous and stubborn he's been
acting. This is Tucci's best performance. An Oscar for him, I say!

It is flawed, of course, in a few things. Narvorski's character is
never developed, he stays the same person throughout the entire film,
but that's fine, because Hanks keeps your interest and is at his most
lovable. Also, the ending stretched on just a little bit…if I had my
way it would've ended with Dixon happily watching Narvorski escape in
his cab, the rest could've just as easily been implied. I think the
ending is a very important part of any film, and this one was – in a
way – ruined.

But, no movie is perfect, and I have no problem accepting this as a
lighthearted picture with a few interesting characters. Have fun.
7.5/10.

<|_=00=_|>

I liked The Terminal. I liked all of the people and all of the
situations.

Most people who saw this liked the minor characters especially Gupta
who took particular delight in watching people slide on his wet floor.

That was fine, but not to be difficult I liked the courtship between
the very shy but proper food delivery person and the immigration
official better. Navorski was kind gentle and wise as acting as their
Cyrano. He neither fell in love with nor did he take advantage of her.

The Terminal is a romance in the tradition of (say) Picnic. As a
teenage, I watched with envy as William Holden easily courted a
beautiful, vulnerable younger Kim Novac. What did it matter that he was
old enough to be her father? The girls in movie houses still drooled
over him and wished they were her. 

So with this. Most male reviewers take exception to Zeta Jones in The
Terminal. Much more sophisticated these days. Pity. She was actually
quite good. She was like the little Mermaid: much of what she conveyed
could not be done with her voice. The same thing with the Zeta Jones
character: everything she said had to be done with her eyes and tears.
She knows Navorski's value. She knows his character and how good he is.
She wants him and is certain he wants and deserves her, but she knows
that sooner or later she will betray him and that would devastate him.
She knows herself so well that she feels unworthy of him. She cannot
betray such a good and honorable man. What then does that make her? Is
she any less honorable and worthy? Should she be any less desirable for
the boys than William Holden for the girls? 

This film is not Schindler's List. But it's not Beach Blanket Bingo
either. It is a wonderful character study well worth seeing.

<|_=00=_|>

Oh dear. A great premise for a movie, loosely based on the true story
of the immigrant who was stranded at Paris airport due to diplomatic
bureaucracy, however Spielberg reduces the whole story to implausible
sugary mush.

No doubt the director, famed for his heavy-handed and childlike
emotional manipulation, thought he was improving the drama by adding a
love interest in the shape of Catherine Zeta-Jones, but no one in their
right mind could believe that such an attractive and well-groomed woman
would ever fall for the shabby, caricature Russian immigrant as played
by Tom Hanks. Such a waste of talent and money.

Spielberg obviously believes that his audience has a mental age of 10,
and an exceptionally low IQ, as that is probably the only target group
that would enjoy this very silly and soppy romantic drama. Shame on
you, Steven Spielberg, for offering adult cinema-goers this sugary pap!

Hanks' performance is no worse and no better than his recent stint in
The Ladykillers, i.e. mildly amusing in a cartoonish sort of way. If I
were Russian I would be seriously insulted by the bordering-on racist
portrayal. Miraculously, Hank's character moved from speaking almost no
English to being extremely fluent within a very short period, and
gaining a posse of bumbling friends within the airport. The genre
should have been listed as fantasy rather than romantic drama. And as
for the comedy aspect - I seem to have totally missed it, unless it's
deemed funny to laugh at foreigners in a difficult predicament.

With some character development and a decent script, this could have
been an interesting film, however it's two leads were sadly wasted in
this saccharine turkey.

