
At first, I didn't feel much of a need to comment on the film, since so
many others have written and have said so many things. But I think
there are some really important points to made, and I haven't seen
anyone make them. So here I am writing.

In my opinion, almost everyone misunderstood the relationship between
Hephaistion and Alexander. In the modern world, especially in the West,
two men are either very close to each other, sleep together, and have
sex, or they keep a good comfortable distance from each other and, if
they're friendly, might punch each other on the arm. In this film, we
see a relationship that is hard for most people today to understand,
namely a passionate love relationship between two men in which sex is
not very important and possibly even absent.

Aristotle essentially explained the whole film near the beginning when
he told the young couple something like the following, as best I can
remember it, "When two men lie together in lust, it is over indulgence.
But when two men lie together in purity, they can perform wonders." Or
something like that. Given what I know of that culture, I am sure that
"in purity" means no sex, or at least very little. That's why we never
see them kiss. In the film, as in many older films, kissing is a
metaphor for sex. Even when Alexander kisses his mother, it refers to
the idea of sex. That's why Alexander kisses Bagoas, but not
Hephaistion.

Now I'm not sure if the real historical Aristotle would have made that
remark. That's not exactly what he says about homosexuality in the
Nicomachean Ethics. But the remark is plausible enough since Alexander
could easily have heard such an idea during his youth. Plato (before
Aristotle) expressed that idea, and Zeno of Citium (after Aristotle)
did too. So even if Aristotle never said this to Alexander, it is
plausible enough that the idea was in the air and that Alexander heard
it from someone or other.

Some have complained that the "homosexuality" (assuming that A's
relationship with Heph. should even be called that) was thrown in their
faces too much. But it's crucial to the plot. Stone is hypothesizing
that Hephaistion was essential for what Alexander did. Further, it's a
standard Hollywood convention to juxtapose a love story with some great
political, military, or otherwise grand event. There are tons of
examples. Titanic, Enemy at the Gates, Gone with the Wind, ... the list
could go on forever. It really is homophobic to complain about Stone
continually going back to this theme, because he has a perfectly good
artistic reason to do it.

A few more details: Alexander's hair. I think that Stone was trying to
make Alexander look like Martin Potter in Satyricon -- a nod to
Fellini.

Alexander's accent and soft appearance. Another nod to a great director
passed on, this time Stanley Kubrick. Farrel really looks a lot like
Ryan O'Neil in Barry Lyndon. In fact, he really looks like a Ryan
O'Neill / Martin Potter coalescence. I think it's deliberate.

The softness of Alexander's personality. In a lot of scenes it made
sense. He was gentle enough to know how to approach Bucephalus and tame
him without scaring him. He was open minded enough to adopt a lot of
Persian culture and encourage intermarriage, while the other more
"he-man" folks around him were less comfortable with the idea.

Yes, if you haven't figured it out by now, I do like the film. People's
hatred of the film is hard for me to understand.
<|_=00=_|>
The audience is not being able to understand the difference between 
ancient and modern morals, but to be honest I don't care about the 
wider audience. Why should Oliver have to sugarcoat and alter his work 
simply because the 'MTV generation' and mass TV watchers of the United 
States don't know their history? I say he shouldn't. Their ignorance is 
*their* problem, not Oliver's.

In a long shot, Oliver Stone chose to create a historically accurate 
film around the life of a man, both fact and fiction, who created the 
gateway for humanity's future path. Many will not appreciate this film, 
because their minds are too stuffed with current calamity to realize 
where their freedoms and dreams of equality originated from. 

This is a brilliant film, which was portrayed correctly, from a 
personable point of view, to create the character of Alexander in the 
manner in which he lived; uninhibited by other influences save those 
whom he loved and knew were trustworthy. This movie is about the 
origins not only of the Western mind and intellect, but also plan 
larger into the scheme of the man who saw and dreamt of the future- a 
world which accepted each other and lived together in diversity in 
harmony. This man was Alexander-- our Western father. 

Like it, hate it; it doesn't really matter. The fact is, Oliver Stone 
brought to his team of experts internationally respected historians to 
make this film as accurate historically as possible. This should not go 
without notice. Colin Farrell, a known Irish- now Hollywood loverboy, 
does indeed display the heart and integrity of a natural born leader. 
He has lead this cast in an epic performance, well past his personal 
years and experience. He is worthy of praise in his portrayal of 
Alexander. 

The movie is fantastic;  Well done, Olivier, Colin, etc... Well done.
<|_=00=_|>
Last night I saw the movie a second time, with my 20 year old son. The
audience was of an entirely different demographic than the first
viewing (which was an advance screening). The average age of the
audience was about 35-45, with not too many teens in there. And guess
what? Besides the fact that the entire theatre was PACKED, there was
absolutely not a sound from the audience...like they were breathless.
No snickering at blond hair, eyeliner, sultry looks from Bagoas, or any
of the things that drew slight laughs when I saw it for the first time.
It bolstered my hope that as time goes on and more people see it, there
will be a more favorable opinion of it. 

I myself liked the movie a whole lot more the second time around. I
watched different things this time...paid more attention to the sets
and the other characters behind and around whoever was the primary
action of the moment. I listened to the narration more closely, and
enjoyed the film much more this time.

Response from my 20 year old son, who wasn't just trying to be nice to
his old mom, was very positive. He even thought that the assassination
scene was fine where it was because it related better to what was going
on in Alexander's head at the time. 

I highly recommend a second (at least) viewing at a theatre with a very
good sound system. I realized I had missed some of the dialogue and
narration because the 1st theatre's sound system was horrible.

P.S. Kudos to Mr. Stone for his lifetime achievement award in Sweden.
They don't give those out to just anyone, you know?
<|_=00=_|>
Oliver Stone consulted Robin Lane Foxe, Oxford historian and the
premier Alexander expert, before making this film. It shows. The film
certainly ranks as one of the closest-to-the-real-story Hollywood
historical mega-films. To viewers with any background in Aristotelian
drama and the Greek epic, it will immediately become clear that Stone
has tried hard to emulate the epic form while integrating the culture
of the Greek tragedy into his film. There is plenty of fear and pity
here and there are plenty of tragic elements. The aging Ptolemy as
narrator even takes on some of the functions of the chorus/choir.
Tragic destiny in a larger-than-life man plagued by doubts over his own
decisions, his consuming passions, is the universal here; the gripping
story of Alexander the historical incidental, as it were. Not
surprisingly, characterization and character interaction must loom
large. Which explains the numerous and lengthy monologues and
dialogues. Bravo, Mr Stone. Those who can appreciate will. But I fear
that hoi polloi will not appreciate. They will simply fail to
understand. Postscript: If there were any episodes in Alexander's life
I missed and would have liked included (at the risk of making this film
even longer) it would have been the Gordian Knot and the Oasis of Siwa.
<|_=00=_|>
The US reviews have been really terrible and the IMDb user rating is
lower than KING ARTHUR, so I'm wondering if Europe has got a different
cut, because the film I saw was excellent. Problems, yes, like Anthony
Hopkins and Val Kilmer hamming away and Angeline doing a very odd
accent. Farrell's not bad even though he doesn't have enough small
moments to work with to shade the role: after Clive Owen's
disgracefully bad performance in KING ARTHUR it's amazing that it's
Farrell the critics are laughing at.

You don't get involved in the characters as much as you should, but its
an amazing flick, a real movie. It feels like it's been done for real
not by a computer by someone as mad and vainglorious as Alexander
himself. Not a total success, but the 80% that hits the target is
really intelligent and ambitious and is worth more than a lot of
pictures that work better, if you know what I mean. 

I think the reason Hollywood is so dumbed down now is when someone
tries to do something different on a big scale like Alexander, HEAVEN'S
GATE, REDS, ONCE UPON A TIME IN America, THE RIGHT STUFF or films like
that is that the American critics who are always complaining about dumb
audiences and filmmakers can't get them and tear them a new *beep*hole
killing them off at the box-office. Certainly seems to be the case with
Alexander. Not the most successful flick I've seen this year but easily
one of the best.
<|_=00=_|>
I was saddened when Alexander the movie received criticism for
featuring homosexuality. Besides being a neanderthalic prejudice, it
distracted from the many valid reasons for criticism. This is a strong
contender for worst movie ever made.

I will say first that this film has a marvelous cast. But it really
doesn't help. Really.

It's almost totally ahistorical, but that's standard practice. It's
irritating if you know something about Alexander's life and deeds (I
studied him college), but the people I feel sorry for are the ones who
walk away thinking they've been exposed to an educational experience.
There is a small book in explaining how wrong this assumption is. It'd
write it, but it would involve watching the movie again. But the rather
liberal interpretation of the available information is a side issue in
explaining why this is a strong contender for worst movie ever made.

The script is dreadful. Mind-bendingly dreadful. It's deficiencies take
several forms. I shall enumerate them;

1) The dialogue is actually a series of monologues. Every-one is
apparently reciting excerpts from their autobiographies, or treatises
on whatever is at hand, letters to whomever they are talking to,
letters to the editor, political speeches, self-help manuals... It's
certainly not conversation.

2) It's portentous. I sometimes like portentousness, it can lend
atmosphere. Here, it lends to the tedium. The tedium doesn't need
adding to, it's already oversubscribed.

3) It never knows when to stop. Anthony Hopkins has a monologue at the
end that goes on for several minutes. You keep thinking it'll end,
hoping, praying it will end (this Anthony Hopkins! He could probably
read the ingredients of soap and make it sound interesting), and it
does, eventually, but by then you slipped even further into a coma and
are in no fit condition to cheer. Colin Farrell seems to spend half the
movie looking off into space and holding forth at length on, oh,
whatever, but always passionately.

4) It's badly written. It's a bad series of portentous monologues that
never know when to stop.

Aside from the script (perhaps) the film features other flaws that
inhibit it from greatness. Such as?

Pointless time jumps. I have nothing against time jumps. Highlander,
Once upon a time in America, Godfather part two, Once upon a time in
the West, For a few dollars more, and probably other films that weren't
by Sergio Leone... Many great films feature them. But usually they
follow a rationale. Usually they aren't apparently random and
unconnected. Here, it's like they put a couple of reels in the wrong
order.

Sins of omission. While I said that the lack of adherence to historical
accuracy was a side issue, not mentioning almost any episode that might
actually have been exciting or interesting seems a dubious policy.
Alexander, as the posters implied, was the stuff of legend made real.
(I make no moral judgement here). Does it mention the phalanx? Any the
innovative ways that he overcame apparently unassailable fortresses by
looking at the problems from another angle? The political methodology
whereby he kept a grip on all of the peoples behind him? The Gordian
Knot? Does it hell. It does feature a couple of battle scenes, the
second of which is shot in a vivid and pretty colour scheme, and both
of which illustrate that he fought at forefront of his army. So that's
something.

The most laughable sex scene ever committed to film. Alexander wins
over his bride by making kitty-cat claws gestures and noises. There's
more, but that's definitely the stand-out feature.

I could go on, but this film has already eaten enough of my life. The
only thing epic here is the ineptitude. It actually made me feel
nauseous.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm giving this film one star for the reason that it has absolutely no
excuse whatsoever for its wretchedness. With a cast like it has, a
budget ample enough for three good films, and a legend-centered plot
sure to pique the viewer's interest well before the movie is even seen,
it delivers a seriously despicable, laughable fiasco.

Of course it's set in ancient Greece. What's interesting is that
Alexander sounds straight out of Dublin. And his mother? Why, it's
Angelina Jolie, and she's...straight out of Prince Vlad of Tepes'
castle in Transylvania. That's right, Vlad of the Dracul. I suppose
miss Jolie spent some time watching Gary Oldman deliver his line,
"Leesten to Dem! Di tcheeldren ov da nyyaat; vhat sveet muzik dai
mike..." or "Alexander, Oi know vat veemen vi-ll do in yore loif..."
Yes, it is that bad. So far no good.

As for Alexander's supposedly legendary tactical genius and indomitable
character, here instead the viewer gets to watch the boy from Dublin
with painfully obvious bleached streaks in his hair and freshly tinted
eyebrows look at Jared Leto countless times with a facial expression
that's half "Mommy can I have another cookie?" and half irritable bowel
syndrome. Leto reciprocates, and captivates movie-goers with a
luxurious dark mane of Paul Mitchell's finest work and eyes that make
Dakota Fanning look Chinese.

Kilmer is wasted here, as is Hopkins. I didn't give a damn about either
of their characters. Watch it yourself to see if you do.

As a boy I was fascinated by Greek mythology, Greek Tragedy and Comedy.
I jump at any chance I can get to tack on extra elements of wonder to
my understanding of these subjects. At least I learned something new by
watching Alexander. His mother was a vampire wanna-be snake temptress
and Alexander's horse had more charisma than he did. Yup, Alexander's
horse gets my nomination for best actor. 

JD
<|_=00=_|>
When "Gladiator" stirred a latent interest in films about the ancient
world I was so hopeful we would finally be able to enjoy some exciting
cinema about my favorite time period. I have not been totally
disappointed. USA Television network has given us Attila, Caesar, and
Helen of Troy - not without flaws but solid efforts. Wolfgang
Peterson's "Troy" did not resemble the Iliad I had studied but I
appreciated the performances of Eric Bana and Brad Pitt. Brukheimer's
"King Arthur" could have used more experienced epic direction but was
loosely based on historical accounts of Sarmatian auxiliaries and their
commanders in late Roman Britain and I liked the grittier result to the
fairy tale legends of my childhood. Then I heard about Oliver Stone's
production of "Alexander" and I was sure we would have a film of the
caliber of "Ben Hur". Unfortunately, Stone managed to take what should
have been a ready-made screenplay and solid performances by Angelina
Jolie, Val Kilmer, and Colin Farrel and imparted as much insight into
the character and charisma of the world's most famous conqueror and
military genius as the images of shadowy figures thrashing about in the
blinding dust of Stone's Gaugamela.

His opening sequence with Anthony Hopkins, as Ptolemy I, droning on
about his memories of Alexander was more protracted than a prologue to
a History Channel documentary. In fact, I heard a man behind me mutter
something like "I came to watch a movie not the History Channel!" 

Stone's next major error was to omit any scenes of Philip's military
prowess. "The Lion of Macedon" was as much a military genius as his
celebrated son but Stone leaves us with little more than an impression
he was a drunken lout. The omission of the battle of Charonea was
nothing short of a blunder since it epitomized the sharing of military
experience between father and son with Philip masterminding the battle
and Alexander, a mere 18-years old, leading the cavalry in a critical
maneuver to assure the victory. Stone handles Alexander's tutelage by
Aristotle clumsily as well. Instead of focusing on Alexander's
insatiable curiosity about the world around him and how Aristotle
nurtured his intellect, we see a brief scene where Aristotle is
essentially defending Alexander's friendship with Hephaistion to a
sneering Cassander. During Alexander's brief lifetime, Alexander
maintained his relationship with his tutor for years, sending examples
of plants and animals from the lands he conquered back to Aristotle for
study.

Then to skip both the battles of the Granicus River and Issus totally
left me aghast. I think the most damaging omission was the battle of
Issus. It is at Issus that Alexander first confronts Darius himself and
Darius flees from the Macedonian onslaught, leaving his wife and
daughters to Alexander's mercy. When Stone depicts Darius running from
Alexander at Gaugamela it is done in such a way that the audience
doesn't perceive it to be a lack of personal courage but just an
escape, especially without the knowledge that Darius had broken and run
from Alexander before.

Furthermore, Gaugamela was not executed in a way that illuminated
Alexander's strategy and daring. Stone should have watched "Alexander:
The Art of War" produced by the Discovery Channel for better insight.

Stone treats us to only one last battle scene in India at the Hydapses
River. Again, it looks more like a running jungle battle vis-a-vis
Vietnam than a carefully strategized battle where Alexander had to
execute a tenuous river crossing below the expected battle site to draw
some of King Porus' forces away from the center and enable Alexander's
infantry to be effective. 

As for the near mortal wound, Alexander was wounded at the siege of
Malia, a fortified town on the way back to the Indian Ocean. He dashed
over the ramparts of the town before his main force could catch up to
him and he wound up cut off and, with three other companions, cornered
and fighting for his life. Two of his companions were killed and a
severely wounded Alexander is protected by the last remaining companion
bearing the shield Alexander had supposedly taken from the grave of
Achilles at Troy - another missed cinematic opportunity!

As for Alexander's bisexuality, I objected to Stone's portrayal of
Hephaistion as an eye-linered catamite walking around in billowing
robes. Hephaistion was as skilled a warrior as Alexander and a
successful commander in his own right. Maybe Stone could not bring
himself to accept a deep relationship between two very masculine men.

Now, I can only hope that the vehicle starring Leonardo diCaprio is
produced or HBO gives Alexander the treatment he deserves with a
blockbuster miniseries like "Band of Brothers".
<|_=00=_|>
If there have been five films in my life that left the most indelible
impression on me, holding me immobilized on my chair watching until the
last credit has disappeared while everybody else is already leaving,
talking to myself while going home, three of them were connected to
Oliver Stone one way or another (Midnight Express being the first).
Alexander is the latest one. Why Alexander is Great? Because it was
made by a visionary about another visionary, because it is true to
itself, to the legacy, to history, because it doesn't sell off, because
it is not your typical popcorn blockbuster, and most of all because,
steering away from creating a cartoon-like, hollow and fake "Super-Man"
(Troy's Achilles) it focuses on the Man Alexander. The Hu-Man
Alexander. Without concessions to what's popular, what's expected,
what's commercial, what's understandable. This is a director that
doesn't mince words or films. You can tell I am still under the spell.
People mention the sexual orientation thing, either to complain about
too much or too little. Don't judge the Ancient World by today's or
yesterday's standards. Men in Ancient Greece had Friendships (albeit
not necessarily platonic ones), not Relationships. People mention the
accents. Alexander was born in Ancient Macedonia (not to be confused
with today's Balcan state of the same name, please) and therefore would
have spoken heavily-accented Greek, Olympias was born from Epirus,
Roxanne could muster very little Greek since she was a "barbarian"
(meaning non-Greek back then) and Alexander's soldiers came from all
over Southern Balkan, Minor Asia etc. I found the choice of Irish over
British or American (reserved to Athenians for instance) accent, and
the use in the film of many different accents a particularly clever
one. People dismiss the eagle's overflight. Read about omens from the
gods, they were very important for the Ancients. People want full
visibility during the battles (why don't you see a John Wayne film
then, all the dead are hidden from view and the heroes are never afraid
or confused), people want more battles or events (and yet complain
about how long the film is), people want their money back. I could go
on and on here but there is no use. See the film again. Read a book.
Open your eyes. Ask questions. Undefeated yet mortal, great yet flawed,
larger-than-life yet human, Alexander has left a mark in the histories
of so many peoples for a reason, and yet, the film has no more chances
to be understood by his viewers than the king himself from his soldiers
and childhood friends. Typical and sad.
<|_=00=_|>
By Zeus, this movie is awful! The movie is not just scripted poorly, it
is directed pathetically! Mr.Stone completely loses grip on story
telling... and by at the end of the movie, is clueless about what he
wanted to say.

What put me off was neither the director's *obsession* to prove
Alexander's sexual orientation, nor the plethora of inaccuracies/biased
opinions through out the movie. It was the complete lack of
representing why Alexander was "Alexander The Great". I would have
endured it better if it were a documentary, with its purposes stated
upfront.

Great men are so few; and when somebody goes ahead and downplays such a
great person with their frivolous 'research' and story writing, it is
outright annoying. I strongly believe that our next generation should
learn from the great souls of the past. And if a director, when has
such an opportunity, makes a bum of himself/herself, it is very, very
irritating.

I am from India, where Alexander appears in our history text books at
various grades at school. The fervor that the name Alexander brought to
me when I was in school, which is nearly forty years ago, is simply
indescribable. We Asians love him, adore him. We call him Sikandar, and
the word stands for 'the heroic', 'the majestic', 'the king'. Rather
than making the movie focus on his greatness - valor, ambition, respect
for a fellow human being, and ultimately success in so many aspects of
life, the movie was made about the most unimportant aspects of his
life. 

And for the records, Alexander won against the Indian kings, the last
one being Porus. Alexander gave back the kingdom to Porus, for the
courage shown by him after Alexander captured and 'interrogated' him.
After this last war, Alexander's army was tired, and did not want to
take on the army of Magadha, and Alexander returned home. The movie
from this point on, does not even deserve comments.

Alexander supposedly asked his hands to placed in display after his
death, showing the people "the one who conquered the world, after
death, left empty handed". Instead of the ending of the movie being
something to that effect, it was the Ptolemy's soliloquy at the end,
which was... AARGH! absolutely absurd.
