
Let me make this easy for you. Shopgirl reminds me a lot of Lost in
Translation.

With one sentence, I am sure I have turned off more than a handful of
people that are now searching other movie titles of interest.

Funny really. Lost in Translation was one of those films that the
critics adored. It was a quiet and quaint film that delivered an
absorbing story without explosions or over drawn out comedic moments.

Yet, it was one of those films that I could not find a casual film
watcher enjoyed. Or even understood for that matter.

I think it was due to its pacing and under toned performances by the
two leads. Nothing was forced either in conversation and in turn, back
down the audience's throat. Instead, it just went about telling the
story of two people who happened to meet and make a connection.

Shopgirl is not dissimilar. The story (based on a novella by Steve
Martin) concerns well, a shopgirl at Saks Fifth Avenue named Mirabelle
(played wonderfully by Claire Danes). Fresh from Vermont and trying to
make it as an artist in the hustle and bustle that is Los Angeles,
Mirabelle in the span of just a few days goes from someone of plain
existence that the world seems to have ignored to being the apple in
the eyes of two suitors that couldn't be more different from each
other.

In one corner and out of the gate first is Jeremy (Jason Schwartzman of
Betwitched fame). Jeremy is the dirty weird guy that you meet in a
laundromat. He seems nervous when he talks to women and his idea of a
date is anything under the eight dollars he has in his wallet.

In the other corner is Ray Porter (Steve Martin). Ray shows up at Saks
one day and makes a purchase from Mirabelle that ends up on her
doorstep with an invitation of dinner soon after. Porter is loaded and
in his courtship of Mirabelle he is able to lavish her with gifts
beyond her accepted imagination.

But under the surface, the two suitors are even further apart than
their bank balances would suggest. Porter is a man of high society who
is always looking for the 'next thing' without any regard to those to
which he is involved with at the time. Meanwhile, Jeremy is as sincere
as it comes. He wears his heart on his sleeve and tries hard to learn
about relationships in hopes of winning over the very impressionable
Mirabelle.

The story then sculpts Mirabelle's highs and lows with both men leading
to her ultimate decision that is both logical and acceptable even if
projected right from the opening chapters.

Shopgirl is one of those guilty pleasures. It's good storytelling
without MTV songs ringing in our ears or tragic moments that define
ones future decisions. It is based in reality. Or as close to reality
that Los Angeles allows.

And much like Lost in Translation, Shopgirl's backbone is the strength
of the lead actors. In particular Claire Danes, who will give Charlize
Theron a run for the gold when the awards season beings in just a few
weeks. As Mirabelle, she is able to project vulnerability and
confidence while exuding emotions of emotional pain and heartfelt love
that grounds her performance allowing us to understand her decisions
even if they don't all turn out to her benefit.

The result is one of the quietest and best films of the year that much
like Lost, no one will see until it starts running on satellite early
next year.

www.gregsrants.com
<|_=00=_|>
Edward Hopper was the great painter of urban loneliness. Shopgirl had
two perfectly composed and lit shots that could pass for Hopper
paintings -- the one where we first see Mirabelle behind the glove
counter at Saks, and the one where she solves the problem of how
exactly to cross the intimacy threshold with Ray for the first time.
Both involve the display of exquisite merchandise to customers who have
excellent taste but don't quite appreciate the full value of what's
being offered.

The relationship between Ray and Mirabelle is, of course, a
transaction. Ray is what used to be called a sugar daddy. He knows it,
and within the limits of that role he is apparently a generous and
considerate keeper. We aren't given Ray's back story, but it is not
hard to guess that a symbolic logician who made a fortune in computers
might have been socially challenged, to put it mildly, as a young man,
and suffered a good deal of rejection from women. He can now buy what
he couldn't then woo, but experience has taught him never to relinquish
control and never to let himself be vulnerable. A few hundred million
dollars have cleaned up his exterior nicely and given him power over
his surroundings, but the inner nerd is still there.

Mirabelle certainly appreciates the value of what Ray can do for her.
Consider the shot in Vermont where she gazes at her dried out,
prematurely worn mother and decides she'll meet Ray in New York after
all. But Mirabelle refuses to admit to herself that she is only being
kept. We are meant to think the better of her for her self deception.
The sluttish, annoying and frankly mercenary but cheerfully self aware
Lisa is there to draw an unfavorable contrast with Mirabelle.
Paradoxically, it is Mirabelle's self-deceived integrity, and her
refusal to use the crude manipulations Lisa suggests, that make her a
more exquisite ornament for Ray -- gourmet arm candy for a man with the
finest taste. Both women are punished for self deception, but Lisa
suffers only comic humiliation while Mirabelle sets herself up for real
pain.

Jeremy has the makings of a Ray in him, but we are meant to believe
that he has -- implausibly -- attained emotional enlightenment, if not
the capacity for articulate speech or sustained rational thought. He
has earned Mirabelle, we are told, because he has remade himself to be
worthy of her. Love may not conquer all in this bittersweet
anti-romance, but it still does better than break even.
<|_=00=_|>
Claire Danes has become a lanky, elegant movie star in the old
Hollywood tradition and "Shopgirl" showcases it without a doubt. She
was always a good actress but now she's more than that. Her character
is a genuine creation that moves in logical if unpredictable patterns.
Steve Martin, the most self effacing of the contemporary American
comedic geniuses, is becoming quasi french in his story telling style
without betraying his utter Americaness. I have a feeling that he'll
continue to surprise us and I for one will wait eagerly for his next
move. The thinking clown if there ever was one. Jason Schwartzman
belongs to the quirky Coppola, Nicolas Cageish school of acting and he
is a delight. Odd and sexy in the most irresistible way. The film has
an intellectual pace and a sad smile at its center. A real original
American comedy for the new millennium.
<|_=00=_|>
It's no real secret that through his writing, Steve Martin has depth
and sentimentality that Hollywood doesn't always let him show. He has
shown signs of a longing to grow old gracefully (as his almost
gimmick-free gigs as Oscar host have shown) and let his acerbic wit and
insight drive projects more than the over-the-top slapstick antics of
the 1970s Steve Martin.

It's also no real secret that many of his recent films have been far
from great.

So, still having faith in the man, and having loved the novel on which
this film is based, I went in to the cinema desperately wanting to like
it, but expecting to be disappointed. Largely, I was pleasantly
surprised that the novel did transfer well to the screen.

Some of the credit for this belongs to director Anand Tucker, who has
created some powerful images of the hustle and bustle of the LA that
Martin describes in the novel, and contrasts it well with the
characters who lead shallow lives, trying to be something meaningful
amongst all the chaos.

Credit also goes to the actors who show that longing that drives the
situation: Claire Daines as Mirabelle clearly WANTS to be social,
artistic, loved; Jason Schwartzman as Jeremy WANTS to be sensitive,
witty, lovable; Martin as Ray Porter clearly WANTS to be suave and
considerate. Without having many jokes in the script, audiences can
still appreciate the humour by seeing these pathetic struggles. When I
saw it there was plenty of laughter at all the right moments.

I will, however, hasten to add that there are parts of the book that
never would have translated well to the Hollywood screen, and the
praise that some give the movie for serving its purpose will contain
the same reasons that others wish to knock it. The book's strength is
that one can feel for the characters because they are portrayed as
superficial people and their lives and conversations are so shallow in
comparison to the narrative that sets them up. The reasons why it works
so well as a book could well be the very things that cause it to not
work on the screen. Then there's the matter of a book that's so rooted
in "LA sux" sentiment being made into a Hollywood movie. So maybe the
musical overkill reeked of "excuse me, we're trying to tell you
something". Maybe the spots of narration felt out of place and
indicated that Martin is not yet over his desire to spend his life as
the 'star' of his projects (him getting top billing for the movie was
also a bit much, in my opinion).

Ultimately, maybe the audience members who were longing for a film with
more 'depth' and 'substance' were in actuality sharing the characters'
longings for the same in their own lives. Maybe the 'criticisms' are in
fact backhanded compliments that the film is largely doing just what
it's meant to do.
<|_=00=_|>
Funny and sad, sweet and acerbic, Shopgirl is quite simply the most
rewarding experience of the year. I have not read Steve Martin's novel,
but from what I knew of it I kinda thought the movie would be good.
What I did not expect was an experience so involving, so compelling and
simply so delightful. Good, interesting characters start with the
writing; great characters emerge when the actors enhance the writers
vision. And we see three great examples of this here.

Everything about this film was note perfect; a terrific, slightly
idiosyncratic story, wonderful scenes that sometimes have you laughing,
sometimes wiping away a tear and always inviting your rapt attention.
Terrific acting and direction which ensured that every scene was "just
enough".

There is a word that is hardly ever used today, and if it is, it's
usually in a sneering way; and that word is "sophistication". But
"Shopgirl" is a truly sophisticated movie. Not in the superficial and
secondary sense of being glamorous or even cultured, but in the better
sense of intelligence, complexity and subtlety. And there is real
intelligence at work here; and while all involved display it, it is
Steve Martin's own vision that ultimately informs every aspect of the
film.

The success of "Million Dollar Baby" gave me new respect for the
Oscars; is it too much too hope that "Shopgirl" could achieve the same
recognition?
<|_=00=_|>
I went into Shopgirl with high expectations, and, unlike some other
films that dissappoint me, all the hype was right this time. I loved
this movie. Claire Danes was perfectly cast as Mirabelle, and seems
able to pull off the "torn- between- two- men" role. Jason Schwartzman,
who plays Jeremy, the first of the two men to fall for Mirabelle, is
adorably goofy, and effortlessly slips into character. And Steve
Martin, who plays Ray, the second (and *MUCH* older) man to fall for
Mirabelle, is the kind of character who you want to dislike, but can't
help falling for. I recommend this movie to anyone. It's an adorable,
charming little gem of a film.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. Gotta hand it to 60 year old Steve
Martin. He cranks out the easy hits like "Father of the Bride" and
"Cheaper by the Dozen" so that he can do his own pet projects like the
underrated "Bowfinger" and now "Shopgirl". Based on his own novella,
Martin explores the mid-life fantasy of a powerful, rich businessman
who takes on a beautiful, younger, unspoiled country girl from Vermont.

While the insight into quiet desperation is always fascinating,
Martin's script fails to really show any human connection between the
three leads. Martin's own character, while easily the most privileged,
is far and away the most distant and least interesting. The always
interesting Claire Danes desperately wants to be loved and escape the
ever-present cold existence of Vermont which continues to haunt her.
Jason Schwartzman (fast cornering the market on quirky to the point of
annoying dudes) is initially enamored with the idea of being with
Claire (or anyone) but goes on the road with a rock band and finds
himself ... or at least educates himself on how to fit into society.

Not sure if any of the characters have any real redeeming qualities,
but they do make for moderately interesting film-making. Bridgette
Wilson (Mrs. Pete Sampras) has a fluffy role as the envious make-up
queen, Sam Bottoms makes a rare screen appearance as Danes say-little
Dad and Francis Conroy (Beautiful Flowers, Six Feet Under) has a brief
appearance as Daines Mom. Interesting side note is that Rebecca Pigeon
has a small role ... she is the real life wife of the great David
Mamet.

Although, the lighting is atrocious and distracting in most every
scene, you do find yourself hoping that someone, ANYONE, discovers a
moment of real happiness. Yes, this story could have been better
presented, but it is worth watching to view first hand how people
pretend to connect.
<|_=00=_|>
A strange new cinematic sub-genre has emerged recently: dramas of
late-middle-age starring members of the original cast -- the "Not Ready
for Prime-Time Players" -- of "Saturday Night Live". Steve Martin's
*Shopgirl*, based on his novella, is the latest entry. One wonders,
with no small sense of dread, what's going to come next: Dan Ackroyd as
a lonely widower facing prostate cancer? Jane Curtin as a retiring
waitress who is faced with the choice of either paying her heating bill
or continuing her Zocor prescription? Chevy Chase battling a Viagra
addiction? It's becoming apparent that Bill Murray's existential angst
isn't his alone. The Baby Boomers have officially turned 60 this year.
What this means for the rest of us is that we'll have to face old age
with them, given this generation's fondness for navel gazing. Expect a
slew of movies in the next several years on the topic of aging
gracefully or otherwise. We may even have a sequel to *The Big Chill*,
in which the characters will make passes at their grandkids' wives or
husbands.

For, as Steve Martin makes clear, Free Love is still an option for
these aging hippies. He plays Ray Porter, an incalculably wealthy
computer tycoon who divides his time between Seattle and Los Angeles.
(He jets back and forth between them on a private plane.) While in
L.A., he goes to Saks Fifth Avenue and buys a pair of elegant black
gloves, becomes smitten with girl who sells him the gloves, and somehow
gets her address and SENDS the gloves to her apartment along with a
note asking her to dinner. Claire Danes' Mirabelle, a reserved
transplant from Vermont, is the perfect prey for this roué. Martin
contrasts Mirabelle with one of her co-workers, a classless, slutty
Bridgette Wilson-Sampras, the type who would be too cynically wise to
actually fall in love with the old man. For, despite Ray's early
protestation to the contrary, Mirabelle's adoring devotedness is
exactly what he wants out of this relationship of convenience. He can
dominate an innocent girl with the unruffled ease to which he's become
accustomed.

I'm afraid I'm not buying any of this. Martin quite explicitly makes
Ray a monster, but then goes out of his way to make sure that we like
him. After all, he takes Mirabelle to the doctor when she's depressed
and later on pays off her college loan. Martin then exacerbates matters
by having Ray actually verbalize his awareness of his own fundamental
indecency: he says things like, "The financial stuff I can help you
with. It's the other stuff . . ." and so on. Oh, please. WHY must we
like Ray Porter, anyway? Does it have something to do with the fact
that he is Steve Martin's creation, perhaps? Never underestimate the
egotism of writers.

And to make sure that the 60-year-old seems like a Dream Come True for
Mirabelle, Martin conceives his more age-appropriate romantic rival
Jeremy (the grotesquely hairy Jason Schwartzman) as a borderline retard
with the most obscure profession I've yet seen in film: a stencil
artist for guitar amplifiers. Jeremy lumbers around the early portions
of the film in slack-jawed idiocy, leaving in his wake, Pig Pen-like, a
cloud of body odor and a trail of body hair. He keeps hitting up
Mirabelle for money in order to "pay" for their dates. He drives a
crappy car. Get the picture? Later in the film, Jeremy becomes a mature
adult after listening to cheesy self-help tapes while touring as a
roadie with a rock band, the maturity made evident by Schwartzman's
shaved face, slicked-back hair, and natty white suit (by a
name-designer) that looks to be pulled from the rack of the Miami Vice
fashion police. (By the way, what IS it with these type of movies
having a recurring motif of self-help tapes? -- cf. *Lost in
Translation*. This is something MARTIN'S generation does! The Dot Net
kids mock that stuff!) I'm pretty positive that Martin wrote the
novella with a possible film in mind in which he would star as Ray --
and, if so, what a stunning display of pettiness, to say nothing of
sheer egomania. Some competition, eh? Do Ray and Jeremy really
constitute the choices for a beautiful girl in her twenties: a
60-year-old roué and a slacker who behaves like a 12-year-old? You
know, French films frequently tackle this subject matter, but the girl
is given a reasonable alternative between a still-vital handsome
professional in his forties and a good-looking, charming kid. In
*Shopgirl*, it's either the suave King Midas of Social Security age or
a bum. Give me a break.

Finally, one gets the sense that it's really all about the money for
Steve Martin. A lot of name-dropping going on, here: Armani, famous
L.A. restaurants (Ray and Mirabelle eat take-out from Spago at Ray's
elegantly post-modern house), and so on. Don't forget Jeremy's
transformation in that name-designer white suit. Martin couldn't even
come up with a fake name for Saks. If he was trying to be satirical
about crass commercialism, it must have sailed over my head: the
comforts of Ray's life are presented as a glamorous option for
Mirabelle, if she just plays along. Martin, in a third-person
narration, sums up the action of the film at the end by suggesting
Mirabelle would have stayed with Ray if he had loved her just a bit
more. Turns out that, to modify Paul McCartney, money can ALMOST buy
you love. It never occurs to this Baby Boomer that a healthy,
wholesome, decent young woman might want to build a life with someone
her own age. *Shopgirl* is a pathetic chauvinist fantasy that isn't as
aware of this fact as it thinks it is.

2 stars out of 10 -- the second star earned by some occasionally
fanciful direction by Anand Tucker.
<|_=00=_|>
"Shopgirl", the magnificent novella by Steve Martin, finally arrives as
a movie that expands on the text, as Anand Tucker, its director,
demonstrates. Steve Martin also adapted his own story, which works well
with the movie version since he knows what he wants to say and how to
present the story in cinematic terms.

This film is about how sometimes a man, who evidently is a successful
business person, can't see what he does to a woman who, in spite of the
warnings, has fallen deeply in love with him. Ray Porter, is an
egotistical man, incapable of expressing his emotions unless they are
in the form of material things. Ray is an empty man who can buy whoever
he wants to be with, but who demands there will be no strings attached
to any sort of relationship.

Mirabelle, the young gloves sales lady at Los Angeles' Saks 5th Ave.,
is a lonely girl who has relocated to the city from Vermont. It's hard
for anyone in that environment to connect with people, especially in a
place like L.A. where no one talks to one another and everyone seems to
be impressed with celebrities that are to be seen everywhere. Mirabelle
is destined to a life of loneliness until two men appear at about the
same time, the goofy Jeremy, and Ray Porter.

Jeremy likes Mirabelle in his own crazy way. Mirabelle responds to him
because he means easy companionship without complications. When Ray
appears on the scene, Mirabelle has no clue about what she is getting
in for. Before anything, Ray makes it clear he wants no commitment, and
no attachment. It's just a convenient situation for him as he has
calculated that Mirabelle is perhaps a sexual diversion, at best. He
finally reveals what he really has in mind when he tells the girl his
intentions for the New York apartment, something that he hasn't
included her in, at all.

This bittersweet story comes alive because of Claire Danes great
performance as Mirabelle. Ms. Danes is perfectly cast as Mirabelle.
Steve Martin's characterization as Ray Porter, is superb in his take
about this man. Mr. Martin clearly understands what this man is really
like and what makes him tick. Both these actors contribute to making
their characters feel real.

On the other hand, the goofy performance from Jason Schartzman is
distracting from the other story. The best sequence involves the
beautiful Bridgette Wilson in thinking Jeremy is the real Ray Porter.

The excellent cinematography by Peter Suschitzky gives "Shopgirl" a
sophisticated look that goes perfectly with the story being told. Anand
Tucker directed with elegance and a sure hand making the film a winner.
<|_=00=_|>
I simply do not understand how other people on this site could have
given this score above, say, oh, a three. As a comedy, it fails; it
isn't at all funny. As a drama, it fails; you are never given any
reason to connect with the characters, and the so called twists (Steve
martin sleeps with some random woman, Jeremy returns to town in a new
suit) don't do anything to alleviate the mind crushing boredom. As a
romance, it fails; the main characters are essentially shag partners,
not really romancers. The acting was bearable, but it was just so
BORING. Nothing happened throughout the whole movie, and other than
that, nothing was explained. Why did Steve Martin take a like to the
shopgirl? Indeed, why should we care? It was narrated towards the
beginning of the film that this girl had value; which put me in the
mindset of her getting a better job and putting her life back on track,
not working at the EXACT same job, the only difference being her new
sex buddy Steve Martin (who by the way, could easily be the girls
father). The one liners are awful, and it is just so mind numbingly
tedious. The people who claim that this is the best film they have ever
seen are either clinically insane or have exceptionally poor taste. One
of the people who reviewed this claimed that it was "a continuation of
Steve Martins bitter humour," which it clearly wasn't, as there were no
jokes. At least not funny ones. Steve Martin needs to loosen up and
stop appearing in poor mens children comedies, and absolutely mind
numbingly terrible romances. Add to it a non-ending and you've got
yourself the worst movie of 2005. Edit: Saw a little of this a few
weeks ago, (August 08) and it's still just as shite.
