
OK, the story wasn't brilliant, and the ending was predictable. There
wasn't anything really amazing about this movie. But, I loved it. A
lot. It made me laugh, a lot and thats all I really care about.
Brittany Murphy and Ashton Kutcher were great together, they made a
really good pair. I'm not a huge Ashton fan, but I do think he is
funny, and this was probably the best movie I've seen out of the ones
I've seen him in. Same with Brittany Murphy, although I really haven't
seen much of her stuff. Like I said, the story is simple and
predictable, but if you don't care about that kind of stuff then I'd
recommend for a few laughs, nothing more, nothing less. =]
<|_=00=_|>
a teen movie. I enjoyed it because well I'm a teen. The comedy could
have been better, but there were some funny moments, like when Tom was
attacked by the pigeons, and when Tom and Peter were fighting. It was
pretty predictable, but I am a fan of corny romantic comedies, and if
you are, you will want to see this movie. it is a heartwarming film
that any Ashton or Brittany fan will want to see. It does not reflect
the best work of anyone but it is enjoyable none the less. Final
review: A cheesy, not that great movie, with an enjoyable plot and a
nice cast.

Rent it but don't rush out and buy it
<|_=00=_|>
I had low hopes for this film. It's directed by Shawn Levy, one of the
worst directors of all time. It stars Ashton Kutcher and Brittany
Murphy, both of whom can't really act and are only in films now because
of their social/celebrity status.

Nevertheless I was surprised because despite some really hideous
reviews and bad promos, the movie isn't awful. As a means of silly
entertainment, it's sweet, good-natured and occasionally funny, even if
all the gags are recycled from other flicks. I counted quite a few. The
first fifteen minutes alone have: - Last regrets before the wedding
(e.g. bride feels bad about keeping secrets from future husband, etc.)
- Groom picks up bride to be romantic, ends up slapping her head
against the door frame (also see...any other movie about newly married
couples) - They try to have sex on an airplane, get limb(s) stuck in
the toilet (also see "Vegas Vacation," which was a scene recycled from
other films to begin with) - Mean airline stewardesses (also see
"Planes, Trains and Automobiles" and "Meet the Parents" and "Midnight
Run" and...) - Mix-up at the rental agency in terms of
car/transportation, they end up with a lesser car (ripped right off of
the aforementioned "P,T&A") - Get stuck in snow ("PT&A" again!) And so
on and so forth...

Some of the gags are too crude and shouldn't be included - the pathetic
joke about the vibrator as a honeymoon present is unnecessary. Sticking
it into the wrong electrical current outlet is a good payoff, but I was
expecting it to be handled funnier. It's a bit anti-climactic.

Overall this is an "embarrassing situation" comedy where lots and lots
of bad stuff happens to people minding their own business. It's kind of
like "Meet the Parents" - events continually spiralling out of control,
bad luck for good people - but not as funny or well-developed. The
characters are likable which helps out a lot. The direction isn't as
bad as I expected.

But the script could have used polishing and the whole premise has been
dealt with before. As a means of simple 90-minute entertainment, you
could do a lot, lot worse (trust me!). But I'm just hoping they don't
make another one. (I can see it now: "Just Parents," "Just
Grandparents," "Just Divorced" and then "Just Deceased.")
<|_=00=_|>
Newlyweds Brittany Murphy and Ashton Kutcher embark on the honeymoon
from hell. Ermmm. That's it.

This movie very much does what it says on the tin. It doesn't claim to
be an intellectual journey. It's just a bit of screen candyfloss. But
for all that, I'd rate it as one of the better examples of its type.

Why? Because there are enough laughs to keep it going - especially in
the first half of the film. And the two leads are likable enough. It
has to be said that both look terrific, and Kutcher in particular has
developed a very nice style in physical comedy.

The problem with all these kind of movies, for me, is that they tend to
drag a bit as they reach the 1hour mark, and then you're sort of
waiting for it to end. This is certainly the case here. But if you like
to see goodlooking people in reasonably funny romantic situations, you
can do a lot worse than this one.
<|_=00=_|>

You remember those Jerry Springer episodes where a husband cheats on his
wife with her sister, calls her a whore and is actually a woman himself
(well, you get my drift). The response the wife gives to everybody: Well,
he's coming home with me! When Jerry asks her why she would want to do
that,
she just looks down and says: Well, I just love him Jerry...

WHY she actually loves her husband is unclear, just as it's unclear why
newlyweds poor guy Tom (Ashton Kutcher) and rich girl Sarah (Brittany
Murphy) team up. They don't know anything about each other, but get
married
anyway. OK, it's a mistake others have made, but things only get worse
when
they are fighting, screaming at each other, basicly hate each other, but
in
the end, as Sarah says to her father: Well, I just love him Jer... erm...
dad.

The story is focussing on the honeymoon of Tom and Sarah. They decided to
go
to Europe, first stop: France. At this time around Kutcher's character is
the most annoying one I have ever witnessed on screen. He's literally a
European's nightmare of an American. He hates it that no-one speaks
English
(well, American anyway), hates the French customs, yells at the hotel
manager while he just basicly destroyed the place, he's screaming at his
wife for no reason... what fun is there to be married to this illiterate
guy?

Things only get worse once they go to Venice, with Sarah meeting an old
boyfriend of hers and Tom almost sleeping with a girl he picked up at a
bar
(he goes to all the time because they show American baseballmatches...
screw
those old churches!).

So, what happens really, is two people who are not fit for each other end
up
getting married, which is a huge mistake. Ok, let's go for it then. Make
it
some sort of War Of The Roses, or whatever. But no, there's always a
feeling
left in the movie that they will end up happily ever after, until that
very
last scene. I Just Love Him Daddy! YUCK!!!

Film not only lacking a good story, a good ending, good actors, good
directing, but also some laughs (why would you call this one a comedy?) as
it sure is one of the worst movies I have ever witnessed. Down there with
Freddie Got Fingered, Spice World, Glitter, Showgirls and other crap.
Shame
on you!

1/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Tom (Ashton Kutcher) a traffic reporter with a white collar up bringing
and Sarah (Brittany Murphy) a writer whose family is wealthy and
snobbish, fall in love and marry; much to the despair of her parents
and her ex-boyfriend. After their wedding they set off on what should
be their honeymoon, but it's more the trip from hell.

Kutcher and Murphy do have a strong screen chemistry, and this movie
does have a decent script with some funny moments, it just doesn't do
anything new, which leaves it feeling just a little too familiar, to be
considered a really good film.

It's well made, funny and entertaining; it's just not special.

6/10
<|_=00=_|>

Stuck in a hotel room and exhausted, I turned on HBO and saw this film. 
Aside from the high energy levels of the main stars, this movie is without
redeeming features.  The script is insipid and predictable, and the
production is only adequate.

A coupe of shack-ups get married, decide that they have strong differences,
and fight throughout their honeymoon.  They make up at the end.  And in real
life would live a hellish existence.

Truly not worth anyone's time.  The movie isn't funny, sexy, or even
interesting.

But my hat is off to the young actors for doing their best with very little
to work with.
<|_=00=_|>
Just Married is an average comedy and something you would expect from
Ashton Kutcher. Tom Leezak and Sarah McNerney are newlyweds and are
about to go off of their honeymoon. The trip turns out to be terrible
as all these accidents start happening to them. Will they able to
overcome these obstacles and stay married? The plot is pretty generic
as there's really nothing new about it. Films like Just Married can
sometimes be really funny while other times, they can be bad. Just
Married falls somewhere in between. While there are some funny moments,
there are also a lot of yawns. Ashton Kutcher stars as Tom and he does
a good job. He usually plays the same character but does it well.
Brittany Murphy plays Sarah and does a good job. She is a really good
actress and one day will be a huge star. The material she is given in
this film, just isn't very good. Christian Kane plays the ex-boyfriend
of Sarah and he is trying to get her back. He is an okay actor, nothing
special though. Shawn Levy directs and does an average job. Just
Married is the type of comedy you would expect out of January, which is
average and forgettable. The film is only 95 minutes long, which means
it isn't too much of a pain to watch. The movie does drag sometimes
though and so it feels like its longer then it really is. There are no
memorable scenes or lines as you have already probably heard it and
seen it before. There's really no reason to go and see Just Married.
The stars didn't benefit from it nor were they affected from it in a
bad way. In a few years most people will forget they have seen it. So
there's no harm in watching but there are better comedies out there.
Rating 5.3/10, a so-so comedy that's really not worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
The much reviled 'romanntic comedy' genre always takes the form of a)
meet cute b) fall "in love," c) get into a fight, and d) reunite at the
last minute after a music montage. For these reasons it receives heaps
of scorn. But there's a range of romantic comedies, and really any
frame of this is preferable to something like "Just Friends." The
travel footage is very nice. But as always with the genre it defaults
to unimaginative clichés as when in France they make room for lots of
french-bashing. Really... the French are kind until they meet a jackass
like Kutcher's character. And the cause of it all (Kutcher likes
sports) is introduced to his wife about twelve seconds before the plot
point needs to be utilized.

In the end, Kutcher is declaring his undying love for whatsherface for
no clearer reason than he's young and the young are prone to cavalier
promises about forever because they sampled so little of it. Which
means they're not any further than where they started. But what did you
expect from a romantic comedy?

If I remember correctly, the movies "Caffe America" exterior is
actually the only gay bar in Venice.
<|_=00=_|>

Because, to redefine average, a movie would have to be .. well, more
average
than average.

I gave this movie a 5, since it held my attention (mostly because Ashton
is
so cute and seeing glimpses of him shirtless hold attention), but it's
certainly nothing memorable.

It's just a ho-hum movie with nothing revolutionary or
groundbreaking.

Oh, and I did laugh once.  But, I can't even remember when.

AVERAGE!
