

There are people out there who will greenlight anything! That is the only
explanation I can offer as to why the House of the Dead movie exists. And
that's only scary part to the whole movie. It's so bad you'll go off
movies
forever. I seriously wanted to switch this off and turn the TV over to the
Paint Drying channel but I was bound by my word to suffer the whole thing.
I
don't know why I do these bad things to myself.

As if it matters, here's the basic jist of the 'story'. A group of
twenty-somethings are so desperate to go out to some island in the Pacific
Northwest (Canada actually, because it's cheap) for the 'Rave of the
Century' (which consists of about 8 people and un-raving music) that they
pay some craggy old fisherman $1000 to take them there after they miss the
main ferry. That's gotta be some rave to be worth all that dough! The
fisherman warns them that the island is also known as the Island of the
Dead
(hang on-I thought this was HOUSE of the Dead?) and that they are all
doomed
yadda yadda yadda.

First faults here. Why would a tiny little rave (of the Century my foot!)
be
held on some remote island? Why would anyone willingly pay loads of money
to
get it? Why pay even more to the craggy old fisherman to take them back
when
they could just come back with the others?

Once they arrive they discover that the rave (which consists of about 2
tents, a small stage and a port-a-john) has been smashed, there's blood
everywhere and no one is around. What would any rationally thinking person
do? Run for their lives of course. But no, these clueless, obviously blind
people decide to go look for them. Soon enough they discover an old
ramshackle house that's 50 times as big on the inside as it is on the
outside. Another half hour of stumbling around in the forest follows, as
an
excuse to kill of some of the lesser characters, and after much tedium
they
arrive back at the house again. The characters, like the movie, go
nowhere.

Jammed into this ghastly disaster is a superabundance of gibberish
dialogue,
heinous acting, mumbo-jumbo exposition and zillions of clips from the
once-popular arcade game of the same name. Why this was universally
accepted
as a good idea with the filmmakers I'll never know. The clips have no
reference to any of the scenes and only degrade this trash even further,
if
that is at all possible.

It has nothing to do with the game save for some cheap, throwaway line at
the end. It makes Resident Evil look like cinematic glory. Hell, even the
Double Dragon movie seems multi-Oscar worthy in comparison to this junk.
The
only one who comes out of this with his dignity still intact is Jurgen
Prochnow. He could have just taken his money and ran but he tries his best
with the awful script and brings a tiny bit of pathos to his character.
The
rest of the cast suck I'm afraid. The characters are idiots and deserve to
die.

Plus, if you cut out the swearing and pointless nudity, I see no reason
why
this film cannot be shown on Saturday morning TV. It's not frightening in
the slightest. Pirates of the Caribbean is more scary than the skeletal
bad
guys in this film. And where did all those bad guys come from anyway?
There
were only a few people on the island to begin with. I guess this justifies
the reason they chose to reuse footage over and over. I kid you not,
you'll
see the same zombie die a dozen times.

Who's ultimately to blame for that scandalous waste of celluloid? None
other
than director Uwe Boll. His control over the movie is non-existent. You
can
clearly the see actors have no idea what they should be doing and that the
zombies aren't really taking it all seriously. The actors seem like
they're
reading off cue cards as they constantly pause in the middle of long
sentences and carry on talking as soon as they see the next card. It all
feels very unnatural.

Plus the film is shot like a two-part mini-series. I have indeed seen
better
TV productions. And don't get me started on the editing. The film is an
incoherent babble with thousands upon thousands of pointless shots and
dozens of meaningless camera pans. No real skill or talent was put into
making this at all. It truly baffles and boggles the mind how movies this
unfathomably bad can get made and George A. Romero can't even get anyone
to
take his calls. House of the Dead makes some idiotic reference to Romero
in
a lazy attempt to be 'post-modern' but it only irritates that they think
THIS is in the same league as a REAL zombie movie.

For what it's worth, the 1.85:1 anamorphic picture looks great and the
Dolby
5.1 soundtrack is clean but very unimpressive and only serves to pronounce
the heavily over-used ADR even more. The DVD comes with extras but why
torture yourself. Isn't this review warning enough? Stay away! You are all
doomed I tell you! Doomed! Doomed!!! 
<|_=00=_|>
IT SUCKS! I don't mean that it's so bad it's good, I mean it IS the
ultimate low. This is as bad as "Ax 'Em"! My friend unwittingly bought
this piece of garbage (not a compliment this time) and we stumbled into
watching one of the most excruciating wastes of celluloid EVER! When
hearing that Dave "Dead Hate the Living!" Parker was to write this, I
figured he would provide the fulfillment to go with the ever-so-slight
promise I believed I saw in him earlier on. Maybe it was or wasn't his
screw-up, but this is just unbelievable. How horrid can a movie get? A
dumbass with a video camera (sign of the artist!) makes
self-referential quips about Romero films to let you know it's supposed
to be a real, bona fide throwback. When various characters die, it's
made to look as if they've lost a video game. See actual video game
footage spliced into action scenes that make Ed Wood, Jr. look
superior! And, no, it's not funny because IT IS THAT DAMN BAD.
Everything about it, everything! What a shambles! And don't make the
mistake of thinking getting high will help you enjoy it... we WASTED
our high on this piece of slimy maggot excrement! PLEASE, FOR THE LOVE
OF WHATEVER ICON YOU PUT IN FRONT OF YOU OR THE LACK THEREOF, DO NOT
SEE THIS MOVIE! It WILL be a waste of your time and money. That is,
unless you're even more into stubbing out hot ashes on your soul than I
am! PLEASE! NO! BEWARE! AVOID AT ALL COSTS! IT'S JUST THAT BAD! IT'S
TOO LATE FOR ME AND MY FRIEND, BUT NOT FOR YOU! NOOOOOOO......
<|_=00=_|>
There are some movies you just know they are going to be bad from frame
one. Even if you were totally oblivious of Ed Wood's work, one look at
that commentator from "Plan 9 from outer space" and you just KNOW you
are not gonna see the next cinematic masterpiece. Just like that, when
I saw the first shot of Uwe Bolls masterpiece "House of Dead", with
that guy sitting at the front of the house starting his introduction
while trying desperately to sound like he just arrived from Sin City, I
knew I'm in for a helluva ride.

So, the movie starts like this - first the lead character says that
everybody else is going to die. You know, to keep you wandering. Then
he starts introducing the rest of the characters with lines like
"Karma..thinks she's Foxy Brown" or "Alicia..my ex.. we broke up
recently.. I had to study and she had to fence". No, I'm not kidding.

Anyway, this bunch of 20-somethings who couldn't act their way out of a
wet paper-bag are going to the "Rave of the century", rave in question
being a few tents, a port-a-potty and a shoddy stage located on small
island in the middle of the Pacific. Our gang missed the ferry, but
thankfully will find a way to get there, the way being a fisher-boat
ran by Kirk (Cpt Kirk? Get it? Man, whoever wrote this script is a
genius) and his sidekick who is a bastard child of Simpsons' Cpt
McAllister and that hook killer who knows what you did last summer.

To make the long story short, the gang gets to the island, finds nobody
there except some bloody T-shirts and then decide to run the hell away
from there. No wait, they do not, they actually get all happy and like
cos there's free booze.

With that scene the movie hits rock bottom and then against all odds
proceeds to go further downhill. Some guys in rubber suits start
running around, there is some screaming and shooting, our gang goes to
some house to meet some other gang, they go out of the house, meet Cpt
Kirk and some police woman (who between them have about 500 pounds of
weapons) and then decide to go back to the house. Somewhere along the
line they transform into a S.W.A.T. team, enter the Matrix, the
rubber-suit guys start multiplying like bacteria and I start to cry
because I actually paid to see this. To add insult to the injury, every
few minutes there are shots from the video game this crap is based on
and there is a cute game-over cut-scene for a few characters when they
die.

I seriously hate this movie. It doesn't even fit in that famed "So bad
it's good" category. It's just plain bad. The script is bad, the
zombies are awful, there is no tension, lines are bad, actors are bad..
the list just goes on.

You will probably want to see this movie just because of its reputation
of being awful. Don't. There are bad movies that deserve to be watched.
This is not one of them.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of the worst films I've seen. The only positive thing I can
say is it was so bad that is seemed comical. First off, there's no
plot. The actors appear to be reading off cue cards and do the dumbest
things. Such as being chased by dead people but yet wanting to go out
and look for their friends. Also the zombies were terrible, no where
near as fun as any of Romero's work, who gets s plug in the movie. And
the dumbest part of all was they kept showing flashes of the video game
in the action sequences. Like we don't get the video game is about
shooting zombies. Also, all the 20 somethings some how know how to use
automatic weapons and hit a target without even aiming the gun. And the
way the people die is so stupid. It's like they run out of ammo so
stand around waiting to be jumped on. And when cornered in front of the
house they run out of ammo instead of shooting the door open, So dumb.

FINAL VERDICT: If any of these actors appear in another film, then
they've been blessed with a second chance. Definitely the worst film
I've seen in years. A B-movie on cinemax is better.
<|_=00=_|>

Holy smokes, was this movie bad or what? I mean, the absolute worst
direction I can remember in a film. We see people running through a forest,
quick shots of a zombie's face by a tree, more shots of people running, a
shot of a video game, a shadow of someone running and then a shot of another
zombie by a tree. What the heck is going on?

The last zombie movie I saw that was this bad was "The Dead Hate the Living"
which was, surprise, written by the same guy, Dave Parker, who has
absolutely no business writing films. Just a terrible, terrible writer. I
mean, with great lines like "let's face it, we're dealing with zombies
here," you'd think the producers would have caught on.

And like Parker's last effort, we get references to other zombie films,
which when made by awful filmmakers, only makes the film more stupid. One
idiot in the movie makes a reference to the Romero zombie trilogy, which has
nothing to do with anything, except that apparently the zombies in this
movie have seen the Romero films because the only way to kill them is just
like the Romero zombies, a shot to the head. Kind of takes away the mystic
of the film when you're making references to movies that your movie follows
the rules from.

Of course, if George Romero ever saw this film, he'd laugh his butt off at
how awful it is. And this stupid quick cuts to video games shots. Hey, I
don't play video games so I don't know anything about the game this movie is
based on, but you want your movie to play to a wide audience, not the select
few who are familiar with the video game. It did nothing but remind the
viewer they're watching an awful movie.

And sadly, Jurgen Prochnow, what happened to your career? This is the guy
who is in one of the greatest war films of all time, Das Boot, now playing
dumb roles in dumb movies not even worthy of straight-to-video fare. How sad
(although the U-boat line did make me laugh).

Now will people stop giving Dave Parker work? The only movies this guy
should be involved with are the ones at the video store he's the manager
of.
<|_=00=_|>
Laid up and drugged out, as a kidney stone wended its merry way through
my scarred urinary tract, with absolutely nothing better to do than let
the painkillers swoon me into semi-oblivion, I happened to catch this
movie on cable. I wouldn't want anyone to think that I paid to view it
in a cinema, or rented it, or – heaven forfend! – that I watched it
STRAIGHT.

Having played this sensationally gruesome video game and avidly trod
the doomed rooms and dread passageways of The House, battling Chariot
(Type 27), The Hanged Man (Type 041), and other impossible sentinels,
my curiosity was piqued as to how the game would transfer to the movie
screen.

It doesn't.

The banal plot revolves around a group of "crazy kids" – a la Scooby
Doo – attending a remote island for a world-shaking "rave" – whatever
that is. (You kids today with your hula-hoops and your mini-skirts and
your Pat Boone…) After bribing a boat captain thousands in cash to
ferry them there (a stupidity which begs its own network of rhetoric),
they find the "rave" deserted.

Passing mention is made of a "house" – presumably the titular House Of
The Dead – but most of the action takes place on fake outdoor sets and
other locales divorced from any semblance of haunted residence.

A fallen video camera acts as flashback filler, showing the island in
the throes of a – party?! Is that it? Oh, so this "rave" thingy is just
a "party"? In the grand tradition of re-euphemizing "used cars" as
"pre-owned", or "shell shock" as "post-traumatic stress disorder", the
word "party" is now too square for you drug-addled, silicone-implanted,
metrosexual jagoffs? 

It is learned that the party was broken up by rampaging zombies.
Intelligent thought stops here…

I don't think the pinheads who call themselves screenwriters and
directors understand the mythos behind zombie re-animation. Zombies
can't die – they're already UN-DEAD. They do not bleed, they know no
pain. Unless their bodies are completely annihilated, they will
continue being animated. At least, that's what my Jamaican witch
priestess tells me.

Which means that a .45 shot into their "hearts" is not going to stop
them, nor will a machete to the torso. And a shotgun blast to the chest
will certainly NOT bring forth gouts of blood. At least in the video
game's logic, the shooter pumps so many rounds into each monster that
it is completely decimated, leaving a fetid mush that cannot re-animate
itself.

Yet each actor-slash-model gets their Matrix-circular-camera moment,
slaying zombies on all fronts with single bullets and karate chops to
the sternum. Seriously, these zombies are more ineffective than the
Stormtroopers from "Return Of The Jedi", who get knocked out when Ewoks
trip them.

I suppose the film's writer, Mark Altman, having penned the
not-too-shabby "Free Enterprise", felt compelled to insert a Captain
Kirk reference, in the character of Jurgen Prochnow, who must have
needed milk money desperately to have succumbed to appearing in this
aromatic dung-swill. There is also a reference to Prochnow's primo role
in the magnificent "Das Boot", when one of the untrained B-actors
mentions that he "looks like a U-Boat Captain". ". I wonder how many of
this movie's target audience of square-eyed swine picked up on ANY of
the snide references to other films, as when Prochnow declares, "Say
hello to my little friend", presaging his machine gun moment. 

Aimed at a demographic who have not the wherewithal to comprehend the
Sisyphean futility of the video-game concept (i.e. the game ends when
you die – you cannot win), this is merely a slasher film for the
mindless and mindless at heart. Accordingly, everyone dies in due
course, except for a heterosexual pair of Attractive White People.

A better use for this film's scant yet misused budget might have been
to send the cast through Acting School, although Ona Grauer's left
breast did a good job, as did her right breast – and those slomo
running scenes: priceless! I especially liked the final scene with Ona
trying to act like she's been stabbed, but looking like she's just
eaten ice cream too fast.

Attempting to do something more constructive with my time, I pulled out
my Digitally-Restored, 35th Anniversary, Special Edition, Widescreen
Anamorphic DVD of "Manos: The Hands Of Fate." Ah, yes! – the drugs were
suitably brain-numbing - now HERE was some quality film-making…

(Movie Maniacs, visit: www.poffysmoviemania.com)
<|_=00=_|>

Ok, first of all, I am a huge zombie movie fan. I loved all of Romero's
flicks and thoroughly enjoyed the re-make of Dawn of the Dead. So when I
had
heard every single critic railing this movie I was still optimistic. I
mean,
critics hated Resident Evil, and while it may not be a particularly great
film, I enjoyed it if not for the fact that it was just a fun zombie
shoot-em up with a half decent plot. This however, is pure crap. Terrible
dialogue, half-assed plot, and video game scenes inserted into the film.
Who
in their right mind thought that was a good idea. The only thing about
this
movie (I use the term loosely) that I enjoyed was Jurgen Prochnow as
Captain
Kirk (Ugh). While his name throws originality out the window, you can see
in
his performance that he knows he's in a god awful film and he might as
well
make the best of it. Everyone else acts as if they're doing Shakespeare.
And
very badly I might add. Basically the only reason anyone should see this
monstrosity is if you a.) Are a huge zombie buff and must see every zombie
flick made or b.) Like to play MST3K, the home game. See it with friends
and
be prepared for tons of unintentional laughs.


<|_=00=_|>

Okay, so I'm not a big video game buff, but was the game House of the Dead
really famous enough to make a movie from? Sure, they went as far as to
actually put in quick video game clips throughout the movie, as though
justifying any particular scene of violence, but there are dozens and
dozens
of games that look exactly the same, with the hand in the bottom on the
screen, supposedly your own, holding whatever weapon and goo-ing all kinds
of aliens or walking dead or snipers or whatever the case may
be.

It's an interesting premise in House of the Dead, with a lot of college
kids
(LOADED college kids, as it were, kids who are able to pay some fisherman
something like $1,500 just for a ride after they miss their boat) trying
to
get out to this island for what is supposed to be the rave of the year.
The
first thing that comes to mind about House of the Dead after watching it
is
that it has become increasingly clear that modern horror movies have
become
nothing more than an exercise in coming up with creative ways to get a lot
of scantily clad teenagers into exactly the same situations. At least in
this case, the fact that they were on their way to a rave excuses the way
the girls are dressed. They look badly out of place running around the
woods
in cute little halter-tops, but at least they THOUGHT they were dressed
for
the occasion.

Clint Howard, tellingly the most interesting character in the film by
far,
delivers an absolutely awful performance, the greatness of which
overshadows
every other actor in the movie. I can't stand it when well-known actors
change their accents in movies, it is so rarely effective, and Howard here
shows that it is equally flat to have an well-known actor pretend that
he's
this hardened fisherman with a raspy voice from years of breathing salty
air. He didn't even rasp well. It sounded like he was eating a cinnamon
roll
before shooting and accidentally inhaled some powdered sugar or something.
Real tough there, Clint! I expected more from him, but then again, he did
agree to a part in this mess.

Once we get to the island, the movie temporarily turns into any one of the
Friday the 13th movies that took place at Camp Crystal Lake. Lots of
teenagers played by actors who were way too old for their parts getting
naked and then killed. The nudity was impressive, I guess, but let's
consider something for a minute. These kids pay almost two grand to get
out
to this island to go to the Rave Of The Year, find NO ONE, and say, well,
who wants a beer! Even the guy who pulled that stack of hundreds out of
his
wallet to get them all over there didn't think anything of it that they
found a full bar and not a single solitary person in sight. Here you have
the input from director Uwe Boll - There's alcohol! They won't notice that
the party they came for consists of no one but themselves!

So not only do they start drinking, not minding the fact that the whole
party seems to have vacated the island, but when one of the girls goes off
into the dark woods to find out where everyone is (dragging one other girl
and one of the guys reluctantly along), the guy and the girl who stay
behind
to get smashed decide that it would be a great idea to strip down for a
quickie now that they're alone. It's like they expected to find the island
empty, and now that they rest of the people that they came over with were
gone for a little while, they would have some privacy since there's no one
else around. Brilliant!

Now for the things that everyone hated, judging by the reviews that I've
read about the movie. Yes, intersplicing shots from the video game into
the
movie, mostly in order to show that, yes, the movie was being faithful
to/directly copying the video game. Sure, it was a stupid idea. I can't
imagine who thought up that little nugget, but worse than that is the
Matrix-style bullet time scenes that were thrown in over and over and over
and over. After the first time (at which point I found it pretentious and
cheesy for a movie like this to have a shot like that as though it was
something original) it is noticeable more for the technique of the shot
itself rather than any dramatic meaning or creation of any kind of tension
for the film.

One of the things that makes a zombie film scary and gets you on the edge
of
your seat is to have them slowly but relentlessly coming after the living
humans, who are much faster but getting tired, running out of places to
run,
and with a terrifying shortage of things with which to fight the zombies
off
with. The first two are done right in the movie, the kids are terrified
and
don't have a lot of places to run since they're on an island, but since
they
caught a ride over with a smuggler, they find themselves heavily armed.
And
I mean that very strongly. I mean, these people have everything from
machine
guns to hand grenades, which removes most of the tension of the impending
walking dead.

Then you have what I call the techno-slasher scene. Since the rave never
happened, and I guess since Uwe Boll thought people were going to be
disappointed at not hearing any techno music in the movie, there's one
scene
right in the middle where all the humans are fighting off the living dead,
and amazingly enough it turns into something of a music video. There's
techno music blasting as the shots are edited together faster and faster
until it's nothing but a blur of gory shot, mostly only about 5 frames
long
(which is about 1/6 of a second) flashing across the screen in time with
the
speed techno music. Clever, I guess, but it has no place in a horror movie
because it completely removes any sense of scariness or tension of even
the
gross-out effect because you can't see any one thing for long enough to
react to it. You're just watching these shots fly across the screen and
wondering what the hell the director was thinking when he decided that it
would be a good idea to put something like this in the movie.

I've seen a lot of people compare this movie to Resident Evil, mostly
claiming that it copies the premise of it, and they're exactly right. I
appreciate that at least here, as was not the case in Resident Evil, it
wasn't some man-made virus that turned people into walking dead that were
able to infect other people, changing them the way vampires turn others
into
vampires. 28 Days Later was also clearly an inspiration for this movie,
it's
just too bad that House of the Dead didn't do a single original thing,
except for the somewhat moronic idea of putting in quick shots of the
video
game on which it is based, just in case you forget. I really think that
this
should have been a much better movie. While obviously I can't say that I
know much about the game it's based on, just the title and the movie
poster
deserve a much better movie, but unfortunately I think that's more often
the
case than not with horror movies. It's really kind of sad when a movie
comes
out that is so obviously advertised as a no-holds-barred horror film, and
the scariest thing in the entire movie is the closing shot, which suggests
the possibility of a sequel.
<|_=00=_|>
I found this movie in the 'horror' section of my video store. That
seems to make sense as most zombie movies have their place there. From
Romero's 'Dead' trilogy to '28 days later.' However upon watching it,
you can quickly see what this movie really is.

It is actually a music video that goes progressively faster and gets
more and more and more gory. There is no horror here folks. Just some
half-way decently staged action scenes which soon grow tiresome because
they last... and last... and last... and soon you get the feeling maybe
you're DVD player accidentally skipped back 3 minutes, but no, this is
how they actually made the movie. It's a pity. I think anyone could
find a better use for $7 million dollars in the movie industry than
make this lump o' crud. Though some of the 360 effects were cool, but
once again, they were over used and grew tedious since it was the same
stunt over and over again each time, just with a different character.

Also what is ROYALLY annoying is the splicing on of footage from the
arcade game. I've played the game. It sucks. So why did they put it in
here? Oh that's right, this isn't a movie but a music video, and it's a
poor one at that. 3/10

Rated R: a lot of violence/gore, and profanity
<|_=00=_|>
Actually reasonably enjoyable, but in a comic book, silly kinda way.
This is by no stretch of the imagination a good movie in any sense, but
you cant help but laugh yourself silly through most of it. 

Plot line is this: A group of ravers travel to an island near Seattle,
an island known as Isla del Morte (Island of the dead, and my Spanish
spelling is likely incorrect). Once they arrive, they find the biggest
rave of the year deserted. Why? they find out once they stumble upon
survivors and are shown video footage of what happened. 

This is really an elementary movie, poorly written by Mark Altman (who
did one of my favorite films, "Free Enterprise") and equally poorly
acted by the mainly unknown cast. Along with Jurgen Prochnow, Ellie
Cornell ("Halloween" 4 & 5) and Clint Howard (Ron's brother) are the
only names I recognized. I really don't expect much from Clint (and he
certainly delivered in that area) but Ellie and Jurgen usually do a
little better than they showed here.

Johnathan Cherry is really dull as Rudy, Tyron Leitso's Simon is an
irritating little weasel, Ona Grauer's Alicia is really nice to look
at, but not much else...so on and so forth.

Lots and lots of pop culture references, including a mention of George
A. Romero and the possibility of a 4th "Dead" film. See this one if
you're a Romero fan...please...its a zombie movie and if the industry
thinks thats what we want, then we'll get George's final vision that
much sooner. 

This is just not a good movie, but if you're like me and enjoy giving
the "Mystery Science Theater 3000" treatment to bad films, you should
see this one. 

1/2 out of 5
