
This movie is simply funny, it aims to make you laugh and no more.
Anyone who dissect the plot and put the acting and screenplay of this
film under a microscope is missing the entire point of this movie.

This is a comedy, not a documentary or an historical saga, this is
plane humor, dumb with a bit of a slapstick taste... The entire
situation is fictional of course and that's what so funny about it.
I've read some comment about this movie here and the people who wrote
these comment are way off, talking like those big-shot movie critics. 

This is a fun movie to watch with a "stupid" yet hilarious story,
simple comedy and a lot of what some people call "toilet humor" (which
is always funny) - it's nothing more than pure entertainment and it
leaves you with a smile on your face which is never a bad thing, right?
I've seen this movie 5 times and I still laugh my heart out! :-D
<|_=00=_|>
Okay, I was dragged kicking and screaming to this movie. I made my
friends pay for my ticket in protest when the majority voted to see
this and I was stranded at the movie theater without my car. When I
first heard of it, I thought the premise was absurd, the make-up
laughable and the jokes seemed racist. I was right about the first two
things. Yes, you are not fooled for one minute that Marlon and Shawn
are actually either of the 2 pampered princesses they impersonate. Yes,
you can't imagine anyone else being fooled either. But for one moment,
just suspend your disbelief and take this movie for what it is... a
comedy. A gut-busting, rolling on the floor laughing and quotable
one-liners kind of comedy. This was the funniest movie I have seen in a
long time. This movie makes fun of everyone-- black, white, rich, poor,
dorks, cool people... no one is safe. And the brother who falls for
Marlon in disguise had me pee-ing in my pants! And there's even bit of
commentary about social and racial stereotypes. All in all, an
enjoyable experience.
<|_=00=_|>
I have seen the Unrated version on DVD together with my family.

I was very much suspicious about this movie from the moment when I saw
the DVD cover and really wanted to push stop button after the first 5
minutes of the film, especially after seeing absolutely silly makeup
:=) Lucky for me, others wanted to continue watching. What followed was
1 1/2 hours of great comedy, some scenes are so hilarious that even
after seeing them many times I still laugh again when seeing them.

In some way this movie is identical to Soul Plane by being an underdog
which is blamed to be racist and full with low level jokes. Perhaps it
is, but I still find it very funny.

10/10 (Partly because of the IMHO unjustified low total rating this
movie has)
<|_=00=_|>
After an unsuccessful mission, FBI agents Kevin Copeland (Shawn Wayans)
and Marcus Copeland (Marlon Wayans) fall in disgrace in the agency.
They decide to swap their bad position with his superior Section Chief
Elliott Gordon (Frankie Faison) working undercover in an abduction
case, disguised in the two spoiled white daughters of a tycoon,
Brittany and Tiffany Wilson, getting in hilarious situations.

I like the silly and funny movies that Keenen Ivory Wayans directs. His
formula, mixing gross, low level and racist jokes are hilarious and
highly recommended for days when you are down and trouble. My soccer
time lost the game in the afternoon and I was very upset. While
watching "White Chicks", I laughed a lot and I really liked this
comedy, which will never be nominated to an Oscar or to Cannes. But it
is delightful to shutdown the brain and feel amusement and joy with
this type of silliness to improve the humor. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "As Branquelas" ("White Chicks")
<|_=00=_|>
This comedy is magnificent and is entertaining and hilarious all the
way through. One of the best things about the film is that they didn't
use the same jokes that every other comedy movie based on someone
dressing up as someone else and pretending to be them. Also the work
that went into making Shawn and Marlon Wayans look so convincing as
white chicks must have been massive because they looked brilliant.
Frankie Faison was alright playing the chief and delivered a few clever
scenes. Terry Crews was excellent as Latrell Spencer and was a good
touch to the movie. Of course the stand outs were the Wayan brothers
which any one could tell even just from the trailer of the movie. This
performance almost stood up to their roles in Scary Movie 1 and 2 which
is really really saying something. Lets hope they keep writing movies
(with Keenan Ivory Wayans who deserves as much credit, if not more, for
the writing) and starring in them as well because God knows they can
act and act brilliantly. Great movie. The toilet humor was well done
too.
<|_=00=_|>
Americans are some of the most uptight folks on the planet. To the
folks who think this movie is anything but funny, well you are
hopeless.

PC in your case means pitifully cramped. 

Humor, like beauty, is unique to each person. But the Wayans seem to be
able to dish out equal portions of playful jabs and tongue-in-cheek
which appeals to me.

A look at the Hilton sisters and their lifestyle gives more than enough
fodder to make something really funny, and it is in this movie.

If you want intellectualism, go elsewhere. This is just smartly funny.
<|_=00=_|>
White Chicks is the funnest film i have watched in years. Am i the only
one who thought the made up black dudes looked better than the real
white chicks. As for all the comments about the film being racist, cant
anybody watch a film any more as a film , as a comedy film, and not as
a statement of America right now. Remember its a comedy you laugh at
funny things on film, you don't watch a comedy film to write a check
list of every thing not politically correct about the movie, its a
movie to be enjoyed by the masses not by the political correctness
police, get a life people. I watch a film to enjoy that film, i watch
the terminator and i don't think while I'm watching it, mmmm Arnie cant
act, he shouldn't be in this film, lets have Dustin Hoffman play the
terminator he can act, cause that would be and is stupid, watch a film
to enjoy, thats what they are for.
<|_=00=_|>
After seeing the Wayans Brothers in Scary Movie 1 and Scary Movie 2 I
had high expectations on this film, not because they are comic geniuses
or anything, but because they are one of the few toilet humor actors I
can tolerate and even find quite humorous under the right conditions.
White Chicks pulled out all the stops, and remains one of my favorite
movies to watch till this day.

There was just so much hilarious material, that was quite different
from some of the other comedies I had recently seen. Yes, the main plot
is really unbelievable, but it pays off. All the cast knew what kind of
film they were working with and slap it up whenever they can. One of my
favorite scenes is in the dressing room, and another is at a
restaurant. I will leave it at that for those who have not seen it.
This film left me smiling long after it was over, because it started
off strong and carried out the whole way through. That's all it really
needed to do. I must say that there was nothing wrong with this film at
all, and that it was totally funny. It was kind of obvious how when the
brothers in the film dressed up to be the sisters they looked nothing
like them, but I still thought it was a great underrated comedy!
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of my favorite comedies. It's an excellent movie. I even
saw it twice and I laughed a lot. I totally understand why many love
this movie, but some really think it's a crap. If you want to see a
serious comedy, you won't like this one because it's very absurd. I
mean how can two black guys transform into two white chicks and nobody
sees the difference. The plot is very unreal, something you won't see
in the real life, but if you pass over this things you'll see one of
the best comedies. The acting is great, the plot is very entertaining
so I recommend this movie to everyone who wants to laugh a lot and
enjoy a great comedy.
<|_=00=_|>
So I am not a fan of "homeboy" movies but every time I see this movie
come on I have to watch it. I laugh myself silly every time. I cannot
help it but the Wayans Brothers totally kill it with this one. It is so
not about a plausible plot but about being extremely entertaining. With
a great cast of characters. I definitely do not watch movies for hidden
meanings, a significant message, or the artistry. I watch movies purely
for entertainment and enjoyment and this one definitely fits the
bill!For those critics who just want a meaningful just pass For those
of you wanting pure laughs and entertainment!!! WATCH IT But why listen
to me. make up your own mind.
