


`Bringing Down the House' is the latest variation on that old comic chestnut
in which a wisecracking, free-spirit type from `the lower social orders'
invades the life of an uptight stuffed-shirt type - not only getting him to
loosen up that collar and shed his inhibitions but also showing him a thing
or two about what really matters in life.  This is, basically, a primer for
a Culture Clash Comedy 101 course, with a couple of veteran comic professors
on hand to teach us all how it's done.

In this case, Steve Martin plays the uptight lawyer who is so obsessed with
his career that he has already lost his wife over the issue and appears on
the road to alienating his children as well.  When Peter meets what he
believes is a potential love interest in an internet chat room, he figures
his life just might be turning around for the better.  Peter is all set for
a romantic evening – champagne, dim lights, `A Man and a Woman' playing
softly in the background – when, at his door, who should appear but that Big
Bad Mama, Queen Latifah, as Charlene Morton, an ex-convict who wants Peter
to help her expunge from her record the crime she swears she did not commit.
 Peter is at first reluctant to accept this strange woman into his house and
life, but Charlene is nothing if not persistent and she manages to horn her
way in anyway.

The Jason Filardi screenplay pretty much plays it all by rote.  We know,
despite their tremendous differences in culture, background and personality,
that these two comic titans will end up as great pals by the story's end. 
Nothing about `Bringing Down the House' surprises us, yet there is a certain
amount of comfort to be derived from familiarity and predictability.  It's
an old formula but one that works fairly well here, thanks, primarily, to
the assured, high-energy performances of Martin and Latifah in the starring
roles.  These two comic masters achieve a real chemistry working together,
enough to compensate for the broad stereotyping that permeates the film. 
Filardi does achieve some moments of genuine hilarity by mixing slapstick
and social satire in roughly equal measure.  The satire isn't on a very high
level of sophistication but it is good enough for a mass audience venture
such as this one.

Director Adam Shankman is also blessed with a strong supporting cast that
includes Eugene Levy as a nerdish - but `freaky' - business associate
obsessed with wild black women like Charlene; Joan Plowright as a snooty,
eccentric matron whose account Peter is determined to win for his firm; and
Bette White as Peter's bigoted next door neighbor who is eyeing askance all
the strange goings-on at the lawyer's house.

`Bringing Down the House' is at its best when it simply lets itself go,
forgets about the plot, and allows its performers to dazzle us with their
sheer likeability, i.e., Martin and Latifah dancing up a storm at an L.A.
bistro, Martin breaking out into a spontaneous break dance routine while
infiltrating an all-black nightclub.  It is at its worst in the final scenes
when the heavy-handed plot mechanics threaten to torpedo the whole project. 
Luckily, we have Martin and Latifah to help keep the thing afloat.  The
vehicle itself may creak at times, but the stars never
do.

<|_=00=_|>

This film, although badly reviewed by many people, proves to be a fun time
at the movies. Adam Shankman and Jason Filardi have teamed up to give the
viewers lots of laughs. It's hard not to be amused by what's being presented
even though it might not be the greatest, or the funniest picture.

Queen Latifah has more charisma in her ample body than any other actress
working in American films these days. She never gives a bad performance.
This is quite a stretch from her role in Chicago; in fact, she steals the
film with her charm. She can hold up her own against her co-star.

Steve Martin seems to blend himself into this joke of a lawyer, who is so
uptight and anal that he never has enough time for his children. He has some
hysterical scenes at the hip hop club playing an Eminem-type character,
outdancing everyone. Mr. Martin's experience in the chat room brings him a
lot more than he bargained for: the irrisistible Charlene, who turns his
life upside down.

Eugene Levy has some bright moments as Steve Martin's friend in the firm.
Joan Plowright repeats herself into the role of the ogre with a heart of
gold, once she loosens up with the right kind of smoke. The rest of the cast
is good, working with the material they're given to perform.

If you are trying to get away from the horrible news being bombarded at us
these days, this is the film for you.
<|_=00=_|>
This is pretty much another one of those typical culture clash comedies
where a streetsmart character meets the classy rich character, there's
conflict and then the conflict is resolved and friendship blossoms,
then there's another conflict but that too is resolved by the end. The
story has been told x number of times. But what makes 'Bringing Down
The House' likable is Queen Latifah, Steve Martin and Joan Plowright.
These three provide some laugh-out-loud moments some including Martin
and Latifah's dance number, Martin dressing and talking 'black', Queen
Latifah and Missy Pyle's catfight and doing a break-dance, Plowright's
pompous and stuck up character getting stoned, Peter's neighbour
catching him and Charlene in a compromising position. The chemistry
between Latifah and Martin is convincing and both have a good comic
timing. Thus, even though the story has nothing new to offer, the funny
moments make 'Bringing Down The House' fun to watch.
<|_=00=_|>

The arguments and opinions of many a film fan and film critic persist
about
Steve Martin's current position in Hollywood. Many of his doubters believe
he is past it, his films becoming horribly run of the mill, turgid and,
ultimately, unfunny. The opinions are jointly contributing to the downfall
of a once treasured idol. But some have stood by him, myself included,
through the thick black cloud that have rested over the white-haired
maestro
during the last few years of his illustrious career. And with his latest
return to our screens, he's back to prove once and for all, that the wild
and crazy guy is here to stay.

The film sees Martin as lawyer Peter Sanderson, recent divorcee and
top-dog
at his law firm, who now at the age of god-only-knows, decides to ditch
his
now "whack" existence, and goes 'net surfing for the perfect woman.  He
apparently strikes gold with a sex, slim blonde laywer he meets in a
chat-room. But he is taken by surprise when his date arrives in the sexy,
big-boned, brassy form of escaped convict Charlene (Queen Latifah).
Entering
his life with a strut that would make Oprah blush, Charlene attempts to
convince Peter to re-open her case and help her clear her name. That's not
before turning his life upside-down, and posing as his kids' nanny tries
to
help Peter reclaim that what he so dearly yearns for, his family and wife.
How, ahem, sweet. And with all the tomfoolery that ensues comes a
girl-on-girl "bitch-slapping"  session between Charlene and Peter's
sister-in-law, a drunken night of dancing and sexual awakening (believe me
boys, you've never seen it this way before), and gangster parties louder
than Martin's legendary bonnet.

Standing up to its title, "House" really is a treat. Martin, although not
in
full-on "wild and crazy guy" mode, is on typically top, crowd-pleasing
form.
His portrayal as the life-searching, middle-aged, toffee-nosed twit is
inspired, managing to mix the side-splittingly funny with the touching and
poignant to brilliant effect, recalling such affecting form he showed in
"Parenthood" and "Bowfinger". Latifah, meanwhile, shows that she has the
potential for greatness. her larger-than-life performance is uproarious,
bringing charisma and buoyancy to a largely one-dimensional character. She
is also quiet the vixen too. The support from Eugene Levy is also
first-class. Playing Peter's best mate, who is "straight trippin'" over
Charlene, Levy steals practically every scene he appears in, with his
dead-pan humour and flawless timing providing the some of the films most
painfully funny scenes.

The overall quality of the film is pretty standard stuff. The plot is
nothing we haven't seen a thousand times before. The writer and director,
while both efficient, don't really add anything fresh and exciting to the
buddy comedy genre here. That said, when the films funny, it's an absolute
hoot, with the cast stealing the show with marvellous chemistry, and
giving
us three of best comedic turns you're likely to see all year. Delightful
**** (out of FIVE)
<|_=00=_|>
OK, so the white-yuppie-and-black-ghetto-person-joining-up idea has
been used a number of times in movies, but the dialog between Steve
Martin and Queen Latifah makes this one worthwhile. Probably the best
scenes are Betty White's nasty comments, Queen Latifah teaching Missi
Pyle a lesson, Steve Martin dressed - and attempting to talk - like a
rapper (especially because of what Joan Plowright ends up doing in that
scene), and of course, Eugene Levy's statements ending with "Boo".
"Bringing Down the House" really does bring down the house. Completely
silly, but fun nevertheless.

Who ever would have imagined Joan Plowright (aka Laurence Olivier's
widow) doing what she did and saying what she said in the rapper scene?
<|_=00=_|>
Bringing Down the House is a very funny movie and your bound to have a
good time. Peter Sanderson (Steve Martin) is a lawyer who is having
trouble getting his life back on track after his wife, Kate ( Jean
Smart), divorces him; he's also adjusting to his new status as a single
father. Peter tries an internet dating site and virtually meets
"lawyer-girl," an attractive and single fellow attorney. Peter makes a
date with her, but the woman who arrives at his door turns out to be
Charlene Morton (Queen Latifah), who not only isn't a lawyer, she turns
out to be an escaped convict. Charlene explains to Peter that she's
strung him along because she's innocent of the crime for which she was
convicted, and she needs a top-notch attorney to help prove her case.
After some persuasion, Peter agrees to help Charlene out. Though the
plot sounds stupid, the execution turned out to be really funny. The
story is a little weak though and they could have worked a little more
on that. The movie isn't very realistic so you shouldn't go in
expecting one. The cast is great and they make this somewhat old
material funny. The funniest person is Eugene Levy and he is finally
getting the recognition he deserves. Steve Martin returns for his first
wide release film in four years. He doesn't disappoint and gives a very
funny performance. Queen Latifah is also funny, but she also starts
getting annoying by the end of the movie. Jean Smart plays the ex wife
of Peter and she's pretty good. The rest of the supporting cast
includes Kimberly J. Brown, Joan Plowright, Betty White and Missi Pyle.
Adam Shankman directs and this is a large improvement over A Walk to
Remember. The racist jokes in the film are a little outdated and
sometimes this film does go over the top. I still laughed though as
some of the dialog in this film is very funny. While this isn't he
funniest film of 2003, its still worth watching. Its 105 minutes long
and it starts getting a little boring since they add some unnecessary
things. Another good thing about this film is that they didn't use all
the jokes in the preview. In the end, this film is worth watching even
if its not very memorable. Rating 7.4/10, a funny comedy that's worth
checking out.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was amazing, Steve Martin and Queen Latifah are a great team
they made the whole movie so much fun. When Peter Sanderson (Martin)
expects a date with a classy lawyer at his home, instead a large loud
woman just out of prison Charlene (Latifah), appears on his doorstep
and comes into his home and his life with a bang! At the end of this
hilarious movie after a whole lot of havoc Charlene and Peter actually
build up a good relationship despite their differences. All of the cast
were brilliantly picked including Peters hilarious assistant (Eugene
Levy) Mrs Arness (Joan Plowright) and The Sanderson kids, they all
contributed to making this film the movie of 2003!
<|_=00=_|>
My mom has been begging for me to watch Bringing Down the House,
especially since I've been getting more into Steve Martin. He brought
me nothing but laughter with Bowfinger, Little Shop of Horrors, and now
Bringing Down the House. He and Queen Latifa make such a great comedic
duo, this movie was in no way over the top or stereotypical, at least
of the sense where I think you couldn't find it offensive. For those
who did find it offensive, I think you probably watched this movie in a
serious mood, because how could you not laugh? 

Steve Martin plays Peter Sanderson, a straight up-tight business man
who won't get his priorities right with his family and work, he expects
to meet a beautiful, intelligent, and blond white lawyer he met off the
internet, but instead gets Charlene, a tough soul sister who has just
escaped prison and wants Peter to get her name cleared. She claims she
is innocent and she won't leave Peter alone until he helps out, through
the madness of trying to play Peter off as a business man and trying to
get his family back, Charlene teaches him a thing or two along with him
teaching her as well.

There are just some hilarious scenes, my favorite I think was the cat
fight scene between Charlene and Peter's ex sister in-law. That was
just hilarious! I also loved Steve getting accepted at a hard core
gangsta's club and the last scene of Charlene and her new boyfriend,
Howie. Steve and Queen were so cool together and I would highly
recommend this film! 

9/10
<|_=00=_|>
Tax lawyer Peter Sanderson (Steve Martin) has been falling for Charlene
Morton (Queen Latifah) over the Internet. She's sent him a picture of
herself, but she was just a tiny figure in the background, being led
out of a courthouse in jail clothes and cuffs by two cops, while in the
foreground, there was a young, thin, white yuppie-looking female lawyer
talking to a reporter. Sanderson believes that Charlene is the yuppie
and arranges a date. Of course he's surprised at Charlene's appearance
(Latifah is black, "thick" and streetwise in the film) and the fact
that she's a con who has done time. Charlene's motivation is to acquire
affordable, quality legal services to clean up her record--she swears
she's innocent.

Ostensibly a film that would comically explore the serious issue of
racism (and other kinds of appearance preconceptions) between two very
different communities, Bringing Down the House is more a series of
loosely tied gags. It plays like a sketch film, with the theme/subtext
as a unifying factor. At that, the gags or sketches are mostly
successful, although the film is not quite funny enough to work as an
outrageous comedy and not quite serious enough to work as a "message
film", even though it may occasionally come close on both accounts.

The three members of the principle cast--Martin, Latifah and Eugene
Levy--are good, with Levy being underused, but for me, some of the best
material arrived with the supporting cast. Joan Plowright as the
wealthy Mrs. Arness, Kimberly J. Brown as Peter's former sister-in-law
Sarah, and Betty White as Mrs. Kline, Peter's neighbor all routinely
stole the show when they appeared. They were given the most outrageous
material, with Arness and Kline being particularly racist. White's
character is similar in tone to her excellent supporting role in Lake
Placid (1999), although she was underused here.

For some, it may be an asset that the film tries to veer away from
becoming cartoonish. I think it would have benefited from moving
further into absurdist territory--for my tastes, even though Martin has
had many great films, he has never surpassed The Jerk (1979), but
that's too much of a personal preference for me to really count it as a
flaw. It's also interesting that scripter Jason Filardi tries to work
in a mostly serious crime/drama subplot towards the climax, but it's a
bit too little, too late, and is an odd change of tone, even though the
comedy bits surrounding the subplot are good. On the serious side,
other than the material about racism, the strongest aspect is that
Charlene teaches Peter how to be a better parent and family man. A
couple scenes on that end were actually moving.

Overall, Bringing Down the House is a bit of a mixed bag, but
approached as a light "sketch comedy/drama", it is entertaining. My
rating occasionally leaned towards a 7, but remained closer to a 7.5 or
8.
<|_=00=_|>

Sorry that I'm even commenting.  Plunked down the money to see this film
with my fiancee, and we both walked out of the movie about 45 minutes
into
it.  The premise was highly suspect, but we were willing to suspend our
disbelief long enough to let it work.  Unfortunately, it didn't, and it
didn't even come close.

Queen Latifah's character was simply obnoxious, and the situations that
the
writer put forth just were too unbelievable to work as a story.  To make
matters worse, in 45 minutes of story, there were no redeeming qualities
to
either of the main characters, save for Steve Martin's funny trick to win
over a client by bribing a waiter.  The few enjoyable moments in the film
were Eugene Levy's, and those were too rehashed and too inconsequential
to
be worth sticking around for.

Voted 1 out of 10, and hope not to see anything this bad
again.
