
Where do I start? Throughout the movie I couldn't help think about the
great dog training. The Huskies were all wonderful and the stars of the
movie. I realize that Eight Below is inspired by a true story, but the
movie is well written and the story hands together from beginning to
end. By the way, my wife and I have two Huskies. We were both teary
eyed through much of the movie as were other movie goers. But you don't
have to have Huskies or dogs as pets to enjoy this movie. No gratuitous
sex or violence, no profanity, but a heart tugging story of survival
against all odds. The scenery was beautiful to experience on the big
screen, the acting is good and this is a great movie for the entire
family. I can't wait to see the movie again. It's a wonderful, clean,
wholesome family movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Just getting back from seeing 8 below, i am completely blown away by 
several elements.

Firstly, right away you get glimpes of STUNNING scenery that continue 
throughout the whole film. Beautiful artic landscapes frame the main 
story line and on the big screen, it really takes your breath away.

The movie also is really able to give anyone an idea of what its like 
to be in the artic, and really gave a clear picture of what being an 
explorer was like. This added to the appeal of the movie, because its 
not something most of us get to experience. 

Although the acting has been in some cases been criticized, I believe 
the actors fulfilled their purpose within the movie. They were able to 
play their roles, without distracting from the dogs, which of course, 
is the most important part. Paul Walker clearly comes across as a 
strong animal lover, and displays this well. He becomes relatable to 
any animal lovers, who will utimatly love this movie. As for the 
others, the fulfilled their jobs, which is what matters. The character 
of "Cooper" gave great comic relief, and "Katie" acted out the 
predicable love story line well.

But of course, the most important aspect of this movie was the dogs. I 
can hardly even begin to describe what a wonderful job they did. The 
tricks preformed (as a dog lover and trainer) were some with great 
difficulty. Ultimately, the way the dogs interact with each other and 
are so compassionate, you really connect with them. The only way to 
really experience this is to GO. the movie is AMAZING and a wonderful 
family film. Although a part or two may be slightly scary, its still an 
amazing picture for ALL to enjoy, it completely blew all of us a way.
<|_=00=_|>
I went begrudgingly to see this film with my daughter. It was not on my
list of films to see but she insisted. Knowing that it was a Disney
product only made me dread it more. The schlock they try to pass off as
good films these days is ridiculous. The only up-side I could see was
the director, Frank Marshall. He has produced some of my favorite
films. Let's see what he can do behind the camera.

Pleasantly surprised I think is a good term for my reaction. Although
the film was about 20 minutes too long, it did sustain the action and
drama all the way through. I knew the basics of the story: a team at a
base in Antartica must evacuate and cannot take the sled dogs with
them. Winter sets in and the dogs are forced to survive on their own in
the brutal cold for months.

The dogs are very entertaining and their scenes with the science team
are warm and amusing, even thrilling. Where I expected the film to fail
was after the humans and dogs separate. Amazingly though, this is where
the Mr. Marshall seemed to kick it into gear. Watching the opposing
scenes unfold of the guilt-ridden Paul Walker frantically trying to
find anyone to help him get back down to the Antartic, interlaced with
the Huskies who are struggling through the rough winter, scrounging for
food and defending each other from predators, was very emotional.

While the film is a grade A survival pic, I hadn't expected it to be
such a tear-jerker. Be forewarned. Although the human performances
(Paul Walker, Bruce Greenwood and the necessary romantic lead, Moon
Bloodgood) were mediocre at best, the canine actors really do steal
your heart.

No Oscar material here, but as far as family films go these days, this
one is above par. Grade: B
<|_=00=_|>
The acting in this movie is weak. Now that I got that out of the way,
let me tell you why this film is worth watching: the outdoor
photography and the dogs. This movie contains some of the most
impressive outdoor cinematography that one can hope or expect to see in
a Hollywood movie. This movie shows the awesome and forbidding beauty
of icebergs, ice flows and glacier-covered mountains. Compared to these
magnificent edifices of nature, man is rendered almost utterly
insignificant, a mere dot in a wilderness of ice that is almost
endless. Indeed, the scenery is spectacular. That's one interesting
part of the movie. But the main part of the movie are the dogs - eight
of them. This movie offers a wonderful story about eight brave and
stalwart creatures that are determined to survive in the polar
wilderness. Having been abandoned by their owner, the dogs must fend
for themselves, and they do so, by staying together, working as a team,
looking out for each other and caring for each other. They set an
example for us humans to follow. That's why this is a movie that's not
about us, but about those wonderful dogs.
<|_=00=_|>
Beautifully orchestrated spin off of the movie Antartica which was done
in 1983. I thought the photography was great and the terrain that was
shown for the locations is much like the Antarctic.

What made the movie extra special for me was the fact that I wintered
over in the Antarctic in 1958 and was there when the Japanese came back
to the Showa Base and found the 2 dogs that had survived the past 12
months. Very incredible and heartwarming story. There is a monument to
the dog team in the form of statues at the base of the Tokyo Tower to
honor them. I was fortunate to see it in 1992.

The dogs in Eight Below were so well trained and you form an immediate
bond with them. The movie can be seen and enjoyed by all ages. A must
have for my film library.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw this movie last night and I must say it is a terrific flick. I
don't feel that the leopard seal scene would bother small children at
all. My 5 and 7 year olds loved the movie and there is MUCH worse
content in children's TV programming every day. By all means take the
kids and enjoy. (and bring the Kleenex!!) While Paul Walker's acting
isn't the greatest, Ben Affleck has gotten by somehow, hasn't he?
Besides the real stars of this movie are obviously the dogs. The dogs
in question seem to be portrayed as huskies, but it is obvious that at
least a few of them are actually Alaskan Malamutes. Maya, who is the
most heroic of the group, and almost certainly a Malamute, should get
some kind of canine Oscar for a heart-rending performance. If you are a
dog lover, or if you just long for a great adventure movie, by all
means go see "Eight Below".
<|_=00=_|>
Believe it or not I took my 22 month old granddaughter to see this
movie while my older children were viewing another movie, I was so
happy when she spent the entire 120 minutes engrossed in this film! I
found myself in awe of the filmmakers who captured such beautiful
pictures. The dogs were wonderful and the movie inspired me to research
the true story. Which I found out actually happened in 1958 and they
were Japanese explorers. The dogs who survived are actually heroes in
Japan with statues to commend them! Even though I hate the cold...a
trip there to see the beauty would be on my list if I were rich! Take a
Kleenex or two because this move is sure to it draw a few tears.
Excellent film for dog lovers, adventurers, dreamers or just those who
love the beauty in nature!
<|_=00=_|>
This film is one that I found I could sit back and enjoy the scenery,
the stark beauty of the Antartic, and the personalities of the dogs and
humans.

I do wolf education with my husky-wolf mix and it was exciting to see
the dogs use their strong senses to survive in the harsh land. Their
loyalty to the family mirrored that of a wild wolf pack and showed
where the intelligence of domestic dogs was honed and refined in the
long ago battles of survival.

Huskies and Malemutes look at home in that element because they were
bred to work and survive in like conditions. These two near primitives
could really do what these actors did and survive. It was refreshing to
me to see humans show the same dedication and love for the dogs that
dogs give to their human family members every day. It would be hard for
actors to really be able to show all that those of us who treasure our
dogs would feel if we had to leave them behind but he did a credible
job.

I am glad to have been able to see this movie and I enjoyed it every
bit as much as I did IRON WILL and his huskies.
<|_=00=_|>
I am a huge dog freak, so I was looking forward to this movie already
to begin with. But I didn't expect it to be so touching. it's not just
about sled dogs in Antartica, it's about survival, and the bond a
person has with their dogs.

While the actors did well in the movie, the best performances in the
movie came from the dogs, hands down. I know that makes me sound pretty
crazy, but when you see this movie, you know it's true. This is an
awesome movie for all ages. I went to go see it with my 20 and 30 year
old friends, and this is now one of their favorite movies of all time
(besides Dirty Dancing). I say this is a great movie for the whole
family!
<|_=00=_|>
I just returned from seeing Eight Below with my nine year old son. If
you love animals this movie was very enjoyable.The story is about a
guide in Antarctica who has to bring a scientist on an expedition by
means of a dog sled team.Things get a bit hairy and the weather does
not cooperate and eventually the dogs are left behind. The guide
reluctantly leaves the dogs with a promise to return. The return
becomes nearly impossible because of extreme weather conditions.

You can't help but fall in love with these beautiful dogs. Throughout
the movie they fight for their survival while exhibiting team work and
compassion for each other.It is almost impossible to hold back the
tears while watching the way these wonderful dogs care for one another.
The rest of the plot is almost unimportant, other than the fact that
the owner of the sled dogs obviously has tremendous love for his loyal
and hard working dogs. The film sort of splits into two separate story
lines, the dogs alone in Antarctica fighting to survive,and the main
human character trying to get back to save the dogs.I would strongly
recommend this movie. If your kids are under six I might use caution,as
one scene is pretty scary. It's a fun little story that might help a
child develop some compassion for animals.
