
Robert Evans's book version of this documentary, The Kid Stays in the
Picture, is still un-read by me. But I have read much about him from
other movie books from the 70's, and so this film does illuminate
certain aspects of him that I already knew- his huge ego, his drug
addiction, his proclivity to lots and lots of women, and having some
part in the more outstanding films of the 1970's. Sometimes with Evans
himself narrating throughout two things become apparent as
peculiarities that keep it from being great- 1) the filmmaker's style
is rather repetitive and, aside from some flourishes of talent, isn't
anything too grand for the material, and 2) the three sides to the
story that Evans is quoted with at the beginning become rather blurred
as one full-on nostalgia (for bad and good) comes out. What makes it
captivating, however, is that Evans is the kind of guy who will be
honest about being full of crap and will even call on himself for his
past troubles. Rarely has one man's achievements gone neck and neck
with his flaws, and let out in a filmic, grandiose style such as this.

Evans is shown to have, basically, a lot of luck as someone getting
into Hollywood (as many of these stories go). He starts out as a so-so
actor and tries desperately to establish himself as a producer. He
becomes more apart of the development side of the pictures, and ushers
through Rosemary's Baby, Love Story, and even the Godfather to an
extent. As his story includes the personal side (his rise and fall in
the relationship to Ali McGraw, the cocaine, the other tabloid stuff),
the other side of his professional accomplishments still gears in for
room. By the end, one can see that the man has gone through enough to
have his rightful reputation as Paramount's longest remaining producer,
and will likely hold onto his ego of being the head-cheese kind of
'creative producer' so many directors like or dread till the grave. If
anything, the film is actually too short, as at 93 minutes (a brilliant
Dustin Hoffman imitation over the credits included) we only get
glimpses that are further expounded in the book. Therefore its already
subjective viewpoint becomes even more crunched into one all-too-simple
story on such an interesting case study.

The Kid Stays in the Picture, despite not being as terrific as the
filmmakers might think it is by their sleek camera angles and typical
interludes of montage, is as close to being as honest as it could be.
Honest, in the sense that Evans doesn't hide much in his story and how
his own way of speaking about it, in its deep-sounding and
straight-forward Hollywood way, is what film buffs look for. He may
have been and done a lot of things, but as he says at the end, "I enjoy
what I do, which most people can't say that they do."
<|_=00=_|>
"The Kid Stays in the Picture" is a must-see for any person who's
interested in movies and their making. This funny and exciting
documentary tells the larger than life story of Robert Evans,
"discovered" by Norma Shearer swimming in a hotel pool in 1956, who
went to become a ham actor and soon afterwards, an extremely successful
producer, who took Paramount studios from 9th to first in Hollywood in
less than a decade. The man behind legendary films such as "The
Godfather", "Chinatown", "Harold and Maude", "Love Story", "Marathon
Man" and "Rosemary's Baby", Evans dated beautiful women (he was once
married to "Love Story" star Ali MacGraw) and was obsessed with his
goals (and he often succeeded, being responsible for some of the
biggest hits of his time), what turned him Hollywood royalty and voted
the world's most eligible bachelor. With one scandal involving his
name, drugs and a murder, though, his career was ruined and he lost
almost everything he had. But he came back, and "The Kid Stays in the
Picture" explores his fascinating saga with the witty, cynical
narration of Evans himself, never being too self-indulgent. Evans
himself admits he was no angel. But then again, who is? Michael Moore's
"Bowling for Columbine" deserved to win the Best Documentary Oscar back
in 2002, but the absence of "The Kid Stays in the Picture" among the
nominees is more outrageous than Evans' story itself. 9.5 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>

Admit it. You're only interested in seeing this film because you think
it's
an A-list answer to an E! Hollywood True Story episode. Stars. Sleaze.
Sex.
Who could ask for anything more? The gossip quotient notwithstanding (and
there's an awful lot of it), this turns out to be a thoughtful and
intelligent profile of a man who is among the most thoughtful and
intelligent producers ever to have helmed a major Hollywood studio. His
biography reads like the synopsis of a Harold Robbins potboiler - former
garment industry executive is cast in a movie when Irving Thalberg's
widow
spots him at a swimming pool, launching him on a life of success and
excess
in the film industry. But, as KID makes abundantly clear, Evans'
spectacular
if unlikely career path owes far more to the well-established link
between
the manic depressive temperament and creativity than CARPETBAGGERS-type
pulp
fiction. His seemingly boundless reserves of energy, when constructively
channelled, can create works of cinematic art; when employed in less
salubrious ways, the self-destructive results usually end up in the
National
Enquirer. Evans comes across as an admirable albeit eccentric character
who,
despite devastating illnesses and a slew of professional and personal
setbacks, still retains the wit, charm and high-octane enthusiasm that
once
propelled him to the top of the greased pole that is Hollywood. Evans is
probably better known today for his cocaine conviction,
blink-and-you-missed-it marriage to Catherine Oxenberg and the tell-all
bestselling autobiography this documentary is loosely based on. While he
would be the first to admit that his epically scaled lapses have been
grist
for the tabloid mill, Evans also deserves to be remembered as the man who
midwived such classics as ROSEMARY'S BABY and THE GODFATHER and that
definitive Chandlerian dissection of Los Angeles, CHINATOWN. Evans is
direct
and honest about the creative tensions that helped to shape all of these
films, acknowledging that he played the grain of sand to Polanski and
Coppola's oysters - trying to irritate those directors into producing
pearls. His reminiscences about the hot-and-cold wars that were waged
behind
the scenes on these and other pictures underscore the collaborative
nature
of filmmaking - and expose as the nonsense that it is the widely accepted
fiction of director-as-author. You'll get gossip aplenty but you'll also
get
insight in this is a warts-and-all portrait of a unique Hollywood
personality, a kid who, deservedly, still remains in the picture.

<|_=00=_|>

`The Kid Stays in the Picture,' a documentary about famed movie producer and
studio head Robert Evans, begins like `The Great Gatsby,' a film Evans
produced in 1974.  To the wistful strains of `What'll I Do?' playing in the
background, the camera glides lovingly over the furnishings, pictures and
memorabilia that adorn Evans' Bel Air mansion and estate.  The comparison is
an apt one, for, like Gatsby, Evans was a wunderkind, a handsome young
go-getter who knew early on the kind of life he wanted to lead and who
willed himself to attain it.  With a combination of good looks, charm,
ambition and just a bit of plain old-fashioned good luck, he managed to go
from being a mediocre movie actor to becoming the head of Paramount Studios
in the course of a mere decade.  And what a decade it was!  Evans had a
major hand in not only lifting Paramount from ninth to first place among
Hollywood's major studios, but in bringing such films as `Rosemary's Baby,'
`True Grit,' `Love Story,' `Chinatown' and, of course, `The Godfather' to
movie screens everywhere.

`The Kid Stays in the Picture' is a dream-come-true for hardcore cinephiles,
providing a fascinating behind-the-scenes glimpse into one of the true
Golden Ages of Hollywood filmmaking.  Evans' story is, in fact, the story of
that time, for truly he hobnobbed with virtually every one of the key
players responsible for that era.  Evans' tale follows a fairly conventional
arc for men of his type: the ambitious kid with dreams of larger-than-life
glory achieves meteoric success in the entertainment business only to have
his ambitions dashed on the shores of rampant egotism, overconfidence and
drug addiction.  In fact, Evans' life would make perfect fodder for a film
of its own, as this documentary and the positive response to it
demonstrates.  Evans himself narrates the film, and although he tends to be
a bit easier on himself than an outsider might have been, he is still
willing to chastise himself when he feels it's called for and to render some
rather startlingly unflattering assessments of certain major players on the
Hollywood scene.  He is, also, however, utterly devoted to those he feels
have stuck by him through good times and bad, and he is not averse to
lavishing praise on others when it is due.  One objection to Evans'
narration is that he doesn't always speak with the utmost clarity, sometimes
making what he says come out garbled and incomprehensible.

As a piece of filmmaking, `The Kid Stays in the Picture' offers a
kaleidoscopic array of stills, film clips and reenactments that reflect the
temper and mood of the time.  Directors Brett Morgan and Nanette Burstein
obviously pored through a wealth of material on the subject, culling from it
a comprehensive, streamlined and fast-moving narrative that grips the
audience with its humor, its sadness and its tribute to the indomitableness
of the human spirit.  For if Evans' story is about anything, it is about how
important it is for each individual to achieve his dreams and how equally
vital it is for that same person, once he has fallen down, to pick himself
up off the floor so that he can continue pursuing that
dream.

`The Kid Stays in the Picture' is a wonderful time capsule for those who
love movies.  No true film fan should miss it.

 

<|_=00=_|>

     7 out of 10

     It is hard to resist this documentary even though it seems more like
self promotion.  The fact that this man has attained what others could only
dream about makes it a must see itself.  Robert Evans certainly does seem to
embody every stereotype one could imagine when they think of a Hollywood
producer.  He is rich and suave, he wears big, tinted glasses, dresses in
gaudy suits, hosts wild parties, dates beautiful women, and lives in a
beautiful, serene Hollywood home.  You would think that he would almost have
to be a caricature, but he isn't.  His stories involving famous Hollywood
celebs, both past and present, could alone fill a movie if not
several.

     Of course that is the problem with the documentary.  It all seems a bit
too Hollywood.  Everything seems a bit phoney and too far removed from the
average person.  He seems, in a way, to have made a production out of
himself.  The film, like the man, is very deliberate and highly glossy.  It
depends almost exclusively on some very well transferred old photographs and
elaborate stills.  At no time do we ever get someone else's viewpoint or
perspective.  Evans shows no ability at having any self depreciating humor
or humbleness.  His determination and gutsiness is inspiring yet it would
have been nice to see Evans as a child and a little bit more on his
upbringing.  Also the dialogue between him and his then wife Ali Macgraw
seems really weird and only adds to the mythical quality of the
thing.

     Evans does all the narrating and proves to be quite a character and
showman.  His ability to do different accents and voices is impressive.  The
whole thing is very fluid and it gets you involved in a hypnotic sort of
way.  You also gotta love his saying, which was taken from an old Chinese
proverb "Luck is when opportunity meets good preparation."
<|_=00=_|>

Documentaries are a dime a dozen, and I've seen my share.  Being the type of
person who would watch a documentary on anything, I was excited to catch
this film about a man who has had one hell of a career in Hollywood.  I knew
I would find the subject matter interesting, but was completely surprised at
how much I enjoyed the way the story was presented.

The Kid Stays In The Picture is the story of Robert Evans, told in Evans'
words and narrated by Evans himself.  His amazing career highs and lows are
detailed in fantastic cinematic fashion, utilizing photographs and film
clips from Evans' acting, then producing career while accompanied by Evans'
enrapturing narration.  The stories told by Evans were so effective and
interesting that it could have been overlaying a blank screen and would have
riveting.  He is truthful, arrogant and most importantly, self-deprecating. 
He isn't afraid to admit the mistakes he made in his career, which is a
refreshing turn from so many self-serving documentaries. 

If anything, this film is worth watching for two scenes:  When Evans tells
the story of his near-suicidal moments that are harrowing in itself, but is
accompanied by appropriate images from some of the films he produced.  The
other is during the final credits, when you see Dustin Hoffman do an
incredible and hilarious impersonation of Evans on the phone.  I certainly
hope that Evans was proud of the way this documentary portrayed him, and
should be commended in the way he portrayed himself.  

--Shelly
<|_=00=_|>

This is an interesting documentary about one of Hollywood's legendary
producers, Robert Evans.  Directed by Nanette Burstein and Brett Morgen, it
mostly uses film clips from movies he produced at Paramount plus a narration
taken from the audio cassette Evans made for his autobiography. 

There's so much material to draw on that it's impossible to really do
justice to his life in just 90 minutes.  I wanted to hear more details about
the films he made and the people he knew, not just a quick synopsis, but
then I suppose that's what the book is for.   It would also have helped if
they'd interviewed people like Jack Nicholson or the people who worked on
the film productions, just to get another perspective.

Some people have complained that Robert Evans is pleading for sympathy,
having gone from wonder boy to disgraced druggie, but I thought he was
simply asking for some understanding and some respect.  He seems to feel he
was wrongly maligned, more than he deserved, for his drug use and troubles
with the law, and I'd have to agree.  Abusing yourself is hardly news in
Hollywood.

Does Robert Evans have an ego?  Sure, but if I'd brought "Chinatown" and
"The Godfather" to the screen, I would too.  You can tell there's a lot more
to the man than just his films, but unfortunately, we only get to scratch
the surface here.

<|_=00=_|>

THE KID STAYS IN THE PICTURE (2002) **** Fascinating and wildly entertaining
documentary by Nanette Burstein and Brett Morgen on legendary Hollywood film
producer Robert Evans – based on his notorious best-selling autobiography –
of his rise from poolside discovery by Norma Shearer as a fledgling B actor
to his successful climb atop Paramount Studios upper echelon and responsible
for green lighting many of The Golden Age of the Seventies blockbusters
(i.e. `Love Story', `The Godfather', &  `Chinatown' to name three) to his
disdain as an industry pariah involving cocaine and murder.  Evans' unique
sangfroid mixed with charm, chutzpah and a movie lovers' contempt for those
who ‘just don't get it' wields a strong hold in his story and the wonderful
cinematic ingenuity of making photo stills into diorama-like animation is
used smartly as well as allowing its subject to pontificate without utterly
destroying his self-made rakish image.  One of the best indie docus down the
pike in some time and a valentine for those who like their gossip with
popcorn.
<|_=00=_|>

This is an exceptionally fine, creative documentary about the man who was
behind most of the great films of the 70's and 80's. What an terrific use
of
still photos and music, done in such a way (and using a technique that
seems
to make some of the stills "move" and appear 3-D)as to make Ken Burns'
style
appear downright antique. For anyone who grew up with the movies,
especially
the great ones of the last 20-30 years, this is an absolute must-see.

<|_=00=_|>
Somewhere in this grating, self-congratulatory exercise in ego-mania is
a fascinating documentary about one of the most talented and successful
players in the history of Hollywood. By sealing it all up in a stiffing
first-person bubble, though, Robert Evans and the film makers turn what
could have been a great journey into the equivalent of being stuck on
an airplane with someone who can't shut up about himself. All
biographies have a point of view. I've never seen one, though, that
insists on giving the viewer ONLY one perspective to the point that the
main character is the only one allowed to speak, quoting other people
in irritating (and in some cases racist) caricatures while continuously
employing false modesty, name dropping, and hackneyed "homespun" quips
meant to sound like hard-earned wisdom. They should have printed 15
copies of this film and passed them around to friends and family of
"The Kid" in the title. Considering the flood of quality documentaries
that have been released in the last decade, the general Viewing public
deserves something better.
