

The Moab Story is part 1 of a 3 part, 6 hour film tracing the life of the
eponymous Tulse Luper and, for reasons not yet clear, the history of
Uranium
(atomic number 92 - this is important so pay attention at the
back).

Greenaway continues to evolve his directorial style, overlapping images
and
sounds, embedding windows within windows, mixing media. The results are
often confusing, sometimes stunning, never boring.

I wondered if Greenaway was hinting that this was in some sense an
autobiographical piece. Tulse Luper is cited as the author of 'The Belly
of
an Architect' and in a list of his lost works appears 'The Falls', both
earlier films by Greenaway.

Of course it might just be the director playing games. A clip from 'A Zed
and Two Noughts' is used at one point, and there is a character named
'Cissie Colpits', the name of the three women in 'Drowning by Numbers'. I
suspect there might well have been many more references to earlier films
in
there.

This is closer in style to 'Properos Books' or 'A TV Dante' than some of
his
earlier works such as 'The Cook, the Thief, his Wife and her Lover'.
Narrative flow has been sacrificed in part for creating a cinematic work
of
art. Nothing wrong with that in my opinion though, when the result is a
film
like this. Sit back and let the experience wash over you.
<|_=00=_|>
The Moab Story is a fascinating cinematic experiment - it really is an
encyclopedic CD-ROM-like film - it reminded me of The Pillow Book and A
TV Dante in its presentation. The screen is predominantly busy with
informative movement. I watched the film on DVD and the text on screen
is small, but I was constantly zooming in on the picture to read it so
it wasn't a problem. But the viewing would be enhanced watching it on
as large a screen as possible, but having said that it is appropriate
for DVD with its interactivity. The project as a whole begs for
interactivity with the individual user. 

The film begins with showing us actors auditioning for roles, which is
also used later. Tulse is a young boy with his friend Martino
Knockavelli in the back yard of his house in Newport, Wales. A red
brick wall collapses on Tulse and then we progress through history,
with war footage in the background. Tulse travels to Moab where he is
abused and jailed, and then later travels to Antwerp and faces the
sinister Red Fox fascists. Throughout the film a small box with the
head of a talking expert inside appears (like A TV Dante) describing
the background of what is happening. Characters are noted on screen
with name and number when they appear. It was fun reading all of
Luper's Lost Films that scrolled down the screen, as well as seeing the
other suitcases (suitcases 1 - 21 are featured in this film). It was
good to see former Greenaway films - Vertical Features Remake, Water
Wrackets, A Zed & Two Noughts, and The Belly of an Architect -
referenced and appear. Greenaway is really experimenting here with
image and sound, using repetitive sound at times giving an echoing
effect. He plays with connecting numbers to draw shapes on screen when
Percy strikes Tulse. Sometimes the screenplay is shown on screen after
the characters have said it. The cinematography by Reinier Van
Brummelen is good. The music by Borut Krzisnik is superb and feels
appropriate. In the acting stakes Caroline Dhavernas is the stand out,
and J.J. Feild does a capable job as Tulse. It's a film that (like all
Greenaway films) needs to be watched several times. I look forward to
seeing Vaux to the Sea.
<|_=00=_|>

I saw this film last night at the Hirshhorn Museum in Washington DC.
Antwerp was also shown, I believe. Peter Greenaway was there, presented
comments before the film, between the films, and answered questions after
the film.  It started about 8PM, and when I left around 1AM, Greenaway was
still answering questions.  The film was shown in high definition,
although
the Hirshhorn projection system sometimes had trouble keeping it in focus.
Antwerp repeated about twenty-five minutes of the end of Moab.

I won't attempt to describe much of the plot of Greenaway's mad project,
such as I saw it, other than to say it traces the life of the title
character through the two world wars of the twentieth century.  If it is
ever completed, one would expect there to be ninety-two "suitcases",
hyperlinks as it were, to elements of Tulse Luper's life; one would expect
there to be ninety-two common archetypical objects representing human
existence; and one would expect there to be ninety-two characters in the
movie, many of whom are introduced in split screen "auditions", which
Greenaway imagined are analogous to parallel worlds.  However, other than
the number of times Tulse is physically assaulted, I can't recall any of
the
numbers going beyond thirty, so clearly there is a long way to go before
the
film can ever be called completed.

Greenaway described his visual metaphor as capturing elements of toolkits
from multimedia computer graphics.  The influence of a high bandwidth
internet experience is also present.  There was something analogous to a
magnifier icon for creating a box around an element of a scene to be
highlighted.  There were panels of foreground videos playing over a
background video reminiscent of a Windows Media Player or a Real Player.
And there was one scene that split and adjusted the frame of the movie
horizontally, like something I'd seen editing a Word document.  Of course,
all of these elements are subtly redefined to be nonobvious, and
graphically
balanced and symmetric.  In one of the most visually impressive sequences
in
the film, the camera moves slowly from left to right, and then back, over
a
row of typists, each of whom has a bare light bulb above her head, and
between each of them there is a semi-transparent display of rapidly
changing
document pages as might be scanned from a database.

Thematically, the film captures the best elements of Greenway.  He said he
expected Tulse Luper to be his magna opus, and the way he described the
infinitely recursive structure of the story, it is likely to be an
unfinished symphony.  The numbers from Drowning by Numbers are here.  The
brutality of The Cook the Thief His Wife & Her Lover is, too.  The film is
expressly referential to Greenaway's earlier works, and he suggests that
Tulse Luper is his alter ego.

Greenaway makes much of the architectural elements of the frame -- the
Cartesian grid, lots of horizontal and vertical lines, vanishing
perspectives, conic shadows of divergent illumination from a point
source --
but for me what makes Greenaway Greenaway is brutality for an underlying
theme, and lots of artfully naked, sexually expressive people.  The visual
elements could certainly exist without the rawness, but his films would
not
be as powerful without it.  One scene clearly showed the results of a
castration, and  many others involved some sort of sexual domination.
Greenaway said he is an atheist; I wondered, is he also a practitioner of
sexual dominance in his personal life, or is he just doing this to be
interesting?  Between films, Greenaway sounded almost apologetic in
explaining it was about totalitarianism and anti-semitism, but it's
problematic for a Britisher in our age of anti-Americanism to present so
many fascist characters uttering slurs against the Jews.  It's sort of
like
Shakespeare's Merchant of Venice talking about the Holocaust.  Does
repeating blood libels, like the Jews supposedly being responsible for
communism, somehow perpetuate the injury?  Early in the film, a character
repeats a mantra to "destroy the evil" as a way presumably to end war, but
then later another suggests this sounds like too much of a violent thing
to
do; one wonders, which is it?

This was certainly the most powerful movie experience I had in 2003,
although admittedly I didn't see very many good movies this year.  And the
scale of Tulse Luper is such that I'm sure it will be one of Greenaway's
very best, even if it never achieves a state of completion.  It helps
vastly
of course to see it in the theater and in high definition.  While
Greenaway
regretted the French subtitles, as the version we saw was shown at Cannes,
I
actually found they added another dimension to the film: not only did they
help me catch what the characters were saying when they spoke too fast to
hear, but the nuances of French vis-a-via English were
enlightening.

<|_=00=_|>

This film is the nth Wonder of the World. It's just so unashamedly full
of details, pictures in pictures, special effects, not so special
effects, special and unspecial characters, kids, lists of lists,
colors, sets, music that puts other, more franchise-y trilogies such as
Matrix and Lord of the Rings to shame, plot, plot, plot, perspectives
and fiery dialogue about America, Europe, war, sex, friendship, family,
torture, dentistry,... It's nominally about stuff like imprisonment and
20th century history, but it's really all about the limits of film and
the artist's ability to satirize his own extremism. And the
tracking-shots are just stupid, in a good way. And it's completely
insane. And so funny I was shaking and bit my chewing gum in half. It
never stops. I think P.G. ran out of money --- the sequel wasn't too
great --- which is a shame, he's been planning this for years. Anyway,
I believe I enjoyed this film. And hey: I love Ferris Bueller's Day Off
and Braveheart too.

<|_=00=_|>

How can I write something about this movieas it's almost impossible to
write a review about such a film!
Get all the other Greenaway's movies, add a doze of Gillian and Lynch and
you can get an idea about what this movie is all about
it.
I think the students that learn about what film editing means, should use
this film as the most perfect example. Multiple scenes flying across the
screen, multiple dialogs, theater-like atmosphere and a good music score,
adds up to create a unique experience!
I have to reckon that I had big expectations about this movie, after reading
the reviews, seeing the web site related to the whole story, and of course,
seeing all the other Greenaway's movies and I was not disappointed- this
film is something that I have waited to see since long time ago: a blend of
reality, imagination and a perfect manipulation of movie
editing.

Definitely this movie should be seen in the theater, as its just too small
for a normal TV-there is so much information on the screenor maybe if you
have a projector at home:)

There are probably lots of `mistakes'(like a very hard to follow script, too
many characters...etc) in this film, and many people would not understand a
thing, but this is just normal, because there is no other movie that can be
compare with this one!

IF you love art movies, and you are prepared to give some `food' to your
brain, then see this movie, you won't be disappointed.

Probably, Greenaway's idea of creating this multimedia Magnus Opus would be
doomed to a commercial failure, but for the real art lovers, I think the
movies created for this project would set a landmark.

10 out 10


<|_=00=_|>

I saw this movie at the Toronto Film Festival and it was incredible.  It's
a
story of a man and his prisons and adventures.  It's also about the
twentieth century.  The story is difficult to describe and hard to get
your
mind around but it is definitely there.
I don't see this movie as form for form's sake or as pretentious dribble.
Instead I understand it as a completely experimental and inventive form of
story-telling.  For me it was completely successful.
The editing is insane.  No doubt about it.  The screen splits into
hundred,
images and sounds are repeated, sometimes endlessly.  I do understand why
some people despise this film.  I just found myself as lost in its rhythm.

Tulse is an adventurer, a traveller and a dreamer.  His dreams usually
manage to anger those around him enough that he is oft imprisoned.  But
for
him the world is full of prisons and part of his exploration is an attempt
to understand them.
The repetitive and maddening editing is, I think, the director's way of
imprisoning the viewer in the world of Tulse's dreams.  We aren't giving
the
usual linearity of Classic Hollywood editing and story.  Instead we are
locked in circles and spirals.
The movie ends beautiful repeated image that haunts me to this day and it
has left me eager for more but I have no idea how to get my fix (beyond
the
website TulseLuperNetwork.com which is only so so).
Me and the person I went with loved the movie but I think about two thirds
of the theater were pretty disappointed and a lot of them were Greenaway
fans.
Still give it a try and see if it connects with you

<|_=00=_|>

It is interesting what is going on in your brain? What are you thinking
about? What you can express and what is always be locked in you. I didn't
understand what was this film about. Such questions are ridiculous. I was
just watching the movie, and thinking about what was going on in Peter
Greenaway brain when he decided to create this project? How is he
inventing
and creating this sort of films? Where is he taking his ideas? I just
wanted
to open his head and take a look at his brain. He doesn't feel any fear
to
express himself. This is the main for me. This is  example of real life.

Perfect, excellent, brilliant, wonderful.. None of this words can
characterize this film. Tulse Luper Suitcases worth to see.

<|_=00=_|>
I cannot believe the weird reviews I'm reading about this film. "The
Tulse Luper Suitcase" films are masterpieces in film collage and an
examination into what a cinematic experience can be. Peter Greenaway,
since his earliest forays into film, from "The Draughtsman's Contract"
and "The Cook, The Thief..." to "8 1/2 Women", have all exhibited
Greenaway's passion for astonishing imagery and unique storytelling,
while pushing the boundaries of what is characterized as "cinema".
These films tell a tale of a man whose passion lies in creating a
cinematic event so profoundly original that one will view the film and
walk away knowing one has seen a film by "Peter Greenaway". There are
few artists in the world who can pull this off, in film or music, and I
find such artistic achievements exciting! 

The "Tulse Luper" trilogy is not, sadly, an experience that everyone
will glowingly praise, let alone appreciate at first. And there are
those who would celebrate a film like "The Tulse Luper Suitcases, Part
1" only for its "experimental" nature. However, this is a cinematic
triumph on so many levels, and given time, the genius of this work
begins to unfold. For the first-time viewer, the experience may be a
bit jarring. But if you open your mind a bit, and allow the imagery and
sound engineering to work together, an amazing experience awaits.

"The Tulse Luper Suitcases, Part 1" is the type of film Greenaway
probably wanted to make back in the 1980's, but the technology simply
wasn't available. "Tulse Luper" is an expression of the power of the
multi-media experience, and how sound and imagery can be manipulated to
create an intense, memorable cinematic experience that dazzles the eyes
and yet still fills the soul.

I should also place a nod to the actors involved in the project. I
applaud the efforts of JJ Feild in particular. His performance is
spectacular, and is an actor to watch for. Recently, I spotted him in
Neil Marshall's "Centurion" -- A smaller part, but well executed.
(Marshall is who I'd characterize as the John Carpenter of the 21st
Century...a remarkable artist in his own right...) 

"Tulse Luper" will not be an easy find, but well worth the effort. I
hope for the day when all three TL films will be available in the US.
Best of luck, and happy viewing!
<|_=00=_|>
Boy, this is a tricky sonofabitch to evaluate. Tulse Luper is a
recurring character in Greenaway's work, kind of a Kilgore Trout to
Greenaway's Kurt Vonnegut. And the film makes multiple references to
his other works, even citing Luper as their author. And Luper is
attributed with having an obsession for categorization and numbering,
obsessions inescapably associated with Greenaway's films. But is
anything about this truly autobiographical? Is it more akin to Guy
Maddin's sense of the poetic autobiography? Or is it just nonsense?
Knowing Greenaway, everything in this film is done for very specific
(and probably quite complex) reasons. But it's all so elusive and dense
with symbolism and double meanings that it's impossible for me to
decipher on a single viewing, and I would probably require the use of
additional multimedia aids to truly decode it all. Although he hasn't
entirely cast aside narrative, it's so shattered by formalist clutter
(the literal "frames within frames" as seen in PILLOW BOOK, stylized
sets, encyclopedic detail, seemingly pointless use of repetition and
contradictory or complementary images) that it's difficult to say "what
happens" except in vague terms. As is often the case with Greenaway, it
holds almost no emotional resonance (and some of it, especially
regarding the Percy character, is kinda stupid). There is no doubt that
most would write it off as pretentious drivel. But I found it
fascinating nonetheless. It's not the most experimental thing I've ever
seen, nor the most unpredictable or surprising. But it's original
enough to hold my interest, and it does so with a unique and often
beautiful sense of style.
<|_=00=_|>
If you took every Greenaway film and played them all at the same time,
laying them over each other, you might get the sense of what Tulse
Luper is like. I got the honor to watch this on the Sundance Channel,
since you can't rent this in the US yet.

I loved it. Everything about Greenaway I love-- use of graphics,
layered images, quirky characters, interesting settings, great
lighting, good music --- is done 100 times over. This is Greenaway in
extreme form...everything comes at you full force...plus he has
different actors play in different squares of the scene. Scenes play
over and over again, or with different people, graphics constantly come
on and off or layer...the scene size changes...it is really hard to
write in words the visual delights of this movie...I can only do it in
dotted chunks. It is visually astounding. You feel like you ran a
marathon after watching it and that's a great thing! 

There is a story under the bells and whistles of the writer Tulse
Luper, the alter ego of Peter Greenway himself, a character who first
appeared in The Falls, which is another movie I highly recommend
seeing. The movie takes us to the early part of his life, when he was
in Utah with the Mormons. He has 92 suitcases which are narrated into
his life experiences. I don't think I should say more than that. This
is truly a film to be experienced if you have the luck to see it or can
rent it. A set of all three movies was supposed to be released in the
US, but then wasn't. I feel very happy to even have seen one of them. 

Just when I thought movies couldn't be original, this one comes along.
No one can really repeat what Greenaway does, it's movie magic. But if
you are expecting a "normal" film, I would say, don't see it, but then
people who like normal movies would have such a hard time seeking this
one out, they wouldn't even bother.

But see it. SEE IT!!!
