
Honestly, I don't care about dates. I don't care about names, or stats,
or if the writers got a bunch of stats confused. I mean did you
actually watch the movie, or were you just looking at the screen for
misprints on jerseys? To believe that some people can actually watch a
movie and then complain that the time line is off with reality is
beyond my comprehension. Who cares about the time line! It's not
reality that you're watching, it's a movie. Movies, no matter how real
the stories they are based on, are not real. They are altered. They are
changed to make a better storyline.

If people can be dense enough to complain about names and numbers and
dates, then they missed the big picture. They missed a great movie that
actually conveys a real message. It's not about the sports, it's about
the students. And it's not always about what you put in, it's about
what you take out. It's about what you take away from the situation
that you've walked into.

That's what this movie is about, not about basketball. It's about life,
and how easily people give in and give up. It's about learning, and
having faith that people will do the right thing. Yes, it's about
public education, and a community on the edge of stupid, but there's
more to it than that. You just have to stop looking, and watch.

This movie truly was excellent, right up there on the shelf next to
"With Honors." But make sure you are really paying attention,
otherwise, what's the point?
<|_=00=_|>
While basketball is used as the backdrop for the movie, Coach Carter
really isn't about basketball. The real heart of the movie is in the
way Coach Carter begins to turn the lives around of the players on his
basketball team by showing them that someone actually cares about what
happens to them after high school.

At one point in the movie Carter (played perfectly by Samuel L.
Jackson) asks a player why he plays basketball and he responds with "to
win the state title" - which of course gets him high fives from the
rest of the team. Carter then asks the team who won the state title
last year and nobody knows the answer. Carter tries to show his players
that high school basketball is not about winning but about discipline,
respect and the confidence to accomplish any goal.

If you are thinking about going to see Coach Carter as a basketball
movie, I suggest seeing another movie, but if you want to see a truly
inspiring story go see Coach Carter.
<|_=00=_|>
I really enjoyed the movie and was actually inspired by the end of the
film. The film was a little corny and syrupy from time to time but it
was an overall good, positive film. I have read and heard so many
comments about the morals and unacceptable behavior portrayed by some
of the characters and in turn viewers bad-mouth the film simply because
they do not agree with some of the behavior of the some of the
characters in the film. But these people obviously missed the point of
the film. Coach Carter was trying to instill values that he thought
would help an entire community. The reality is that kids do have foul
mouths, have unprotected sex, are faced with hard decisions (to have or
not have a baby and selling drugs) everyday.

We should all be so fortunate to have the opportunity to see a movie
that features a person that actually tries to deal with these issues
without making judgment calls and instead offer resolutions to
problems. He offered resolutions to his team's behavior and left it to
them to make the right decisions. This was good because they were able
to see the consequences of their actions. When they made the right
decision, they were able to see the positive consequences. When they
made the wrong decision the players were faced with negative
consequences and had no one to blame but themselves.

The impact of a person of this magnitude is profound and if some
viewers found fault with this movie simply because their reality is a
little different at this moment then it was for the characters in this
film is very unfortunate for the viewer. Because you never know when
you might be faced with a person similar to that in the movie. You just
might have to deal with this situation more personally than expected
and if this happens what will you do? Because the consequences of your
actions in a situation like this will be either positive or negative as
well.
<|_=00=_|>
'Coach Carter' is based on a true story of Coach Ken Carter, a
controversial high school basketball coach played by Samuel L. Jackson.
Coach Carter took the coaching job under his rules. He believed that
the players must maintain good grades and become a united team or they
would not play. All the team players signed his contract to do just
that. The team was undefeated and on it's way to the 1999 State
Championship, when Coach Carter received the low grades of his players.
Coach Carter received national attention when he locked the gym and
benched the whole team for poor grades. Coach Carter received some
praise and much more criticism for his decision. This is a good
inspirational movie of what one must do to excel in sports and in life.
Coach Carter taught his players that they must be committed and work
hard to excel. This is good movie for people who like sports.
(Paramount, Run time 2:16, Rated PG-13)(8/10)
<|_=00=_|>
"Coach Carter" is a well-made movie, and from what I have heard it
stays true to the actual story. If you're sick of inspirational-type
movies, then don't go see it, but otherwise I highly recommend it. All
of the performances are at least tolerable, and most are really good.
Samuel L. Jackson is great. Most sports movies have terrible action
scenes, but the basketball footage in the movie is actually quite
believable (for example, no short white kids dunking and things like
that). The movie is very realistic, and the director has gone to great
lengths to make it seem as true-to-life as possible. I think it works
very well.
<|_=00=_|>
There are many movies similar in plot and theme to Coach Carter but
this movie stands well on it's own. Most of the credit for that has to
go to the star, Samuel L. Jackson. They could not have found a better
man to play this role. I do not know much about the coach this movie is
based on, but I can not imagine anything better or stronger than what
Jackson has given us here.

The story is pretty much like any other. A former basketball star from
the early 70's is asked to coach this year's team due to the fact that
the old coach is not able to keep the kids focused on their grades,
coming to class, etc. Where this movie differs, and what makes this
better than most movies of this type, is the depth it goes into in most
of the players on the team. The bigger stars have their own back
stories and reasons for why they are the way they are.

Obviously, judging the acting, Samuel L. Jackson is head and shoulders
above the rest but others who stand out here are Rick Gonzalez, Antwon
Tanner and Robert Ri'chard. Each of these guys played their characters
to a tee. Overall, if you want to see an inspiring movie and feel like
it accomplished it's purpose at the end, I can recommend Coach Carter
to you. 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
I can honestly relate to this movie. I am a female athlete and all
through my high school years i've seen athletes get passed because they
play sports. It's mostly the guys though. We have a coach that made
every boy failing a subject get a tutor. This movie reminded me a lot
of him. Not many coaches put their jobs on the line for the benefit of
the kids. I agree with what he did 100% and i know lots of others do
too. The movie shows perfect detail of how students act in schools and
out of school. I went and saw it two nights in a row and each time, i
saw different things about the movie. It's a great movie and I think
all coaches and teachers should see it. It shows that most athletes are
passed because they are athletes, not because they have the grades.
<|_=00=_|>
Realistic drama based on the true story of Coach Ken Carter(Samuel L.
Jackson), a daring and inspiring coach that returns to Richmond High
School in Richmond, California where he still held records from his
basketball exploits. Carter accepts a little over $1,000 to work four
months as basketball coach for a team of uncooperative, but heady young
men. Carter has the players sign a contract to keep their grades up or
be suspended from the team. When it is known that his players are not
making the grade average and/or just not showing up for class;
community outrage erupts when Carter benches his undefeated team and
locks them out of the gym. In storybook fashion, the players left on
the team bring their grades up and continue their Cinderella season to
the state playoffs.

Typical slam dunks, ally-oops and no-look passes. PG-13 violence,
language and sexual content. COACH CARTER stands and delivers. Worth
watching more than once. Cast members include: Rob Brown, Channing
Tatum, Robert Ri'chard, Antwon Tanner, Rick Gonzalez and a sterling
performance from singer Ashanti. Jackson should be very proud of his
outstanding portrayal as the inspiring coach.
<|_=00=_|>
This show was more then a show. It was long but you don't realize it.
its one of those movies that you watch and say "its already over". IT
was a positive influence for young kids to watch. I was so impressed
with this movie that i cant say enough good things about it. I think
some of the professional ball players could take some lessons from this
high school coach. We could all be so lucky to have a man like this in
our kids lives that actually cares for each and every child. The show
is based on the real coach carter, so i looked up some of his internet
pages. I think you will be impressed as well if you do some research
after seeing the movie, Deborah
<|_=00=_|>
Coach Carter is the story of a basketball coach who was persistent and
had his priorities straight. The positive message the movie conveyed
was that lives can be changed for the better through self discipline,
hard work and the building of character. I was thinking to myself that
the whole story was pretty believable, but then I looked into it and
found it to be a true to life story so I guess it really is believable.

Samuel L. Jackson put in a convincing performance as the strict Coach
Carter, as did the rest of the cast members. The movie, itself, was
reminiscent of Lean On Me. It was the same basic story with the
disciplinary figure helping the distraught kids through life.

I found it disappointing that the parent of the basketball team
emphasized a mere game over something vastly more important, education.
I rated this movie 7 of 10
