

We have a duo, a trio, and a group of 9. These three fictitious 'folk'
groups from the 60s reunite for a concert in this mockumentary. What makes
it so interesting is (1) I was a young adult in the 60s and vividly
remember
the folk group wave and (2) Guest, Levy and the others do their own
singing
and playing of songs they wrote for the movie. I think its IMDb ratings
which cluster around 7 and 8 are about right. Not everyone will like 'A
Mighty Wind' (song from final concert), it has improvised humor and many
of
the same actors from 'Best in Show'. But for fans of the humor of Guest
and
Levy it is a very nice little movie. The DVD has interesting extras, and
the
commentary track by Guest and Levy discuss how, for example, Levy had to
take lessons to get is guitar skills back, and how O'Hara learned to play
the autoharp for this role.

The movie is 92 minutes long, which includes the 7 minutes of end credits.
Of the 85 minutes of actual movie, the first 60 sets up the characters and
groups, shows them in rehearsals, covers several back stories, then the
final 25 minutes are the concert itself, actually performed before a live
audience. There were a few truly outstanding folk groups in the 1960s, but
there also were a whole bunch of mediocre ones.  The three groups featured
in this movie are as good as many of the 1960s groups that actually made a
living entertaining. And, as at least one critic said, that's part of the
problem with 'A Mighty Wind' - the groups are good enough, and the final
concert is real enough, that much of the impact of the humor went away
during the last act. The lampooning was gone, replaced by a legitimate set
of performances.

Still, I found it thoroughly enjoyable, and my favorite of the
'Guest/Levy'
movies.
<|_=00=_|>

The first time I saw this movie, I laughed and thought it was pretty good.
Then I saw it again. And again. And again. I bought it and watched it even
more times.

I don't think the movie is "pretty good" anymore. It's made a permanent
home
in my Christopher Guest collection as one of the movies I go around
quoting.
I own the DVD, the soundtrack and even the songbook.

All of the cast members are hilarious as usual. I love The Folksmen trio
of
Harry Shearer, Michael McKean and Christopher Guest. A little reminiscent
of
Spinal Tap goes folk. The New Main Street Singers have such a dark side
it's
funny to see their on-stage presence as such chipper people. And Mitch and
Mickey are the wacky split up sweethearts of yesteryear.

I love this movie and look forward to the next release of this great
comedic
team!
<|_=00=_|>

Christopher Guest's movies, like his performances, are
generally
subtle and always low-key. They are not for people who need
laugh
tracks to follow the humor and most of his work is so contextually-based
that some knowledge of the subject he's dissecting is a definite
asset.
Guest, who was a performer in the very early SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE,
is,
in many respects, the Anti-Belushi of modern American comedy.

Nevertheless, he shares with Belushi - and many of their
contemporaries,
who came from one or another branch of the Second City organization
-
a certain fondness for off-the-wall elements in his work; Guest's
tend
to be slipped in, quietly, while Belushi's popped out of
exploding
cakes.

A MIGHTY WIND is a spot-on satire of the American Folk Music movement of
the
early and mid-1960s. The narrative conceit is a memorial
concert
for a recently deceased impressario, organized by his son, which reunites
three folk groups from the 60s.

The real elements of the film are the send-ups of a variety of
tropes
of the era, musical styles, personalities, and quite an array
of
music-business cliches. Remarkably, however, the songs are
genuinely
entertaining in themselves; both the writing and the performances.
They're satirical, but so subtlely performed that it's easy to
loose
the thread of the lyrics and wind up mindlessly nodding heads and grooving
along, which pretty neatly captures the popular music experience for the
last several generations. Satire within satire.

The musical performances are excellent, recreating, almost frighteningly,
the taste and texture of folk music of the era. And,
bringing several real 60s folk acts to mind.

The acting is typical of Guest movies, such as SPINAL TAP and
BEST
IN SHOW; very quiet, restrained, low-key, with, apparently, a lot
of
dialogue improvised. The performers are mostly
drawn from the same group Guest has used in the past: Eugene
Levy
(who co-wrote the script with Guest) and Catherine O'Hara, Harry Shearer,
Michael McKean, Ed Begley, Jr., and Guest, himself.

Comparisons with Guest's most popular picture, THIS IS SPINAL
TAP
are both interesting and tricky. Interesting because both
movies
were written and directed by the same man, and shared most of
the
same casts. Tricky, because while some seem to compare AMW
unfavorably
with TIST, a looking at these films, together, they have a lot in common.
So
much so, in fact, that it's reasonable to consider them
a pair; very similar takes on two, distinct musical genres of a
similar
era. The writing, acting, tone, pacing of these two movies is
very
similar. The jokes are similar. The points of view are similar.
The
focus on both performers, and the behind-the-scenes people is
similar.
The real difference is the music.

This, in turn, tends to suggest that those who react very
differently
to these two films may be reacting more to the music, directly,
and
to the ambiance of the world around the particular musical genre
more
than anything else.

Guest's movies don't have many laugh-out-loud moments. Most of the
humor
is more the "big-smile", sometimes, the chuckle, kind. But, Ed Begley, Jr.
has perhaps his best comic scene, ever, when he does a take
as
a Swedish-American public television producer dropping Yiddish into his
conversation; one word per sentence. It's a totally dead-pan and
very
quiet performance which, like so much of Christopher Guest's
humor,
you will either get or not get. If you do, you may fall off your
chair.

Eugene Levy, who co-wrote the script, with Guest, is also very good,
having
finally invented a second character after having spent
something
more than 30 years (since his Second City TV days) doing variations
of
one.

Who might enjoy A MIGHTY WIND? Anyone who remembers the era and the music,
and anyone who enjoys show business insider takes. It's a
more
difficult call for those born later. And, if you have trouble
keeping
Janis Joplin and Joanie Mitchell distinct in your mind, you
probably
won't follow most of what's going on.


<|_=00=_|>
Some felt that this was too close to reality to be considered a parody,
but I thought it was beautifully done - made fun of the cloying
smugness of some "folkies", but mixed it with genuine pathos. I have a
feeling Eugene Levy may have lost a couple of friends to bad acid trips
- his portrayal was hilarious, but not cruel. Christopher Guest
continues to amaze me with his light touch; most comedies put people in
bad situations and make them squirm their way through; instead Guest
takes apparently mediocre characters and puts them in situations that
stretch their personalities. 

Contains the single funniest comment I've ever heard about model
trains.

Suggested double feature: This is Spinal Tap, Waiting for Guffman, or
Bob Roberts
<|_=00=_|>
SPOILERS LIE AHEAD

A Mighty Wind is a film that I loved, and it disappoints me that there
were so many critics and filmgoers who were disappointed with it. It
seems that quite a few people think that comedies, especially the ones
of the mockumentary sort (as this one is), can't go farther then simple
mocking. It puzzles me that so many were in agreement that a film about
a bittersweet reunion can't be good comedy. I think some moviegoers
need quit worrying about smuggling that bag of Milk Duds into the
theater and remember to bring an open mind. There may be funnier, more
farcical situations (which have been the basis of many, many lesser
films), but a bittersweet reunion can inspire comedic moments as well
as be the basis for a great film, which A Mighty Wind is.

Christopher Guest, who has championed the film making style that is
mockumentary with his role in the classic This Is Spinal Tap, and by
directing the hilarious Waiting for Guffman and Best in Show, directs
as well as co-writes the story with Eugene Levy (the actual lines are
all improvised by the actors).

The film plays as a documentary about the organization of a memorial
concert featuring folk groups from the 60's who were managed by the
late Irving Steinbloom. The groups featured in the concert are the
cheesy "neuftet" The New Main Street Singers, the classic folk trio The
Folksmen, and the former sweethearts of the folk music world Mitch and
Mickey.

The best performance in the film is that of Catherine O'Hara as Mickey
Crabbe. She boldly doesn't go for all the laughs, and creates a
complete, full, interesting character. Note the interview scenes where
she reminisces about her past as one half of the folk "phenomenon" that
was Mitch and Mickey. When she talks about their relationship you can
see and hear that this is a woman who loved Mitch and Mickey, but not
Mitch. Levy is also superb as Mitch Cohen, clearly still in love with
Mickey but also clearly insane. He creates an almost over the top
comedic performance that makes great use of his infamous eyebrows. He
is in a constant state of uncomfortable quirkiness, except when he is
singing with Mickey, and he remembers what their relationship used to
be, and how it felt to be loved. Note the scene where the two practice
one of their hits, "A Kiss at the End of the Rainbow," and don't know
what to do when its time for them to lovingly kiss each other, which
was their claim to fame when they were making TV appearances back in
the 60's. Without saying a word, they agree that it would be
inappropriate and continue to the end of the song. O'Hara's reaction to
that moment is perfect. Then note the scene when they perform the song
at the concert and, each for different reasons, they decide to do the
kiss. When I first saw that moment and the characters' reaction to it,
I got goosebumps. I realized that for the first time in any of Guest's
mockumentaries, I actually cared for the characters, and I loved it.
It's great that instead of going down that road taken by so many other
films, where the former lovers find that they have loved each-other all
along and have sex to affirm this to the audience, A Mighty Wind gives
something far more interesting.

Although the Mitch & Mickey relationship is the heart of the film, it
should not be forgotten that this an ensemble movie. There are terrific
comedic performances all around, including those of Harry Shearer,
Michael McKean, and Guest as the members of The Folksmen, John Michael
Higgins and Jane Lynch as the color worshiping Terry and Laurie Bohner,
Jennifer Coolidge as the can't-quite-place-her-accent Amber Cole, Fred
Willard as the outrageously sad Mike LaFontaine and Ed Begley Jr. the
yiddish talking Swede Lars Olfen.

It may not have gotten as many laughs as This Is Spinal Tap, Waiting
for Guffman, or Best in Show, but A Mighty Wind bravely goes where
those films didn't. It achieves touching, real emotion. It is one of
the best films of 2003.
<|_=00=_|>

It's amazing how well executed this movie is. It seems realisic and yet
so..."movie!" Christopher Guest (who did a fine "guest" on Saturday
Night Live in a game show skit..."Chocolate Babies?") did some great
work on this and all of the characters are classic. Eugene Levy may be
the best in this. His performance of Mitch, or rather the shell of what
Mitch once was is hilarious. The best scene is, in my opinion, the
scene in which Mickey's wife shows Mitch his model trains and model
town. Levy's comments about seeing the town in the autumn ("I would
have made tiny leaves...") are the funniest lines in the film. The
Folksmen show off funny interaction scenes (yep, those are the guys
from Spinal Tap) and The New Mainstreet Singers are definitely the
commercial b*st*rds of this film. W.I.N.C.-a religion based on color.
That's classic. I would recommend getting the DVD for the great deleted
scenes, including a press conference in which Mitch talks about
Canadian hip-hop, where kids rap about cleanliness. 

I love this film. Despite it's rating, a great family movie. The sexual
references are minor. There's just two scenes. One: A brief talk about
a sex emporium and Two: References to starring in dirty movies. Get
past these and mom, dad and the kids can have a good time. Just punch a
hole in the record first.

<|_=00=_|>

Another in a long list of films that have been recommended to me, `A Mighty
Wind' was probably one of the funniest films I've seen this century.  The
mockumentary style of `This is Spinal Tap' has always been a favorite of
mine, and this film, about the reunion of three folk groups after the death
of the owner of their former record label is absolutely hilarious. 
Christopher Guest's usual cast is involved, though Eugene Levy and Harry
Shearer stood out for me personally.  (Although every time Shearer's
character spoke I couldn't get the image of Principal Skinner from `The
Simpsons' out of my head.)

Anyone with either an absurdist or dry sense of humor will find this movie
funny.  Speaking for myself, I rarely laugh out loud when watching films by
myself at home and I was in tears from having fits of laughter throughout
most of the film.  The writing is above brilliant, and the acting and timing
are dead on.  I haven't seen the other two `recent' films that proceeded
this one, `Best in Show' and `Waiting for Guffman', but after seeing `A
Mighty Wind' I will definitely check them out in the very near
future.

--Shelly

<|_=00=_|>

An excellent entertainment, though very different from this ensemble's
other
pseudo-documentary efforts (Spinal Tap, Best in Show).

Incredibly creative.
I'm a fan of folk music and this film really nails the eclectic
backgrounds
of folk musicians, right down to the distinctive vocalizations, multi-line
harmonies and excessive enthusiasm.
I was so impressed that all the parodied songs were written and performed
(well) by the actors and I now covet the sound track.
Get ready for a lot of subtle humor and story lines and enjoy the
send-up.
<|_=00=_|>

**SPOILERS**

A Rorschach film: this is a brilliantly wry slice-of-modern-absurdity for
some and merely a tepid comedy with quotable one-liners for
others.

To be honest, this is the sort of movie I would have found mildly boring ten
years ago when I was in college.  The absurdity of the characters' naive
self-absorption is too low-key to evoke more than a smile; the subject
matter (folksinging) is not exactly a contemporary choice for parody
material; and many times the humor veers too aimlessly from clever satire
(the anal retentive reunion producer) to the simply odd (the Witches Into
Natural Colors) to flat efforts at "zany" surprises (the surprise denouement
of one of the Folksmen).

However, in the ten years since college, I've learned that most people who
pursue their dreams are just a little bit sad, and I've come to appreciate
just how many disappointments a would-be artist or writer -- or anyone else
with dreams -- has to swallow to keep even a few of his or her dreams alive
in the world.

I've met a lot people just like the characters in this film.  The brilliant
characterizations by Levy, O'Hara, Guest, Shearer, McKean, Begley, and the
rest of the cast are witty, knowing captures of such people.  O'Hara is
particularly adroit playing a middle-aged woman who has come to accept that
her brief moment of fame and of passionate romance concluded more than half
her lifetime ago -- hers is the most affecting performance in the film. 
Levy could've gotten away with nothing more than a comic cliché of a
burn-out from the 1960s but instead manages to evoke a certain poignancy
without falling into schmaltz.  The chemistry between both these two actors
and their characters brings a tear to the eye once or twice without seeming
jarring or contrived.

A few times, the story is a tad too wistful about the past and takes too
much delight in making the past look good by depicting the present as
meaningless gloss in comparison -- sometimes the actors/writers seem to be
indulging in middle-aged nostalgia for their own youth instead of telling a
story about a folksinging reunion.

Still, I'm impressed (as I usually am with these actors/writers) at the way
the movie combines off the wall comic bits with subtle emotional nuances in
a style unique to this type of parody/commentary on human
life.

You'll either adore this movie or find it merely mildly diverting, but those
of us who adore it will probably want to give it a 9 out of
10!
<|_=00=_|>

Christopher Guest is a generous actor/director in that he doesn't hog the
camera for himself. He lets his actors do their thing without much
interfering; he fades into the background, practically.

This pseudo-documentary about the folk music craze of the late 50s and early
60s in this country is accurate. It is a hilarious take on those performers
that were part of the era. Mr. Guest has a great insight in presenting the
different characters and brings them together with an accurate eye for
detail. 

Eugene Levy and Catherine OHara are teamed up again as Mitch and Mickey, a
famous duo from those days who were the biggest act in folk music of the
time. Eugene Levy appears to be catatonic as Mitch, who agrees to take part
in the Town Hall ceremony honoring his mentor. Catherine O'Hara is excellent
in her part as Mickey, the loyal partner.

The documentary form seems to work well, as it serves the point for the
reunion of all these performers coming together one more time, even though
the world has forgotten them.

There are disappointments in that no one has a central role, but the misuse
of Parker Posey in the film is regrettable. I guess there was no space to
showcase any actor over another. 

Mr. Guest keeps getting better with every new film and it seems a very great
idea to concentrate on this very talented cast for future occasions where
they can all interact, as it has been the case, in the previous
occasions.
