

I went into the cinema with friends and said: "It's a Farrelly Brothers
film; you can guess the level of humour." There's Something About Mary I
love, but let's face it -- the humour is quite crass, even if the movie
does
have some heart. So I expected another movie with jokes in bad taste, and
lots of humour at the expense of conjoined twins. At least this is how the
film has marketed it.  However, it couldn't be further from the truth.
What
has been marketed is quite different to what the film is
about.

Whilst the film does have humour -- some movements hilariously funny -- 
this
film is at heart a light drama. And this is by certainly no means a bad
thing. When I expected low-IQ humour, what I got was just a really
engrossing tale of two brothers who just happen to be conjoined. The
chemistry between Damon and Kinnear is just perfect, and the relationship
between the brothers (no doubt written from experience by the Farrelly
Brothers) was wonderful.

Fox's marketing treatment of the film is appalling. In the trailer, Matt
Damon's character says: "We're not Siamese, we're American," and the
trailer
plays it like he is stupid. Whereas in fact, when watching the film, the
context is very different -- he's reacting with indignation, and in
defence
of their conjoined nature. This is indicative of the entire film. Never is
their conjoined-nature used for humour in a bad way.

Throw away what you've seen in the trailers, or what you think the film is
about. Go and see this movie that has its heart so very much in the right
place -- a great antidote to so many Hollywood films that have the soul of
a
stone. I don't normally get sentimental with films. I'm the type of viewer
that laughs when Jack dies at the end of Titanic. But I went away from
Stuck
On You knowing I'd seen a very special film indeed. Highly
recommended.
<|_=00=_|>

To be honest, I am still a little amazed at how much I liked this film. I
resisted seeing it for a long time because the concept sounded so offensive.
But offensive is the last word I would use to describe this movie. Hilarious
would be more accurate. The conjoined twin thing never feels like fodder for
cheap jokes. Yes, it plays prominently in the plot, but it just never feels
like you are laughing at them, only with them. There is genuine affection
for the two main characters, played expertly by Damon and Kinnear, that
really shines thru.  To be absolutely honest, a lot of what makes this film
so incredible is hard (for me, at least) to describe. All I can say is that
it's funny, it's touching, it's a bit of Farrelly brothers magic. See it,
you won't regret it.
<|_=00=_|>
Bob (Matt Damon) and Walt (Greg Kinnear) are conjoined twins (joined at
their lower trunks--they share a liver) from Massachusetts. They own a
burger joint named "Quickie Burger" and Walt has a love of acting. Walt
decides to move to California to try his luck at the big time, and
although Bob is initially reluctant, he also has a beautiful "Internet
pal" in California who he's been talking to for more than three years.

Compared to some of directors Bobby and Peter Farrelly's other films,
such as Dumb and Dumber, There's Something About Mary, and Me, Myself
And Irene, we could say that the humor in Stuck On You is much more
subtle. That fact may be off-putting to viewers who come to Stuck On
You primarily as fans of the Farrelly Brothers' previous work. There
are still outrageous gags here, but they tend to be funnier if you
exercise your intellect a bit, and believe it or not they are more
rooted in reality than some other Farrelly Brothers films. If you are
familiar with Daisy and Violet Hilton's story, for example--they were
infamous sideshow performers who were conjoined twins--you'll note
similarities, such as how they approached relationships with persons of
the opposite sex.

Like much of the Farrelly Brothers other work, however, Stuck On You is
as heartwarming as funny, and on one level, it's primarily a very odd
romance film. It also seems that perhaps this is the most personal of
their films so far, and it may very well be a depiction of their love
for each other as brothers. That also gives Stuck On You a slightly
more serious edge, but one that works very well. This is a quality
drama in addition to being a comedy leaning towards absurdism. That may
sound like a strange combination, but it flowed smoothly for me as a
viewer.

The performances by Damon and Kinnear are on target, and their love
interests, May (Wen Yann Shih) and April (Eva Mendes) are intriguing
and not at all clichéd. The extended cameos by Cher and Meryl Streep,
as themselves, are very entertaining, and the supporting cast is
excellent.
<|_=00=_|>

This was one of my top films for 2003. In general I am not a fan of the
Farelly brothers, but I had enjoyed Shallow Hal, and Stuck on You got good
reviews from our local paper, which is rare. One thing that had impressed me
about Shallow Hal is that the things that you would think were completely
illogical were addressed reasonably. The most obvious thought with the
casting was that Matt Damon and Greg Kinnear are not even that close in age.
Sure enough, early in the film they explain that Matt's character has most
of the liver, so Greg's character is aging faster. I don't know if it is
scientifically sound, but it works in the context of the film. That is one
thing that is nice about the movie. The film has plenty of sight gags and
easy humor, but there are also obscure references and delightful surprises
that remind you that the film has a brain. It also has a heart, and Damon
and Kinnear have a nice brotherly rapport.

Of the supporting cast, Eva Mendes is easily the most fun, and gets the best
lines. There are also enjoyable turns with Meryl Streep, Griffin Dunne, and
Cher starts out as her own worst caricature, but ends up showing a heart as
well. Many other familiar faces pop up, including people you have seen as
bit parts in the directors' other films.

Finally, I have to say I was really impressed with the connection between
the two bodies. Very realistic looking make-up job.
<|_=00=_|>

The Farrelly Brothers' "Stuck On You" is sincere drama with lots of heart --
of course, along with their smart quips and earnest observations not
diminishing. I even gone teary-eyed towards the end. Bobby and Peter
Farrelly brothers wrote, directed and produced this movie and they are never
sloppy. There is much attention to detail and exudes empathy and
earnestness. (I'd say their 2001 production of "Shallow Hal," with Jack
Black and Gwenyth Paltrow, contained moments of poignancy also.)

Watching Matt Damon (as Bob) and Greg Kinnear (as Walt) single-handedly
flipping burgers and buns in syncopated rhythm -- 'tis an acrobatic act in
itself! (The art of 'Quickie Burgers in less than 30 seconds' is such a
theme!) The pairing is godsend. Both Damon and Kinnear are talented actors
who had many fascinating roles. Kinnear's portrayal of Bob Crane ("Hogan's
Heroes") in Paul Schrader's "Auto Focus" 2002 has pretty much established
him -- since his debut role in Sydney Pollack's remake of "Sabrina" 1995 and
coming through acting opposite Jack Nicholson in Albert Brooks' "As Good As
It Gets" 1997 -- as one who can handle roles in depth. Damon, besides his
writing quality, has shown his versatile capability in Ed Zwick's "Courage
Under Fire" 1996 (psychological/military), John Dahl's "Rounders" 1998
(intense/suspense), Kevin Smith's "Dogma" 1999 (fun/satire), Anthony
Minghella's "The Talented Mr. Ripley" 1999 (multiple personality/mystery),
Billy Bob Thornton's "All the Pretty Horses" 2000 (romance/western), Doug
Liman's "The Bourne Identity" 2002 (action/thriller), Steven Soderbergh's
remake of "Ocean Eleven" (ensemble cast/heist), and Gus Van Sant's "Gerry"
2002 (mystical/hypnotic) which Damon scripted and acted with Casey Affleck
-- yes, he can handle any role, indeed.   

The story introduces, matter of factly, the things these two stuck together
brothers do in their everyday life -- it's down to earth and comes across
downright normal. The plot evolves when Walt wants to pursue his acting
career, just like any Hollywood dreams and Bob wants his brother to succeed.
The Farrelly brothers can sure weave a heartwarming story, and here they
follow through the emotional curve and happenings (cause and consequences)
between these two brothers, and their friends and neighbors along the way.
It's a thoughtful and creative script, and the brothers (almost a pun here)
manage to include a musical, too. Cher is in a supporting role playing her
fun self. The two corresponding girl friend roles are played delightfully by
Eva Mendes as April, and tenderly by Wen Yann Shih as May. Veteran actor
Seymour Cassel has a riotous time with his wig. There's a heartfelt cameo by
Meryl Streep -- it's beyond being brief. The use of songs and lyrics was
complementary to the various moods at hand. (Gilbert O'Sullivan's 1970 hit
"Alone Again, Naturally" included.) 
 
From the production notes, we learned that the conjoint-ness was made
possible by a makeup team led by Tony Gardner, special makeup designer, who
collaborated with the Farrelly's before -- he enabled Gwenyth Paltrow's
300-lbs physique in "Shallow Hal". Damon and Kinnear were 'stuck together'
14 hours a day for 3 months. It is amazing how Farrelly brothers and their
capable filmmaking friends and collaborators realized this genuinely caring
human drama-comedy. It's guaranteed enjoyable movie experience for everyone.


<|_=00=_|>
*** out of ****

Well, it had to happen sooner or later. The Farrelly Brothers had to
mature (somewhat) at some point and make a film that didn't rely on sex
or gross-out jokes. That is apparently the case with Stuck On You, the
Farrellys latest and tamest, but it's also one of their sweetest and
funniest films to date.

Bob and Walt Tenor (Matt Damon and Greg Kinnear) are conjoined twins
who've spent their whole lives in Martha's Vineyard. Bob is the owner
of a burger restaurant and Walt is an actor who performs plays for the
town's audience, but he has bigger ambitions; he wants to be a
Hollywood actor, much to the chagrin of Bob, who suffers from a
distinct case of stagefright. But after some discussion and compromise,
they agree to move to L.A. and start a new life for themselves.

Upon arrival, Bob and Walt meet the friendly but ditzy April (Eva
Mendes), one of their neighbors in the apartment they've just moved
into. Bob even meets his internet pen-pal May (Wen Yann Shih), but
because he's never told her he has a conjoined twin, he has to "bring"
along Walt on their first date together. As for Walt's Hollywood
dreams, after some initial lack of success, he's chosen by Cher herself
to co-star with her on her new show, "Honey and the Beaze," in an
attempt by Cher to sabotage her own series. But the show is an
unexpected success thanks to Walt's burgeoning popularity, which puts a
crimp in his relationship with Bob.

Reviewing comedies has always been a bit difficult for me, which is why
I usually stick to the stuff that I find easier to write about
(action/adventure, horror, drama, anything but comedy), but given all
the knocks this film has taken (particularly the fact that barely
anybody saw it in theaters) I felt a slight sense of obligation to
mention that Stuck On You is the funniest and most touching comedy I've
seen in recent memory.

This is not to say that the film always had me choking with laughter
(though a scene involving a guy in front of his typewriter did get the
biggest laugh out of me all year), but rather that it consistently
delivered smiles, chuckles, and solid laughs without ever bogging down,
no easy feat for a movie that runs for just under two hours.

Aside from the lack of sexual humor, there's a major difference between
the style of comedy the Farrellys employ here than in some of their
prior films. Whereas many their previous works have often made fun of
the people that suffer from certain "disorders," Stuck On You presents
us with two friendly, easy-going guys who've grown accustomed to their
situation and choose not to see their conjoined liver as a handicap.
Rather, the film derives its humor from the way "outsiders" view their
condition.

In the film's two lead roles, Matt Damon and Greg Kinnear boast the
kind of comic chemistry that most actors can only dream of. Damon, in
particular, excels by taking the more "straight man" role, where he's
not actually aiming for any laughs but still gets them anyway, maybe
even more than the typically hilarious Kinnear. Watching these two guys
stuck together reminds me why I find them two of the most likable
actors in Hollywood, even when most of Kinnear's characters are
generally abrasive losers (but not in this case). It is, in fact, Damon
and Kinnear that make the film as wonderfully entertaining as it is.
Had not even half of the jokes worked as well as they did, their
performances would still warrant this movie a passable recommendation.

Stuck On You doesn't always juggle its various subplots perfectly;
while Wen Yann Shih does play well into the film, a lot of brief cameos
and a wide assortment of characters aren't meshed in as well. Worst of
all is Cher, who's neither funny nor particularly convincing as the
"bitch" she's made out to be. I have no idea if this says more about
her personality or her acting skills.

Most of the Farrellys comedies generally tend to dissipate in the last
half-hour or so, replacing its humor with more sincere attempts at
trying to make their irascible and/or "cad-like" protagonists learn a
lesson or two. The magic of Stuck On You is that its protagonists are
always the same throughout, making no genuine "it's a miracle!"
revelations about themselves at the last minute; after all, brotherly
love is still brotherly love.

When the last twenty minutes threaten to devolve into sentimental
clap-trap, the Farrellys punch in the necessary humor that defuses any
of the building sap (spoiler:I think my favorite scene in the whole
film is when Bob and Walt re-unite after parting their separate ways,
in a scene that's both hilarious and touching), making the film sweet
without getting too sweet. The Farrellys have made a lot of funny
movies, but this is the first of theirs I can recommend to just about
anyone.
<|_=00=_|>

This turned out to be a surprisingly effective comedy.  Okay, sure, you can
say that a movie that pokes fun at conjoined twins is in poor taste, but
there's nothing malicious about it -- it feels, if you can believe it,
genuine.

You really get a sense of the tenderness and the bond that has developed
between the two brothers.  Of course, as you'd expect from the Farrelly
brothers, it's laugh-out-loud funny.  As you might not expect, there's not
really any gross-out humor: it's more "Hal" than "Mary".  If you can't tell,
I was pleasantly surprised by this movie.

Some gag highlights: Cher with her boyfriends, Matt Damon's stage fright,
Greg Kinnear in a animal costume.
<|_=00=_|>

Going into this movie i expected another typical Farrelly movie, fearing i
might hate it because the past years i haven't been such a big fan of dumb
comedies, but this is actually very different, it is definitely a comedy,
and it has a lot of small sketches that can crack you up, but underneath
all
the comedy they really managed to create a film with personal meaning,
moral, and most important in this movie is the warm feeling you get off
it.

What saves this movie really is the slight seriousity below the comedy,
the
movie does never try to be stupid and it works all the way through, you
get
really personal with the two main characters, who btw does an outstanding
job, both of them are great in their roles, and i think it's good to see
Matt Damon showing his potential, once again, in a very different genre
than
his former work.

The strength of the movie really is all these small sketches, there are so
many, and they are just funny, every single one of them, how they work
together, it's just so well made, small jokes that you may forget fast,
but
at the time they work, and the fight in the disco was just so great hehe,
i
couldn't help it, i loved it, the movie made me laugh, just as i thought i
would never find a movie again that could make me laugh, i think it's nice
to see that there are still comedies that are based on the comedy, that
are
funny without being dumb.
The problem the later years i think have been the mass flood of stupid
comedy shows where the fun part is based on disgusting crap, this movie
really proofs that there is still a market for loose laid back comedies
that
are based on good humour rather than dumb humour, The farrely brothers
truly
rock!

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
In Martha's Vineyard, Massachusetts, the conjoined twins Bob (Matt
Damon) and Walt (Greg Kinnear) have a successful fast food place and
are beloved by the local citizens. The shy Bob has a crush on May (Wen
Yann Shih), who corresponds with him through Internet, but does not
know that he has a Siamese twin brother. Walt decides to move to Los
Angeles and become an actor in Hollywood. Once in Hollywood, they meet
April (Eva Mendes), an aspirant actress who lives in the same hotel and
becomes their closest friend. Walt finds a spot in a TV series with
Cher, an arrogant actress, who wants to break her contract with the
network using Walt. However, they are not happy in Hollywood and miss
their small town. 'Stuck On You' is a cult-movie, directed by the
Farrelly brothers and having the participation of famous persons, such
as Meryl Streep (uncredited), Cher and Griffin Dunne. The story is
hilarious and it is grateful to see Cher making jokes with her
behavior. Greg Kinnear has an excellent performance in the role of the
Siamese brother of Matt Damon's character. My vote is eight.

Title (Brazil): 'Ligado em Você' ( 'Connected to You')
<|_=00=_|>

 First of all, for the people who are upset at the conjoined twins
disabilities being the subject of a movie...if you want to get upset about a
movie that makes fun of other people, who are abused, sad, down on their
luck, and depressed... Then DON'T see "Bad Santa"! It is a million times
more offensive to characters who really need help instead of being made fun
of.

 Second, I saw "Stuck On You" and it is very funny in places. My friend and
I laughed out loud a lot, he laughed more than I did. It never makes fun of
the conjoined twins really, just the people they have to deal with to get
ahead in life. And their hometown accepts them and then loves them as they
grow up dealing with their conjoinededness. It is an affirming movie and is
positive about these handicapped characters and we root for them to get
ahead and reach their goals. And it does have a happy ending featuring Meryl
Streep and Cher. And Greg Kinnear singing!! I thought the ending was
great!!

 Spoiler: For the people who commented about how nowadays they can have
surgery to fix their disability... The movie explains they can't have
surgery because they share a liver, and if they go through with the surgery,
Walt would likely die. And Bob (Matt Damon) loves his brother too much to
take that chance. (He also is very afraid to live without his brother.) Near
the end, they do have the surgery, and I won't tell you what happened, but
it is VERY BITTERSWEET, it is happy, yet sad, and made some audience members
teary-eyed. It is an emotional scene, and thought-provoking. If I was in
their situation, would I have gone through with the surgery??

 Funny moments: Cher!!! Cher's BOYFRIEND!!! Cher's BIG BEHIND!!! The fight
scene in the bar between the brothers and the evil bullies!! The shower
scene with the telephone. The cooking a dozen burgers in a couple of minutes
scene. ALL of the sports scenes! The slimy creepy manager WAS REALLY FUNNY
AND IRRITATING at the same time, but he wasn't evil, like Alec Baldwin is in
"Cat N Hat". I really admire Cher for being in this movie (it recalls her
"Mask" movie role somewhat.) And I loved Meryl Streep in this movie too!!! I
think both Cher and Meryl Streep should get supporting actress nominations
for their great roles!
I thought Matt Damon AND Greg Kinnear both did great jobs. Matt Damon was
very sympathetic as the shy half of the disabled duo. And Greg Kinnear was
very dynamic, he dominated everyone else when he was in the scene. And he
sings really good too. The soundtrack was also really great 70's songs that
I enjoyed hearing very much!

 Movie Philosophy: This movie is similar to "Kingpin" and "Dumb and Dumber",
in that disabled people leave their safe homes, go on the road to a new
place. They meet all kinds of new people they have to deal with and make new
friends along the way. Friends who like and love them for their inner
selves, and NOT what they look like on the outside. I really liked that
message alot. (It is the total opposite of "Bad Santa", where a young, fat,
retarded lonely boy with no parents and NO FRIENDS is made fun of and
physically and mentally abused because of his outside appearance and
disabilities he has no control over.)

 The previews DON'T do this movie justice. They picked moments of the film
that weren't the best parts. They should have shown Cher and Meryl Streep in
the ads because they are so great! THIS MOVIE IS BETTER THAN THE PREVIEWS
WOULD INDICATE. JUST LIKE "ELF" WAS!! This movie has the same happy,
sentimental feel-good feel and ending that "Elf" and "Bruce Almighty" and
"Finding Nemo" had. (3 of the BEST movies of the year.) It was an EXCELLENT
movie and I highly recommend it to everyone!
10/10
