
I completely disagree with the comment I just read. I thought Roman
Polanski did great respects to the story and to Dickens. I thought all
of the performances were well done and Ben Kingsley was just amazing. I
have been in the production of Oliver! the musical three times and have
read the book about a million times. It is one of my all time favorite
stories and plays and I have been disappointed with the past Oliver
Twist films. I remember a few years ago I saw a very poorly done Oliver
Twist with Elijah Wood as the Artful Dodger. This one did not
disappoint me as a huge fan in the least. I feel Roman Polanski really
understood what Dickens was trying to express in his books. And by the
way, the character Oliver is supposed to faint, it is a sign of his
weakness. I know I am repeating myself but I really did love the
performances. The Artful Dodger was great and Mr.Salsbury was done so
justly. Even the smallest characters were performed amazingly. I think
the only way someone would foolishly call this off as a poorly written,
poorly acted, or poorly done film was if they were blind and deaf! No
offense to anyone who is of course, but I was very taken aback, as I
said, by the comment I just read about this film. The only thing it has
against it is that it's a bit long. I knew where the story was going at
every moment but for someone just being introduced to Oliver Twist, it
might seem to go on for a while. But if you look back at the history of
movies, many of the best films are long. If you are a fan of Charles
Dickens, please see this film - you will love it. If you are a fan of
Roman Polanski it is one of his best! If you wish to be entertained in
a very classic and non-offensive way, please see this film. I just
loved it and could go on and on. This is a story and film for all ages!
<|_=00=_|>
Roman Polanski never ceases to amaze me at all the things he can do. He
can make so many different kinds of films well. His range is truly
extraordinary. The man who gave us Chinatown, Pianist, Rosemary's Baby
has now directed Oliver Twist. I've seen most of the versions of Twist
but this is by far the best. David Leans version is often talked about
but it is overpraised. It tends to be overly sentimental an very slow
in certain places. I'm not for fast moving movies but his version can
be quite dull at times. Polanski's film has updated a great story with
lush photography of pastoral settings and the narrative moves briskly.
He manages to develop the characters quite well despite the pace. The
acting from all is superb especially Ben Kingsley who is barely
recognizable. I've never been a fan of great books that have been
adapted to film but Polanski seems to have a real knack for this sort
of thing. He filmed Tess (also an adaptation) 25 years back with an
Academy award nominated direction. That film is one of my all time
favorites but Oliver Twist is even better. Polanski seems to get better
with age. I can't wait to see what he does next.
<|_=00=_|>
Without a doubt the Roman Polanski version of OLIVER TWIST is the
greatest "straight" telling version of this story ever filmed. Yes, you
will see glimpses of the David Lean version and the Carol Reed musical,
but this film stands on it's own as a deeply moving interpretation of
the Charles Dickens novel. While I was watching this film I couldn't
help thinking how proud Dickens would have been if he were alive.
Somewhere beyond he is smiling because Polanski captures the grand
scope of the film and maintains its intimacy throughout. OLIVER TWIST
moved me to tears.

What a master filmmaker Polanski is and how clever he was to choose
OLIVER TWIST as a follow up film to THE PIANIST. You can feel his
compassion for this story and its characters. It's hard to match the
performance of Fagin given by Alec Guiness in the Lean version and
especially Ron Moody in the Reed musical but Ben Kingsley is incredibly
dimensional and moving in the role. He puts his own signature onto the
part.

Jamie Foreman is the scariest Bill Sykes ever. Barney Clark as Oliver
carries the picture on his instinctual little shoulders and is as
moving in the role as Ben Kingsley is in his.

The art direction and cinematography are oil paintings in motion.
Highly atmospheric and gorgeous to look at.

My only quibble with this version is that the Nancy isn't as
compassionate as the the Nancy played by Shani Wallis in the film
musical. Although never mentioned in the story there is no doubt about
the profession of Nancy and Bet in this picture. Leanne Rowe is a very
sexy Nancy and was a fine choice for the part. However, there isn't a
scene in this film where Nancy comes into her own and wins the audience
over in the way there is for the characters of Fagin, Oliver and the
Artful Dodger. This is where Polanski needed to reach deep and
establish but didn't . It's unfortunate too because Rowe is really good
in the part. There just needed to be a definitive moment in the film
where we as an audience fall in love with the character so as to make
her death all the more disturbing.

The death of Nancy in the Carol Reed '68 version was a shocking and
disturbing scene. The death scene in the Polanski version is handled
similarly off camera so as to leave the image in the imagination of the
viewer. But the murder doesn't have the shock value it should. I
couldn't help thinking that the the image of the blood at the bottom of
the door strangely symbolized the blood at the front door of the house
where the murder of his wife Sharon Tate occurred. I also got the
feeling that Polanski for this reason didn't want to have a graphic
death for Nancy. It's as if he's had enough of murders (fictional or
otherwise) for one lifetime. One can hardly blame him.
<|_=00=_|>
Perfect, there is no better way to describe this wonderful production
by Roman Polanski. This time honoured story by one of the world's
greatest writers has been given excellent treatment by a fantastic
director.

First, the acting is quite good, not just as one would expect from Ben
Kingsley (who out does himself as the scheming cantankerous Fagin), but
from the child actors as well, most notably Barney Clark and Harry Eden
(who play Twist and Dodger, respectively). Another notable aspect of
the cast is they all speak with a thick 19th century British accent,
and yet manage to be perfectly intelligible to the audience.

As for the story, well, what can I say, it's Dickens! Some characters
are of course cut from the book, and some plot points and elements are
missing, but that is to be expected when a book is translated into a
film. Despite the cuts, the movie is very faithful to the book, and one
could hardly ask for a better translation of written medium to the
visual.

Despite wonderful acting and excellent story, my favourite part of this
movie is definitely the visuals. The set and costume crew has done an
amazing job of recreating the London in which Oliver lived. Every
nuance of London, from the slums to the well to do areas has been very
faithfully realized on screen. The squalor of the back alleys is almost
palpable as the characters trod through the mud, and one is almost
tempted to doff their hat when the scenery moves to the middle class
homes.

Overall, I can find very little to not praise about this movie, the
only thing I can find some flaw with is the soundtrack, as it seems a
bit sparse in some areas, and perhaps a bit too repetitive. I would
definitely recommend this movie to anyone who is a fan of any genre.
<|_=00=_|>
I was somewhat ambivalent about the thought of one of my favourite
directors making a version of the much loved classic tale Oliver Twist.
On the one had Roman Polanski crafts wonderful and moving films
extremely well so I was intrigued to see how he would weave this one
together. From his early 'Knife in the water' through to 'The Pianist'
each has his trademark directorial stamp on it whilst still being truly
incredible and individual films. On the other hand, the Oliver Twist
tale has been screened to death both in two highly regarded films as
well as multifarious TV versions over the years. In my opinion David
Lean's version is fantastic, Alec Guiness superb as Fagin and the whole
film experience has kept me going back from childhood through to
adulthood.

So it was with great trepidation that I went to see this spanking brand
new version and thankfully I was not disappointed. The character of
Fagin, so crucial to the story, is performed with outstanding ability
by Ben Kingsley. He really portrays this grotesque but somehow lovable
character well from his slight mannerisms and movements to his vocal
abilities. Also, finely performed were the parts of the artful dodger
(Harry Eden), Mr Brownlowe (Edward Hardwicke) and of course Oliver
Twist (Barney Clarke). There was such sadness and despair in his eyes
throughout that he really captured the part well. Less convincing was
Bill Sykes (Jamie Foreman) who was not right for the part nor performed
well enough to stand up against the masterful Oliver Reed in a previous
version. Foreman is a regular in gangster type films and for me did not
really fit into the cast or film well here.

The recreation of mid 19th century London is done well with Polanski
drawing on the visual inspiration of Dore prints of the period for
authenticity. The cinematography is as accomplished as always in a
Polanski film and the lighting helped to create dramatic moods well.

All in all a very competent and entertaining version with great acting,
a fine pace and an outstanding final scene of Fagin finished and soon
to face death gripping hold of Oliver tightly. I would highly recommend
to adults, children and die hard fans of other versions. All great
directors have different visions and Polanski has used his vision and
experienced craftmanship in successfully remaking this much loved tale.
<|_=00=_|>
Roman Polanski's film is an authoritative take on Dickens' classic. It
is expertly paced, slowly immersing the viewer into the plight of the
young orphan and its predicament in Victorian England. Through a
meticulous period reconstruction, superb acting, and effective
characterization (all the secondary characters are memorable), the
typically Dickensian theme of the survival of Innocence against all
odds is dramatized with utter conviction. The omission of the
excessively melodramatic elements from the original story (Oliver's
family back-story for instance) contributes greatly to the story's
strength by minimizing any trace of implausibility or mawkishness, thus
providing a wide-ranging portrait of the Victorian society with its
intrinsic inequalities and its rather warped sense of justice. The
visuals are splendid and the prevalent detached and non-judgmental
approach to an easily emotive story is simply the signature of master
director Roman Polanski, who is functioning here on top form.
<|_=00=_|>
There was little that Charles Dickens didn't know about human nature.
Who better to interpret his work for the screen than the similarly
gifted Roman Polanski.

Polanski's film allows everyone their humanity. Even the extras who
people the immaculately designed sets, seem to have a life outside of
this film. Ben Kingsley's performance as Fagin is not held in aspic in
old age, but is full of hints about his earlier life. Oliver's
sufferings seem to mirror that of children in many places and in all
times. When it is alleviated it is not by those worldly motivations of
charity or civil duty. While a carriage full of prosperous people
studiously ignore his plight, a poor old woman who has little herself
cares for him. While the wealthy city is content for him to die on the
street, a criminal feeds him. When Oliver finally takes his place in
the middle class, a priggish religiosity reminds us of Victorian
society's cure for criminality. In the end Polanski knows and Dickens
asserts that individual decency and humanity alone provide hope.
<|_=00=_|>
Polanski is the kid of guy who likes to dance on the edge. A mixture of
clown, genius and artist who has suffered personal tragedy and
humiliation but one who keeps cranking amazing films. This Oliver Twist
is no exception. Polanski has reworked the story and taken out the 19th
century coincidences, e.g., the highly improbable fact that Oliver is
Brownlow's grandson and the business with the portrait of Oliver's
mother, given the old tale a fresh coat of paint with new amazing
character actors such as Leanne Rowe, a young and thoroughly charming
Nancy, Henry Eden, a scamp of a Dodger, Jamie Forman, a repulsive Bill
Sykes with no redeeming features whatsoever and the veteran Edward
Hardwicke as Brownlow. But, it's young Barney Clark who steals the
show. In past versions, Oliver is merely a device upon which the other
array of characters are hung. We'll all remember Sir Alec Guinness,
Richard Dreyfus and Ron Moody's Fagin, Oliver Reed and Robert Newton's
Bill Syke, Elijah Wood, Anthony Newley and Jack Wild's Dodger but who
were the Olivers? We will remember young Master Barney Clark in this
marvelous, intriguing and eye-pleasing Oliver.
<|_=00=_|>
Oliver Twist in Roman Polanski's version has many similarities with the
earlier Oliver! version, despite to fact that more than 20 years have
passed between these versions. Even the actors who play Fagin and Skyse
look the same. I think however that this movie is even better, because,
since it's not a musical, the plot does not stop for songs and it flows
more smoothly. Moreover, this movie of course also follows the book
more closely.

Why did I find it to be excellent? Because the acting, the settings,
the costumes and everything else were excellent. Oliver and all the
children play amazingly well, Fagin (an unrecognizable Ben Kinglsey_
and Sykes play their wickedness perfectly and their characters are very
convincing. Even the dog is very convincing! Add to the acting the
coherent script and the three dimensional characters, the romantic
goodbye scene in jail between Oliver and Fagin, and one could
definitely say that the film contains all the elements of a sensitive
and well made movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Awesome movie. I am sure, people of all ages enjoyed the movie.
Brilliant direction (well, it's Polanski, so there will be no mess),
cinematography, acting and film-editing. But to me, the surprise was
Ben Kingsley as Fagin. Man, what a stellar role he played in the movie.
I can't forget it. He definitely should have been nominated for Osacr
in Best Supporting actor role. Never felt the movie was 2hrs (+), as
the movie drooled in an artistic yet visualistic way, as Dickens had
written this masterpiece. I hope Dickens would have been surely happy
(had he been alive; lol) to watch this movie. Great piece of work
Polanski, I am a real fan of yours.
