
My opinion is obviously prejudiced as I am "the whale" in the title of
this movie. My wife is "Mozart." I appreciate the time the cast and
other principals spent with real aspergers and autism adults. It paid
off. Both Josh Hartnett and Radha Mitchell did a terrific job of
capturing the spirit of myself and my wife when we met.

Rahda looks much more like Mary did when we met. I was never as tall as
Josh but was much slimmer at his age. There are all kinds of whales and
while Josh is a nice, sleek Blue Whale by comparison, I have become an
Orca in my middle age.

I have high hopes that an eventual theater release will enable this
film to do a great service to my community and to anyone who feels
different and wants a soulmate!

In order to not unduly influence the tally, I gave it a seven which is
the current average rating although I think it merits a higher number.

"The Whale" fka Jerry Newport
<|_=00=_|>
Being a person diagnosed with Asperger's Sydrome, the father of a child
with moderate Autism, and the brother of a sister with severe Autism, I
am very disappointed with this movie. The part of Donald Morton was't
too bad, as his overall presentation, facial expressions, eye contact,
high anxiety, etc, seemed close to realistic. Isabelle was just not
real to me. The look in her eyes was that of a neuro-typical person
with a wide range of emotions revealed in them. She had some scenes
wherein she behaved similar to someone with Asperger's or Autism, but
without her overall behavior being accurate it was a let down. She is a
good actress, but she needed to do more homework for this role.

The support group scenes were some of the most disappointing of the
movie. There are many highly functional individuals who attend AS
support groups in the real world, however, even the most functional do
not exhibit the type of empathy that this group did. Trust me, real
Aspies would have had little to no interest in the love life of these
two group members. It is not believable to me that Donald could have
formed this group. Perhaps the real Jerry Newport could have. Donald
does not demonstrate enough leadership or functional independence, and
his anxiety is debilitating. There are Aspies who have leadership
qualities, but they are usually very rigid and opinionated thinkers,
who also have a type of personality that other people with Asperger's
Syndrome, who are less out spoken, gather around. That level of
rigid/concrete thinking is just not depicted in this movie, nor is the
reality of the tempers that often go along with it.

I wish there was more focus on the useful and functional aspects of
Asperger's Syndrome. Why didn't they show us more of what Donald did in
his work? How were his mathematical abilities benefiting him in the
real world? Isabelle was gifted in music and art. Reveal more of her
passion for this. Let people see more of an inside view of Autism
rather just playing around with the quirkiness in ways that were
sometimes irreverent.

I now fear that thousands, or perhaps millions more people know even
less about Autism and Asperger's Syndrome than they did before! Yes, I
have read the glowing reviews, and I am extremely disappointed in them.
I have lived around Autism from every possible perspective that you can
imagine. Trust me, what you will see in this movie is Hollywood and not
the real world.
<|_=00=_|>
This is the only film about Aspergers and I value it. It is GREAT to
see star-power giving awareness.

Having Aspergers myself, I could do what most people ('nero-typicals')
couldn't- understand and associate with the characters. Though at the
same time there were differences... because everyone with Aspergers is
different.

So I found myself going, "Hey thats me!" Or, "Hey thats not me!"
throughout. It varies from one thing to the other- it can be right on
the money or the polar opposite. It was fun/nice to recognize all the
small/not so small things-in-common. As for the differences, they were
irritable! 

When I first heard of this movie a while ago, I didn't understand why
it was called "Mozart And The Whale". But now I do, and you will too.
It is beautiful and has multiple meanings.

Only thing is it may portray people with Aspergers as being out of
control nuts or retards, which is not the way they really are. So they
may be overexaggerating and misconcepting just a little there.

All in all, curious and informative. Its guaranteed to please and
inspire any Aspie who watches it. May bring them together too. HOORAY!
<|_=00=_|>
I am not quite sure why it has not been released in any county other
than Brazil, however I must say it definitely exceed my expectations.
The idea I had for it of it being a poorly prepared romantic commercial
comedy was proved in some ways wrong....in fact close to a feeling of
Rainman I must confess it is a solid film based on what it intends and
point to achieve, and it does it successfully.

A good and creative direction for its wise and innovative use in
romantic relations of not so normal individuals, which has been seen to
be misused and standardized in the past due to the little effort to use
the element of the peculiar aspects of the condition of the characters
in new areas of human relations, especially when it comes to romantic
relations of two of them.

Also Radha Mitchell gives a better than average performance to which
Hartnetts falls short, but not by much.

I recommend this film as a good and solid film work that achieves it's
intentions to whoever has in mind the aims and limitations of such a
romantic comedy, and takes it for what it is, sells and promises.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is one of my favorite movies. Why? I simply love the theme
of this story. I know what Asperger is like, and this story came so
very close to the truth. The situations are very realistic. Also, the
responds from the characters are also very realistic.

I'm sure everyone recognizes a little of themselves in at least one of
the characters. Even though these characteristics may not be as strong,
they are still there. Everyone is a little autistic you know. Some just
have it a little more than others.

The acting is very good, and even though I'm not a really big fan of
Josh Hartnett (blame Pearl Harbor), I found myself really liking him in
this movie. Radha Mitchell is simply magnificent.

I recommend this movie to everyone!
<|_=00=_|>
We waited in anticipation for the release of Mozart and the Whale for 2
years. We kept writing the company and asking when it would be
released. We met Jerry Newport at ASA 2 years ago (my son, Josh, aged
11 has Asperger's Syndrome) and wanted so much to see the story of him
and Mary. As an aside, I wish you could have heard the conversation
between Jerry and Michael John Carley on the various Beethoven
movements...it was the most amazing impromptu music theory talk I have
ever heard.

At any rate, Mozart and the Whale was in limited release and so we
waited for the DVD to be out. Finally it is!! And we watched it last
night. We were not disappointed. It was wonderful. There was so much
truth in it. We saw the range of autism in the group that Donald
formed. Then there was the quirkiness of the various people. But it
showed the love and caring that can form among any person, no matter
what the diagnosis. We loved Izzy's laugh...that HA! We know kids with
Asperger's who can't modulate their sounds and sound way loud in their
approach to life.

I also loved the sequences about his living style. This is so much like
my son....the stacks of stuff...the collections....the freaking out
when his stuff is moved around....this is all real folks. And it is
portrayed with a sensitivity and humor that can't help but to make you
smile and/or laugh....not at Donald and Izzy, but with the cherishing
of the moments that parents feel when they experience the familiarity
of the moments.

But to me, the big question was what would Josh (my son) think of how
Asperger's was depicted. Now, remember, he met Jerry and really thinks
he is COOL. Josh said "see mom, that means that I can meet someone and
get married too, so don't worry anymore". This movie gives me hope that
a life of independence and companionship is possible for Josh.

Yes, we adore Jerry Newport. He knows a lot...he shares some of it with
us in this film. Do yourself a favor...get this DVD and let's hope that
Sundance will show the world that Mozart and the Whale is a film that
needs to be shown.
<|_=00=_|>
A simple story of two people trying to find companionship, happiness
and love in a confusing world. The fact that these two inspiring and
very real characters have Asperger's Syndrome is not really important,
but the fact like so many of us they struggle to connect with a soul
mate and maintain a relationship, is. From what Aspies tell me, the
performances of both leads, Hartnett and Mitchell, are spot on... a
real credit to both actors and it's obvious they researched their roles
thoroughly. Both entertaining and thought provoking, it's a romance
without being gushing, but one where you genuinely care for the people
involved. 

Watch this film if you have or know someone with autism or if you just
happen to have tried and failed to find love and happiness in this
weird world we live in.
<|_=00=_|>
I have just watched this movie and loved it. It is the sort of movie
that if you get involved from a technical point you will be
disappointed and miss the point, I believe this movie needs to be
watched at least twice so that you can savour every emotional moment
and enjoy this immensely satisfying story. I enjoyed the performance of
both the lead actors, and felt there was a chemistry between Josh
Hartnett and Radha Mitchell that made the story even better and think
that the support cast gave a fine performance in so far as depicting
people with handicaps. This movie has a good musical score which adds
to its attraction for me and is visually stimulating
<|_=00=_|>
I have watched this movie 6 times now and I'm still drawn into it each
time. The main characters, Donald and Isabelle are wonderful. Each is
dealing with aspergers syndrome, but I didn't find myself focusing on
that aspect of their lives. What I saw was two human beings, both of
them making difficult, out of character adjustments to better love and
understand the other. I've read some comments debating the authenticity
of the characters and how they portray AS and autistic individuals, but
the only comments that have mattered to me were those of Jerry Newport,
whose story this movie was inspired by. He gives it his stamp of
approval, so who is anyone to argue someone's personal story? I give
this movie my highest recommendation.
<|_=00=_|>
It's unusual for a film to portray something like Asperger's with any
accuracy, being so often more interested in spectacle over substance.
This film manages to portray quite a range of Asperger's and other
high-functioning autistics rather well. I think the proof of it's
extraordinary portrayals lies not with me seeing so much of how my life
as an Aspie (a person with Asperger's) but in sitting down with my
husband to watch it and having him so often say "Oh, you do that!" and
ask "Is that really how it is?" and get a yes from me.

Josh Hartnett's overall performance lacked a bit in some areas, but he
had the eye-averting and not-sure-what-to-say looks down near
perfectly. Radha Mitchell manages to nigh-flawlessly convey the sheer
frustration I feel daily. Sheila Kelley's performance, though a small
part of the picture, went far in making the support group scenes
believable, and John Carroll Lynch's lost-but-denying-it performance
made a fabulous foil for Hartnett.

As for plot: I'm a bit of a sucker for a romance anyway, so I can't
help but have enjoyed this. Seeing these two characters try so hard to
work around their autism to connect at some level was occasionally hard
to watch. Every mistake they made set me at the edge of my seat, and
when Isabelle's psychiatrist asks Donald to never contact her again, I
shouted "No!" at the screen. And when they finally let the audience
know that, after all that supreme effort, they do manage to make that
connection, the relief and joy was undeniable.

Why this movie is having a hard time getting released, I do not know.
