
Sandra Bullock and Hugh Grant hearken back to classic screwball
comedies in a very engaging if somewhat shallow romantic film that
accentuates laughter above sentiment and succeeds wonderfully - even
when it's not especially witty or gut-busting.

Bullock plays Lucy Kelson, a committed left-wing attorney with an
immaculate Ivy League background who fights the good fight against the
heartless developers of lower Manhattan and the outer boroughs.
Complications ensue when she finds herself working for one such figure,
George Wade (Grant) in exchange for his preserving a Coney Island
landmark near her childhood home. Wade's not a bad guy, but he's
frightfully dependent on Lucy for everything. When it seems possible
she might at last get clear of him, she begins to have second thoughts
about letting him go.

Two things I really, really like about this movie. One is the chemistry
of Grant and Bullock. Bullock takes to being the butt of assorted
slapstick with a gusto rare for a gorgeous screen star. She seems to
have inherited the Doris Day mantle from Julia Roberts and Meg Ryan,
though in a better way than either of those two screen stars. It's a
pity she's since shown no interest in maintaining it. Grant plays off
her very well in a role he could perform in his sleep - and sometimes
seems to do just that, albeit in a good way. He has a casual way with a
line that reminds me of Roger Moore or David Niven at their best, and
shows he is growing comfortably into a solid on-screen presence after
years of coasting on looks and charm. If IMDb.com is correct, he got
paid $12.5 million for this, which if true is way too high, but he is
probably the one guy who could make Wade so enjoyable, to the point
where you're happy at his shenanigans for keeping Lucy by his side.

The other thing is the NYC backdrop. There's some eye-popping visuals
courtesy of legendary cinematographer Laszlo Kovacs, like the bridges
lit up like Christmas trees in the background while Bullock has a drunk
moment with Grant aboard his yacht. Another scene features a helicopter
shot of Manhattan by the Hudson, with a nice nod at 9/11 that doesn't
impose itself on the viewer but is there for the noticing. (This was
the first film shot in the city after the tragedy.) You can compare
"Two Weeks Notice" with classic romantic comedies like "What's Up Doc?"
or "Bringing Up Baby." Not that it's as good, but the goal is similar
in that it strives to entertain more than play with one's heartstrings.

Alright, the story is shallow. We never really get a sense of Kelson's
duties with Wade except when it comes to being pulled out of weddings
to pick out ties. Her absentee boyfriend is barely established. The
supporting cast is not well developed, except Robert Klein and Dana
Ivey as Lucy's parents. (Klein especially is wonderful.) Alicia Witt is
spellbindingly gorgeous as Kelton's would-be replacement, and she plays
wonderfully off the main pair, but she's suddenly thrust into the role
of the heavy simply for plot convenience, and it's jarring. Too many
other secondary roles are like that, too.

The script, by director Marc Lawrence, has its share of lame
one-liners, but it keeps a steady, merry tempo that distracts from the
film's shortcomings at least somewhat while focusing on its key
strengths, Bullock and Grant. Lawrence's direction is similarly solid.
I like the little bits of business between Bullock and Grant, like when
they pick off each others' plates at Fraunces Tavern, or when she
refuses his offer of a sidewalk kebob, calling it a "flesh popsicle."
The scene that sticks out most is of her at an outdoor party, wearing a
lovely tulle gown and a clown nose. This is one film that makes a
serious point of being goofy and glamorous all at once, and it works.
If all romantic comedies were so committed to being entertaining, it
would be a lot easier for us guys to sit through them.
<|_=00=_|>

I am sick of defending romantic comedies on this site. Every time a new one
hits our screens IMDb is absolutely inundated with reviews containing the
words, boring and predictable.

Most of the time these reviews are written by people who are just annoyed
that nobody was killed or nobody fired a gun or blew up a building or
whatever. GROW UP.

This is the last time I'm going to say this but romantic comedies work to a
successful formula which have worked well for seventy odd years and that is
why they are successful, they are not going to change them and we certainly
hope they don't so everyone please stop moaning for heavens sake. Maybe your
action movies are a bit "same ol' same ol'" but do we slag them off to you?
NO. So CAN IT.

Now my little rant and rave is over onto the film in question.

Sandra Bullock is in my opinion the greatest living comedy actress alive
today. She is sexy and gifted and has the perfect talent and timing to
easily take over the mantle of stars like Irene Dunne, Jean Arthur,
Katherine Hepburn, Doris Day and more recently Meg Ryan as a true queen of
Rom-Com.

It's my opinion that in fifty years time Sandra Bullock will be regarded as
a screen great like the great actresses mentioned above. She has the ability
to adapt between comedic and dramatic roles with perfect ease making us cry
or laugh with equal vigour. I suppose she is almost like a female version of
Cary Grant in that respect. 

In Two Weeks Notice she is given so much chance to make us laugh and she
fails to miss one of them. I especially like the part when she says she can
also speak German and Japanese and then turns down an offer using both,
followed by one of her rye giggles....hilarious and clever.

Hugh Grant, never really strays too far away from Hugh Grant but again as in
the case of Ben Stiller and Adam Sandler this persona is what has made him a
star and that is what he successfully does. It seems however that in this
film he does it better than in any other film before.

It's a love story between a radical left wing lawyer (Bullock) and a
capitalist, heartless tycoon (Grant).

He's been using her for her intellect and she has been using him and his
money for her own charitable organizations, but when she decides to quit,
the last two weeks sees their relationship change into something neither of
them seem to want to part with.

The script is funny and fast paced and both are handed good comedy material
to sink their teeth into. Hugh Grant is surrounded by beautiful women
throughout the film giving him the opportunity to work his English charm
school act, and with another sexy secretary in the picture, Bullock is given
her opportunity to spar in her own inimitable way. The schoolyard type fight
over the stapler is a great example and gut-wrenchingly
funny.

An enjoyable film and one deserving pride of place on any DVD shelf.
Incidentally check out the feature commentary between Bullock, Grant and
Marc Lawrence. It's very funny and shows that the magic between them poured
right off the film and leaked into real life.

As for one of the previous reviewers who referred to Sandra Bullock as FAT,
I lay my gauntlet at your feet sir and it's pistols at ten. You may like her
acting or loathe her, but fat she ain't.
<|_=00=_|>

"Two Weeks Notice" tells of the romantic misadventures of a playboy tycoon
(Grant) and a "greenie" attorney (Bullock) who can't seem to get along until
they finally realize what they can't get along  without is each other. On
the downside, the film is the usual romcom fare with nothing in particular
to distinguish it from a panoply of peers. On the up side, the flick is
chock full of Lawrence's humor which made "Miss Congeniality" and "Forces of
Nature" so enjoyable. Entertaining stuff worth a look for Bullock or Grant
fans and romcom junkies. (B-)
<|_=00=_|>

I read with amusement the comments of others. I bought this movie on DVD
and
have got it in my normal rotation (along with others I like). I thought
that
the pairing of Hugh Grant and Sandra Bullock worked very well. I did not
enjoy this movie for it's social significance, that's not what I watch
movies for. If you enjoy adult humor and can appreciate the nuances then
you
will find this quite enjoyable. It is Sandra Bullock and Hugh Grant at
their
best. Some of my favorite scenes include the one where Sandra Bullock has
eaten too much and has to go to the bathroom while they are stuck on a
bridge in New York City. Adding the music "Taking Care Of Business" was
really a stroke of genius. The "Bobcat Pretzel" scene was equally funny.
The
interjection of the appropriate music adds much to the
results.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw 'Two Weeks Notice' some years ago and didn't like it much. It
seemed like a passable romantic comedy. I mean, the acting was overall
good, the story a little old... it just felt like it lacked something.
However, after having revisited it today, I actually liked it a lot
more than before. Once one is passed the first half hour or so, I think
he/she can really enjoy the film.

What makes the first half hour or so annoying is it's dragging pace and
Hugh Grant. His character just comes across as extremely needy and
perhaps it's not Grant's fault but the actor doesn't add anything new
to his role. This is the kind of role that made him a star but he seems
to have forgotten that there are other genres outside romantic comedy.
Perhaps he wants to stick to a safer formula but I wonder how long
people will continue watching him in the same kind of films playing
similar roles. Anyway, after this initial half hour, he does decent in
the acting department as he shows George's growth. We see his He shares
a good chemistry with Sandra Bullock.

'Two Weeks Notice' belongs to Sandra Bullock and I think it is her
acting and her character that make this film more likable. The woman is
naturally beautiful and her comic timing is impeccable and it is no
surprise that she's known as one of the finest comedy actresses (and
she's great in other roles too). she has some of the best lines and she
delivers them with complete ease.

I also loved the dialogues. There are some hilarious one-liners such as
the barking chilli dog and the bobcat pretzel. After the dragging
initial reel, the story moves at a good enough pace and gets funnier.
Lawrence's screenplay and direction are good as the end result looks
polished but some editing could have helped to tighten it up.

Overall, I think this funny film deserves a second chance as I liked it
a lot more during the second viewing. I'm glad that I chose to watch it
again.
<|_=00=_|>

Two Weeks Notice is a charming romantic comedy.  Hugh Grant and Sandra

Bullock are perfect for each other.  It's about this lawyer who fights for
what she 
believes in.  Then she's hired by the very people she is fighting against. 
This is 
one of the funniest movies I have ever seen.  The writing is wonderful...
Using 
lines like "You are the most selfish person on the planet!!!"  "Now that's
just silly, 
have you met everyone on the planet?"  Also "Do you know what I like even

better than chess?"  "Pokemon?"  Those are lines that have such unexpected

answers you can't help but laugh!  Best romantic comedy I've seen in a long

time!!
<|_=00=_|>
If I was interested in Heather Burns other than eye candy, I would have
probably focused on the Miss Congeniality movies. But, in honor of her
birthday, I pick a Hugh Grant film just because I like him.

If you are looking for a cute romantic movie, you can never go wrong
with Hugh Grant, who is teamed in this one with Sandra Bullock as an
environmental lawyer who becomes Grant's legal eagle and mommy. Yes,
she gets more than she bargains for and finally gives notice - hence,
the title. In typical Grant style, he spends the rest of the movie
trying to get her back. Sure, his movies follow the same formula, but
they are just fun to watch.

Beside that, you get a great Joni Mitchell song (Big Yellow Taxi) as
part of an outstanding soundtrack - another feature of Grant's films.
<|_=00=_|>
Two Weeks Notice (2002)

Hugh Grant is funny. Sandra Bullock is funny. "Two Weeks Notice" takes
full advantage of both, and for a warm, if someone canned, romantic
comedy, it's enjoyable.

The premise is two-fold. First is the idea that Bullock makes herself
indispensable as an assistant to an unbelievably demanding boss (an
precursor of the more recent "The Devil Wears Prada" though in this
case Grant is also a bit incompetent). Then she has to give notice she
is quitting. This makes Grant desperate, which is always fun to watch.

The other premise is the feel-good part where a community center with
history needs to be saved, somehow (an echo, perhaps, of "You've Got
Mail"). Bullock is a do-gooder and a smart one, and she finds working
with Grant has threatened her idealism. In fact, this is the deeper
part of the movie, if still treated with typical easy going slightness.
I mean, this is no serious commentary for sure, any more than "My Man
Godfrey" will really change our views about unemployment in the
depression. But it helps to have a cause to root for.

Most of all I came to love Bullock for her natural on-screen
personality. She's so likable in her own offbeat way you come to
support her view of the world automatically. And in this case that's a
good thing, even if you also understand how Grant's character is both a
jerk and a lovable misguided rich man. Grant of course is his own kind
of natural, and the two are rather good on screen. They might not have
chemistry, the way you'd want the screen to steam up, but they have
energy or synergy together, more like the other Grant (Cary) and some
of his counterparts did in the old days.

I'm tilting this review toward a feeling that this is a screwball
comedy as in the the late 30s and early 40s, and in a way it is, though
not nutty enough perhaps to really qualify. It does have the standard
romantic comedy problem of two leads who would be great together if
only a million things weren't standing in the way.

This movie gets weak reviews overall, but I liked it, and don't
hesitate to recommend it as a thin but enjoyable comedy.
<|_=00=_|>

TWO WEEKS NOTICE (2002) *** Sandra Bullock, Hugh Grant, Alicia Witt, Dana
Ivey, Robert Klein, Dorian Missick, Heather Burns, Jason Antoon.  Charming
screwball romantic comedy with Bullock as an A-type/neo-hippie cum
grass-roots lawyer who finds herself employed by wealthy conglomerate merger
type businessman Grant and after attempting to get him to change his ways
gives her titular ultimatum only to discover – you got it – they are really
meant for one another.  The film may be formulaic but its stars have that
special, instant and utterly natural chemistry together helped with a
crackling zingerfest screenplay by its director Marc Lawrence who manages to
make the creaky device work even if its last act is by rote and Witt as
Bullock's replacement (in more ways than one) is a pallid shadow of `All
About Eve' . 
<|_=00=_|>

Writer and first time Director, Marc Lawrence's "Two Weeks Notice" is a
charming, smart, and genuinely funny romantic comedy with terrific
performances by Sandra Bullock and Hugh Grant.  This a great movie.
Inherent in romantic comedies is a degree of predictibility.  "Two Weeks
Notice" follows formula, but Lawrence orchestrates enough curves,
character
insight, and human resonance to make it more than just formula. He also
has
the great chemistry of Bullock and Grant-- this is their medium.

Sandra Bullock plays Lucy Kelson, a Harvard educated activist lawyer, who
is
hired by George Wade (Hugh Grant)a handsome, charming, and seemingly
shallow
multi-millionaire developer.  George hires Lucy as chief legal counsel for
Wade Corp., for $250 K, because his brother Howard (David Haig), the true
captain of Wade Corp., requested George hire an attorney who did not
attend
Bimbo U.  Lucy swallows her idealism and... poverty, because George also
promises to protect her parents' community center.  Lucy is smart and "not
intentionally funny", and soon becomes George's right and left arm-- he
can't to anything without her consult.  This only amplifies that Lucy has
no
life or rather any relationships of merit... other than with George.  Lucy
gives George her Two Weeks Notice.  Credit Lawrence and company, when
George
finally accepts Lucy's resignation, it is crystal regarding the unspoken
relationship of the two.  Wink.  Wink.  "Two Weeks" never insults our
intelligence, however, it makes us await for an hour and a half.

Along with wit and humor Lawrence, Bullock, and Grant provide a a very
human
touch that resonates throughout the movie.  In a very well done scene on
the
rooftop of Lucy's parent's New York apartment, Lucy shares with George
that
she never lived upto her mother's expectations.  George says that is
different from people "having no expectations".  This is where movie
transforms beyond the opposites attract story.  It makes sense of Lucy's
need to be perfect, and the man that George could be that he is well aware
of.  In it's own light hearted way, "Two Weeks" looks at where you sell
out,
where do you become a whore (but in a nice way), and where do you take a
stand.  And taking a stand is never easy... even in a romantic comedy,
though it sometimes takes longer.

Sandra Bullock and Hugh Grant are magic together.  They are both smart and
their characters' are also.  Grant as George is charming, witty, and
playing
someone who has honor and substance that are dimissed by all except Lucy
(Bullock).  Grant is masterful at hinting at a depth of character.  Sandra
Bullock is beautiful, smart, and funny as Lucy.  She also stretches
herself
when Lucy drunkenly braggs about her sexual prowess-- "bobcat... pretsel
thing."  Bullock lends compassion and a whacky sensibilty to Lucy who
scares
men off by being too smart and too perfect, but still not good enough for
her mother.  Her Lucy only gets a clue when she hires her replacement (a
good Alicia Witt)-- she is in love with George.  The exchanges between
Grant
and Bullock are so natural... like conversation, spoken and unspoken.

At one point in the movie, Lucy has a breakfast conversation with her Dad
(a
goofy and wise Robert Klein).  She asks him "What if people don't change?"
The point is they will or they don't.  Kind of like loving someone is
accepting them for who they are and for who they are not.  Be open to
surprises.  Marc Lawrence's "Two Weeks Notice" is an excellent surprise.
He
along with Bullock and Grant have made a classic romantic comedy and more.


