

That a film sequel will invariably fail to meet the standards of its
predecessor is nearly axiomatic. For every brilliant sequel like
'Aliens' or 'Godfather: Part II', there are dozens of painfully lame
successors. This is hardly a surprise, yet it is our own unerring
tendency to flock, lemming-like, to sequels that insures their
continued existence. Sequels make money, and that's a bad thing. 

Take 'Legally Blonde 2'. Please. 

By way of defense, let me point out that it isn't all that easy to find
a movie that will entertain two adults, a 15 year old boy, and a 12
year old girl. Our hopes weren't high when we rented LB2 a couple of
weekends ago; however, we all agreed that we had enjoyed the original
movie, or at least hadn't actively hated it. That perky little Reese
Witherspoon – how can you not kinda like her, huh? 

After seeing LB2, I will unreservedly credit it with one thing: it
provided a rallying point for my often-scattered family. We were
steadfast, united in our complete and utter loathing for this execrable
movie. Beyond that questionable achievement, however, I'm not sure
there's anything positive that can be said about this film. 

As virtually every other reviewer on the planet has noted, the original
'Blonde' had some amusing moments, most of which were supplied by Ms.
Witherspoon, who managed to inject the character of Elle Woods with a
believable combination of ditziness and sweet charm. Also bolstering
the original film was co-star Jennifer Coolidge, who played her
dim-bulb shtick to perfection as Elle's beautician friend Paulette. Of
course it was a by-the-numbers plot line as predictable as Oregon rain,
but Witherspoon, et al played it lightly and for laughs and it worked. 

The sequel, however, is an appalling mélange of preachiness, offensive
stereotypes, and patently ludicrous plot devices. 'Legally Blonde' made
points by taking a helium-weight, bubbleheaded rich girl and making her
into a sympathetic character. In LB2, Elle is an annoying dipshit whose
breathless naivete and hyperactive adventures are simply painful to
endure.

There's no real point in enumerating all the faults of this movie. To
do so would be to grant it more thought than evidently went into its
creation. But I can't simply step away from one aspect of the film that
I found both irritating and troubling. Viewers of the first film will
no doubt remember Elle's Chihuahua, Bruiser. For reasons that are
continually validated, I tend to hate cutesy cinematic animal
sidekicks, and Bruiser was emphatically no exception. In LB2, however,
Bruiser's sexuality becomes a repeated theme and convenient plot
device. More specifically, we (and Elle) discover that Bruiser is…(wait
for it)… gay. 

Hilarity ensues, ad nauseum. 

It's a damning testimony that 1) the writers of this movie were so
desperate for script fodder that they came up with this stunningly lame
idea in the first place;

2) that they play it so shamelessly for laughs; and 3) that certain
plot twists depend on this fact. It's a stupid, stupid idea in a
stupid, stupid movie. 

Should I waste more of my time or yours decrying the utter waste of
Jennifer Coolidge in this movie? What about Sally Field's humiliating
role as Congresswoman Victoria Rudd? Bob Newhart's excruciating turn as
the know-it-all hotel doorman cum political mentor. Finally, on a
larger scale, should we discuss the massive suspension of disbelief
that's required to even slightly believe a moment of this wretched
film? 

Nah.

<|_=00=_|>

The first "Legally Blonde", with its "ditzy girl with a heart of gold does
well" storyline was basically a rip-off of "Clueless", but it wasn't bad. 
It had a funny central idea, more than a few solid laughs, and a really
entertaining lead character.  This sloppy, lamely plotted, cash-in sequel
has none of those things.

Reese Witherspoon, rapidly losing any edginess she used to have, is back as
Elle Woods, the pink-loving, fashion conscious lawyer.  She's about to get
married to her boyfriend from the last movie (played by Luke Wilson) and in
trying to invite her dog's parents to the wedding (that's right, her DOG'S
PARENTS - remember what I said about the movie being "lamely plotted"?), she
finds out that the dog's mother is being held prisoner by a cosmetics
company that is pro-animal testing.

So...Elle decides to go to Washington to take on animal testing.  And I wish
I was in a different theater.

What we have here is a comedy with no good jokes.  Not a single one.  This
movie's idea of "comedy" is for Elle to find out her chihuahua is gay.  And
then in the very next scene, the chihuahua is wearing a studded leather
vest.  Sigh.

Also, it's dumb.  That's not necessarily a bad thing, but there's a big
difference between movies that go about being dumb in a very smart, witty
way (see "Charlie's Angels: Full Throttle") and a movie like "Legally Blonde
2", which is just plain dopey.  The story is idiotic, characters change
their minds and motivations for no reason other than to fit into where the
plot is going, and everything wraps up in a way that is nauseatingly
phony.

I've pretty much given up on Reese Witherspoon.  Where is the cool, edgy
actress that starred in movies like "Election", "Freeway" and "American
Psycho"?  Abducted by Hollywood to make useless, vanilla movies like this,
apparently.  

I, for one, would love to see her character from "Freeway" scare the living
s*** out of Elle Woods.


<|_=00=_|>
I had the misfortune of seeing this movie while on a wonderful trip to
Greece. As the 'plot' rolled out, I sank lower and lower in my seat. I
was actually embarrassed to be North American.

Consider: Elle goes on a mission to find her *dog's* parents so they
can attend her wedding. No, not her dog's wedding. *Her* wedding. Now,
think about that. I guess this is sort of a spoiler, except it's
revealed in the first ten minutes, because it's the whole premise. Yes,
that's the peak. It goes downhill from there.

I felt particularly annoyed with Reece Witherspoon. Now, she strikes me
as a fairly intelligent young woman. I love most of her stuff. I
enjoyed Legally Blonde I. I had high hopes. How did this happen?! Was
it just about the money? Was it a bet? A dare? Dumb dumb dumb.

To be honest, I would *rather* have been attending a dog's wedding.
<|_=00=_|>
Legally Blonde 2: Red, White and Blonde is a very disappointing sequel
as it fails to deliver the laughs. Elle Woods is now a rising young
lawyer at a great firm, balancing a demanding a career with
preparations for her wedding to the man of her dreams. But when she
finds out that her beloved dog Bruiser's family members are being used
as cosmetic test subjects by one of her firm's own clients, she stands
up for their rights--and is promptly fired. Ms. Woods decides to go to
Washington to take matters into her own hands. The plot actually had
some potential, unfortunately the execution was very poor. The original
wasn't an Oscar quality film, it was just a fun film to watch. The
sequel isn't as fun nor is it fun in general. It was pretty much the
same as the first movie and so it was a pretty pointless sequel. Reese
Witherspoon returns and she does a good job but she's working with a
weak script. The supporting cast isn't very good as none add much to
the film. Sally Field is a very good actress but her talents are
wasted. Luke Wilson's character isn't very interesting and Jennifer
Coolidge tries to hard most of the time. Regina King is a new addition
to the cast and she does an okay job, nothing memorable though. Missing
from this sequel is Selma Blair, this doesn't matter though as her
character wasn't really needed. Charles Herman-Wurmfeld replaces Robert
Luketic as the director and does a very bad job. The running time is a
brief 95 minutes though it feels a lot longer then that. The film felt
a lot longer since the movie just wasn't funny. There were a few funny
moments though most of the jokes this film delivered were, at best,
small chuckles. Do a few funny moments redeem this film? No, this
sequel is one of the worst sequels of 2003 and one of the worst
comedies of 2003. In the end, this sequel may seem funny but I assure
you it isn't. Rating 4.3/10, rent the original instead.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is so bad.. The story is so strange, there's no red line
through the story. The scenes aren't credible. I'm not frequently down
thumbing but when I watched this movie I was ashamed that I rent it at
the DVD store. You don't believe Elle that she wants to change the law.
Hausers change in her mind set is also very sudden and not credible at
all. And, finally, that her dog is gay is the worst point in the movie.
OK, the first part of this movie wasn't that bright either, it wasn't a
smart movie but at least the story was a little credible but this one..
I cannot believe that Reese Witherspoon stands behind this movie, she
even helped out as Regisseur..
<|_=00=_|>
This movie simply fails to achieve a level of even average at any
position like plot, script, directing, acting or relevant ideas. As we
observe the plain and unrealistic "Blonde crusade" to Washington to
achieve another stupid and purely political goal - protecting rights of
animals. Well, in some time, corrupted politicans are defeated, and
blondes reign supreme, although it is hard to believe they are able to
actually comprehend what they were fighting for. Acting is really below
average, Reese is just plain annoying, and though she's quite talented
actress, the script is so bad that her talent is in vain. So, to sum up
- a very bad movie. 1/10.
<|_=00=_|>

Okay, Seriously,
if there is anything you ever do for yourself ever during your
existence here on earth, 
please I beg, I warn and plead with you...
DO NOT SEE THIS MOVIE EVER!!!

I really did like the first and I rented this movie with some
apprehension (I had heard the bad reviews, and wanted to see it
for myself)

Now I wish I could turn back the hands of time and never have
rented this terrible movie.

I would rather staple my eyelids shut than to ever have to sit thru
this movie again!!!

The acting is horrendous, The jokes pathetic, and Reese 
Witherspoon's character is even more pathetic (if possible).
You will suffer beyond belief if you choose to watch this film, if you
like pain, then find another means  of torture - this film only leaves
you unsatisfied and red, black and blue!!!
<|_=00=_|>
As a fan of Legally Blonde 2: Red, White and Blonde's predecessor, I
avoided watching this sequel until today, and for good reason it seems.
The rumours (and reviews) are true. This is an awful sequel to what was
an otherwise clever and cute movie that recognised it's flaws but made
light of them. This movie fails to do that, and instead ends up
becoming what the first film tried to avoid: a shallow story following
the unbelievable events of a caricature of a character. People who have
not watched Legally Blonde 1 will not be aware of this contrast and so
might view this movie differently, which seems to explain why the
majority of good reviews here come from these exact same people. 

LB2 follows Elle Woods (Reese Withersproon), a Harvard Law graduate who
is fired from her position in a prestigious Law Firm for trying to
champion animal rights, after discovering that her dog Bruiser's mother
is being used as a test subject in a cosmetics company. In order to
have her dog's mum attend her wedding to Emmett (Luke Wilson), she
heads to Washington D.C and joins the team of Congresswoman Victoria
Rudd (Sally Field) to learn the ins and outs of Washington politics and
to pass her 'Bruisers Bill' through congress that would see an end to
the legal status of animal testing. 

This movie just utterly fails to capture the audience's hearts with
it's preachy message, lacklustre humour and unrelatable characters who
we once used to love. Gone is the Elle Woods who learned to overcome
prejudice and grew into a strong-willed, self-assured, smart woman.
Instead, Elle is a vapid, loudmouthed airhead who still lets people's
impressions of her get her down. I thought that she would be a seasoned
pro when it came to this now, but apparently she only learned how to
overcome bad remarks within the University framework and nowhere beyond
that. The character of Elle is a shadow of her former glory and loses
that 'heart' that she had in the first film. Now all she cares about is
getting a dog to attend her wedding? And this is important, how? When
she first trawls into the investigators office with a proposition to
find her, I was honestly left scratching my head wondering, "why?". But
no. The whole film centres on her apparently gay dog Bruiser and his
mum. While the idea of enrolling at university to reclaim a lost love
seems unbelievable in itself, the way they executed her motives in the
first film made it seem so. This time round it's just too far. Some
characters from the first movie make an appearance; Emmett, who didn't
even need to be in this film as he is just useless here, and her
beautician friend who took a downgrade from ditsy to nearly mentally
defunct for whatever reason. All of them lose their appeal and whatever
relatability they had.

I could have suffered through this movie if it even tried to be clever
and funny but instead all we get is shallow cheap jokes and dog humour.
Oh, and cheer leading in front of congress. I'm serious. I felt
insulted by watching this and almost guilty that I was a fan of LB1.
Was this really the character I loved and thought was endearing from
the first installment? Oh my, what a fool I was. The script is severely
lacking in originality and cleverness, the overall message is
unnecessarily preachy and vapid, and the characters are lame. A lot of
wasted opportunities with a good cast including Sally Fields and Bob
Newhart.

I wish I had never watched this sequel because it has now rubbed the
shine off the original for me. This is just a sad, sad attempt to milk
the cash cow and in doing so the creators of this film have milked
everything that made the first film good and turned it sour and
unpalatable. I'd give this a zero out of 10 if I could.
<|_=00=_|>
The whole movie had no point; with Elle Woods looking for her dogs mom?
its kinda pathetic really...and the whole graduation thing from the
first movie seemed REALLY good and all and the second movie she gets
fired because she's obsessed with her pooch (i like dogs, nothing bad
on em). anyway the whole thing was pointless because there was no real
story in the movie and it totally killed the first movie after watching
the second. you can easily tell that they made the second one out of
thin air. if there IS a message in the movie (standing up for oneself
and using one's voice) they needed to make it clearer.

another thing was that it was all centered upon Bruiser; the dog. they
should have made the subtitle after Legally Blonde: (yadda yadda)
different.
<|_=00=_|>

(Warning!!! Possible spoiler material in this review, although I don't
think
I'm really spoiling anything but FYI)
This movie made me want to kill myself.  I thought the emphasis on the
dog
was just too much and got old very quickly. The charecterization of some
of
the people was almost offensive (almost because I don't feel that it was
done to put down any one but some of the jokes regarding sexualy
orentation
futher spread derogitory language/concepts about homosexuals).

I will not see any sequel of this film except for free.


