
If you completely ignore anything and everything that has to do with
the Amityville stories, then this is a pretty decent horror flick. Ryan
Reynolds turns in a very effective performance, reminiscent of Jack
Nicholson in "The Shining." By the end of the flick, i was scared of
the dude. The rest of the cast was solid, as well. Lots of scares
throughout the film, but a little too much of the "MTV style" editing,
especially in the last fifteen minutes or so. But all in all, a decent
effort, just like i said.

HOWEVER.

If you're going into this expecting any resemblance WHATSOEVER to the
book, the original film, or any of the stories told over the years,
you're going to be severely disappointed. The filmmakers have pretty
much left out the events that transpired in the novel and the previous
film, and instead they take an extreme amount of liberty with the story
and turn it into a series of stylized Hollywood scare tactics. Don't
get me wrong, this is still effective, but if you're going to release a
movie and promote it as "Based on the True Story" then you might wanna
make sure that the movie at least RESEMBLES the original story.

In fact, George Lutz is currently in litigation with MGM films over the
content of the movie, claiming that it shows his family in a
potentially damaging light. When you see the flick, you'll understand
why he's upset. I can't fault the guy.

If they had left the Amityville name off of this one and just released
it as some generic haunted house movie, then i wouldn't have so many
issues with it. But to even associate it with anything
Amityville-related just seems wrong to me, because they have completely
screwed it up. I would still recommend the film, and just caution
potential viewers to forget everything you've ever seen or heard about
Amityville. Otherwise you'll walk out of that theater just as annoyed
as i was.
<|_=00=_|>
A remake of the film by the same name from 1979, which was based on Jay
Anson's book about a supposedly "true" haunting, Amityville Horror
begins in familiar territory by showing us Ronald DeFeo, Jr. (Brendan
Donaldson) murdering his family. A year later, newlyweds George (Ryan
Reynolds) and Kathy Lutz (Melissa George), with three kids from her
previous marriage in tow, buy the vacant house at a steal, although
they hesitate a bit once they learn why it's so cheap. Strange
occurrences begin not long after they settle in. George becomes
increasingly impatient and hostile, daughter Chelsea (Chloe Moretz)
begins seeing the dead DeFeo girl, and so on. The film recounts their
very brief but tumultuous stay at the home the Lutz's believed would be
their dream home, but which turned into a nightmare.

After seeing the remake of The Texas Chainsaw Massacre (2003), which
had the same production team, principal scriptwriter and visual effects
team, and which I loved--I gave it a 10--I was completely psyched for
the Amityville Horror remake. After all, unlike my view of the original
Texas Chainsaw Massacre (1974), which I also gave a 10, I think the
1979 Amityville has more than its share of problems. I like the
original in spite of that, but producer Michael Bay and crew had plenty
of opportunity for improvement. Unfortunately, although some aspects of
this remake are better in my view, it suffers from a host of new
problems. Like the first, the assets are good enough to transcend the
flaws so that it squeaks by with a very low "B", or an 8.

In my view, there are two primary problems, with at least one a bit
ineffable. The more effable problem is that relative newcomer director
Andrew Douglas (his previous effort was 2003's relatively little-known
documentary Searching for the Wrong-Eyed Jesus) instructs
cinematographer Peter Lyons Collister to shoot the film using way too
much close framing. I repeatedly felt the urge to take a couple steps
back so I could better discern the action, the settings, the staging of
scenes, and so on.

The second problem lies more in the realm of writing and editing--the
film just doesn't seem to flow right. The transition from scene to
scene often feels almost arbitrary. Even though Reynolds does a great
job in his transformation as George Lutz (and the acting is superb all
around), there was a sense of buildup in the original that this remake
is missing. Further indicative of the transition problems, although
seemingly minor, is the fact that the date, or the day of the Lutz'
stay at the home, is sometimes given as a title and sometimes not. It
seems like they just forgot to add the day titles for half of the
scenes. Overall the final cut gives an impression of being hastily put
together.

And that's a shame, because there is a lot of potential here. The house
itself is impressive, as it needs to be, and the overall style of the
film is nicely atmospheric. I was also impressed with the production
design by Jennifer Williams, which among other assets tends to have the
period setting spot-on. For example, I was a huge Kiss, Alice Cooper,
etc. fan during this era (and I'm still a fan). Williams has a number
of Kiss and Cooper images in the film. She very carefully ensures that
none are anachronistic. 

Even though scriptwriter Scott Kosar disappointingly expressed a lack
of enthusiasm for Anson's book and the original film, he reintroduces a
number of elements from the book that work well, but which were left
out of the original film. He also introduces new scenarios that in some
cases are among the best material of the film--such as a breathtaking
sequence on the roof of the home, and the extension of the mythology
behind the "haunting". He also greatly improves on sequences such as
the babysitter. But on the other hand, he inexplicably changes core
elements of the story, like the kind of being that Jody is.

Anyone frustrated with the typical horror style of the later 1990s and
early 2000s may find this remake troublesome. As one might expect with
Michael Bay producing, Douglas is encouraged to use "MTV-styled"
cinematography and editing. There are a number of extended techniques
that have become somewhat clichéd in recent years. Douglas has
characters do that fast headshaking movement ala Jacob's Ladder (1990).
There are sections shot in a cinema vérité style. There are instances
of quickly changing film stocks and processing methods, and so on. Even
though I usually love all of that stuff, and I'm actually a fan of
Bay's work, I have to agree that it's not exactly the most natural fit
in this case. But for me, it's not something I would subtract points
for either.

Maybe the most surprising fact is that this version of Amityville
Horror is so close, structurally, to the original. There is nothing
here that is a big surprise, and anyone who has seen the 1979 film a
number of times will know exactly what's coming next, or close enough
to it. Whether this is positive or not depends on your opinion of the
original film, and just how highly you cherish originality for its own
sake. Big Amityville fans and big haunted house film fans will probably
enjoy the film enough. Everyone else should approach with more caution.
<|_=00=_|>
My advice: Don't see the 1979 version first, don't think about it too
hard, pretend it's not based on the "true story", and just enjoy this
great horror film. It may not be a timeless classic, but its fun. The
thing I liked best about this one is that everything makes sense.
There's no cliffhangers or overly complicated mystery that never gets
explained. It's just 89 minutes of very frightening ghosts popping up
and some surprisingly appropriate acting. In fact, I would say this
movie has one of the most petrifying ghost scenes ever.(The boy in the
bathroom!)The costumes/makeup were really good too. Also, I loved Ryan
Reynolds in a scary movie. I thought his quirky style was a perfect
complement to the cast. He makes a smooth transition from Van Wilder to
Blade 3 to Amityville because he seems to just be himself.
<|_=00=_|>
In terms of cinematic legacy, the original "The Amityville Horror"
managed to foreshadow both "The Shining" and "Poltergeist" while
swiping a few nods from "The Exorcist." But time has not been kind to
the hit 1979 horror film, once considered spooky but now considered at
best a camp classic.

The remake opens in the late 1970s, with George Lutz (Ryan Reynolds)
and his new wife Kathy (Melissa George) getting what appears to be the
deal of a lifetime. A colonial era Long Island home that is within
their price range has just come up for sale, and the two decide the
place would be perfect to raise their children, all from Kathy's
previous marriage.

Little do they know that the house comes with loads of supernatural
baggage. The previous owner had killed his entire family within 28 days
of moving in, claiming there was a demonic presence in the home that
drove him to do so. It's not long before strange things start to happen
with the new family as well.

Chelsea (Chloë Grace Moretz) starts seeing the ghost of the previous
little girl who occupied the house, Billy (Jesse James) and Michael
(Jimmy Bennett) see supernatural activity while also being blamed for
the trouble it causes, and George begins to go mad, taking increasingly
drastic steps to maintain order and discipline the children. It's not
long before Kathy begins to suspect that all is not right in their
quaint little home.

"The Amityville Horror" is such a mediocre film, you can't help but
wonder what was once considered so shocking about the original story.
In truth, with all the negative reviews the original movie received,
it's obvious that that film (and its numerous sequels) is merely famous
for being famous. The thing that most people seem to remember is the
front of the house itself, which actually is scary looking. It's just a
shame there's never been a horror movie filmed in the house to do its
spooky appearance justice.

The other thing to note is that the remake still claims to be based on
a true story, which is partially true. The real life Lutz's account was
eventually proved to be a hoax to cover up the fact that the family
couldn't pay their mortgage, but not before the family made millions on
everything from talk show appearances to the movie rights.

The movie never really lets you into the horror that is occurring, and
director Andrew Douglas does a very workman-like job directing the
story, never really doing anything to interest us in the characters or
situation. Special effects run amok, like walls that ooze blood and
jack-in-the-box scares like decomposing ghosts jumping out at you, but
it's all for naught. The movie can only scream "boo!" at you so many
times before you start booing back.

Acting-wise, the movie is decent but not terribly inspired. Just like
Jack Nicholson in "The Shining," Reynolds seems to lose his sanity just
a tad too early for the rest of the story to be believable. As Kathy,
George manages to be the emotional anchor holding the film together and
does a good job, however her character puts up with far too much stress
before she finally acts. The child actors all do okay, but they merely
exist to be put in danger.

So, what was the purpose of remaking a horror movie that hasn't aged
very well over the last quarter of a century? The main reason I can
think of is the house itself, which still manages to scare people.
Other than that, there's a big market for remaking classic horror films
right now, though hardly any of been able to justify their own
existence, including last year's "The Texas Chain Saw Massacre," also
produced and written by the same team behind this film. "The Amityville
Horror" is likely to join that undistinguished canon, ultimately being
a horror movie about a group of people too dumb to leave a house just
because the script requires them to stay. It's movies like this that
make you want to root for the ghosts.

5 out of 10 stars. It's hard to feel sympathetic for characters in a
movie who have to stay in a stupid situation just because the script
says so.
<|_=00=_|>
When it comes to making a film in Hollywood these days it would appear
that they are running out of original material. Any film that is over
10 years old has the chance of being remade but the real question is
which will be better. This is a film that breaks the normal mold of
being awful compared to its predecessor. I actually really enjoyed this
remake and found myself more scared in this one than the original. Was
this film Better? No. But it holds its own on its own merits. Having
read the book, this one is a little more true to the story and for that
I applaud the film makers. The film was very good and I rate it in my
Horror Hall of Fame.

In this particular version of the film it could be said that it was
more accurate to the original book. And for those who consider this to
be a hoax there has never been any proof either way. It is quite
interesting to hear people who think they are authorities on the
matter. Most people probably have not even read the book. There have
been more than one book written about what happened in the house and
the house the stood on the same location prior to the incident with the
Lutz family. This film represents more than just the book the
Amityville Horror. It takes its cues from the different novels that
have been written about the event and the location. 

This movie is very scary, and has lots of good jumps in it. The
director of the film was obviously very interested in not making a film
that came across as a remake but one that could stand on its own merits
and not those of its previous incarnation. When I go to a film I judge
it by several different criteria since I used to be a movie critic for
a reputable newspaper. These criteria are the following. 1. How did the
movie effect the audience in general? 2. Storyline cohesion. 3. Special
Effects (ie. did they detract from the movie, overpower the movie, or
just assist in the telling of the movie) 4. Can it stand on its own if
its a Prequel, Sequel or Remake. 5. When I left the movie did I feel
like I had been part of it (ie Suspension of Disbelief)

When I look at the Amityville Horror it scored highly in all of these
categories, especially the last which in my opinion is the most
important of the 5. When you walk out from a film and you were ready to
leave because the movie was good enough to make you feel as if you were
part of it, it was just a good movie. Most people have preconceived
ideas about what a movie should be like when they go into it. I on the
other hand go in as blank slate as possible so I can take the movie for
its own worth and nothing else. It is a suggestion that I would give to
all movie goers, don't go in prejudging a film because of the movies
prequels, or predecessors. This movie is a prime example of trying to
compare it to the original. The two movies were very different takes on
the story and should be viewed as such.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay, let me start out by saying that I only started watching scary
movies with "Signs." I loved it, and it really scared me. Since I saw
it, I've been watching lots of horror movies, and so far, haven't found
one that scared me as badly as "Signs." I saw the movies that people
said were the scariest ever, like The Excorsist, Saw, and Scream, but I
really found none of them scary. Finally, I see Amittyville Horror, and
let me say: I loved it. It came near scaring me as much as signs! There
weren't many kills, which I hated about typical slasher, and generally,
it was the mood and atmosphere that scared. I will admit, though, I
never saw the original, but really, I loved this movie. I would highly
recommend it to anyone that likes horror movies!
<|_=00=_|>
After seeing this movie I had to admit it was the absolute worst movie
I have ever seen (Battlefield Earth included). When this train wreck of
a movie was finished I had to wonder...did the script writer and/or
director even read the book or see the original movie???? Refresh my
memory..at what point in the book does George Lutz become an axe
wielding psychopath??? Where does it mention some ignorant Indian
killing preacher that lived in the house and had a torture chamber in
the basement? When in the hell did they get this stuff. I seriously
think dimension films owes me a refund for the time spent at this
movie. I went to their website, but there is no way to contact them, no
surprise there. If they keep putting out garbage like this I wouldn't
want anyone being able to contact me either. I really don't remember
any part in the book or original movie where Mrs. Lutz turns into some
Bruce Willis one-liner spouting action hero. "No one dies today!"
before wacking George with a shotgun or whatever the hell she picked
up. If I were the Lutz's I would be ticked to be portrayed in this way.
After making this movie, poor Ryan Reynolds actually has to keep Blade
Trinity and Van Wilder on his resume as his best work to-date. Sorry
Ryan, hope things get better for you. Please avoid this movie if you
can, and if you did already see it, let me know if you know how to get
a hold of the studio so I can demand a refund.
<|_=00=_|>
This is easily the worst remake I've ever seen, apart from The
Haunting. The original belonged to the 70's school of effective,
atmospheric horror films, and although a bit silly, works. This failed
on every level from the terrible pacing, confusing narrative and
comical 'scarey bits'....It was unoriginal and obvious in the way a
Muppet movie would be and played on every horror cliché in the worst
possible way. The characters were fillers.....Completely unbelievable
and served only to drag the story screaming to it's conclusion...In the
horror genre reality is not a requirement....Feasibilty is !...You only
need to suggest it might be possible and your audience will go with
you...The film assumes it's audience has never seen any film, horror or
otherwise....It took up 90 minutes I my life...I want them back !
<|_=00=_|>
*There MAY be spoilers, although you will probably thank me for the
one's I point out*

For those of you who haven't seen the original?

Do not see this movie.

For those of you who have?

For the love of God, stay away from this movie!

Now, I've only seen about 80% of the original Amityville, with chunks
missing from the middle, but I think I can safely say - the original
was better than this train wreck in every way:

1) The new Amityville is not a horror movie

This requires a bit of explanation - the remake is not a scary movie;
it is an occasionally surprising movie. Sure, there are dead people,
ghosts, blood, etc, but it's nothing horrific, per se. Hell, how hard
is it to scare somebody when they're sitting in the dark staring at a
40-ft lighted screen and surrounded be loudspeakers? If I were watching
a movie about puppies and you suddenly shifted the screen to a picture
of kittens, but played a really loud 'scary' sound effect, I'd probably
sh*t my pants.

2) The term 'Remake' is very loosely implied

It would have required a lot less time and energy just to make a new
film, instead of butchering the original plot to make room for more
"BOO!" moments. Whereas the original showed the father, George, slowly
coming under the influence of the house, it seems that after stepping
foot in this new version of the house, George goes completely psycho.
Within a week he's yelling at his stepchildren and bitching at his
wife. Oh yes the house... now, like I said, I didn't see ALL of the
original, but I'm pretty sure I don't remember the part where the
spirit of an evil Quaker Oats guy, who tortured Native Americans and
then committed suicide, was the cause of all the trouble. Again, maybe
that's just me. (Also, did I miss the part with the crazy ass,
pot-smoking babysitter in the original? I don't know!)

3) The Dog

In the remake, they find it necessary to have George axes the hell out
of the family dog, and then show it's mangled corpse. In the original,
I seem to remember George running back into the house after his family
escapes just to save this dog! Now, one may seem sappy, but the other
one involves a mangled dog corpse, so you can see which one I prefer.

4) The Softcore Sex Scene

The softcore sex scene between George and his wife, Kathy (played by
the surprisingly hot Melissa George), it starts out with so much
promise! She disrobes and mounts her husband, which is followed by a
minute and a half of implied humping where you get a great view of her
back from the waist up. So far so good. And then... *BAM* Dead girl
being hanged. My reaction? "JESUS! What the f*ck?! God damnit!
That's... God DAMNIT!" And so on, so forth. Definitely one of the
movie's most startling moments, but also it's most brutally
disappointing. You expect a treat, and you get sucker punched right in
the family jewels.

I could go on, but I think by now you've got the picture. Having seen
this movie at the dollar theater, where I got a half-off discount
because it was Tuesday, I can safely say that I feel grossly
overcharged for having wasted my time on such a blatantly bad movie.
<|_=00=_|>
All i can Say is why bother! The film is so far from the truth the only
Factual part of the film is the first 5 minutes.

I think it is pathetic that you get parts that are similar other films
like when the priest walks up to the house with the black case just
like in the exorcist.

The film portrays George lutz as a raving lunatic that kills his dog
and scares his kids.

I really think they shouldn't have bothered. I understand that there
has got to be some fictional parts in to make it more scary but for
people who have read about the Amityville Horror it is pathetic.
