
Thomas McCarthy's 'The Station Agent' is a joyous and wondrous tale of
three rather unique and quirky individuals whose lives intersect at an
abandoned train depot in rural New Jersey. 

When a dwarf named Fin inherits the station from a business partner, he
moves there, hoping to find a place where he will finally be free from
all the prying eyes, pointing fingers and knowing smiles he's been
subjected to all his life. However, Fin finds that, even in isolation,
it's not always easy to be alone. As soon as he takes up residence in
his new abode, he meets up with Olivia and Joe, two people with whom he
seems to have little in common, but with whom he manages to forge a
lasting friendship. Olivia is a struggling artist who lost her young
son two years earlier in a freak accident. Grief-stricken and trying to
put the pieces of her life back together, Olivia experiences major mood
swings that make it hard for others to get close to her, no matter how
hard they try. Fin, likewise, is a shy, taciturn young man who has
pretty much given up the possibility that he will ever be able to have
a 'normal' relationship with other people (let alone women). Thus, he
turns inward, throwing up barriers in an effort to keep people out of
his life, hoping that, by doing so, he will avoid getting hurt any
further. Joe, on the other hand, is a garrulous young Cuban who runs a
hot dog stand right outside Fin's station, a man who chatters on
endlessly about any subject and sees nothing wrong with forcing himself
into Fin's life, blithely unaware that his company is the last thing
Fin wants. Yet, Joe is so openhearted and good-natured that even Fin,
though desperately craving privacy and silence, hasn't the heart to
dampen the young man's desire for companionship and friendship.
Somehow, through the trials and tribulations of daily living, these
three strangers develop a bond of friendship, love and mutual support.

The set-up for 'The Station Agent' could have led to any number of
serious pitfalls, given its potential for unbridled quirkiness and
feel-good sentimentality However, McCarthy has managed to walk that
fine line between preciousness and charm, contrivance and originality,
calculation and spontaneity. He has fashioned an adroit screenplay
filled with likable characters, rueful humor, clever one-liners and
restrained slapstick. The film is less concerned with storyline and
plot than it is with tone, mood and character interaction. Throughout
the film, we seem to be eavesdropping on the lives of these people,
understanding that we will never fully know all the life experiences
that have gone into making them the people they are today, but happy to
spend just this little bit of time with them anyway. 

'The Station Agent' is a masterpiece of fine acting, with Peter
Dinklage, Patricia Clarkson and Bobby Cannavale delivering
pitch-perfect, bell-ringing performances. As the reticent dwarf,
Dinklage is particularly brilliant at creating a character out of
little more than body language and facial expressions. His work here
offers definitive proof that some of the greatest acting and character
development can be accomplished with a minimum of dialogue.
<|_=00=_|>

Finbar has lived all his life with dwarfism and has carved out a
pleasantly quiet living working in the back room of a model train shop.
When the owner dies suddenly, Fin finds himself without a place of
employment but with the inheritance of a patch of land and an old
railway depot. Moving up there, he finds the usual pointing and staring
and just continues his shut off existence. However a literal run-in
with woman suffering loss and an overfriendly coffee stand vendor mean
that he is forced to do something he has never really done before –
have friends.

Maybe it is because its plot-lite, quirky nature is aimed at the same
crowd that was still busy talking about Lost in Translation but The
Station Agent seemed to be gone from the cinemas almost as quickly as
it entered it. Not unusual even in a big city like Birmingham –
generally non-blockbusters are only given a week, two at most before
they are shunted off the screens by something else; but for it to
happen to a film that easily matches Lost in Translation for sheer
quirky humour and genuine emotional involvement is a real shame because
this is a film that I will recommend (but not hype) to anyone who will
listen to me. In terms of story, not much happens but three rather
solitary souls come together, becoming friends but also bringing all
their issues, baggage and problems with them. In terms of substance
this is where it is at as the well written script allows Fin's
seclusion to be part of him, Joe's innocently friendly nature to be as
real as his speed to be wounded while the complexity of Olivia's
friendship with Fin is never as simple as it would seem if I were just
to state it here. It slowly draws you in with its gentle nature but it
really does deliver an engaging and touching story.

The quirky touch and the gentle humour is very well observed even
though at points it was rather obviously delivered with the use of
'quirky' music and strange looking shots. It is this that sets a very
nice foundation for the deeper stuff that is to come and helps us buy
into the characters early on so that we are there when we need to be.
This quirky tone goes across the whole film and I think the only way I
can describe it is to call it 'lovely'; it was lovely and it produced a
delightful film that is easy to settle into and really enjoy. Dinklage
is excellent; he is almost silent at times but gradually grows and you
can see in his face his issues but also him struggling to come to terms
with this sudden acceptance he appears to be being given as well as his
own desire to trust people where he has never had a reason to before.
It is very easy to praise Clarkson for strong performances but she has
done it yet again with a performance that makes her character so
layered but also so revealing without ever being obvious. Cannavale is
given less story and character to work with but he makes the most of it
and effortlessly avoids the 'yaw bro' cliché that he could easily have
been and produces a sensitive, likable and sympathetic character with
comparatively little material. The film has others in it but these
three are the core and, with three wonderful leads how could the film
have been anything less than it was?

Overall this is a very slight film that ends as quietly as it began and
has little in the way of plot in between. However it has a wonderful
mood delivered by unfussy direction, a unobtrusive and fitting score,
wonderfully written characters and three wonderful lead performances.
Missed by many on its cinema release, this is a wonderful little film
that I hope will continue to surprise those that come across it during
the coming years on DVD, cable and television.

<|_=00=_|>

I have never commented on any database about anything until now.

I wanted to find out more about the cast and Google raised this DB; I
was delighted to see the customer comment facility. Reading a selection
of comments I was astonished to find how much uniformity there was.
Many of us seem to have had a similar experience.

I have seen the film twice. I enjoyed it so much that I thought perhaps
it was because I was in the right mood and it would not stand scrutiny
a second time. I enjoyed it, if anything, more on the second occasion.
On both occasions when the film ended there was an audible groan of
dismay from the audience that it finished long before they were ready.

It has not had a wide circulation in England and I have been a one man
promotional bore encouraging friends to go to see it.

I thought that Lost in Translation would be my favourite of the last
few years but it has been pushed out of the top slot.

I am surprise at a few of the comments from other contributors. "what
is a coffee wagon doing in such a place", "poor script for Patricia
Clarkson" etc.

For me the script, photography, acting, cutting and casting were
perfect. Only one complaint- too short.

It is hard to pick the best performance and I will certainly change my
mind next time I ask myself, but today I would go for Bobby Cannavale.

Geoff Livesey

<|_=00=_|>

"The Station Agent" is a slice-of-dwarf-life character study which takes a
long, hard look at little person Fin (Dinklage), a train buff who inherits
an old, inactive train depot where he takes up residence and then becomes
involved with the locals. This poignancy packed flick spends its full 88
minute run with a sometimes cheeky, sometimes plaintive and always human  
development a handful characters who all have problems of their own. An
extraordinary first outing for writer/director McCarthy, this little indie
received raves from critical corners and applause from the public at large
making it an almost sure thing for potential viewers. A wonderful film which
makes the point that size does matter when it's size of character and not
stature. (A-)
<|_=00=_|>
A story about a man with dwarfism who's hobby is trainspotting doesn't
sound like an inspiring tale, but the Station Agent is a remarkable
achievement in making it just that. Relocating to a fairly remote area
where he has inherited some property, the main character becomes very
popular - not because of his cute dwarfism, but because he exhibits an
inner strength that enables people to eventually see past his physical
deformity. Superb acting by all the cast, and wonderful contrasts
between their inner lives and the outer personas they use to deal with
the everyday superficialities of the world (including meeting new
people). The film is beautiful, uplifting, realistic, without ever
becoming cheesy or moralising. A joy to behold.
<|_=00=_|>
The Station Agent was for me one of those "quiet movies about quiet
people who come and go quietly" (I'm not a big fan of action films.) I
love to experience human intimacy on film and The Station Agent did
exactly that for me. I found the characters, and their interaction,
captivating. I fell in love with Patricia Clarkson through Six Feet
Under, Bobby Cannavale through Will & Grace, and Peter Dinklage through
Dinner for Five. What an ensemble! In this coming together of such
grand talent, I experienced synergistic convergence, a rare commodity
in film. I found Peter absolutely enchanting, he delivers a magical
performance. I am in awe of the light that shines from his being. I
perceive him to be an ancient soul. My life has been enriched for
having experienced his essence. And, even though I'm old enough to be
his mother, I find him to be a handsome and sexy man! (And I'm 5'9"
tall). The universe has been waiting for Peter Dinklage. I look for him
to accomplish wonderful things (in and out of the film industry).
<|_=00=_|>

The Station Agent is one of those films where there doesn't seem to be much
in the way, at least in conventional terms, of a story being told without
dubious circumstance.  Whoever Finbar- Fin (Peter Dinklage, in a mostly
low-key, appropriately observant performance) meets in the small town of
Newfoundland, NJ will either be at some degree of a friend to him, or
someone who passes him by and scoffs at his apparent height of four foot
five inches.  The way writer/director Thomas McCarthey has characters
interact with each other is also rewarding, since they come off as solid and
believable to their situations (the life-affirming Joe, the sweet and lonely
Olivia, the little fascinated girl Cleo, and the young, sexy Emily).  And at
the same time he doesn't lose sight of the center of the film, which is the
obsession with trains.  It's a wonderful motif to have with these
characters- most especially for Fin- who don't seem to go anywhere much, and
are content to watch them go by as they stay put in the town.  By the end I
felt like I saw a heart-warming comedy, despite the sad moments, as it went
for a more human side to actions and dialog, instead of a
'slapstick-because-there's-a-dwarf' ideal to comedies.  Fin is a person, and
we're given him as a uniquely empathetic persona in Dinklage's performance. 
A-
<|_=00=_|>
'The Station Agent' is a very simple but lovely quirky little film.
There isn't much in terms of a plot but it works as a wonderful tone
and mood piece and a brilliant study of three very likable and unique
individuals and their friendship. As the audience it feels as though we
are taking a glimpse into their lives and invited to be part of their
experience. The cheerful background score adds to the quirkiness
(without being intrusive). The screenplay is refreshing as it elegantly
brings together the characters, the subtle light humour, the clever
dialogues and one-liners. 'The Station Agent' is also visually
pleasing, the simplistic natural green spacious settings, Olivia's
lonely home, Fin's dark little one-roomed bedless stationhome and Joe's
friendly van. The actors breathe life into their roles. All three of
the principle cast members deliver very sincere and natural
performances. Peter Dinklage acts in a very restrained manner allowing
his silence to speak volumes. Bobby Cannavale is hilarious as the
chatty Joe. Patricia Clarkson easily brings out the layers of Olivia
and gives a strong performance. Michelle Williams holds her own.
Overall, 'The Station Agent' is a delightful experience that draws
smiles from the audience. An uplifting gentle little film.
<|_=00=_|>

This is an amazing film -- it has humor, intelligence and emotion.  With a
minimum of dialog, it conveys a great deal of wisdom regarding the human
condition.

Peter Dinklage excels as a train enthusiast who thinks a move to the small
train depot he inherits may afford him the peace and quiet he craves.  As a
result of his dwarfism, he has been on the receiving end of too much
cruelty, sometimes thoughtless but all too often intentional, so all he
wants is to be left alone.  Once ensconced in the depot, however, he meets a
few people (most notably an artist played by Patricia Clarkson) who bring to
his life all the complications involved in relationships.  And that's what
this film is all about:  we are all fallible individuals, but ultimately we
need each other.

High marks to Thomas McCarthy for directing and writing this treasure.  The
only thing I don't understand is why it was assigned an "R"
rating.
<|_=00=_|>

I heard the comments, I read the reviews, but actually seeing The
Station Agent was even better than I had expected. I watched it in a
library--and it was almost a full house for the showing tonight. At the
end there was a burst of applause. I watch movies in libraries quite
often, but I can't remember the last time I heard applause when the
movie was over.

Another movie (Lost in Translation is in this group) which doesn't
settle for the oh-too-obvious "fall in love" clichés, and presents
supportive friendship as a worthwhile choice. I think that working
towards friendship is a tremendous possibility (and never one that you
have to regret in the morning)!

