

Diane Keaton gives the performance of her career in 'Something's Gotta
Give,' writer/director Nancy Meyers' smart and savvy take on middle-age
romance. Keaton plays Erica Barry, a 50-something playwright living on
her own in a swanky beach house in the Hamptons. Although she has
achieved enormous success in her career, her personal life leaves much
to be desired.

Erica, though brilliant and attractive, has pretty much shut herself
off from the dating scene since her divorce a number of years ago.
Erica's life runs like a well-oiled machine, with each element – both
personal and professional - fitted neatly into place, with no room left
over for spontaneity or passion. One fateful day, Erica stumbles upon a
strange man rummaging through her refrigerator, a 63 year-old
professional bachelor named Harry Sanborn who, Erica discovers to her
horror, is dating her 30 year-old daughter, Marin (Harry is, actually,
a notorious bachelor, having been profiled as such in a number of tony
New York magazines). Even though Erica is disgusted by the situation,
she is forced to take care of Harry after he suffers a heart attack
while staying at her place. Despite their diametrically opposed
outlooks on love and romance, Erica and Harry spend quality time
together, discover their ultimate compatibility, and eventually fall in
love.

Meyers has written a witty, sophisticated screenplay that offers
insights into any number of 'battle of the sexes' issues. She has
outrageous fun exploring the phenomenon of middle-aged men cavorting
with women half their age. Jack Nicholson, known in real life for doing
just that, has a great time poking fun at his own public image while,
at the same time, providing a richly textured portrait of a man who may
not be quite as shallow as his persona would suggest. When he so
unexpectedly finds his head turned by a vibrant, attractive and
intelligent woman in her 50's, Harry, a middle-aged Lothario who finds
he needs Viagra to help him keep pace with his youthful 'conquests,' is
forced to re-evaluate what has hitherto been the defining philosophy of
his personality and lifestyle. Nicholson is magnificent at showing us
the profound confusion his character undergoes as he takes those much
belated but faltering steps into adult maturity.

Nicholson is, however, only one half of this extraordinary couple. As
the other half, Keaton, having been handed what is clearly the role of
a lifetime, has never seemed so natural and self-assured on screen. She
makes of the character a capable, no-nonsense woman who has allowed her
passions to lie dormant far too long. Though, on the surface, she
appears confident and in control of her life, Erica is, underneath it
all, a woman wounded by past experience and intimidated by a culture
that expects women to be put out to pasture the moment they reach
middle age. It is this combination of strength and vulnerability that
makes Erica such a complex, recognizable individual – and it is the
very quality that Keaton captures so exquisitely in her performance.
The chemistry generated between Keaton and Nicholson in this film is so
glowing and palpable one wonders why no filmmaker ever saw the
potential of this dynamic duo until now.

In addition to these two outstanding performers, the film boasts
excellent supporting work from Frances McDormand as Erica's pragmatic,
clear-headed sister; Amanda Peet as Erica's level-headed daughter; and
Keanu Reeves as Harry's handsome young doctor who finds himself smitten
by Erica's mature beauty and charm.

'Something's Gotta Give' is that rare romantic comedy that not only
acknowledges the romantic inclinations of people over forty, but also
recognizes the emotional complexities of their relationships. Because
both Erica and Harry have been around the block a few times, they bring
a lifetime of baggage to their burgeoning attachment. Thus, unlike in
the vast majority of romantic comedies, which are clearly geared to the
younger generation, the lovers here have a depth not often encountered
when the focus is on two inexperienced neophytes. It takes the
experience that comes from living to make a person interesting, after
all.

Thanks to the quality of the writing and the performances, 'Something's
Gotta Give' takes its place among the great romantic comedy/dramas like
'Two For the Road,' 'Annie Hall,' 'When Harry Met Sally' and 'The
American President.' That's mighty august company indeed.

<|_=00=_|>
Hollywood has never been very kind to aging couples. If you count a
ratio of the movies that have been made with actors in their prime and
put them side by side with movies where the same actors are reaching
50, 60, or even 70, you'd be hard-pressed to find more than a
smattering over a decade's time. And to sell a romantic comedy above
all to a youth-obsessed public wanting to see the inevitable tight
curves on the female lead's body and the rippled muscles on the male's,
where instead there are none, is a gamble that would surely signal a
train wreck by default.

Surprisingly enough, this one's a winner. While the story may not be
the most original of all -- serial dater finds the perfect woman as a
headstrong woman close to his age but loses her to his dating habits,
then realizes he really does care for her after all -- is really a
variation of boy-meets girl, loses girl, regains girl: with the
exception that this time around, the boy is Jack Nicholson, the girl is
Diane Keaton, and neither are under 55.

To do a movie that has these two exceptionally mannered (but no less
veteran) actors play parts that could have easily veered off into
caricatures is a hard trick to pull off and thankfully the script (and
their acting) is always on target to make us never forget these are
real people and not their public persona. Nicholson especially has the
harder part here -- his role is so close to life he could have
sleepwalked through it -- but he brings a genuine humanity to what is
initially a sitcom-like old lecher who can't date women older than 25.
Keaton also has a difficult role because she's been known to play
variations of Annie Hall, but here she lays herself bare (in more ways
than one). To see her interact with Nicholson and see them play out
their initial dislike, their cautious flirtation which becomes actual
attraction, and see what happens to both of them once Nicholson
chickens out to go back to philandering is what romantic comedies are
made of. It's a great set-up, even when the pay off is a little too pat
for comfort at times and seems somewhat manipulative. There were
moments when I wondered what kind of a story SOMETHING'S GOTTA GIVE
would have been had it decided on bringing Keanu Reeve's character into
the front and having him being her choice, but this being a
conventional script, it of course decides to have Nicholson win her
back in the most traditional of ways with nary a conflict, but this
doesn't detract much from the film as much as tell a good chick-flick
with an emotional center.

Some nice supporting roles here: Reeves plays a character totally
different from his MATRIX or CONSTANTINE roles, Rachel Ticotin holds
her own as the doctor whom Nicholson keeps bumping into every time his
heart goes bonkers, and Amanda Peet continues to prove herself as the
rising star she is becoming. Frances McDormand has fun with a small
part as Keaton's sister.

As a note: for a movie set in the Hampton's, NY, those were some pretty
interesting looking palm trees.
<|_=00=_|>

I generally dislike Jack Nicholson, although I certainly think he is a very
talented and gifted actor... so I watched this movie somewhat reluctantly on
the recommendation of a friend.  To my surprise, I liked it.  I too am a
woman "of a certain age" and I found myself responding to this movie very
much in the context of a woman Diane Keaton's age.  I laughed to tears over
her creativity surge-- she very accurately portrayed that kind of grief over
a relationship lost... amazing!  I must say however, that if I were in a
position to choose between Keannu Reeves and Jack Nicholson.. well there's
no decision to make--the young stud muffin would win in a
heartbeat!...(although Jack really was quite charming once he got over being
such a putz)..  Anyway.. a fun movie that is well done...
<|_=00=_|>

Romance among the AARP set in a movie is never an easy proposition, pardon
the pun. The participants have to be sexy enough that the younger people
in
the audience don't get all grossed out ("Gramma and Granpa are KISSING!!!
With tongue!!!!"), but not too sexy. The audience wants to be swept off
its
feet, but it doesn't want anything that's overly salacious.

For the most part, writer-director Nancy Meyers succeeds here. Diane
Keaton
plays Erica Barry, a neurotic, highly successful playwright. Jack
Nicholson
plays himself. Okay, technically he plays 63-year-old Harry Sanborn, owner
of a hip-hop record label and chronic womanizer.

One of the funniest scenes in the movie comes right near the beginning.
Harry's with his new squeeze Marin (Amanda Peet), at Marin's mom's house.
There's Harry, in his boxers and a t-shirt, putting wine in the 'fridge,
when Marin's mom - you guessed it, Erica - unexpectedly comes home.
Naturally, she thinks he's an intruder and calls 911. I mean, wouldn't
you?
It takes some explaining, but soon the misunderstanding is cleared up and
our combatants (oops, participants) can get on with the
romancin'.

The thrust of the story (oops, another pun) is that while fooling around
with Marin upstairs, Harry suffers a heart attack. At the hospital, Dr.
Mercer (an interestingly cast Keanu Reeves) admonishes the unrepentant
Harry
for overexerting himself and tells him not to travel for a little while.
Yup, you guessed it, that means he has to bunk with Erica. And our romance
is thus set up.

The good news is that pairing Keaton and Nicholson (who appeared together
in
1982's Reds) was a great, great idea. Keaton basically plays a grown-up
Annie Hall, and she manages to look sexy and daffy at the same time.
Nicholson, for all his bluster and creakiness, still has the panache that
has served him so well for the past forty years or so.

The trouble is that after their relationship is consummated, the two leads
behave like seventh graders. Now, no offense to you seventh graders out
there, but you do have a tendency to get melodramatic. Admit it. In this
movie, Erica spends - no exaggeration here - a good ten minutes sobbing.
And
sobbing. And sobbing. Everywhere and anywhere. Yikes and double yikes. For
his part, Harry broods like no one's ever brooded before, like he's up for
an Olympic medal in the event of Feeling Bummed Out. After a while, you
wish
these two crazy kids would just get over it. Call her! Call him! Do
something!

To make matters worse for the relationship, Erica writes a play based on
her
experiences with Harry, complete with him dancing drunkenly in a hospital
gown. Does this lady play hardball, or what?

Granted, the storyline is predictable, but the two leads are wonderful,
and
very well cast. Meyers wrote the script with Keaton and Nicholson in mind
specifically, the decision was a wise one.

Something's Gotta Give has a funny beginning and a sweet ending, but the
middle suffers from an unfortunate lag.
<|_=00=_|>

I kept thinking, while watching this movie, "I wish I could write a
screenplay as good as this."  Jack was Impeccable Jack.  Diane was
delightful and sexy and a wonderful role model for older women.  Keanu
showed more range than people give him credit for, and did an excellent
job
playing the role he was cast as - a supporting character, who is not
supposed to outshine the lead roles, but rather enhance them (which he
did).
I was very pleased with this movie!  It did have "several endings" which,
actually, didn't detract but instead made me think, "Well, that's closer
to
the reality of what might happen," instead of being annoyed.  As Jack's
character says, "Finally, closure," and I was happy.  It was a good movie
and I liked it quite a lot.  It'll be on my mind and in my thoughts for a
while, which is the sign of an impactful movie.
<|_=00=_|>

Of the many things I like about going to the movies there are two
experiences that always stand out more than others.  The first is going to
see a film that you have so-so expectations for and finding out that it is
not only better than expected, but very good indeed.  The second is going to
see a film you have high expectations for and not being disappointed. 
Something's Gotta Give falls squarely into the second category.

Sometimes when legendary stars are teamed up in a film, the result is often
less than passable.  Not so with this film, thanks to a sharp-witted script
and direction by Nancy Meyers, two great stars in Diane Keaton and Jack
Nicholson who click wonderfully together on screen and an excellent
supporting cast that includes Keanu Reeves, Amanda Peet and Frances
McDormand.  This is a romantic comedy that is funny when it's meant to be,
insightful when it needs to be, and filled with many sincere and touching
moments.

 Harry Sanborn (Nicholson), the over-age playboy who has spent his entire
life avoiding serious commitments, is set to spend the weekend with his
flavor of the moment girlfriend, Marin(Amanda Peet), at a beach house owned
by Marin's mother.  Unfortunately for Harry and Marin, Marin's mother Erica
Barry(Diane Keaton), who is a famous playwright, shows up for the weekend
also with her sister Zoe(Frances McDormand).  Of course Erica doesn't quite
know how to deal with the fact that her daughter is dating and possibly
sleeping with a man of Harry's reputation and age leading to some very funny
dialog between Harry, Erica and Zoe that rings mounds of truth.  It's these
early scenes in the film that sets the pace, grabs your attention, then
never lets you go.  Later, when beginning to get it on with Marin, Harry
suffers a heart attack.  Now I know having a heart attack is not supposed to
be particularly funny, but in this case it's some of the many many hilarious
scenes that rock throughout Something's Gotta Give.  When Harry is taken to
the hospital, we meet Dr. Julian Mercer (Keanu Reeves), who happens to be a
great admire of Erica's plays and quickly develops a crush on her.  Of
course, plot manipulations being what they are, Harry ends up recuperating
alone in Erica's beach house.  Everything that happens from that point on
speaks volumes about love, aging, and especially how men and women are
viewed differently as they grow older.  

I can't say enough here about Diane Keaton's performance in this film.  For
all the dramatic roles she has played, she once again proves how truly
versatile she is with this very touching yet truly comedic role.  Jack
Nicholson as Harry Sanborn, is equally perfect also.  He manages to take a
character that we should absolutely loathe for his shallow behavior and make
him not only likable but gives him depth as well.  It is perhaps his best
comedic role ever.  Keanu Reeves in a less flashy role, shines as the young
Doctor.  We believe in his sincere admiration for Erica and he manages to
pull it off by making us believe this is not just a school boy type crush. 
For some brief but very funny moments, Frances McDormand deserves our praise
also.

Nancy Meyers has shown great promise as a director with the OK efforts of
The Parent Trap and What Women Want.  As a writer she has had some fine
moments with Irreconcilable Differences, Baby Boom and Father of the Bride. 
With Something's Gotta Give, she puts the pieces of the puzzle together for
some first class entertainment.  You won't be disappointed.

My Grade: A+  

   
    

      
<|_=00=_|>

This movie took me by surprise, I wasn't sure if I could handle watching old
actors getting it on but this movie turned out to be a great romantic
comedy. Jack Nicholson and Diane Keaton always give their 100% best in their
performances, they did a great job in their roles. It would have been nice
to see more input from Frances McDormand and Keanu Reeves, but otherwise I
really enjoyed the movie.
<|_=00=_|>

The teaming of Jack Nicholson and Diane Keaton in Warren Beatty's "Reds"
back in 1981 was only given a minute glimpse. The glimpse though turned out
to be some of the best parts of a very excellent movie. A film with these
two living legends was destined for greatness and that prediction comes to
reality in writer/director Nancy Meyers' "Something's Gotta Give". Nicholson
is a brash and sometimes quietly obnoxious success from New York who has
made a life out of chasing 20- and 30-something year-old girls. He and his
newest girlfriend (Amanda Peet) get along really well. They decide to go out
to Peet's mother's (Keaton) beach-house outside of the city to consummate
their relationship. Of course just as everything looks perfect, Keaton (a
noted playwright) and younger sister Frances McDormand (in another wonderful
turn) barge in and spoil the fun. All seem a little uncomfortable and you
can cut the tension between Nicholson and Keaton with a knife. Before you
know it, Nicholson suffers a heart attack and all hell breaks loose. He is
rushed to the doctor in the nick of time, but now Keaton has to nurse him
back to health at her home. Nicholson's doctor (a good performance by Keanu
Reeves, getting away from his stupid "Matrix" films) soon falls in love with
Keaton who is totally oblivious to his feelings. And before you know it
Keaton's warmth, smile, personality, heart and intelligence eventually wins
Nicholson over as well. But you all know about Nicholson's relationships
with women (in real life and the movies). Is he ready to fall in love for
the first time in his life and make a true commitment? Or will his antics
end up making matters worse for all involved (Keaton in particular, who
becomes someone you don't want to see get hurt)? "Something's Gotta Give" is
a film I really liked a lot. The old-time Hollywood style of the 1940s is
very prevalent here in a 2000s package. Nicholson and Keaton, what can you
say? They are arguably the two finest performers living today and they do
end up feeding off each other's astronomical talents throughout. Sometimes
something eventually gives in Hollywood these days, but I am happy to say
that it never happens with this product. 4.5 out of 5 stars.
<|_=00=_|>

Perhaps it's because I'm not over 40, but I did not enjoy "Something's
Gotta
Give".  I cannot fathom ever, and I mean EVER actually CHOOSING Jack over
Keanu.  I mean COME ON!!!  So besides this movie's wildly ludicrous ending
and setting it is also not a comment on what women think or feel, but what
men believe they should think and feel.  So I guess with that view it's
hardly surprising that a lecherous fat old man who had dated her daughter,
messed up her house, and insulted her in her own home was Diane Keaton's
pick of the heap.  I don't know where writer Nancy Meyers gets these
ideas.
Wouldn't it be nice to see a movie where the women ends up with a young
handsome man who treats her well and adores her?  I don't see how laughing
over being unable to see the time on a wrist watch without your glasses
constitutes finding one's soul mate.  Was I on crack or was it Keanu's
character who had seen all Diane's plays and loved her work?  Clearly
Diane's work is almost biographical so isn't it actually Keanu who "gets"
her?  And why is Diane so uncomfortable kissing a man who is 20 years
younger than she, but Jack has no problems having sex with a woman 40
years
his junior in her mother's home.  Anyway, this film is just not what I
thought it would be.  It had some funny moments sure, but I still left the
theater feeling empty.  I certainly do not believe it is in any way a good
take on romance in old age.   
<|_=00=_|>

OK, I've seen Jack Nicholson about a dozen too many times playing Jack
Nicholson, so I stopped going to any movie with Nicholson in them.  But
friends told me this one is different--it's fresh, it's funny, it's
different.   Well, it's not.  Nicholson is Nicholson, only more so.  The
other actors are OK, but they get pushed out of Nicholson's huge ego.  The
story is inane and boring.  Some of the scenes involving Nicholson's anatomy
are disgusting.  The ending is as implausible as it is predictable.  Yep,
hard to believe you could come up with something both implausible and
predictable, but once you buy into the bizarre premise that (spoilers ahead)
Amanda Peet is hot for Nicholson's flabby body, and that Diane Keeton would
give Nicholson a second thought after Keanu Reeves puts the moves on her,
then you'll believe anything.  Worse than how Nicholson looks is the utterly
despicable and self-centered character he plays.  That he winds up with an
attractive woman who adores him only goes to show that if you have lots of
money you can get whatever you want, even love.  


