

I must disagree with many of the reviewers on this film. I consider The
Order to be a mature, well-constructed horror story. The "horror" is subtle
at first, but it builds, along with the suspense, into several, intense
episodes that culminate the film decisively.  It is a complex flux of
development, change and ever-increasing intensity of suspense and anxiety.
As with any horror film, indeed almost any film, one must become immersed in
the culture and story that is created. One must assume certain elements of
the film to be valid, then flow with the plot. The Order fills all of the
requirements of a good horror tale, done smoothly and skillfully. The
characters and the actors portraying them fit well into the development of
it all.  I was most impressed with the lead actress. Her portrayal was
stunningly sympathetic. And I really loved the ending. It melded all of the
elements of the film together in a satisfying conclusion.  This film creates
a sense of doom and inevitability that constantly grows with its
progression. That is what drew me to keep watching. I am not generally a fan
of "Religious" horror. I shall gladly make an exception for The Order.

<|_=00=_|>
Although I really, really liked this movie, I must admit it's not for
everyone, and here's why. The Order encompasses one or two intriguing
ideas gone a bit awry.

A priest (played by Heath Ledger) is called upon to investigate the
apparent suicide of his mentor, and uncovers the mystery of an ancient
being, the Sin Eater, who is able to absolve the sins of those
(unrepentant sinners, excommunicated persons, suicides) a normal
Catholic priest would be unable to forgive due to church dogma. The
knowledge of this creature forces the priest to face his own conflicted
feelings about the priesthood. Before he has even begun to sort out his
confusion, the larger plot begins to unravel and he finds that he has
been at the center of it for longer than he had ever realized.

Well, it would have been excellent if left at that and fleshed out for
the 100-minute duration, but it was not to be. The best bits of turmoil
and conflict, of passion and temptation and surrender, were skimmed
through so quickly it seemed as if someone thought they were the
annoying-but-necessary bits when they should have been the real meat of
the film. The rest was a clogged up mess of random (and inexplicable)
demon children, a power-hungry cardinal, and worst of all: a love
interest who had absolutely no chemistry with the main character, an
accent that was completely out of place, a confusingly pointless back
story, and who seemed incongruous with the setting and plot. Sadly,
there were very few shots of the film's locations, only one wide shot
of Rome in fact, which could have been used to set the tone much more
effectively than all those shadows and candlelight.

That all said, there were many redeeming features. The soundtrack was
hit-and-miss, but more hit than miss and at least it was never
distracting. The duo of Ledger and Mark Addy was charming and the
chemistry between Ledger's character and "William Eden" (played by
Benno Fürmann) was sizzling. That adversarial relationship should have
been the focus of the film rather than a sort of easter egg hunt during
bits of the second half, but it was more than enough for me to consider
this movie an hour and a half well spent.
<|_=00=_|>

The Order is a fairly shadowy and brooding film. Heath Ledger stars as
Alex,
a tormented young Carolignian priest in search of The SinEater. (Which
personally I feel should have been the title, instead of the current)

A very pale and thin Heath Ledger takes on the role of the conflicted in
this film that pushes boundaries and will no doubt cause eyebrows to raise
among several including the Catholic Church. (A few moviegoers left during
the film when I viewed) The film is dark and uses shadows to set tones and
create suspense. There are several storylines introduced and covered that
do
tie together eventually. The subject is an interesting one and this is
certainly not the last movie to question the role of the Church. I feel
Heath Ledger was brave in choosing to do this film and hopefully he will
continue onward with his career. It was good to not see him in a period
piece, as he has been doing of late.

Shannyn Sossamon adds to the film as the troubled Mara. And while some of
the movie involving her becomes predictable the relationship between Alex
and Mara does progress the movie in a certain direction. Certain lines
delivered during the film that were perhaps written to create dramatic
moments falter. The movie is on the cusp of potential. 8 out of 10 for
shock
value....a film that may not be very popular but worth seeing if you are a
fan of movies of all types. 
<|_=00=_|>
After Dominic (Francesco Carnelutti), a priest who is one of the last
of the Carolingian order, dies of an apparent suicide, the other two
remaining Carolingians, Alex Bernier (Heath Ledger) and Thomas Garret
(Mark Addy), come to Rome to learn what happened. While there, they
discover that something much more sinister is afoot.

I can see why The Order would have difficulty being commercially
successful. And that's too bad, because this is an excellent film. The
"problem" leading to a commercial struggle is that writer/director
Brian Helgeland created a very intelligent script that assumes the
viewer does not need everything spelled out to them. This is a film
that opens by placing us in the middle of a complex world, with a deep
history, so that we have to pay attention and do a bit of detective
work to get up to speed initially. The script is full of unexplained
references to beliefs and traditions of the Catholic Church and
"orders" such as Carolingians and Jesuits. It is densely packed with
clever dialogue, subtle puns and other kinds of literary devices and
references. It uses, and some understanding of the film depends on,
occasional phrases in Latin, Aramaic, French and Italian (although most
of the important words and phrases are translated for us). This is not
a light "popcorn" movie, and it is a slow burner. If you were not to
fully pay attention and actively think about the film, you could easily
become lost or confused.

The performances are superb. Alex, Thomas, Mara Sinclair (Shannyn
Sossamon), William Eden (Benno Furmann), and Driscoll (Peter Weller)
all seem like real people with complex personalities and back stories.
Visually, Helgeland creates and sustains an incredible eerie atmosphere
throughout the film. It's so remarkable that a repeated viewing
focusing only on the production design, cinematography and composition
would be very rewarding. The music, by David Torn, one of my favorite
modern composers and musicians, is exceptional. And the relatively
sparse visual effects are beautiful, well placed and appropriately
surreal.

The story is captivating and becomes more so as it continues. It is
wonderfully "gray" about its subject matter when it counts. This is a
film that not only bears but demands repeated viewings, but you have to
be able to slow down and think while viewing--don't expect action set
pieces (although there are a couple minor bits of action), a gorefest,
or MTV-styled editing.

The ending of The Order cries out for a sequel, but not because the
ending is at all incomplete, or because there was a monster who just
wouldn't die. However, given that the film only grossed a fraction of
its 38 million dollar budget, those of us who are fans of this film
will have to keep our fingers crossed.

A 10 out of 10 from me.
<|_=00=_|>

While I won't say this is great cinema or even historically correct, it
wasn't awful as the previous person who posted said it was.  Yes there was
a
cult in a night club (Actually not pagan, it was an offshoot of the
Catholic
Church)and yes, the "hero" did bring it down, but that wasn't the point of
the movie.

The point of the movie was The Sin Eater was tired of doing his job and
wanted the "hero" to do take over.  Add that to the "hero's" struggle with
his faith, his wants and desires and ultimately if he would like to take
the
place of the Sin Eater.

According to the movie, if you are Catholic and not allowed to go to
heaven,(Excommunicated, suicide or any of the other reasons the church
could
keep you out of heaven) the Sin Eater (for a price) would come and take
away
your sins and you would then be allowed to go to heaven.

So, yes, it is a religious horror flick (though not really what I call
Horror (like Freddy or Jason)) and yes, it is not great, but it is thought
provoking if you like that kind of thing.

<|_=00=_|>

The head of the Carolingian order is killed and one of the last members is
called to investigate the death. The Carolingians fight demons,
apparitions
and perform exorcisms.
Can he stop a murderer who is not human?

Apparently all that is required to banish the most powerful denizens of
hell
is a small wooden Crucifix and the Chant'.I order you back to Hell!' Well
I
order you to save your ten dollars. Ledger, Sossamon and even Addy are not
the problem in this film.  The borderline special effects are also not the
problem in this film. The problem is this film's trailer (the preview for
the film) that promises a horror thriller with a mysterious supernatural
killer, involving rogue priests. The problem is the trailer writes checks
that the plot can't cash.  Now I know we have enough rogue priests in our
regular everyday life, but these rogue priests have cool black crucifix
tattooed on their legs.  The entire cast which, seems to be little more
than
a Knight's Tale reunion all turn in great performances. The first
Forty-five
minutes make me think of Stigmata with a taste of The Exorcist.  After
that
it becomes boring, predictable and criminally unimaginative.  Not only is
it
not scary or suspenseful after that, but it wastes what was shapping up to
be a fine plot.  Originally scheduled to release Jan 17, 2002 it was
postponed to redo the special effects, maybe the plot should have received
a
rework as well.

Though not big box office fare, the special effects weren't completely
horrible. The sets were actually very nice and I liked St. Peters in
particular.  Maybe a Hollywood clone would do the justice that this movie
couldn't, or even a direct to video movie about the Carolingians in which
we
pretend the first movie didn't even exist.

<|_=00=_|>

Certainly something different - a religious-based 'sci-fi'
drama.
Sin Eater, as it's known in UK, is a complicated story of love, fate,
realisation, and a hint of gothic underworld religion thrown
in.
As Alex, the main character, is informed his mentor has died, he gets drawn
into something which could alter his own destiny.

Without wanting to give away the entire plot Sin Eater is a movie which
takes risks - it's not afraid of its take on religion and is filmed with
panache, boasts good performances, and some effective cinematography.

Fine effort.

<|_=00=_|>

In the bygone days of the Catholic Church, a sin-eater was an individual
that, through ritual, would take the sins of a dying person upon themselves.
 Often, these people were excommunicate or similar individuals who the
church would not absolve, thereby denying them entrance into Heaven.  The
sin-eaters were seen as blasphemous, circumventing the chruch's monopoly on
redemption.  Sex this up a bit with some overt supernatural mojo, let the
concept wander where it may, and you have "The Order", a movie that combines
"Stigmata"'s religious anti-authoritarianism, "The X-Files"' paranormal
investigation, and "The Thorn Birds"' sexual spirituality into an odd
melange that sometimes works.

Alex (Heath Ledger) is a rogue priest, one of the last members of the Order
of the Carolingians, a semi-heretical order of knowledge-seeking,
demon-fighting priests.  When Alex's mentor is found dead under bizarre
circumstances, Bishop Driscoll (Peter Weller) sends Alex to investigate. 
Tagging along are fellow Carolingian Thomas (Mark Addy) and Mara (Shannyn
Sossman), who was subject to one of Alex's exorcisms a year prior.  The
three go to Rome to investigate and are drawn into a dark underworld of
bizarre Catholic heresy, ominous prophecies, demonic intrusions, and a man
claiming to be the last surviving Sin-Eater (Benno Furmann).

Written and directed by Brian Helgeland (who worked with the same principals
on the scattershot and half-hearted "A Knight's Tale"), the film is an odd
one, and difficult to classify.  It wants to be several things at once --
supernatural thriller, religious intrigue, dramatic television pilot -- and
only sometimes succeeds at any of them.  This isn't helped by the slow pace
or the fact that most of the actors seem to be sleepwalking through their
performances with occasional bursts of brilliance.  Ledger, in particular,
has a particularly stunning scene of despair in an otherwise monochromatic
performance.  Sossman, however, displayed the same disconnected performance
that she's given in all of her films (most notably in "The Rules Of
Attraction").

The plot itself meanders back and forth between several different story
arcs, leading you to wonder which is the main one with each arc containing
its share of red herrings.  Large gaps of narrative appear to be lost
between scenes at times, which can be confusing for many, but this is also
one of the film's saving graces.  The structure of the film -- coupled by
the fact that there is never a truly clear antagonist until the very end of
the film -- forces the viewer to analyze and reason in a time when most
films are blatantly obvious about everything (the exception to this is
historical background on the Carolingians and the practice of sin-eating,
both of which are explained in dry exposition).  Even at the beginning of
the film, character relationships and history are inferred instead of
explained.  Combine this with the on-location shooting and judicious use of
special effects, and you have a very old-world supernatural thriller, with
even the opening credits reminiscent of something from the late 70's/early
80's.

A brief mention here, as well, for the subtle and organic score by David
Torn, a combination of minimalist orchestration and Lisa Gerrard-style
exotic vocals.  A very nice score that is evocative without being bombastic
and exists in a very deceptive simplicity.

A confusing plot, a lack of purpose, and sometimes sleepy performances would
often damn a movie, but for some reason, "The Order" remains watchable. 
Many people will be very turned off by the movie for its odd sensibilities,
and some may even become angry that they are forced to engage the higher
functions of their brain to understand it.  Still, the film's sheer
intangibility will prevent it from being either a critical or commercial
success until the DVD, which I'm sure will be stocked with copious amounts
of deleted scenes.  A recommended film only for people who like to think
while they watch.  6 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
Suspense, mystery , shocks and grisly horror is this average terror
film about occultism . It deals with a young reverend named Alex
Bernier (Heath Ledger) is a member of an arcane order of priests known
as Carolingians , he is sent to Rome to investigate the troubling death
of the head of his order . The body bears strange marks on the chest
which may or may not be the sign of a Sin Eater named William Eden
(Vincent Cassel had originally been cast but left the production after
three weeks due to "creative differences" , as he has been replaced by
Benno Fürmann), a renegade who offers absolution, last rites ;
therefore a path to heaven outside the jurisdiction of the church and
unleashing fantastic powers . Alex enlists the aid of his old comrade
named Father Thomas (Mark Addy) . Meantime ,the father is attempting to
find out the bottom of events and he soon finds himself plunged into a
mystery only to find himself at the heart of it. 

This is an average suspenseful and horrifying story , based on a
screenplay by Brian Helgeland , also producer and filmmaker . The movie
begins slowly and grows more and more until the twisted , creepy and
eerie finale . Mediocre picture , thanks to passable acting ,
slow-moving pacing , middlingly mounted edition and skillful special
effects . The film contains restless terror and usual poltergeists
phenomenon . Passable acting by Heath Ledger as Alex , a priest sent to
Rome to investigate mysterious circumstances surrounding a strange
death and Sossamon as a troubled artist upon whom he once performed an
exorcism . Enjoyable secondary cast as Mark Addy , Benno Furmann and
special mention to Peter Weller , according to Brian Helgeland, did
extensive research for his role by studying old religious rituals and
histrionics. It is produced with little budget but well recreated with
high grade special effects that are frightening and horrifying to
spectator as when the sin eater carries out his abilities . It's
actually halfway decent terror movie that failed at the box office and
it will appeal to ghostly and eerie events fonds . Originally scheduled
for January 17, 2002, the film's release date was postponed when the
visual effects had to be redone because they were thought to be
unintentionally funny , according to a anonymous source close to the
production quoted by Variety magazine, the special effects depicting
sins exiting the human body after death looked like "calamari".

The picture packs a colorful as well as dark cinematography by Nicola
Pecorini and eerie musical score by David Torn . The motion picture was
regularly written , produced and directed by Brian Helgeland . Brian is
a prestigious screenwriter , he won both his Oscar and a Razzie award
the same weekend in 1998: He took Best Screenplay for L.A. Confidential
(1997) and Worst Screenplay for Kevin Costner's The Postman (1997). He
wrote the draft of the screenplay for Bourne supremacy (2004) but is
not credited in the final film. His directing mentor was Richard Donner
when they worked together on Conspiratión (1997) and then when Brain
started to direct Payback (1999). He went on working on scripts of
"Blood Work" and "Mystic River" for Clint Eastwood. An directed this
¨Sin eater¨ with Heath Ledger, Shannyn Sossamon, and Mark Addy all
previously appeared together in ¨knight's tale¨. The motion picture
will appeal to religious thriller buffs and dark atmosphere enthusiasts
.
<|_=00=_|>

The screenwriter poorly attempted to re-create the "Exorcist'. But put
in some blah-blah love story that makes you sick instead of keeping you
engaged. There is no substance whatsoever in this entire film. It had
the potential of being something special but blows it by showing a
bunch of people yack about things nobody cares about. Extremely boring,
I wanted to leave the theater when I saw this but the dumb movie
tickets were expensive so I had to withstand the dreary torture which
felt like it lasted forever. Nothing on screen connected relevance back
to whatever the characters were talking about.

They use computer graphics in here that instead of wowing me (as it
intended, I hate CGI) just ruined the movie even more. Some people say
this movie did horrible in the movie theaters because of how
"thought-provoking" and "slow-paced-without-action-because it's an
intelligent film" it was. What is so intelligent or thought provoking
when the story is basically about pretty boy Heath Ledger as a priest
who has a love interest and disobeys his religion? Seems like an
uninspired concept. Oh and there's some mumbo jumbo about the
"sin-eater" (movie was originally going to be titled "sin-eater"). Lame
concept but the movie took the "sin-eater" thing too seriously, making
the movie become pathetic and delusional about how dark and intelligent
it was. Yeah, I know there were really sin-eaters in the medieval times
but this movie just makes it sound cheesy.

Nothing in the movie was executed right and I forget why I even
bothered to see this movie. If you want horror films that actually have
depth, watch Rosemary's Baby, The Tenant, Naked Blood, Society,
Cannibal Holocaust, Pin, Exorcist, Omen, or any of the Romero "Dead
Trilogy" films. Nonsense dialogue does not equate to intelligence
people, mainstream movie fans think that though (same kind of people
that think a ridiculous movie like Hulk is a cinematic masterpiece). If
you want mind-numbingly boring horror, watch the Order. This movie
makes church seem like a roller coaster ride.

