

If two chicks sitting in stalls playing 'Battleshits' while the two
Indian and Asian 'heroes' hide between them suffering the sounds and
smells of scatological low humor sounds funny to you, then you should
consider seeing 'Harold and Kumar Go to White Castle.' My last stoner
movie, the remake of 'Starsky and Hutch,' was indeed Sunday school by
contrast.

Director Danny Leiner ('Dude, Where's My Car?') has taken this genre
and made a classic, not just because it exploits every possible ethnic
stereotype with zeal equaled only by 'Bad Santa's' decimating the
Christmas formula. 'Castle' has such fun imitating the roguish good
will of the Hope/Crosby road pictures while commenting on the egregious
weaknesses of parents and police that almost anyone who doesn't mind a
breast or two bared in the name of satire can laugh heartily at modern
adult pretensions and youthful indiscretion.

Harold and Kumar are trying to find an all-night White Castle after
experiencing the sudden yearning that afflicts almost anyone who has
had a 'slider' burger. Like that little square of fat and calories, the
pot and girls are just too good not to indulge now and then. The two
early twenties students, one a serious stock analyst and the other a
lazy pre-med genius, are like Hope and Crosby in their witty repartee
and canny ability to escape harm. Being delivered from the wrath of
seriously deformed 'Freak Show' and his siren wife doesn't deter them
from considering the affections of the battling babes or idolizing Neil
Patrick Harris in a cameo playing himself as a lethal womanizer.

More serious is the multicultural subtext about stereotyping (Asians
are nerdy number crunchers and Indians are overachieving medical
doctors, for instance) overturned by, for instance, morphing a
seemingly 'Joy Luck' club gathering into a raunchy party or exposing a
gang of mouthy skinheads as 'girliemen.' It's all pop-cult fun at our
own expense, something akin to actually enjoying the articles in
'Playboy' even if they weren't our reason for buying the mags.

My grandson Cody and I bonded once again, this time just laughing at
the silliness, enjoying the satire, and figuring how we could get his
dad to allow his young brother to see it, despite the lurid spots that
give spice and lend naughtiness to our increasingly dangerous lives.

If stoner comedy has a place in the satire canon, this is one of the
best.

<|_=00=_|>

OK, maybe I "got" this movie because I'm a recent graduate of an
ivy-league school (and I can relate to Harold and Kumar, and know about
200 people like them), but I didn't stop laughing. And I'm not a person
who is into "American Pie" type movies- yet this was still totally
hilarious. I think it is going to be one of those cult comedies, like
"Office Space" or "Old School" that people watch over and over again. 

Listen, don't go in expecting an academy award winning film, but just
go in ready to laugh. I thought the writing had real wit, not to
mention the hidden references and one liners that any film buff will
appreciate. 

Go see this movie- I really don't think it will disappoint. I'm a real
cinephile, I see everything and am usually quite picky, but I loved
this film!!

<|_=00=_|>

"Harold And Kumar Go To White Castle" is an amusing, hilarious comedy
not to be taken too seriously and not to be dismissed as just another
silly stoner comedy. Certainly there are plenty of elements which
appeal to those dophamine, "good times" movie-goers, yet there are also
some classic instances of comedic greatness. Aside from chronicling two
inane potheads on a quest to satisfy their appetites, "White Castle"
offers a great coming-of-age and funny coincidence premise, which
reminds us of the heavy, sadistic curveballs life hurls at us,
sometimes when we merely desire something simple and cannot attain it.
Here is a story of a simple goal by two simple minds: to find a White
Castle hamburger joint and fulfill the lasting effects of "the
munchies". Yet, as these two stoner friends come to realize, even the
seemingly simplest of goals in life can be impossible to achieve, due
to such disturbances as irony, circumstance, error, and misfortune, as
they are all encountered in this journey. The comic elements are
listless: stoner instinct-gone horribly awry, catastrophic error,
not-so-pleasant raunchy surprise, near-death escapes in the most
unlikeliest of ways, and the eventual finesse of overcoming all
obstacles to finally enjoy a binge at a hamburger joint. This is a
fresh, original, and satisfying comedy, and though it is nothing of a
brilliant production or a cinematic masterpiece, there are plenty of
the elements here which constitute for a barrel of laughs and a
genuinely entertaining experience at the movies. ***1/2 out of ****

<|_=00=_|>
It is no exaggeration or flattery when I say this movie is the funniest 
movie I have ever seen. I haven't laughed so much at a movie since.... 
never, seeing how this is the funniest movie I have ever seen.

What a great combination, a Korean guy and an Indian guy, both 
stereotypically known to be intellectually advanced. What was great 
about this movie was that they tackled modern day stereotypes and 
showed the stupidity in exploiting them. Also it showed the other side 
to these two minorities which is usually purposely ignored. 

This movie, as you see from the trailer, is about two guys who have the 
munchies and all they want is to go get some White Castle fast food. 
But this movie does not fall in the same category as Half Baked or How 
High; this is not another typical stoner film. It does not base its 
humor solely the idea of getting high, this movie is able to find humor 
in more then just that. Take the best comedic part of every movie you 
have ever seen and just combine them all together to make this one 
hilarious film.

I personally, being Indian found much humor in this movie, along with 
something else, a little pride in the fact that this movie did not 
portray the lead Indian guy to be just another book worm with a heavy 
accent. I really enjoyed this film. Definitely worth a second, a third, 
and fourth watch, and then some. Don't worry my not so Indian, white 
friend, sitting next to me, got just as much a kick out of it as well.

I don't know how many times I have to say it for it to sink it, but one 
last time, this movie is the funniest movie I have ever seen, it is 
hilarious!
<|_=00=_|>

We stuck our heads in this movie because we had 15 minutes to kill
before our movie started ("Collateral"). Surprise of surprises, we were
glued to our seats and didn't want to leave! We're NOT 20-somethings or
even 30-somethings, yet we found this entire movie eye-watering funny!
These two actors are great at their craft, and their on-screen
combination a perfect match. Our only regret is that we can't take our
14-year-old son to see it--the movie makes light of drugs and sex too
much for his age (in our "parental opinion"). However, it's no worse in
that regard than South Park or other hit movies involving college-age
adults (a la Animal House). In fact, it has many more redeeming
qualities than AH. Specifically speaking, the not-so-subtle (and
rightfully so) social commentary. We hope that part isn't lost in the
incredible humor. We HIGHLY recommend this movie to those of you who
enjoy movies like There's Something About Mary, Four Rooms
("Misbehavers" vignette), etc. Favorite scenes: two sorority types in
the restroom and the two African American men in the jail house!

<|_=00=_|>

I haven't laughed that hard at a movie in a long time. Being a fan of White
Castle and the talents of John Cho and Kal Penn, this movie was a sure fire
hit. Normally I would think a script about two stoners on a quest for White
Castle sliders would be boring, if not retarded, material... but this movie
just works. 

Let's face it - the stoner angle may not appeal to everyone, but their quest
is just too good/funny to pass up. There are more wacky moments than most
"buds hit the road" comedies can muster. Imagine Neil Patrick Harris (NPH!!)
playing himself - well, he flippin' does here, in a very funny, if slightly
disturbing, role. The comradeship between John and Kal is fantastic. They'll
probably remind you of two old buds from college - or maybe even hit closer
to home.

I'm not sure if it's the great delivery by John/Kal, maybe the writing, or a
both - this movie is really a great time. The whole theater was laughing - I
haven't heard that in A LONG TIME. Did "Bruce Almighty" do that? No. Did
"Envy" do it? Hell no. Did "50 First Dates" do it? Ummm,
no.

Bottom line - this is a good movie that actually delivers the
laughs.


<|_=00=_|>
The movie is absolutely hilarious. It's light years beyond Dude Where's
My Car?, or for that matter any stoner/dumbass flick I've seen in
years. This will be a cult comedy classic, one you watch ten times till
you know all the words. 

How many times do you get to see someone so excited over a giant bag of
marijuana that he dances slow-motion in circles with it, then marries
it, then bitch-slaps it because it served him bad coffee, then sobs and
hugs it, crying, "I love you honey!"? (This is a dream sequence, and uh
it's funnier that it sounds.) 

Or this description of seeing Katie Holmes topless: "You know the
holocaust? It was, like, the complete opposite of that, man!" 

Or when a med school admissions officer asks one of the lead
characters, who has a perfect score on the MCATs, why he doesn't want
to be a doctor. "Just because I'm hung like a moose doesn't mean I have
to be a porn star!"
<|_=00=_|>
With the title "Harold & Kumar Go to White Castle", how can one not see
this movie? Well, one could, and would be missing a very funny movie.
H&R is genius creative marketing, and the director Danny Leiner's movie
is actually funnier than it's trailer. The movie demographic is
probably from 15 to 25-- totally not mine. Written by Jon Hurwitz and
Hayden Schlossberg, the story is more hit than miss, with inspired
moments and a drugged out cool. Consequently, the humor can be gross
out bathroom humor. However, "Harold & Kumar" can be clever funny, and
has moments of comic genius. In the beginning, Kumar(Kal Penn) is
having a medical school interview, and the dean (a classically clueless
Fred Ward) asks him why he isn't already in school with his perfect
MCAT scores. Kumar says, "Just because you're hung like moose, doesn't
mean you have to do porn." I was rolling. John Cho and Kal Penn as
Harold and Kumar have a natural chemistry and are completely charming.
Cho and Penn overcome much of the movie's inconsistencies. 

Harold (Cho) is the straight Korean guy who works as an associate at an
investment bank. Kumar is the free spirited Indian guy, who interviews
with medical schools, but never accepts. That way his father keeps
supporting him. It's Friday, and one of the partners at Harold's firm
dumps a report on Harold, so that he can party with some babes--
unbeknown-st to Harold. The report is due on Saturday. Harold is not
having a particularly stellar day.

Kumar wants to smoke pot with his bud, regardless of Harold's deadline.
Back at their apartment complex, we meet Maria (a gorgeous Paula
Garces), the object of Harold's affection. Harold is in love with her,
but has yet to utter a complete sentence to her in their daily elevator
rides. So Harold and Kumar smoke weed and watch TV. Then they get the
munchies, and thus begins their quest for White Castle-- somewhere in
New Jersey. 

Give props to Leiner, Hurwitz, and Schlossberg for ignoring political
correctness and having fun with stereotypes. Even in this simplistic
comedy, this frames the story as the Harold and Kumar evolve-- after
the high subsides. The scenes where Harold is giving career advice at a
college Asian club meeting or where Kumar is talking with his father
and older brother who are both doctors at the hospital are funny, and
have an air of authenticity. Also the story plays off the fact that our
duo are perceived geeks and are targets of the Extreme Sports Punks. 

"Harold and Kumar" has some of the funniest scenes that sometimes blur
lines of taste. Regardless, it's funny. In their quest for White Castle
burgers and... getting laid, they end up at the home of mechanic
Freakshow (an unrecognizable Chris Meloni). The "threesome" encounter
with Lianne (the stunning Malin Akerman), Freakshow's wife, is hot and
hilarious-- more than the trailer tease which is good. Perhaps, H&K's
defining moment is when the high duo ride a cheetah through the woods.
You have to see the movie for this. Neil Patrick Harris as himself is
awesome. H&K pick the Harris on the road on the way to White Castle.
Amazingly, his character is integral to the plot-- really. Harris is
having fun playing against his own casting stereotype, and doing it
well. He is totally out there. 

You can figure out how this all ends. "Harold and Kumar" is not a
cinematic masterpiece, but it is a lot of fun. John Cho is a talented
reactive actor, some of his expression are priceless. Kal Penn is a
great smart guy rebel, and a good actor. The two together are a solid
comic team. I would see, for example "Harold and Kumar Go to
Disneyland".
<|_=00=_|>

When my best friend said that she was going to go see this movie, I
said I wanted to come, not even knowing what the movie was about, but
just so I could have a good time (and because I love White Castle). I'm
so glad I saw it. I can honestly say that I have never laughed so hard
in a theatre before. This is by far the funniest movie I have ever
seen. I love it!! Too good!!! I will definitely go to see it again! I'm
telling everyone I know what a great movie it is! Sure, there are a lot
of people that are going to say it looks stupid and it's for teens. But
seriously, people go to see movies to have a good time, and this movie
certainly delivers. If only those Oscar morons would start nominating
good stuff, I can say that this has a great chance to win. 

I can guarantee I'll be buying it the day it comes out on DVD!

<|_=00=_|>

Yes this film is rude, crude, over the top, full of choppy editing
(probably to ensure an R not NC-17)and sometimes cliché', but it works.
Yes there is plenty of Drug Humor and sex humor, but the funniest stuff
is actually the on going humor involved with racial inequality and
characters who learn how to break those typifications because of their
symbolic journey to White Castle. This film pushes the line between
being too crude and sometimes too smart for it's own good. The Acting
is Right on from the 2 leads and there are quite a bit of funny cameos.

This film is similar to the American Pie films, but substitute the
cutesy wootesy sub plots and messages with a realistic and brash
message about race and class equality and beating the typifications we
in life get tagged with constantly. 

The film has plenty of raunchy humor which acts as a great balance to
the theme. It does dabble with some stereotypes but the times the
stereotpyes are broken especially from Kumar who brings a light fun and
jovial spirit to the film and has some of the funniest moments.

At times the editing is so bad, especially when Kumar is peeing by the
bush.

The editing ruins a perfectly cast cameo which gets wasted it just ends
up making no sense because of obvious excessive cuts.

But overall I found it very very funny, and I did not leave feeling
stupid like I did after the funny yet inherently stupid Dodgeball, but
left thinking about these social and racial issues. Overall, I left a
funny satire with some strong points and ideas that sometimes get
overshot but still resonate . . . . a little anyway. Still funny as
hell though even if you miss the hidden almost subliminal message
within the film.

