
I'm a huge Jim Carrey fan; I've found with most people that you are or
you aren't. If you aren't a Carrey fan than this film may not be for
you...

I was very anxious for this film to come out once I heard it was in
production; however, after I saw a couple of reviews on TV it appeared
to be another clichéd holiday flick that featured a toned down version
of Carrey.

I made sure to keep my hopes low for this film just in case Carrey was
not in pure form; however, I was delightfully surprised. Carrey lights
up the screen once again with his zany antics and rubberface slapstick
comedy. The film, by far from my favorite Carrey movie will definitely
be added to my collection for not only Carrey's comedic stylings, but
also for its good acting (Baldwin, Leoni) and message.

Although I never did see the original, the present day story hits home
with current collapses of major corporations such as Enron, Worldcom,
and many others. Although this updated script seemed a bit unfinished
it was definitely worth the $6.00 ticket.

Teà Leoni, while at times was a bit hard to swallow made a good match
for her high energy movie spouse, Jim Carrey. She was able to come up
to Carrey's intensity with her constant anxious energy, yet throughout
most of the movie he out shined her as he does most of his movie
co-stars.

Another unmentioned quality that the movie has is its clean content.
The cussing is kept to a minimum and there is no graphic or violent
content; making it a great choice for a family film. My 6-year-old
niece saw it with me and she was laughing throughout and it kept her
attention! 

Although I did not give the movie a perfect rating mainly due to the
script and emphasis on plot, I would give this movie 3 out of 4 stars.
I would liken the film to Liar Liar with a watered down script. I would
definitely check out this one out - you're guaranteed to have Fun with
Dick, and maybe Jane =)
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie in a preview screening and I laughed so hard that I
had a headache by the end. I am really glad that Jim Carey has finally
found a balance between his physical comedy and things that are
actually comedic. The supporting cast was also excellent. Alec Baldwin
was very good at being a character whom the viewer would love to hate.
The story line was interesting and fast moving. It was a spot of light
shining on the sad times that followed all of the financial ruin at the
beginning of this decade. Although the movie was only about an hour and
a half long, it did not feel short at all. All in all it was a fun
movie that is worth watching if one really wants a good laugh.
<|_=00=_|>
"Fun with Dick and Jane" reflects, in many ways, what's wrong with our
society. We watch in disbelief as more and more CEOs are hauled up to
jail and how these unscrupulous people leave their once valued
employees to fend for themselves, as best they can.

Dan Perisot directs this remake of the 1977 Jane Fonda-George Segal
vehicle and brings it up to date. He counts with two actors that are
popular to present this new installment in a funny way, Jim Carrey and
Tea Leoni in the main roles.

Poor Dick finds out in the worst way the job he held has just
disappeared and must face reality. Dick and Jane must deal with their
sudden status as they see their electricity cut, their housekeeper
deserts them and Dick suffers the indignity of having to compete with
other unemployed, former colleagues, for jobs that aren't half as
glamorous as the vice-presidency he almost had.

What's a desperate man to do? Well, being a resourceful man, he must do
what he has to. Jane and Dick start a path into taking the law into
their own hands. 

In a way, Mr. Carrey, one of the producers, mixes a serious problem
with his kind of comedy. Jim Carrey is one of the best comedians
working in movies today, but he also has an enormous talent for doing
some serious dramatic work, as he has already proved. He is a dynamo in
the film and turns the situation Dick is facing into fun, in his own
way.

Tea Leoni, is equally suited to play Jane, the travel agent who
suddenly sees all those comforts she was used to, disappear, and must
adapt to her new circumstances. Ms. Leoni and Mr. Carrey do some funny
things together, making the film look much better than what could have
been. The supporting players, mainly Alec Baldwin and Richard Jenkins
make good contributions to the film.

"Fun with Dick and Jane" is a typical example of those holiday themed
films the studios love to unload at the end of the year.
<|_=00=_|>
Have we lost our humor in America? This is a very funny movie. In many
ways it's a dark comedy with a happy ending. But it moves quickly, is a
parody on timely issues and has some of the best physical acting you'll
ever see.

Jim Carrey and Tea Leoni work very well together. And while the 1977
original had two of my favorite people (whacko politics aside for Jane
Fonda because she was a hoot in Barbarella), I think this version was
more light hearted and more up to date.

I have a strange feeling that younger people didn't understand the
concept, 20-30's thought it implausible for them and people above were
frightened by its premise.

7 out of 10 for an entertaining time.
<|_=00=_|>
In previews and early reviews this movie was called "one of the
funniest movies ever" and I was eager to see it. But after a while it
began to get called "the worst Jim Carrey movie ever". I still thought
I should see it, being a big Jim Carrey fan, plus I haven't always
agreed with the critics. After seeing it I can't say it's the funniest
movie ever, but it definitely isn't the worst.

I have not seen the original version, but I'm sure there are some
modern plot twists and of course original jokes. There are plenty of
gags and funny situations that kept me entertained throughout and some
really good ones that made me laugh hysterically. Many comedies are
very silly which makes them so funny, but people have said that this
movie is just silly and not funny at all, I can't agree. While there
are some small parts that are just silly, the rest are not.

Acting wise it is quite good. Jim Carrey does his trademark craziness
well in this one. The rest of the cast do well too.

Overall it's a funny, entertaining movie. If you feel like a light
comedy with some good laughs, ignore the harsh critics and go and see
it.
<|_=00=_|>
Dick and Jane is a comedy I didn't expect to do very well. I wasn't
sold by the trailers, and another remake is something the world can
live happily without. Dick and Jane is an underrated hit though, and
Carrey and Leoni are remarkably not as annoying as they sometimes can
be. Carrey is, thankfully, as hyperbolic as the character of Dick will
let him be and Jane isn't as complicated a role for Leoni to fall on.
The movie excellently thanks corporations for its inspiration in the
final credits.

Dick has a happy, healthy upper-middle class family. A promotion to the
upper echelon believes him to convince his wife Jane to quit her job
and get that hot tub they always wanted. A sudden change in corporate
direction however, changes their future as they must resort to drastic
measures when the bills aren't getting paid.

I didn't find myself laughing as much as I wanted to for a movie. In a
year dominated by comedy-remake stinkers like the Honeymooners and
Bewitched, Dick and Jane is one of the better movies of the year to
watch. If you want a good movie to watch and understand a little bit of
corporate history, I recommend Dick and Jane for you.
<|_=00=_|>
This is the story of Dick, an ambitious marketing executive which is
promoted to the top just on the day his corporation implodes due to
some embezzlement scheme. The first 15 minutes (Dick's ascent) are
really very, very funny - that's Jim Carrey at his best.

The movie's best part is when you see Dick and his wife falling all the
way to level where survival is really a struggle - this is actually
very moving. Their ensuing blotched criminal career is on the other
hand not so funny as you might expect -- you have the feeling that this
is a very good serious movie trying to be funny just to meet the
public's expectations.
<|_=00=_|>
Jim Carrey does it again. Slapstick comedy but not the pie throwing
variety. it's a lot more subtle than the Ace Ventura movies but it's no
dark comedy either.

The movie is an extremely exaggerated view of Dick, Jane and kid coping
with loss of job, income, car, nanny, TV, grass (the lawn type not the
other grass), electricity, and even citizenship. 

Suspend your logic and have fun. There are escapes, car crashes,
robberies, illegal immigrants, job hunts, Bill and Hillary Clinton,
Bush ... if this doesn't perk your interest nothing will.

The best gag in the film is at the end just before the titles start...
don't miss the "Our Special Thanks To" part!
<|_=00=_|>
Jim Carrey is hard to beat in a role like this. He looks like the all
American yuppie - tall, clean shaven, well dressed, and in control of
his life - and his comedic delivery has been refined into a polished
riff. All is believable when he lets loose because you know this is a
guy who has a great sense of humor and he can get you to laugh until
you lose your breath without grossing you out or making you groan at
absurd silliness. Even while prancing or jabbing the air or contorting
his face, Carrey is - hands down - the sexiest comedian on screen
today. Tea Leoni is a good match for him because she too can be sexy
while doing pratfalls or ending up with mud on her face. This is a
dream coupling that should be repeated in more light comedies the way
William Powell & Myrna Loy were paired in The Thin Man series.

I found this remake head and shoulders above the original because it
had far more energy and there was more 'sympatico' in the match of
personalities of Dick & Jane. The new version also has a much more
important message about corporate shenanigans and its grave impact on
modern society. The film moves at a quick pace and was too short for
me, but that's only because I didn't want to leave these characters.
They became that fun couple you always invite to your get-togethers
because they are the life of every party.
<|_=00=_|>
Jim Carrey has come a long way since his early days on In Living Color.
He became a hit actor in the likes of Ace Ventura: Pet Detective (a
personal childhood favourite), The Mask and Dumb and Dumber. He tried
hard for an Oscar nom, but always contended with winning Golden Globes.
And for years now, he has basically been bouncing around dramas,
comedies, and dramedies. So now, he has tackled a remake (of a comedy
no less), and the results as per the last few years, are mixed at best.

Carrey is Dick, an employee at Globodyne (read: Enron) who is promoted
just in time to help sail the company into oblivion on television. He
tells his wife Jane (Tea Leoni) to leave her job only hours before
hand, and upon returning stunning home, realizes that he may be in a
bit of trouble. As the months go on, the pair's assets slowly begin to
dwindle, and hope for continued survival begins to evaporate. So with
nothing left to do, they turn to life of petty crime and hope for the
best.

It is not an original concept at all, but Carrey and Leoni do a valiant
job keeping this boat floating. While the film does have a few
hilarious moments, the rest of it is bogged down by mere snicker-filled
sequences or just scenes that are totally unfunny. It's not like these
two actors are having any trouble being funny, it's that the material
is not funny. Judd Apatow did wonders with The 40-Year-Old Virgin, but
he fumbles here pretty hard with his writing partner Nicholas Stoller,
who does not have nearly enough credits to his name. A parody on what
happened at Enron was inevitable, but this just seems lackluster and
barely thought out. Subplots are brought in, but barely resolved, and
the key storyline just feels very weak by the end. It's not terrible,
it just feels a tad bit incomplete.

The sorry thing about the entire film is the fact that much of it just
feels like an extended montage with little payoff. It is only ninety
minutes long, so it feels like a lot was trimmed down or cut right out.
But the film suffers as a result. If it was longer, it undoubtedly
could have had more potential for more funny moments, and as a whole,
feel more complete.

While Carrey and Leoni do their best, it's Leoni who gives a stronger
performance. Yes, Carrey is right at home with his zany character, and
totally overshadows Leoni in every single aspect. But he just lacks
that integral element of human comedy here, that made him so famous in
the first place. It's unfortunate, and makes me wonder if the old
Carrey will ever return, or if we'll have to contend with semi-funny
Carrey for the rest of his career. Leoni is much better, and feels more
in tune with what she's doing. 

Even more unfortunate is the wasted supporting cast does very little.
Alec Baldwin as the sleazy CEO Jack McCallister is sparingly unfunny,
as is Richard Jenkins as the right hand man Frank Bascombe, who spends
most of the movie drunk and not doing anything (besides setting up for
the finale). The rest of the cast has little to no screen time, or are
simply silly supporting characters that just feel like excess waste in
the entire scheme of things.

For all of it's faults, the film is a worth while watch. As said, I did
laugh at some of it. A bit of work on the screenplay would have
benefited everyone here. Just do not go in expecting a comedy classic
with Jim Carrey. If so, you will be sadly disappointed.

6.5/10.
