
I remember growing up on films such as The Firm, The Pelican Brief, The
Client, The Fugitive, films with enough plot twists and turns to keep
things fresh and interesting. I was more than pleasantly surprised to
see excellent performances from an otherwise pieced-together cast of
Ray Liotta, Taye Diggs, LL Cool J, Mekhi Phifer, Chiwetel Ejiofor, and
of course Jolene Blalock. I enjoyed every minute of this film whose
score and choice of background, and especially credit, music made it
all that much more memorable.

Personally, I love films in, around, or about the city. Without giving
anything away, Slow Burn deals with corruption and a little
gang-related mystery; all the while providing that sense of empathy for
Liotta's character that seems all too absent in modern films today.

No, this film is not for everyone, but if you can remember what it was
like to be genuinely stringed along and interested in what happens at
every twist and turn of those 90's film plots, then you should find
yourself feeling that you got you're 9.50's worth on a Friday night.
<|_=00=_|>
This wore out its welcome about 40 minutes into the movie and after the
halfway point, about 10 minutes later, I totally didn't care if our
girl here was innocent or guilty. The story just became plodding.

I am so glad it wasn't just me, that the first review I see here -
Mermaidbronze - felt the same way I did. I'll put it in simple terms:
this film was not as "smart" and "clever" as it thought it was. In
fact, it was stupid because it committed the ultimate sin for making a
movie - it bored the hell out of its audience, and an audience that
includes some "smart people" who can figure things out. A convoluted
movie is just that, and not fun to watch no matter what any viewer's IQ
might be.

Movies that revolve around the big question "Did he/she kill the person
or not" are either extremely interesting and involving or the opposite.
I found it un-involving, and when you don't care about the characters,
then you don't care who's innocent or guilty and the film loses all
effectiveness.

This movie was filmed in 2003 but not released until this year - four
years later! Maybe they knew it was a turkey.
<|_=00=_|>
I rented this on New Year's Eve to counter the boredom of Bowl games,
and found the movie to be surprisingly good. There was a compelling and
believable storyline (think of "Body Heat" set in a contemporary
northeastern city instead of lazy Miami), it was well acted and a real
thriller. I especially liked LL Cool J's performance, and Liotta was
believable as the White urban politico. I also liked that the movie
didn't shy away from comments (however simplistic) about race. Mekhi
Pfifer was useful in his role and Taye Diggs was hilarious with his
usual witty and sarcastic commentary. The female lead, Blalock also
gives a believable performance as damsel in distress. The Desk Sgt.
Drown character was quite funny. Comparable (but better) films would
include "Double Indemnity" or The "Postman Always Rings Twice". This
was a good yarn, well worth the 3 bucks I spent to rent it.
<|_=00=_|>
I rented this movie because of the actors involved - Ray Liotta, LL
Cool J, Taye Diggs, Mekhi Phifer and the great Bruce McGill. However,
the movie basically bored and confused me simultaneously. To put it
simply, it's just too messy. The movie touches on some interesting
subjects and has some potential - but the end result is, well, quite a
mess. 

Slow Burn seems to be quite inspired by "The Usual Suspects" - which is
by no means a bad thing. But it all just gets too convoluted. I lost
track of the tricks the movie tried to pull to surprise the audience
toward the end. It seemed pretty forced as did all the flashbacks
throughout the film. I will, however, give the movie credit for
"hiding" the bad guy really well - I didn't guess who it was, despite
being a big movie buff. The actors all do their jobs just fine, though
I think LL Cool J was somewhat miscast. 

All in all I would not recommend this movie. I guess there is a reason
it was held back for 2 years ;-)
<|_=00=_|>
I had not heard of this movie when me and my friend picked it up at
Blockbuster. It was between this and Be Kind Rewind and fortunately we
chose this movie. Ray Liotta plays a district attourney running for
mayor when his DA is raped by a supposed psychotic music store clerk
and then murders him. Liotta is taken on a roller coaster of a mystery
where you don't know who is telling the truth and if everyone is who
they say they are. There are so many twists and turns that it becomes
confusing at points but it all adds up to the ending which relieves
your confusion. I haven't heard of Jolene Blalock but she is excellent
in her role as the supposedly raped(was she or wasn't she?) DA who may
have some tricks up her sleeve. The only thing i had a problem with was
some of the dialouge. LL Cool J's ramblings about everything smelling
like food was a bit strange. Other than that it was awesome
<|_=00=_|>
I thought this was a great movie. It reminded me of the Kevin Spacey's
movie "The Usual Suspects". Yet I haven't seen a web site that
recommends it if you watched this movie. I have recently watched "The
Prestige". And I felt this movie had a Prestige ending. I was still
putting the pieces together hours after the movie had ended. I was
nearly going to skip this movie, because it was a 2005 film. And
thought it must be crap. Otherwise I would have heard of it before. I
only became aware, as it was coming up as a new release in the UK. So I
surfed the web looking for a trailer. The first 45 minutes of the movie
lays the foundation. With only one twist about the 20-min mark. But
after that the movie picks up and the twists keep on coming. Then
there's a fast ending that leaves you wondering what just happened.
Even though I have said that this movie is like "The Usual Suspects" it
is different and takes it to a higher level.
<|_=00=_|>
There are some movies that if you do not just hand feed the audience,
they assume that it is boring. Slow Burn has a lot of twist and turns
the movie is to be taken just as the title "Slow Burn". 

I enjoyed it and have watched it 3 times. The first time, I was
involved with doing something else and when I would glance up, I was
like oh, okay. But, you actually need to sit down and really get into
this movie. Action good, plot is good. There are a couple of underlying
plots that you have to watch for. You have all the things needed that
people request, drug lord, corruption, love, and sex. As the plots
thickens, the viewer should attempt to pull the plots away from each
other. Just relax, let the movie take its course. Girls you have some
of the top good looking men in the movie that's a plus. There are some
up and comings in the movie, that with a few more times, they will
survive on their on.
<|_=00=_|>
Ray Liotta as a DA running for Mayor who has trouble when one of his
best and brightest assistants turns herself in for shooting someone in
self defense. Complicating matters is a drug lord who shows up to tell
Liotta things are not as they seem.

Bad make up job on our leading actress aside this is a good but not
great little thriller that would have fared better as "made for cable
original" where the expectations wouldn't be that high. Give it points
for twisting and turning, take one or so back for being only a step or
two above most direct to video releases.

Worth a look but late on a Saturday night where this would be perfect
fare before bed time.
<|_=00=_|>
In the opening scene of "Slow Burn," an assistant district attorney
(Jolene Blalock) is found wandering the streets of the city, disheveled
and confused, informing those who find her that she has just killed a
rapist in self defense. The alleged attacker (Mekhi Phifer) was a man
she supposedly met one night in a record store and who then proceeded
to stalk her for weeks thereafter. Suddenly, into the head D.A.'s
office strides LL Cool J, as a friend of the deceased who has a
considerably different story to tell about the events leading up to the
murder as well as an entirely disparate take on the couple's
relationship. Things get even more dicey when we discover that the D.A.
(Ray Liotta) and the assistant D.A. have been conducting a torrid
affair of their own for a number of years now.

"Slow Burn" fails on so many levels of rudimentary storytelling and
film-making that it's hard to know where exactly to begin in compiling
a list of its shortcomings. To start with, there's something inherently
self-defeating and pointless in constructing a narrative from two
widely conflicting viewpoints - a la "Rashomon" - when one of the
supposed eyewitnesses is already dead and, thus, unable to personally
relate his side of the story. How does it enhance the verisimilitude of
the tale if most of our information has to come filtered down to us
through a secondhand source, a person who wasn't even present at the
events he's describing - unless, of course, he was hiding in a nearby
closet during all those "intimate" moments he is able to recount in
such juicy and exhaustive detail? Either that or the murder victim was
one of the chattiest, kiss-and-tell gossips in the history of the
movies. And why does it take till the closing reels for the supposedly
intelligent professional investigators to smell a rat in that setup?
Eventually, the twist-and-turn plotting leads to so much incoherence
and confusion that you might well wonder if the filmmakers themselves
understood what it was they were doing.

Beyond the clumsy, inscrutable storytelling, "Slow Burn" also suffers
from some of the most overripe dialogue this side of "The Black
Dahlia." With such knee-slapping howlers as "She stood there like a
tangerine, ripe and ready to be peeled" and "She walked in smelling
like mashed potatoes and every guy within thirty feet wanted to be the
gravy," the script could easily win First Prize in a Bad Film Noir
Writing contest. It's hard to believe at such times that the film isn't
actually intended to be a parody (the acting sure suggests it on
occasion). On second thought, perhaps it would be best to stick with
that notion; it just might go down easier that way.
<|_=00=_|>
"Slow Burn" (2005) is a neo-noir but not a good one, mainly because the
story confuses us, leaves so many loose ends and progresses badly. Some
of it is clear enough, but important parts are not. There is no feeling
of resolution to the story. Mainly we experience the frustration of the
prosecutor, the Ray Liotta character, who cannot seem to sort anything
out.

The central premise is very implausible, which is that a mastermind
named Danny Luden runs the city's rackets through a multi-city and
multi-million dollar combine and Liotta doesn't know who he is or what
he looks like, only that he exists. In fact, Liotta even has in the
past brought a fake Luden to trial. We understand that Luden has a
scheme afoot to dispossess the current occupants of a portion of the
city so that he can build a new development and profit handsomely on
real estate appreciation. And we do get to see Luden at the end and
identify him, although the revelation has no impact. But how this ties
in with everything else is murky, way too murky and disconnected to
make a compelling story.

Tied in with him somehow is an assistant d.a., a white woman who is
passing for black, played by Jolene Blalock. She's involved in some
scheme and in the murder of her lover, an innocent guy she intended to
use for her (or Luden's) purposes somehow. Yet at a critical juncture
in the story, Liotta and we are denied information about what exactly
happened to this young man who was killed.

Enough already. I looked through the film a second time and still could
not decypher it. It has all the look and atmosphere of a neo-noir. Its
story has all the uncertainty and corruption of a neo-noir. But there
is a limit. One still needs a story we can grasp. That's not the case
here for important parts of the movie. I'd rate this about 4.5 if I
could.
