

As soon as I saw the preview to this film I wrote it off as a silly Matrix
rip-off trying to attack a subject that is so tired (vampires/werewolves). 
I really never had any intention of seeing Underworld until my girlfriend,
who saw it in theaters, repeatedly suggested I watch it.  After watching the
DVD just now I must say that I enjoyed it a lot.  I was completely into the
story, which is surprisingly rich and engaging.  One would have to be a bit
naïve not to admit that Underworld does indeed borrow from a variety of
action films, most notably The Matrix.  It should be obvious to any
free-thinking person that none of the ideas present in Underworld are
original, but what this film does well is take ideas that were established
in the past and build on them more.  This is by no means a carbon copy of
any of the films from which it borrows from.  Slow motion gun battles didn't
originate with the Matrix films.  The most refreshing aspect of this movie
is the story, which surprisingly has many layers and puts a totally fresh
new spin on the vampire/werewolf stories.  This aspect, along with the
excellent visual effects makes Underworld an enjoyable experience.  A sequel
for this is inevitable, and I must say that I'm really looking forward to
it.  Underworld was a very pleasant surprise. 

*** out of **** stars

<|_=00=_|>
I knew I was in trouble when I saw the previews for this film, I loved
them.

I know I would love this film. I knew that I would take much flack for
loving this film. I know that I would not care. I did, I did and I
don't. People who complain about films like this should spend more time
at the library and less time at the cinema, and even less time telling
everyone else how smart they are and how silly films like this are
beneath them. Cut it out. Film is an art form about light, the lack of
light and the bending of light, I thought the light was marvelous. What
do you want from a film about a war between vampires and werewolves?, I
know what I wanted and this film delivered. It was stylish, amusing and
well paced. This film was a testament to people who know priorities, no
big money star vehicles, just fine actors, young and old, wonderfully
silly duologue, played straight, appropriate screeching metal music and
lots of shooting and many scenes of Kate Beckensale doing her thing,
marvelous. I adore Ms. Beckansale and this film almost allowed me to
forgive her for "Brokedown Palace"....almost. I can't wait for the
sequel, I will be there when it opens, to blazes with all the snobby
nae-Sayers who are unable to appreciate the genius of lines like "You
are acting like a pack of rabid dogs" delivered, straight faced, by the
disgusted head of the Lycon community and for the Amazing Ms Beckansale
who managed to be every bit as sexy as she was in "Haunted" without
removing any of her clothing...any of it, a true movie star if there
ever was one.
<|_=00=_|>
I can understand why some people were unwilling to give this movie a
chance. I started out thinking, OK, so Anna Valerious from Van Helsing
is now a female Blade! I was wrong! I also went in thinking it was
going to be a push button movie with no real twists.

Again I was wrong.

I didn't really see the twist coming at the end (surprising, since I
figured out who Kaiser Sosay was!) I liked this move for a lot of
reasons. The darkness in the movie wasn't oppressive. The acting was
good, and the story strong.

I give it a 7 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
Everything you've heard from the critics, everything you know about
vampires and werewolves, everything that is standard in most
fantasy/action films. Then you'll enjoy this film. I, unlike a lot of
fans, will not claim that this is a move masterpiece, I will not claim
that this will change movie making history. I, however, will go against
the critics and say that this is a good film. Not getting a chance to
see this in the cinema, when it came out on video I rented it out
immediately. Now, at first, I could see what the critics meant it
wasn't how the trailers depicted it and the script and acting in places
was a bit rusty. I put it back and gave no more thought to it. However
I soon found myself thinking about the film and the bits I'd enjoyed. I
soon realised that this was good because it wasn't conventional and I
couldn't stop thinking about it. There had been so many plot twists, so
much to take in that I knew I had to see it a second time. This time I
bought it, on DVD, and I found myself watching it again and again. This
film gives you wonderful villains and just when you start to hate them
something nastier comes along or they give you a motive which makes you
confused. In one film the world which you are presented with at the
beginning, Lycans (Werewolves) vrs. Vampires, is thrown into doubt.
There are no longer good and evil, it is no longer this side versus
this side and our hero Selene is stuck in the middle. The thing is
every villain in this film seems to be fully justifiable in their
actions yet completely nasty. I was trying, after falling in love with
this film, to work out where it went wrong. I realised there was too
much. You are thrown into this world and you have to keep up, there is
no chance to sit down and work things out. That comes after seeing the
film, this world explains itself through the characters actions. It is
as if this world is real and we are meant to know about it already.
Their is a history, their is a false history, their are legendary
characters and not all of it is gone into in particular detail. Pieces
of the world's history are just thrown in by the characters, as they
would be in real life, with no long detailed explanation. That mixed
with the cliff hanger ending, the promise of more characters from the
past. MEans that even if you weren't sure about this film, the sequel
Underworld: Evolution looks like it will be amazing.
<|_=00=_|>
The "Underworld" sequel will soon be out so now is a good time to
revisit the original. Personally I enjoyed this film more than any high
budget "mainstream movie" I have seen in years years. But I can see
many of the problems others have pointed out. Although the small action
scenes work very well, the more elaborate scenes are disjointed,
confused, and somewhat silly. If you compare the opening subway
sequence to the train station sequence in "The Untouchables", you see
an illustration of why less is better; and "Underworld" expends more
ammo for less effect than anything this side of a "Godzilla" film.

Along with too much aggressive confusion is the silliest head-splitting
in cinema history. Similar to the way Tarentino dispatched Lucy Lie in
"Kill Bill Vol.1" (i.e. a delay in the actual detachment-I don't know
which film did it first but Tarentine did it way better), the effects
editor overlooked the need to show a slice in the head before it
topples off. Surely this was just simple incompetence and not
deliberate, because there are ways to show this (i.e. a line) that
would still make it a relatively shocking scene.

The story itself breaks too many horror genre conventions and fails to
generate much real suspense (although the climax is somewhat
surprising). But ultimately these problems did not interfere with my
enjoyment of the movie.

This was because it is first and foremost a Kate Beckensale's vehicle,
as emphasized by recent trailer for the sequel. It is likely that your
feeling about the film will depend on your impression of Beckensale.
She has never looked better and I'm just talking about her face which I
could watch in closeup for two hours without the slightest complaint.
She is increasingly an absolute ringer for a 1940-ish Loretta Young. An
earlier comment noted that: "This 30 year old has the figure and face
of a magazine model, with the bored flat expression to match. Pour this
tight little body into a rubber suit with especially reflective pants
and you have something to anchor your movie". All this is very true but
add intelligence, subtlety and nuance not seen since Diana Rigg was
playing Mrs. Peel. The film does not demonstrate her range (you have to
watch "Alice Through the Looking Glass" for the best evidence of that)
but it is one of those rare cases where you can't imagine anyone but
her in the role.

The production design, lighting, and cinematography are all excellent
and the DVD has some great features explaining these aspects of the
production.

The film has a nice consistent look that fits very well with the story.
I don't understand the comments that are negative overall, or what
films these people are unfavorably comparing it to, can't be the
garbage films that have been coming to mainstream theaters over the
past few years. Bottom line, if you like the genre, appreciate stylish
production design, and think highly of Ms. Beckensale you should make
it a point to see this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I have just watched Underworld for the second time, and I was gratified
to discover that it was every bit as good as I remembered - if not more
so. No two ways about it; this is one terrific movie.

The action scenes and some of the special effects could be better, but
the movie has utterly superb style, mood, plot and acting! The story
itself is probably the best vampire-slash-werewolf story I've
encountered (though admittedly I don't know many, as I'm not really a
horror fan), and the ending is just fabulous.

I also just love the thing about the chief vampires sleeping for
predetermined periods of time, and are then revived - this is
incredibly cool.

And the whole thing is borne aloft by the great skill of the British
lead actors - particularly hard-hitting cutie Kate Beckinsale,
wild-eyed Michael Sheen and that late bloomer of a genuine acting icon,
Bill Nighy, who gives an unflinching performance.

It won't be long now till Underworld: Evolution comes out - and I'm
just thrilled at the prospect of seeing more of this stylish world! If
they can fulfill my expectations of the sequel, I will be making an
upward correction of my rating of this movie from 8 to 9, because then
we'll have a larger universe which makes sense in a larger context.
That's how a good movie franchise should function.

Crossing fingers!
<|_=00=_|>
When Underworld was release in the theaters I didn't bother seeing it,
because of the bad reviews. I recently rented it because the video
store didn't have anything better to offer, that I had not already
seen, and I must say that I was very much surprised. It was far better
than expected. I especially liked the acting of Bill Nighy as the
vampire lord Viktor, and Micheal Sheen as the werewolf leader Lucian. I
think that the plot is quite strong, and it does not ruin the vampire
or werewolf legend. What i didn't like as much was the werewolf
costumes. I didn't find the convincing. But apart from that, it was
very entertaining, and I am looking forward to see the sequel i the
theaters.
<|_=00=_|>

"Underworld" is no ordinary horror movie.  It tells the tale of a secret war
between vampires and werewolves (or as they're called here, lycans).  Kate
Beckinsale stars as Selene, a lethal assassin on the vampire side.  Scott
Speedman plays Michael Corvin, a man who finds himself wrapped up in this
brutal war.  This movie is rather well done, despite all the blood and
graphic violence.  The look of the movie is dark, Gothic and brooding, which
fits very well with the story.  The script is interesting, using science to
bring the vampire and werewolf legends into the modern age (such as saying
the lycans are allergic to silver).  The story of the bitter rivalry between
to two mythic characters would make a fascinating prequel, and the sequel
should follow "Underworld" with real impact as well.
<|_=00=_|>

I loved Underworld. But I love most decent Vampire or Werewolf films,
so that's a bit biased, eh? Basing the two species on a genetic,
scientific idea makes them work exceedingly well, and removes all those
problems that mysticism brings to a film, like reflections or holy
items. This Vamp-Werewolf model make explanations easy, rather than
requiring long prologues or in-depth discussions. The whole 'virus'
idea is logical, and easy to follow. It's slick, modern, fast-paced
action combined with classic, Gothic Vampire & Werewolf ideas, like the
Vamp's high-tech weapons being kept in a massive, stately manor. I'm a
real fan of the whole colour scheme, with few colours used in any one
shot, and blues used for almost everything, keeping it looking cool,
and sleek. I am also a Kate Beckinsale fan, and I love Action films
that don't use women like an extra person to shout 'watch out!' or hit
someone over the head. K.Beckinsale's character is great for this, it's
someone who could easily be a guy. (Although, I'm thinking the outfit'd
need a bit of enlarging if it were)

<|_=00=_|>
Let me start this review by saying that, while this work is NOT scary,
it was not MEANT to be scary. This production was classed into the
genre of "Horror," strictly due to the "monster" factor. There are
"tense" moments, to be sure, but this is not a "boo!" kind of movie.
There is; however, plenty of action, lots of well enacted drama and
wonderful realistic effects. I was actually amazed with the apparent
lack of high-dollar effects, the almost Rice-ian Vampire clans lounging
in the well designed lush and lavish "mansion," the gritty tension held
throughout the movie, and the stunningly clever costume designs. But
what held me mostly in thrall were the effects.

The effects were so well done, they were believable. They explain that
the older Lycan can change at will, regardless of the moon's
cycle...with that in mind, the way the werewolves' mandible bones
FORCED themselves out and into place was dead ON. Changing at will
would BE like that, especially in times of anger or great stress.
Someone (possibly Wiseman?) had heard (and correctly believed) that
"less is more," because the effects were done in such a way as to
appear REAL and not...simply more Hollywood "Matrix" flash. 

These scenes were so well done; so well directed, filmed and portrayed
that we could, even if for a short time, believe the things we were
watching...were possible. The wonderfully unique bullets used by both
sides are absolutely brilliant. It reminded me if the horribly campy
western/vampire movie made about 10 or 15 years ago entitled,
"Sundown," where the vampire hunters used wooden bullets.

I am simply stunned to discover that this is Len Wiseman's first
attempt in the field as Director. I eagerly look forward to more
brilliance from this man. (He was also one of the writers of the
original literary work.) If this is his first attempt, we may have just
been introduced to the next Spielberg. Personally, I'm hoping he leans
more towards being the next Hitchcock. 

The weaponry Selene (Kate Beckinsale) utilized was quite unique and
completely interested the small audience in my hometown theater. When
she drew her stars and threw them simultaneously at the Lycan; when the
scene slowed to an almost stop just long enough to allow you to SEE the
throwing stars as they CHANGED into much more deadly projectiles, was
absolutely excellent. AND was also the ONLY scene in this entire movie
which even remotely reminded me of "The Matrix." The other critics keep
droning on and on with comparisons between these two movies, and
frankly, I just don't see it. 

Also, "Blade" has been used as a source of comparison. The only
similarities between "Blade" and "Underworld" are that Viktor, the
oldest and strongest of the Vampiric race of "Pure Bloods," uses a
sword. Oh, and there are Vampires. Those were the ONLY common points,
as far as I could tell. This is an original work; not a petty rip-off
or a "jumble of other movies." This is a very creative and unique
attempt; a successful one, if you ask me. 

While guns were used more than I would have liked, the additional
weaponry chosen for this endeavor was not your standard action-flick
fare. One of the vampire "Death Dealers" uses a pair of 10' whips quite
well. And don't forget about the bullets I mentioned...what an
extraordinary intellectual and creative power. 

The costumes were kept simple, yet served the purpose of helping to set
the mood. Two words...understated elegance. Absolutely brilliant. Some
have said that the story line is hard to follow, or that there is no
discernible plot. Let me be frank. This is not a movie for the
squeamish, nor is it a movie for those who like to be able to NOT
concentrate on the plot. Sure, there is enough visual eye candy to keep
most casual fans of the genre entertained, but there is also a very
complicated and beautifully sinister plot and subplots going on beneath
the flying bullets and shots of Kate Beckinsale's butt in latex and
leather. 

The Shakespearean relationship between Selene and Michael (Scott
Speedman) is well written and pleasantly portrayed, in the midst of all
that darkness and drama. A bit of candle-light to shine hope into the
darkness of despair, as it were. The story is an upgraded spin on a
timeless classic, with enough additional plot and sub-plot to keep even
the most common movie-goer interested. The war between the Vampires and
the Lycan has raged for more than a thousand years. The Lycan, once the
serving class to the Vampire, had risen against their masters and won
their freedom. But was that the real story? Was their freedom truly the
motivating force which stoked the fires of this war for this long? In
the center of this war are Selene (Vampire) and Michael (Lycan). Their
love of one another is forbidden by every Vampire Covenant written, but
will that be enough to stop them from falling in love? 

As one of the chosen "Death Dealers," an organization within the
Vampire Clans trained and equipped to hunt and kill Lycans, Selene is
faced with a decision most dire: sell out and live? or be true to
herself and die? Will her loyalty to her ancient maker keep her from
making the right choice? 

And that is where the sub-plot kicks into overdrive and makes you sit
back and say, "Oh wow! No kidding?!" at the darkling twists in the
plot. I was thoroughly entertained by this work, and cannot wait to add
the DVD to the Vampire section of my horror collection. Superb acting;
rich depth of character; talented, creative directing; and realistic
effects put this movie at the top of all other Vampyre movies, for me. 

It earns an ambitious 9.7/10 from...

the Fiend :.
