
I wish I had some brilliant words to wrap up this epic, but I'm just
exhausted by it. After being bombarded with elaborate fictions and
heaps of minute detail for the past 6 hours, I've got nothing much left
to say. My attention was frequently drifting, and I got the impression
that you could walk away for a while and not miss much. Of course, the
same could be said about THE FALLS, but the difference is I never felt
like walking away during that movie. Perhaps because it's not as
overwhelming, or maybe just because it's funnier. Whatever the reason,
as much as I admire Greenaway and the massive amount of work and
thought he puts into his films, I've had quite enough of him for a
while. I will say this movie does have a nifty ending, one that puts
Greenaway and his stand-in Luper in an interesting new light. But as a
whole, I found it much more tedious than the previous two installments.
Although who knows, maybe it's a diminishing returns thing and I'd feel
the opposite if I'd watched them in reverse order.
<|_=00=_|>
Peter Greenaway brings his phenomenal trilogy of Tulse Luper films to a
dark and elegiac close with 'From Sark to Finish'. 

World War II is coming to an end, the Cold War is looming. Death is
everywhere - the Danube is clogged with the corpses of murdered Jews -
the great power blocs of East and West are squaring up for their
glowering stalemate. Somehow, Tulse - like the rest of us - must steer
a course through the barbarism and insanity of the world, surviving in
one prison only to end up in another. 

Greenaway works remorselessly - and brilliantly - against the
saccharine dictates of mainstream commercial cinema. One character, who
deals with the aftermath of the Holocaust in a seemingly flippant and
sickly humorous manner, suddenly announces "I had better not wake up
and find this is real", before running off to impotently scream out his
disgust and horror into an empty metal canister. Later, when Tulse is
trapped in the stultifying claustrophobia of the Cold War, he shows
very simple, and yet utterly futile, basic human kindness to a
distraught girl who is as much a prisoner as he is. The hero cannot
save the damsel in distress - all he can do is bring her a basin of hot
water for her bath. 

And yet, Greenaway's boundless invention and flair (brilliantly
realised by his cast and crew) illuminate every frame, turning what
could have been a depressing slog into a profoundly moving,
thought-provoking, invigorating experience not quickly forgotten.

I recommend this film (and the whole trilogy) to all who are looking
for richer, deeper, more challenging, and thus more inspiring work than
can be found in mainstream cinema. "From Sark to Finish" is a beautiful
and (in then older sense of the word) 'terrible' film - a worthy
comment on the blood-stained 20th Century from one of our greatest and
most consummate visual artists.
<|_=00=_|>

The Tulse Luper Suitcases is Tristan Shandy gone haywire - or Monty Python
taken to even more absurd depths (my university English professor would be
proud that I have remembered reading Tristan Shandy_ - The contents of the
suitcases are revealed one by one : Suitcase number twelve : frogs. 92
Ways
of Representing the World: #5 The bath. The number 92 is derived from the
element number of uranium in the periodic table. Uranium - the purest of
substances.

Tulse Luper is a detailed clerk, devoted to minutiae and a interminable
scribbler who writes to the edges. His writings are being typed up by a
huge
host of female typographists whose only job from 9 to 5 is to type
everything up he ever wrote by hand in an effort by the stationmaster and
party propagandist to decipher the intent of Tulse Luper - and moreover to
discover if he is a spy.

It is a multivisual experience with sights and sounds coming to you from
all
sides. This is only part 3 of an ambitious 16 part treatment of the
history
of Tulse Luper.


