
Interesting. Intense. Somewhat original. All words to describe a
conversation with Johnny Betts. But they also apply to Michael Keaton's
White Noise. What we have here is a ghost story that tackles the
subject of electronic voice phenomenon, or, as the cool kids like to
call it - EVP.

For those of you who, unlike Johnny Betts, aren't master ghost hunters,
EVP is the alleged communication by spirits through the white noise of
staticky radio stations, television stations, and other electronic
devices. People truly believe in it, and if you do a quick search on
the Internet then you can find plenty of websites with audio files they
say prove the existence of EVP. Detractors will brush this off with
explanations of the "chaos theory" and cross modulation. I'll let you
do your own research if you're interested in the subject.

If you're looking for a factual exploration of EVP's possible
legitimacy, then you won't find it in White Noise. This is a movie that
takes a subject popular with ghost hunters and glorifies it. It reminds
me a little of The Mothman Prophecies, which was a fictionalized
account of what was supposed to be a "true story." I have no problem
with that. That's what movies are all about.

Michael Keaton crawls out from underneath whatever rock he's been
under, does his best "Bruce Willis in The Sixth Sense" impersonation,
and dives into the world of receiving messages from the dead. Folks,
you can nitpick the logic to death if you want, and trust me, most
critics are. "Why would he just put his successful life on hold and
spend all his time trying to receive messages from his wife through a
bunch of radio and TV static?" Dunno. The tragic death of a spouse can
do weird things to people. Plus, you know, IT'S A MOVIE! And in the
movie, he actually does receive messages from the dead. I guess he
figured he'd try it; it worked, so he got more involved. Lighten up.
It's called fiction.

"Yeah, well, if his wife wanted to contact him, then why wouldn't she
send him clearer messages? Why does it have to be through static?"
BECAUSE THAT'S WHAT EVP IS ALL ABOUT! Take it up with the proponents of
EVP, not the movie. I totally agree that one of the things that makes
so many people skeptical about EVP is that the messages are never
complex. If I heard an EVP that said, "Tell Johnny Betts that the
afterlife rules, and he should keep the Movie Mark going strong," then
I'd probably be convinced. But what we get is a lot of one syllable
words and sounds strung together. That's not the movie's fault. Deal
with it and move on.

As some of you know, I'm a huge fan of the thriller/horror genre.
Admittedly, White Noise isn't one of the best of all time in the genre,
but that's OK. It didn't convince me to run home, record a static TV
channel for hours, and then play it back to see if Uncle Jack was
sending me a message from the great beyond. Like an apology for that
little streaking stunt that completely ruined my 16th birthday party.
However, what the movie did do is entertain me. The mystery is
deliberately paced, it kept my interest, and it provided some creepy
moments along the way.

Things start to get pretty intense near the end of the movie, and some
people might not be happy with the finale. But keep in mind that trying
to communicate with the dead is a bit of a dark subject. Some people,
as the movie depicts, think that if they can contact their dead
relatives then they'll have hope, they'll know all is right in the
afterlife. They want some sort of message for closure. But I'm just
curious, what if that message is, "Burning. Hell. I screwed up." ???
I'm guessing that'd be a bit of a kick in the pants.

But getting back to the movie... if there's good in the afterlife,
there has to be evil as well, right? In the movie, contacting the dead
initially seems harmless enough. But why would you think only the good
would respond if you create that human/afterlife portal? What would
happen if evil decided to communicate as well? White Noise has a
viewpoint on that subject, and you can't expect everything to be cute
and cuddly.

Now if you'll excuse me, I'm gonna take a closer listen to this static
coming from the radio. Let's see. Sounds like Uncle Jack! I can just
make it out... "Johnny. Reviews. Not funny. Quit. Now." Um, yeah, just
as I thought - nothing but a little cross modulation! THE GIST White
Noise is an interesting take on the ghost story, using the subject of
EVP as its backdrop. It isn't what I'd call scary, but it's got its
share of creepy moments and effective jump scenes. If you're looking
for a docu-drama on the scientific accuracy of EVP then you might be
disappointed, but if you're in the mood for a few chills to start the
year then White Noise just might suit you.

Rating: 4 (out of 5)
<|_=00=_|>
White Noise is a film that takes a true scientific phenomenon, and
makes a film out of it. The phenomenon is one which involves electronic
recording/broadcast equipment. In amongst white-noise (that crackle and
hiss you get on a blank recording) and static on untuned TV reception
there are voices and images discernible. Sometimes these voices have
been clear enough to work out, and many people believe they are the
voices and images of those who have died, trying to contact the living.

In the film, Michael Keaton plays Jonathan Rivers, an estate agent who
loses his wife. When he is approached by Raymond, a man who lost his
son years ago and claims he has heard from Jonathan's wife, it draws
him into the phenomenon, and pretty soon he becomes obsessed, recording
his own tapes and viewing/listening to them for messages. Then,
suddenly, the messages become clear, and seem to be premonitions. Can
he decipher the meaning of the messages, or will he disturb something
best left alone? I was uncertain going into the film what to expect.
Too many times the film world have come up with a great concept, but
failed to deliver anything more than mediocre when it is a horror
subject. Expecting another Godsend, I was pleasantly surprised to find
a pretty good film, with some nice touches, and chills. Admittedly the
story wouldn't look out of place on X-Files, but unlike the recent The
Forgotten, it manages to feel complete, and doesn't seem to take the
easy option at the end.

The direction by Sax (best know for his TV work such as Tipping the
Velvet, Dr Who, Clocking Off, and Spitting Image to name a few) is more
than sufficient, and he uses the white-noise to great effect. A little
buzz here, and flicker there all serve to unnerve, and you could be
forgiven for thinking you are watching another Japanese adaptation.
There are a lot of similarities to eastern horror throughout, the use
of silence the unnerve, the distorted images in the TV sets, and so on.
Only the occasion "music to let you know you should jump" lets down the
tone.

Nevertheless, with a well woven script which doesn't pander to the
lowest denominator, and a sterling performance from Michael Keaton, who
hasn't really had a presence on the screen since 1998s Jack Frost, make
this an enjoyable little movie which deserves a viewing or two.
<|_=00=_|>
I recently was allowed to view this movie at a press screening. I can
tell you as a professional ghost researcher, the portrayals are quite
realistic and believable. The characters are accurate and the subject
of Electronic Voice Phenomena is well represented.

It is a Hollywood-esquire movie in that some things are portrayed a
little bigger than real life, but that in no way detracts from the
believability of the movie. It has none of the fantasy that things like
"Ghostbusters" bestowed upon a naive audience. 

I loved this movie. Truly. It touched me on a personal level. It made
me think about some of the more risky possibilities of my profession.
And some parts really made me jump in my seat!

See it. At least twice.
<|_=00=_|>
Jonathan Rivers (Michael Keaton) is a successful architect. His wife,
Anna (Chandra West) is an even more successful novelist. When Anna goes
missing one night, they fear she is dead. Suddenly, an odd man named
Raymond Price (Ian McNeice) shows up and tells Jonathan that his wife
has been trying to contact him from "the other side", via Electronic
Voice Phenomena (EVPs). Rivers also gradually gets wrapped up in EVPs,
which lead him to some unusual situations and the heart of a mystery.

I had a very divided reaction to White Noise. Some aspects were
excellent, but in many ways, the film had potential that was never
actualized. There are also some flaws that kept drawing me out of the
film's universe. Overall I felt the film worked, but probably not as
writer Niall Johnson and director Geoffrey Sax intended.

Let's talk about what the film did right first. The major assets, as
mentioned in the title of my review, were the production/set design,
cinematography and overall atmosphere. The latter largely hinges on the
first two. The production/set design and cinematography were nearly
perfect. Everything was focused on the idea of white noise, especially
the most well known visual depiction of white noise--television
"static" or "snow". The credits introduced a motif of jarring
intrusions of white noise, which occasionally recurred throughout the
film (although perhaps not enough). There were clever instantiations of
a visual "white noise" theme in the sets, such as the outside waterfall
on the lower level of Jonathan's apartment building, and the wall of
glass blocks inside his apartment. The color scheme was white, silver
and blue, washed out so that the film had an almost black and white
feel. There were also more abstract references to white noise, such as
the running water motif (water dynamics are mathematically chaotic, as
is white noise, which is also thought of as being literally random),
and the arcing electricity. All of this combined to provide a
wonderful, gloomy atmosphere, and in another film, would easily
compensate for any minor flaws to bring the film up to a 10.

However, there are a number of problems with White Noise. Keaton's
performance was the major sticking point for me. He seems aloof and
brooding throughout the entire film. While that may have been perfect
for Batman, it doesn't work for me here. Both McNeice and Deborah Kara
Unger (as Sarah Tate) were fine, but their roles were minor enough to
not be able to carry the film. I usually like Keaton a lot, and I can't
say that I dislike him here, but his performance is very odd and
off-putting.

Another problem was the pacing. For a long time, White Noise may as
well have been a realist drama. While that's fine for other films, it
also doesn't tend to work in a horror/thriller. The only directors I've
seen really able to pull that combination off effectively are Alfred
Hitchcock and M. Night Shyamalan. It takes so long to get to the
horror/thriller part of the story that many people likely either lose
interest by that point, or they're interested because they'd rather see
a realist drama, and the more supernatural ending will be unsatisfying
for them. The pacing also doesn't fit with the white noise/chaos motif.
This is a film that should have been edited like a Michael Bay vehicle.

Finally, I had a number of problems with the story. One, there are
quite a few superfluous elements (such as Jonathan's son). Two,
although I'm not someone who usually complains about genre
combinations, there was an attempt to make White Noise both a
"benevolent spirit" story, ala Ghost (1990) and a Ring (2002)-like
otherworldly threat. The two just didn't meld. Three, the thriller
aspect, which enters primarily at the climax of the film, seems too
tacked on to engender an appropriate emotional reaction from the
audience. And four, the supernatural aspects and especially the "twist
revelation" of the ending are very rushed and unpleasantly ambiguous,
possibly in an attempt to hide the fact that the plot in these respects
wasn't very well thought out. There is a tremendous amount of potential
in the script, and it is entertaining enough to marginally recommend,
but this seems more like an early draft that was rushed to completion,
or possibly a film that suffered a lot of studio meddling.

The bottom line is that while there are enough positive elements to
make White Noise worth a watch to serious genre fans and students of
film-making, do not expect the story to grab you by the short and
curlies, and do not expect much of a resolution. Enjoy the film
primarily for its visuals. I'm generously rating the film a 7 out of
10.
<|_=00=_|>
What a shame it is when a potentially captivating and refreshingly
low-key story manages to latch onto your interest at the start and then
gradually lets you down further and further until you're left
scratching your mystified head by the time it reaches its overdone
conclusion. Unfortunately, this is what happened to me by the end of
WHITE NOISE.

It wasn't Michael Keaton's fault; it was a pleasure to see him return
as the star of a brand new movie once again, looking a bit wrinkled
perhaps, but still managing to give a strong and sincere performance.
As a man whose wife has recently died, he becomes obsessed with her
wandering spirit in the afterlife (not a new idea), apparently getting
contacted by her through that funky electrical fuzz business you see on
your television screen when there's nothing being broadcast.

The idea of spirits communicating via the airwaves is called EVP
(Electronic Voice Phenomena) and there are a lot of people who actually
believe in it for real, so I'm not going to make any comments about
what I think of that, or them. Let me just say that I'm all for
suspension of disbelief when it comes to buying into fantastic films
like this, but what I can't tolerate is not understanding what the hell
was supposed to be taking place, which is about where I was left
stranded when the credits finally began to roll. Much static indeed.

There are occasionally movies like this that have me completely
baffled, but if a film fails to make itself clear for me, I tend to
consider that to be the fault of the filmmaker, not my own (unless I
watched it while I was too tired to focus or something). Well, for
WHITE NOISE I was wide awake, bright-eyed and bushy-tailed -- so guess
who's to blame?
<|_=00=_|>
I first heard about White Noise when I saw the TV advert. Before then I
didn't even know it existed. I watched the trailer online and decided
that I would go and see it. Now being a fan of films like The Sixth
Sense, I thought that this film would give me everything I wanted. It
has Michael Keaton in it, and he rocks. Unfortunately the film did not
deliver. It tried to be another Sixth Sense or Stir of Echoes, and
failed miserably. It has a very promising start, but the middle just
drags on repeating itself, and ends with a completely poor twist which
any monkey could have figured out. Unfortunately like most "Scary"
films nowadays it relies on loud noises and bangs to make the audience
jump. This film could have been so much more. It's a shame because it
was a good idea.
<|_=00=_|>
Absolutely one of the worst movies of the year. The plot is ridiculous,
the characters poorly developed, and the premise irritatingly stupid.
It all begins when Michael Keaton, fresh off of doing nothing
noteworthy since Batman, loses his beautiful author wife, Anna, to a
car accident, possibly caused by her driving one of those convertible
VW bugs even though she's supposed to be rich. In his grief, Batman
moves to a new apartment and takes up a hobby: recording nothing and
then watching it. He learned this from a really fat pathetic guy who
got murdered by three tall shadowy fellows who lived in his TV. Pretty
soon, he starts to see dead people, thanks to EVP, or Electronic Voice
Phenomenon, which is evidently this deal wherein dead people can send
messages to living people through tape recorders, video cameras, dead
cell phones ("Anna cell calling? But she's...DEAD!...Must be ghosts.
Mhmmm. No other possible explanation. I'd better start messing around
with this indiscriminately.") etc. Why they can't just write something
down on a piece of paper or knock over some stuff to form creative
pictograms is never explained. ANyway, eventually Batman discovers that
he's actually seeing the future, and he decides to go help this woman
he doesn't know. He gets out of his house just in the nick of time,
because the tall dark guys enter just after he leaves ("D*mn it! Can
travel between the living and dead using electronics, but I'll be
d*mned if we can be on time! Am I right guys? (They nod in bemused
agreement)."). He tracks this lady to a warehouse and finds out that
this character from the first ten minutes of the movie (look hard, or
you'll miss him!) is actually a serial killer working for three tall
shadowy demons, who in Raiders of the Lost Ark style swoop down and
kill him, looking like the cartoons that they are. Just then some
detectives show up and save the lady. After Batman's funeral, he
decides to send a message from beyond the grave apologizing to his son
for being an idiot, evidently feeling that the best way to protect his
kid from the horrors of EVP is to expose him to it. The little kid just
smiles. Nothing phases that dude, not even when his dad, Batman of
course, starts talking to TV's. The high-point of the movie was when
someone's phone rang and some guy yelled out, "It's Anna!"
<|_=00=_|>
It has been a very long time since I have seen a movie and actually
thought it was scary. I was very surprised when half way through this
movie I thought I may have broken my husband's hand because I was
squeezing so hard. While the beginning of the movie is a little slow,
it pulls you along because you can sense something is going to happen.
When it does, I was not disappointed at all.

I thought the acting was great even though Michael Keaton is not aging
well. It was filmed entirely in Vancouver and was beautiful to watch.
The traditional scary effects are used well and wisely and you will
jump, despite preparing yourself for the scare. While I am not a
believer in ghosts, this movie made me think and forever question and
fear white noise.
<|_=00=_|>
I frequently comment on the utter dirth of truly scary movies on the
market, and sadly White Noise only served to reduce my faith that the
film industry remains capable of such an endeavor. I was surprised to
find myself growingly increasingly fatigued as the plot wore on and my
static-induced headache increased. I found White Noise to be
preposterous beyond our best efforts of suspension of disbelief. Even
after witnessing the harrowing ordeal sustained by Michael Keaton, I
was totally unaffected by his demise. Up until the credits I diligently
awaited for something--anything-- of substance to connect me to the
characters' story, but such relief never came. Sure, there were the
occasional heart-stopper moments, but only because loud noises tend to
do that to the dozing viewer.

While the acting was lame, Michael Keaton may have played his studliest
role to date. Perhaps the only redeeming quality that White Noise has
to offer is the stunning archietecture in both of Keaton's abodes.
Overall, White Noise leaves one with the morbidly depressing idea that
those who die are trapped in a world guarded by three malicious
shadows, contriving to trick the living into following the dead to
their own graves.
<|_=00=_|>
What you bear with you when you go to this movie will affect how much
you enjoy this picture. If you go with an intense curiosity for the
subject of EVP, but have no prior knowledge of it, you will be somewhat
disappointed, as the picture does not explain the the phenomena
adequately. If you go in a bona fide skeptic, you are likely to leave
as a disgruntled skeptic.

As for me, having had prior knowledge on the subject matter, I went to
this movie quite eagerly, and was only slightly disappointed. The film
did depict a newly widowed man's grief, and the desperation that
sometimes follows such a loss. Although not many will go as far as to
attempt contact via electronic devices, we can identify with the
protagonist's need for closure. for who hasn't longed for that last
conversation, kind word or even a farewell from a deceased loved one.

The actors were proficient in their roles, and a number of scenes left
me quite shocked and unsettled. That is saying quite a lot, as I've
tried my hand at contacting the spirit world before, but have never
seen such a frightening experience as that endured by the protagonists.

The only things that detracted from the movie was its ending and its
confusing pace. Although the first third of the movie went at an almost
too slow pace, it was easy to follow. The latter 2/3s of the program
could get confusing, and almost felt like some one stomped into the
studio whilst they were filming and said "Come on then! Get a move on!
We haven't got until Gabriel's trumpet resounds!" It simply went to
quickly, hence my decision to see it twice. Not to spoil anything for
those who have not seen this picture yet, but the latter part of the
movie left matters to be desired.

The generous rating is warranted however, for creating an interesting
movie around something as time-consuming and often unrewarding as EVP
is quite a feat in and of itself. True, they have embellished things
quite a bit, but if they hadn't, they'd not attract as wide an
audience. The special effects were done well, and the director did the
splendid job of keeping the audience tense for the greater part of the
picture.

If you purchase the DVD, plan to watch it twice or thrice to get the
most enjoyment out of it. Remember to watch also with an open mind, and
at least some prior knowledge to the EVP phenomenon. Happy watching.
