
As an American of Cuban parents, I had always heard the political
rhetoric about Cuba as I was growing up. All the while I longed to see
this beautiful island which my parents sadly left behind. Though Andy
Carcia's film was not filmed in Cuba (it was filmed in the Dominican
Republic) it gave me a chance to see a "Cuba" I had only heard about.
As for the film itself, the conflicts of family, politics and love in
the film is beautifully portrayed to reflect what has been a painful
truth to a great number of Cubans. I definitely recommend this to all,
Cubans and non-Cubans alike. I hope Mr. Garcia gets due recognition for
this beautiful body of work. By the way... Is there an accompanying
soundtrack album? The music was phenomenal!
<|_=00=_|>
That is the one word that can describe this movie. This film truly
gives a remarkable portrayal of the events leading up and after to the
Castro Revolultion. This is a labor of love for a Cuban-American actor,
writer, and director for all his people and should be appreciated by
the masses. While it discusses a political rhetoric, it is complemented
by a painful love story between a man, his brothers, his parents, and
the woman of his life. Even for people who know extensively of the
history of Cuba, this is definitely something worth seeing for
aesthetic reasons as well. Andy Garcia has done a remarkable piece of
work and a great homage to the Cuban people. As a
Cuban-Colombian-American living in Miami, this film means a lot to me
and to many others. !Viva una Cuba libre!
<|_=00=_|>
I think that for those who do not know what happened in Cuba during the
revolution, this movie is a great film to watch (no matter what the
critics believe). Not only do we learn how it happened, we also learn
about the struggles of the Cuban people. As in a work of art,
everything in this movie has meaning or significance. The story is real
and is expressed with sentiment... a romantic, but also nostalgic
feeling. Also, the movie captured many details of the Cuban culture
(including family values). Finally, I'd like to add that to watch a
movie about Cuba without the glamorizing of the revolution or any of
its leaders is like a breath of fresh air. Andy Garcia is a genius!
<|_=00=_|>
As an AmeriCuban who remembers her visits to Cuba as a small child, I
was very touched to see on screen the Cuba that I knew was not just in
my dreams.

What an excellent job in picking places that can make you really think
it was filmed in Havana! You can feel as if you are really there! There
are those who wonder how Andy Garcia could have portrayed Cuba so
realistically when he left the island as a 5 year old child. But it is
at those very young tender years that impressions are made that stay
throughout ones lives. My early trips to Cuba have remained very vivid
in my mind. I understand him so well.

You can feel that he put his all in this movie. Countless Cubans can
relate to the story that is told. What a heart-wrenching moment when he
leaves Cuba and his only keepsake is taken away from him! How many
Cubans must have passed through this same scene?

The music warmed my soul. I would listen to it over and over. 

And that last scene! well, I don't want to give it away. You have to
see it.
<|_=00=_|>
Born in 1962, in the mist of the turmoil, I left Cuba in 1967 thanks to
the "Freedom Flights" at the age of 4. It was about time a film like
this was done. I commend Andy Garcia and all involved for its
historical accuracy. I am grateful for the "Ficos" of the time, like my
parents. What courage and resolve. If history is not to be repeated, we
must embrace it, learn from it, and not wash it from our memories.
Incredible acting, music, scenery (thank you Dominican Republic). We
need to remember "where we've been" so as to know "where we're going" -
bring plenty of tissues; one box is just not enough. The only reason I
gave it a 9, as opposed to a 10, is because I would have really liked
to have seen some time dedicated to the family, specifically, the
brothers, in their youth. The important relationship of the Cuban
family would have been better understood if we had seen it from early
on. The significance of the family nucleus, born of the parents'
rearing, is crucial in the story of the Cubans. The relationship
between the uncle and his nephews was synonymous with that but could
have been further developed.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is done within a specific framework where a Hollywood
expectation of values would encounter a clash of perspectives due to
its uniqueness. Taking into account certain limits such as budgetary
restrains etc. and what appears to be a lack of support by the
mainstream media in our country (USA) for this type of projection it
seems to me an almost colossal achievement on the part of Mr. Garcia to
produce and direct this classic of all films. The Lost City reminded me
of a Dr. Shivago of the Caribbean done with incredible charm, taste and
subtleness. This is not just a work of art but an act of love which
cuts through the midst of a cultural maelstrom of rejection which every
Cuban lover of justice and freedom has had to endure. Yes Andy you have
achieved your goal and done it to perfection. Cuba and all lovers of
freedom will forever commend you. Enrique E. Oliver
<|_=00=_|>
As a Cuban Americans living in the USA since 1960, due to Castro's
revolutions in Cuba, we are very proud of this movie and Andy Garcia's
work and effort. We highly recommend this film; because for the first
time that there is finally a movie that depicts the reality of Castro's
revolution. A most see film about the catastrophic effects of Castro's
Revolution in the Cuban family. Plus the fact that the cast, music, and
directing are superb !!.Beautiful settings and photography. Andy
deserves a sound track Oscar nomination for the well perform and
coordinated music that clearly represents the rich and influential
music of the period. Thank you to, Andy, Dustin, Steven, Bill, Enrique,
Nestor and everyone that made this film possible.
<|_=00=_|>
An excellent movie with a small budget. Andy did a wonderful job on his
first attempt. I am sure we will see more of him as a producer. Of
course there is room for improvement and I think that if he
concentrates in the details of the production without having to act at
the same time we will probably see this improvement in his next work.

I liked the music specially the showman that portrayed Benny More. Also
the choreography was very good and the dancers where spectacular, in
particular the fellow that participated as a solo. The guy playing the
trumpet at the beginning and end of the movie was superb.

It gives an overall picture of the history from that period in the
island nation and without being documentary it respects the motives and
shortcomings of any historical process such as this one.

Thanks Andy for this movie, and keep up the good work.
<|_=00=_|>
Critics all over have trashed this movie on account on its politics,
angry at the way García has depicted Che Guevara as the real murderer
he was, at the way he has portrayed the profound injustices and
oppression of Fidel Castro's regime, at the way it does not conform to
the sympathetic view Hollywood has always had about the Cuban
Revolution. The movie suffers sometimes from the inexperienced hand of
a first-time director, the lack of the epic budget it needed, and the
poor acting of Inés Sastre but it is not a bad movie, not at all. It's
an extremely entertaining film that uses its modest resources with
great care to give us a dignified, sincere, notably balanced and very
emotional document of the terrible experience of the Cuban people.
Don't believe the extremely biased reviews of The New York Times, The
New Yorker, and other media. Go and see it. Music lovers will enjoy a
splendid mix of popular and classical Cuban music, and a great original
score which will make a nice CD.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is phenomenal. It is accurate down timing and historical
figures. The love story is entrancing and the emotions strong. It is an
incredible work of love on the part of Andy Garcia and is studded with
some of the brightest stars of Hollywood. Though the truth of many the
occurrences are sad, its a sorrow which needs to be shared so that many
can understand the hardships which have been experienced in that
country. None the less, the happy moments make for it. There is a very
powerful theme of family and its importance to the Cuban culture. In
fact, at one point, you almost swear your watching Andy Garcia back in
his role as a Corleone. Also, Bill Murray plays an incredible role
incredibly well. He adds an enjoyable aspect of humor to the movie.
