
A few years ago I saw this remake of the sixties classic with the Mini
Coopers for the first time and I remember liking it a lot. Now, about
two years later it was shown on television and I just wanted to know
whether I would still like it as much as when I saw it in the cinema.
Well, the answer is yes.

The movie is about a team of robbers that will do one final job in
Venice, Italy. The plan is flawless and the execution perfect. They
escape and won't have to work for the rest of their lives. But there is
one problem they didn't take into account: Someone within their own
ranks doesn't like to split the loot, but wants to keep it all for
himself, even when that means he will have to kill the rest of the
crew. But all but one survive and they are out for revenge. One year
later, in Los Angeles this time, the surviving team members create a
smart and devious plan to steal back the gold and get their revenge on
the traitor...

The story on itself is of course not very original, since this is a
remake of the original 1969 movie, but it has plenty of goodies to
offer to make you forget about that. This is a typical heist / action
movie but it certainly is one of the better ones in its kind. The
action is very nice, the landscapes and Venice are real eye-candy, the
story is OK and the special effects are stunning. Even the acting is
very good, something which you'll not often see in an action movie. I
must admit that I really liked what I saw and I give this movie a well
deserved 7.5/10.
<|_=00=_|>
The Italian Job is a real blast to watch. It's a genuinely entertaining
film, something you watch just for the sheer enjoyment of it. It's not
heavy with drama or emotional hand-wringing, it has no cosmic
statements about life, and it's not violent or profane. It's just a fun
movie. Between watching the little Mini Coopers fly around the crowded
streets of L.A. and the great bits by stereotypical computer
geek-turned-crook (played gleefully by Seth Greene), I had a lot of fun
watching this film.

Special kudos to the background music. They truly set a masterful tone
for such a movie, so subtle yet keeps you on the edge when needed.
Apparently a lot of artists contributed to the music, I found it to be
the classiest part of the film.

8 out of 10. Not awe-inspiring but a great film to watch at the end of
a lousy day at the office.

Barky
<|_=00=_|>

Over the last few months, I have seen a lot of reviews for The Italian
Job,
many of them negative.  The gist of almost all of these pessimistic
criticisms is that, for all its modernistic bravado and high-budget
technology, the film doesn't have much substance where it counts.  Look,
people, it's just a fun movie.  This is the type of picture where you're
supposed to sit back, relax, and just enjoy the steady-moving pace of the
film.  Like Ocean's Eleven (2001), you can concentrate on the characters
and
the plot at the same time without having to do much thinking (lucky for
some
of us).  Granted, "Ocean" is a better movie, but who cares?  The plot may
have some holes (there's a huge one about 3/4 of the way through), the
action may not be as gratifyingly gratuitous as the trailers made it out
to
be, and some of the dialogue may seem pointless and cheesy, but again, who
really cares?  Cool characters, Mini Coopers, big explosions, Charlize
Theron.  What more do you want?  I think it's time to drop the fake Roger
Ebert meets Gene Shalit act and enjoy yourself for once!  Oh, and another
thing, whatever you do, don't compare it to the original because, to
reiterate what F. Gary Gray has told the press a million times, THIS IS
NOT
A REMAKE!!  My advice- if you're interested in nit-picking your way
through
a good-humored, fun flick, don't even bother seeing The Italian Job.  But,
if you don't have a severe inferiority complex and/or want to see Ed
Norton
get jacked by a bunch of Ukranians, go ahead.  The Bottom Line, my fellow
moviegoers, is: Lighten Up and Have Fun, Dammit.
<|_=00=_|>

If you are looking for a film that is quick witted and won't bore you then
this is the place.  It is fast paced and funny with some decent acting
comeing from the characters.  It is always hard for me to see Mark Walhberg
as anything except Marky Mark.  That image is burned in my mind forever.  As
an actor though he is pretty good.  This movie is a must see for action fans
who like to see a few little twists and turns.  I will have to pick this
movie up one day and buy it.
<|_=00=_|>
My reaction to this remake of "The Italian Job" is probably hopelessly
mixed up with the events occurring in my life when I saw it; This is
the first movie I saw after I had just landed a job after 8 months of
unemployment and going back to school for retraining. Money was still
tight, but I no longer had to choose between seeing a movie in the
theaters and paying bills (or eating lunch), and the sense of relief
and gratitude I was feeling at the time was enormous. In consequence,
my enjoyment of "Italian Job" was probably far out of proportion to its
actual worth. 

Still, I picked it up used on DVD a few weeks ago and watched it again,
and I still enjoyed it immensely. I have never seen the original
(though I have heard it is an absolute classic), but its modern day
counterpart is eminently watchable if you have a taste for modern day
production values applied to older films plots and themes. 

What initially won me over to this movie was the soundtrack - IMO Don
Davis writes some of the most supple, textured and aurally pleasing
soundtracks around. IJ opens with a sly, witty, pulsing arrangement
that combines strings, guitar harmonics, brush work and quiet moments -
it won me over completely from the opening seconds. And the whole movie
is like this - I haven't heard this kind of ringing, chiming, pulsing
soundtrack music since Stewart Copeland left the Police and started
doing soundtracks for movies like "Rumble Fish". There are at least a
dozen irresistibly scored motifs in here, along with some pop song
remakes that range from "all right" to "inspired". For people to whom
the soundtrack is important, this movie is a delight. 

On to the movie: I can take or leave Mark Wahlberg, but he's okay here
as the leading man, and the movie doesn't ask him to do anything he
can't do well. He's the weakest "major" actor in the film, but that's
because the rest of supporting cast is so strong, especially Donald
Sutherland in a bit part. Mos Def, Jason Steadham, Ed Norton, Seth
Green and Charlize Theron all turn in solid, fat-free performances.
Norton seems to mostly be phoning it in (rumor has it that he didn't
really want to be in the film), but he's still a natural even at 1/2
power. My one quibble with the casting and acting is with the character
"Wrench", who seems to be a male model pretending to be an actor. His
part seems to be shoehorned into the movie, and he has little chemistry
with the rest of the cast (although you can blame some of that on the
size of the part and the "late walk on" nature of the character). If I
were a cynical sort,I would wonder who the actor slept with to get put
into this movie in such a supernumerary role? Nah, never happen...

Production values, camera work, stunts, plot...everything cooks along
quite nicely and Gray and his production crew pull things together
pretty seamlessly (with the exception of the "Wrench" character, see
above). 

The dialog has a nice, light touch that rewards your indulgence, and
there are several satisfying major and minor plot payoffs along the
way. (My favorite moment - when Norton's character tells Wahlberg's
character that he's just lost the element of surprise. Wahlberg
proceeds to cold cock Norton with a right cross, and then asks him,
"Were you surprised??" Hmmm, maybe you had to be there...) 

Of course the movie requires a certain level of "suspension of
disbelief" to work, but if you just relax and go along with it (and
don't think too hard about the mechanics of cracking a safe underwater,
or the likelihood of anyone being able to successfully hack and
manipulate LA traffic via a laptop, etc), you'll have a fun ride. 

"The Italian Job": it's lightweight summer fluff, but it's very good
for what it is, and it doesn't try to be anything else. It isn't good
enough for an "8" but I'd give it a "7.5".
<|_=00=_|>
I enjoyed the movie very much. Everything in The Italian Job is simple.
An explosive guy, a safe-cracker, a computer genius, a wheel-man and a
man with a spectacular plan of stealing 35 million without using a gun.
This film is entertaining although it has no central idea. It is a
non-stop movie with lots of actions. All the stunt work is gorgeous.
From the speedboat chase in Venice at the beginning to the chase on the
busy roads in Los Angeles involving three mini coopers and even a
helicopter. The best boast chase I have ever seen. I like the mini
coopers. The expert thieves used mini coopers for the getaway cars. The
chase between the mini coopers and the motor-bikes is amazing. They
chased underground. I can say there was not a moment I was bored. Mark
Wahlberg (Charlie Croker), Charlize Theron (Stella Bridger), Donald
Sutherland (John Bridger), Jason Statham (Handsome Rob), Seth Green
(Lyle), Mos Def (Left Ear) and Edwin Norton (Steve) really did a good
job. I like the actors in this film. I have seen a lot of heist movie
but The Italian Job& is one of my favourites. A great Hollywood action
movie without a drop of blood. After all, I do love this kind of movie.
<|_=00=_|>

I went to see THE ITALIAN JOB with mixed reviews in my head.  I was
pleasantly surprised with an entertaining close to 2 hours.  I thought the
cast was just great and so were the special effects, with the safe and truck
just dropping out of sight.  If you like fast paced action movies, this is
the one to see.
<|_=00=_|>
I wonder how many MINI Cooper automobiles were sold thanks to this
movie? It couldn't help but add to the sales of this little car, which
is featured in this film, along with an attractive cast.

This is a very, very entertaining heist-and-chase film. It features a
"cool" cast with Mark Wahlberg, Charlize Theron, Edward Norton, Seth
Green and Jason Statham.

The best chase scene is right at the beginning with a boat pursuit in
Venice, Italy. The film doesn't overdo the violence, has a pretty
intelligent script (with a few short exceptions). features interesting
characters and is nicely firmed. The cat-and-mouse game between Norton
and Theron's characters is suspenseful and fun to watch.

Once again, however, we are manipulated into rooting for criminals
portrayed as "the good guys." How many times has this happened since
the days of "Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid" in the 1960s? It's
twisted Hollywood, for you. In here, one of the criminals (Norton)
stole and killed the leader and father figure (Donald Sutherland) of
the gang, so he's the worst of the bunch and the film's villain. Also
Theron's character is in the typically overblown-feminist mode of
Hollywood in which women can do all things (including driving a car)
better than a man. A third minor irritation is Seth Green's smug,
smart-ass attitude which we also are supposed to go along with because
it's hip and cool. 

Despite these hindrances, it is an extremely entertaining movie and it
also doesn't overboard on the profanity or sex....and, yes, those
little cars are cool. Everyone I've talked to who has seen this film,
enjoyed it.
<|_=00=_|>
John Bridger's gang of thieves are double crossed and left for dead
after a daring gold raid in Venice. The surviving members regroup and
convene in L.A. to enact revenge and recapture their gold.......the job
is on!

This could have been a complete disaster, I'm British and the wave of
revulsion that boomed in my homeland upon hearing of this remake was
explosive; "how dare they remake a British institution" was the cry.
Things were not helped in the run up to the film's release by it's main
star {and drawing card} Edward Norton, proclaiming that the film was a
contractual obligation and that fans of his work would be better
advised to give The Italian Job a miss!

Had to be a stinker then surely? Actually no it isn't. Director F. Gary
Gray hasn't remade the Italian Job of 1969, in fact he hasn't even
re-imaged it, the minis are in there, the gold is in there, but all the
stand out moments so beloved by many in the 69 film of the same name
are not to be seen at all. So what we get is a very cool heist-come
revenge movie-that's maybe a tad too glossy at times, but it's got a
pretty sharp script, tight action sequences and a group of actors
working very well as a team. Mark Wahlberg, Mos Def, Jason Statham,
Seth Green and the delectably delicious Charlize Theron all come out
smelling of roses, whilst Edward Norton really had no cause for concern
because his portrayal as Steve is a smarmy delight.

I have jokingly titled this film Ocean's 5, but that is in no way
detrimental to The Italian Job, it lacks the jazzy coolness of
Soderbergh's Ocean's 11, but its a fun and enjoyable picture all in its
own right, its rating of just under 7 here on IMDb is actually spot on.
7/10
<|_=00=_|>
This is a woeful Hollywood remake of a classic British film. Everything
that made the original "Italian Job" entertaining has been bled out of
this festering sore of a movie "scripted" by Donna and Wayne Powers and
listlessly "directed" by F Gary Gray. I am amazed that Troy Kennedy
Martin (the screenwriter of the original film) allowed his name to be
used in the credits for this pig's ear. Martin has worked on some of
the finest film and TV projects of the last 40-odd years. Even being
vaguely associated with this stinker is NOT A GOOD THING.

The humour is forced, the drama is laboured, all the characters are
cookie-cutter likable crims (with the exception of Charlize Theron's
implausible, beautiful safe cracker/rally driver)and the plot only
matches the original on the following points:

(1) Three Minis (the modern BMW-made versions, but Minis nonetheless)

(2) Use of the names Croker and Bridger for 2 of the main characters

(3) Disrupting a city's traffic control system to provide a safe route
through it.

(4) Er, that's it.

Otherwise, what you get is a bland and implausible American
by-the-numbers heist movie in which a gang of jolly pirate chums
eventually get the better of their evil associate. Believe me, it feels
like an awful long time before they do. The cast do their best with
what they're given but it seems that they all accepted it as a
turd-polishing exercise after reading the script. None of the original
film's quirky nature and distinctly British flavour has survived being
fed into the Hollywood hamburger machine. 

Do yourself a favour and watch the original 1969 movie instead of this
sucking chest wound. It's a wonder that Noel Coward hasn't done an Aunt
Nelly, jumped out of his grave and kicked the teeth of everyone
involved in this tepid remake halfway down their throats.

Italian Job? More like Italian Jobbie.
