

OK, I admit it. American Pie movies are tasteless, goofy and hilariously
stupid...but I love them! This movie, in my opinion, was the best in the
series because it was...well, the funniest. And also a little touching. You
grow kind of attached to the characters and it's nice to see them moving
ahead in life. If you don't like grossness and ridiculous situations, then
this film is not for you. It'll probably appeal to people in the 13-18 age
range most, but pretty much everyone who watches it will laugh at least
once.
<|_=00=_|>


There's one thing you have to say for `American Wedding': like the two
`American Pie' films that came before it, it is unapologetically unashamed
of its shamelessness.  Here's a film that doesn't try to hide its gleeful
perverseness under a bushel of coy double entendres; instead the film
revels
in its frank and openhearted treatment of sexuality and lust.  `American
Wedding' is clearly a comedy about sex and it doesn't pretend to be
anything
but.  Whether this is a good thing or a bad will, I suppose, depend on
your
own affinity and tolerance for jokes and images that routinely push the
boundaries of common decency and good taste.  In fact, the film wears its
tastelessness almost as a badge of honor.  And just in case you're
unfamiliar with this series and its brand of humor, subtlety and wit are
not
considered virtues in an `American Pie' world.

In `American Wedding,' Jim and Michelle - he a self-described pervert and
she a self-described nympho - have finally agreed to tie the knot.  The
film
centers around Jim's attempts to convince Michelle's square, uptight,
sexually repressed parents that he is indeed husband material for their
less-than-innocent daughter.  The problem is that his efforts are
consistently being undermined by the inane, out-of-control antics of Steve
Stifler, the foulest-mouthed, dirtiest-minded professional adolescent this
side of Bluto Blutarsky.  Seann William Scott, in fact, steals the show as
Stifler, providing an over-the-top manic energy that is both endearing and
infectious.

Indeed, without Stifler, there would be precious little to recommend this
particular `American' outing.  The jokes and setups, for the most part,
are
crude and graphic without being very imaginative, and writer Adam Herz and
director Jesse Dylan, even when they hit on an inspired piece of silliness
(as when Stiffler winds up dancing mano a mano with a guy in a gay bar),
end
up diluting the humor by letting the scenes drag on well past the point
where they're truly funny anymore.   This is not to say that there aren't
a
few good laughs in `American Wedding,' just that they don't come often
enough to really lift the film much above the ordinary.  Luckily, the
funny
moments increase a bit in the final stretches of the movie.  In the film's
defense, I would also add that, like its two predecessors and unlike many
sexually charged teen comedies, `American Wedding' conveys a certain
affection for its characters.  In addition to Stifler, Jason Biggs as Jim
and Eugene Levy as Jim's befuddled but strangely tolerant and supportive
father come across as decent, well-meaning and likable
individuals.

The film itself may be uneven, but as a character actor who makes an
indelible impression on the material at hand, Scott is the genuine
article.
He transforms what is essentially cinematic rotgut into sweet-tasting
vintage wine.  All hail the Stifman!

<|_=00=_|>

I loved the first american pie, but was so dissapointed with the second.
it
was too direct,
lacked creativity, and got old. (sorry to anyone who loved it). but ii was
delightfully
surprised with American Wedding. The sexual jokes flowed much better, it
was
all
situational as opposed to 'hahaha look at my wang', and in general just
got
more
laughs. It is a great movie to see in the theater while your in the mood
for
something
like that, and a lot of fun. although half the original cast is now gone,
the remaining few
are a good mix for the last of the american pie trilogy. stifler is kinda
crazy and
unbearable in the beginning but bear with it, it eventually works with the
story and gets
better.
This is such a cute movie.. and yes i use the word cute. Its hilarious,
but
not so over the
top that it looses the sweetness of it, being the fact that the main point
of this movie is
the wedding of jim and michelle.
What a great, mindless piece of entertainment!
<|_=00=_|>
This is the third installment in the life of Jim Levenstein and his
friends. "American Wedding" seems to point out there will be follow up
movies perhaps. Why not? This formula has produced three films and
could "American Children", "American Divorce", "American Single Dad",
etc. will be too far behind? Jesse Dylan directs this one.

The film is typical of the gross movie genre. The only excuse to watch
this one is Seann William Scott, who as the obnoxious Steve Stifler, is
at his nastiest self in the film. Stifler has great moments, such as in
the sequence involving the rescue of the ring that one of the dogs has
have swallowed! Jason Biggs, the groom of the film, seems to be playing
second fiddle as Seann William Scott's part was made more important to
his own, which in a way is what keeps the film alive because the nerdy
Jim doesn't elicit much fun when he shows on screen. Eugene Levy, Fred
Willard and Deborah Rush have good moments in the film.

Let's just hope the people behind these installments will see the light
and put all these characters to rest and give us more of Mr. Scott in
his own vehicles.
<|_=00=_|>

Despite an embarrassing scene at a restaurant, Jim proposes to his long-time
girlfriend Michelle.  For their wedding Jim enlists the help of Finch and
Kevin to make everything smooth – and keep Stifler out of the way.  However
a ceremony is hard work and is made harder when things just always seem to
go wrong and when Stifler seems to be determined to f**k the bride's sister
– even if it means pretending to be mild mannered and polite.

Trying to think about this film or the series itself is like trying to argue
with mud, basically you just need to accept that this is a silly, stupid
gross out comedy that relies on poor taste jokes and unlikely set ups.  If
this is a problem for you then don't watch it.  If you have accepted it and
are watching it then it all comes down to, is it a GOOD gross out comedy
with poor taste jokes?  As much as I know I should be above it, I did laugh
at the other 2 films and was happy to go and see this and, for the most
part, I laughed at this.  However this was the weakest of the three and the
silence in the cinema was quite often uncomfortable – usually silence in a
cinema is a good thing, but this was often an uncomfortable `I should be
laughing more' type of silence.

In my review of part 2 I said `lets not do a 3'.  Watching this I'm sort of
glad they managed to do it but I can see the strain despite their best
efforts.  The main set up sequences are gross and funny but the gaps between
are where the silence comes, there ain't enough comedy to cover the whole
film.  I'm not talking about the sweet stuff near the end, I just talking
about all the scenes between the banner scenes.  Plus the sequences are very
forced at times (many you can see coming for miles), but this isn't too bad
as they still manage to be hilariously gross!  For those who like the nudity
(and who didn't like the bi-sexual teasing scene from part 2?) there is a
long sequence of strippers with large fake breasts, if that's your thing
(I'm a man, so yes!) which is funny but also serves up the mandatory t&a. 
There are also some scenes that are TOO forced – eg the dance in the gay bar
is funny but is too long and feels like a good idea with average
delivery.

The film bravely loses something like half the cast and makes the film
better in that regard.  In fact Kevin has so little to do that they could
have lost his character all together.  However this is offset by the change
to Stifler.  In the first 2 he is obnoxious and rude but he is also the
brunt of more jokes than he is the punisher.  In the first half here, he is
very rude and annoying and you hate him for how he treats his friends.  That
makes all his early antics hard to laugh at because now all you can see is a
jerk hurting people.  In the second half this is less of an issue as he
changes a little and gets what's coming to him (and how!).  I have a theory
that Scott knows he has been pigeon holed in this role and is desperate to
get out of it – in fact when I saw Bullet Proof Monk I did think to myself
that he is just playing a kung-fu Stifler.  Knowing this I think he played
Stifler at full volume so that his next role would be nowhere near this
performance.  Thus he has a weird crazed sneer on his face, he is ultra
cruel and rude and is a real jerk – hard to laugh with (but luckily still
easy to laugh at).

The rest of the cast do quite well.  Biggs manages to make more of his role
than the victim and is sensitive when he needs to be – I think it will be
hard for him to shake off Jim (pardon the pun) but he shows he can do acting
when he needs to.  Hannigan's innocent girlie voice is a little grating now
and doesn't sit with her image as a woman – it suited her to be a geek. 
Luckily she doesn't have that much to do after the funny opening scene. 
Thomas is OK but Nicholas just kind of hangs around with a half smile of his
face and nothing to do.  Levy is still brillant as Jim's Dad but misses his
`awkward moment' relationship (which they give him with Michelle to repeat
it).  Jones is eye candy and the return of Stifler's Mon (forget her name)
is pointless and a mistake that is happily kept to a few
moments.

Overall this is as poor a film as you expect – rude, in poor taste, lacking
a strong plot or performances, but none of these things are really fair
comments as the film still manages to be funny.  The character of Stifler
makes the first half very hard to enjoy and there are too many bits that
don't work or where I didn't laugh but I still laughed.  Many viewers will
feel that the series has simply fizzled out despite it still being
funny.
<|_=00=_|>
American Wedding is exactly the type of ending that suits the American
Pie trilogy. It's not like the typical TV sitcom where it's feel good
and lacking on humor. The traditional gross out honest humor is still
present. Unfortunately not all the characters are due to scheduling
conflicts.

The directors do a good job of covering the absent characters by simply
not mentioning them but there lack of presence is felt. Oz isn't
present during Jim's speech with the best men. Michele is the only
returning female lead. Even some of the returning characters play a
smaller role. Kevin is almost not seen in most of the film. He serves
very little important role and is more in the background. Finch and
Stifler seem to be the lead story, at times more than the wedding
itself. It does work to create a funny story.

The story is well wrapped up and that hopefully means that no
additional and poorly conceived sequels are made. There seems to be
three rules that follow in all of these films.

1) Jim does something bizarre sexual act that embarrasses him.

2) Stifler ingest some bodily excretion

3) Finch has sex with Stifler's Mom

Obviously they've hit Stifler with about every funny excretion. The
only options left are blood, pus, or earwax. Rule #2 is going to be
hard to follow.
<|_=00=_|>
This was an awesome closure to the American pie series (with the
original cast) Stifler is pretty good in this, he always steps it up.
The cast kinda gets smaller and smaller as the series goes on, but we
are left with the core of the group. Jim again has some great comedic
moments, Jason Biggs by now has perfected the role of Jim. This as the
second movie, plays it's part as a sequel, series or a trilogy. If you
have seen the first two, this will be a good ending to the story for
those who haven't seen the first two, or only part one, go out and get
caught up before seeing this one. You missed a lot of the action. icing
on the cake

9/10
<|_=00=_|>

American wedding is simply hilarious. It is as funny as the previous two.
You just keep laughing and laughing. Seann William scott steals the show and
so does Jason Biggs and Eugene levy. No pie but still a lot of fun. If you
want to have some big laughs then this is it.
My rating- 10/10
<|_=00=_|>

I gave this movie a 10 out of 10 because for a comedy it made me laugh
continuously.  Not a minute was wasted.  Even if the situation was totally
absurd, as many were, the conviction of the actors in their roles was
enough
to keep it going.  Stiffler and Finch's rivalry reached new highs and lows
in this one as they compete for the affections of Michelles virgin little
sister Cadence.  Fred Willards addition in this third movie was welcome,
even if his role was subtle.

I can't think of anything bad to say about this movie. The plots were
simple
but believable.. How complex can a wedding story be anyways.  It made
sense,
it was funny, it was definately funnier than the second american pie
movie..
im not going to say it was funnier than the first but I definately laughed
longer and harder in this one.  Well done.
Plus Alyson Hannigan is somehow getting hotter as the movies
progress.
<|_=00=_|>

People just aren't getting this because they haven't looked below the
surface. Here's my theory:

The character of Stifler is actually brain defective because his parent were
crack and/or alcohol addicted. This is not funny, of course. What's funny,
though, is that after all these years, his defective brain is causing him to
act out. Notice all the uncontrollable cursing all of a sudden??? And the
stupid giggle that comes after each dumb joke? Okay, well this takes us to
the hidden meaning...

American Wedding is actually made as if Stifler, brain-defective that he is,
wrote the screenplay. This explains the half-a$$ed attempts at recycling the
last two movies, the non-stop profanities, the fact that Stifler is now the
central character with the most screen time (ughh) the constant humping and
the lack of any real plot (a road-trip in order to find the gay man that
will make the wedding dress, which ends up in a very unfunny dance-off
between Stifler and a gay hulk hogan that 'saves the day'?? Oh god help us).

Okay, I'll admit I only got through about 20 minutes before choosing to
watch Wolf Blitzer instead (he's funnier) but the theory is still good, I
think.

Watch only if you have trouble following any kind of plot and you laugh
easily at potty jokes and swear words.
