

First things first:  this is a very silly movie with a cardboard plot,
hackneyed characters, and some atrocious dialog.  BUT - nobody goes to see a
movie like this for its iconic "film" moments.  You go because it looks
utterly ridiculous and you're in the mood for just that sort of fluff.  On
that basis, the movie delivers a lot of entertainment - many out-loud laughs
and a variety of entertaining songs.  

Toni Collette's talent reservoir seems bottomless - she can act, sing AND
dance.  Nia Vardalos also sings sufficiently well, and her easy, comic
manner nicely leavens the somewhat hysterical character played by Collette.
Together, the actresses are genuinely entertaining as they work their way
through the list of Broadway standards.  David Duchovny, in a role that
could have been painful to watch in less competent hands, instead brings an
unusually light and friendly touch to the role of Vardalos's love interest
(Aside:  where's he been?  He's cuter than he's ever been in his life - stop
languishing at home with Tea and Madelaine!).  

Yes, the ending is silly; pay attention - I already said the whole movie is
silly.  But did I laugh loudly several times?  Yup.  Hysterically a couple
of times?  Uh-huh.  Did I enjoy the musical numbers?  Definitely.  Will I
ever feel the same way about the song "Mame" again?  Not hardly.  Did I get
my money's worth?  You betcha!             
<|_=00=_|>

If you go looking for an Academy favorite, you'll not enjoy this film.  If
you want to laugh yourself silly and just have a romp with fun, this will
be
a blast.

Toni Collette is perfect as a woman pretending to be a man pretending to
be
a woman.  From the moment she catches herself NOT lowering her voice
followed by an attempt at a drag queen's overdone smile, she wins you
over.
Her silly and girlish character is a winner....especially after opening an
unknown package in the car.

Nia Vardalos will never win an acting award, but still has fun developing
her own roles that she clearly writes for herself.  She exudes self
confidence, taking on the leadership role of the friendship.  She allows
us
to see the weaknesses of her character here, however, making it a happy
departure from My Big Fat Greek Wedding where she was so full of self
doubt.

You'll be hardpressed to find better on screen chemistry between any two
people that will be beat Collette and Vardalos in Connie and
Carla.

David Duchovney and Stephan Spinella are also highly effective in the role
as anguished brothers, ultimately proving the well known theory about
blood
and water.  Duchoveny, within moments can make you hate his character and
then go doe eyed for him again.  Spinella came close to making me
cry.

These four are surrounded by a wonderful ensemble cast, who were
gratefully
not over stereotyped.  They were not portrayed as bitchy, fingernail
weilding mockerys of the drag queen stereotype, but rather as caring
individuals who feel they have a common bond and love enough to go around,
regardless of your orientation, job description, or gender.

Go see this one.  Even is it's just for the music, which by the way, is
awesome!
<|_=00=_|>

I just saw this yesterday, and thought it was excellent. The first half
hour
is a little slow and predictable, but once the movie gets going it is very
funny. Yes, there are drag queens and when we saw it a few people walked
out. But most of the crowd - a few kids, college students, and mostly
older
retired people - loved it! There are many funny scenes, and the movie
itself
could be called a musical, as there are plenty of renditions of broadway
songs with the ladies dressed in drag. It is a cute story, the drag queens
are very likeable and the movie makes some attempt to understand why they
dress in drag, and to be understanding about the rest of the world's
perception of them. Not everyone is ready to see a movie starring some
drag
queens, but for those that can look past that, it's a heartwarming story
about friendship and acceptance :o) 
<|_=00=_|>

Connie and Carla received the biggest laughs so far from an audience that
I've been with this year.  The comic humor and the touching emotions exude
of the screen in this movie echoing Whoopi Goldberg is The Sister Act and
even earlier comedies by Some Like It Hot (1959). Nia Vardalos as Connie and
Toni Collette as Carla are remarkable having to portray women being men
being women.  Even David Duchovny plays it for great dry humor laughs with
excellent character acting. This underrated film goes over the top sometimes
in its stereotypical portrayal of gay men (as is unfortunately typical), yet
it attempts to maintain a sensitive presentation of the issue.  Eight out of
Ten Stars.
 
<|_=00=_|>

Yes, this Laverne & Shirly type of comedy is better than anything else
released so far in 2004. Toni Collette has always delighted me in her
accidental roles that get into trouble by mistake. This one goes for the
gold, and the ambition as two light headed singers are intwined with a big
mob screw-up! What do you do? Well of course, you disguise yourself! As
for
the drags n fags, can't comment, not one of them, but art is well spoken
in
this film, and Vardalos makes it fun with good clean cut, slapstick
situations which bring down the two leading women to a mistaken ending,
for
the better. Collette and Vardalos are sizzelin hot! Duchoveny is honest,
and
the rest, well, the are believable. Pure fun like an Ellen DeGeneres
comedy
hour, this one never takes itself to seriously, or too foolish either.
Give
it a chance, you might like it.
<|_=00=_|>

"Connie and Carla" is a delightful light comedy.  It describes two young
women in a dinner club in O'Hare airport in Chicago.  They witness a murder
of their manager, and escape to Los Angeles to avoid their own executions. 
Connie is played by Nia Vardalo of "My Big Fat Greek Wedding" fame.  She
gives a pithy performance and one is drawn to her likable character.  Toni
Collette as Carla also gives a warm performance.  Together they portray drag
queens in their quest for remaining undiscovered.  There is a delightful
array of "drag queens" in the chorus line that punctuates this well
organized film.  In addition, there is a charming surprise performance by
Debbie Reynolds toward the end.  I can recommend this film as a very light
way to spend ones cinematic experience.  It is not great, but it is lots of
fun.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a cute movie as it lightens your spirit and makes you laugh. An
important part of life. The characters are flat and do what is expected
but that makes it even more fun to watch. I don't have to figure out
any sub plots and it doesn't do any brain drain. After a hard day in
the office it was a great movie to get my mind off my problems. The
drag queens were great. Their costumes and figures are better than most
women. David Duchovny as a romantic lead works for me. Nia Vardalos can
go up against Meg Ryan for cute and funny in a movie. She does an
excellent hometown type leading lady. The plot has enough of a story
line to keep you going without getting bored.
<|_=00=_|>

"Connie and Carla" is about two dinner theater performers (Vardalos &
Collette) who, on the lam from the mob, bring their musical show to L.A.
where they pose as drag queens while one falls for a guy. More lively than
sophisticated, this little musical  romcom (emphasis on comedy) wears its
flimsy premise out while filling in the blanks with loads of show tune song
and dance snippets. A step down for writer and lead Vardalos, "C&C" makes
for an ebullient, energetic, and somewhat lame powder puff and perfume
comedy watch. Slammed by the critics with average marks from the public,
"C&C" will play best with females and anyone into drag comedy and show
tunes. (B-)
<|_=00=_|>

this was a surprise, a nice surprise.  How delightful to be entertained
for
a change and leave the movie with a smile on your face.
It was almost a continual smile everytime you thought about the movie.
Made
the world seem sunnier.  It was funny, well edited, and gave the audience
a
few things to think about in the meantime.! It did have a little
resemblance
to 'some like it hot', but not completely. Talented, smart, funny, and
wonderfully canadian 'Via' has given Canada lots to be proud of..! I
thoroughly enjoyed this movie and would recommend it to anyone and
everyone,
and if I get the chance will see it again..thanks our winnipeg
star..!
<|_=00=_|>
Nia Vardalos and Toni Collette play Connie and Carla, struggling dinner
theater performers in Chicago who are on the run after witnessing a mob
hit. They end up in Los Angeles, where their talent is best suited for
pretending to be drag queens, making them hits on the cabaret circuit.
That is, until Connie falls for a guy {David Duchovny} who does not
know that she's really a woman.

The plot is nothing new as this type of story has been done before. I
never really liked this type of comedy before. The Hot Chick and
Tootsie were pretty good but the rest that I have seen were rather
lame. The preview did little to change my mind so I skipped it in
theaters. I rented it recently and my suspicions were correct. The film
is just not very funny or creative. There were maybe a few small
chuckles but most of the jokes fell flat. The musical numbers weren't
very good either so I don't understand why the audience went crazy for
them. A big flaw in the film is that they didn't look like men at all.
I had trouble believing they could fool anyone.

Nia Vardalos did a good job with My Big Fat Greek Wedding but she seems
to have gotten lazy here. The script was just very by-the-number and
lame. It was probably written in about five minutes. Her performance
wasn't much better either. Toni Collette was pretty weak and unfunny as
well. David Duchovny was just underused and his subplot was very poorly
handled. The whole film just felt so cheap and rushed. They should have
spent a longer time on it and the movie would have been funnier. In the
end, Connie and Carla may find some fans on video but for the most part
this film is worth skipping. Rating 3/10
