
This movie reminds me of the romantic screwball comedies from the 30's,
40's and 50's. The movie succeeds in following the humor, witty dialogs
and great pace witch made the romantic comedies of old so great. That
is, until the ending. The entire ending is ruined, copy-pasted from
every other average romantic comedy today (they split up, the guilty
one realizes his/her fault and runs to his/her lover and spills his/her
guts out... and they live happily ever after). It is not the director's
fault, he even tried his best to make the ending not so sleazy (aka the
excellent wedding scene). Pierce Brosnan is great, in some scenes even
better then Moore, reminds me of Cary Grant, James Stewart in their
best work (Bringing up Baby, The Philadelphia Story...). Brosnan is
actually becoming a much better actor than he was 6-7 years before.
Julianne Moore is, as always, excellent. The supporting is actually
also great, from Sheen, Posey, Fisher, Dunn to the locals in the Irish
village. All in all a great screwball comedy which has not been made in
years, if the ending were any better...
<|_=00=_|>
Audrey Woods (Julianne Moore) and Daniel Rafferty (Pierce Brosnan) are
New Yorks finest divorce attorneys, but when celebrity Couple (Parker
Posey and Michael Sheen) raise the stakes in their divorce, Audrey and
Daniel set out to make their cases and end up getting hitched
themselves. For the sake of their reputations they must pretend that
they are really in love.

Julianne Moore and Pierce Brosnan have a very good on-screen chemistry,
and they are helped by some nice direction and a good script; there's
plenty of laughs in this romantic comedy, but it's not a real
tearjerker like some others in the genre.

7/10 A fine effort
<|_=00=_|>
OK, the heading was to grab your attention. Sarah Jessica Parker and
her sex-mad cronies aren't (thankfully!) in this, but Pierce Brosnan
and Julianne Moore are.

Every now and then, they make a lightweight comedy romance with English
actor Hugh Grant, and someone like Jennifer Lopez or Sandra Bullock,
and it falls apart because Grant can't act. Well, this one boldly casts
Irish-born Bond actor Brosnan with stage-actress Moore.

It's not a "wet hanky" romance (as some reviewers were evidently
expecting) but a tale of one-upmanship between two rival lawyers in
Manhattan, both immediately likable characters, with romance, spy
cameras and Irish dancing thrown in. Thank God there are no nasal
Manhattan accents, people talking really fast about how much money
they've made, women discussing sex in coffee houses, people whistling
for taxis, scenes of the Statue of Liberty or Frank Sinatra music.

All in all, well worth renting.
<|_=00=_|>

You ever watch a movie that under normal circumstances you'd think was great
and wonderful, but there is something about the movie that keeps you from
fully enjoying it? It gets sort of stuck between being great and being good,
so ends up in neither place, and you end up liking but not loving the movie.
Ultimately the movie falls into abyss of "almost", and you very quickly
forget it altogether.

Such is the curse of Laws of Attraction, a really good movie that's just
sort of there. Half way into the movie I was wondering to myself why I
wasn't connecting more with the movie since its funny, well acted, and very
charming in all of the right ways. Somehow despite being able to see the
quality I stopped caring what happened.

Can I recommend this romantic comedy about lawyers in love? Yes, its sweet
and light and everything a good romantic comedy should be except
memorable.

Rent it or wait for cable, but give it shot.

7 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
Spencer Tracy and Katharine Hepburn, Cary Grant and Doris Day may have
made better screwball comedies, but this one just about works, by
downplaying punchlines and taking obvious idiocies as read, such as the
leads' addictions to sweeties and their penchant for falling through
doors or knocking things over. But with these traits, how is it their
apartments are immaculate? A directorial faux-pas here. 

Julianne Moore is wonderful as usual, playing the rather uptight
divorce lawyer, impressed despite herself with Brosnan's physical
attractions. She is a mistress of the personality contrasts: sweet
smile against dagger-drawn eyes; disconcerted reactions with suave
sophistication; professional aplomb in the courtroom, but slobbing out
in front of the TV. She is not only determined to resist Brosnan but
successfully compete against him, while her mother, brilliantly played
by Frances Fisher, is determined to persuade her to accept his
overtures. Frances Fisher almost steals the film with her over-the-top,
much-married, society fashion character, distinctly contrasting with
Julianne Moore's more stuffy persona (reminiscences of Edina and Saffy
in Absolutely Fabulous?).

I cringed at the scenes in Ireland, but this film does not pretend to
be anything other than a sweet-thing romantic comedy of deliberate
game-playing. It doesn't go for stand-up jokes, but just bowls along
happily in its overdose of sugar. Moore is marvelous in serious drama
(The Hours and Far From Heaven) but is proving equally at home with
zany comedy (see also Cookie's Fortune). Brosnan relies on his handsome
looks to see him through any part, but his comedy timing is as
excellent as Moore's. The characters' common clumsiness is as
well-timed as anything Doris Day did in That Touch Of Mink, or Cary
Grant in Monkey Business. Given that Brosnan and Moore are more often
seen in adventure or drama, an outing into comedy does not go amiss and
gives us a chance to see them do something different. I wasn't sure of
the film to begin with, but it grew on me. As long as it is accepted as
a light and frothy entertainment, with no other purpose than whiling
away a Sunday afternoon in front of the fire with a box of chocolates,
it's a fine movie. Does Frances Fisher ever play any other character
than someone's mother?
<|_=00=_|>

I first saw this film through work at the cinema ( I work in care ). I
enjoyed it so much I took my wife to see it to the next night and she
enjoyed it to. This is a movie for people who are in love and or
thinking about getting married or are married. Despite the humour their
is a serious message ie not everything in life is easy and you need to
be willing to compromise if you wish to find happiness with the one you
love. Not all reviews of this film have been positive. My belief is
these critics are not romantic people. This is a very hard film to
dislike if you are a romantic person, my wife says I am. I look forward
to buying it on DVD I recommend you do the same.

<|_=00=_|>
(Very Mild Spoilers)

I grew up watching this style of movie at it's very best -- Tracy &
Hepburn, so I went into this with a very skeptical nature in spite of
appreciating Pierce Brosnan's work in general. Romantic Comedy, done
well, is predictable only in it's broadest strokes. To be really
interesting and re-watchable it requires that at least some of the
predictabilities have twists without ruining the eventual outcome. 

Not only was this one of the most enjoyable of it's genre I've watched,
Brosnan, Moore and Fischer were *wonderful* in their portrayals of
their characters. Fischer couldn't have been more fun or spot on in her
portrayal of Mom. Brosnan and Moore not only clearly had fun making
this, they also managed Romantic Comedy quite well. For those who cut
their teeth on Adam's Rib or Philidelphia, this one is a beautiful
homage to its predecessors. Finding out that Brosnan was a fan of
Tracy/Hepburn films after the fact wasn't surprising at all. 

I wasn't as amused by the 2 rockers as some -- they seemed, at times,
forced. Their characters were not as integrated to the film's style as
the leads, so felt a little odd to me. Good film, well done for it's
type.

If you don't like Romantic Comedy, don't go here -- this one is
perfectly what it is!
<|_=00=_|>
Audrey Woods is one of the best, nay, THE best divorce attorney in
town. She has never lost a case and she is about to continue that
winning streak with her latest case. When she meets her opposing
counsel she has no reason to think that this scruffy man poses any
threat to her. When he hands her her ass she steps up the competition
and so begins a tense relationship in the courtroom. However outside of
the court, the couple find a certain chemistry growing between them but
surrounded by so many divorces and arguments how could anything good
come of it?

Billed as a big name romantic comedy in the mould of sparky screwball
romances of the forties and fifties this comedy at times is great fun
but at others falls terribly flat. Given what it was basing itself of
it should be no surprise that the first half is the best with energetic
duelling between the two leads. Later on the script has to deliver a
believable romance out of this and here is where it really falters. It
suddenly becomes this twinkly affair in Ireland where love blooms,
although it doesn't really although it might. It is a difficult hurdle
to get over and the film doesn't really manage it and the final third
is deeply unconvincing and hard to care about as it mugs its way
towards the inevitable conclusion. It is strange that McKenna's script
is so slick when it is in the "banter" stage but so heavy with syrup
and silly cliché towards the end, almost like all the talent was put
into the first half, leaving nothing for the latter stages.

Brosnan and Moore do try hard to make it work and mostly they succeed,
but the material does gradually leave them out in the open. It helps
that together they do manage an easy chemistry but later in the film
they do struggle to convince with the more emotional side of the
characters that exist outside of the fizz and snappy exchanges. Brosnan
does well for the majority as he charms his way through but Moore can't
seem to slide between the film's levels – she works with the snappy
comedy stuff but when the emotional stuff comes she seems to drift
between rom-com level acting and trying to go deeper. Support from
Sheen, Posey, Fisher and a few others add some limited value around the
edges but none can stop the script falling apart the longer it goes on.

Overall then what starts as a reasonable hark back to screwball
romances gradually turns into an unconvincing, silly and sentimental
affair that not even the big name stars can keep above the water. Not
really worth a look for that reason.
<|_=00=_|>
Seriously, you have here the perfect love story in the perfect setting
with the most perfect couple one can think of, if you are thinking of
true Irishmen and Irish descendants. Pierce Brosnan is witty, charming,
cute "as per Frances Fisher in the film", and above all, incredibly
gifted in this role. When you watch him here, you are reminded of the
films of David Niven or Cary Grant, and that is no mean comparison
coming from someone who sorely laments the lost of such talents.
Julianne Moore comes up to Pierce brilliantly, and you could see this
film occurring thirty years ago, starring Grant and Hepburn. Julianne's
character is the perfect foil for Brosnan's in this delightful duel of
the sexes. Parker Posey and Michael Sheen are the typical young adults
caught up in their success, and going through a rough patch of the "I'm
so neglected" stage of marriage, which the two of them carry off
wonderfully. The maraschino cherry on this particular confection is the
wonderful appearance of the beautiful Frances Fisher, than lovely lady
who has the cheekbones of Venus de Milo and the accompanying smile.
Rated PG-13 for sexual content and language, I personally recommend
this as a film for you and that significant other when the kids are in
bed, or for Date Night.
<|_=00=_|>

It's great to see Julianne Moore in a comedy role again, reminding us of the
not inconsiderable range of her talents. Laws of Attraction is a rather
well-worn comedy though that lacks sparkle. Two top divorce layers battle it
out and eventually get romantic about each other. If the script sizzled it
might be able to hold a candle, but it doesn't - which is a great shame
given the great performances (Pierce Brosnan also does well, appearing far
less wooden than in his James Bond roles). The whole film has a rather
contrived feel to it that no amount of acting talent can salvage. Throwing
in a bit of Irish countryside seems gratuitous in the extreme, a bit of
cutesiness for the American box-office.
