
This movie was typical Disney; a sweet feel-good story despite some
mediocre acting and plot holes. Michelle Trachtenberg is a very likable
heroine, and both Joan Cusack and Kim Cattrall perform admirably in
their respective roles. Granted, the "child breaks away from parent's
desires to follow her own dream" story has been done many times, and
this version is nothing special, but it's good for us well-intentioned
mothers to be reminded every so often to let our children find their
own paths in life.

My only big gripe is with what is presented as Casey's incredible
physics discoveries. Some of the statements are downright wrong
(pulling in your arms while spinning DECREASES, not increases, your
moment of inertia), and all the equations shown in the movie are
nothing but basic laws of Newtonian mechanics. While the target
pre-teen audience will be fooled, anyone older who's ever taken a
physics class will not. Come on, Hollywood...with all the recent
publicity about whether women are suited for math and science, please
don't insult our intelligence by assuming that scientific details are
unimportant in a movie marketed to young girls.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved this movie, and I don't know why the other reviewer did not.
Maybe said reviewer was not accustomed to viewing Disney movies, which
are generally cleaner and more family-oriented. The star of the film
worked her hardest against all obstacles to accomplish her goals and
realize her dreams, without throwing away her intelligence. She learned
that intelligence is not a burden, as it is often portrayed, but a gift
that can possibly be applied to many other areas of life. The main
character was a well-developed character, as were the supporting
characters, and the soundtrack was excellent. I truly enjoyed this
movie, and it was a joy to watch. I shall hope to see it again before
it is released on DVD.
<|_=00=_|>
Just like kids, The Ice Princess is both about growing up as well as
the growing up of juvenile/youth movies. The Ice Princess dances rings
around most figure skating movies because perhaps the movie industry is
growing up. The focus on skating, on relationships is great and there
is some nice skating shots as well as some surprise cameos. Instead of
the usual comedy romance genre as in The Cutting Edge, a standard of
such movies, The Ice Princess actually focuses on the biting, raw under
the surface issues surrounding youth girls and their mothers today.
Without stereotypes, without the usual hype, this movie successfully
avoids the juvenile movie traps and plays it both softer of the
stereotypes and more on the real and the harsher edges of drama in this
movie. This an entertaining, educational, well done movie about going
for one's potential, about dreams lost and hoped for, about conflict
and doubt, about mothers and daughters, about rivalry and sharing. One
of the best girl movies this year and last year. Highly recommended.
Eight out of Ten Stars.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this and was like wow. I really didn't want to see it, honestly.
I thought it looked like one of those cheesy Disney movies, but I was
extremely wrong. It was a great movie for kids & parents alike, and
definitely a mother and daughter movie. I thought it was perfect, and
it was so cute, I came out of there wishing I was an ice skater its
just one of the movies, that make you think to yourself, "Wow, I wish I
could do that." A lot of my friends thought this movie was a little
weird but me and my friends were siting there crying after this movie.
It was adorable in every way, and I don't think it possibly could be
better, the only complaint I actually do have is the ending kiss
between her and the boy, it wasn't romantic at all, if that was a
little more romantic I thought that would be perfect.;] Thanks for
reading, Krista
<|_=00=_|>
ICE PRINCESS is not the kind of movie to which this reviewer is usually
attracted - the trappings indicate that we are in for a happy-wappy,
sterilized, PG, Disney candy box. But, surprise!, here is a film that
is better than its package. Writers Meg Cabot and Hadley Davis have
combined the sport of ice skating with the drama of teenage angst and
come up with a credible tale of a 'science geek' discovering her talent
and following her dream of figure skating.

Director Tim Fywell knows his way around the ice rink and the halls and
lockers of high school kids and his preparation for the film is
apparent. Casey (Michelle Trachtenberg) is a fine student who is
encouraged by her physics professor to find a project that incorporates
her personality along with physics that will assist her in gaining a
scholarship to Harvard. Casey's mother (Joan Cusack) is a pragmatist, a
schoolteacher who wants Casey to succeed beyond the mother's status.
Casey loves to skate on their home pond, but one day happens into a
private skating rink class owned by one-time star skater Tina (Kim
Cattrall), a place where Tina relentlessly drives her daughter Gen
(Hayden Panettiere) toward winning prizes. Tina's son Teddy (Trevor
Blumas - a much underused handsome actor) is always around to keep the
ice surfaces smooth with his machine.

Casey observes the brilliance of fine skating, thinks of a way to
analyze moves on her computer that will diagnose aerodynamic physics
aspects of skating, and once that is perfected, and she is able to aid
the skaters with her scientific knowledge, she personalizes her
theories. Before long has won a place along with the other aspiring
skaters. She encounters resistance from her mother, encouragement from
Tina, and friendship from Gen and her fellow skaters as well as the eye
of Teddy! When Casey has her Harvard interview, she admits that her
real love is for skating, not physics, and commits to pursuing that
love full time. The rest is predictable: all's well that end's well.

What sets this little film apart is the quality of acting from
Trachtenberg, Cattrall, Cusack and Blumas: they create characters about
whom we care. The skating is fun to watch, and the 'sitting in the
bleachers rooting for the good guys' feeling is refreshing. This is not
a great film but certainly one of the best of this genre. It is most
definitely a 'feel good' popcorn movie! Grady Harp
<|_=00=_|>
Ice Princess was typical family fluff that was an enjoyable hour and
1/2 escape from the tensions of real life. With that in mind, it was a
great success as entertainment and release from stress.

The plot is simple and "age worn" - a teen named Casey (Michelle
Trachtenberg) is torn between fulfilling the dreams of her parent or
following her own dreams. Nothing new here. Yet, the supporting
characters of Gen Harwood (Hayden Panettiere) and her mother Tina (Kim
Cattrall) also have the same situation. Tina, a skating coach, wants
her daughter to become a skating champion, an achievement Tina was
unable to fulfill in her own skating career. Thus, both Gen and Casey
have something in common: pleasing mom or pleasing themselves.

Yet, Gen and Casey were dramatically different. Casey was a brilliant
student with her eyes on Harvard while being gifted at skating, too.
Meanwhile, Gen excelled only by becoming a slave to skating and
sacrificing her schoolwork.

And it is with that difference that I believe Disney missed the
potential. The "Casey's" of the world are few and far between, and it
is difficult to relate to them: "Oh, gee. Will I go to Harvard because
I'm brilliant at school? Or will I become a skating champion because
I'm brilliant on the ice?" Because she is so distant from the vast
majority of people, she never truly grabbed my empathy.

Gen, on the other hand, is very, very real. She is being pushed into a
sport by a parent, and her social life and academics are suffering. She
faces a real dilemma. Plus, she has no hope of excelling at either
academics or skating. Her social life is her only escape from this
vise. And Gen is endearing because she seems to have a "good heart"
despite the difficulty. And how often we see kids with "good hearts"
trapped by situations.

I believe that most of us can relate much better to Gen than to Casey.
I would have preferred the character of Gen to be the focus of the
story with Casey's character in the supporting role. It would be
tougher, grittier, and more meaningful to the audience.

Yeah, we all cheered for Casey, but I was cheering for Gen even more.
<|_=00=_|>
This 'chase your dream/against all odds' fantasy is a light diversion
in a Hollywood culture steeped in blockbuster mode. Ice Princess
attempts to treat the issue of female achievement with both charm and
weightiness. One is almost tempted (I say almost tempted because it
still falls under the very successful Disney Channel formula of a
challenged teenage life and happy ending) to forgive the every ready
show of single motherhood as fanatical stage moms driving their kids to
the fulfillment of their dreams rather than encouraging the same to
seek happiness and true fulfillment.

Both Kim Cattral and Joan Cusak play mothers who pressure their
daughters into career they seemed all too disappointed about not having
achieved. Their daughters, in effect, are stand-ins of their own
unfulfilled dreams. Casey, the true focus of the movie is played by
Michelle Trachtenberg, as a Harvard-bound physics nerd who aspires to
challenge all the planning and hard work to become a world class figure
skater. Conversely Gen, played by Hayden Panettiere, is the Cattral
prodigy who is forced into the role of apprentice skating champ -
chasing her mother's Olympic dreams - the dreams lost when she lost
(disqualified, as the story goes) in Sarajevo - and just wants to be
normal. True to the Hollywood/Disney formula there is the perfunctory
supportive and accessible 'hunk' (who just happens to be Gen's bother)
in Trevor Blumas. Directed by Tim Fywell and written by Hadley Davis,
Ice Princess is a story pegged on the duality of very pushy mothers in
Cusak and Cattral whose daughters are being pushed in the direction
that runs counter to their dreams.

Despite the movie's predictability, the Ice Princess had moments of
seriousness (almost lapses, actually) in the core subject matter of
passionate loyalties amidst the cutthroat competitiveness of the
figure-skating world. Yes, you will be treated to the attractive figure
skating but Fywell is not tempted to push it over the top. Cusack and
Cattrall bring a mature complexity to their difficult roles as mothers
who are trying to control the raging hormones and resultant attitude.
Problematic in some areas, the movie does bring to presence the very
important issues of coming of age, parental interference, and long term
career planning. Unrealistic at best, to think that after all that was
invested, a Harvard bound student (not to mention the Olympic bound
skater) would throw it all away on a one-in-a-million chance at 'true
happiness' but we can always live vicariously in this imaginary space -
which is why we will continue to be attracted to movies like Ice
Princess.

Miguel Llora
<|_=00=_|>
Besides what the cynics will see Ice Princess is an undeniable
bubblegum treat and despite it's sometimes lapse in logic makes an
agreeable sports film both emotional and intense. Trachtenberg of Buffy
fame stars as the title star a physics geek in school whom when offered
the opportunity to go to college with a scholarship, decides to base
her summer project on figure skating and the physics proportions of
what would accustom special movements and such. In that she finds a
passion she's long denied herself because of her over bearing,
feminist, college professor MOM played wonderfully by Joan Cusack whom
of course thinks it's just a waste of time. The film is of course a
clash of overly obvious clichés but anyone seeing this film should know
that already. But these are the clichés that make movies like this
truly inspiring and enjoyable. The film is fun, memorable and heart
tugging. But the standout addition here is a wonderful performance by
the still gorgeous Kim Catrall she's still in mean mode but god can she
deliver those lines and still come off likable ultimately. So throwout
what cynics will say about this sleeper treat and go experience this
gold medal for your selves. 9/10
<|_=00=_|>
I thought it was great how there wasn't any ugliness in the whole
movie! It was a totally positive movie! Positive, you just don't get
that anymore. It was nice to take my girls to a movie that I wasn't
squirming in my seat hoping that nothing foul or nasty would pop up! I
wish there were more movies out there like that. Not everything has to
have sex or cursing to sell! I had to give it only a 9 out of 10 though
because I thought the editing was a little choppy. I'm not a film
expert by any means so the fact that I noticed it says something, I
think. Although, it was still better than Raise Your Voice, the editing
in that was horrible!
<|_=00=_|>
As a figure skater I find this movie incredibly insulting. No matter
how much "natural talent" a person has, it is impossible for someone to
become that good of a skater in such a short period of time, especially
someone her age in the movie. Not only that but there are multiple
tests that a skater has to pass in order to compete at that level, and
it's not like you can take the tests whenever you want, you have to
wait until a test session to take them. Also there's no way she could
have competed without her mother knowing, because as a minor you have
to have your parent's consent in order to compete (unless of course she
forger her mother's signature). 

Sure the message of the movie is nice, the dialogue is okay, and I like
the main actors, but it's just so incredibly unrealistic. 

I'm 17 and have been skating since I was 7, and skated competitively
from the age of 18-13. I spend countless hours training, and its
incredibly insulting of Disney to make that portrays figure skating as
being something any person with a good understanding of physics could
be good at. And as a figure skater the most insulting thing you can
tell me is that figure skating is easy. And it's because of movies like
this, that people think that. So sure if you want a heart-warming
mediocre movie then by all means go see Ice princess, but if you want
to see a movie that is far more realistic about figure skating, I think
you'll have better luck with Blades of Glory.
