
You know that feeling you get when you're watching America's Funniest 
Home Videos and the oblivious son hits his hapless father in the crotch 
with an aluminum bat? It gets a quick reaction, like, ooh, I feel your 
pain man.

FINAL DESTINATION 2 is a 90 minute or so string of those painful shots, 
as each character one by one meets an unfortunate death by household 
appliance. Bodies are slammed by trucks, heads are impaled, and limbs 
fly through the air. When one of the characters dies when her car's 
airbag explodes out of nowhere, I blurted "Yeah! Wow, did they do 
that??? Yeah, they DID do that. Right on!"

Although the film has a very serious atmosphere about it, what with the 
creepy score and people sincerely freaking out and everything, it still 
retains a campy humor about it buried beneath its high-budget exterior. 
Many movies would shy away from smashing up plastic ketchup-filled 
dummies, opting instead to avoid the gore. Not FINAL DESTINATION 2! 
This movie is an honest approach to movie-making, hearkening back to 
the day when you got together with friends and said, "Okay, in this 
scene we cut to the dummy falling off the building, it's run over by a 
Mack truck, and it splatters chunks of blood all over that Oldsmobile 
over there."

As for the premise behind FINAL DESTINATION 2, how do I put it into 
words? A.J. Cook has premonitions that people died in a nasty pileup on 
the highway. Thing is, this never happened. And ... she continues to 
have premonitions that those same people will die in due time. Those 
people eventually die. Did I get that right? The universal law of 
nature is that, well, Death sometimes misses its mark and has to fix 
its mistakes (which usually involves electrical equipment getting wet 
and other freak accidents of home improvement). If this all sounds 
convoluted, watch the movie. You'll see what I mean.

The premise of FINAL DESTINATION 2, as much potential as it might have, 
doesn't make much sense and is pretty hokey, but if you medicate your 
inquisitive mind with heavy sedatives, you'll be able to look past the 
flimsy premise and enjoy the movie. I'm definitely looking forward to a 
Final Destination 3.


<|_=00=_|>

I was apprehensive when I didn't Devon Sawa 
in the credits or this movie, but then again, 
this film didn't really need him. This wasn't 
a sequel in the purest sense, but the film 
makers created methods to link all of the 
new characters to the old ones, creating a 
flow which wasn't too jarring. Unfortunately, 
the dialogue was the only real stinker in 
this film. The pretentiousness, the 
obviousness and the downright hokiness 
that came out of the mouths of the characters 
really detracted from the tension, turning 
their performances into a bunch of acting 
class rejects. But I digress. The only thing 
people are looking for is how Death will get 
the new set of escape artists. The sheer 
surprise and execution of the executions 
made me jump and crawl. In such a 
desensitized world we live in, being able 
to jump out of my seat means this film is a 
winner.
<|_=00=_|>

If you liked "Final Destination" you'll really like "Final Destination 2". 
I remember the commercials for this one and was afraid they were ruining the
thrill of this sequel.  So I didn't see it in the theaters.  I was wrong. 
If anything the commercials used the film footage to mislead you, so that
the surprises were even greater.

For what "Final Destination 2" is trying to do, they do it perfectly.  From
the script, to the acting to the directing.  This was a tough score for me. 
While it doesn't rate up there with the the best films of all time.  In
every aspect, they perfectly accomplished what they set out to do.  It's a
Thriller, full of a lot of unpredictable turns and surprises, and with great
action.  They wasted no time, the movie starts, they get right into it, and
it keeps on at pretty much full pace until it's done.
<|_=00=_|>
Final Destination 2 is a very entertaining sequel and while the story
is weaker then the first, the deaths are better. Kimberly (A.J. Cook)
is a normal teen who is taking a road trip to Daytona with her 3
friends. She has a vision of a horrific traffic accident and so she
blocks some of the cars from entering the highway. Sure enough they
vision comes true and they have all just escaped death. Kim visits
Clear Rivers (Ali Larter), the only survivor of Flight 180 who is
convinced to help out the survivors of Route 23. Alex, who died between
films, had been hit in the head with a falling brick. Kim, Clear and
other strangers that are left must try to stick together and cheat
Death again. The plot may sound stupid but its actually not all that
bad. The story may not make sense at some scenes and the story is
filled with holes. Its hard though to write a good story for something
like this and I think they gave a good effort. The first film was very
good and a lot of fun to watch. The sequel is even more fun to watch,
even if it does get silly at times. Its better to watch the original
before watching this so it would be easier to follow the story. Most
horror films today are to silly to take serious and that's why you
shouldn't really approach this one expecting an Oscar quality film. The
acting was decent with the best being Ali Larter. She and Tony Todd are
the only stars returning from the original film. A.J. Cook plays
Kimberly and she does an okay job. The rest of the cast are mostly
unknowns and aren't worth mentioning. David R. Ellis directs and he
does really good job. He also directed the fast paced and exciting
Cellular. The film is very gory and also very fun. Final Destination 2
was very creative when it came to killing off the characters. A couple
of the death scenes do go over the top though the film delivers the
goods for the most part. The film is only 90 minutes long so it's a
quick film to watch. The movie also never gets boring as its always
entertaining. I wouldn't say the film is to scary but there are some
moments that may leave with fear. In the end, this is a very good
sequel, that's better then the original and worth checking out. I just
hope Final Destination 3 is just as good or even better then this film.
Rating 7.8/10, check this film out as its very entertaining.
<|_=00=_|>
The original FINAL DESTINATION was a smart reworking of the teen horror
film . Instead of horny teenagers getting their heads lopped off by a
mad axeman in a mask , the protagonists , who are composed of a cross
section of society , are stalked by the worst monster in the world -
death itself . FINAL DESTINATION 2 follows the same formula 

Kevin Williamson pointed out in one of his screenplays for SCREAM that
sequels up the ante , everything has to be that little bit bigger with
a higher body count and the sequel gets off to a great start with a
premonition of an explosive car crash . The film's heroine Kimberly
knows what's coming next so holds up the traffic saving numerous
drivers from a fiery death . Unfortunately destiny doesn't like being
cheated and no one will be appearing on WHO WANTS TO BE A MILLIONAIRE ,
the bad things that are going to happen to the protagonists will indeed
be final 

There's a term used by film critics called " Hierarchy of image " which
, if the director lingers on an object then it has meaning to the plot
. Ironically perhaps the best example of this is the television series
CASUALTY where if the camera shows a chip pan then you can be sure
it'll burst in to flames later in the sequence . In some ways this is a
film employing the anti- hierarchy of image since it toys with the
audience in to thinking they're going to see an object kill the hapless
victim only for the rug to be pulled from under their feet . It's a
different take on the horror film and it probably doesn't stand up to a
second viewing since all the surprises are gone but it's highly
entertaining the first time you see it
<|_=00=_|>

Final Destination was a decent film. Original idea, pretty suspenseful
directing, and some death scenes that while inventive, were creepy to
boot.

This time around, with a new director and a new approach, we get a very
different film. The first movie was a horror - this is'nt. In fact its not
even a thriller, its basically a load of silly dialogue acted out badly by
very silly actors, with some dead people in-between. 

The thing is, that doesn't make the movie all that bad - The deaths and the
gore are the pay-offs, and great care has been taken to ensure that all of
them would get a great reaction from a packed cinema theatre.

The car pile up at the start is bone crunchingly violent, with buckets of
blood being splattered everywhere - and its very entertaining stuff.

Various methods have been used here for the subsequent death scenes (CG,
green screens, puppets, models) but it all cuts together very well, and most
of the deaths would have your average cinema audience whooping with crimson
tainted delight...

The impressive trickery used in killing off each character, intertwining
supsense and surprise, is so effective, that many people will come away from
this film forgetting that there wasn't actually anything else good about it
- apart from the eye candy of course.

Worth a watch - you'll recoil in disgust and laugh more than you would
watching most movies of this genre. try to catch it before you
die.
<|_=00=_|>
Kimberly Corman has a terrifying vision that a highway pile up will
claim her life and that of her friends. Blocking the entrance with her
car, Kimberly watches in horror as the crash unfolds, thus saving her
life and that of the people in the queue behind her. But the grim
reaper is not impressed and he's coming to claim the deaths of all
those who should have died in the crash.

For a sequel to truly work well it has to come up with something fresh,
otherwise why do a sequel eh? Well the makers of Final Destination 2
choose to use the basic same formula of the hugely enjoyable first
film, only adding more black humour into the crazy death design broth.
Opening with a quite horrific highway pile up, FD 2 then takes us on a
journey that sees an assortment of folk offed in various and gruesome
ways. The story remains the same as the first film, even though writers
Bress and Gruber think they are being intricate by weaving this plot
into the original story, but ultimately it's just a devilishly nonsense
fun picture. Ali Larter returns for a second helping, and she in turn
is joined by a bunch of no mark actors waiting for death, which is
perfectly fine for the genre discerning fan.

This is a riot, and as long as you don't look too deep into it (why
would you really?) you may just find yourself having a real good time.
7/10
<|_=00=_|>
*Final Destination SPOILERS*

When a young woman (A.J. Cook) has a premonition on her road trip that
ended up killing her friends & the young woman was saved by a police
officer (Micheal Landes). While some people have died in the huge car
accident. The young woman managed to save the lives of other people
(Jonathan Cherry, Terrence T.C. Carson, Keegan Connor Tracy, Lynda
Boyd, James N. Kirk, Sarah Carter). But Death wants them back, and the
only person who can help them try to survive is the last survivor from
flight 180 (Ali Larter), but will her help be enough?

Final Destination 2 doesn't work; first, we get a heroine who does very
little, secondly the story is quickly forgotten for the death scenes,
thirdly the plot twist (the survivors from Flight 180 saved the new
survivors from the deaths they were destined to) leaves quite the hole,
as we'll never know if the survivors who died before this revelation
were part of that or not, fourthly, if it's a sequel, where is the
theme from the original?, and lastly, the ending is cheap and stupid.

As a horror movie, it deserves a 6/10 for effort, however, compared to
the first and the third, gets a 2/10.

I'll guess I'll be fair...

Final Destination 2: 5/10.
<|_=00=_|>
A teenage girl has a premonition of a horrific traffic accident and
blocks an entry road with her car. The accident happens, but all the
people she prevented from entering the road, including herself, seem
cursed to die to by violent freak accidents.

This is a very stupid movie whose only purpose is to set the characters
up to get smooshed in bizarre and icky circumstances. We have people
impaled in the head by ladders, beheaded by elevators, blown up at
barbecues, sliced up by netting, and so on. Call me old-fashioned, but
I like a movie to have a plot and characters I can get interested in.
The cast of catalogue-models are uniformly wooden, except for the
ever-reliable Todd, who provides a few minutes' sinister grace. The
digital effects for the short-and-sudden deaths are quite imaginative
but not really very interesting or plausible - people just liquefy into
computer goo and they're over in about ten frames. I much prefer the
good old prosthetic latex approach, which is gorier and more realistic
(see Scanners, The Fury, Day Of The Dead, Robocop, etc). There is a
nice score by Shirley Walker which creates some suspense, the opening
highway pile-up has some great stuntwork and most of the characters
have horror-film director names. However, this indicates the golden
rule of film-making - if what's on the page is lame, the movie will
always be a turkey.
<|_=00=_|>

*SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*

Watch the signs! Another teen prevents people from dying. Death gets upset.
Soon Death will come for them all and have his revenge. Death has got a sick
sense of humor. For some reason he likes planting ominous signs all around
so people can have a sense of how they will die. The survivors try to cheat
Death by beating his design. The foolish ones ignore Death's helpful clues
and die horrible deaths. 

People die in ghoulish accidents but you can't help but laugh. "HAHAHA..See!
That's what you get. You should have looked at the warnings stupid! They
were right in front of you!" The accidents are gruesome but funny when you
take into consideration all the foreshadowing Death likes to give. For
instance...

*SPOILER ON DEATH FORESHADOWING*

Before the heroine pulls onto the highway, you hear a bus full of students
chanting, "Pile up! Pile Up!". Then she sees a kid playing with his two car
toys, smacking them together. The best one is when the guy who just won the
lotto is cooking. Notice the magnetic letters on the side of his
refrigerator. One of them drops into his food. Notice what word the
remaining letters spell. That Death is pretty hilarious. He spelled the
guy's demise out! Watch the signs!

Overall, I enjoyed it. Gruesome fun. 

