
I like clever movies, and I like scary movies. And because of my
disposition I already spent money on two very awful movies that came
from Hollywood this year: abysmal "Godsend" and at first glance
promising but ultimately stupid and disappointing "The Forgotten".

That's why I proceeded with care to the latest Shyamalan's work: "The
village". The trailer looked promising: a desolate
turn-of-the-last-century village, sorrounded by the forest in which
some horrible creatures live. Promising, but being careful lately, I
first checked around the net...and was amazed to see a big load of
negative reviews. Roger Ebert for instance, whose opinion I usually
respect, gave it a horribly low grade! Great.

Nevertheless, I chose to see it, and I must say was quite pleasantly
surprised. Here, ladies and gentlemen, you have a very nicely shot,
atmospheric thriller with great cast, good story and a few finishing
touches of Shyamalan's cleverness (which could be simply called
brilliant when compared with the latest scripts that the Hollywood
vomits over its audience!).

Why the lousy reviews? Well, there are basically two kinds of people
that will want to see this movie: first the horror fans, who will
expect a gruesome and chilling and potentially bloody tale, and the
puzzle-movie fans, who are more or less not interested in the movie
itself, but in "solving the latest Shyamalan's puzzle" of what the
movie is all about.

The horror crowd will be disappointed. There are scares in this movie,
but way too much characterization and drama for their taste. As for the
other crowd, well people, the twist is there, but this time it's very
guessable (although Shyamalan still has some tricks up his sleeve, as
you'll see).

It seems that Shyamalan will always live in the shadow of his
masterpiece "The 6th sense". People still remember getting their socks
knocked off with its powerful ending, and keep expecting that to happen
again with every following movie. What's worse, Hollywood realized that
the twists are trendy, so lately we have lots of movies with a final
twist, most of which are stupid/cheap/illogical. People today set their
expectations too damn high, especially if they see Shyamalan's name at
the movie poster.

This movie is great. The atmosphere is great, the cast is fantastic,
and what I mostly love about it, it's clever. It's logical. And
whatever you say about it, it's CONSISTENT. Compared to the other
Hollywood crap we are getting served lately, this is a VERY good movie.

Watch this, but not as a puzzle, but as a great movie in itself.

Well, just my 2 cents.
<|_=00=_|>
M. Night Shyamalan definitely did himself a disservice in releasing
"The Sixth Sense". Brilliant as the film was, its "twist" ending was so
powerful that audiences the world over expected nothing less from the
talented young director. And so, Shyamalan has been trying with every
single outing since to recapture that sense of awe.

Although many have made scathing remarks about the ending of "The
Village", it is perhaps his most perfect since "The Sixth Sense";
though by no means a huge surprise, it nevertheless settles into the
ambiance and leaves the film with a tinge of melancholy that belies the
trailers.

It is a film of startling imagery, with a theme of 9/11-inspired
innocence versus corruption that creeps into the mind and stays there
until it unfolds over and over again. Many have called the acting
"wooden", but a second viewing of the film would change that opinion;
it is, after all, part of the point. Bryce Dallas Howard (Ron's
daughter) lights up the screen in an astounding premiere performance as
the blind Ivy, Adrien Brody delivers a searing portrayal of longing as
the dim-witted Noah and Joaquin Phoenix heightens the moody tone with
his strong, silent-type Lucius. "The Village" is about these people,
this community living in fear, not the monsters of which they have been
warned; it is about the psychology of fear rather than a horrific
portrayal of it.

It must be said that the only thing wrong with "The Village" was the
promotion for it. The adverts made it seem like a thrill-ride of Gothic
horror, like the scariest film yet to be filmed - and audiences were
running in their droves to catch yet another Shyamalan Twist. Instead
of investing their emotions in the characters, viewers kept their
distance in the knowledge that they would be hoodwinked, that the
entire thing was a set-up to catch them out anyway. Wrong as this is,
it was ultimately the undoing of the movie; had it been promoted as a
thoughtful, stark, moody piece of film-making, then both the critics
and the public would have been satisfied.

This is not a film about The Twist Ending, but about wrapping its
beauty around your mind, and the quiet, haunting finale is what helps
to keep it there.
<|_=00=_|>
The film The Village, was quite unfortunately Mal advertised, this
being in Greece of course. Instead of showing the ingenuity of the plot
and the sort utopia created, it depicts a cheap horror story. This
accomplished two very inopportune things. Firstly it attracted quite a
unimaginative unintelligent crowd of people, who were, of course,
displeased by the outcome of the story. Secondly it didn't allow the
more imaginative more interpretive crowd to enjoy the quite complacent
plot and Walden Two like utopia ultimately falling apart the sole
reason people never left the place was due to their fear of some
unknown creature.It was well done, had a good group of productive
actors and a very suspenseful plot and deserves better reviews than it
is given.
<|_=00=_|>

I went to see M. Night Shyamalan's "The Village" today.

First things first... I won't even discuss a SINGLE aspect of the plot,
here, so you can read this safely. I will say this: If you plan to see
the movie, do not read a single review (besides mine!). As with most of
Shyamalan's films, the less you know about the plot going in, the
better.

As far as the quality of the film... it is solid. Beautifully directed,
well acted, dramatic, scary, sometimes funny, and with some great plot
twists. It is not as good as "The Sixth Sense", but it's probably not
fair to keep comparing Shyamalan's work to his first big hit, one of
the best psychological horror films ever made. A director could work
his entire career and never make a SINGLE film as good as "The Sixth
Sense", let alone recapture that movie's amazing brilliance.

But, I hear you asking, is "The Village" better than "Unbreakable" and
"Signs" (Shyamalan's second and third films)??? Well, that depends on
what you thought of those films. Personally, I'd probably say that it
is a better film than those two. At the very least it is more
sophisticated, with stronger themes, a much bigger and better cast, and
more subtle surprises than in those two films.

"The Village" continues Shyamalan's pattern of there being twists in
the plot, but this time there are SEVERAL of them and they occur
sporadically throughout the film... not one big one at the end. You
WILL be surprised by the film, but don't expect to be bowled over.

I would describe this as his most subtle film, and also as more of a
character study than a horror film. The characters here are very rich,
and their interactions and relationships with one another are very
rewarding in big and small ways. The acting is phenomenal, most
noticeably by Academy Award winner Adrian Brody and Joaquin Phoenix.
But first time actress Bryce Dallas Howard (Ron Howard's daughter),
William Hurt and Sigourney Weaver all give solid performances as well.

"The Village" is a character study of how a community and individuals
respond under pressure and fear. And while it has elements of horror,
I'm not even sure I would describe it as a horror film.

But don't get me wrong, there are some real scary moments in the
film... just don't go in expecting a roller coaster ride. While I was
watching it, I kept thinking about some of the better episodes of The
Twilight Zone that had a few thrills but left you thinking about human
nature more than anything.

Go see "The Village", but bring someone with you.

<|_=00=_|>
I don't think I've ever been more shocked by how much I liked a film. I
had very low expectations when I decided to watch "The Village,"
because I knew how much critics had panned it. I'm not saying that I
regard the consensus of the critics as sacrosanct. But the movies I
love are rarely ones that have earned critical scorn, so by the law of
probability I doubted that this one would be any good. Besides, I had
noticed a steadily downward slope in the quality of M. Night
Shyamalan's films since "The Sixth Sense." When "The Village" was
released and subsequently panned, it seemed to fit the pattern that I
myself had noticed. So I didn't go and see the film. Only recently did
I take a look at it on cable, more out of curiosity than anything else.

And alas, I found the first fifteen minutes rather slow. The movie has
a lot of characters, and it doesn't quickly establish which ones are
the most important. All we see is this primitive nineteenth-century
village in the midst of woods that the villagers believe to be haunted
by ominous, sentient creatures who will not harm the people as long as
they don't set foot in the woods. The villagers have all sorts of
rituals to protect themselves from attack, such as avoiding the color
red (what is it with Shyamalan and red?) and wearing yellow hoods. But
rules are meant to be broken, and a quiet, mysterious young man played
by Joaquin Phoenix wants to journey into the woods so that he can visit
"the towns" on the other side, which boast superior medicine. Among
other things, he wonders if he'll find a cure for his mentally
handicapped friend (Adrien Brody). In the meantime, he's falling in
love with the blind girl (Bryce Dallas Howard) whose role in the plot
will expand as the movie progresses.

The love story between Phoenix and Howard is well-handled and
believable, transcending the romantic clichés. The two characters seem
to possess a common understanding and don't have to talk much in order
for us to feel the developing bond between them. But what they do say
to each other is intriguing. My favorite line is "Sometimes we don't do
things we want to do so that others won't know we want to do them."
Their personalities also transcend stereotype, particularly with
Phoenix: while stoic and courageous, he's also shy and withdrawn, as
revealed in scenes where he passes letters to the public council
instead of speaking in front of them. His ultimate significance to the
story turns the heroic convention on its head.

Everyone in the village speaks in an oddly formal manner, using big
words and avoiding contractions. The accents are American, but the
diction is like that of a nineteenth-century English novel. Amazingly,
the actors make this language sound natural as it rolls off their
tongues. The cast includes several familiar faces: William Hurt,
Sigourney Weaver, Brendan Gleeson, and the aforementioned Phoenix and
Brody. But the star of the film is the as-yet unknown Howard, who
delivers a performance so compelling that it's a shame the film was
trashed by critics.

Much of the film concerns the relationships of the characters in the
village, but the mystery of the creatures also dominates the plot. This
is more of a quietly creepy "Twilight Zone"-style tale than outright
horror. Like Shyamalan's other films, it ultimately carries a message
of hope and optimism. But Shyamalan does not forget his horror roots.
No other Hollywood filmmaker today is better at crafting scenes where a
character is being haunted by an evil presence. These scenes work
because of Shyamalan's acute sense of how nightmares feel. Like all
skilled horror directors, he knows not to focus on the monster itself
but on the panicked reaction of the character being stalked.

While the use of a blind character is hardly a new device, Shyamalan
handles the scenes with Howard in an interesting way. Instead of the
usual approach of teasing the audience by showing exactly what the
blind character doesn't see, he practically makes us blind along with
her. He has the camera follow her as she walks, so that we don't see
what's in front of her. We soon realize that we are seeing little more
than what she is able to discern about her surroundings. In crucial
scenes, we are effectively almost as much in the dark as she is.

I cannot say much more about the plot without ruining the movie's
surprises, which are abundant. Critics dismissed "The Village" as a
crude exercise in plot manipulation. I couldn't disagree more. While
I'm not certain that the logistics of the plot work in every detail,
most of the criticisms I have heard reflect a superficial reading of
the story.

The film has the same basic structure that Shyamalan always uses, where
we are swept up in the events and only at the end do we find out what
the movie was truly about. From there, we have to think backwards to
understand the ultimate meaning of the story. I have seen the movie
three times now, noticing new things each time. The social themes make
me think that Shyamalan is familiar with Joseph Campbell's works on
primitive societies and the origin of drama. The back story is very
well thought out compared to that of the average thriller, and I feel
some disappointment that more people aren't able to appreciate it. The
beauty and genius of this film is a well-kept secret.
<|_=00=_|>
The Village is set in a small, rural community living in a kind of 19th
Century self-supporting agrarianism. Woods surround the town, and the
villagers maintain a strict perimeter, as there are creatures in the
woods with whom they've reached a truce so long as the borders are not
breached. Tension mounts as the creatures start breaking their normal
pattern, and one of the villagers, Lucius Hunt (Joaquin Phoenix), seeks
permission from the town elders to travel through the woods, to the
towns and "those we don't speak of", so he can acquire medicine for his
fellow villagers.

For anyone seriously interested in the art of film, The Village is
worth a viewing just for its cinematography and score. That's not to
say that the story isn't good. It's a captivating tale of a very odd
small town, complete with a twist, as is characteristic of director M.
Night Shyamalan. The twist may not be as shattering here as it was in
some of his previous films, such as The Sixth Sense (1999) and
Unbreakable (2000), but it is still a change that catalyzes an
eye-opening recontextualization and reassessment of the previous
material, making the film and the final resolution of the story even
more poignant. It is also interesting to note the many possible
metaphorical readings, ranging from political insularism to religion,
or even more literal comparisons to social and geographic segregation
(from ethnic enclaves to gated communities).

Shyamalan could be said to have a directorial gimmick, although that
might not be the best word because it's usually taken negatively, and I
don't mean it to undervalue his approach. He makes genre films in the
guise of realist dramas. So far, all of his films since he hit it big
with The Sixth Sense have used this interesting device, each in a
different genre. The Sixth Sense was a horror/ghost story. Unbreakable
was a comic book film. Signs was sci-fi. The Village is
fantasy/adventure. It also has some horror elements (as do Unbreakable
and Signs).

Part of Shyamalan's genius as a filmmaker is that he can achieve the
usual responses associated with those genres using such unusual,
relatively mundane and realist material. For example, in The Village,
he is able to build up an incredible amount of suspense in relation to
two very simple things--flowers of a particular color, and beginning a
walk into the woods. A simple walk into the woods is also the beginning
of an adventure just as grand as any depiction of a quest for the Holy
Grail, say. And the ensuing plot developments, although very ordinary
on one level, have a profound, redemptive effect. Many of the most
important developments in the climax aren't even directly stated;
they're just subtly implied in what we're shown, yet they all work
extremely well. While Shyamalan's style may require some adjustments
for viewers more accustomed to chaotic, MTV-paced genre films, or on
the flipside, for viewers less accustomed to elements of fantasy in
their films, it is worth altering your preconceptions about pacing and
content.

The cast is excellent. I'm not usually the biggest fan of William Hurt,
but I even loved his performance. Joaquin Phoenix and particularly
Bryce Dallas Howard are amazing. The film wouldn't have worked without
the right person in either actor's roles. Both were perfect choices.
There is also a wonderful, very slight surreal quality throughout most
of the film shown in the behavior of the villagers towards each other.

James Newton Howard's score may be his best to date in a very long list
of credits. The music always provides just the right atmosphere, sense
of wonder/mystery, pathos and suspense. Roger Deakins' cinematography
is equally brilliant, capturing a slight eeriness, sense of foreboding
and comfort all at the same time, and with an ingenious use of colors.
Much of the film leans towards rich yellow/orange hues and tints, with
strong green accents in the grasses and trees. Whenever red is
introduced, it is appropriately intense. The framing of shots and
staging of scenes is equally impressive.

I know that this film has had its detractors, but I cannot see why. For
my tastes, The Village is yet another masterpiece from a very creative,
innovative filmmaker.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie absolutely blew my mind. I grew up in a small village in
Central Illinois. My village is on the map solely because of the Amish
community which has established itself in the rural area around the
town. "The Village" is reminiscent of all things strived for by the
Amish community. Whilst ridiculed by many and misunderstood by most of
the rest, the Amish and the community in "The Village" long for the
same things: a return to simpler times when the good in life was much
more prolific. Although it could be argued that the members of the
village have their ideals based upon and rooted in fear, that doesn't
differ drastically from many ideals held throughout the world. The
negative aspects of our ideals may not be as obvious and spelled-out to
us like those of in "The Village," but they remain similar
none-the-less. "The Village" is a real thinker's movie and I commend M.
Night Shyamalan for another remarkable movie. I can't wait to see
what's next.
<|_=00=_|>

It's not what you think it is. It's not horrific. It's not gory. It is
however a very well written and played thriller drama, with a fantastic
love story woven into it to keep it from getting overbearing. 

I've seen the 6th Sense and thought it was fantastic, and passed on
Signs because I'd already been sick of alien movies by then, though it
looks like I should see it.

I went into this film without preconceptions about M. Night Shyamalan
or his previous work. I wanted to see a good scary movie. Good it was.
Scary it was less. Don't go into it expecting to get horrified, and you
won't leave the movie upset about it.

I liked this movie a lot, largely because it caught me by surprise at
many points. It's too easy to spoil the movie if I mention why though,
so I'll just say you have to see it for yourself. 

The acting, particularly by Bryce Howard, Joaquin Phoenix, Adrien
Brody, and William Hurt, was played well with the right subtlety and
nuance to make the characters believable. 

Howard's role as the smart, emotionally strong tomboy who also happens
to be blind was played with an understanding you don't often see in a
period role. She was Ivy, and she was living in the late 19th century.
She showed an innocence that she could only have gotten away with in
this character, and she played it like the time was hers.

There was no doubt of who she was. She conveyed the strength (both her
real strength and that which she exuded with a feminine machismo) of
her character very well, but never pushing it over the top. She never
shouted an emotion; she whispered it, but it was loud and clear. When
she spoke about love and fear, you felt it. When she cried she wasn't
hamming it up; she exuded grief from eyes, face, and body. She was
brilliant, and I can't wait to see her on screen again. She also
happens to be incredibly beautiful. Did that cloud my judgment? Go see
the movie. 

Phoenix continues to upstage his previous roles in every movie I've
seen him in. His expressions are classic. The theater laughed more from
his modest look of confusion in one scene than I've heard at the last 3
comedies I've watched. He was being more serious than ever, but the
comedy of his emotions, however brief, was transmitted perfectly
through his stone cold face, only barely showing what he felt inside,
but saying everything. Throughout the movie, he was quiet, thoughtful,
brave, and pure of spirit, and he said it all in so few words. When he
spoke of emotion, it had a power that gripped me. The lines he
delivered, though incredibly well written, were meant for him.

Shyamalan's dialogue helped, in that it was rarely obtrusive when
spoken by these actors. 

About the story: It twists in ways few could imagine. That makes it a
bit upsetting. Expect to be let down a little. If you're not looking
for gory horror, then you might just love it. When it's not changing
directions though it's fantastic in it's subtleties. I can't avoid that
word because it applies well to how Shyamalan put this together. 

I don't buy many movies, but I will be purchasing this when it comes
out on DVD.

<|_=00=_|>
Yes, this film was marketed poorly. Yes, the trailers were misguided.
But yes, this is also not a very good film.

The problem is that Night has introduced too many concepts, ideas and
sub-plots with not enough time to fully realize any of them. The
casting is wonderful; Hurt does his best "intellectual every man",
Phoenix is a decently stoic enigma and newcomer Bryce is actually
fantastic as the lead. But Sigourney Weaver is given little to do and
some difficult, mundane dialogue to act her way through. Brendan
Gleeson is inexcusably underused and Adrien Brody seems to have been
edited out of any real emotional impact.

What this film wants to be is a comment on contemporary America - where
a group of intellectuals (with the funding of one very wealthy family),
disenfranchised with modern street violence and urban decay, could
conceivably remove themselves from the modern world and live in the
perceived utopia of a rural 19th century. But too many easy answers,
tacked on script "quick fixes", and multiple convenient solutions
expose the many holes in the film making. It always feels like Night
was tacking on justification scenes as the film posed questions instead
of having a clear vision at the script stage. I won't go into all of
the examples - but there are many (costumes hidden under floorboards, a
blind girl, a mentally challenged man who can't expose the truth of the
woods, a clearly quick-fix line about someone paying off the government
to not fly over the commune, etc). You never get the sense that Brody
is in love enough to kill. You never really fear the "woods", you are
never really forced to wonder what is in the boxes in the elders'
homes, and the creatures should never have been shown (first rule of
mis-direction-based suspense!). I'll offer this one question as an
example indicative of the other problematic elements: Why - if the
"elders" know that it is really not the 1800's, and also know that they
are living in a protected area set up by the Walker family - do they
make such a fuss about Ivy going for medicine? They know what she will
find but not be able to see. Unlike Night's previous films, the mystery
is not guarded in a realistic way. He makes these elders seem
suspicious and mysterious solely for the benefit of the audience, but
there is no real justification for the characters themselves. This is
troubling throughout the film and ends up like most badly written
suspense films where the twists only trick the viewer but seem
ridiculous and improbable if you just deal with the fictional world
contained in the film.

All in all, it's overly-simplistic; the equivalent of the "it was all a
dream" device. While I was not disappointed that this film was not the
horror thrill ride that the trailers would have you believe, I was
disappointed that a clever idea was so badly edited together (it looks
like hours of footage was shot, but slashed down to its essential plot
points for time) and never realized. It's a shame, it could have been a
great film if Night would have stuck to a couple fully developed
characters and plot paths and really got us to invest in them.
<|_=00=_|>

When we go to the movies, we have certain expectations in mind. These
expectations are increased when one attends a Shyamalan film. He is
known for his intricate plots, mind blowing twists, and thrillingly
suspenseful style. His newest feat, "The Village" more than lived up to
his reputation.

This is the kind of film that will make you gasp, scream, and jump from
your seats while also making you think, which is rare with today's
movies. The viewer is never quite sure what will be around the corner
and that is what makes this movie so great.

All of Shyamalan's movies (ie. "The Sixth Sense," "Unbreakable," and
"Signs") have a certain mysterious essence that makes them stand out
from other suspenseful films. He makes the audience feel many emotions
besides fear, in fact, the presence of so many emotions in The Village
adds to its quality. He manages to weave a romance into his story, thus
making the audience truly feel for his characters. His films tend to
have in underlying them, whether it be hope, courage, faith, or in this
case love, and that is what makes his work so superb. Go to this movie
expecting to feel fear, and every emotion in between.

