
I did not hate this film. It was fairly entertaining, with well-staged
battle scenes and high production values. The acting, though often
either overblown or slightly wooden, was passable, and Ioan Gruffydd
was actually quite good.

What bothered me is that the text at the opening of King Arthur
promised a portrayal of the "historical" Arthur, and then manifestly
failed to deliver. For the record, there is no "historical" Arthur.
There are scattered references in the works of Gildas and Bede to an
Arthur, or an Aurelius Ambrosianus upon whom the legend of Arthur is
based. There is a fairly detailed story of a King Arthur in Geoffrey of
Monmouth's History, though most of this seems drawn from Welsh and
Cornish folktales of the type later collected in the Mabinogion. There
is, however, very hard evidence that there ever was a King Arthur, or
battles of Baddon Hill and Celidon forest.

There was, however, an invasion and colonization of Britain by the
Saxons and other Germanic tribes during the fifth and sixth centuries,
following the Roman military withdrawal. And it is pretty clear that
the native Celtic and Romano-Celtic population put up one hell of a
fight, slowing but not stopping the Saxon invasions. My own opinion is
that there is enough smoke to suggest that the Arthur of medieval
romance probably had some kind of historical prototype (most legends of
this type usually do: a "Dux Bellorum" (war leader) as named in Gildas,
possibly this shadowy Aurelius Ambrosianus.

So, I had high hopes for the movie King Arthur. After all, the film had
the time period right, and the context looked convincing enough.
Unfortunately, rather than using the historical material and context,
the filmmakers completely ignored them. There was no consistency to
this movie, and anyone with even a passing knowledge of the history of
the early middle ages (the so-called dark ages) will be more than
irritated by the pretended historicity of the movie. Some examples: 1.
The film suggests the late-imperial Roman government and policy was
directed by the Church, through the Papacy. This is absolutely false.
Although the Empire was staunchly Christian at this time, it was the
Emperor and his court -- at Constantinople rather than Rome -- that set
and executed policy. Bishops did not order armies around. In fact, the
See of Rome at the time was a relatively weak power centre at the time,
especially compared to the Bishops of Constantinople and Alexandria.

2. While it is true that the Romans enlisted soldiers and units from
border tribes like the Sarmatians, they were never posted at the other
end of the empire. This would have made no sense, since the whole point
of the foederati was to create a buffer between the empire and the
northern and eastern barbarians. The Sarmatian soldiers were typically
posted in Sarmatia.

3. Arthur would never have known Pelagius who, though a Briton or
Irishman by birth, was in Rome from about AD 405. He was condemned by
the Church, but never actually excommunicated or convicted of heresy,
and probably died in Rome in AD 420, around the time the "historical"
Arthur was born.

4. By the fifth century, the Roman occupied part of Britain had been
quite thoroughly Romanized. The population was mostly Romanized
Britons, and NOT an ethnically British population under the boot of a
few foreign, ethnically Roman aristocrats. While there certainly were
non-Romanized Celts like the Wodes about, most of the Britain that
Arthur would have been fighting to defend would have been populated by
Christian Britons who though of themselves as Romans.

5. Bishop Germanicus, or St. Germain, was not a former Roman general.
He was a former Gaulish lawyer.

6. Hadrian's wall was built not to keep the Britonnic Celts and Saxons
out of Roman Britain. It was built to keep the Picts and Hiberni -- who
were explicitly NOT Briton and in the case of the Picts, probably not
even Celts -- out of Britain. It runs/ran from Solway Firth to the
River Tyne and thus is waaaaaaaaaaaaay too far north to have had much
to do with the "historical" Arthur.

7. While the Church in the fifth century was certainly militant (read
St. Augustine for that), the portrayal of churchmen as murderous
ascetics who tortured and sacrificed pagans is absolutely ridiculous.
In fact, by this time, most of the population south of Hadrian's Wall
had been converted to Christianity.

What troubles me is that there is no reason why the filmmakers should
have played so fast and loose with history to make this movie. I
understand creative license, but the way in which they claim
historicity on one hand, and then create a nonsense fabrication on the
other – to no end other than the fact that they just seemed to want to
do it that way -- makes it very difficult for me to respect King
Arthur. I can respect Excalibur; at least no one claimed that it was
historical.
<|_=00=_|>
I have been a huge King Arthur fan ever since the night that I sat in
an empty theater, in my hometown, awestruck by John Boorman's
Excalibur.

Since then, I have seen the legend of King Arthur mutilated in films
such as First Knight and The Mists of Avalon.

My high hopes for the movie, King Arthur, were dashed before the film
even opened in theaters, by critics who were panning the movie from
advanced screenings.

So, I stayed away while it was in theaters and most definitely passed
on special discounts on the week it was released to DVD.

After finally getting around to renting a copy, I am left with just one
burning question - Why in the hell do I listen to movie critics? The
movie King Arthur has it all - a tight, well written story, believable
characters, gritty realism, a great musical score by Hans Zimmer, epic
battles, and more blood and splatter than you probably really wanted to
see.

The bottom line is that King Arthur is a very good film. No, it's not
the mythical Camelot, but it does not try to be. Nor, does it trample
all over the name of King Arthur by making him a shallow or less than
heroic character.

This is not Braveheart or Gladiator , but it is a film worth seeing and
appreciating. Now that I think about, it's worth buying a copy to add
to the home video library.
<|_=00=_|>

And I loved it!

Not just the new take on the King Arthur legend and the able cast, but the
colors, the costumes, the landscapes, the horses, and Hans Zimmer's
heart-pounding score.

I'm no King Arthur scholar but I have always been enamored with the
chivalric ideals. It's great to see the knights in shining armor and Merlin
conjuring up the mists and casting spells, and the young Arthur pulling
Excalibur out of the stone.

But I went into this movie with an open mind. I was swiftly transported to
that earlier time and happy for the journey. I could see where the elements
of the now oh-so-familiar Arthurian themes may have had their beginnings. I
found the on-screen chemistry between Ioan Gruffod and Clive Owen to be very
powerful and it provided poignant counterpoint to Lancelot's most fateful
choice.

The love triangle was never my favorite part of the Arthurian legends, so
the subtle treatment of it here didn't bother me at all. In fact, I found it
more intriguing in this film than in any other King Arthur movie I've
seen.

I loved that there was no hocus-pocus-type magic. Instead the magic was in
nature itself - the landscapes, the forests, the rain, the fog, the ice and
snow - all creating an other-worldly atmosphere along with Moya Brennan's
haunting vocals and Hans Zimmer's stirring score.

I loved the knights. I loved the idea that they were just regular guys and,
in effect, drafted into military service. Not the privileged elite who
volunteered their services to a king. Yet it is apparent that the Sarmatian
knights fought more out of their love and respect for Arthur than any duty
to Rome. That comraderie feels very organic and the sentiments, pure. I
liked that they're not all wearing the same uniform, that they might have
picked up pieces here and there as spoils of war.

I was especially captivated by Mads Mikkelson's Tristan. There appeared to
be Eastern influences in his tattoos, clothing, sword, and fighting style. I
love the idea of Lancelot using two swords. And I learned something about
battlefield strategy, too.

Whatever shortcomings this movie may have, I found heart and soul in it. It
was not only entertaining, it touched all my senses, and I felt good when I
walked out of the theatre.


<|_=00=_|>
Jerry Bruckheimer's KING ARTHUR is a shining example of that new breed
of mythology adaption. It is similar to Wolfgang Petersen's TROY, in
that it dispenses with the supernatural splendour and phantasmagorical
intrigue characteristic of traditional tales, and presents the story as
(relatively) realistic historical fiction, attempting to convey the
"magic" of the story through drama, rather than gaudy special effects.

This is a brave venture by Bruckheimer - and director Fuqua- and they
are to be commended for executing it with such style and creativity as
is displayed in this film. It has, however, enjoyed somewhat limited
success, due to the fact that it presents such a radical interpretation
of a story much closer to our hearts than that of the Illiad.

I believe, though, that if the viewer simply opens one's mind and
attempts to enjoy the story purely for the sake of itself (forgetting,
for the moment, Rosemary Sutcliff and Barbara Leonie Picard), KING
ARTHUR will reveal itself as a truly fine piece of film-making.

More than anything else, Fuqua masterfully portrays the atmosphere of
the tale, endowing it with a sense of time and place far more eloquent
than the rather run-of-the-mill dialogue. The entire experience oozes
the ambiance of the early common era, from windswept downs and hills to
rugged coasts and snow-cloaked mountains; from the spartan order of a
Roman camp to the hellish confines of a torture chamber. Exemplars of
this perfectly-presented atmosphere are Arthur's knights(Ioan Gruffud,
Ray Winstone, Joel Edgerton, Mads Mikkelsen, Hugh Dancy and Ray
Stevenson).These are not the chivalrous, couth, pious Christian knights
your mum told you about, but rather a troop of barbaric, lecherous,
pagan Sarmatian mercenaries. Together (with excellent performances all
round, particularly by Winstone, Gruffud and Edgerton) they epitomise
the pragmatic, godless, exquisitely human atmosphere of the period. As
Gawaine tells a cowering Roman friar in an early scene - "Your God
doesn't live here".

The lead actors, too, are outstanding, from Stellan Skarsgaard's
sociopathic Cerdic, to the delicious Keira Knightley's dark and
beautiful Guinevere. Only Clive Owen disappoints as Arthur himself,
lacking the emotion this characterisation requires to supplement his
steely resolve.

Despite the lukewarm reception to which it was subjected, KING ARTHUR
is a finely crafted and memorable item of film-making. Forget all your
preconceptions about King Arthur - just float with it, and let the rich
atmosphere engulf you. 9/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Sorry, but this film is dire.

Primarily it suffers from a BAD case of Robin Hood Prince Of Thieves
Geography... Saxons invading from the North of Hadrians Wall? With nice
round shields and pretty hair? Surely Mr Bruckheimer is thinking of the
Vikings? Only a few centuries early eh Jerry!

And Stone Henge on Tintagel?

Maybe if you're not familiar with the layout of England and if you
don't have even a rudimentary grasp of British history, you could enjoy
this film as a mindless bit of action fluff. But if you do posses
either of the two above attributes, you will find this film to be
another frustrating example of Hollywood not letting silly details like
facts or Geography get in the way of a fast buck (a la Braveheart,
U571, The Patriot etc.. etc..)

So for any non Brits reading this who like a bit of Arthurian action,
allow me to give you a few tips...

Stonehenge not near sea. Tintagel near sea but no stones. Hadrians wall
at top of country... Stone Henge, King Arthur, Avalon, Tintagel and
Saxons at bottom of country!

See! It's easy when you know how!

Oh! And for any Robin Hood fans, white cliffs not near Sherwood Forest.
Sorry.

Anyway. Poo film. Even without the Arthur stuff, it's just plain wrong
in so many ways. Giant frozen lakes in England? Where? 

Even without the stupidity, it's a bad film.

These actors should have known better.
<|_=00=_|>
In recent movies coming out of Hollywood there seems to be a trend
towards attempting to unveil the true character behind some of
history's most mysterious individuals. With most of us having been
brought up on tales of a medieval King Arthur and the magic of Camelot,
it was a risk for those who initiated this movie to attempt to expose
the man behind the myth, so to speak. In my opinion, through a
combination of realistic battle scenes, stunning cinematography and
well rounded characters this movie is successful.

This tale takes us on a journey with King Arthur's knights as they
embark on a final quest for Rome. The issue of religious persecution is
raised on numerous occasions in the duration of this movie and relates
to contemporary circumstances where religious belief can be used as a
form of power and means of superiority. Themes such as this raise the
film above the average Bruckheimer production. However, the dialogue is
still cliché in places, and mid-battle jokes can fall flat on audiences
that have grown weary of them in films such as LORD OF THE RINGS and
PIRATES OF THE CARIBBEAN. Fortunately, the battle scenes are realistic
and don't bombard us with Jackie Chan like maneuvers that the knights
have suddenly and inexplicably learned.

The movie is beautifully shot with a variety of landscapes ranging from
Hadrian's Wall to icy snow-covered hills and peasant villages. This
ensures that the audience always has something new to look at, but also
paints a realistic picture of the poverty and harsh environment of the
time.

My only complaint about this film would have to be that some of the
acting and characterisation was a little disappointing. Clive Owen's
'Arthur' was a little internalised and predictable. While other
characters, such as Lancelot (Ioan Gruffud), are fabulously flawed,
Arthur is always thinking of others and making the right decisions. His
humanity never falters. Owen delivers his lines woodenly and without
the passion one wishes to see from such a great warrior and
humanitarian. Whilst the writers have dared to put a different spin on
the characters of Lancelot and Guinevere (Keira Knightly), they seem to
have stuck with the Arthur of legend. Knightly's performance was
certainly nothing special. Her role in the movie was unclear as she
seemed to only be there to run around in skimpy outfits, although I'm
sure the intention was to create a strong female character. I thought
her survival in battle was unrealistic as she was much smaller and
weaker than the thousands of large trained warriors she was fighting,
particularly since she had apparently nearly starved to death after
being walled up in a tomb for her Pagan beliefs. Although Knightly is
beautiful, her performances in movies thus far have yet to convince me
of her acting abilities.

Overall, I thought this movie was unique in that it depicted a time not
often portrayed in modern cinema. It had strong themes with a good mix
of humour, romance and action. Although the film had its flaws, I would
definitely recommend it as I believe it would appeal to a wide
audience.
<|_=00=_|>
King Arthur is ( according to Hollywood ) a Roman? This film belongs in
the same bin as U-571 when it comes to historical accuracy.

The Britons appear as blue painted pixies along the lines of the elves
in Lord of the Rings. 

It appears that the knights of the round table are all dressed in
armour from all corners of the globe. Arthur is fully Roman, Lancelot
looks like a Persian warrior and the others are dressed like Ghengis
Khan.

The fight scenes resemble Buffy the Vampire Slayer - Kiera Knightly
twirling around Thai-style dealing roundhouse kicks to burly Saxons.

Another fine example of the Americans trying to rewrite the rest of the
worlds history.

King Arthur is a deep seated British legend and it is insulting that
the story should be twisted in this way. If this was done to a minority
group there'd be uproar.

I'm looking forward when I can fund the making of the true story of
George Washington, the one where he was an Iranian cross-dressing child
molester.
<|_=00=_|>
Here are the facts about the "Age of Arthur." The Roman legions pulled
out in 410 (over 50 years before this film's period). The Saxons were
INVITED by King Vortigern in 449 as mercenaries against invading Irish,
Scots and Picts (note: they were NOT called "Woads.") Saxons were NOT
mono-syllabic troglodytes, but actually warrior-farmers with a
sophisticated culture. After a few generations, the Angles and Saxons -
led by Cerdic of Wessex - came into conflict with the Romano-Celts, led
by Ambrosius Aurelianus. Artorius (Arthur) was apparently one of
Ambrosius' generals. He fought ten battles against the Germanic tribes,
culminating in the Battle of Badon sometime between 500 and 510 (40-50
years AFTER this film's period).

NONE of this information came out in this film. I am somewhat familiar
with the "Sarmatian" legend, but there is little evidence for it (in
fact, Roman legionaries in Britain came from all over the Empire). 

As "history," this film gets an "F". As entertainment...? The
characters were shallow, the acting was amateurish, and the dialogue
was plodding and trite. As a "found comedy," it works rather well - I
found myself laughing through most of it. As a serious film and an
attempt to portray "history," however, it is seriously flawed. Skip
this one and read "Crystal Cave" or "Mists of Avalon" instead.
<|_=00=_|>

They could also act better and write a decent script. Nothing in this film
makes sense:

- the "britons" who live in Scotland and dress like their predecessors of 4
centuries

- Pretty much everything about the armour and weapons (far too much to
mention in under 1000 words).

- In fact everything that tries to pass for history in this
mess

- The ability of everyone to understand 3 or more languages

- Britons fighting Saxons in the Borders under a Roman
flag

- Clive Owen thinking he can act

- Anyone thinking that script wouldn't make people laugh till it
hurts

- Roman conscription lasting 15 years and ending with a return to
Rome

- Low infant mortality rate and model-like mother of 11 healthy
brats(particularly made me laugh)

- Leaving a well defended fort to fight superior forces in the
open

- Magical Mystery Fort Doors that close their many-tonned-selves
automatically

- The phrase "Historians agree"

- The world's lightest heavy cavalry and most accurate
archers

- 100s of arrows from 8 bows

- The cruddy ripoff of Aleksandr Nevsky

- The many many cruddy ripoffs of Braveheart (a film which despite being
historically laughable is excellent entertainment unlike this
one)

And on and on and on and on.....

It's not just that it's poor history it's bad storytelling and makes the
film painful to watch even if the script did engender any interest from the
audience or the numerous dreadful performances didn't remove any prospect of
caring for or about the characters.

1/10 and that's only because of the bit-part guy that put on a funny
Somerset accent at one point. He, at least, clearly knew a little bit about
the legends and history this farce pretends to represent.

As a final thought - I don't know why Miss Knightley is drawn to bloody
awful adaptations of English legends but I wish she'd stop
it.
<|_=00=_|>
A roman King Arthur with knights that still have their 'Morte d'Arthur'
names even though they come from Iran do some very small scale heroics
in the middle of a field somewhere in england. The three people who saw
what happened obviously carried the story to us a thousand years later.

Small scale, low budget, badly acted, anachronistic and totally
unconvincing in everything it tried to show.

Arthur was woeful. He simply couldn't decide whether he was in
'Excalibur' or 'Gladiator' so we had this strange roman general who
kept coming out with hilarious monologues that bore no relation to the
rest of the film's script at all. The last speech on the hill had me in
stitches.

Merlin was some sort of degenerate mystic who looked meaningfully into
the sky and didn't do a hell of a lot else. His band too vaguely
resembled some sort of shambling Neanderthals instead of normal Saxon
guerilla fighters.

One of the worst films I have ever seen.
