
It's been said that this movie sets Australian culture back 20 years.
Whoever said that (I read it somewhere, but can't remember where) has
his/her head in his/her armpit. It's the side of Australian culture
outsiders rarely see. Illegal immigrants ARE arriving in leaky boats.
Police ARE unfairly targeting ethnic minorities. Fast-food corporations
(eg McDoggles) ARE being mean to the little guy (and I don't just mean
Pauly). People ARE making speed in their backyards. Backpackers ARE
being murdered.

Though I'm sure that, when these things occur in the real world, they
are nowhere near as funny as they are in Fat Pizza. This movie is
utterly hilarious from beginning to end. Sure, the humour may not be
everyone's cup of tea. I certainly wouldn't feel comfortable watching
it with my Nanna.

It's unfair to say there is no structure to the plot. There is. Just
not a standard one. Which, in this age of Hollywood formula, should be
regarded as a good thing. This movie breaks the rules, baby!

If you enjoy watching the Pizza TV show on SBS, you'll have a blast.
It's longer, with more jokes and cameos crammed in. A family-size
Pizza, if you like.

If I had to choose between Fat Pizza and Kangaroo Jack as a
representation of Australian culture, I'd choose Fat Pizza in a second.
<|_=00=_|>

In this world where we must be politically correct a hundred percent of
the
time or face court, Fat Pizza is like a breath of fresh air simply
because
it doesn't go out of its way to not offend anyone. We've all grown tired
of
films that go out of their way to please everyone and wind up pleasing
noone
as a result, so here's one that goes out of its way to please
noone.

And it winds up pleasing most anyone who has ever lived in a city where
there are a lot of people who represent an ethnic minority. Even people
from
California or New York might relate to it on some level. If you have
never
been outside of an exclusively Anglo-Saxon community, on the other hand,
don't bother.

It has been stated that the film is little more than an extended episode
of
the television series, and this is true to some extent. However, the
cinema
format removes a lot of the restraints inherent in television, and as a
result, the humour is more unapologetically ethnic, disgusting, and just
plain revolting. The Farrelly brothers are complete tryhards in
comparison
to Paul Fenech and his cohorts. And the refreshing thing is that they
truly
don't care who they offend, offering absolutely no apologies
whatsoever.

Another fun element of Fat Pizza is spotting all of the cameos from
minor,
or even major, Australian celebrities. Angry Anderson, Red Symons,
Kamahl,
Elliot Goblet, even Jeff Fenech himself - anyone who has ever been anyone
on
Australian television is packed in here, and you'll need to watch the
film
twice just to identify them all. The best part is that they're not taking
themselves even remotely seriously.

When Red Symons happily tells the illegal immigrants that "We take
bribes",
or Kamahl asks us for the zillionth time why people are so unkind, one
cannot help but laugh because it is all so utterly irreverent in a time
when
it should be. Forget about political correctness here - if you want to
see
Lebanese men acting like utter imbeciles while bikies, Italian gangsters,
and bad Ronald McDonald clones give them hell, this is the film you've
been
waiting for. You will not find a scene where a stoned Anglo pizza
delivery
boy runs over cyclists and thinking he's scoring points for it in any
American film before this one was made, I can garantee that. If you see
it
in one that was made after mid-2003, I can guarantee that it won't be
nearly
as funny.

Normally, I would never have considered this film because of its
shameless
appeal to the lowest common denominator, but it scores big because it
represents a much-needed loosening of the collar in this day and age
where
minor mischief on the part of people who are treated like slaves in our
society is treated like a spree of murders. Well done, Paul Fenech -
people
like you may well be the salvation of this blinkered, speak-no-evil
society
that none of us who were born in the 1970s or 1980s actually want. Ten
out
of ten for laughs, but minus two for going just a tiny bit too far at
times
(and even they were pretty funny because of the loosening up that the
rest
of the film offers).
<|_=00=_|>
Fat Pizza is a fast-paced comedy that just about makes fun of every
ethnicity, creed, color, size, and sexual preference of the peoples in
Australia, it seems (Having never been to Australia, I'm only guessing
they are making fun of everyone)... It's definitely low-brow humor at
it's best!

I realize that Fat Pizza may not be everyone's cup-o-tea. If you're one
of those super-sensitive they-shouldn't-make-fun-of-anyone-or-anything
sort of people, stay away from this movie! You will get your feelings
hurt!

Though if you're like me, a person who's sick to death of all this
Politically Correct crap run amok in movies, you'll probably love this
particular movie!

The only criticism I have about the movie is how hard it was to find it
here in the U.S.. I found it by chance at a garage sale.

I give this movie a 10!
<|_=00=_|>

I've seen the tv show a few times.  I thought the movie would be pushing
it,
trying to stretch the tv show to a movie length. Plus i thought it would
be
one of those low budget aussie movies that mainly appealed to ethnic
audiences. Like Wog Boy etc. So i wasn't expecting too much from the
movie.

I was p***ing myself laughing through lots of the movie. I thought i was
going to die because i was laughing too much.

There's jokes about race/religions, public tradegies (sept 11 & more). So
if
you are offended by bad taste jokes, stay away.  This is where i thought
some of the jokes were soooooo wrong, but i found it sooooo
funny.

I never wondered what time it was, or how long to go, as i usually do in
movies (including bourne identity). This movie kept me amused all the
time.

A LOT better than what i thought it would be, and i'd be happy to pay the
full admission price again to drag my mates there.

<|_=00=_|>

Fat Pizza is a fantastic film, which is both my 2nd favourite Australian
film and my 4th favourite comedy of all time! This is so politically
incorrect that it's the key to its success. This film takes the p*ss out
of
everyone and leaves no exceptions, like wogs, Aussies, Asians, illegal
immigrants, disabled people, street gangs, police, the government,
druggies,
religion, celebrities, terrorism, rappers, homosexuals, transvestites and
anyone else I didn't mention.

In this film, Paulie (Paul Fenech, who also co-wrote, produced and
directed
this masterpiece) has a lot on his plate. He has to organize Bobo's
(Johnny
Boxer), his boss, wedding with his mail-order bride Ling Chow (I can't
find
her real name), keep his mates, rapper Sleek The Elite (Paul Naked), Habib
(Tahir Bilgic, who also co-wrote this), Aussie druggie Davo Dinkum (Jabba
from Channel [V]) and Rocky `The Lebanese Rambo' (couldn't find his name
either) out of trouble and stay away from killer clowns from a rival fast
food chain (obviously spoofing McDonalds). There is also a rival pizza
shop
run by from Indian people called `Phat Pizza', which they know ripped them
off and spy on them.

The film is beyond worthy to the TV series, which is the best out of the
film spin-offs of TV series such as South Park, Beavis & Butthead and Ali
G.
The addition of the new character Davo is great and is probably now the
funniest character in the series, which is also nice to the see a `token
Aussie' in it. The performances are great and most are so over-the-top
that
it's genius. It's so funny that you pretty laugh every minute of the film
and the soundtrack is awesome and perfectly fits to the theme of the film.
It's a crime that the TV series Pizza was banned from SBS! Let's hope this
wonderful team of comedians keep making both the series and possible
sequels
to this wonderful film.

Rating: 5/5!!!

<|_=00=_|>

Fat Pizza is an extreme big-screen version of the Australian television
series of the same name.  Regular narration by
writer/producer/director/star
Paul Fenech's character "Pauly" provides a feasible link for a range of
events surrounding pizza-chef Bobo's impending mail-order marriage.

Rap music, ethnic rivalry, anglo-ignorance, street gangs, illegal
immigrants, sex, drugs, religion and sexuality: Fat Pizza handles all
these
topics with absolute irreverence.

There's a "cast of thousands" of Australian sport and TV icons playing
small
parts (with the late gay television identity Bernard King appearing
several
times as a leather daddy tempting Fat Pizza's delivery boys). Delivery
boy/rapper Sleek also finds himself irresistibly responding to gay men,
even
though he thinks he's a chick magnet.

Fat Pizza is unapologetically Australian, with a huge thumping
soundtrack,
and fast pace. Paul Fenech has created a major work of contemporary
Australian piss-taking.

<|_=00=_|>

This movie is a fully sick ule. A real Aussie comedy with everything you
could ask for. Heaps of sex, drug use, chicks, violence and ethnic humour
goes to good use in the best Aussie movie of 2003 (and possibly of all
time), that really makes me laugh everytime I see it. Paul Fenech has
come a
long way since his time as a cleaner at SBS, and now has evolved his
great
idea pinch into a great cult comedy that even gets a couple of laughs
from
people who hate the show.

All polictally correct whingers, wankers and whiners are not invited to
this
chick fest as Sleek, Paulie, Rocky, Habib, Bobo, and newcomer, skip Davo
Dinkum go on all their usually funny adventures getting ready for Bobo's
wedding with his mail order bride. A must see for every wog, with sick
burnouts, hot chicks, sex, subwoofers and fast cars to please even the
most
conservative ethnic.

If your a fan of the TV show, or just out for a quick laugh, see it ya
zibt.
You'd be an absolute stooge if ya missed it. 
<|_=00=_|>

Okay well anyone who's seen the TV show would be able to take an educated
guess that this movie would be "dumb, but funny". Well, having just seen
this film, I can tell you that this is not the case. It is in fact
extremely
dumb, and absolutely HILARIOUS!

Don't go expecting a thought-provoking intellectual film (as if you would
anyway) but do expect to have a few laughs and you definitely won't be
disappointed. I was constantly laughing the whole way through and
absolutely
cracking up at some points (the "Police Now Targeting" sign, for
example).
It's fast-paced, non-stop action and a great ensemble cast.

Anyway, there's no point analysing a film like this, so just go see
it!
<|_=00=_|>
Wont be to everyones taste, but i absolutely love FAT PIZZA the movie!
used to watch it on SBS in Australia, and miss it dearly, just wish one
of the British networks, or satellite stations would show it! cant
really say there's much of a plot. but you've got a pizza place ran by
these lebs/greeks/Italian type guys, in somewhere like Bankstown (a
superb of Sydney with a bit of a reputation)but it's just laugh after
laugh after laugh, seriously.

If you enjoy Fat Pizza The Movie, you can also get hold of FAT PIZZA
UNCENSORED on DVD too. The humor isn't exactly PC at times, but i just
laugh my arse off at some of the stuff in it, along with anybody here
i've shown it too that's never seen the series before (as it's not
shown on uk TV) but i say give it a go, you may like it. its big and
it;s Cheesy!
<|_=00=_|>
...but I found this to be an enjoyable movie. I probably never saw the
show since it's Australian and I live in the US but the characters are
easy to understand fairly quickly since most have only a few
motivations, most of which most comedy movie male characters in a
certain age do: chicks, booze, good times... The usual. It's probably
not more than a rental (I happened upon it late night on one of the
Encore movie channels) but if you like movies that tell the tale of a
"crazy night with kooky hi-jinks" and don't feel the need to be
politically correct every second of your life, you'll have a good time.
It's not a movie of the year in any way but there's a lot of laughs to
be had.
