
It had so much potential... but they really blew it. They had so many
great actors but a bad script. I had wanted to see this movie for so
long because I had loved the TV show. And while I was sitting there I
was waiting for moment where I thought it would get better but it never
came. It seemed to go downhill with every passing moment. The movie
dragged and dragged on. Shirley McLaine and Michael Caine's story was
never resolved and the appearance of Uncle Arthur was forced and
ridiculous. Aunt Clara was also another character that just wasn't
written well at all. The special effects were done well but there
wasn't enough of them...and considering this was about a witch, I
expected more. If you loved the TV show, then you will be disappointed.
If you never watched the TV show, you will be clueless and completely
bored. The only good thing... Nicole Kidman was cute. And her clothes
were nice. But cute and nice weren't enough.
<|_=00=_|>
Please give me a break. The idea was quite original but somewhere the
whole thing went south. I truly feel bad for Nicole Kidman and Will
Farrell. There were so many ways this movie could have went instead of
disappointing the true die hard Bewitched fans.

Weak plot, undefined characters, I truly felt as if someone said, "OK,
we're bored with this, let's piece it together and call it a day." It
would been nice if Isabel could have been seen as someone who was
smarter and not so vulnerable and innocent.

I would put this in the same category of any 12 year old "I wanna be a
pricess" movie. You wait three decades to find out what happened to
Darrin and Samantha and you get a remake that's not really a remake.
Some of the characters are from the original, some are transformed to
the movie, some are just unknown. What happened? I'm insulted that Nora
Ephron thought any true fan would be pleased with this movie.

Didn't someone think about running this by the true fans before rushing
it out to a theater? There were times I was embarrassed to be in the
audience. A total waste of $16.

A few funny moments but not worth the pain of sitting through the
entire movie -- and I'm an easy laugh.
<|_=00=_|>
BEWITCHED (1 outta 5 stars) What a terrible, misbegotten abortion of a
movie this turned out to be! Why couldn't they just be content to make
a straight-forward adaptation of the old TV series? Samantha's a witch,
Darren's a mortal... they fall in love and then conflicts ensue. Why
did they have to devise this complicated and nonsensical storyline
about a lousy movie actor (Will Ferrell) who plans on saving his
floundering career by starring in a TV remake of "Bewitched"? And he
just happens to cast a real witch (Nicole Kidman) in the female lead?
And this real witch just happens to have some real relatives who are
the same characters from the original TV series? The story gets pretty
desperate at times... with "dream" sequences, the appearance of
characters who may or may not be mere figments of someone's imagination
and the ability of "Samantha" to turn back time indefinitely to erase
any of her spells that may have gone awry. (Too bad they couldn't just
rewind this whole movie and start over again.) Kidman has an appealing
screen presence and probably could have done a good job in an actual
"Bewitched" story. Michael Caine and Shirley MacLaine are wasted on a
goofy subplot that never really comes to any kind of satisfying
conclusion. Will Farrell has a few funny moments but basically he plays
an unlikable twit and there is no reason in the world for Kidman's
character to fall in love with him. Awful, awful stuff... maybe if we
all wriggle our noses we can make this movie disappear...?
<|_=00=_|>
Sitting through this flick was like watching a car crash in slow
motion. Though there are funny bits, the supporting cast is unused
despite the star power and potential. Jason Schwartzman, Kristin
Chenowith, Steve Carrell, etc. all are wasted, by the second half of
the movie, all seem to have faded into the background. Nicole Kidman
and Will Farrell have zero chemistry and what is there seems forced.
The writing gets progressively worse and there seems to be a lot of
repetition. Save your money and wait for this one in the DVD bargain
bin. The idea behind this re-imagination of the Bewitched series is
something different, however this one doesn't make it off the ground.
<|_=00=_|>
"Bewitched" is a painfully embarrassing remake of the classic TV sitcom
that ran on ABC from 1964-1972. The series, about a "mixed" marriage
between a high-flying sorceress and an earthbound mortal, boasts some
of the most familiar and iconic images in television history. 

Writer Nora Ephron has over-thought the concept to such an extent that
she has managed to strip away most of the elements that made the series
work in the first place. The movie isn't technically a "remake" of
"Bewitched," since the witch played by Nicole Kidman isn't the Samantha
Stevens of the series but rather a single woman named Isabel Bigelow
who gets to PLAY Samantha Stephens on TV. It's all very chic and
complicated, you see, but the story goes something like this: tired of
the life of instant gratification that witchcraft so easily affords
her, Isabel has decided to strike out on her own as a totally
self-reliant mortal, moving into a tract home in the San Fernando
Valley and vowing to get through the remainder of her days without the
benefit of witchcraft. One afternoon while at a bookstore, she is
spotted by one Jack Wyatt, a pompous, self-centered movie actor whose
career and personal life have both been in the tank of late and who is
hoping to at least jumpstart the former by taking on the role of Darrin
Stevens in a new version of the old series. One glimpse of Isabel's
nose-twitching ability convinces him that this non-actress would be
perfect for the part, so we wind up, in true Pirandellian fashion, with
a fictional TV witch being played by an honest-to-God real life witch.

The overriding problem with this film is that it completely undercuts
the very elements that made Samantha such a likable and compelling
figure for millions of spellbound American viewers. Even though the
character played by Elizabeth Montgomery was basically just a "typical
American housewife," content with staying at home and submitting to her
husband, she was also intelligent, shrewd, occasionally subversive and
always wise to the ways of human nature. Isabel is none of these
things. In fact, she has been conceived as little more than a dingbat
airhead, dippy, goofy and hopelessly backward in her dealings with
other people, making us wonder what it was she'd been doing for all the
millennia prior to the time of this story. I doubt Ephron intended for
the story to be ironic in this way, but the old Samantha Stevens from
40 years ago came across as a more modern woman then than Isabel does
today. This is clearly Kidman's worst, most annoying performance ever,
which only goes to show that even an Academy Award winning actress
can't make a silk purse out of every sow's ear that comes her way. The
same goes for Will Ferrell in the role of the pseudo-Darrin whose
over-the-top turn here is the movie equivalent of fingernails being
dragged across a chalkboard for a grueling one hour and forty minutes
(the combined running time of almost four episodes in the original
series). Michael Caine as Isabel's warlock father and Shirley MacLaine
as a real life witch who happens to be playing Endora are both old pros
enough to turn in decent performances, but even they will undoubtedly
want to expunge this turkey from their otherwise illustrious resumes as
soon as possible.

In the TV "Bewitched," there was a certain subtle tension built into
the premise that carried through from episode to episode. The Stevenses
had to find ways to keep the outside world from finding the truth out
about Samantha's real identity, not always an easy task what with
Endora or Aunt Clara or Uncle Arthur popping in unannounced at all
hours of the day or night casting a spell on some poor, unsuspecting
mortal or wreaking havoc on the young couple's marital harmony and
domestic bliss. This tension is completely lost in the film, as is the
conflict between Darrin and Endora that always threatened to end with
Darrin being turned into a chimpanzee or a bullfrog and Samantha
running back to the effortless ease and comfort of her former
existence. There really is no logical or coherent conflict to speak of
in this film, just a lot of people running around acting silly to no
discernible point or purpose. In fact, the only quality scene in the
movie is one in which Isabel and Jack are cavorting around an empty set
while Frank Sinatra's version of the title song plays in the
background. It turns out to be the one - pardon the pun - "magical"
moment in the film.

For, astonishingly, even the magic in this film is humdrum compared
with the stuff that was done on the TV show. Someone should inform the
makers of this film that special effects have actually advanced some in
the last half century. One would certainly never know it by watching
this film.

The one positive thing to be said about this movie is that it doesn't
come saddled with one of those insipid, mind-numbing laugh tracks that
are regularly slapped onto TV sitcoms - but then again even a laugh
track wouldn't find much to chortle over here.
<|_=00=_|>
Nicole Kidman makes the whole wretched thing almost palatable. The,
supposedly, inventiveness of this farce within a farce is hammered on
with such lack of subtlety that, sometimes, you want to shout at the
screen "Hey you! We're not brain dead! We got it! Move on! Will Ferrell
is still a great TV comedian. How is it possible that nobody has told
him that on the big screen less is more. Strangely, Nicole Kidman, the
witch, is totally rooted in reality, we believe her. Will Ferrell, the
mortal, is a loud caricature from beginning to end and we just can't
get the attraction. There are some little perks however, Carole Shelley
as Aunt Clara took me, thankfully, out of the movie and I spent at
least 15 minutes asking myself where I've seen this actress before -
The Odd Couple, one of the Pigeon sisters! Goodness! I was
uncomfortable with Shirley MacLaine's cameo because I love her and I
could only focus on the strange tightness in her face. I am a Kidmanite
through and through that's why I go to see everything she does because
I know that, even if she's involved in something quite beneath her, she
manages to sparkle, to shine to surprise. Thank God for you Nicole.
<|_=00=_|>
Although it was not quite what I expected, Bewitched was not as bad as
I have been led to believe, either. I am guessing that Will Ferrell is
spreading himself a little too thin, as this movie was not as funny as
his movies usually are. I did enjoy a couple of genuine, hearty laughs
from this film, but again, not as many as expected. With those
expectations in mind, this movie might seem to fall a little flat, but
looking at the movie as a whole, it was still a delightful, little
comedy that I enjoyed. Sure, it was not Bewitched, the sitcom, but it
simply used the television series as somewhat of a guide line to go by.
The story is a bit confusing when trying to compare to the show but is
fine otherwise.

Jack Wyatt (Ferrell) is a down and out, nearly washed-up actor that has
many bombs to his credit. He hatches a plan to remake the TV series
"Bewitched", with himself in the starring role as Darren. The main
difference between the remade TV show and the original is that Darren
would be the focus and not Samantha, so for this reason, Jack decides
he wants an unknown actress for the role, one he can virtually walk all
over without knowing any better.

Isabel Bigelow (Nicole Kidman, who is perfect for the role) is a naive
witch who has just decided that she no longer wants to live her life
getting everything she wants at the snap of her fingers and chooses to
live more "normal", against the wishes of her father, Nigel Bigelow
(Michael Caine).

Eventually, after many auditions, Jack runs into Isabel and is
convinced she is perfect for the role. She is hesitant at first but
decides to do the show. Everything is going fine until Isabel overhears
Jack talking with the producers about how well the plan was going and
this is where the fun begins. The scorned witch unleashes hell on poor
Jack in many embarrassing situations.

We are even treated to cameos by Aunt Clara (Carole Shelley) and Uncle
Arthur (Steve Carell). I am not sure how Uncle Arthur fit into the
story other than to get Carell to do some hilarious stuff but Aunt
Clara is actually Isabel's Aunt Clara, meant to be a coincidence. The
resemblance between Carole Shelley and the original Aunt Clara, Marion
Lorne, was absolutely uncanny. I was convinced she was the original,
right down to her voice.

Overall, if you do not shoot your expectations too high, this is a nice
little comedy featuring Ferrell, with Nicole Kidman more than holding
her own with him. Isabel was a lovable and cute character. Bewitched
did have a few surprises and was worthy of watching. 7/10
<|_=00=_|>
To it's credit Bewitched is something of a paradigm shift away from the
typical little to big screen transition. Those lovable little twits
that brought us "You've Got Mail" have delivered a film not about a
witch named Samantha and her idiotic husband Darren, but something much
more interesting, a film about a remake of a TV show about a witch
named Samantha.

Now the really hilarious thing about this is that the actress playing
Samantha is really a witch who wiggles her nose and has an extended
family that's almost identical to the family on the original TV show,
Huzza!!!! You may wonder how this strange coincidence could be handled
gracefully. My answer is, I don't know, and by the way that's the
Ephron Sisters answer too.

Another strange thing is that the witch seems to be free to rewind time
whenever she messes things up. I've always wondered when I've seen this
in movies, what happens to the other 6 billion people, wouldn't there
be some sort of butterfly effect? Makes you think she's sort of a
selfish bitch. I wish I had that power so I could get back the 90
minutes I wasted on this garbage.
<|_=00=_|>
I had a chance to see this movie at an advanced screening.

I'm sorry to say that there were people who walked out. Admittedly, the
first half is kind of dull. The cute and funny parts are few and far
between.

The plot is dragged down horribly by some really bad secondary
characters. Uncle Arthur, Iris/Endora and Isabelle's father are all
reaaaally dull and contrived. The movie comes to a grinding halt when
they appear.

The script writing is quite clever, and Nicole Kidman (happy birthday
today!) is great, as always. Will Ferrell just plain cracks me up. I
would have liked to see the plot give him more goofy parts, because
that's when he really shines.

All in all, not really a surprising movie. Wait and rent it!
<|_=00=_|>
I cannot see how anyone would love or even like this movie it was
completely horrible. First of all, the only funny scenes were those
shown in the previews. Nicole Kidman was way too ditsy in this movie,
made her seem completely clueless, it was horrible. They kept doing the
same damn tricks over and over, talk about shitty special effects, that
whole rewind thing they kept doing was stupid. I was a big fan of the
t.v. show and this movie is an insult. I am a big fan of both will
Ferrell and Nicole kidman, but they just did not fit well together in
this movie. Nicole definitely looked the part, but they could've gotten
a better Darren. Also, the whole movie about a taping of a t.v. show
concept was far from clever, I was expecting something more similar to
the actual t.v. show.
