
I wasn't sure what to expect when I watched this movie. I was sure
quite how it would fit with the Dirty Dancing title, but once I turned
it on I was enraptured. I couldn't turn away and when it was over and
watched it a second time.

I was uncertain at first what I would think because I'd heard it was a
Sequel, I'd heard it was a Prequel and I'd heard it was a remake. But
when I came out of watching it, I felt it was a movie in it's own
right. If anything it was a Parallel. It present the same kind of
feelings and emotions as the original Dirty Dancing. Other than that it
was it's own movie.

Romola was fabulous and Diego was just so easy to watch. They had great
chemistry that made the whole thing believable and realistic. I could
watch them dance all day. And the music made me want to dance myself if
I knew how.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved this movie! It was really good. Yes it was a chick flick and a
teen movie, but it was SO good and romantic! Javier (Luna) was SO hot
and good. The way his body moved was amazing! The only reason I rated
this movie a 9 was because I didn't like the way it ended. I thought it
could have been done a little differently. But I still went out and
bought the DVD!! This may sound a little crazy, but almost every night
I watch it! If I could learn to dance the way they do...I would pay to
learn how to dance so Cuban! It was a really good, adorable, romantic,
and dramatic Movie. It had everything and more that I like to see in a
movie. Many people say that they didn't like it but, I thought it was
awesome.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is now without a doubt on my top 10 list now! The mix of
drama, romance, history, and dance is perfect! The acting, dancing, and
music in the movie was great! You want to just stand up and dance (even
if you have no idea how to) Havana nights really takes you into the
lives of these two people and makes you really care about them. It has
an ending that is very true to real life. That things don't always go
as they should. It had a Romeo and Juliet vibe without being cheesy
what so ever. Diego and Romola give a heart warming performance that
makes you always want to come back for more. I recommend this movie to
anyone that has ever wanted to follow their dreams, but was too afraid
to try.
<|_=00=_|>
I rented this movie the other day simply because I wanted to see how
they could possibly do a sequel to the first Dirty Dancing. However, I
don't think I would have otherwise. BUT I am really glad that I did. I
loved this movie! I really liked the story line and it also gave me a
brief glimpse of the history of Cuba. That in itself made it one of my
new favorite movies. Combine this with the music and the awesome
dancing and it becomes a fantastic movie. I am not going to compare it
to the first DD movie. It deserves to be set out on it's own. It is
definitely worthy. The young actors do an awesome job of portraying the
characters in this movie. This is a movie that I would like to own and
I don't feel that way about a lot of movies. Congratulations to the
producers, directors and all of those involved, I will be recommending
this one to friends and family.
<|_=00=_|>
I absolutely LOVED this movie. Deigo Luna was so hot! This was not as
good as the first, but considering it wasn't really a sequel but more
like a completely different movie I thought it was awesome. The acting
was good, the dancing awesome, and the soundtrack even better. I loved
the dance they did at the Palace and I would recommend this movie to
anyone and everyone. Both the lead actors are new and I hope that we
will be seeing a lot more of each of them. This is a sweet story of an
interacial relationship in Cuba where the white girl from America falls
in love with the sexy Cuban pool boy! They are so awesome together and
it was a wonderful movie. With the sexy dancing and the sexy music and
the typical(but good) storyline this is the perfect movie to watch
anytime!

10/10
<|_=00=_|>
Katey moves to Havana with her family in 1958. Her family expect her to
date a rich buy, but then she meets the Cuban waiter Javier, he
introduces her to the sensual Cuban dance'n'music. When he loses his
job, indirectly because of Katey, she asks her to enter and win a
dancing competition with her, so that he can take his family to
America. They meet secretly and dance right in each others hearts! When
the revolution breaks out, the young couple tries to prove that their
love is worth fighting for. I would have liked them to just call it
Havana Nights, instead, because many people have high expectations
about it because of the title. If you liked the first Dirty Dancing you
will love this. It is a beautiful movie about how dancing brings to
young people together and mix the afro-Cuban rhythms with ballroom
dance and it looks fantastic! I LOVE this movie, and the music is
absolutely amazing! It makes you want to dance and I feel alive when I
see the movie. If you want to have a big musical experience filed with
love and drama, then enjoy every minute of this film! I hope you will
let yourself flowed away to the Cuban music!
<|_=00=_|>

When I went in to see Dirty Dancing: Havana Nights, I expected it to be
really bad with all the bad reviews labelling it as corny and ridiculous
etc. So I was surprised when it turned out to be a better film that I
expected. The acting was good and the dancing was hot. And even though the
plot may have been unoriginal and predictable, nothing these days is really
that new.

I thought Romola Garai (as Katey Miller) did a good job of keeping up an
American accent. And Diego Luna (as Javier Suarez) does a great job of
dancing and being a charismatic character, not to mention that he's pretty
hot!

I haven't seen the original Dirty Dancing, but I think you should let this
film stand on its own. Just because it uses the name, it doesn't mean
they're linked.

On the whole, if you want to see a nice movie with lots of hot dancing,
Havana Nights is for you. But if you're looking for something equal to the
original, you may not like this one as much.
<|_=00=_|>
This is absolutely the greatest movie I have ever seen. I know all of
the words to the movie and yet I still get butterflies in my stomach
and tears in my eyes. The connection that was made between the two of
them seems so real and incredible. You feel their pain and their love.
This movie is really great for a low point in your day if you are
looking to feel better as well as any other second of the day. It's
great how they bring elements of the first movie into this one but keep
them very subtle so as not to confuse anyone into thinking that this
movie is a sequel or a continuation of the first. Like I said before, I
really feel that this movie is really and truly amazing, and everyone
should at least try it. You might prove yourself wrong.
<|_=00=_|>
My biggest gripe with this movie is that the Latin dancing is not very
genuine. My father was living in Havana in the early 1960s, and reports
what seems pretty obvious: this film is full of a modern, highly
stylized and "hip-hoppified" version of Cuban street dancing.

But, there is a lot of other stuff to gripe about in this film.

Plot: our heroine is an American gringa whose family moves to
pre-revolutionary Cuba because her dad's company promoted him to a
position there. We don't know anything about our heroine (let's call
her "La Gringa Caliente," because she eventually learns to loosen up
and let strange men touch her butt), except that she gets good grades.
So, she moves to Havana and becomes mesmerized by afro-Cubano dancing.
This leads her to fall madly in love with a waiter in her hotel, and
enter a dance tournament with him. Her family is scandalized. Then they
are not scandalized any more.

The plot is totally predictable, and the acting is downright bad. The
love story lacks guts. None of that matters if what you want is to see
cool Latin dancing and listen to cool Latin music, which was my goal.
But, even that goal is sadly disappointed here. There is some cool
music, but most of the music is just hip-hop with a Latin beat. A lot
of the dancing is just 2000's club freak-dancing... it looks more like
Lambada than Samba.

The three features that pushed me from silent disappointment to
derisive laughter were:

(1) They make a big deal about "Old Havana," and show all of these
landscape shots to impress the viewer. But the city they are showing is
San Juan, Puerto Rico! This might not be so obvious, but they show the
most famous landmarks in San Juan, so that you cannot possibly even
pretend the setting is Havana. So much for the "Havana Nights."

(2) For some God-awful reason, they throw Patrick Swayze back in! First
of all, his character has no role, no background, and no reason to be
there. He plays the gringo dance teacher who somehow teaches La Gringa
Caliente how to loosen up and let guys touch her butt (he has a great
line: "It can be very scary when someone touches that part of your
body." who wrote this?). They dance around ballroom style. Second, the
guy has had a really bad face-lift or something. He was only 52 when
this film came out, but he looks 65. I was worried that his hairpiece
was going to come flying off during some of the spins.

(3) The pathetically weak attempt to illustrate the social pressures
that led to the Cuban revolution left in me stitches.

Conclusion: stink bomb. If you want a movie with cool Cuban music, rent
Buena Vista Social Club. If you want to watch cool Latin dancing, rent
the 1980s Robby Rosa film "Salsa!" If you have a desperate need to get
rid of four dollars and be bored for 90 minutes, rent "Dirty Dancing
Havana Nights."
<|_=00=_|>

All good parents tell their children "If you can't say something nice, then
don't say anything at all."  (Of course, most good parents also warn you
about running all over a foreign country at all hours of the night, but I
digress!) So....

(INSERT EXTRA LONG PAUSE FILLED WITH TONGUE BITING SILENCE!!)

So, I promise that I won't go on about the injustice done to a modern day
classic by slapping it's title on an overly cliched and not well acted (or
overly well danced) sloppy second and I won't recount how creepy Patrick
Swazye is looking (when exactly did he see her dancing, is the creepy old
guy stalking her!?!).  Instead, I will say that John Slattery and Sela Ward
tried their best with what they were given and the female costumes were
stunning (although how she went from a prudish, sweater wearing introvert
who had to borrow a "sexy" outfit from the maid to having a zillion low cut,
less than demure dresses I'll never know!)

So, now that I've done my best to say a little "something nice" and a whole
lot of "anything at all"s, let me finish knowing that although I'll do my
best not to take a piece of this movie with me, I think that, unfortunately,
a little piece of it will always stay, well not in my heart, but definitely
with me!!

