

Yes, Michael Moore has an agenda. However, every documentary does.
Believe it or not folks, but a documentary does not just show reality,
it also interprets it. Remember the experts that Ken Burns shows in all
of his documentaries? He used them to interpret the facts of the Civil
War, Jazz, and Baseball, among others. The Ken Burn's agenda just
wasn't as controversial as Michael Moore's.

The point of a documentary is for those who see it to start making
their own judgments. If you don't agree with Michael Moore's
interpretation of the why's of the Iraq war, what is the right
interpretation? Can you use the facts or find more facts to come up
with a different interpretation? I would call that highly unlikely, but
I would like to see the interpretation.

This documentary set out to answer the question "Why is the US in
Iraq?" I can tell you I have asked that question a lot and I found no
good reason. Michael Moore has done the same thing, just to a larger
audience. While you might disagree with his assessment that it was
strictly for money, it is hard to support a different view after seeing
this movie. You would be hard pressed to find any evidence linking Iraq
and Al-Qaeda. Why? Because it doesn't exist. No matter how much Bush
railed for a link, even he had to admit it wasn't there. 

I guess I would like to see a Republican version of events. I just
can't imagine what it would use as evidence. How can you refute the 7
minutes of inactivity of Mr. Bush in the Florida classroom on 9/11? How
can you refute the fact that planes were loaded up with Bin Laden
relatives on 9/13? How can you call the "coalition of the willing" a
coalition if it includes countries that send no troops? These are the
facts folks. Michael Moore interpreted them to slam the Bush
administration. I was saying the same thing before this movie. However,
I reach a small audience since I don't make movies. Thanks to Michael
Moore for making this film. Maybe some of the clueless, like Britney
Spears, will wake up and start questioning what is going on out there.
Because, Ms. Spears, in America, we are allowed to question the
president. He isn't God, he is a human being. 

So, pro-Iraq war people, give me your interpretation. Why? Why are we
there? Why don't we have Osama Bin Laden? Why?

<|_=00=_|>

"Fahrenheit 9/11" is an important film, dealing in detail with the
great issues of current American society, with a degree of skepticism
that our newsmedia has proven entirely incapable of exhibiting in the
last decade. Lone gadfly Michael Moore cannot singlehandedly reverse
the effects of a servile corporate media, but he can -- and does --
fling it right back in their faces. Is it any wonder televised
interviews with Moore have been less-than-cordial of late? 

It doesn't matter. For a film like this, any publicity is beneficial,
and Michael Moore has gone out of his way to thank his conservative
detractors for their support. 

As a movie, it's a whirlwind tour of corruption and diplomatic deceit
at the highest levels of the industrial-political machine, mixed with
direct examination of the lives of the "ordinary" people affected by
the decisions of the aristocratic few. Much like a roller-coaster ride,
it pulls you up the first steep incline with images of the 2000
presidential election followed by the major players in the bush
administration getting ready for their performances, and then comes the
first plunge: a stomach-wrenching drop into the black screen, with only
the sounds of that awful day in September when "everything changed".
Fade back in on the people of New York, confused, hurting, seeking
their loved ones in the rubble. 

 From here on, there is no stopping for breath. We observe the flight
of Saudi aristocrats who, but for their political connections, might
have been held as material witnesses. Moore depicts vividly the links
between the Bush family and their Saudi friends, one of whom (Prince
Bandar) "earns" the Bush surname. On it goes, fact after fact after
irrefutable and disgusting fact. Many of us entered the theatre
thinking we knew the score, but seldom has an overview of each tree led
to such a complete vision of the forest. 

Along the way, we'll see behavior from members of the bush
administration that cannot be described as flattering -- but once
again, this isn't up for debate. It's the facts, it's what they
themselves said. You can argue context, but the footage speaks for
itself. And more than anything else, this is where Michael Moore proves
he's grown as a director. No longer are his films chock-full of his
narrative, he lets the evildoers hoist themselves on their own petards
without as much overdubbed commentary. His statement rests in the
overall structure of the film, rather than his usual assortment of
shame-defying pecadillos and exposes. 

Which is not to say that fans of his spirited antics won't have
something to watch, as he drives around the capital building in an ice
cream truck reading the Patriot act to the representatives who never
bothered to read the legislation they passed, or chases after
congressmen trying to get them interested in enlisting their children
for a tour of duty in Iraq. 

Aaah, Iraq. The second half of the film deals with the buildup to and
execution of our current adventure in nation building. Iraq is shown
with a brief clip from before and a whole lot of after -- with its
people confused, hurting, seeking their loved ones in the rubble. Our
soldiers are also given plenty of time on-screen, time to describe what
it's like, time to proclaim the thrills, dangers, and ennui of life as
an occupying army. Far from being unsupportive as claimed by its
detractors, this film makes every effort to give the front-liners their
say. Wounded soldiers are treated with no less compassion than the
other victims in this film. And unlike the corporate newsmedia, Moore's
cameras dare to follow the injured to the Walter Reed medical center
and into their underfunded rehabilitation. 

And it follows the heart of a patriotic woman from Moore's hometown of
Flint whose soldier son makes the ultimate sacrifice for Bush's folly.

This is, above all, a sympathetic, patriotic and humanistic movie. Even
its main star, George W. Bush, is given a measure of understanding. We
understand that he is out of his league, unable to push for the
appropriate diplomatic solutions with Saudi Arabia, forever beholden to
the corporate interests that purchased his throne, barely capable of
coherent thought, and not at all comfortable with the responsibilities
of the presidency. He would far rather be golfing, or "lookin' for
bugs", or hanging at fundraisers with "the haves and the have-mores";
the presidency is a burden he clearly cannot bear. He almost begs to be
removed from office.

This movie has a lot more to say than any reviewer's encapsulation can
convey. Ignore the naysayers who, in all likelihood, haven't even seen
the film. Understand that the facts are the facts, the presentation is
Mr. Moore's, and your opinion is your own. 

My opinion: 10/10 -- If there's a documentary/editorial piece that
could touch this one, I haven't seen it yet.

<|_=00=_|>

Contrary to what so many of us were lead to believe, this movie does
not portray a negative message. George W. Bush and his administration
aren't painted as fascist tyrants at all. They appear to be fools,
power-hungry but fallible. As such, their stranglehold over the
American people isn't concrete. There is hope that things can change,
and that seems to be the overall message in this film.

For every American soldier Moore shows talking about the adrenaline
rush they get when they kill, every soldier that appears on screen as a
trigger-happy madman, he shows an American soldier dead on the streets
of Iraq. The film progresses as a two-hour reenactment of the thoughts
that must go through so many soldiers minds, starting out as a soldier
going to war, fighting for the safety of their country against enemies
that surely want all Americans dead, but all certainty of their
righteousness gives way to hesitation, to men and women questioning why
they are there fighting a war that has no clear justification. 

Moore also uses his various clips and interviews to show how similar
the American civilian population are to the Iraqis. His portrayal of
the Saddam-era Iraq was certainly biased, but so many people are happy,
looking for joy and prosperity, something that isn't as alien as some
of us would like to think of the Iraqis as being. One thing that stays
in my mind now, the day after watching this film, is one Iraqi woman
crying for her lost family members outside her burned and ruined home,
screaming to Allah for help. Comparing that woman to Ms. Lipscombe from
Flint, Michigan, who lost her son in the war, crying in her interview
with Moore and asking for support from Jesus just shows how this war
affects all the people caught up in it equally.

That is to say, all of the people, except those running it. Throughout
the horrifying clips of war, we see Bush, who appears to be completely
out of touch with how his war is affecting those who are fighting it
for him. Bush's bumbling makes up the lighter moments in the film, but
in retrospect, they are just as frightening as the War itself. 

Moore's overall message was that hope exists, but without action on the
part of the silent and downtrodden, that hope will vanish. This is a
film designed to have people take action, whether it is in the form of
taking to the streets in protest, or simply voting Bush out of office
in November. It was a powerful message for a powerful film, and as many
have said before me, it received standing ovation at the end. But it
was that short moment of silence before the applause that really stays
with me. That quiet collective gasp where people are trying to digest
the weight of Moore's message.

Yes this movie is biased. It is the war and the world through Moore's
eyes, but the message is not buried in the bias. I suppose I can sum it
up best by saying this film was painfully human. It is human nature to
question injustice and hypocrisy, and Moore is there to remind us of
that.

<|_=00=_|>
To be fair, I should qualify this review by saying that I'm
progressive, a political science professor, anti-war, and a Bush
opponent. So I was hardly watching this film with an objective eye.

That being said (and if you can still trust my review), Michael Moore
has done American voters a big service by making this film. It's not
without it weaknesses, namely the voice-overs where Moore speculates on
Bush's thoughts during those endless blank stares. But for once, Moore
has made a film that is woven together with a chronological and
thematic logic that ultimately asks one critical question: Is it that
the Powers that Be don't understand, or that they simply don't believe
in, true democratic principles? While George W. Bush is the primary
subject of the film's critiques, the Democrats are not left unscathed.
In fact, the first 10 minutes are devoted to a skewering of the
Democratically-controlled Senate (including, ironically, former V.P.,
Senate President, and Presidential contender Al Gore.) Moore's
commentary here, as with his past films, revolves around the
relationship between money and power, and how that connection degrades
democracy and in its most insidious form, leads to the loss of innocent
lives. While he holds the Bush family and key administration officials
most directly accountable, Moore does not let anyone off the hook. This
includes not just the usual suspects (Saudi Arabia), but the Democratic
leadership, the Supreme Court, the media, and finally, the American
voters. Nothing here is new to anyone who has spent any time perusing
the alternative or progressive media in the past four years, but the
effect is substantial because Moore has finally shown himself to be a
true documentarian, and has woven together a coherent picture of the
connections between the players and the events from December 2000 to
the present. Setting aside the few moments of Moore's own commentary
and some silly interjections of old westerns, the message ultimately
relies on the presentation of documents, images, and interviews. The
facts are so tight that the worst anyone can say about the veracity of
the film is that it is biased, a critique that will carry far less
weight when compared to the snippets of Fox news propaganda spliced
into the movie.

Moore will be called anti-American, unpatriotic, and probably a
fascist. This, of course, is the last resort of a regime and its
supporters who have no credible challenge to the facts of the film,
only to its message. Ultimately, all audiences, regardless of their
political proclivities, should be able to see that Moore is anything
but anti-American or anti-democratic. The single biggest piece of the
film is devoted to following around the mother of a soldier killed in
Iraq. She is a patriot and a "true American", by any definition. Her
son, and the thousands like him, are honored by Moore. They are
portrayed as heroes, but also as victims. They are protectors of
American security, but also pawns in a global struggle for power.

By finally asking the right questions (4 years too late??), Moore has
shown himself to be not just a solid filmmaker, but a patriot and a
defender of the most sacred American liberty- free expression.
<|_=00=_|>

Let's admit it, it's nearly impossible to find someone or something
today without a bias towards one thing or another. Fahrenheit 9/11 is
clearly not an exception. I saw this film very recently and was
stunned. Shocked. Michael Moore's work was thorough, concise, and
extraordinary. I was truly impressed. However, there are things that
the public needs to consider after seeing this movie. One- this is not
the whole story.

Unfortunately, I don't know the whole story. Go figure. And two- in
order to migrate further from possibly getting tunnel vision, we need
to look at and seriously consider the other side. Don't get me wrong, I
was enraged by the facts in Fahrenheit 9/11. If all of them are valid,
I see no justification for the lies and corruption. But again, this
perspective is not the only one and therefor other views should be
considered and digested. Am I wrong?

<|_=00=_|>
Moore's film strips away the pseudo patriotic facade of the Bush
administration with humor and tragedy to create a very compelling but
flawed message: Bush used false pretenses to go to war while enriching
his friends and letting the common people suffer the fallout. The film
moves between powerfully tragic scenes( like the sound of planes flying
into the Towers as the screen is blacked out to interviewing a dead
soldier's mom) to parody( Bush and Cheney dressed like cowboys in a
scene with Bonanza music in the background. Moore raises several
provocative questions such as why did Bush sit for seven minutes in an
elementary classroom without reacting? Moore suggests answers which
imply Bush didn't know what to do. Moore raises questions and suggests
answers which right wing critics find abhorrent. His film techniques of
showing a triumphant, strutting Bush proclaiming major military
operations are over and quickly cutting to a roadside bomb in Iraq
exploding, showing Bush as either ignorant, stupid, or mendacious were
very powerful. Moore's weakness was in trying to give his audience too
many messages in a single film but he comes very close to succeeding.
His success was apparent to many right wing radio hosts, who
immediately declared him both a liar and antiamerican(or America
hating).
<|_=00=_|>

Fahrenheit 9/11 is a very powerful and emotionally moving film. My
partner and I went with four friends on opening weekend, ages 19 to 56,
and we all had tearful moments in between the many laughs and guffaws.
One of our friends, who has never voted in the 6 years since he turned
18, has now been moved to become more involved in the political
process. This film is not just about "Bush is Bad" but really looks at
how the tendrils of big business can, and do, shape the direction our
government takes, and where the current administration has gone off
track. Be prepared for a few grisly war scenes, but remember, it's
nothing compared to what our men and women there have to deal with.
Whether you like Micheal Moore or not, you should give this film the
opportunity to move you!

<|_=00=_|>

I saw Fahrenheit 9/11 at Phipps Mall in the affluent Buckhead neighborhood
of Atlanta, GA, and I will say for the record:

1.  Fahrenheit 9/11 attracted the most racially integrated audience I've
ever seen at an Atlanta movie theater, as well as the most age-diverse
audience.

2.  The audience was completely in tune with what Michael Moore was trying
to do.  When he wanted you to be mad, people were mad.  When he wanted you
to be upset, people were upset, and when he wanted you laugh, people
laughed.  And boy, did they laugh.

3.  The audience cheered (loudly) upon the film's conclusion.

Truly a satisfying moment, to feel part of a community of people, if only
for two hours, who recognized that the emperor indeed has no clothes. 

Is Michael Moore manipulative? Of course- he's an editorial documentarian. 
Does he sometimes assume too much from too little information?  Of course-
he's a human being.  That's what human beings do.  Now, you may say, yes, it
may be human nature to infer too much from too little information, but as a
responsible artist, Michael Moore should get his ducks firmly in a row
before trying to manipulate his audience.  That being said, we have libel in
slander laws in this country.  If Michael Moore is so far off base, where
are the lawsuits and defamation of character charges?  Why won't Bush or his
camp respond to any of the specific allegations of Fahrenheit 9/11?  Why is
that, in fact, they state an unwillingness even to see the film, and yet
feel qualified to have a valid opinion of it?  Now who's inferring too much
from too little?

What is absolutely undeniable is that a) war is horrible, b) the United
States of America went to war with Iraq for spurious reasons, c) we have
been conspicuously unsuccessful in capturing Osama bin Laden, in part
because bin Laden has no relationship whatsoever with Iraq, d) there have
been many people who have benefited financially from the war, and those
people have a long and in many cases sordid relationship with the Bush
family, and e) Bush has used the 9/11 attacks as a way to advance an agenda
that is completely unrelated to the attacks themselves, and to infringe on
our civil rights.  Any attempt to dissect Michael Moore's arguments fall
flat when these basic facts are irrefutable.

Fahrenheit 9/11 is ultimately a highly entertaining and justifiably scathing
review of the Presidency of George W. Bush, embarrassment to himself, our
great nation, and, for that matter, to the entire human race.  Please help
vote this buffoon out of office before he can discredit our country
further.

<|_=00=_|>

Everyone is entitled to their opinions. The biggest help you can give
to your fellow people is to read, watch and know, that's all. can you
do that? watch and decide for yourself, you're human, you have a brain,
why let me and the opposing critics tell you what to do? You will
listen to Americans' testimonies, the soldiers, the everyday people of
US and Iraq. You will see Americans' rights destroyed. You will hear it
from their lips. The movie is not an attack on a country or its people,
only on the person who is benefiting from their loss. It just states
facts that you or me as North Americans wouldn't easily find unless we
went looking for it, which is what we should do, but most don't have
the time. I've watched countless crappy movies and I'm sure you have
too. So spending 2 hours and a few dollars to watch something that
might change the way you think of today's so called democracy, is a
must. You might not agree, but chances are...you will after watching
it. If it wasn't telling the truth it wouldn't have the bush supporters
after to destroy it. And if you notice most people either really like
it or really hate it. and those who really hate it are the ones that
don't really love their country. Because this movie is quite
sympathetic to the soldiers but not to the one who sent them there for
his reasons and not the people's.

it's just 2 hours. watch it. other recommended features: The
corporation, Manufacturing consent, Bowling for columbine. all get
10/10 for truth.

<|_=00=_|>

Before I begin let me say that I am a big Michael Moore fan, ever since the
days of The Awful Truth. But not in any nutso, radical activist kind of way.
I love my country. I couldn't imagine living anywhere else. But I, like
Michael and many others, can't just bow our heads and be good little robots
of society. We seek change. Not in a bad, violent revolutionary way, but
done democratically through the people. Through all the criticism and
backlash this film has recieved, one simple idea was grossly overlooked.
What Moore put in his film is exactly the kind of stuff we SHOULD HAVE SEEN
on the evening news. All the haters out there are accusing his film of being
overly one-sided, well guess what folks, in case you didn't notice those
precious television news reports we sit through every night while we munch
away at our dinners is INSANELY one-sided and biased in every way, shape and
form.

With that said, FAHRENHEIT 9/11 is the most important film in the history of
cinema. There has never been a film, documentary or not, that has directly
attacked our active President. Michael Moore is not some cook radical
spewing unsubstantiated accusations through a Hitler-esque propaganda film
(as its been called). If Moore's agenda had simply been to "dethrone Bush at
all costs", then he could have left out a good fifty percent of the film and
focused primarily on the man everyone is convinced he loves to hate. He is
very simply offering us a "second opinion" if you will, on all the news
media that has bombarded us since September 11th. He is simply exercising
his freedom of speech to the tenth degree and THAT is what I love about this
country. If this film was made in any other country about their leader, they
would be jailed, beaten, and maybe even killed.

And he has tapped into a very important thing about our society. That MOVIES
have power. And guess what, lower and middle-class people go to the movies
the most. People who don't normally vote go to the movies. People who have
no idea who Michael Moore is will go see this movie. And the YOUTH will go
see this movie, and they'll bring lots and lots of friends. You remember the
youth of our country right? The apathetic, non-political group of 18 to 20
year-olds that were always ignored by politicians? Not that this film has
turned them all into a bunch of Bush-haters, but it HAS gotten them
involved. What no person or institution has been able to do for the longest
time has been accomplished by one little documentary.

As I sat there in the movie theater, with the end credits coming on screen
and the house lights shining brightly down. I saw something that I have
never seen in my life. I looked around the packed theater (on a Monday
night) and witnessed all different kinds of people, old and young, Black and
White, applauding and cheering out of their seats. The hair stood up on the
back of my head and a tear came to my eye. I was totally blown away by what
I was seeing. As I made my way for the exit, I softly whispered to myself,
"Now that is what I call CINEMA".

Please, you owe it to yourself to see this movie with an open-mind and a
thirst for not the truth, but a "second opinion". It is guaranteed to make
you laugh and cry, it will shock and anger you, and you will DEFINITELY
never forget it.

Fahrenheit 451 was a book about a society that burned books in order to
censor them from the people. Fahrenheit 9/11 is a film about a society that
refuses to show certain newsworthy material in order to censor it from the
people and instead substitutes its own, self-promoting news in order to
manipulate the people. You be the judge.
