


Attacking `Charlie's Angels: Full Throttle' is a bit like shooting secret
agents in a barrel; there's just not a lot of sport in it because it's way
too easy to do.

Cameron Diaz, Lucy Liu and Drew Barrymore return as the giggly, jiggly trio
who, we're supposed to believe, are amazing, expert crime fighters.  About
the only way this material stands even a chance of succeeding is if the
filmmakers treat it like some over-the-top, live action cartoon (or is it
video game?) - which is pretty much what they've done.  Unfortunately, it
turns out to be a cartoon almost totally devoid of wit, creativity and
charm.  The plot mainly consists of finding ways to get the girls into campy
costumes and situations.  Thus we have the angels as nuns, the angels as
welders, the angels as exotic dancers.  The problem is that this cutesiness
wears awfully thin after awhile, especially since that is pretty much all
the screenplay manages to come up with in the way of entertainment.

The stunt sequences – which consist mainly of tedious slow-motion shots of
the girls flipping through the air, karate-chopping the bad guys and dodging
bullets - are so excessive in nature that we begin to understand what a
detrimental effect `The Matrix' (however inadvertently) has had on
filmmaking in the past few years.   When any physical action - no matter how
contrary to the laws of physics and gravity - is possible, how are we
supposed to care what happens to the people involved?  If no one seems to be
in any real danger, all possible suspense is eliminated and we are left
admiring the work of the special effects team and very little else.  The
`Charlie's Angels' films are not alone in this regard, but they do serve as
handy warning signs of the potentially debilitating effect of this trend on
the future of action movies.

About halfway through the film, Jaclyn Smith, one of the angels from the
original TV series, shows up to dispense some veteran advice to one of our
intrepid little cherubs.  Though long past her prime, Smith is so goddess-y
beautiful in her brief moments on screen that, not only does she outclass
all three of the leading players, but she makes us, heaven forbid, even feel
a twinge of nostalgia – however faint - for the original series.  Frankly, I
didn't think that was possible.  Credit the makers of this fiasco for
achieving at least that much with their film.

<|_=00=_|>

The Angels rescue Marshal Ray Carter from Mongolia but leave without what
they presume to be his wedding ring.  Later they find out that the ring is
one of a coded pair that, once combined, unlocks the data for the location
of the entire witness protection programme.  The other ring has also been
taken from it's holder and the holder murdered.  The Angels are charged to
bring back the rings but along the way they encounter secrets from the past
including a violent old flame from Dylan's youth seeking revenge and an
ex-Angel striking out on her own.

It was with a heavy (but open) heart that I went to see this film.  I had
enjoyed the first film (for all it's flaws) but I didn't really want to see
a film that just went over the same ground.  Happily CA2 didn't just make
the same mistakes as the first film did – it actually went beyond them!  One
problem with the first film was that the plot had too many scenes that just
seemed to happen without reason or consequence (the race cars scene for
one).  However here the majority of the scenes seem to exist outside the
plot.  It's like they knew that they wanted to repeat the essence of some
scenes from the first film and, if they couldn't fit them into the plot,
then they just dropped them in anyway.  Scenes that were enjoyable in the
first film were just not quite as funny the second time
round.

The plot is so disjointed that it really does feel very episodic and I
struggled sometimes to see the narrative flow – mainly because for large
sections of the film there wasn't one.  Characters are dropped in for little
reason, scenes occur that are wedged into the plot simply because someone
had the idea in isolation and got it added to the film etc.  However I won't
waste time debating this here as I think many agree that this film was never
meant to provide substance.  Which leaves us with style.  McG is aptly named
as he is responsible for a mass produced product that seems to lack
invention or spark of it's own.  It was possible to look at the first film
as a tongue in cheek satire of blockbusters – but to do the same thing all
over again made me realise that he wasn't satirising the cult of excess – he
is actually part of it and worse, he hasn't got ideas of his
own.

Hence we have scenes that are more like music videos.  The soundtrack pretty
much covers the whole film, lest we should have a quiet moment to think! 
Also the action scenes are sub-par Matrix rips – once he may have gotten
away with it but the joke has worn thin.  The action is just silly and makes
it very hard to get excited or involved.  The opening sequence is just
laughable and sets the tone – it's a shame as some of the fights are well
choreographed and could have been good if they hadn't been pushed to being
OTT.  The constant use of slow motion and linger shots of the girls' asses
or blowing hair also gets quite tiresome in the end.  The film has quite a
few good references to other movies (eg Cape Fear & Sound Of Music) however
these only work if they exist as scenes themselves and not just as
references.  To show you what I mean, `The Simpsons' spoofed Cape Fear, but
the episode stood in it's own right.  In CA2 some references seem only to
exist as references and not part of the film.  The constant use of in-jokes
and styles from other films stopped feeling like clever fleeting references
and started to feel like McG just plundering for things to fill his film – I
mean, doesn't even the concept of a quest for a ring sound familiar to
anyone, never mind the Matrix effects?!

The cast is amazing and it is to McG's further shame that he makes poor use
of the majority of them.  The lead trio are good but (as the outakes show)
seemed to have had more fun making it than I had watching it.  Liu comes out
the best for my money as she is the most convincing fighter and is the
sexiest!  Moore is alright in the support but she is poorly used – she
really does have a very small role, most of which is to show off her new
body.  Mac is a major let down – from the trailer he had looked funny but
the truth is that he gives a poor minstrel performance at best.  He has a
few funny lines but he is not as funny as I've seen him – his failure makes
the loss of Bill Murray feel 100 times greater.  Theroux is physically
impressive but has a terrible accent that wonders from Northern Irish to
Southern Irish to some sort of flat Scots at times.  The support cast is
deep and mostly wasted - Bruce Willis has about 3 words and 1 minute of
screen time, Fisher, Patrick, Eve, LeBlanc, Wilson, The Olsen's, Smith,
Forster and Pink (to name a handful) all have very little to actually do and
it just turns their scenes into a game of `oh look it's …'.  The biggest
waste is Cleese who is given nothing to do but do bug eyes over cheap
innuendo and whisper `ferret'.

Overall I'm aware that to make these points is a waste of my time as many
fans of this film will acknowledge them and say `so what?'.  Hell – I half
enjoyed the film as a piece of fluff for a Sunday afternoon with mindless
action and sexy ladies – but it's hard for that to totally suffice and, try
as I might, I couldn't help but feel like I wanted something more from
it.
<|_=00=_|>

I liked the first Charlie's Angels film. OK so it was never going to make
cinematic history, but it was fun in a kitsch kind of a way.

Not so the second. The storyline is disjointed, and the action sequences are
so far overdone it's laughable. Suspension of disbelief is one thing, but
when the Angels are flying around like Matrix Agents even dodging bullets,
it just gets silly. There are numerous references to other films, but I get
the impression that they're included as padding rather than genuine
homages.

Demi Moore looks great, but is wasted in this compost heap of a film. If
ever there was an argument for not buying a DVD before you've watched it,
this is it.
<|_=00=_|>

I watched this film at the recommendation of my 13 year-old daughter. I
like
the original film
version of a few years ago but Full Throttle lacks the wit and charm of
its
predecessor. It
therefore had to rely on action and special effects which I found boring
(and I like action
films). The dialogue was weak and, in particular, the special effects were
disappointing for
this day and age. There was too much obvious work in front of the blue
screen and the
situations were so preposterous that I eventually gave up on the film
after
enduring too much
of a particularly ridiculous chase. I've only ever walked out on two other
films in over 40
years. There is much better entertainment available.
<|_=00=_|>

What do you say about a comedy that isn't at all funny a spoof thats to
heavy handed and loud that its just irritating Boy I wish I could get a
job where with out any talent I could waste millions of dollars make a
incoherent piece of tripe (that did not do that well ) and be told sure
you can make the last installment of this overdone franchise.Is any
body else really sick of these MTV directors with there million of
blazing editing cuts to create these false epics.How many good movies
from struggling directors will never be seen because Hollywood is still
looking for that big score picture. doesn't matter if good or not just
loud and flashy. OH those lovable bean counters.

<|_=00=_|>

I liked "Charlie's Angels." It never took itself too seriously, and Bill
Murray provided some comic relief, making the film more than just an hour
and a half bikini advert. Something funny (or unfunny) happens in "Charlie's
Angels: Full Throttle": It's terrible. 

I mean, this movie isn't bad, it's just awful. The acting is even worse than
the first, there's no Bill Murray, and what were all the stars making cameos
in this film thinking? Bruce Willis, Owen Wilson, and others make brief
appearences, but what about Demi Moore, Crispin Glover ("Back to the
Future"), Robert Patrick (better remembered as the T-1000 in "T2"), John
Cleese (or was that a cameo?), Luke Wilson, Bernie Mac (who now has his own
very popular TV show--he didn't need this to hinder his career), Matt
LeBlanc ("Friends"), and so on and so forth, who all took main roles? Okay,
I understand LeBlanc taking part in the film, his career is going nowhere
other than "Friends," but seriously, Luke Wilson?! Between this and "Legally
Blonde 2," the man may never make a lead role again (like in "Old School," a
much funnier and more fun film than this). And John Cleese! What's with him
and small roles lately? "Harry Potter," "James Bond," all of his roles are
supporting: Whatever happened to his acting career? And that's not to
mention what in the %&#% Cameron Diaz is doing in this movie. Drew
Barrymore...maybe. Lucy Liu...definately. Cameron Diaz...NO WAY! I really
like Cameron Diaz, and she can act (see "There's Something About Mary"), but
what in the name of H.G. Wells is she doing in this? And why does she act so
bad in it? I understand playing homage to the show with bad acting and all
like the first film, but this pushes the limit. 

The direction style is worse, thanks to "McG," and Drew Barrymore manages to
steal the show as the all-time worst actress in recent years. I know it's
not all her--it's the script. Anyone who has to say the stuff these girls
say in this film should know they're in trouble, and should mutter the lines
with utter chaos, but it's unbearable how corny the things they say are. And
just check out their acting in a dirt bike scene, when Liu and Barrymore are
"worried" and "scared" that Diaz's character might be in trouble. Youch! Bad
acting to a new extreme. This film has the mediocrity of a horrible B-movie
from the seventies, with a huge budget splattered on top.

Originally titled "Charlie's Angels: Halo" (the name changed due to
copyright on the video game "Halo"), "Full Throttle's" plot is one of the
worst I've seen in a long time. It's horribly contrived. Where should I
begin? In the beginning of the film, the three Angels, Natalie (Diaz), Alex
(Liu) and Dylan (Barrymore) rescue a hostage (Patrick) from a bunch of
Hungarians. Stupidity ensues when the Angels fall off a bridge, dodging a
missile, and manage to grab onto a helicopter or something before the truck
they were in blows up. When watching this scene, the first things that
enters your brain is this: How in the world did this pass Columbia TriStar's
eyes? I mean, that scene is the kind of stuff I used to think would be neat
when I was about ten, only back then they didn't make feature films out of
idiotic ideas. Anyway, on with the plot.

After rescuing Patrick, they find out he was carrying with him a ring on his
finger that the Hungarians stole. This ring, when joined with another,
reveals the entire database of those on the witness protection program and
their real names. Good Lord, I didn't know that the Government kept the
names of their protected witnesses on a super-duper ring gadget so easily
stealable. I mean, didn't this pass the actors and actresses' minds--maybe
the film might be a bit sore on the plot?

I suppose that's not why people go to see this movie. They go to see the
girls in bikinis. That's not a bad idea, the first one was like that, but if
you're going to have a plot at least make it non-laughable. Even the first
film's plot was better than THIS!

One thing leads to another, pretty soon they find out Dylan (who entered the
witness protection program years ago) is being targeted for assassination by
the Creepy Thin Man (Crispin Glover). One thing I found funny is that
Crispin Glover refused to return for "Back to the Future Part II," demanding
what writer Bob Gale said was "unreasonable" perks, yet he returned for
"Charlie's Angels 2" in a flash. Interesting, Crispin, I see you've learned
from your mistakes--sadly, you've used your wisdom to return for a terrible
film.

"Charlie's Angels: Full Throttle" isn't just miserable, it isn't just awful,
it is just so mediocre it hurts. It's like on gargantuan mess, filled to the
rim with bad acting, horrible "Matrix" rip-off fight scenes, and a God-awful
script, all of which makes "Charlie's Angels: Full Throttle" one of the
biggest cinematic disasters in recent years. I could spend hours wondering
why the beautiful and talented Cameron Diaz chose to appear in this film,
but in all honesty, it hurts my brain just thinking about it. What hurts my
brain even more is the fact that this film has grossed close to 100 mil
already, meaning more sequels. I weep for those that paid to see this movie
expecting a treat. 

I'll say once more to the fans of the films that I enjoyed the original as a
guilty pleasure, but this is too much for me. Please, no more sequels.

1.5/5 stars -

John Ulmer
<|_=00=_|>

We caught a double at the matinee today and perhaps I found CA:FT so much
fun due to the comparison of the pretty lousy League of Extraordinary
Gentlemen we had just seen.  But, fun it was!

I went in hoping for more of the satirical flair that made the first one
enjoyable.  CA:FT delivered.  This is the way movies about campy TV shows
*should* be made.  An over-the-top parody that keeps you gasping and
laughing the entire time.

If you want "realistic" action, this movie is NOT it.  This is a live-action
cartoon, beautifully shot in a kinetic MTV style.  Cameos are numerous ("Is
that Bruce Willis?"  "Hey, Pink!") and watch for plenty of little homages to
various campy TV series of the same genre.

Most of all, sit back and enjoy!  The three angels are as goofy as ever with
their satire-sincerity and "fierce" poses.  They each have a distinct
personality trait which helps all the little subplots keep moving
along.

The supporting cast was fine too.  Bernie Mac's Bosley was an improvement
over the first.  Lots of laughs!  Demi's Madison character was okay, but I
kept getting the impression she was trying too hard.  This is a parody and
Madison should have been a hammed-up villainess, but Moore remained too
seriously focused. This caused the character to seem out of step with the
rest of the movie.  John Cleese was fine too.  His part was small and
generally consisted of the tired joke of miscommunication about his
daughter's (Liu) occupation.

If you enjoyed the first Charlies Angels, see this!  If you like goofy,
all-out action fun, see this!  If you want drama, skip
this.

7 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>

$120,000,000 down the drain.

It's an action movie that's not exciting, a parody that's not funny, and an
adventure that's not adventurous. It is a mystery - a mystery that anyone
would like it. It even lack sex appeal.

Maybe McG needs to work on TV with a much smaller budget and less famous
actors. He clearly can't get anything from the "angels" who seem more
interested in laughing than acting. This movie cements their reputations
(and Demi Moore's also) as truly bad actors. I don't feel bad for any of
them.

I don't know about Bernie Mac. Is he that bad, or does he just get horrible
roles? The best actors in the first film were Bill Murray and Tom Green. In
the second? John Cleese and Matt LeBlanc. This is not what you
want.

There are several random cameos throughout, not unlike the random plot
itself. Much of the movie is a string of T&A, music, pyrotechnics and CG
action. It truly is one extremely long music video - like Thriller would
look like if created by two monkeys and an ATM machine.

I thought the $92 million "original" was bad, but the sequel managed to be
about $28 million worse. Maybe someday, someone will make a film about how
McG got $200 million to make two movies after directing a couple of popular
music videos.

It could be worse, though - "Charlie's Angels 3: One Last
Job"
<|_=00=_|>

There are good movies, bad movies, and very bad movies. And then there's
Charlie's Angels 2. After 5 minutes of watching this movie I realized what
I
had gotten myself into. Unfortunately, I am one of those people who have
to
watch a movie they've started to the end, no matter how much it sucks. And
this movie is the king amongst vacuum cleaners.

It's full of incredibly unconvincing stunts, bad jokes and mediocre
acting.
Add a banal plot, and you've got yourself by far the worst movie of 2003.
Recommended for masochists only.
<|_=00=_|>
Having already enjoyed the breathtaking original, I wanted to see this
sequel as soon as it was publicised. I saw this at the cinema with a
family aide (a person who takes disabled and autistic people on 1:1
outings to give their families a break) and when she asked me what I'd
thought of it when it finished, I found it better than the first. Not
only was it as funny, silly and action-packed as the original but also
I got to learn more about some of the characters through their back
stories, particularly Dylan and the Thin Man, who I thought had died in
an explosion in the original.

While a reviewer for the Radio Times gave this film one star and said
it had no plot, I figured that there is a main plot; that involving the
Angels trying to retrieve two titanium rings from two members of the
Witness Protection Agency. The plot was as gripping and engaging as
that of the original. While the first half of this one is the funniest,
the second half has the most action-filled scenes with as much hard
work put in the stunts as the original and a touch of heartache when
Dylan temporarily leaves the Angels and heads for Mexico where she
receives guidance from Kelly Garrett, one of the Angels from the
original mid 1970s - early 1980s television series. Throughout the
film, I also enjoyed spotting references to the previous film such as
Natalie saying she loved tickets and later pulling down her Spider-Man
pants in the boys' toilets at Pete's school reunion, Jason mentioning
his initial thought of Alex being a bikini waxer and the photograph of
the Angels on the beach, first seen when Dylan temporarily leaves the
agency. I also liked some of the plot twists, especially Pete looking
as if he is going to propose to Natalie but instead announces he bought
them both a puppy named Spike (as shown on the dog tag in the box). The
soundtrack here is a bit better than that in the first. While the
incidental music was composed in a similar manner to that in the
original, there were four recognisable instrumental pieces (the piece
of classical music played during Alex's brief chess scene, the 'Pulp
Fiction' theme, The Lonely Goatherd' from 'The Sound of Music' during
the convent scene and the Pink Panther music played during the raunchy
dance scene at the Treasure Chest) and a great mix of songs such as MC
Hamner's 'U Can't Touch This,' Pink's 'Feel Good Time (this film's main
song),' Bon Jovi's 'Livin' On A Prayer,' the Prodigy's 'Breathe' and
'Firestarter (which cleverly accompanied the flame-throwing scene and
may have been an allusion to one of Drew Barrymore's childhood films)
and 'A Girl Like You' by Edwyn Collins.' The Angels were as excellent
as in the original with Natalie being funnier than she was in the
original, Jason and Pete made welcoming returns while the new Bosley,
played comically by the late Bernie Mac, Dylan's old flame Seamus
O'Grady and fallen Angel Madison Lee were worthy new characters. There
were also some decent cameos from Pink, the Olsen Twins and Jaclyn
Smith.

Overall this superb girlie action comedy was well worth the watch, much
better than the original and undoubtedly the best live-action film to
come out in the last decade alongside the first two Harry Potter films.
10/10.
