
When I heard the title and learned that Adam Sandler was in this movie,
I had very low expectations. Boy, was I surprised. This is a wonderful
film, not at all the low-level fluff film I expected. All the female
actresses, young and old, are absolutely terrific, and Adam Sandler
does a respectable job in a semi-serious role. The writing is very
clever, and the film will elicit laughter as well as tears. I found my
self still thinking about the movie the next day, something that all
too often doesn't happen with today's highly forgettable films. One
caveat: this is really a movie for teens and up, not a kids' movie.
Aside from a bad word or two and a (hilarious) sex scene, the
underlying themes are quite adult. Enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>
Adam Sandler returns to romantic comedy/drama in Spanglish, written and
directed by James L. Brooks, who has fine tuned the genre with
excellent scripts and sensitive acting (Terms of Endearment, As Good as
It Gets). It doesn't quite measure up to his best work, but that's
still saying something.

Deborah Clasky (Tea Leoni) hires a housekeeper/cook, Flor Moreno (Paz
Vega), who doesn't speak English. Flor, a single mother, has a teenaged
daughter, Cristina, and the two eventually move into a summer beach
house with Leoni, her two kids, and husband, John Clasky (Adam
Sandler), a world renowned chef. Deborah is a nervous, controlling type
A personality, who has recently lost her job and begins to question her
worth. Her subsequent actions such as lowering the self esteem of her
overweight daughter, Bernice, and doting over Flor's daughter without
mother's consent starts a sequence of events that pulls the two
families apart and draw two frustrated, lonely people together, namely
Sandler and Vega. They connect, of course, but what they do about it
forms the focus of the storyline. At times this film thematically
recalls classics like Roman Holiday or Brief Encounter.

The film begins in such a manner to make one think that it isn't
anything special but builds its story and characters into solid
foundations until you begin to care about what happens. This is almost
two films thematically. There is the developing love story between
Sandler and Vega, and there is also the story of Vega, the mother, and
her daughter. This is not just a family torn apart or a budding,
forbidden romance, it is also the core mother-daughter dynamic seen
though the teenaged daughters and their respective mothers. The
narrative from Cristina's point of view recalls I Remember Mama. And
let us not forget the relationship of Deborah and her own mother
(Cloris Leachman-a Brooks alumnus from The Mary Tyler Moore Show). The
ending is a bit open ended for one storyline while the other is
resolved quite nicely.

At times, the dialogue (a good portion is in Spanish and cleverly
translated or communicated through context without subtitles) is crisp
and sharp and other times, the story seems to tease without delivering
and seemingly loses track until it gets reeled back by a brilliant line
or two. Some of the situations seem a bit forced or going nowhere but
Brooks has spoiled his audiences with his top flight writing over the
years. It is remarkable that he can show lesser filmmakers how to write
and construct a superior screenplay about people that an audience cares
about. He makes stories about people that matter.

Tea Leoni is good in her role as the neurotic housewife who becomes
self absorbed. At times her character downright grates on the nerves,
and you wonder how a man like Sandler's compassionate, loving
husband/father, puts up with her behavior. Sandler does fine with his
down-to-earth, dramatic role which contrasts with his quirky romantic
in Punch Drunk Love. One wonders what a stronger persona like Brooks
alumnus Jack Nicholson or even Tom Hanks would have done with his role.
All the supporting roles are effective as usual. Leachman registers as
the mother who consoles her adult daughter and is the voice of reason
despite being the family alcoholic. Even the family dog becomes a small
but noteworthy supporting character. There is also an amusing cameo by
Thomas Haden Church who plays a character not unlike his more
substantial role in Sideways.

Production values are strong across the board particularly in the
cinematography by John Seale. But it's really all about the writing and
the acting. The film feels like it wants to be something more but
settles for the quality of a moderate Brooks film like Broadcast News.
The film will elicit laughs and some tears but it is consistently
engaging. Wouldn't it be nice if more films could even reach that level
of writing and acting? Is this a great film? No. It is merely a well
written story, and that's pretty good on its own.
<|_=00=_|>
I was very surprised by this movie. Amidst the well written comedy
scenes, there are many LIFE-IMPACTING conversations. If you pay
attention to this movie, I think you will learn something about
yourself, about cultural differences, about Responsibility....All while
having a good time and a few laughs. Go see it. I think Paz Vega is a
stand-out in her first big Hollywood appearance. Adam Sandler is good,
and he certainly could deliver more emotion. Mrs. Leoni overacts and
becomes quite bothersome (which I think IS the point!). There is
something for everyone here. The daughter does a super-fine acting job,
and she is clearly headed into bigger roles. She delivers some subtle
scenes of conflicting emotions. Go see it !!
<|_=00=_|>
I was looking forward to see this movie ever since I found out Jim
Brooks was a part of it. Again, he shows us real life characters with
dialog we can all relate to. Acting is superb in this movie! Adam
Sandler plays a great passive, yet warm and sensitive character. I fell
in love with Paz Vega's character, Flor. I applaud Jim Brook's decision
to cast an actress, who like the character, does not speak any English.
I feel it gave a deeper sense of reality to the film. I was also very
impressed with Sarah Steele's performance as the overweight daughter,
Bernice. Her smile lit up the screen! Do I think this is a great movie?
Depends what you consider a great movie to be. It is NOT a movie in
which the ending resolves all issues, neither does it make you think or
reflect on your own life repeatedly after viewing it. However, it does
make you laugh, cry, and lose yourself within the characters and
situations for 2 hours. Those are the kind of movies I cherish and love
to watch again, which is why I give this film a 9.
<|_=00=_|>
Rich people, sometimes, feel guilty about the domestic help they must
have to keep their lives in order, which seems to be what's the problem
at heart in this story. In fact, some employers like Deborah go to
extremes in trying to be nice to a gem she has found in Flor Moreno,
the Mexican maid that speaks no English, but who has endeared herself
to everyone in the household.

Deborah, a high strung neurotic woman, solves all her problems with
money. Flor, on the other hand, has her feet well planted on the ground
and has to be careful with her money. In fact, the problems between
Deb, the employer, and Flor, the maid, come to a head when the family
goes to spend their summer at a Malibu rental. It's inconvenient for
Flor to go by bus, and because she has a daughter, Cristina, who she
will not part with for all the money in the world. Deborah's solution
is to invite Cristina, the maid's daughter to come to stay at the
beach.

James L. Brooks, the writer/director of "Spanglish", shows why he is
one of the top people working in movies today with this tale about
class difference. We are given two strong women, Deborah, who is an
unhappy person, and Flor, a woman from another culture, but one with a
clear sense of what's right and wrong, with a tremendous sense of who
she is and a devotion to her daughter, who she feels is being spoiled
by her employer.

There's another problem in the Clasky's household. John Clasky, the
head of the house is a noted chef who is completely taken for granted
by Deborah. John goes along with the situation, but he has no clue as
to what his wife has been doing behind his back, getting into an affair
with the real estate man. Deborah completely neglects her sensitive
daughter Bernice, who is overweight because of the unhappiness in her
house. Also, Deborah's mother Evelyn has a drinking problem. Flor, the
maid, a woman with limited education, has more common sense in dealing
with all the members of the Clasky's household than Deborah.

Paz Vega, as Flor Moreno, makes a splash with her portrayal of the
maid. In fact, Ms. Vega hardly speaks any English, but one doesn't even
seem to notice. It's to Paz Vega's credit, making her American debut,
that she steals the film from the stars of the film. This actress makes
the viewer root for Flor in her efforts to save her own daughter from
the excesses she sees in the Claskys.

Tea Leoni plays Deborah Clasky. Ms. Leoni gives a good performance as
this confused woman who, in wanting to please her maid, irritates her
by exposing young Cristina into things out of her league. Adam Sandler
is good also in this more dramatic role that probably his fans will not
like, but in fact, it makes perfect sense.

Young Sarah Steele is another surprise in the movie. As Berenice, the
plump daughter of the Claskys, she promises to have a natural sense
about acting. Cloris Leachman is Evelyn, a former jazz singer who
drinks too much. Shelbie Bruce is also good as Cristina.

"Spanglish" is worth taking a look into because the situation it
presents is real and Mr. Brooks inspired direction and writing.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie makes me cry every time. Perhaps the soundtrack does it's
job, or the push-ins when the characters have their deep emotional
revelations of the epitome of their personalities, but it's not what
happens that makes me cry. It is the way the characters are relateable,
not so much as the commonness of their ways, because they are very
quirky almost to the extreme, but because there is a part of every
person in each of them, or at least a part to strives to be. The
language barrier just highlights the dialogue, as one watching tries to
hear it from foreign ears and yet understands movements and emotions
better than what is said. And that, I think, makes this movie perfect.
<|_=00=_|>
SPANGLISH - a term with negative connotation to numerous
Spanish-Americans (or at least to the first generation or older
immigrants).

As the title implies, the movie makes a very interesting and subtle
social commentary about the Mexican American dynamics/contrast in
society. Obviously as expected, the film illustrates a few stereotypes.
For example, when Florrr's (played by Paz Vega) cousin, Cecilia hit the
sliding glass door and her nose bled, the wife Deborah Clasky (played
by Tia Leone) offered her money instead. It's sad but true in today's
society.

But what make the film interesting are its subtleties. For instance the
casting and the characters itself. The producers could have hired a
blonde blue eyed male lead instead of Adam Sandler, but they did not.
Why? Because Sandler's character (John Clasky) is an antithesis of the
wife, Deborah Clasky. She's blonde blue eyed superficial, emotionally
disturbed, patronizing, solipsistic, white housewife, who the writer (
Brooks )probably wants to portray as the epitome of everything that is
bad about white people - or Americans for that matter (however
exaggerated they portrayed her to be). You can empathize with the
husband's character and Adam Sandler played it very well. It's
interesting to note, the husbands character's last name is Clasky -
possibly his ancestors were immigrants as well. And his character is
portrayed as someone who "gets it", someone who understands Florrr - an
immigrant mother who wants her daughter raised with her own values and
integrity even though she is only a lowly servant to the Clasky's.

One of the interesting scenes in the film that I found very clever was
the argument between Florrrr and John. It showed the two sides of the
dynamic. While I was watching it I thought to myself, any other
individual would immediately apologize and patronize the immigrant
housemaid in the expense of goodwill. But I was surprised that
Sandler's character actually called her a "hypocrite" instead, and she
realized he has a point. Not to criticize her (it's probably what
Deborah would have done) would be hypocritical as well. This is another
social commentary that was written very well and cleverly portrayed in
the film.

The acting is equally superb. You could just hate some of the
characters specially the housewife and the daughter Cristina Moreno
(played by Shelbie Bruce). You can just empathize with Adam Sandler's
character and his daughter, Bernice. The only people amongst the
Claskys that is very adult. The grandmother's character on the other
hand (played by Cloris Leachman ) whose always drinking provides a
respite to the insanity in the story and ironically always the
unobtrusive and yet emphatic character despite how she lived her life.
In the end she was the voice of reason for the wife.

Equally, the dialogue is worth mentioning. Interestingly, there are no
subtitles on all the Spanish spoken dialogue but the audience can kind
of get the gist of what's being said or argued. It can be distracting
to some audiences but thankfully, Florrr's character learned to speak
English in the second half of the film. Also, the Spanish without
subtitles added a few good scenes in the film and added a positive
credence to the title SPANGLISH. It illustrates how to write the
quintessential part of the screenplay without making it too cliché.

Overall, I liked this film. If you can look at it in the same light as
I saw the film, you would enjoy it too and find it cleverly written and
directed. Otherwise, it could be a little slow and the dialogue can be
a little bit distracting. It doesn't help some of it is in Spanish and
Adam sandler's character cannot express himself very well verbally.
<|_=00=_|>
Gregory Nava's "El Norte" was a memorable journey into the Latino
experience in white wealthy country. That masterpiece had a
heartbreaking scene between the Latino maid and a washing machine.
"Spanglish" merely hints to a similar moment between the Latino maid
and a coffee machine. The "merely hinting" is at the heart of this
painful comedy of manners. This is the journey of an observer not of
someone who actually lived it. As a consequence he treats his own with
an iron hand and the others with a romantic, heroic, fairy taleish sort
of slant. Putting aside the potential seriousness of the story, the
film is a moving, entertainment fantasy in the land of opulence and
guilt. The borders here are not geographic but personal, the aliens are
the natives. They become illegal in their own existence and step all
over their own lives without noticing, trying to care, trying to be the
best they can possibly be but without points of reference or enough
substance for their acts to have any kind of real meaning. Tea Leoni
gives a performance of such fearlessness that sometimes you feel she
may jump out of the screen. Cloris Leachman is great as an alcoholic
wise woman who doesn't want to be judged. Paz Vega represents the ideal
Latin heroine in a wealthy American's story. She is beautiful and
powerful and utterly unlikely. Adam Sandler is Adam Sandler and seems
to stand passively between the blonder than blond world of his wife and
the exotic gorgeousness world of his maid. I would like to know what
happened to Paz and her daughter after leaving behind the chances to be
or become like everyone else in the white wealthy country of make
believe, or is that too much to ask.
<|_=00=_|>
James L. Brooks has been giving us such splendid entertainment as a
writer, as a producer, as a director for so many years now. I stayed
away from SPANGLISH over the Christmas holidays because the reviews
were less than mixed, and in a busy season, I made the mistake of
thinking it probably wasn't very good. I'm no Adam Sandler fan either.
Well I saw SPANGLISH last night and went on this site to read other
comments about the film. Lots of you seemed to like the film, and so
many of you had questions or thought the film was somehow incomplete:

Why would Flor, the housekeeper for the Clasky's give up here
daughter's private school scholarship?

There's no way a gorgeous woman like Flor would be unmarried and
working as a housekeeper in Beverly Hills.

Tea Leoni's character is bipolar.

The film tries to tackle too many story lines at once.

The proof of SPANGLISH's excellence is that everybody sees something
different, and I think that's where its greatness is. I also think
we'll be watching it for years to come with an ever-developing
affection and cult-like devotion. I'm assuming you've read the plot
line, so I'll just stick to the aspects of this movie which made it
such a great experience for me. 

Brooks' real talent is in giving us stories about people we care about,
even after we've decided we don't like them. Shirley MacLaine's great
performance in TERMS OF ENDEARMENT, and Jack Nicholson's in AS GOOD AS
IT GETS are not nice people, nor are the three leads in BROADCAST NEWS
very likable, but they grow on you. In SPANGLISH we enter the lives of
a upwardly mobile Los Angeles couple, both driven by their work which
makes them nuts, but too busy to get off the treadmill and smell the
flowers. 

Tea Leoni 's Deborah is a character who is very neurotic, controlling,
arrogant, competitive, spoiled, bratty, cold, and all-too-human. Now a
full-time house- mommy after being downsized by her company, she's
feeling unfulfilled and dazed by being somehow reduced to motherhood.
Leoni gives an incredibly brave performance, and you still don't like
her in the end. Adam Sandler, putting aside his obnoxious screen
schtick for a second, is totally believable as John, the sweetly
hen-pecked and cuckolded husband, who is falling for Flor. Scared of
his success as a first-rate chef, he's nearly paralyzed when his
sous-chef announces he has the backing to leave and open his own place.
But as usual, both husband and wife throw money at any situation that
seems to threaten them. Cloris Leachman is back to remind us just what
a superb character actress she is, and her wise and loving alcoholic
grandmother who is indulged and ignored and condescended to by her
daughter, ends up with some of the wisest advice she can give her
daughter when the crisis of her marriage has to be faced in real terms
and without her usual hysterics. Grandma has lots to atone for over her
own neglect, and Leachman's character seems brave enough to put down
the booze and face the music. 

Paz Vega is a gorgeous woman and is radiant as Flor, the housekeeper.
She's a wonderfully protective mother, and she gets totally caught up
in her employer's dysfunctional family. The device of having her
speaking only Spanish in the first half of the movie, and shyly testing
her English in the second half really works as she is an expressive
actress. I had no trouble reading her thoughts. All the kids are
pitch-perfect, especially the young actress who plays the Clasky's
daughter, Bernice. Crushed by her mother's never-subtle hints about her
weight, there's a heartbreaking scene where her mother gives her
shopping bags of new clothing, all of it too small to fit her. 

Brooks doesn't offer any tidy answers here. His characters don't emerge
"better"--they just are. Flor quits and takes her beloved daughter with
her, away from Deborah, who acts like the only reason she helps to
arrange a scholarship for her at her daughter's private school and
showers her with gifts, is because Flor's child is really the kid she
would prefer to have. And away from John because she knows there's no
future for her. She's not a home-wrecker, and she wants to preserve her
daughter's own identify, not become middle-class and Anglo. Many people
would argue she's nuts to deny her daughter, including me. But I see
Brooks' point. You know Deborah and John will probably not stay
together. She's wound way too tight, and when her daughter goes through
puberty, war will be declared in that household. 

As much as I liked Sandler's warm and neurotically hen-pecked
patriarch, he's way too passive-aggressive in his own house, colluding
with his daughter to make up for her mother's insensitivity. Grandma
may have put herself on the wagon to save her daughter's marriage, but
there are issues between them from their past that need lots of
healing. And what of the virtually ignored little brother? 

A little messy, and hugely ambitious, SPANGLISH is a lot like life.
Brooks is a great auteur, and here he offers no easy answers of
solutions. He keeps giving us films with characters with depth that we
recognize and care about. His is a great talent in an industry where
humor and intelligence are in very short supply. I watched this film
with a friend of mine who started to cry halfway through the picture
and didn't stop. 

SPANGLISH is going into my permanent DVD collection.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw Spanglish Saturday night (12/11/04). It was a preview and I
haven't seen any critical reviews yet. I liked it enough to give it a 8
out of 10. It's a comedy with enough serious moments to give a person
time to pause and think. Young girl emigrates with her mom from Mexico
and settles in California. Mom (being in America illegally) settles as
a housekeeper for Sandler and Leoni. She's baffled by the monied
existence of the upper classes and how it effects her daughter. I
thought that Paz Vega is excellent as the mom. Adam Sandler holds back
and plays a compassionate father. Cloris Leachman is great and should
be nominated for a Best Supporting Actress. The revelation to me is Tea
Leoni. I thought that she was great as the waspish/blond mom/wife who
feels that she's not getting enough respect at home.
