
I read through a lot of these comments, and it seems quite a few people
who have given this film a bad rating based their judgment on either
the sex scenes, or the gore (or both). Well, it's called "A History of
Violence", and it's directed by David Cronenberg! What did they expect?
The film is, simply put, amazing. Anyone who enjoys Cronenberg's other
films will greatly appreciate this one. It speaks on many levels, and I
suggest seeing it more than once to fully take it all in. Beautiful
performances all around. I felt as though that is how people put in a
situation like that would really act. I had a smile on my face the
entire film because I have been waiting all summer (or longer) for a
film of this caliber, and it was worth it.
<|_=00=_|>
I expected bloody senselessness and instead saw a film laden with the
deepest human emotions. It was real. From youthful loving to hard
violence, from simple innocent joys to the full depth of adult violence
and sex, and ultimate redemption, this film has it all. Every piece of
clothing and set, every camera angle and lighting propelled the story
relentlessly. I was never bored, and never overwhelmed with overdone
violence. Nothing was gratuitous. Viggo Mortensen proved he's one of
the finest actors to come along in a long while. Maria Bello carries so
much on her talented shoulders. With Mortensen she shines with
alternately warming and heartbreaking truthfulness. Ed Harris was
delightfully menacing, and William Hurt gave the liveliest and best
performance I've seen from him.

This movie is about truth and redemption. It's the best film I've seen
in a very long time. Kudos to Cronenberg, Mortensen, Bello, and all the
cast and crew for what was for me a nearly perfect movie.

See it, then see it again. It's brilliant.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw the film at the Cannes Film Festival. All I have to say is: Wow.
One of the best thrillers ever. It's refreshing to watch a film in
genre that's so often full of clichés. Besides being a thriller, it
also a smart film about the culture of violence. How it dominates our
world. One of the questions the film asks whether one can live free of
violence, even the slightest. In the film violence lurks in every
corner and the characters are forced to defend themselves. Definitely
my favorite Cronenberg film, also his most mainstream I might add. It's
a modern Western and reminds one of those great Western films. As the
title indicates it's a very violent film but guess it will be toned
down as usual, specially the sex scene. All the stars are in peek form
and perfectly cast. William Hurt makes a comeback to better roles. He
was also great in "The King". It will and should get some awards at the
end of the year from critics and etc.
<|_=00=_|>
This is, like all Cronenberg's work, a mythic movie. It occupies the
world of "monsters" that Tom Stall's daughter dreams about at the
start. It's as if we get to see the little girl's nightmare as the film
unfolds. It's because of this poetic, super-real quality that
criticisms from the "this isn't real life" brigade have no relevance.
The screenplay is exceptionally tight and well-woven - no image is
wasted. The subplot of the son's troubles with a school bully parallels
the main plot. The very existence of the son is there to show the
inheritance - the history - of violence. The sex scenes are there to
show the proximity of lust and violence. The end can be nothing other
than what it is: as someone else on IMDb has commented, the genie is
out of the bottle. This is true for the family in the film, the society
we see surrounding the family, and it's true for our families and our
society. It's about the inexhaustible rage of humans. It couldn't be
more relevant, it couldn't be more timeless. It is well acted and
beautifully photographed. I have some minor reservations - did we
really need so much of Howard Shore's music? - but on the whole I think
this is a superb film. Not for the kiddies, however.
<|_=00=_|>
Cronenberg's adaptation of a Wagner and Locke graphic novel places a
simple American family man, and his all-American family, into a new and
disturbing context which has them questioning everything they think
they know. Tom Stall (Viggo Mortensen) owns a little diner in a small
town and has a nice house on the outskirts of town, where he and his
wife Edie (Maria Bello) raise their two kids apparently living the
American dream in their own way. One day at the diner, two murderers
pop by at closing time for some cherry pie, and Tom's heroic defense of
his diner, his customers and himself sets off a series of events that
threaten his family, his sanity and his life. The eerie tension never
lets up in this powerful examination of identity, honesty and violence.

David Cronenberg has directed some of my favorite off-beat films - the
masterpiece Naked Lunch, Scanners, Videodrome. I have watched these
films many times and I still find them interesting. I can't really call
myself a fan, however, because there are also just as many Cronenberg
films out there which I found difficult to get through the first time
(Crash, eXistenZ, Dead Ringers). Cronenberg enjoys creating disturbing
situations and imagery, and wants to get under your skin and to
stimulate your mind on as many levels as he can. In most cases, he
pulls it off masterfully, but sometimes, his emphasis on the bizarre
can come across as pretentious and forced.

Like a lot of very creative and intelligent people, Cronenberg
sometimes leaves his signature virtually everywhere in his work. And
sometimes, a director needs to make a film which does everything they
want to accomplish but leaves off the signature. For example - the
brilliant David Lynch showed us his ability to jump out of his own skin
with Elephant Man and The Straight Story. These are still very much
Lynch films, but they also appeal to the wider audience of mainstream
cinema-goers. A History of Violence is, in some ways, Cronenberg's most
straightforward film. A key to its success is that it is very easy to
forget that you are watching a Cronenberg film, no matter how aware you
are of Cronenberg's many quirks, idiosyncrasies and trademarks. It is
so masterfully directed that, although the plot is not entirely
unpredictable, you are right there in the action with the characters
and feeling what they feel so that, though you may know what's next,
you never exactly see it coming and you never know how it will take you
there.

Viggo Mortensen, in his best mainstream role since Aragorn, and Maria
Bello (one of the actors who made The Cooler worth watching), head an
impressive cast in this adaptation of a Wagner and Locke graphic novel.
Nobody in the cast slips up at all. The script is intense, realistic,
and probably did nothing to make the performances easy. The plot, if
described without the plot and the context created by the script, would
seem somewhat absurd, but like Woody Allen's Match Point, it's
absurdity does not make it impossible to believe. Editing, directing
and pure performance combine to make flawless performances for this
cast. Backed up by veterans Ed Harris and William Hurt, and very
strongly supported by the excellent Maria Bello, Mortensen is
shockingly excellent in a difficult role. I can't explain why without
giving too much of the film away. Although the rest of the cast did
exactly as they were supposed to, I want to single out Ashton Holmes -
an actor I was completely unfamiliar with but who I will look out for
in the future.

I recommend A History of Violence highly. It is one of my top five
reasons for considering 2005 to have been a great year in North
American film.
<|_=00=_|>
In the middle of the night young Sarah (Heidi Hayes) wakes from a
nightmare. Her father, Tom Stall (Viggo Mortensen) comforts her saying,
"There are no such thing as monsters" Director David Cronenberg's "A
History of Violence" questions whether human monsters are truly born or
trained to be so. Based on a graphic novel by John Wagner and Vince
Locke, Josh Olson's screenplay offers a provocative answer. Though for
Cronenberg and Olson , the power of "A History of Violence" lies in its
character study. Viggo Mortensen as Tom Stall is commanding and
powerful as the center of this character piece. This is one the year's
best movies.

Cronenberg creates the idyllic setting of a small Indiana town. Tom
Stall (Mortensen) is a mild mannered and community respected family
man. He has a loving and beautiful wife Edie (strong and smart Maria
Bello). His daughter Sarah likes shopping for shoes. His teenage son
Jack (Ashton Holmes) is sucking as a baseball player and a target of
bully Bobby (Kyle Schmid). Tom owns Stall's Dinner in town. Then one
day ruthless killers (evil Stephen McHattie and Greg Bryk) draw their
guns in a robbery attempt at Tom's diner. Tom kills both like they are
not even there. He dispatches them with awesome deadly force and
brutality. His actions are warranted, and seemingly instinctive. Tom
becomes a town and national hero. His photo even appears on CNN.

Soon after returning to work a mysterious man and his henchmen visit
Tom in his diner. The man, Carl Fogerty (menacing Ed Harris), reveals a
disfiguring injury and claims to know Tom, as Joey Cusack. Tom really
does not seem to know Carl, and kindly asks him to leave. Things don't
seem to add up regarding Tom. Carl later asks Tom's wife Edie "Why is
he (Tom) so good at killing people." Cronenberg brilliantly lulls us in
a sense of normalcy, then launches in a predetermined direction and
tone. He hints at his answer with son Jack's explosive actions. Also
his "A History of Violence" is a study of extremes, likely intentional.
The violence is graphic controlled brutality, and merciless. The sex
scene with Tom and Edie on the stairs is raw and erotic. Cronenberg
also manages an unexpected resolution.

Viggo Mortensen is electrifying. He uses his classic good looks and
understated charm to play the gentle family man Tom Stall. Mortensen
also displays a powerful and explosive presence as Tom's darker
persona. Mortensen is athletic and expertly performs the amazing
martial arts and fight scenes. Maria Bello is awesome as Edie. Even
with her glamor subdued she is stunning and sexy. Her Edie is strong
willed enduring her own doubts regarding who her husband really is. Her
reaction at the story's arc is both believable and heartbreaking. She
and Mortensen have amazing chemistry. Ed Harris is calculated evil as
Carl Fogerty. Newcomer Ashton Holmes is impressive as young Jack. His
portrayal leads us to believe it maybe truly in the blood. William
Hurt's turn in a pivotal role is unexpectedly shocking and completely
effective.

Cronenberg has fashioned a fable about character and fate in "A History
of Violence". This is one of the best movies of the year. Viggo
Mortensen is simply powerful. "A History of Violence" is worth seeing
and worthy of thought.
<|_=00=_|>
Yes, it made me think that if Jean Arthur Rimbaud had been a man of our
times he could have been the one behind this film. Optimism through
pessimism. The light of darkness. A contradiction that makes sense,
that rings true. A mesmerizing film with a spectacular Viggo Mortensen.
The truth is there for us to see it, the truth is going to be told but
the truth has the flavor of a fantasy. It is the adopted life the
invented one that is real. We're invited into this simple but startling
reality guided by the masterful hand of David Cronenberg. The casting
is a stroke of genius. Viggo Mortensen has the presence of an icon and
yet he can disappear be invisible in the most magnetic way. Maria
Bello, for me, a stunning surprise. I didn't know (I still don't) her
work, I only remembered her name because she has an unforgettable name.
But here she proves she's an actress of enormous emotional/dramatic
resources. 2005 is not quite over yet but I bet "A History of Violence"
will be among the two or three best films I've seen all year
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film at a special screening in NYC on Tuesday. It is superb
both in direction and acting. Both the sex and violent scenes are quick
and direct. While the violence is quite graphic, as to be expected with
Cronenberg, the camera does not linger on it at all. The real story is
told through the emotional dynamics in the family as the plot unfolds.
Mortensen's performance as Tom Stall is brilliant and wonderfully
nuanced and the entire cast is first rate. Maria Bello as the wife and
Ashton Holmes as the son and Ed Harris as the "heavy" are spot on.
William Hurt's scene is a standout. There are moments in the film where
you laugh and then are horrified within seconds. DC doesn't dumb down
to the audience but enjoys the complexities of human reactions to
issues of identity, violence and society's view of "good" versus "bad"
violence. I still can't get this film out of my mind. I'm definitely
planning on seeing it again when it opens widely. Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
Leaving this film (just an hour ago now) I heard a phrase rolling over 
and over again in my head: "Wow.  Wow". I cannot find adequate words 
to relate. I found myself saying "Why?...Oh my god!...How?...Wow...". 
The film touches, it festers, crawls all over and inside you. The film 
does (I think) what Cronenberg intended it to do; frighten. I'm 
speaking of real fear that is not spoken out loud, not discussed or 
screamed about,or even fully understood. The best and only word I have 
to describe the film is that it is "unsettling".

I won't discuss the points relating to the sexuality of the film but 
will quickly address the violence. I read Cronenberg's answers to some 
questions raised by the film, most relating to the violence itself. He 
mentions that it is "intimate, nasty, brutish and quick" also going on 
at length on the utilitarian nature of the violent acts in the film. 
This is perhaps the first film I've seen to display violence in, what I 
consider to be, a true sense. It is over so quickly and before one can 
marvel at it, the guilt and terror washes over like waves in a storm. 
It's relatively refreshing, albeit downright sickening, to see a film 
that can still shock the hell out of what is thought to be a 
desensitized generation.

That being said, one must remember that an author, poet, director etc. 
NEVER has the final say on what a book, poem or film's meaning is or 
what its symbols or set pieces are about. Each person in turn must have 
his or her take on the medium. I'd like to close with my final and 
wholly overriding thought concerning "A History of Violence": It is a 
film which I desperately wish to see again but equally compelling is 
the urge to never, ever see it again. Never have such strong yet 
equally conflicting views about something so trivial as a film entered 
my psyche.

The rating of 10 is based on my personal experience with the film, not 
necessarily the merit of the film itself.

You may interpret that as you will.
<|_=00=_|>
How one views a movie often deals with one's approach to the film. I
made a mistake with this movie. I went in, having had difficulty
securing a Cronenberg movie before, waiting to get an introduction to
his style. I went in expecting, based on what I've heard about
Cronenberg, a stylized film. I came in expecting a theme.

I was mostly disappointed on all three marks. What I ended up with was
a fairly straight-forward identity thriller, and that surprised me.

Viggo Mortensen plays Tom Stall, a docile man in a docile world. Viggo
Mortensen's style of acting, judging by Lord of the Rings, Hidalgo, and
this film, is to whisper when he's getting dramatic. This works well
with the film in that everyone in it is either just as docile as Tom,
or trying to be smooth and stoic, which involves an outward appearance
of docility. Tom Stall owns a café, has a good family, has no worries
but that he can't get his truck started. Then some violent criminals
decide to mess with his coworkers during closing, and he shows a side
of himself nobody (in the film) expected: the ability to kill with
relative ease. So thus the audience is in the search for his identity,
who he is, and where he came from.

This film started many things and decided to give them up. At first it
seems a film to look into the undercurrent of violence in even the most
domestic of communities. Then it seems to be a film of mistaken
identity and bad fate. Then it just decides to be another story of a
man escaping a past he didn't like, and finding out that he can't... as
in, what we've seen many many times before.

But it's a Cronenberg film. This means that it's stylized, interesting,
and special, right? Honestly, I saw nothing in this film that struck me
particularly as "something only Cronenberg could do." Sure, there's
some pretty detailed gore effects, but they're sporadic, random, and
worst of all, not needed for anything. Sure, there's some strange
sexual encounters, but they don't really seem as anything except for
sex, they don't develop the characters, they don't add anything to the
story, they just exist in a sort of acceptable state of "Well, might as
well find a way to show these characters having sex." They do reveal
that Viggo Mortensen doesn't have that great of a body, if anybody
cares about that.

Speaking of the writing, indeed, it doesn't seem real care or interest
was put into the script. Nothing particularly new is given us, the
dialog could have been cut and pasted in any other movie of this genre,
and the character development was, again, straight-forward and
unappealing.

As I mentioned before, I thought a large part of the lethargy in this
film had something to do with the theme of violence as an undercurrent,
but my mistake was thinking there was a theme. Even during moments when
the action starts to pick up, it feels like the actors are really just
sleep-walking through their roles. Only Ed Harris seemed to have any
fun at all, everything else about this movie seems as though Cronenberg
forced the cast and crew to stay awake for 24 hours before filming
began to make everything seem lazy. Even the cinematography seems lazy
after the wonderful long take at the beginning. However, stuff like the
close-ups never really added to drama but more made me frustratingly
want to take the director's chair and say, "All right, move back a
couple of feet, give us some room!" It's not a bad film. It's just that
the ending credits came up after an exhaustingly long ending sequence
of no importance and I couldn't help asking, "Oh? So what?" This film
is a good film to have some fun over the weekend with, but it's not
really anything that can stick with you.

--PolarisDiB
