
The Interpreter is an extremely packaged political thriller that
contains only a little punch. The main reason I gave it a go was Sean
Penn who seems to rarely make mistakes selecting his work. Nicole
Kidman can be a mixed bag, and Sydney Pollack a competent seasoned
veteran director. All three performed well without setting the screen
alight.

The use of the United Nations building was a big plus and definitely
gave the movie more realism. It also gave the viewer more of an idea on
what a massive organisation the UN is.

Even though "The Interpreter" was enjoyable the ending was definitely a
disappointment. It wasn't that it was necessarily wrong, just that you
knew what was coming. This was the "Hollywood Factor" showing through.
Perhaps the reason it didn't turn into real Hollywood trash was the
fact it was filmed and produced in New York.
<|_=00=_|>
I was interested in seeing The Interpreter since it looked like a good
adult drama. Unfortunately, the movie has some problems.

The big plus of the movie is Kidman. She is one of those women who
actually looks better as she ages, and she is a talented actress. Sean
Penn is also a good actor, and both do a great job in the movie.

Unfortunately the good acting can't overcome the weak script. I felt
like the story was still a 2-3 drafts short of being ready for the
screen. The biggest problem was that there are plot holes you could
drive a truck through. I also felt the movie dragged through most of
the middle as they tried to develop the strained relationship between
the principle characters.

If you are a plot-driven movie fan, as I am, the movie is likely to be
a disappointment. If you are a acting-driven movie fan, you will
probably like the movie more.
<|_=00=_|>
With all my respect and admiration for the creators of the movie as
well as my concern for the topics of political corruption and ethnic
conflicts it raises, I must admit ruefully that even the brilliance of
Sean Penn's acting (perfect as he always is) couldn't save "The
Interpreter" from going flop in every respect. 

First comes the poorly written script with artificially forced scenes
that totally undermine the credibility of whatever's happening on
screen. How on earth could you imagine an opposition leader of an
African country, no matter how small, taking a ride on a street-bus
and, what is even more bewildering, discussing political dealings and
murders in a pure English with his accuser Nicole Kidman, all this with
plenty of, one can assume, English-speaking people around them. Another
gem of incongruity in the film is leaving the president of a country
all by himself right after an assassination attempt and despite all the
efforts to protect him from being killed. These are just a few among
the abundance of inconsistencies and strained situations in the script. 

The directing adds neither credibility nor suspense at all. It is
pretty easy to guess the intentions and further actions of the
characters because you have seen all these hackneyed plot twists so
many times before. No originality, ingenuity, or finesse one would
expect from the creator of "Three days of the Condor" comes out in a
below the average handling of the plot development. 

This all leaves Kidman's attempts at being believable all but
successful and, especially so, in the culminating scene. Where it is
supposed to be great emotional acme nothing is felt but an insipid
taste of "you've guessed it all" disillusion. 

What could have become a clever, topical political thriller turned out
to be an average Hollywood flick with no power to awake people's hearts
and minds or change attitudes to ethnic cleansing and wars in the real
world.
<|_=00=_|>
I had the chance to see this film yesterday at its world opening in
Athens,Greece."The interpreter" is a political thriller directed by one
of the most suitable filmmakers for this,Sydney Pollack. Nicole Kidman
plays the role of a South African-born UN translator who overhears an
assassination threat against the dictator of an African country.Sean
Penn plays the role of a Secret Service agent,assigned to investigate
the case.Soon we find out that the interpreter's past could explain her
possible involvement in the conspiracy.So-maybe-not everything is
exactly as it seems to be. Both Kidman and Penn give controlled and
emotional performances,although intense and powerful on the inside.It's
nice to see 2 stars of the value of Kidman and Penn to make these
choices in their career and not waste their talent in indifferent
projects. In the end the film is not only a political thriller.It is
also a story on overcoming personal losses,dealing with the past in a
clever,effective way and moving on...
<|_=00=_|>
Having seen "Mystic River" recently, I was awaiting Sean Penn's next
movie with great anticipation as he is one brilliant actor, and when I
heard Nicole Kidman was to be his co-star, this was well worth waiting
for, and both of them are superb in a very well-constructed movie, with
great location shooting in New York. and in particular the United
Nations building. Sydney Pollack has produced (and played a small part
in it!) an excellent movie, full of intrigue with exciting music and
great photography. "The Interpreter" has, by its very nature, been
forced to create a new African Nation , rather than single out Zimbabwe
for example, and the opening sequences set the mood for a very
enthralling 2 1/4 hours. The whole cast is excellent, though made up of
relative unknowns other that the two stars. I can recommend this film
very highly.
<|_=00=_|>
Seldom has an ending been so disappointing and ruined a good film as
this one.

For most of the way, this was a slick thriller, nicely photographed and
nicely acted. Sean Penn is outstanding in here. I like to see him play
low-key characters instead of hot-headed sleazeballs. Nicole Kidman
also gives a good performance. Sometimes her classic beauty hides the
fact she can act. 

The story was pretty involving, hard to put down once you've started.
My only complaint up to the ending was the obvious plug for the United
Nations. This looked a public relations piece for that organization.

However, then came that ending - a real insult to anyone's
intelligence. In a nutshell, nobody would go the extremes they went to
here to protect a visiting dignitary, using all that manpower and
machinery....and then leave him all alone in a room at the end! Are you
serious??? It was unbelievably stupid and ruined what had been an
entertaining and somewhat- smart film.
<|_=00=_|>
Last night, I watched The Interpreter, primarily because I wanted to
see if Sydney Pollack still had it and in my humble opinion, he does. I
don't see too much film-making like this these days. For one thing,
it's slow, but in a good way. Too many suspense films speed by at such
an absurd rate that there's never any time for a mood to be built or
characters to be known. Here, we get to know the characters intimately
and are gradually drawn into the complex and compelling and relevant
plot. Speaking of relevance, there is, here, a "message", but it's
delivered organically by way of carefully structured storytelling and
character development, not with a bullhorn and fireworks. Speaking of
characters, I love the understated performances in this film by Sean
Penn and Nicole Kidman. I love also the moments in this film, such as
when Penn's character in a country-western bar unplugs the jukebox to
stop the noise of some country-pop crap then restarts it in order to
play Lyle Lovett's wonderful "If I Had a Boat" then goes to a pay phone
and calls his own house just to hear his wife's voice on the answering
machine.

Also, while I have nothing against fast, action-adventure-cartoon-type
violence when it's done just right. The violence in this film isn't
exciting. It's just as it should be considering the subject matter.
It's sad and desolate and when a man speaks his last words to the
child-soldier who has just shot him and when a bus is bombed or a
desperate man is betrayed and murdered you feel it, the final moments
of human lives; a being being taken away. There's room for sentiment in
such films and it doesn't have to be sap as it so often is.

I don't follow entertainment news much these days (much as I'd love to)
because such stories and reviews and even trailers (which I also used
to love watching) give away far too much of the story (which I'm trying
here not to do) so I don't know how this film was received, but I hope
it did well and if it didn't, I hope audiences come to discover and
love it gradually so that there might be more films like it.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, it would seem impossible to go wrong with this: you have
Sydney Pollack at the helm, the blessings from the United Nations to
actually shoot INSIDE the UN building itself (with several key scenes
taking place in the general assembly room), all shot on location in the
Big Apple, and to top it all off you have the best actress and actor of
their generation in the lead! The result is a solid thriller, well sewn
together, and veteran director Pollack wraps it all up weary neatly,
with no loose ends. Just like he did with other thrillers like the
masterful "Three Days of the Condor" and the entertaining "The Firm."
I'm not saying "The Interpreter" is on level with those two, but it
*is* an entertaining and thrilling two hours (especially a scene
involving a bus is quite tense).

In the end I was really left with just one quibble: as things developed
the ending really came as no big surprise. Still, that said: it's a
political thriller directed by Sydney Pollack, starring Nicole Kidman
and Sean Penn. What more could one really wish for?
<|_=00=_|>
Sidney Pollack has done it again! Movie premiered yesterday in Athens,
was among the first to catch it. Nicole Kidman stars as Silvia Broom, a
UN interpreter with a dark history behind her. Sean Penn stars as Tobin
Keller, government agent in charge of protection of foreign diplomatic
missions. The movie is breathtaking, after the third sequence I just
sat back and let it carry me away. If you are a fan of good-old 70s spy
films, you cannot miss this one. Needless to point out the breathtaking
performances of Nicole Kidman and Sean Penn. The last sequence in the
UN is one of the best I have ever seen. Congs to everybody involved
(maybe now is the right momentum for a sequel of 3 days of the
Condor!).
<|_=00=_|>
I love thrillers. I love suspense. I very much like Kidman and Penn.
And I like Sidney Pollack's work. But this movie has one of the most
undeveloped scripts I've ever seen. I agree wholeheartedly with the
reviewer who wrote this script was 2 or 3 drafts away from being ready
to film. The trailers lead you to believe Kidman is in danger, is
running for her life, but the movie never really comes to this. We
never see the secret service, the FBI, the CIA, or the local police go
through the investigative process that leads to the revelation at the
end of the story. In fact, most of the law enforcement personnel is
shown as inept or inadequate, except, of course, for Penn. People get
shot but you don't know why, I mean really know. Penn tries to do
something with his character, but the script doesn't bring him into
focus. At times, he has to look at Kidman dreamily only weeks after his
wife's death??? How Kidman got into a room alone with the intended
target was preposterous. This movie is Not A Thriller, Not Suspenseful.
And the ending is a deflated, run-out-of-gas, illogical, incomplete
exercise in nothingness. Again, it annoys me to know that people get
paid big money to turn out this kind of un-movie, basically a string of
scenes revolving around a conspiracy that lacks intelligence and
complexity. Don't bother unless you're a big fan of the stars who do
what they can with a Mc-script. My two stars are one for each of them
for their effort.
