

This was one of my favorite movies in 2003. Will Ferrell is brilliant
as the Elf. The supporting cast is great too, especially Bob Newhart as
his elf "dad". The characters are well written and it is a refreshing
film to get lost in. Will Ferrell plays the elf with such innocence, he
is so funny! This is not just a Christmas film but when the DVD comes
out I will be watching "Elf" in July. The story progresses nicely,
there are many lessons to be learned as you watch this movie. It
touched my heart in many ways. I highly recommend this movie for kids
AND adults, you won't regret it. Treat yourself and watch this
"original" movie. Hollywood needs to make more like this.

<|_=00=_|>
It was so nice to be able to sit down and watch a movie featuring an
SNL actor without having to mute or fast forward any crude parts.
Granted, this may not be Will Farrell's most amazing performance, but
if you want a new Christmas movie to watch this season, I highly
recommend Elf. I talked to a few people who thought the movie was
stupid, but that was because they were expecting Will Farrell's
character to be a duplicate of his SNL performances. So, to fully enjoy
this movie, watch it without any expectations and remember that it's
okay to have a childlike sense of humor--nobody's too cool for a great
Christmas movie. I love most all the movies from Adam Sandler, Rob
Schneider, Will Farrell, Jim Carrey, Chris Farley, Chevy Chase, and
David Spade, but most of them aren't appropriate for viewers of all
ages. Elf is a movie you can throw in the VCR and not have to worry
about what the kids hear or see on it. Thanks, Will, for putting out a
hilarious movie that the whole family can watch!
<|_=00=_|>

Accidentally finding his way into Santa's bad once Christmas Eve, little
baby orphan Buddy ends up in the north pole, where he is raised by the elves
as one of their own.  As he gets ever bigger and less and less suited to the
elf lifestyle he is told about his real father and decides to go to New York
to find him.  However Buddy's natural smile and elfish enthusiasm doesn't
really fit in with New York, not to mention a father who rejects
him.

When I first saw the trailer for this film I laughed slightly but I also
thought that it could easily be just awful.  Despite this fear I decided to
go and see it on the basis of seeing Ferrell in the Reloaded MTV spoof on
the DVD and being very funny.  I was glad that I did as the film was
refreshingly funny very enjoyable despite the weaknesses inherent in a
seasonable film of this nature.  The jokes are a mix of adult and children 
- but not separately, the humour is of a nature families can all enjoy
rather than being of a `one for me and one for the kids'
type.

The film does get a little sweet towards the end, but it manages to avoid
this usual trap for the majority of the film and can't be expected to not be
all Christmas cheer at some point!  The fish out of water stuff is pretty
funny and Farrell makes his character funny without being annoying to the
audience (as he feared he might be from the trailer).  Caan is good but has
to work with the `scrooge' character of the film and thus gets fewer laughs.
 The support cast is good with fun turns from Newhart, Asner and
Steenburger.

It does get a little sickly sweet towards the end and the fish out of water
jokes do wear a little thin towards the end but mostly it is very funny and
refreshingly fun to watch.  The film is made better by a performance from
Farrell that is perfectly pitched without being annoying and full of spark
and wit.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a good natured holiday comedy that definitely is in the same realm
as "The Santa Clause" and (Dare I say?) "Miracle on 34th Street". Story is
about a human that has been raised by Santa's elves at the North Pole and as
he gets older he figures out that he's very different from the other elves.
Years earlier Santa (Ed Asner) was delivering at an orphanage and a human
baby accidentally crawled into his sack and was taken back to the North Pole
where he was raised by Papa Elf (Bob Newhart). He is called Buddy (Will
Ferrell) and he grows to six foot three and one day he is told the truth
about his situation and told by Santa who his real father is. Buddy travels
to New York City to meet his father and he heads to the Empire State
Building where he works. He finds his father Walter (James Caan) who runs a
publishing business and works all the time much to the chagrin of his
family. Walter is unable to get away from Buddy and after a blood test
proves he is his son he takes him home with him to stay with his family. He
meets Walter's wife Emily (Mary Steenburgen) and their son and Walter thinks
Buddy is just someone reverting to his childhood after a shock. Buddy starts
to work in a department store and he meets a woman named Jovie (Zooey
Deschanel) and is smitten by her. Buddy tries to fit in with the others but
finds it difficult although he becomes friends with Walter's son and starts
dating Jovie.

This film is directed by Jon Favreau who has made his mark as a director of
low budget films like "Made" and also as a character actor but this is his
first effort at directing a mainstream Hollywood movie. He does a
commendable job and as I watched this film I kept having the feeling that he
purposely made the most commercial film that he could. Favreau as an actor
has mostly appeared in small roles. As a director his small films are lucky
to play at art house theaters and I seriously doubt he's getting rich
hosting "Dinner For 5" on the Independent Film Channel. It looks as though
he wanted to make a crowd pleasing film that will ultimately be playing on
some cable channel for the rest of our lives. I'm not knocking this decision
at all, it's a smart move and he's become a major Hollywood player with the
success of this film. Even the script was carefully written to insure that
WHEN this plays on television there will be nothing to edit out. The closest
thing to a bad word is uttered by Caan when he says "Hell" once towards the
end of the film. This is a fun film that does have undeniable charm and its
heart is definitely in the right place. It's sentimental and corny but thats
part of the appeal. The script doesn't try to hard and the energy and flow
of the film keeps at a constant pace, it doesn't try to go over the top
which is refreshing. Ferrell is a natural performer and his dopey wide eyed
expressions never grow old. This film must be doing something right because
tough guy James Caan is believable as a caring husband and father. Very old
fashioned story that never raises itself above lightweight status is
nonetheless funny and charming. Like I said earlier, this film will be
playing on television every year for the rest of our lives!
<|_=00=_|>
Will Ferrell does a great job here, and it's the perfect Christmas
(Holiday) movie that can be enjoyed anytime of the year.

The contrast of almost unbalanced folly of Will's character with those
that encompass him, lends a great degree of innocence and non-stop joy
and plenty of laughter as he leaves the mundane world of the usual,
boring, and often time intolerance of the world in his dust.

It's refreshing to see a story where others are encouraged to rise to
the level of this main character instead of him being overwhelmed and
dragged down by the majority of "Cotten Headed Ninny Muggins", a.k.a.
the "touch me not, speak to me not" big city public psyche so familiar
that many walk around with.

For those that represent the general public in the movie, as well as
the audience, Ferrell's character dares us to believe again, even for a
moment of the magic of Christmas and tears down decades of political
correctness to connect us with the late 60s and 70s when so many annual
Holiday shows brought us a seemingly sustained desire to entertain
ourselves with the magic that waxes then wanes but for a few short
weeks each year. Whether a work of animation or raw theater, this
refreshing story brings vitality and rekindles childhood memories for
the kid in all of us.
<|_=00=_|>

A great holiday comedy, destined to be a minor classic. Better than JINGLE
ALL THE WAY but not quite as good as A CHRISTMAS STORY, this razzle-dazzle
fantasy by actor-director Jon Favreau tells the off-center tale of a human,
played by a rather fey Will Ferrell, raised by Santa's elves, who at age 30
goes off in search of his father, a New York City book publisher played by a
weary-looking James Caan. Much hilarity ensues, as the merry Ferrell teaches
the frumpy Caan the true meaning of Christmas. Some delightful touches such
as a bunch of Rankin-Bass-type North Pole creatures including a Burl
Ives-ish snowman played by Leon Redbone and an adorable penguin with both
eyes on one side of its head. Lots of attention to detail (for instance,
note Caan's apartment after Ferrell has transformed it, including the dozens
of Christmas cookies on the kitchen counter). Some hysterically funny
moments, such as Caan coming upon Ferrell sleeping in Gimbel's (yes,
Gimbel's!) window and Ferrell running full-tilt into a steel locker after
surprising Reese Witherspoon-lookalike Zooey Deschanel in the shower. This
is the film that makes Ferrell a bona fide star, by the way. It owes nothing
to SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE, thank God, being wholly original in thought and
content and character. In the end, ELF goes on a bit long, it falters
whenever Ferrell is offscreen, and the ending is a bit too much...but what
the heck. By the way, the movie is just this side of being a musical, which
will surprise and delight many moviegoers. The soundtrack is simply
magnificent, filled with memorable holiday tunes including a nice duet of
"Baby It's Cold Outside" featuring Ferrell and Deschanel.
<|_=00=_|>
Charming Christmas confection--about a boy raised by elves in the North
Pole who grows up and journeys to N.Y.C. in search of his biological
father--puts a clever spin on even the most familiar gags, successfully
walking a fine line between absurdist comedy and holiday schmaltz. Will
Ferrell looks like a string-bean in yellow tights and, with his mass of
curly hair peeking out from underneath his elf's hat, he could easily
be used as a walking punchline. Fortunately, director Jon Favreau's
handling of "Elf" is incredibly nimble, treating Ferrell and his naive
character Buddy with the utmost respect; you can laugh at all the silly
pranks without ever feeling guilty. Favreau's work is smooth, and he's
assembled an incredible supporting cast of character actors to back his
star, though some may find the climactic moments (involving Edward
Asner as Santa Claus) a bit too literal--and the movie is certainly
funnier before we get to this point. Still, the special effects are
kept to a minimum in order to let the people shine...and that's not
only refreshing, it's heart-warming. *** from ****
<|_=00=_|>
ELF (2003) *** 1/2 Will Ferrell, James Caan, Mary Steenburgen, Edward
Asner, Bob Newhart, Zooey Daschanel, Daniel Tay, Amy Sedaris, Faizon
Love, Andy Richter, Kyle Gass, Michael Lerner, Artie Lange, Peter
Billingsley, Peter Dinklage, Claire Lautier, Jon Favreau. Ferrell gives
an inspired lunacy turn as a man who was raised by elves at The North
Pole and discovers to his dismay he's actually human sparking his quest
to be re-united with his long-lost father (Caan in an inspired bit of
casting), a 'naughty-list' occupant, who works as a children's book
publisher in New York City, just in time for Christmas. Hysterically
funny thanks to the goofy yet sweet and wonderful turn by Ferrell (no
one else could pull off the razor's edge of looking like an idiot yet
retaining the innocent glee of a child and bares a striking resemblance
to Tom Hanks' turn in 'BIG') with a great cast especially the
beguilingly pretty Daschanel as his fellow Santa's Little Helper at
Gimbels'who he falls in love with. Directed with style and witty warmth
by Favreau (who has a cameo) and written by newcomer David Berenbaum
with a smart, fun script that caters to all ages with a nostalgic nod
to classic animated holiday specials for good measure. An instant
holiday classic. Trivia note: Billingsley, best known as Ralphie from
the yuletide cinematic classic, plays 'A CHRISTMAS STORY' the elf
foreman!
<|_=00=_|>
The most helpful thing I can tell you about this movie is that if
you've got even a smidgen of a youthful spirit about you, then this
movie will make you laugh until you cry....over and over. There's one
scene where Elf and a gruffy fellow warehouse worker(who was a total
stranger just a few moments before) are sitting on a pallet after
smoking some dope, and are laughing really hard about something really
stupid, and the Elf leans over and begins tickling the guy under the
arms and shouting "Tickle, Tickle!" as they both topple over in
hysteric ecstasy....and I thought I was going to have a coronary, I
laughed so long and hard (after running the DVD back to watch the same
scene about 5 times over!!!!! This is absolutely my favorite all-time
comedy! I'm very hard to please when it comes to comedies, seeing most
of them as just stupid, but Elf is in a class by itself.
<|_=00=_|>

Elf (2003)

I sure wish they would have released this movie in December, it would have
given it an even Christmas-ier spirit to it all. Elf was a hilarious movie
about a guy named Buddy (Will Ferrel), who was raised by elves at the North
Pole. He then discovers he isn't an elf, and travels to New York city to
find his real father (James Caan). It turns out his that Buddy has a
stepbrother and a stepmother (Mary Steenburghen). While there, he meets
Jovie (Zooey Deschanel) at a store there, and falls in love. This movie is
all about Christmas spirit and is wonderful and enjoyable. It's a great
family movie. You should take you ands your family to it during the holiday
season. This will be one of those Christmas movies that I will be able to
watch over and over. I give Elf a 10/10.
