

I knew next to nothing about this film when I went to see it. I knew it
starred Rory Culkin, who was so good in 2000's best film, "You Can
Count on Me," and received some critical acclaim. But I knew nothing
about the story and what a wonderful surprise "Mean Creek" proved to
be.

This is an intelligent, engaging movie buoyed by some of the best
acting by young actors this year. Writer-director Jacob Aaron Estes,
who won a 1998 Nicholl Fellowship in Screen writing for his script,
takes the basic premise of revenge against a school bully and turns it
into a moving and gripping film. Incidentally, this is the second
terrific movie to come out of that Nicholl class - the other was Karen
Moncrieff's "Blue Car," one of last year's best films.

Given the subject matter, "Mean Creek" could easily have been another
after-school special masquerading as an indie feature. But Estes
eschews the conventions of the genre to give his characters unexpected
depth and create an engrossing morality play. None of his characters is
a caricature; they're all flawed and unmistakably human. The moral
issues they face are real and complex; the crises they create are dealt
with expertly.

What's special about "Mean Creek" are its fine young actors. Culkin
again is convincing as a skittish young boy being picked on by the
school bully, but the two startlingly brilliant performances are by
Josh Peck as the bully George, and Carly Schroeder as Millie, the young
girl unexpectedly dragged into the plot.

Peck makes George captivating when he could just as easily made him a
typical, one-note bully. Peck gives George substance and turns on the
charm so well that we understand the others' reluctance to go through
with exacting his comeuppance. George becomes likable, someone who
seems to resort to bullying to hide inadequacies of his own. Peck draws
us into his character; we feel sympathy for someone who is supposed to
be unsympathetic.

The flaw in Estes' writing is that after making George someone who
elicits compassion, Estes unwisely opts for an easy way out by forcing
George to turn to his uglier side. Had George suddenly not turned mean,
the moment would have been far more potent than it already is.

Young Schroeder is downright extraordinary. Her Millie is mature way
beyond her years. She serves as the group's moral core and Schroeder's
scenes in the immediate aftermath of a tragedy are so astonishingly
raw, you're likely to forget she's a young teen actress. Hers is one of
the best supporting performances the year. 

"Mean Creek" is one of the best coming-of-age films. All teenagers and
their parents should see this, despite its R rating. It's unfortunate
the MPAA gave "Mean Creek" an R rating because despite the use of the
F-word, "Mean Creek" is far less offensive than much of the PG-13-rated
garbage - the more recent "Charlie's Angels" movies, for instance - and
provides more enjoyment and insight into human behavior in five minutes
than almost any mainstream movie playing right now.

<|_=00=_|>
Mean Creek ***1/2/out of 4

"Mean Creek" has the most accurate depiction of teen life and
adolescence I've ever seen in a movie. Unlike "Thirteen", which is
stereotypical and tries to give answers and resolutions, "Mean Creek"
sticks out in the teen-life genre as a beauty. The young actors and
actresses do a great job, but Carly Schroeder as Millie is the best.
She gets to your gut as the innocent kid who's in the wrong place at
the wrong time. 

One of the most memorable parts for me in the movie is when the Bully,
George, is filming with his camcorder and zooms in on an exotic spiral
shape, saying "This is my life". That's such a brilliant line because
adolescence is such a horrible and awkward stage in life. High
schoolers (being one myself) are filled with an assortment of emotions
and feelings and "Mean Creek" portrays that with such power. 

Like "Deliverance", the film is focused on a canoe trip that goes
completely wrong and "Mean Creek " has some themes that "Deliverance"
has. Jacob Aaron Estes is a director who is off to a great start-making
films that are completely honest in every way.
<|_=00=_|>

You're not going to leave the theater whistling dixie, and a box of
Kleenex is not the best accessory, but this tight well made little
movie is worth the effort. The actors, mostly all kids, are very
believable, everyone of them does a great job, and maybe the credit
should go to the director. As the movie bounces along you kind of
expect that something is going to go wrong. And, of course, it
eventually does, and after the big scene, it's like downer city, for
everyone including the audience. But so what, if you want to go see a
happy flick there are plenty of those around. This movie depicts kids
in a very realistic light. The dialogue, their emotions, their
reactions to a crisis, are very spot on. Good movies like this blow
away so called "reality" TV. A friend with me said this reminded him of
a Gus Van Sant movie, I don't agree with that, Van Sant movies always
have some really weird scenes in them that detract from the overall
cohesion of the movie. Mean Creek doesn't do that, check it out.

<|_=00=_|>
To start off this review I must say, that when I first discovered the
corny box cover I thought it had to be a comedy. When I read the back I
figured it must be one of those dark comedy films. And with a cast like
that, how could it not be??? I have never been so wrong in my whole
life.

I have seen many movies before, and none have held such great
performances as this, and hardly any have spoken to the audience in
such a powerful way. This film is quite disturbing, mainly because of
its brutal honesty. The characters are deeply flawed yet still ring
true to real life. Out of the main characters, you can at least relate
to one, if not all.

The actors....wow. I can't believe that Josh Peck gave such an amazing
performance as George, the bully or basically any of the cast members.
I would have NEVER known that he was the boy from The Amanda Show. In
fact the only actor I expected to pull this off was Rory Culkin. The
performances were so natural, so beautiful I almost forgot I was
watching a film.

Sure, many people hated this movie. That's their choice and no matter
which film you see, there's bound to be haters. Yet, I think that the
people who hated it just haven't looked deep enough into it, into the
dark underlying.

Mean Creek is a very unique and individual film. You can't even really
put it into a category. The atmosphere, emotion and message this film
brings across to the audience is so real and gives you the final slap
across the face at the end of the film. It really hits you. I think
that some people who hated this movie are just scared of it. I think
they're scared of just how much reality there is in it and the
heartbreaking proof behind it.

The dialogue is also pretty damn real. Jacob Aaron Estes really
captures the essence of what its like to be a male adolescent...the
dialogue feels like its coming straight from the heart.

This movie portrays the state of mind of a teenager beautifully.
Definitely 10/10.
<|_=00=_|>

'Mean Creek' is 'Deliverance' for the Truth Or Dare crowd. John Boorman's
1972 thriller about a canoe trip gone wrong had a sense of reality and
inevitability that redeemed the horrific violence. The film didn't flinch
and no one escaped with a happy ending. Feature-film newcomer Jacob Aaron
Estes' prank-gone-too-far morality tale isn't as riveting as 'Deliverance',
but his 'Mean Creek' hits many of the same haunting notes. He skillfully
uses guilt and paranoia as weapons. Just ask Nixon...it's not the crime,
it's the cover-up.

The only cast member I've heard of is Rory Culkin, who reinforces the notion
that he's the best actor in his family. Sam (Culkin) and 4 others (his
potential girlfriend, his big brother, and 2 friends) have conned the local
bully into joining them on a boating trip. They're planning to trick him
into stripping off his clothes, then they'll make him run home naked. The
girl (Carly Schroeder) doesn't discover this plan until she's already in the
boat, but she convinces the boys to call it off. After all, George the bully
(Josh Peck) is just a fat fool who might even be a nice
guy.

Ah, but a good film never lets its characters off the hook that easily. Our
Greek tragedies dictate that there would be no film (certainly not one
called 'Mean Creek') if they all just lived happily yadda yadda. George
doesn't deserve this treatment, but he's not perfectly innocent either.
Actually, he's askin' for it. What eventually happens to him might not be
deliberate, but how will the kids explain their actions? It doesn't help
that George has been recording most of the trip on a video
camera.

The skilled child actors are allowed to play smart characters. They give
naturalistic performances and say real things. Estes' perceptive script
doesn't let ANYONE off the hook because there's a lot of blame to go around.
George isn't the only bully, after all. 'Mean Creek' is a fairly simple
story told with a series of complex layers. Humiliation, vengeance, a waking
nightmare, no heroes or villains...the film is filled with themes. In the
final thirty minutes, the characters are forced to deal with the
consequences of their actions. For such a child-filled movie, this is a
grown-up story.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie completely took me by surprise. I saw it mostly because I
love independent films and have been a fan of Carly Schroeder and Rory
Culkin for awhile now, and make it a point to see whatever either of
them are in. But wow, was I shocked. I have never seen that kind of
depth (acting wise) from kids like this. Every actor was brilliant and
unique in there performances. The characters were realistic and relate
able, the writing and directing (by first timer Jacob Aaron Estes) are
immaculate, and the story is completely believable and leaves you
thinking about it after you leave the theater. I can't even pick a
stand out performance, because unlike most films today, all of the six
leads were stand outs. This movie is unlike no other you'll see, and it
will affect you in ways that will stay with you. I'd recommend this
movie to anyone. 9/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Mean Creek is an amazing movie. It is so refreshing to see a good movie
when there are so many worthless ones around presently. There are many
great things about Mean Creek, and a few not so good things. The
writing is excellent, the directing is great. The acting is so well
done, it seems more real than half the "reality" TV shows on TV today.
The young actors which consist of Trevor Morgan, Ryan Kelley, Scott
Melchowitz, Rory Culkin, Carley Shroader, and Josh Peck. I was blown
away by their performances. There is another thing that makes Mean
Creek so unique. It's cinematography (sp?). Most of the action of the
movie takes place within one day, and at a Creek. The filming of the
Creek is so magnificent, there are great shots of the Creek itself, the
water, the forestry around it, and there are some great pictures of the
animals that call the creek home. The subject matter of Mean Creek is
extreme and dramatic, which is another reason for the amazement at the
young actors in this film! The main subject revolves around the themes
of forgiveness and revenge. The first five children plan a simple
revenge trick on the bully, yet something horrible happens are all of
the children are forced into an extremely difficult situiton in just a
matter of minutes. The ending is a bit ambiguous, and open ended.
WHich, I think is good in a certain way but I would have wanted more
closure about the fate of the children. I am surprised by the lack of
representation at the award shows for this picture. I truly believe
this film in underrated and under viewed, because it's an indie and
it's a directors debut.
<|_=00=_|>
In Oregon, when the bully George Tooney (Josh Peck) beats his
schoolmate Sam Merric (Rory Culkin), his older brother Rocky (Trevor
Morhan) schemes a prank with his two also teenager friends Clyde (Ryan
Kelley) and Marty (Scott Mechlowicz) seeking revenge. They invite
George, Sam and his girlfriend Millie (Carly Schroeder) to a boat trip
along the river, with the intention of humiliating George and get even.
However, Millie convinces Sam to call off the plan and the boys accept
in spite of the reluctant Marty. When they decide to play "truth or
dare" in the middle of the river, the truth about the prank is
disclosed to George and he offends the boys mostly the traumatized
Marty, leading the group to an accident with tragic consequences.

"Mean Creek" is a simple, real, powerful and impressive story. The
first point that calls the attention is the performances of this young
generation of promising and talented actors and actress. I hope they
have the same luck of Coppola's boys of "Rumble Fish" and "The
Outsiders". The story teaches in a hard way that for each action that
we take there are consequences. Further, this is the first honest film
that exposes the problematic relationship of an adolescent with gay
parents with his friends. "Mean Creek" is certainly one of the best
coming-to-age movies that I have ever seen and therefore highly
recommended inclusive for teenagers. The Brazilian title is simply
awful. My vote is nine.

Title (Brazil): "Pacto Maldito" ("Damned Pact")
<|_=00=_|>
I had one of the biggest shocks of my life recently. I proudly showed
this film to my best friend from Europe. We normally have very similar
tastes in movies.

I have to admit, I almost teared up a little around the end of the
movie, but managed to keep my composure. Then the movie ended... to
dead silence! I was waiting for my friend to say something, and what he
said shocked me: "What the hell was THAT?" After discussing the movie a
bit, I came to the conclusion that his experiences growing up were so
different than this that it was like showing a futuristic Sci Fi movie
to a person living in rural Zimbabwe. In the Czech Republic, where he
is from, you don't commonly have these kinds of problems. Kids get
along amazingly well. You may find this hard to believe, but in the
Czech Republic, grade school and high school teachers routinely take
their classes to places all around Europe. They have no trouble with
kids not getting along. No one has any whiny special requests, and no
one refuses to share a room with someone.

Guess that explains why this movie made no sense to my friend.

However, if you are an American, as I am, this movie is deeply
touching, and may even bring back unsettling childhood memories of
bullies.

Scott Mechlowicz is certifiably great in this movie, as is Josh Peck,
who plays George, the bully. I look back at movies from the 1970's.
Child actors back then were hilariously amateurish compared to these
people. In fact, movies increasingly are showcasing young actors whose
talents are absolutely astounding. (unlike the kid who played opposite
Lucille Ball as "Auntie Mame's grandson).

What makes this movie so compelling and memorable is that it is tragedy
in the old Greek sense of the word: people bring about their own
downfall. The bully George, as it turns out, has a good side, but he is
socially inept, and so he lashes out in terrible ways. The kids are
ready to like him and forgive him. Instead, George can't control his
anger, and he verbally lashes out at everyone, until their newfound
compassion (or at least pity) for him starts to evaporate.

The tragedy in this movie is that everything comes so close to working
out fine for everyone.

I hope that will peak your interest. And speaking of interest, I have
none in writing a "spoiler" review. This movie is best seen knowing as
little as possible about the plot.

I think if I had to defend American movie making against all the
criticism of how Hollywood depends on special effects, big name actors,
and lurid story lines, I would choose this movie as proof that American
movies are still the best in the world.

Addition added January 16, 2009: I have been writing reviews here for
over three years. Sometimes years will go by without any indication
someone read my review. So, please let me know if you read it. The
thumbs up or thumbs down is entirely your choice. I'm just curious.
<|_=00=_|>

With an all-child cast, it bears resemblance to "stand by me." A group
of kids plot to pay the school bully back for years of abuse. They take
him on a boat trip. If you want more, go see it. It was the best film
I've seen this year. Throughout the duration of this classic, one
element stuck out for me: Carly Schroeder. She is going to be a star
and a half. She blows that annoying cherry blossom, Dakota Fanning,
away. Rory Culkin, Macauly's little brother, was just perfect for the
part of a naive kid, susceptible to his older brother's overbearing
testosterone. Go see this film, because you will talk about it for
hours on end. Perfect dinner movie. Take your girlfriend, boyfriend,
significant other. Kids under 13, though portrayed in the film, just
aren't ready for the material of this film, so don't bring your
children.

