
I just finished the movie and it really is a great piece of work. No
futuristic crap mixed up though you might expect it. Miss Knightley
really does a great job playing the part, though her role seems to have
been kept a bit too far in the background.

The whole idea of changing the future has been brought up before, but
this time instead of changing the future by altering the past it brings
new perspective by altering the present by adding new info from the
future. At first it reminded me very much of Butterfly Effect. If you
like that one, you'll love this one.

It also shines new light on the subject whether or not you can change
your own destiny which hasn't been brought up in a while.

It surely is a "must-see".
<|_=00=_|>
Jack Starks (Adrien Brody) is pronounced dead during the Gulf War.
Moments later, he shows signs of life again. He's discharged and tries
to get back to his normal life in Vermont. But he had a severe head
injury, he had amnesia for awhile, and he has periodic blackouts and
maybe hallucinations. When he winds up being blamed for a serious
crime, he is sent to a psychiatric prison. While there, he is subjected
to a bizarre treatment involving a straightjacket. Starks begins to
learn dark secrets about the hospital and surprising truths about his
life. Can he emerge from his predicament unscathed? 

This is a high concept film--it's basically Jacob's Ladder (1990) meets
One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest (1975), with touches of similar "rubber
reality" and mental institution flicks thrown in for good measure--a
dash of Donnie Darko (2001), a touch of 12 Monkeys (1995), and so on.
That it resembles a high concept amalgamation of modern films may be
more surprising in light of the fact that the basic idea is adapted
from a 1915 Jack London novel, The Star Rover, which was published as
The Jacket in the UK.

It might also be surprising to some readers that I'm giving a film that
is so strongly derivative a 10. But I don't rate higher or lower based
on originality or a lack of the same. To me, what matters is how well
the film works, how well it is constructed for its ambitions. The
Jacket is a fine piece of art.

The performances are excellent. Adrien Brody in particular is amazing.
His turns in what amounts to an "isolation chamber" are breathtaking.
All of the principal actors, including Keira Knightley, Kris
Kristofferson, Jennifer Jason Leigh, Laura Marano and Kelly Lynch,
produce finely nuanced work. The characterizations are demanding, as
The Jacket requires them to play multiple realities, with different
knowledge, relationships and attitudes to each other in most of the
major scenes.

But as good as the performances are, what really stands out is the
direction. This is the first John Maybury film I've seen, and if it's
any indication of his other work, I can't wait to see more. His
direction is constantly inventive and challenging. For example, The
Jacket begins with grainy war footage like the typical CNN almost
"real-time" footage that was so popular during Operation Desert Storm.
Maybury cuts it to enhance the chaos of war. When he moves to a more
"normal" technique, he still exhibits a strong but subtle and unique
touch.

He is fond of unusual close-ups, frequently filling the screen with a
character's mouth, eye, one side of their face from the cheek up, and
so on. He also employs a lot of intriguing and bizarre inserts, and
frequently constructs scenes with unusual pacing, often slower than
other modern directors, or at least pulled like taffy on certain beats.
But it's always right for a particular scene. The Jacket has a complex
timeline structure that could easily fall apart in lesser hands;
Maybury keeps the film easily coherent, and provides just the right
amount of clues to the rubber reality aspects at just the right time.
Echoing the unusual, contemplative, directorial temporal manipulations
is a fine score (as if we could expect anything else) from Brian Eno.

As a rubber reality film, it's important to not watch The Jacket
expecting a neat, linear, tightly-wrapped and transparent plot. As is
typical for the genre, multiple interpretations are encouraged, with
little pushes and prods to help along audiences who might be reluctant
to embrace hermeneutics. For example, in one scene, a character says,
"We're all dead". And for less overt subtexts, it's worthwhile to note
how Jack often tends to be handled throughout the film more like a slab
of meat. But whatever your interpretation, an important and relatively
clear subtext is that of using one's life from this point forward to
the best of one's ability to effect the kind of world one would like to
see. Maybury makes sure to convey a disbelief in strong determinism,
although freedom from fate in the film comes at a cost, and it may not
be able to completely circumvent destiny.

Like Renny Harlin's version of The Exorcist: The Beginning (2004), The
Jacket is really a "difficult" film that is likely to be approached
with inappropriately philistine expectations that lead to complaints
that it is boring or in some other way inadequate, pointless or
non-entertaining. It deserves a more serious look than that. This is an
excellent film.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Jacket" has gotten some bad press because the plot has a lot of
holes in it, but if you suspend belief and just enjoy the movie, it is
a lot of fun.

Any film that involves time travel requires that you suspend belief,
and "The Jacket" is no different. What makes "The Jacket" better than
most sci-fi thrillers is the production quality. The scenes in the
hospital are done in muted colors which look like hand painted black
and white. The scenes in the future are done in super saturated colors.
I thought the super close-ups added to the disorientation and
claustrophobia of the protagonist.

The acting is first rate. Adrien Brody is convincingly haunted. Kiera
Knightly does an acceptable American accent.

Fans of "The Twilight Zone" should like this one. It is rated "R" for
language, nudity, sex, violence, and disturbing images in a mental
hospital; so you are getting your money's worth. If you like good
production quality and want to go for a thrill ride, check this one
out.
<|_=00=_|>
Every so often there's a movie that's so hard to describe that it's to
picture whether it's your type of movie or not. The Jacket melds about
five different genres without falling firmly into any of them. Even to
describe it as an 'alternative reality' movie could put off those who
think, "Oh, no, not another sci-fi". I wouldn't describe it as sci-fi.
There is a love story, but I wouldn't call it that. There's some pretty
disturbing shots and dizzying camera work but it's not really a horror
film. What can you rely on? A stellar cast for starters: Adrien Brody,
Jennifer Jason Leigh, Keira Knightley, Kris Kristofferson. All needed
as the story is not exactly flawless, but the combined
characterisations and sheer ingenuity keep you in suspense and mostly
make you want to forgive any shortcomings in this rather ambitious
project.

If you like stories nice and simple, stay away. If you like a
challenge, The Jacket might fill the bill. It's not quite such a
headbanging puzzle as Mulholland Drive, and it doesn't have the
cutesiness of Donnie Darko, but it is in the realm of dark, weird and
ultimately rather moving experimental film.

Brody is Mr quite nice guy Jack Starks, apparently shot dead at point
blank range in the Gulf War - but hang on a minute, his eyelids blink
before they pronounce him dead and he recovers - with amnesia but
otherwise OK - then he gets committed to an asylum for the criminally
insane fro a murder he didn't do, and we're talking 1990s when some
pretty strange experimental psychotherapy went on behind closed doors.
Enter the old doctor, played by Kris Kristofferson, who looks like he's
had one too many acid trips and survived and believes he can think up
new treatments for nutters like Jack Starks. During some pretty
unconventional (not say unethical by today's standards) solitary
'treatment', Starks sees himself in 2007. The treatment is a
combination of drugs and sensory deprivation - a sort of Neanderthal
NLP the hard way. Each time he is locked up in 'The Jacket', Starks'
projected timeline lets him interact with other characters in his
dilemma. It gets continuingly creepier and the tension builds to an
ending that leaves you shocked, horrified and filled with warmth at the
same time.
<|_=00=_|>
I was fortunate enough to see this at Sundance on opening night and I
thought it was absolutely BRILLIANT. Adrian Brody was incredible and I
thought it was directed almost flawlessly. I highly recommend it.

The film really makes you think and I was disappointed not to be able
to ask questions I had during the Q&A which followed the premiere. I
think there are loads of things hidden in this film which you would
have to see several times to catch. That is my idea of outstanding film
making.

I could have done without the nudity which I saw no reason for. I think
a love scene is much more erotic when you don't see anything. Body
parts don't need to be shown. Most of us have decent imaginations. :-)

Chris
<|_=00=_|>
Rented this movie, and I have to say, its one of the best films I have
seen in along time. It's a complex story line, where paying attention
is key, probably makes even more sense the second time around. I almost
teared up at the end, not 'cause it was sad, but because it was
beautiful, and compelling, a must see movie. You may think this movie
won't be good, but don't brush it off, 'cause it's officially on my top
5 favorite movies list.

Adrien Brody delivers a awesome performance worthy of an Emmy. If there
is one movie you should rent this year, it's The Jacket.

Great movie!
<|_=00=_|>
Adrian Brody deserves at least, an academy award nomination for his
performance in this film. Sadly I fear this film won't be recognized
because of it improper marketing and poor performance in the theaters.
This film was promoted as a horror film, just look at the tag- line,
"Terror has a new name!" What kind of crap is that? Anyway I don't
think he will be recognized for this role even though I believe he
should. Also, Kiera did a stunning job! I was totally surprised by her
performance as well. I mean she hasn't been terrible in her past films,
just no where near as deep or real as her role in this film. All in all
I really enjoyed this film. The direction, cinematography, compositing
(effects in his eyes) and Editing were superb. I will watch this one
again and I would recommend it any day.
<|_=00=_|>
First off, this film is not for everyone. It does, however, seem to
delineate an emerging and exciting trend in contemporary film making
whereby directors are becoming increasingly enamored with these sorts
of dark, brooding, almost dreamscape-like and melodramatic thrillers
which defy archetypal and conventional narrative formats. Think of the
"The Machinist" and work your way backwards to "Vanilla Sky", or even
as far back as 1990's "Jacob's Ladder" as one other reviewer accurately
suggested. 

To this end, "The Jacket" represents the apotheosis of this rising
genre, and is both an artistic psychological thriller, as well as what
you might call a metaphysical tragedy, and easily envelopes the viewer
into its morose and sterile world replete with dreary snow scapes,
perpetual grey skies and faces, muted and washed out colours,
institutional isolation, and the angst of working class loners. The
film's imagery and the pace of the story and script immediately command
one's attention from the outset and the film is unrelenting in both its
tension and gumption. Because of this, despite the story's meandering
timeline and lack of feasible explanations for the protagonist's
"visions", the viewer is still to an extent able to believe what
they're seeing. Because the film takes itself so seriously, and
actually pulls it off, the viewer then buying into the fantasy of the
story becomes far more palatable than it does in other misguided
attempts at this same sort of risky and artsy storytelling ie: "The
Butterfly Effect". 

This is an ambitious film which taps into both the romanticism and pain
of our dreams and our memories, and how they both act upon us, and
cause us to act upon them. It examines what is real versus perceived,
the fragility of life, how each persons's life effects others, even
passing strangers, and the sovereignty of the self and the mind. The
film features outstanding performances from just about everyone on
screen, particularly Brody as the hapless and tortured Jack Starks, and
Kristofferson as the morally ambiguous and equally tortured Dr. Becker. 

Despite the big names on the marquee, however, this, as previously
mentioned, is not a cut and dry "popcorn flick" and will leave many
people bewildered. It is for these people that the "Butterfly Effect"
was made first, and now with them out of the way, the timing for a film
of this caliber which deals with these issues properly is appropriate.
"The Jacket" is a trippy and entertaining yet still very intelligent
film which asks only that you check your preconceptions and logical
rectitude at the door. By doing so, you'll find the imagination of this
film is fact more real than you might have expected.
<|_=00=_|>
Literlly a TEN! 2 thumbs WAY up! This was an uplifting, thoughtful,
mind thriller! It makes you really think. This is not scary though. The
romance and chemistry between "Jack Starks"(Adrien Brody) and "Jackie
Price" (Kiera Knightly) was perfectly amazing! Adrian Brody has a way
of drawing you in through his eyes and actions in all his films. I
nearly cried at the end (Not saying if it's happy or sad) and I was
just amazed at how it basically showed that life has meaning, and
second chances ARE possible. Like he says in the movie: "I think we
live through certain things, just to say that we actually did live
through them. Not anyone else, but you." Amazing and lovely! I URGE you
to see it and I was angry that it wasn't int heaters for long. By the
way, I'm gonna marry that man! Hehe. --Natalie R.L.
<|_=00=_|>
Just saw this at an advance screening. I liked it. Adrien Brody and
Keira Knightley carry this film well. Although I have to admit that i
was in the front row and watching a cinemascope film like that has one
turning their head from left to right a lot. I recommend the star rover
novel to read to anyone who likes this film. It was published in 1913,
one of londons last books. it dealt with how the prison system at the
time would strap people in straitjackets so tight that it would cause
damage. The hero of the book comes to desire the tightening of the
straps to the point where the guards have not seen, in order for him to
more spiritually transcend his mind and soul into another life. He
jaunts into other existences, all past, ie napoleon battle, viking
conquest, to free his mind from the pain. The Jacket takes this idea in
a way where the hero goes to a place that is involved in the plot
running in the present.
