
I watched The Heart is Deceitful Above All Things. I had never heard of
it and apparently there was a lot of controversy surrounding the book.
It seems it was a bit of a James Frey hoax thing but I really did like
James Freys book and will be getting this one as soon as I'm not poor
anymore, lol.

OK back to the movie...........

There is nothing 'good' in this movie, it was a breath taking, horrific
piece of film. It will take a strong constitution to be able to watch
it. It's not something that everyone could handle and is a topic I
generally avoid like the plague for the sake of my sanity, but I think
it should be seen or read by everyone. It's child abuse displayed in
some of the most harrowing heartbreaking scenes I have ever watched in
a movie.

It's about a child called Jeremiah who was born to his 15 year old
mother then fostered as a very young child by a family who loved him as
every child needs and deserves to be loved. When he was 7 his mother
returned to claim him and we see how fecking brutal some people are
when it comes to being parents, in fact she was brutal as a human. I'm
sure I will be the only person on the planet who could feel sorry for
his mother but I have to admit I did. She was a mental case first and
foremost and needed help.

We see Jeremiah being treated in the most awful ways by his mother and
his various 'new dads'. She gave her 7 yr old drugs she gave him to her
boyfriends, she gave him away again, when she had enough of him, to her
absolutely cuckoo religious zealot parents. I couldn't decide if it was
worse to be treated the way he was when he was with his mother, with no
way of knowing who to blame or if it was worse to be treated
horrendously in the name of God.

He spent three years with his grandparents in their cult like lives
until his 'mother' decided she wanted him back. We see the return of
the cycle of abuse, neglect and tear inducing living that the now 10
year old child has to go through.

There is no feel good factor to this movie. There is no happy ending,
no forgiveness and no redemption. There are no epiphanies for any of
the abusers and no relief for a child that was born to another damaged
child.

I got so fecking angry while watching this and I cried my heart out for
the fictional child of the movie but more for the children of the world
that live the life Jeremiah did and no one does a fecking thing to save
or protect them.

I hate to see children treated like they have no rights, I hate that
people actually believe a child has no rights. I hated this film as I
was supposed to and I recommend everyone else give themselves the
chance to hate it too.

I have a copy of it here and feel like buying enough to give a copy to
everyone that I know. I want everyone else to watch it. It is a movie
that needs to be talked about for days with someone else. It needs to
be discussed, dissected and despised.

Karma. x
<|_=00=_|>
'The Heart Is Deceitful Above All Things' is a very dark tale of abuse,
lost childhood and sometimes how adults can badly let down the children
who look to them for love, support and guidance. It is very depressing
with no 'happily ever after' ending but I think it is a film that we
should all see.

The film revolves around the sad and tragic life of young Jeremiah, a
sweet and well-adjusted seven-year-old boy who has a loving home with
his foster family after being abandoned as a toddler by his teenage
mother. Jeremiah's happiness is snatched from him when his mother comes
back and demands her son be returned to her, which social services do
despite this woman not being fit to raise a plant let alone a child.
From that point on, his life descends into abuse, neglect and brutality
as he is dragged around from place-to-place by his drugged-out mother
and her endless supply of boyfriends. Then once the novelty of raising
a child wanes, she promptly dumps Jeremiah on her rigid, authoritarian
family who are Christian-extremists that believe it is acceptable to
beat the badness out of children. In some ways, this lifestyle is at
least stable and Jeremiah does fit in only for his mother to return
when he is ten and the cycle of neglect and abuse to start all over
again.

The quality of the acting is excellent though. Asia Argento, who plays
Jeremiah's mother Sarah as well as scripting and directing this film,
gave a solid performance as this selfish, unlikeable woman who has no
concept of what she is doing to her poor son. However, it is the
children who out-class everyone. Playing the role of seven-year-old
Jeremiah, Jimmy Bennett is brilliant in depicting this innocent little
child who is frightened, alone and in pain and doesn't know what he has
done to deserve this. Cole and Dylan Sprouse share the role of
ten-year-old Jeremiah and through them we see a boy who is jaded by
what has happened yet still retains a sense of childish innocence.
Having only see these two in cheap Disney films where their acting was
wooden, it was surprising to see they do have talent within them given
the proper material and director.

There are many difficult and harrowing scenes in this film as we follow
this child on a path that would physically and emotionally drain even
the most hardened of adults. The scenes where Jeremiah was sexually
abused are tastefully handled (as best as a film can 'tastefully'
depict child rape, anyway) but the scenes are still very hard to watch.
I know there is controversy in the story because it was supposedly
based on a true-life novel only for the author J.T. LeRoy to confess it
was all a lie. However, who really cares as while LeRoy may not have
suffered, in reality, there are no doubt thousands of real Jeremiahs
out there who have been let down by their pathetic-excuses of parents
and social services. This film may not be about LeRoy but it is about
these other children who are abused and worn down every day.

This film does require the viewer to have a strong stomach but it is
important in highlighting the realities of child abuse and it makes you
realise that children are not always better off with their biological
parents. Some kids do need to be taken away and placed in a home far,
far away from their real parents if they are to have any sort of
happiness, comfort and stability.
<|_=00=_|>

I saw this film yesterday and i was genuinely impressed. I haven't read
the
source stories so I can't comment on it as an adaptation, but
cinematically
it's a
success. It deals with horrific events without glamour or lust. The more
harrowing scenes are not graphic, however I was still shocked. This
probably
has more to do with my responces to the situations rather than any
bloodlust
on
the directors part. The three child actors who play Jeremiah all give
excellent
performances, showing his growth from wide-eyed innocent to sexually
confused/ing teenager.  I think this is Asia Argento's second film, but i
felt it to be
a mature work(whoever your dad is). Watching I was aware that is was quite
segmented, it was also shot and edited like a music video (bleached skies
and
time lapse galore). The various cameos are good value. I was thoroughly
moved by this film and hope it is successful. 
<|_=00=_|>
The dysfunctional twenty-three years old Sarah (Asia Argento) takes her
six years old natural son Jeremiah from the home of his beloved foster
parents with the support of the social service to live with her. Along
the years, the boy shares her insane and lowlife style and is
introduced to booze and drugs and mentally, physically and sexually
abused by Sarah, her lovers and her religiously fanatic family.

"The Heart Is Deceitful Above All Things" has one of the most sad,
depressive, cruel and unpleasant story that I have ever seen in a
movie. It is realistic and dramatic, showing a North America of losers
and perverts, and not the usual land of dreams of most Hollywood
movies. Asia Argento is amazing directing, writing the screenplay and
acting, in the role of the vulgar and cheap Sarah, honoring the blood
and names of her father Dario Argento and her mother Daria Nicolodi.
The boys Jimmy Bennett, Dylan and Cole Sprouse have also magnificent
interpretations in the role of the suffered Jeremiah. Unfortunately
there are users that confuse an unpleasant story with a bad film,
writing bad reviews because they did not like the movie. My vote is
eight.

Title (Brazil): "Maldito Coração" ("Damned Heart")
<|_=00=_|>
I'd been wanting to see this movie ever since I'd heard about it. I
didn't manage to catch it at the cinema, it had a very limited release,
but wow, it's worth waiting for.

Based on the book by JT Leroy, which is in turn based on his early
life, and directed by and starring Asia Argento, this book charts the
early years of Jeremiah, a child taken back from his foster parents by
his mother, and dragged around from seedy motel to violent relationship
and back again. He ends up with his fanatically religious grandparents
for a while, which is little better, before being taken away by his
mother again.

I was bowled over by the sheer quality of the acting, the direction,
the cinematography, everything. It's a shocking, painful film, but it
has a strange beauty. I was expecting it to be hard to watch, but the
film just flew by. Really worth seeing if you fancy something
different.
<|_=00=_|>
I'll be honest, this film is severely depressing, so if you're having a
bad day you might end up on the brink of suicide after viewing this
sordid tale.

Basically, there's this little innocent kid right... and then he gets
the sh*t abused out of him after being returned to his crazy birth
mother (from foster care). Asia Argento (the director and lead actress)
must have had a hard time directing in this and playing a screwball
mother at the same time - so credit to her for making it watchable.
However, I must point out that there are many disturbing scenes, the
worst of which is where the little kid gets ass-raped and needs his ass
stitched back together, OK it doesn't show it graphically, but still...
sickening. Another bad one is where the boy dresses like a girl to copy
his mum and tries to satisfy a grown man (Manson no less).

Only watch this is you want to see how f*cked up life can be, oh and
also to see Marilyn Manson without make up.. thats it.
<|_=00=_|>
I can't say I "liked" this film, yet I can say it was better than I
expected. Actress/Director Asia Argento is both the best and worst
thing about this film. As director, she presented a story that had flow
and made sense, and made a couple of very good choices as to when to
use surrealistic and stunt casting tricks in service of the story. She
also got excellent performances out of the cast generally. Except...

as an actress, she kept taking me out of the scene. If your reaction is
the same as mine, just tune her acting out and let the story unfold.

I would also say that JT Leroy, writer of the prose on which this film
is based, was involved in the production. Via letter, he introduced the
film at various film festivals. The claim that this is a true story,
that this is "my life" that Leroy makes, tends to inoculate the film
from a lot of criticism. How can anybody say "the ending wasn't much of
an ending" or "the mom was really over-the-top" if the person who lived
the story says the movie is "true". In other words, a movie has to have
its own truth, whether the story it tells is true or not. And I guess I
think this is "7" because for all it's flaws (Argento's acting, skips
in time that leave characters undeveloped, and a general lack of
roundness to the characters that really could have been fixed), the
movie did seem to find it's own truth.

For that I credit director Argento, young actors Jimmy Bennett, Dylan
Sprouse and Cole Sprouse (who knew the Sprouse twins could act? Very
well done), sharp (if stereotypical) cameo turns by Peter Fonda, Winona
Ryder, & Ornella Muti (whom I took to be Lena Olin). Also props to John
Robinson, who played Jeremiah's teenaged uncle -- an underused
character in the film. Except I can't say that because this movie is a
"true story". See? That's frustrating.

Oh, the content is strong, this is not for kids, and a LOT of adults
will need to quit watching at some point. But it is overall worth the
effort, if you have a strong stomach and can control your rage at the
awfulness of the life depicted.
<|_=00=_|>
...or those with a deficit in empathy, for this film asks the viewer
for an open, compassionate, feeling heart. The truth of the matter is,
the culture that is revealed to

you in this movie is a reality and nightmare for those entrenched in
it. Ms. Argento makes a masterpiece that takes no sides; instead she
boldly lays forth a landscape of love, abuse, and how one will do just
about anything to feel needed and worthwhile, even if that means going
back again and again to the hand that hurts you and abandons you. If
you don't get this film, it is either simply not for you, or perhaps
you have not read the addictive literary achievements of J.T. LeRoy. If
the latter is true, go now to you local bookstore and buy any of his
courageous works; they will literary bring you to your knees...or at
least they did to me, gripping me with raw, honest ferocity. If you
just didn't get the film and the challenging material it presents, i
encourage you to see it again; honestly, it just keeps getting better
and better. Let it enter you...and feel, for once, your self, your
discomfort, whatever emerges. Outstanding performances of an all-star
cast, this is sure to be a cult film that, once on video, you will want
to own.
<|_=00=_|>

But the strong performances all around and the great settings really
made an impression on me. I thought the editing was exceptionally done.
One thing that did bother me was the lighting there was almost a pallor
over the film, like it was from the 1970s. Was that the projector or
did everyone else notice that? I would recommend this film. I enjoyed
the cameos by Peter Fonda, Marilyn Manson and Winona Ryder. The real
reason I went to see this is because I've always loved Leroy's short
stories and this movie was a somewhat faithful blending of his literary
vision and his overall message to his readers. Life is complicated and
the choices we make aren't guaranteed to get us anything.

<|_=00=_|>
Downright depressing. I watch films to escape or to see the joyousness
of life - basically this is about child abuse. We all know what that is
- and the adults who do it are downright ILL. For that reason, this
film is brilliant and depicts the mental illness in adults very well -
and their inability to connect with their own compassion and
understanding. Makes you realise that just because a person can have a
child, doesn't mean they are a parent. Throws up the whole notion of
family and how damaging it is for some people. 

If anything this film could be used to force EVERYONE to take a
parenting course and to be observed and examined in the action of
parenting. 

It was realistic - but sad, depressing and well, if you are in the mood
of getting depressed, watch this one.

I was really wanting to see what the kid turned into as an adult. Just
another junkie?? It leaves you dissatisfied completely in that respect.
