

The story's not overly engaging, but for some reason Along Came Polly is
fun. Ben Stiller just 
has that knack of being able to embarass himself and we love him for it. You
can't help but 
laugh. But the film is worth a look for Philip Seymour Hoffman, too, as the
child actor still 
looking for recognition -- and work. The basketball court scene is great,
but the best is his 
performance with a community theatre's production of Jesus Christ Superstar.
If you've ever 
been in community theatre, or you've hung out with actors, you'll appreciate
this.
<|_=00=_|>
ALONG CAME POLLY (2004) *** Ben Stiller, Jennifer Aniston, Philip
Seymour Hoffman, Debra Messing, Bryan Brown, Hank Azaria, Michele Lee,
Bob Dishy, Alec Baldwin, Missi Pyle. Stiller gives another of his
patented hapless schmuck romantics turns as newlywed risk management
assessor whose marriage is on the rocks when his wife (Messing) has an
affair on their honeymoon, sending him back to NYC to assess his life
and runs into former junior high friend Aniston who knocks him for a
loop despite her flaky demeanor. Frequently funny and evenly paced by
writer and first-time director John Hamburg the laughs come often and
no thanks to Hoffman as Stiller's sloven has-been actor buddy and
Baldwin as his vulgar boss. Despite the toilet humor (surprisingly in
somewhat good taste if you can call it that) the film does have a heart
and Stiller and Aniston make for a cute couple.
<|_=00=_|>
I thought this was about a silly romance, so I didn't see it when it
first came out. I rented the DVD and I liked it so much I watched it
again with my daughter two nights later. I should have known Ben
Stiller wouldn't do a totally "straight" movie, but the comedy wasn't
so over the top either. It was a perfect blend of comedy and sincerity.
One of the stand-out performances came from Hank Azaria. His portrayal
of the French scuba instructor, Claude, was a scene-stealer. One of the
funniest characters I've seen in a long time. I recommend this as a
perfect date movie, or if you're just sitting at home and want to LOL!
Be sure to check out the gag reel.
<|_=00=_|>
Along Came Polly is not a masterpiece in the rom-com genre, but I did
enjoy it, and although the humour is sometimes gross, it does make you
laugh. However I would not consider this to be one of those movies to
watch again and again. A one time watch, or just once every so often is
good enough.

Reuben Feffer (Ben Stiller) analyses risk for a living and is an
extremely cautious man, with an extremely cautious life. When he
marries Lisa (Debra Messing), everyone considers them the perfect
couple, as they are well suited to one another. But when Lisa cheats on
him on their honeymoon with their Frenchie-French scuba diving
instructor Claude (Hank Azaria...BUFFED UP!), Reuben's heart breaks. He
returns to New York and bumps into Polly Prince (Jennifer Aniston), and
they begin dating, despite being very different. Polly lives in the
moment, Reuben thinks ahead. Polly loves ethnic food, Reuben hates it.
Polly isn't too big with long-term relationships, whereas Reuben swears
by it. Nevertheless their relationships seems to work. But when Lisa
comes crawling back to Reuben, he is forced to make a decision. Who
will it be, the free-spirited Polly, or Lisa, with whom Reuben shares a
lot in common?

I thought this movie was very cute and I liked the ferret :). Ben
Stiller's performance was not outstanding in this movie but he did play
Reuben well, and to be honest I cannot imagine another actor as Reuben
at all. He has a very identifiable voice and the knack of just being
plain adorable. I would not say he owned the movie, like he usually
does, but he certainly was very good. Jennifer Aniston was also just
over average. I loved her in Friends, Bruce Almighty, but sadly I don't
think she did as well as she could have. But her role was smaller than
I would have thought. I really liked her character Polly Prince though,
and I think this was because Polly was so much like myself. The
last-minute planning, being untidy, liking ethnic food, the hunting for
keys...all of this screamed 'ME' all the way through, and I thought
Polly was a very realistic and likable character. Hank Azaria was so
cute as Claude! Okay, so he was meant to be the villain, but come on,
he's BUFF. He has a six pack and the French accent was just amazing. He
is really talented if he can do about 5 different voices in 'The
Simpsons' and then the Frenchiest French accent ever, here. Debra
Messing made a small role as Lisa but she wasn't anything great, Philip
Seymour Hoffman was hilarious as Sandy Lyle. I thought the character
was gross, but very likable.

Not the best from Stiller or Aniston, but still delivers laughs.
<|_=00=_|>
Once again, Ben Stiller gives us yet another comedy, about love, life
and being an adult nerd. Yet, this sadly doesn't hold a candle to
'Something About Mary', which may have been his best movie of his
career.

We begin the film, seeing Reuben (Stiller) marrying Lisa (Messing).
After their reception they head to St. Bartes, for their honeymoon.
While on the beach they meet a French scuba instructor who has offered
to take them out on his boat. Rebuen declines because he has a nervous
stomach, but he insists that his beautiful new bride go, to make her
happy. When he returns later that day to the boat, he finds his wife
cheating on him. Upset, and hurt, he flies home, depressed that he has
not only lost his wife, but now has decisions to deal with because of
hers.

Enter Polly. Several days after he returns to New York, his friend
takes him to a party where he runs into a waitress (Aniston), whom he
went to school with when he was in junior high. He calls her the next
day and asks her out. Throughout the rest of the film, he learns how to
deal with his phobias, irritations and just how to cut loose.

Each time I see this film, it somehow has the opposite effect on me as
most, where as normally I grow to love the film more and more, each
time I see it, this one actually, seems to get worse and worse with
each viewing. It is funny, and it's not a bad film at all, it's clever
and cute, it's just that it does tend to lose flavor each time you see
it.

Aniston and Stiller were equally good in this, and I still recommend
it. It's a light comedy, and not at all like, 'The Cable Guy' or
'There's Something About Mary'. So, if you're looking for films that
were as dark or adult as those, you won't find it here. But, it still
is cute and clever in its own way, so it might still be worth a watch.
Plus, Alec Baldwin plays a small part, which is not to be missed.
<|_=00=_|>

Add me to the list of folks who saw this film under duress, since some
friends were going and I decided to tag along just to see them.  I was
pleasantly surprised at this film, since I'm no big Stiller fan and can take
or leave Aniston (having just seen one of her previous rom-coms Picture
Perfect).

It's a by-the-numbers, perfectly acceptable opposites-attract rom-com, with
an unfortunate overlay of gross-out humor that seems to have been added by
someone along the way to change the tone of the film.  But this gross-out
stuff is loaded towards the start, so once it's out of the way the two stars
can get back to business - which is pushing and pulling each other until
Stiller can "see the light."  Interesting how there's no attempt to show
that Aniston's character has to or is interested in changing, it all comes
from Stiller's character, who frankly is in a fine position in his life and
really doesn't need the "wildness" that Aniston is supposed to
represent.

I was impressed by how they handle the wandering-wife-comes-back storyline,
she presents herself quite humbly and asks for forgiveness and frankly he
would have been better off going to counseling with her and getting on with
his life in suburbia.  But hey, everyone knows (in movies, anyway) that
you're supposed to spend your life with the person who's least like you. 
Har de har har, good luck to that!
<|_=00=_|>

I am surprised at the comments that I have read so far that suggest this is
a boring or mediocre movie.  All that I know is that I am a 46 year old
married mother, and I just spent 90 minutes laughing out loud (too loud
sometimes) and smiling. I can imagine that if you are easily offended by
fart ( or "shart") jokes or the shiny hiney's of Ben Stiller or Hank Azaria,
you may not like this movie.  But really, then, why would you go in the
first place?  I was definitely not bored.  The characters were all so much
fun- the kind of creepy boss, the obnoxious but extremely lovable best
friend, the risk expert who finds something to worry about in any situation,
the goofy, scatterbrained ferret- owning waitress/creepy children's book
author, the australian who likes to free fall off of tall buildings, the
priceless scuba instructor, and the very cute salsa dancer.  Anyway, I loved
it , and I'll probably even go see it again.   
<|_=00=_|>

I went to see this movie with an open mind, thinking another silly comedy,
no it is not that. "Along came Polly" is just plain funny from beginning to
end. It has been a long time since a movie makes me laugh so much. I needed
that! may be, we do not get emotionally involved with the main characters,
but it is as well, we all went through the kind of experiences that Reuben
lives, and I don't have the need to feel them again, I know ... and, this is
what makes the movie hilarious. Alec Baldwin is totally surprising, I won't
say more...The movie theatre was jammed packed, at the end, the audience
erupted with a huge bravo and cheers. A movie not to miss : "Along came
Polly" is a 10+!


<|_=00=_|>
Ben Stiller is known for wacky characters such as White Goodman from
Dodgeball, Tony Perkis in Heavy Weights, and the male model known as
Derek Zoolander in Zoolander. But his other roles have been the quiet
yet hysterical characters like Gaylord 'Greg' Focker in Meet the
Parents and Meet the Focker's. This type of character is perfect for
Stiller.

In Along Came Polly, Stiller stars as Reuben Feffer, the neurotic,
slightly OCD risk-insurance salesman who looks at the outcome of a
situation before getting involved. He decides whether or not a person
is too much of a liability. Recently married to Lisa Kramer (Debra
Messing), who on their honeymoon, decides to "get it on" with the scuba
instructor (Hank Azaria). Fleeing back to the states, he meets up with
his long time friend Sandy Lyle (Phillip Seymour Hoffman). He was a
star actor but now is a has been who tries to go back to the top. For
starters, he will be headlining the community theater production of
Jesus Christ Superstar...as Judas.

Now that Reuben is back, he is "free", but isn't ready for a
relationship. Since he is still actually married, he decides to just
lay low, until he meets an old friend from junior high. Enter Polly
Prince (Jennifer Aniston), the free spirited, total opposite of Reuben
who will flip his world upside down. Even though they seem to be on the
opposite sides of the love spectrum, Reuben is crazy for
her...hesitant...but still into it.

What makes this movie work is the combination of wacky humor and
romance. Hoffman is hysterical as Lyle who thinks he is the cats meow.
With his life being filmed for a feature on his life, Lyle is confident
and even tries to be Reuben's mentor. Although they don't see eye to
eye with certain issues, the two have a sort of brotherly bond that
lasts thru thick and thin. Aniston is great as Polly and with the
addition of Stiller, the two become a great duo, feeding off of each
other's energy.

This movie is a great date flick and is even a good film to just pop in
once and a while. Ben Stiller is on a roll with making movies these
days and this is no exception. Along Came Polly is fantastic and worth
watching. Another triumph for Stiller...and as Sandy Lyle once said,
"Let it rain!"
<|_=00=_|>
i thought this film was really well scripted and acted i thought it was
very funny and is a must watch. if you don't already have this movie
should definitely go buy or rent it i couldn't stop laughing all the
way through i think you would enjoy this if you like my super
ex-girlfriend ,bresk-up and other comedy/chick flicks. the film shows a
married couple who break up on there honeymoon after the wife is caught
in bed with a scuba diving instructor. then after Reuben Feffer(Ben
Stiller) gets home he meets old class mate Polly (jennifer aniston) and
falls in love with her that is all OK until the wife comes back and
tries to take back Reuben feffer
