
Although there were actually people who left half an hour after the
movie started, I loved it. The movie's for those who want to see how
these things work "backstage". Baffie provided all the details about
how the movie industry works: the producers, the actors, plot
development, everything. It is an excellent example of any of "The
Making of..." short films you usually see as a bonus on a DVD. It is a
totally absurd film, made by an impertinent, reckless and blatant TV
hero, and this is what makes it even more interesting, despite the fact
that almost all the french movie stars appear as guests.

A wonderful debut.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie is a blast, i have never watched anything like this
before.Most of the person i have seen the movie with was totally
disappointed.They were expecting a funny movie.However it worked on
me.It s not a question about french jokes or what, it s the way Baffie
makes it. Insolent, pitiful, stupid??? Maybe, but according to me, the
movie will get a better public later on. It s like a Van Gogh creation,
people will admire it few years later.At least a risk-taker.I was told
that the director was really affected by the french public rejects.I'm
proud not to be one of them.Mr Baffie, keep on!And even if the trailer
said 'dont go watching it, it s a crap !', its an original.Can we have
some more?
<|_=00=_|>
In France, people tend not to understand absurd humour. The Francis
Veber vaudeville type of comedy and vulgar, obnoxious stuff such as
"Les Bronzés" are what they like best. No wonder the critics slagged
off movies such as "Les Clefs de Bagnole" or "RRRrrrr !". They don't
even understand what can be funny about these films. However, if you're
into Monty Python humour, or the wackiness of Steven Soderbergh's
Schizopolis, chances are you will definitely elevate "Les Clefs de
Bagnole" to the rank of a cult classic. I found this to be highly
refreshing as well as a great satire of film-making and the movie
business. Highly recommended to all open-minded people worldwide !
<|_=00=_|>
The movie is an homage to La Nuit Américaine of François Truffaut. But
in a more goofy way. After that Laurent Baffie gave the definition of a
good movie (It must have action, romance, children, animals, gags, a
happy ending and so on), he's trying to make one. And he's not really
successful at it. According to his main actor. Les Clefs de Bagnole is
full of references, cameos and special guests. I found it quite clever
considering that Baffie's TV career is mostly based on bad "under the
belt" jokes. It's a journey, a quest like the search for the Holy Grail
(only this time it's car keys). He likes people, actors and cinema.
After that movie, you can tell. I gave it a solid Seven because it made
me laugh out loud several times.
<|_=00=_|>
"Les Clefs De Bagnole", a film which got a majority of thumbs down from
both the French critics and public. Many viewers took the little catchy
sentence at the time the film opened in December 2003 very seriously:
"Don't go and watch it, it's rubbish". But in a way, by choosing such
words, the director-actor Laurent Baffie condemned the commercial
potential of his work. So, commercial fiasco was nearly inevitable.

However, I must admit that his oddball film is not that much bad. I
know that Baffie is a humorist man who has a special sense of humor but
I've never seen or read any of his productions. Here, I can easily
understand why hardly anybody went to see his movie and also why "La
Crème De La Crème" of well-famous French actors and prestigious
producers refused to act in Baffie's work (but maybe, was it a cunning
trick from Baffie to include all of them in his film). But he
entertained me for one hour and a half and if you're looking for
something quirky, offbeat in the territory of the French comedy, why
not testing it? Obviously, Baffie's movie isn't exempted from negative
points. There are some irregularities in his scenario. During one
fleeting moment, he says to his pal Daniel Russo that he needs a twist
to boost his (cock-and-bull) story again. But before, he claims having
conceived and penned his scenario for three years. So, he should
logically know how his scenario is built instead of thinking about a
twist at the last minute! Then, certain comical effects are ponderous
and there is a wearisome sensation of general overflow sometimes on the
brink of indigestion. Sometimes, it's also hard to discern if what we
watch on the screen is an integral part of the film that Baffie strives
to shoot or not like the sequence with the bank manager. A bank manager
acted by a French humorist Jean-Marie Bigard who, here was surprisingly
good and refrained himself from virtually any saucy lines apart from
two or three exceptions.

Baffie is well aware that his plan is a dead loss but his product
constantly maintains the interest because he takes the audience on the
way of the unexpected. His film virtually evolutes on the razor's edge
and is much fun to watch with its unplanned detours and digressions. If
they seem sometimes overlong, Baffie always bears in mind that he tries
to create a film about two guys who lost their car keys and seek them.
To find them again, he's ready to blindly trust people likely to to
give him clues about these keys like the children. Don't we say that
"out of the mouths of babes and sucklings comes forth truth"? To buy a
dog trained to bring car keys back might also be a good idea... In the
bargain, the director-actor has a sense of absurd (the door in his flat
which leads to the beach) and indulges in inserting in his work
hilarious spoofs like the moment when Russo and Lucie are outside the
Café... and we are entitled to a swift but great spoof on mawkish
movie. The wacky humor has something of "La Cité De La Peur" (1994),
the film of "Les Nuls". Besides, Alain Chabat has a cameo as an
employee in a pet shop. He only appears five minutes but we remember
well his role.

Baffie also seems to be a wizard at cinema. His film is filled with
many film-loving hints, winks, references which sometimes arrive just
at the right moment. After Baffie and Russo went to the chic
restaurant, Russo feels sick and throws it up. On an awning, in front
of them, one can read the title of Marco Ferreri's film: "La Grande
Bouffe" (1973). Then, we can be grateful to Baffie to present us a few
lessons about cinema in general like the ellipse or the little lecture
about the ingredients to make a good film.

If you don't take seriously this farce, you may have fun with perhaps
this future sleeper.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is extremely underrated, even in France. The movie could be
seen as a very witty and enjoyable essay on cinema as a grammar, with
its hidden or unspoken but so tyrannical rules, as any other grammar.
It surely will seem awful or to heavily didactic (in a "grammar of
films for dummies" way) anyway to any non-native french speaker,
unaware of the disarming subtlety of french ingenuous humor, especially
the one Baffie practices. Its slogan on the poster as published in
France was : "N'y allez pas, c'est une merde!", literally translated :
"Don't go see it, it's crap!"... This sufficiently proves how Baffie
likes to mock himself, but also the critics (especially the french
ones), who do not hesitate to frequently utter not so different flat
negative statements about movies, especially when it comes to french
comedies...
<|_=00=_|>
I think it is a "cult" movie! But his theater distribution was awful
and it was never released on TV! So who cares? And you have to
understand french culture references and appreciate the "Baffie 's
sense of humor" in contradictions, no-senses, etc. If you want to see
this movie like another "french comedy", you will be disappointed. It
's because this movie is so different of the others, Baffie broke all
the movie codes and it is why it is so funny! (talking to the camera,
false background projections, image in black&White because of lack of
budget!) I think this movie should be compared to ZAZ movies like Air
Plane, Top Secret and so one.
<|_=00=_|>

I ended up going to see that movie cause i sort of like Laurent
Baffie's
nasty humor. And at the beginning i have to say there is nothing to be
disappointed about. Unfortunately after half an hour you realize you
don't
laugh anymore and little by little it gets longer and longer. Even if
you're
aware that the film is purposely pointless ( who would care about a guy
who
lost his car keys?) you cannot but let go big yawns during the strange
scenes and (yes) the few good ideas. I clearly understood good ideas
don't
necessarily make good movies. Just do as the trailers say : "don't go see
that s**t!" Now you're warned...

i rated it 5 out of 10 cause of this terrific tagline. Yes sometimes
taglines work...
<|_=00=_|>
I can't say I wasn't warned: Everybody and his Uncle Max told me not to
waste time on this merde but I wouldn't be told, the lure of a dozen or
so French actors playing cameos proved too strong. At a stretch and
inasmuch as what passes for a plot involves writer-director-actor
Laurent Baffie looking for his car keys this tends to qualify as a
'quest' film but it's light years removed from the quest for the Grail,
Flight, Meaning Of Life etc. Most of the cameos come up front and take
the form of rejections - polite or otherwise - of Baffie's pitch but
Gerard Depardieu and Alain Chabat appear in the main body of the film
though both to no great effect. Chabat has the slightly longer part as
a pet shop proprietor who sells Baffie a dog specially trained to
locate missing car keys and that's the highlight. I used to think that
it was impossible to sink lower than Ali G or the Carry On series but
it is, it is.
<|_=00=_|>
This film has to be **the** worst film I have ever seen in my entire
life!

The story line is non existent and the Laurent Baffi was as bad as on
T.V. The only way that movie ever made it to big screen is that he
crammed it with famous actors that appear for 10 seconds at a time. The
humor is appalling (I felt it was non existent)... I stayed until the
end because I really hoped the ending would save the day but sadly the
end is as bad as the rest of the movie.

I don't usually write comments... especially not like this one, but
this really was a waste of time and money and I thought it should be
said.
