
Bo Laramie (Cole Hauser) is living "The American Dream". Money, fame,
fortune beyond his wildest dreams. But unfortunate for Laramie, fame
comes with a price, by the name of the Paparazzi. The persistence of
the paparazzi leaves Laramie in the hospital, and his son in a coma.
The press will clearly do anything to get the perfect shot. Laramie
decides that the only to stop his problems is to take them out one by
one.

A team of four relentless paparazzi soon are the ones who become the
victims. The ringleader of the gang, Rex Harper (Tom Sizemore) soon
realizes that he and his gang are the ones in danger. Wendell Stokes
(Daniel Baldwin), Leonard Clark (Tom Hollander) and Kevin Rosner (Kevin
Gage) make up the four paparazzi that Laramie is bend on destroying.

One of the highlights of my summer was "Paparazzi". I wanted to see
this since I first saw the trailer for it. Looked like a pretty
interesting take on the action/thriller genres. The lead roles Cole
Hauser and Tom Sizemore are quite impressive. In my opinion, Sizemore
owns this movie. While it's not the role he was born to play, I can't
see many others playing the role of Harper.

One thing I found interesting is that Mel Gibson along with other
producers of Paparazzi were inspired to make this film upon reading
articles of paparazzi attacks. Not as serious as the one in the film,
but nevertheless.

The film is one of the first of its kind. That I've seen anyways.
Exploiting the paparazzi. It just sounds like a fun movie to me. One
that I haven't seen before. Paparazzi is other all, a very fun,
enjoyable and a very entertaining flick. Check it out. You won't be
disappointed. I wasn't.

***/*****
<|_=00=_|>

This movie was actually okay. Cole Hauser is always awesome and
everyone else's acting was good as well. The plot might seem
far-fetched to us ordinary citizens but stuff like this actually
happens and it was an original idea as well...not some crap remake or
endless sequels that have plagued us these past 2 years. The action was
adequate and not over-done and it really got me hyped into making sure
he obtained his revenge. I also liked the ending a lot and I left the
theater completely satisfied. 

Final Judgment:

Movies - Yes (but probably could wait for on rental)

DVD - A strong possibility

Rental - Absolutely!

<|_=00=_|>
This is Hollywood's revenge movie against the Paparazzi, those goon
photographers obsessed with getting celebrities' pictures at all costs,
totally invading their privacy and often using the pictures in a
dishonest way to invent gossipy stories for the tabloids. 

This was an easy call for Hollywood because who was going to side
against them in this film? If there was any doubt about any shred of
decency concerning those photographers, this film quickly dispelled
that with Tom Sizemore's character, a representative of that famous
"press corps." They made Sizemore as sleazy and unethical as they
could. 

So what you wind you up with a basic revenge story, nothing new or
earthshaking but almost always entertaining in whatever form. In this
film, the photo guys mess up and the victim - an actor (Cole Hauser) -
takes revenge by going after them. In the process, we see how he does
it and along the way are treated to some amusing cameos by Mel Gibson,
Chris Rock and Matthew McConaughey. Yeah, it's kind of a low-brow
revenge flick, but it works. By the way, this is yet another film that
should be rated R, not PG-13. That's as ludicrous as the paparazzi.
<|_=00=_|>

I just saw Paparazzi this evening. Considering that the studio did not
have an advanced screening for the press I was not expecting very much,
trust me I have seen far worse this summer - Exorcist the Beginning
comes to mind! I must admit that I was pleasantly surprised; it was a
pretty decent movie. I was entertained for the full 90 minutes. Tom
Sizemore nailed the role of a true scumbag.

Keep an eye open for Chris Rock, the coolest Pizza Guy you are likely
going to see any time soon.

If you are looking for an entertaining end of summer movie this
certainly might be worth your while to check out.

<|_=00=_|>
In Beverly Hills, the Montana family-man actor Bo Laramie (Cole Hauser)
becomes a superstar with the franchise of his action movie "Adrenaline
Force". His family and he lose their privacy with the success, being
stalked by four tabloid paparazzi leaded by the despicable Rex Harper
(Tom Sizemore). When the photographers provoke a tragic traffic
accident with Bo and his family, his wife Abby Laramie (Robin Tunney)
is seriously injured and his son Zach Laramie (Blake Bryan) enters in
coma. When Bo unintentionally causes a fatal accident with Kevin Rosner
(Kevin Gage), he decides to plot revenge against the other three
scumbags to protect his family.

"Paparazzi" is flawed, but is also an entertaining tale of revenge. Tom
Sizemore is amazing in his performance of a nasty guy, and there are
the uncredited participations of many VIPs, such as Vince Vaughn, Mel
Gibson, Chris Rock and Matthew McConaughey among others. It is funny to
see the evolution (?) of the naive character Paparazzo, performed by
Walter Santesso in Federico Fellini's "La Dolce Vita" to the present
days. Do not think too much about the flaws, and you will certainly see
an enjoyable film. My vote is six.

Title (Brazil): "Paparazzi"
<|_=00=_|>

I found the movie hearkening back to the revenge thrillers of the '70s
and '80s. 

It moves from point A to point B with little to no surprises, but it's
still an enjoyable film. The film actually lived up to the trailer,
which made me want to see it.

Cole Hauser carried his role of Bo Laramie well.

Tom Sizemore oozed the right amount of SCUMBAG for the role, but that
comes as no surprise to me.

My only real problem was the rather blatant lobotomy they gave Dennis
Farina's character. Any detective worth his salt would've instantly
made Laramie the prime suspect when the photographers who nearly killed
his wife and son turn up dead.

Probably wouldn't buy it on DVD, but I'd definitely see it again.

<|_=00=_|>
One of those movies that your not expecting a whole lot from, but you
go because the trailer is cool. 

We enjoyed the movie because it didn't have any down time and stayed as
close to being an "action" movie as the plot allowed. A nice little
twist at the end moved the ranking up a notch. 

The bad guys were believable , but a little more "Baldwin" would have
been nice.... Not an award winner by any means. You do leave feeling
good because the movie was fast paced and no dull moments. Pretty good
value for your dollar, a long as you don't spend $20.

Better to wait for the DVD Rental or watch as part of a Drive -In
"3-Pack).
<|_=00=_|>

I saw it last night. I think this movie is misunderstood. 

I want to believe that the reasons behind this movie's dismal reviews
in the main have to do with the fact that certain people with certain
political leanings WANT to hate it and hate Gibson for the sheer and
utter sole reason that he made THE PASSION OF THE Christ, that it has a
so-called (and totally off-the-wall -- and wrong!) message of
anti-Semitism... and that he made the movie anyway, despite protests
from the political Left of Hollywood. Have you noticed that Mel Gibson
actually placed his name in the credits of this movie as its producer?
I can't think of any other Icon Productions film in which his name is
placed at all. Granted, Mel doesn't need the money. As far as money
goes, he's set for the rest of his life and the rest of his kids'
lives. But he has a passion (no pun intended) for making movies, and
he's proving that you can't keep him out of Hollywood, by placing his
name in the forefront of the credits of this particular Icon
Productions project.

It's a fun movie. First and foremost. That's the point of having so
many uncredited cameos, most prominently Mel Gibson as an Anger
Management patient sitting in the doctor's office scribbling away in
the 5 workbooks piled up in his lap.

Secondly, this is a western set in modern society. Whatever you might
think of westerns as a genre, PAPARAZZI is for the most part Gregory
Peck's THE BRAVADOS with a Hollywood film-making setting. Westerns have
long been a staple of the family for Hollywood film-makers since its
beginnings. Also, Gibson has himself stated that in prepping BRAVEHEART
for filming, he watched -- among other movies -- Gregory Peck's THE BIG
COUNTRY. I think Gibson is a fan of Peck's as well as a huge movie buff
in his own right; and PAPARAZZI is a tip of the hat to westerns in
general. Also, add to the fact that the main character of PAPARAZZI
hails from Montana.

Lastly, believe it or not, I think this movie is oriented to the
family. Not only does this movie have Mel Gibson in a cameo, but also
Vince Vaughan and Matthew McConaughey. It also features Chris Rock who
appeared with Gibson in LETHAL WEAPON 4, as well as Fay Masterson who
was in Gibson's directorial debut THE MAN WITHOUT A FACE.

This movie isn't on the scale of BEN-HUR or THE BIG COUNTRY. This movie
is what it is... fun. I applaud Mel Gibson and crew for delivering the
goods.

<|_=00=_|>

Don't expect too much, the main characters acting ... well, lets call
it medium. I liked the cameo of Chris Rock and I also enjoyed the
Peter-Falk-Columbo-Detective snooping around and investigating. The
no-1 bad guy (Tom Sizemore) did the best job being nasty, antisocial,
all up for the money and ... scared. The story is good and entertaining
but could go a little deeper, some twists here and there would have
spiced it up a little ... it's too linear. The ending is OK, I don't
think there will be a Paparazzi 2, but you never know these days :)

All in all a good, enjoyable movie you can watch without overpowering
your brain.

<|_=00=_|>
I really enjoyed Paparazzi!! I have been in the music industry for over
16 years as a writer, producer, and artist. While I have never
experienced cameras following me, I do read magazines, and find myself
feeling sorry for the rich and famous personal lives. When the lead
actor chose to help the paparazzi falling from the mountain after
knowing the paparazzi was responsible for his son's coma, and wife's
double back injuries, showed he was a good person who eventually felt
he had to take matters into his own hands. Unfortunately the paparazzi
died, but, boy.. what a story... exciting from the beginning until the
end. I absolutely loved how it ended...I had to let someone know how I
felt. Great Flick!! Thank you for reading my comment.
