
A group of college kids return four years after graduation for a
wedding. It sounds clichéd, and well, it is, but the ensemble is great
that I didn't mind too much. It stars 20-something actors including
Colin Hanks, Ethan Embry, Adam Garcia, Amy Adams, Mena Suvari, James
Van Der Beek, and Jon Abrahams. Xander Berkeley is also in it for a
little bit. The film has a bunch of familiar story lines with all of
the different characters, but the actors do a good job of performing
it. I would have liked it more if it stayed strictly comedy though,
there were some parts where it tried to go to drama and it just felt a
little out of place.

But anyway, it was a nice film, I'm sure the average college kid will
enjoy it. And with so many characters, the director did a good job of
not making the film too crowded and unorganized.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw this at a film festival in Vegas last year. You've seen the story
before, but this ensemble cast does it better than most. From the
opening scene, these characters are believable, funny, and very
entertaining. I was only familiar with Mena Suvari & James Van Der
Beek, but it's the "unknowns" who steal the show (especially Colin
Hanks & Jon Abrahams). These guys are good enough to make you forget
you're watching a low budget movie. My only gripe is with a dramatic
scene at the end which fell a little flat, otherwise a great way to
spend 90 minutes. It also doesn't hurt that Lauren German is VERY easy
on the eyes. One of my favorite movies of 2005.
<|_=00=_|>
It's a nice movie about a couple that is going to merry and invite
their friends to spend the wedding weekend in their home. Some of these
friends know each others, but others don't. It's funny to see how they
all relate!

This movie is half comedy, half drama, but it's a very "smooth" and
"light" film Like other IMDb user said it's very "easy to watch" The
drama part is related to old frustrations of some characters, things
unsolved from the past, but it's not too dramatic or melodramatic, no,
it's a very "light drama" The comedy parts are the funny scenes, which
are very simple but effective! They aren't so many, but enough to make
you laugh!

I also loved some characters: "Pockets" (played by Jon Abrahams) which
is pretty funny; "Jennifer" (Lauren German) the lesbian girl; "Elise",
the bride (Amy Adams), which is extremely sweet (!); and finally "Lana"
(Mena Suvari), the "confused" girl 

All in all it's a nice film about love and human relationships
(woman-man and even woman-woman)! The wedding stuff is just plot's
background!
<|_=00=_|>
This is great movie with an awesome young cast. There are many good
looking, talented, young actors, and they don't disappoint. Amy Adams
and Mena Suvari are both excellent. I thought the entire cast was
believable and had excellent chemistry. This movie reminded me of The
Big Chill, (which I also loved), with an ensemble cast who get together
years after college for a wedding. There are many interesting
situations, and it is entertaining to see how the characters handle
these situations. There are a few surprises, some very funny moments,
and drama. It would be easy to over direct a movie like this, but that
didn't happen. As a viewer, I was completely engrossed, and couldn't
wait to see would develop next. The script always kept moving, and
there never was a dull moment. I think this will be a big hit in the
theaters.
<|_=00=_|>
I really enjoyed this movie. It is extremely funny. It is also a film
everyone can relate to. There are numerous situations that occur that I
said" man that was familiar"!! The movie has great energy and moves
very fast. Colin Hanks is great. Could be a breakout role for him. The
cast is wonderful from top to bottom. Pockets was my favorite character
in the film. Johnny Abrams did a great job playing the role of pockets.
James Van Der Beek was also very good in the film. I enjoyed his
rendition of a drunken actor. All the women in the movie are very easy
on the eyes. Mena Suvari is very quirky which was a nice change for
her. She made a nice account of herself. Overall I think it is a movie
anyone would enjoy.I think it is a great way to spend an hour and a
half!!
<|_=00=_|>
These "slice of life", realist drama-comedies are far from my favorite
genre, but as a serious movie buff, I've seen tens of them over the
years, and Standing Still is right up there with the best of them.

The only flaw I can find, really, is the title, which is a bit
enigmatic (not that I mind enigmas, but it's a bit out of context
here). A better title would have been "Secrets", or even "Shuffle" if
something less obvious was desired, as the plot is focused on an
event--a wedding--that brings a wide range of people together, some
unexpected, almost all with some kind of secret, and reshuffles them in
various ways--often through revelations of their secrets.

Realist movies can easily become unfocused or boring--after all, that's
true of most folks' lives if we were to follow them around with a video
camera and expect people who don't know them to be entertained watching
the results. But Standing Still manages to create suspense, tension and
a healthy dose of humor while expertly weaving together a large number
of threads, all while keeping things fairly firmly in realist territory
and providing satisfactory resolutions. It's also emotionally
satisfying and relatively "deep", often in subtle ways, all aided by
the fantastic performances. Everyone says just as much with subtle body
language as they do via their dialogue, and this just as often occurs
in what could tend to be read as the lighter or shallower scenes.

I wanted to see far more about every one of these characters--and we
could hardly call that a flaw.
<|_=00=_|>
An amazing cast (impressive that the director got them all to do this
low-budget film) Great job by first time director Matthew Cole Weiss.
Funny, enjoyable to watch and identifiable. Think any recent college
grad would relate. Colin Hanks as the agent, Jon Abrahams as the
forlorn and lovable "Pockets Malone" and Ethan Embry as Donavan Parker,
the originator of Power TIme were a riot. James Van Derbek looked great
and did an excellent job as the actor "Simon Blake". The girls are all
beautiful. Even the supporting cast is impressive, (Xander Berkley &
Roger Avery). I enjoyed the soundtrack as well. Kudos to Weiss and the
producers for this impressive little film.
<|_=00=_|>
What a pathetic piece of crap. A bunch of ill mannered, spoiled,
infantile overgrown brats collected in a house the night before one of
the couple's wedding. Nary a funny or intelligent line to be heard. 

The real culprit is the awful screenplay. I gave it a 2 because the
girls were attractive and it was shot pretty well. Most of the males
were repulsively written.

If this is representative of contemporary American men I truly
sympathize with women and it certainly provides a compelling reason why
the Sapphic tribe has welcomed so many new members. WHiney, sullen,
inconsiderate, spineless weasels seem to be the order of the day.
<|_=00=_|>
i really had low expectations for this movie, expecialy as the DVD
cover had it down as some American pie rip off, but this movie was
actually a solid dramady that had a great story, great cast and great
direction i liked it, it was a piece of entertainment and nothing more
yet it hit all the right notes, the cast is great and fits the story
well, the basic story is that a group of twenty somethings re unite for
a wedding and quite a few things happen along the way, the movie is
tastfully done and has its heart in the right place, while the movie is
certainly no classic, it is definitely worth a watch and id definitely
watch it again sometime.
<|_=00=_|>
'Standing Still' begins so slowly it took us nearly half an hour to
decide that the movie was possibly intended as a comedy rather than a
very long cigarette ad. There are also a few chunks of angst thrown in,
and one painfully melodramatic reminiscence scene which might have
worked if we cared more about the characters. The music is too loud,
and the 'twist' at the ending was obvious about five minutes in.

On the plus side, the women are easy on the eye, most of the
performances are pretty good, and there are some genuinely funny
moments in the last half of the film. It's not half bad... but it's not
all the way up to half good, either.
