

Shaun of the Dead is quite a surprising and brilliant piece of work which
I
suspect will achieve the accolade of instant cult status as word of mouth
snowballs this film to richly deserved recognition.

Simon Pegg, both the joint writer and the main star of the film, has been
a
comedic force for some time, most notably in the fantastic BBC2 series
'Hippies' (which inexplicably bombed in the ratings) and the cult Channel
4
series 'Spaced'.  Both programs hinted at Pegg's saliently dead pan
comedic
manner (and writing skills) which comes to full fruition in 'Shaun of the
Dead'.

In a nut shell, this film is a romantic comedy with zombies (or
zom-rom-com)
who appear for no good clear reason (although some tantalizing clues are
offered).  The film is an amazing blend of the funny, the violent and the
poignant.

Pegg has cast himself as one hell of a serious loser in this film.  And
not
in the 'American' form of: 'I am a loser but I work in TV and have
Jennifer
Aniston as my wife'  kind of loser as portrayed in tripe such as 'Bruce
Almighty' or dozens of other US 'loser' films.  Pegg's Shaun is a genuine
loser and extremely recognisable too, he's an everyday man who works for
an
electrical retailer and his life is just plain dull and disappointing -
and
this is where all the comedy comes from in this film.  There are two
scenes
in the film which seem to summarise this (and also shine a light of Simon
Pegg as a very clever and funny writer) and both scenes simply involve
Shaun
walking to the nearby corner shop.  The first time Shaun plods
semi-comatose
to the store we simply get the feeling that he is a loser.  However, by
the
time the film shows him making the same journey again we realise that
there
is a lot more going on!  The scene is played with such exquisite
subtleness
that it has to be one of the funniest scenes I have ever seen in any film!
Not that this film is subtle however, there is a stunning array of visual
comedy, one liners and (best of all) some digs at other films from the
horror genre. The funniest being a very subtle snipe at Boyles `28 days
later' - see if you can spot it!

The only problem with reviewing this film is that there are so many funny
moments in it that it is hard to pick any to write about without spoiling
the film.  All I can say is that I cannot remember a film ever being this
consistently funny with probably five or six serious laugh-out-loud
moments.
It was a joy to watch and my only disappointment is that I can never
watch
this film for the first time ever again - every viewing will forever be a
repeat viewing.

Shaun of the Dead is not very everyone though - the language from the
beginning is strong and the violence was quite surprising for a 15
certificate film (in the UK). This film is definitely going to be most
appreciated by horror fans who know a huge back catalogue of horror films.
It will also be enjoyed by teenagers (who filled the cinema when I viewed
this film which was terrific, as they laughed loudest).  Finally, I do
have
some criticism of this film and that is there is some wasted talent in the
movie.  Black Book's (channel four) star Dylan Moran seemed a bit wasted
and
so was Martin Freeman (from BBC2's The Office) - who would have made a
terrific zombie!  Also, did I spot Matt Lucas (from BBC3's 'Little
Britain')
in this film? I am not sure as I was laughing too hard maybe!

These problems however are so minor and can easily be forgiven.  My
suggestion is to go and slowly shuffle down to your local cinema to see
this
film and give Simon Pegg the money and recognition he deserves so that he
can go on and make more films that are this good including what the UK
papers have suggested as his next project - `From Dusk 'Till
Shaun'.

<|_=00=_|>
"Shaun of the Dead" is not only the best zombie flick I've seen in a
long time, it is simply the best film I've seen in a long time, PERIOD!
Clever, witty, sweet and nasty and, at times, gory and horrific, SOTD
has it all. Of course, I didn't think I could go very far wrong with a
film that George Romero himself said he enjoyed.

Shaun (Simon Pegg) isn't having a very good week. His co-workers have
no respect for him, his uptight stepfather is on his back and his
beloved girlfriend Liz has had enough of his laziness and
inconsideration. Really, Shaun isn't such a bad guy, but he has no
ambition and seems to prefer the company of his unemployed, flatulent,
video-game obsessed slob of a flatmate Ed to anyone else. And as if
this were not enough, the dead have risen and are walking the earth in
search of human flesh to feast upon. Shaun doesn't notice this fact as
quick as he should, but Shaun is somewhat of a zombie himself, lost in
his own world and distracted by his own thoughts as he strolls right
past the rotting cadavers that now fill the streets of Britain. Not
even news flashes can get through to Shaun, as (in an incredibly
hysterical scene) he channel surfs rapidly, every station finishing the
sentence of the one before and giving everyone but the oblivious Shaun
the grim news of what is happening in the world. When Shaun and Ed
finally do realize what is happening, it quickly becomes a race against
time: save Shaun's mum, rescue Liz and go to the pub where they can
wait out the zombie infestation with a pint and a smoke. 

Of course, not everything goes as smoothly as planned. There's undead
flatmates to deal with, "bitey" zombies along the way, petty arguments
between friends and Ed's cell phone going off at inopportune moments.
But Shaun, armed with a cricket bat, is determined to save the woman he
loves and nothing is going to get in his way!

This film should be seen side by side with Romero's "Dawn of the Dead"
as both films cleverly and sarcastically comment on our zombified
society and virtually show no difference between the living and the
living dead. There's not much gore here, but there is one very
unexpected and Savini-worthy moment in "Shaun" when the zombies rip a
living man to shreds, yanking out intestines and tearing off limbs. I
really hadn't seen such a gory scene coming and was too stunned to look
away. It's truly graphic and nauseating...and, though I usually hate
gore, very well done. For a low budget film, the zombies are pretty
menacing looking and there are some genuinely scary moments to be found
in "Shaun." There's also several touching scenes between Shaun and his
mum and dad...sorry, I mean stepdad. Shaun himself is forced to grow up
and take charge as the zombies close in around them. 

I don't want to give away the incredible ending of "Shaun" except to
say that the living dead are not immune from pop-culture
commercialization, and though loved ones may die, video games are
forever. 

SEE THIS FILM!!! You do NOT have to be a fan of horror movies to
appreciate the sublime satire that is "Shaun of the Dead." I haven't
seen a movie this good for a very long time. 10 stars.
<|_=00=_|>
Shaun's nearing 30, stuck in a crappy sales job, and his girlfriend Liz
is unhappy with the amount of time he spends with his ultra-slacker
B-class drug dealer friend, Ed, at their local pub, the Winchester.
When Liz dumps him, Shaun's so glum he doesn't even realise that
London's been overrun with flesh-eating zombies. But somewhere within
his console-happy lazy self, a hero is born.

I can't even begin to emphasise how cool this quintessentially British
film is. The amount of time it takes for Shaun (Simon Pegg) and Ed
(Nick Frost) to realise anything's wrong is priceless. Director Edgar
Wright, who co-wrote the film with Pegg, also demonstrates that there's
little difference between glassy eyed commuters and their undead
brethren.

The plot rips along beautifully and parodies both the romantic comedy
and zombie genres, while at the same time remaining true to them.
Hopefully a new genre, the romzom com, has been born – incidentally,
that's where you can go to find out more about the movie – romzom.com.
The fabulous supporting cast includes Bill Nighy (Love Actually) as
Shaun's supercilious stepfather, Penelope Wilton (Calendar Girls) as
Shaun's absent-minded mum, Dylan Moran (Black Books) as Liz's snooty
housemate David and Lucy Davis (The Office) as wannabe actress Diane.

Shaun of the Dead was partially inspired by the classic zombie flick,
Dawn of the Dead. Its creator George Romero was reportedly so impressed
with Shaun of the Dead that Simon Pegg and Edgar Wright are taking on
cameo roles in Romero's latest instalment, Land of the Dead.

Shaun of the Dead is one of the best comedy of 2004 and a must-see for
all rom zom com (romantic comedy with zombies) afficionados.
****½/***** stars.
<|_=00=_|>

Shaun Of The Dead isn't your typical zombie movie. In fact, the zombies
don't truly enter the story until almost a third of the way in. So what's
it
really about? A man named Shaun, played by Simon Pegg, who lives in London
and is a bit of a loser. He works in a dead-end job at an electronic goods
store and spends most of his spare time at the local pub or playing video
games with his unemployed roomate, Ed. One day Shaun's girlfriend, Liz,
decides she's had enough of his lazy attitude and decides to leave him.
When
the city suddenly gets taken over by the living dead Shaun finds the
perfect
opportunity to prove himself to Liz, so he sets out to save the day, win
his
girlfriend back and keep his mum, Barbara, from being eaten by his
step-dad
who's slowly turning into a zombie.

Don't let the title and premise fool you, this isn't a simple spoof of
Dawn
Of The Dead, it's more a romantic comedy that just so happens to be
littered
with the undead. The film is also very clever, with a clear social
commentary running throughout. The jokes that stem from this are
absolutely
hilarious but will probably be lost on any non-Londoners. It's actually
quite unlikely that this film will translate to anyone outside the UK and
this is a real shame and perhaps the films biggest flaw. But if you do get
it, then good for you, because there is a lot of great stuff to be seen
here. The script is wonderful and throws up many comedic moments, such as
when Shaun and Ed are looking through Shaun's LP collection for a suitable
vinyl to throw at two oncoming zombies, "Dire Straits?" "Chuck it!", or
when
Shaun and his friends beat up an elderly zombie in the pub using cricket
bats, all to the rhythm of Don't Stop Me Now by Queen. The humour comes
thick and fast, never have I laughed so consistantly during any film
before,
it only pauses briefly for a few dramatic scenes, all of which work
surprisingly well. In fact the film tends to genre-hop quite a lot, and
while some find this unappealing I think it works in its favour. One
minute
it's a comedy, then it's a drama and then it's a full blown horror. In
fact
some scenes are quite jumpy and certainly violent. One extremely gory part
in particular is a clear homage to another famous horror film that shall
remain unamed, but if you know what I'm talking about when you see it then
good for you. That's the thing about this movie though, you don't need to
be
a horror fan to enjoy it. You just need to have the right sense of humour.
Can I explain it? Well, no. You'll just know if the film's for you when
you
see it. I can assure you that most will like it. If you don't, then I
really
am sorry for you as this is about the most fun I have had in the cinema
since Kill Bill . Ok, that wasn't long ago, but before that I don't think
there was a film that was so rip-roaringly funny and then unashamedly
brutal
at the same time. There is nothing subtle about this movie, and yet it
will
simply go over the heads of most people. I urge you to watch the film and
decide for yourself if you love it or hate it. It's not without its faults
though, losing its spark slightly during the third act but it comes back
with a vengence and gets in some really good jokes just before the credits
roll.

Shaun Of The Dead is a great film. It's funny, it's clever and it's got
zombies in it! Just when the British film industry appears to be dead this
gem pops up and shows us what someone with a sense of humour and a real
passion for the media can achieve. Go watch it, you'll laugh till it
hurts!
<|_=00=_|>

Here in the States they don't show too many foreign movies, even if
they are from the countries like UK. When they show them, however, they
tend to outdo some of the American movies in the box office. Although
the British movies are rarely shown here, they're a guaranteed success
- do you recall the popularity of the last year's "28 Days Later"?
Well, this movie is even better - it's a hilarious combination of
comedy, social parody, tragedy and drama, spiced with the references to
every zombie flick ever made. Some references are pretty slim, though -
for example "We're coming to get you, Barbara!" is a reference to "The
Night of the Living Dead" - a reference that many people (including
George Romero!) didn't get. Most of the actors are unknown to an
average American, yet they played great! I hope that movies like "Shaun
of the Dead" will make big wigs in Hollywood realize that there are
many great foreign movies, and that integrity is always better than
crude remakes which the States are so notorious for... I encourage
everybody to come and see SOTD - the best comedy of 2004.

<|_=00=_|>
...He'll kill some zombies too! Brace yourself for some nonstop zombie
action and laughs with the delightful horror-comedy "Shaun of the
Dead."

Armed with a cricket bat, razor-sharp wit, and an attitude, Shaun
(Simon Pegg) is perhaps the last guy that you'd want to save the world
from the legions of the living dead that have suddenly begun to storm
the London neighborhood where he lives. It could be stated, as this is
a running gag here, that we're all dying slow deaths, so it's no
surprise that when zombies begin to eat the flesh of the living, Shaun
couldn't be any more oblivious to the chaos that has gripped most of
London.

Shaun loves his dead-end existence of wasting his days at the
Winchester, a local pub, with his friend and flat mate Ed (Nick Frost).
The film's money shot arrives about 20 minutes in, when Shaun, hungover
from a hard night's drinking, goes to the store and because he's so
hungover and is worried about his ex-girlfriend Liz (Kate Ashfield), he
doesn't even notice that the street behind him is teeming with the
living dead.

While in the store buying a beverage, he doesn't notice the bloody
handprints on the refrigerator door and he almost slips in a puddle of
blood. I was quite amazed at the response this film got from people in
the theater: it seemed that every time something funny happened, the
response was almost always with riotous laughter.

Straight from Britain, we have what is certainly one of the most
original horror movies to come out in a long time. Even in a genre that
embraces gore, "Shaun of the Dead" is fairly light on it (at least for
the first 45 minutes) and is dominated by laughs galore.

You may remember the character of "Ash" (Bruce Campbell of "Evil Dead"
fame), who has remained pretty much the supreme demon slayer in the
horror genre. But you know, Campbell's pushed past 40 and people today
may not be weary of his history slaying evil Deadites in Sam Raimi's
notorious film series. So maybe with "Shaun of the Dead," the torch has
been passed to Simon Pegg, who slays more than his fair share of the
living dead in this film.

It's pretty obvious that "SOTD" was greatly influenced by the works of
George A. Romero (the director of 1978's supreme epic of zombie
action-mayhem "Dawn of the Dead") and 2002's "28 Days Later" (directed
by Danny Boyle). There are little itty-bitty references to the two
zombie flicks throughout the movie.

Granted "Shaun of the Dead" is aimed largely at the gorehounds who
idolized Romero's "Living Dead" trilogy, but it's also the first zombie
flick to attempt making a hit with the mainstream. I guarantee any
viewers out there that you'll spend more time laughing than you will
being frightened.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>

In a London suburbia, Shawn is almost 30 and hasn't really achieved much
in
his life. He comes home from his mundane job each day, and goes to the
same
pub (The Winchester) that he always has gone to. He shares his flat with
an
ex-student friend, and his lifelong slob of a friend. On top of that, his
girlfriend has had enough of him. Oh.and the dead have started walking the
earth!

Hot on the heels of recent remake Dawn of the Dead comes Simon 'Spaced'
Pegg's black comedy zombie spoof, in which Shawn must save his friends,
mum,
and ex-girlfriend from the masses of lumbering dead by, erm, going to the
Winchester! Unlike recent zombie-fests, these dead-ites are pretty lame,
lumbering monstrosities, much like the ones from the older zombie films.
This is used to simple comic effect throughout as the 'heroes' seem to
have
plenty of time to think about things before being attacked.

The film balances the humour excellently with a decent zombie-story, and
the
array of characters within are not there just for laughs, there are plenty
of poignant moments scattered throughout. Issues of family, love, and
friendship, along with growing older and accepting responsibility are
contained within the script. Much in the way that TV series Spaced managed
to play the absurd with the serious, so does this film. It is easy to
compare it to a 'big screen Spaced' episode, but that doesn't sell the
film
enough. It is much more than that, and is the perfect homage to zombie
flicks, and social satire too. Watch towards the early stages of the film
to
see that most of the population could be confused for zombies anyway, and
as
for the end scenes of the film.well.suffice to say it will keep you
laughing
right to the end.

With a cast pulled from many cult British shows (Dylan Moran from Black
Books, Matt Lucas from Little Britain, and nearly everyone from Spaced),
and
an excellent appearance by Bill `Love Actually' Nighy, there isn't really
anything negative I can think of in the film. Even the action is well
handled, with enough gore to satisfy any fans of zombie
flicks.

This is a must see film which showcases Simon Pegg's talents excellently.
The only drawback is that if it catapults him to international stardom he
may never get around to making that final season of Spaced!!
<|_=00=_|>
The great British sit-com has undergone something of a revival in
recent years. Galvanised by the new wave of smart, sassy imports from
the US, the Brits have girded their loins and produced a spate of
quality comedies that have banished memories of the bland, identikit
dross of the late eighties and early nineties.

One such series is Spaced, a wholly original and delightfully quirky
comic bagatelle which has built up a small but dedicated following in
the UK. Now writer/actor Simon Pegg and director Edgar Wright have
teamed up once again to give us Shaun of the Dead which is, in a
nutshell, a feature-length episode of Spaced (with added zombies).
Happily timed to coincide with the Hollywood remake of the 1978 classic
shocker Dawn of the Dead, Shaun is the perfect antidote: Irreverent,
warm and very funny.

Shaun (Pegg) is your stereotypical sit-com loser: An ineffectual slob
in a dead-end job, he is terminally afraid of commitment and spends all
his time with his flat-mate Ed (Nick Frost, also from Spaced) who is an
even bigger loser. After his girlfriend dumps him, Shaun and Ed seek
solace in their local pub the Winchester - a good old-fashioned English
hostelry with warm beer and pork scratchings which is infamous for its
lock-ins. They stagger home in a state of advanced refreshment, unaware
that the dead are now walking the earth. Indeed, it takes Shaun a
little while to work it out the following morning despite interacting
with a few of them (one of the recurring themes is that most of us go
through the drudgery of our daily routines in a trance close to
inertia).

When the penny drops, Shaun resolves to rescue his mother and his (ex)
girlfriend and generally stand up for himself for the first time in his
life. There is not much more of a plot than that. The film, like Spaced
relies on a flawless script, observational humour and the theatre of
the absurd. Pegg has perfected this in his writing but he is also a
surprisingly good actor. It helps that he has surrounded himself with
the pick of the British comedy fraternity who seem to have been lining
up (literally in one scene) for a cameo. The stars of similarly
acclaimed series' such as Black Books, The Office and Little Britain
are all on show here as well as Jessica Stevenson, Pegg's Spaced
co-writer, who plays a jolly-hockey-sticks human vigilante with a
stiff-upper lip and can-do attitude ready to give those nasty zombie's
what-for.

Veteran support comes from Penelope Wilton (a sit-com stalwart from a
bygone age) as Shaun's curtain-twitching mother and Bill Nighy as her
fearsome second husband who performs one of the most dignified and
poignant descents into zombieness ever caught on camera.

Despite all the high praise, it must be acknowledged that Shaun of the
Dead is still a spoof - a comic tool that you could argue is as low a
form of wit as sarcasm. But where it scores highly is in its respect
for the original material. Most spoofs (the Scary Movie franchise, for
example) are vicious lampoons that unmercifully mock the films they are
taking off. Shaun of the Dead gently pokes fun but doesn't lose sight
of the fact that if something is worth parodying, it must have some
merit. Pegg is also careful to ensure that his film can stand up on its
own - there is barely a minute goes by without a very good joke and
despite the light-heartedness, there are some satisfyingly scary
moments and ample gore.

What is most encouraging is that us Brits have started playing to our
strengths. It took a long time for comedy writers to realise that
making an English version of Friends is doomed to failure (in the same
way that The Office will not work with an American make-over). We
should celebrate the Britishness of this film, laugh knowingly at the
in gags, and be proud that it doesn't take a huge budget or movie stars
to entertain people at the cinema.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
Shaun (Simon Pegg) is in the midst of a lousy patch--he hates and is
embarrassed about his job, he gets no respect from other employees, one
of his roommates is on his case about the other roommate--a slacker
friend of Shaun's, his girlfriend is on his case about the fact that
all the ever do is hang out at a pub, and he hates his stepfather, who
is also on his case about doing something nice for his mum. As if
that's not bad enough, suddenly, everyone is turning into a zombie.
Shaun must both straighten out his life and fight for it at the same
time.

Shaun of the Dead is a superb blending of horror and comedy ala An
American Werewolf in London (1981), Idle Hands (1999), Frankenhooker
(1990), or the Evil Dead films (beginning with the 1981 original,
although there is progressively less to more comedy in that series). It
manages to successfully both pay homage to and spoof a number of
classic zombie films and horror film zombie mythology in general.

The film begins firmly in very British comedy/drama territory, with a
number of stylistic directorial flourishes that seem like a cross
between Darren Aronofsky's Requiem for a Dream (2000) and Danny Boyle's
Trainspotting (1996). The horror material enters gradually, beginning
with a couple background gags, then entering Desolation Boulevard
territory via another Boyle reference, this time to 28 Days Later
(2002) (although that itself was basically a version of The Last Man on
Earth (aka L'Ultimo uomo della Terra)(1964), based on Richard
Matheson's novel I Am Legend). This arrives in the guise of Shaun
crossing over to the corner store to buy his morning soda. He doesn't
notice the deserted streets or store because he's so hung over from the
night before.

Before long, our ragtag bunch of heroes is in the midst of a
full-fledged zombie apocalypse--of the traditional, slow-moving zombie
type. Acknowledging the cultural differences that strict gun laws bring
about, they have to use their wits to commit the requisite head
busting, enlisting unwanted LPs (after some debate over the merits of
each), cricket bats, shovels and other items for the job. Of course it
would be easier if any of our heroes were the slightest bit athletic
and had any aim, but they get the job done. More or less.

Furthering genre-fan fun, director/writer Edgar Wright and co-writer
Pegg insert a lot of references to other zombie films--especially when
it comes to explaining the source of the "epidemic". The "scientific"
explanations given in Resident Evil (2002), 28 Days Later, all of
Romero's Dead films--beginning with Night of the Living Dead
(1968)--and possibly even Romero's The Crazies (1973) and then some are
all mentioned in the background, but resolutely cut off before they're
finished. Part of the reason might be that usually, the explanations
were pretty ridiculous, and we didn't really care--we just wanted to
get to the cool zombie stuff, such as limbs being torn off, guts being
eaten, and brains being blown or smashed out of skulls.

Wright and Pegg also insert clever nods to the subtexts of zombie
films. Shaun looks and walks like a zombie when he's waking up. We see
zombie like office workers, retail workers, and so on. There's also an
amusing nod to filmic attempts to study and tame zombies, as well as
organized militaristic defenses (both very prominent in 28 Days Later,
but present in other films as well). There are interesting, more subtle
and original zombie subtexts in Shaun of the Dead, also, such as the
"mirrored" scene where Shaun and his crew meet up with Yvonne and her
crew.

As long as you like outrageous comedy, somewhat gory horror, and you
don't mind mixing the two, Shaun of the Dead should provide an
enjoyable ride. Although it is the most fun when you're very familiar
with the source material it is spoofing and referencing, it is still a
great comedy-horror film if viewed with fresher eyes, and not so much
as a spoof.
<|_=00=_|>

Some 5 years before the making of this film the same team behind it wrote
and directed series (season) 1 and 2 of an offbeat UK sitcom named
"Spaced".
Massively overlooked at the time of broadcast yet with a hardcore fan base
of loyal devotees a third series was long overdue but never did
materialise.

Shaun of the Dead is the continuation of what went before; of a similar
format yet in a completely new setting, with new characters, plus new cast
members and for the first time a feature-length run time for the big
screen.
So how does it play out? Even with such a departure from the original
setting, the history of TV to cinema adaptations is a dodgy one to say the
least. Fortunately for those of us who already fans or (more likely) if
you've never seen the series before prepare to be impressed.

The style is all it's own. With inventive direction and editing making the
visual impact which fans will instantly recognise, to the writing which
importantly is firstly genuinely funny, interspersed with references to
popular culture of the past two decades, always with a self-knowing grin,
a
wink to the viewer rather than a pretentious nod. And of course several
self-references and in-jokes of the TV series all fill in the gaps between
the tastefully presented killings. There is blood, after all this is a
"rom-zom-com" or "romantic zombie comedy" - a self-proclaimed new genre
and
rightly so. This is as about as original as it gets. They actually manage
to
pull off humour, violence, decapitations, action, romance, suspense,
sadness
and joy all within the space of 90 minutes!

This is the best film I've seen in ages, and a real credit to British
film,
we already knew about "Fried Gold", now the rest of the World can see it
too. An instant classic.
