
It seems based on many of the comments on this site that certain folks
may be expecting a bit too much from a movie such as 'Napoleon
Dynamite.'

This ain't art cinema, folks. It's absurdist comedy. Don't go to see
this film looking for deep meaning or well-constructed plot--the vague
semblance of a plot is as artificial as they come, and seems inserted
mostly to give the film structure and to permit the audience a somewhat
'happy' ending. 

NO, Napoleon Dynamite isn't about changing the world--it's live action
'South Park' (Preston, Idaho, where the film is set, actually bears a
strong resemblance to the real South Park, Colorado). It's a highly
ironic, self-mocking, merciless run of sight gags and one liners with
no apparent purpose other than to get laughs at the expense of its main
characters, especially the eponymous Napoleon, a fit stand-in for
everyone who's ever felt like a socially inept outcast trapped in the
hell of high school.

This movie isn't for everybody, but if you don't see glimpses of your
own childhood in the various awkwardnesses and failures of the main
characters, you're in denial. Don't see Napoleon Dynamite if you're
expecting sensitivity--go see it if you're pissed off at the world and
just need to laugh. I saw it for the first time last night, and I'm
still busting into spontaneous laughter whenever one of Napoleon's
silly one-liners or blank-faced dead-pan non-sequitirs comes to mind.
<|_=00=_|>
Napoleon Dynamite (Jon Heder) is the typical sad-sack, luckless loser
that has permeated high schools for seemingly centuries. He has no
friends, he's picked on by bullies, he has a somewhat-odd home life ...
but through it all, he's sure things will be just plain okay in the
end.

Napoleon and his older brother Kip (Aaron Ruell) live with their
grandmother, but at the beginning of the film she tells them she needs
to take off for a couple days. Enter their Uncle Rico (Jon Gries), a
self-starter who's living in 1982 (when the coach of his high school
football team declined to put him in as quarterback, thus altering
Rico's life forever). Some of the funniest scenes in the film involve
Napoleon's often-combative relationship with Uncle Rico; Rico is also
bound and determined to return to those halcyon days of his youth via a
time machine he's seen advertised on the Internet, and he enlists Kip
to help him raise the funds.

Napoleon befriends the new kid in school, Pedro (Efren Ramirez), who
has a sweet bike, can talk to girls, and has an actual mustache. But
like Napoleon, Pedro is a misfit. Both sometimes hang out with yet
another taciturn student, Deb (Tina Majorino, all grown up from
Waterworld), who secretly (it seems) likes Napoleon. But there isn't a
lot of focus on their relationship, because Napoleon himself is fairly
oblivious to how people perceive him. This isn't a story about young
love or lust, it's a story about a misfit refusing to fit - while
fitting in with others like him.

Jon Heder is perfectly cast as the gawky, dorky Napoleon; he resembles
Butt-Head in countenance, although certainly not in temperament or
intelligence. Mouth agape and with an awkward gait, Napoleon is about
as odd a duck as you'd find in high school, and yet he still manages to
survive with his dignity intact. He's a good egg, although he seems to
overreact at times: "What are you gonna do today, Napoleon? Napoleon:
Whatever I feel like I wanna do.....GOSH!" Still, his delivery is
perfect. You can readily picture a Napoleon in any high school.

I think where the film ultimately succeeds, aside from the casting of
Heder, is that it doesn't fall into the traps of predictability and
stereotyping. Sure, it's a high school movie, and there are snobby
pretty girls and arrogant jocks, but not much time is devoted to them.
Sure, there's a big dance, but it doesn't necessarily turn out the way
you'd expect it to. What you're left with, then, isn't a typical
coming-of-age story, but rather a unique take on a rather mundane -
albeit life-altering - time in a boy's life.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is quite possibly the funniest movie ever. It doesn't have
much of a storyline, but in this case, it doesn't matter. I keep
reading reviews that say it isn't believable. Anyone who has attended
High School in the last 10 years knows that this movie portrays exactly
what it is like. Who doesn't know someone exactly like Napoleon? Or
Pedro? Or Summer? Or Deb? Or Don? There are Napoleons, Pedros, Summers,
Debs, and Dons in EVERY American High School. One of the funniest parts
about this movie is that it IS so accurate. And who hasn't run across
an internet geek like Kip? This movie is filled with jokes about our
culture today. I haven't met one person yet who has seen it and not
liked it. Talk about a cult classic in the making. The film uses witty
humor, and a little goofy humor. It's the PERFECT film for light
comedy. If you're into those kind of films that make you think a lot,
this one definitely isn't for you. On the other hand, if you laugh at
things like Napoleon getting psyched for a milk-testing contest, or
lying about hunting wolverines in Alaska, exaggerating about his bow
staff skills or his brother bragging about chatting online with "babes"
all day, you can't go wrong. (10/10)
<|_=00=_|>
I have to say I was so intrigued by the mixed responses to this film on
this board I had to see it. In my opinion it was the best movie I have
seen in years. I am so tired of the typical BS Hollywood crap, and this
movie was far from that. Napoleon was indeed dynamite! The first couple
minutes I was kinda worried that the naysayers were right, but as the
movie continued I couldn't stop laughing! And for those how think that
it was wrong to exploit the nerds in society, you definitely missed the
whole point of the movie. It wasn't exploited them, it was more
celebrating them and their uniqueness. And as for being unrealistic,
this movie was more realistic than any movie I have seen. That was part
of what made it hilarious. Not doubt this will be a cult classic! GO
NAPOLEON!

I give this film a 10 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
The love/hate reactions I've seen do not surprise me at all. This movie
is very different, it's own style... and it is PURE GENIUS. But it's
definitely not for everyone... you have to back off and understand the
mood and general feel of the movie before you have the context to find
the actions of the characters funny. Then you will "get it". And what
is this context I'm referring to? This movie explores the very essence
of boredom and mediocrity as you follow the daily life of a dorky guy
doing uninteresting things in a small, unexciting town. Napolean's
constant, open-mouth, blank stare says, "I'm only tolerating this
monotonous existence because I've got nothing better to do." It took me
about 15 minutes into the movie and then I GOT it. The movie has no
real plot because it isn't about an interesting story, it's about the
real life that exists BETWEEN the interesting stories. Ever call up
your bud because you're bored, then talk about what you're not doing,
then decide to get together and be bored together, and spend the
remainder of the evening trying to think of something to do to no
avail? This movie is about this very type of thing... a tribute to the
ordinary every-day stuff that you have no reason or desire to
remember... like eating reheated leftover Hamburger Helper, or that old
shirt you wear when you're working that you're not afraid to get dirty,
or some magazine you flipped through to pass the time in the dentist's
waiting room.

I constantly found myself saying, "This all seems too strangely
familiar. I knew a guy like that. I've done stuff like that. I've been
to a store like that. I've been in a house like that." This isn't the
kind of movie to make you suddenly laugh out loud, it's a movie that
will first make you chuckle, and then chuckle some more, and pretty
soon you can't stop laughing as scenes and characters continuously
remind you about the absurdity of watching random, stupid
pointlessness. Why would something boring be interesting to watch?
You'll just have to see it to understand.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, I have seen a lot of negative reviews on this movie. It made me
leery of even seeing it. I work at a video store so I get to see movies
before their street release date. There were a few naysayers at work,
but I rented it anyway. This was a rental well spent. This is the first
movie I have seen in some time that doesn't have swear words or sex in
any form so it is OK for any age. If you are or ever were just a little
bit geeky, Napoleon is the hero for you. This movie is much funnier to
a gen-x'er. There are a lot of things that you won't "get" if you
weren't a part of the 80's. All in all, I think that it is a great way
to spend an evening. I am looking forward to seeing more from this
writer/director.
<|_=00=_|>
Though this movie seems to strike a chord with the younger crowd, there
is no age limit to appreciating this film, just limits in your sense of
humor. Perhaps the funniest movie I've seen in years, ND explores
character profiles we never thought would make it to the movies. The
characters cover a wide range of social misfits and exhibit the nuances
of their behavior in a way that makes sense to them, if not to the
general public. It's like a sociological case study of a primitive and
exotic tribe of "Nerds". Everyone of us should be able to recognize at
least one of the ND characters from somewhere in our past or somewhere
in our psyches. The acting is sublime, because sometimes we forget that
they ARE acting. The writing and dialogue are inventive and unexpected,
and so dry it might take you a few days to start laughing. But once you
do start laughing, you won't be able to stop. This movie is sure to be
a cult classic for the new millennium the way Repo Man was the the
80's. And if you like this film, consider yourself luck-EEEE, because
not everyone will.
<|_=00=_|>
If you like dry or dark humor, you should get a big kick out of this
movie. I know I did. If you are between 12-20 you might even like it
more because this deals with high school kids primarily. However, there
are some adults in here who play key roles, too.

The teens and the adults have a couple of things in common: they are
nerds and weird people and they are all hilarious. They also are unlike
a cast of characters you have seen in any other movie. In other words,
this movie is an "original."

I didn't know any of these actors and I think that helped. It made it
even more original, looking at new faces. That begins with the title
character, played by Jon Heder. A white kid in Idaho with a afro
haircut, over-sized glasses, moon boots and an unpredictable and
low-key personality unlike anyone I've ever seen in other films. Even
though he's pictured as a huge nerd, he surprises you all the time.
Just when you think you have this kid figured out, he does something
unexpected. Whatever, he's fun to watch and hear throughout the movie.

Suffice to say "Napoleon" and about everyone in this film is totally
whacked and all of them - male, female, young, old, good and bad people
are extremely entertaining. A lot of the humor is visual, meaning the
looks and reactions on these character's faces and the weird deadpan
lines they deliver. Are there stereotypes in here? Yes, like the bimbo,
prettiest girl in school running for class president , and her stupid,
macho boyfriend, but most of the people were pretty unique.

If you like absurd humor, this is your cup of tea, and you don't have
to be a teen to enjoy this. Hey, I'm old enough to be Napoleon's
grandfather and I laughed my butt off from the beginning to the end of
this unconventional film.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is a genx love fest and it made me feel better than any 
movie I have ever seen.

Essentially, this movie is a remake of "welcome to the dollhouse" and a 
lot of the other slacker-esque movies of that era. The film follows the 
misadventures of a complete loser (Napoleon Dynamite is a near sighted 
high school kid with a penchant for medieval warriors and tall tales), 
his best friend (the new kid in town, a Mexican immigrant who must 
comprehend life in rural Idaho), their shared love interest (she is 
deliciously quirky on her own), and a few other random characters 
(Napoleon's scheming "get rich quick" uncle and his internet chatroom 
obsessed loser 32-year-old-but-still-living-at-home brother).

In terms of story, this one is tops. All of the "good" characters grow 
and become much more than they were when the movie began. This film 
celebrates friendship at it's basest level and demonstrates the triumph 
of good people above overwhelming odds.

The true appeal of this movie though, for me, was the close attention 
that the director paid to making this movie feel like the early 1990's 
or late 1980's. Characters wear zubbas and hand out friendship 
bracelets. Even the vocabulary the actors use comes from this era (when 
was the last time you called someone "retarded", for example), but it 
is done so in such a genuine manner. The music and the style are very 
appropriate, and you can really feel the social awkwardness of Napoleon 
and his friends.

While this movie was made in many ways to appeal to those who can most 
relate to the awkward years of growing up (the unpopular kids, the new 
kid, the medieval warrior obsessed clique, the metal heads, the stoners, 
all the general low lifes you probably associated with, or possibly 
were at school), this will nevertheless appeal to everyone else. The 
comedy is not made to be knee slapping, but it's sublety is wonderful 
and I found myself laughing throughout the entire film.

If you have ever rooted for the underdog, this is the movie for you. I 
can't spoil the ending for you, but for real, no movie has ever made me 
feel as happy and as inspired as this one. I can't wait to see what 
this director comes up with next!
<|_=00=_|>
I found this movie very, very funny. Not hilarious, but very, very
funny. People (read critics) have accused this film for being "quirky
for the sake of being quirky" to which I say: "What's frickin' wrong
with that? IDITOTS!"

I find this movie to be a delightful character (rather than plot)
driven farce, a movie that you have to accept on its own terms. The
world of Napoleon Dynamite is not reality, nor does it ever claim to
be. It's job is to make you laugh, and for me, it does it in spades.
It's not a fall-out-of-your-chair-in-hysterics funny, it's more of a
constant-giggling-over-the-silliness-of-it-all funny. It's like mock
apple pie. Not a culinary gourmet feast, but darn tasty all the same.
Don't expect the brilliant comedy of "Young Frankenstein" or a
groundbreaking cinematic breakthrough the likes of "Citizen Kane".
Conversely, don't expect something just plain bad like "Corky Romano"
or "Battlefield: Earth" either. So if you're in the mood for a tasty
slice of mock apple pie, "Napoleon Dynamite" is right up your alley. B+
