

I've just come back from seeing what I think is one of the best movies
of 2004. I found the story fascinating, the look stylish, and the music
haunting.

"Wicker Park" is a tale of obsession on many levels. It is told partly
in flashback, so that you have to piece the events together and figure
out how far back the action of the film began -- what is now and what
was then. The director uses split-screen techniques that enhance the
look and feel of the film, lifting it from the realm of the ordinary to
the plane of art. A haunting theme weaves its way through this
labyrinth of lies, leading to a satisfying (because inevitable)
conclusion.

I saw the film with two friends who were of a very different opinion.
They found the film "convoluted" and "clichéd". I disagree. It was easy
to tell what was flashback and what was here-and-now. But the story is
complicated (not convoluted) and does require some sorting out. As for
being cliched, I found the film quite the opposite. It could have gone
in some trite, hackneyed directions but didn't. And while some people
might think the ending is the cliché of all clichés, I thought that,
emotionally, it was absolutely right and the only possible way to end
the film.

I loved "Wicker Park" so much that I would willingly see it again, to
get a better sense of how the story is put together, and just for the
sheer pleasure of its look and sound. You might say I too am obsessed.

<|_=00=_|>

It was a lazy Sunday night and the only movies playing were Wicker Park
and Super Babies Baby Geniuses 2. Well, I picked the film with a more
attractive cast.

After about the first thirty minutes of Wicker Park I was laughing
because it seemed like this was the most absurd movie I had ever seen.
However, as the film progressed the laughter subsided and intrigue
ensued. By the last thirty minutes of the film I was hooked. When it
was over, I was surprised that a movie that had started out so poorly
ended up being one of the better films I have seen in a while.

If one sees this film, I recommend he/she be patient. I found the
overall experience, despite the bad beginning, to be quite good.

4/5 stars

<|_=00=_|>
I hadn't heard of this film before seeing it, but I was pleasantly
surprised. It was suspenseful, even "gripping", with a touching and
romantic plot. Overall, a movie definitely worth renting.

The film begins a bit slowly but picks up very nicely about 30 minutes
into it. There are a few twists and turns that will keep your
attention. The acting was quite good, albeit with little-known actors
except for Josh Hartnett of Blackhawk Down. 

The best part of this film was the clever way the story all comes
together towards the end, including the flashback style which was very
well done.
<|_=00=_|>

Wicker Park Pretty much keeps you guessing the whole time.When your
watching the movie you would think you have it all figured out you'll
be surprised how wrong you could be.This is one of the best movies i've
watched this year. The most entertaining movie i've watched this year
is most definitely this one it actually keeped me guessing up till the
end.Even though this is to be a physcological thriller it is also funny
here and there and is also kind of sad.With this said Wicker Park is
definitely worth your money.This is not really a family movie but it's
good and with Josh Hartnett in it even better.Don't wait to long to
watch it,you'll like it.

<|_=00=_|>

well went to see this movie at it's screen test, where at the end, we
had to answer some survey questions about the movie. before going in to
see the movie, i thought it would be just another romantic movie but i
was soo wrong...

the pace of the movie was just right...with flashbacks and character
intro and perspectives on certain situation during the movie was quite
interesting to see, plus how the story unravel very much satisfied me
as it was totally unexpected...just amazing, plus the camera
works/effects just so cool to watch...

i must say this is not your usual love story and it sure will appeal to
all movie-lovers and it's just amazing!

<|_=00=_|>

this movie was absolutely beautiful in every aspect of the word.

the camera-work is extremely well done, and, despite some comments, the
plot has no real holes. everything is revealed with perfect timing, and
the songs absolutely heighten the emotion of each scene. the characters
were eccentric and go to such great lengths for love. i love that. not
only do we end up seeing that Alex has motive, we can almost relate to
her....although we do not agree with her actions, she becomes more
vulnerable and human to the audience.

the best thing about this film is the intensity of the love we feel
between matthew and lisa. the anguish they have felt the past two years
from being unknowingly torn apart by a vindictive and crushed "friend"
of lisa's.

and the end of the movie is perfect, when they see each other for the
first time in two years, after a desperate four day search.....she
turns, there is the feeling of disbelief, realization, then they just
melt into each other and take it all in. i loved it.

this was the first movie i've seen in the theaters in a long time that
i came away with SO much more than i had expected. i've recommended
this movie to everyone i know, and everyone who's seen it who i know
has felt the same way i do....maybe not with as much passion as i
do.....but similar.

quality, quality film....ahhh, the day it comes out on video, i'll be
the first in line to buy it.

<|_=00=_|>
Exceeded my large expectations. One of the best films of 2004 with my
personal Oscar win for Best Actress. It's an extremely compelling and
unique mystery thriller with intricate characters and a storyline that
could easily become absurd and convoluted but feels natural and
McGuigan allows the viewer to be fully aware of what's happening. It
never gets too far ahead of the audience but it doesn't drag for a
second. The editing is flawless and meshes the present with the
not-so-distant past perfectly. Josh Hartnett delivers a surprisingly
emotional performance and adds another strong performance to his recent
resume that has really transcended him from the horrific heartthrob
clique he was placed in when he first came onto the scene into a
serious, talented actor. But the real star of the film is the beautiful
Rose Byrne who, as always, delivers a knockout performance that is
easily one of the best of the decade. She takes this psychopathic
character and somehow makes her immensely sympathetic. I actually found
myself rooting for her to be with Matt. Simply with her eyes she
portrays this wounded, internally saddened character effortlessly. As I
always am when seeing her act, I was completely entranced and amazed. A
stunning performance in a brilliant film.
<|_=00=_|>
I enjoyed this movie on its face and found myself wanting to watch it
again upon its conclusion, which very rarely is true for me. Most
movies, including the ones I consider amazing, require the passage of
several years before I might entertain the idea of watching them again.
This was different, and will perhaps be better understood once you have
seen the movie. It's like a puzzle I want to put back together on my
own.

***SPOILERS*** Part of what I found most wonderful about this movie was
that I was able to walk away from it not really considering ANY of the
four major characters as "the heavy." Also, some preconceived ideas I
had did not come to pass. For example: 

MATT: Throughout the film you see him balancing his value system
against his desires, sometimes successfully, sometimes not, but I got a
sense that this guy wanted terribly to do the right things. Matt's
going to see the play with Luke just because it mattered so much TO
Luke is but one example 

LISA: Didn't want to like her, didn't want to understand why Matt's
feelings for her were as strong as they were. I had believed it would
just be a sexual pull she exerted on Matt & this was not the case--I
got it.

Luke: Played appropriately in places as almost shallow & buffoonish, I
still got a sense that this guy was a truly good person & despite his
fumbling hipness, he really wanted to be a great friend and to care
about someone at a much deeper level than it appeared at first glance.
I liked his forgiveness of Matt for having been out of touch for 2
years.

ALEX: Her conflict throughout the movie could have played well to her
ultimately being labeled a psycho, but I felt great empathy for her
(especially toward the end of the movie) at having been caught up in an
emotional roller-coaster that drove her decisions throughout the movie.
In one of the final scenes where she confesses her sins, so to speak,
to Lisa, I felt especially rewarded that she was so much more than just
a lunatic--and was, indeed, NOT crazy-- and that the character was an
Anybody who could have been caught up on the thorns of an overwhelming
desire.

Also, I enjoyed the friendship between Matt & Luke and how it remained
intact and viable throughout the film. I think Matt's losing touch with
Luke for 2 years was also symbolic of his having lost touch with
himself.

And the final scene between Matt & Lisa was satisfying to me--I REALLY
wanted them to find each other again, and the emotional elements of
this moment in the characters' lives was depicted beautifully.

Finally, what a painfully lovely moment with Rebecca, when Matt is
telling her what has happened, and what has been true for him since he
thought he'd lost Lisa, when she said (and I'm DEFINITELY
paraphrasing),"You want me to...know WHAT? That I'm not the girl who
can break your heart?"

Haven't we all felt THAT before?
<|_=00=_|>

WICKER PARK

Cast: Josh Hartnett, Rose Byrne, Matthew Lillard, Diane Kruger.
Director: Paul McGuinan.

***

This is a movie that works in spite of itself. It was marketed as a
Single White Female type thriller, but it's really more of a somber
reflection on obsession. If the main characters had email, the movie
would be over before it started, but the character study and emotional
investment by the actors overcame the convoluted plot.

The movie goes back and forth in the timeline, cutting between present
day and two years ago. Two years ago, Matt (Josh Hartnett) fell in love
at first sight with Lisa (Diane Kruger), and he would follow her for a
while before he had the courage to approach her. In the present, Matt
is engaged to be married, but when he thinks he sees Lisa across a
crowded room, he loses her, but he skips a business trip to try to
track her down.

As we watch the two timelines, we're left wondering. Why did Lisa
disappear on Matt the first time? When finally does find Lisa, it's a
different woman. Have we entered Mulholland Drive territory?

Josh Hartnett, whom I can take or leave depending on the movie he's in
(I took him in Black Hawk Down, I left him in Hollywood Homicide),
brings a real sincerity to his character's inner struggle. Rose Byrne
is also really good as the dark-haired Lisa. Matthew Lillard is
effective as the wise-acre best-friend, showing subtleties the role of
Shaggy would not permit. Diane Kruger, the blond Lisa, is about as
forgettable as she was as Helen in Troy.

Once it was all over, I'd say a good 25% of the audience was laughing
at the plot contrivances, but sometimes a movie can overcome obstacles
as basic as its story. Rated PG-13 for sexual situations.

<|_=00=_|>

This movie was one of the most unique films i have seen in quite
awhile. I really liked the way it was portrayed. It was a very good
storyline, from the previews it almost seemed confusing but it wasn't
confusing at all.

The scenery was excellent. It was a top notch performance on everyones
part. It kept you guessing until you didn't know what to think. It was a
thriller, yet had a comedic spark here and there with a twist of
romance and a dazzle of drama. It was by far one of the movies that
stick out this year that i've seen. Josh Hartnett played his role so
well, and the 2 females i wasn't really familiar with their work but
they did a fantastic job as well as Mathew Lillard.

