

Raising Victor Vargas: A Review

You know, Raising Victor Vargas is like sticking your hands into a big,
steaming bowl of oatmeal. It's warm and gooey, but you're not sure if it
feels right. Try as I might, no matter how warm and gooey Raising Victor
Vargas became I was always aware that something didn't quite feel right.
Victor Vargas suffers from a certain overconfidence on the director's
part.
Apparently, the director thought that the ethnic backdrop of a Latino
family
on the lower east side, and an idyllic storyline would make the film
critic
proof. He was right, but it didn't fool me. Raising Victor Vargas is the
story about a seventeen-year old boy called, you guessed it, Victor
Vargas
(Victor Rasuk) who lives his teenage years chasing more skirt than the
Rolling Stones could do in all the years they've toured. The movie starts
off in `Ugly Fat' Donna's bedroom where Victor is sure to seduce her, but
a
cry from outside disrupts his plans when his best-friend Harold (Kevin
Rivera) comes-a-looking for him. Caught in the attempt by Harold and his
sister, Victor Vargas runs off for damage control. Yet even with the
embarrassing implication that he's been boffing the homeliest girl in the
neighborhood, nothing dissuades young Victor from going off on the hunt
for
more fresh meat. On a hot, New York City day they make way to the local
public swimming pool where Victor's eyes catch a glimpse of the lovely
young
nymph Judy (Judy Marte), who's not just pretty, but a strong and
independent
too. The relationship that develops between Victor and Judy becomes the
focus of the film. The story also focuses on Victor's family that is
comprised of his grandmother or abuelita (Altagracia Guzman), his brother
Nino (also played by real life brother to Victor, Silvestre Rasuk) and
his
sister Vicky (Krystal Rodriguez).  The action follows Victor between
scenes
with Judy and scenes with his family. Victor tries to cope with being an
oversexed pimp-daddy, his feelings for Judy and his grandmother's
conservative Catholic upbringing.

The problems that arise from Raising Victor Vargas are a few, but
glaring errors. Throughout the film you get to know certain characters
like
Vicky, Nino, Grandma, Judy and even Judy's best friend Melonie. The
problem
is, we know nothing of Victor Vargas except that he is the biggest gigolo
in
the neighborhood. We know that he knows how to lick his lips, and comb
his
fro, and carry himself for the sake of wooing girls into the sack, but
that's all. We know that Nino plays piano, and quiet well, you could see
it
by the awards on the family piano. We know his sister Nicki, is a
gossip-loving girl with an invested interest in watching TV. We know that
grandma is a hard-working traditional Latina woman who's trying to raise
her
kids with conservatively in a world of excess corruption.  Yet where is
the
titular character, Victor Vargas? He's in this movie somewhere, but we
only
know what the movie tells us. This is by far the film's biggest flaw.
Victor
Vargas isn't so much a character but a ping-pong ball, bouncing between
scenes with Judy and his Grandmother, but we never get to know who Victor
Vargas really is. This is important because as I've mentioned the only
thing
we know of Victor Vargas is that he's a sexually active teenager with a
libido the size of Manhattan. He's a total Alpha-male. Victor Vargas is
not
the kind of character I sympathize with at all. Why should anyone? So by
the
end of the movie, in the aftermath of the climax are we truly led to
believe
that somehow Victor Vargas has attained ANY depth and learned the errors
of
his ways? How could such a two-dimensional character have any depth? If
only
the director had worried a little more about fleshing out his main
character
instead of worrying about getting that perfect hand-held shot.

Raising Victor Vargas brings to life the world of the Latino
inner-city
neighborhood to the big screen. Something that few films have done before
in
the past. The film has been complimented for feeling so real, and I won't

argue with that. I haven't seen this level of reality since CBS aired
Survivor. Seriously, although the movie has some nice shots of the city,
the
writer/director Peter Sollett was way too dependent on close-ups and
hand-held shots. This problem is particularly noticed in indoor scenes
that
are so claustrophobic I was forced to perform deep-breathing exercises to
keep from passing out. As the film continues, the shots get tighter and
tighter with faces cropped from brow to chin on the screen; you can
practically smell Victor Vargas's cheap cologne. The overall effect is
unrealistic in contrast. The indoor scenes of inner-city apartments make
them look small and cramp, which is not true. I've been in those type
apartments; I used to live in one. They're not splendorous but they have
high ceilings and they're decent living spaces. By the movie's standards
you'd think that these apartments were 5x5 cells of brick-and-mortar,
chipped paint and cracked walls. Unfortunately, Sollett's constant use of
close-ups and one particularly bad shot with a zoom-in on one scene come
off
as totally amateurish. But Raising Victor Vargas is only Sollett's second
film, and his most well known, a solid effort in filmmaking that will
hopefully get better as he continues to make films.
One review I read summarized the movie as, `Ethnicity for Ethnicity's
Sake,'
and I cannot agree more. If Victor Vargas were truly a great film and
story,
then the characters' applicability wouldn't matter whether they were
Latino,
Chinese, etc. Yet if you were to take this story and stick it in
middle-class suburbia with a bunch of teeny-bopper white kids the results
wouldn't be such glowing reviews, and we'd see the film's flaws more
clearly. Indeed, some other aspects of the use of Latinos in this film
bother me. While some aspects of Victor Vargas are accurate others I have
to
question. For example, Victor, Nino and Vicky all share the same room to
sleep. This set off an alarm for me because it seemed contrary to what I
believe. Any self-respecting Latino family wouldn't have two older
brothers
sharing the same room with a thirteen-year old girl. At first I was
unsure,
perhaps I was wrong, but after speaking with my grandmother I knew my
problem with this was justified. Considering how conservative the
grandmother is, you'd think that Vicky would have been sleeping in her
room.

As a Latino who grew up in a somewhat conservative Cuban household,
raised by my grandmother while my mother was working full-time, I could
relate to the movie in many ways, which is why my critical viewpoints are
bittersweet because I really wanted to love this movie. Unfortunately, my
lack of respect for Victor Vargas sabotaged my feelings for the film.
Maybe
it's because Victor Vargas reminds me of those guys who were getting laid
while I was playing with my Sega Genesis when I was seventeen. Maybe it's
because without any further introspection by the film, Victor Vargas is
merely a stereotypical hot-blooded Latino, who'll just end up shouting to
girls from his car, `Hey bay-bee, ju want to get into my luv Mah-Cheen?'
Either way I don't like him, so ultimately how can I like a film about
him?
So if you'll excuse me, I'm going to go stick my hands into a bowl of
grits.


<|_=00=_|>
.... this movie basks too much in its own innocence.  It doesn't
tell a
story; it's more a big time snooze fest.  While the actors are all
personable, the story is so trite and goes nowhere.  I think Victor Rasuk
has great charisma, but deserves a real film from a real
storyteller.
<|_=00=_|>
"Raising Victor Vargas" is one of those light, family movies that you
can watch and do the N.Y. Times crossword puzzle at the same time. And
if you want to go to the kitchen for a taco and a Corona, you don't
have to "Pause" the DVD. Just let it roll, 'cause you won't be missing
anything really important. No twists, turns, or tension. It's not
really an ethnic movie, it's a movie about a poor, struggling immigrant
family that happens to be Latino. They could have been any ethnic
group. It made very little difference. I've seen it all a zillion times
before. Just plug in a Jewish family, an Italian family, a Black
family, or an Irish family. Just the accents and names were different.
If the Vargas family was named Bush or Clinton and were Presbyterians,
the movie would have been a total snooze. 

It's funny that the critics here couldn't get the locale straight. Some
said it was Spanish Harlem. Some the Bronx, and another Brooklyn. As a
life-long New Yorker, I vote for the Lower East Side. And it seemed
that the family never met up with anyone except other Latinos. They
lived in an insulated/isolated little enclave. Some interaction with
non-Latinos might have created some excitement, interest, or tension.
Remember West Side Story?

And now for the oft-criticized cinematography. I don't know if it was
my TV or what, but all the indoor shots looked very ORANGE to me. The
apt, the furniture, and the faces were all ORANGE. What was that
supposed to mean? And the apt. did look pretty cramped to me. Somebody
here mentioned that the old apt's/tenements had very big rooms. Well,
maybe 50 years ago. What landlords have done is to break up one big apt
into 2 or 3 very small ones and squeeze as many immigrants as they can
into them. 

And another annoying thing ....This is the second family movie I've
seen and criticized this week that featured a teenage boy "jerking
off". Is this private sex act necessary for us to watch? Please spare
me! What's up with these directors? 

So "Victor Vargas" is a pleasant little movie. It was nice for a change
to see young Latino actors given a break and a chance to show their
talents, which they did. But the writers let them down, giving them a
flat, unspectacular script to work with. Enjoy the show, but keep your
fingers near the "fast forward" button.
<|_=00=_|>

Someone will have to explain to me why every film that features poor
people
and adopts a pseudo-gritty look is somehow seen as "realistic" by some
people.

I didn't see anything realistic about the characters (although the actors
did their best with really bad parts) or the situations.  Instead, I saw a
forced, self-conscious effort at being "edgy", "gritty" and "down and
dirty".

Sadly, it takes a lot more than hand-holding the camera without rhyme or
reason and failing to light the film to achieve any of the above qualities
in any significant way.

It's a sad commentary on the state of independent film distribution that
the
only films that see the inside of a movie theater are nowadays all carbon
copies, with bad cinematography, non-existent camera direction and a lot
of
swearing striving to pass themselves as "Art".

It's little wonder that films like "In the Bedroom" or "About Schmidt" get
such raves.  I found them to be meandering and very average, but compared
to
the current slew of independent clones like "Raising victor Vargas" they
are
outright brilliant and inspired.

A few years ago seeing an "independent" film meant that you would likely
be
treated to some originality and a lot of energy and care, and maybe a few
technical glitches caused by the low budgets, nowadays, it means that
chances are you'll get yet another by-the-numbers,
let's-shake-the-camera-around-for-two-hours
attempt at placating the lack of taste of independent distributors.  And
of
course all that to serve characters and situations that are completely
unreal and contrived.

Is it any surprise that the independent marketplace has fewer and fewer
surviving companies?  Not at all when you see films like Raising Victor
Vargas that do nothing but copy the worst of the films that preceded
them.
<|_=00=_|>
This "film" is one of the most dreadful things I have ever seen.

Please do yourselves a favor and avoid this incompetent concoction.

Shaking the camera and having your actors adopt scowls does not count
as "direction", which this film needed in droves. Not that the writing
was all the wonderful, rather we were left with a bunch of completely
artificial characters directed in that most artificial way (the
pseudo-documentary "style" prized by those who don't know how to
direct).

This film gives the impression that it was done cynically to appeal to
critics who don't know the first thing about film-making (which is most
of them).

Just terrible. It says a lot about Sundance and what it's become that
Victor Vargas was showcased there.
<|_=00=_|>

Amazing how little it takes to please the critics, as long as it fits
current politically-correct fads of ethnic diversity,
e.g., Hispanic boy pursues Hispanic girl in Brooklyn. Transplant the same
exact story to the white suburbs of
Toledo, Ohio, say, and you'd
have a very lame movie. Didn't find protagonist, Victor, all that
sympathetic; too much the usual teenage-punk
hip-hop daddy
cliche. Elegant idyllic ending must have swayed reviewers to overlook rest
of film's failings.

Recommend movie "Our Song" for a much better look into the lives of a
somewhat similar group of NYC teenagers.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie sucks.  It is about a Latino teenager whose plight is that
he is discovered having sex with a fat girl, and spends the movie trying
to
win the heart of a pretty girl so that he can restore his pride.  Raising
Victor Vomitus is in the league of Better Luck Tomorrow - another film
which
attempts to reveal the intricacies of a cultural group - but which really
only makes everyone look stupid.  My conclusion after seeing these two
really egregious films is that if you are curious about Latino or Asian
youths - the best way to satisfy that curiousity is to meet some of them,
read a book, or wait until a good movie comes out.  However, if you want
to
waste money, be bored, and learn nothing - get a pedicure.  At least you
will have something to show for it.  
<|_=00=_|>
Raising victor Vargas is just a bad film. No amount of denial or
ad-dollar supported publicity with change this sad fact.

Maybe Peter Sollett saw he didn't have the money to do the movie he
wanted to make and decided to take the easy way out by making a bad
film that cynically apes the tenets of current "edgy film-making".
Maybe he just doesn't know any better. It's hard to tell.

What's not hard to tell is the result. Except for a few viewers who
will intellectualize the bad film-making into an attempt at
pseudo-realism, few will enjoy it.

I know I didn't.

Do yourselves a favor and pass on this film.
<|_=00=_|>
Raising Victor Vargas fails terribly in what it tries most to be: being
real. Unfortunately, there is no reality to this film. The characters
and situations feel completely artificial and fake.

The reason? Bad directing. Peter Sollett uses all the wrong tools in
his arsenal. It seems Mr. Sollett read somewhere that not lighting his
film would give it an authentic feel. Wrong! It just gives it a
badly-made feel. Similarly, shaking the camera does not give a
documentary style to your film, it just gives the audience a headache
and detracts from what's on screen instead of enhance it.

Of course, what's on screen is so painfully fake, as if Mr. Sollett
wrote his script with the only goal of trying to look "hip" to his
Sundance buddies and show how "edgy" a filmmaker he is.

Overall, the only lasting impression this film leaves you with is what
a bad director Mr. Sollett is. Next time, how about taking a few
writing and directing classes?
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, write the script on a napkin. Who needs more than that?
After all we're not a Hollywood film.

Then get amateur actors. It will be good for the festival hype. After
all, who needs people who have spent years honing their craft? Then,
hire a cinematographer who doesn't know how to light. You see, if it's
well-lit, it won't look "real" and the festival people won't like it.
Who needs to have professional level photography anyway? Then hire a
ten-year old who has never held a camera to be your operator. It will
give your movie that completely amateurish touch that festival
screeners will mistake for "reality" and guarantee that even though you
will empty the seats from real people, critics and a small sliver of
the audience who over-intellectualize will scream "genius" because they
won't believe this was just complete amateur-hour.

Once you've done that, buy your ticket to the Festival of Bad Movies
aka Sundance.

What a sad waste.
