
How happy is the blameless vestal's lot! The world forgetting, by the
world forgot. Eternal sunshine of the spotless mind! Each pray'r
accepted, and each wish resign'd. -- Alexander Pope

==> I confess to being an idealist and a romantic. This type of film
appeals to people like me... the ones who believe in love at first
sight, soul mates, destiny, yada yada yada. The Charlie Kaufman penned
'Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind' is as fresh and original as
some of his other screenplays (Being John Malkovich, Human Nature,
Adaptation), but adds a romantic depth that makes this one of the most
complete film going experiences I have ever had.

There was an exchange during the film between our two leads, Joel and
Clementine, played with poignancy and nuance by Jim Carrey and Kate
Winslet, that echoed what I was feeling about the film.

Clementine: This is it Joel. It's going to be gone soon.

Joel: I know.

Clementine: What do we do?

Joel: Enjoy it.

Luckily for me, I knew I was going to be able to revisit the film many
times in my life. The depth of the film manifests itself in the fact
that the soul mates, Joel and Clem, both know that their time is
running out and that they will never be able to meet again.

Most films might choose to highlight this type of heartbreak with the
death of a loved one or a bittersweet farewell at a train station. But
not Charlie Kaufman. He is bored by clichés. Rather, he chooses to
dazzle us with the complexities of the human mind and all of its
glorious possibilities. He is a master storyteller that is unlike any
other I am aware of.

Joel (Carrey) is socially inept. He has had girlfriends, but none that
really meant anything. It is as if he has never had a significant
relationship of any kind. But, one day, he meets Clementine. "Don't
make any jokes about my name", she warns him. She is wild and kooky,
changing her hair color from red to orange to blue to green depending
on her current mood. She seems the polar opposite of Joel, but they
click. They click in ways even they can't pinpoint. But from the moment
they meet, they know there is something special there.

However, after a silly argument breaks up their relationship,
Clementine decides to visit Lacuna Inc., a company that specializes in
wiping troubling memories away forever. She has decided to erase the
memory of Joel. When Joel hears this from some friends, he angrily
decides to do the same to Clementine, erasing her completely from his
mind.

The erasing process involves a mapping of the memories and an all night
process of erasure that is "technically brain damage", according to the
doctor. The bulk of the film takes place during the process, inside
Joel's mind. The most recent memories are first to go and we watch as
they slowly disappear into nothingness. Those recent memories are
bitter as we witness the arguments and the boredom of their
relationship. But as the time rewinds, the memories get better. We
travel backwards and watch Joel and Clem during their best moments,
loving life and loving each other. As this happens, Joel desperately
regrets his decision. He wants the inevitable erasure to stop, but he
is completely powerless. Soon she will be gone and he won't even
remember that he forgot her. The film focuses on his attempts to foil
the process and retain some of her in the recesses of his mind.

'Eternal Sunshine' is directed by Michel Gondry who also helmed 'Human
Nature'. He has a flare that accompanies Kaufman's words with perfect
symmetry. This film bounces around on its timeline almost hysterically,
but the director never lets us get lost. We always feel in control of
our senses and our emotions. It is a tribute to Carrey and Winslet that
they were able to do the same.

Jim Carrey has pulled off a rather remarkable transformation that I
would have deemed impossible a decade ago. He is becoming a brilliant
actor with qualities that resemble Jimmy Stewart and Tom Hanks. He is a
fabulous everyman who is sympathetic and knowing, interesting and kind.
He deserves tremendous praise for this role. Kate Winslet is
consistently brilliant in every film. She is easily one of the very
best actresses we have. Here she plays against type, and embodies a
fascinating woman who craves attention but needs intimacy. Hers is a
beautiful performance that will go overlooked. It is easy to understand
why Joel falls in love with Clementine.

I think fans of Charlie Kaufman will be thrilled with this brilliant
entry in to his collection. I think the film will appeal to those who
loved the recent masterpiece 'Lost in Translation' or Tom Tykwer's
recent beauty, 'Heaven'. It is a romantic fantasy with real emotions
and real characters that will resonate with the viewer who isn't
entirely closed to sentiment. When Clementine whispers "Meet me in
Montauk" into Joel's ear... it's hard to hold back a tear.

This will easily be one of the best films of 2004. It is the antithesis
of the typical romantic Hollywood fare. I loved every minute of its
refreshing originality. The film has passion and flare and brilliant
wit, all framed by an intelligent script that deals in absurdity while
managing to maintain an intimate realism. These characters feel real.
You root for them. You want them to meet again and give it another
chance. It is a film that will only get better over time, as our memory
of it waxes and wanes its way into our hearts.

TC CANDLER
<|_=00=_|>
"How happy is the blameless vestal's lot! The world forgetting, by the
world forgot. Eternal sunshine of the spotless mind! Each pray'r
accepted, and each wish resign'd." - Alexander Pope

Michel Gondry's "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind" is a bizarre
but wonderful movie, a very strange and remarkably tender experience,
which I suppose is only to be expected from screenwriter Charlie
Kaufman, the man behind "Being John Malkovich."

The film was produced by Focus Features ("Lost in Translation," "21
Grams"), a company which strives to offer original, quality films to
the true cinema lovers. If the company keeps producing films this good,
they may become hugely successful in the future, if not already.

The previews portrayed the movie as a bouncy, cheery comedy in the vein
of "Adaptation," the last film written for the big screen by Charlie
Kaufman, when it is really a tender movie about love and romance. This
is Jim Carrey's best performance to date, and may open the eyes of his
prejudiced haters who have only imagined him as Ace Ventura and a
certain cable guy for his entire career. No snippy quotes, outrageous
humor or bizarre antics in "Sunshine" -- Carrey plays a true,
realistic, three-dimensional character named Joel Barrish, who plans to
have memories of his girlfriend, Clementine (Kate Winslet), erased by a
new company called Lacuna, after he discovers that she herself has had
the procedure performed only a week before. Joel meets with the
company's founder, Dr. Howard Mierzwiak (Tom Wilkinson), and is
informed that the procedure -- although "technically" brain damage --
is on par with a heavy night of drinking. "Nothing you'll miss much,"
he is told, as he plunges into a bizarre world of long forgotten
memories.

The entire process of the operation is quite fascinating, really, if a
bit reminiscent of an idea founded by none other than one of Kaufman's
favorite writers, Philip K. Dick, who wrote the source short story for
the Ah-nuld movie "Total Recall." All items relating to the person you
want erased from your brain are assembled together, and the technicians
at Lacuna (Mark Ruffalo and Elijah Wood) then "map" an outline of your
memories, which are supposedly stemmed together. I have my doubts about
the seriousness and remote possibility of such a procedure being
performed, and the explanation is quite simply utter bull, but we don't
care because the entire erasing of Joel's memories serves as a backdrop
for a deeper meaning: If you could forget about past romances, would
you really want to? And if so, would you be willing to sacrifice all
the good ones, along with the bad ones?

The conclusion that "Sunshine" arrives at is, to be totally truthful,
as honest as can be. During the procedure, Joel's subconscious realizes
that it doesn't want to let go of its memories of Clementine, and so
begins a strange labyrinth of fragmented memories, constantly changing
surroundings, and mental materializations of Clementine. The movie is
like a very bizarre dream, when you're trying to interact with people,
but they're not responding, and you shout and try to get their
attention but they don't seem to notice. Joel's entire odyssey of the
interior of his mind makes "Being John Malkovich" look normal -- but as
I didn't like "Malkovich" very much, and thought its strangeness was
unjustified, it fits perfectly in "Sunshine" -- there are some great
special effects, such as when Joel is wandering through his own
memories, drifting in and out of sleep, hearing the voices of the
technicians erasing his memories and watching as objects and areas
around him vanish and deconstruct. It's so bizarre but yet also so
beautiful. Gondry was a former music video director (his complete works
are available on DVD) and he is the perfect candidate for this project,
having worked with Kaufman before on the 2001 flop "Human Nature." It
seems that he has finally found a unique directing style that ties in
perfectly with the underlying themes of the movie.

There is a very deep message in "Sunshine," and it is arguably
Kaufman's deepest film to date. Love and romance and memories of both
have rarely been examined as thought-provokingly and tenderly as they
are in this wonderful motion picture. The movie has a very profound
message that all viewers should pay attention to. There are many small
intricacies in the film, surely picked up on more thoroughly on repeat
viewings, and the entire construction of the movie is completely
enthralling and intelligent. I saw two people leave the rather empty
theater during the screening I attended. It tanked in the US and I
predict it will do the same in the UK, which is a shame, because this
is the smartest film of 2004 and has the most to say about our lives
than any other film this year. While everyone flocks to see the new
Denzel Washington action movie, "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind"
is forgotten, which is quite depressing -- people would rather spend
their money on forgettable entertainment than view something unique
that has something important at its core.

I think what the movie finally asks us after its long, emotional
journey, is would we want our own memories erased? And if so, what
would the consequences be? A lesser film might examine this idea poorly
-- "Sunshine" is not. It is perfect in almost every conceivable way,
and anyone who complains that it is not original must be joking -- in
my entire lifetime, this is one of the most unique film experiences I
have ever had.

"Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind" is a beautiful movie,
eloquently voiced by Gondry, firmly constructed and rooted in an eerie
nightmarish fantasy land where anything is possible. It's beautiful,
it's bizarre, it's exceptional, it's funny, it's lovely, it's touching,
it's witty, and it's one of the best movies I have ever seen.
<|_=00=_|>

If you can relate to the underlying theme of love longed for, love given and
received, and love lost, this is a great film. If you have come to
understand that acceptance can -sometimes- be a great thing and not a
compromise or a 'settle for' - this is a moving film.

As crazy and almost surreal as elements of this film are, it somehow remains
honest and real. That seems like a contradiction... life is contradictory,
isn't it?

Carrey and Winslet both turn in superb performances, as do the supporting
cast.  An incredible film that most of the people who 'get it' will love -
but I suspect there will be more than a small percentage who won't
understand it or can't relate to it and they will (understandably) dislike
it.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie gives us what we all secretly wish for-- a chance to forget
something that's hurt us in the past. The viewer can almost live
vicariously through the two dysfunctional characters that are
remarkably just like ordinary people. The relationship problems are the
same. The little fights and bickers are things we all can relate to.
The acting was amazing- throughout the movie, I actually forgot that I
was watching Mr. Ace Ventura himself. Carrey and Winslet pull off a
great performance, both ditching the typecasts that they've been
shackled with. Not only did the film give us the opportunity to see
what it was like if painful memories were erased, but it also gave us
the opportunity to see that everything deserves a second chance. The
way it ends leaves the viewer to imagine how the characters' lives will
end. The idealist may say that they lived happily ever after; the
pessimist may say that they just reverted to disliking each other
again. Either way, it leaves you to imagining your own ending; a
characteristic many films leave out. Basically, this movie makes you
think, "What if...?" It truly gives new meaning to the phrase "You
never know what you've got until it's gone."
<|_=00=_|>
It happens to both the best and worst of us at some time in our lives.
Love . If you haven't experienced this yet just wait, you will. It is
inevitable that at some time in our journey through life that we will
come across someone that fascinates us so profoundly that we feel as
though we could spend the rest of our lives with this magnetic
individual. There is no exact science to the concept of love. Many
believe that the idea of love goes beyond the reasonable or the logical
to a more diverse level of the illogical, irrational, and the
unreasonable. Why is it that we find ourselves attracted to people
that, on the surface, seem as though they would never be compatible
with our own lifestyle? Why is it that when we do fall in love with a
certain individual and think at first that this is a perfect match, we
find over time that less tolerable marks are more frequent on the
surface? And why is it that we overlook some individuals that, although
at first there is no real 'love connection' per say, we seem to have a
somewhat pure liking for someone and that it takes us longer then it
should to see that person for who they really are to us? Love is a
complicated subject that can't be taught, it can only be experienced
for what it is . utterly confusing and yet at the same time completely
fulfilling.

The story is a twisted and complicated tale from the same man who
brought movie-going audiences such award-savvy features as Being John
Malkovich and Adaptation. Joel Barish seems like the average, normal
guy who stays pretty isolated from communicating his true feelings to
others and yet reveals spectacular insight only to the confines of his
journal. He doesn't like going on impulses and gut feelings but rather
relies more on common sense and the logical sense of self-direction.
That is until he meets Clementine. They flirt with each other and
eventually find themselves falling in love with one another . That is
until one day Joel finds out that Clementine has undergone a radical
procedure to have him erased from her memory because she was unhappy.
So, in an act of self-gratification, Joel decides to undergo the
procedure himself, erasing every argument, every embarrassment, every
thought he has had involving Clementine. But as the procedure goes on,
Joel begins to realize that beyond the quarrels and the less flattering
incidents there were beautiful memories that he never wants to forget.
So he does the unthinkable . Joel attempts to outrun the erasers
through a dizzying chase through his mind. The story for Eternal
Sunshine of the Spotless Mind is hauntingly brilliant and, in some
cases, personally gratifying. The concepts and the feelings expressed
behind the script of this film hit so hard to home that it feels as
though we our seeing our own love lives played out on screen. Granted
Sunshine does tend to veer off into the ridiculously absurd but when
evaluating what one takes away from this film, it is pure genius.

Quite amazingly this low budgeted independent feature showcases a
surprising amount of A-list talent but manages to have those performers
express well beyond their famous names. Jim Carrey, who has
unsuccessfully attempted to make a mark in drama with lead performances
in Man on the Moon and The Majestic, gives a thoroughly convincing and
commanding performance in the role of Joel Barish. And Carrey's
performance is only complimented by his interaction with Kate Winslet,
who acts opposite of him as Clementine. Though the two give
dramatically different personas to their characters and look as if they
would never be quite compatible with each other based on surface
actions, which is the idea the filmmakers are trying to express. It's
not what is right in front of us that should define a relationship; it
is the memories themselves and the experiences of the two individuals.
Elijah Wood, in his first role outside the Lord of the Rings franchise
which recently wrapped up in December, gives an effective performance
as a man one can't help but despise for his methods of obtaining
someone's affection but at the same time feel pity for his plight,
which is that he feels love eludes him. And Kirsten Dunst performs well
within the film despite her appearance that protrudes a sense of
innocence that feels off-base or awkward that distracts from the
actions of her character. Not to say that she doesn't perform well or
that the character is a pointless one, not in the least, but perhaps it
is the fact that her innocence, based on her name and the characters
she has played, carries a stigma with her role.

Overall, Sunshine, as awkward and thoroughly confusing at it may seem
and is, manages to express, in the most informal of ways, the feelings
and thoughts we should all have when examining a relationship, in that
it is not the superficial features but the underlining memories that
make it all worth while. When a relationship hits that unfortunate
moment where it all seems to be breaking down, we, as human beings,
seem to instantly draw ourselves to the negative aspects of that
person, as Joel did early in the procedure, in an attempt of sorts to
make everything right within our mind. What Eternal Sunshine
successfully expresses is that when breaking down the relationship
moment by moment, more often then not the happier events outweigh the
bad and that should be our determining factor to keep the relationship
going. Too many moments are wasted on gut-instincts and logic, when it
comes to love one must live every moment for what it is because we only
have one shot in this world and we might as well make it worthwhile.
What happens if that relationship doesn't work? You pick yourself up,
let the relationship go, and, in time, move on. If you try your best
and nothing seems to work in that relationship then perhaps it will
never work and you shouldn't play out a fantasy that you know will
never be. We have all experienced moments where we feel as though there
is opportunity to ask someone out or express how one feels for a
certain individual but have chickened out due to nerves,
'gut-instincts', or views of superficial matters. Eternal Sunshine
promotes the ideology of living within the present and letting the
course of the matter play out as it may. If we all relied on nerves and
logic, would anyone really fall in love?
<|_=00=_|>
Michel Gondry, credited as the director and co-writer of Eternal
Sunshine of the Spotless Mind, is only partly responsible for the
success that the film achieves. He implements a awe-inspiring blend of
style to a story that is perfectly non-linear. But then there is also
the madman genius of the current screen writing plane- Charlie Kaufman-
who has written three of the most ingenious, funny, and human of
"little" Hollywood movies (Being John Malkovich, Adaptation,
Confessions of a Dangerous Mind). 

He understands, and perhaps likely experienced to a degree, what a
relationship holds to- the truth, to understanding, and then when it
ends, how out memory changes the relationship. Enter in the concept
that makes 'Eternal Sunshine' something of a un-official science
fiction film - the Lacuna corporation, led by Tom Wilkinson's
character, can erase just one person out of your memory, all of the
experiences that you and the significant other had. So, when Joel (Jim
Carrey) goes in to erase his memory of Clementine (Kate Winslet) after
finding out she did just the same, he enters into a mind-warp. He goes
through memories they had, happy ones, sad ones, some that are just
what makes up what you have emotionally with the one you've loved. And
sometimes, and to the behest of the assistants of Lacuna (Kirsten
Dunst, Elijah Wood, Mark Ruffalo), Joel doesn't want them all to be
erased.

As I mentioned, the plot is non-linear, which could've gone the wrong
way if not done with skill. With a film like 21 Grams, which has a
talented director and cast, the non-linear structure isn't necessary.
But it's an asset that the story doesn't start from A to Z. To assist
Gondry with this, he has the extraordinary Ellen Kuras as DP and Valdís
Óskarsdóttir, an editor from Iceland. Their collaboration is crucial
with Gondry and Kaufman (and co-writer Pierre Bismuth), as they bring
all of these un-real images a real quality. Quite simply, there isn't a
finer example of surrealism crossbred with realism in any other
American film so far this year. The usage of lights, cuts, and with the
kinds of special effects not expected (i.e. no CGI), add to the effect
it has on a viewer. That the characters of Joel and Clementine are as
enveloping as they are is also a credit to Kaufman.

But then there's one more part that completes the success of the film -
the acting. Jim Carrey, very simply, is at his very best. He finds a
balance from certain scenes in being like people we see everyday,
feeling low, not much of interest, inward. And then when the memory
erases begin, we get to see him act funny, but not like the kind of
humor he brought with Ace Ventura or Dumb and Dumber. This is Carrey
knowing this character just well enough to play off his counterpart,
played by Winslet. She, meanwhile, is perhaps at her best. Her
character is eccentric, funny, insightful, and wanting. She pulls it
off. As do the supporting actors.

There's not much more I can say about this film, except to say that
even after seeing it three times, I feel like I could watch it over and
over and see a new shot, a new sequence, and new set of emotions tied
to things. It's one of the great romantic dramedies of the decade.
<|_=00=_|>
this is my favorite movie of 2004 and definitely one of the top in my
all-time favorite lists! 

Eternal touched a certain part of you, your heart that most shows never
did. or rather could never did. it shows the fragility of a
relationship. people want to erase bad memories of a failed
relationship yet at the same time, cant bear to part with the good
ones! how so can that be done? how can you erase bad memories and saved
good ones only? Carrey and Winslet did a perfect job acting as Joel and
Clementine respectively. Arguably one of their career best so far. its
a pleasant surprise to see the man behind "The Mask" playing such a
quiet and introvert role. Kate, on the other hand, brought Clementine
to new heights as the bubbly and brutally honest lass who you love and
hate.

Eternal is a definite marvel, a feat in itself. its rich and flamboyant
yet fragile. it brings the audience to such a personal level it hurts.
especially when both cant seem to escape from the erasure.

well-done!
<|_=00=_|>

Of all Kaufman's screenplays that delve into the interior landscapes of
its
characters, Eternal Sunshine is the most fully formed and moving story of
the bunch, a rumination on the possibilities and consequences inherent in
making the process of removing unwanted memories from your consciousness
as
easy as going for a checkup.  Kaufman here plays on our desire to forget
the
bad things that happen to us and what happens when we are given the power
to
forget those things permanently, and the conclusion he arrives at is that
it
ultimately creates as many - if not more - problems than it solves.  At
the
very least, it can result in making the same mistakes again ("Those who
ignore history are doomed to repeat it"); at the worst, it eliminates the
possibility of our ever reconciling and coming to terms with our life
experiences, the way we relate to the people who help to shape our lives
and
whose lives we shape through ours.

The film explores these ideas in a novel and engaging way: by taking the
audience inside the mind of Joel Barish (Jim Carrey), a man who, after
breaking up with his girlfriend Clementine Kruczynski (Kate Winslett),
discovers later that she has had her memory of him wiped clean from her
mind.  He finds out how she had this procedure done and, despondent not
only
about the breakup but even more so about her having completely erased him
from her mind, searches out the doctor who performed the procedure and
signs
up to have the same procedure done to him, so that he may also have no
memory of her.  He is rendered unconscious for the procedure but his
subconscious is still active.   Once the procedure is initiated and he
becomes aware that his memories of the woman he loved - and still loves -
are vanishing from his brain, he starts having second thoughts and wants
the
procedure stopped.  His challenge then becomes to figure out how to
protect
as much of his memory of her as he can, and to find a way stop the
procedure
despite the fact that he is in an unconscious state.

The manner in which he comes to realize and confront his dilemma is played
out entirely within his interior landscape, a realm which (as anyone who
remembers their dreams upon waking from sleep can attest) is a very
surreal
extension of our day-to-day experiences.  Michel Gondry's visual style and
direction works exceptionally well here in conveying the slippery, chaotic
unpredictability of the worlds we construct from our memories and
experiences; the clever interplay between this interior world and the
goings-on of the outside world helps keep the viewer off-balance just
enough
to illuminate the fuzzy line of demarcation separating the two worlds and
the peculiar manner in which they play off one another.

Jim Carrey and Kate Winslett do an exceptional job of bringing this
abstract
story concept to life with characters that are endearing, poignant,
believable and utterly human.  The supporting players are equally
impressive: Tom Wilkinson as the mind-eraser doctor, Mark Ruffalo and
Elijah
Wood as the technicians, Kiersten Dunst as the receptionist all have
relationships to the main protagonists and to one another that come to
light
as the story unfolds and help to propel the plot; as friends of Joel and
Clementine, David Cross and Jane Adams are hilarious as a couple who seem
to
be stuck in the same rut that compelled the protagonists to break up and
have each other erased from their respective minds.  Kaufman juggles all
these relationships masterfully and in such a way as to ensure none of
them
are superfluous to the ideas he is trying to get across in this
story.

While there are elements of the plot that seem to place this movie in the
realm of science fiction, the focus of the movie stays on the interior
states, emotions and relationships between the characters.  As such, the
film is more of a romantic comedy than anything - albeit unlike any other
romantic comedy you're ever likely to see.  I saw a late showing of this
movie with my girlfriend the day it was released at a local multiplex and
there were only 20 or so people in the theater, yet at the film's
conclusion
everyone broke out in a spontaneous round of applause.  This gives an idea
of how compelling this movie can be.  If you give this film a chance to
creep under your skin, you will likely find yourself reflexively thinking
about your feelings toward the important people in your life, as well how
you relate to those feelings, as well as your memories and how you relate
to
them.  A thought provoking, moving and entertaining film - I can imagine
that a working title of this film might have been "Warts And
All."

<|_=00=_|>

After a lukewarm reception in 2001 with "Human Nature", Charlie Kaufman
has
teamed up with director, Michel Gondry again for this romatic fantasy.
With
a name like Jim Carrey, this second collaboration couldn't go wrong in
terms
of box office success, and nor should it as this film is quite simply
brilliant.

"Eternal Sunshine" centres around the life of Joel (Jim Carrey) a shy,
mild
mannered man who is heart broken after splitting from his feisty,
impulsive
girlfriend, Clementine (Kate Winslet). A short while after their split, he
meets her again while she is working at a library and he is stunned to
discover that she doesn't recognise him. He later finds out that the
reason
for this is that Clementine has had her memory of Joel wiped out
completely.
Dr Howard Mierwick (Tom Wilkinson) has performed an operation on her brain
after Clementine visited his clinic to forget Joel. Much to Joel's
distress,
he decides to do the same, but during his operation he revisits memories
of
Clementine that he struggles to let go of.

If anyone was in doubt as to whether Jim Carrey can act, this is the film
that will put all doubt out of the way. He performs with sensitivity and
warmth, never once verging on the manic rubber faced lunacy to which he is
most well known for. Out of all the perfomances where he has stepped into
the dramtic role (The Truman Show, Man on the Moon, The Majestic), this
has
got to be his best yet. Kate Winslet is also brilliant as his
unpredictable,
adventurous girlfriend.

Kaufman's story of a man going into a surreal dream world is not too
dissimilar from his earlier work, "Being John Malkovich". You have off the
wall images such as Carrey re-enacting his 4 year old self along his
journey
in his head. The eccentricity of the story, which is Kaufman's trademark,
once again works excellently. When watching this you generally care for
Carrey and Winslet, in much the same way as Bill Murray and Scarlett
Johansson in "Lost In Translation". Gondry's diection gives a bittersweet
flavour to the tale.

The sub plots involving the supporting characters who are operating are
ingenius. Tom Wilkinson once again proves that he is one of the best
British
actors of his generation and he is backed up by great performnces from
Kirsten Dunst and a post-LOTR Elijah Wood.

This is a lovely film and if you like originality with a sense of fantasy
with a love story, then I suggest you see it. It's one of those films
you'll
want to see twice. 
<|_=00=_|>
Here's the basic plot. Clemintine and Joel have a long, rocky
relationship. Clemintine decides to get Joel erased from her memory, so
Joel decides to do the same, only while Joel is in the process of the
erasing, he comes back around to the really sweet, nice memories, and
realizes that he wants out of the procedure. Now here's what I thought
about it. 

This movie is completely amazing. Totally original story and wonderful
directing. Some of the best directing that i've seen in any movie. Some
of the best original music too. This is in my top five favorites, and
it also boosted Jim Carrey into one of my favorite actors. You know you
have a good movie on your hands when the next day you're still thinking
about parts of it, and you want to see those parts again. If you
haven't seen this, I recommend that you check it out. It's different,
in a really good way. There's not much more to tell you about it. If
you want to see the Ace Ventura Jim Carrey, than you should absolutely
skip this one. But if you want to see a side of him and Kate Winslet
that you've never seen, or if you want to see a total original movie
with wonderful cinematography and really great music, then by all
means, you should absolutely see this one!
