

COUNTRY OF MY SKULL aka IN MY COUNTRY is no masterpiece thats for sure,
but it has been unfairly slaughtered by critics who were expecting
something else entirely.

The film is set against the real life "Truth and Reconcilliation
Commission" set up in South Africa after apartheid in order to begin
the process of healing the wounds of a divided nation.

However this commission is not the subject of the film, it is the
setting. The main drama of the film emanates from the love/hate
relationship between journalists Langston Whitfield (Samuel L.Jackson)
and Anna Malan (Juliette Binoche).

Whitfield, a Washington Post journalist, is sent to South Africa to
cover the hearings. He meets local journalist Anna Malan who is
covering the hearings for radio. She trusts the commission entirely and
believes forgiveness is the only way forward for her country.

Whitfield however places no trust in a system that does not punish. The
pair immediately clash and begin a battle of wills.

however soon the enormity of the evidence they hear draws them together
into an affair.

Boorman is not interested in exploring the TRC as a system or it's
successes and failures. Instead he is more interested in its impact on
his two vastly different protagonists, who must confront issues of race
and gender in their own relationship as much as in their work. This is
the films strength and weakness. It is beautifully intimate yet is set
in a time of great social upheaval which is all but ignored.

The other major problem is that much of the early dialogue sets out to
explain the political and social setting rather than define the
characters. This leads to somewhat inane characterisation.

With Binoche however Boorman has struck it lucky. Her hard work is
evident and although her character is poorly drawn the actresses
understanding of emotion allows us to read much into her performance.
Even her Afrikaans accent is passable. She displays an incredible
tenderness throughout the film. Jackson however does not fair as well,
giving a sullen and almost lethargic performance.

To call COUNTRY OF MY SKULL an utter failure as has been suggested by
some critics is unfair. With his female protagonist and interesting
setting Boorman's sincerity is beyond question and for that alone he
deserves praise.

<|_=00=_|>
I thought this movie did very well in exploring many different
relationships and story lines. Above all, this movie asked all of the
hard questions and brought into light a lot of truth that a lot of
people don't like to look at.

The African sense of justice is about reconciliation, not revenge. By
using the testimonials of several individuals, this movie was very
educational. The healing that was allowed to happen within the process
of reconciliation was very inspirational. Their sophisticated system
made a lot of sense to me, and seems much more advanced than systems
employed where i live in the US.

The relationship between Langston and Anna brought a political story to
a personal level. It was beautiful to see Anna come to terms with her
own sense of responsibility, being a white south African who had known
of the atrocities, but had done nothing to stop them. Langston forced
her to examine her position, but was also there to support her when she
felt crushed by the enormity. Their acting was very convincing and
skillful. I especially loved the scene where Anna attacked Langston,
but thought the actual sex scene could have been more believable.

One character I haven't seen anyone comment on is Anna'a assistant,
Dumi. This character brought the story to yet another level. He was the
classic joker with hidden depths. His character communicated to the
audience that nothing is black or white; nothing is simple; really it's
all endlessly complex.

In fact, this story was anything but one-sided. It showed many masks
that individuals wear in specific situations. It communicated so much
about humanity, both as individuals and as members of a larger society.
I find it quite relevant to my experience as a white American who knows
my government is responsible for the suffering of multitudes at this
moment in time, and I feel responsible and helpless at the same time.

A man who sat behind me in the theater kept telling his girlfriend he
wanted to leave because it was unpleasant. Yes, it is unpleasant, if
you're the type of person who doesn't like to look at reality. But what
I cam away with from the movie was a feeling of awe about humanity's
capacity for compassion.
<|_=00=_|>

Country of My Skull had its world premiere at the 2004 Berlin Film
Festival.

One of the most eagerly awaited films of the year, coming from veteran
director John Boorman, has turned out to be a major disappointment. In
retrospect it is not hard to see why, it should have been predicted, but
the
fascinating subject matter made it seem like Boorman was going to give us
that rare treat - a balanced political drama, with insight and
intelligence.

The problems with Country of My Skull all originate with the screenplay.
It
is loosely based on the novel of the same name by Antjie Krog. However
Krog's novel was a non-fiction account of South Africa's Truth and
Reconciliation Commission (TRC) set up in the aftermath of Apartheid. The
screenplay by Ann Peacock is a mere fiction where a lacklustre romance
takes
precedence over the main events.

Samuel L Jackson stars as Langston Whitfield a New York Times journalist
who
has been sent to South Africa to write a feature on the TRC. Here he meets
Afrikaans poet and Journalist Anna Malan played by Juliette Binoche. At
first the pair clash over their very different attitudes but as the real
life accounts of torture and suffering inflicted during the Apartheid
regime
are recounted their attitudes towards each other soften and they fall in
love even though both are married.

This is my biggest issue with the film. Peacock and Boorman for some
utterly
unknown reason have seen fit to invent a romance between the protagonists.
This fictional romance muddles the intent of the film and belittles the
very
serious nature of a body such as the Truth and Reconciliation commission.
I
also have problems with the use of the American journalist. While he is
obviously used in the screenplay as an outsider to explain the aim of the
TRC to us, the uninitiated viewers, his reaction to what he is hearing is
hard to credit.

Malan and Whitfield spend the first part of the film literally sparring
over
every aspect of the TRC. To him, any commission that doesn?t punish the
perpetrators of such crimes is worthless, while for her reconciliation is
more important. She is horrified by what she hears about a country she is
passionate about. This should make for very interesting drama. However the
dialogue between the pair is utterly ridiculous and often sounds more like
two politically correct politicians than supposedly intelligent
journalists.
It is idealistic, unnatural and even risible.

As part of his assignment Whitfield tracks down the Apartheid police chief
De Jaeger played by Brendan Gleeson. Whitfield conducts a series of
interviews with this man, which are meant to illustrate the pure evil of
the
Apartheid regime, however the character as written by Peacock and played
by
Gleeson is more like an out and out Nazi baddie than a credible
perpetrator
of such crimes. Boorman has spiced these interviews throughout the film.
They are distracting and somewhat simplistic.

All too often the film takes pedestrian material and adorns it with
simplistic political motives. The use of a flat tyre and a local bar give
Malan and Whitfield a chance to spend time together and soften towards
each
other as they embark on an affair which becomes the centre of the film. It
is hard to credit that this would happen. Why Boorman and Peacock have
done
this is beyond me. The type of audience that would see this movie surely
does not need romance to actually enjoy a film.

The only place the film scores any kudos is in the courtrooms of the TRC
where horrifying evidence is recounted to a nation. However as the other
parts of the film are so weak it is easy to be cynical about these
sequences
as they seem over manipulative and again badly written dialogue is a major
stumbling point. Their content is however undeniably powerful.

Jackson and Binoche, fine actors when given the correct material, struggle
with unforgiving roles. Both characters are under-written and remote.
Jackson?s change of heart about events is hard to credit. Binoche
struggles
with an Afrikaans accent (sometimes doing surprisingly well for someone
who
is not a native English speaker). However her character is not well
defined
and is constantly laden down with the worst dialogue.

Certainly Boorman and Peacock?s intentions were genuine, but the
screenplay
should have focused entirely on the TRC, allowing the drama to emanate
from
that. Instead we are given a rather insipid love story that reduces the
impact considerably. In doing this Boorman has failed to use his excellent
cast to anything like their full potential and has undermined the whole
project. A lot more work on the screenplay and this had the makings of a
wonderful film.

<|_=00=_|>
I am not a big fan of romances, but in this case I gave it a try
because of director John Boorman ["Excalibur," "The Emerald Forest,"
"Hope & Glory, "Deliverance"] and actors Samuel L. Jackson ["Coach
Carter," "Star Wars: Episodes 2 & 3," "The Red Violin"] and Juliette
Binoche ["Chocolat," "The English Patient," and the 1992 remake of
"Wuthering Heights"].

This film was in the better half of Boorman's, while Jackson and
Binoche gave top-notch performances. The supporting role of Dumi,
played by Menzi Ngubane was excellent, as he acted both as foil and
antagonist between the couple.

I think the weakest elements of this film are in screenwriter Ann
Peacock's dialogue and in the construction of the Anna Malan and
brother Boetie characters. The first for taking on just a little too
much burden of responsibility, especially in one somewhat
uncharacteristic scene at one of the hearings with a particularly gory
testimony, and the latter for being incomplete when a key development
occurs that should have played more into the storyline and into Anna's
reactions.

From what I've heard about the book by Antje Krog, I can understand why
anyone who had read it before seeing this movie might be disappointed,
but it was certainly clear to me by the marketing that this was a
romance and not a cinematic litany of the horrors of Apartheid.

Given the turbulent background of Apartheid and the South African Truth
& Reconciliation Commission proceedings, along with other clues, I was
also expecting this to be an adversaries-fall-in-love story, which is
the type of romance that I like the most. The collective incidents
which drive Anna and Langston together are neither contrived or turgid,
and fall comfortably in between, especially because they are juxtaposed
with events based in reality. There is one most significant turn at one
of the hearings, which, given it is true, would bring any two
adversaries together, in peace if not in love.

I don't want to give away anything about the extent of their romance,
except to say that how it ended up was a pleasant surprise and quite
satisfactory. I wish I could recommend two other good romances that end
so similarly and satisfactorily, but I would give away the surprise.

This film is certainly worth a rental or two, worth showing to friends,
but I suppose the disturbing nature of the background events might keep
some people from buying it for their home library, but if you bought a
copy of "American History X," I think you might want to buy this one.
<|_=00=_|>
John Boorman, an interesting film maker, takes us to South Africa after
Apartheid. Right after the country underwent the big change during the
last decade of the last century, a commission was formed in order to
hear the atrocities that were committed by the old regime, as the
victims, and their families, were invited to come forward and speak to
the panel that was investigating. The film is based on a novel by
Antjie Krog, but not having read it, one can't really give an opinion
about how true the film is to the novel.

"In my Country", the movie based on this book in its American release,
came and went quickly. We tried to see it during its debut, bu it
disappeared from local screens in no time. We recently caught the movie
on cable.

There are some interesting aspects of what the commission was trying to
accomplish in trying to bring members of the repressive force to
justice. As in other conflicts, the people that were involved in the
atrocities keep repeating about how they were following orders, a poor
excuse, since no one owned up to having done anything wrong. After all,
this was a country in which a white minority controlled a big black
majority, and who wanted to keep things unchanged.

At the center of the story is Anna Malan, a white South African, who is
a radio personality. She follows the commission as more and more people
are coming forward to tell their stories. A Washington Post black
reporter, Langston Whitfield, is also covering the process. Inevitably,
both come together. While they clash at first, they find common ground
in their desire to tell the truth about South Africa.

Juliette Binoche and Samuel L. Jackson are seen as Anna and Langston.
Both give good performances. Brendan Gleeson is seen as the evil De
Jager, a man responsible for some of the crimes committed against the
poor black of the country who were deemed terrorist by the controlling
whites. Menzi Ngubone plays Dumi, Anna's assistant and Sam Ngakone
makes a dignified appearance as Anderson, who works for Anna's family.

The film is interesting to watch as Mr. Boorman has given us a film to
think about the criminal acts that were committed by a group of people
that didn't stop to consider the consequences of what they were doing.
<|_=00=_|>
Director John Boorman has taken on a weighty and incendiary subject,
much like Terry George's recent take on genocide in "Hotel Rwanda."
Although "In My Country" is set post-Apartheid, it still covers a hot
topic: what do you do with the people that are to blame when a genocide
occurs? President Nelson Mandela formed a commission to get at the
truth and in return for that information he was offering amnesty for
those government officers that were only 'following orders'. An amazing
precedent to say the least.

However, director Boorman has chosen to balance the emotional testimony
of the victims with a sometimes humorous side-story involving an
American journalist, played by the great Samuel L. Jackson ("Coach
Carter") and a local 'white' radio reporter, played by the equally
great Juliette Binoche ("The English Patient").

Certainly, a story of this import deserves a documentary but as it
stands, this is as close as any American will ever get to this story
since many newspapers buried it when it originally occurred. Racism is
an ugly thing, but forgiveness is a beautiful thing and this movie
balances the two in an effective and entertaining manner.

Check this one out, especially if you are a fan of "Hotel Rwanda" and
hearing the 'truth' for a change.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this film with 2 buddies of mine. One was a Native South
African, the other is engaged to one, and I studied for a year in Cape
Town.

I was not the most spectacular film in the world, but it did contain
truth. It told a worthwhile story that shouldn't be forgotten. It was
not entertainment, but a captivating lesson in history.

My friends and I are normal. We are not emotionally unstable, nor are
we socially inept. We cried so hard during this movie that when the
credits began rolling people asked us if we were OK. Not everyone was
affected the way we were. I suppose that we just miss Africa.

If you're into this sort of movie, it's worth the rental.
<|_=00=_|>
Country of My Skull manages to address a subject that no Hollywood film
has touched, to my knowledge. Jackson's character navigates the anger
and frustration any black person would feel about the situation of
racist South Africa (where to this day the tiny white population owns
an overwhelming majority of the land) during the Truth and
Reconciliation Commission, and his respect for a white South African,
played by Binoche.

It is interesting that while Jackson is assigned by the Washington Post
to report on the Commission, he has to struggle to make the headlines
in the United States even though it is an important issue. I think this
says quite a lot about our free press.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of the worst examples of the Hollywood dumb-down syndrome.

Made on a shoestring budget and in what looks like about 3 months from
inception to release, it is a cheap and cynical film.

The book by Antjie Krog is a must-read: A deeply moving relating of the
TRUE experiences related to the Truth and Reconciliation Commission,
and Ms Krog's very personal reactions to it. It's not fiction.

But by mixing silly fictional stories (such as midnight investigation
of torture cells, carjackings, etc) with the genuine tragedies, the
real stories have been cheapened and one wonders which is real and
which is made up. This is a gross dismissal of the real pain of the
victims and their families, and the real evil of the perpetrators.

The problems with this movie are never ending, and include: 

1. Script - very badly written. Storyline was dumbed down with the
inclusion of fictional issues, dialogue is atrocious.

2. Direction - probably the worst of Boorman's career.

3. Lighting - looks like they could only afford 1 klieg and used it all
the time to get maximum value.

4. Acting - Binoche's accent kept slipping (why they couldn't use a
South African for the role is a puzzle), support actors were in the
main poor, Jackson was just OK.

6. Sound - not even up to the standard of a first-year film school
project.

8. Editing - bits and pieces picked up off the editing room floor and
glued together. It looks like a first cut, and it probably was.

7. Production - the producers must ultimately take the blame for this
abortion. They took a deeply moving, thoughtful and true book and
turned it into a bad b-movie without the car chases and explosions.

READ THE BOOK, and avoid the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Country of My Skull/ In My Country was a movie I watched only this week
on TV and I thought it was an intelligent look at Truth and
Reconciliation in South Africa through the eyes of a male black South
African, an Afrikaan woman and a male black American which was a very
interesting comparison. It showed that life and oppression has various
shades of grey. The movie showed the oppressors that were really not
repentant and rationalized and mouthed the words hoping to avoid
retribution and those who were truly sorry. It put forth the argument
that all the whites that did not speak out against the Apartheid regime
and its policies were also guilty and profited from it. The movie then
let the audience see that the Afrikaan writer, Binoche came from an
Afrikaan family that had treated the black South Africans with respect
and dignity yet had also profited from being a member of the privileged
ruling class. Finally, in a sudden twist Dumi's death added another
dimension to the story showing us that some black South Africans were
not willing to forgive their own people. It also begs the question that
inaction and actions are often motivated by fear and if we have not
lived with this kind of daily fear then can we judge? The movie does
not give us any easy answers. A movie for us all which will hopefully
stretch our minds and broaden our perspective.
