
This movie is absolutely horrible. The magnitude of its suck is
unbelievable. The characters in the movie are very poorly developed so
when you are quickly put into a silent emotional scene, you're left
unaffected. The movie takes place in the future so they add in all
kinda of high-tech gadgets that are so stupidly unrealistic it makes
you laugh. They try to incorporate unbelievable advanced technology
with a more modern day looking setting so the two aspects clash. They
can make weapons materialize in their hands but their form of infection
control is still rubber gloves. The plot itself is kind of hard to
follow and doesn't seem to make any sense at times. How vampires fit
into the movie, i have no idea.I signed up to IMDb for the sole purpose
of warning anyone who wants to see this movie. This movie was horrible
and do not waste a dime on this movie. The only delight i got from this
movie is watching the fine Milia Jovovich dance around in skin tight
outfits. I cannot stress how awful this movie is. Don't waste your time
or money on this film!
<|_=00=_|>
Ultraviolet was embarrassingly terrible on so many levels. My husband
and I usually really dig the comic book and action movies, so I think
that our expectations were reasonable for the genre. The kinds of
movies that Ultraviolet tried to channel were X-Men, The Matrix and
Underworld. Unfortunately, this movie failed to do so.

1) Dialogue was laughably bad. One of Milla's lines was actually
"Because these beautiful moments turn evil when they're over." What??
This was regarding a romantic pass made at her. Totally incongruous
with the setting. 2) Excessive use of CGI is a personal irritant.
Additionally, the motorcycle chase scenes were only one step above
TRON. I might as well have been watching my 11 year old neighbors play
some video game. 3) Zero character development. I didn't care about
Violet, the french guy, the scientist guy, the pretty boy, or the evil
nose filter guy. I didn't care about their individual goals (mainly
because they weren't very clear). I didn't care about characters dying,
and I didn't care about the revelation at the end; the only indicator
that I had that it was important was her somewhat awed reaction.

To be fair, Milla Jovovich has an incredible face and body and is
well-suited for fight scenes. If all-CGI, all-the-time is your thing,
then you'll be thrilled with the loads of glossed-over fight scenes
involving Milla and hordes of green screen baddies. If you're like our
entire theater, you're bored. Really, fake fights just don't impress
me.
<|_=00=_|>
The worst part about Ultraviolet is that it has THREE genres of movies
to compete with. People will compare it to the blockbusters of Sci-Fi
movies, Martial Arts movies, and Heroine movies. It will have a tough
time trying to stand out when people will inevitably compare it to HUGE
movies like Crouching Tiger, The Matrix, Kill Bill, Underworld, etc.

Let's remember that Ultraviolet had a relatively small budget, and yet
it did quite a bit with it. With all that said, let me say a few words,
good and bad ones, on Ultraviolet.

Yes, the story in Ultraviolet is its weakest point. The problem is in
the lack of emotional attachment to the characters, the odd choice and
delivery of lines (although you can't deny how great the "It is on."
line is), and the strange dream-like stuff it goes into at times.

A lot of the themes in this movie are very fleeting, maybe because
they've just been done so often, they need no emphasis. There's one
particular story element that you might miss ENTIRELY if you didn't pay
attention during one shot. That's how little emphasis there is on story
in this movie. The plot is also a little hard to follow at times
because it jumps around.

It's strange to see so little emphasis on the story when we know from
Equilibrium that Kurt Wimmer is very capable of writing a good story.
It makes me wonder if the lack of story was intentional or not, but the
unfortunate bottom line is that it hurts this movie.

So what saves this movie? Why 8 out of 10? If we were interested in
movies only for their story, we wouldn't be interested in movies at
all...we would all read books instead.

Yes, a movie is defined as picture and sound. In that case, Ultraviolet
is quite an amazingly interesting picture and sound.

Ultraviolet sacrifices story for a very visceral picture and oodles of
style. I haven't seen a movie that looks this COOL in a long time. It
really reminds me of the type of style that 60's sci-fi movies were
going for- very robust in color and costumes, but modernized and
expanded for our time. It's certainly a very nice departure from the
typical and BORING space station/stainless steel/green look of modern
sci-fi.

The action is kick-ass, applause-worthy at times...although I'll admit
that I've seen a bit better from similarly-budgeted movies ("Versus"
comes to mind). They could've had some more variety to it (like maybe
some better/badder foes), but considering who and what they were
working with, I think they did a good job.

Another big strength of the movie is the very cool concepts.
Color-changing outfits, gravity belts, disposable paper cellphones,
crazy ninjas that drop out of planes like giant pinballs, and entire
weapon arsenals stored in wrist devices. All of it with
designer-quality fashion to it. You can tell where the budget went in
this movie. Like I said, it's an older, weirder, more stylish sense of
sci-fi that you don't see very often these days. In fact, a lot of this
movie can be defined as set-pieces more so than a single flowing
experience.

True, their ability to execute some of these ideas (specifically, the
motorcycle chase) is limited by their budget. I think it can be
overlooked, though. Some rough edges on CG never hurt anybody...anybody
that wants to whine about the graphics really doesn't want to
appreciate the movie for what it is.

Overall, I enjoyed this movie, more so for its visuals, music, concepts
and set-pieces than for its story or characters. It's really quite
interesting to look at. There are more moments in this movie that make
me think 'awesome!' than in all of The Matrix trilogy. If this movie
isn't a success, then I hope it at least inspires the movie that does
get this particular formula just right.
<|_=00=_|>
Kurt Wimmer who wrote and directed Equilibrium, which imho is a great
movie, failed miserably to repeat his former success. The idea's behind
the movie had visible potential but unfortunately the execution was
extremely poor. Bad acting, a confusing and altogether nonsensical
story line, and most of all bad writing really killed this one for me.
This movie seemed more like a commercial for CGI than anything else.
The CGI however was excellent (except for the last scene, I guess they
ran out of money)and probably the most interesting part of the movie.
The action which is why I saw the movie suffered from repetition: from
the characters, to the setups (Violet is being attacked when she is
out-numbered), to the moves, unnecessary sword fighting when they have
guns with bullets, unnecessarily repetitive situations (big circle
everyone attacks at once and violet wins with ease no challenging
battle), and a lack of depth. Kurt really missed the mark, better luck
next time.
<|_=00=_|>
I had hopes for this movie based on the trailer, but it turned out to
be one of the worst I've ever seen.

The special effects range from mediocre to kinda cool, but the plot is
too sketchy and absurd to justify their existence. Milla Jovovich's
hair and jacket change colors for no discernible reason throughout the
film. I think the pretty colors are supposed to distract us from the
incoherent script, but it doesn't work. The Sky Captain-style
post-processing just makes everything look blurry. (And why is it
applied to only half the shots?) Just about everything in this movie is
borrowed from something else, and it's slapped together on the thinnest
of premises and tarted up with lots of CGI. When there's a break from
the ridiculously-choreographed action sequences, the audience is
bludgeoned with nonsensical subplots and indescribably awful dialogue.
By the time the heroine met the villain in their final showdown, the
audience in my theater was laughing out loud.

If you appreciate Milla Jovovich's body, it might be possible to enjoy
this film by renting the DVD and watching it with the sound off and
your techno MP3 collection blaring in the background while you do
something productive, like picking the gunk out from beneath your
toenails. Or you could spare yourself the pain and just get The Fifth
Element instead.
<|_=00=_|>
The film Ultraviolet is a great premise and has some props here and
there but it's a near complete failure of a film. WHY? Because of the
studio that green light this movie. Information has been exposed that
writer/director Kurt Wimmer's vision of the film was cut by the studio
by over 30 minutes, 30 minutes that are actually very important to the
story, characters and action. So wait for this film to come out on DVD,
because the shorten 88 minute verison of the film will totally
disappoint everyone. Give this film a chance, when the director's cut
comes out, I will Milla Jovovich was very sexy and bad ass in this
film, hopefully she will continue to do such films.
<|_=00=_|>
It is a little difficult to imagine why this film was released in its
current form. It has some potential, the action sequences look a little
mundane as we have seen it all before but they are quick and effective.
The story is quirky enough to be interesting and some of the backdrops
look good.

The problem is, Ultraviolet neither makes sense nor holds together as a
film. Huge chunks of action and story seem to have been lost on the
cutting room floor. The film is left overloaded with the expensive bits
that had already been paid for. Lots of sweeping city-scapes and shots
of Mila walking down corridors don't make a film.

It reminds me of other Japanese live action Manga smash-ups (See
Kasshern etc). The problem is that Japanese films have every right not
to make sense and be completely over the top, as it is what they do
best. Unfortunately, due to a westernised need for slight reality,
Hollywood have attempted same thing and ended up with a cheap looking
film with a poor script stuck together with a bunch of crap one liners.
<|_=00=_|>
Personally, I love Milla. Even in this, she's still Milla. She's hot,
she's fit and she handles the 'tough' role well. I hold the director
responsible for bringing it all together. Personally, I didn't
'dislike' this movie. It reminds me of Doom. With the right budget, the
right director and time, it could have been the best film of the year.
Otherwise, it will leave you feeling like something's been left out.
What I liked was the fact I went for a cheesy, mass-action, campy,
comic-book/video game movie. I expected fighting, explosions,
gratuitous scenes with some nudity and a minimal plot. No, this isn't
plot intensive like Silent Hill. (Again, an underlying feature that
could have been better handled). So, if you're like me, and you enjoy
seeing Milla do her thang, faceless soldiers being under mass slaughter
and needless, gratuitous violence, then this is the film for you. Of
course, I look for this type of movie only once per year. Just as a
break from everything else. The quota has been filled!
<|_=00=_|>
The theater version cut out too much. You have to get the DVD version
to truly see how it was meant to be seen.

After putting in the disc, there is a secret code you have to enter to
enable the full viewing. First select special features. You will see a
couple of menu options. You have to go to the option called "Commentary
with Mila Jovovich", and then select on. Then return to the main menu
and start the movie.

I did this, and I have never laughed so hard.

If you had any trouble understanding the intensely deep flowery poetry
that made up most of the dialog in the movie, you will be relieved at
how simple Mila makes it for you in the commentary with lines like
"This part was so unbelievable. I mean, it was just something like so
out there, and so hard to believe. It was difficult to believe, and so
it was so unbelievable." or "Woooooooooooooo! Kachew! Kachew!" At
times, Mila may seem to go silent for 5 minutes or so. Don't worry, it
isn't your DVD player. Mila is just waiting for something to happen in
the movie so that she can talk about. Later on she will fill these dead
spots with more "Wooooooo! and Kachew Kachew Kachew!'s".

There is even some cameo commentary from her two maltese dogs (or
something like that) that she brought with her. They bark with cute
little "yip yips!", and then Mila takes some time to coddle and coo
over them while the movie continues in the background.

She does her best to try to remember what the director told her about
each scene and what was going on. She really loves Flatspace
technology. I mean REALLY loves it. You have no idea how much she wants
Flatspace technology.
<|_=00=_|>
Well I have officially wasted 88mins of my life on a movie. I have
always been open minded to movies. Some have bad acting, errors... etc.
I try to put myself into the mind of a lead character and live the
movie, turning my mind off to enjoy what's on the screen. I sat down
with my popcorn to enjoy a movie that I could care if it had a plot. I
was in a mood to see action. Well...... I can't even say I was
impressed with even that. This movie had the entire theatre sitting
there with a deer in the headlights expression and we all were thinking
WTF???? Those that I did know there said they couldn't leave because,
like me, they thought it had to get better... We were wrong. I would
love to be vindictive and tell everyone to go see this movie. I wasted
my money and time... why should I be alone in that. Truthfully, I can't
be that mean to even my most hated enemy. If you are going for any
reason... at least Milla looks good in her outfits, and the outfits are
cool.
