

In the age of Matrix, I Robot, A.I., Minority Report, etcetera. ain't
easy to find adventure-movies made in the old style: the good guy, the
very bad guy, the girl, and a happy ending ... Well, this is what
Hidalgo offers us.

Viggo Mortensen's character is a cowboy specializing in long distance
horse races, he and his horse (Hidalgo, a Mustang) are just unbeatable.
So some arabian skeikh (Omar Sharif) sends for him to take part in the
biggest horse race in the world (4.800km long, through the Arabian
desert) to prove that Mortensen's non-thoroughbred horse is not as good
and resistant as arabian horses. That's the starting point. And from
that moment on we will witness a marvelous adventure through the desert
in which the starring will have to face all kind of difficulties and
traps. As I've said: and old style adventure movie. No absurd and
meaningless special effects, no absurd and unbelievable plots, and no
pretensions but to make the audience have a good time. And no doubt Joe
Johnston achieves that: the movie is 136 minutes long but you don't
feel tired nor boring in any moment. The rhythm is just great and well
measured. The photography and the landscapes are just astonishing; and
the work of Mortensen is so remarkable. He seems to be the perfect heir
to those actors specializing in adventure movies just like Harrison
Ford, though Mortensen's characters (Hidalgo, LOTR) usually are a
little more darker than Ford's. 

My rate: 8/10

<|_=00=_|>

I've read some pretty disparaging comments about this movie that make
me wonder what on earth was so bad? Let's see, there were objections
over the predictability of the plot, the stereotyping, the music and on
and on. People need to relax and enjoy this movie as entertainment
only. I personally thought it was one of the nicest new releases I'd
seen.

I know this was another movie about the underdog winning against all
odds but I like this kind of movie. I thought the screenplay was
admirable in it's restraint not having the main character even kiss the
two women involved. The music was very moving and beautiful.

Perhaps some people have become so jaded that a movie simply isn't
complete unless there's a helicopter chase, an exploding car or two (or
in this case, a wagon), a trip to the nearby strip club with the
flashing lights(where all characters in search of answers seem to end
up at), gratuitous sex scenes, oh yeah, don't forget to use the 'F'
word and while we're at it: let take God's name in vain a few times for
the sake of 'realism'.

Hollywood needs to make more movies like this.

<|_=00=_|>
OK: so what makes a film a "10"? For me, every scene has to work. Would
I take out any scenes? If so, then the flick isn't a 10. Also, does
each scene move the story forward? If this is seamlessly done, then all
the better. "Hidalgo" not only does this; but it does so easily, and
unobtrusivesly, with the sense that the lead actor (Vigo Mortensen) is
the vehicle for an ongoing, and interesting, story ... and what a story
it is! Just as with the film Apollo 13, the fact that the story is
based on real history and fact makes the story-telling more than a good
tale. It tells us something worth remembering.

Did I mention that this is a rippingly good story? Did I mention that
all of the actors are compellingly good ... including the horse
(Hidalgo)? Did I mention that this movie transcends facile
categorization (Western, Adventure, Drama, etc.?) This is just a damned
good, under-appreciated movie.

The bonus material on the DVD is worthy of inclusion in a course on
Western Civilization (a course that I've taught several times)? See
this for yourself. I doubt that you'll be disappointed. In fact, I
think that you'll recognize this as equal to such under-appreciated
films such as "King of Hearts" and "Kasper Hauser" ... films that
you'll be proud to own and to show to your friends.
<|_=00=_|>
An excellent, epic tale. This is not a fast-paced film; rather, think
of it as story unfolding before your eyes, so sit back and enjoy the
ride. There's plenty of adventure along the way, and I shed a few tears
as well. It is a moving narrative. 

Viggo Mortensen plays the lead character, Frank T. Hopkins, with
aplomb, humor, humility, and spunk. Hidalgo, his painted mustang, plays
his part well, also! Hopkins is a cowboy/Pony Express rider with a
heritage that he holds to himself and is revealed in time. Especially
heart-wrenching is the Battle of Wounded Knee. More massacre than
battle, it had a profound and personal impact on Hopkins' life.

In the legendary 3,000-mile Ocean of Fire race across the sands of the
Arabian desert, Hopkins and his horse must face treachery and the cruel
desert elements in an endurance race that pushes man and beast to their
limits. If you like horses, adventure, and epic films, this is a movie
for you. 

Expect moments of triumph and humor that make you laugh and cheer, as
well as moments of tragedy. It is a story beautifully told and
carefully crafted, though not without mistakes. 

A few scenes could have been edited to preserve the epic feel while
maintaining the film's pace. At certain points it was natural for the
film to slow down, but it should not have been allowed to slow down to
the point of stalling. However, in defense of the filmmakers, they were
successful in capturing the tedium, beauty and peril of crossing a
desert in a 3,000-mile race, and it gave viewers a real feeling for
what it might be like to make such a journey. 

The relationship Frank T. Hopkins has with his horse in this movie is
especially touching, and is perhaps the highlight of the film. 

Supporting roles by the rest of the cast were outstanding. Omar Sharif
was amazing as always. Even the smallest actors shone in their parts.

Mr. Mortensen's diverse talents, including his aptitude for learning
languages (Lakota/Sioux in this case), his own horseback riding skills,
and his versatility as an actor made him a perfect fit for this part.
Mr. Mortensen's book, Miyelo, which sprang from this movie, is a fine
choice for anyone who wants to see a sampling of Mr. Mortensen's
outstanding photography. 

Frank T. Hopkins remained a staunch advocate of the wild Mustang horse
until his death. Keep in mind that the real Frank T. Hopkins was known
for his weaving of tall tales; thus, the "legendary" Ocean of Fire
race.

A highly recommended movie.
<|_=00=_|>

Hidalgo is one of those movies that comes along once in a blue moon.  This
is a movie NOT to be missed.

Viggo Mortensen's portrayal of a gentle, laid-back cowboy hearkens back to
the golden age of cinema and would make the likes of Gary Cooper proud!  His
subtle blend of virtue such as honor, honest and pride - without being the
least bit preachy, make watching his performance an utter
joy.

All of the actors are brilliant in their roles, especially the one in the
title role!  Hidalgo is clever and entertaining without being unbelievable
as many animal movies are these days. You won't find him standing on his
hind legs and doing the hokey-pokey, but his talents are very evident and he
becomes a hero that we all love before the end of the movie.

One of the best parts of this movie is the fact that it is a movie by
grownups for grownups, although it carries enough action and suspense that
kids will probably like it to.  Absent, however is the sickeningly sweet
"kids scenes" that we simply cannot get away from in movies today.  No
charming close ups of dimple-faced waifs.  No little wise-mouthed child
prodigies - nothing but good old fashioned grown-up fun!  How
refreshing.

You will be happy to know that the ending isn't as predictable as it could
have been.  Although falling into the "happy" category (of course), there
are poignant moments and you might shed a tear.  

One other aspect of this film which I found intriguing is the issue of
examining and accepting who we are.  It was very well done and meaningful. 

Overall this film is easily a 10+.  Please see it
<|_=00=_|>
The picture talks upon Frank Hopkins (Viggo Mortensen) a real cowboy
who participated with his horse called ¨Hidalgo¨ in an extraordinary
racehorse : ¨ Oceans of fire¨, a 3.000 mile survival race across the
risky Arabian desert . He'll take on ominous Arab riders and many
dangers . The confrontation will be terrible and he'll face off
imposing winds , locust plague , quicksands... though he'll love an
Arab princess (Zuleikha Robinson) , Sheik's daughter (Omar Shariff) too
. The film is based on historic deeds and famous people , thus : the
¨Wounded Knee slaughter¨ (1890) ; besides , there appears : Buffalo
Bill Cody (J.K.Simmons) , Annie Oakley (Elizabeth Berridge) and Indian
chiefs: Eagle Horn (Floyd Red Crow Westerman) , Sitting Bull , Crazy
Horse and Big Foot . The final duel amongst the horsemen is
breathtaking and overwhelming .

This moving motion picture blends adventures , action , a love story ,
emotions and results to be pretty amusing . From the beginning to end
the adventure-action is unstoppable , it's fast moving and for that
reason packs a lot of entertainment . The final horse scene was filmed
in Browning, Montana , 550 different horses were used in that scene ,
the horses all came from different owners, so to tell them apart, their
hooves were branded . Sets and production design are spellbinding and
the Oriental landscapes are mesmerizing . Special effects (FX) by
Industrial Light and Magic ILM (George Lucas's ownership) are top-notch
, as especially the impressive digital storm . The movie was well
directed by Joe Johnston , including Shelly Johnson's riveting
cinematography and James Newton Howard's fascinating musical score .
The film obtained success at box office around the world and United
States was number one . The flick will appeal to Oriental adventure
enthusiasts and Viggo Mortensen fans . Rating : Very good , well worth
watching .
<|_=00=_|>
Here's an "epic" movie that reminded me of those that were made in the
mid 1960s such as Dr. Zhivago and Lawrence Of Arabia. Interesting to
note that Omar Sharif was in this modern-day movie and Dr. Zhivago. The
only problem is the Liberal bias in here, which is brutal.

Several younger friends that saw this film told me they were very
disappointed because, thanks to the previews, they thought it would be
an action-packed adventure story such as "The Mummy." Well, it wasn't
and it was way too slow for them.

Frankly, I thought the "slow" parts were the best and overall, thought
the film had just the right amount of action, instead of overdoing it
as the recent Mummy pictures did. Another big plus was the
cinematography. This is a beautifully filmed movie, stunning in some
parts. Another good point is the language: hardly a swear word.

On the negative side, there was the usual political correctness, a la
Dances With Wolves in which viewers are reminded several times of the
massacre at Wounded Knee and soldiers are portrayed as the bad guys.
The horse race had some credibility problems, too, as "Hidalgo" came
back from the dead not once but twice to race like Secretariat! 

Anyway, if you are looking for a modern-day adventure story with
old-fashioned storytelling and no language problems, this film is for
you and the rest of the family.
<|_=00=_|>
I just wanted to state that this movie is very enjoyable, no matter how
many times I watch it. I am impressed in how the filmmaker portrayed
the very sensitive topic of the Wounded Knee Massacre! It was handled
tactfully and with sincere empathy! Additionally this film shows an
American traveling overseas! He learns of new customs and great
differences in cultures. No matter what situation he finds himself in,
he is courteous, polite and he accepts that these are the customs of
these people! He doesn't try to change the people or push his ways on
them, he knows he is a guest in this country and as that, he is
downright charming! It is refreshing to see people carry themselves
well and with honor, rather than being the "wild Americans" foreign
countries have come to expect us to be! Well done Viggo, Joe Johnston
and John Fusco!
<|_=00=_|>

A great action/adventure movie! I was surprised at just how good it was, as
it has received so little attention. Viggo Mortensen of Lord of the Rings
plays Frank Hopkins, a real-life cowboy, although probably much
fictionalized in this movie. He is a half-breed, part Native American and
part white. In the film's prologue, he works for the cavalry and witnesses
the massacre of his people at Wounded Knee. The event scars him and he
becomes a lush. For some easy money, he and his horse, Hidalgo, enter
Buffalo Bill's roadshow. Hidalgo is so famous that a sheik has sent a
servant to invite him to participate in a race across the Arabian desert,
which he accepts, it being a better alternative to the humiliating
performances. It's really a classical adventure movie, with princesses and
scimitars and sandstorms and swarms of locusts. Omar Sharif co-stars as the
sheik. Its nice to see a movie like this made with care. It never gets
stupid, and, while it moves quickly, it isn't too fast, either. The director
is Joe Johnston, whom I think is an undervalued filmmaker who specializes in
these kinds of enjoyable yarns. His previous films include Jurassic Park 3,
which is my favorite of that series, Jumanji, The Rocketeer, Honey I Shrunk
the Kids, as well as episodes of The Young Indiana Jones Chronicles, which I
loved in my tween years. He also made October Sky, which I haven't seen, but
has been recommended. The film also features good performances from Zuleikha
Robinson, soon to be a star, I'm sure, Louise Lombard, and Adam Alexi-Malle,
one of my favorite character actors (he was the guy who wrote Chubby Rain in
the movie Bowfinger). 8/10.
<|_=00=_|>

I've seen Hidalgo twice and will go again (and again) and I will buy the
DVD. I hope that people will not listen to the critics and will give this
movie a chance for success. It doesn't matter if Frank Hopkins did these
things or not. If he didn't, he gave us a rousing story. Viggo is perfect
in
this role as the "cowboy" and rides Hidalgo like the wind. The Arabian
desert is frightening and beautiful. The horses are beautiful. Some don't
like what seems like stereotypes, however, it takes place in 1890 and
Native
Americans were killed, then played for sport in "shows". Africans were
enslaved and women wore (wear) veils. The movie is right with the times.
The
music is enjoyable. I'll look for the soundtrack on CD. See it and decide
for yourself.
