

Joel Silver and Andrzej Bartkowiak once again brings us another Rap
Star/Martial Artist collaboration movie in which I like to call, "Hip-Hop
Chopsocky" Flicks. I enjoyed both Romeo Must Die and Exit Wounds, however
I'm getting the feeling that Silver and Bartkowiak are using a Xerox copy
machine to develop the next action flick. Expect everything you saw in
the
first two films to appear in Cradle 2 The Grave.

Yes, expect all the action sequences to drown the whole plot of the film.
Yes, expect DMX to have his hip-hop soundtrack blasting in most of the
action scene. Yes, expect the two protaganist of the story to reluctantly
get along with each other and then later on to share a common bond at the
end of the movie. Yes, expect Jet Li to have the same facial expression
throughout the whole film and no more than 10 lines in the movie. Yes,
expect the same fat black guy from Kangaroo Jack to be back as the black
comic element. Yes, expect Tom Arnold, a guy who was once married to a
woman
who looked like Kangaroo Jack, to be back as other white comic element of
the film. Yes, expect a night club scene and every prop seen in a Hype
William music video (i.e. Jacuzzi, champagne, and big booty bitches.)
Yes,
expect the Rap Star actor do some martial arts of his own. (And I'd like
to
say to DMX, "Yo dog, stick to rappin', cuz the karate thang ain't you.
You
got those thin wires making you look good.") And yes, expect Jet Li to
fight
with his counterpart nemesis, in a ring of fire at the end of the movie.
Where the hell is Johnny Cash when you need him!

And as for Jet Li, I do respect him as a martial artist but since he's
been
making movies in US, his skill have been more half-assed compared to what
he
did in his Hong Kong Flicks. The scene where Jet fights in a cage match
was
the only highlight of the film. However, only to be distracted with DMX's
action sequences, with camera going from one scene to the other. For me,
I'd
rather see Jet Li do his stuff than to see DMX being pursued by cops. I
live
near Oakland and I see that sh*t almost every day.

Overall, I would suggest to save your money and watch Romeo Must Die and
Exit Wounds at the same time. Or if you don't care what I say...Hell, go
spend the $9.00! But remember "the Cradle" is robbing you!
<|_=00=_|>

Ive seen a lot of bad reviews for this film and i am sick of these dorks
that only give monsters ball and other films of the genre high ratings
because of nudity and "good scripts". This is an action movie wit jet Li
and
it delivers what you would expect. Hell DMX even attempts to use martial
arts and his acting is certainly improving as is Jet Li's. Combine Romeo
Must Die and Exit Wounds and this is what you get. The fights are great
(Jet
vs the champions of UFC), the comedy is there (Tom Arnold and Anthony
Anderson) and the film is certainly entertaining so if you want a
mindless
film with lots of action this is it. Damn Monsters ball. I give this
movie a
8!
<|_=00=_|>

What could have been a reasonably acceptable action vehicle for Jet Li
became completely annoying thanks to the obligatory (and ridiculously lame)
inclusion of what I'd call Hollywood's fascination with "family values" and
"kiddie cuteness".  An R-rated action picture is no place for cutesy,
resourceful brats and there's nothing more bland than an action hero
straddled with a family or family members in peril.  It all reeks with
middle-class political correctness and made the DMX character an unnecessary
annoyance.  Real villains would have made short work of the kid's ears and
gotten a little cooperation from that rapper a lot sooner.  This one's
pathetically wimpy, even with Jet versus the ultimate fighting boys; not
having any gratuitous nudity is unforgivable also, especially when you set
the audience up for some!
<|_=00=_|>
1) The Chairman of Kitchen Stadium for Iron Chef America is evil! 2)
Black diamonds are priceless but you don't want to wear them because
they tend to blow up. 3) DMX has no formal training in the martial arts
yet can beat up those with black belts. 3) Jet Li really likes Johnny
Cash because he only fights important battles when he's surrounded by a
ring of fire (See Romeo Must Die and Kiss of the Dragon). 4) Kung Fu is
more powerful then ultimate fighting. 5) DMX: Loving father by night
and murderous diamond thief by day. Go figure. 6) Tom Arnold is really
as stupid and talentless as he seems. 7) Fat black guys can make it big
in prison
<|_=00=_|>

Contains Spoiler Andrzej Bartkowiak directs the third in his "bling
bling" kung fu movie in which American rapper DMX and his motley crew
rob some diamonds from a bank (or something), specifically black
diamonds which his team are stealing to order for Mark Dacascos
"professional" team.

During the robbery, DMX explains to his team the value of the coloured
diamonds. This is a plot point, but this is ignored, as is most of the
other stuff in the movie.

Jet Li, in a muted and frankly uninspiring role, plays a silent Taiwan
spy sent to retrieve the black diamonds, although from the start you
don't know whether he's on the good side or not because he's often seen
talking to Dacascos. I thought this was pretty clever, but this idea is
never really developed - this is because Li hardly ever speaks or
emotes anything. He just looks weather-beaten and bored. I feel sorry
for him as an actor. Anyway, back to my review.

DMX is one of the "heroes" of the movies, despite being a high-tech
diamond robber. Unfortuently I wasn't sure whether I should cheer for
his character or not. He's meant to be a bad guy, but is touted
throughout the film as just doing the job to get by... that might be
so, but if he's struggling to get by why is he driving an expensive
German sports car and wearing flashy leather clothes?

DMX's daughter is kidnapped, and this is where the film falls apart and
tries too hard to be a "hard-nosed" action movie, but I kept saying "oh
come on" right throughout the movie. One example is the chase between
DMX's porshce and a four-wheel drive vehicle.

Another example is when Jet Li decides to scale down a high-rise
building by going around the outside and using his hands to hold onto
the ledges and then falling onto the next level. This film moves so
much inbetween reality and wire-fu it makes the film utterly
ridiculous. Especially when DMX starts doing wire-fu, beating up Jet Li
or running up walls to escape dogs.

Anyway, DMX's team decide to take the black diamonds to an annoying Tom
Arnold (who has Tanks in his backyard) to get them valued. DMX gives
Arnold ALL of the diamonds! Earlier in the film we saw DMX professing
some knowledge of the value of coloured diamonds, and one would assume
that the black diamonds are the most precious - so why did DMX give
Arnold ALL of the diamonds? From that moment on I knew this movie was
pointless. Arnold then goes to lose all the diamonds... 

Mark's team is meant to be a professional team yet make so many
mistakes its hilarious. When they kidnap DMX's daughter they don't tie
her up or blindfold her until later on in the movie. The team always
bitches against each other, especially the guy who likes to think he's
the reincarnation of "J. Robert Oppenheimer" (the father of the atomic
bomb who famously said "I have become death, destroyer of worlds").

DMX's daughter is not scared at all by the big scary guys with
sub-machine guns and tries on many occasions to escape - in one
hilarious sequence she drives a van with blacked out windows - and yet
Mark and his team don't do anything other than tie her up. They should
have put her in a cell.

Anyhow, other random stuff happens - DMX gets chased by cops whilst
he's on a quadbike and Jet Li fights UFC fighters in a cage - but this
is where you can see Andrzej Bartkowiak ideas for a hard nosed action
movie fall apart... he cuts back and forth from the UFC fight and to
the DMX chase. This really annoyed me, and made the film even more
messier.

By the end we're treated to an auction of the black diamonds and an all
out action sequence begins with a shoot-out between a Tank and a guy
with some sort of twin mounted machine gun. Naturally the tank wins but
the damage it does is very minor.

Anyhow, Mark tries to escape via a helicopter and Bartkowiak who must
have watched too many episodes of the A-Team decides to blow up the
helicopter - but Mark stumbles out of the wreckage without a scratch..

Then, Bartkowiak treats us to yet another one of his clichéd "ring of
fire" fights - I've seen this idea done so many times and its never,
ever worked. Bartkowiak makes it worse by cutting from the much
anticipated fight between Mark and Jet Li to the numerous fights that
are meant to be going on at the same time.

The fight between Mark and Li isn't very special and is ruined by poor
lighting, the rain and the horrible cutting from one fight sequence to
another - it reminded me of "The Phantom Menance" where it moved from
one sequence to another and it totally ruined the very good ending.
This is very similar.

In the end the cops arrive, but for some reason decide not to arrest
DMX for stealing the diamonds or Tom Arnold for possessing a Tank. Heck
they don't even question Jet Li of why he's spying in United States.

But its all okay, we've been watching "crade 2 the grave" and none of
it matters. All I learnt from this movie is that all that matters in
the world is 'bling bling' -- all style and no substance.

Overall: 2.5/10.

<|_=00=_|>

Tony Fait is a head of a gang of thieves who are on a job to steal a bag
of
black diamonds.  Inspector Su from Taiwan is out to stop them. The gang
succeed but find themselves with both Su and crime lord Ling after the
diamonds.  Fait takes them to his friend Archie to have them valued but a
local mobster has them stolen.  To make matters worse Ling kidnaps Fait's
daughter and demands the diamonds.  Fait and Su join forces to get the
diamonds back from the mobster, rescue Fait's daughter and bring down
Ling.

I was in the UK watching a tape of the NBA All-Star game that someone had
taped off US TV for a friend.  Fast forwarding the adverts a movie trailer
caught my eye - the trailer for this movie.  Dacascos and Jet Li in a
movie
together!  Gotta see that!  I couldn't wait and was excited when I saw it
coming to the UK sooner than I'd expected.  So I went to see it, not
expecting art but hoping for a good ride.

I was a little let down but not too much.  The film has some good scenes
that almost manage to hide the inherent weaknesses in script, plot,
editing,
direction, acting etc etc.  Let me start with the plot.  Now I didn't
expect
wonders and I didn't get them - however the film pushes things too far by
making the film about a world threat - a leap of faith too far for me.
The
actual script is full of so many clunky lines you won't believe. Little of
it sounds like people actually talking.

The main weakness were direction and editing.  You see I can for Jet Li et
al fighting and for action.  However the fight scenes and actions scenes
are
edited together and directed with a frantic touch.  I'd prefer to see Li
at
work than constantly trying to keep up with the camera switches.  I can
understand why they do this (many of the actors must have done their
scenes
one move at a time) but with Jet Li it loses much of his power to not be
able to follow his moves.  Some of the action works well and is exciting
but
too often it is just frantic direction and noise.

The cast are passable but none really excel themselves.  Li is good but
not
fully used.  He has yet to have a film that really showcases his skills.
Here he has some good moves but the direction spoils them.  DMX is a good
rapper (I like his joints) but he can't act anywhere near well enough to
manage the scenes with his `daughter' - they are awful!  Outside of these
he
is OK but he has NO chemistry with Li.  Also he doesn't convince as a
ninja
(!), when he runs up a wall 15 minutes into the film it just looks silly.
Tom Arnold and Anderson are pretty poor as the comedy sidekicks and really
just clutter the film with characters (more later).  I didn't know Union
was
in this till I sat down, but she makes a mark.  She may be shameless eye
candy (I like to think I'm above these shameless crowd pleasers) but she
is
very hot eye candy!  She does a dance in the film that is pretty pointless
in terms of plot, but is worth the price of admission alone!  Kelly Hu is
not used well at all and her losing her cat fight towards the end is
unlikely.  The biggest let down for me was Mark Dacascos.  I know the guy
does a lot of tat but he is one of my favourite actors.  I was looking
forward to him and Li fighting at the end (both have skills) but again it
was spoilt by bad direction and the editing of 5 other scenes in with
it.

The soundtrack is heavy but it is really poorly used.  The makers just
seemed to drop hip hop tracks in at random with little context.  The
opening
credits worked well and the use of DMX's `X gonna bring it to ya' really
compliments the onscreen action, but mostly they just seemed thrown in to
draw a certain demographic.

Overall I did enjoy this film.  It has enough noise and dumb action to
just
about cover the weaknesses while you are watching it.  However it is
pretty
exploitative and excessive.  Did we need to have EVERYTHING blow up in the
end - no.  Did we need to Gabrielle Union sexily stripping - no (but it
was
worth it!).  It's not original and it is banged up with clichés (ring of
fire showdown), and it's is inherently weak.  But lets be honest we came
for
action, and it is just about passable in that.  Worth a watch if you keep
your expectations low.
<|_=00=_|>

I didn't expect a spectacular film, just something that would keep me
entertained for the majority of it. I got just that. Jet Li's fight scenes
were worth my while and quite well done. The addition of Mark D. was a nice
addition, he is a great opponnet for Li. I just wish they had more screen
time together. The biggest weak spot to this film was DMX. He is not even
close to a good actor, and he can't do entertaining fight scenes, and is
very weak when emotional scenes are being done (ie. with his daughter here).
This film could have been much better if there had been some other angle
than a kidnapped daughter. Overall I think this movie while not excellant,
was pretty good. Fans of Jet Li might like it, if you can stand most of his
other U.S. films, than this will be more of the same. 

8/10
<|_=00=_|>

Not a bad movie but nothing spectacular in terms of originality...

DMX beats up some people. Jet Li beats up some people. Gabrielle Union
takes
(most of) her clothes off (with her fine self). Lots of stuff breaks and
blows up.

6 out of 10; I'd wait for the DVD...
<|_=00=_|>

"Cradle 2 The Grave" is an action movie by the same people who brought you
Romeo Must Die and Exit Wounds... And it shows.  Skeleton-thin story,
two-dimensional characters, and action for action's sake.  Usually when you
watch an action movie - not always, but usually - the action scenes serve as
a means to tie the story together.  In this movie, the exact opposite is
true.  Therefore, the flow of narrative serves only to fill the gaps between
scenes where Jet Li unleashes Wushu fury on his opponents, who for the most
part tend to be guys who are just in the wrong place at the wrong time.  The
action is well done, don't get me wrong, but for some reason Jet Li just
seems uncomfortable here.  Perhaps it's just the role he was given, but for
some reason he never quite "clicked" with everything else that was going on.
 

Another gripe I had about the movie is that we're told who everyone is by
other characters.  Instead of showing Jet's history with the villain
portrayed by Mark Dacascos, we just hear Jet saying "We used to be on the
same side, he betrayed us, etc. etc."  This keeps things going along at a
fast pace, but personally I like my movies fleshed out a little bit - even a
flashback scene would have been enough.  Since it's not, the final battle
really doesn't mean anything.  Oh well, I guess I'm just asking too
much.

I suppose that after "Kiss of the Dragon" and even "The One" I was expecting
Jet Li's U.S. track record to improve, not slide backwards 3 years, to
"Romeo Must Die" status.  Perhaps after "Hero" is released state side we'll
start getting some good projects from Li.  Until then, we'll have to deal
with more DMX (Get At Me, Dawg!) movies.

For now, I'll continue to watch Fist of Legend.  If you haven't, I recommend
you see that rather than this.
<|_=00=_|>

If you are in for some entertainment, if you like rap music, and/or martial
arts films  you will enjoy the music. If you prefer good art cinema, or you
really look for logic even in the fun films, this one is not for you. I
enjoyed it, but I am not sure that my other, more serious ego would have
liked the film in any other situation. This film (can somebody explain me
the title) is just entertainment, but what are the James Bond films?  6 out
of 10 on my personal scale.
