

"Agent Cody Banks" depends more on character and plot than the special
effects, explosive action of the more popular "Spykids."  Frankie Muniz does
a credible, funny job as a social inept, CIA whiz kid.  With a distant
resemblance to "True Lies," and "Never Been Kissed," "Agent Cody Banks"
charms the audience with its irony and socially naive kid comedy along with
a rather strong James Bond flavor for spy action.  Frankie Muniz' CIA
handler never gets too sickly sweet nor weird, but handles her role with a
solid performance.  This movie is a nice blend of genre, but it doesn't
explode into non-stop action nor with a teen romantic comedy - perhaps it's
taken on a rather awesome, big challenge of trying to package so many
different elements into one movie that its comedy, spy thriller, action,
teen romance with nerd genre are impossible to capture successfully in the
time and attention span alloted.  Entertaining and seriously funny, seven
out of ten stars.
<|_=00=_|>
The film talks a shy adolescent (Frankie Muniz) who's submitted to
jokes from his school fellows but he's really a CIA undercover agent .
He's assigned by his chief (Keith David) for one dangerous mission , he
then meets a teen girl (Hillary Duff) whose father (Martin Donovan) is
a scientific working in nanotechnology industries for the nasties (Ian
McShane and Arnold Vosloo) . The teen is helped by an attractive agent
(Angie Harmon). 

The plot is a little bit ridiculous , but we're in a spoof comedy and
it is narrated in fast movement ; besides , abound the surprises ,
being very funny and bemusing . In the film there is suspense , comedy
, emotion , action-packed , tongue-in-cheek and chases galore with
impressive velocity pursuits . The screenplay is nicely developed as
well as characters and the frenetic action united to excellent special
effects that are varied of these too . From the beginning until the end
the amusement and entertainment is continued . The humor moments are in
charge of Frankie Muniz with his abundant botches and goofs that happen
when he must confront perils and risks against the villains . It's a
spoof of James Bond's films , even there's a flying artifact like in
¨Thunderball¨ , plus a role type ¨Q¨ , a weapons deliverer , who
teaches the various gadgets which Cody Banks will subsequently use .
Exciting final facing off between the protagonists and the baddies on
the mountain headquarter is breathtaking and special mention to the
habitual villain Arnold Vosloo (The mummy) , he is terrific. Colorful
cinematography by Denis Crossan ; the exterior of the CIA headquarters
was shot on location in the Academic Quadrangle at Simon Fraser
University near Vancouver , this location is popular for films shot in
this city . Atmospheric and lively musical score by John Powell . The
motion picture was professionally directed by Harald Zwart (One Night
at McCool's , Commando Hamilton , Pink Panther 2). Rating: Enjoyable
and nice.
<|_=00=_|>
Taking advantage of a couple of hot teen television properties at the
time, MGM fashioned this fantasy for kids about a typical teenage boy
with one big secret. Agent Cody Banks is a CIA operative, part of a
special program that trains kids for special missions. And in the title
role Frankie Muniz gets to do them, providing he's not grounded.

The other hot property at the time was Hilary Duff who was in Disney's
Lizzie McGuire series while Muniz was doing Malcolm In The Middle.
She's Frankie's assignment, Duff is the daughter of a scientist who's
gone missing and Frankie has to both protect her and find out what's
going on.

It's something big all right, scientist Martin Donovan has invented
some kind of artificial life that will eat anything carbon or silicon
based. That could wreak a lot of havoc in the wrong hands. 

Donovan is Duff's father, as for Muniz's parents they are unbelievably
clueless, but that's part of the charm of these films. One who's not
clueless is Muniz's immediate superior and handler Angie Harmon. She's
got a great scene in the prep school where Muniz has been put to be
close to Duff with some of the adolescent males there. 

Agent Cody Banks with the star power of two current teen idols made a
lot of money, so much so a sequel was made. Now if they had really
wanted to do something different, they'd have made Duff the secret
agent with Muniz her assignment.
<|_=00=_|>

What can I say...  It was a fun movie!

Went to see it with my 9 year old and we both enjoyed it a lot.  Kind of
a
bond for younger audiences.  Far fetched?  Sure... but then so is 007
no?

I especially liked the little humorous details here and there... like the
page "Would the driver of a silver Austin Martin please report to..."
inside
the CIA building (James Bond's car), or Cody's cell phone that rings like
Austin Powers video-phone.  Pay attention when watching it as the movie
is
filled with little details and one liners referring to other spy
movies.

Was it worth the price of admission?  Sure!
<|_=00=_|>
Cody Banks (Frankie Muniz) is a shy common teenager, living with his
mother, father and little brother in a suburban house. But he is also a
very efficient undercover CIA agent. He is assigned by CIA director
(Keith David), with the support of his instructor Ronica Miles (Angie
Harmon), to date Natalie Connors (Hilary Duff) in order to be invited
to her birthday party and get close and spy Natalie's father, Dr.
Connors (Martin Donovan). Dr. Connors is a brilliant scientist, who has
developed some sort of micro-robots with the intention of controlling
oil leakage from tankers. However, the investors of the experiment
intend to use the device as a powerful weapon. "Agent Cody Banks" tries
to follow the success of "Spy Kids", it is very silly, but entertains.
There is nothing special or original in this popcorn movie, indicated
for an afternoon without any other alternative. My vote is six.

Title (Brazil): "O Agente Teen" ("The Teen Agent")
<|_=00=_|>

"Agent Cody Banks" sticks Banks (Muniz), a 16 year old high school
student
and CIA junior agent, in the middle of a 007 plot clone with a nemesis
who's
out to extort nanobot technology from a good-guy scientist to control the
world. Banks' mission is to get close to the scientist's hottie daughter
(Duff) so he can...um, save the world. This kid flick has the same kind
of
high tech stuff, great sets, and production value we come to expect with
007
or MI flicks including martial arts, X-boarding, etc. all built around a
teen puppy love story centerpiece. A fun action guy flick for kids which
gets moving quick and never slows down. (B)
<|_=00=_|>
Agent Cody Banks deserves much more attention than it gets

Plot: Cody Banks (Frankie Muniz) learns he is a secret agent and he is
brought in for training by Ronica Miles (Angie Harmon) who ends up his
sidekick. He meets the CIA Director (Keith David) and prepares on his
first mission while his parents, Mrs. Banks (Cynthia Stevenson) and Mr.
Banks (Daniel Roebuck) along with his younger brother Alex Banks
(Connor Widdows) have no idea what is going on. His mission is to get
close to Natalie Connors (Hilary Duff) in hopes that she will invite
him to her birthday party so he can use the opportunity to spy on her
dad, Dr. Connors (Martin Donovan) because he is under suspicion for
working for ERIS an illegal corporation. Complications arise when
Natalie is kidnapped and Cody must rescue her.

The Good News: Right away the film starts with a big action sequence
and it's a very impressive one at that. There is so much to like here
it's a wonder that this series has never gotten as much attention as
the Spy Kids series even if the second film is lousy. Director Herald
Zwart brings a lot of flair to this film as the film is shot
beautifully and never looks cheap or boring. The script by Ashley
Edward Miller, Zack Stentz, Scott Alexander, and Larry Karaszewski is
never boring and never loses your interest when nothing is happening.
The acting is great, long time friends Frankie Muniz and Hilary Duff
star and Hilary Duff shows the talent that would carry her through the
next few years and Frankie Muniz is no slacker in the role of Cody
Banks and it's no surprise that he would go on to be a star even if he
never got as much fame as Hilary. The best supporting roles go to Keith
David as the CIA Director and it's not a wonder that he returned for
the sequel and the other one goes to Angie Harmon as Ronica Miles. She
is energetic on screen and you fell her presence throughout the film.
The plot, while nothing new proves you don't have to always have a
fresh plot to make the film enjoyable. The film's tag line is one of
the best and it sets the tone for the film, the running time is 102
minutes, but it seems a lot shorter than that and has a high re
watch-ability factor. The action scenes are outstanding and the two
that come off as the best are the diner scene and the ending. There are
more such as when Cody is at Natalie's birthday party and he's spying
on Dr. Connors and the beginning, it's really hard to pick a favorite
one, but the diner scene and the ending come off as the best. I also
recorded a few good laughs here and there between the action breaks.
One of the biggest laughs is Ronica's first appearance, I don't want to
ruin it for you as it is the biggest laugh our of the entire film. I'm
also not a big fan of the boyfriend and girlfriend situation, but here
is works well and flows well with the plot. 

The Bad News: I couldn't find anything wrong except a few logical
errors which every film has

Conclusion: If you like action or adventure movies then this film is
definitely for you and if you haven't seen it already grab yourself a
DVD copy today! Recommeded

Rated: PG for action violence, mild language and some sensual content
<|_=00=_|>
Blatant rip-off of Bond movies for the teen set. It's been done so many
times that it doesn't seem to matter anymore.

I really liked it, but then I was going into it knowing what it was and
just had fun. I didn't detect any pretension that the film-makers
thought it was anything more than it was: a thoroughly enjoyable piece
of fluff with a couple of very attractive stars. I was surprised on one
or two occasions when Muniz appeared to be doing some stunts that
didn't involve wire work to see that this boy has action man potential.

This is the kind of movie that will have the young set whooping with
delight. That hottie Angie Harmon also provides interest for older male
viewers.
<|_=00=_|>
I thought that this movie was awesome. The beginning and the middle
parts are the best parts of the film. I like the skateboard chase, the
idea of the Junior CIA, and when boy meets girl and makes a fool of
himself(at first). There is great chemistry between Frankie Muniz and
Hilary Duff. They are actors I normally don't like, but they are great
in this film. The special effects are cool and the stunts are fairly
good. The evil guy was playing his part of evil and so were his
sidekicks. A lot of people including critics are ripping off this
movie. Don't listen to the critics because the film is great, mark my
words! I rate this movie 8/10.
<|_=00=_|>

I was pleasantly surprised. I expected something like "Spy Kids" but it
wasn't. I found it very entertaining, and I really appreciate the fact
that
they made a pretty serious movie. I also like the concept of a teen CIA
agent. Good action. Frankie Muniz was perfect for the part. Thank
you.
