
There are many good things about The Machinist that are well deserving
of praise. The very atmospheric nature of the film is supported very
strongly by excellent performances all around. Christian Bale takes
things to the extreme in his embodiment of his character. It is hard to
take seeing him in his near-starvation body mass, which elevates the
tension of this piece even further. The storyline leaves a little to be
desired. While it creates its mood excellently, it does tend to plod
along a little too much.

One thing that does stand out is how reminiscent of Alfred Hitchcock
this film plays. Almost everything about the film screams Hitchcock,
from the editing of certain scenes (the driving sequences are very much
in the style of Psycho) to the Bernard Herrmann-esquire score (lots of
bass clarinet), the lack of fully-exploring/revealing some of the
creepier points of the film (what is dripping from the fridge?), and
the washed out, grainy photography. If you want to see what a film
would look like if Hitchcock were alive to film it today, this is the
closest thing you could probably come across. And if that was part of
Brad Anderson's intention in directing this, I have to commend him on
the execution because it is uncanny.

Overall, I would recommend this film, but not to casual movie-goers.
This is very much a movie-phile experience for those who appreciate
character development and cinematography as much as plot points and a
storyline that can be defined and followed from one action to the next.
In that way it is closer to films like Magnolia or the Others, where
the apex is the characters. If you are looking for a typical popcorn
Hollywood thriller, this is not what you are looking for.
<|_=00=_|>
It's a common rule that people subconsciously decide within the first
ten minutes whether they like a movie or not. It didn't even take me
that long to know that I would be intrigued by "The Machinist".

The set up is perfect. It's adorable how the movie constantly
establishes new plot points without ever getting tedious. As the story
goes on it gets hard to believe that the ending will be able to explain
everything and you start pondering that there can only be one possible
conclusion for all the weird events. It may be disappointing at first
to learn that your predictions are probably dead-on and you might go:
"Not that old twist again." The beautiful thing, however, is that
there's an explanation to the twist that really adds a lot to the
concept. Much later, when you've already left the theater and you
rethink the whole thing, you'll find that the script is much cleverer
than you had thought at first. To me the biggest achievement of the
movie in retrospective is, that it's never creepy just for the sake of
freaking the audience out (and hell, the carnival-sequence is so
friggin creepy and well made, it's delightful). Every scene has its
purpose and that is not often the case in horror and mystery movies.

Although the whole cast did a fine job, Christian Bale's terrific
performance must be mentioned. Usually I'm annoyed by stories about
actors losing or gaining weight in preparation for a role, because
mostly it's uncalled for anyway and not even worth a mention. What Bale
did to prepare for "The Machinist", however, is nothing short of
heroic. He lost 60 pounds and looks so unhealthy throughout the whole
movie that it's hard to believe he turned into himself again after the
director yelled "cut!".

I can recommend "The Machinist" to anybody who's looking for a movie
that keeps you intrigued longer than just during its running time. If
after 10 minutes you like the movie, after days you'll find yourself
still obsessed with it. I love it, when a movie does that to me!
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film at the Stockholm International Film Festival in
November 2004. In the audience was director Brad Anderson, and i think
he very much appreciated how the film was received by the rest of the
audience. And this film was well worth the applause.

This film is about a man (Christian Bale) working in a heavy industry.
He suffers from insomnia and hasn't slept for a year. This condition is
causing him to lose weight, and his perception of reality to become
twisted. Soon he doesn't know what's real or not.

I won't elaborate any more on the plot since it could really spoil the
film for you. There are some twists and turns along the way that might
not be all that obvious and you should be able to enjoy them without
being told too much. What i can say though is that the story is in no
way revolutionary. A couple of films have been made in the same vein as
this one, the most famous perhaps being Memento and Fight Club. And
"The Machinist" shares elements from both these films but still, i
think, manages to create an identity of it's own.

But aside from the story, Christian Bale really steals the show. Having
seen him in his previous films it's hard to be prepared for what he
looks like here. For this film he has turned himself into a walking
skeleton, a run-down shadow of a man. And his performance is,
throughout the movie, mesmerizing. I have ever since American Psycho
been fully convinced of Bale's talents as an actor, and this further
proves his talent and commitment. The rest of the cast also do a good
job, strengthening the overall strange mood of the film.

Although i thoroughly enjoyed this film i understand it's not for
everyone. This is not the least proved by the fact that Brad Anderson
(as he stated in the interview after the screening) could not get
funding for it in America. Instead he had to go to Spain to make the
film the way he wanted to. And i'm not surprised, this is not your
standard Hollywood fare. But for those of us who enjoy films that go
beyond the will to suit everyone (and make loads of money) this is a
rewarding experience. I rate it 7/10.
<|_=00=_|>
THE MACHINST (2004) ***1/2 Christian Bale, Jennifer Jason Leigh, Aitana
Sanchez-Gijon, John Sharian, Michael Ironside, Reg E. Cathey.

'Thinner' meets 'Memento' by way of 'Angel Heart' a la Hitchcock

There are a few select actors who have gained or shed weight to make a
true transformation on screen but the one that will probably remain
imprinted for years to come is the truly shocking display by Christian
Bale who lost a whopping 63 lbs. to a skeletal shell of 120 for his
portrayal of dank creepy perfection.

Bale stars as the afflicted Trevor Reznik, a shell of a man who works
in a machine factory and apparently is nursing some horrible demon that
has led to his astonishing appearance, ghostly pallor and paranoia
soaked delusions that call to question his amazing confession: How can
a man not sleep for an entire year and waste away to a shadow of his
being and keep his sanity?

The answer isn't so transparent as Reznik becomes submerged in some
sort of dreamscape nightmare of conspiracy theories and the innate
distrust of his own mind playing tricks on him one night when he
encounters the perpetually grinning Ivan (Sharian sporting the
sharkiest Cheshire Cat smile in recent film memory) an apparently new
shift employee who distracts him to the point of a horrific accident
that causes his employer and co-worker to mistrust him and suspect his
deteriorating looks as something a tad more sinister.

Reznik's only solace is in literally a mother-whore relationship he
shares with a well-meaning lovely waitress (Sanchez-Gizon) at the
airport diner he frequents as much as the hooker he lies with to
express his thoughts and odd happenings (Leigh in her umpteenth whore
role that must have filled her quota by now). 

After the accident Reznik is plagued with a series of Post-Its sporting
a game of hangman that leads to a few clues to his rationale and
ultimately to his fate of 'Who Am I?'

Directed by Anderson who helmed the criminally underrated spooky horror
flick 'Session 9' a few years back returns to a dark story of a man
clearly unraveling and destroying himself in the process that echoes
Stephen King's 'Thinner' by way of the identity crises of 'Memento' and
the psychological thriller 'Angel Heart' yet invokes a sharply executed
script by Scott Kosar (who penned the worthy remake of 'The Texas
Chainsaw Massacre' last year) that recalls David Fincher meets David
Lynch paroxysms of fate and the build up to a discovery that is all too
recognizable to the thriller genre in recent years of identity masked
as phobic reality with its latter day Hitchcock everyman skewed nicely.
Kudos to cinematographers Xavi Gimenez and Charlie Jiminez for its
bleak, green/grey drudgery and the Herrmannesque score by Roque Banos
mixes perfectly to the dread at hand displays.

Bale went above and beyond the call of duty in his somewhat
controversial display of Holocaust invoking demeanor yet it works
shockingly well as it delves into the troubled soul of a man who is
wasting away not only as a metaphor but as a penance for some hell to
pay.
<|_=00=_|>
I really enjoyed this film. It reminded me of 21 Grams, Jacob's Ladder
and Memento. Perhaps the finale left a few questions unanswered or felt
a little anti-climactic but an amazing performance by Christian Bale.
Haunted, brave, vulnerable, murderous but also very moving. A film
which stays with you.

Now, here's an eggheaded thing, but did anyone notice the constant
stream of Dostoyevsky references in the movie? Not only did Resnick
(remind anyone of Raskolnikov?) put down a copy of Dostoyevsky's The
Idiot at one point but the whole movie owed a lot to Notes From The
Underground, Crime And Punishment and The Double. Did anyone spot the
sign in the Ghost Train sequence which read Crime And Punishment? Or
that Sharian's character is called Ivan (cf The Brothers Karamazov -
especially the chapter Ivan's Dream)? Jennifer Jason Leigh's character
is very familiar from Dostoyevsky, as was the saintly Maria.

Its a cracking film and none of these references are indispensable to
enjoying it but I thought I would point it out.
<|_=00=_|>
Trever Reznick is an industrial machine operator who hasn't slept in a
year and feels as if he is going crazy. A horrible accident in the
workplace causes him to fall further down the spiral. Is there a
conspiracy against him or is he going insane? The lead character is
played with discomforting perfection by a repulsively thin and
unrecognizable Christian Bale. This is a very moody and atmospheric
film that is reminiscent of Lynch (though, by the end, it is a much
more spelled-out than Lynch would do for the viewer). Still, it is a
very gripping and disturbing movie. "The Machinist" is one of the
better horror films released this year. My Rating: 8.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
"The Machinist" demonstrates that "Session 9" wasn't the only creepy
thriller that Brad Anderson could do. 

While M. Night Shyamalan and commercial fare like "The Grudge" get the
attention and the big bucks, Anderson is quietly mastering disturbing,
psychologically scary shockers. While the previous movie took advantage
of our imaginations leaping around a spooky environment, "The
Machinist" makes our discomfort palpably visual in Christian Bale's
painful to look at body, as his character is ravaged by insomnia and
loss of appetite; by the end of the movie it's shocking to see his
normally handsome face. 

But all the focus on his astounding weight loss takes away from the
other elements in the almost black and white film that make it a scare
fest. The movie establishes "The Twilight Zone" mood immediately with
the soundtrack, which includes generous use of the theremin, as
Hitchcock did in "Psycho." The production design is excellent at
supporting the mood.

The suspense builds and is sustained through to the satisfying
conclusion as you genuinely get involved in Bale's efforts to solve the
increasingly mysterious happenings around him. Even though you are
pretty sure he could be hallucinating, you are intrigued to figure out
the trigger. 

Despite looking like a caricature of a Holocaust victim, Bale creates a
full character, from the jocular male camaraderie of the factory where
he doesn't quite seem to fit in to responding one beat off to the
warmth of the two women in his life, a waitress and a prostitute with
the an open heart of gold (played, as usual by Jennifer Jason Leigh,
but effectively languid).
<|_=00=_|>
Saw this incredible movie tonight and all I can say is WOW!! This movie
is one you should definitely see if you enjoy such quality films like
Vertigo, Psycho and most recently Identity. Massive kudos to Christian
Bale who turned himself into a skeleton for the role and the
wonderfully articulate pace of the director! As you watched it, you
knew that there were answers at the end and the journey was simply
captivating! Also fine, fine work by Michael Ironside and the
absolutely gorgeous Jennifer Jason-Leigh who to this day looks just as
hot as she did in Fast Times! If you have a chance to see this film and
an open mind, make the trip to the ciniplex! Fantastic film!
<|_=00=_|>
A strange story about freedom and guilty. Modern image of "Crime and
Punishment". Our life like a shadow of the dreams and fear. Like a
research a way of personal truth. No salvation, no cure. Only a refuge
in a great lie. This movie is an important experience. Not like a
theoretical experience,like a game without value, like a joke. "The
Machinist " is a trip in your mind, in your memory, in the life's
essence. "I am the other" said Rimbaud. But who? A ghost? A shadow? A
body? A toy? The essence of movie is the relation with the world and
the form of honesty. The presence of God in this movie is the way of
resurrection. The car, the boy, the work accident, Maria, Ivan , Miller
are the steps of a very special salvation. And Christian Bale, in his
best character, a new Raskolnikov, know to give a great sense of truth
to Trevor Reznik. A real master-piece!
<|_=00=_|>
THE MACHINIST (Brad Anderson - Spain 2004).

Christian Bale is Trevor Reznik, a machinist in an anonymous factory
somewhere in America. He is obviously scarred by some past incident but
what is it? He finds mysterious notes on his refrigerator, saying 'who
are you?' He sees colleagues that don't exist. He seems to have lost it
completely.

A Spanish production, but with Brad Anderson at the helm as director
and an almost exclusively American cast, this is basically an American
film. I must admit, I kept shelving this one, due to reasons I cannot
really recall now I've finally watched it, but it probably had
something to do with Christian Bale's insane weight loss and all the
surrounding publicity. I assumed the film was all about Bale's loss of
weight and not much more. A method boy in a film solely hyped for an
actor's dedication to play the part, but the film blew me away, as
simple as that. Christian Bale gives a solo turn here almost unseen
before. No matter how many pounds he lost, it's a remarkable
performance. 

Director Brad Anderson succeeds brilliantly in conceiving an atmosphere
that is so compelling, as one other user on the IMDb stated, 'You just
HAVE to know what the hell is going on here.' I think that's the key
factor in what makes this film so incredibly compelling. The whole
setting is an anonymous industrial town somewhere in the US, that could
be Pennsylvania, Michigan or upstate New York (actually, it was shot
near Barcelona), but it doesn't really matter where the story is
located. It's the atmosphere of estrangement that does it. And
Christian Bale gives such an intense performance you really want to
know his cause and background. Where on earth does he come from? We
know he works in a greasy factory, but why is he skin-over-bone? Why
hasn't he slept in over a year? Brad Anderson creates an atmosphere so
broody and sleazy, it's like a netherworld, an urban nightmare. In a
certain way it reminded me of the strange urban landscape in
"Eraserhead" by David Lynch.

Camera Obscura --- 9/10
