
I had heard positive things about this concert film and had hear that
even those unimpressed with Lawrence's films had to give him props.
Although I have found his films to be puerile and unfunny more often
than not I somehow find him personally to be pretty amusing in his
delivery. So in a way I was quite looking forward to this film. Things
didn't look that good early on as the film opens with a look back over
the recent media controversy surrounding Lawrence and is essentially
him putting two fingers up at all those who have, in his eyes, unfairly
criticised and picked on him. It is embarrassing to watch as he seems
to be telling us that the attention given him (as a global celebrity)
is somehow unjustified.

I hoped this would just be the build-up under the credits and that the
show would be a solid piece of stand up. Unfortunately he continues
early on with him announcing he would tell his own story and so on but
at least he soon got over it. But when his next topic was 9/11 I wished
he had stayed where he was because in reality this section was nothing
more than Lawrence racially attacking Muslims for all looking like Bin
Laden and even a joke about how he had beaten up an Indian man behind
stage just in case. He segues from this into the importance of beating
your child (and indeed waiting for it outside the vagina so you can
start kicking it then), material about sex after pregnancy (including a
piece about "titties" that makes Benny Hill look like Oscar Wilde), bad
drunks and the humour of domestic violence. Suffice to say that not of
it is that funny and is about as basic as you can imagine.

By covering all this type of material Lawrence shows himself to be very
much a base comedian in that his material appeals to an audience raised
on sitcoms, swearing and who nod their heads and laugh uncontrollably
at the most basic stereotypes and race clichés. His racist jibs are
squarely aimed at every other culture apart from African-American,
whereas with that group he seems to enjoy the failings of his culture.
With people like Chris Rock and such you get it that they are critical
of such things but with Lawrence he celebrates it. His material is
predominately crude and tasteless, whether it is sexist, racist or just
so broad that at times you sense he is close to losing some sections of
the audience. Contrasting this with moments of trite insincerity just
makes it even worse. There is no denying that he has good presence and
runs the stage well but it is disappointing that he seems happy with
such basic material.

Overall then a real disappointment of a show. The material is as basic
as could be and rarely has any touch of invention or genuine wit across
it. His audience mostly lap it up and I suppose those that have loved
his recent films will love it – however the majority of us should not
be taking their enjoyment as a recommendation. Crude and basic stuff
throughout and only worth a look for those die-hard fans of Martin's
brand of comedy.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this late at night on a minor channel and I put it on expecting a
laugh or two. Martin Lawrence is a good comic actor and I reckoned he
might be a good stand-up comedian/actor in the style of Richard Pryor.

I couldn't have been more wrong. This concert was awful. It was full of
racist comments directed at white people, Muslims and people from India
(Muslims and Indians are the same thing in Lawrence's narrow mind) and
rambling, clichéd cod-philosophy (Lawrence, like many black comics and
directors, can't resist the urge to preach when given a platform. Do we
really need a lecture on Martin Luther King and the Civil Rights
struggle during a stand-up comedy show?). Then there were his fawning
comments designed to ingratiate him with women, it made my skin crawl
listening to him.

Worst of all, the show simply wasn't funny and I found it boring. I
turned over halfway through and flipped back to find him either still
preaching or going on and on and on about the birth of his child (there
was no humour in the story of the birth of his child and it was
self-indulgent on his part to bore us with the details. He clearly
didn't have very much to say or he would have cut this section of the
show out).

This show was rubbish: Runteldat!
<|_=00=_|>
Martin Lawrence could be considered a talented man, but those days are
long gone. Runteldat shows a man who at once tries to play the sympathy
card to his plight yet takes responsibility for it whenever he thinks
it'll benefit his ego. The sad truth is that at this point in his life,
his best days were behind him: his half-funny show was dead in the
water after his co-star left and to today he faces a career of voice
acting and god awful action films.

One gets the impression that this concert film wasn't made to give
Lawrence's career another boost after his humiliation but rather a
childish attempt to clear the air by both trying to pathetically
salvage what remained of his life and somehow twist it into something
to be proud of, some defining moment in which he showed himself to have
'earned' his fame. Sadly, the concert is nothing but a gravelly-voiced
Martin incoherently trying to be funny, invoke pathos, and then claim
he doesn't care about it at all because hardcore. The sad truth is that
this is the real public embarrassment for Lawrence: the way he rambles
on invoking sad pity laughter makes you wish that he would just strip
down to his underwear on stage, wave a gun around, and just reenact it
all over again. There is no real insight to his performance at all.
Much like the childish title states, Martin is trying to make his
ultimate moment of truth his own in his way and fails miserably. He
would have been better off waiting for the E! True Hollywood Story
instead of running on a stage and making an idiot out of himself for
the second time.

Perhaps the saddest thing about this concert film--or rather, career
eulogy--is that Martin didn't put any thought into this. What was this
film supposed to prove? Sadly, that his fame was fleeting, he was a
flash in the pan before the underwear incident, and now that the only
way he can get work is piggybacking Will Smith or a Pixar production.
They might as well called this concert 'Tombstone' because that's what
it is. Martin Lawrence just dies on stage here, and with it goes what
could have been an interesting career. Now? Just a pathetic side note
in history.
<|_=00=_|>

I like Martin as an actor. He has the ability to be funny.  But what was
he
thinking about when he made this nonsense?  I laughed mabye 3 times during
this embarrassing performance.  Martin seemed to be saying whatever came
to
his mind as he went, no type of flow.  I have no problem with the
profanity
because when used right, it adds to the humor.  But using "M*\_}rF_=*r"
every other word doesn't take away from the fact that the material is
weak.
Then he also started with the "Let's give it up to the ladies" routine to
try to gain support for his tired performance.  And what was up with the
slow pace?  Bad enough the gag he's telling isn't funny, but now he want's
to drag it out, as if he's waiting for more laughs.  I had alot of high
expectations for this movie.  I was expecting to laugh, not wince.  If
Martin wanted to answer the critics, he shouldn't have 'wrapped' it up in
a
movie marketed as a Comedy, and have his fans pay the price.  I give this
movie NO STARS.  Next time I hope he leaves the old, old routines at home
and hope he actually practices before he performs.
<|_=00=_|>
Martin Lawrence explains in the first few minutes of his comedy special
dubbed Runteldat that he isn't waiting for E! True Hollywood to tell
his s***, but is going to tell it in his own words and his own personal
experiences. I normally say that some concert and stand-up films that
go to theaters aren't really that special enough to go theatrical - but
I think Martin Lawrence Live: Runteldat posses a strong enough reason
for such an honor.

"Runteldat" is a slang term for "run and tell that." While it's not
spoken throughout the whole film, it has a certain meaning to it which
makes it worthy of the title choice. Lawrence is basically telling the
audience members "now that you know the true story, run and tell that!"
The special was shot at Constitution Hall in Washington D.C., and was
directed by David Raynr. Raynr directed the seldom-seen Whatever it
Takes which was truly a mixed bag of comedy and drama elements.
Runteldat is also number eight on the list of films that uses the f
word most frequently, clocking in at three-hundred and eleven uses. I,
for one, am not offended by vulgarity if it is taken in a new and
non-gratuitous manner. It may seem like nothing but unnecessary
language, but once you get past it, the film becomes a pleasure and the
vulgarity adds to the fun of the whole picture. After a while, you
adapt and it becomes an unobtrusive quality.

Martin talks about every from sex, to drugs, to crime, to cops, to
9/11, the news, the media, and even the Cha Cha Slide and why he "can't
stand that f****** dance!" The first seven minutes are devoted to a
montage on Martin lashing out at the media. The message is unclear
because I can't really see what they did wrong. They were reporting on
him because he was arrested. Why is he getting mad? I don't know. The
whole attack seems tiresome and drawn out, but once Martin gets a hold
of the mic - anything goes.

When talking about critics, he says that can "criticize deeeez nuts!"
When talking about the Cha Cha Slide he says "STOP! Think about it."
One of my favorite sketches is when he talks about the way blacks and
whites react to getting pulled over. I'm white, and while I think I was
supposed to be offended or insulted, I couldn't contain my laughter.
When a film makes you think offensive material against yourself is
hilarious - I can't help but give it the highest compliment I've given
a comedy special.

I'm not easily offended because I feel that Martin isn't being racist
as much as he is proving a point about how distant blacks and whites
can be sometimes. If I found out he was being honest? I'd probably
still laugh seeing as he has the gall to admit something like that.
It's a win-win for him.

Another skit that was fabulous was when he discusses the differences
between black and white parenting. He uses an example when a kid
insults his mother, the mother sends him to timeout for "emotional
issues." He claims if you said that to a black mother, your timeout
would be picking up your teeth, your molars, and getting your foot out
of some place.

Martin Lawrence Live: Runteldat is a comedy special of epic vulgar
proportions. I can't sum it up to a solid degree. This isn't the
raunchiest or best that I've seen, but since Lawrence has done a number
of kid films it's nice to see him step up to the mic revealing his
dirty side. I couldn't help but applaud at the end. The ambition and
courage it took to get on the mic and say what he just said deserves
some kind of award.

Performed by: Martin Lawrence. Directed by: David Raynr.
<|_=00=_|>

While films about one night of stand-up 
have never pleased me, I rather enjoyed 
this raunchy yet self lambasting piece of 
work by Martin Lawrence. While joking 
about his life, he also jokes about love and 
child birth. Lawrence's salty language 
proves to be nothing more than a colorful 
backdrop to his overall message about life. 
Sometimes you get kicked while you are 
down, but you can always get back up from 
the trials and tribulations of life. If you can 
look through the language, Lawrence's 
physical antics on stage make this film 
worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
I usually really like Lawrence and being in Australia I haven't seen
much of his stand up, so when I saw this at my video shop I thought,
yeah I'll have a look. I wish I hadn't seen it now. Obviously Lawrence
had a profound experience that opened up his mind, and I guess he wants
to share this with others but this was neither the time nor the place.

This whole experience seemed like a motivational speech in hell, it
really did. I believe the catch phrase of the night was "ride it until
the wheels fall off" which he intermingled with just plain lewd jokes
revolving around sex and sexual organs.

Don't get me wrong, I don't mind crude humor, but Lawrence lacks the
gift of classing it up in the fashion of Eddie Murphy, Richard Prior or
Robin Williams. Lawrence was just plain lewd, the only time I laughed
was when he relived his experience with the law and his recovery in the
hospital. If there were minus points, i would give them....
<|_=00=_|>
It's the single unfunniest thing I ever watched. It's sad how he tries
so hard to come up with a good joke and all he does is curse and thinks
his disgusting vulgarity is funny. He is the most bitter person I ever
saw. His whole act he is trying to show how much he doesn't care, and
by that only showing how much he's angry at the critics and the people
with any taste and sense of humor who'd rather go through immense
torture than go watch his "show". There are good comedians, there are
bad ones and there are horrible ones. But this guy is in a league of
his own. I feel sorry for him and even more for the people who find him
funny.
<|_=00=_|>
It is not uncommon for a celebrity to be faced with the proverbial
"wake-up call". And, should they survive this event, they come to a
deeper understanding and appreciation of their particular good fortune.
However, in the case of comedian's, they are rarely as funny after
their epiphany as they were prior to it. Such is the case with Martin
Lawrence. Frankly, I pay little attention to celebrities as I have much
better things to do with my life than to spend it monitoring others'.
So, I was unaware of the majority of what Lawrence had gone through
prior to this film. It was interesting but, unfortunately, all too
common. I was left with the larger impression that this guy's stand-up
act just wasn't very funny. Save the big life messages for a book, just
be funny on stage. If you want to see a funny Martin Lawrence, go rent
some of the old Def Jams for which he hosted.

Don't rent Runteldat.
<|_=00=_|>

This recent stand-up movie of his was expectedly as piss-poor as his
previous, i.e. "You So Crazy".

Martin Lawrence is easily one of the most annoying personalities to be
recorded on film.  Not only is he a lowsy actor to begin with, he's
incredibly irritating to watch.  His stand-up act is simply unbearable
because it's nothing but Martin Lawrence and his embarassing way of
talking.
He overdoes everything.  Every gesture, every word, is overly-black!  He
thinks he can be funny by acting black and talking black, almost as if he
equates "blakness" with humor.  (Chris Rock gets away with this because his
content is actually funny to begin with.)

For God's sake, THE GUY IS NOT FUNNY!!!!  I didn't even crack a smile once
during the nearly two-hours of his agonizingly stupid, unwitty stand-up
routine.  
