

The second the movie was over, I was dumbstruck, and I wasn't the only
one. When the movie ended I thought there would be a big round of applause
but when I turned around I saw that about half the audience was still in
their seats. I looked at a couple of people, some were speachless and most
were crying. Nonetheless I didn't hear a word. When I thought about it, i
realized an applause would have been ridiculous.

When someone asked me how the movie was I was going to say it was
amazing,
but that wouldn't have done the movie justice. The movie was an extremely
moving, emotional experience.

The cast was absolutely flawless, Jim Caviezel gave a powerful
performance
as Jesus, Maia Morgenstern as Mary brought me to tears, and even though
Monica Bellucci spoke only a few lines, her performance and beauty
astonished me. The score was incredible. It had a middle-eastern feel to
it,
and was timeless and beautiful.

Most aspects of the movie were perfect to me. Instead of a squeaky
clean
version of the life of Jesus it was a realistic and heartbreaking
portrayal
of his final hours. The Aramaic, Latin and Hebrew languages, and wonderful
cinematography made you really feel like you were in first century
Jerusalem. The flashbacks truly had an emotional impact on
me.

While watching this movie I forgot about everything else in the world.
Mel
Gibson did an incredible job as a director and he truly was brave for
taking
on this project despite all the controversy.

As for the two main concerns of most people, the ultra-violence, and
the
alleged anti-semetism these are my views on the two.

Everything people are saying about the violence is true. It is brutal,
gory, and quite possibly the most violent work in cinematic history. This
R-Rating is very well justified and an NC-17 would have made sense. If you
are the type of person that cannot bear violence, this is definately not
the
movie for you. Some scenes of torture last about 10 minutes when you feel
you've seen enough after 30 seconds. But, the violence I feel was
absolutely
necessary. The movie is about the suffering/passion of Jesus, and turning
the camera away would not have an impact on you. The movie shows what
Jesus
actually went through for all of mankind's sins (according to
Christianity).
Mel Gibson did not exagerate the violence or make it look like horror
movie
or Kill Bill violence. As Jay Leno said on his show the other night, when
Jesus was hit it felt like WE were being hit as opposed to other violent
movies were you feel like YOU are the one hitting the person. I don't
think
anyone can say that every single hit upon Jesus didn't affect him/her
somehow.

As for the anti-semetism in the movie, I didn't find it was as bad as
everyone is making it out to be. The thing that made me see why people
were
criticizing Mel Gibson for was that instead of spreading the blame
somewhat
on the Jewish high priests (Sanhedrin) and mostly on Pilate, 99% of the
blame was put on the Sanhedrin, which seemed false to me considering that
historically it is known that Pilate was a vicious monster, and in the
movie
he seems like a gentle person and reluctant to crucify Jesus. I simply
didn't buy the fact that Pilate would be so nice. The movie can be
considered anti-first-century-Romans, and anti-Sanhedrin, but I did not
feel
the movie was attacking the Jewish religion, or the entire Jewish people.
But the movie is not anti-semitic for these reasons:
1. It is made evident that it was Jesus' prophecy and destiny is to die.
He
could probably have escaped from Gethsemane or even the cross (if he truly
had ''powers''). He was born to die, and there is no blame to be placed on
anyone. If anything, the Romans of that time are portrayed horribly
(though
realistically), and they are the ones that made him suffer tremendously
before his death.
2. Basically all the ''Good Guys'' in the movie are Jewish. Jesus himself
was a Jew, Mary was, The man that helped Jesus carry the cross was Jewish,
Veronica the woman that brought Jesus water and wiped his face was, and
many
Jews were screaming in the crowd against the torture and crucifixion of
Jesus.
(Personally, I don't know why Pilate was portrayed so nicely. It's not
like
the Jews had the ultimate power. It was ultimately HIS decision to have
Jesus crucified.)

An aspect of the film that intrigued me was the character of Satan, and
the demons in the movie. When I first found out Satan was in the movie, I
was scared it would be a red man with horns and a pitchfork, but he/she is
portrayed subtly. Everything about him/her was very Eerie.

Mel Gibson deserves a lot of respect for making this film. He made the
movie the way HE thought it was and though most historians or even
religious
figures would not agree completely to what happened, it is a general idea
as
to what those final hours were. When reading the new testament or hearing
the story of Jesus, it's hard to understand what it was actually like for
Jesus to go through all that pain, and what it was like for Mary to watch
her son get tortured and crucified. The movie really put things in
perspective for me.

Some people are criticizing him for adding things never written in the
gospels such as demons harassing Judas Iscariot, most scenes with Satan,
and
the torture from Gethsemene to the Jewish court, but he had to fill the
blanks in the Gospels with what he thought might have happened.

In conclusion, not everyone will like this movie. Some will love it,
and
some will hate it. But, I think that if you can endure the extreme
violence
and torture you should at least see it before you judge
it.
My opinion: 10/10
<|_=00=_|>

It took me a long while to decide whether to see The Passion of the
Christ. It had been my intention to since Mel Gibson first announced
the project, but endless reports of the film's unflinching brutality
made me fear it might be too much to bear. I eventually decided,
however, that whether I really wanted to or not, this was a film I
needed to see. It took me two viewings to really get a grip on it, so
intense were the emotions it provoked in me. Even now, weeks later,
re-examining it in detail is still deeply affecting. For those few
still unaware, the film details the last twelve hours in the life of
Christ. Its dialogue is entirely in Latin and Aramaic, with English
subtitles, a remarkably bold decision by Gibson, and one that pays
dividends. On one level it unites an international cast, sparing us any
clashing accents, and gives the film a greater sense of authenticity.
On another, it forced Gibson and his team into a very visual form of
storytelling; even amongst the carnage there are shots of aching
beauty.

Huge credit must go to the cast for mastering the language, and
employing it in such universally excellent performances. As Jesus,
James Caviezel has the immense task of embodying the most important
figure in human history, and often doing so with little dialogue, and
one eye swollen shut. Despite these handicaps Caviezel delivers a
performance of great emotional depth, embodying quiet nobility and
sacrifice. The performance that really stood out was that of Maia
Morgenstern as Mary. The pain she conveys through her large and
expressive eyes is heart-breaking, as she is forced to watch her child
endure the most unimaginable suffering. Yet throughout the film she
maintains an almost luminescent beauty, entirely befitting the mother
of God.

One of the themes of the story emphasised by the film is the bond
between Jesus and Mary. One flashback, found nowhere in the Bible,
details the mundane routine of Jesus being called in from carpentry by
His mother to eat. It was an immensely powerful reminder that for all
He was the Son of God, Jesus was also the son of an ordinary woman, who
He loved as any child loves its mother. It was also from this vein that
the most powerful moment of the film sprang. As Jesus carries His
cross, Mary begs John to get her closer to Him. She emerges into His
path just as He fall under the weight of the cross. She runs to His
aid, and as she does so the film cuts between this, and a similar
moment when Jesus was a child and fell outside the house. While she
could offer him protection then, now she is powerless; she weeps as the
guards thrust her roughly away from her son, and so do we.

It is moments such as these that make the film so much more than the
orgy of violence its detractors claim. For example, Peter's panicked
betrayal, and subsequent horrified realisation of what he has done is
handled in such a way as to move one to tears. There is also an
immensely poetic moment near the film's end, in which the camera tracks
the progress of a single drop of rain from miles above Golgotha, which
falls as Jesus breathes His last: a teardrop from Heaven.

As a film, The Passion of the Christ is excellent; as a religious
experience it is even better. Gibson has come under attack for focusing
merely on Jesus' death, and omitting His message of love - this
criticism is both unfair and ill-judged. In fact, he strikes the
perfect balance, including flashbacks at pivotal moments of the film to
events such as Jesus washing the disciples' feet, the Sermon on the
Mount, and the Last Supper. These remain very true to the text, with
quotes such as "You are my friends, and the greatest love a man can
have for his friends is to give his live for them" (John 15:13)
incorporated whole and delivered beautifully.

Even is there were no flashbacks, however, the point of the film would
remain, and it is a vitally important one. It serves as a powerful
reminder of the reality of what happened: Jesus did not merely die for
us, He was killed by us in the most terrible way imaginable. It is
something that can easily be lost through over familiarity with the
text, and the flowery nature of other representations, but which must
not be forgotten.

It has been said that "If Christ be not risen, then our faith is in
vain", and the film has also been attacked for devoting just a few
minutes to the Resurrection. Such criticism, however, betrays a very
narrow minded approach; the manner in which this sequence is filmed
conveys the full thematic significance it.

Perhaps the film's greatest impact has been to get me to pick up the
Bible again, and do so with a new faith and understanding. And for that
Gibson deserves nothing but praise.

<|_=00=_|>

Obviously there are some people who are rather ignorant about the words
they use and what the Passion of the Christ actually is supposed to be.
The one user who said "There is nothing passionate about this movie"
obviously did not research the meaning of the word Passion. The English
word has its roots in the Latin passio, which means, simply,
"suffering."

A search on "Webster's Revised Unabridged Dictionary" turns up:

PASSION: \Pas"sion\, v. i. To suffer pain or sorrow; to experience a
passion; to be extremely agitated.

People also seem upset that this movie did not portray the times in
Jesus' life when he was deep in ministry. The Passion of the Christ is
a centuries old tradition. I recently visited Oberammergau, Germany and
saw the site of the Passion Play that has been performed every decade
since 1634. The Passion Play ONLY portrays the suffering of Christ. It
is meant to bring the what Christ did for our sins to the forefront.

<|_=00=_|>

View from the Second Star: The Passion of the Christ
(Adam watched this film at a special preview in January)

It's hard to walk into a picture these days without knowing every detail
about the movie. Trailers have shown too much story, reviews have jaded
your
perspective, or friends have refused to see it - movies get spoiled. Yet,
sometimes, knowing the story is a far cry from seeing the event. For many,
the story of the crucifixion is something they've grown up with, lived
with,
as far back as memory serves. I tell you this, no matter what you've
heard,
no matter what you know - you will be stunned by The Passion of the
Christ.

From the opening shot to the falling credits, this film demands full
control
of ones body and emotion. So visually spectacular and physically gripping,
this film had me literally convulsing as I attempted to watch what was
onscreen. Mel Gibson's The Passion of the Christ, starring Jim Caviezel,
is
a retelling of the last hours of Jesus Christ. Believe me when I say that
this production is more than a story, more than a movie; this film can
only
be described as an experience.

This movie is fantastically brutal. From beginning to end, blood drenched
flesh is smeared across the screen in a ghastly fashion. Gibson defends
his
incredibly graphic depiction by noting that the bible states Jesus was
beaten beyond recognition. I assure you, beaten beyond recognition hardly
describes soft tissue being torn to be the bone as blood drips into
puddles
on the ground. The violence shown in this movie is unlike other Hollywood
violence - it's uncomfortably personal. The scenes are so believable, the
violence so real, that the scenes appear to take place in your very
presence; imagine before you a man being torn to bloody shreds; your
helpless to do anything, you're a spectator - utterly horrific.

As any appreciator of the finer things in film might see, The Passion of
the
Christ is artistic genius. Mel Gibson stated that his film follows the
last
12 hours of Christ in accordance to the gospel, and although biblical
scholars have confirmed this to be true, it is also true that a certain
artistic license was taken to particular moments in the story. Nothing
anti-biblical was added, but inside a sense deep meaning was inserted
through symbols and actions not actually recorded in the gospels. This
artistry serves to aid the story and engage the audience - artistically
and
culturally, expect nothing less that a film superbly crafted. Set your
expectations high, this one can handle them.

Unless you've been avoiding the media in recent months you've heard
accusations of anti-Semitism against this movie: its going to rekindle a
hate for Jews, its depicting the Jewish leaders of the day as monsters,
and
its showing that the Jews were solely responsible for the death of Jesus.
I
trust that once the movie is seen by the general public all of these
statements will fade into the shadows; this movies greatest defense will
be
itself. It is true that the Jews were involved in the crucifixion of
Christ,
just as it's said in the bible for nearly two thousand years. Hearing this
story doesn't swell up a hatred for the Jewish race, no more than watching
Schindlers List makes one hate current day Germans. This film is going to
be
many things to many people - anti-Semitic is not one of them.

No matter your background, no matter your race, no matter your beliefs on
the afterlife, this movie needs to be seen. The art, the culture, and the
magnificence - see The Passion of the Christ and you will have seen the
fantastic. Ten out of ten.

This has been a critical review by
Adam Schellenberg


<|_=00=_|>
This film is neither preachy nor pedantic, and was a welcome surprise
for me. As a non-Christian who nevertheless respects the historical
figure of Jesus Christ and the beauty of his philosophy and teachings,
I found The Passion to be a powerful portrayal of much that I think is
worthwhile about the Christ story. I know the film has been maligned
for anti-semitic content (perhaps because Jews make mistakes in the
film and are seen as persecutors instead of victims? - it could have
been anybody!), and for various other problems - but let's face it -
any movie portraying this subject was bound to face strong reactions.
And kudos to Mel Gibson for not shying away from the subject by
creating a sterile, gutless, Disney story out of what really was a good
example of the everyday horror of life on the fringes of the Roman
empire. Gibson invents a new genre with The Passion - that of
historical horror. 

The performances in this film are inspired. I felt that the film
brought out the cowardice of the apostles very forcefully, and the
courage and love of the two Maries in Jesus' life was palpable to the
very end. The effect of Aramaic and Latin, with the moody soundtrack,
was spellbinding. Again kudos to Mel Gibson for his courage and
artistic integrity on the decisions involved in these elements of the
film.

Final word - this is not a film for the whole family nor is it a
feel-good film. Don't see it if you're not willing to confront the
worst aspects of human nature up close. And don't go in looking for
your own version of the story - it's not your film! This is what Mr.
Gibson believes, and it's his own revelation, not necessarily to be
shared by all.
<|_=00=_|>

Mel Gibson has done the impossible.  He has created a tale of the Christ
that works on three separate levels.

As a spiritual message, the film is overwhelming, bringing tears of
renewal
to the believers in the audience.  Even if you are not a believer, though,
I
still think there is something in this for you.

As an historical observation, the film is brilliant, depicting the social
and political dynamics of the Romans and Sanhedrin with clarity and
accessibility.  This is the most believable interpretation of what
happened
to Christ, and although I knew the story going in, I found myself getting
caught in the narrative, hoping someone would realize that this was an
innocent man and that the persecution would stop.

Finally, as a work of art, this film is unparalleled.  Mel borrows from
the
works of Caravaggio, Puntarmo, Michelangelo and Leonardo et. al., as well
as
the Medieval Passion Plays.  As one who was made to study this in college,
it all came back to me in a graphic context, with production design so
amazing that it felt like I was going back in time, that I was seeing
Jesus
and Pilate and Peter and Mary.

This film will rock your world, and that's an understatement.  One of the
most beautiful films I have seen.
<|_=00=_|>
Gibson's controversial film is about one night different from every
other It is profound, beyond words It illustrates what supposedly
took place 

James Caviezel has little opportunity to show Jesus' spiritual
charisma His deep eyes movingly convey the anguish and pain of a man
forced to drag his heavy cross through the narrow streets of Jerusalem
to a place outside the city's walls... Caviezel is especially effective
in the flashback sequences that show him preaching to his followers,
and it's easy enough to wish that Gibson had included more of these
precious moments 

Maia Morgenstern's Mary is heartbreaking as the mother of Jesus who
recalls a poignant moment from Jesus' childhood This beautiful Jewish
Romanian actress comes across as a woman of incredible courage and
caring She is present at nearly every event after her son's arrest
She has little, if any, dialog Instead she uses her body language and
her eyes to convey her bleeding love at seeing her beloved son in
excruciating pain Her grief-stricken image at the foot of the cross
with Jesus' blood on her face made the roughest, most anguished viewing
of the whole film 

Monica Bellucci gives a quiet, yet forceful, performance as Mary
Magdalene, the ever-grateful woman who is saved from a stoning to
death 

Mattia Sbragia is convincing as the hateful, vengeful face, Caiphas,
and Rosalinda Celentano puts a frightening depiction of the devil,
which tries to sway Jesus from his destiny 

With realistic costumes and makeup, stunning cinematography, Gibson's
film embodies the spirit of Baroque art in Italy Its dramatic images
reveal to everyone how much the Romans rule over Palestine was based on
brute force alone
<|_=00=_|>
You may have an experience like this in a movie theater, once in a
lifetime. I haven't been able to take those images out of my mind. What
an incredible achievement. It works in so many different levels that it
would be impossible to list them. It touched me in a way no film has
done before. It provoked such degree of hatred around my neck of the
woods, that it goes to prove how the devil reacts to holy water. Most
people I spoke to in Los Angeles had made up their minds about the film
before actually seeing it. What's that all about? At the end of the day
Mel Gibson had the last laugh or the right to have it, although I don't
believe that he is laughing. He seems to be unafraid, fueled by his
faith and convictions, a man of his word. That in itself must confuse
the hell out of Hollywood. All religious considerations to one side
this is an artistic masterpiece. You may agree or disagree, but why not
to make up your own mind?
<|_=00=_|>
The Passion of the Christ is an undeniably moving and emotionally
galvanizing experience and will indelibly stay in your conscience long
after the credits roll. It is now 3 years later, and I saw the film
once in the theaters, and I remember it like I saw it yesterday. And
this is coming from someone who still hasn't made up his mind about
religion. This is a one of a kind film that will affect you as long as
you have a pulse. For those jaded enough to just view the film as
anti-Semitic or just plain hooey, then perhaps I will stipulate that
you will find something wrong with it. But for anyone who at least has
a humanitarian side to them, this movie will get inside you and never
leave.

Mel Gibson has lost much of his credibility when he got drunk one night
and went off on Jews. This rant painted him as a hypocrite and that is
very unfortunate because this film is one that at least has something
to say. If nothing else, it shows us that humanity hasn't changed in
2000 years. We are still as violent as we ever were. We still don't
value a human life anymore than we did when Jesus ostensibly walked the
Earth. Christ apparently died for our sins and if you believe in this,
if you accept the fact that Jesus got tortured more than any living
thing should be, then you have to understand that this was done so that
we could have our sins wiped away when entering the Kingdom. But it was
also done, if you believe in Christianity and/or Catholicism, so that
we could become better people. Why else would God allow his only
begotten son to succumb to such despicable and inhumane treatment? One
would hope that it is to better humanity, not make it worse. Although I
didn't live in Biblical times, I can only assume that times are not any
better now than it was then. Torture is still prevalent in myriad of
countries, and even condoned by the U.S president himself...the most
powerful man in the world. Famine is at an all time high and while the
rich countries like the one I live in do little to help wipe it out,
there are starving people even on our street corners. Altruism is a
word that most people don't know how to spell let alone practice. Greed
is everywhere and the opulence that is provided by the very Earth we
live on is being destroyed and pillaged by those that should be
thanking their lucky stars that we have this great place to live in.

What does this all mean? Does this have anything to do with the movie?
Of course it does. As I said, if anything this film appeals to the
humanitarian in all of us. I don't know how I feel about God, Jesus,
John 3:16 and The Bible and so on. But even though I am ambivalent to
all of this, I still have emotions and I do respect a human life. And
if a man, deity or human, was actually treated this way by a society
that existed 2000 years ago or 10 days ago, it is bothersome. If there
was a man named Jesus Christ that existed and taught us to be
altruistic and benevolent and peaceful, he would be disgusted to see
how we all turned out. The Passion of the Christ is about that man. It
doesn't matter if he was a God, a spirit or the flesh and blood, this
is a film about the power belief. But it is also about the power of
corruption and corruption of power. And power can be absolutely
corrupting and this is what has turned our world into a cesspool of the
rich and dangerous. Because when you watch the film, the fear of this
man, the fear of what he represented is what scared everyone.

The Passion of the Christ is a masterpiece of film making. I believe it
wasn't nominated for anything because the donkeys that run Hollywood
are powerfully corrupt as well and there are plenty of powerful figures
who just don't agree with the supposed message and supposed
anti-semitism. I don't really think Mel cares too much what the rest of
Hollywood thinks of him as this film apparently netted him more than
300 million dollars as he funded the film by himself. I say good for
him. It's a shame alcohol makes you say such asinine things because Mel
damaged his reputation beyond repair when he did so, but that shouldn't
take away from the brilliance of this film. 

James Caviezel is a miracle as the Christ figure. Speaking in an
entirely different language he conveys the passion, the fear, the
emotion and the spirit of Jesus Christ. I can't imagine another actor
playing this part.

The Passion of the Christ is one of the most moving motion pictures of
all time. It brought me to tears. Tears of anger, tears of sorrow and
tears for fear. As I said, this is coming from someone who sits on the
fence when it comes to religion. If you are a Christian or a practicing
Catholic, this film will move you like no other.

10/10 Love it or hate it for what it says, you cannot deny how it will
make you feel.
<|_=00=_|>

A lot of critics I have heard disliked or even dismissed this movie.  They
seemed to think that the movie should have focused on Christ's ministry
and
his teachings, and not on the crucifixion and the events leading up to it.
These critics miss the point of this movie.  As with all movies, The
Passion
was directed at a target audience, in this case Christians.  The point of
the movie was simply this: to make Christians understand, in a visceral
way,
what they knew intellectually from reading the bible: that Christ endured
a
horrible and brutal death in order to save us from our sins.  It was
completely successful in this, and was, perhaps, the most powerful movie I
have ever seen.
