
It's hard to comment on this film without including a spoiler, but I
feel it is necessary to try because of all of the unwarranted bad
reviews this film is receiving. If you go into it expecting to see a
rendition of The 6th Sense, you might be disappointed. If you go into
it expecting to see a logical plot with a chronological story behind it
and an honest portrayal of developed characters, you will be
disappointed and very confused.

However, if you go see this film with an open mind and simply
EXPERIENCE what it has to offer, you will be rewarded greatly at the
end - assuming, of course, that you understand what you have just seen,
at least to some degree. For the best experience, pay attention to the
little details, but don't try to figure anything out until the end. See
it with someone so that you can discuss it afterward. It's that good.

This movie is visually appealing and artistically constructed -
pleasing to both the eye AND to the mind.
<|_=00=_|>
This is really a spectacular film. I know I'm going to have to see it
at least once more, because there's so much stuff going on that it's
impossible to give Stay the attention in deserves in one viewing.

First and foremost, although I won't give away the plot here, I'll say
that the movie (thankfully) does not rely on a surprise ending for the
totality of its impact. In fact, if you're paying attention, you can
pretty much figure out (mostly) what the situation is before you get
too far into the movie. Unlike some of the worst examples of this genre
(i.e. The Sixth Sense), Stay is not a film that "hides the ball," but
instead presents you with characters and a storyline, and asks you to
draw your own conclusions.

That said, there isn't an obvious solution to the movie. While you may
be able to explain the film after viewing it (which is trickier that it
will seem at first), you may realize that the real brilliance of this
film is in the levels of its narrative. At its core, it is a basic
psychological thriller. Simultaneously, and perhaps subconsciously, it
also meditates on weighty issues of reality and identity- consider what
the imperative "Stay" means to different characters at different points
in the film, and it's almost like you're watching an entirely different
movie than you originally thought.

Finally, the visuals in this movie provide their own context and
narrative regarding the fragile nature of human memory and perception.
This is the best looking movie I've seen in a long time, and the fact
that it's combined with such a great story and cast makes this a rare
treat.

If there is a weak link here, it's probably Gosling, who I think missed
some opportunities to really dig in with his character and creep us
out. Still his acting is better than that of most of Hollywood's
garbage these days.

Final verdict: if you want a smart and unsettling film that will spur a
serious discussion, watch this. You won't be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
Have you heard of Stay? If you're here you must have but I'll bet it
wasn't too long ago that you found out about it. It's a movie that came
out late last year with little fanfare, was dismissed as a poor movie
by critics and quickly ushered back out of theaters.

It's a crying shame.

It was a wonderful movie. My favorite type of movies are psychological
horror movies. Favorites include: Jacob's Ladder, Mulholland Dr.,
Donnie Darko, and in a similar realm, Momento and Fight Club. I love
seeing a good representation of the human mind on film and that is
exactly what this film shows so well.

It's about a college student (Ryan Gosling) who tells his shrink (Ewan
McGregor) that he is going to kill himself on the stroke of midnight
this Saturday, leaving his shrink to enlist the help of his formerly
suicidal girlfriend (Naomi Watts) to figure out why he wants to kill
himself and how to stop him, while his world falls apart.

It's directed by Marc Forster of Monster's Ball and Finding Neverland
fame. The movie has been called pretentious, shallow, ridiculous,
bewildering, absurd, and empty by many reviewers. Personally I think
that they didn't have the patience for it and/or were put off by its
extravagant visuals and cuts. I thought it was great and deserves much
more credit than it has received.

The movie's visual style is very interesting and jarring in a good way.
It had me constantly saying to my girlfriend "did you see that?" Full
of slight of the hand camera/editing tricks. Nearly everything in the
movie is symbolic of other things or ideas in the movie. The acting is
very good, especially among the lesser characters. Everything in the
movie feels so unreal, but that is serves some purpose even if one
couldn't know what it is right away. A second viewing would reveal many
new things. In the end much of the movie is left up to interpretation
and my girlfriend and I had a good conversation about our ideas on what
things meant in the movie. After thinking about it for a day I'm pretty
sure that I could explain everything in the movie, even what the hell
is up with Ewan McGregor's pants, Why Gosling wanted to commit suicide
and the twins and triplets.

It was fun was figuring out what the rest of the movie meant after
seeing its end, the solution. The movie is like a code and the end is
the decryption key. It differs from other "sixth sense" type surprise
ending movies because everything you would see in the movie before the
end would not act as a clue to what it all means or what the ending is.
It's more like decrypting a diary than a problem with a solution to it.

Basically, any movie buff owes it to themselves to see this movie. I
rented it but after seeing it I fully intend to purchase the DVD.
<|_=00=_|>
It is a truism that film, as a photographic medium, intrinsically
resists the psychological. In the hands of a less gifted director, this
would have been equally true of STAY, despite its overt plot in which a
professor of psychiatry struggles to find a psychological clue in order
to prevent a young artist from committing suicide at a precise time and
location the artist has planned. 

But without altering this plot as written, director Marc Forster has
invented an editing style (combined with a rigorous control of
transitions and point of view) to create nothing less than a parallel
plot to the film, in which the professor must contend with the horror
of his own descent into full-blown psychosis.

Since the director conveys this parallel plot entirely through visual
means, and within the point of view of the hero of the story, its
consequences are all the more disconcerting, and we feel the terror of
the realization of losing one's mind more acutely than in any previous
screen depiction of madness I have seen.

Much as the young artist's psychotic identity implicitly consumes the
identity of his psychiatrist, so does the visual plot consume the
overt, written plot of the film, like an unconscious motivation that
overcomes a conscious one. By succeeding with such an ambitious design,
Forster has invented a new kind of film in which the psychological, in
all its frightening depths, finally becomes visible.
<|_=00=_|>
It would be cruel to reveal anything about the story before seeing this
film because most of the enjoyment is learning which path the story
will choose.

The film has masterful visual style. At times it appears to be a normal
picture until the surreal aspects make themselves known with subtlety.
The editing is seamless, almost but not quite confusing, and the
callbacks to earlier scenes are never overused.

It is not a spoiler to state that early on Something Isn't Quite Right,
and there are story elements that the avid moviegoer will know to be
central to the conclusion. However, it's the path that leads to the end
that makes the time enjoyable.

Naomi Watts, as usual, is perfect, and Ewan McGregor has again picked
one of the scripts that was for the art and not the money. Ryan Gosling
is effective, and Jeanine Garafolo's three minutes were eerie. I'm
certain that Elizabeth Reaser will be seen again.

Not a perfect movie, but definitely worth the time if you enjoy
surrealistic stories.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
There is such a debate about this movie, on side arguing that you can
"get it" if you are intelligent enough and the other arguing there is
nothing to "get." Why don't you all stop worrying about whether or not
you get it or not. Movies are art, and art is open to different
interpretations. There is no right or wrong, and to steal a quote that
I loved, (I can't remember exactly "Bad Art is even better because it
documents human failure") sorry that quote wasn't really necessary and
didn't fit my point exactly but I was just dying to use it.

Anyway my main interpretation of the movie is to show the intricacies
of the human brain. A man went through a serious shock/trauma, going
unconscious, allowing his subconscious to come out and play, the movie
demonstrates the power of the subconscious, pulling out stored tidbits
of information from the brain received by the human senses. The movie
documents not the man's physical struggle to stay alive but his mental
one. With his brain setting up a maze of obstacles to get past to
regain consciousness/life. In this maze of his mind I think his actual
self represents death or the coming of death, and he is in the form of
the psychologist (mcgregor) trying to work his way through the maze to
fight to stay alive. I think this is why we saw the movie makes such a
point of showing us that they are the same person (in his mind) I think
he has chosen mcgreggor as his self because in his subconscious he
knows that in the real life mcgreggor is trying to save him. As for the
powers, it is his mind of course he is able to control what is
happening. Leaving one end untangled, the de ja vu with mcgregor and
watts at the end. To go with the flow of this interpretation, that the
movie is demonstrating the power of the human mind, perhaps
subconsciously the mans dream was able to affect the other people
involved, through psychic powers, I'm not sure on this, this is a tough
cookie.

Of course another interpretation of this movie could possibly be two
parrelel worlds colliding through an event (car crash) I don't know for
sure I can only make my own interpretations, and I like this movie
because of the different ways it can be interpreted, unlike most
Hollywood movies, which leave no room for the imagination. This is art,
good art: 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this in the cinema solely because I had nothing else to do and
that Ewan McGregor was in it. I had no idea what it was about. I am so
glad that I watched it, because this film left me thinking for ages.

This is a thriller about a psychiatrist (which I happen to be one)
trying to help a depressed & suicidal patient. The film twists
unexpectedly all the time without getting bizarre. The visual effects
are stunning, and the soundtrack created the eerie atmosphere which
gave me creeps. The best thing about this film is that the film keeps
you in suspense throughout the film, without the use of sudden loud
noises, gore or scary scenes. Everything in the film seemed so every
day life (to me anyway) and yet it keeps you on the edge all the time.
The interspersed scenes of unrelated objects creates suspense in a way
that is surreal. In the ending, I was totally surprised at that
happened. I had to really think a lot to figure out what happened.
Usually, when I don't understand a film, I say it is bad bad bad, but
for this film, it leaves me wanting to find out more about it.

I strongly recommend anyone to watch this film!
<|_=00=_|>
As stated in the subject, this film is pure brilliance! The story is
not completely original, it draws small inspirations from such films as
"Identity", "Fight Club", "12 Monkeys" and even a little "Sixth Sense".
But don't let that deter you if you did not care for those films!
"Stay" is pure, cinematic genius from beginning to end.

Marc Forster is probably one of the greatest up-and-coming directors of
our time. What he's done with this film will make any cinephile drool
with delight. There are so many innovative camera techniques that your
eyes experience a sensory overload of pure genius. One of these
trademarks is a technique where he transitions from one setting to
another while still making you think you're in the previous scene for a
few seconds. For example, in a scene where we see Ewen McGregor's
character in a shop, the camera then switches views to the glass door
of the shop, which we see another important character looking through
it. The door opens and the character walks through, at which point we
realize he was going through a subway door in a totally different
scene. Forster uses this technique, as well as many other amazing
tricks, throughout, and it's no less brilliant every time we see it
them.

As I said, the plot will remind you of a few other movies, yet the
actual twisted ending, and the avenue which Forster and the writers
take us there, is so completely different and interesting that this
film simply must be seen.

McGregor did a fantastic job as psychiatrist Sam Foster, and Gosling
was unbelievably realistic and convincing as the mentally unstable
patient. Of special note is Bob Hoskin's almost cameo role as Foster's
friend Leon. His character is so sympathetic and believable that it
almost made me cry.

As usual with such films as last years "The Jacket", this movie was
marketed as some supernatural horror film, but it's by no means a
horror film. In fact I went into this movie dreading all the jump
scenes and disturbing, weirdness that would make me run from my car to
my front door at night, but really this is a straight up thriller in
the vein of "12 Monkeys" and "Sixth Sense" (minus the ghostly
appearances and dead people).

If you consider yourself someone who is tired of Hollywood's
big-budget, slam-bang drivel and want to actually have your brain
scrambling with thoughts throughout an entire film, RUN, do not walk,
and see this film.
<|_=00=_|>
For the few people that saw this film, it seems that people either love
it or hate it, but that's the case with a lot of films these days. I
thought the film was brilliant just because of how well thought out it
was and it keeps you guessing till the end. Some movie goers aren't
patient enough for a film like that.

A lot of the hits, at least in the states, lately are movies that don't
require much thinking at all. They're just films that are entertainment
and action alone.

Here's a brief explanation of the movie, if you don't want to know what
happens, skip this paragraph. Henry Letham (Ryan Gosling) is driving a
car with his girlfriend and family in it on some bridge (I forget which
one it is) in the NYC area. An accident occurs and we see Henry between
life and death while the other three people in the car have already
died. The movie is then about what Henry is seeing as he's about to
die. In the real world, Ewan Mcgregor's character Sam, and Lila (Naomi
Watts) are helping him out until the paramedics can come and help. The
movie we see is Henry's made up world containing Sam and Lila, where
Sam is just helping a suicidal Henry and Lila is Sam's girlfriend.
Other people he remembers seeing from the accident make short
appearances in his made up world. Thus, the film is relatively
confusing to some people, and I'm sure I haven't explained it as well
as I could.

In the end, I say go rent this movie when it's avail
<|_=00=_|>
STAY is a strange bird of a movie, one that you must be rested and in
the mood for to watch, and one that asks that you forget the usual
linear storyline and stay alert every minute. Directed by Marc Forster
(Monster Ball, Finding Neverland, and the upcoming The Kite Runner) and
based on a story and screenplay by David Benioff (Troy, The 25th Hour,
and the upcoming The Kite Runner!), STAY is more a mind-bending visual
excursion that explores some dark psychological questions dealing with
life, death, suicide, occult, and a mélange of all of these.

The opening of the film is a twisted visual experience that has to do
with a car crashing on a bridge, fire, and a body - all given during
the opening credits. We then meet psychiatrist Dr. Sam Foster (Ewan
McGregor) as he encounters a college student patient Henry Lethem (Ryan
Gosling) whom he is seeing for his colleague, the emotionally exhausted
Dr. Beth Levy (Janeane Garofalo). Hesitant to work with a 'substitute
psychiatrist' Henry eventually tells Sam he is planning to commit
suicide that Saturday at midnight, a re-enactment of his painter idol's
absurd life. Sam's artist girlfriend Lila (Naomi Watts) was herself a
suicide attempt rescued by Sam and offers her help in dealing with
Sam's patient. Sam also gleans advice from his mentor, the blind Dr
Patterson (Bob Hoskins) and after numerous attempts to contact his
associate Beth for information, Sam strikes out on his own in an
attempt to understand Henry before he destroys himself. He looks up
Henry's mother (Kate Burton) whom Henry says is dead, discovers when
Henry meets Dr Patterson that Henry claims Patterson is his father and
is also dead. Ultimately Sam engages the services of a mental
institution run by Dr Ren (BD Wong) and gains the promise that the
institution will put a hold on Henry so that he will be unable to
commit suicide.

In the midst of this race Sam's world begins to crumble, people don't
make sense, stories clash, and Sam tumbles around in a state closely
resembling madness until the final frames when the entire situation of
the film is made clear. Nothing is as it appears when dealing with the
thread that separates life and death. The script is clumsy, the camera
work is distractingly of kilter, little gimmicks are used to the
extreme, and the tiny roles of supporting characters hardly merit the
gifted actors such as Hoskins, Burton, and Garofalo. Ryan Gosling is
again tossed into a role that is starchy and unidimensional and despite
his fine work his character remains aloof. McGregor and Watts do the
best they can with the script but end up becoming tropes wandering in
from other similar stories.

So why give the film 8/10 score? Because despite all the defects it
does engage the mind and forces the viewer to set aside the general
principles of understanding and just release the mind to a crazy ride.
That is healthy film making and deserves attention. Grady Harp
