
I know that many people are complaining about the short length of the
movie, a sparse 84 min, but what's there is funny. I know that when I
left the theater, my face, as well as the faces of my 9 friends who
came with me were hurting from laughing so hard. If you a fan of the
show, you will love the inside jokes and cameo of one of the shows most
beloved characters (I won't spoil that for you, just look at the cast
for yourself). There are also plenty of notable celebrity cameos such
as Danny DeVito, and The Rock to name a few. I will admit that it isn't
exactly up for any awards, nor will it go down in history as one of the
funniest movies of history, but it has its moments. If you liked the
show, you will like the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I'd only seen part of one episode of the TV show before seeing the
film, so my knowledge of the characters and the premise of the show was
limited. No matter: the film does an excellent job of establishing its
tone and the specifics of the characters right off the bat. No roadmap
required.

My biggest fear with seeing a theatrical version of a TV series is that
the film tries to overinflate the stakes of the plot to justify the
increased length and budget and fails. Reno 911!: Miami took that
necessity to its logical next step by moving the small town
incompetence to a much larger scale in Miami, but due to some clever
(and minimalist) writing, the relocation works. And, since nearly all
of the humor in the film is derived from the characters and their
reactions to their situations -- all of which speed by at a brisk pace,
so as to not overmilk a joke -- the relocation never felt forced or
unwelcome.

Impressively, the film veers into cliché territory on numerous
occasions but never delivers the expected punchline. The actors know
their characters so well that their improvisations keep the audience
and their costars on their toes at all times. Even the traditional
"caper" plot, which is really just an excuse to tie all the vignettes
together, is handled with more originality than I would have expected.

Perhaps I should start expecting more from this creative team, since
they're capable of sustaining my interest (and my amusement) over the
course of a full-length feature. In fact, perhaps I should start
watching the series...
<|_=00=_|>
I haven't laughed this hard in a theater since I saw Something About
Mary. That said, I'm a fan of the TV series, and I thought the movie
lived up to its expectations. My only complaint is it could have been
longer. Nevertheless, I think the writers and actors were on their
game. Take in mind this is dumb slapstick humor, with flatulence and
vomit jokes, but its still very clever, unique, and definitely funny!
There really wasn't much of a storyline, or I should say it had very
simple plot. However, that's not what makes Reno 911 funny (a complex
plot might even be distracting). What makes Reno 911 funny is the
string of endless "skits" and scenarios these incompetent cops put
themselves in. This is a great cast of actor/comedians.
<|_=00=_|>
I hear all these people saying that this flick is a disappointment.
That it should have stayed on TV. They complain about the lack of plot.
What this movie constitutes is basically a bunch of scenes that appear
to have been mostly ad-libbed, stuck together with a very, very loose
plot involving a disease which is really just an excuse for them to be
where they are. I found the extreme lack of a story amusing, especially
in a few scenes where its obvious how aware they all were of it, and
they were able to make fun of it. The R rating allows for some great
gags that wouldn't have been able to show on TV. Overall this flick
isn't an amazing comedy. It isn't thought provoking or anything else to
that extent. It's a bunch of good jokes strung together and pasted up
on a screen. If you like the show, don't expect it to be much more then
an extended episode of the show, with some more boundary pushing gags
and celebrity cameos.
<|_=00=_|>
I actually enjoy the show and was very unsure about how it could be
translated into a movie, so my expectations were not terribly high
initially. Then I read one of the reviews on here that said that the
movie was much less funny than the show, and overall rather
disappointing. After that, my expectations were even lower, so I was
pretty much expecting a dud when I went in.

I see what people were saying about it being strange that they tried to
shove a plot into what should essentially be series of skits, but
contrary to the reviews I've read, I thought it worked just fine. If
anything, the cliché terror-attack plot paired with the cliché
drug-lord plot were just meant to be a throwaway satire of the kinds of
awful plots some franchises have to create in order to be translated
into a feature film format ("over-the-top" action "worthy" of the big
screen). If anything it just provided for some completely ridiculous
scenarios that this viewer found quite entertaining.

As far as the cameos, yeah, they remove you from what shred of
"reality" was left in this reality TV parody, but I felt like they
worked. For one thing, minus the Rock and Danny DeVito, most of the
cameos were not necessarily people everyone is going to recognize. Half
the theater was asking "who's that?" when members of Stella showed up,
or when someone from Upright Citizen's Brigade was on the screen. But
for people who've loved the work of these semi-famous comedians over
the years, their presence was a bonus. Not to mention it made the film
into an effort by the whole Comedy Central family, which was kind of
endearing.

Anyway, going in with low expectations and trying not to take it
seriously (it is a comedy, after all), you should have a good time
viewing this.
<|_=00=_|>
Whenever I saw the regular series on television I definitely enjoyed
it. "Reno 911!" is a highly creative and very funny show. However much
to my dismay I've only caught bits and pieces of it so I went into this
film not knowing nearly as much of the characters' backgrounds as many
others in the theater on opening night. Fortunately, enough was
explained that newcomers could quickly pick up on what went on despite
some in-jokes definitely being present. Now even with bearing my
limited level of "Reno 911!" expertise in mind I thought it was
hilarious. The biggest problem this film will face is it was setup in a
very similar style to last year's "Borat". Between the carefree male
nudity and how sex was addressed, the resemblance was very much alike.
Despite this approach being taken, this was very much its own movie and
accomplished what it set out for.

The real-time mockumentary comedy that "Reno 911" represents has been
prevalent on television for the past few years and recently it appears
as if it's now being a preferred alternative on the big screen as well.
This is with good reason because the characters seem more like actual
everyday people than some ridiculous caricature that doesn't resemble
anything close to a human being. Viewers can identify with these
personalities more and thus stand a better chance of becoming sucked
into the different situations no matter how over the top they are. I
predict that humorous films will start adhering to this relatively new
formula and will be the kick-start to a whole new generation of cinema.

Notwithstanding some of the downright hysterical moments, there were
some pieces that didn't work. To start off with, the first half was
much funnier then the latter part. As if the writers began running out
of jokes and settled for any suitable finale. Also most of the dialog
in the show is improvised where it appears that for the movie it was
scripted the other way around and this certainly took away from the
actors' spontaneity. Finally some of the scenarios are almost a little
too far-fetched, even for a notorious farcical ensemble cast such as
this.

All in all I found myself laughing out loud a lot and was very glad I
caught this one. It appears it won't beat out the television show due
to the advantage of getting to compress the running time, but it's
still a very comical motion picture that'll guarantee to put just about
anyone in stitches. I'd say there's a very good chance a sequel will be
in the works and surely look forward to it. Law enforcement is no
stranger to either parodies of itself or becoming a target for
instances of goofiness that could never really happen, but this is a
new take on big-hearted police officers that can't seem to get anything
right that'll have you mimicking them for hours on end. Between the
witty quotes, the oddball lawbreakers, and the refreshing celebrity
guest listMiami didn't know what hit it!
<|_=00=_|>
Having not seen the TV series, this was my first exposure to the
characters of the "Reno 911!" world. As such, the movie was really
amusing to watch. There are some really funny bits (mostly coming from
the dialog) along with the insane wackiness of the characters. As a
first-time viewer, it was just plain fun to watch.

The movie is basically about a group of Reno police officers who travel
to Miami for a police convention. When a quarantine restricts the Miami
police force (and all the other officers in the city), the Reno crew
must defend the city.

The dumb innocence of the characters coupled with the serious tone that
goes along with being police officers is well done. Each character is
also well-defined with particular quirks, hangups and issues with the
other characters. As a result, the things they say are often nutty and
hilarious.

If you've never seen the series, everything in the movie will be fresh
and amusing. There are some good laughs here and there and the bizarre,
kooky characters will keep you fascinated. For new viewers, it's worth
checking out.
<|_=00=_|>
"Reno 911: Miami" the Comedy Central spin-off movie spoof of Fox's
highly-rated reality ride-along TV show "Cops," qualifies as a
consistently hilarious comedy of errors about a loopy lot of law
enforcement personnel who wouldn't know what to do with a clue if they
found one. Mind you, the cable TV show "Reno 911" is as much an
acquired taste as the film that it has spawned. People who cannot
tolerate politically incorrect attitudes, unapologetically racist
characters, and anything in between that consists of the lewd, the
rude, and the crude, won't appreciate the skewered humor of either the
television show or this movie. Happily, everybody from the superbly
silly small screen saga about Reno, Nevada's mentally challenged
sheriff's department reprises their role in this big screen adaptation.
Moreover, nothing drastic has changed in terms of the irreverent wit,
the wacky characters, and the preposterous predicaments, except that
"Reno 911: Miami" is bigger and better. Aside from a disposable plot
that involves a poorly parodied "Scarface" mobster who wields a
weed-eater rather than a chainsaw, most of "Reno 911: Miami" will
tickle your ribs.

The premise of "Reno 911: Miami" is that the sheriff's deputies receive
an invitation to attend the American Police Convention in Miami Beach,
Florida. "They invited us," Lieutenant Jim Dangle (Thomas Lennon)
announces to Deputies Raineesha Williams (Niecy Nash), Travis Junior
(Robert Ben Garant), S. Jones (Cedric Yarbrough), James Garcia (Carlos
Alazraqui), Clementine Johnston (Wendi McLendon-Covey), Trudy Wiegel
(Kerri Kenny-Silver) and Cherisha Kimball (Mary Birdsong), "because
they invited everybody." When our hapless heroes arrive in sunny Miami
after an uncomfortable cross-country bus trip, convention officials
cannot find either their credentials or their registration packets.
Since they cannot register at the convention center motel, Dangle and
his deputies have to check into a seedy dive called the International
Inn. The next day they return to the convention center and learn to
their surprise that terrorists have exposed the over 2000 cops,
including the Miami Beach police, in the convention center to a
biological toxin, and Homeland Security doesn't possess an antidote.
Meaning, the authorities have quarantined everyone in the convention
center, and acting mayor Jeff Spoder (Patton Oswalt) reluctantly
presses the Reno deputies into service to stand between Miami and
rampant lawlessness. Predictably, chaos ensues with the Reno crew
wrecking Miami's Ford police cars and fumbling one situation after
another in ways characteristic of the television series. Garcia and
Jones investigate an alligator in a backyard swimming pool in what is
one of the funniest scenes and get advice from a redneck next door
neighbor. Meanwhile, another series regular shows up. Nick Swardson
generates a lot of hilarity as the nutty male prostitute on roller
skates named Terry. Terry's role is considerably larger here than in
the TV show. Raineesha and Trudy have some funny moments at the beach
with Raineesha trying to coach Trudy in the proper etiquette of talking
to beachcombers. Dangle and Travis wind up at a topless beach trying to
remove a beached sperm whale. Eventually, our heroes run afoul of the
chief villain, a wannabe Tony Montana-style drug czar played by Paul
Rudd that constitutes the more lackluster part of the plot. When the
film focuses on the drug lord, it is not as zany as when the Reno crew
dominates the action.

Co-writer & director Robert Ben Garant and scenarists Thomas Lennon and
Kerri Kennedy-Silver have done a smooth job transferring their deadpan,
improvisational humor to the screen. Basically, Trudy emerges again as
the craziest of the eight deputies. For example, at an exhibition where
cops shoot at a guy modeling a bullet-proof vest, Trudy cannot hit the
vest, but she manages to wound the man in the arm. She triggers a
rocket while seated in an assault helicopter and blows one of Miami
PD's prowl cars to smithereens. "Oh, that was my bad," she remarks as
the fireball explosion dissipates. She continues to have her crush on
Dangle who has nothing but revulsion for her. At the same time,
Clementine is trying to figure out how she got a tattoo of a mustached
man on her left breast, and Garcia is having a difficult time deducing
how he got a tattoo of a blond on his loins. Every character gets a
chance to shine, and anybody that doesn't know anything about them will
learn quickly what makes each deputy unique. As Lt. Dangle, Lennon
practically repeats his first season speech about his penchant for
wearing tight-fitting cut-offs. Niecy Nash is especially funny when she
explains how she likes to push around men. "Reno 911: Miami" boasts
three cameos, with Dwayne Johnson, aka The Rock, scoring best as a
butterfingered SWAT expert who blows himself up, while Paul Reubens of
"Pee-Wee's Playhouse" turns up as Terry's wealthy father. Like many
recent movies, "Reno 911: Miami" isn't content to wrap up its antics
all nice and neat before the end credits roll. Stick around for the end
credits and you'll see three more amusing skits. The best one involves
a proctologist explaining how his medical equipment works. The
performances by a seasoned ensemble cast are uniformly side-splitting
throughout, and the comedians never wear out their welcome in a
$10-million film that clocks in at 85 minutes. Fans of "Reno 911" won't
be disappointed with this big-screen adventure. "Reno 911: Miami" ranks
as the funniest cop comedy since the Broken Lizard Club's first movie
"Super Troopers."
<|_=00=_|>
I was pretty excited to see this movie after being a fairly big fan of
the show and I am very let down. I can't put my finger on just what it
is that made it so different from the show. Perhaps it's the fact that
the show has the homemade "Cops" feel to it and you could tell the
movie was Hollywood produced. Maybe it was that the show seems to be
funnier and more creative. Whatever the reason, I was sad to see such a
good show reduced to such an average and boring movie.

The characters and actors are all the same but they almost seemed to be
holding back from the performances they give on the show. The story was
boring and not as creative as usual but there were definitely a few
good funny moments that kept me from rating movie lower. I just thought
it was average Hollywood comedy fare that really doesn't deserve a
theatrical release. Maybe I would have liked it if it weren't for all
the hype surrounding it.

I guess you should see this if you like the show but don't expect
something as funny. It's like a half as funny version of the show that
was less thought out.
<|_=00=_|>
I enjoyed the movie. I am a huge fan of the show. But I do have to
agree with the comments already made and only comment myself in an
attempt to be more concise and more helpful in my opinion. The show was
very funny and made me laugh out loud at times, but i feel it could
have been even funnier. With Reno 911 I expect a lot, because of the
reputation they have built for me. The movie steps into the line of R
rated issues that I have no problem with, but show a lack of
intelligence, originality and surprise. The movie becomes predictable
as it goes on. Too much focus is put onto dangle and Trudy. Certain
members of the team have only a handful of lines. What i love about
reno 911 the show is that every character makes up the team and every
character can make me laugh. In the movie too much focus is attempted
on too few characters. I wasn't disappointed in the movie, but from a
critical view I think more could have been done. as for the comments
about Borat the movie...I see no reason to compare the two...except
that i guess for some borat is a new thing to most Americans this year
and they feel a need to compare seeing them as 2 comedies this year.
