
VARALARU , is a very good movie, and lot of hard work in that film,
P.C.Sriram, work is excellent, and A.R.Rehman, did a wonderful job.All
songs are feast....The Director, K.S.Ravikumar, has add his stamp from
the first scene itself. A fast-paced narration with some interesting
incidents weaved in, which doesn't allow you much time to ponder on the
flaws, and which camouflages the inadequacies of the script, makes
'Varalaru' engaging viewing. And the soul of the film is undoubtedly
Ajit, who performs his three diverse characters with panache. The actor
has put in much effort, demarcating each role with such finesse and
understanding that it is a sheer delight watching him on screen. There
is Shiva, the ageing business tycoon, bound to his wheelchair, sharing
a strong bonding with his son Vishnu. Indulgent, while Vishnu whiles
away his time with his cronies taking life easy. But then suddenly
Vishnu starts behaving out of character, his drunken bouts and acts
causing the father much shame and embarrassment. And when Vishnu
professes to remember nothing of what he had done, the father takes him
to a psychiatrist.With 'Varalaru' Ajit has bounced back with a
vengeance and re-established his credentials as an actor who can
deliver if given the right role and projected suitably. The famished
look of 'Tirupati' is gone, and we get to see a handsome, eminently
watchable Ajit here.Then appears Jeeva, Vishnu's look-alike, and the
cause of Vishnu's woes. Jeeva's target is Shiva, and his motive
vengeance for the wrong done to his mother decades back. The flashback
episodes has Ajit playing a classical dancer, and it is here that the
actor scores. With his perfect body language to go with the character
of the dancer, and the feminine mannerisms he adopts to go with it,
Ajit cuts a fascinating picture. His classical dance number is
performed with such finesse that it takes you by sheer surprise.

While Asin peps up the scenes in the earlier part with her
vivaciousness, Kaniha gets the performing role as the older Ajit's
pair.

The songs are nice to hear, going to hit the chart list soon. One of
the great work of A.R.Rehman, Director K S Ravikumar, who had struck
the right chord with the actor (in a dual role) in 'Villain' earlier,
has done it yet again here too.

Everyone did their job perfectly. I recommend everyone to watch this
movie.....i am sure you will love it.
<|_=00=_|>
VARALARU is a great movie, and lot of hard work in that film,
P.C.Sriram, work is excellent, and A.R.Rehman, did a wonderful job.All
songs are feast....The Director, K.S.Ravikumar, has add his stamp from
the first scene itself. A fast-paced narration with some interesting
incidents weaved in, which doesn't allow you much time to ponder on the
flaws, and which camouflages the inadequacies of the script, makes
'Varalaru' engaging viewing. And the soul of the film is undoubtedly
Ajit, who performs his three diverse characters with panache. The actor
has put in much effort, demarcating each role with such finesse and
understanding that it is a sheer delight watching him on screen. There
is Shiva, the ageing business tycoon, bound to his wheelchair, sharing
a strong bonding with his son Vishnu. Indulgent, while Vishnu whiles
away his time with his cronies taking life easy. But then suddenly
Vishnu starts behaving out of character, his drunken bouts and acts
causing the father much shame and embarrassment. And when Vishnu
professes to remember nothing of what he had done, the father takes him
to a psychiatrist.With 'Varalaru' Ajit has bounced back with a
vengeance and re-established his credentials as an actor who can
deliver if given the right role and projected suitably.Then appears
Jeeva, Vishnu's look-alike, and the cause of Vishnu's woes. Jeeva's
target is Shiva, and his motive vengeance for the wrong done to his
mother decades back. The flashback episodes has Ajit playing a
classical dancer, and it is here that the actor scores. With his
perfect body language to go with the character of the dancer, and the
feminine mannerisms he adopts to go with it,Ajith cuts a fascinating
picture. His classical dance number is performed with such finesse that
it takes you by sheer surprise.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie went through a lot of trouble before it came out. I remember
a group of Ajith fans saying that he had no luck at all. And when it
released it some how managed to survive the monsoon. May be because
Simbu's so called romantic thriller chased people away to this one or
there was something about the movie which made you want to see it.
Anyway this is Ajith's best performance in years. he makes you forget
the many poor aspects of the movie.The songs grow on you. I think the
sentiment scenes worked really well with the audience. both the
heroines have decent screen time. there are probably a few unwanted
jokes placed in the movie. And yes i do not know what the title was all
about ? but i give it 10 because i have never seen a movie single
handedly saved by an actor.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie is really good due to Ajith's excellent performance in the
role of a man with feminine character.

Since most part of the movie is shot when Ajith was during the period
of reducing his weight, his looks are not same throughout the movie.
This is really intriguing in the flow of the narration. 

K.S.Ravikumar is in his usual stuff taking the plot of prostitution for
the romance of the lead pair. 

A.R.Rahman's songs are hummable and good to watch.Overall Ajith's
performance raises this movie and it lived to its expectation and the
long wait was worth.
<|_=00=_|>
Story : Ajith is an effeminate. Due to this, his wife insults him on
their wedding day. Avenging that, Ajith rapes her and so she becomes
pregnant and gives birth to twins. Ajith takes care of one while the
other grows up under his mother. While one becomes a spoiled brat, the
other becomes a psychopath as a result of the situations he faced in
his childhood. He seeks to take revenge of his father. He plans to
murder him twice. Now, what happens ?? will he succeed in doing so ??
What happens to the spoiled Ajith ?? forms the story.

Performances : Ajith is the whole and sole of this movie. He is just
excellent in all the three roles he portrayed. He is perfect when it
comes to dancing scenes. It seems, he did a lot of homework to act like
an effeminate and all his efforts paid off. This is easily one of his
best performances. To put it simply, this is a one man show by Ajith.
Heroines and other cast have nothing to do as I said earlier, the whole
film has only 3 major actors - Ajith, Ajith and Ajith.

Story-Screenplay-Direction : As it is evident, the story is an old-
fashioned one. But the screenplay given to this makes difference.
Direction is fine.

Music : Music by Maestro A.R.Rahman is slightly a mixed bag. The
soundtrack is partly superb and partly underwhelming. While Innisai
(all three versions), Katril Oru Varthai & Theeyil Vizhundha are
excellent compositions, Ilamai, Thottapuram & Kamma Karaiyil are below
average songs strictly meant for Ajith fans. In a way, Rahman has
failed to deliver a fully good album. But, as I mentioned earlier half
of the songs are awesome. The soundtrack is worth listening for those
alone. Background Score is again excellent. It elevates the film to a
new level.

Other Departments : Artwork, Cinematography and editing is fine.

Final Piece : This film solely depends on one strength called - Ajith.
His fan-base is huge. Acting wise, he is excellent in all the scenes.
He just steals the show. If you admire Ajith, you would like this.
Otherwise, you may just get irritated. You have to make a choice. I
chose the first one and really enjoyed this film.
<|_=00=_|>
Varalaru is an good movie - It has the dubious distinction of failing
at every imaginable level.

Featuring Ajith in a triple role, Varalaru represents a combination of
all the worst elements in Tamil movies.

A pitiful story, horrible acting by Ajith, mediocre music, crude action
scenes and juvenile comic interludes combine to deliver a stinging
migraine to unsuspecting viewers.

Varalaru is so bad that it can easily be showcased at film schools as
an illustration of an egregiously bad movie.

Ajith plays the role of a father Shivashankar and his two sons Vishnu
and Jeeva. He overacts in all three roles but is particularly bad as
the father. Ajith is only slightly better in the character of Jeeva,
the vengeful young lad intent on killing his father whom he blames for
his mother's madness.

Apart from Ajith's acting (or is it non-acting), the other big weakness
of Varalaru is its asinine story, which gives new meaning to the term
bizarre.

The totally unconvincing story dooms the movie from the get-go. It's
weird to even conceive of a mother who harbors affection for her
daughter's rapist.

Then there are Varalaru's dialogs, which never rise above the banal.

Asin plays the lady love of Vishnu but does not have much of a role.
Which is a pity since the young girl is showing signs of becoming a
good actress. Since the story revolves around Ajith's three roles,
there is little scope for Asin to demonstrate her talents here.

Music genius Rehman has failed to deliver the goods in Varalaru. None
of the songs rise above the ordinary. Katril Oru Vaarthai is perhaps
the best of the lot.

Vishnu, the son of a rich businessman Shiva, generally likes to have a
good time in the company of his friends. While visiting a village
called Thottapuram on a social service mission, he meets a young girl
Divya (Asin) and is smitten with her.

Soon, the youngsters are engaged to each other and set to marry
shortly.

But things start to go terribly wrong for Vishnu soon. He commits
various violent acts that he has no recollection of later. When
Vishnu's violent behavior gets worse, his father has him admitted to a
mental hospital.

We quickly realize that the evil hand behind Vishnu's violent
activities is actually his look-alike Jeeva.

But why is Jeeva doing all those criminal acts and shifting the blame
on Vishnu? The answer lies in Shivashankar's distant past as an

dancer who is jilted literally at the altar. Unable to bear the shock,
his mother dies sending Shiva into a violent rage that leads him to
rape the girl (Kanika) who jilted him.

Although Kanika has a short role, the young lass shows that she can
indeed act, a rarity in Tamil movies.

All in all, Varalaru is awful to endure, rotten to contemplate and
unpleasant to narrate
<|_=00=_|>
ajith has come with a refreshing movie and although it has a weak story
yet it was entertaining. Looking at three ajith was good. Twin son and
a father seems old trick but was given fresh injection by KS Ravikumar.
Any movie by KS RAvikumar, one can hope for a very entertaining past
time. The movie starts a bid slow at the beginning but once you start
to confuse why the son is doing all the crap then it takes off.
Enjoyable.Ajith really brings out his act especially on the soft
character. An entertainment movie for all except for some rape scenes.
Definitely a go for Ajith's fan. Plus look out for the final scene
after the director say goodbye. tells you a lot of hidden story.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't know if its the way the lead guy and his stupid friends see the
group of helpful women as possible prostitutes or whether its Ajith
Kumar's incredibly irritating screen presence or the director's total
lack of judgment or the incredibly stupid title, that makes me think
this is another of the really crappy movies that come from Tamil
Cinema. The movie is incredibly bad, too bad that even A.R.Rahman
couldn't save it with really lackluster music and songs, he cant be
blamed though there was nothing to get inspired to make even decent
music. Ajith was great during his "mugavari" days when he portrayed
such a likable character. He is plain pathetic now. I don't even know
why I waste my time writing him reviews.
<|_=00=_|>
There's a proverb in Tamil 

"Kannal kanbadhum poi. Kaadhal ketpadhum poi" 

It means, "Things u see with your eyes are illusions. Things you listen
with your ears are all lies" 

This movie is like tat... Impossibly the worst movie...

I saw this movie... The tile of the movie is "Godfather"... But, the
story has no connection to the title at all... Guess, the director
doesn't know the meaning for Godfather...

TO ALL TAMIL DIRECTORS... BEFORE TITLING A MOVIE LOOK FOR THE MEANING
IN THE DICTIONARY BEFORE DOING SO...
<|_=00=_|>
Of all the movies that you could watch, if you choose to watch this
movie....i should say that your very unfortunate....The story is crap,
the acting nowhere near tolerable and the music not something we'd
expect from A.R. Rehman..but its not fair to judge A r rehman with this
movie because the music of a movie is to an extent influenced by the
story and acting.......I wonder how someone like Ajith can ever be
called an actor.....his dialogue delivery is pathetic and its better i
don't mention his facial expressions......you'd do yourself a favour by
not watching this movie...or rather watch it and educate others on how
these kinda movies humiliate the once-enchanting Tamil film
industry...Also....i beg the filmmakers not to cast people who are
stone heads when it comes to dancing in roles that are supposed to
highlight it.....For crying out loud, Ajith can't even dance to those
funny dappankuthu songs...how can one tolerate him DANCING
BHARATHANATYAM......the thought of him donning the role of a classical
dancer would make good dancers of yesteryears turn in their
graves.....And watch out for the scenes where Ajith is supposed to be
projecting an effeminate side.....Its official ...he's the worst(or is
there a worser term for that) thing that can happen to Tamil
cinema.........
