
I saw this last night (6/15/07) at The Maui International Film
Festival. It is going to be categorized by some as a "Chick Flick",
however the chemistry between Michelle Pfeiffer and Paul Rudd is
undeniable. Since the film won't be released for a few months, I'm not
going to go into any specific plot details, however Hollywood's
obsession with youth, plastic surgery, and untalented pretty people is
amusingly (and sometimes disturbingly) exposed.

Pfeiffer is a true movie star -- a brilliant actress and shamefully
underrated comedian. And I would imagine that this film will likely be
Paul Rudd's star-making vehicle. He's a talent power-house.

Other notable fine performances are give by the one and only Tracey
Ullman as Mother Nature, and Saoirse Ronan as Pfeiffer's daughter.

I haven't laughed out loud at a movie in a long time, however I did
last night -- many times. Judging from the reaction, laughter and
applause of the hundreds of others in attendance, this movie is a
winner.
<|_=00=_|>
My wife and I happen to be one of those Ashton/Demi couples and have
been together before it became popular and acceptable. I never had much
of a problem with it but my wife did initially. The film did a
remarkably accurate job of portraying what goes on in the head of the
older female. It had us ROTFL as we had gone through similar situations
ourselves when we were dating.

Paul Rudd is very funny much funnier than I remember him from Friends
and Michelle Pfeiffer is perfect as the sexy, and somewhat insecure
love interest. The daughter/mother relationship was also really well
done - the daughter being smart, just precocious and innocent enough
without being too artificially sweet which was very hard to pull off.
The dialog in the film is clever and witty but light and self-parodying
along the lines of Clueless.

Overall, a very sweet and funny movie - I haven't enjoyed a romantic
comedy this much since Annie Hall or Sleepless in Seattle.
<|_=00=_|>
Just got back from the Maui Film Festival where this film was shown.
I'd have to say that I was pleasantly surprised on how good this movie
actually was.

Michelle Pfeiffer and Pual Rudd have great chemistry throughout the
whole movie. Jon Lovitz appears in the film also and adds a great
comedic experience to the film. He stars as Michelle's ex-husband in
the movie and I laughed every time the both of them were on screen
together.

Pual Rudd was fantastic in this movie and it shows what he can do when
given co-top billing in a comedy. He was great in 40-year old virgin
and in this he is no different.

The movie has the same type of feel of Clueless, as it should, their
both directed by the same person. Give this movie a chance, it was
funny and kept you entertained throughout the whole movie.

I didn't give too much detail as you can tell, i just wanted to let you
know a little bit of what to expect and how well the actors/actress's
come together in this movie.

Great date movie/or a movie to take your significant other. I promise
you'll both have lots of laughs.
<|_=00=_|>
I Could Never Be Your Woman is the first film directed by Amy
Heckerling (Clueless) in like 7 years. I ended up unexpectedly loving
Clueless back then, and this film definitely has that same vibe, as
well as many of the same cast members, including Rudd, Stacey Dash, and
Wallace Shawn. The movie was a light, fun romantic comedy that I
enjoyed quite a bit (though I could have done without Tracy Ullman's
"Mother Nature"). Michelle Pfeiffer makes a nice return from her movie
hiatus in the lead here, after easing back in with her smaller
supporting role in Hairspray earlier this summer. Her daughter is
played by Saoirse Ronan, a talented young woman who is gonna be
breaking out in a big way in the next year with this and roles in
several other really big-name films. But the real star here is
definitely Paul Rudd, who has proved to be one of the funniest guys
around right now. Between this, his involvement with the Apatow crowd,
his participation in all manner of projects by alumni of The State, and
the rest of his work, he definitely knows how to find good projects and
surround himself with equally talented people.
<|_=00=_|>
I must say that I really enjoyed this film. I found myself smiling and
giggling throughout this entire movie. The chemistry between Michelle
Pheifer and Paul Rudd was spot on. I also loved the mother/daughter
relationship between Rosie (Michelle Pheifer) and Izzie(Saoirse Ronan).
And I must say that all of the small appearances and mentions of such
an array of celebrities really added that little something to this
script.

So my recommendation...grab your best girlfriend and enjoy! (Although I
think your boyfriends/husbands will enjoy this movie as well. It does
have the beautiful Michelle Pheifer and hilarious Paul Rudd in it!)
<|_=00=_|>
I had no idea what this movie was about, all I knew was that it was a
romantic comedy. Paul Rudd is terrific; his chemistry with Michelle
practically leaps off the screen. I found myself laughing out loud at
various situations. It was a very sweet, upbeat movie that just left me
feeling good. Not to mention that it revolves around a TV Show that has
remarkable similarity to Clueless. And if you were a fan of that
movie/show then you will love watching some of the original cast. There
are definite moments that will take you back to that classic! I have
resisted signing up for IMDb for a while, but this movie needs to be
shared!
<|_=00=_|>
Slapstick, cerebral, puns, visual humor, industry in jokes, innuendo,
and satire, even Woody Allenesque in Tracy Ullman's Mothe Nature
running commentary; Amy Heckerling's writing skills here are at full
force. We cannot remember that last time we watched a film and laughed
out loud so often and at so many different types of comedy;

As other reviewers have noted this is a film of real sweetness - but
even the sentimentality is handled well - but not saccharine. It
handles the idea of older woman - younger man with a delicious sense of
balance and farce; can it really be five years since Michelle
Pfeiffer's last film? And Paul Rudd stamps his charm all over this.

The comedians, and there are a ton to spot here, especially British - a
challenge to spot all of them - make up one of the better ensemble
casts of the last few years.

'I could never be your woman' is quite simply one of the best comedies
of 2007 in our opinion - romantic or otherwise. Neither of us could
think on another comedy that comes close so far this year. It is
difficult not to be enthusiastic given the wit and chemistry of the
script, the actors, and the crew. Irreverent, yet old fashioned, trend
setting, yet comfortably familiar, this really is one of the most
enjoyable films to be seen: an outstanding comedy, and if I am raving
about it, it is because it deserves it.

A real film and a real cinematic experience: kudos and thanks to all
involved.
<|_=00=_|>
Yes, Michelle Pfeiffer is who i am referring to. She looks absolutely
amazing at 49 and when i was a kid i could only wish all my mates mums
looked this fine.

I am a massive fan of romantic comedy, i hear you all say but you are a
bloke whats wrong with you !!! Who can forget Love Actually which
basically has some of the all time funniest moments in cinema. I could
never be your woman unfortunately does not hit these highs but you will
laugh and the characters have a certain warmth.

The film really focuses on the relationship between Pfeiffer and her
daughter which is unusual in the fact the most of the good comedy
moments arise from the daughters relationship with her mother and her
mothers personal life. You have to love Jon Lovitz, the guy is a
genius. He is barely in the movie but his dead pan matter of fact
character is a perfect foil to Pfieffers Character.

On the whole i would say watch this, probably wait for DVD but its
certainly worth a rental. The film had the potential to be both funnier
and also some pointless Scenes especially with Mother Nature.

On a final note i know this is only a film and it was 90 minutes long
but if i have children in the future i would like to be a parent like
Pfieffers Character. Honest, open with a great relationship with her
daughter.
<|_=00=_|>
Amy Heckerling's latest romantic comedy, I Could Never Be Your Woman,
got, to use a proverbial word, shafted. It was meant for theatrical
release and went straight to DVD due to some bad deals done with one of
the producers. It's a shame despite the fact that Heckerling's comedy
was far from being top-shelf work. It certainly stands a good chance at
ranking well enough alongside (and probably better than) many of the
tripe conventional market-stuffers that are out in cineplexes. Her film
posits that a middle-aged TV writer (Michelle Pfieffer) has some angst
and insecurities in dating one of the new stars of her TV show (Paud
Rudd), and it's not a bad premise. This is also thrown in a quasi plot
thread involving her daughter (Atonement's Saoirse Ronan, couldn't tell
it was the same girl she's that good) as she tries to navigate her
first possible boyfriend.

A lot of this isn't delivered with all of the best execution- certainly
it's hard to figure on what exactly makes the Tracy Ullman bits funny
as they're slipped in with some awkward soft-focus and at ill-timing-
and there's something kind of fishy about putting such an actress like
Michelle Pfieffer, who is still incredibly beautiful for any age, in
the role of an insecure woman who can't see herself with such a younger
man after such a long break from being with a man. At the same time,
there is a good deal that does work to Heckerling's advantage, such as
the bond between the mother and daughter in the story that doesn't ring
as being sappy or trite like in other rom-coms or flicks with
mother-daughter talks and such. And almost in spite of the bright
lighting, Paul Rudd lays on the same charm and wit carried over from
the Judd Apatow comedies (if, of course, nowhere near as funny in the
sensibility of crudeness). And who can't love Jon Lovitz or Fred
Willard? 

So with I Could Never Be Your Woman, it's good for a rental, but that's
not really the point with the release issue. It's the kind of movie, as
with Heckerling's others, that play for laughs with a big audience, and
are perfect for a certain niche of female viewers and die-hard rom-com
afficionados. It's light and slight and not too terrible, if not much
memorable either.
<|_=00=_|>
Don't waste your time with this dud! With Michelle Pfeiffer and Jon
Lovitz as perhaps the most childish, inane parents on screen since "The
Brady Bunch". Michelle Pfeiffer's character is thoroughly unlikeable
and Paul Rudd's character is a complete idiot!!!! The only character
with any redeemable qualities is Izzy, as played by the radiant Saoirse
Ronan, and even her precociousness grates after a while. There seems to
be a trend lately of portraying the leads in any rom-com as either a
bitch, or an idiot, as if Hollywood thinks that these are only types of
women who would pull a man, which is a bad, bad message. Michelle
Pfeiffer portrays a kidult who tries to be a 'friend' to her daughter,
playing Barbies and jumping on beds and indulging in food fights. She
also dresses like a fourteen year old. What gives???? Amy Heckerling
has produced some good movies, but THIS is NOT one of them!
