
At a risk of sounding slightly sacrilegious, on first viewing I'm kind
of inclined to put this right up on a par with 'Shaun of the Dead'.
Now, given I view Simon Pegg as an unquestionable comedy genius, I
realise this is a rather big claim. And to what extent you agree with
that last statement may be a good preliminary gauge of whether 'Fido'
will appeal to you.

In a way the comedy picks up where 'Shaun' left off, except we're back
in the original 1950s Living Dead-era stereotypical middle-American
small town. The Zombie Wars are over and zombies themselves are
becoming more well-adjusted, useful members of the community. This, so
we're informed at the outset, is largely thanks to the scientific
advances made by the good people at Zomcom - a nice play on romantic
comedy perhaps? 

The beauty of the film lies in its dead-pan depiction of a respectable
neighbourhood maintaining core values while making a place for zombies
and the special hazards they pose. The charm and balance with which it
does this is near enough perfect. Themes you might expect from a more
mainstream kitsch comedy come through - the veneer of good clean
living, keeping up appearances, repressed emotion, muddled parental
values, social decorum and the plight of the alienated individual.

It's a story told with happy heart and wide appeal that is brought to
life vividly by the film's all-round strong cast. It's one of those
works where it really shows through that everyone involved got a kick
out of taking part. It's also fun imagining what Billy Connelly
learning his script must have been like...

So in conclusion, it is probable you will appreciate the humour of this
film unless your father tried to eat you.
<|_=00=_|>
I suppose the ultimate curse of attending the Toronto Film Festival is
your release date time table get messed up. Quite frankly, I'm just
happy Fido got picked up for US distribution. In any case...

Ever seen Shaun of the Dead? Good. How about Lassie? Able to reconcile
the two? Well, if you can your name might be Andrew Currie, Canadian
helmer of the first ever family themed zombie comedy, or zomedy.
(Seriously, that's what the press book in Toronto called it.) Though
not as violent, dry, or British as Shaun of the Dead, Fido remains true
to its roots: a devotion to old 50s black and white television
including both Lassie and the infamous sci-fi pulp that was being
pumped out during the period.

Fido's talented headliners (Carrie Anne Moss, Billy Connelly, Dylan
Baker, and Tim Blake Nelson) stand as a testament to the brilliance of
the script. The film explores all the implications of its premise: a
world where zombies have been converted to servants because of the
sheer number of them due to a strange accident. What would you use your
new undead servant for? A butler? Manual labor? A pet? Unspeakable
acts? Fido tackles all these possibilities in a sweet and surprisingly
classy way, with much thanks to the work of Connelly (as one of said
zombies) and young TV actor K'Sun Ray, who seems at times to be a
better young Elijah Wood than the young Elijah Wood was.

If you're expecting another Shaun of the Dead, don't waste your time.
There's not nearly enough gore and pokes at the genre to satisfy you
and you'll just leave the theater bitter and depressed. But if you're
willing to take a look at what happens to Shaun of the Dead when it
jumps across the lake, you're in for a treat. Think of Fido as the
sensitive, more often beaten up little brother to Shaun of the Dead's
rebellious loser, and you're starting to get the drift. If you like (or
at least tolerate) zombies, small children, and loads of deadpan
satire, Fido's the film for you. If that's not the case....well, you
know the drill. Just hit 'em square between the eyes.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw this movie at the Vancouver Film Festival and thought it was deadly
smart, stylish, and FUNNY.

The cast was ROCK SOLID. Great work by Carrie Anne Moss, Dylan Baker,
Tim Blake Nelson, Billy Connelly and up and comer, Alexia Fast.

Weirdly, I found myself thinking about the movie for days after seeing
it.

Writers, Dennis Heaton, Robert Chomiak and Andrew Currie layered in a
lot of political subtext - but didn't whack you over the head with it.

The world they created had depth, and made sense. There is a giddy
carnivorous spirit to this movie.

FIDO is guaranteed to cure grumpiness.

Loved it!!!
<|_=00=_|>
Fido is a cute comedy that deserves wider recognition, especially
considering the mainstream crap that is supposed to entertain us these
days.

As has already been pointed out, this is hardly a real zombie film, but
rather a sweet satire that employs the undead to point fingers. While
there are necessarily some bloody scenes, there is almost no gore and
the way this movie is presented (feel-good 50s style), I can't imagine
anyone being actually scared or turned off by Fido & his fellow
sufferers.

While the cast is generally good, I felt that Moss and Nelson stood
out. The humor is not in-your-face, but rather subdued; there's a lot
of attention to detail and I caught myself smiling benignly several
throughout the movie. This is certainly no masterpiece of cinema, but
it doesn't strive to be - instead, Currie succeeds in delivering a
heart-warming black comedy.
<|_=00=_|>
Just saw the World Preem of Fido at the Toronto International Film
Festival and thoroughly enjoyed it. Here we have a welcome reworking of
a genre widely thought to have been pioneered (certainly 'fleshed out'
extensively and successfully) by George Romero. But this is a Canadian
film by a Canadian Director and it's a Comedy! And, YES, I actually
think it is better than 'Shawn of the Dead'. Thoroughly believable and,
perhaps even more importantly, enjoyable performances by Dylan Baker,
Carrie-Anne Moss and young actor K'Sun Ray, whom I suspect we'll be
seeing a lot more of in future features. However, I must confess that I
most enjoyed the delicious turn by Tim Blake Nelson as neighbour Mr.
Theopolis, essentially playing a willing animated version of Victor Van
Dort from the Corpse Bride (or, for those who've seen the film,
wouldn't that read even better here as the Corpse Pride?) and, of
course, Scotch actor Billy Connolly in his least animated, yet somehow
deeply moving role as the titular character. Just think, he would not
have gotten this role had it not been for Peter Stormare's commitments
to Prison Break (as was revealed in the Q&A following Thursday night's
screening). I can't help but speculate that the Screenwriters must have
drawn a lot of inspiration from Day Of The Dead's Zombie 'Bub'.I am not
keen on ever revealing plot details during a Comment and I won't start
now. Suffice it to say that Fido is NOT one of those dour, graphically
gory Zombie films you can rely on from Romero. Rather it is a film that
will have you constantly chuckling and, although (and I did have to
think back carefully to be sure) there is a fair dose of blood-letting
and violence, the delectable humour, so well enhanced by the surreal
milieu created by Director Currie and his co-screenwriters, goes a long
way towards making this seem like a feature that ought to be rated
PG-13. I urge you to go see this little Canuck gem. I'll certainly be
buying the DVD once it emerges hopefully by next Summer.
<|_=00=_|>
Set in a middle class neighborhood in the imaginary town of Willard in
the 1950s, this dark comedy with a light touch toys with such American
obsessions as gun mania and violence, materialism and keeping up with
the Joneses, fear of others, slavery, golf, and the disposing of the
dead. Yes, it all sounds a bit heavy, but trust me on this, it's nearly
as light as a feather.

Zombies are featured prominently among the characters. Crucial
questions arise, such as: who will become a zombie (90% of the Willard
folks choose this final path, while only 10% prefer a traditional
funeral)? Who owns how many Zombies to do their bidding like robots
(they've become a mark of social status)? And, what is the range of
possible relationships that can be worked out between the living and
the sort of reincarnated dead? 

Somehow, director Andrew Currie, who also co-wrote the lively
screenplay (with Robert Chomiak and Dennis Heaton), keeps this
improbable material percolating along for an hour and a half without
once faltering for want of a good laugh. A super cast helps:
Carrie-Anne Moss, Billy Connolly, Dylan Baker, Henry Czerny, Tim Blake
Nelson, Mary Black and Sonja Bennett are the principals, aided by young
K'Sun Ray as Timmy, the innocent kid with a good heart who acts as fair
witness to all the lunacy of the grownups. (Having seen her only in
"Memento" and "The Matrix," I had no idea that Ms. Moss had such fine
comedienne chops.) 

The production design and music are exquisitely 50s, to a tee. Maybe
this one isn't for everybody. It surely will be a hard film to beat for
my annual Bizarro Award. But intelligent comedies that stay funny from
start to finish are among the hardest won achievements in movie-making.
For me anyway, "Fido" is a hoot! My grades: 8.5/10 (A-) (Seen on
01/30/07)
<|_=00=_|>
This is the first must see film I've seen in the last year! It's
wickedly funny, incredibly original, unbelievably great looking (they
went for this super cool wide-screen Technicolor look that's awesome to
behold,) and it actually has depth in character and in what it says
about society. It's really smart satire that nails everything from
Homeland Security to race issues, while at the same time leaving you
laughing and realizing how much are world lives in fear. Carrie Anne
Moss turns in a comedic performance I never imagined would come from
her! She's sweet, funny and sexy! Billy Connolly is great as Fido who
can only grunt and moan! And Dylan Baker as the Dad is priceless. In
fact the whole cast is perfect. Henry Czerny as the bad guy, Tim Blake
Nelson as the neighbor with the hot sexy zombie girlfriend (getting the
idea now?) Funny, though-provoking and just all round amazing! Go and
see this movie! It's like nothing you've ever seen before.
<|_=00=_|>
A year or so ago, I was watching the TV news when a story was broadcast
about a zombie movie being filmed in my area. Since then I have paid
particular attention to this movie called 'Fido' as it finished
production and began playing at festivals. Two weeks ago Fido began
playing in my local theater. And, just yesterday, I read a newspaper
article which stated Fido is not attracting audiences in it's limited
release, with the exception of our local theater. In fact, here it is
outdrawing all other shows at The Paramount Theater, including 300. Of
course, this makes sense as many locals want to see their city on
screen or spot themselves roaming around in zombie make-up. And for any
other locals who haven't seen Fido yet but are considering it, I can
say there are many images on screen, from the school to city park to
the forbidden zone, that you will recognize. In fact, they make the
Okanagan Valley look beautiful. That's right beautiful scenery in a
zombie movie! However, Fido itself is a very good movie. Yes, despite
its flaws, it is better then most of the 20 other movies playing in my
local market. Fido is best described as an episode of Lassie in which
the collie has been replaced by a member of the undead. This is a
clever premise. And the movie even goes further by taking advantage of
the 1950's emphasize on conformity and playing up the cold-war paranoia
which led to McCarthyism. Furthermore, it builds on the notion that
zombies can be tamed or trained which George Romero first introduced in
Day Of The Dead.

K'Sun Ray plays a small town boy who's mother (Carrie-Ann Moss) longs
for a zombie servant so she can be like all the other house wives on
her block. However, his dad (Dylan Baker) is against the idea as he
once had to kill his own 'zombie father'. Eventually, the family does
acquire a zombie named 'Fido' (played by Billy Connolly), and adjusts
to life with the undead. Billy Connolly was inspired casting. He is
able to convey Fido's confusion, longing, hatred, and loyalty through
only his eyes, lumbering body, and grunts. Connolly shows that he can
play understated characters better than his outrageously comedic ones.
This is his best role since Mrs. Brown.

Fido follows in the footsteps of other recent zomcoms such as Shawn Of
The Dead and Zombie Honeymoon. Being someone who appreciates Bruce
Campbell and Misty Mundae movies more than Eli Roth and Jigsaw ones, I
prefer humor over gore in my horror. However, I understand the
criticism of those horror fans who feel there is not enough 'undead
carnage' in Fido. Yet, I am sure patient viewers will be rewarded by
the films gentle humor.

The movie does break down in it's third act. It's as if the writers
were so wrapped up in the cute premise of domesticated zombies in the
1950s, they forgot about the story arc. However, given my interest in
horror comedies and my appreciation for seeing the neighborhood on
screen, I rate Fido 9 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
My goodness. This movie really really shows the talents of actors.
Billy Connelly flexes his acting muscle. Truly an amazing man, if you
look at him in Absolution as a rebel, Boondock Saints as a
madman/killer, and then finally in Fido as a zombie! His character in
Fido looks from cute to frightening, absolutely fabulous! Cariie Ann
Moss is no hack either! Jumping in career from Matrix and Momento as a
darker character, to a heart warming conservative 1950's housewife!
Rare these days to see actors being able to not be so type-casted.

Now onto the storyline (No Spoilers, don't worry). This movie would
make Max Brooks (Author of Zombie Survival Guide & World War Z) happy
with joy! Finally a well done twist of zombies and comedy.

If you like zombies, if you don't like zombies, if you are just bored,
or if you are too busy, go see this movie!
<|_=00=_|>
And this somebody is me. And not only me, as I can see here at IMDb or
when leaving the theater. Why did the people love it? It's obvious:
Everybody knows zombies by now (at least the Horror fans by heart and
the others through the "Dawn of the Dead" reinvention or Resident Evil
movies etc.) 

Or at least they thought they knew everything about zombies ... that is
until this movie came along. And you'll see zombies in a new light
(perhaps). This is not a horror movie, although it does contain some
violent scenes, but is rather a comedy. A satire to be precise. And it
never runs out of steam! That is why I rated it so high. Pacing wise
it's incredible, the acting is great and the script has no (obvious)
mistakes ... quite the contrary: It's a gem and if you're only a little
bit interested in zombies you ought to see it! And even if you dislike
them, watch it! Because it's a great (comedy) movie!
