
There is long tradition in Italian cinema in which the hero is a thief
or a pathetic loser or a criminal or, like in "Romanzo Criminale" all
three. Part of the tradition is to humanize the beasts, to give them
feelings, to make us feel for them. Here we're giving an endless
romance based on the real life Magliana band, a bunch of heartless,
violent thugs that dominated the Roman gangland in the 70's. Michele
Placido and his script writers concoct a confused and confusing
document that is as annoying, tedious and opportunistic as it is long,
endless really. There is, however, one big plus in its favor, the
actors. They are given a sketchy draw of their perverse characters but
they go for it with body and soul. Kim Rossi Stuart's tormented Freddo
exudes a cutting pain that makes you think he has a conscience. Claudio
Santamaria projects danger without even trying and the "Libanese" is
played by an actor totally new to me, Pierfrancesco Favino, that gives
the best performance by an Italian Actor in many, many moons. Riccardo
Scamarcio has a face to launch a thousand ships but unfortunately no
character and Stefano Accorsi is totally unbelievable in a character
that is nothing short of absurd. Explosions, production values,
American style editing, but very slow pacing, a brilliant dirty
photography by the great Luca Bigazzi. What a pity that with all of
this talent available the end result is so mediocre.
<|_=00=_|>
I read the book some years ago, and was really excited that a movie was
going to be made out of it. The plot was just perfect and the
characters strong enough to work well on screen. Well the movie is
quite disappointing, and not because of the script, which in a way does
work (except maybe for a foreign audience who will not catch all the
political implications of the movie), but for Michele Placido's poor
television style of directing and (mainly) for the choice of (most) the
actors. These guys should be the worst criminals Rome had ever seen,
people you would not have the guts to see in the eyes, but the actors
chosen are all the cool and beautiful teenager idols of Italian cinema,
surely good actors, but not in the right place this time. This movie
could have been a great opportunity to finally export some good Italian
cinema...i'm afraid we'll have to wait much more!
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see "Romanzo Criminale" with very high hopes. Michele Placido
made one of the best Italian films of the 90's "Un Eroe Borghese" with
a superlative Fabrizio Bentivoglio. There he touched a delicate real
life story and treated with the vigor of a vintage Costa Gavras. I
regret to inform, none of that is evident in "Romanzo Criminale" The
great bunch of young Italian actors assembled in one film! A story of
friendship and betrayal, paralleled to the turbulent 70's. But
something, definitely, went tragically wrong. The film seems rushed and
thoughtless. Kim Rossi Stuart, one of the best of his generation, is
wonderful to watch but his character swings from gloomy to gloomier and
we're ask to feel compassion for him - although we're not allow to
grieve for his victims. Half way through the film I started to get
impatient and glancing at my watch. I felt detached, unmoved. The last
nail in the coffin of this unfortunate venture is the casting of
Stefano Accorsi. It may have been a commercial decision, Accorsi is a
big star in Italy, but the idea backfired in a big way. His story is as
convoluted as it is unbelievable. He doesn't have the strength or the
power to transmit the ambiguity of his character. The women are treated
as virgins or whores and what else is new. This time, I don't think,
nobody can complain of lack of funds. I suspect they went for a
commercial operation with fast cutting and a popular score with several
well known hits from the 70's on. All together a disappointing
experience.
<|_=00=_|>
It's not that "Romanzo criminale" is a bad movie. It's only a movie
we've seen so many times (from the Godfather to Once Upon a Time in
America) done so much better.

Storywise, although it is of Italian origin, "Romanzo" is as bland as
any new mafia movie, dealing with revenge, honor and family. The script
is rather tedious too, with very few moments of sparkle, and even
though the movie looks good, it only starts to feel like a watchable
movie in its last quarter. And as if it weren't enough that the film is
mediocre, it also bears resemblance to an odyssey if we are to consider
its playing time and the way I, as a viewer, interpreted it.

The one interesting aspect is related to the political facet of the
mafia, and especially to the situation before the fall of the communist
regimes. But this definitely doesn't make up for the weak plot. All
there is...is a series of events, linked to one another, sprinkled with
love but far too hollow to transcend. Sadly.
<|_=00=_|>
While reading the other reviews of this film, I was surprised at how
many negative responses it got. For one thing, people who complain that
it was too long and seemed like a miniseries...the two and a half hour
version WAS a miniseries, the cinema version was epic but not that
epic. I actually prefer the long version. It is true that if you watch
this trying to test your Italian language skills you will be hard put
to understand most of it unless you have lived in Rome. I wouldn't have
compared this film to the godfather or scarface, it is very much less
Hollywood. The feeling of overwhelmed connection between crime and
politics, the sense of no way out, the fact that the characters seem
not to be particularly penitent, all of this is very accurate, it truly
does evoke modern Rome. We are so used to mafia movies, big movies that
show a rise to the top, very American Dream style, then the inevitable
fall, because the characters are bad and have to be punished. This film
is beautiful because it is so far outside of American morality. The
characters die horrible deaths not to pay for their crimes, but simply
because that is a risk of the line of work they are in. The deaths
reflect the characters. Lebanese started a ruthless street gang in a
dirty garage, and dies full circle, on the street, no pomp or
circumstance. Ice, who always seemed to be scratching at the door of
escape and salvation, dies without ever reaching it, on the steps of a
church. This is significant, even beautiful, but don't give too much
weight to the location. There are over 400 churches in Rome. The odds
of being shot in front of one if you are going to get shot in a public
place are quite good. I have seen Rome's criminal underbelly firsthand.
While it is no longer what it was in the 1970's, it is still a world
with no master, no real mafia rule, and a great deal of political
influence on its higher levels. This is a beautiful film. While
watching it next time, listen to and enjoy the cadence. Romans have a
beautiful way of speaking. I also feel like people haven't given quite
enough credit to Santamaria's Dandy. He is one of the best young
Italian actors around in my opinion, and he plays his insecure,
irritating, and sometimes hateful character with such great tenderness
and vulnerability.
<|_=00=_|>
Quite difficult a movie to rate. So i read the comments before voting.
First, I don't agree with many of the comments. I read they define the
movie as a mafia one and compare it with others like "The godfather".
But this isn't a mafia movie. Mafia is an organization raised in
southern Italy with deep historical roots, and therefore it has strict
behavior codes and organization. This is a movie about a REAL band -
the "banda della Magliana", a group of street-raised rogues with no
common moral code that terrified Rome (and the whole Italy) in its
already difficult '70. So i think the movie could be better compared
with a "Scarface".

THE PROS Excellent acting, even single-void-expression Kim Rossi Stuart
surprised me; I have to reconsider him. Excellent character developing:
aspiring dictator Libanese, aspiring drug/ sex/business lord Dandi and
aspiring normal life boy Freddo are the three "heads" of the band and
perfectly represent their not having a unique aim for the band. The
"no-way-out" atmosphere of the whole movie: you can perfectly feel that
the characters act because they can't do in another way; call it fate,
social/educational bounds, political pressure, they can't but do the
things (and consequently the mistakes) you expect for them to do.
Whatever they try to reach their "happyness" you know they are going to
fail in the end.

THE CONS Dialogues: the characters talk with heavy use of dialect of
Rome (I suppose this is done for a matter of realism) and with no
noise-filtering, so i missed some part of the speeches. Historical
background: as i already said this movie is about a band of rogues that
acted in the '70s. I think a director is not forced to explore the
historical background in its movie, but if so he should avoid
historical referrings. This is the major fault of the movie: there are
plenty of referrings to the happenings of those years (the
bomb-explosion in Bologna train station, the Aldo Moro kidnapping) but
there is no feeling with those year's atmosphere. Those were years
imbued with fear and uncertainty and there is no trace of this feeling.
This lack makes it an incomplete movie, just a "band of rogues" movie,
while it could be an excellent portrait of both men and background.
What a pity.

All these things, IMHO, make a 8/9 worth movie, get down to a 7 worth
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
A no spoiler review for a film that is based on a true story, has a
show and a book. 

I'm always weary of films that try to tell stories of multiple
characters or of ones that span years or decades. This film tries to do
both and fails miserably.

There's just too much to say and not enough time. 

There are several problems with this film and it suffers from
worst-of-both-worlds syndrome. It has too much story (like TV shows)
but not enough time (like film). It has a bigger budget (than TV, $ per
minute) but ends up looking like cheap TV shows (amateur production
values, pretty boys as actors).

The TV show is exactly the opposite. It looks cinematic (even though
it's shot on 16mm), the actors are better cast (Libano looks
terrifying, the minor gang members look like criminals), there's more
time to tell the story (politics, communism, Aldo Moro, fascism, the
state, Camorra).

Watching the show first, I could barely watch the film. It felt so
cheap, it gives the feeling of a 90's MTV music video, both cheesy and
dated. The story goes by so fast, like a "previously on Romanzo
Criminale" refresher at the beginning of a new season.

The show is the story of the gang. The film looks like a trailer by how
fast it goes.

I rate the show 10/10 to the film's 4/10. The show is a world class
series, Golden Age quality. The TV is an easily-forgettable anecdote in
the history of Italian cinema.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a fictional crime story based on the exploits of the infamous
"Banda Della Magliana", which terrorized the city of Rome for two
entire decades. The movie is OK and it features an all-star cast and a
famous director, but if you really want to see the same story brought
to a much much higher level (not to mention going way deeper into the
details), I strongly recommend you watch Romanzo Criminale The Series
(two seasons of 12 episodes each), which is now available on Netflix,
from other online sources and on DVD's.

The "condensed" story line of the movie is at times confusing and fails
to successfully put the story into its historical context. Really, two
hours aren't nearly enough to explain the back story and the historical
references, especially to someone who didn't grow up in Italy --and
particularly in Rome-- in the 1970's and 80's. So, I watched the movie
years ago when it was released, and I was left with so many open
questions that were only answered to my complete satisfaction once I
watched the series (and yes, there are some continuity issues between
the two productions, so don't think of the series as complimentary to
the movie but rather as a complete retell.) I know that I'm actually
ending up reviewing the series here more than the movie, but really if
you watch the series, then you will find that the movie is just a brief
summary of the story without much character development, despite the
more famous cast and director (incidentally, Mr.Placido is credited as
a creative consultant in the series.) The series, on the other hand, is
one of the best small-screen productions I've ever seen, really quite
up to the level of outstanding crime dramas like the Sopranos or
Breaking Bad. 

I would rate the movie 6/10 and the series 10/10.
<|_=00=_|>
As the history of modern (1970-95) Italy plays out - the kidnapping of
Aldo Mora, the Bologna bombing etc. - a ruthless gang of outsiders are
successfully muscling in on Rome's lucrative drug and gambling rackets.
Meanwhile, a hard-nosed detective is tracking their activities, seeking
evidence to put them away. And lurking even deeper in the background
are State black ops figures who may or may not be manipulating both the
criminals and the events themselves.

I was expecting the sort of cheap crime exploitation movie that
proliferated in Italian cinema back in the 70s, but this is a
different, much more ambitious and better type of movie. Crime Novel is
structured very much like an Italian version of American Gangster. It
has the same intimate yet gritty feel, the same long slow story arc,
playing out over years against a background of world events; the
dedicated cop who seems like the only police official who sees his duty
as catching criminals rather than taking bribes; and drug dealers who
see themselves as businessmen providing a service rather than villains,
and most of time they are. 

The focus is clearly on the gang. They grew up together in the streets.
Crime and friendship are what holds them together. They have strong
loyalties to those closest to them but can be ruthless to those who
oppose them. Individually, they have frailties, but together they are
formidable. The script is structured to provide each of the central
characters with plenty of screen time, and its strong dialogue and
intimate tone create very multi-dimensional and mostly sympathetic
portraits.

The resulting movie is very watchable and a worthy companion piece to
movies like Carlito's Way, Scarface and American Gangster. Recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
The most famous criminal within Italy is easily the Mafia, but here is
a film that shows a crime organisation that was not link them.

Set in the 70s and 80s Romanzo Criminale tells the story of three
friends Ice (Kim Rossi Stuart), Lebanese (Riccardo Scamarcio) and Dandy
(Claudio Santamaria) who in the 70s rise up the Rome underworld,
forming a gang to kidnap wealthy people, drug dealing and murdering the
heads of rival gangs. They quickly raise to the top, with Ice and Dandy
finding love on the way, Ice with a pretty young tutor Roberta (Jasmine
Trinca) and Dandy with an up-market escort Patrizia (Anna Mouglalis).
The gang have to face a number of threats, from Communist Terrorists,
the Italian government and the very demanded police commissioner
Scialoja (Stefano Accorsi).

Romanzo Criminale is a very well acted film, with excellent
performances across the board. Many of the actors in the film should
have a good future ahead of them. There a good action set pieces, with
Michele Placido being very skilled behind the camera. The film is
violence but not OTT. He pacing can be a little slow at times, but he
knew what he was doing, showing both the gangster side of the film with
the more personal and tender moments. However, his opening credit scene
felt too much like a Guy Ritchie film and should have avoided that.
They is a strong script, with a lot of elements and subplots throughout
the film. They is a quite a lot to follow so needs a few viewings. The
soundtrack is also very notable.

A very worthy film.
