
a psychological thriller that will make you think from the the
beginning to the end. although a bit slow in the first parts to the
middle, thats why its a psychological thriller, the climax to the end
compensated for it.

the lines are well delivered, a good script, all in all, a good movie.
the acting's pretty convincing, particularly the way the lead actor
tracks down the roots of his dilemma and the way he acted on it. i just
gave it a seven coz, as i have said, the first parts makes me sleepy.

just keep in mind that this in not for those who liked fast paced or
some such types of movies.
<|_=00=_|>
The different posts and reviews for this movie has one thing in common.
They all say its a slow-paced movie. And thats what made me write this
review. I will not dwell much on the story because the story itself is
the main interest in this film. Rather, I would just discuss the so
called 'slowness' of the film. For the people who said this is slow:
What did you expect? A 10 min long movie? This movie is not slow.
Period. The film is very well paced and fast. I did not find a frame in
the movie to get up from my seat or even blink. Thats how fast this
movie is. I do not really understand the understandings of cine-lovers
when they say its not a well paced film. Really! Watch this movie. A
great movie with a great storyline. Hollywood had started to getting
boring the last few months and this movie breaks that numbness. Another
great thriller. 8/10, Undoubtedly.
<|_=00=_|>
In Dallas, Texas, the family man Ben Garvey (Paul Walker) is on
probation but he is a hard worker of the Fort Garry Brewery Company and
lives a simple life with his beloved wife Lisa (Piper Perabo) and their
daughter Katie (Brooklynn Proulx). When his probation period finishes,
Ben's brother Ricky (Shawn Hatosy) visits him after being released from
prison and invites Ben to heist 12 kg of gold in dust from a
laboratory. Ben refuses the invitation but he is fired from his job
because of his record; he decides to join Ricky and his partner Phelps
(Alex Sol) in the robbery. However things go wrong and Ricky, Phelps
and a security guard die in the heist and Ben is sentenced to death for
the murders. After his execution through lethal injection, Ben awakes
working as housekeeper of the Monte Angel community in Dundee, Oregon,
for Father Ezra (Bob Gunton), who explains to him that his past life is
gone and now he is having a second chance. However he should never
cross the boundaries of the location, otherwise he would die. Ben feels
confused with the weird situation but he can not forget Lisa and Katie
and forces Ezra to give a plausible explanation to him. But while
working in the garden, Ben finds a frisby on the grass; he investigates
and discloses the secret of the facility.

"The Lazarus Project" is an intriguing thriller with an original story
and great acting of the talented Paul Walker and Piper Perabo. The plot
has flaws, but is engaging, well constructed and it was a nice surprise
for me. The twists do not surprise like, for example, the plot point of
"Jacob's Ladder", but entertains and is reasonably tight. The
politically correct conclusion is commercial and corny, reducing the
impact of the good story, but works reasonably well. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Entre a Vida e a Morte" ("Between the Life and the
Death")
<|_=00=_|>
After facing lethal injection for a multiple murder that he happened to
be the only survivor of, our hero awakens to find that he is the
grounds keeper at a mental hospital for priests deep in the forests of
Oregon. He faces the normal confusion that would be expected by such a
turn of events but actually starts to get used to this second chance at
life even though he has been told by a visionary figure that he can not
ever return to his old life with his wife and child. Things really
start getting weird after that.

While the film is sharply derivative of many other better films ranging
from "The Shining" to "Jacob's Ladder" it gets by and remains
entertaining because it is the type of film that hits it's modest
targets squarely on. The pacing is not exactly brisk so if you require
your movies to keep you awake and alert then this might not be the DVD
rental for you but this psychological drama is definitely worth a
rental especially if you like this type of stuff
<|_=00=_|>
The base story was interesting: a criminal given a second chance at a
decent life. Unfortunately the whole plot moves very slowly and it
comes with quite a few things that do not seem very likely. After 35
minutes, I was still wondering where this was going. Paul Walker is
performing as usual and I was surprised to see Lambert Wilson having
such a small part in the movie. Overall I would say that the
performance of the actors was what made the movie watchable till the
end. Without those actors I would have stopped watching this movie. The
director did a decent work, but unfortunately based on a weak plot,
with unlikely twists and slow story. I would not recommend going to the
theater to watch this movie, DVD release is quite enough.
<|_=00=_|>
To summarize: good acting, beautiful camera-work, lousy story with
holes as big as in swiss cheese. To name a few: Ben gets the capital
punishment for a robbery gone wrong, while he even did not wear a
weapon. The evil shrink applies a program that violates a few laws but
does not protect the computer on which the patient data are stored. We
see a female psychiatrist being so unprofessional to make overtures to
a patient - fortunately no sex involved. The evil shrink and his staff
try to convince Ben that all this has been fantasy and hallucination.
Still it takes Ben no effort at all to refind his dog in the nearest
asylum. Somehow the movie managed a grip on me strong enough to sit
through it to the cheesy end, but the main feeling afterwards is
annoyance.
<|_=00=_|>
Just finished watching this and I must say i am glad i saw it...Many
viewers have commented that the movie is very slow paced, esp to start
with but i disagree.I think the director got the pacing spot on.

The movie is about an ex-con played by Paul walker who is trying to
start a new life and make it good for himself and his family but fate
has other plans and he is pushed back into the world he is so badly
trying to escape...soon we find out that nothing is wat it seems and
the movie is thrilling all the way..

All the actors do justice to their roles and the screenplay is tight
and gripping....its a nice thriller with a lot of emotions as
well....Paul walker is getting type-cast but i guess thats because he
is so good at these kinda movies/roles....

all in all a movie worth your time and money and i would certainly
recommend it......8/10
<|_=00=_|>
This film is one of the most underrated films I have seen that came out
in recent years. I found the subject matter very original and
thought-provoking. Paul Walker plays a man who experiences something
which seems to be fatal, and is transformed into a new life with a
second chance, but can't figure out if he actually died an is reborn,
or if he survived the incident but is given a new life. It has a nice
psychological appeal to it, as well as fresh cinematography and musical
score to go with it. Kudos to Jerzy Zielnski for shooting it well an
Brian Tyler's suitable music.

I can't say Paul Walker was stunning in the lead, but he was
convincing, as he was in Running Scared which is another great film. I
thought Lazarus Project is an original, innovative, entertaining,
thriller that still manages to make some interesting arguments rather
than just being about special effects, action and the usual Hollywood
antics. I was impressed. 9/10 #184 on my list of all time favorite
movies.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a terrible movie. Sorry about the spoilers, but I need them to
point out the huge plot holes: 1. Convicted of murder -- He and his
cohorts had no weapons, he wasn't even in the room when gunfire went
off, and the only ones to do the shooting (and killing) were the cops.
Even if he's considered an accomplice, no one was murdered; they were
all killed by cops. OK, it was Texas, so perhaps he had some marijuana
on him.

2. After his "lethal" injection, we next see him on a road in Oregon,
and a "priest" picks him up, asking him if he's the new grounds-keeper.
He says he is. How did he get to Oregon? Or to this road? Let's say he
was drugged and just placed on the road -- so how did he know he is the
grounds-keeper? He never even asks anyone what they mean by he's being
given a second chance.

3. He gets on a bus out of town to go back to his family. Some stranger
tells him that if he stays on the bus he will die. Even though he wants
to see his family more than anything, he gets off the bus because of
what the stranger says.

4. Near the end, the doctor explains how this is a program to
rehabilitate violent murders. We've already seen that he wasn't even a
murderer, but he also had no history at all of violence. So of the
thousands of violent murderers they could have chosen, they picked him,
who needed no rehabilitation anyway? 

5. They let him go when he says he mailed the info on the project to
"someone," and they will be exposed if they don't let him go. So they
let him go??? Don't they think it's a bigger risk to have him walking
around blabbing his mouth off? 

6. He returns home, and his wife goes out to give him a hug. No
questions about if he's ghost, or a clone, or whatever, just a hug.
And, really, how are they going to explain to the authorities (not to
mention friends and family) why a convicted, executed murderer is back
living with his family? 

All of the above "action" takes up about 10 minutes of the film. The
rest of the time is used for shots of him thinking. Or walking slowly.
Or having a coffee. Or giving one-word answers to questions.

A terrible, terrible movie. 2 stars because the acting was OK, and the
direction and cinematography was not as bad as the plot.
<|_=00=_|>
One of my favorite films is the Assassin,where a convicted killer is
spared death only if she agrees to train and become an assassin for the
government. If she refuses, she gets a bullet in the head as was
originally intended. A tad preposterous but at least there's a point.

Here, we're meant to believe a man is not given a lethal injection as
intended but sent to work as a groundskeeper at a facility where he is
not under lock and key but told to just forget about his family which
at the end of the day is his point of existence! All this so a
priest/father can try and change his mindset, I would have loved to
have seen the father convincing the Texas authorities to keep him alive
for that purpose, that SHOULD have been the movie! And when he does get
on the bus to try and go see them, the "guide" tells him not to and he
just walks off the bus and doesn't try again. Then at the end, when he
does go back to Texas to see them, his wife welcomes her dead husband
like he's just come back from a business trip. And, of course the
authorities made no attempt to stop this "dead" man return home. If you
can get past these gigantic plot holes and poorly conceived ideas, I
guess there's a half decent film in there but for me, zero credibility
means it has no point.
