
Comes this heartwarming tale of hope. Hope that you'll never have to
endure anything this awful again. *cough* Razzie award *cough*

I disliked this movie because it was unfunny, predictable and inane.
While watching I felt like I was in a psychology experiment to
determine how low movie standards could get before people complained.
When I requested my money back at the end of the movie I was informed
that because I watched the whole thing 'I wasn't entitled to
reimbursement'. I was told by the assistant manager that several people
had complained and gotten refunds already though.

The movie summary is pretty basic. The midget thief steals a diamond
and the poses as a baby to elude police. Underneath this clever outline
however, lies a repertoire of original, fresh and hilarious skits. Or
not.

Ask yourself the following: Do you like to see people getting hit by
pans? Do you like fart jokes? Do you like to see midgets posing as
babies threatened with a thermometer in the anus? Do you like tired
racial jokes? Do you think babies say 'goo goo goo goo goo gaa gaa'? Do
you drool?

If you answered 'yes' to any of the above then this movie is definitely
for you. Although it has been billed in some places as 'The Worst Movie
of the Decade', there is probably a movie or 2 that are
worse...somewhere. I can't say for sure. I gave this movie 2 stars
because we all know a review with only one star would indicate bias on
the part of the reviewer and then the review wouldn't be taken
seriously. 

This lowbrow comedy is intended for a less intelligent audience and I
cannot in good conscience recommend it to anyone. Save your money for
something funny.

Respect
<|_=00=_|>
Ripping this movie apart is like shooting fish in a barrel. It's too
easy. So I'm going to challenge myself to acknowledge the positive
aspects of Little Man. First, I'm impressed with the special effects.
It really did look like Marlon Wayans' head was attached to the body of
a little person. I never doubted it for a minute.

Secondly, I loved some of the unexpected cameos. David Alan Grier
played an annoying restaurant singer, and his renditions of "Havin' My
Baby" and "Movin' On Up" were priceless. John Witherspoon, who,
coincidentally, played Grier's father in 1992's Boomerang (if you
remember, he "coordinated" the mushroom belt with the mushroom jacket)
now plays Vanessa's father in Little Man. So that was fun.

Beyond that, this movie is about as believable as White Chicks. How
dumb is it when even the doctor can't tell that it's a 40-year-old man
and not a baby? He's got a full set of teeth!!! How is it possible that
no one seems to notice that it's not a baby? Little Man is so bad that
there's a Rob Schneider cameo. And please, if you're stupid enough to
waste $8 on this movie, at least do me a favor and DO NOT bring your
children. This movie is way too sexual for small children (lots of
jokes and innuendo about sex, going down, eating out, etc.), and I felt
embarrassed for the parents who brought their kids to the screening I
was forced to endure. If you insist on seeing an idiotic film, as least
spare your children the pain and suffering.
<|_=00=_|>
This was the worst movie I've ever seen in theaters. It was just a
compilation of recycled material. People getting hit in the head is not
funny. People getting kicked is not funny. After the third time a guy
got kicked in the balls not even the youngest audience member was
laughing anymore. It just got tired fast.

I went with my younger sister. She actually laughs out loud at King of
the Hill but this cinematic masterpiece bored her. I'm not surprised.
The story is pretty lame. A midget thief steals a big diamond in what
was definitely the easiest heist in Hollywood history. Then he hides
out with a family pretending to be a baby. I know it sounds exciting
but that's the whole story. Say those two lines over and over for 1.5
hours and you'll get the picture There were predictable jokes galore. I
really felt ripped off after seeing this. I wasn't expecting much and I
was still disappointed. I wish Keenan would just hire some decent
writers to write jokes and/or his next script. This was even worse than
White Chicks if that is possible. I've seen high school plays that were
better, and cheaper.

There wasn't anything positive about this movie. I don't like my
entertainment to be dumbed down.
<|_=00=_|>
When I saw that IMDb users rated this movie the bottom 250 movies, I
thought it was too harsh but little did I know that the low rating was
absolutely correct.

I am a big fan of the Wayans brothers. I loved their Scary Movie 2 and
even enjoyed White Chicks. Little Man, however, had very few laughs and
the jokes were stale.

Obviously, the joke will revolve around Marlon Wayans, who plays a
grown midget that was recently let out of prison. He and his partner,
Tracy Morgan, steal a diamond meant for a gangster. Things go awry and
the midget has to place the diamond with an unsuspecting couple played
by Shawn Wayans and Kerry Washington. In order to get the diamond back,
the midget pretends to be an abandoned baby left on the unsuspecting
couples doorstep. Of course, he is taken in and the drama begins on
quest for the diamond.

The movie has some actors and actresses from Saturday Night Live like
Molly Shannon and Rob Schneider as well from In Living Colour. All
these talents, however, cannot help the poor script and the jokes which
simply was not funny.

The special effects to make Marlon Wayans to look like a midget was OK.
I mean, it was not 100% believable but it was OK...nothing great. I
just wish that the Wayans brothers had put more effort into developing
a script with good jokes rather than trying to shore up their poor
script with cameos from their famous comedic actors and actresses.

Wait for it on cable or television. It really is not worth any amount
of money.
<|_=00=_|>
There was a Bugs Bunny cartoon titled "Baby Buggy Bunny" that was
EXACTLY this plot. Baby-faced Finster robbed a bank and the money in
the carriage rolled away and fell into Bug's rabbit hole. He dressed up
as a baby to get into Bugg's hole to retrieve the money. The scene in
"Little Man" where he's looking in the bathroom mirror shaving with a
cigar in his mouth is straight from the cartoon. This was a hilarious
5-minute cartoon; not so much an entire movie. If you are really
interested in this, buy the Bugs Bunny DVD. It's was much more original
the first time (1954). Plus you'll get a lot more classic Bugs Bunny
cartoons to boot!
<|_=00=_|>
...Ever. This is the bottom. I am not joking. The theater should've had
a warning of some kind. 'Abandon all hope ye who enter here' would've
been fitting.

I don't have the words to describe accurately the hell that this movie
is. Its debilitating stupidity even fails to amuse. This movie is
definitely aimed at some of the slower turtles in the sandbox. The
story was blatantly stolen from a 10 minute Bugs Bunny cartoon and then
stretched like Mr. Fantastic to 90 excruciatingly painful minutes.

I remember when the Wayans's were funny. I guess the pressures of
Hollywood for them to produce produce produce are to blame for the poop
that churns out at a consistent rate. I'm sad and offended that they
think we are stupid enough to enjoy 90 minutes of kick-in-the-balls
jokes with a thin plot based on a cartoon.

I disliked nearly everything about this movie. I won't spoil anything
but the baby is actually a midget with Marlon Wayans's face poorly
superimposed over the midget's body. What I DID like was the ending.
Not the movie's resolution, but the actual end where we all stood up
and walked out.

I gave this movie one star, but it clearly deserves less. I don't feel
that the six minutes they spent writing the script is worth a star.
This does deserve a Razzie and I pray to God it gets it.

When are people going to learn; if you stop paying to see this idiocy
they will stop pooping it out. Seppuku is a reasonable alternative to
this film. Avoid it at all costs. You have been warned.
<|_=00=_|>
I've now just realised that by watching this film I have lost valuable
precious moments of my life I will never get back. Thsi film isn't just
poor its dire. It reminded me of every stereotypical black sitcom ever
made.

I regret watching this film.

Flixmedia reckons its a race issue, apparently "White" people don't
like it because it doesn't have white actors. Mate, I think you'll find
the reason why no one liked this was because watching paint dry is far
more entertaining and funnier then this pile of drivel.

Please stop making crap films
<|_=00=_|>
Slapstick comedy developed into mindless comedy which has devolved into
crude humor comedy.

But, come on folks, how low are we willing to sink in the name of a
giggle or two? This movie is so mindless, and panders to such a low
humor in its 'target' audience it should be embarrassing to Americans
to think that anyone among us would find this approach worth paying
money for. The more people there are who pay to see this movie, the
more it proves what bad tastes we have.

Let me encourage us to be better than that! Show the money guys in
Hollywood there really is a point of classlessness that we won't allow
them to sink below in the pursuit of profit from us!! We may not have
the world's most refined tastes in this country, but, surely we are
better than the "below low brow" class this movie thinks we have?
<|_=00=_|>
First off, I definitely don't think this movie deserves to have such a
low rating. Mind you, I thought this movie was going to reek to high
heaven when I saw the trailers. My expectations were extremely,
extremely low. I enjoyed the other films the Wayans Bros. did. There is
no doubt that they are all talented comics. I just feel that they're a
little overrated. Sometimes people seem to talk about the Wayans Bros.
like they're the new Zucker brothers. I don't think they will EVER
reach those heights in comedy. One of the things I feared about "Little
Man" was most of the humor was going to consist of bathroom gags. The
movie has its small share of bathroom humor, but never overdoes it.
After seeing the previews for movies like "The Pacifier," I was afraid
there was going to be some joke involving diaper-changing. Stuff like
that was funny back when "Three Men and a Baby" came out, but now it
just makes me want to roll my eyes and cringe. "Little Man" didn't have
one of those stupid gags, and that was a breath of fresh air for me. I
found myself laughing through about 70% of the film, and the cast does
a fine job. The only weak link was Tracy Morgan, who was funny on SNL,
but the character he plays in this movie is just plain obnoxious. The
gorgeous Brittany Daniel, who was also in "White Chicks," provides some
great eye candy. And the monotone-speaking comedian Fred Stoller
provides some really funny, scene-stealing moments. Even Chazz
Palminteri gets into the act, playing a gangster (I know, not exactly a
stretch for him, but he adds some class to the film). Keep on the
lookout for Rob Schneider, who has an amusing cameo. And last but not
least, John Witherspoon never fails to please. Marlon Wayans's
rubberfaced comedy style gets a little annoying at times, but I can't
deny that the mere image of him as a midget is pretty damn hilarious.
My advice is ignore the low rating and tons of bad reviews and give the
film a chance. As I said before, I thought this was just going to be
another brainless comedy
<|_=00=_|>
after reading the comments on here i did not fancy this movie.i decided
to watch and laughed all the way through . white chicks got good
ratings this is so much funnier .but this is so funny all the way
through.the changing of littlemans daiper is hilarious.the doc checks
the littleman out and says he as the teeth of a forty year old.i
thought the effects were good some comments made on here suggested more
money should have been spent on a good script than special effects.just
watch this movie you will not be disappointed. i don't agree that this
movie is for blacks only one commenter even suggested there was no
white actors in the movie which screen was he looking at. get your
popcorn and have a laugh i did .
