
I really felt i needed to write this comment, because the one just
before made me so angry. If the prior user had paid a little more
attention to this film he would have noticed how intricate and
brilliant the plot was. I don't want to give anything away of this
film, but i strongly recommend this film to anyone. I would agree that
you spend the first 20 minutes in confusion because of its fast paced
plot, but by the end, your sympathies for individual characters are all
over the place. ALl i can say is go and see it, and give it your full
attention, then you wouldn't be on this website, saying "it doesn't
make sense". Enjoy the film, 10/10
<|_=00=_|>
2006 Sundance Film Festival From the opening scene in Lucky Number
Slevin, you will be straining to keep up. People are getting killed
left and right, and it's never clear until the end of the movie how
they are all connected. But you know it fits somehow and Scottish
director Paul McGuigan (Wicker Park) manages to keep you guessing while
firmly grabbing your attention and holding it with hardly a second to
take a breath.

In the film noir tradition, but with the intense and graphic violence
of the Lock Stock and Layer Cake genre, Slevin is really a caper movie,
and frankly reminded me more of The Sting than anything else. It dances
nimbly from grisly stomach-churning action to clever and light-hearted
banter. This could only be accomplished by a truly incredible cast, led
by Josh Hartnett in an outstanding performance, great work by Lucy Liu,
Bruce Willis doing his thing, and supported by the always excellent
Morgan Freeman and Ben Kingsley. There's even a little time for Stanley
Tucci.

Liu plays Lindsay, the next-door-neighbor/natural sleuth/coroner/love
interest who discovers Slevin in her neighbor Nick's apartment. They
mystery that immediately engages her is what happened to Nick, who
never shows up. However, plenty of people do show up, mistaking Slevin
for Nick, and before long he is neck deep in murder contracts, called
debts and warring gang factions. Hartnett plays the role to perfection.
I've never seen him this good. He is both convincing and empathetic as
a glib, fearless victim of mistaken identity, yet filled with
confidence that he can make his plan work.

This is a terrific film, assuming you can stomach the bloody violence.
The pieces fit neatly together (well, I have one bone to pick with the
scriptwriter, but it would be revealing too much to share it). I highly
recommend Lucky Number Slevin.
<|_=00=_|>
Bruce Willis, Sir Ben Kingsley, Morgan Freeman, Lucy Liu, Stanley Tucci
and Josh Hartnett fill a cast line up every bit as impressive as say,
Sin City. Leaving behind the sour taste of Wicker Park, Scottish
McGuigan follows the likes of his own Gangster Number 1 with this
incredibly cool, at times funny thriller that has somehow sneaked into
the cinemas without much of a fuss. Supporting cast includes a very
welcome cameo from a Jackie Brown star and a bunch of UK actors
imitating their US counterpart's accents to perfection. The pairing of
Sir Ben and Freeman alone is worth the price of admission, but this is
Hartnett(as Slevin)'s film and perhaps it should not be too surprising
that he carries it off effectively. In fact, none of the cast really
put a foot wrong and even Lucy Liu is pretty adorable (against type if
you believe the all the press).

Despite a reasonably confusing series of opening events, Slevin is
essentially a straight forward, neat black comedy of errors(mistaken
identity for one). The dialogue is at times razor sharp and the action
is well shot. The body count climbs steadily as the movie progresses at
a cracking pace that never becomes dull. Slevin is thematically similar
to a few other choice stories, but like Kiss Kiss Bang Bang - Slevin
should be enjoyed more for the ride and the audience should try not to
guess ahead of the plot and let it unfold naturally. There will still
be some surprises appearing even for the most avid film fans but like
so many thrillers Slevin could be ruined from word of mouth. If it
weren't for the warm, familiar feel of similar films, this little gem
would be rated higher. Unfairly dismissed by some as confusing, wrongly
compared to the legendary Usual Suspects - it's a league apart from the
mess that was Revolver and doesn't outstay a welcome.

Oh, and Willis gets to call someone a 'f*** head'. Great stuff.
<|_=00=_|>
If you like movies that make you think you will enjoy this film. Josh
Hartnett stars as "Slevin" a guy who is down on his luck and gets
mistaken for someone else, or does he...from the moment that the mob
bosses get a hold of Slevin the movie turns into one big guessing game.
If you are like me you will find yourself thinking and trying to figure
out what exactly is going on, but you probably will never understand
until all is explained in the brilliant climax ending of the film. I
honestly can say that when you walk out of the theater you can say to
whomever it is that you went to see this movie with that it was truly a
great movie. Now I was lucky enough to have seen this at a screening
back in December, and the entire theater started to applaud at the
conclusion of the film. If you like mysteries definitely check this one
out...and just by the slim chance that the reviews are mixed or not
that great I will at least tell you from an avid movie lover to give
this a chance and you will not regret it
<|_=00=_|>
Impressively cast, well acted, funny and cleverly written dark comedy
that is definitely worth a look. Keeping company with legends such as
Morgan Freeman, Ben Kingsley and Bruce Willis (who has been taking more
and more great roles recently), Josh Hartnett takes the lead in the
title role and plays it well. Freeman and Kingsley are as ever
faultless and brilliant. Willis is fantastic in this kind of role. The
dark, understated, non-action-blockbuster, big cast thrillers suit him
well. Keep it up Bruce. To top off this top-notcher, Lucy Lui is
looking gorgeous in her role as the love interest. I look forward to
watching more films by Paul McGuigan, a director I'd previously been
unaware of. Rent it as soon as you can.
<|_=00=_|>
I've never been motivated to leave a review here based on reading
others, but the slamming of LNS is beyond accepting. The movie has a
style that may, if fact, be borrowed from many other sources, but when
it's on the screen, it feels complete as its' own. While the
connections are not as surprising as some may say, they are certainly
not spelled out for the viewer.

The dialog is a bit kitchy, but there in lies the movies' charm.
Reviewers stuck on the believability factor of such dialog seem to be
limiting themselves to one cine-style that we'd be limiting ourselves
to only 5% (I'm making up that number) of accessible films.

LNS is a fun thinking mans' thriller that is witty, fast fasted,
stylishly interesting and ENTERTAINING!!! That's what I want out of a
movie, entertainment.... for those who are looking for reality, read
the papers, watch CNN, take a walk in somebody else's' neighborhood.
For those who like slick mysteries with interesting dialog rent or buy
Lucky Number Sleven
<|_=00=_|>
This has to be one of the most enjoyable movies to come out of
Hollywood for years. It wasn't any of this Arty-farty crap(like the
tragic "Revolver").

Its slick, very well acted and great direction. Sharp, funny dialogue
that keeps you smiling (think Guy Ritchie, could learn a few things
from this movie). Morgan Freeman was great, along with Sir Ben
Kingsley. It was great to see Josh Hartnet get a good interesting role
for a change. Bruce Willis was, well, just another great performance
from him!!. 

I wont give any thing away about the story.. just watch it and let the
Film do the talking, Fans of the Gangster genre will love it!!.
<|_=00=_|>
The subject says it all...

This is a good, fast paced thriller... It would have been a really good
thriller if it were not for the graphic scenes at the start of the
movie, but once you get through that and a little bit of the confusion,
this movie picks up very well...

I don't want to mention any thing about the story, I think there is
enough mentioned already at the plot summary and that's all you need to
know.

But trust me, do not believe people that say this is a bad movie... it
is better than the many garbage movies that come out nowadays.. the
acting and suspense is solid across the board. Bruce Willis, Morgan
Freeman and Ben Kingsley are good, but the trump has to be Josh
Harnett. He was good.

Like I said, the only bad point of this movie are the graphic scenes at
the start.. If you approach this movie looking for entertainment, you
will enjoy it.
<|_=00=_|>
Lucky Number Slevin is the latest in a long line of movies that try to
outdo everything else out there in the cleverness department and as a
result, seems overdone. Ever since The Usual Suspects, it seems that
more and more movies have become too desperate to trick or mislead the
audience, and it seems that the people making these movies usually fail
to realize what made the movies they're trying to emulate effective in
the first place. The Usual Suspects was effective in misleading the
audience because the plot is free of holes, and there is one well
thought out twist that is believable and makes for a great ending. What
happens in Lucky Number Slevin is that the twists are too plentiful,
and the ones that aren't predictable are often trivial; they end up
having very little impact and aren't satisfying. 

The ending to Lucky Number Slevin is given away very early on. An
astute viewer who has become used to seeing this type of movie will
pick up on it right away. All that's left to us is to figure out which
piece of the convoluted puzzle will be laid down next.

The dialogue tries relentlessly to be witty, to varying degrees of
success. Sometimes it's funny, sometimes it's downright tedious. The
first scene in which Slevin meets the Rabbi is an example of the high,
the first scene with Slevin meeting Lindsey is the low.

Director Paul McGuigan emulates Guy Ritchie's stylish visuals to some
success, and guides the film about as well as the material allows. The
saving grace here is the characters. Slevin, The Rabbi, The Boss and
Goodkat all stand out, and Hartnett, Kingsley, Freeman and Willis all
turn in commendable and charismatic performances. But by the end,
particularly if you've figured out the scam from early on, the movie
becomes a bit tiresome, not offering up any real surprises. While Lucky
Number Slevin is not without its good points, at the end it seems like
another case of a movie trying to be too clever for its own good,
another movie with multiple twists that fail to result in any real
surprises, and that just aren't that satisfying. As a viewer, the final
result is "a been there, done that too many times" feeling, even though
the film is not without its moments
<|_=00=_|>
Lucky Number Slevin is an impressive action crime thriller with some
flaws but the good outweighs the bad in this one. Director Paul
McGuigan is admirable in making this movie about a guy named Slevin who
after a case of mistake identity finds himself caught in the middle of
a war between two rival crime bosses known as The Rabbi and The Boss.
Josh Hartnett is good as Slevin who may know more about his situation
than he's letting on or maybe not. Hartnett proves to be effective in
the role. Morgan Freeman is great as The Boss but he isn't given much
to do. The same can go for Ben Kinsgley as The Rabbi but he like
Freeman still make the best of their villain roles. The rest of the
cast including Lucy Liu, Stanley Tucci, and Bruce Willis as a hit-man
are solid as the supporting characters in their limited screen time.
The few action sequences are well executed and the intricate but not
too complicated plot keeps your interest. Despite some flaws with
character development, this movie was better than expected. Overall
Lucky Number Sleven is a good action crime thriller with an interesting
premise and exceptional performances by the cast who making it a movie
worth the time to watch.
