
I took my daughter 5 and son 8 to see Aquamarine yesterday after
school. I didn't go in expecting to see an Oscar worthy movie as many
who rated this movie must have. Both of my kids really enjoyed the
movie and I did as well. I thought the plot was good and the acting was
pretty good as well. I liked the magical feel that this movie had and
at least it lets kids use their imagination instead of just the same
old boring stuff. How Aquamarine could ever have a lower user rating
than Ultraviolet is a crime against humanity. I am glad that several of
the user comments that I have read appreciate this movie for what it
is, a movie for your kids and that the parents will enjoy also.
<|_=00=_|>
As a parent, I found this movie an enjoyable way to spend time with my
9-year-old daughter and her friend. Here are her comments: "I thought
that Aquamarine was a great movie! I could really compare it to the
Little Mermaid. You know, the parts where she had to leave before
sunset. I thought that the cast did a really great job acting. I really
liked the end, too." Back to mom's thoughts: All in all, the friendship
theme is very positive. Also, the "love" theme is appropriate for young
viewers, in my opinion, because it was somewhat idealized but not over
the top unimaginable. The feeling in general was of a pleasant escape
where friendship is reaffirmed.
<|_=00=_|>
Even though I was forced to watch this with younger siblings, I
actually enjoyed myself. Besides the movie Splash which was made years
ago, I don't think there has been many mermaid movies. This one,
although a little bit on the cheesy side, had a pretty good underlying
message. Graphics were not extraordinary, but they weren't terrible.
Jojo turned out to be a sarcastic, funny actress and Sara Paxton did a
pretty good job on being the clueless mermaid. Emma Roberts was a
little bit rusty on acting, but she can sure tear up. Yea it was
cheesy, but what'd you expect, at least it wasn't unbearably cheesy. It
was really just cute and I enjoyed watching it with my siblings.
<|_=00=_|>
I wanted to hate this movie. Everything from the constant squealing of
"Oh My God", the stream of clichés and the sheer ridiculousness of some
of the dialouge pointed in the direction of a complete waste of time.
Somehow however, Aquamarine managed to win me over through charm and
its child like determination to please. The movie centers around two
teenage girls (Emma Roberts and JoJo) who are spending their last
summer together before Hayley (Jojo) moves away to Austrailia. Their
summer takes a surprising twist when they discover a mermaid (Sara
Paxton) in a pool after a terrible storm. They spend the rest of the
summer trying to help her find true love. Both Emma Roberts and Jojo
are newcomers to the screen and do a surprisingly good job at playing
bubbly girls without making the audience want to wring their necks 10
minutes in and though each have yet to develop their skills especially
at showing a wide range of emotions, they certainly are charming and
enjoyable to watch. Sara Paxton looks and talks the part and though
this role wasn't one to exhibit any real acting abilities she embraces
the part full on. Yes, Aqaumarine features a mean blonde girl and yes
there is the "hot" guy but if you watch this movie for exactly what it
is, a fluffy escape from life, then it shouldn't bother you. So if you
are ever in the mood, wait until it comes out on video and don't pay 10
dollars on it, it is definitely a rental.
<|_=00=_|>
I promised my sister I would take her to a movie for her birthday and
buy her popcorn a few weeks ago, and today was the day we settled on. I
was pushing for Failure to Launch or She's the Man, but my sister was
determined to see Aquamarine. So fifteen dollars later we were all
nestled in. The movie starts off extremely slow and was, in my opinion,
painful to watch. I must admit I was much more entertained with
thinking of ways that I could sneak in to The Hills Have Eyes, which
was playing at the theater across from ours. But in the end I stayed
for the movie, giving me plenty of time to think over my criticisms. I
think Emma Roberts (timid and diminutive Claire) may be a rare star who
started out acting fairly well and is getting worse. I thought her
early Unfabulous days were good, but now I can barely stand to watch
the show. Her over-the-top mugging drives me insane. I wasn't expecting
much out of JoJo (bold and strong Hailey) at all. I knew it wasn't
exactly fair writing her off for being a singer, but that's what I did.
And I was extremely, pleasantly surprised. She did a great job, I
thought. I wasn't expecting much from Sara Paxton (the titular mermaid
Aquamarine) judging by the painful "I see we're going to have to take
this slow: Mer Maid" in the trailers, but she ended up doing okay. All
in all, it wasn't a great movie, but it picks up in the second half and
finishes well, so it was a pretty decent way to spend almost two hours
on a cold Saturday afternoon. Although next time, I think I'll pick the
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
This story is mixed with romance, love, and friendship. I really
enjoyed this movie. Its actually quite funny too.

Aquamarine (who is played by Sara Paxton is a fantastic actor i
reckon)is a mermaid who needs to find love in 3 days or she will be
forced to marry some she doesn't wanna get married to. She decides she
wants Raymond who is extremely popular and all the girls are after him
including the two best friends who found aqua.

The endings are very sweet and aquamarine is just so funny cause she
doesn't know much about boys and life on the surface.

Good Movie!
<|_=00=_|>
I was really surprised at the potential of this movie! I went expecting
it to be another stupid poorly done fairy tale, but left thinking that
it was so much more! The chemistry of Emma, Jojo, and Sarah is
incredible, and it really is brought out in their acting. I never
expected to see great acting out of emotions from them, but they made
their feelings so real - which I never would've expected from them.
thought a lot of any three of these actresses until now - but it was
very good. If you go see this movie, expect to leave hoping that maybe
one day you'll find a mermaid - it gives everybody a little taste of
magic. Well done! Great for kids of all ages, I'm 12 and I liked it as
much as my 7 year old sister.
<|_=00=_|>
Chick flick, I know. But don't let that stop you. My first instinct
when I saw the preview was, "Here's a real movie." And I was not
disappointed. I was amazed at just how great an actress Jojo turned out
to be. In contrast to Hilary Duff and Lindsey Lohan, she may be one of
the few teenage actresses who has a great prospect for an acting
future. Plus, she's really cute :) Sarah Paxton is also amazing, and
Emma Roberts also does well. I thought that Raymond was slightly
stereotypical, and I I wished there weren't so much giggling, but hey,
whatever floats the filmmaker's boats. It does start out very flirty,
so "shallow" that my heart sank as I began to lose hope. However, it
quickly grew into a beautiful, sentimental story of beauty, friendship,
and love. Two thumbs up.
<|_=00=_|>
Aquamarine By Dean Kish For hundreds of years we have been fascinated
with the nautical myth that there are beings in the oceans who are ½
fish and ½ woman. They are always young, beautiful and completely
naive. Some classic films have captivated this obsession. The first
biggest and most memorable film was the classic 1984 comedy "Splash"
which really brought the myth back into the fore-front of our minds.
Next was 1989's "The Little Mermaid" which stole our hearts and
re-launched Disney's animation division.

Probably the most obscure reference and the most bizarre use of the
mermaid myth was used in the short-lived TV series, "Maximum Bob" where
an ultra right-wing judge (Beau Bridges) marries a psychic
mermaid-performer (Kiersten Warren). There are a lot of scenes with
Warren in an aquarium and dressed in her fish tail.

OK I have covered the biggest to the most obscure which brings me to
"Aquamarine".

"Aquamarine" is a light-hearted preteen comedy about a naive mermaid,
Aquamarine (Sara Paxton) who comes ashore to uncover the human myth
called love. Helping her in finding this mythical emotion are two best
friends, Claire and Hailey (Emma Roberts and JoJo), who befriend the
mermaid. It turns out that the friends maybe separated forever when
Hailey moves away. Aquamarine promises them a wish if they help her
find true love so the girls, desperate to stay together, help her out.

This film is probably not a classic or will be fondly remembered in
five years but for the audience it is aimed at it succeeds on many
levels. I liked the performances of Emma Roberts and Sara Paxton. I
even warmed up to JoJo a little.

What I kept saying as the film went on was how these three girls looked
like junior versions of established actors. I felt that Paxton reminded
me a lot of a younger Reese Witherspoon and Roberts reminded me some of
her aunt, Julia Roberts. JoJo did also remind me of Lindsay Lohan but
there isn't much of an age difference between them so you can't really
say junior version.

I think that Paxton and Roberts have a lot of potential in their
Hollywood careers. JoJo could have a career in film but does she have
the ability to manage music and film like say, Hilary Duff. Only time
will tell.

"Aquamarine" is a great little film if you have girls who are between 8
and 15 but other than that I can't really recommend it to anyone else.
But you have to give it marks for succeeding so well in a pinch
demographic. (3.5 out of 5) So Says the Soothsayer (dwkish@shaw.ca)
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie yesterday and I thought that it was very entertaining.
Aquamarine is a truly excellent family flick! Even though I'm a 24-year
old young man, this film appealed to me a whole lot. I am often very
fond of films that revolve mainly around female characters. The girls
featured here are all very cute, especially Sara Paxton, the actress
who portrays the title character.

The movie is about two teen-aged girls, Claire and Hailey, who form a
strong bond with a mermaid. The mermaid is very gorgeous and they
decide to name her Aquamarine. As the three gals hang around each other
Aquamarine explains that she must show her father that love exists all
around. She meets and falls for a lifeguard named Raymond and tries to
get him to fall for her. However, she is reluctant about telling him
that she is a mermaid. Fortunately, during the daytime when the sun is
out she has legs like an ordinary human being. Once the sun sets though
she has a tail again. The movie also features a rival girl named
Cecilia, who is the daughter of a local news reporter. Cecilia is very
arrogant, dishonest, and greedy. She wants everybody everywhere to
treat her like a queen. In the end, she gets what she deserves! 

I recommend this movie to everyone that I interact and communicate
with! Aquamarine is an interesting movie that will make you glow with
happiness!
