
"I'd rather be watching a funeral." 

That quote, stated by Stephanie after watching Dennis Quaid get hit in
the head for about the 18th time, serves as a strong indictment of this
most unnecessary of remakes, but sadly it's one of the nicest things
one can say about the film.

Easily one of the 10 worst movies of the year, Yours, Mine, and Ours
should be more aptly titled Suck, Suck, and Suck. Is there still a
market for movies that feature little more than a bunch of young kids
eating tons of sweets, splattering a house with paint, and hating each
other? I figured such uncreative antics had run their course, but
perhaps I was wrong. Or perhaps the people involved with this
production simply had no better ideas.

"Were the writers even trying?" Stephanie asked me as Dennis Quaid got
splattered with paint, fell in a pool of goo, and then tripped over a
flatulent pig that, of course, eats at the family dinner table. "No,
they weren't," I replied as I stared dumbfounded at the screen, shaking
my head over the fact that the writers expect us to laugh about kids
vomiting and then falling in it.

I suppose I should commend the movie for warning the audience right
away just how bad a time they can expect to have if they attempt to sit
through the full 90 minutes. If the "Nickelodeon Films" moniker fails
to send up any red flags, then the fact that Dennis Quaid and Rene
Russo (possibly the hottest 51-year-old woman on the planet) meet,
rekindle their high school relationship, get engaged, get married, and
buy a brand new house all within the first 10 minutes should seal the
deal that it's in your best interest to sprint to the exit and ask for
your money back.

There are two legitimately funny scenes in the movie, one involving
Dennis Quaid brushing his tongue. Everything else has been done several
times with equally unfunny results. "Oh look, Dennis Quaid's son has
accidentally started up a forklift at the store! Oh look, Dennis Quaid
just jumped on the forklift and his head is bumping against every box
in the store! Oh look, Dennis Quaid's credibility can actually be seen
leaking out of the screen!" That's what's considered funny these days?

And just when you think things can't get any worse, the writers decide
to blindside us with an ending so ridiculously sappy that you'll be
wishing you brought your trusty yellow bucket and you'll pray for an
end to your dry heaving. I officially hate lighthouses now.

I suppose 10-year-old girls might enjoy this, but if you value your
time or money then I recommend that you stay away. Far away. This is a
movie so the opposite of hilarious that I'm forced to come up with a
new word for it - lolarious (pronounced "low-larious"). Feel free to
use the word amongst friends. Hopefully its popularity will spread and
it will one day be added to the dictionary. At least then I could say
one good thing came out of the film.

As it stands, Yours, Mine, and Ours ain't mine, I'm pretty sure you
don't want it to be yours, and if we made it ours then we'd only end up
arguing over who would be the one to get rid of it.
<|_=00=_|>
When Admiral Frank Beardsley returns to his hometown after years of
Coast Guard service, he meets his old flame Helen North at a high
school reunion. Both recently widowed, the two find the old sparks
again immediately and marry on a whim. There's one catch. Frank has
eight children and Helen has ten children (many adopted).

Someone should tell the writers of Yours, Mine and Ours that chaos does
not equal funny. Two parents, eighteen kids, one crazy nanny and one
pig all live under the same house, so hilarity is supposed to ensue
right? Well, not in this film. All of the laughs are few and far in
between and when the movie is over, all you're left with is one big
headache. Kids will most likely eat this one up but they deserve better
films than this. It's no surprise that this film is a dud since its
directed by Raja Gosnell. He is your typical bland director and he
doesn't have much imagination. He always puts the lamest jokes and
pratfalls into his films like Dennis Quaid falling face first into a
bucket of paint.

Dennis Quaid plays the uptight father and he pretty much makes a fool
of himself here. He seems to be trying so hard to get a laugh from the
audience but he fails. I'm surprised he took this role since this is a
little out of his usual element but I guess Tim Allen was busy. Rene
Russo plays his wife and she was okay but a little bland. After this
film and Two for the Money, she needs a new agent because she actually
is talented. There were so many kids that it was hard to keep track of
them. Most of them were either bland or they played annoying
characters. There were a few that showed a little potential for the
future but I wouldn't hold my breath. In the end, a weak story, very
few laughs, weak acting and bad direction equals a poor film and this
movie is better left on the shelf. Rent the original instead. Rating
3/10
<|_=00=_|>
I was very disappointed with this remake. The original was funny, but
this movie was in my opinion, chaotic! I think those kids really needed
a trip to the woodshed! In our politically correct system we are made
to think that every family is dysfunctional. Most parents would be
ashamed of such rowdy children. Why do we put up with such poor family
movies? Let's get back to traditional family values. I took my 7 yr old
granddaughter to see it and she was appalled by the lack of discipline.
Bring back It's a wonderful life and Spensers Mountain. They had real
values. Why so many remakes of good films and making them trash? Let's
get back to the real America!
<|_=00=_|>
Frank Beardsley (Quaid) is a 2-Star Admiral in the USCG and a widower
with 8-kids. Helen North (Russo) is a dress designer and a widow with
10-kids. They were sweethearts in High School and meet 30-years later
and get married. The kids don't like it and plan to break up this
union.

Let's see, we had the "Little Old Woman Who Iived in a Shoe etc; then
we had Our Gang Comedies; Then the Brady Bunch; then Eight is Enough,
and then My Three Sons. All had something going for them. All were good
in their day and I predict that this movie will soon be a family TV
show.

Yes, there are silly things in here. Come on, there are 18-kids
involved so you can expect some of that. Frank runs a tight ship, and
Helen does not. One of Helen's kids says, "they get married and we get
drafted." See where we are going with this?

But, there are also enough funny things going on to keep you going to
the end of the movie. Quaid and Russo play it straight and that is to
their credit. Rip Torn is always good and is probably one of the most
under-rated actors of our time. Jerry O'Connell did okay. 

I am surprised at the number of times I laughed at some goings on. This
is good family fun. There was good timing by all and nothing was
overdone and these are quite possibly the reasons the laughs came
easily. This is a well done comedy. 

Yes, I can see where this will become a TV show in time.
<|_=00=_|>
This "re-casting" of the family favorite of Yours, Mine, and Ours can't
even shake a stick at the original with Fonda and Ball. Granted while
the original was contemporary for the day that it was made the dialog,
and the family situations dealing with a large family are either ad
voided or watered down to a point of non-existence. Koodos for Quaid
for his role of the bewildered father. Quaid tries to make the role
work with the weak script that he got, but for what he got he did an
outstanding job. The 2005 "re-casting" of the situations was nothing
more than politically correct mumbo jumbo that missed the mark of the
comedic timing. All of it was turned into a slapstick dribble with
obvious setups from the production team. They took a great crafted
movie and watered it down to a dribble that only family with young kids
will like. Yes, the original is dated, but we can still connect with
the themes and the characters while the 2005 VERSION OF YOURS, MINE,
AND OURS WILL BE LONG Forgotten WHILE THE ORIGINAL REMAINS FRESH.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was excellent, it one of very few family movies that are
suitable for all ages. Many people say they didn't like it, and gave it
bad ratings probably because, there's no sexual humor or sex scenes.
These days, If there's sex in a movie, then that makes it interesting
and good. Hardly anyone understands that family movies are for
families, they're not meant to be nasty to watch, it should be
enjoyable for everyone. Movies can be great without that garbage. The
humor was good and you can really feel the compassion in this movie.
Its great for kids. I loved the way things happened, like the physical
humor and the kid actors/actresses were so adorable. The only thing I
didn't like about it was the fight over a boy that the two older girls
had. I think it was stupid and unnecessary. Drake Bell did a really
good job on his part. He was witty and full of drama with the different
situations throughout the movie. Everyone did a great job. I give it a
8 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
Both Russo and Quaid have an energy between them, but they cannot
redeem this film, with a paltry script and too many characters, so that
the supporting cast remain that, and wasted! The film seems to work on
the premise that bigger is always better, and the direction seems to go
that way too. What could have benefited from some quieter, uncluttered
subtlety, becomes an assault on one's senses, patience and
believability.

This film could have been better had it been downscaled a bit, and had
some honest attempt been made to show plausible character development.
Although just released (in SA), it has a jaded feel about it.

This comedy might well be yours but it's not mine!
<|_=00=_|>
The movie Yours, Mine and Ours was a terrible movie and a waste of my
time to watch. The reasons are quite simple, the actors sucked and the
plot was the stupidest.

The children supposedly don't like each other and have nothing in
common. And instead of trying to explain to their parents that they
can't stand each other, have nothing in common and were unfairly forced
together without their say, they make a plan to try to break up their
parents. Obviosly the kids have no respect toward their parents and
their feelings, even the older ones. So what ends up happening is they
begin ruining their parents life.

What I find the stupidest part of the movie, and what really made it a
waste of my time is that these kids supposedly don't like each other.
Well it takes a lot of teamwork to pull of the tricks that they were
pulling on their parents. They learned to respect each other and
eventually even like each other, and yet they were still trying to
break their parents apart? The whole reason they wanted to part their
parents is because they couldn't stand each other. So why didn't they
stop their plan when they began to get along each other? Stupid plot,
stupid movie.

The pig was a stupid addition, these guys would not had made this movie
without their stupid goals behind it. They said "hey lets remake the
1968 movie Yours, Mine and Ours so we can out-number the kids in
cheaper by the dozen". And then said "hey lets add a pot-bellied pig so
we can have an original family pet just like in The Pacifier". Also the
fact the Quaid was married to another dress designer like in The Parent
Trap. They take the wreckless slapstick style with no humor in it. This
movie is a rip off of so many things and lacks the ability to make me
laugh.

And another stupid thing about this movie is the character Helen North.
She has disciplinophobia(Not a real word as far as I know). She is
scared of discipline, total hippie. There is Nothing I hate more than
somebody, whether they are real or a character, who is afraid to put
their foot down. After the kids trash that store I thought their would
be heavy consequences. After they throw that party without their
parents permission, behind their back, when their home is full of
complete strangers trashing their house and when the kids are
neglected, stored away and sick on junk food she tells Frank to relax?!
I would expect any health parent to ship their kids off to military
school after a stunt like that(only the kids that threw the party). She
is in a relaxing mood at a time like this? Pathetic, and worse than
that she was afraid to set any rules or boundaries. When Frank says
"There is nothing wrong with having rules. Everybody lives by them, the
entire universe lives by them." She says "Well then Frank that's the
last thing these kids need from me. There's only one rule I know, and
that's at any time all of this can be over. Taken away from you
forever, then who needs more rules after that.". Sounds a lot like a
divorce threat to me. Why would any parent(especially a parent of ten)
want no rules or boundaries for their kids? Unrealisticly a terrible
character, it pisses me off so much I want to take my fist
and..........

I found nothing good about this movie, except its alright for anybody 9
and under. I would have voted 0 but I can't.

Also I feel sorry for all of you so naive to actually enjoy this movie.
God remove the devil inside you for it.

Don't waste your time.
<|_=00=_|>
as far as comedies goes it get's the job done, but some parts of the
movie just dragged, and u were waiting for the preverbial shoe to drop.
randy quaid seemed a bit to stiff in his lead role, rene russo still
has the charm and looks, the younger actors seemed to be more relaxed
in their roles, overall the movie wasn't bad by any stretch, just in
spots the writers could have done a better job filling the gaps. i
would say that if you watch it just for comedic value , then it's a
great 1.5 spent, if you look for other redeeming qualities as i do then
it was okay, but could have been better, in my opinion the pig really
steals the whole show, the kids can have a blast watching this one, but
i would go with a comedy that can keep the story going just a little
better
<|_=00=_|>
Nothing against Dennis Quaid or Rene Russo, but they certainly were in
way over their heads, not because they had to contend with 18 snotty
brats, but rather because of this tedious and contrived script
adaptation that strangles a once amusing story.

First of all, the romance is implausible. A stern Coast Guard admiral
who regiments his ten offspring like so many deck swabbies meets a
free-spirit who lets her eight kids run wild, and these polar opposites
fall instantly in love? Then, like two infatuated teenagers, they
impulsively run off and elope faster than you can say, "Vegas wedding
with Elvis, please." After this, the movie just disintegrates into a
parade of scenes of this mob of kids yelling, crying, fighting,
breaking things, or something always falling on the dad. No comedy;
just tired, overused old jokes, and monotonously boring. The plot is
built upon these hateful creeps plotting to destroy their parents'
marriage and happiness. Funny? No, it's not. Typical of this inept
movie is the routine ending which doesn't even fit the action that
precedes it. For those who can't wait to see the obligatory scene of a
little kid puking, don't worry; it's here too. After watching this, you
may do the same.

Just plain irritating.
