
Well I'm shocked-this is a pretty good little thriller.

Hillary Swank is an ex-missionary turned scientist and debunker, she's
called into investigate a small town in the deep South where the river
has turned red or as some suspect to blood. this is followed in close
order by other Biblical plagues. They all seem to to be tied to a young
girl living in the woods.

Creepy little movie thats better than many recent Bible thrillers. Here
we start off with science and find as time goes on that it can't
explain whats going on. well acted with a couple of nice set pieces
this is a movie that works mostly by simple visualization, we see a red
river, we see flies, we see frogs. except for a plague of locusts and
some fire in the sky what we see out side of dreams is all simple
effects given weight by the sincerity of the script and the
performances. This is a film where the classic idea of its all better
in the mind works to great effect with just a small push.

Is it a great film? No, but its a good one. Its the sort of thing you
sit and watch on a Saturday night with a big bag of popcorn and a soda.
Is it worth paying ten bucks in the theater for? I doubt it but on a
rainy Sunday afternoon it may fit the bill on the bargain priced
matinée. (Certainly worth a rental) Somewhere between six and seven out
of ten.
<|_=00=_|>
Just got back from seeing The Reaping and I must say it was better than
I expected. After reading the critics reviews and reading a majority of
the user comments I thought this movie was going to be a real dog. One
of the complaints was about the poor special effects. I've never been
too impressed with CGI in the first place, but this was as good as any
I've seen lately. It has never looked real to me in any movie. As far
as the storyline not being original, what film has been original in the
last few years. There has been so many movies made in the last 80 years
or so that it's gotta be difficult to come up with a never used theme
at this point. I also believe when you have an actor the caliber of
Hilary Swank in a movie they are held to a higher standard and are
thusly criticized more harshly than others if their movies aren't
stellar. Give this one a try and judge for yourself.
<|_=00=_|>
Are you in the mood for an entertaining, intense supernatural thriller
with religious themes featuring an Oscar winner who faces a crisis of
faith? Well, good news - Signs is currently on DVD. However, if you're
looking for that in The Reaping then you might want to go ahead and
lower those expectations and prepare to not be blown away.

Responding in a post-screening interview to the movie's tagline ("What
hath God wrought?"), God emphatically declared, "Oh, I wrought the 10
plagues in the Old Testament, all right, but you ain't laying this on
me!" 

I've decided that "it somewhat kept my interest" is no longer excuse
enough for me to give a thriller of this nature a passing grade.
Slow-paced, non-scary, and convolutedly confusing to a fault (due to
Swank's inexplicable "visions"), The Reaping takes the potential of
applying a Biblical story in modern times and wastes it with a
pedestrian effort that offers nothing new or original to the genre.

Admittedly, some of the special effects showcasing the plagues are
visually interesting, and the atmosphere is appropriately dark, but
unfortunately, there is no effort to combine emotional impact with the
CGI. Rather than disturb audiences with a little eye-covering,
skin-crawling aftermath of the plagues, the movie is content to just
check 'em off the list. "Drop some frogs into the bloody river!"
"Done." "Good, what's next?" "Flies?" "Bring it! We've got eight to go
and only 60 minutes left to do it in!" 

Consequently, this inability to dig beneath the surface of its visuals
is what detached my interest. In other words, the film just didn't grab
me. Some strange dude in the seat behind me did, but that's a whole
other level of disturbing. I was never scared, I only felt brief
moments of tension, and I felt not a single iota of interest in any of
the characters. Come on, guys, give me an incentive to care! 

You can't even bother to provide a handful of pandering-yet-effective
jump scenes? Where's the excitement? Where's the intrigue? Where's the
foreboding fear? I just sat there waiting for something ... ANYTHING
... to happen, and a climax filled with a transparent plot twist and
Shyamalan-esquire "hey, here's what was really happening!" flashbacks
doesn't count.

Close out the festivities with a groan-inducing "oh great, there's
gonna be a sequel" final scene, and I'm totally left without a single
compelling reason to recommend this even to the most hardcore fans of
the genre. Thanks for flippin' us the bird, filmmakers, we really
appreciate it.

The Reaping is very lucky to make it to theaters. It's a Mary Stuart
Masterson-for-Hilary Swank substitution away from premiering on
Lifetime. If I were you then that's where I'd wait to see it.

THE GIST 

The Reaping is a simple story about a woman with lost faith who is
forced to confront an age-old cult and all the plot conveniences and
contrivances that come along with that. It fails to capitalize on its
potential, thus failing to make this anything more worthy than a rainy
day rental.
<|_=00=_|>
Watching two Hilary Swank movies back to back, I thought it presented a
good opportunity to see how the same actress tackles different roles,
one a dramatic piece about life's lessons, and the other this, The
Reaping, taking on some supernatural forces, although she almost
started this movie in a lecture hall premise.

I don't exactly label The Reaping as horror, because it doesn't have a
single scene that can truly scare anyone, unless of course your heart's
weaker than a chicken's. The structure is akin to Silent Hill, only
that The Reaping is not adapted from a video game. But unlike Hill,
this movie is pretty compact in its pacing, and doesn't drag scenes for
too long to create atmospheric mood like its peer. Instead, if compared
to Silent Hill, this is one Noisy Swamp.

Hilary Swank plays a researcher who specializes in debunking biblical
sightings and miracles by using science to demystify such phenomena.
Listening to her rip the miracles and happenings apart however, was
fun, nevermind if it sounded logical or not, since it's Swank, who
managed to make the unbelievable, believable in the movie. But that's
not to say that she did a fantastic job here, in a role that's largely
wasted. If you want to see her act, check out Freedom Writers instead.

But I digress. The Reaping's Dana Scully and Fox Mulder equivalents go
into investigating a series of bizarre biblical occurrence, the Ten
Biblical Plagues, ranging from the blood waters, attacking locusts
right down to the last one - the death of every first born. Some may
not like the hokey plot taking advantage of God's wrath on man, but as
the movie turned out, it's nothing more than a special effects
extravaganza, with the religious fervour added to the background and
contributing some semblance for a plot to work.

It's hip these days to have demonic children as part of the ensemble,
and The Reaping has this mysterious girl who seemingly is the cause of
God's Wrath. Or is it? There's a little mystery to solve, with a couple
of twists at the end, in a tale about the devil and avenging angels.
And while the end does wrap things up, it leaves room for a possible
sequel, should the movie do well at the box office.

The only redeeming grace from the uninspiring, unscary story, is the
special effects. Nothing more, nothing less, and nothing to scare your
socks off, despite what the trailer and posters suggest.
<|_=00=_|>
There are remnants of a good movie in 'The Reaping', but those are lost
in a muddled sea of clichés and plagiarism. Hilary Swank is completely
blameless, and a dominant first half is entertaining and mysterious.
But with every increasing step it takes, 'The Reaping' descends further
into self-parody and ridiculous gimmicks. Yet all these mistakes pale
in comparison to the ultimate blasphemy this religious thriller makes,
when it rips off one of the greatest psychological thrillers of all
time.

A former ordained minister who lost her faith during a mission trip to
the Sudan, Louisiana State University professor Katherine Winter now
dedicates herself to investigating and disproving religious phenomena.
But when a small parish comes to her for help in studying strange
occurrences in their little community, it will take Winters on her most
challenging and disturbing investigation yet. Water turned into blood,
death of cattle, locusts, etc. What began as a mission to debunk what
appears to be the ten Biblical plagues will become something much more
dangerous when whispers of a secret Satanic society and demon girl
arise.

I'd be remiss if I said I wasn't thoroughly entertained throughout the
screening of 'The Reaping'. It may not have always been for the right
reasons, but it no doubt kept my eyes and mind alert. The film's first
half is vastly superior to what follows, and is actually fairly decent.
The mood is set, the landscape is creepily effective, and the
mysterious occurrences are still fresh and interesting. But I realized
that the film suffers when things actually begin to happen, when the
plot actually begins to take form. If the film's first 40 minutes is to
establishing setting and suspense, the latter half is to ridiculous
rubbish. It becomes more and more comical, often during very
inappropriate moments. The highly advertised locust attack is
cartoonish and laughable at best, and it isn't long until 'The Reaping'
begins to borrow rather liberally from older, and much better,
religious thrillers. A little from 'The Exorcist', 'Rosemary's Baby',
'The Omen', and probably even more. We shouldn't be too surprised, and
all can be forgiven until 'Reaping' commits a much more criminal
offense, a plot twist which is frighteningly identical to a horror
classic. That seals the deal for this film's fate, something that I
cannot forgive.

It might surprise many that two-time Oscar winner Hilary Swank would
allow herself to be seen in such a movie, but in actuality, Swank is
the best thing 'The Reaping' has to offer. Granted, she doesn't have a
great deal to work with, but she does fine with what she's given. It's
far from her best work, and I could tell that her heart wasn't
completely in this project, but who could blame her? It was probably
too late when she realized exactly what she'd gotten herself into. She
tries to appear interested and as if she's actually enjoying herself,
and it shows. Unfortunately, it's not enough to save the rest of the
picture. Idris Elba is fine but stiff as Swank's counterpart throughout
the ordeal, and David Morrissey just seems awkward as the character who
initiates Swank's involvement in the case. Young AnnaSophia Robb is
showcased as the film's 'demon child', and is sorely underused. Her
only lines come at the end of the film, and it only makes you wish she
had a much more vocal role throughout.

In the end, 'The Reaping' amounts to little more than a hokey and
gimmicky religious thriller. Those familiar to the genre will find the
scares predictable and obvious, and the recycled plot twists are
derivative and tiresome. As I said, 'The Reaping' is entertaining and
at times even a good movie, but it's sacrificed for another
by-the-numbers addition to an already exhausted genre. Skip this
nonsense and see the classics, which 'The Reaping' borrows from
shamelessly. That's the only true plague this misbegotten film is
afflicted with.
<|_=00=_|>
Ten Biblical Plagues, a former Christian missionary who lost faith in
God and science vs religion. These do make a good idea for a movie and
what better than to have Hilary Swank in it. To make things more
interesting, the Ten Biblical Plagues actually led to the parting of
the Red Sea and the Ten Commandments according to religion.
Incidentally The Reaping makes its opening day on the 5th of April
which coincided with what is know as the last of the Ten Biblical
Plague, "Death of the First Born", which occurred on April 2nd and is
celebrated every year to commemorate the exodus of the Israelites from
Egypt.

In The Reaping, former Christian missionary, Katherine (Hilary Swank)
began the movie by dismissing 48 miracles or religious signs to logical
scientific explanations. Why would someone who formerly believed in God
do that?

Just as it appears that miracles are nothing but unexplained and
misunderstood happenings preying on the minds of men, a sign or a
message appeared. Was it for real or hoax?

Then a man from a religious small town came looking for Katherine
seeking help. A boy died and their river turned red. Could it be the
beginning of another Ten Biblical Plagues? And who is the mysterious
little girl involved in all these?

Supernatural, horror, suspense and thriller make up The Reaping. In
typical genre fashion, we follow Katherine (Hilary Swank) to uncover
what is really going on. Could science overcome religion this time? As
the story unfolds with religious references, scientific assumptions and
the plagues happening one by one, it became a situational mental
tug-of-war. Katherine's beliefs are challenged.

Fans of the genre will either like or dislike movie like this. It's
hard to come to an in between conclusion, although it is usually what
this sort of film wants, personal discretion. It is best to have an
open mind to expect the unexpected and not to be too smart by focusing
your attention to your assumptions instead. Waiting for that one
gruesome scene? Waiting for a really scary moment? Or waiting for one
breakthrough surprising moment?

Be careful of where those intentions lie, for you may just miss the
plot too early too soon. The Reaping actually scores low on the scare
factor although it has elements of horror through some louder scenes
and clever camera tricks. What it does instead is to challenge your
beliefs since it is religiously themed. The story follows Katherine so
be Katherine. You have a choice of either debunking what you see with
critical analysis or let the story takes you where it wants you to go
with what it wants you to see. That is how a supernatural, horror,
suspense, thriller works.

This movie probably won't blow your mind away but it is enjoyable. The
cast is good with Hilary Swank as the lead, AnnaSophia Robb is the
mysterious girl, David Morrissey's role is convincing, and Idris Elba
and Stephen Rea did sufficiently well in support. Director Stephen
Hopkins could have made this film more spectacular and lengthen the 90
minutes though. Catch the film late at night for it adds to the
experience.

Overall, The Reaping is interesting but where your own interest lies
otherwise is totally up to your beliefs, as what to this movie speaks.

After all, you reap what you sow. Be warned.
<|_=00=_|>
THE REAPING:Warner Bros./Dark Castle/Village Roadshow 2007 color 99 m
Horror-Thriller Hilary Swak, Stephen Rea, Anna Sophia Robb, Idris Elba
and David Morrisey star. Written by Carey and chad hayes Directed by
Stephen Hopkins Rated R for strong language, violence, gore and
sexuality.

I'm not quite sure why Warner shelved this film for so long. That said
The Reaping is one of the most original horror films in years and packs
a surprising punch in its finale. Hilary Swank stars as Katherine
Winter a woman who debunks supposed miracles all around the world.
After hearing about a town being infected with the biblical plagues she
comes over to scientifically explain the strange events. But as she is
drawn into the mystery of the town, its people and a mysterious little
girl secrets are revealed as the apocalypse draws near. And there's a
lot more going on than that. The film is extremely complex and multi
layered, it's chaotic and even a bit confusing at times but when the
final revelations come together it's well worth your thought process.
Swank is of course sensational in the lead she gives Katherine an heir
of disbelief and confidence. Her swagger alone carries the film through
it's rough patches. Anna Sophia Robb coming off the under rated Bridge
to terebithia is wonderfully spooky as the mysterious child and the
rest of the cast is filled out nicely by Idris Elba, Stephen Rea and
the sexy David Morrisey. The direction from Hopkins is surprisingly
unique and inventive that goes as well for the screenplay from the
Hayes brothers. The film is far from perfect, the spfx tend to be a bit
cheesy and the film seems a little muddled and unfinished in parts. But
what the film ultimately succeeds at is in its originality. I've seen a
lot of horror films and I've never seen something like this. It's
pretty unpredicatable and infinatly interesting. It also is smart and
handles it's subject matter surprisingly well playing it straight. The
cinematography is complimentary and matches the film it's fills the
film with dreamlike arches of landscape and a mood of eminent danger.
The score like the recent premonition matches the film chaotically in a
weird way making every scene seem much more intense than it actually
is. This is a smart movie and has a lot going on it. At 99 mins. it
feels a lot longer especially after you've made all of the films
discoveries. It's a rare thing these days to be blown away by something
so creative, don't miss The Reaping!
<|_=00=_|>
Katherine Winter (Hilary Swank), some sort of scientist, is called to a
Southern town to explain the onset of their rivers turning into what
looks like blood. Although Winter is not religious (she has a very
interesting theory about the ten plagues of Egypt that I found
fascinating) she starts to become involved in a Biblical scenario
anyway when the ten plagues happen one by one.

I remember seeing the trailer for this in the theater and saying to
myself how awful this looked. Just really boring and starring Swank,
who I have little or no use for. Even the name "The Reaping" I found
weak, thinking it could sell more with a death metal name like "Death
to the First Born". But, I am pleased to say whatever I thought of the
trailer, the actual film was far more enjoyable and while nothing
really mind-blowing, it definitely met my needs for a horror film.

Any time you have ten plagues visiting a town, you have a good plot
already made out for you -- frogs, blood, insects and more! This story
also throws in a crazy religious sect and a town secret, so if you're
into cult movies (literally) you will enjoy this more. The plagues, I
must say, were done very well -- from the beginning with the river of
blood, I felt this film had a good shot of being a winner. I was quite
disappointed with the locusts (I can let the fact they're computerized
slide, but the animator made it too obvious). Other than that, it's
alright...

I guess my only other concern (this is a straight-forward film, so
there's not much to discuss) is the religious aspect. Religion and
horror go hand in hand. There's the running themes of Christianity
actually working (such as "The Exorcist"), Jesus or God being dead
("Hellraiser" and perhaps "30 Days of Night") and your religious
fanatics who take God's word in a very bad way. 

This film does a mixture of the first and third, and I'm not sure if I
really think it works. I mean, it works for the film, but it may not
work for me -- you have a horror movie that seems to have the subtle
intention of making the viewer believe in God (because an atheist faces
God-given plagues). Yet, you have the God in this film being a very
unlikable agent (because of the plagues). So, it leaves you with very
mixed feelings on whether this is a pro- or anti-religion film. But
maybe the less than crystal plot is a good thing.

Anyway, while I had my doubts and I have my concerns and it's not the
movie of the year by any means... this is still a good film. I think
you'll be pleased with what you see. Talking with others who have seen
this one, it seems to get a similar reaction from them: a disposable,
yet not worthless, religious-themed horror film. If you've been
curious, give it a spin.
<|_=00=_|>
The Reaping Staring Hilary Swank is not the worst film I have seen in
2007. Many of the comments on the IMDb boards suggest that this film is
terrible, however, it is actually not all that bad. I will agree that
the twist at the end of the film is similar to Signs in some aspects,
but still, it works for the film. Swank's acting is fairly well done
considering most of the characters in the film are slightly 2
dimensonal, if you are looking for extreme depth then you will have to
look elsewhere. also if you are looking for an interesting bibilical
movie, once again you must look elsewhere. This really is a good "sit
down, not really have to think, just enjoy what happens" sort of flick.
It's not boring, but it does not require intense concentration. The
ending is slightly far-fetched, but in a film about the 10 plagues, it
is understandable. all and all, it's worth seeing if you do not have
extremely high expectations, and also The Reaping is a movie that might
be worth waiting and renting on video, as opposed to seeing in
theatres.
<|_=00=_|>
(My Synopsis) Katherine Winter (Hilary Swank) is a college professor at
LSU who doesn't believe in miracles and goes around the world debunking
them. She lost her faith when her daughter and husband were killed in
Sudan when she was a newly ordained minister on her first mission.
Whenever Katherine is called to investigate a miracle, she is able to
prove that what people believe is a miracle can be explained using
scientific facts and no divine intervention has occurred. Her next case
is in her own backyard in Haven, Louisiana. Doug Blackwell (David
Morrissey), a schoolteacher, is asking for Katherine's help. The river
has turned to blood, and the townspeople believe that Loren McConnell
(AnnaSophia Robb), a young 12-year old girl, has brought this plague
upon the town. They also believe that this is the start of the Biblical
ten plagues that are about to occur in Haven. Katherine and Ben (Idris
Elba), her partner, go to Haven to investigate. At first Katherine is
able to explain all the strange occurrences with science, but she soon
comes to the realization that science can't explain all of them away.
Katherine must reclaim her faith to fight these evil forces.

(My Comment) The storyline is a simple story about a woman who has lost
her faith and meets it head-on by regaining her faith to fight an evil
cult. From the previews you would think that this supernatural thriller
would be scary, but you would be wrong. For the first 20-minutes, you
are absorbed in the movie, and then the pace slows down to a crawl,
then builds up to a spectacular ending. The CG special effects of the
ten plagues were visually interesting, but that is about all there was.
The movie did not lure me in and scare me as I thought it would. The
worst thing was that they wasted Hilary Swank's talents in this movie.
I think the writers probably came up with an ending at the last minute,
because there wasn't must thought that went into it. I can't believe
the writers even set it up for a sequel. (Warner Bros. Pictures, Run
time 1:36, Rated R)(3/10)
