
I attended a special screening for Toy Story 3. I went in with HIGH
expectations. I LOVED the first two Toy Stories movies. Toy Story is a
beloved franchise that almost everyone that I know loves the first two
films. Now how about the 3rd film? Well all I could say is that it
lived up to my unbelievably HIGH expectations and then some. This is
such a good film. It has the laughs, magic and best of all the
entertainment. The new characters in the movie feel like they were in
the previous two films, they were that engaging and really worked well
in the movie. The best part of the movie has to be the ending, I almost
cried and was moved to just about to tears. I truly believe that this
is one of the best Trilogies of all time. It might even rival the Lord
of the Rings Trilogy.

This movie has a real chance to become the First Animated Film to win
Best Picture. I surely would not be surprised.

10/10 An Amazing End to a Fantastic Series Go Watch It
<|_=00=_|>
The best magic tricks in the world are ones that cannot be unraveled,
reverse engineered or dissected to figure out exactly how they are
pulled off. This philosophy is doubly applicable to Pixar's "Toy Story
3", the storyline-ending outro of the beloved Toy Story, uh, story.

I feel it relevant somehow to divulge my age, as it somehow validates
the powerful emotions evoked throughout the film. I am a 28 year old
male, who, fifteen years ago, was fresh into the teen years of supposed
adolescence at the release of some weird, 3d animated movie (wait, they
can animate with computers?) entitled "Toy Story". This was a pretty
bold move, a calculated stroll to the edge of the cliff and a daring
leap off into the thin air of creativity and innovation. And it was a
hit, ensuring 3d animation a place right alongside (more or less) 2d
animation. And naturally, Pixar would be at the forefront, leading the
cavalry charge of digital animation ranging from great to gawd-awful.

"Toy Story 3" starts off as comfortably as possible, with our friends
Woody and Buzz Lightyear doing what they do the best...playing with
Andy in his world of make-believe adventure. We are then treated to
some familiar Pixar progression, like abandonment, solidarity, coming
back to friends, and the passing of the torch. Clearly, in the eleven
years between this point and when "Toy Story 2" wrapped, a computer
revolution or four has occurred, allowing a world of unsurpassed
clarity, reality and imagination to shine through like never before.
TS1's spark is TS2's candle, and that in turn is TS3's blazing sun.

Roll the last fifteen minutes of film. It became clearly obvious that
the figurative tables have been turned, because a good number of the
adults in the audience (including myself) were sniffling and
teary-eyed, while the kids were looking up, likely thinking "jeez mom
and dad, they're just toys, get over it".

Wasn't it conventional wisdom that just the kids get emotional over
losing plastic playthings? With "Toy Story 3", Pixar has shown us one
of the greatest magic tricks in modern showbiz history, likely not to
be outdone or duplicated, that we all have very real and deep
connections to our childhoods and to the things and people that allowed
us as kids to be free, and innocent, and pure, and most importantly, to
dream. This, to me, is a life lesson worth remembering, to infinity and
beyond.

"Toy Story 3" gets 10 of 10 blazing stars
<|_=00=_|>
Star Wars. Indiana Jones. Fistful of Dollars. Bourne. These are all
incredible trilogies that can, will, and should stand the test of time.
Yes, I am neglecting the fourth Indiana Jones. Upon the mention of the
third Toy Story, I was deathly afraid. Afraid because it has some
major, major shoes to fill. The original is a masterpiece that changed
animation forever, and the sequel is among the best in the history of
film (I mean that). The first two Toy Story films are among the best
movies of all-time and to this day entire animation studios have failed
to duplicate an ounce of the magic contained in Toy Story. Could part 3
even come close to the original two? My friends, I am very happy to
say, the answer is a resounding yes.

Toy Story 3 does exactly what the first two did, delivered on all
cylinders, all aspects of film-making and entertainment. The humor is
back, the heart is back, the delightful cast of characters is back.
This time, thanks to an incredible script, there's more suspense, more
drama, and many more surprises. Like any spectacular trilogy, it wraps
up all loose ends. It literally is difficult to find any flaw or any
slow moment in this movie, and even if there is, it will immediately be
forgiven by the next major laugh or the next major revelation. The
predictability factor in this movie is low, and the payoff to all the
suspense is extremely high. Guys, this is the go-to movie of the
summer, and makes up for any disappointment you have seen this year or
last.

Just like Toy Story 2's subtle and underlying themes, Toy Story 3
revolves around the group of toys and their latest adventure, but
dwells far deeper than that. On the surface, this movie is about the
toys in a series of circumstances, winding up in a daycare center that
isn't all it seems. At the same time, Andy is heading for college, but
Woody isn't quite ready to let go of his owner and the memories that
follow. The deeper aspects involve aging, growing up, and moving on.
Michael Arndt, the Oscar winner that wrote Little Miss Sunshine, was
behind the spectacular screenplay in this third trip in the world of
toys. Then with the help of John Lasseter and Lee Unkrich (who serves
as the director), we see plenty of references to Pixar, other movies,
the previous Toy Story installments, and even we even see nods to the
influences of the entire animation studio (Miyazaki).

The writing wasn't the only thing that was on par with the first two
Toy Story movies. The voice acting cast was once again phenomenal, with
popular actors, underrated talent, and great character actors filling
the bill. Come on now, just read em': Tim Allen, Tom Hanks, John
Cusack, Wallace Shawn, Jody Benson, Estelle Harris, Blake Clark, John
Ratzenburger, Ned Beatty, Jeff Garlin, and Michael Keaton. Unlike what
Dreamworks pulls off on a yearly basis, Pixar carefully chooses their
voice cast in terms of pulling off the best performances, not to
generate more money. Because honestly, was there even a point to
Angelina Jolie voicing the tiger in Kung Fu Panda? On the other hand,
very few can pull an authentic Barbie like Jody Benson (a.k.a. Ariel in
the Little Mermaid). It takes reliable and authentic acting to pull at
the heartstrings, and everyone definitely was on their A-game.

Lee Unkrich directed this movie with incredible pacing and just as much
heart and dedication as Lasseter, who was in charge of the first two.
The truth is, Pixar directs the movie together, as they share ideas and
suggestions amongst each other. This fact can be traced to the similar
pacing and directing styles seen in Pixar's better works like
Ratatoille, Finding Nemo, and Up. They all have the similar technique
of incorporating just as many tears as laughs. But unlike all the other
Pixar movies (with the exception of The Incredibles), Toy Story 3 has a
heave dosage of suspense and peril, which is climaxed by one of the
most exciting animated sequences this side of Castle in the Sky (a
Miyazaki adventure masterpiece). Other reviewers have noted this before
me, but this Toy Story is quite scary in depth and in imagery at some
instances, so be wary of this while watching this with the kids. With
so much time invested with these toys, the drama runs a bit high.

Bottom Line: Toy Story 3 secures its place in cinema brilliance by
becoming the best third installment since Indiana Jones and the Last
Crusade, the best sequel since Kill Bill Vol. 2, and the best movie
we've seen this year. This movie is usually hilarious, sometimes
thrilling, and sometimes downright tear-jerking. And yes, just like
Up's opening 10 minutes, there is that one major sequence in which
Pixar will play with your heartstrings like Eric Clapton playing tears
of Heaven. If you enjoyed the first two Toy Stories, there's no need to
worry about the third and hopefully final chapter in the quality-filled
saga. How Pixar manages to deliver yet again is absolutely beyond me.

Walt Disney may not be one-hundred percent proud of his company if he
were alive to see it now, but he would be absolutely delighted at
seeing what beautiful art Pixar has delivered ever since 1995. Pixar
has re-created Walt Disney 's magical methods of storytelling and
movie-making, and arguably has taken it a step even further by adding
depth to the characters and depth to the overall stories presented. The
direction was fantastic, the writing was Oscar-worthy, and the overall
production is Best Picture caliber. This is Pixar's best work since
Finding Nemo, and a must see by any means necessary. Despite my cynical
nature, there's no way I can grade this any less than perfect. Just no
way.
<|_=00=_|>
I was about 10 or 12 when I watched the first Toy Story in the cinema
with my little brother and sister. We were all enchanted! Years later
Toy Story 2 came out and it was a blast! Again we all went to the
theater to see it and we were so thrilled and excited after the movie!
Im 24 now, and just yesterday I was at the Bulgarian gala-premiere of
the film. My brother was fortunate to win an invitation for two (he
took a photo of himself with our small collection of Toy Story toys and
sent it to the website), and we had the chance to see the third part on
its first screening... and for the 1st time in 3D! No doubt that the
animation is better than ever, the guys from Pixar constantly push the
limits, but that's kinda natural for them. But still it feels like 100%
Toy Story, with all the improvements, somehow I don't feel this
15-years-wide gap between the first and the third part.

What matters more is the (Toy) Story itself! And it is just fantastic!
I had really high expectations of this film and honestly, after seeing
it, my expectations were surpassed! The plot is really emotional, with
so many nostalgic moments... Being kinda grown-up myself, but doing my
growing-up with the first two parts of Toy Story, I couldn't relate
more with this one! I was really touched! I just wish the theater was
empty. Then I could stop holding back my tears! And it's not just t the
big story, but also all those little things that go on around it! I
don't know how many of those references and gags were in the script and
how many were put in there in the making process, but it's just
amazing! Even if it's the most dramatic and the darkest of the 3 (as
dark as Toy Story can get) the comedy is still there, and I was
laughing out loud all the way through! It's a wild roller-coaster, and
I'm not even sure who will have more fun with it, if it will be the
kids, or their parents! There's just so much more in there for you to
notice, admire and laugh at! And I'm sure that after watching the film
again I'll find out even more! There's also a really neat Totoro cameo,
and it's great of Pixar to pay homage to their old friend, Miyazaki
san.

The old lovable characters are all here, and they are joined by an army
of new ones, and each one of them has his real personality and you can
recognize in them characteristics of someone, both visually and with
their attitude they express different things and you instinctively feel
what these toys stand for. It's really funny to recognize in them some
movie archetypes or features of people that you know.

I realize that I just poured out tons of superlatives, but there's
nothing else you can say about this film! It has everything! (And about
how many 3rd parts you can say that?) The only thing I could criticize
is that there is one really freaky baby-toy, that can give the creeps
to the smaller kids, but it's done on a purpose and for me it was
really an enjoyable touch to the atmosphere of the film.

To wrap up this review, I will just say - Thank you, Pixar!
<|_=00=_|>
It was in 1995 that Toy Story signaled the arrival of Pixar, and the
rest was history. To date, I have personally always found myself to
have enjoyed all of their outputs, and it does seem that Pixar has
indeed grown from strength to strength with sophistication in its
graphics and attention to detail, but more so that their creative teams
have always come out with solid stories to tell, which is always the
key beneath all the glossy bells and whistles visuals.

And I simply love this installment, not only because it reunites us
with the characters whom we have taken to heart as old friends,
welcoming them back to yet another big screen outing, but because it
has a moving story to tell, and has various elements from
action-adventure, comedy and drama all rolled into one, allowing an
outpour of a kaleidoscope of emotions as we journey for close to 2
hours with Woody (Tom Hanks), Buzz (Tim Allen), Jessie (Joan Cusack),
Mr and Mrs Potato Head (Don Rickles and Estelle Harris), Hamm (John
Ratzenberger), Res (Wallace Shawn), Slinky Dog (Blake Clark) and the
aliens (Jeff Pidgeon) for one last hurrah.

The storyline for all three Toy Story films may share some similar plot
lines in having the constant fear of being discarded and unwanted when
one turns old, or to obsess with the thought of being forgotten and
unappreciated, and almost always comes with a distance to conquer. That
continues here in stronger terms given that it's been some 11 years
since the last Toy Story film, and that the toys' owner Andy has
already outgrown the toys and have chucked whatever's left all into a
treasure chest. Making things worst, he's about to relocate to attend
college, and thus the anxieties that Woody, Buzz and the rest of the
gang has to come to terms with, being provided 4 options of heading for
the trash, the attic, being given away or being that rare toy that gets
to accompany Andy to his new environment.

New toys get introduced by way of how the story got crafted involving a
children's day care centre, where we get to meet up with the
over-emphasized, metrosexual Ken (Michael Keaton!) from Barbie (Jodi
Benson), and others such as the Lotso bear (Ned Beatty), together with
those belonging to a new human character called Bonnie (Emily Hahn) who
owns a cool plush Totoro (which doesn't speak of course)! Sequels tend
to overcrowd their stories with plenty of characters, but it worked
perfectly for this installment as other than those which get lines,
there are plenty in the background that you may just spot a few that
you too may have owned at some point in time. Things also aren't quite
what they seem at the day care being the paradise for toys in
constantly being played with and loved but never to suffer a heartbreak
or to be left feeling unwanted, and provides the basis upon which the
story develops, providing plenty of challenges for the gang to overcome
(gotta love that Monkey!)

What's powerful about Toy Story 3 are the themes that get thrown in,
such as that about loss, and the search and fight for things that are
worthwhile. It emphasizes the bonds of friendship and courage, while
tackling how the lack thereof in abandonment and the feeling of
tremendous loss, can someone turn one into a bitter soul, which allowed
for the film to take on tragic, darker consequences unseen in the
earlier installments, while balancing the light hearted moments. We get
to grow with the familiar characters a little more, while having new
ones which are just as fun. Just ask Ken!

And a word of caution - prepare those tissues and hankies! Parting is
such sweet sorrow, and the manner in which director Lee Unkrich deals
with will definitely tug at your heartstrings. At least two scenes got
to me, one involving facing a consequence of inevitable hopelessness
that is a definite edge of your seat stuff only to remind you of how
much you really care for the characters, while the other was what I
deem as the perfect send off, an au revoir fit for closing the chapter
on this Toy Story arc, while leaving room for another to happen (if it
does). It moved, and shows how valuable it is to be loved again, and I
thought it was pitch perfect. It would be interesting to know how the
creators had intended to end the story, but it was brilliant to have
chosen with what was.

Toy Story 3 is a must see, and it's contending for a space in my top 10
for the year. It's a sequel done right, a tale with a lot of heart,
with elements encompassing what essentially is a fitting tribute and
farewell to beloved characters that have blazed the trail for computer
generated animation to take centerstage. As with all PIxar feature
films, a short precedes the main feature, and "Day and Night", like the
one offered in Up, comes without dialogue, but with plenty of
imagination and again, a solid story for a well animated short film
that only Pixar can.
<|_=00=_|>
As a 28 year old single female lawyer, i have always enjoyed Pixar's
movies. I cannot label them as cartoons as there is nothing cartoonish
about their stories; they have heart, meaning, feel-goodness with the
right touch of class & humor. The formula is A1 yet without feeling
overused.

Toy Story 3 is once again a hit. We are treated to our favorite
familiar characters and reminded again why we like them so. They are
heroes who share the same values of team spirit, bonding and
camaraderie. No one gets left behind. The technical aspects are again
flawless. This is one series of sequels i do not mind seeing for Toy
Story 4, 5, 6...this is coming from someone who adamantly refused to
watch Toy Story 1 & 2 and UP..up and until last week i forced myself
to..and i was so blown away by all three i have never been gladder to
be proved wrong.

Watch this, and Pixar, don't stop making movies for us.
<|_=00=_|>
Is "Toy Story 3" good? Yes, it is. Is it exciting? Yes. Is the
animation good? Excellent. Is it worth the money? It's worth. Is it
better than the previous two? Much, much better. "Toy Story 3" is an
excellent movie for all ages.

First, the animation. The moves of the characters are simply perfect.
Ken and Barbie, they're robotic moves are so breathtaking. The moves
are simply so detail and mesmerizing. 

The appearances. Not much to talk about. But, the appearances of the
characters were perfectly designed. The main characters were really
cool. Ken and Barbie, they're really designed in detail. For Barbie,
the line where is visible in the neck was really detail. Ken is also
really detail especially with his body. Lot-o-Huggin'-Bear was also
carefully designed by the paper which often appears on dolls listing
the warning or whatever.

The way the movie is presented. Very well done. In around 90 minutes of
running time (excluding "Day & Night"), the movie was not boring at
all. It had some laughable expressions which are pretty funny. I liked
it when Buzz turns into Spanish mode where most of the audience
laughed. That moment was hysterical. The scenes were also thrilling
like the end scene (which I'm not going to tell you) or the scenes in
Sunnyside. I thoroughly enjoyed the film.

The new characters. Well, I think there's one negative point. I think
little kids around the age of 3, 4 or 5 might be scared with the
appearance of Big Baby, because, his appearance is kind of scary for
little kids.

The 3D effects. Not so cheesy and not so breathtaking but pretty good.
The depths of the items in the film were not bad. 

The sound acting. They were really good. Tom Hanks on Woody was really
good. He really projected his voice until he becomes a real Woody. Tim
Allen on Buzz Lightyear was also good and satisfying. He really sounded
like a real astronaut or space ranger. The others were also good. But,
I think Tom Hanks on Woody still has the best projection of voice in
the film.

Final thing, the short film attached to it: "Day & Night". It was
shockingly, awfully, crazily cool. That short film was quite funny. It
was really good. Overall, the short film compliments to the film to be
a very good movie.

A short advise, you might want to prepare some tissues to wipe your
tears as there are some pretty sad moments in the film. The scenes were
just so sad that that's another praise for Lee Unkrich on his
directing. So, if you don't prepare those tissues, I hope you have
something you can use to wipe your tears.

As an amazing end to such a magnificent trilogy, "Toy Story 3" is a
must watch movie. Watching it in 3D is not a bad choice. Your kids will
definitely be thrilled watching this film. I truly believe this is the
best animated film of the year, or even the best film of all 2010
films. If you haven't watched this yet, what are you waiting for? Go
purchase your tickets and enjoy this masterpiece. I guarantee you that
you won't regret watching this movie. 

Overall, I give this movie a perfect score of 10 stars. I wish a fourth
installment would be made.
<|_=00=_|>
Since I felt none of the other reviews here do the movie justice, I
became compelled to write my own. It is the most inspired film I have
ever encountered.

The creators of Toy Story 3 have an imagination that is unparalleled. I
cannot begin to compare any of the other animated movies that I have
ever seen to it. It is a fantasy in an unconventional sense: aside from
the talking toys, the environment and settings are typical;
commonplace. Yet, the Pixar Team manages to cram every last drop of
energy into the incredibly clever story and inventive plot devices out
of just common household objects. The animation is so brilliant that it
captures shading, lighting, and textures that have yet to be seen on
film.

Then, Toy Story 3 becomes a beautiful elaboration on the first two,
with very clever character development. Its maturity of relationships
is concise but witty: Woody, the wise sheriff, leading the other toys
with courage and finesse; a spaceman winning the love of a cowgirl; the
loyalty of the dog, slinky; the grumpy married potato and his devoted
wife; the superficial relationship of Ken and Barbie; the broken spirit
of a lost teddy bear. At the same time, Pixar uses a metaphor that is
so strong that it drives the audience to love these characters with all
of their hearts. It is a similar emotional complex to a happy puppy who
is brought into a home and has nothing on its mind but playing with its
youthful owners. But these toys never age, and as its owners, once in
their playful youths, leave for work and college, these toys still know
nothing more than their youth and happiness of living to one day play
again. As you leave for work every morning, your dog doesn't know where
you go. And every day, he does nothing more than pray that you come
back to see him, every day waiting for you to bring out the ball again
for a game of fetch.

Finally comes Pixar's ability to integrate so many emotions - fear,
love, action, and comedy, among others - with each having so much vigor
in its own right, that the movie becomes a roller coaster of animation
and adventure, wound together by the constant movement of setting and
storyline, always keeping the audience guessing on what might happen
next. It is a brilliant tale; a perfect movie for children and adults
alike. I cannot wait to see it again.
<|_=00=_|>
So I saw Toy Story 3 tonight at an early screening here in Houston, TX.
A little background info about me. I am a big, no HUGE, Pixar fan, I've
watched every film that they have created dozens of times. Let me
begin, this is definitely no Ratatouille, Wall-E, or Up. Pixar is
definitely coming back to it's family roots and Toy Store 3 is
extremely evident of that. Don't get me wrong, Pixar has completely
outdone themselves once again offering a film that is extremely
entertaining, thrilling, and fresh, but it is kind of disappointing
that the film doesn't reach any true depth until the POWERFUL last act.

I'm going to divide my review into several sections.

Writing: The humor was straight up HILARIOUS. There were several scenes
that had the audience ROTFL'ing, even I, as crude and bitter I may be
when it comes to comedy, was laughing out loud at a few parts. However
some jokes do fall flat into Dreamworks territory with potty humor
(lincoln logs anyone?) which I hope does not become a recurrence, but
overall the film had some wonderful writing and dialogue creating a
truly believable setting and tone.

Animation: It's truly a shame that some of the later scenes in the
final act haven't been shown in the commercials because, DAMN, the
detail is truly remarkable. Since this is a no spoiler review I won't
move further into that but let me tell you now, you will be impressed.
Humans are beginning to look more realistic with ton's of attention to
movement and the toys have benefited from some spackle in the facial
department in an attempt to create a more emotionally expressive
character. While it didn't blow me away like Finding Nemo and Wall-E
did when they released, the work done here by Pixar is truly solid and
way above anything Dreamworks has brought to the table. The 3D is also
decent, I'm not really buying into this whole fad because after a few
minutes you don't notice the effect. The added depth is nice but you
honestly won't be missing much if you watch it in a good quality
cineplex.

Sound: The theater I went to had a pretty weak sound system so I can't
really comment on the effects but when it comes to voice talent, the
actors truly shine. It was sad to see some characters go like Bo Beep
and Squeaky but some of the new additions like Lotso and Ken, played by
Ned Beatty and Michael Keaton, are some true standouts thanks to the
excellent dialogue provided by the script. All the original characters
once again do their job quite well and with the excellent editing and
mixing, the dynamics of social interaction between the characters are
expressed clearly.

Depth/Theme: You know I was going here and I HAD to talk about it.
Ratatouille had the whole analysis of segregation with "Everyone can
cook", Wall-E brought environmentalism, consumerism, capitalism, and
most importantly love to the table, while Up directly deals with death
and the emotions that stem from it. Toy Story 3 repeats the abandonment
and moving on angle from Toy Story 2 which is TRULY the film's weakest
link. Not because the movie copies the second films moral, but because
TS3 virtually ignored these themes until the last act which I will
admit was quite compelling. It would have been nice to spread these
serious moments throughout the film to create a balanced equilibrium
but unfortunately this does not happen. However I do want to talk about
this pivotal juncture in the final act, there was a moment in the movie
that only last a minute or two, but felt very, very, very real. I can't
stress this enough, I have never felt anything like this from a movie.
The first time I cried in a move was with Up's "Ellie" sequence but for
some reason I didn't do it here. My emotions went beyond crying, I
don't know if it was the swirling bright ember colors contrasting with
the stark images or the expressiveness of the toys in that very moment,
but I sat there in disbelief and was affected in a way that has not
existed before.

Overall: I really do wish that Lee Unkrich could have spread the last
15 minutes throughout the movie but that didn't happen which is why I
could not give this movie a 10, however, that last act SAVED this
motion picture from being another run of the mill Dreamworks film.
Aside from some of the lame toilet humor and disappointing direction
choices, Toy Story 3 is a very solid conclusion to one of the best
trilogies of all time that needs to experienced solely for the last
beautifully gratifying act with the gang that I grew up with.
<|_=00=_|>
Andy is now seventeen years old and is going to college. His mother
presses him to decide the fate of his toys, and Andy decides to leave
them in the attic, with the exception of Woody that he intends to bring
with him. However Andy's mother donates them by accident to the
Sunnyside Daycare. The toys are welcomed by Lotso Bear but sooner they
discover that the children mistreat them. Further, they are imprisoned
in the daycare by Lotso and his gang. But Woody discovers the intention
of the evil bear and returns to the daycare to organize the escape of
his friends. 

"Toy Story 3" is a wonderful and touching animation for adults imagine
for children. This magnificent tale of loyalty and friendship is
fantastic and recommended for the whole family and it is a worth
entertainment. My vote is ten.

Title (Brazil): "Toy Story 3"
