
I just saw an advance screening of Get Smart and it was great! It was 
simply the best adaptation of a classic TV series for the big screen. I 
don't know how to explain it but it successfully carried the tone that 
the original series had. It was silly but not too silly and, at the 
same time, a little serious but not too serious. Familiar characters, 
props, music, jokes and lines all brought back fond memories of a 
delightful TV series. And there were plenty of new elements in this 
film that made it interesting and entertaining to watch.

Steve Carrell was terrific as Agent 86 and seemed to capture the 
essence of Maxwell Smart. Not only did his portrayal of him resembled 
that of Don Adams' from the sound of Smart's voice to the delivery of 
Smart's lines, Carrell managed to inject a bit of his own personality 
to create a new Smart that didn't stray too far away from the old.

Anne Hathaway was perfect as Agent 99. She did bear some resemblance to 
Barbara Feldon and actually delivered her lines in a similar manner as 
her at times. But more importantly, she had great chemistry with 
Carrell. A key ingredient to Get Smart's success was Maxwell Smart and 
Agent 99's chemistry and I'm glad the writers of this film didn't 
forget that. Feldon and Adams had terrific chemistry and so too did 
Hathaway and Carrell. 

Unlike previous film adaptations of old television series that only 
superficially resembled their TV series counterpart, this film can 
truly be considered a big screen version of the Get Smart TV series. 
Where Lost In Space, Mission Impossible, Charlie's Angels, Starsky and 
Hutch and (have I missed anything?) have failed, this film succeeded in 
maintaining the tone and style of the original series upon which it's 
based. Moreover, the filmmakers managed to bring Get Smart up to date 
without forgetting its roots. New ideas created for this film seemed to 
be natural extensions of those used for the original series. Jokes, 
props, music, characters and plot, old and new, all seemed to be born 
from the Get Smart world.

I wish I could get into more details but I don't want to give anything 
away. I thoroughly enjoyed this film and highly recommend this to 
anyone, especially fans of the original TV series.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw a preview of "Get Smart" last week at Warner Brothers, and all my
worries about what they would do with the great TV series vanished in
the first few moments of the movie as Steve Carell enters Control
through the famous doors, and so began one of the most hilarious
comedies I have seen in a long time. To my added delight, I recognized
Mel Brooks himself sitting in the back row and laughing along with
everyone else! What a thrill for me that not only was I seeing an early
screening of the movie, but enjoying it with my hero, the co-creator of
my favorite TV show of all time. Carell and Hathaway are perfectly
matched. They have somehow channeled the essence of Don Adams and
Barbara Feldon. Carell is drop-dead funny throughout but especially in
a scene in the airplane. We all kept laughing right into the next
scene, but my favorite is a dance scene with Carell and 99 that will go
down in movie history as a classic. Also, I keep remembering the
hilarious scene when a kid in a car tries to call his mom's attention
to Carell flying outside across the car window and she testily
dismisses him. At the end of the movie there was loud applause. This is
a summer blockbuster. P.S. Real fans should stay through the end of the
credits because the movie is dedicated to Don Adams and Ed Platt.

P.P.S. I just read the interview with Mel Brooks, and I'm delighted
that he loves the movie made from the TV Series. He is certainly the
best critic of it, and so it thrilled me, all the good things he said
about it, because I felt the same way!
<|_=00=_|>
I was lucky enough to catch a screening of 'Get Smart' and absolutely
loved it. I saw the movie in Manhattan and there's nothing tougher than
a New York audience, and the whole room was dying laughing throughout
the film. I don't know what church group these nay-sayers saw the film
with, but it is hilarious.

Steve Carell is at his best. He is incredible as Maxwell Smart. He does
channel Don Adams when appropriate, but really makes the character his
own. His chemistry on-screen with Anne Hathaway, who plays Agent 99, is
great. There's been some complaints about the age difference, but they
clear that up in the film.

The story line is solid and helps introduce this great spy comedy to a
new generation. The cast is absolutely stacked, Alan Arkin, the Rock,
Dave Koechner all kick ass and help make 'Get Smart' an instant
classic.

If you were a fan of the original 'Get Smart' series, there's no
question you'll love this movie. Check it out.
<|_=00=_|>
Yes, go see this movie. I know sometimes a preview looks pretty good
and then the movie stinks (hello, Indiana Jones IV?) but this one does
not disappoint.

I remember enjoying the "Get Smart" TV series when I was a kid, and
like some other reviewers here, I feared the remake might screw it up
(even though watching a couple of 5th-season episodes recently reminded
me just how bad the show got late in the game.) But this movie version
strikes just the right balance of action and comedy, while also
balancing fresh ideas with welcome nods to the TV series.

After all, it wouldn't be "Get Smart" without "Would you believe...",
"Sorry about that, Chief", or "Missed it by THAT much." It was also
great to see such classics as the shoe phone, the Cone of Silence,
Hymie the robot, and not one but two of the cars that Don Adams would
have driven. But while some remakes mining the past for material have
nothing new to say, and get stuck in paying homage to their
predecessors, the "Get Smart" movie has a pretty good story of its own. 

Now this isn't Robert Ludlum material, and I doubt anyone is real
surprised to see who turns out to be a bad guy, but it's a lot of fun
along the way, with either a sight gag or surprisingly good action (and
often both at the same time) coming down the pike every few minutes.
There just aren't really any slow spots. I'm sure a lot of funny stuff
got left on the cutting room floor (surely they didn't put Carrell in a
fat suit for a mere ten seconds of film) but the pacing felt just
right. We can catch all that other stuff when the DVD comes out at
Christmas.

Steve Carrel plays Agent 86 almost exactly the way he portrays
Dunder-Mifflin's Michael Scott. He comes off as basically well-meaning
and earnest, and although a bit bumbling at times, his Maxwell Smart is
thankfully not Don Adam's version. Neither was this one of those "Naked
Gun" characters who stumbles into success despite his incompetence;
Smart has some hilariously bad moments, but is never made out to be
simply a lucky fool.

Carrell and Anne Hathaway have surprisingly good chemistry, and Alan
Arkin is perfect taking over Edward Platt's role as "the Chief." Former
wrestler Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson does a good job as Agent 23, and an
even larger wrestler (7-foot 2-inch, 387-pound Dalip Singh from "The
Longest Yard") is well-cast as a KAOS underling, although most of the
other main bad guys are rather forgettable. Even TV-series KAOS agent
Bernie Koppel shows up for a cameo, as does Patrick Warburton (who will
be terrific in the inevitable sequel) and Bill Murray (almost
unidentifiable hiding in a tree.) 

Bottom line: you won't come out of this movie feeling as if you were
cheated out of your money. Judging from the laughter in the theater and
smiles in the lobby as we left, a lot of folks agreed with me. This is
going to make a ton of money, and deserves it. Look for "Get Smart II"
in a couple of years, and let's just hope it is as good as this one. 

P.S. - It's rated PG-13, but there's very little that's objectionable
for even younger viewers (Carrel rips the seat out of his pants.) Take
the kids, and have a good time!
<|_=00=_|>
With loads of action, quirky humor, jazzy music, and shoe phones, Get
Smart has admirably mimicked the blend of genres and innovations that
made the original series so memorable, and while die-hard fans will
likely pick apart what this re-envisioning doesn't get right, it's
almost impossible not to laugh at Steve Carell's ludicrous on screen
antics.

Over-analyzing analyst Maxwell Smart (Steve Carell) dreams of becoming
an official Agent for the top secret government organization CONTROL,
and longs to execute action-packed spy missions like his idol, the
charismatic Agent 23 (Dwayne Johnson). When CONTROL headquarters is
attacked by longtime nemesis group KAOS and many of the Agents'
identities are compromised, Smart is promoted to Agent 86 and partners
with the unwilling Agent 99 (Anne Hathaway) to thwart the villainous
group's latest plan for world domination.

Whether or not Steve Carell perfectly embodies Maxwell Smart, he
certainly knows how to handle his comedy. Excelling at both physical
and verbal-stemmed laughs, Carell makes the tumbles look as easy as his
notable style of quick quips and clever observations, and the funnyman
seems to garner chortles even when the rest of the crew can't quite
muster an equal energy. Anne Hathaway provides the good looks and
serious attitude to counter Agent 86's incessant jokes, and the pair's
on screen chemistry gels nicely throughout the majority of the film. A
few slips and failed retorts interrupt the flow of their characters'
progressions, but are quickly forgotten in the grand scheme. Alan Arkin
furnishes several of the funniest moments in the movie and the Academy
Award-winning actor never misses a beat when the camera turns his way.
Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson again confirms his status as a reliable
comedic presence and laudably supports the leads. Many interesting
cameos perforate the film, and while they're amusingly recognizable,
they're also regrettably wasted. Few draw laughs with clever dialogue
or comedic prowess, but rather produce a quick smile for those that get
the reference or enjoy the recognition.

The humor throughout Get Smart always orbits around Carell and his
singular style of comedy. Those that don't take a liking to his brand
of wit will undoubtedly be less amused, as he is clearly the driving
force behind the vast majority of the entertainment value present.
While Carell's lines are rarely delivered without a magnetic humor,
many of the conversations lose their luster midway, due to faltering
dialogue and a lack of focus on creating the biggest laughs. Several of
the extravagant set-pieces end with many a missed opportunity to supply
more hilarity, and lots of little laughs spread the truly uproarious
moments too thin. While a healthy dose of romance, drama, and some
truly spectacular action scenes appears commendable, the devotion to
these components often shortchanges the comedy.

From exotic locales to storm drains, and Moscow to Disney Hall, the
action and humor follows Maxwell Smart at breakneck speed. A few feeble
gags and missed chances at grand hilarity can't ruin the fun; and while
they might have "missed it by just that much," it's not enough to
detract from Carell's dynamic performance and the inspired comedy that
trails closely behind.

- The Massie Twins
<|_=00=_|>
The first 10 minutes or so of "Get Smart" are kind of disappointing,
and I thought "here we go, another trailer that makes the film look
better than it is". But it improves greatly after that point, mainly
after the first encounter of Max with Agent 99. Anne Hathaway is in
some ways the life of this movie: she is incredibly sexy, with a
magnificent back and legs to die for (or by), and completely believable
in all her action scenes. Steve Carell has good comic timing; he may at
times remind you of Leslie Nielsen in "The Naked Gun" and "Spy Hard"
mode, but beyond that he manages to make Max a genuinely likable and
human character, not just a cartoon. The relationship Max and 99 have
formed at the end of the movie seems to be based more on friendship
than anything else. The rest of the cast is generally well-chosen
(although I didn't get the point of Bill Murray's 1-minute cameo);
there is a big plot twist that allows one cast member to play against
type, and even Dalip Singh (aka The Great Khali in WWE) comes off well,
playing a huge indestructible henchman in the tradition of Jaws of "The
Spy Who Loved Me" and "Moonraker".

There are some good laughs in "Get Smart", but what pleasantly
surprised me is how well-done the action is. From an exhilarating
freefall sequence that was probably designed as a homage to the opening
of "Moonraker" to Carell's and Hathaway's quick, efficient fight scenes
(choreoghraphed by a veteran at this sort of thing, James Lew), and
from the explosions at the "bakery" factory to the incredibly kinetic
final chase sequence involving various means of transportation, the
action in this movie probably surpasses the recent James Bond pictures,
helped by the fact that a lot of it seems to have been done by the
actors themselves, willing to take some risks. So people who are more
into action than into comedy should still get some satisfaction out of
this.

Nothing brilliant, but a dependable crowd-pleaser nonetheless. I'd give
it *** out of 4 stars.
<|_=00=_|>
As I was watching Get Smart, I came to the delighted realization that
the filmmakers weren't trying to do a spy spoof here, but rather a
loving tribute to spy movies with a lot of comedy thrown in. This is
the right approach, as the now-tired Austin Powers franchise has pretty
much run the spy spoof idea into the ground. Director Peter Segal (a
veteran of many past Adam Sandler comedies) tries and succeeds at doing
something rare. Get Smart is silly enough to work as a comedy, but at
the same time, contains some truly impressive action sequences that
would be right at home in just about any summer blockbuster that had a
slightly more serious mind.

I cannot claim to be an expert on the original 1960s TV series created
by Mel Brooks and Buck Henry, but I do have enough knowledge to know
that this is a fitting and loving tribute that won't insult fans of the
show, or alienate newcomers with countless in-jokes. The casting of
Steve Carell as the well-meaning and often bungling secret agent,
Maxwell Smart, was a great decision. Carell is able to capture the
spirit of the performance of late actor, Don Adams, while not trying to
ape Adams' distinctive voice and mannerisms. He fits comfortably into
the role, and does not make Smart into an incompetent goof. He plays
the part as a man with some obvious intelligence, but things don't
often go the way he intends. It's a very likable comic performance, and
Carell even gives the character a lot more personality than I expected
walking into the film.

As is expected, the plot is mainly something to hang a lot of
situations for Smart to be in over his head. He starts off as an
analyst for CONTROL, a top secret government spy organization devoted
to thwarting the terrorist designs of the evil organization KAOS. Smart
dreams of being a field agent, and has even taken the test eight
separate times, only to be turned down each time by the Chief (Alan
Arkin), who thinks Smart belongs as an analyst. When KAOS launches a
surprise attack on CONTROL headquarters, killing most of the field
agents, the Chief has no choice but to promote Smart, and send him off
on the latest mission. He is teamed up with Agent 99 (Anne Hathaway) to
travel to Russia and uncover a secret weapons factory where the evil
organization is developing nuclear weapons to target America. With the
aid of Agent 23 (Dwayne Johnson) back at the base, Smart and Agent 99
will attempt to stop head KAOS agent, Sigfried (Terrence Stamp), from
carrying out his master plan of destruction.

Get Smart is breezy, frequently very funny, and never once slows down
enough to become dull. This is one of those movies where you can tell
that the cast is having a great time, and that joy carries through on
the screen. The movie is a comedy, but the action scenes and stunt work
on display are truly first rate. What's perhaps most impressive is that
the movie finds a perfect way to blend the silliness and the spectacle,
so that the two halves never seem out of place. The entire cast play
the comedy as if they are smart people who can't believe what they've
just done, or what is happening to them. This is a comedy that laughs
with the characters, not at them. There's a scene where Maxwell and
Agent 99 have to crash a lavish party being thrown by a suspected enemy
agent, and Smart winds up dancing with an obese woman. A lesser movie
would have mocked the woman, but here, the movie finds humor in the
situation in other ways. The fact that the woman winds up with the
final laugh, and that it's not at her expense, was very welcome.

Aside from the very strong lead from Carell, Anne Hathaway brings a
certain sexy yet vulnerable charm to her role. She's a good match for
him as a co-star, and they create a good "buddy" chemistry as the film
goes on. They're slightly less successful when they're asked to bring
romantic chemistry into the relationship, but it's not really their
fault, since the film does seem to be trying to start a franchise, so
I'm sure there's time for it to build in a sequel. Former pro-wrestler
Dwayne Johnson drops his "the Rock" title for the first time, meaning
he's finally serious about moving beyond his past and becoming a real
actor. He manages to get some laughs here, and even has some charisma,
leading me to believe he could be the rare wrestler to move onto an
actual career in films. There are even some fun cameos, including James
Caan as the President of the United States, and Bill Murray turns up as
a fellow field agent who has the unfortunate task of having to pose as
a tree while undercover. There are some more to look for, some for fans
of the original show and some for fans of Saturday Night Live, but I'll
leave those for you to discover yourself.

Get Smart is probably one of the stronger TV-to-film adaptations to
come along in a while. It's not Earth-stopping entertainment, and it
never pretends to be. It's merely a light and simple summer comedy
that's a great way to kill an afternoon. We need those during the
summer as much as we need the big blockbusters, so it's fortunate that
this is a very good one. And despite the film's PG-13 rating, I can't
imagine any parent being offended by letting their kid watch it. Get
Smart is harmless and entertaining, and sometimes, that's all a movie
needs to be.
<|_=00=_|>
Whether you watched the show during its original run, caught it in
reruns over the years like I did, or you are a very recent fan of the
series like my 9 year old son who watches all the seasons and original
movies repeatedly, you will laugh hysterically at this movie. Just
about every agent and character from the original series is here, from
Agent 13 who gets stuffed in the oddest places to Fang, Max's dog from
season one. The dialog, the gags, and the characters are pure Get
Smart. I do not believe anyone could have come into Don Adams shoe
phone better than Steve Carell. He perfectly carries off the almost
debonair, yet not as clever as he thinks he is Agent 86. Anne Hathaway
(who looks breathtaking in black leather) was awesome as Agent 99,
completely playing the seasoned agent to Max's bumbling. Alan Arkin,
Dwayne Johnson, and Terrance Stamp round out a great cast. I just hope
though in the next movie we see more Hymie, one of my all time favorite
characters. My family and I have been waiting over a year since the
first trailer was shown for this movie,and it was well worth the wait.
We will be seeing it many times over.
<|_=00=_|>
The new "Get Smart" does a masterful job of capturing the style, tone
and humor of the '60s series, while transporting it into a modern
sensibility. I had hopes for this film after seeing the two leads doing
a 30-second skit on the Academy Awards show and thought they were dead
on. So I invested $11.50 and was proved right.

First, this is no cheap knockoff. The production team captured Buck
Henry's creation very credibly both in tone and substance. It reminded
me very much of the late '80s homage to "Dragnet," which was executed
with love and great attention to detail (right down to the product
placement of Camel cigarettes and a photo of Jack Webb on the Dan
Akroyd's desk). It's no small feat updating something as much a part of
its era into a modern sensibility. There were even echoes of the early
James Bond films (especially in The Rock's ladykiller character
flirting with CONTROL's "Miss Moneypenny" and in some of the musical
cues). On the other hand, the production values were all first-rate and
contemporary, including a CGI effect of an aerial fly-around and
push-in to a 747 that was reminiscent of the key shot in the pilot of
Star Trek.

Steve Carrell makes a very reasonable Agent 86; where Don Adams played
the character as a bumbling naif, Carrell makes him into a goodhearted
wannabe who, despite having the kind of personality that renders him
invisible in society, still has intelligence and an earnestness that
can make him into hero material when he works at it. He reminded me of
Jim Varney's portrayal of Jed Clampett: pure of heart and belief in his
fellow man, yet with a bit of chops in dealing with the dark side of
society. He fumbles around a lot getting his sea legs after years of
being an ineffectual fatso (viz. impetuously slamming a fire
extinguisher into the noggin of his boss at one point) but in a pinch,
he's quickwitted and moves with decision. (He also quite reasonably
feels more secure in briefs than boxer shorts; I don't know what Adam's
take on this issue was).

On the other hand, Anne Hathaway nails Agent 99 with a performance
absolutely capturing Barbara Feldon's creation, right down to the tone
of voice, the raised eyebrows, and at least three different dead-on
intonations of "Oh, Max!" Nevertheless, Hathaway moves the character
beyond the pre-feminist liberation era and invests 99 with a believable
21st century sexuality and sense of empowerment. She's clearly in
charge during the first half of the movie, only slowly yielding to an
appreciation of Carrell's growing sense of command (and her own
feelings toward him) as we move into Act 3.

Alan Arkin brings an odd turn to the Chief, playing him with a
much-less-exasperated fatalism than did Edward Platt. In an interview,
Arkin says he saw the character as a very good principal of a very bad
middleschool. He comes across as a somewhat old codger closing in on
retirement who's comfortably in charge and doesn't try to micromanage,
and he has an important role in the climax piloting a Cessna over
Disney Hall downtown, but I missed one of the catchlines they didn't
include in this revision: namely, the Chief getting one of his
headaches. (The other catchline they left out was 86's frequent "That's
the second biggest (fill in the blank) I've ever seen.")

Everything else was there, though: We see the Cone of Silence
(technologically updated), a very clever CGI revision of the entrance
passage to CONTROL HQ, cameos by both Hymie the Robot and Fang, and
there's even a passing utilization in this cellphone-obsessed society
to the shoe-phone (appropriated from the Smithsonian institution
display of the old "defunct" CONTROL). On the other hand, the agency is
now under the Homeland Security Department and answers to the Vice
President (when they can find him) and uses lots of high-tech,
satellite surveillance and GPS gear. Chaos is in cahoots with terrorist
organizations around the world and we know they're bad because they
drive around in SUVs (the most satisfying and "green" event is seeing
one of Satan's Sedans being demolished by a freight train).

Oh, and BTW, it's also a love story.
<|_=00=_|>
The audience sat in silence through almost the entire film, with only a
few, rare, occasional chuckles. The character of Maxwell Smart was so
inconsistent, I felt whip-lashed. When it is convenient for the plot,
Smart behaves like a master spy. At other times, he acts like an
imbecile. They lift many classic lines from the television series, but
they don't work in this version. The classic "missed it by this much"
is funny if it is spoken with attempted braggadocio by someone who is
an obvious failure - but it loses all humor when spoken by someone who
is qualified. To a slightly lesser degree, many of the other characters
move at a dizzying pace from skilled to cartoonish incompetent.
Siegfried, the main villain, would seem to be intelligent, but he makes
decisions that make no damned sense at all. Still, none of the
characters in the film is as incompetent as the writers of this mess. I
am utterly depressed that so many IMDb users think this was good.
