
I honestly didn't think it was very good at all, though I respect the
intentions of the filmmakers. Whatever one wants to say about Oliver
Stone, he showed a commitment to faithfully telling the story of these
two Port Authority cops trapped in the wreckage of the World Trade
Center and their worried wives.

I liked a lot of the scenes in the beginning, the little mundane
details like when Michael Pena's character is going about his everyday
street beat. But the scenes at the WTC itself are really awkward,
especially the cross-cutting between real footage and the actors. They
just don't match, neither the film stocks nor the actors' reactions. A
couple of moments with Pena standing there on the concourse were
effective in creating a sense of horrific surrealism, and the moments
right before the collapse were sudden and chilling...but overall it was
not as powerful as I was expecting. For a film called World Trade
Center, I guess I was expecting a little more context and not something
focused so narrowly on these two Port Authority cops and an ex-Marine
from Connecticut (as the only person outside these two cops' families
whose story is told in the film, the focus on him reeks of jingoism in
a GI Joe/Rambo vein). 

I know it's a little unfair to compare this to United 93, but I need to
in order to illustrate the point. U93 told a specific story (the
experience of the passengers on the plane) and placed it within a
context (what was happening with air traffic control and the military).
The lessons that are demonstrated in the actions of the passengers are
enhanced by contrasting them with the helplessness of the
"professionals" responsible for their safety. It's telling a
dramatically powerful story, conveying a theme , AND providing a larger
historical context of what happened that day. Oliver Stone, by
comparison, has failed to effectively tie the experiences of these two
trapped cops with the larger events of the day, and his film suffers as
a result. And in the end the film largely shortchanges the stories of
the 2749 families who didn't get good news that day. 

OK, so the film focuses on a narrow story of these two trapped cops and
their families (and the gung ho marine, but he has limited screen
time). Was their story well told? The scenes amidst the wreckage were
compelling, but the back-and-forth with their wives became annoyingly
schmaltzy. Yes, Maggie Gyllenhaal gave a strong performance as the
pregnant wife and a lot of the moments with her family (esp the brief
scene with the Colombian mother-in-law praying) were emotionally
poignant, but so much of the family stuff was lame melodrama. And to be
honest, even Maggie's performance was a little generic. I understand
that these characters are all closely based on real life, but it still
felt very Lifetime movie of the week. As for Maria Bello in the role of
the other wife, I loved her in A History of Violence, but she was bland
in this. The kid actors playing her children were mostly awful, and the
film dragged whenever their story was on the screen. The resolution is
mostly handled well, I really like what Oliver Stone is trying to
convey about these small gestures of heroic goodness in the face of
such desolation. But the power of these scenes is undermined by his
tendency to pour on the sappiness while largely ignoring the greater
horror of the day. It feels like a soap opera set against the greatest
tragedy of our age, and that just doesn't work for me.

In short...not intense enough, not enough context, too much melodrama,
not enough of a sense of reverence for what happened, highly impressive
job of recreating the debris field, a charismatic performance from
Maggie, overall a mediocre film.
<|_=00=_|>
I know that many people who don't like this movie say so just because
they thought it was made at an inappropriate time. Personally, I hated
this movie on its own merit as poor film-making. It seems that Oliver
Stone just decided he wanted to make a movie, any movie, about 9/11,
and didn't care about the content of the movie. The end result was a
movie of such pitiful quality that one could go though the script and
replace the term "police officer" with "miner" and "World Trade Center"
with "a coal mine" and the entire script would work perfectly as a
cave-in disaster movie. It's that generic. Stone tries to carry the
movie just by showing how sad the families were and how scared the
policemen were, meanwhile allowing the audience no interesting plot
points to hold on to, nor any significance to the tragedy. In the end,
I have to conclude that Oliver Stone just wanted to get some cheap
emotional reactions from the crowd, because at one point the movie says
that it is about the potential for good in humanity and how strong we
can be in the face of adversity. Stone quickly forgets this, because
only about 15% of the movie even shows people coming together to help
one another. The other 85% of the movie is spent watching the families
argue or seeing flashbacks to their happy memories, which is a good way
to get audience reaction but hardly lends any significance or depth to
the plot. I don't in any way want to belittle the pain that these
families had to endure, which is why I am disappointed that that pain
was exploited to make a bad movie. September 11 was the most important
and tragic event in my lifetime, and I think it deserves more respect
than to be made into a generic, poorly-written disaster movie less than
five years after it happened.
<|_=00=_|>
It's a little known story from a day we know all too well. "World Trade
Center" tells the gripping true story of two of the last men pulled out
of the rubble of Ground Zero alive.

Nicolas Cage and Michael Pena play Port Authority Police officers. In
the film's heart- pounding opening minutes, we watch the attack unfold
through the eyes of these first responders. As the routine morning
becomes anything but routine, the officers glimpse news reports (we are
thankfully spared any images of the plane striking the towers) and get
bits of information from cellphone calls to family members as they race
downtown. But what's most striking is how little the men know about
what's really happening. As the officers prepare to the climb the North
Tower, they are unaware the South Tower has even been hit.
Communications gear is failing, and there is confusion all around.

Through impeccably detailed sets and flawless special effects, director
Oliver Stone and his film-making team recreate these hectic moments in
all-too-realistic detail. You're right there, on the street, looking up
and watching the chaos unfold in 35mm and THX surround sound. If you
didn't know any better, you'd think Stone had a crew shooting in Lower
Manhattan that day. You have to struggle to remind yourself everything
you're seeing was recreated on a sound stage on inside a computer.

Screenwriter Andrea Berloff further enhances the realism with
believable dialog. She not only effectively captures the "cop talk"
(half the time, there's so much lingo being bantered back and forth,
you don't understand what the heck the characters are saying -- as it
should be), she also delivers a truth and honesty to the conversations
and interactions. The words never feel contrived.

The quality cast does the script justice. It's remarkable how well
Cage, a major movie star, disappears behind the mustache and hunched
shoulders of Sgt. John McLoughlin. Pena (last seen as the locksmith in
"Crash") is instantly likable as Ofc. Jimeno. Their performances are
even more noteworthy considering they spend the majority of the movie
flat on their backs. They are also well supported by Maria Bello and
Magie Gyllenhaal as their respective wives, who spend much of the film
enduring an agonizing wait to learn the fate of their husbands.

Stone's storytelling is also more methodical and straightforward than
it's been in recent years. He mercifully ditches the frenetic editing
style he's employed in films like Natural Born Killers and Any Given
Sunday.

***Not Political***

When one hears that Oliver Stone, director of such politically charged
films as JFK and Born on the Fourth Of July, is making a movie about
9/11, your first tendency is to say, "uh oh." But this may be the least
political movie Stone has ever made, one both red states and blue
states can agree on. It's not about the roots of terror, or who's to
blame for what. It's not about villains. It's about heroes. Though set
during one of America's darkest hours, it tells a life-affirming story
of courage, love and the strength people can summon inside. The movie
reminds us how we all felt that day, how we all came together. Some say
it is too soon for a movie like this. But as our nation sits so sharply
divided, it's not a minute too soon to remember the unity of purpose we
all had on 9/11 and ponder whether we can ever get it back.
<|_=00=_|>
I knew this was going to be utter hail America bull even before
watching it. We have a club of 10 people, who regularly attend the
theaters and watch random movies. Believe me, if I had a choice, I
would have never had any interest in watching this. But anyway, as I
predicted, well as we all predicted, actually, we were bored through
the whole film. Except for those moments where we along with the rest
of the theater were laughing at especially the marine and the other
cheesy moments in this disaster of a film. When it was finally over,
people just stood outside laughing at how bad the film was and talking
about this marine, who wanted to dig through tons of rubble with his
super fantastic American marine knife!! "Don't worry, I won't leave
you! I'm a marine!" Yes! He actually says that! And then we are told,
that he goes to Iraq for 2 years to get revenge. I ask then, was he one
of those enraged psychos who raped Iraqi women and murdered their
families down there then ? And what has Iraq to do with WTC ? What a
joke.

What an insult to the people who died or had friends or family members
who died at this terrible tragedy. I will never see a Nicholas Cage
film again nor an Olive Stone one. What maniac thought up the lines of
that marine ? I'm baffled.

1/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Something surprising happened while watching Oliver Stone's "World
Trade Center" - I realized how much more I appreciated Paul Greengrass'
"United 93." Greengrass' film was lean, stripped of any backstory for
any of the characters. Very simply, it told what happened that horrible
day on the plane - though he used some license - and didn't wallow in
needless sentimentality.

Stone, on the other hand and rather surprisingly, seems to have gone
out of his way to make something that would be so palatable and
inoffensive that it would turn out rather bland, above anything else.

The 45 minutes of "World Trade Center" are terrific. After offering us
quick glimpses into the lives of Port Authority cops John McLoughlin
(Nicolas Cage) and Will Jimeno (Michael Pena), Andrea Berloff's script
gets us right into the attacks on the Twin Towers.

The crumbling of the towers, which still is incredibly difficult to
watch, let alone fathom, is handled with taste, but also is awfully
gripping. We get a real sense of the terror and panic and then Stone
gets the claustrophobic atmosphere right. With close-ups of Pena and
Cage amidst the ruins, he gets us so close, we can almost taste the
rubble and concrete dust.

But that's the last time we really see or feel any sense of genuine,
gripping storytelling in this film. I realize criticizing a film about
9/11, especially one that displays its American stars and stripes so
blatantly, is tantamount to treason these days. After all, as this
administration and its minions love to point out, if you disagree with
them, you're not only unpatriotic, but also an appeaser of the
villains. It's poppycock, of course. Dissent is undoubtedly American,
but these chaps so love draping themselves in the flag that jingoism
overwhelms all reason. Why bother with rational thought when you can
scare people?

What struck me while watching the film is realizing how much goodwill
was channeled toward the United States after the attacks and what's
ultimately sad is how this president took all that goodwill and
squandered it by launching an utterly pointless war in Iraq. We could
have done so much good in the world, instead of now being one of the
most hated nations in the world. And Bush has now turned 9/11 into a
political slogan for political (and personal) gain.

The problem with Stone's film isn't so much the story, but how Berloff
chose to tell it. According to Berloff, cops, rescue workers, even
family members tend to enjoy speaking in exposition. There are moments
that surely someone of Stone's calibre should have realized needed to
be rewritten because the dialogue seems mediocre at best.

Where the film suffers is when the story cuts between the two trapped
men and their families, especially their wives. Maria Bello as Donna
McLoughlin and the always wonderful Maggie Gyllenhaal as Allison Jimeno
never get much to do with their sorely underwritten roles. It's a true
testament to Gyllenhaal's talent that she turns a rather sour role into
a passionate, moving performance. Poor Bello, on the other hand, isn't
that fortunate. She's relegated to spending more time than she should
weeping.

The trouble with these scenes is not that Berloff tries to wring some
emotion out of them, but that they come off as unabashedly sentimental.
And the emotions are entirely unearned.

Pena proves, just as he did in "Crash" (2005), that he's able to be
something special on screen. His character is far more engaging than
Cage's; Pena's emotions come off without any artifice.

I can't help but feel that "World Trade Center" could have been the
gut-wrenching experience Stone intended it to be had he and Berloff
approached the story much in the way Greengrass did "United 93."
Stone's movie is far from lean. It's padded with needless
sentimentality and moments that just try so hard to earn some emotion,
any emotion, that they come off as utterly false. And that's unfair to
the people whose story is being chronicled here.

Watching Cage and Pena trapped should be gripping stuff. But even their
dialogue is reduced to exposition. And when Berloff finally leaves the
two men and their families, we get Dave Karnes (Michael Shannon), a man
so moved by what he saw that he came down to the Twin Towers and proved
to be McLoughlin and Jimeno's miracle. We all know Karnes is a real
person, but I very much doubt that he speaks in bumper stickers. But
that's exactly what Berloff has him do.

The first 45 minutes of the movie showed what Stone truly is capable of
doing. The rest is rather tepid. And unbelievably forced. Who knew that
Oliver Stone, of all people, would resort to formulaic storytelling.
Perhaps he's been so stung by conspiracy accusations and was so keen on
appeasing his critics and forgetting the execrable "Alexander" (2004)
that he opted to make the kind of movie Ron Howard would make. That's
not a compliment.
<|_=00=_|>
if you regard the fact that the tittle give the movie away, it is still
pretty predictable from the start.. But i mean almost two hours of to
police officers lying under wtc rubble.. and nothing else just a view
of how their families are coping.. It's so American..it's so like the
pearl harbour movie, so subjective and predictable. "America lives yey
for us.. boo to the bad guys" but what about the other people who
really died, what about the REAL family tragedies. All the widows, and
single parents left alone after the fall of the towers, and all the
children who has lost one or two parents? well anyway, another movie
and another waste of time
<|_=00=_|>
I went into this film without expectations. I saw Flight 93 and enjoyed
it and I am very interested in all events surrounding September 11th,
so this film appealed to me. Now, I must say that I am not an Oliver
Stone fan, however, upon hearing this movie was nothing like an Oliver
Stone film I decided to check it out.

The storyline for the film, as stated, was based on the stories of a
few Port Authority police who survived the collapse of the building
while being trapped for hours in the rubble. At the beginning we are
introduced to each of the characters and their families. It's enough to
get us involved with each of them but leaves enough room to elaborate
as the film unfolds. The film moves rather nicely without going too
fast or slow. The vast amount of the film takes place after the towers
collapse while the men are trapped in the rubble. The story is told
through the trapped police officers current situation as well as what
their families are going through at the same time.

I felt this story to be very natural and not Hollywood-ized, something
I had been worried would happen. All the events seemed plausible, they
didn't throw anything in for added drama. All of the characters were
completely believable and you ended up loving all of them by the end. I
will caution you though, there are some intense scenes in this movie so
if you are unable to deal with some of the events from that day you may
not want to see the film.

The cinematography and sound really aided this film. All of the filming
was crisp and clean, the special effects were great and you could
hardly tell this had been filmed after the towers were gone (the shots
containing the towers that is). There were some great scenes from life
in new york; shots of the skyline and the subway as well as some
breathtaking aerials. The sound was spot on, you could feel the
building collapse as the scenes unfolded on the screen. It was a great
job all around.

Overall I was pleasantly surprised at how good this was, it lived up to
Flight 93, although it has an entirely different feel to it. This film
is not ground-breaking work, but it wasn't meant to be. It was meant to
tell the story of a few brave men and their families and their
experiences during September 11th, and it accomplished this very well.
<|_=00=_|>
This is the first movie I've ever got up during the showing at a
theatre and walked out. Yeah I know some people are going to panic and
whine that I'm a horrible person for not liking the World Trade Center
movie, but this was just annoying. The previews show a bright, outdoors
thing with lots of police and firefighters and such, when in reality
most of the film is just two guys trapped in the dark, in the rubble,
talking in strained voices about their family, while their family acts
upset at home. Don't get me wrong, I respect the event, but the
importance of a historical event doesn't mean everyone should go see a
poorly done movie about it. So in conclusion, the film is very
repetitive, constant poor lighting and typically unchanging scenery
make it unpleasant to watch for a long time, and it was very hard to
connect with the characters.
<|_=00=_|>
Before you brush this review off as someone that is just looking to
cause problems or badmouth a movie let me give you my background. I
live in NJ less than 5 minutes from the city. My family is heavily in
twined in the Port Authority of NY/NJ. My grandfather is a retired
Lieutenant and my uncle has been a PAPD officer for 12 years and I have
both friends and family that worked in the world trade center in the PA
executive offices.

The movie itself concentrates on two PAPD officers, Will and John. It
follows their ordeal up to the point of rescue. OK. Seems good. But
what about the 2700+ people that were lost on that terrible day. The
writers spent too much time basing the movie on two men and their
"story of triumph" that the true events of the day were left in the
shadows.

There were times during the movie that I almost forgot what I was
watching because it seemed like these were the only two men (along with
their families) affected by the tragedy. The ordeal seemed no different
than that experienced by the miners that were rescued in pennsylvania
several years back. There was no rescue of other people even mentioned
until the ending credits, at which time they finally acknowledged that
people were actually lost.

The movie gives the impression that September 11th and the days
following was an uplifting experience because two men were found alive.
It fails to document all that was lost and never recovered. If a movie
must be made about such a tragedy then the movie should show it like it
is. There should be no dramatic rescue with uplifting music. The day
was terrible, the events were terrible, and the story was terrible.
Lets not make the worst day in our country's history into an uplifting
"happy ending" version of titanic.

Throughout the movie there were 3 mentions of lost people other than
the main characters. The first of an unnamed elevator operator, the
second was a quick clip of "missing person" posters, and the final was
the ending credits that gave the true numbers. Those three scenes are
what September 11th was. It was not a love story. It was not a triumph.
And more than anything it was not material for a Hollywood movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Many of us remember that morning so vividly. September 11th, 2001. I
had the opportunity to see the film from Paramount Pictures and
directed by Oliver Stone last night with about 50 firefighters from the
Tucson Area as well as a handful of law enforcement officers.

I really wasn't sure if I wanted to see the film. I remember watching
the TV, glued to it, for answers to the questions that I never will
have answered as to how something so horrible could happen. This film
doesn't attempt to try to answer that question, instead it looks at the
spirit of people and how we can come together to help others.

I am so glad I went to see this! It is a powerful work of film that
tells the story without sensationalizing the event and the anger and
hatred for the attackers following the attacks. It's a film of last
words and feelings we tend to develop after years in a relationship.
There are tears of joy, laughs, and tears of sorrow interlaced
throughout this film with Strong acting from a huge cast including
Nicolas Cage and Michael Pena.

Totally recommend this film although it may certainly be tough for
those that lost loved ones in the buildings.
