
It's a real shame that everything I had read about Déjà Vu concerned
the high-powered explosions and loud clatter of guru/producer Jerry
Bruckheimer. No mention, except maybe as a footnote, was given to
A-list director Tony Scott and the magic he has woven in his past three
films. The man who brought us Top Gun has seen a sort of revival in
style lately with the entertaining Spy Game, the amazing Man on Fire,
and the kinetic Domino. Scott has taken the quick cuts of music videos
and has infused them into his shooting style. His editor better be
making some good money as these films fly by with filters, jump-cuts,
grain, and camera angles swiveling at every turn. Greatly overshadowed
by brother Ridley Scott and his more serious, award-winning epics, Tony
has been pumping out some of the most solid and entertaining films of
the past couple decades. With a reuniting of semi-regular star Denzel
Washington, Déjà Vu proves that when Bruckheimer is paired with a like
mind, his usual drivel can become great. Scott shows us how to hone the
explosions, noise, and clutter to an effective level and gives us a
helluva ride.

Déjà Vu could have easily reduced itself to timetravel farce, going by
the books to show a time warp in order to solve a crime. The
far-fetched premise of being able to see the past as it happens four
and a half days later should seem crazy and by watching the previews
you are given the idea that it will be just a series of do-overs.
Fortunately the trailers these days show a totally different movie than
what has been crafted. Scott and his screenwriters have not only
developed a sci-fi tale seeped in enough reality to at least be looked
upon as plausible for the sake of the story, but they nicely tidy up
any chance of their being a plothole. Our story begins with a
devastating domestic terrorist act upon a ferry carrying over 500
people, Navy and family. Washington's ATF agent is brought in and
discovers that it was no accident. Intrigued by the efficiency he
displays, an FBI agent, played with nicely effective restraint by Val
Kilmer, calls him in to check out a new toy they have to find who the
perpetrator is. During the use of this screen of the past, Denzel
acquires a feeling of obligation to do all he can to prevent what he
sees from occurring in the present, no matter what consequences that
might entail for the future. The quest to stop the violence begins with
an attractive young woman who unknowingly has become an integral part
in what will ultimately transpire.

The beauty of this film is that with multiple timelines being shown
parallel to each other, there are many questions that desperately need
answering. To credit all involved, they appear to have put themselves
in the audience's shoes and piece-by-piece wrote in a reason for
everything. Anything that is seen either in the past, present, or
future has a reason for being there and will be intelligently
explained. Also, the performances are stellar, Denzel and Kilmer as
well as a quietly maniacal Jim Caviezel and the emotionally exasperated
Paula Patton, and the visuals unique. While Scott has toned down the
ultra-kinetic cuts and filters for the main action, his style is still
stamped on the graphics of their screen showing the past. The motion
trails and speed scans lend a stylized digital editing program feel and
are gorgeous to watch. Déjà Vu's best sequence, however, is the crazy
car chase during the present in pursuit of a vehicle in the past,
definitely a rush and orchestrated almost flawlessly. Even though
Ridley gets the accolades and Tony gets the hack/overproduced label, I
must say, while they are the best directing duo in Hollywood, I might
have to give the edge on pure cinematic entertainment to the younger
Tony. He is on a roll and doesn't seem to be stopping anytime soon.
<|_=00=_|>
I'd say this movie definitely lived up to expectations I had from the
ad trailers. A good mix of science fiction and cop drama, with the
occasional good joke. Both my wife and I thoroughly enjoyed it. Denzel
entertained as usual, as did Adam Goldberg. Don't be turned off by the
professional reviewers. Those guys can never seem to enjoy a movie
that's content with being slightly unbelievable. If I always wanted
believable, I'd stick to documentaries or the news. There won't be any
Oscars coming out of it, but it was a action-filled thriller that kept
me guessing till the end. If you liked the Island, this is right up
your ally.
<|_=00=_|>
It has been quite a while since I have seen a film that was this
beautifully crafted and nearly flawless. The acting is very convincing
and the storyline follows quite closely to a Michael Criton-esquire
novel. I was rather surprised at the 6.8 rating this movie has received
thus far, and I hope that more positive reviews will come in order for
the score to be bumped up to at least the mid 7's. I can guarantee you
will not be disappointed by this film. For one thing, it stars Denzel
Washington, Jim Cavizel, who I felt did a marvelous job at playing the
antagonist, Val Kilmer, and Bruce Greenwood. With these four actors,
you typically cannot go wrong. I notice that these four are also never
in the tabloids and don't get caught up in the typical Hollywood tripe
that is so prevalent today. They have raw talent, are not just getting
by on their looks, and their performance, especially in this film,
shows it. "Deja Vu" is one of those rare films that grabs a hold of you
from the very start and does not let go of you until the very end.
People even clapped after the film ended and such applause was well
deserved. If you do anything at all this Thanksgiving weekend, then by
all means, put going to see "Deja Vu" on your shopping list. I can
promise you that both you and your family/significant others will be
blow though the very back wall of the theater.
<|_=00=_|>
I was also at that Century City screening last night, and I was
probably one of the people who were saying they thought this movie was
awesome. I enjoyed it immensely. It has been described as an
action-adventure-romance-sci-fi pic and it truly is all of that.

First of all, the cinematography was stunning. Tony Scott and his DOP,
Paul Cameron, do fantastic work -- every shot is beautifully composed.
And all the footage that involves a cast of thousands (meaning the
crowd scenes) is masterful work.

I don't know why I started with commenting on the photography (also the
editing) of this movie. It's probably because that is what struck me
from the very beginning, particularly when there is so much going on in
the opening sequence. Yet you never get lost. Above all, the
performances and story are great and really suck you in. Yes, this
movie requires a fair bit of suspension of disbelief. I would go so far
as to say the plot was far-fetched, but the heart of the story just
takes you along for the ride.

For the record, I felt Scott's most recent teaming with Denzel, Man on
Fire, was one of the best movies of 2004. I don't think Deja Vu is as
good as Man on Fire, but it's right up there as one of the most
entertaining and thrilling movies I've seen this year.

For sheer entertainment and an intriguing (though not flawless) plot,
Bruckheimer, Scott and Co. sure have DELIVERED the goods.

I recommend you see Deja Vu on the big screen with a big, loud audience
for maximum enjoyment. Part of the appeal last night was exactly that;
hearing the audience -- as one -- laugh, applaud and sigh along with
this movie and getting swept up in that communal experience.

post scriptum -- Any fans of Otto Preminger's wonderful 1994 classic
Laura may be delighted by the echoes of that storyline in Deja Vu.
<|_=00=_|>
I'll start by saying that I was reluctant to even see this movie but
after some insistence by family, I sat and watched in pure enjoyment.

Articles, reviews, trailers, TV spots, DO NOT do this film justice.
Denzel Washington pulls out another great performance as well as an
aged Val Kilmer. While some will point out that the plot is hard to
swallow, it doesn't matter because it's wrapped up in sheer
entertainment. You feel for these characters. There are no holes to be
found in either the plot or it's twists. It's believable at the same
time unbelievable. If you can get past the middle 20 minutes or so
while they explain what the team can do, you're in for a great ride.

I can't, in three paragraphs, paint a picture like Deja Vu. Of the many
films Mr.Washington has put out over the last 4 years or so, this is by
far his best if not one of the best of the year.

Highly recommended for the open-minded.
<|_=00=_|>
I kept my hopes low for this mediocre time machine movie and my
expectations were not exceeded! I realize the filmmakers are solely in
it for the money. Film is now, for the most part, a commodity like
toothpaste and paper towels - and it shows! I wouldn't even be
surprised if Hollywood stooped so low as to hired Public Relation firms
to write fake positive reviews on internet sites like this one! 

While I have no complaint with the acting, the storyline is just
utterly ridiculous, and boring as tears. I don't think it is asking too
much for a story to make some sense, instead of treating the movie
going public like a bunch of teenagers looking for some cheap thrills!

Where do I begin? This highly professional terrorist has no motive for
his madness. He pops out of the blue, belongs to no organizations or
movements, and has no ideology, no allies, and no one helping him. Our
meany terrorist quotes Thomas Jefferson, claims he's not killing people
because the U.S. military hurt his feelings when they rejected him for
being "too much" of a patriot (I kid you not), and all he wants when
he's captured is to confess like he's talking to a priest. (Plus a
cigarette, of course - don't all bad guys smoke these days?) Oh,
please, give me a break! How sanitized a story can you get? The
filmmakers and screenwriters of Deja Vu have absolutely no guts,
whatsoever, to make any kind of statement other than that terrorists
are crazy and get hurt feelings! Wow! What an interesting insight! 

Next, The U.S. Government has a time machine that uses so much energy
it caused the last Canada to New York blackout while doing experiments
with just small animals, which, in-turn, all end-up going into cardiac
arrest, and dying. But when our fearless hero, Denzel Washington, goes
back in time the energy problem miraculously disappears. Keep in mind a
single piece of paper was sent through time a couple of days earlier,
and it knocked out a whole city's power! 

The dying problem is also solved too, with a full recovery taking less
than a day. Keep in mind, when most people recover from going into
cardiac arrest, they are usually not strong enough to waltz out of the
hospital a couple of HOURS later! But Denzel is special, and he doesn't
even have super powers! 

When Denzel is shot by a rather large caliber bullet, he begins losing
blood fast. So fast in fact, that it's obvious to everyone he needs to
make a trip to the emergency room, pronto! Instead he goes over to his
women's home because of time constraints. There they wash his wound
with water and dry it with paper towels. He miraculously stops bleeding
because he washed his wound. No need for stitches or compresses, just
soap and water stops bleeding from gunshot wounds. Imagine what other
miracles would have occurred if he had the time to wash the rest of his
body!

I think you get the picture. This is such a dopey film because the
stupidity is non-stop! It's a shame films are not rated based on
cleverness and intelligence. If they were, perhaps filmmakers would
start making more interesting movies!
<|_=00=_|>
I usually like sci-fi when it's pure sci-fi. I usually like present day
drama when it's believably real. Disaster, at least for me, looms large
when sci-fi meets real life drama. So here we have a present day crime
thriller crossed with sci-fi time travel...And, this movie kicks butt,
works so well, in fact, it's nuances should be studied in film school.
It's original enough to be compelling-where we are not in some distant
future, but the here and now.

The story, the characters, and the effects mesh well to suspend belief
to the point that you "get on-board" and enjoy the ride. This is the
way to do sci-fi with believable real life situations. The
cinematography, the implementation of technology, and even a beautiful
(but presently dead) damsel in distress, combine to give the actors,
who are uniformly good to excellent, the boost to put this in rarefied
good sci-fi territory. Genre fans are shoo-ins and those who think they
don't like sci-fi should enjoy this one too. 7.5 to 8 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
This richly dense action-thriller has Denzel Washington as his typical
but well cast character in this well thought out script that uses the
idea of time and space in a superb manner. In one of the best genre
thriller of its type, this consistent execution, high-quality
production provides an intellectual and mostly satisfying experience.
the movie also contents musical strains reminiscent of the intense and
action-focised Bourne Identity series (2002) that also offers a similar
strength and sharpness the movie's appeal. Except for a "Stargate"
(from the movie and television series) like structure that
unnecessarily detracts from the scene and the obvious impossibility or
at least gigantic leap of science two-thirds way through the movie,
such lapses are minor compared to the intensity and small deja vu clues
that actually enhance the movie till the end. Sometimes predictable,
but nevertheless, it's in the execution that matters here. A solid
eight out of ten.
<|_=00=_|>
I was expecting more of this film based on the title and the trailer
but ultimately came away feeling a bit taken for a ride. I read Sci Fi,
I understand some of the time travel stuff they write so would like to
add some thoughts.

To begin the whole process the ferry must blow up and he must travel
back in time at least twice. The script writers get lazy in adding the
ambulance and the stuff at the flat in the wrong time loop. They are
compressing the two time loops into one time loop and using some of the
elements to explain stuff that is logically wrong. Why two time loops
and why is the film wrong? because the dead girl and the stuff at the
flat and the ambulance all exist in the same time stream in the film.
Why is this a problem: she must have been alive to help put it in the
flat which he finds before he time travels but her dead body is in the
morgue, so where was this other alive version of the girl in his
current time stream???? She can't be the same girl in the river with
fingers missing as that should already have happened. Now there are two
of him at the end, but only because he time travelled, she never did,
so there can only ever be one of her in any one time stream or loop at
any one time. He saved her with the ambulance therefore its in the
wrong time stream loop if she is also dead in the same time loop, so
there must be two time loops, one where she is dead and one where she
is alive. (now some might try to get round this by saying she was
killed after going to the flat with Denzel and then placed in the
river, but I don't think the timing and the positioning of the bomber
will support that very well, and of course that didn't happen in the
film)

The whole sequence would make more sense if it went like this. start: A
note arrives from the future on his desk, his partner gets it. His
partner disrupts the bomber, gets shot. Bomber can no longer use the
car. This makes the bomber go for the girl and her car. The car is
changed the girl dies at the hand of the bomber she ends up in the
river and found later but too early for the ferry explosion. There
should be no traces at the flat. There should be no ambulance at the
bombers place. Science team get him on board, he starts the
investigation, he sends the note into the past

Loop 1 He travels back in time. He gets the ambulance. He saves the
girl from the first death. They go back to her flat, he arranges the
letters and leaves the blood etc. Bomber still rides across the bridge
(very very important for the logic) They try and save the ferry they
fail (and die) The ferry blows up (again).

Logically this should have happened to have all the elements available
at the start of the film to travel back a second time, where everything
in the past is in place, so he can now see all of those things in the
past that he put there and changed. So the time travel trip shown in
the film should actually be the start of the movie (as it fits all the
requirements for the first time loop) not the one leading to the shown
ending which should logically be the end of the second time loop and
the continuation of the time stream and exit from the time loop that
could potentially go on for ever if the ferry keeps blowing up.

NB Bomber riding across the bridge: In reality if he had succeeded in
stopping the ferry from blowing up as shown in the movie he would not
have been able to see the bomber ride across the bridge on the
CCTV(future part) as he was changing the past in real time, eg Bomber
is now on the ferry. (remember the two are linked in real time, they
said so). The ambulance, bandages at the flat, phone call etc must
exist in the same loop as the bomber riding across the bridge.
<|_=00=_|>
This was a terrific movie, plain and simple. It kept you thinking and
guessing at what was really going on, and in the end, all the holes
close. That is unusual for any kind of "playing with time" kind of
film, and all those involved deserve credit for doing it right. While
the whole premise of the science involved has a deep flaw in it, it's
not the sort of flaw that precludes the suspension of disbelief. Denzel
Washington, Jim Caviziel and Adam Goldberg give memorable performances.
Of course, there is no one better than Tony Scott when it comes to
telling a story with pictures, and he's as good here, if not better
than in Enemy of the State.

10/10 because I finished my popcorn before I even noticed it was
running low.
