
Had the opportunity last night to see the World Premier of Rocky Balboa
two months before it will be released. A great movie. I was impressed
with it, in fact the storyline is something we will all appreciate. I
am looking all over the internet right now to see if I can find the two
speeches Rocky gives in the movie, that gave me chills. One was to the
commission, when he tries to get his boxing license, and the other to
his son. The acting is great, the storyline as stated before is great,
the cast is well put together as well. This is Stallone's best acting
ever. The only downfall, I thought was the soundtrack, as Mason Dixon
(Antonio Tarver) entrance music to the fight is great, and of course
the theme to Rocky is great, but other than that the soundtrack was not
good at all. However as we all know we cannot judge a movie by its
soundtrack. This is a must see!
<|_=00=_|>
I recently attended a pre-screening for "Rocky Balboa" in Denver. This
movie was so powerful, that I went through every emotion imaginable
while watching it. There are some very humorous parts in the movie,
there are some sad parts of the movie. However, the message of the film
is moving. This particular "Rocky" movie focuses on Rocky's life after
boxing. It really develops his character in ways that the other movies
have not. The trailer that is out does not do this movie justice. If
you want to see a movie with a deep message and a whole lot of heart,
you will not be disappointed. Don't think "Another 'Rocky' movie" and
brush it off. This movie is well written, the acting is great, the
characters seem like real people. Even though I have already seen it, I
will be back on opening day to see it again. It is an instant classic.
So keep an open mind and give this movie a chance, you will be glad
that you did!
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film at a test screening a few months ago. While I am a fan
of all the films I think this one is the most on par with the first
one. While two thru five were good films they had more to do with Rocky
as a public figure and his fame. In this film he is not that distanced
from the guy he was in the first, maybe just a little wiser. The film
doesn't focus so much on boxing as it does on the actual character of
Rocky and the trials he faces having one day been on top of the world
and now he leads a simple life and thrives on his memories.

I am a huge Stallone fan but I realize his career has been in a slump
lately, but this film would be a perfect resurrection for him. The
acting is great and it has some of the best writing I've seen in years.
Two very powerful scenes are when Rocky tries to get his license back
and probably the best scene of the film is when he confronts his son.

Any Stallone or Rocky fan will love this film. And I'm sure a lot of
people who had doubts about this film 30 years later or even Stallone
being 60 years old will be very surprised and pleased. And it does not
hurt that Sylvester Stallone is in better shape at 60 then half of
Hollywood under 30.

I've already seen the movie but I plan to be there opening day to see
it again.
<|_=00=_|>
I just attended an advance screening of Rocky Balboa. This film is a
truly beautiful character piece that deserves tremendous praise. For
those of you who have written off Sylvester Stallone as an actor - you
are in for a re-awakening of his talent. The writing is phenomenal as
is the truly inspirational feeling you will get watching this - much
like the first Rocky movie. Stallone wore three hats during the filming
as screenwriter, director and star. Burt Young makes a terrific return
as Paulie. Another highlight is Geraldine Hughes as Marie. Personally,
I couldn't have hoped for a better conclusion to this legacy Sylvester
Stallone has left for American culture known as "Rocky Balboa."
<|_=00=_|>
Guys...

Stallone did it.

I went in cringing and walked out impressed.

The tone was closer to the first two Rocky movies, but it did it in a
way that the fifth movie wasn't able to grasp. One key ingredient:
verisimilitude.

They treated the boxing in the film the way boxing is in real life. I
know, because I covered and followed the sport very closely for about
three years.

Real life boxing personalities pepper the film's cast. For the fight
scene, they got the current HBO announcing team of Jim Lampley, Larry
Merchant and Max Kellerman.

They treated the build-up to the fight not unlike movie audiences are
treating Rocky Balboa the movie: What, another Rocky movie/fight? There
is some reminiscing of the past like in Rocky 5, but it's handled much
better. It flows naturally from Rocky the character. It's not nostalgia
for the sake of nostalgia the way some of Rocky V played out. In fact,
I got choked up quite a few times throughout the film.

The writing is excellent. The monologue from the first Rocky teaser,
that some people criticized, shows up in this movie. It plays
WAAAAAAAAAAAY better, more powerfully, with more emotional resonance in
the context of the movie. The teaser didn't do it justice. The movie
does.

If you're a Rocky fan, you have to see it. If your girlfriend/boyfriend
aren't Rocky fans or have never seen a Rocky movie, you have to take
them.

My 19-year-old girlfriend thinks she has seen Rocky but only as a
little girl, so she had a vague, if any, recollection of the series. So
vague, in fact, that she even told me that Stallone the actor looked
"familiar". And she loved the movie. She cheered, and when the fight
started, she told me, "I'm so nervous!" In the end, she also loved the
character of Rocky, proving to me that the character's appeal--despite
his age and several decades removed from his debut---is still
undeniable.

Stallone was great in the role, of course. This is obviously the part
he was born to play.

Burt Young is great as Paulie. He gave a nice supporting performance
with the right touch of humor.

I was impressed with Antonio Tarver as Mason Dixon. Tarver, as some of
you might know, is a real fighter. In fact, I saw him fight once in
Miami. He turned in a good performance, which I wasn't expecting since
he's an athlete, not an actor. So Tarver deserves a nod.

The movie is inspiring---the winning quality in all Rocky movies.

Now don't get me wrong: I'm not claiming this is Rocky I all over
again. This is the sixth movie in what was a tired series when we last
saw it, but Stallone breathed new life into it and it's definitely a
deserving addition to the Rocky series.

Lastly, there's a moment in the theater that I really, really want to
share with you guys. Don't worry, it has nothing to do with the end.

The movie audience was pretty quiet throughout the first half. But when
Rocky starts training to the Rocky theme, the crowd came alive and
began cheering and clapping. I saw one guy throwing punches during the
fight. Another guy was stomping on the ground from what I imagined was
excitement of the fight, and nervousness.

I'm not sure Stallone could've made a better part 6 than this.
<|_=00=_|>
Balboa is gonna hit so many people in different ways.

I suppose you can look at any great film and see a message in there,
but the Rocky franchise is so inspirational, even the 5th one.

This new film has had me thinking, and though some reviews have said
it's a trip down memory lane and a rehash of the 1st, well the point
is, as reflected in the film, that Rocky IS living in the past, like so
many of us do for one reason or another.

The message as stated in the film "you gotta keep moving forward", I
don't know if its me or just pure genius, but if you LOOK you will find
something that touches your soul throughout the franchise ..

So i wont drag this out...........

I left the theatre kind of stunned. Its been a long while since Rocko
got back in the ring, and I, like everyone else, wanted a better film
than Rocky V. Sly has wised up a lot over the years, and all I can say
is....

THIS FILM DELIVERS BIG TIME !

The fact that its the 6th one, and to be honest, its no sci-fi film
where you can really go to town on the plot, there is only so much you
can do, and Sly has done it. Yeah, you could say that the plot mirrors
Sly's life over the last few years, but all the Rocky's have done that
in one way or another. This is Rocky back to his sweet and charming
self, stunned with what life has thrown at him, and just going through
the motions of, well, growing old, but still having that ambition to
kick life in the balls and say "it ain't over til it's over". He looks
great for 60, and doesn't over train for the final bout, he's kept it
very realistic, and the fight itself is handled very well, and looks
different to the recent wars we have been used to. The film isn't just
about boxing, it's a drama, which will inspire you, if you can put your
ego to one side and let it.

Paulie is fab, he calms things down and stops certain moments turning
into what some people may call cheesy. Unfortunately people with no
emotions call things cheesy, but they are the ones who have yet to
learn what life can throw at you.

This film is up there with I & II, and I need to see it again!!!!!!!!

Overall

A perfect ending to the saga, and an amazing turn around for the
franchise.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was worth waiting for! It is full of life lessons - all
worthwhile for people of all ages. This movie touches your every sense.
It made me feel as good as I did after watching the 1st Rocky years ago
- hopeful, grateful - it made me believe in myself & others!

Kudos to Sylvester Stallone for fighting like a Lion to get this film
made the way he wanted. He fought hard to make sure the last chapter on
Rocky, his Rocky, was presented the way he wanted! Rocky is a real live
man..not an inaccurate Hollywood plastic ... but a character we all can
relate to. 

This movie was written and presented the way Mr. Stallone wanted ...
thank God!! Its a movie to see with your kids ... your dad....your mom
.... those you love...its the kind of movie this country needs more of.

Thank you Mr. Stallone
<|_=00=_|>
I had the opportunity to see a screening of this movie. Having been
thoroughly disappointed with Rocky five, I didn't have high hopes for
this movie. I am very happy to say this movie brings the Rocky series
to the rightful close that the fifth left so empty. This movie isn't so
much about the boxing itself, but getting back to the roots of the
Rocky story...that determination and courage with the love and help of
others makes Rocky a winner no matter what.

This movie is rated PG, and parents will be happy to see that the
graphic nature of boxing has been toned down quite a bit in this movie
compared to others in the series. If you're looking for a touching
family movie with a powerful message, Rocky Balboa is definitely a
movie to see. I think adults and children over the age of 10 will
throughly enjoy this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Now this is how you put to bed the greatest underdog story ever told. 

Rocky Balboa deserves to be taken seriously because it really is a
well-made film. Powerful acting, an uplifting message, and of course,
some classic Rocky boxing fireworks make this film one my favorites of
the entire year. GO SEE IT - YOU WILL NOT BE Disappointed! 

(I saw an advanced screening in Chicago - Sly introduced it - He came
off as a real humble, decent guy. He said he wasn't happy how Rocky V
turned out. Well, he wasn't the only one. I tell you what though - He
definitely made amends with this one because it may be the best, even
better than the first. )
<|_=00=_|>
I've been able to see this before it's release date so I'll avoid
giving too much away in this review. To start with when I heard that
they were going to make a sixth Rocky movie you didn't have to be a die
hard fan to wonder what were they thinking about, particularly 15 years
after the last horrible outing! After 30 years since the original ROCKY
was released one could only wonder what else they could conjure up
after such a long hiatus? Yet this movie was not bad and it's important
to stress that on a number of levels. This rendition of Rocky is true
to the previous ones as again he is the underdog, a former champ who is
encouraged to come out of obscurity and take on the current champ
despite having been retired for 20 years.

Just to recap to the earlier movies for the moment, in the original
ROCKY, in some sort of bizarre publicity stunt Rocky Balboa was plucked
up from a short list of "bum of the month contenders" to leap frog
genuine challengers for a crack at the undisputed heavy weight title.
Although he falls short, because of the effort and the show that he
puts on, the public demand a rematch and consequently sequel to ROCKY
is made and so on. It's important to remember that in the 1970's the
American public craved for there to be white heavyweight boxing
champion so when the original ROCKY was released not only was it
contemporary but captured the imagination of the public at the time.
Apollo Creed as the champion was obviously modeled on the brash, cocky
Muhammad Ali who you either loved or hated.

Also it's worth noting that in the 1970's and 80's boxing enthusiasts
often wondered who would win in a fictional fight between the 1950's
champion Rocky Marciano and the 1970's champ Muhammad Ali. Therefore it
was no coincidence the name 'Rocky'was used in the 70's, but now today
in ROCKY BALBOA we are now asking who would win in 2006, Rocky from the
70's and 80's or Mason Dixon from the 2000's? The question in this
movie is actually more like a Rocky Marciano v's Ali now than it was in
the 70's!

Another point worth mentioning is that in the original the conceited
Apollo Creed was a flashy, arrogant, publicity seeking showman, but
more importantly he was human. By the time of Clubber Lang and Ivan
Drago in ROCKY'S III and IV respectively the Italian Stallion was up
against fighters that did not seem to be human. They were void of
feelings had no family and their physical prowess and abilities were so
advanced that they seemed more like comic book or video game
characters. In this movie Mason Dixon to a large extent returns the
heavyweight champion to a more believable human role, although
contemporary for 2006 i.e. athletic, brash and mean! I give credit to
the writers here and to a large extent this is where the movie worked! 

I don't know if it was a coincidence or if it was part of the thinking
but ROCKY BALBOA was fortunate enough to be released at a time when the
heavyweight boxing scene itself is in a shambles and resembles a three
ring circus. From blown up middleweights to an alphabet soup of
nobodies in their late 30's right up to a 7 foot Neanderthal lookalike
that is totally useless,--- heavyweight boxing has never been more of a
joke! In a time when top athletes in their respective sports are
stronger, faster or bigger and more powerful than there peers from
earlier decades, heavyweight boxing is about the only sport to have
regressed. The skill levels and talent are so much poorer than their
counter parts in the 1970's and 80's that none of them could even carry
Muhammad Ali or Larry Holmes jock strap's when they were at their best!
The International powers that be have in there zeal for money have
butchered the world heavy weight boxing scene so badly that its turned
into a freak show. Thus the idea of a former champion 25 years past his
best challenging for a world title is not as far fetched as it once
might have been! 

This movie will have it's critics and while it is certainly not
flawless I see no reason why this movie should be lambasted as it no
doubt will be. At the very least it stands out from being better than
90% of the movies that are released today, many which are simply
dreadful. If old 1960's,70's and 80's TV shows are revived on the big
screen for the movie industries indulgence or else the public are fed
an endless list of remakes why not another Rocky movie! The dialogue
and writing while not great was no worse anything else I've seen
recently and the production and camera angles were good. It's slow in
certain areas particularly at the beginning but over all a nostalgic
effort which tried to capture the theme of the earlier rocky movies.
Apparently Sylvester Stallone was never happy about ROCKY V and for
years the memory of it tormented him, well I think this one will have
exorcised that demon ,a much better effort overall. Check it out!
