
I've seen countless teeny bopper comedies the past couple of years, and
I can honestly say, this wasn't one of them.

This was a good, straight forward comedy, with some hilarious moments
and a lovable character. The story was also interesting, even though it
was very predictable from the beginning (I don't know many people who
watch comedies for a complex, deep, mysterious story line anyways) 

My favorite thing about the movie is all the actors fit in perfectly
with the characters they are playing. Especially the main character,
who develops through the movie from a weak, shy, kind hearted guy, to
somebody who is still kind at heart, but not afraid to defend himself
and fight for what he wants. 

This isn't the best comedy ever, but its good. And I would recommend it
to anybody looking for a good laugh out loud movie with lovable
characters.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a fun movie that offers exactly what the previews promise and a
little more. John Heder does a great job as does Billy Bob Thornton.
The only drawback of the plot is that we've seen it a million times
before if you watch this genre of movie. Dr. P (Billy Bob Thornton)
plays an overbearing and obnoxious school teacher teaching Roger (John
Heder) and the other students how not to be wimps. The purpose of the
course backfires when Roger finds out Dr. P does not like to be
outdone. This movie could be compared to any comedy where the underdog
must overcome the odds to win the girl. Regardless of the predictable
plot, the comedy is clever and fun. This movie is worth seeing in the
theater. The previews are faithful, but don't give away all of the
humor. The humor is consistent throughout and it doesn't leave you
tapping you fingers or looking at your watch.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw a preview yesterday, and the movie is very funny in parts. I
laughed so hard I cried a couple of times. On the other hand, there are
times when the movie seems to drag on too long. In my opinion, this
movie is two stories in one - and one works great, and the other not so
much. The whole school for scoundrels thing is hysterical. Any scene
with Heder and his buddies had the audience roaring. Jon Glaser was my
favorite - will somebody get this guy his own movie, please?! But
everything outside that was definitely not on the same level. Even the
brilliant Ben Stiller, Sara Silverman and David Cross didn't work
nearly as well, nor did the scenes of competition between Heder and
Thornton. It's still worth seeing for the scenes that do work with his
buddies though, as you don't get to laugh that hard too often. -
Mikeontheriver
<|_=00=_|>
Roger (Jon Heder) is a wimpy parking meter attendant for NYC. After
losing his uniform to thieves on the job and being dumped from the big
brother program, he is despondent. Add to this his unrequited crush on
a beautiful neighbor named Amanda (Jacinda Barrett), and you have a man
on the proverbial ropes. However, a well-meaning friend gives him
information about a secret class in male self-esteem, run by the harsh
Dr. P (Billy Bob Thornton). In class and on outings, Dr. P uses tough
tactics to turn his unfortunate students into successful men. But, what
happens when Dr. P decides to put the moves on Amanda, after a chance
meeting? Does Roger have what it takes to thwart Dr P's efforts and win
Amanda for himself? This is a fairly nice but easily disposable film.
Thornton is, of course, a natural choice for the scoundrel teacher and
he delivers a good-and-slimy performance. Barrett is beautiful and
touching as the love interest, adding greatly to the film's enjoyment.
Heder, although a good comic performer, seems all wrong as a romantic
lead. But, perhaps it is a bit refreshing for someone without the
knockout good looks to go for broke in the love department. Ben Stiller
has a fine cameo as a wacko ex-student of Dr. P. The setting in NYC and
the costumes are nice. All in all, the film is a satisfying view for a
rainy day. But, it doesn't seem like a movie that will be remembered or
talked about five years down the road.
<|_=00=_|>
In a world full of really moronic teeny bopper movies, thank the
heavens we have Billy Bob Thorton. Here in "School For Scoundrels", he
is as hilarious as ever! 

Roger is a loser living in New York City. He has a terrible job, gets
no respect from his co-workers, and has never dated a woman. Secretly,
he has a crush on his neighbor Amanda, but is so shy, he can't get up
the nerve to ask her out. When his friend recommends him to Dr. P
(played fabulously by Billy Bob in his trademark type role), his life
seems to be finally turning around. However, Dr. P has a secret agenda
up his sleeve.

Billy Bob does a great job in this film, as well as all the other
mostly unknown actors. The story was funny and fun. It's nice to see
comedy films geared towards the "older" crowd. Had a few twists and
turns I didn't see coming. Very enjoyable film! Overall, I give this
film an 8/10.

If you enjoy a good comedy that's not all about fart jokes or satire
(as all "comedies" seem to be these days), check it out! I'm sure you
will enjoy it!
<|_=00=_|>
I was a bit let down by this movie. Hearing that Billy bob thorton and
Jon Heder were in it, (aswell as sarah silverman) I was expecting to
get some quality laughs out of this, but what I got was pretty weak.
Not that movies like this have incredible stories or plots, but this
one was pretty bad, and it moved at an awkward pace to me, that made it
even more unbelievable than the genre usually is, As a fan of this sort
of platform for a comedy, maybe I'm being to hard on it by other
peoples standards, so I don't want to all out not recommend it, but
Don't expect as many laughs as the other Billy bob thorton flicks like
bad santa, it's light comedy. I usually tend to enjoy these comedies a
few times over, but one viewing of this will be enough for me.

5/10
<|_=00=_|>
"School for Scoundrels" tells the well worn story of a pushover who
learns to become more assertive so that he can take charge of his life
and finally get the girl. I didn't realize that the film was a remake
but the fact that I found it hackneyed to begin with gives an idea of
the level of originality we're dealing with here.

The cast contains a number of talented and funny individuals but they
are unfortunately let down by the material. Looking at the cast list
it's difficult to believe that the film is as mediocre as it is. The
script just doesn't deliver the goods comedically and the story's too
unoriginal to grab your attention. The technical aspect is no better
than average either but I must admit that the soundtrack was pretty
nifty.

In the end, I can only recommend this flick if you're absolutely
starved for some comedy. There's little to be had here though those who
don't mind clichéd stories may appreciate it more than I have.
<|_=00=_|>
Went to preview screening last night and was pleasantly amused for the
first hour but then it just went downhill. Jon Heder's performance is
pretty much flat, not bad in any way except that it does nothing to
beyond what was on the page. This is typical of most of the cast who
seem to be engaged in some sort of paint by numbers exercise. Even
Billy Bob Thorton who is well cast as a drill instructor for losers
loses steam. Todd Luiso, best known for the wimpy employee in High
Fidelity is probably the only actor that manages to turn in something
worthy of appreciation. There is an oneupmanship sequence reminiscent
of "Rushmore" but only serves to make one wish they were watching that
instead. Wait till it's in the video store and you have trouble
agreeing what to rent and need something bland.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a comedy of very dark humor which I enjoy. Its not the greatest
but it simply fulfills its purpose of giving a enjoyable moment to the
viewer. The story is convincing. A loser living in New York with a
crappy job, and no self-esteem seeks for help with a man called Dr. P
to win the love of his neighbor Amanda. The cast is really good, Billy
Bob Thornton in a role that fits him like a glove, his performance was
excellent. Jon Heder also with a role that fits him really well, he is
constantly evolving as an actor and a comedian. Michael Clark Duncan
was hilarious, never thought he could be that funny. The brief
appearance from Ben Stiller as Lonnie was really convincing. The
supporting cast like Horatio Sanz, Todd Louiso and Luis Guzmán is a
really good complement.
<|_=00=_|>
Adequately entertaining. Billy Bob Thornton and Jon Heder make mildly
interesting, obviously unmatched adversaries. Talented supporting cast
also supplies some interest, but no character is fully developed.
Michael Clarke Duncan comes the closest, but his hostility, his back
story, his orientation is unexplained and sometimes inexplicable.
Jacinda Barrett plays a nice girl, and does a nice job. Some laughs,
interrupted by huge plot holes. What is Sarah Silverman doing, except
being nasty? 

The premise is funny. Who hasn't felt like "the nice guy who finishes
last", with the exception of people like the self-proclaimed "Doctor
P", Billy Bob Thornton, who teaches the class of the weak and the meek
to become lions. The overall mediocrity of the mess is pretty much
attributable to director Todd Phillips ("Old School", "Starsky and
Hutch"). Wait for the DVD, and rent it for $1.00; don't buy it.
