
I wasn't even one stop light away from my DVD rental store when I
looked at the passenger seat where my two day rental of Snoop Dogg's
Hood of Horror lay and I uttered out loud, "What the fudge was I
thinking?" To caveat my beef before the meat of the review, I will come
clean and say that I am not a hip-hop fan. I might find Snoop Dogg
interesting and sometimes even fun (when I have come across him on late
night television talk shows), but I ain't linin' up at no ticket
counter looking to score wristbands for his next concert if you know
what I am meaning. His acting is a give-or-take option. He was in
horror before with 2001's Bones where he did an ample job of not
putting me to sleep, but let's face it, the best that Snoop has ever
been was in stupid comedies like Soul Plane and Starsky & Hutch, and in
both of those carnations, he pretty much just played himself.

Strike two against an objective review was the fact that Hood of Horror
was the fact that it was an anthology. Squeezing three stories into 84
minutes is like trying to squish a marshmallow through a keyhole.
Eventually it will get through, but you will wonder at end if it was
worth the effort. Like Twilight Zone : The Movie or Creepshow 2, movies
that try and crop multiple television length stories into a compilation
masked as a full length feature.

Strike three was the detailing of the three stories on the back of the
DVD cover. All three stories were about as original as a Lindsey Lohan
drug arrest. I immediately thought, "Why should I invest time in a film
that doesn't look like it invested time in any creative new ideas?" But
there I was. It was Saturday night and the Misses and I just had an
argument over who was the better director between John Carpenter and
Rob Zombie. She decided to pout upstairs and watch The Devil's Rejects
while I retreated to the basement (better known as 'The Dungeon') where
the cover art on Hood of Horror won out over any pay-per-view porn that
would have been a quick option 2.

If I had my life to live over again..

Hood of Horror's first story surrounds a young girl's revenge upon the
neighborhood where her mother and father fell by way of the 'ole murder
suicide number. As young Posie (Daniella Alonso) grew up, it seems her
hatred from her environment nurtured inside her. When confronted with
three street thugs who mark their territory by spray painting city
walls, Posie tries to assert her own foot hold which lands her in the
company of the always watchable Danny Trejo who is nice enough to adorn
her with a tattoo that gives her the power to erase these hoodlums from
the face of the earth in graphic fashion simply by X'ing out their
graffiti with red paint. Booooooooorrrrrring! So in about 14 minutes we
are mildly entertained as they go down 1-2-3 while stupid one-liners
like "What a waste..of beer" are rambled off with as much humor as a
Michael Vick dog park.

Story two didn't get much better. The middle act surrounds an obnoxious
heir to a fortune that must live with his father's army buddies for one
year before reaping the benefits of his inheritance. The story was so
ridiculous and so annoying that I won't even waste my time going into
detail. Even the two one-liners "Anyone for Jiffy Pop" and "That's my
kind of redneck" were comments that would even make Schwarzenegger
blush.

The third and final act seemed to be the shortest and "thank god for
that!" As I swarmed in and out of interested consciousness, it seemed
the story was about a rap artist that had to pay for all his bad deeds
of the past. When a former friend and now undead visitor from Hell
comes back for a visit, the rapper revisits his badness and ultimately
finds his demise in rather boring fashion. Jason Alexander from
Seinfeld fame is around for a cameo which was about as out of place as
Ozzy Osbourne would be as an English Teacher.

Snoop's Hood of Horror was not the worst horror film I have seen in a
while, but it was close. Without any stories worth remembering or
scenes worth pausing, it felt like an 80 minute excuse to promote some
new hip-hop/rap songs. And if the best part of the film is the animated
intro, then you can guess just how downhill and how fast this film
fell.
<|_=00=_|>
Now, I don't want to say this is the worst movie ever, but it's pretty
bad. If it weren't for a couple redeeming qualities, this movie would
be at the very bottom of the barrel.

First of all, if the production value weren't so good, it wouldn't have
even received the one showing it did. The production value is top
notch. If it didn't involve Snoop Dogg, Danny Trejo, Jason Alexander,
and a handful of other cool B-stars, then this movie wouldn't even be
heard of. But it does. There is also one death that I didn't see
coming. The others are terribly executed, no pun intended.

The opening sequence, while cool looking, is ages too long. Snoop is
his usual double g self. "Keepin it real," as it were. Some of the
acting is down right laughable, namely Posie. And at times the director
chooses to use clichéd camera tricks for seemingly no reason, other
than to disorient you in a scareless horror flick.

Intentional laughs, none. Scares, none. Smile worthy cheesy moments, a
couple.

Was it worth paying to see in the theatres? No. Is is worth paying for
to rent? No. But is it worth getting your favorite style of intoxicated
and watching it with a group of friends? Almost.
<|_=00=_|>
Bottom line: This movie is fun as hell to watch. I don't understand
people who expect every movie to be an Oscar performance. This is Snoop
Dogg people. I saw this movie at Horror fest with my girlfriend and we
laughed our asses off. Entertainment is entertainment, and this was an
undeniable good time... And yes, I would see it again

This Movie reminded me of Tales from the Hood and Creep Show. It had
that similar three part layout with the different tales. 

Remember the Crypt Keeper on TFTC back in the day? When he'd yell
"Tales from the Crypt..." in that creepy screetchy voice. I always
thought that was a good intro, and I liked how they kind of morphed
snoop into a crypt keeper. 

BTW - If you haven't seen or heard of the film The Tennants where Snoop
plays a writer opposite Dylan McDermott, I highly recommend it. Snoop
was amazing in it, and Dylan McDermott was unreal as a Jewish writer
hell bent on finishing his script. I found it touching, but it lagged a
little in the middle... anyway that's neither here nor there... back to
Hood of horror...

I also like the Anime intro in this movie. It was intense and visually
stimulating. It definitely wasn't funny, but it trying to be, it was
actually serious, and I thought it stood up on its own dramatically (as
opposed to the rest of the movie which was really just a romp.) I'd
actually like to see the comic book version of that sequence if anyone
knows were to find it, or if they know any other work by that artist.
I'm not really into Anime, but I like the hip hop angle and it moved
well. 

If I do have any gripe about this film it's that I think there should
have been more gore in the third segment. I liked the music and the
flow in the third segment, but it was a little tame on the blood and
guts, which I'm not trying to abdicate, but I think think it might have
worked out better with a bit more gore in that one. It was more
dramatic and touching, but after the first two, I really wanted more
crazy scenes with outrageous random horror. But it was still cool, and
that actor Aries Spiers who does the JZ rapper impersinations on
youtube was actually a descent as an actor in it, which I was surprised
about.

Bottom line is movie was good. I can't stand everyone trying to
evaluate movies in the same way. Some movies are for fun and
entertainment and some are for serious artistic evaluation. This movie
was a 10 on the fun scale, which is all it was supposed to be (unless
I'm wrong and they were actually trying to win some festival awards),
so that being said, me and my girl give it two thumbs up.
<|_=00=_|>
Maybe the best bad movie of 2006. It's an amateurish horror anthology
hosted by Snoop Dogg. The stories are dumb and often nonsensical, but
there's enough amusing stuff to make it worthwhile. Any movie where
Snoop Dogg blows a chihuahua into smithereens or where a gangsta
impales himself on his own forty has to be worth at least something!
The second segment of three (not counting the terribly animated
opening) is by far the most entertaining, where a redneck trust fund
kid, subtly named Tex Jr. and partly modeled after the President
(played by Anson Mount), has to move in with some old black veterans
who served under his father in Vietnam. Mount's performance is as
offensive as anything Stepin Fetchit could ever produce, but it's just
so damn funny. Recognizable actors include Billy Dee Williams (aka
Lando Calrissian), Ernie Hudson (aka Winston Zedmore, the black
Ghostbuster), Danny Trejo (the Columbian knife thrower from Desperado),
Jason Alexander (George from Seinfeld), Aries Spears (a player on MAD
TV) and Lin Shaye (the ugly woman from Kingpin and There's Something
About Mary, and she's a surprisingly attractive older woman in real
life, apparently). If you like bad movies, check it out when it hits
video. If you actually want a watchable urban horror film, check out
Tales from the Hood.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me tell you straight up that if you have issues with rather
low-budget anthology-movies or simply can't stand Snoop Dogg, you just
better stay away from HOOD OF HORROR. I personally think Snoop's always
good for a laugh or two. So, I'm rating this flick solely on
fun-factor, because it's pretty much light-years away from being a
stellar horror-movie.

The first segment has a good-looking ghetto-gal being granted
super-powers by evil voodoo-man Danny Trejo to take on her whole
graffiti-spraying neighborhood. The second one has a yuppie-couple move
in with some Vietnam-vets. The greedy couple has a hidden agenda of
their own, and naturally the two love-birds don't get along very well
with the Vietnam-vets. Third and final segment shows us that the price
of fame always catches up with you, no matter how big a rap-star you
are. And when you've attained wealth and stardom in a rather dubious
manner, you're in for some real 'shiiiit'.

All stories have some very nasty and entertaining blood 'n' gore
effects. Especially the climax of the second segment is pretty
hilarious. The scene (first segment) that proofs sipping on gin & juice
can cause a nasty splitting head-ache is a total hoot! Da Doggster
himself is indeed worth a laugh or two (just watch out for the scene
were he says "Doggy want a bone?" and then "boom!" goes the gun), but
he didn't seem to have had a lot of directing guidelines. I suppose he
must have thought his coolness was all it would take to play the part.
His Cribkeeper character (or whatever it's called in the movie) has a
nice back-ground story, told to us by a slick-looking anime-style
animated wrap-around story. In addition, at the end of the movie, we
get some sort of video-clip (featuring some of the cast members -
including a devil-midget) of a Snoop Dogg song (apparantly especially
written for the soundtrack for HOOD OF HORROR). He's just rapping it up
on some fiery ghetto-set with a lot of demon-babes shaking their T&A.
Pretty dumb song too, by the way, that seems to have been written and
recorded in just one hour. The video-clip itself is of the same
"cinematographic" quality as the rest of the movie (which means:
tolerable and watchable).

Final judgement: No flunk from Da Vomitron, because this flick follows
the rules of an anthology movie nicely (three segments with a nice
twist at the end, which you may or may not see coming and a fun
wrap-around story). The rather low-budget didn't make 'em skimp on the
decent gore-effects. The don't-take-it-all-serious vibe and Da
Doggster's witty nonsense made it all a bit more enjoyable too.

Now if you want to see a really good "horror in the hood" anthology
movie, I full-heartedly recommend TALES FROM THE HOOD. At least Snoop
Dogg's HOOD OF HORROR is a lot better than insufferable crap-fests like
CUTTHROAT ALLEY and DA HIP HOP WITCH (dare I even watch HOOD OF THE
LIVING DEAD? Anyone?), but it still remains just an entertaining
nonsensical time-waster. A fun quickie, if you please.
<|_=00=_|>
Now first things first, I love Snoop as a Rap artist but mostly his
album "Doggystyle" is the quintessential rap album. Now this movie is
terrible in so many ways. The acting is some of the worst I have ever
seen. The directing was worse than a soap opera, and the stories are
pointless and boring. I can see why this went Direct-to-DVD, because it
is that bad. This reminds me of a poor mans "Tales from the Hood."
There is nothing even mildly entertaining about this garbage either! I
don't know why Snoop continues to try and act and produce movies that
couldn't be shown on the Sci-Fi channel at Midnight! How this got made
is beyond me. Please whatever you do, don't waste your time on this
absolute garbage. I would recommend you try watching the above
mentioned "Tales from the Hood" which is ten times more entertaining
than this, and even that isn't that great, but it makes that look like
a masterpiece.
<|_=00=_|>
This incredibly pathetic spin on "Tales from the Crypt" features three
vignettes portraying horrific tales involving life in the ghetto. True,
there are some neat death scenes - namely the one incorporating caviar
- but they hardly make up for the poorly constructed plot. Is this
truly how low Snoop Dogg sinks on the silver screen? The first segment
features a young woman dealing with gangs by X-ing out their
graffiti...and it gets TRULY nasty. The second segment features a
redneck and his hubby moving in with some men formerly under his
father's command and REALLY getting on their nerves. Finally, a rap
star gets more than he bargained for.

What I mean by Jean-Paul Sartre is the third segment. What happens
reminds me of Sartre's play "No Exit", about some people trapped in an
existential Hell. Of course, I don't think that the people behind this
movie intended for it to look like that. To be certain, there's
absolutely nothing even remotely intellectual in this movie.

All in all, I advise avoiding "Hood of Horror". It's barely one step
above terrible. Posie (Daniella Alonso) and Tiffany (Brande Roderick)
were kinda hot, though. Also starring Ernie Hudson (Winston in
"Ghostbusters"), Danny Trejo (you've probably seen him in Robert
Rodriguez's movies) and Lin Shaye (the sunburned neighbor in "There's
Something About Mary", and later the retiring flight attendant in
"Snakes on a Plane").
<|_=00=_|>
Yes it is a hip hop version of Tales from the Crypt, with Snoop Dogg as
the Crypt ... I mean the story teller! You'll get treated to three
different stories here. And they are surprisingly good ... or at least
they don't really suck! 

There are the gross ideas here and there and the clichés have to be
used (it seems), but you'll get a lot of familiar faces (Danny Trejo
and others), that do support the small stories/plots. It's good fun,
the effects are decent, the acting is OK for horror, but it's not top
notch. And the intermissions, are not that good, I would even say they
do divert too much! That means the crypt keeper can rest ... in peace
actually ;o)
<|_=00=_|>
This film contains three interwoven tales from the hood, with Snoop
Dogg (sometimes as an animated gangster and sometimes as a man in hell)
narrating between segments. I use interwoven in the loosest sense
because they really seem to have connection at all. I will discuss each
one briefly.

The first segment was about a woman named Posey who is granted satanic
powers by a homeless man (Danny Trejo) and can kill rival gang members
by simply crossing out their spray tags. It's really stupid. The plot
is weak, Posey's acting is awful. Even Trejo and Billy Dee Williams
cannot save this one. There is a great death scene involving a beer
bottle, but that doesn't make up for the rest of this segment.

The second segment was actually really good. A redneck and his
girlfriend move into a home for retired veterans, with one of them,
Roscoe, being played by Ernie Hudson. Hudson is great, as is the rich
redneck. The deaths here are weaker (other than the explosion scene)
but the plot is much better -- this was written as a real story and not
just a throw-away idea. In fact, it could have been its own movie or at
least an episode of "Masters of Horror". If you only watch this part,
you might find the movie watchable.

The third part was just foolish. Because these are tales from the hood,
of course they took the stereotype route and one man escapes the hood
by rapping. But he becomes haunted by his friends that he left behind
to die. Some of the makeup here is pretty disgusting, which I mean in a
nice way, but the overall story is just an excuse to show a guy in the
studio rapping. If you already have Snoop Dogg in your cast list ,you
don't need to add another man rapping.

I suppose the problem of the film as a whole is that it was written and
directed by different people in different segments. Compare this to
"Creepshow", which is a lot more consistent. The best part -- part two
-- was written by Tim Sullivan, the man behind "2001 Maniacs". It
shows. I may not have been the biggest fan of that film, but Sullivan
knows how to tell a story that horror fans appreciate (and he has some
weird obsession with Confederate sympathizers). The other writers? I
have no idea who they are.

Other reviewers have called this film the "Hood of Horrible", and I
want to jump on that bandwagon. It wasn't well made, it was poorly
written for the most part, and although even some of the worst films
can still be enjoyable, this one just wasn't. The odds of me seeing
this a second time are pretty slim. If you get the chance to see it the
first time, pass up on it and watch James Franco's "The Ape" instead.
<|_=00=_|>
I read the reviews that called this film "Tales From The Crypt" set in
the ghetto. It's more like a bunch of characatures and stereotypes put
to motion picture.

In the opening scene, Snoop Dogg (playing the role of either the devil,
or some demon pimp) tells us that the Hood Of Horror is even too much
for the "toughest OG's" or something like that, but the only scary
thing about the film is that I paid money to rent it.

The first tale features a girl out tagging who looks like she was
living in North Hollywood rather than "the hood". She runs across some
tough OG's... tough if you live in Mayberry. The gang of three (a
latino, a brotha, and a white boy) made me laugh out loud. None of them
look too tough. The latino looks the closest to convincing, but I
couldn't help but picture the character not having boy bands in his CD
collection. The brotha looked too "quarterback jock" to come off as a
ghetto thug, and the white boy couldn't wash Eminem's boxer shorts.

Anyway, the girl is out tagging... she gets caught tagging over the
gansta's wall, and runs for her life after getting threatened at
gunpoint. she runs into Danny Trejo in bad makeup. He gives her a
irezumi style tattoo against her will and tells her she now has a gift.
She then gets to witness the gangsta's who were chasing her just
moments before suffer untimely deaths... The most laughable being the
40 oz. through the mouth. Give me a break. I almost split a rib at that
one.. Then as soon as they are death, their corpse/ghosts come back to
life and kill her. That is, after Danny Trejo in bad makeup takes her
tattoo away for tagging over their names after they die.

The second tale is the most offensive and ridiculous. Its about a
southern white couple who come to the hood. He is a textbook stereotype
"tex", and his bubbly white bimbo wife is about the most annoying
creature I have seen on film in a while. The story is that they (the
couple) are moving into a housing unit that his "daddy" left him in his
will. Daddy had been a COLONEL in the US ARMY, and had presided over an
all-black unit. His dad supposedly was good to the men, and good to
others, but yet his son came up a smack-talking racist. I know that it
can happen, but I had a tough time seeing such an ignorant
stereotypical character be the product of a Colonel in the US ARMY.
Sorry.

Anyway, the dialog becomes so predictable and hokey that it actually
made me a tid-bit uneasy. And the actual unfolding of the story
(although a cool idea: teaching the young racist some honor and respect
by torturing him and his wife to death) winds up being ruined by crappy
writing and a HORRIBLY awful CGI climax. A almost didn't watch the last
installment, but I am glad I did because it was ironically the ONLY one
that is tolerable.

It's about a hip-hop duo that disbands because one of them dies. Only,
the survivor is plagued by not only a strange woman (Lin Shaye)and the
ghost of his dead "partner", but by the notion that OTHERS know what
his role had been in the mysterious murder. It's not enough to save the
film from ridiculousness, but the third story IS the closest thing to
an episode of "Tales From The Crypt" or "Tales From The Darkside" that
this film offers.

Love ya Snoop, but next time, make a hood movie that comes off with
some street cred. -JB
