
I think you're going to see some very mixed reviews for this film. The
tragedy is that it's going to be picked up primarily by fans of
westerns, who are looking for shootouts and plots that can be boiled
down to "good guys" and "bad guys." Do not go into this movie expecting
that.

This is ultimately a revenge story, but not a straightforward or
clean-cut one; in this way I would compare it to "Memento" and "The
Three Burials of Melquiades Estrada".

It's not clear who we're "supposed" to sympathize with at the
beginning. We want to sympathize with the revenge-seeker; but we're
told almost nothing about why he wants revenge. As he displays at least
as many brutal and mercenary traits as anyone else in the film, we
question why we side with him, and realize that we're only inclined to
do so because our previous experience with "revenge" stories has
programmed us to do so.

But the quarry is far from a sympathetic character as well, and we're
torn emotionally on what we want to see happen. That is, until the
original tragedy is finally revealed. And I've honestly never seen such
a well-conceived scene of this type... the tragedy is heart-rending.

I won't say much more except that as the film goes on, the degree to
which it will appeal to fans of literal straightforward westerns
decreases significantly. You see, as the film begins, Carver's pursuit
of Gideon takes them through various isolated episodes: encounters with
various characters. As the film goes on, these encounters become more
and more obscurely surreal; the final such encounter seems almost
supernatural or fantastic. The writer and director have peeled away the
internal reality of the story, and are speaking to us through the form
itself. Not something that your average Western viewer is likely to
accept or appreciate.

Viewers will come to this film expecting a completely realist story;
and that's what they seem to be getting at the beginning of the movie.
The viewer is not prepared for this realism to slowly and obscurely
fall apart - and while that may be the reason that the film creates
such a powerful and somehow creepy experience by the end, the same
factor is likely to leave most viewers feeling robbed.

Ultimately this film is definitely worth watching, but may not have
enduring appeal to lovers of the traditional Western genre. A note
while viewing: pay attention to the theme of loss, and how various
possessions of the characters are lost.
<|_=00=_|>
This is an excellent western - with two great stars that show grit and
go beyond their usual work. The photography is stunning and the story
is meant to make you think - not pander to the usual formulaic plot.
The first 30 minutes will make your hair stand up and the rest will
keep you going - definitely a must see. Pay attention to the cameos at
the end. They have gone about the heads of some reviewers, but really
bring a sense of classical reference to the story. War has been a
societal issue since ancient Greece, and perhaps we have not yet
learned the lessons that need to be learned.

Kudos to the director who has brought together story, talent, and
visual art in one epic piece.
<|_=00=_|>
Written by Abby Everett Jaques and David Von Ancken and directed by Von
Ancken, "Seraphim Falls" is a rough, tough, old-fashioned western set
on the dusty plains and snow-covered mountains of western Nevada. The
plot is little more than a straightforward revenge tale involving Liam
Neeson (sans Southern accent) as a sadistic Rebel army colonel who
hires a posse to track down the marauding Union officer he believes
slaughtered his family in the days following the Civil War. The
officer, played with steely-eyed determination by Pierce Brosnan, is a
savvy, quick-on-the-draw survivalist who, through sheer ingenuity and
skill, stymies and outwits the colonel and his men at every turn.

What "Seraphim Falls" lacks in substance, it more than makes up for in
grit and style. For even though there isn't a great deal of depth to
the characters, there's much pleasure to be derived from merely
watching two actors of the caliber of Neeson and Brosnan squaring off
in a grueling game of cat-and-mouse played out in a punishing,
unforgiving landscape. Brosnan's character achieves an almost
Superman-like quality as he stays one step ahead of his pursuers,
devising ever-more elaborate means of ensnaring them in his traps. The
movie takes a decidedly metaphysical turn in its closing stretches,
with the divine Anjelica Huston, no less, appearing out of nowhere as a
desert apparition to set the boys straight on a few eternal verities
like redemption and forgiveness. But it is as a simple tale of
vengeance and obsession that "Seraphim Falls" most captures our
imagination and interest.
<|_=00=_|>
I rented this film without ever hearing of it before, and was
pleasantly surprised...something which is becoming more and more rare
in my movie renting experience.

This gritty, untypical western appealed to me on a number of different
levels. The unusual casting of Liam Neeson and Pierce Brosnan intrigued
me, their film presence was an enhancement without being a distraction
to the film. The story was complex and minimalist at the same time,
sometimes combining ultra-real and surreal elements. The cinematography
is straightforward and beautiful, and a welcome relief from the jiggly
camera technique, colorization, and other "contemporary" gimmicks that
all too often nowadays cause technique and style to become a major
distraction with the story being told. Thank goodness there are still
directors that believe in having movies being filmed this way!

While the story grabs your attention from the very beginning and moves
quickly, it takes its time in revealing who the characters are, and
what are their motivations and the demons they are dealing with.

If you watch this with a preconceived notion of what a western should
be, a la John Ford, Howard Hawks, etc. you may be disappointed, as some
reviewers here obviously have been. I myself found this intelligent
western - that is a little offbeat, with an element of mystery, and not
always clearly defined bad guys and good guys - a refreshing change of
pace from the racks of slasher film sequels, lame comedies, and
Jennifer Aniston vehicles at the video store.
<|_=00=_|>
I thoroughly enjoyed this movie. It's a hunt movie, in the genre of
Jeremiah Johnson or The Searchers type. Not gripping,then isn't
supposed to be, but contained enough excitement and adventure to keep
me fully engrossed. I thought Pierce Brosnan was excellent, almost
unrecognizable with his beard and make up; poles apart from Bond. He
really looks and plays his character as the quarry very well indeed.
The locations photography, New Mexico and Oregon, are stunning. Liam
Neeson never seems to give a bad performance plays his character well
as the cold hearted, totally obsessed predator, He is well supported by
a bunch of bounty hunters/villains lead by Michael Wincott.
<|_=00=_|>
SERAPHIM FALLS is an odd film, one that on the surface appears to be an
homage to the old Westerns, but proves to be a psychological battle for
survival between two men engulfed in revenge. There is very little
story to relate: Carver (Liam Neeson) with a small posse of bounty
hunters (Michael Wincott, Ed Lauter, John Robinson and Robert Baker)
treks Gideon (Pierce Brosnan) through snow, forests, mountains, rough
water, and desert over a Civil Ear seed of hate. The 'story' fades to a
philosophical stance (somewhat clumsily) by the intervention of some
ghostly creatures (Anjelica Huston, et al) and ends without much more
than a whisper of a memory about the futility of revenge.

Bronson and Neeson do well with their scant dialogue, revealing more of
their character's minds with physical action and the power of facial
expressions. The mood of the film is in the superior hands of
cinematographer John Toll and Harry Gregson-Williams' musical score.
Director David Von Ancken keeps the tension at peak level even though
the film is desperately in need of editing (just under tow long hours
in length). But for a diversion and an appreciation for the wilderness
of America in the mid-nineteenth century, SERAPHIM FALLS is a visually
satisfying experience. Grady Harp
<|_=00=_|>
Liam Neeson as Carver is hunting Gideon (Pierce Brosnan) through the
wilderness of the old west, in this minimalistic western that takes
place a little after the Civil War. Very well acted by all involved,
and I found myself enjoying it quite a lot. At 2 hours, the film hardly
feels it and is seems like a fast watch, never wearing out it's welcome
(although coming close to it around the end due to the cameos of Angela
Huston and Wes Studi, both parts felt forced and didn't jibe with the
film in any way) Aside from that, if you're a fan of the Western genre,
you'll find much to enjoy in this one. It's probably the best we've had
in a good decade or so. To say Writer/ Director Ancken hit his stride
here wouldn't be the right word (I've yet to see his short "Bullet in
the Brain", but hear it's excellent), but it IS the film that really
made me take notice of his talent and I strongly await whatever he has
up his sleeve next.

My Grade: A
<|_=00=_|>
A film of epic dimensions magnificently filmed in the grand Western
tradition, Seraphim Falls combines breathtaking action with fine acting
by Pierce Brosnan and Liam Neeson. Both have taken on roles far from
their usual fare and have achieved a level of performance rarely seen.
Anjelica Huston, in a cameo role, provides the devilish key to this
tale of pursuit and revenge. Director/Screenwriter, David VonAncken,
updates the historical American Western with his spare dialog and
continual action. The glorious scenery of the West adds another
dimension to this full bodied work. Shot in New Mexico and Oregon,
under grueling conditions, Seraphim Falls is a must see for those who
love the Western genre and long for a great story excitingly
transferred to the screen.
<|_=00=_|>
Watched this excellent western on a Sunday morning, not knowing more
about the film that it was a western - a man being hunted by another
and that there was a grudge from the past between them. I always loved
a good western movie, stories are usually kept simple, and so is this
one. That however doesn't keep it from being a brilliant movie,
beautifully shot and with the right cast. Since i didn't know who was
starring, it took me all the way to the end before i realized that the
leading part was played by no other than Pierce Brosnan, who once again
proves to be a top of the line actor who can play a very wide variety
of roles - from James Bond to this. If you ever liked watching a good
western this is a must, all the way up there with the other nine best
western movies of all times!

//Tobey
<|_=00=_|>
With this film you have to take your hat of for Mr. Brosnan he is great
in his acting, This is a movie that will remain as one of the greatest
western films of all times and some sequences of this film will be
remembered for ever I will not tell anything but if you see it(and you
must) you will remember this.

It is beautifully shot and has a solid script, great action and deep
emotions mixed along the way. If you like western you will not be
disappointed.

When you watch Seraphim Falls you will have your emotions mixed as the
movie develops and when the fantastic finale arrives you will be even
more pleased. It has one of the mos original showdown finale I have
ever seen.

This movie is a must see!
