
Poor Terry Gilliam. The visionary director just can't catch a break.
Blessed with one of the most fertile imaginations in modern cinema,
equally renowned as an animator, filmmaker, and iconoclast, he has made
a handful of highly original, single-minded films, most of which are
now considered classics (although it tends to take a few years before
critical revisionism regards his work as such; I bet few recall The
Adventures of Baron Munchhausen was first considered a costly bomb on
par with Heaven's Gate). But of late he has had to suffer a critical
beating for his mainstream-designed The Brothers Grimm, not to mention
the well-documented collapse of The Man Who Killed Don Quixote (why
does the word schadenfreude come to mind?), and more often than not he
is regarded as somewhat of a brilliant madman with integrity to burn,
willing to battle Hollywood at any cost to keep his visions intact.

Now comes his adaptation of Mitch Cullin's Tideland, a category defying
film that is at turns poetic, disgusting, absurd, and darkly funny
(think the languid pacing of Spirit of the Beehive, the fever dream of
Alice in Wonderland, the wry insanity Psycho, and a large dose of
Terence Malik gone insane). In many ways, this is the purest Gilliam
film since Brazil (a film that also borrowed liberally from other
sources while maintaining its own originality), and hearkens back to
the days when auteurs were not only allowed to follow their wildest
muse but were expected to do so. And that, too, presents what will no
doubt be Tideland's greatest failing, as well as its highest
achievement. Cinema has become so cynical in the last twenty years - so
narrow in scope and so entertainment driven - that anything which
requires viewers to experience a motion picture on its own terms is
usually greeted with scorn. These would be very tough times, indeed,
for the likes of a young Fellini, Kubrick, and Lynch. That's not to say
Tideland is a perfectly misunderstood creation, although it should be
pointed out that those who are screaming foul about this film being
pointless, self indulgent, and too weird are likely the very same
people who ridiculed Grimm for being unoriginal, mainstream, and plain.
Yes, there were walkouts at its screenings, gasps of shock, even angry
grumbling. There were also laughs, applause, and continued debates
concerning what the film was really about (how often does that occur
these days after a screening?).

In the end, Tideland will likely please a select group who prefer to
experience cinema rather than opposing it with their own expectations
(there were those who were still talking about it two days following
its premiere, even when they hated it). But for those who are anxiously
wanting Time Bandits 2 or desire some degree of Pythonesque humor,
Tideland will disturb, bore, and profoundly bother to the point of
contempt. Nevertheless, it is a very unique and, at times, incredible
film, infused with at least two amazing performances, beautiful
photography, and one of the most enigmatic endings I've seen in ages.

Hate it or love it, few will be able to deny the lingering, ineffable
vibrations left by this film, or that it stands as further proof that
its director has stayed true to himself. Of course, prepare for the
yin/yang laments to come in spades: Grimm would have been a better film
had Gilliam been left to his own devices; Tideland would have been a
better film had Gilliam not been left to his own devices. Poor Terry
Gilliam; apparently he can do no right even when he does.
<|_=00=_|>
Bizarre. Fantasmagorical. Frightening. A story-book nightmare. 

Who else but Gilliam would give us a view of the inside of "The Dude's"
ribcage?(Well, maybe Lynch)

In Tideland we approach to the edge of what is acceptable to the
average film-goer but I kept wishing we would go over the edge and see
what's there. Others in the audience claimed they wanted to escape to
the lobby. It leaves most viewers uneasy, as if the film is an
unpleasant taste to be rinsed from the mouth. 

Whether or not you like it relies on the individual but what cannot be
denied is that the film floats on the performance of Jodelle Ferland
who plays 8 year old Jeliza-Rose as a modern day Alice though Tideland
seems a far more frightening place than Wonderland. With the aid of her
finger-puppet dolls' heads Ferland essentially inhabits 5 different
roles withing the film. Easily one of the creepiest but most
interesting performance by a child in years. 

Good film? Bad? This hard-to-digest film seems to remain outside of
such judgments. Best to see it for yourself. One thing is guaranteed:
it's an unsettling journey into the realms of the weird.
<|_=00=_|>
After waiting for what seems like half a decade I finally saw Terry
Gilliam's Tideland two days ago. I had first read about the project on
a website, and immediately I knew this was just the right material for
Gilliam. I have been a great fan of his works ever since as a little I
saw The adventures of Baron Munchausen. Although it wasn't until six
years later I found out who Terry Gilliam was. His imagination has
shaped my imagination and with Tideland I feel he has made something
that overlaps with some of the things I have made. O.k. you could say
this isn't Gilliam's imagination at all it's Mr. Mitch Cullin's, but
pooey to you. Of course I bought the book as soon as I knew it was
going to be turned into a film by Captain Chaos. Now, can a film live
up to anyone's expectations after reading the book and waiting for more
than a year? The answer, in this case, is: yes, absolutely.

Tideland has become a dark, whimsical, charming and entrancing film.
Easily his best film since The Fisherking. What distinguishes Tideland
from other Gilliam films is it's subdued storytelling, for a
Gilliam-film that is, there are the usual trademarks: wide angle
photography, madness, silly voices, cages, incredibly filthy teeth, and
a climax that feels like it's falling of the screen right over you. The
first couple of scenes as Jeliza-Rose's life is being turned upside
down are chaotic, frenetic and busy in a style we're familiar with from
this filmmaker, but as Jeliza-Rose adjusts to her life on the plains,
the pace slows down, and the scenes open up. The beautiful
cinematography skews almost every angle and bit by bit Jeliza-Rose's
fantasies start to dominate the screen. The film opens with a quote
from Alice in Wonderland that dominates the entire film: "Alice didn't
know anymore whether she was falling very slowly or falling very deep".
Likewise Jeliza-Rose falls down the rabbit hole (at one point
literally) and we the audience are falling down with her. The whole
story resounds with echoes from Jeliza-Rose's favourite book. The
dominating and scary Dell recalls the Mad hatter and the Queen of
Hearts. Dickens has something of the white knight about him. And there
are some elements that seem to come straight out of the movie Psycho,
this leads to some grotesque imagery that some people will probably
find hard to stomach. There will be some who will call Tideland a
controversial film or a disturbing one, but that has more to do with
those people than the actual film. Certainly Jeliza-Rose gets trapped
in some situations that to an adult seem very dangerous, and there were
moments where I wanted to get up from my seat and be able to take this
little girl and tell her things would be alright. However Jodelle
Ferland and Gilliam have made her a strong and intelligent child and
she does manage on her own. It's the absolute honesty with which she is
portrayed and the innocence that are shocking. As Gilliam has said this
is a film to scare adults not children. I can't remember when I've last
seen a film that so honestly and accurately portrays a child's
imagination and the way it affects her life, and it's laudable that it
doesn't shy away or try to paint a pretty picture, from the more murky
parts of her life and development. The film does manage not to be bleak
though, that is one it's great strengths. In the hands of any other
filmmaker it would have been quite a depressing story, but Gilliam
imbues the whole film with a sense of mystery, charm and fun that makes
the darkness seem more like falling down a strange rabbit hole very
slowly than sinking into bog. This is largely achieved through Jodelle
Ferland's stunning performance, her acting is so natural and
captivating you are immediately won over by her. Janet Macteer plays
the formidable Dell with a touch of tenderness and a streak of wildness
that make her character truly scary. I can't leave out Brendan Fletcher
as his portrayal of the lobotomized epileptic (I won't call him retard)
is so intense and scarily funny that your heart really breaks at the
end.

I for one hope that this film will find an audience and that it will be
a success, as this film is too beautiful to be missed or ignored.
<|_=00=_|>
I was very intrigued by the range of opinions about this film, and I'm
kind of agnostic about Gilliam at the best of times so could have gone
either way. In the event, it seems to me like a very personal,
smallscale and risky film - the kind of thing major directors don't do
often enough.

Gilliam introduced the screening I attended by saying that plenty of
the (invited) audience would hate the film. He also said that its
subject is the resilience of children, in a world where we're
encouraged to treat them as helpless victims most of the time.

I was pretty much enthralled from the opening scene. Jeff Bridges plays
a character who's like the dark side of the Dude. A semicoherent junkie
who's trained his daughter to cook up his heroin shots for him, he'd be
the world's worst parent figure if it wasn't for the mother, a
grotesque Courtney caricature who seems to me to be the only person in
the film Gilliam's unable to summon up any liking for.

Events lead us into the wheatfields of the midwest and the story takes
off into completely unforeseeable territory. There are countless
reference points touched on over the next hour or so, in a very playful
way - everything from Dorothy's farmhouse and her encounters with
witches and brainless tin men, to the dinner table scene in Texas
Chainsaw Massacre, to Psycho, to Jan Svankmeyer and The Bride of
Frankenstein, and in what's either a major theft or a loving homage,
one of the plot points of The Butcher Boy becomes a central event here.

The storyline takes detours into whimsy and the massively grotesque -
there are two scenes here that will stay with me for weeks, one
featuring a sex act in a taxidermist's workshop, the other best left
undescribed - but there seems to me to be a central interest in the way
that kids keep themselves sane through the most extreme circumstances,
through imagination and play, and through projecting their fears onto
made-up characters, that really shows an understanding of the way
children's minds work.

The main character, the kid, is tremendously convincing, funny and - in
the end - heartbreaking. I think this film might just stand with
classics like Voice of the Beehive and Bernard Rose's totally
underrated Paperhouse as one of the great films about solitary children
and their imaginations, and their ability to rise above their fears.
<|_=00=_|>
I have never been so terrorized while watching a movie. The tension in
this film is so greatly created but it makes you want to leap out of
your seat, dash down the aisle, and never think about kissing again. I
felt the need to take a long, hot shower after this film, as it left
almost a pile of dirt on each my shoulders. When coming out of movies,
I can usually express right away the emotional turnout the film
provided but this left me bewildered, stunned, shocked, more
adjectives. The art direction was probably some of the most beautiful
I've seen, but it's hard to appreciate a film when you keep turning
away and groaning in agony at what could happen next. I suggest seeing
the film, as it is masterfully done and quite beautiful, but be
prepared to be repulsed and saddened by all that you see.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a movie that does not rely on SFX to impress the audience. The
storytelling is amazing. 

Without noticing, I was pulled into the fantasy world that this movie
is. Nothing is judged, no good or evil. No clichés, no heroes. Just the
story. Not entirely unlike 'Brazil'. But this movie relies less on a
'weird' future world. Sure, the atmosphere is weird. But not the
surroundings. Little events, happening all the time, make up the world.
It is unclear whether they are happening inside the characters head, or
they are real events. 

Perhaps a bit too much for most American style 'junk food film'
viewers, but I hope some of the 'Hollywood Junk' producers take notice,
and learn.

Too bad this movie didn't show in more theaters. A real 'must see' for
those who loved 'Alice in Wonderland'
<|_=00=_|>
Completely forget any review you read by Richard Roeper, because it's
true crap. Tideland was a brilliant view of a child, living in her very
own fantasy world. She maintains her loneliness by holding
conversations with her 4 doll-head friends, as well as squirrels and
her new friend, a sexually confused brother of a crazed witch lady. The
movie is full of brilliant humor as well as the realism of drug-crazed
parents, mixed with the fantasy world of a little girl's imagination.
This movie was so much more than I had hoped for. Way to go Terry, this
is purely one of your finest. Right up there on the level of Fear and
Loathing. Any critic that gives this film a bad review should seriously
question their competency as a film critic (ahem Roger and Ebert)...
<|_=00=_|>
It's been a week since I watched Tideland, though "watched" is hardly
the best word for such a brain-curdling experience. It's still on my
mind, so it passes my first test of A Great Film.

But what's it all about? "The resilience of a child"? Or is it the
resilience of the child within - if you want to call it that - *my*
child within. The film was testing me, and I have to admit, at first, I
failed. The images resonate so strongly; working with heroin addicts
has amplified things; watching a nine year old girl cooking up a hit
for her father disturbs me, maybe because I know how real it is, all
over the world. It also looks like she's had years of experience.

I'm an adult; and from the first scene, I fear for the child; a feeling
that only intensifies as the story progresses. I actually looked at
time, twice; I just wanted to get to the end right away to make it
stop. I literally couldn't handle it.

It was the scariest film I've seen in a long long while; scarier than
all the masterful Japanese horrors I can think of, scarier than
Hitchcock. My heart spent the whole film in my mouth; which is why, by
the end, I could taste the thing first hand, becoming childlike; and in
those truly triumphant moments, where I am falling, like Alice, deeper
into Jeliza Rose's fantasy; like when I realise she no longer mouths
the doll's words; they have become independent beings (a triumph also
of acting; we will be seeing much more of the amazing Jodelle Ferland,
for sure), or right at the end, where she tells Dickens "I love you",
and BANG! I am falling and don't even notice where I slipped, or how;
over and over again, tumbling into the void. Scary, for an adult.

But everything about the film is so beautiful, and as I am transported
further and further into Jeliza Rose's fantasy world, like swimming
into a beautiful painting, a joyous counterpart to my fear evolves, and
I find myself at once incredibly disturbed, and supremely hopeful; as
if the magic spilling out of this girl; beyond all my Earthly Adult
conceptions of fear and pain and misery; will somehow find a way, even
if I can't.

It's rare a film comes along that can't be faulted, film without flaws,
but here it is, called "Tideland", by Terry Gilliam. Screenplay,
cinematography, acting, directing; for the duration of the movie I was
aware of none of them; disbelief completely and utterly suspended. This
makes it easy to fall under its spell, so be warned; this film could
trouble you.

Looking back this last week, the story just gets better and better in
my mind, the fantasy and reality melding into a most coherent telling
of the inner life of a child, and how she might deal with the most
hellish scenarios that life can throw at a person. A sort of
fantastical transmutation born of innocence, the "place where dreams
are made". I think I want to read the book.

And of the film, I look back and I think, "Did she really pull that
off?", and I'm talking about Jodelle Ferland, who is
*yougottafeggincheckthisout* amazing at every turn, playing not one but
five characters - those Barbie doll heads are quite separate beings,
for starters. She pulls it off, and then some, drawing us into her
dream world with the kind of magic only a young girl can get away with.
If you are an actor, even a gifted actor, watch this at your peril; if
you suffer from jealousy, this is gonna hurt! 

That's not to say that the other players (only four, really) weren't
spectacular; they were; and I could fill paragraphs praising their
inspired, exceptional performances; Dickens, Dell, Noah, even the
ghastly Queen Gunhilda; it's just that Jezlia Rose *is* the film, and
everyone and everything else is rightly secondary to her. And anyway,
it's probably best not to intellectualize acting too much, I think. If
you are an actor, they could all make you jealous! 

If you are a director, too; Gilliam does his best work here, visiting
all his favourite places with a deftness that can only come from big
experience, not just in making films, but in life. The Gods helped, no
doubt. Dare I call it A Masterpiece? Better not; we don't want the
daring Gilliam resting on his laurels! But it IS a masterpiece, and one
that probably only Gilliam could better, if that's even possible. It's
up there, with all the Great Films I've been fortunate enough to have
witnessed. Yes, "witnessed", that's a better word. I was really there,
and you will be too. The sea is real, the submarine too. I know; I was
there.

Tideland is an astonishing piece of work, and one I fully intend to
enjoy on DVD, as soon as possible. At least, next time I won't be so
scared, I'm sure, I'll just take a Big Deep Breath before we begin, sit
back for the ride and enjoy the magical beauty of it, falling, without
snatching at the sides, desperately trying to break my fall, grabbing
at those familiar handles, spilling drawers of "things" all over the
piece. I'll just let go and fall freely, see where I land.

At least, as soon as I can shake the first "witnessing" from my head,
not any time soon, then.

-fm
<|_=00=_|>
Without a doubt, this is Gilliam's strongest vision since Brazil. It's
also a movie that has to be seen on the big screen so don't miss it, if
it comes near you.

People may find it too long, too obscene.. there are moments that are
definitely hard to swallow but hey, that's our problem, not Gilliam's.
Then there are moments of pure joy.

And the ending will leave you shaken to the core. It's surreal and true
at the same time and it encapsulates the whole experience. Didn't read
the book this was based on but from what I've heard, Gilliam is pretty
much spot on.

I really need to see Tideland again soon. I really need this little
vacation.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie wasn't made to entertain with sex, drugs violence and
explosions, it was made to let you experience the world and all these
aspects from another perspective, A child's perspective, the trick is
not to analyze anything in this film but to let it flow and become part
of it, The acting is perfect, and it, the cinematography, music and
locations manage to take you to a place you could never imagine, not
because it is outrages or extreme in anyway. It's simply a step
sideways. Trying to find a meaning to the events in the film is
pointless, as the meaning is right there in front of you.. the reason
you will want to rationalise an event or action is only because you're
not happy with the reason you're given as it doesn't fit into your
vision of how the world should work.

This is a truly beautiful film... if you don't like it the first time
watch it again, if you still don't like it you might as well go and
watch "snakes on a plane"
