
I had been looking forward to Captain America for about a year, and I
decided to make it the first premiere I'd go to all summer. I got a
group of ten friends and showed up hours early with Captain America
merchandise and enough caffeine to stay up through Lord of the Rings in
its entirety.

What happened?

Every single person in my group was disappointed. Needless to say, we
still enjoyed ourselves, and I wasn't even expecting much, (Jumanji and
Jurassic Park III at the top of the director's credentials), but, man,
I couldn't help counting the flaws throughout the film.

Positive: Chris Evans was surprisingly convincing. Also, our hero was
truly inspirational (if not corny). The sets were nice, and the other
stars filled their roles well. I was well entertained, and the first
half flowed nicely.

Negative: Oh, lord. I'll try not to nitpick. Most glaring was the
absolute pathetic villain. Hugo Weaving (a great actor who manages to
give his character some, well, character) plays a downright cheesy,
sappy, crazy, and so un-menacing-its-not-even-funny chum nicknamed Red
Skull. His back story is never laid out and only hinted at a few times,
his followers are faceless drones with advanced weaponry but the brains
and aim of stormtroopers, and his intentions are ridiculously stupid
and unexplainable (his target is "everything"? Oh, please). He was
never threatening and never endangered our hero, not to mention his
death was as anti-climatic as they come (Voldemort, anyone?)

Also obvious is the cliché invincibility of the Captain. He leaps
twenty feet as flames engulf him, he fistfights scores of goons, blows
up crap all over the place, and never once gets seriously injured.
Suspense? Apparently, there's no need when you have patriotism!

The technology was just plain silly for its era. Leaving out the cheesy
blue-shooting things (something to do with the gods? I don't know, it
was kind of weird), there are spycraft, tanks the size of mansions,
helicopters that look like spacecraft, single-person submarines, and
(my personal favorite) manned bombers in the shape of bombs. Are they
suicide bombers? Apparently.

There is no attachment to the characters (anyone blink when his best
friend died?), there are loads of forgettable scenes (notably the war
montage of which the trailer consists, which might have made a good
movie, I might add), and clichés (love interest walks in on random
kiss, etc.) and downright sloppy pacing galore.

I must stop here, but seriously, 8.0? Not even close. Enjoyable fare,
but nothing to think twice about. Here's to hoping Joss Whedon improves
upon Chris Evan's Captain in 2012.
<|_=00=_|>
Joe Johnston has done it again, managing to take what SHOULD be great
action flick material and managed to make it, well, boring.

Don't get me wrong, the film started out quite well. The change from
puny wimp to super hero was well done, as was the intro sequence with
red skull. The whole nazi-mysticism mystique was done very well. But it
seemed that after Joe Johnston filmed these two or three well thought
out portions, the rest of the film was just filler.

I caught myself looking at my watch a few times, just sort of wanting
the movie to end - and this was at the 1/2 point of the film. The
action sequences are fairly average for the most part and I really
never got that "edge of my seat" feeling as the characters faced peril.

All in all, an above-average film which could have been great if
someone with better directing chops had been chosen.

6/10
<|_=00=_|>
Gee, what a waste of money. I was unfortunate enough to catch a viewing
of this, uh, film on its opening night. And I honestly had high
expectations. But, not unlike Thor, it fell very VERY short. 

Here are a few of the problems I had with the movie. 

1. No development. With EVERYTHING. No character development, no plot
development, and no emotional development. 

2. Mediocre acting. Enough said. 

3. It was too over-the-top. And this is coming from a Batman
Begins/Dark Knight fanatic. Red Skull was a seriously lousy villain. He
was more laughable than frightening, especially his cheap looking face. 

4. The plot itself. I was honestly looking forward to seeing Captain
America fight the Nazis, not HYDRA. And the dumb Hydra salute made me
gag. I also wasn't sure what was going on at times. The magical "cube"
(Transformers knockoff?) wasn't settling with me. I expected this to be
more about WWII itself, not some stupid mystical idea that was more
sophomoric and typical than interesting and captivating. 

5. The technology. This was the WWII era. And there were little
reminders everywhere that said, "Hey! It's the 40's!" But then...
Hydra's, uh, "ray guns" for lack of better terminology were somewhat
thrown at us. I didn't like it. And the likely hood that a bunch of
drunks with 40's weaponry could survive such combat. 

6. The romance. Ugh. You can integrate a romantic subplot in a
"superhero" movie and do it well, I've seen it done (Spider-man 2, The
Dark Knight). But this was much too Thor-esque. I'm sorry, let me
specify. You could see the chemistry between Steve and Peggy right
away, but it just kind of sat there until, all of a sudden, love! And,
of course, with romance comes automatic romantic tension. Blonde kisses
Steve. Peggy gets mad/jealous. Wow. Didn't see that coming. 

7. The "theme". Red Skull believing he's so god-like. I liked the idea.
And I figured it would destroy him in the end. Hubris often does. It
simply wasn't explored enough, and it really didn't end him. I was left
wondering whether it was a good idea to introduce it in the first
place. 

8. And so we've arrived at Red Skull's death. This was TERRIBLE
writing, an asinine story component. You know, when you watch a movie
like this, and come to accept that it's mostly just raw superhero
element, you want the HERO to kill the BAD GUY. That's a formula we've
seen from box office hits to Scooby-Doo. But no, this film neglected
even THAT. All Red Skull did was look at and hold the cube, and he
burned. What a let down. 

9. Captain America's sacrifice. Ah, sacrifice worked so well in The
Dark Knight! And it almost worked here. Corny scripting ruined the
moment. After Red Skull's demise, Captain America had to get the
militarized aircraft far away from the USA, so its weapons wouldn't
kill people. So what do you do? Nose dive into the ice caps. Naturally.
Well, I guess it was "his choice". 

10. The ending. Well, it was necessary. And it was okay. I could live
with it. UNTIL Steve chose to utter, "I'll be okay. But I had a date."
or something to that effect. More corny scripting. 

11. Hey, all faults aside, at least we had some good old action to keep
the grin on our faces. Nope. The action was thrown wayside. The taking
down of every Hydra facility was just clips of Captain America shooting
a gun or jumping his motorcycle. That, along with generic and easily
forgettable scoring. 

Only a few funny moments and the fantastic CG "scrawny Steve" got this
to three stars. Please, stop comparing this unexceptional film to
things like Raiders of the Lost Ark or The Dark Knight or any of the
greats. This film was average at best. Marvel Studios is not preparing
well for The Avengers. Based on this and Thor, I certainly am not
stoked for its debut. 

Thanks for reading!
<|_=00=_|>
Like many comic-book fans I was expecting the worst from this movie.
This is not because the character has any less depth than other
super-heroes, but I knew that it would be extremely difficult to
transition Steve Rogers to film in a serviceable way. The guy is called
"Captain America" for heaven's sake.

Any comic-book reader would probably appreciate the ironies and
idiosyncrasies behind such ostentatiously patriotic code-name, mostly
because in print Cap has challenged the assumptions behind his
symbolism, becoming a more conflicted and universal figure.

But its hard to translate any of this idiosyncrasy successfully in 2
hours. Fortunately the film, instead of getting to political, is more
old-fashioned pulp like Indy or "Sky Captain," which thankfully never
takes itself too seriously (which was one of the flaws of "Thor").

I had my doubts that Chris Evans could pull off the modesty and heart
needed for the role, but I was wrong. As the Red Skull, Hugo Weaving
was wonderfully evil in a nostalgic, serial-villain kind of way. Haley
Atwell is a sidekick/love-interest with the rare quality of not being
incredibly annoying, and Tommy Lee Jones is perfectly cast as Tommy Lee
Jones.

The reason I found this to be a good movie was because I enjoyed it,
plain and simple. It's well-photographed and well-acted. Like its
titular hero, it modestly embraced its silliness, creating a charming
B-movie experience.
<|_=00=_|>
I really wanted to like this movie. After all the terrible superhero
movies that have been released lately, I was somehow hoping that
"Captain America" would be different. It wasn't.

I liked the idea of the idealistic but physically weak protagonist who
was impossibly patriotic, but beyond that the movie completely fails. I
have never understood why superhero movies always feel the need to go
completely over the top with outrageous super-villains. In this film
Hugo Weaving plays Red Skull. The Red Skull mask looks like something a
kid would wear for Halloween...it's that cheesy. Red Skull is
apparently possessed with powers similar to Captain America, but also
has at his disposal an army of minions with very advanced (and largely
unexplained) technology weapons. Yet, these laser beam style weapons
seem to do nothing for them.

I guess I don't get it. Would it not have been enough for Captain
America to simply be involved in fighting the Nazi juggernaut portrayed
in a fashion similar to what history recorded? Wouldn't the Nazis be
adequate villains for anyone? If I seem to be dwelling on this issue,
it is because for me the silly, cheesy "bad guys" really ruined this
movie.

The movie also fails because it is obvious from the beginning that
Captain America is basically invulnerable. It is very clear early on
that nothing is going to happen to him. I was under the impression that
his "powers" consisted of nothing more than being extremely strong and
athletic, yet his antics in the movie remind one more of Superman.
Captain America's shield certainly cannot shield everything, yet the
protagonist is apparently completely immune to the effects of gunfire
and laser blasts. Yawn. Even Superman had his kryptonite....

I imagine the superhero formula is more difficult to pull off than it
might appear, and this movie fails yet again. It is largely silly and
boring.

I would recommend that you skip it.
<|_=00=_|>
Captain America: The First Avenger is a pretty decent film by its own
merits. Showing the good old retro style and production design, since
this film is directed by Joe Johnson who is capable of portraying the
old times perfectly. Chris Evans did a great job as Captain America.
Some of the action scenes are disappointingly unexciting but at least
the CGI effects are eye candy. The movie ends with true patriotic
heroism and full of heart. Definitely not new but it's still enjoyable.

The trope of Captain America: The First Avenger has been reused by so
many superhero movies. A good guy who is a weakling became powerful
then eventually saves the day. It's definitely not innovating even for
the people who've never read the comics but it's a relic. Well made
production design & the old fashion score. Most battle scenes are
montages. The action scenes are large. It can be watchable but some of
them are pretty bland and poorly directed.

The joys and the thrills mostly goes to the performances. Nothing goes
wrong with Chris Evans. He did a decent job as Steve Rogers/Captain
America. Hugo Weaving is fun to watch by his campiness and menace for
the Red Skull. Tommy Lee Jones is the comic relief here. The special
effects are everywhere. Skinny Chris Evans and the background of the
1940s. Well, they are good enough for this film.

Plenty of things worked in the end. Captain America: The First Avenger
is a relic in its old fashion style but a little messy when it comes to
the editing of the action scenes, but it's still enjoyable. Patriotic
heroism, full of heart, Chris Evans, and decent production design.
Marvel Studios and Joe Johnston really beats the awful 1990s version.
The action could have been better but their flaws can be ignored. It's
fun enough as a superhero movie.
<|_=00=_|>
With the imminent "Avengers" movie coming next year, only one hero's
origin story remains untolduntil now. Falling in line with "Thor,"
"Iron Man," and "The Incredible Hulk," "Captain America" showcases the
rise of Steve Rogers as the title character. Unlike the other films,
which take place in modern times, this one goes way back to WWII,
showing the Captain kicking Nazi butt! With a lot of "Wolfenstein"
style occult mystique and a slight "Indiana Jones" sense of adventure,
this movie has a number of solid action sequences, and plenty of
imaginative special effects and setpieces. With its references to
various characters and concepts of other Mavel movies, it fits into the
franchise really well. It might take some stretch of the imagination to
believe that Nazis could be this futuristic, but for a superhero movie,
it's all good fun.

The story in this case is pretty solid. The main character shows strong
development, and for most of the movie, you really root for him.
There's nothing more thrilling than watching the underdog getting the
upper hand. As it goes on, much of the character drama and story
development gets pushed aside by the action, but it still works. By the
end, voila, we have the lead-in for the "Avengers" film.

If there's any complaint for this film, it's that there could have been
more. Whether it needs a stronger action setpiece or a more invoking
sense of drama, I'm not sure, but something seems missing, and nothing
really makes this film stand over any of the other superhero films that
have come out so far.

The film is competently made, with decent (but never exceptional)
photography. Editing is good for the most part, but I am not a fan of
the montage in the middle of the film that makes the entire war
campaign whiz by. A couple of action scenes seemed a little
sloppily-edited, but it's hardly noticeable. Acting is swell; Chris
Evans is surprisingly strong as the main character, and I enjoyed
Hayley Atwell, Sebastian Stan, Tommy Lee Jones, Stanley Tucci, and Hugo
Weaving in their roles. Writing seems pretty good. Production value is
high, featuring lots of good (if not overly-slick) sets, props,
costumes and special effects. Music is appropriately upbeat and
adventurous. In the end, I'd say the film met my expectations, but
never fully exceeded them. But it, along with an all-too-short sneak
preview after the credits, provide the necessary bridge to the
"Avengers" film.

Recommended.

4/5 (entertainment: 4/5, story: 4/5, film: 4/5)
<|_=00=_|>
I didn't get what the fuss is all about until i saw the movie and
realised it's a feel good movie for Americans then why bother releasing
it in other countries . If ever there was a comic book movie not
supposed to release outside u.s. it's this movie , a man covered in
stripes branded with stars looking like an American clown fighting with
dozens of Nazis,oh sorry hydra-what?,exactly . Overall this movie had
no good action sequences to speak of , an almost forgettable climax ,
all our hero does is throw an olympic discus provided by howard stark
and almost always looks like an average superhero with nothing
special,either in charisma(contrary to batman) or powers(contrary to
almost every other superhero). I left the movie halfway through ,
intolerable to say the least .
<|_=00=_|>
Captain America is a very very good film. I firmly believe that this
character is the very toughest to bring to life in the Marvel stable
simply because of his complexity. They did a fairly nice job keeping it
simple but remembering to do so with heart. The film features a nice
pace, the perfect cast and wonderful throwback action sequences. It
does have its flaws but not enough to sink the film by any means.
Overall, it's a fun ride that respectfully delivers a movie worthy of
the legend and sets up for what could be amazing sequels and what will
be an awesome Avengers film.

The Good 

The cast is remarkable and every single character played to perfection. 

Tommy Lee Jones simply stole every scene he was in and his character
had the audience in the palm of his hand. Best audience reactions
throughout the entire film.

Cap's wartime real costume, look and shield work is amazing. It's right
out of the books. The same can be said of the Red Skull's look.

The brutality was not only welcome but needed. It grounded the film and
made everything play out in a more real world tone with real
consequences. The body count in this film is surprisingly high.

The film had true heart because they made Steve relatable and you
instantly rooted for him and wanted to follow his path to glory. The
pre-serum 98lb weakling Steve is not only an amazing CGI feat but
perfectly hooks the audience.

A story featuring a true hero is so refreshing at this point. No dark
brooding and moody anti-hero here

The story itself is told with a very nice pace and in a crisp manner.
Nothing drags at all. 

The dialogue is witty and the humor works its way seamlessly in to the
natural order of the story. 

The tone and period work is dead on perfect. I loved the flavor of this
film when the focus was not on anything Hydra.

The Bad 

I really wish they had stayed entirely Nazi and left the Hydra element
out, laser guns and all. 

Having no "learning curve" hurt the overall film as well. What always
works in origin films is having the hero learn and come to grips with
his new powers or abilities. Iron Man and Spider-Man are prime perfect
examples. I enjoyed Steve's initial use of powers because circumstances
demanded it but they never showed him training or learning combat
techniques at all. That's a terrible oversight, especially since the
character is known as the world's greatest hand to hand fighter in
terms of the Marvel Universe. 

I would've liked to have seen more background on Steve as a
character... growing up without a father and mother during the
Depression era and the building of his ethical and moral code. 

Overall: A great film that is one of the year's best and oh so close to
being perfection. Wonderful job by all involved.
<|_=00=_|>
OK just got off the movie theater and came out a little more
disappointed than usual. As it is, the trailer that came out showed
already that it was going to just be "another" superhero movie. Mainly
the scene where CA first holds the shield and we have of course the
"always in every movie" hot girl, shooting at CA and he says a dumb
comment. Crap. Pure crap. To brake this down easily, the movie has
clichés that are to be expected. Example, when CA finally meets Red
Skull, RS had the opportunity to shoot him. After his dumb dialogue
with CA, he was ABOUT to shoot then of course CA back-up team come
flying through the window and help save the day. Or another scene where
they inject the serum in CA and then he transforms. What happens there
is a NAZI spy who sees the whole thing and jacks the serum and SOMEHOW
he is able run out the building but oh lone and behold we have just out
of the box CA running after him and gets him. I don't know, these type
of movies are getting boring. Yeah effects were okay, but its nothing
were I was "floored" with. Probably the ending was the best part
*SPOILERS* when CA wakes in the modern world of today. Which leads up
to the Avengers trailer (which also had dumb humor mainly with Tony
Stark. You'de think after all these years in investing for all these
movies they would show a bad-@ss trailer, but it turns out to be
"another" superhero movie trailer- just with more superheroes). Don't
waste your money unless you have nothing to do and your gullible
friends make you watch it because it is a "great" movie. Blah.
