
I wanted to like Wonder Woman, but I just can't get aboard the hype
train. It's really the same as every other cartoonish, overblown
comic-book action movie, except with a female protagonist.

Actually, this is worse than the average comic book movie, because it
preaches to the audience about pacifism but then hypocritically
celebrates "heroic" violence. In other words: Wonder Woman is an
alleged pacifist who kills a bunch of people. Wonder Woman is also an
alleged feminist, who allows Steve Trevor to drive the entire plot and
basically steal the movie from her. Really, this thing is about as
progressive as Dick Cheney's great-great grandfather.

I could forgive Wonder Woman's flimsy social commentary, if it were any
good in other respects. But the plot is loose and shabby, the CGI is
poor, and about half the scenes were shot in front of a green screen.
Sometimes, I couldn't tell if I was watching a real movie, or Patty
Jenkins playing God of War on her Playstation 2. (When exactly did
cinema and video games blend into this horrible hybrid art form, which
has none of the beauty and charm of old-school cinema?)

And don't get me started on the villains. The World War I era Germans
are depicted as cartoonishly eeeevil, while the same era's British
Empire is held up as a heroic ideal. Meanwhile, the main villain is a
nightmare of bad CGI, who looks like he belongs on a 1980s heavy metal
album cover. Naturally, they got a wonderful actor for this stupid part
and wasted him entirely.

Perhaps I'm going overboard on criticisms, but we need some balance to
the rapturous praise this film has received. Movie fans often accuse
professional critics of being too harsh, but lately, I think critics
have actually become too lenient. Mainstream movies get dumber, louder
and tackier all the time, and they are increasingly substituting
mawkishness for real emotion and character development. And yet the
critics have given this thing a great Rotten Tomatoes rating! I guess
we've all lowered our standards to rock bottom?
<|_=00=_|>
Zack Snyder strikes again. He wrote the script. It shows!

No character development - this is an origin story. I wanted to see how
Diana becomes Wonder woman, what experiences shape her on her journey,
is she ever at conflict with her values? There is no single incident
that actually affects or moulds her in anyway. Diana is essentially WW
at the beginning of the movie. She does not grow into or earn this
role. Nothing shapes or impacts her after she is WW either. She falls
in love but would she have been a different WW otherwise? NO! 

In Iron Man, it took 2/3 of the movie, failures and multiple
iterations, for Tony Stark to become Iron Man. His experience in the
cave and learning that his weapons are used by terrorists, deeply
impact and change him. Spider-man has to live with the guilt of his
uncle's death, learn to use his powers, understand the balance of power
and responsibility. Thor is born with all the power but it takes a
whole movie for him to learn what it means to be a hero. Captain
America has to become a leader and earn everyone's respect. Batman,
Doctor Strange... there are so many examples of origin stories. The
self discovery and growth are not implied, they are core and intrinsic
to the story. WW does not have this core - she has an objective which
is entirely different. For this reason alone, this movie is an epic
fail in my book.

Themyscira: I just hated this in its entirety 

- Weird accent. Gal Gadot couldn't fake an American accent, so they had
everyone else try to talk like her. 

- Young Diana. The primary purpose is to elicit a 'cho chweet'
response. She is a demi-god. There is no self discovery... why is she
different, stronger than everyone else; how does that affect her? 

- The 'train her, don't train her' non-issue. Diana gets combat trained
despite her mother (and Queen!) not consenting. The arising conflict
should have taken more than 2 lines of dialogue to be resolved. This
would have also impacted Diana, her mother didn't want her to learn
combat and suddenly wants her to be the best. Why? This is a page right
out of Zack Snyder's Martha handbook of resolving issues.

- Fighting. The creative decision was that Amazonians don't fight, they
ballet. Every jump, swing from a rope, shooting an arrow, getting off a
horse is a dance move. It just looked ridiculous.

Strike a pose: WW literally poses in each and every shot. She has her
shoulders pushed back like she is trying to make her shoulder blades
meet. It looks unnatural and odd. The poses are the exact same as in
BvS. There is...wrists crossed in front of the face, crouching behind
the shield, standing in a wide stance and the jumping pose with one
knee bent. And they are shot exactly the same as in BvS. They probably
just reused clips. They are not poses in the middle of a range of
movements. It's pose, pause for 5 secs, next pose, pause for 5, repeat.

Humour: This is not comic relief. They dedicated a continuous 15-20 min
segment and it all stems from the cultural differences between the
Amazonians and us. The bath scene, sleeping in the boat, the secretary,
the clothes trials... all stems from the same issue. It's the same
material stretched for 15 mins and frankly gets tiresome.

Villain: In a weak attempt to create twist, the villain is introduced
late in the film. There is no time to associate with the character. The
villain exists simply as someone to be fought.

Final battle: Visually, this sequence is identical to the doomsday
fight in BvS. If someone mashes these 2 scenes up, it will be hard to
differentiate one from the other.

The McGuffin: There is no reason given why WW goes into hiding. What is
the entire deal with the photograph and the secrecy? There's so much
focus on this but it's not resolved.

Gol Gadot: O!M!G! Could there possibly be a better WW? But she's posing
and grunting though the entire movie. Very off putting. Her acting
skills fluctuate quite a bit too. Perhaps since her character also
fluctuates. WW goes from being head strong, doing what SHE wants, to
naive and easily persuaded, to emotionally distraught by the horrors of
war, to a super hero that's reckless. BTW since she has no clue of the
real world, how does she know if she's fighting on the right side? Also
considering Amazonians are warriors, for whom battle training is the
only form of recreation, why is she horrified by war?

Fight Choreography: Other than the training sequence, the choreography
is a close second if not at par with the fights in Captain America 2
but the slow motion ruins it completely. It's not used to accentuate
the fight, every punch goes in to slo-mo. If! everything! is!
accentuated! nothing! stands! out! This coupled with the grunting just
spoils each fight.

Chris Pine: The best thing in the movie by a mile. His is the only
character given some depth and Chris Pine did justice to the role.

I understand the cultural, social and contemporary significance of this
movie. But that is not reason enough for me to love it. I feel it
completely failed to live up to the hype, even though reviews and box
office prove contrary. But there may be a silver lining here. All the
hype shows the love for WW and how long overdue the movie really is.
I'm hoping they are going to make another one soon and I hope it's
going to be far better. Isn't that what a superhero movie is
about...hope?
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, this movie only made money because it's a superhero
movie. Everyone likes superheroes and there is no way a parent is not
going to take their children to see it. Look at Transformers. Most of
the movies are downright idiotic but it still makes money because
it's.....Transformers. So all popular comic book hero movies will make
money period. 

I can't make sense of the movie and I really don't think the writers
knew either. Her morales flip flop, the bad guy has no real reason to
be "bad", the good guy has no real reason to "die." The side characters
really didn't serve much of a purpose.

Some parts of the movie are decent and a few seconds later, the same
scene turn into a total crapfest. The 3rd part is an utter mess and
that act alone should be more then enough reason to keep WW off the top
of the charts but somehow has a 94% rating on RT? That right there
shows you that ratings are padded because you can't have at least 1/3
of a movie be total trash, 1/3 of the movie just corny dialog and
somehow end up at the top of the charts.
<|_=00=_|>
~~~spoilers in tilde~~~

The following is a (paraphrased) conversation between a supporting and
main character in the middle of final battle scene. Mind you, there is
absolutely no lead-up to the revelation that follows. "We need to stop
the bombing plane!" "Let's blow it up!" "We can't. It'll kill everyone
if it's on the ground" "I'll fly it far away from everyone then!" "Okay
but the bomb is on a timer"

At this point, some words manifested themselves in my brain. Words like
"forced drama" and "asspull". I turned my palm upright and
apathetically stated, "Seriously?". 

My head turned to the moviegoers around me, expecting groans or eyes
rolling, but saw naught but zombie-like blank stares. I gave them the
benefit of the doubt and assumed they turned off their brains in
attempt to salvage as much enjoyment as possible out of the $11.50 and
two hours of their life they had lost. But alas coming here and seeing
mostly rave reviews and ratings have proved my faith in humanity to be
misplaced.

---

Wonder Woman 2017 is (or is supposed to be) a story of a naive but
strong woman who discovers that humanity is not as black-and-white as a
comic book is. She must journey to understand this trope and learn to
use her strength to bring out the best in people. The movie begins with
the titular character in her "naive" phase in a village isolated from a
world in conflict. 

About 15 minutes into this and the movie has already betrayed its own
narrative. To begin, there is no sense of ease. Not a single joke, not
a playful moment, nothing. It's all character conflict, hints of future
conflict, or expository world building (tell-don't-show instead of
show- don't-tell). This is NOT how you convey naivety. The potential
for character development is ruined within these first 15 minutes. 

In phase 2, the violence of the outside world stumbles upon paradise.
Except it's not a paradise because we've only ever seen people arguing
with each other. What could have been an exciting "awakening" moment
instead falls flat. 

Enter male MC. Almost immediately he steals the title with some
innocent and light-hearted moments. The beginning looks even worse in
comparison because now he's the naive one. What follows are poor
attempts at chemistry between the innocent-but-not-really-innocent
Wonder Woman (gadot) and the true star of the show (Pine). 

Skipping ahead a lot, a ragtag team of misfits is formed who generally
don't get enough screen-time to develop or be explored. One is a guy
who sees ghosts and this point is never mentioned again. In the middle
is the only scene with any emotional weight where gadot charges an
enemy trench ending years of stalemate. As expected of the horrible
script however, the moment overstays its welcome. It moves right into
an attack on a town without any pause to punctuate the significance of
the scene. 

Skipping ahead again, there's more bad pacing and scenes without
emotional impact. The ending is particularly terrible. ~~~The "big bad"
who had been hyped throughout some scattered scenes is defeated
effortlessly. As referenced in the beginning, Pine is the person who
sacrifices himself in the end for the sake of a dumb plot-point.
Naturally, you can't have a character better than the titular character
surviving the franchise.~~~ A random supporting character is introduced
as the true villain and some CGI magic occurs instead of some visceral
man vs woman combat.

Overall, almost everything was bad.

The plot was terrible: twists or conflicts happen with little-to-no
buildup.

The directing was terrible: scenes are poorly timed and paced.

Gadot is terrible. Of the few negative reviews here, most criticize her
horrible uninspired performance, which is true, but then again how
could anyone perform such a bad character? Pine is actually interesting
~~~but is killed unremarkably because he is too interesting. I wonder
if the writers realized this. Why didn't they fix it if they did? ~~~.

The action was bad: while I don't really mind obvious CG anymore, there
was a complete absence of visceral "human" fights that DC have had in
the past, like when Bane is savagely brutalizing Batman with his fists
and there's no orchestral accompaniment or CGI to be found. Maybe it
would have looked weird with a lanky gadot beating down or getting beat
by a villain. Then again you could have just got rid of her and gotten
a better woman. In fact just get rid of everyone except Pine while
you're at it.

Final rating: 3/10

*Note: I felt compelled to rate as a 1/10 to offset the fake reviews
(by shills perhaps? Or maybe Idiocracy is becoming a documentary).
<|_=00=_|>
I'm definitely the minority here, but I can't get over the fact that
this film is rated higher than films like Enter the Void, Moonlight,
The Kings Speech, Spotlight and sooo many other much better films. The
critics took the money on this one and ran. 

To me, this film was cheesy, campy, and completely missed the mark. The
ridiculous costume that is clearly symbolic for America ( there's
clearly a fuc*ing gold eagle on her chest and it's red white and blue),
yet she hails from Greece and calls herself an Amazonian God - WTF?!!
AMAZONIAN!?!?!? I was so confused. Then, there is an American who is a
British Spy (huh?) Most of the German Nazis speak with British accents
and she can deflect bullets yet she loses her hearing to explosions....
I'm sorry, but I just could not get past this to enjoy the film. As an
origin story, it's completely ludicrous. Maybe it worked back when the
comic was written, but today it just comes off as a desperate attempt
to pry the money from people that want to be viewed as politically
correct. If you study film and take movies seriously, you should avoid
a visit to the theater for this one. Watch it at home for free and make
your own opinion, but I can see this media-con being laughable in 20
years.
<|_=00=_|>
I guess all the really bad Germans have been exhaustively & now
boringly used up one to many times,beat dragged & tortured in the
previous thousand turkey shoot WW2 movies from the Longest Day to
Inglourious Basterds ... maybe having an Israeli IDF glamour girl
pummel the last surviving movie Nazis seems rather unsportsmanlike.

So now we have fresh meat Germans from WW1 that just aren't as Kosher
as the WW2 bad-ass Nazi robotrons . It just doesn't come across as the
good fight,IDF Wonder Woman against the exhausted muddy trench fighting
& dying Germans of the Kaiser's Army. Wonder Woman defending the huge
British Imperialist Empire against the upstart smaller German
Imperialist Empire. What Empire should I root for?

So duel citizenship Wonder Woman kicks Kaiser Sheev Palpatine Admirals
right of the bridge off the first Allegiance-class Star Destroyer she
crosses paths with...ops, wrong universe ... kicking Kaisers Wilhelm's
poison gas snorting quasi-Nazis off the bridge of the nearest Zeppelin
so the smaller Axis of Evil Ottoman Empire can be carved up & the
righteous State of Israel formed on the back of the defeated Turkish
subjects thanks to Wonder Woman!

Well...basically that is the historical time-line.

Hollywood writers wet dream rewrite of history since they now have
picked clean the dried carcass of WW2 & can finally move on,but the
sidekick American Hero going futuristic suicidal jihadi just doesn't
bode well for gentlemanly slaughter of 1914. Lawrence of Arabia versus
Wonder Woman might be in the works with smart-ass Shia LaBeouf as
Captain Lawrence.

Maybe I'm reading to much in this generic CGI feast on the eyes.but I
have to as this endless stream of Marvel/DC comic green screen movies
are blurring into each other .Now the original corny T.V Carter always
seemed like an awkward top heavy super hero gal but Gal Gadot comes
across as a sweaty Stairmaster extra & just as talented as a 10lb
Dumbbell.
<|_=00=_|>
I was SO excited to see this movie and thirty minutes in I was.........
BORED! And there was another 110 minutes left! The acting was not great
and accents seemed to change every few lines for every character. It
seemed like Gal Gadot was constantly posing for a photo shoot instead
of acting - I think I caught "Blue Steel" face a few times. Gal is
gorgeous but I did not get Amazonia princess from her - could they not
have found an actress with muscle? Felicity Jones in Rogue One was more
Wonder Woman! Of course the movie had to throw in the bits about being
beautiful AND smart - but not too smart because a man had to explain
snow and she was not so Amazonian that she didn't like looking drop
dead gorgeous for the guys. Nope, no Wonder Woman here - just another
Hollywood "preach it" to the public movie only this time the super hero
is thin, scantily glad, super duper smartish/childish, and
condescending.
<|_=00=_|>
Warning! Slight spoiler alert if you are going to watch the movie.
Personally, i thought this movie was ridiculous. The entire movie was
only tons and tons of filler with nothing interesting except for the
three fight scenes, which were all ridiculous. Wonder Woman is to me
just a ripoff of Captain America. The whole world war setting, the
shield which can deflect bullets and mortar rounds, and how she can
just dodge and see bullets coming, was pulled straight from Captain
America. As a woman, i am an active feminist and i was glad they
finally made a movie where women star in acting and directing roles.
However, to me this movie falls just ahead of Catwoman in ratings.
Don't waste your time and money with this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw Wonder Woman yesterday... quite frankly it's actually really bad.
Story line all over shop, character development, all over the shop,
main Charakter Wonder Woman stumbles through the movie like a naive 16
year old imbecile, she's a goddess for crying out loud, the logic for
not telling her who she really is, screwed up and all over the shop.
The way she kills Ares in the end, could have been achieved by telling
her who she really was from the get go and a full 2hrs earlier,
granted, it would have been a short movie but better. I'm not even
getting into the feminism part of it. 

In Greek mythology Amazons were mainly concerned with war and were
rather brutal. To be expected if they were the supposed children of
Harmonia and Ares. Yet in the movie they are portrait as peace loving,
just, fair, superior beings to all mankind. But also especially
superior to men who are essential for procreation and useless
otherwise, really?!

It wouldn't have hurt if "Wonder Woman" would have hit the gym before
filming commenced. But I guess if your main character believes that
love is the ultimate answer to all of mankind problems, there's no need
for that either. The rainbows one can vomit, lightning actually in this
case, with all that fuzzy love feeling are blinding your opponents into
oblivion, which she kinda did... there you go... The women training her
in the movie looked fitter and in better shape than Gal Gadot despite
being twice her age, at least in the movie. All this seemed like a bad
parody of Thor and captain America, without the humour, without a plot,
and atrociously bad acting from an otherwise good cast. 

So all this really is, a quick money maker with main selling point:
"Female Lead" 

I am all for women kicking ass, in movies as a well as real life, here
however, to me, it's all to artificial and contrived. 

For example, in iron man one can believe the change Stark is going
through, for one, out of necessity,shrapnel in his chest, for the other
he decided to use his wealth for the good because he actually sees what
his weapons are causing. 

Captain America, he's full of idealistic "Americaness" alright but is
cool, most important the character does not come across as naive. WW
did not need to be so clueless. As far as the plot goes she's naive
because she was sheltered from the world, fine, but yet she had access
to literature about how Humans procreate but not about how the world
outside her realm operates? And the character seemed to struggle almost
seems to resist to accept the reality she finds herself in. Whereas
good old captain America, after 70 years of sleep, just keeps kicking
ass. 

Her character development seems awkwardly written. To me, the biggest
disservice to the movie. Overall the movie also felt sadly
discombobulated. And then there is the WWI one setting... no one is
expecting historic accuracy here, however, to try to glorify or find
good in something that was so absolute and inherently not good. More
specific to bring in the gas, as was used in WWI on a massive scale for
the first time in modern warfare on top WWI having been a downright
horror show in recent human history, dunno mate, it's bound to fail in
a movie like that.

Marvel also incorporated WWII in Capo America, but didn't even try to
bring in the concentration camps for example, it would have opened a
can of worms the audience wouldn't have bought and it's not what
captain America was about. Also the narrative flow is way better with
Marvel I find.
<|_=00=_|>
OK Wonder Woman review time ***Spoilers ahead***

The first half of the movie was sooooo slow I had to literally hold my
eyes open to prevent me from falling asleep so im not gonna talk about
it. Now correct me if im wrong but this was billed as a "summer action
movie" correct? Well when its 2:10 mins and only about 15-20 mins is
actual action I have a problem with that. Don't get me wrong when she
was all kickin ass and whatnot it was awesome and I dug that part a
lot, thats why its saddening to me there was so little. Also on the
plus side the chemistry with her and Steve was good ... so of course he
dies lol. (sidenote he would have made a good Green Lantern with the
chemistry they showed) On the down side, once again a very slow movie
till the bunker scene (which was bad ass) and then nothing again till
the final fight which again there was no real Villain presence till the
last 10 mins and even then she spent half of that time fighting
mustache man Ares and not God of war Ares and as we all know for me the
villain makes the movie. I give it a 3/10 its not bad like Ghost
Rider/Fantastic Four bad its just not what I expected or hoped for at
all.
