
*** Warning *** Spoilers *** For such a short film, this managed to
cram in every senseless cliché of the so-called horror genre. '...Girl
runs from bad guys, girl trips, girls falls and hurts herself, girl
whimpers, duh...' No character development, no depth, no sympathy for
the characters. '... bad guys are harassing your house and threatening
you, so OF COURSE you get hysterical, cry, and seek out every spooky
noise...' So bad guys are hacking at your front door with an ax, you've
got a loaded shotgun in your hand, but you don't shoot, you throw a
chair at the door, Oh Wait, I've got a gun! But by the time you think
to shoot the bad guys are gone. So your under attack from bad guys and
it's just you, your girlfriend, and a loaded shotgun, so instead of
hunkering down and letting them come to you to get shot, you leave your
girlfriend alone in the un-secured house while you wander off to the
tool shed to find and old ham radio. Sure, makes sense. So you go visit
your friends and someone shoots out your windshield, do you: A- drive
off fast and call 911, B- call 911 then run in the house to check on
your friends, or C- dust yourself off, sneak into the house quietly,
without ever bothering to wonder why your friend's car is wrecked,
who's pickup truck that is, why the house is trashed, don't bother
turning off the loud stereo, or calling out your friends' names, in
fact don't even bother to look behind you to see if maybe the people
who shot out your windshield are still around. That's right - C
!?!Everyone who died in this movie deserved to die for being such
mindless, spineless, insipid, whimpering idiots. Maybe if you've never
seen a movie before, ever, or if you've had recent head trauma, or
maybe if you're Amish this movie might scare you. Maybe. Don't waste
your time or money.

REVISION::: it's now Sunday 6/1. I originally posted the above comment
after an advance screening of this movie late-night on thursday 5/29
(because I work at a movie theater I get to see all the movies before
they're released.) So I've noticed something peculiar... there are, as
of now, about 8 pages of comments on this film. About 3 pages of
comments before mine (meaning before the movie came out) all gave The
Strangers 9 or 10 stars, glowing reviews, and taglines like "best
horror movie ever," "scariest film ever," and "awesome." But then, if
you look at the dates of submission, 95% of all the comments posted
after the movie was released say it's lackluster at best,
anticlimactic, boring, lame, and not worth watching. So, I wonder, is
that a coincidence, or maybe, just maybe, were all those people who
posted great comments prior to the movie's release doing it for some
other reason? Were they being paid to hype the film? Do they work for
the production company? Or is it all just a big coincidence? Hmmm....
<|_=00=_|>
Like many, I went into this (knowing) the basics of the story. That
being said, I found the first half of the film quite suspenseful and
creepy by modern movie standards. The story begins by developing the
relationship between it's two stars, then separating them and
introducing the terror. This worked, and worked very well in it's
ability to set up (and scare the hell out of) the viewers.
Unfortunately, after we have established what is taking place, the
story seems to slow to a simmer, and eventually fizzles out. The second
half of the film is filled with horror movie cliché's and cheap scare
tactics, almost to the point of boredom... It's a shame, because I
haven't been a fan of slasher films since the eighties, and I REALLY
wanted to "Like" this film.

My recommendation would be to watch the first half of the film, then go
and sit by yourself in a cabin, somewhere in the woods. The effect
would be much better, and the film would serve it's purpose.
<|_=00=_|>
1. would you leave your girlfriend in a house with no neighbors to buy
something, after some creepy girl out of nowhere just comes knocking on
your door looking for someone you don't know??? NOOOOOOOOO 2.
boyfriend: you have a gun, USE IT. don't use a chair.girlfriend: you
have a knife, Don't LOSE IT. don't ever let it go..just because your
boyfriend has arrived doesn't mean you should just let him protect
you..protect yourself, don't be useless. grab every weapon you can
imagine. 3. friend: you're waiting outside the house(WITH NO
NEIGHBORS)and somebody throws a huge rock on your windshield AND YOU
LOOK AROUND AND SEE THAT NO ONE'S THERE. what would a normal adult do?
drive as fast as they can away, and call for help and come back. but
no, he went down, he noticed that his friend's car is wrecked and
there's an unfamiliar pickup parked in front. did he run back to his
car and call for help as fast as he could? NOOOOO...he continued
walking slowly, inside the house, not even looking back to see if
somebody was behind, totally forgetting that maybe there's somebody out
there:the one who threw something on his windshield. not even bothering
to turn down the music, not even calling his friends name NOT WEVEN
LOOKING BEHIND HIM OR ANY OTHER DIRECTION OTHER DIRECTION, IS IT HARD
TO LOOK AROUND??? DUHHHH..... 4. you would've been saved if you stayed
where you are. YOU HAVE THE GUN...you could've waited inside the room
and shoot the hell out the killers if they come in. if you missed,
you're girlfriend's there with the knife, you could've helped each
other out, oh wait she doesn't the knife or anything.. 5. would you
leave your girlfriend inside the house knowing that they're everywhere,
to hunt the killer in the woods? why would you even go to the woods?
and you have the gun and your girlfriend has no weapon??? how
inconsiderate!!!! and if i were the girl, i would never let my
boyfriend out of sight. i will come with you with a knife, wherever you
go. at least we can die together. 6. if you stumble in a barn complete
with all the deadly, pointy things things you can see, wouldn't you
take anything to protect yourself or maybe try and kill the killers?
you could've found another axe there. 7. killers: kill them already,
what's the point in all this scary tactics if you're just gonna stab
them. no gruesome whatsoever. nothing imaginable. just plain kind of
like a drunken stabbing incident. that's it. why wait till the morning
and change her clothes, when you could've captured them right away and
torture them to death instead. some stab-happy killers. 8. in the
beginning of the movie, the narrator said it they still don't know what
happened. his voice made it sound like it's so gruesome. and the 2 boys
who called 911 i believe. they saw the killers.. didn't the police
interview thwem and maybe get a sketch out of them????? they were
staring at the killers for more a than 2 min, they could've remember
what they looked like exactly... 9. oh and let's not forget the ever so
cliché ending where you think the victim'as and then suddenly move.....
10. this movie is dragging and is so slow, you'd want the killers to
just kill them already. no characted development either. for any of
them...and one of the killers has asthma to add some creepyness...
<|_=00=_|>
First off, let's start with a note. It was 'inspired' not 'based' off
true events. People need to learn the difference between the two. The
Texas Chainsaw Massacre is 'inspired' by true events, but still people
believe it really happened. It never happened... it was inspired by the
story of the serial killer Ed Gein who would take body parts off of
women and make furniture out of them, and other forms of cruelty.The
Strangers was 'inspired' by true events which means they probably took
similarities from stories of The Manson killings and other killings of
the same sort. So really the director had free range to do whatever the
hell he wanted at the end, and I believe he failed.

I heard about this movie a long time ago and was so excited that it was
finally being released that I saw it at the first midnight showing. At
first, I was enjoying the set, costumes, and I believe the acting was
pretty well done. I believe the director achieved a very creepy
feeling, but too many times did he use to obvious cop-out of making
loud noises to 'startle' the viewer instead of genuinely 'scaring'
them. The site bloody-disgusting.com made an excellent article
describing the differences between these.

In the end, I remember about two scenes and the rest is a vague blur.
The scene with Glenn Howerton (of It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia!
fame. Woot!) was probably one of the most tense and unsettling scenes
of the film. The other being the portion where the record is skipping.

This movie is a strong example of anti-climactic. The ending was a
cliché. I won't give it away but I will say that it did not leave me
feeling disturbed nor did it leave me with a sense of accomplishment.
Two things I look for in an ending to the flood of "home-invasion"
horror flicks. I believe two recent films do a great job of
accomplishing these factors. The recent VACANCY and FUNNY GAMES are
leaps and bounds greater than this film. They do a much greater job of
making the protagonists feel helpless and I strongly suggest both of
them.

Hopefully, I could help some. I know many will disagree with me, but
quite honestly that's fine. Many of today's moviegoers enjoy paying $10
to jump out of their seat because someone's face appears in a window or
a sound guy hits a wall really loud. It's the sad truth and Hollywood
banks on crap like that. So it isn't going to end anytime soon.

Thanks, Alex
<|_=00=_|>
I have used IMDb for years but have never registered to submit a
review. However, after reading positive reviews on The Strangers and
actually having it compared to "The Shining" and possibly being the
best horror movie ever I HAD to comment.

First off, one of my favorite horror movies for scary and suspense is
The Ring and horror movies I love are classics such as The Shining, The
Exorcist, and comedic as Evil Dead 2 and Army of Darkness, The Saw
series has also impressed me MOST of the time (3 was a dud). If you
consider my choices terrible then stop reading, this review will not
cater to you anyway.

Movies such as the Shining were incredible based on imagery and superb
acting. Nightmares were brought onto the screen and it was not
necessary to jump out and scare you. The twin sisters at the end of the
hall just sucked! Images from the Ring - need I say more. Again there
were the jump scenes but the images still scare me when I work alone at
night in the office. Oh and the suspense just seeing water leaking into
the room knowing that she was coming.

This DOES NOT happen at all in The Strangers. In 2008 horror has
escalated to a point where it is difficult to cause a scare without the
jump out and scare you. So The Strangers went the route of "The Sick
and Twisted Family" who you see every single scene of in the previews.
Guy in the burlap mask stands ominously in the kitchen without Liv
seeing him....oooooo scary. The girl stands in the woods 100 yards
away....oooo terrifying. The other girl is on the swing...oooo not
that. They banged on the door and window a few times to really increase
the tension though. Two times the girl even asked "Is Tara home?" is
that "I am so stoned" voice

That was it!!! I promise you. Oh wait, the guy in the mask jumped onto
the window once when Liv was looking out. OK, you got me, I jumped.
Every line that the Strangers say in the previews is their complete
dialog - "You're gonna die" and "Because you were home" THAT WAS IT.
Well, a couple more at the very end. You want a sick twisted family??
Rob Zombie hit the peak on that one, sorry. What's in the killer's head
is far more scary than a mask...Hannibal maybe?

So eventually The Strangers make their way in. Oh, disturbing images
and massive bloodshed that made this rated R? Are you serious? You
ready? Liv cuts her hand really really really bad, a shotgun blow to
the head where the impact isn't show but the body is on the ground for
a while and some head is missing, then the grand finale? Our main
characters are tied up and a butcher's knife is slowly inserted by each
Stranger into the victims, 2 in the guy, one in Liv - no blood...

Movie over. You like it?
<|_=00=_|>
Saw the screening for this film and it was truly terrifying. The whole
audience was screaming at parts and there are several scenes that make
you jump. The tension buildup during the movie is incredible. Some of
the scenes are disturbing but not overly gory. Liv Tyler does a
convincing job of making you feel the fright and a lot of the acting is
non-verbal. Scott Speedman also does an excellent and believable job.
With todays crazy headlines, this is the kind of movie that you can
actually imagine happening somewhere in this country in real life.
Trust me, at the end of this movie you will be double checking the
locks on your doors and windows.
<|_=00=_|>
I was so excited to see this movie I took the day off work to go see
it...what a waste. I kept thinking "Here we go", "Okay, this is it" for
the movie to actually get going...but I was wrong each time.

The director spends too much time getting us to like the couple in the
movie, but honestly does a terrible job at that. The opening sets the
stage for a terrific movie. A 911 call saying "there is blood
everywhere". Really? After seeing the movie, I expect to only see blood
in two places, not exactly everywhere.

Most of the "strangers" actions are done to scare the audience, not the
characters in the movie. How many times can the "strangers" be seen in
the background but the main characters don't realize it...how is that
scary to them if they don't know they are there??? The trailer actually
is a bit scarier than the actual movie, especially once you see the
ending... I still can't believe that the director/writer/et al actually
watched the climax of the movie and said, "that nailed it, perfect!!!"
So anticlimactic that they felt obliged to thrown in a cheap
"gotcha"/starting scene right at the end of the movie. (wait did I
accidentally see "Scream"?)
<|_=00=_|>
As everyone probably anticipated, this film is another in a seemingly
endless string of unbearable formulaic pap that Hollywood has been
spewing out for the past nine billion years. This film wasn't exactly
horrible, and I admit I was hoping against all reason that it might
succeed at least a tiny bit in creating an eerie mood and generating
some genuine scares, but no, that's just too much to ask for. Without
going in to too much detail, I can tell you that the first 30 minutes
or so are sort of creepy, but the rest is nothing but cheap,
unnecessarily noisy scares and way too many glimpses of these totally
unintimidating people in stupid looking masks. And yes, as the previews
implied, the movie really does revolve entirely around the gimmick that
these people are wearing scary looking masks. And that's it. The
highlight of the movie, for me, was the "hey that's the dude from It's
Always Sunny in Philadelphia!" part. So if you like watching Liv
Tyler's upper lip continue to be bigger than her lower lip and people
in stupid masks walking around banging on things, this is the movie for
you. Oh, and it's completely anti-climactic as well. A true Hollywood
gem.
<|_=00=_|>
We all know the plot: young couple, isolated vacation home, people in
masks. Yet from the start of 'The Strangers' it's clear that this film
is a different. In today's bloodthirsty society, horror films are often
reduced to nothing more than gore-filled gross-out fests. While many
young teens may rejoice at such films, many of us still long for
original, suspenseful, and, yes, terrifying horror movies. 'The
Strangers' came so close.

There is plenty here to recommend: Director Bryan Bertino shows himself
to be a patient and smart director. Rather than going for just cheap
thrills, he wisely builds tension up to near-breaking point. The
feeling of suspense and dread that covers the whole film is classic.
Both Liv Tyler and Scott Speedman do well in their leading roles, and
the strangers themselves are things of pure terror... yet that's where
the film loses some of its commendation. The strangers at times seem
that they can't possibly be human because they are made to be almost
supernatural in their abilities. They appear and disappear seemingly at
will and instantly- a power the young couple probably wished they had
but don't because they are, after all, HUMANS. It's a simple mistake
used to give the audience one of those cheap thrills that were
otherwise so wisely avoided. What makes it sad is that in every other
aspect, 'The Strangers' is chillingly realistic and terrifyingly
possible. Every time those strangers come and go like ghosts of some
kind, it makes the audience sit back once more and say, 'Ah, well, it's
just a movie." That's too bad.

Still, 'The Strangers' is much better than your average horror fare.
It's at last a new movie that realizes what you don't show can be even
more scary than what you do. Still, one hopes that Mr. Bertino can
touch up the mistakes from this film and , and deliver a really great
horror movie next time around. 7/10 stars! Jay Addison
<|_=00=_|>
If you are a fan of horror films, then you have probably seen Scream.
In it, Randy, the resident expert of the idiocy of horror movies, gives
you the rules of horror films. In it he tells of all the things you
should do in a horror film, but end up not doing anyway. I think this
film is inspired by Randy's dialogue in Scream. This is the most
clichéd horror film in the history of clichéd horror films. Comparing
this to Halloween or the Shining makes me throw up in my mouth a
little. It is just plain blasphemy. This is nothing like the greats
from the 70's and the 80's. It's not even as good as CHUD, Friday the
13th or any other decent but flawed horror film.

The problem with this film is that everything that these characters
should not do, they do. Now, THERE ARE GOING TO BE PLENTY OF SPOILERS
HERE SO IF YOU REALLY DON'T WANT TO KNOW ANYTHING FURTHER BECAUSE YOU
ACTUALLY PLAN ON WATCHING THE FILM, THEN DO NOT READ ANY FURTHER.

First, you are being hunted in the house, you have a shotgun that can
blow a hole through an elephant, and you are in a room that has one way
in and one way out. You are safe. All you have to do is wait it out or
the both of you leave the house together with the safety of the
shotgun. Or of course the alternative is to separate and one person
stays behind without the shotgun, the other goes to a barn to find a
two way radio. The last thing sane people do is separate. If I was
being hunted in my cottage with my wife by my side, the last thing I
would do is let her stay behind while I go find a radio. She would be
by my side all the time.

The best friend comes over at about 4 in the morning. He sees his
buddies car bashed up. He sees the door with axe marks in it. He can
see that something isn't quite right. Then has something smash his
window. What should he do? Before entering the house, he should call
the police and report suspicious behavior. But no, of course not, he
enters the house with the loud playing music and doesn't call his
friends name, or turn the music off, he of course walks silently into
the open doorway and gets shot in the face by his best friend.

The classic case of not believing your girlfriend when she tells you
that someone has been in the house. "No sweetie, you just imagined that
you saw someone and you must of dropped your cell into the fire." Sure
that happens all the time.

Every one of these characters deserved to die. They were stupid,
unrealistic and completely clichéd in the worst possible way. And for
the makers of the film to pretend this is based on true events is ever
so manipulative. I read the supposed case this is based on and saying
this is based on a true story is like saying Rambo is a love story.
It's just plain wrong.

The Strangers is one of the most incompetent films I have ever seen.
There is no suspense, no thrills, no chills. There could of been, but
you lose all feelings of remorse or sense of caring for the main
characters because the screenplay betrays them so much.

1/10 Truly, truly horrible film.
