
This film is a work of art, it is that simple. It is completely
original and crossed many lines that a standard Hollywood film would
never cross.

It is so disturbing and unsettling to watch, and the way the film is
present through the eyes of the stalker is fascinating. I think its
ridiculous that this film isn't being noticed, it is unbelievable. 

I had to pause this movie 5 times because I felt so uncomfortable
watching it. I highly recommend this movie.

I hope everyone gets a chance to see this, it shows horror in a way I
have never seen. If someone knows a movie more creepy and strangely
realistic like this one, let me know.
<|_=00=_|>
Excellent.

The director Eric Nicholas creates a creepy atmosphere throughout this
film about obsession with a very original directing film style. The
audience is immersed into the role of an observer watching a very
convincing Ana Claudia Talancón as a young women living alone in a
small apartment who is being stalked by a very disturbed Collin Hanks.
The acting is solid and the film keeps a sustained tension throughout.
Also not to overlook the script written by Eric Nicholas which is well
structured for this kind of film and delivers a surprising, haunting
ending. 

Highly recommended!
<|_=00=_|>
One of the most terrifying things about ALONE WITH HER is that the
stalker on the beautiful young women is barely seen or heard until more
than half of the 90 minutes movie giving us the feeling that the real
stalkers are us. 

Yes, the first person narrative (mostly on the first half of the movie)
positions us fully inside and not really so uncomfortable.

Don't you think that in a generation growing with BIG BROTHER, THE
APPRENTICE, SURVIVOR and many more reality shows the voyeurism has
become something a little more usual than it should ?. . How many
"normal" people will go as far as Collins Hanks goes in this movie is a
really the frightening question.

This is a movie based on pace and events. There is not much to explain
about it. Let's just say that as the obsession grows events and
situations get darker but never unrealistic. You can think of it as an
obsessive love story where you get a lot of sympathy for the main
characters and with no real chances of a happy ending.

See it; you won't regret it; but please complain as much as you can on
why this independent movie never got a proper wide release while so
much garbage did it.
<|_=00=_|>
An incredibly well crafted and realistic cautionary tale, this movie
left me very disturbed. There are a lot of guys out there like the
Colin Hanks character and to see this story creepily play out through
hidden cameras really gave me the chills! It makes you realize that
anybody could be out there watching you right now, especially with all
the technology available! The movie slowly lets you discover the
character of Doug (Colin Hanks) but not directly and as the film goes
on you begin to realize just how sick he really is. The acting was
amazing by everyone in the movie which speaks a lot to the director
because even in big Hollywood movies you will see uneven performances.
I think this is a very original and eye opening film and I would highly
recommend it to anyone.
<|_=00=_|>
Alone with Her hit theaters in early 2007, a limited release of course.
Despite that, I'm surprised that this film hasn't gotten more attention
since then. Colin Hanks is Doug, one of those perverted types that
carry hidden cameras in their bags to glimpse up women's skirts and the
like. While out doing this, he spots Amy (Ana Claudia Talancón) and
sets his sights on her for the remainder of the film. He breaks into
her apartment and rigs it with hidden cameras, microphones, etc. to use
what he learns to try and weasel into her life... and to watch.

The first thing you notice upon watching Alone with Her is the
innovative nature in which it's shot. The entire film is seen through
Doug's hidden cameras. It throws the viewer off guard, and makes us
feel almost as voyeuristic as Doug. It also makes the film so much more
unnerving than it would've been had it been shot in a conventional
manner. We get a front row seat to the images that we have no right to
see, as well as the nastier bits which hit harder when glimpsed through
this unknown eye.

Doug is a truly pathetic character. Having no confidence and no life,
he watches Amy 24/7. He watches to see what movies and music she likes
so he can pretend to have something in common with her when they meet.
He has hissy fits when he hears her make a date with another man. In
some of the most disturbing sequences of the film, he punishes her,
sabotaging her love-life by poisoning her milk and dabbing some kind of
skin irritant all over her bed. He sabotages her life time and time
again, all while poking the holes needed to weasel himself into her
good graces.

This film isn't brutal or graphic, and it doesn't need to be. This does
more without gore than something like Inside does with wall-to-wall
amounts of it. Alone with Her is a deeply affecting look at the nature
of stalkers and voyeurism. It's the type of film that will make you
feel unclean after watching, something that will crawl inside of your
psyche and stay there.
<|_=00=_|>
...and entirely too believable. But then, that is what makes good film
noir.

There is absolutely nothing in this movie that doesn't contribute to
it, from the shot via hidden cam approach, to the acting, the lighting,
the casting and the score. This is simply a BRILLIANT movie.

Ten minutes into the film, I found myself repelled, yet fascinated,
like a mouse before a cobra. By the time it was over, I felt like I
needed a shower.

Ana Claudia Talancón (who is remarkably easy on the eyes) played her
role superbly, and Colin Hanks turned in what SHOULD be an
award-winning job as "Doug", the stalker. It's a shame that the little
movies like this so often get overlooked.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie at Fantasia in Montreal and was blown away! This is
very ballsy film-making. Nicholas takes big chances, not only with the
movie's style (shot completely through hidden cameras) but also with
its pacing and horrifying climax.

The film left me very disturbed and days afterward was still haunting
me.

Further, the film-making inspired me to strive for something fresh and
original in my own work -- to break some rules.

In terms of performances, the two leads (Talancon and Hanks) are
phenomenal. Completely real. And Jordana Spiro also kicks ass in her
supporting role as Amy's best friend. Great work overall!
<|_=00=_|>
A man (Colin Hanks) hopes to start a relationship with a woman (Ana
Claudia Talancon) by planting hidden cameras and listening devices in
her home and learning her secrets. The film is shot entirely through
hidden cameras, including a "body cam" worn by Hanks. Written and
directed by Eric Nicholas. This movie takes Voyerism to the 20 yard
line. Ana Claudia is not only a terrific actress, but very good
looking. The film is creepy as a good thriller should be. This film is
a work of art, it is that simple. It is completely original and crossed
many lines that a standard Hollywood film would never cross. This film
will entertain many for many years to come. It might not be the
greatest work, but hey it will bring out the voyeur in you.
<|_=00=_|>
I also saw this movie on pay-per-view. Gotta admit, I like watching
little gems like this in the privacy of my own home. Or should I say
the perceived privacy of my own home? -- because, I promise you, this
movie will forever make you question whether you're really "alone" and
safe -- especially if you're a young woman living on her own.

Personally, I LOVED how the film was shot - totally through hidden
cameras. It made things feel real -- too real, frankly. I thought it
was a brave choice by the director and he pulled it off brilliantly.

The performances by Colin Hanks and Ana Talancon are also very natural
and unaffected. In fact, the whole movie feels like real-life
surveillance footage patched together to tell a frightening story.

I don't wanna give away any spoilers so I'll just end with this:
absolutely chilling -- because what happens to Amy (the lead character)
could happen to any of us!
<|_=00=_|>
Ana Claudia is not only a terrific actress, but easy on the eyes as
well. The film is creepy -- as a good close-in thriller should be.
Colin Hanks (no relation to Colin Firth apparently) is also excellent.

I saw the film at the Tribeca Film Festival without expectations. (You
sign up for a bunch of films after looking at their menu several weeks
in advance and by the time you're going to the screening, you only know
the name, the place and the time, having forgotten what attracted you
to the film in the first place.) Once the opening credits started
rolling and I saw Ana Claudia's name (I'm a bit of a fan) I remembered
why I had signed up for the film -- but nothing of its plot. It's
probably best to see it that way because the film is seductive. It
lures you into its creepiness, but through the squirming you'll enjoy
it.
