
I saw this film on June 12th, 2006 at a preview showing in my home town
of Austin, Texas. Admittedly, when I first viewed the trailer it
appeared to be nothing more than a cheap romantic flick with a hunk
(Keanu Reeves) and a pretty girl (Sandra Bullock). After watching this
film, I realized first impressions can sometimes be wrong.

The plot may be a bit out of the ordinary. But if you suspend logic for
an hour or two and believe in the magic of the story, it will draw you
into a deeply passionate story. There are some twists that may or may
not surprise (especially if you're as quick as my wife).

Although Keanu Reeves and Sandra Bullock have had some iffy acting
performances in the past, both put in excellent performances that made
their characters come alive. Each characters has a very earthy feel
that makes them seem real and relatable.

Overall, I have to say this is a beautiful movie, from the story to the
acting to the beautiful cinematography.
<|_=00=_|>
If I read one more negative review of this movie that takes it to task
for being "implausible," I'm afraid I will lose it completely.

I have to ask myself what these same critics (assuming they're old
enough to remember it) would have said about virtually any episode of
the Rod Serling classic "Twilight Zone." I think it's safe to say most
of those plots were based on fairly "implausible" happenings, in
comparison to our real-life, day-to-day existence.

And I'm sure Richard Donner's "Superman" movie would have felt their
wrath as well, since everyone knows people can't fly.

"Implausible." Good grief.

"The Lake House" is a romantic fairy tale -- and a darned good one,
too. It's NOT confusing or hard to understand at all, assuming the
viewer has more than two ounces of comprehension skill.

To me, the recent film it seems closest to in subject matter and style
is "Frequency," which I also enjoyed tremendously.

And yes -- call me crazy, but the things that happen in "Frequency" are
fairly "implausible" too.

And, oh yeah -- since I don't really believe angels have to jump
through ridiculous hoops to get their wings, I'm guessing these same
Scrooges have no use for "It's a Wonderful Life," either.

Sheesh.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw a screening of this last night and maybe I was just in the right
mood for it, but I really enjoyed it. I'm not even a chick-flick kind
of girl! It's best if you don't over-analyze the time-travel details
and just go with it... it's a movie, after all. Seriously, I wasn't
expecting that much and I got a better feeling from this movie than I
have in a long time - it made me feel warm and happy. Plus, the whole
theater laughed at some parts, plus people gasped and cried, and at the
end everyone applauded. That's a good sign, if you ask me. I don't
watch previews so I don't know what they give away about the plot, so
I'm not going to give much of anything away here. I will just say that
to me this was a uniquely told romantic story. I happen to like Keanu
Reeves and Sandra Bullock, although they are by no means favorites of
mine, nor do I consider them to be consistently amazing actors (more
often they're not... at least he's not...). But they made this story
work for me and I believe they have good chemistry. The movie is set in
Chicago and shows the city off nicely without trying to beat you over
the head with it (a la The Break-Up). One thing I think I related to a
lot with these characters is that they are both pretty isolated and
lonely, although not in a sad-sack way. I felt a longing from them for
someone to relate to, and even though they have opportunities for other
people to be involved in their lives... well it's not what's best for
them and they don't settle. Plus, the actors are both in their 40s and
I like seeing love stories that aren't about either two 22-year-olds or
a 40-year-old man and a 22-year-old girl.
<|_=00=_|>
"I don't get it," said one confused old man as he filed out of the
theater.

Listen up, folks; this movie is not that hard to understand. Take the
time to wrap your brain around it and you shouldn't have a problem
following along. However, after listening to people talk after the
movie I realize that some of you may walk away a little confused. So
let me hold your hand and reveal a few facts that you should grasp
before seeing this: A) Sandra is corresponding from 2006, B) Keanu is
corresponding from 2004, and C) These time periods aren't mutually
exclusive. Sandra's character still exists in the 2004 time period that
Keanu is communicating from and vice versa.

Got that? Good. Sandra can tell Keanu where she was in 2004, and Keanu
can cross her path, but the 2004 version of Sandra will have no clue
who Keanu is. Makes sense, right? So the trick is that the 2006 version
of Sandra has to figure out where the 2006 version of Keanu is so that
they can meet in Keanu's future (AKA Sandra's present). Everything
unfolds from there. Seriously, it's not that complicated.

I think most of the confusion exists because the script isn't as tight
as it needs to be. It's frustrating because the story could have been
much better (and a few plot holes could have been easily eliminated)
with a couple of more rewrites. The most frustrating thing to me, and I
reveal this because it's best you know it upfront, is that we're never
told what exactly is causing the time rift between them.

We're expected to just accept it as fantasy and not demand any
explanations. You'll enjoy the film much more if you understand that
not all loose ends will be tied and you can ignore the plot holes I
alluded to. I'd love to discuss them and explain my specific issues
with them, but doing so would reveal way too much of the story. Email
me after you see it and we'll discuss.

Throwing those quibbles aside, I actually enjoyed this quite a bit.
Perhaps I'm a sucker for romance movies that aren't scared to throw a
little of Nick Drake's Pink Moon down on us, but I like that this is a
romance that plays it a bit unconventionally. Is it for everybody? No.
There's a lot of talking (though it never gets as gay and flowery as I
feared), and some of you might find the pace slow. Though I felt it
more deliberate.

I also applaud the performances of Sandra and Keanu, who is nowhere
near as robotic as you may expect. I actually bought into his emoting!
Good job, Mr. Cool Breeze, but you really need to work on making your
sneezes more believable.

Fans of romance movies will adore the theme of love and how its power
can change someone's life, but since I'm into more masculine topics, I
preferred watching the pieces of the time puzzle fall into place. It
reminded me a little bit of Frequency - Keanu does something in 2004
and then Sandra recognizes its impact in 2006. Then we follow along as
they try to figure out how to meet.

I wanted one of them to leave their hand in the mailbox and see if the
other could see it when they went to retrieve the next letter. Perhaps
a disembodied hand wiggling around in a mailbox wouldn't have fit with
the mood that the writers were going for, but I would've laughed.

Speaking of mood, I thought this was another strongpoint of the movie.
The cinematography is great, creating a cold, atmospheric setting.
Chicago's impressive architecture is used to great effect. If you like
stunning visuals to set your romantic mood then you won't be
disappointed.

As long as you're willing to give this film your undivided attention
for approximately 100 minutes (and you can easily forgive its
shortcomings) then The Lake House will prove to be an intriguing piece
of film for lovers of the romance genre.

And hey, even if romances aren't your thing, there might just be enough
mystery here to keep your interest. After the movie, my friend
commented, "As far as romances go, this is probably the best I've
seen." And he hated The Notebook, ladies.

THE GIST 

The Lake House suffers from lapses in logic, unnecessary plot holes,
and predictability, but I appreciated its attempt to add something
fresh to the romance genre. The intriguing mystery and the performances
of Sandra and Keanu are effective enough for me to grant my approval to
those of you who already have an interest in this one.
<|_=00=_|>
Suspension of disbelief is a wonderful phenomenon. It's used in many
genres effectively and why not in romantic film? Although the Lakehouse
mailbox took on some magical qualities, the plot still worked for me on
a deeper level. It's about connecting with your true soulmate when you
feel isolated. Who hasn't felt alone at a crowded party? Or who hasn't
feared if they wait too long that they may never find that special
someone? It's a part of the human condition this film examines. I mean,
look at the architecture of the Lake House itself. It's isolated yet
beautiful in a Frank Lloyd Wright kind of way.

This is a character-driven story. It was fueled by the solid
performances of Keanu Reeves and Sandra Bullock. They are so natural
and comfortable together on screen. It's more than just physical
attraction between two people and that's why the love story works. It's
real chemistry between them. I believed these two could be walking
along Lakeshore Drive holding hands together.

I was rooting for these two characters to get together. They are
likable. They have angst in their lives. They show vulnerability. Real
human feelings. They are successful in their careers but there is still
that void. In my opinion, they are the right fit for each other. It's
the underlying themes of this movie that give it substance not the fact
that some of the plot is a bit far-fetched. Love is illogical in many
ways but when you find that certain someone, it's magical.

David Auburn's screenplay is first-rate. It creates the right mood. It
has emotion in each scene. He makes the story palpable. This kept me
interested. I wanted to know what was going to happen next. What more
can you ask for in a touching love story? I enjoyed it.
<|_=00=_|>
I've been a pretty avid movie fan for many years. I've seen countless
romantic movies from all ages of film, and this one absolutely stands
up well with the majority of the greatest of them.

Don't believe the critics, I don't. I've been disappointed and angered
by being suckered in to seeing movies I disliked or absolutely hated on
many occasions, and with greater frequency recently. I haven't a clue
what makes the critical media tick, and I'm not sure that they do
either.

This is very simply a lovely film on every level, from dialog, to
direction, to cinematography, to consistently outstanding acting
performances across the board. The delicately-embedded sheer decency of
this film makes it a totally recommendable film for persons of all
ages, although I'm guessing that most really young ones would get bored
and fidgety before too long.

Bullock's and Reeves' performances and chemistry here can be described
in one word: luminescent. Please avoid coming into the theater with a
bad attitude, that is seldom helpful in gaining enjoyment from quality
film-making. Just don't be overly critical of what you may conceive as
plot holes and inconsistencies. After all, the first and foremost goal
of film is to entertain you. And entertained you will be, in the
grandest fashion of great Hollywood cinema.

I am deliberately refraining from specific description from the movie.
Too many people are posting spoilers without warning here. But the
chemistry is magical, the plot logical if entirely implausible, and the
complete package is as satisfying as Hollywood is likely to provide.

I came out of the theater thinking that this is the kind of movie that
is seldom made anymore, but then I realized that it's the kind of movie
that has seldom been made at any juncture in the history of film.

An extraordinary effort, and a stunning success. Don't miss this one in
the theater, because you'll later wish that you hadn't. I expect
word-of-mouth to provide this film with a long theater run, but don't
wait until it's too late.

Note to Hollywood: You have in these leads potentially one of the great
romantic pairings in the history of film. Don't blow your chance.
<|_=00=_|>
Yes my Darlings, this is a dramatic, funny, romantic, time-travelin'
movie. And the film succeeds because the chemistry between Keanu &
Sandra is tangible. They've worked together before & genuinely like
each other. It's the most important element; because their comfort
level helps you believe the story and forget that you're watching
Sandra & Keanu. As the characters get to know each other through
correspondence, the film seduces you into suspended belief. Your
left-brain's logical, analytical, fact-based reasoning doesn't want you
to root for them, but your heart does. This film skips over the
scientific & enables you to explore the tiniest possibilities of 'what
if.......' Yes, it's corny, but so what. So is ROMANCE! See it with
someone you desire.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a touching, well-acted, and beautiful looking film. Sandra
Bullock and Keannu Reeves have great chemistry together and the
supporting actors are very competent. The story is absorbing and
interesting, and although its a time-travel fantasy, it's logical
within it's basic premise.

Don't listen to the people who claim bad acting. The acting is fine and
the chemistry between the leads is very real. Anyone who gave this
movie a bad rating was definitely in the minority in their theater -
most people at the showing I attended clapped and cheered at the end
and many stayed to watch the credits roll - always a sign of a good,
and touching, movie.

As for those people who claim that the story is "implausible"....
they're probably the same people who think that silly IMPOSSIBLE
fantasies like X-Men, King-Kong, Lord of the Rings, Spiderman, etc, etc
were great movies. At least the characters and events in Lake House are
believable, once the basic premise is accepted. Can't say that about
drivel like X-Men.

See this film with someone you love. You'll both like this film.
<|_=00=_|>
This was great popcorn fare with your significant other! Sandra Bullock
and Keanu Reeves are once again a great on screen couple, although they
weren't often on screen together. 

Lots of twists and turns to keep you guessing and enough closeups to
satisfy all. Christopher Plummer was an interesting supporting actor
and as always commanded the screen. As a matter of fact there were a
lot of interesting supporting actors, one from the TV series "24",
there was Jack the dog, and of course the Lakehouse. I'm sorry I forgot
to mention the architecture of Chicago and the mailbox.

The whole time issue kept us talking long after the movie was over.
Don't get too caught up in the plausibility aspect just enjoy it as a
romantic fantasy, we all need some escape now and then. Sandra Bullock
and Keanu Reeves fans won't be disappointed and I am sure they may pick
up a few new ones along the way. 

A great release to end the Hollywood drought of late. Go see it!
