
Let me preface this by saying that I did not view the trailer before I
saw this movie, nor did I really know anything about it. I do not know
if that will lessen the impact at all, but it might (not sure what they
show in the trailer).

Writer/producer/director McLean shot this movie on a digital HD handy
cam, giving it an amateurish feel - but it is far from amateur. The
first 45 minutes feel like a completely different movie than the last
hour or so, and that is one of this movie's many strengths. McLean
spends time letting the audience get to know the three main
protagonists, who are Liz, Kristy, and Ben. They girls, who are both
from Britain, are nearing the end of their Australian excursion, and
they set off with their new Aussie mate, Ben, on a road
trip/backpacking trip across the country.

McLean has an eye for the unsettling, even in the mostly warm first
minutes, and he uses the stark colors and landscapes of the deepening
outback to give it a slowly building sense of dread. Their are a few
ominous signs - a dog barking viciously at something off screen, a
rather unpleasant encounter in an out of the way gas station, and an
awkward conversation about UFOs and aliens. I knew it was a horror
movie, and the slow buildup is a wonderful way to create true and
genuine tension.

Another thing that creates tension is the fact that the three main
characters are so well fleshed out, and feel so real, that the audience
begins to care for them. Knowing it is a horror movie, we know that
something is eventually going to happen, and beginning segment, in its
quiet, tender moments, make you wonder when that is going to happen.
It's all part of the extremely good package.

Another thing to like about this horror movie is that the characters,
for the most part, do not do any stupid things or horror clichés;
rather, they are trying to survive and they do respond in believable
ways to the horrors around them. And when those horrors finally come,
after an particularly amazing segue (going to sleep...sunset...waking
up hogtied), they do not let up.

Part of the criticism of this movie is that it is realistically violent
and brutal, but it's a juxtaposition from the first half. It's also a
juxtaposition of civilized vs. uncivilized, and the sterile,
uncompromising landscape of the Outback is the perfect place for this
to occur. There wasn't an over the top amount of gore, which is good,
because the cruelty of what the three endure is enough to churn
anyone's stomach. However, the movie is not just simple exploitation -
far from it, actually. It's about that deep-seated fear of the unknown,
and what could happen in an unfamiliar place.

McLean, while following a somewhat formulaic idea, stays far away from
the usual stupidity. The fact that we have grown to care for the three
main characters is why the second half is so effective, because there
are things that happen to them that are so brutal that you feel it
right with them.

'Wolf Creek' is one of the few good/great horror movies I've ever seen.
<|_=00=_|>
I was thrilled to see a movie like "Wolf Creek" come out in theatres: a
straightforward horror film not relying on clever twists (except one,
small one) or gimmicks. It was the kind of film "High Tension" started
off as before that last act mindf*ck. And while I ended up appreciating
what that movie did, I would have loved it more without the twist.

"Wolf Creek" picks up where films like "Texas Chainsaw Massacre" and
"Last House on the Left" left off, without feeling the need to
necessarily "pay homage" to them. I wonder if the fact that it's not
American-made has anything to do with that. I also wonder if the
non-American influence kept this from becoming predictable or familiar
in any way. What you think is going to happen in this film never quite
happens. One of the original "Texas Chainsaw Massacre" taglines was,
"Who Will Survive and What Will Be Left of Them?" I think this film
asks the same question, but doesn't provide so simple an answer.

I think it's best to know little about "what happens" here before
seeing it. Most people know the basics--three backpackers on a road
trip, they stop at remote Wolf Creek, entering an odd Twilight Zone of
stopped time and dead car engines. A friendly bushman stops by willing
to help, let the nightmare begin.

I love that director/writer/producer Greg McLean never offers an
explanation for the watches and the car engine. What happens in this
film seems almost alien--three humans struggling to survive on what
appears like a distant, barren planet, up against a hunter with no
semblance of humanity in him. Yes, this movie is very similar to "Texas
Chainsaw Massacre," but it is in no way a rip-off. While the
early-morning showdown on the barren road may look similar to the
climax of TCM, it is its own nightmarish entity. In fact, some of the
scene reminded me of "Duel." The acting in this movie is brilliant. The
three leads--Ben, Kristi, and Liz--are so wonderfully likable, and
there is an odd feeling of improvisation in the acting. It's so
natural, it seems impossible to script. When everything goes to hell,
you want all three of them to survive, and you'll surely be devastated
by the slightest injury any of them endures. Many have complained about
the hour or so of build up, but I think it was brilliant on McLean's
part to make sure we cared about these people, and then to put them
through the wringer. It's sadistic, too, emotionally, but it's the sign
of a great director.

John Jarratt, as Mick, is unforgettably cruel. Jarratt embodies this
character from head to toe, and is fearless in his performance. Mick is
an ugly, cruel man, and yet when we first meet him, he seems like the
nicest guy in the world. One of the scariest aspects to this film is
that you can see yourself falling for all of his tricks.

To be honest, I never want to see "Wolf Creek" again. It's not a fun
movie. I left wanting to hate it, because I hated what happened. But I
admire this movie for what it managed to do. I truly had to keep
repeating to myself, "It's only a movie," (the infamous "Last House on
the Left" tagline) but it's so realistic and so unflinching in
portraying what happens, that you'll feel as if someone was always
peeking around a corner with a camera, filming an actual event. Of
course, this is based on true events, and frankly, there is some
discrepancy to how "true" this film tries to be (obviously, much of the
second act had to be dramatized, and you'll realize why once you see
the movie) but it didn't need that "based on true events" tag. It's
already very real.

I hate to end on the old "Jaws" cliché, but as I am going to Australia
soon, I can say for a fact that this does do for backpacking what
"Jaws" did for swimming. I consider this movie a parable of sorts. Well
done.
<|_=00=_|>
than anything that's come out of h-wood lately.

there are going to be detractors who say that it's an Aussie retread of
'the Texas chainsaw massacre'; they might even be partially right. what
i loved most about this film is the fact that in an age of sadly
predictable horror films, this one kept me on the edge of my seat.

not only was i actually frightened, but this film kept pushing the
envelope in terms of what horror audiences have come to expect. it goes
WAY beyond anything you've seen in the last twenty years. thank god for
true indies making real horror. this is a thousand times better than
the overrated and ultimately idiotic 'saw' precisely because it keeps
on showing you things you don't think you're going to see.

things that make you really, really uncomfortable. things that are
very, very upsetting.

when we finished watching i felt as though i had been hit by a truck,
much the same way i felt when i watched Texas chainsaw for the first
time when i was fourteen. that was a long time ago. i think this film
has the potential to become a similar rite of passage for up-and-coming
horror fans. it's that powerful.

having said that, i can't see them releasing this as is. it touches on
stuff that no major studio will want to go near.

one of the few 'based on a true story...' films that really is, i
wonder how aussies felt when they saw this film. also, the lead baddie
is a pretty familiar face to you lot down under--i'm curious how that
translated? since i had no clue as to who the #$%* he was, he was
totally believable as a freaky hick and scared the hell out of me.

great, great movie. horror fans? get your hands on a copy somehow.
<|_=00=_|>
How good to be able to report that a current horror film is as
terrifying as anything I have seen. I'm not sure how much the slow
build helped. With limp violence to come, certainly a thorough
introduction to the participants can help the consequent action seem
more involving but when the visceral action is as shattering and
disturbing as this I'm not so sure. In any event, this modern day,
Australian, Texas Chainsaw Massacre achieves all it sets out to and
will give nobody a comfortable ride. Unrelenting and truly scary this
is a monumental piece of work. The editing is particularly effective
and helpful in keeping the tension going. There is no dull moment at
all in this movie, only stand out scenes and the best of these is the
central and very hard to watch, treatment of the first captive. This
scene is made all the worse for the most part because the 'rescuer' is
like us stunned by the ferocity of the violence and reduced to simple
watching and we are made even more aware of the voyeuristic nature of
the situation as we watch horrific torture and killing. Not a bundle of
fun then but an extremely well told tale. I just won't be watching it
again right away.
<|_=00=_|>
"Wolf Creek" is very loosely based on a true story of the real-life
serial killer Ivan Milat,who was convicted of killing 7 backpackers and
dumping their bodies in the Belangalo Forest,Australia.One of his
intended victims,a young British guy,managed to escape and was
instrumental in identifying the killer.The filmmakers have used a lot
of key points from this case for the movie,for example the physical
description of Ivan Milat,the fact that he used a hunting knife and was
a gun fanatic.Also he sliced through the spinal cord of most of his
victims,paralyzing them before stabbing,shooting,beating and or
sexually assaulting them.The personal belongings of his victims were
eventually found in a police raid on his home,sleeping
bags,tents,backpacks,etc.So the actual story of Wolf Creek isn't
true,but the psychopath is a reality.That's why "Wolf Creek" is so
terrifying and intense.Director McLean perfectly uses the environment
to create an atmosphere of total dread and hopelessness.The film is
grainy and offers some fairly brutal scenes of violence and
torture,especially towards the female characters.John Jarratt is
perfect as Mick Taylor,a sadistic psychopath who stalks tourists.The
story is pure,uncluttered and horribly believable,gripping the viewer
and never allowing for one second any doubt that the horrors we are
witnessing could indeed happen to anyone.Overall,"Wolf Creek" is an
intense,decidedly visceral experience that should satisfy fans of
relentless horror.9 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
wow! like many other movies i review, i literally only just saw this.
and i must say that I'm impressed with the SAFC, this is a truly
horrific movie. The highlights: * Unknown cast- gave the movie a very
realistic atmosphere. i was so happy to realise that none of the actors
were remotely familiar. * Low Budget- the obvious low budget gave the
film a gritty and unsettling appearance. the locations were convincing
and didn't look too perfected for cinema. * Character Development- This
was my favorite aspect of the movie. unlike the corny Hollywood
slasher/horrors that jump straight into the gore, this movie gave about
an hour of very carefully planned events made solely to adapt to the
characters. it was strange because although nothing was really
happening during that hour, it still seemed interesting. I've come to
realise that this was because of how realistic it was to show
non-eventful scenes. not every second of life has something
interesting. * Psycho- Mick Taylor was a very creepy character because
of how familiar his behaviour is. before we see his psychopathic ways,
he comes across as just some friendly bloke trying to lend a hand. and
his creepy smile is still terrifying long after the movie has ended.

Negative points: * a couple of factual mistakes, none too bad though *
only loosely based on true stories, therefore not as scary

Apart from that, this was actually one of the best horror movies out
there. definitely the best gore-fest horror, anyway.

Congrats to the South Australian Film Corporation!
<|_=00=_|>
Wolf Creek is one of the best horror films of 2005 in my opinion. The
film starts off with our three protagonists - Ben, Kristy, and Liz. Liz
and Kristy are both British girls who are traveling in Australia, and
before leaving, they decide to go on a backpacking trip across the
country with their new Aussie mate, Ben.

After traveling a few days, they finally reach the Wolf Creek crater.
After a day of hiking, they return to find their car in disrepair.
Stranded with nobody around, they face the fact that they may have to
spend the night in the car. While lying there, a car pulls up, and out
comes an old Aussie redneck named Mick. He offers them a ride to his
garage where he can fix the car, and while he seems a little strange,
he is nonetheless a friendly old fellow. After being being towed to the
old mining campsite, they fall asleep by the fire while he works on
their car. But when they awake, it is very apparent that Mick has much
more in mind than just fixing their car, and the audience is pulled
into our characters' dreadful nightmare.

To put it plain and simple, Wolf Creek is a disturbing film. The
cinematography is excellent, the entire movie has an amateurish feel to
it, and is gritty and raw. It captures that realism that films like
"The Texas Chainsaw Massacre" and "Last House on the Left" both have,
and achieves a level of horror and reality that most films fail to do
nowadays. Many people complain about the slow beginning, but overall
the film benefits from it, because we get to know our characters before
seeing them go through a world of dread - which is another rarity in
modern horror cinema.

Australian director Greg McClean gives the audience many eerie shots,
primarily of nature in the outback, that adds an unsettling tone to the
film, even when something horrifying isn't going on. Other mysterious
events are tacked on to make things even more unsettling, including
campfire stories of UFOs, and the group's watches not working after
reaching the crater. Although these events have nothing to do with the
actual horror that awaits the characters, they still give the viewer a
feeling that something isn't quite right. All of the actors give
believable performances, they all seem like actual people, unlike many
of the cardboard cutout characters we see in film today.

To sum things up, Wolf Creek relies more on suspense and tension than
all-out gore, which I personally find to be more effective. This film
is probably one of the few great horror films in the past 10 years, at
least from what I have seen. Wolf Creek left me feeling unsettled with
a bitter taste in my mouth, and any movie that has the power to do that
is a good one in my book. I'd say this is destined to become the "Texas
Chainsaw Massacre" of our generation. Wolf Creek is everything that a
horror film should be. 10/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Three young vacationers are traveling through Australia visiting
landmarks and such. One of their most anticipated stops is an ancient
meteorite crater park called "Wolf Creek." After enjoying the sights
the group prepares to leave, but can't start the car. Their watches
have also stopped and a strange, almost supernatural, unease rests in
on them. They nervously wait until a kindly stranger comes by and tows
them to his house and offers to fix their car - for free. However, they
soon find out that this "kindly stranger" isn't so kind at all.

The resulting film is a well done tense and tense horror story. Like
many other films to come out of Australia the main story element here
is the land and its mystery and as each character tries to escape they
are literally swallowed up by the land. The open endedness that the
film presents is it's main strength - it can be seen as a metaphor for
hell, the personification of true hopelessness, and a regular horror
film viewer will be able to draw and appreciate many other things from
it. Also much like the recent "Haute Tension" from France, the film is
told in practically real-time as each character tries to desperately
climb out of their horrifying situation and figure out what is going
on, but primarily they just want to get the hell out of there.

From a blunt point of view this is a slasher version of "Picnic at
Hanging Rock" - creepy landscape feature with weird occurrences going
around about it and all sorts of myths, but that doesn't make this
little scare-fest not worth seeing. It is very well done, well acted,
and very tense throughout. The final shot is particularly enigmatic and
chilling. The film's only real weakness it that it is for strictly for
horror fans, other steer clear. 7/10 

Rated R: brutal ruthless violence, and profanity
<|_=00=_|>
Wolf Creek is a fine example of a rare breed nowadays: a horror film
that pulls no punches and makes no apologies for frightening and
unnerving the audience.

Three young people are hiking in the Australian Outback when they're
unlucky enough to meet Mick Taylor (played brilliantly by John
Jarratt), one of the most twisted psychopaths to grace the big screen
in years. Mick is a guy who did some hunting at one time, is pretty
good with a rifle, and is a survivalist with some possible military
training... we're not really sure of much else. All we know is that at
some point he took up hunting people for his own amusement and found
out he was quite good at it.

What makes this film frightening is how realistic and plausible the
story is. Mick seems like a demon that could actually exist in the real
world. He's not a super-genius serial killer always toying with the
cops. He doesn't kill to fulfill some grandiose plan or message. He
doesn't kill his victims in elaborate, unlikely scenarios or games.
Rather, he's a pure sadist who just seems to enjoy watching pain,
suffering and death. It's that simple. It doesn't take much imagination
to realize, in the the middle of the Outback, it would be quite easy
for a psycho like Mick to operate for a long time and never get caught.

Wolf Creek is brutally violent and unflinchingly realistic. It never
gives the audience time to catch their breath or to feel any hope. This
movie is not for everyone. It leaves you unsettled and feeling uneasy.
This is only for real horror fans who desire a scare that will stick
with them long after the movie ends.
<|_=00=_|>
Wolf Creek has a completely standard basic story for this kind of genre
movie - travelers in isolated location encounter sadistic nut. Despite
this, it's what writer/director Greg McLean does with the details which
makes a difference.

The outback locations are rendered with a nice eye and evoke a sense of
spooky isolation - anything could happen to you out here and no-one
would know, much less be able to help. There is also the much discussed
'dark side of Crocodile Dundee' element - frankly, I can't believe it's
taken so long for someone to conjure this one up, and McLean clearly
delights in stabbing a knife through the heart of the mythical Aussie
archetype. I think he's actually gotten to an uncomfortable,
close-to-the-bone truth about the psyche of certain Aussie males, and
John Jarret is eerily similar to the kind of individual one would
encounter in many a country pub down under.

The fact that this is an Australian film also makes it a rare bird
indeed. For some unfathomable reason, the Oz industry rarely does
genre, and when it does, usually doesn't do it well. With this in mind,
Wolf Creek is something of a breath of fresh air. Yes, it hews pretty
closely to the codes and rules of its genre, but for the most part it
does it well, and for my money, what works about the film is strong
enough to make some of the weaker plot moments forgivable.

Will Gibson's HD camera-work is impressive, maintaining a consistent
style from start to finish, aided by solid editing, score and sound
design. Now maybe people will stop whining about how 'we can't make
genre films here' and we might see some imagination and variety creep
into Australian cinema.
