
In the horror genre,the sub-genus about evil children is not as popular
as the slasher or the films about haunted houses,but,usually,it falls
on clichés.Also,we have to add that,usually,we see a young actor who
does not produce fear so,almost all the times,the result is a crap.But
Whisper does not have that things because it is fun and it generates
suspense thanks to its ingenious premise.Director Stewart Hendler shows
us the story in a credible way and the movie produces more suspense
than horror.I also appreciated the film does not have the MTV camera
tricks.Josh Holloway has enough charisma in his leading role.The young
actor Blake Woodruff makes a pretty fine performance.The complaining I
have against this movie is that the film lacks of blood which would
have made more credible the various deaths the movie shows.Whisper is
not a great horror movie but it could keep me very entertained and
tense.A nice surprise.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw this yesterday, knew absolutely nothing about it beforehand so no
preconceptions. Also I have never watched either Lost or Prison Break
so hadn't a clue who the leads were, and I must say that I was
pleasantly surprised by it.

Solid acting, (the kid doesn't come across as a precocious brat, and
the leads don't do too much chewing of scenery) a good story that is
well paced, and despite the obvious Omen parallels, it was pretty
original all the same. I was a bit surprised to see that it never
really got a break at the box office, it deserves better.

It also reminded me of another film that I caught a few years ago,
again I knew nothing about it beforehand and it turned out to be pretty
good, the pic was Frailty (http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0264616/,) which
I'd recommend to anyone who liked Whisper...
<|_=00=_|>
This is a movie that you start to see it like a movie at Friday night,
maybe even a cheap horror, but in conclusion it's established to be a
good movie, not a cheap horror as you think at beginning. It prove to
worth all the time you've spend to watch it. The good acting of Josh
Holloway (known as Sawyer from Lost), Sarah Wayne Callies (known as Dr.
Sara Tancredi from Prison Break) and the talented child Blake Woodruff,
is make you feel good with this movie, only in case when you want to
see a good thriller-horror movie. It has an interesting subject with a
very well constructive story, almost like The Omen (2006), only better,
and you'll discover that this movie doesn't have good or bad
characters, only good or bad choices and strength of choose. Enjoy this
movie! It's worth all the money.
<|_=00=_|>
After being released from prison, Max (Josh Holloway) and his fiancée
Roxanne (Sarah Wayne Callies) wish to have a fresh restart of their
lives running a small dining of their own. However, the bank refuses to
loan US$ 50,000.00 to them and without alternatives, Max accepts the
invitation of his former partner Sydney (Michael Rooker) and his
associate Vince (Joel Edgerton) to participate in the kidnapping of the
eight year old David (Blake Woodruff), the son of a wealthy woman in
New England, under the command of a mysterious leader. The quartet
drives with the boy to a camping area in Maine, closed in the cold
winter, where they are individually disturbed by whispers that affects
their behaviors until Max discloses the dark secret about David and his
mother.

"Whisper" is a very effective horror movie that scares without explicit
violence or gore. The association of the fallen angel David and the
Antichrist Damien from "The Omen" is quite immediate, but the creepy
story is engaging and developed in a suitable pace. The young actor
Blake Woodruff has a top-notch performance in the role of the evil soul
collector and the acting and direction are solid. The twist with the
identity of the leader of the kidnappers is a great unpredictable plot
point. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Reféns do Mal" ("Hostages of the Evil")
<|_=00=_|>
If you too like to watch a movie just for a bed-time story you know the
kind - it can't be complete crap, because you won't get into the story
in the first minutes, but can't be too good too, 'cause you won't fall
asleep during the rest of it. Magic category. And not so numerous as it
looks like. "Whisper" seemed to fit, but - surprise - it doesn't.

A quite good Ransom-Omen-Shining mix story provides actors some good
dialogues to play and apart from few flaws it holds the level. Solid,
creative directing (which could be even better if wasn't so "present",
so "hey!-this-cut-was-a-director's-idea!") draws the tension properly.
Convincing acting, without embarrassing moments (especially the kid
earns respect) and very good dark music harmonized with cinematography
in few mood-building panoramas (don't know why I remembered this)
complete the work - WE HAVE A GOOD MOVIE HERE (and we can't sleep).
<|_=00=_|>
This film was something else for a change. I must agree with the
previous commentator that this film contained no bad or good
characters. The play was very intense and was refreshingly something
new. I could not tell every moment what would happen and to be honest
this film lied very near to a book i just read called the Inner
phantom. With in every an each person there is something bad, or
something that he or she hides. Every and each person has a dark side
she or he fears. He has it in him, and sometimes it can get out. And by
others it is stronger they kill. Others it sleeps and sometimes it
awakes and they cheat on her / his boy / girlfriend or lie.. This film
is very near this conception and i must say i was thrilled to the last
moment. Watch this film if you want to see something good and else for
a change...
<|_=00=_|>
WHISPER is a classy cross between THE STAND and THE OMEN, with touches
of Dean Koontz throughout. Some lowlifes kidnap a young boy and spirit
him off to a cabin deep in the Maine woods. Problem is, the kid isn't
what he seems and pretty soon people are dying. The cinematography is
terrific and moody, and a scary-looking wolf or dog-wolf at the boy's
command adds to the suspense. For a TV movie, WHISPER comes across
pretty well, even with its distinct lack of blood and gore. The closest
to a name star appearing in this tidy little thriller is big-screen
favorite Michael Rooker, but he is in and out of the movie pretty
quickly. A scene halfway through, set on the ice of a nearby lake,
appears to be a straightforward homage to a similar scene in THE OMEN.
It is also the best scene in this TV movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw a trailer for this movie months before it's DVD release and
remember reading stuff about it but not knowing all the details so I
couldn't wait to see it.It would have been nice to have caught it in
theater's for it's limited release.The original movie poster for
"whisper" was nice, with a picture of a house behind trees and David
sitting in the snow beside a dead and bloody crow with a caption "the
devil's work is child's play".I really liked that original poster for
the movie and hoped it would be the cover for the DVD as well.But
instead we get a cheap looking cover with a new caption.For the DVD
they should have gone with the alternate title "Hellion" instead which
would be appropriate for this new cover art and the movie. As for the
movie itself,I liked it and it was better then I thought it would be.It
has good solid acting and an original idea.It would have made a great
Omen sequel since Damien was orphaned at the end and he would have gone
to another family anyway and raised hell! His name could have been
changed after his adoption.....But Whisper is is a good movie on it's
own.And after seeing it I understand the title of the movie.Before I
watched it I had an idea about the plot.I knew a young boy was
kidnapped and was held hostage by 4 kidnappers and unknown to them the
boy wasn't as innocent as they thought.He had a way of tapping into
their minds and turning them against one another.I anxiously wanted to
see it to see how an 8 year old could outsmart them.I started thinking
about another movie I saw called "hard candy" where a young conniving
girl managed to use her mind to turn against the pedophile she was
stalking. Well after watching it I realized they were 2 completely
different movies and that "Whisper" was more like the Omen and that
David was actually something from Hell.Well indeed he did get even with
the ones that kidnapped him and hatched a diabolical plan to carefully
destroy them one by one! I think one of the reasons this movie works is
because of the evil background music and seriousness of it rather than
being b-rated or movie of the week like.Blake Woodruff did a very good
and convincing portrayal of this not so innocent boy. The one problem I
had was the beginning seemed rushed and there was a very quick line
about David's father dying and him being adopted and all of his nannies
dying mysteriously.This was quite confusing because it doesn't really
explain where he came from and how he became what he was.At least in
the Omen there is a back story and Damien had an origin, but with David
it's a mystery.I think this could have been explored better.And after
seeing the alternate ending,I have to say I prefer it better because
you can't kill that type of evil.How can an ordinary guy like Max(Josh
Holloway)defeat David's powers so easily where his associates couldn't!
Whoever decided on the ending was wrong.The alternate ending is more
satisfying and just fits better with the whole story.And another thing
to,those extended scenes were better and more detailed & the first 2
deleted scenes should have stayed in the movie also for continuity and
to make things a little less confusing.It is a shame that there isn't
an option on a DVD to add the extended & deleted scenes back into the
movie,and pick the ending you prefer.I really like this movie but felt
nothing should have been cut out,and the alternate ending should have
been used!
<|_=00=_|>
The cast is largely unknown at least to me but they do a superb and
unforgettable job bringing this story to life about a kidnapping that
goes horribly wrong from the first instant. The three kidnappers, two
men and a woman who are somewhat a love triangle, kidnap an eight year
old boy named David SAnborn but not just any eight year old boy. David
acts bizarre, drawing disturbing images, whispering evil into their
ears, and creating a sense of fear among his own kidnappers. The
tragedy is what happens to the kidnappers who don't deserve their fate.
David is like Damien from the Omen but we're not really sure if he is
the angel or demon or son of the Devil but he does act like one. The
film is a good thriller but leaves some flaws in it. I kind of liked
the film overall.
<|_=00=_|>
Cross THE OMEN with THE SHINING and add a great dollop of "The Ransom
of Red Chief", and you get WHISPER, a slick, "better than I had
expected", horror flick. The cinematography is beautiful and the
direction fluid and sure. The acting is good with a standout, scene
stealing, turn by Joel Edgerton, someone I had never heard of before,
but whose films I will now seek out. There are lots of wolves with
glowing eyes, the usual "jump out at you" scenes,"and a really creepy
child actor, and even with an overlong screenplay, somehow the whole
project comes together nicely. (I guessed who the main kidnapper was
pretty quick, but the reveal still held a couple of good shocks.) Look,
DOCTOR ZHIVAGO it ain't, but for a fun night around a bowl of popcorn
you could do worse. 7 out of 10!
