
Given that I have not read any of the books upon which the Work and the
Glory movies are based, I do not bring a pre-conceived measuring stick
to the theatre. I have,however, seen all three movies and thought this
one was well-directed. The main characters were flesh and blood and not
one dimensional. I enjoyed being given a window into the lives of the
characters. I thought the story moved along without condescending
dialog and the audience was respected enough to be allowed to put two
and two together numerous times. I agree with some others that Joseph's
role was too slight in this one. However, the only caricatures I saw
were in some of the mobbers. Some of the resolutions were a bit swift,
but were better for me than if they had been drawn out and
over-dramatized. Of particular quality in acting were Sam Hennings,
Eric Johnson and Meredith Salenger.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Work & the Glory: A House Divided" is a wonderful conclusion to
the three films based on Gerald Lund's inspiring set of books. While
one could wish that the series would continue, it is nice to have the
the three films made conclude at a strong point for the fictional Steed
family depicted. The three parts make for a marvelous canvas on which
to paint a portrait of a good family torn apart by the forth-coming of
the restoration of Christ's Church. This film shows the necessity of
forgiveness and its power in healing. As in the other films, the
characterization of Joseph Smith and other historical figures is
outstanding. Well worth seeing in a theatre--and certainly a great DVD
to own! Too bad that EXCEL didn't provide a commentary track for this
one.
<|_=00=_|>
(Warning: MILD spoilers) I loved the character development in this
movie. Unfortunately, the historical events depicted were VERY
Luke-warm in their presentation. The most disappointing scene was of
the Kirtland Temple dedication. The event was amazing for those who
experienced it - and even some saw angels and others, outside the
building, thought the building was on fire because of the glow. But in
the movie there was nothing but mediocre singing with a voice-over of
the Prophet reciting part of the prayer; very ho-hum.

Some of the effects were lousy due to the low budget (night scenes shot
in the daytime, for example).

Overall, the story is excellent and it is an uplifting beautiful work;
just not as polished or powerful as I would have hoped.
<|_=00=_|>
The third and as of now last film of the early history of the Church Of
Christ Of Latter Day Saints that has inspired a nine series is in
keeping with the good standard set by the first two. I don't have any
fault with the quality of the work done in these films inspired by LDS
novelist Gerald Lund and his fictional characters the Steed Family in
whom we see the rough early days the Mormon Church had to endure.

My problem is that by now polygamy should have been part of the film.
Can't escape that was part of the LDS tenet of faith and the film
makers should have been honest about it. It's the underlying reason why
so many outsiders don't like these people. Of course that was no excuse
for the persecution that they endured.

Eric Johnson is the oldest Steed brother who as we know from the
previous films is estranged from his family. Younger brother Alexander
Carroll stole his girlfriend and newly formed LDS church has gradually
converted almost the whole family. This mind you after family patriarch
Sam Hennings has hired a couple of brothers in his first year after
emigrating from Vermont to Palmyra, New York hired a couple of
itinerant farm hands named Hyrum and Joseph Smith, little realizing
that Joseph Smith was a young man who has claimed to be visited by
angels of God who told him to establish a new church. One way or
another Smith's vision has affected all in the Steed Family for three
books and films now. Smith is once again played by Jonathan Scarfe.

While on business in Savannah, Johnson acquires a new wife and comes
back to Missouri. He doesn't tell her all about his past and his
unyielding hatred of the LDS church which he sees as the root of all
his personal problems. But when the Governor of Missouri essentially
signs a shoot on sight order for Mormons who venture from what you
could call an assigned ghetto, things come to a head for the Steeds and
the Mormons.

Few enough people know about Lilburn Boggs who was Governor of Missouri
who signed that order which was nothing less than genocide. A not very
proud chapter in American history. After his term as governor was
finished, Boggs was almost assassinated by persons unknown. Suspicion
pointed at Porter Rockwell who was not the most even tempered of men.
Rockwell is not in the picture yet as far as the LDS church is
concerned. He was never convicted of the crime of putting four bullets
into Boggs who miraculously lived. Apparently there was a list of
people as large as the Salt Lake City phone book of today who would
like to have done the job and not all of them Mormons.

The church itself is going through crisis and in this film that is most
definitely related to what was going on at the time. Joseph Smith
decides to charter a bank and it fails as many banks in the years of
1837-38 did in the USA. Andrew Jackson did not recharter the Bank of
the United States and when it went out of business many wildcat banks
sprung up overnight and just as many failed. Smith's bank was far from
the only one. It was the Panic of 1837 and one of the major depressions
in American history. The film also makes reference to the fact that
banks could issue their own currency. Our American currency system did
not get its start until the Civil War under Lincoln's Secretary of the
Treasury Salmon P. Chase.

Sooner or later if additional films are made they'll have to come to
grips with the polygamy issue. But for what it is and is trying to say,
The Work And The Glory: A House Divided is a fine bit of cinema.
<|_=00=_|>
The Work and the Glory series by Gerald Lund was written as a
historical fiction series. They are wonderful in the sense that they
teach you a whole lot about the history of the church while making it
entertaining to read by inserting a fictional family for you to follow.
I have read the books and highly recommend them. The movies, however,
got increasingly frustrating. The first movie I actually thought was
very good. The second movie was a little disappointing. The third was
plain out frustrating. Frustrating in the fact that it had so much
potential and was almost epic, but missed the mark. The acting was
great. And it was well casted. The whole Steed family was done almost
exactly as I portrayed them in my mind. The problem in the movie was
the script. Now I know that the books were really long and I'm not one
to complain at every little detail left out, but the movie totally
hashed it. It was poorly transferred from book to movie. If the movie
were done exactly word for word to the book, it would've been at least
a 5 or 6 hour movie, but in that situation I think its fair to at least
make the movie 2 hours or 2 1/2 hours long. But no, this movie was only
90 minutes. And of that 90 minutes about half of it was a story line
that was not in the book at all. That means they took a huge book and
turned it into 45 or 50 minutes, thus leaving out 3/4 of the book. Thus
the story line with the Steed family is only loosely followed and the
historical aspect that makes the series so perfect is portrayed only
half-heartedly at best. Extremely disappointing. But I'm giving this a
5 out of 10 because the acting is great. The actors do an amazing job
with what they were given. And its still a touching message of family
unity and brotherhood in the trying times of the early Saints. But
overall, I would suggest you to read the books and skip the movies. I
normally like a movie franchise based on a book series to finish the
series and turn all the books into movies, but after this poorly done
third movie, I am so glad that they stopped there and didn't continue
to make all 9 books into movies.
<|_=00=_|>
Imagine if the "Lord of the Rings" series ended with the fellowship
reaching the mines of Moria, Loegolas and Gimli decided to be friends .
. . and that's it. That's essentially what we get in disastrously
disappointing denouement to "The Work and the Glory III: A House
Divided." The less interesting subplot of the fictional Steed family is
wrapped up satisfactorily (in fact, for the first time in the trilogy I
really cared about these characters. The Joshua/Nathan story, merely a
tepid, uninspired LDS "Legends of the Fall" in part I, is now deeply
moving). But the strength of "W & G" (best displayed in the second
film, easily the best of the series, aside from it's slapdash ending)
is it's portrayal of early LDS Church history. in particular, Jonathan
Scarfe's portrayal of Joseph Smith is a performance for the ages. When
these films center on Smith and Andrew Bown's Brigham Young, they're to
notch. Sadly, despite some compelling scenes for Scarfe and Bowen early
on, the film then tries to end too abruptly, leaving the best parts of
the story untold. It's as if producer/used car salesman/anti-Christ
Larry H. Miller suddenly ran out of money and decided to wrap things up
in a half-heartedly fashion. He bolts from the ending so quickly you'd
think he's discovered the film contained gay cowboys.

"A House Divided" demonstrates how this series flirted with great
film-making, and sadly, fell just short. I still remain a tremendous
fondness for these films and their moving portrayal of events which i
hold sacred 9and yet are presented in a way as to be compelling to
people of all religious creeds), and am glad they were made. Jonathan
Scarfe is the screen's definitive Joseph Smith. It's just a shame that
lack of money and other concerns led to the most anti-climactic ending
since "X-Men: The Last Stand." See it, it's well worth it. But it ends
at least another hour to tell the best parts of the story.

Two and a half stars out of four (could have made three and a half, as
did "American Zion", without the dumbfounding fizzle-out at the end).
