
I don't see why everyone has such a problem with this movie - I thought
it was okay, it wasn't the best movie I've ever seen, and it didn't
have the best acting ever, but it certainly wasn't the worst movie
ever.

The ending wasn't too good, but the movie wasn't too shabby, the
storyline was good and it proved to keep me entertained for the full
two hours. I learnt a lot about 50 cent during the movie, even though
I'm not a fan of rap and/or 50 cent himself, I still enjoyed it.

The movie gives you inspiration, if 50 cent can go through a lot and
come out of it a billion dollar rapper at the end, it makes you think
that you could probably do something on the same level.

You don't have to like rap and/or 50 cent to enjoy this movie and read
into it. If you enjoyed the trailer, don't let the bad reviews put you
off, that's what I did, yet I liked the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I have read through all of these comments, and am astounded at the
amount of negativity towards it. I cannot believe that any film within
the IMDb database can be voted as 1 out of 10, thats just stupid.
Alrite, i agree its not an Oscar winning film, but I enjoyed it! OK, 50
cent's acting is brilliant, but he pulls it off! The film boasts a
reasonable story based on his life, and to be honest it wasn't amazing,
but it was generally enjoyable! Lost's Mr Eko played his character
well, as did Terrence Howard! And Bill Duke, as the Ghetto Godfather is
astoundingly brilliant! 8 Mile was a good film, and this is as good! So
please, ignore the negative views and watch this film!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this movie for one reason: Terrence Howard. As always, Howard
is brilliant. The other performances are solid, including Curtis "50
Cent" Jackson who, for people who don't seem to understand this, plays
himself. (If 50 Cent were to "act", as some maintain, then he would not
be portraying his true self, and the entire movie would self-destruct
into a moot point.) The camera shots, angles, and lighting are superb,
the dialog is genuine, and the plot line is believable. But this is not
run-of-the-mill Hollywood fare. There is no seamless stream of canned
emotional music to fill in the gaps for underactive imaginations. There
are no handy-dandy humor scenes for fluffy feel-good filling. There are
no flat characters to artificially ease the main character into some
orchestrated epiphany. There isn't even really a hero. There is only a
man who is trying to live as best as he can in a self-serving world, a
man who finds a measure of strength even as he runs from his fears. In
order to truly appreciate the message that this movie has to offer, you
have to think outside of your comfortable movie-watching box. This
movie is gritty, powerful and raw. This movie makes no excuses. This
movie is about as close as the big screen can get to portraying real
life. No, it's not a pleasant movie. Neither is life.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is doomed for poor reviews. In real life, 50 is the protégé
of Eminem, and now he decides to do a movie based on his life at the
same point in his career as Eminem did. The funny thing is, it's a good
movie. I am a fan of this genre of music in small doses, but i have no
personal crush on 50 cent and I found this movie intriguing. 50 didn't
wreck any scenes. In fact, he was similar to eminem in this role, never
looking out of place or forcing anything. As previously mentioned,
there are so many 50 bashers and people who feel rappers have no right
to be in the movie industry, that the voting for this movie wont
actually represent the general population who aren't biased before
seeing a movie. And lastly, I have no clue how this movie promotes
drugs. 50 takes nine bullets and barely lives cause of it, the one drug
kingpin is killed and the other doing life behind bars. Not to mention
the fact that his friend is put in a wheelchair and that earlier in the
film when u see Marcus with Dangerous, an addict comes up all messed up
handing change to one of the dealers. This is reality of drug wars, its
not glamorizing it.
<|_=00=_|>
The criticism of this film reminds me of that received for Jarhead.
People said Jarhead was not a war movie, and the Get Rich or Die Trying
had to little to do with rap. My question is, why doesn't this make it
a bad film? And to make one last comparison, this film way out did
anything 8 Mile attempted (much more of a social critique).

The strength in this film is derived from it's black and white
presentation of the "dope game" and how for fifty it was either sleep
in a cellar, or buy a Mercedes. Sheridan did a good depiction of how
selling drugs is an easy escape, a way to make you feel like a man. The
best and most powerful scene in this film is when someone slips a razor
blade in his solitary cell in order for him to kill himself. He
remarks, "I thought about it". I also enjoyed the non-romanticized
violence, and how the drug game was not altogether glorified.

The downfall of this film is it's over dramatized scenes, and it may be
a little to long, however, a good critique of Black Urban society, and
well worth your 8 dollars.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie got a lot of bad ratings from many reviewers. I saw the
movie recently and thought it was great. It wasn't an Oscar winning
movie but it got me on the edge of my seat. The movie is very similar
to Eminems 8 Mile, as in it shows little reference to the artists
life.The name is different but it shows some similarty to Curtis '50
Cent' Jacksons life.The movie has action,drama,gang fights,romance, and
a whole lot more. This is definitely a movie you should go see when you
want to see a good movie. Some may say 50 cent is a sell out with a
movie and a video game coming out in the same month,but I personally
think he is doing a good job. A great movie to see if your a 50 cent or
rap fan.
<|_=00=_|>
Awful just awful.Let's begin with the sad acting by none other than 50
cent.He has got to be the worst actor in the world and only made this
film suck more.The brutal story and sickening dialogue shows you just
how much effort 50 cent put into this load of garbage.Fans of 50 cent
will flock to the theatre to see this but i don't even think this crap
will satisfy them.This movie is just a vulgar piece of crap with a bad
story,bad acting,and no creativity.This just goes to show you how much
talent 50 cent has,absolutely none.I can only see this movie as
something to make money off of due to the large popularity of 50 cent
as a rapper.There is no chance in hell anyone put any thought into this
and i will never watch this again.Get rich or die trying is a
horrendous excuse for a movie that isn't even worth 50 cents.
<|_=00=_|>
I have nothing personal against 50 Cent, don't buy his records, kind of 
view him as a flash in the pan. But after being saturated with his 
face for the past 3 years I figured, why not see what 
all the hype is about...yeah his "music" is bubble-gum wannabe gangster 
rap that couldn't hold a candle to the originators of the genre...(i.e. 
N.W.A.,Schooly-D,etc.) The music will be forgotten in 5 years time...so 
maybe the movie will give him some validity, let's see if he can act. 
BAD MOVE, this guy makes DMX look like Sidney Poitier. The whole movie 
is the classic template, just plug in a one gear, multi-millionaire 
so-called rap artist. It just wasn't entertaining, I wasn't expecting 
the Godafther, but jeez...what a waste. So many other movies, steeped 
in hood reality have delivered far more...Menace 2 Society and Boyz N' 
The Hood all the way back to Cooley High. Hopefully the relatively 
dismal box office receipts will keep this guy out of the movies so he 
can concentrate on selling dull, bland pop music to the mouth breathing 
masses who hail him as the king of the streets.
<|_=00=_|>
50 Cent should fake his death after this 2 hour embarrassment.

It is 100% pile of steamy crap with corn and flies. The script was if
it was written by someone in the third grade.

The acting was deafeningly stale. The scene with the knifefight in the
steamy shower slipping on soap was worthy of being left on the cutting
room floor.

It went on and on and on.

Boring and more boring and wait! Even more boring still.

I am embarrassed for rap music after seeing this.

I want my DMC and Public Enemy.
<|_=00=_|>
I really enjoyed this movie. At first I didn't think it was going to be
a big deal and I was very skeptical when I was at the movies but I did
the right thing by giving it a chance. 50 Cent's acting is surprisingly
good considering he has never really acted before. The plot was well
thought out and there were a lot of parts that were emotional; for
instance when his mother was killed and he then had to grow up by
himself. I read some comments on here that though expressed personal
opinion were really hateful, but I guess its expected when a rapper
makes a movie. I like 50 cent as a rapper, maybe I am biased, but I
really do think this movie was good.
