
What had drawn me to watch Death Defying Acts, is that it's a story
with Harry Houdini, arguably the greatest illusionist and escape artist
of our time. A few days ago I was browsing through a book which
revealed the secrets behind his brand of death defying acts, and really
he's a man of science, engineering and most of all, a performer to
bring to life the act of fooling an audience into believing his stunts.
Sure there's an element of danger, but with proper risk assessment and
safeguards, they strip away all the mystique that serves to confound.

But contrary to the title, there's nothing really death defying about
the movie, as it treaded on safe ground and doesn't dwell any more on
the illusions that it has to. In fact, you can count the number of
stunts which involve Harry Houdini, and the filmmakers left that for
another biographical movie that someone else should pick up on. What we
have instead are glimpses into the man's personal life, and Guy Pearce
provided quite an intense and charismatic Houdini with personal demons
of his own to do battle with, though the story seemed to rein him in
from dwelling too much on that aspect, and preferred to have a more
romantic tale weaved in.

The romanticism of the movie is not with his illusions, but with a
single parent who's a psychic of sorts, relying on her street smarts to
get her own act going. Catherine Zeta-Jones plays Mary McGarvie, who
has to rely on her wits to build credibility for her stage character.
Together with daughter and sidekick Benji (played by Saoirse Ronan of
Atonement fame), the mother and daughter team tries hard to make a
living from their acts, but realize that they're by no means close to
Houdini's widespread fame and fortune.

However, Houdini himself throws a gauntlet to all psychics far and
wide, that whosoever can accurately reveal what his late mother had
last said to him, will inherit US$10,000. His purpose it seems is to
reveal that the majority of these soothsayers are tricksters in
disguise, until of course he meets the luminous Mary, and affairs of
the heart throws him off course. Naturally, Mary and Benji find
themselves up against the best in the business, but when your back is
against the wall, there's nothing much to lose it seems.

As mentioned earlier, this movie's more of a character study of the
master magician, and explores things like his guilt because of
dedication to his craft and performance, as well as his questionable
motives in being attracted to the fictional Mary McGarvie. Narrated by
the character of Benji, we see things through a child's eyes, and
perhaps therein lies the loss of some pathos in the romantic angle of
it. On one hand, it isn't your classic romantic story, while on the
other, it doesn't seem to want to preach the method, rationale and
mindset of Houdini himself.

So what emerged is a mixed bag. Beautifully shot, but again falling on
the emptiness of its effort in trying to allow the audience to feel for
the characters. At least Timothy Spall, who plays Mr Sugarman,
Houdini's manager, allowed for some light moments as the guarded and
wary person that he is. And credit goes to keeping the ending quite
right too.
<|_=00=_|>
There's nothing death defying about Death Defying Acts. This is a
pretty conventional motion picture that doesn't try to do anything new
with the genre it's portraying. There's nothing terribly wrong about
this, but there isn't anything particularly original about the movie
either. While it's been pretty maligned in some circles - maybe this is
why it never was released in the States and it arrived two years late
in Peruvian theatres - it's not a bad movie; it's OK, I guess, but
nothing spectacular. This is the hardest type of movie to review - the
kind of film that didn't make an impression on me, but that isn't that
bad either. This will definitely be a short review.

The film tells the story of mega-famous magician and trickster Harry
Houdini (Guy Pearce - Memento). He's arrived on Britain as part of one
of his tours - he's looking for a magician or psychic that can be able
to guess - or "see" - the last words his mother uttered before dying.
You see, this is all part of a scientific experiment he wishes to
conduct. Something unexpected happens the moment he arrives at
Scotland, though - he falls in love with psychic Mary McGarvie
(Catherine Zeta-Jones), whose daughter and "apprentice", Benji (Saoirse
Ronan) approached to accept his scientific challenge.

If that small plot summary sounded simplistic, that's because it is.
The movie is not particularly ambitious, and that's maybe why I was
left overwhelmed by it - there's so much to say about a figure as
famous and recognizable as Houdini, and the film decides to focus on
something decidedly dull. The film actually starts with some promise -
I liked Ronan's voice-over, and it almost seemed as if the film was to
focus on something interesting. But then, of course, I started to
discover this was going to be a romance - a very clichéd,
underdeveloped romance, at that - and I shuddered.

If there's a reason why the film is not bad, it's because of some solid
performances. Guy Pearce is one of the most underrated actors working
today - see his work in the aforementioned Memento if you don't believe
me - and although the screenplay doesn't present a particularly
three-dimensional version of Houdini, he makes him believable and
humane. Catherine Zeta Jones is pretty good too, sporting a credible
Scottish accent (!) and trying to portray Mary as a sympathetic figure
despite the fact that the writers' don't seem to like the character.
Timothy Spall - as Houdini's manager - is great as always, but the real
standout is Saoirse Ronan. (Who was also really amazing in Atonement,
by the way.) It's not only that she portrays the most developed,
interesting and fun character, it's also that she brings it to life -
Pearce and Zeta Jones' performances are precisely that (performances)
but Ronan seems to be inhabiting her character, definitely putting a
lot of passion into a project that arguably doesn't deserve that much.

Despite the fact that Death Defying Acts is already available on DVD
and Blu-Ray in most countries, I got to see it in theatres. I can't say
I regret having paid for this particularly theatrical viewing
experience, but I won't enthusiastically recommend the movie either.
The screenplay, while not terrible, is pretty ordinary, and the
direction is all right. (Cinematography is gorgeous, though, and the
score is beautiful.) Performances - especially Ronan's - are what save
the film from entering the realm of mediocrity, but if you really want
to watch a magician's flick, I'd recommend either the Illusionist or
The Prestige.
<|_=00=_|>
Gillian Armstrong makes fine movies: she is a director who knows how to
tell stories and enhance what appears on the surface to be reality with
a healthy dose of fantasy. Her sense of pacing and image creation adds
substance to her tales that sometimes border on bizarre. 

DEATH DEFYING ACTS uses the character of Harry Houdini as the stimulus
of to tell a story about the folk of Edinburgh, Scotland at a time when
stage shows were embraced much the way America was using vaudeville -
an escape from the rather dreary state of living to a world of
entertainment and love of magic. Mary McGarvie (Catherine Zeta-Jones)
and her daughter Benji (Saoirse Ronan) survive in Edinburgh by picking
pockets not merely for cash but for information to use in their act in
the little theaters. Mary does exotic dances then uses her 'gifts' to
see into the 'other world' of people in the audience ( Benji does the
investigative work and is the prompter for the séance like acts Mary
performs). Their idol is Harry Houdini (Guy Pearce) and when they learn
Houdini is coming to Edinburgh to 'perform', they discover Houdini is
promising $10,000 to anyone who can prove they have the ability to look
into the future (or past). Houdini's manager Sugarman (Timothy Spall)
arranges Houdini's water tank escape acts and other acts of 'magic',
and when Mary and Benji arrange to meet Houdini, Sugarman is aware they
are charlatans. How Mary and Benji work their way into Houdini's belief
system and love life with their con game forms the meat of the sparing. 

The atmosphere of the film is well captured by cinematographer Haris
Zambarloukos who understands who to balance the mire of the streets of
1926 Edinburgh with the gorgeous fantasies used during Houdini's escape
acts. The musical score by Cezary Skubiszewski is a terrific mixture of
Scottish tunes and instruments with solid melodramatic mood music.
Pearce, Zeta-Jones, Spall and Ronan turn in excellent performances.
This is an unjustly overlooked film that, while not being a
masterpiece, serves up a fine story well told. Grady Harp
<|_=00=_|>
This film is about a woman who works as a con artist trying to deceive
Harry Houdini into believing that she has psychic powers.

"Death Defying Acts" sounds like an action movie, but the poster looks
more like a romantic film. In fact it is neither. It is a slowly
unfolding drama about how Mary attempts to con Harry, and how harry
falls for her.

As Houdini is the greatest escape artist of all times, a film about him
should have been exciting, thrilling and even death defying. However,
this film has none of these attributes. The plot is slow, plain and not
exciting at all. There is not much tension or drama to captivate me. I
do not care about the characters, and whatever relationship they have
between them. There is little chemistry between Guy Pearce and
Catherine Zeta-Jones. Frankly, I think they are both miscast.
Fortunately, Saoirse Ronan is delightful as the psychic sidekick. She
is the one who save the film.

"Death Defying Acts" turns out to be a bore. I am quite disappointed by
it.
<|_=00=_|>
I just watched this film at its premier at the 2007 Toronto
International Film Festival. While I enjoyed the acting abilities of
Catherine Zeta Jones, Guy Pierce and especially the young Saoirse
Ronan, the script was such an affront to the true Houdini that I almost
gagged. In fact, I spoke up and asked a very uncomfortable question to
Gillian Armstrong during the question and answer period. "How do you
answer to the legacy of who Harry Houdini really was - a skeptic who
spent his life energy successfully debunking anyone offering
supernatural claims... inspiring such people as the great James Randi,
who, like Harry, offered large sums of money to anyone who could prove,
under scientific conditions, the existence of supernatural phenomena.
To this date, the money has not been claimed... Harry championed the
rational, scientific approach to studying phenomena. How do you justify
the blatant spirituality shown in your movie?" The answer was vague.
Ms. Armstrong pointed out that if Harry was such a skeptic, why was he
so obsessed with the afterlife. Moreover, at the end of the film, there
is a title card that describes the séances that have tried to contact
Harry after his death, all with no success. Okay. Right. People are
going to remember a few lines of text and NOT the angels swimming
through the water, the visions of Harry's dead mother as he hung upside
down in the Chinese Water Torture tank... the lights going out as
little Benji writhed on the floor speaking perfect, fluent German, the
"psychic connection" Mary had to Harry the moment he died
(incidentally, Harry died at Detroit's Grace Hospital of peritonitis
from a ruptured appendix at 1:26 p.m. on October 31 - Halloween - in
Room 401, 1926, at the age of 52! Does Guy Pierce look 52 to you?). Ms.
Armstong even did an informal poll of the audience - she asked "How
many people here think that Benji was really channeling Harry's
mother?" To which about half the audience raised their hands. Yikes. Do
these people also believe in the tooth fairy? Yes, this is a Hollywood
fantasy. However, it treats Harry as an unfaithful, vision-seeing
pseudo psychic. It is an affront to everything Harry stood for. As a
piece of fiction, it is enjoyable. If you can stomach its historical
desecrations, you will enjoy wonderful acting and great cinematography.
If you know anything about who Houdini was or value what he stood for,
you will be frustrated by this blatant attempt to make our world even
more demon-haunted than it already is.
<|_=00=_|>
I really did not care that this was not a factual account of Houdini's
life. There are some truths in the depiction of Harry (some actual B&W
footage is used of his acts and his debunking of mystics). It was
enjoyable, had beautiful cinematography, elements of humor a story of
love and life...however implausible it may be, it does not detract from
elegance of watching Catherine Zeta Jones(Mary McGarvie) try to support
herself and her daughter, matching wits with the great Houdini.

Catherine displays a grace and style combined with fire and drive. Her
daughter provides moments of comedic relief and there is tension
between Catherine and Guy Pearce - should she win the money at any
cost, allow herself to fall in love, what is in the afterlife? This was
entertainment based on Houdini, a platform to tell a story which I
thought was well done.
<|_=00=_|>
Warning DOES contain spoiler so don't read until after you've seen the
movie.

I just watched this last night on DVD and really enjoyed it. I'm so
easily disappointed in movies these days. Disappointed in most of them.
Big budget. Big name actors. Hugely technical stunts. Ho Hum. What was
the moral of that story? I often find myself asking at the end of the
movie - what was the moral of that? What message can I identify with in
the real world?

This seemed like a delightfully creative little fictionalisation to me.
The movie has been represented as creative fantasy so no need to take
it too seriously. I didn't mind the title at all. Afterall Houdini's
(show) life was based on Death Defying Acts. But this movie turns out
to be a love story with an element of the very spiritualism he was
trying to debunk. I couldn't help feel that Houdini always wanted to
pay someone that prize money. I suspect deep down he was always hoping
he would find that inexplicable connection to the afterlife even though
he knew it would be unlikely as he was most qualified in the tricks of
that trade.

Those rare few individuals that have the wonderful talent to tune into
visions or cosmic consciousness or whatever are the first to concede
others will call it a delusion and science will always find another
explanation. Usually.

So street tough and street wise Mary (Catherine) is focused on the scam
of a lifetime. The character is obviously supposed to be a beautiful
woman practiced in the art of beguiling men. Catherine pulls it off for
me. I find her exquisitely beautiful. Houdini's (Guy) interest is a
little peculiar (kinky?) perhaps. She even wonders herself is he
falling for her because she's beautiful and she's growing attracted to
him or because she reminds him of his mother?

These two get in each others head space and I had to laugh when when
the daughter (psychic sidekick) says (in her concern of watching her
mother fall for the charismatic and artful player) "don't have just
another roll in the hay - like you did with my dad."

Ah the dynamics of the interpersonal relationships between men and
woman. Lust. Love. As a man maybe it's easier for me to have trouble
telling the difference some times. But it's all in the game.

This is where we get to that perfect little dialogue. I liked it
anyway. 

"Look what you've done to me" 

"I only made you fall in love" (Sounds like a player line to me. Maybe
she had it coming. The player you are the player you get baby) 

"That wasn't love. That was infatuation. Just another fling. But it
didn't quite happen did it." 

"I'm afraid. I'm afraid of myself. What I feel for you. What I want.
It's shameful" 

"It's not shameful Harry. Who taught you that? It's what men and women
do and sometimes if you're really lucky in between the sweaty sheets
you'll find a little bit of true human love." 

"Did you ever find it?"

(If you watch the movie you'll get the answer)

The moral of the story. Sounds just like real life -

Yes I'm attracted to you. Yes it feels like love (for the moment
anyway) and it's the best feeling I've felt in a while. But my life -
it's someplace else right now. Love. Eternal or ephemeral. You decide.
<|_=00=_|>
Another magician movie? But The Illusionist and The Prestige were great
movies, so why not? Catherine Zeta Jones plays a foxy, yet poor,
mother, scamming away through life pretending to be a psychic. When Guy
Pearce's Houdini comes into town to prove or disprove the existence of
the paranormal, they come into contact.

It is both a sad and a hopeful movie. A little too "psychic" for me and
too little about the true nature of Harry Houdini except his
fascination for his dead mother. The script itself does not lend itself
to praise, but the atmosphere and realisation are top notch.

Bottom line: watch it when you are in a mood for a rom-drama, but you
don't care much about the subject.
<|_=00=_|>
i do not know why this film is flushed with negative reviews. First of
all this is not a film about Houdini, there is no reason why this film
should dramatically display the amazing acts and potentials of the
artist himself; Secondly, i do not see why 'there is no reason for the
creation of this movie' is justifiable, this film is just a testimony
on how characters carry on with their lives and that itself is enough
to make a film meaningful...in fact films like 'Atonement' (where the
girl is also in) deserves this statement better where everything is
just so FAKE. Third, i haven't watch the illusionist but i have to say
this is richer in detail, and thus better than the Prestige--a film
which displays too much magic 'action' but no depth to the characters
or the plot at all, like an eggshell without the yoke inside...Lastly,
this is a decent film where everything is well-made, well presented,
well acting performances (exception of Catherine's dramatically 'fake'
acting at times), and a good score
<|_=00=_|>
It might be the weakest of the latest "Magicians" movies (see Prestige
and the Illusionist, the latter being overseen at the Box office), but
it still has one strong central performance by Guy Pearce. I'm
wondering when he will be in some top rated material again. Because the
book does let him down a bit here.

He tries everything and he is pretty good in it, but does not have so
much to play with, as Ed Norton, Hugh Jackman and Christian Bale. All
are great actors and the others have the opportunity in their movies to
shine. This being based on "true events" (some of them I guess, without
having the complete background scoop on it), it does fall flat on it's
back at times (no pun intended). Plus it might be a bit too much
worried about the love story, than actually the story of our main
character. At least that's how I felt ... still it can make a nice
watch!
