
Now here's a movie almost doomed to the back pages of cinema history.
Only playing at one cinema in my area and having grossed a mere 3
million in two weeks at the box office, it might just be only a matter
of time before this movie fades away and is forgotten. That would be
quite the shame as the Hoax is quite the movie, and a real treat for
the very few people who are actually willing to give it a chance.

"The Hoax" is the story of Clifford Irving, a struggling author
pitching ideas to the McGraw-Hill company. As his most recent novel is
blasted by critics before release, a desperate Clifford promises his
editors and publishers the story of the century, without having
precisely figured out what that is. That is until he stumbles onto it
(literally). Clifford decides to con the whole world into believing
that the reclusive enigmatic billionaire Howard Hughes has commissioned
him to write his autobiography.

What follows is an intriguing and enthralling romp through the mazes of
lies and deceptions that Clifford and is "co-author" Dick Suskind have
spun. Eventually, the fictitious story snowballs past anything the two
writers could believe as revelations into accounts of fraud and
blackmail begin to penetrate the highest offices, and it all begins to
come crashing down.

"The Hoax" is a character driven drama of the highest caliber. The
sharp direction and writing, and excellent casting make it hard to
ignore. Richard Gere and Alfred Molina give career high performances,
and the supporting Hope Davis and Marcia Gay Hayden just round the film
off nicely.

This is one of the best movies of 2007 so far. It may not have as wide
an appeal as other outings, but it's thoroughly enjoyable all the same.

4.5/5
<|_=00=_|>
While fighting to enter in the theater where the press screening of the
Roma Film Festival took place I hadn't great expectations for this
film. The trailer looked so bad. More, I have never been much confident
in Richard Gere's acting talents, but I must admit: in this film he
proved me wrong. Appearing in almost every scene, not handsome as ever
(he changed his hairline and his nose to look more like to the real
Irving) Gere gives at last a good performance. I discovered he's also
pretty good doing impressions - he does a great Howard Hughes, whose
photos are constantly shown in the film and who, by the way, doesn't at
all look like Di Caprio. Alfred Molina is also very good - hilariously
funny, he's the best part in the movie. As for the supporting cast,
there are pleasant cameos by Stanley Tucci and Eli Wallach. As for
Richard Gere, I wasn't much confident in Lasse Hallström too - I found
most of his films rather sappy. He did a good job in the Hoax though.
The film has a nice "70s" look, with appropriate cinematography and a
nice soundtrack as well. The one thing that didn't thoroughly convince
me was the script: it started pretty well, but past the middle of the
film it kinda loses its way and becomes more confused and repetitive.
Still, a nice film. Gere fans, I'm sorry you will have to wait, since
the opening in USA has been postponed to April, but the wait will be
worth it. My rating is 7/10.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Hoax" is a rollicking good time at the movies. It's a strongly
written, competently directed, and well acted character study of a
pathological liar, Clifford Irving. This amazing true story details the
complex hoax staged by Irving, a man who in the 1970's fooled a major
publisher and LIFE magazine into thinking he was writing an authorized
biography of Howard Hughes. Most of the fun emerges from the extreme
lengths Irving (Richard Gere) and his best friend and partner (Alfred
Molina) go to pull off the hair-brained scheme. The more outrageous the
lies they concoct, the more believable they become and the more money
gets thrown at them.

Richard Gere has never been that good of an actor, but he's always had
an arrogant charm that makes him oddly likable, and he uses that to its
full extent in what is probably his most mature performance here as
Clifford Irving, a arrogantly likable and charming liar. He's
surrounded by a fantastic supporting cast in Alfred Molina (as his
sympathetic and often comical side-kick), Marcia Gay Harden (donning
blonde hair and a European accent as his long-suffering but eager to
con wife), and Hope Davis (playing his publishing industry connection).
Davis probably gets the best line in the film when she says to a
coworker who unwittingly foils a "staged" face-to-face meeting with
Hughes, "Pray that you drop dead." 

The film starts slowly and plays things for "winks and laughs" and
light drama. It gets slightly bogged down in the final act as the hoax
crumbles under its own preposterous weight and some scenes get heavy on
the melodrama. There's also some wishy-washy "conspiracy" theories
floating around about the Nixon administration and Howard Hughes that
maybe somewhat true, but might be another figment of Irving's fanciful
imagination as this is based on his "memoirs" of the events.

These few flaws, however, don't sink the ship as the playful cast and
sure-handed direction from Lasse Hallstrom (in what his probably his
best work since "Cider House Rules") keep the hoax firmly afloat. What
the film ultimately excels in is the connections it makes with Irving's
pathological personality (that ultimately leads to severe paranoia and
delusions of grandeur), the paranoia of the Nixon administration (that
mirrors nicely the modern Bush administration), and the alleged
over-the-top eccentricities of the infamous Howard Hughes. In his mind
Irving intertwines himself with these two powerful and tragic men. The
film highlights how Irving saw himself and Hughes as smooth-talking,
larcenous megalomaniacs, and truly believed he was going to be a major
player in world history with the take down of Nixon even though he
never had direct contact with either man and based his story on gossip,
hearsay, and innuendos. It's really not much of a stretch to imagine
Hughes bribing Nixon and wielding power like the wizard behind the
curtain in Oz, and it makes for a well told tale. Whether we believe
the story ultimately lies in how much power we allow each of these men
to have. In his image, Irving thought Hughes held power over everyone,
and for Irving, his tiny part in all that was the greatest story of
all.
<|_=00=_|>
'The Hoax' is an endlessly charming and witty film, blending comedy
with drama for great and successful results. Richard Gere is at the top
of his game as he commands the screen, prosthetic nose included. Lasse
Hallstrom's, whose films included 'Chocolate' and 'The Cider House
Rules', keen sense of direction keeps the film fresh and engaging. It
ultimately makes for a genuinely pleasant experience and one of the
year's better pictures.

Desperate for success and wealth, Clifford Irving is about to pull off
the hoax of the century. Set in the 1970s, Irving has pitched and sold
his idea of a Howard Hughes biography to a premiere publishing company.
Problem is, none of it's true. Irving, with his friend Dick Susskind at
his side, will spin an intricate web of lies as he sets out to compile
a fraud biography of Hughes and set-up staged interviews with the
wealthy recluse. He soon becomes so deep in all of his lies that it
seems inconceivable that he'll find his way out. But with each twist
and turn, Irving matches with one of his own.

What makes 'The Hoax' work? It appears to be nearly flawless. Director
Lasse Hallstrom keeps viewers in the moment with a nice, speedy pace.
And so 'The Hoax' never wears out its welcome. It's such a quirky and
original project that entertains without taking itself too seriously.
It's light, witty humor mixed with dramatic effect to create what is at
times a film with a dual personality, but it works out just right. 'The
Hoax' has an intelligence that's sharper than most, keeping the
elaborate and offbeat heist cleverly afloat rather than becoming dull
and over worn. An outrageously true story of an outrageously true
crime.

You may say that 'The Hoax' ultimately works because of one man, and
that's Richard Gere. His best performance in years, Gere commands the
screen as the man behind the heist (and nose). He's sharp, humorous,
tragic, and flawed. The whole package. He almost forces you to
emotionally invest in his character, because he's almost too charming
not to. You'll find yourself rooting for him and his cause. It's one of
the best performances of the year. Alfred Molina, Hope Davis, and
Marcia Gay Harden all benefit from a great script. Molina stars as the
humorously bumbling sidekick who possesses what Gere does not: a
conscious. Davis is wonderful as the publishing agent, and while
Harden's role doesn't present her with much screen time, she delivers a
strong outing with what she's given.

'The Hoax' is a remarkably well-made, well-told account of a bizarre
heist. The truth is stranger than fiction, and while it's wildly
strange, it's wonderfully fun and silly yet tragic and serious when it
has to be. 'The Hoax' is no hand-me-down of the heist genre, but rather
a worthy and memorable addition. It's one of the year's best films, and
no doubt you'll get a kick out of 'The Hoax'.
<|_=00=_|>
A super matinée flick. Richard Gere plays Clifford Irving, a mediocre
author who tries to turn his fortune with an outrageous literary coup -
that he is engaged to write the autobiography of reclusive magnate
Howard Hughes. Gere captures the chutzpah and nervous opportunism of
Irving; he is helped by director Lasse Hallström with unfussy sequences
of intoxication, dream and surrealism as the project takes on a
terrible life of its own.

Hallström is well-attuned to the natural drama in the story, using
period footage and bleaching his shots beige with filters. Yet he
really wrings the drama from the situation and has made a nail-biting
and often funny film. Gere has classy support from the versatile Alfred
Molina, a grandstanding Hope Davis as his agent and, latterly, the
ever-watchable Stanley Tucci (Julie Delpy simply fleshes out a cameo).
A more coherent and satisfying hoaxer movie than Catch Me If You Can.
7/10
<|_=00=_|>
Lasse Hallstrom has directed a compelling recreation of Clifford
Irivng's novel in "Hoax". It is a retelling of the risky writing of the
fake autobiography of Howard Hughes, the eccentric billionaire from
Texas. Richard Gere gives a satisfying performance in his torn
character of Clifford Irving himself. He is also convincing in his
ability to show his simultaneous success and guiltless feelings in
writing his so-called autobiography. Alfred Molina gives an emotional
performance as Dick Suskind, Irving's loyal friend and co-writer.
Marcia Gay Harden is a genuine Edith Irving in this disturbing story.
And Julie Delpy is exquisite as Nina Van Pallandt, the paramour that
Irving drags into his ploy. It makes for a nice cinema, and likely a
good read.
<|_=00=_|>
The Hoax is a screen adaptation of the true story of one of the most
daring, bold, and intricate confidence schemes ever plotted. As a
long-time fan of heists, cons, and trickery, I already knew the story
before seeing the film, and so seeing the movie, I judged the portrayal
rather than the story itself. Lasse Hallstrom does not make a great
film, but he definitely makes an enjoyable film. Certain scenes aren't
quite filmed the most powerful way they could be. Clean, nice, standard
cinematography is used in scenes that have less atmosphere because of
it. Other scenes, in particular the scenes of theft, lying, drama, and
other intense things provoked by the dangerously dishonest mind of
Clifford Irving, are given a thrilling, extremely exciting
pins-and-needles feeling. In terms of the story, I learned a lot about
it that I didn't know that amazed and impressed me, mostly involving
the influence the scheme inadvertently had politically.

Richard Gere plays Clifford Irving well enough, but the entire time, I
kept thinking of different actors who would've been much more becoming
and much more intense. Clifford Irving was a man of dark, magnetic,
manipulative vigor and depth. Gere plays him more dryly, as though
Irving was virtually cool and carefree rather than coolly masking that
intensity.

Alfred Molina, a scene-stealer as always, upstages Gere greatly as his
nervous friend and partner in crime who is made to do all the high-risk
dirty work, which translates into hilarity on screen.

The Hoax is a wonderful story and a good movie. If it had a different
lead and broader scope in the directing, it could've been a wonderful
movie, too.
<|_=00=_|>
I really enjoyed this film from beginning to end and generally I'm
difficult to please. I'm a little older than the average audience and
so I knew this story really well having watched it unfold at the time.
I also remember watching Orson Welles' masterpiece 'F for Fake', based
around the same subject and anyone who's seen 'The Hoax' should watch
'F for Fake'. Richard Gere, and in fact, all the cast, were at their
best and delivered a great script with all the tension and dynamics it
needed. Gere and Molina worked very well together and I'd say it was
probably Molina's best performance to date. Beautifully shot and cut,
it was pacy but not too pacy like many current films. I liked the few
library shots to help with creating a feeling for the period and of
course, the music helped with that too. The story was told well,
although if you weren't quite familiar with the outline of what
happened, there could be some moments of doubt. However, knowing the
story well made it all the more enjoyable.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw a sneak preview of this earlier this evening. Not bad as some other
comments would have you believe, but not perfect either. The historical
details are a bit inaccurate in some areas, but those are relatively
minor ones which don't affect the story too much. At it's core, the
film focuses on the lies told by Clifford Irving and how he charmed
everyone into believing them. The lies don't just affect his writing
career, but also the lives of those around him and eventually comes to
the point where it's difficult to distinguish fact from fiction in what
Irving says, a task which is made all the more difficult given the
eccentricity of nearly everything done by Howard Hughes during that
period of time. Overall, the film isn't too bad, the main characters
are nicely developed, the plot is interesting, and the acting isn't
bad. The subtle 1970s touches (vintage Coca Cola and Tab cans, news
footage, hairstyles, commercials, cars, Watergate, etc) also make it
fun to watch. Overall, the story, acting, and the attention to detail
force me to give this a 8/10 despite the few flaws here and there.
Definitely a must see for the Howard Hughes buffs along with "The
Aviator".
<|_=00=_|>
In order to pull off the biggest deception of the decade, Gere must
impersonate a man who is talented, reckless, and deluded, able to charm
and manipulate even those are apparently "smarter" than him. Gere does
a superb job recreating this literary illusionist, an author able to
create world both on his mind, and quite effectively around him.

Throughout the film, Gere keeps the energy level high, sometimes,
having his fabrications take over reality, as we are treated to
passages where both reality and "his reality" blur. This device used,
in a recent Oscar winner, where it symbolized paranoia, works much
better here, as it helps us understand the obsession behind the ploy.

Gere has for many years, played second fiddle to other more established
stars, making them look much better than they really were, and it has
been a disservice to this very talented actor. In past years, he has
brought fame or revived the careers of many famous Hollywood leading
ladies. Sadly, we have neglected to recognize his true value. In
"Hoax", he is the centerpiece, and should his acting ever falter, the
entire illusion would crumble as well. Fortunately for us, he is
brilliant at every move, being so good that he brings to life the
object of his obsession as well. There are passages here than feel more
real than anything portrayed in "The Aviator", even though we see
mostly stills and a couple of brief videos of Hughes himself.

Gere once works magnificently with the rest of his supporting players,
from Hope Davis to Alfred Molina, and giving his scenes with Tucci and
Gay Harden more gravitas than one would expect from their very short
screen time. "The Hoax" succeeds in his depiction of the travesty that
involved the production of a fake book, a deal that fooled its most
immediate audience and the nation.

Hopefully Gere will receive his due, escaping from the kiss of death
for those who just happen to be consistently good: there will be
another stellar performance along the way. Recognize the present, and
the present is golden.
