
This is my first time posting, but I recently saw Tamara and after
reading some of the hatin' on this board, I thought I'd add my opinion.

People have already covered the story, so I'll just talk about the film
. While it's not the best movie I've seen, it was a definitely a great
way to spend 90 minutes. It had a sexy lead, some great kills and a
wicked sense of humor. I'm definitely going to see it again.

The good...

I thought the story was well written and well paced. As a horror fan, I
hate when people say something's not horror, but a psychological
thriller...butthat's what this film was. Sure, we know Tamara's gonna
get revenge on her tormentors. But instead of just killing them off
with an axe or a knife, her revenge is more psychological. She toys
with the other kids and gets back at them in ways I've never seen. I
thought it was clever that she didn't just go around slaughtering them.

Jenna Dewan, the actress who plays Tamara, does a great job. You feel
sorry for her in the beginning and when she comes back...she's amazing.
She's not just evil. She's sexy and fun...if it wasn't for the whole
"back from the dead" thing, she'd be the perfect hottie. If Jenna isn't
a star in the next few years, I'll eat my...well, I'll eat something I
don't like. She does a great job.

I thought the directing was good too. I'm so tired of seeing MTV-style
movies that are cut so fast and shot so dark that you can't see what
was going on. The film obviously had a low budget, but they made the
best of it.

The bad...

The film's not perfect. People expecting a lot of blood and gore, will
be disappointed. But the stuff that's there really works...the Roger
scene is classic. Also, I'm not a perv, but since the story was so
sexy, I would have liked to seen more skin. There's some scenes...both
with the gore and the sex...where they could have gone a lot further.

Some of the acting. Overall, I thought the acting was really good, but
there were a pair of actors I didn't like. (I won't name names, because
I don't get off on being nasty.) 

Overall, this was obviously a low budget movie, but I think it
delivered the goods. It's much better than a lot of the big budget
stuff I've seen (The Fog...) And for the dude who thought it should go
direct to DVD....check out all of Lions Gate's direct to DVD crap. This
movie kicks the sh*t out of them. Actually, aside from Saw and High
Tension, I think this is the best genre film they've put out.

Peace,
<|_=00=_|>
I don't really comment on these websites ever, but after logging onto
IMDb to see when this movie was coming, I was surprised to see all
these negative and mean-spirited reviews and thus felt compelled to
write something positive. 

First let me say, I'm a horror fan, not an expert by any means, but I
like a good horror film as much as the next guy.

Secondly, I actually saw the movie at the NYC Horror Film Festival,
where the movie got a standing ovation. Let me repeat that: The movie
got a STANDING OVATION. And from what I understand, this was the only
time this movie has screened thus far, so I wish someone could please
explain to me how and where all these negative reviewers saw it.
Everyone in New York seemed to love it. There's no way all these people
writing negative stuff could've seen the movie as there were only 300
or so people in the audience and everyone loved it. Remember the
standing ovation? I do.

Regardless of what these frauds have written, the movie was good. I'm
certainly not claiming it was the greatest or scariest film ever made,
but it was certainly a good, fast moving, hide- your-face in your hands
movie. 

The lead actress was hot, and moved from "put upon" to "tough" very
well. In addition to having a great body, she was self-assured and
sexy. The other girls were hot as well.

The horror beats were scary and the movie had enough tension and
mystery to keep me interested the whole time. There were also some
great scares, original kills, and a few great gory moments. 

Look for the scene where Tamara emerges from the grave -- I was freaked
out. 

Compared to a lot of the clichéd, over-the-top-gore out there, Tamara
stood out as a good movie. It has a story and some excellent tension.
Sexy and scary (and hot high school chicks) in one movie -- my kind of
flick.
<|_=00=_|>
I was fortunate to have seen an early screening of TAMARA and was quite
impressed with the final result. The film is propelled by the
star-making turns of its two leading female characters, Tamara (Jenna
Dewan) and Chloe (Katie Stuart). Dewan is a real find, striking a
terrific balance between pathos and horror. She makes quite an impact
in her first starring role, and the fact that she's also quite stunning
certainly does nothing to diminish her screen presence! Stuart's
performance as the tragic do-gooder lends real weight and credibility
to the film. It's a smart and sincere performance and not just another
sassy-talking teen role that too often occupies this genre. The film is
engaging throughout and provides some well-placed shock-and-gore to
keep its pace humming along. Credit Jeff Reddick's screenplay for that-
here's a film clearly written by someone who respects the genre. He
never condescends to his audience, and just like in his film, FINAL
DESTINATION, includes enough cleverly gruesome moments to ensure that
the experience will memorable. While certain performances and scenes
could have been tighter, all in all TAMARA makes for a solid entry in
the horror genre and mercifully rises above the pack of overly slick
(and perhaps overly sick) entries that horror fans have had to contend
with as of late.
<|_=00=_|>
Don't you just hate it when this happens? Now that you finally found
yourself a gorgeous looking high school sweetheart, she turns out to be
a murderous witch, capable of making you eat glass beer bottles with
the touch of her hand! Damn! But Tamara has some very good reasons to
be this cranky. The popular crowd at school tricked her into believing
that the handsome and beloved English teacher has finally fallen for
her, too, and set up a whole fake meeting in a sleazy hotel room.
That's a pretty good reason to get rancorous already but, on top of
that, they also accidentally killed her, buried her body in the woods
and made a pact to keep it a secret. Thanks to several puberty years of
casting spells, Tamara rises from the dead like a gorgeous babe with
exclusively vengeance on her mind. First and foremost, I think it's
hilarious how these movies portray the so-called "unattractive" girl.
Tamara was never ugly to begin with, so simply combing her hair and
wearing a push-up bra already turns her into a teenage sex bomb!
"Tamara" isn't a very good horror film, mainly because it lacks
originality and surprises. A big list of horror movies, which featured
similar plots before, promptly comes to mind: There's "Carrie" (of
course), but also "The Craft", "I know What You Did Last Summer" and
even a bit of "I Spit On Your Grave". There's few to no tension in the
script, although I do have to admit that the film actually was a lot
gorier than I expected it to be. The playful deaths Tamara has in mind
for her enemies are quite ingenious and close to being pure splatter.
One poor sucker, for example, commits suicide live on school-TV whereas
a girl pukes up gallons of blood. The acting performances are far above
average, especially the females are good, and Jenna Dewan is definitely
a promising talent to keep an eye on. Overall, this surely isn't a
memorable new horror movie, but it never bores you and it's at least as
good (if not better) than most big-budgeted Hollywood productions that
receive theater-releases.
<|_=00=_|>
i didn't know what to expect from this movie, some say its crap and
others say it's a great movie. well now that i've seen it i can tell
that this is not a bad movie at all. OK, it's like a mix of, i know
what you did last summer/carrie/scream with a little dip of witchcraft.
but that didn't bother me because the movie was exciting, and kept me
interested from beginning to end. it's filled with high school horror
clichés and so on but in this movie it all felt right.

the actors ain't class A actors of course but it was acceptable.
compared with other horror not bad at all actually. the only thing i
didn't really liked about the movie is the balance between tension/
excitement and gore. the movie had his 2 or 3 moments of gore but it
could have been more in my opinion. and the actors where the usual
goodlookin American high school horror movie persons. 

final verdict: just watch it and see for you're self. it ain't the best
out there but at least you'll have a good movie to watch. it will keep
you on the tip of you're chair for the full one and a half hour. (or at
least a good way to spend the one and a half hour. )
<|_=00=_|>
Tamara is the very poor man's "Carrie". The film treads very similar
territory to De Palma's horror classic but shares none of that great
movie's insight or relentless rage. Both films have high school
bullying and revenge as their central themes but that is where the
similarities end. "Carrie" expertly placed the viewer in the
protagonist's shoes and made you squirm along with her through every
sordid humiliation. Tamara, on the other hand, transforms its titular
heroine into a serial-killing bimbo, complete with some admittedly
rather amusing one-liners. While Tamara completely misses the mark as
the hard hitting revenge horror movie it so obviously aims to be, it
does succeed as one of the most irreverent, tasteless and funny
American teen horror films of the past few years.

The tone of the film is set from the very first scene in which Tamara
daydreams about having sex with her teacher during English class. This
is a film that is unashamedly low brow. Tamara is depicted as the
typical high school outcast. She's a mousy nerd who does incredibly
stupid things like writing articles about the football team's drug use.
Tamara is so clueless that you almost hope someone will knock some
sense into her. This feeling only grows stronger when Tamara tries to
kiss her English teacher, Mr Natolly. His rejection results in Tamara
using her powers of witchcraft to cast a love spell - conveniently,
Tamara has a book of spells and pagan altar in her loft. The spell only
works after Tamara is accidentally killed by some of her classmates
when a surprisingly nasty practical joke goes wrong. Just when the film
appears to have taken on a more serious, gritty tone, Tamara turns up
to school as mini-skirt wearing hottie and begins to wreak her revenge.

From the moment Tamara returns from grave as a satanic Barbie doll, the
film stops trying to scare and basically becomes a gory comedy. This is
the section of the film that appealed to me the most. The murders are
bloody and innovative, while Tamara's new super-bitch persona makes her
a memorable horror villain. The best murders include Tamara giving new
meaning to the old "hear, say, see no evil" adage and a death by beer
bottle moment. As well as inflicting violence, Tamara uses her evil
powers of persuasion to full advantage. In one of the funniest and most
unusual scenes in mainstream horror, Tamara gets her revenge on two
date-raping jocks by making them have sex with each other. Tamara's
campy "pitcher/catcher" commentary is destined to become a thing of
cult adoration. Clearly at the top of her game, Tamara also memorably
makes a bulimic girl vomit her internal organs up and then makes her
insatiably hungry - to the point where she starts chewing off her
fingers. That's what I call entertainment.

As the film moves to its irrational finale, it begins to lose some
momentum. When the focus of the film moves from Tamara to Mr Natolly,
it automatically reverts to the standard teen horror formula.
Nevertheless, the finale does at least include another great one-liner.
In fact, the film is distinguished by its unusually strong, if uneven,
script. The dialogue is surprisingly funny and sections of the film are
very innovative. Tamara is only let down by its inconsistency and lack
of cohesion. The film works very well intermittently but there are just
as many flat spots. Another disappointment is the poor quality of the
special effects. The digital effects look cheap and unconvincing. The
gore effects are slightly better but still sub-standard. Jeremy Haft's
direction is competent but often uninspired. This description could
also apply to the actors. The exception is the lead, Jenna Dewan. Jenna
makes the transition from mouse to sexy super-bitch with the utmost
ease. I would like to see this woman in a straight comedy. She makes
Tamara a very amusing psycho indeed.

It's no surprise that Tamara died a miserable death at the box office.
The film is a messy mix of horror sub-genres. Tamara is too quirky for
fans of lite-horror and nowhere near dark enough for gore lovers.
Hopefully, the film will find an audience on DVD. Tamara might be a
mess, but it has enormous camp appeal and is well and truly a cut above
the usual teen horror movie. This film is a trashy delight.
<|_=00=_|>
Jenna Dewan did such an amazing job as Tamara. The rest of the cast,
which includes Melissa Elias as Kisha, and Chad Faust as Jesse were
also incredible. This movie has enough blood, gore, and action to keep
any horror buff like me 100% satisfied!! The death scenes are very
original and one in particular actually managed to gross me out, (which
is very hard to do). Congratulations to all of the cast and crew. And
thank you Lions Gate films for once again seeing the potential of
another great horror movie. If you see Tamara at your video store- rent
it!! You won't be sorry. Turn off the lights, make some popcorn, and
get ready to be scared.
<|_=00=_|>
Tamara (Jenna Dewan) is an unattractive and not popular abused girl in
a high-school. She has a crush on her literature teacher, Mr. Bill
Natolly (Matthew Marsden), and she is fascinated by witchcraft. When
his teacher publishes her article about the use of steroids by the
high-school athletes in the school newspaper expecting to improve her
self-esteem, the matter indeed puts the students against Tamara. Three
classroom mates use three other silly students to play a prank with
Tamara, but they accidentally kill her. Due to a spell, Tamara returns
from death and plots a lethal evil revenge against the group, and tries
to take Bill from his beloved wife.

"Tamara" is a good horror and high above average teen movies. The
excellent and promising beginning is very original; there is a kind of
attractive eroticism with the character of Tamara; and the special
effects are very good. Unfortunately, in a determined moment, there are
the common clichés of horror movies. Further, in the hospital we do not
see a living soul, only Tamara chasing the other fellows, and no staff,
doctor, nurse, patients, guards or whatever. The dark conclusion saves
the story, making the difference. Just as a curiosity, there are nine
(9) matches in the filter "Loved it", all of them made by users with
ONLY ONE review in IMDb. Coincidence? I do not believe. Indeed, I found
that this procedure is very usual in IMDb, with people making a fake
promotion of certain films. My vote is eight.

Title (Brazil): "Tamara"
<|_=00=_|>
Tamara is an unattractive, unpopular, abused girl in her high-school
years. She has a crush on her teacher, Mr. Bill Natolly, and she likes
witchcraft. When his teacher publishes her article about the use of
steroids by the high-school athletes in the school newspaper expecting
to improve her self-esteem, the matter indeed puts the students against
Tamara. Three classroom mates use three other silly students to play a
prank with Tamara, but they accidentally kill her. Due to a spell,
Tamara returns from death and plots a lethal evil revenge against the
group, and tries to take Bill from his beloved wife, since there is a
bond between Bill and Tamara due to the witchcraft.

This fairly unoriginal movie is actually quite a treat. Even though its
premise has been used in many other films before, Tamara seems to pull
it off as something new, something we'll stick around and watch.

The acting is for the most part average. The lead jock was probably the
worst, clichéd character you could find. Really, most of the characters
all follow the usual hum-drum formula. Jenna Dewan definitely stands
out and fills her roll nicely. Though you have to admit, just before
she died she was already looking quite sexy. So even though she looked
her best after she "dies", she looked better than most girls in the
movie moments before her passing away.

Anyways, there are some decent death scenes in this one which was
surprising. I wasn't expecting that a couple of these could closely
rival something out of "Saw". The gore effects used are pretty standard
but work well and there's no unbelievably fake CGI thrown in to ruin
it. The death scenes are the attraction of the movie except of course
for the "sexy" Tamara.

Something that raised my score a little is that it wasn't just a
revenge movie. It did throw in some drama and even romance to the mix.
She didn't just come back to torture those who accidentally killed her
because of their stupidity. She came back for love as well. Though the
situation rarely arises, there is some good chemistry working between
Tamara and her teacher (I mean, as actors).

Jenna Dewan, though very attractive, manages to bring out the evil side
well in Tamara. She doesn't try to cringe her face to look evil, she
just has this smile that whenever you see it, you know she's thinking
of something really naughty, whether its good or bad. Especially during
her first scene back at class after her death and the conversation she
had with her teachers' wife.

It runs out of steam near the end, especially since Tamara goes
off-screen for quite some time when they should be climaxing the movie,
not slowing it down. As long as you can handle a cliché'd movie, you're
going to have a bit of fun with this one. It reminds me a lot of "The
Rage: Carrie 2". If you dig that flick, I doubt you'll have a hard time
getting into this one.

It's one of the better teen horrors as of late in my opinion.
<|_=00=_|>
"Tamara" is a predictable-but-fun little teen horror flick, bolted
together out of spare parts from films like "Carrie," "I Know What You
Did Last Summer" and "The Craft," to name just a few. Our "heroine"
(and I use that term loosely), Tamara (Jenna Dewan), is a homely high
school nerd who dabbles in witchcraft in her spare time. She's got an
unrequited crush on her hunky, sensitive English teacher (Matthew
Marsden) and is constantly picked on by the "populars" in her school.
After she writes an article for the school paper "outing" the football
team as steroid users, they naturally want to get back at her so they
set up a particularly cruel prank where they make her think she's going
to hook up with Hunky Teacher Guy at a local hotel. Naturally the naive
Tamara is less than thrilled to find out that she's been fooled, and
while struggling with her tormentors, she hits her head on a coffee
table and dies. In true Horror Movie fashion, the Populars decide to
simply bury her in the woods, swear to tell no one what happened, and
move on.

Imagine their surprise when Tamara simply sashays back into to school
the next day as if nothing has happened, seemingly having gone through
an Extreme Undead Hottie Makeover in the meantime. The "new" Tamara
appears sweet enough at first, but quickly sets out to get revenge on
the gang who wronged her, in the most brutal fashion possible. One kid
recreates the "Hear No Evil, Speak No Evil, Say No Evil" mantra with a
razor knife, her abusive dad eats glass, a b*tchy cheerleader type
vomits her guts out, etc., etc. Of course, Tamara's ambitions also
extend to true happiness with her teacher, which means she has to get
rid of his wife too. Will true love triumph over vengeance from the
grave? OK, so "Tamara" is not a great movie by any means, but it is fun
to watch. Jenna Dewan looks pretty hot even when she's supposed to be
an Ugly Duckling in the first quarter of the film, but after she
returns from the grave -- damn! The rest of the young cast perform
their roles as obnoxious cannon fodder well enough, and the flick has
decent production values and just the right amount of gore and
nastiness. If you can get over the inherent silliness of it all,
"Tamara" is a fun ride for B-horror fans.

"Tamara" gets an "A" for eye candy, a "C" for originality, and a "B-"
for execution. Worth a look if you can find it cheap, like I did.
