
9 is better than average... but only barely.

The movie is carried by a unique visual style and a great sense of
"place." The sack-men (and woman) are refreshingly odd and fun to
watch. The post-apocalyptic city is consistently beautiful and
dangerous. Desolate without feeling dull.

Unfortunately, the story and characters ARE dull. Not crushingly so...
but enough to frustrate. Frequent, obvious plot holes and violations of
established world-rules pulled me out of the movie over and over again.
Tired clichés abound. I wasn't able to shake the feeling that I'd seen
and heard this all before.

And that's a shame because there's a lot of potential here. If only the
writer had taken more chances. Why not challenge the audience and defy
expectations? Why make a movie that's too scary for kids but too
simplistic for adults? Who is expected to enjoy it? 

I would watch another Shane Acker movie if one is made (hopefully after
he's picked a target audience). But 9 is not a classic.

... that said, it's probably worth watching on the big screen just for
the sights and sounds.
<|_=00=_|>
I come from the school of early Tim Burton, and Jim Henson- two of my
cinema deities from my earliest memories- and this is the first time in
a long time that anyone has managed to touch on that magic for me. 

I'll do my best to convey what a fantastic movie this is, without
really revealing too much of the plot- because I think that this movie
is best experienced not really knowing anything. You come in the same
way the main character does- not knowing anything of this world. 

While sitting in the theater, I recalled memories of the intensity and
heart of "my first movies" such as E.T., The Secret of Nymh, The Dark
Crystal, and Edward Scissorhands- movies that touched upon something
that was at once so rooted in human emotion yet so fantastic and
unimaginable. I can absolutely say that "9" is now considered one in
that catalog of visionary and hallowed movies. 

Guaranteed some will have a complaint with the length (a seemingly
short 79 minutes considering the scale and impact of the story) but I
think that a movie can be an epic without needing to be over 2 hours
long, or a HUGE amount of unnecessary back story and origins that's
only purpose is to make the story SEEM grandiose. This movie is a
complete work of art- from the obviously eye-catching visual style and
composition of what you see, down to the basic story and character
development that you feel. In 79 minutes this team managed to harness
my imagination and senses without having to dumb-it-down for the
audience, or use any of the old gags that many bigger studios seem to
rely on to sell tickets (thankfully there are NO cheesy gross out jokes
to appeal to a typical cable-fed attention span). Instead they took me
to places that I had never thought of, but will never forget. My most
respectful nod to everyone involved. 

Absolutely do not miss this one.
<|_=00=_|>
Man I got to tell ya it is so nice to see something different that has
the intensity of a mature movie yet lies within the realm of the
animated world. Every scene was beautifully done and you can literally
hang every frame up on a wall if you so choose to. The story was great,
the suspense was amazing. Who ever complained about it not having a
story, tell that to the crowd I saw jumping every so often from the
intense confrontations. What I also liked about it was the hidden parts
of the story. They give you enough information to enjoy the film but
yet you can extract more of the back ground thought that went into what
we saw in the completed film. For the first time ever I saw half of the
audience stay behind after the credits role to not just see who worked
on the movie but to debate back and forth about what they thought of
it, what the characters represented, what happen in this or that scene,
and of course the animation style and technique and how it moved them.
Never seen anyone ever do that after watching a movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I was looking forward to seeing 9, as I had already seen the original
short film (also called 9) and wanted to see what they could do by
expanding upon the story. Well, after seeing this full-length film, I
can certainly say I liked the computer generated animation....as for
the story, well, it left a bit to be desired. And the problem is that I
can't strongly recommend the film, but if you don't see it in the
theater, then you'll probably like the film less because the graphics
are THE film.

The story is set in an alternate reality. While some of the features
look very much like Earth, many of the details are different. There's
been a war raging and tanks are definitely of the WWI variety while
airplanes are of the WWII style--yet there are also very modern
holograms as well. As for the leader, there is some similarity to a
fascist dictatorship, but this guy sure ain't Hitler, Mussolini or
Franco. It's like Earth, but not our Earth. Oddly, while I could accept
this, in this alternate reality there apparently IS a Judy Garland and
the song "Over the Rainbow"--an odd blending of the real and the
fanciful.

Most of the story, you have no idea what led to this ruined world that
is now devoid of all life--no animals, no people...not even bugs.
Slowly, some of the details of this apocalypse come out...but never is
there ever a full explanation as to what happened and why--just a
dribbling of information here and there. What you positively know is
that instead of living beings, there are a group of very small and
oddly designed burlap covered dolls--with very high tech eyes. Why
these dolls are there and their purpose is unknown to them, but some
are just happy to hide and avoid the hellish mechanical creations that
inhabit the rubble as well.

As for the burlap creatures, this is a shortcoming in the film. While 9
is the "designated hero", he and the rest of them really don't have any
personality and a few of them seem like story clichés (such as the
"strong and plucky female"). So, when one dies you are left wondering
what made that one any different than the one that was killed moments
earlier or you are left feeling a caricature died--not something
tangible. No real character development occurs nor are their
motivations particularly clear throughout the film. Nor, for that
matter, does the story answer many questions at all. So, provided this
doesn't bother you and you don't mind a vague story with vague
characters, you'll enjoy the film very much--it certainly is a visual
delight. If you demand clarity, then I suggest you see another film.
<|_=00=_|>
I might have had my expectations too high when I walked into the
theater. I hadn't done any reading and was under the impression that
Tim Burton had directed it. So when it became obvious 5 minutes into
the movie that once again I was going to be subjected to big budget
stylistic environments and effects sans any kind of real mental
engagement, I was pretty disappointed.

There were so many problems with this movie I don't really know where
to begin without rambling. So instead I'll just say that the "good" is
all about the visuals. The "bad" is all about my issues with plot and
character development, audience education, cheesy dialog and
unambiguous morality in circumstances that should force compromise at
every turn. Being any more specific would result in a hideously long
post, so here are my top 3 gripes: 

- The story advances too quickly early on for the sake of setting up
the second half of the movie. It left me with an empty feeling akin to
throwing away dinner so you can have dessert.

- At the core of our protagonists identities is the idea of a
multifaceted human soul (i.e. aspects of our personalities captured in
discrete pieces of our immortal selves). Unfortunately, almost no time
is devoted to explaining or developing this concept. It's up to the
viewer to decide if they care or not and why. Beyond the heavy handed
symbolism of the church Stitchpunks vs the university Stitchpunks,
there isn't much of a reason you have to. The idea felt like a
convenient foil device instead of the meaningful linchpin it could have
been.

- The "successful" outcome of the movie is dependent on a wildly lucky
string of events. There's no solid story here about bravery in the face
of adversity, intelligent heroes, clever plot twists, and a few narrow
escapes. Instead you get a chain of formulaic action scenes in which
any of a few hundred close calls gone wrong prevents our happy ending.
Give me an engaging story, not an account of winning the lottery 5
times in a row. See Secret of Nimh for a reasonably good animated noir
counterexample.

Ultimately, I could probably sum up the mass of problems with "target
audience confusion". On the surface, it seems aimed at a more mature
set of folks (13 years +?) with its graphic wartime theme and truly
creepy villains. The development of everything else and the simplistic
dialog feels targeted at a younger audience. It probably could have
worked well as either. Tone it down, keep it short and sweet for the 9
year old set or lengthen it and spend more time on story, characters,
etc for the older crowd. It fails in targeting both.
<|_=00=_|>
Much like Shane Acker's short (of the same name), this movie almost
REQUIRES multiple viewings for the viewer to really soak everything in.

The first time I watched the film, my initial criticisms were "That was
too short" and "There wasn't not enough emphasis on characters/story".
However, after watching the movie a second time, I realized that I had
missed a TON of information on my first round. Upon asking other
friends what they thought about the movie the second time around, I
discovered that they felt the same way.

The first time I watched the film, I felt like everything flew by. It
was visual overload, and it just had bad pacing overall. However, on my
second viewing of the movie, I noticed that things seemed to go by
much, much slower. The pacing seemed better. I noticed character and
plot subtleties that I simply did not catch the first time I watched
it. I connected more with the stitchpunks, and I understood the story
better. The visuals weren't just "Ohhh, pretty!" anymore, they had
greater symbolism, and depth.

The movie is, indeed, about 20 minutes too short. Certain characters
needed more screen time, and certain points in the plot needed more
emphasis. HOWEVER, I found that I enjoyed the movie drastically more
when I saw it a second time. I plan on seeing it a third time later
this week.

This movie reveals new surprises every time you watch it. If you have
seen it once already, and didn't think it was that great, I strongly
suggest dropping the $8 and giving this movie a second chance. You may
be surprised how much your opinion changes.
<|_=00=_|>
The first time I heard about 9 and found out that Tim Burton and Timur
Bekmambetov were co-producing it, I was absolutely on board to see it.
Anything that the guy who directed such quirky masterpieces as
Beetlejuice, Batman, Mars Attacks!, Ed Wood, and Sleepy Hollow got
behind had to be worthy of my time. And then you add the genius of
Russian director Timur Bekmambetov to the mix and to me it was a no
brainer. I was going to see this movie. Burton AND the guy that has
brought us such visually complex and action-packed fare as Wanted,
Night Watch, and Day Watch supporting a movie? It had to be good.

And it was. Director Shane Acker borrows maybe a little more than he
should have visually from other such apocalyptic films like Terminator
and even Wall-E, but it doesn't end up hurting the film by any means.
The scenery and landscapes of the film are beautifully crafted and set
everything up for a certain feeling of loneliness and hopelessness.
It's more graphic and suspenseful than any children's or youth feature
you would take your kids to, so definitely don't let the fact that this
is animated fool you. This is not for the little ones.

The voice actors all put their best foot forward and deliver. You've
got Elijah Wood as 9, once again convincingly leading a group of
survivors in what seems to be an unwinnable war against a much larger
foe than they could be expected to defeat. You've got Christopher
Plummer playing 1 as an interesting paranoid "keeper of the secrets"
which reminded me of the Dr. Zaius character in the original Planet of
the Apes films, if you've seen any of those. Legendary actor Martin
Landau plays 2, who is a scientist and fixes 9. Then there's Jennifer
Connelly, who plays the strong-willed and rebellious 7 who has left the
core group of "stitchpunks" to get away from under all of 1's rules.
Last but not least, you've got Crispin Glover playing the slightly
obsessed and seemingly crazy 6 who has been drawing strange symbols
since the big war between the humans and machines.

The film had an interesting plot that got a bit more complex in the
end. Part of the complexity had a spiritual vibe to it that I didn't
necessarily care for. It just seemed almost out of place and like the
director was stretching for something that would make the film more
"sophisticated." I was not disappointed in the movie by any means. It
was a visually striking piece of film. It was action-packed and fun
without dumbing down the story or sacrificing it. If you're into
sci-fi, apocalyptic thrillers, and animation I would highly recommend
this.
<|_=00=_|>
Shane Acker has a good career ahead of him. At the least, one can only
hope so. His talents expressed here, his first feature adapted from his
short film of the same title, are immense and sharp and clear and dark
and staggering and other words I didn't have time to look up for this
review. He takes a scenario one could be familiar with- entities
battling robotic elements in a future or just another time period, a
desolate wasteland, a possibility of hope on the horizon- but it's
infused with the passion and archetypes of a fairy tale. And even with
this there's certain twists, or unexpected pleasures. You'll see a lot
of critics talk about the lack of a full story, of the beauty of the
animation and look of the film outweighing any kind of story or clearly
defined characters. You can take that to heart before seeing the film,
but a lot of them may have missed Acker's intention here.

These are some archetypes on screen, sure. And one may have seen them
in films made by the likes of Don Bluth with the Secret of NIMH or,
dare I compare, Henson/Ozs' the Dark Crystal (here the latter's object
of purpose is reversed, sort of). But the characters in 9, the ones
with personalities, are not complete. The idea in the film is that all
of the characters, all numbered from 1 to 9 and called as such, are
little robotic creations given life by parts of the soul of a scientist
who gave himself up for his creations. Others he made, a 'machine' for
it, was also imperfect - so much so that it turned against its creators
and did what giant gorram robots do when created with human's own
defects. So the characters may appear to be things we very simply
identify- hero guy, hero girl, slight comic-relief twins, and the
grumpy and ornery older one (#1)- and as it goes on the characters
simply are what they are... actually, 1 develops a little more, and in
a subtle, captivating way.

But if you're going to see an animated film this year for its
distinctive style and design and (yes) cinematography and creations and
colors out of the netherworld of a glorious imagination - and it's not
from John Lasseter's Disney or Pixar - it's 9. And damn the torpedoes
is this movie beautifully wretched to look at! One can see why Tim
Burton and Wanted's Timur Bekmambetov latched on to Acker and helped
him get the movie made as it is: it's a world like Terminator
Salvation, only if it had actual focus and a capacity to elicit a
terror in its audience (young or old). The little robots themselves are
cute in a rough way, and the robots - and specifically what they do to
one of the critters when they capture one of them by sucking out their
souls - move and react like inhuman things that do what they should and
look and feel like the world really has ended. You simply can't take
your eyes off the movie, and it's animated with such an eye for
original detail.

At the same time it doesn't aim directly at adults, albeit with a PG-13
rating. I can imagine, or at least would hope to, that a child watching
this and being bewildered and confused and mortified and entranced,
just as I was watching NIMH or Crystal, and that's a good thing. PIXAR
has its wonders, but to see this is to see the A-game upped another
notch in the medium and its potential. There are times I didn't even
feel like I was watching just animation. Other times, I was taken away
like any good fantasy or fable: in the one little moment of respite,
'Somewhere Over the Rainbow' plays on a record and there's peace...
until it's broken. It's rare a filmmaker can conjure something like
that, but 9 has that in spades.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie feels like it starts in the middle. I don't instinctively
identify with robot rag dolls. So, for most of the movie I didn't care
much about what happened to them because their plight, purpose, and
origin are not explained at all until the movie is almost over. At that
point, I felt like "Oh, okay, if they had explained that in the FIRST
15 minutes of the movie, I might have cared what happens". But they
didn't explain it, and I didn't care what happened.

I won't even go into the conclusion of the "story", except to say that
it makes no sense at all and is riddled with holes and ambiguity.

Yes, the animation is very nice. Yes, there are some decent action
scenes. Those are the strongest points of the movie. But, honestly,
beyond the unique look and style of the artwork, it's the same stuff,
the same action, that you see in every other animated movie. Ho hum.

Summary: nice animation, cliché action, underdeveloped plot, and very
little story to pull the (over age 16) viewer in.
<|_=00=_|>
9 is a rag-doll who wakes up after a war between humans and machines
that has devastated the world and wiped out humanity.He later meets a
group of surviving rag-dolls and he tries to convince them to save 2.9
and 5 go to save 2, but they accidentally awaken a machine known as
Brain.After they escape the dreaded machine, Brain hatches a scheme to
build machines and hunt down the remaining rag-doll survivors.

"9" is like a combination of "The Terminator", "War Of The Worlds", and
"Wall-e".With the war, machines, and apocalypse, there's no way you can
disagree with that.The PG-13 rating is most certainly
deserved.Afterall, the imagery is a bit frightening and will have young
kids begging for their parents to take them to see "Wall-e" so they can
get all of the disturbing images out of their minds once and for all.As
for the movie, I can't say that I was disappointed.With it's
spectacular visuals, great action sequences, and convincing characters,
"9" is a must-see for those who want to take a visually thrilling
roller-coaster.Clocking in at a brief 79 minutes( 72 minutes if you
take out the end credits), "9" will take your imagination and put it
into a world that will make you want for a sequel.We all know what the
title would be, so I don't need to go any further."9" deserves a 9.
