
What an insane movie! I saw it in a criminally tiny Saturday afternoon
audience (four people) and we all had a terrific time. Don't expect
sense, great acting or original dialogue, just go for the kicks and
enjoy. A totally deranged, over-the-top splatfest with hideous viral
deaths galore, some of the best post-holocaust punk makeup and chase
scenes since Road Warrior, brilliant use of 1980's dance music (Adam
and the Ants, Frankie Goes to Hollywood--the placement of Siouxie and
the Banshees' "Spellbound" and a Fine Young Cannibals track at the punk
barbecue is simply inspired), a coliseum battle-to-the-death, a bizarre
interlude in a Scottish fiefdom that feels as if the movie took a fast
detour into the Shire, and the coolest star turn by a UK car since
Harry Potter's posse made one fly. All of it snapping and crackling
with so much kinetic energy and wild creative freedom that it's hugely
exhilarating. We were still giggling like maniacs an hour after the
movie.=) It's just such fun to see a director decide to go full-speed
over the edge like this. It's not great art, but trust me, if you
enjoyed Mad Max: Beyond Thunderdome, Planet Terror, Escape from New
York/L.A., and/or any recent zombie movie, you can't miss this one.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, like before DOOMSDAY, Neil Marshall made two great films, DOG
SOILDERS and THE DESCENT, so going into this, i had high expectations.
then i heard all of the negative buzz on the internet for months and
months. so then i had low expectations. and the trailer sucked.
basically, if you go into this film expecting anything serious at all,
then yeah, you're going to be disappointed, because this is in no way a
serious movie sci-fi action future apocalypse thriller. what it is - a
tongue in cheek splatter fest homage to the great John Carpenter movies
of the 80s and with a bunch of mad max thrown in. if you loved PLANET
TERROR, then you will dig on this. really this flick reminded me of the
vibe of BIG TROUBLE IN LITTLE CHINA or CRANK. i'm not sure why more
people weren't laughing, cause this film is simply hilarious. it just
gets more and more over the top! cannibalistic punks BBQ one of our
heroes to Siouxsie and the Banshees "Spellbound." and they have a
GIMP!! little furry bunnies get blown up, and cows are squashed via
tanks! oh yeah, look at you now, all covered in virus infected blood
prime minister. what did you say, who is that guy? oh yeah! it's Dr
Bashir from Star Trek Deep Space Nine, yes!!! 

the gore is consistently excessive and top notch. then out of nowhere,
it's a knight on a horse, hey there's Malcom McDowell collecting a
paycheck!! boy does his nose crazy silly for some reason! this film is
totally intentionally funny and camp. the thing is, i think it has a
bit too much of a British sensibility for an American audience, cause
there is a certain dryness to the humor, but it's pretty clear that
Neil Marshall set out to make a big dumb retarded and fun Hollywood
movie, and that ironically Hollywood is too stupid to know how to
market it. this will find an audience on video, cause while parts of it
are derivative of it's influences, it's too much fun not to like. you
just gotta keep drinking and/or smoking! there are only a couple of
aspects that keep it from being great - the editing is terrible pretty
much throughout, and some of the action is hard to follow. then there
is the dialogue that is really poorly staged. like they were working so
fast to get the shots and come in under budget (especially at what is
supposed to be a climatic scene between our heroine and one of the
villains) that they just staged it, shot it once, and the actors were
like, hurry up lets be done with this, we're ready to hit up that
catered food. but regardless, i had a blast, don't know why my roommate
asked the theater management for his money back, what a loser.
<|_=00=_|>
If you're a fan of action, horror, and the 1980s, this is the film to
watch.

If you don't enjoy those things, stop reading. This is for the true
believers.

Doomsday is a love letter to 70's and 80's classics like Mad Max and
Escape From New York. It's pretty reminiscent of Grindhouse: Planet
Terror, so if you enjoyed that modern cult classic, you could get some
kicks out of this one too.

Rhona Mitra sizzles as the stoic feminine warrior. She kicks ass, she's
looks good. Bob Hoskins gives the movie heart with his fatherly
performance, granted he gets less screen time than he deserves. Malcolm
McDowell is as entertaining as always, he brings some class to the
occasion. But enough about the cast, how about the mayhem? Yes, this
film has it all. Crazy punks, medieval gladiators, and modern
futuristic soldiers. It's got tons of inventive kills and bloody gore
to spare.

The soundtrack featuring 80's style heavy synth, grandiose opera, and
1980's hits such as "Good Thing". There's plenty of enjoyable, cheesy
yet clever dialogue.

What more do you need? Action/Horror fans, check out this fun gorefest.
Enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>
Now don't get me wrong. I love bad movies, I really do. I may love them
more than good movies. But Doomsday is one of the worst movies I have
ever seen. And I didn't like it. Picture this: an Aeon Flux reject from
Resident Evil is sent to an area walled off 30 years after a crazy
virus kills off thousands of people. Why is she sent? To find the cure
of course! Outside of the Wall she finds a whole bunch of cannibalistic
gutter punks. Aside from some hilariously bad dialogue, and the
cannibals, there are knights (thats right, from Medieval times!),
ridiculous stunt driving with lots of explosions, and plenty of walks
across the countryside with hobbit-like survivors of the plague,
looking like they are trekking to Mordor. I think it was about that
time I got a case of the giggles and had to excuse myself. This movie
was one of the most gratuitous, ridiculous wastes of time ever! But I
did get a bit of a laugh out of it, so maybe I'm being too harsh.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, I'm not claiming its good but it is serious fun. It is basically a
mix of the Mad Max films in Scotland but also throw in some scenes from
28 Days Later, Resident Evil, LOTR and Braveheart.

If you can imagine that then you'll have a pretty good idea what to
expect - no, I didn't think you could.

It does just massively rip off all the above but as I said, I'm not
claiming its good, just a lot of fun.

Added bonus is the great music choices which just add to the fun -
"Good Tning" by FYC when the main lunatic introduces himself to the
crowd and "Two Tribes" by Frankie Goes To Hollywood for the big car
chase.

Not gonna win an Oscar but a hell of a ride.
<|_=00=_|>
This is, without a doubt, one of the worst movies I have ever seen. It
is so fantastically bad, I could talk for hours and hours about each
and every little atrociously bad element of the movie. I am no stranger
to the incredible or the suspension of disbelief required of any sci-fi
fan wishing to be entertained. I love outlandish and outrageous things!
I cannot, however, abide things which are literally UN-BELIEVABLE, and
which conflict with ANY world, fictional or not.

This movie is a tour de force of idiocy. It is one long line of things
so unimaginably retarded, you end up with a slight sensation of vertigo
from shaking your head so thoroughly from start to finish. I will
mention a few things that stood out as being particularly idiotic, but
please believe me when I say that there are somewhere in the
neighborhood of five hundred to a thousand equally appalling scenes
left unmentioned.

Let's begin. Why are the soldiers at the beginning standing amidst a
crowd of plague-carrying Scots? Why are they in front of the fence? As
you ponder this, watching them get torn to shreds, you are interrupted
by the realization that not only is there a fence behind which they
would have been safe, there is also a forty foot tall steel wall a few
hundred feet further back. Why are they not behind this wall? Who is in
charge of this completely incompetent band of military morons? Why is a
chopper behind enemy lines at this point? Why are the soldiers in the
chopper not wearing protective gear? Why do they let indigenous Scots
covered in blood and grime approach the helicopter? Why do they bring a
blood-covered, bleeding, Scottish girl fresh from the crowd of
plague-carrying lunatics onto their chopper, which is en route to the
safe side of the wall? Is this not...perhaps a little foolish? In 2035,
why does the heroine toss her eyeball (yes, really) instead of using a
small mirror? Failing that, why isn't she using a little camera and a
wrist-mounted monitor? In 2035? On that note: why is the technology in
2035 virtually indistinguishable from technology in 2008? Returning to
our heroine, why would she give up her depth perception and risk losing
her one eye? Someone might step on it, I'd think? How does the eye
rotate on a flat surface without movable parts, while staying in place?
Up in Scotland, if the tanks in which the special forces ride are so
sturdy and gas-proof and
you'd-need-a-50-caliber-rifle-to-put-a-dent-in-this solid, why does it
come equipped with a large glass front window which can be shattered by
throwing a brick? Why did no one spot the cows from afar? A thousand
cows and suddenly they just hit one in the middle of the herd without
warning? Ninja cows? Who dyed the Scots' hair? Why do they dye their
hair? Why are they armed and working together? Why are they in the
hospital after 27 years? Did they sit there for 27 years thinking, "One
of these days...!" ? Who took the time to carve the names of
disease-victims intricately into the large slab of marble at the
hospital? After Scotland is walled in, its population dropping like
flies, someone took the time to erect a massive marble wall and start
carving the names of the dead into it? Seriously? How could a scientist
in 2008 get further with his research in 3 months in a war zone than
the entire body of scientists on the planet could in 27 years? Why did
the rest of the world's scientists not attempt to concoct a cure for
the virus? Why does the guy left behind in the vehicle outside the
hospital go out to "help" the girl? Why does he carry her into the
tank, remove his protective gear, and then turn his back on her? Who
exactly is throwing the grenade right after the guy gets his throat
slit and dies?

I could go on for a great deal longer, I assure you. I repeat:
EVERYTHING - every single little thing - about this movie is so
indescribably retarded as to be downright depressing.

This is the worst movie in the world. Hands down.
<|_=00=_|>
Like Greg Mclean, director of "Wolf Creek" and another great white hope
for the horror genre, Neil Marshall followed a very promising horror
flick with a deliberately trashy project. Where Mclean directed his
attention to a murderous crocodile, Marshall took a bow to two of his
favorite movies, "Escape From New York" and "Mad Max". "Doomsday" is
not just influenced by those two movies, it's practically a mash-up
with the female heroine from "Underworld" thrown-in. So, the first
thing you should forget about when you pop in this movie is
originality. Marshall makes no excuses for paying homage to his heroes
George Miller and John Carpenter (hell, he even named two characters in
this movie after them).

Like "Escape From New York" and "Mad Max", "Doomsday" demands a lot of
suspension of disbelief to be enjoyable. However, maybe sci-fi flicks
could get away with more stupidity in the 80's or maybe Marshall's
movie is just extra dumb. Sometimes it seems like the director wasn't
even trying to fill plot holes or avoid laughable action scenes. If
you're looking out for mistakes in "Doomsday", you'll find plenty to
complain about.

So, no, this isn't the high profile follow up one would have wished for
after the dense, claustrophobic "The Descent". On the other hand,
"Doomsday" doesn't fail to entertain. It's fast paced and charmingly
old fashioned. Who else dares to come up with a post-apocalyptic world
in which punks and knights rule the country in this day and age?
Marshall's love for the project is somehow transmitted to the viewer
and actually gives you a very pleasant feeling.

If you're able and willing to turn off your brain, "Doomsday" can be a
very entertaining, old-fashioned action movie. It may not be a
masterpiece or even a good movie, but it can definitely be seen as a
fun little interlude by a director that must not be written off just
yet.
<|_=00=_|>
A deadly virus of unknown origin has spread rapidly through Glasgow,
Scotland, killing its victims rapidly. The British government has built
a 12 foot steel wall the whole length of the Scottish/English Border in
super quick time, so that nobody can get in or out and so the Scots can
rot away to their hearts content. 20 years later in London and there is
another outbreak and so the government is forced to act, they know that
there are still survivors beyond the wall and so they send a crack team
of experts in, to find out if they possibly have immunity and to find
the mysterious Dr Kane a scientist they believe might have been working
on a cure. The leader of this expedition is Maj. Eden Sinclair, a one
eyed woman who as a child had been saved by soldiers at the last moment
before the wall closed for the last time. her motives are to see her
family home and perhaps find her mother.

Like all films by Neil Marshall this latest effort came with a great
air of expectancy, so does it deliver?well it does and it doesn't. Its
an apocalyptic tale along the lines of 28 days Later, but it soon
spreads its wings and delves into many genres and plucks with its
plagiaristic fingers ideas at will from many films. The overall feel of
the film is a hotch potch of ideas, one gets the notion that Marshall
doesn't have an original idea of his own at all. What is it about the
future, that when all law and order has gone and people are struggling
to live, find food and drink, some shelter not to mention avoiding a
deadly virus etcrational thoughts desert them and the first thing they
want to do is build a car or a hotrod motorcycle with skulls on
it?.well I'll tell you why, because they need transport to the local
Cyber Punk Hair Salon, where they all queue for hours with photographs
of their favourite member of Sigue Sigue Sputnik and discuss the merits
of Adam Ant's Kings of the Wild Frontier, where they also tell the
stylist "I want a Mohican like that...oh and could I have it in bright
pink please? damn all out of bright pink, How about luminous aquamarine
or cerise? Not only that, but they also live in Glasgow, I don't know
if any of you have been to Glasgow, I have many times and its Effing
freezing, so why do they all the men go around bear chested and all the
ladies wear leather bikinis or less? Maybe its because they are at war
with the devilish Dr Kane, who lives in a big Castle, where all the men
wear suits of armour and all the ladies have wee lace bonnets and dress
like old hags? One thing about a deadly virus it always gives people
bad dress sense.

Marshall has made his own bed here and must take responsibility for a
lack of imagination, I believe he has stated he wanted this one to be
"for the fans", so they could "guess the films he was homaging", but it
can't take away from the fact that he has single handedly stolen ideas
from Mad Max, Escape from New York, 28 days later, Ivanhoe, Gladiator,
Indiana Jones and a host of other genre films. So enough of the good
things and on to the bad, oh I mean good, Well the film wastes no time
in getting going and it goes along at a fair old pace, so fast you
don't always have time to turn your eyes to heaven and tut. The special
effects are really good, as are the fight scenes and the driving/chase
scenes, the acting is a little stilted though, (ooops I'm back on the
negatives again...oh well) the dialogue doesn't fare much better. From
my comments you might think I hated this film....I didn't, I don't know
why but somehow against my better judgement, I actually enjoyed it, its
escapism and fantasy on another level, its not great by any means but
if you want a mindless entertainment for a couple of hours, this one
fit's the bill. 6/10
<|_=00=_|>
Like Dave White says on his review, this movie is all about action and
gore and it has anything you can imagine. Pick up your favorite thing
of any action movie... Yeah, it has.

Neil Marshall is the director of this sci-fi-thriller-epic. He's also
the director of The Descent (2005), an incredible thriller with great
tastes of horror with an outstanding grand finale.

Of course that Doomsday is not so refined like his previous movie, but
while the The Descent is all about technical perfection, Neil Marshall
seems like just having fun here, and that's what makes this movie so
enjoyable, because it's thrilling without being intelligent, it's funny
without being crappy, it's frightening without being predictable and
also predictable without being unpleasant. It's a very uncommon action
movie that brings us back to great references in action movies thru the
years since the 80's. It could have been a huge mess, but it actually
works. It starts as an horror movie like 28 Days Later, then it becomes
a sci-fi movie with tastes of Alien, bring us great remembers of Mad
Max, passes thru dungeons tales and ends up like The Transporter. Right
to the point: Neil Marshall is not afraid to dare and play with clichés
in action movies over the decades.

Doomsday has some resemblances to his previous movie: it's all
surrounded by a female character; the main character has to deal with
"things" that somehow survived in a stark place and the characters has
to deal with extreme conditions.

The main character is performed by Rhona Mitra, an actress who is
gradually gaining prominence and more interesting major roles mainly in
action movies. And she deserves it. Specifically in this movie she is a
bad-ass woman with heroic intentions but politically incorrect, which
makes her character well edged with an interesting appeal, giving to
the audience fair reasons to keep their attention always on her and
thrill with every moment she gives. The movie is all about her, and
Rhona Mitra was a good choice for the role because she has all the
qualities and flaws that fits perfectly to the character.

If you like action movies but it's not worried to dare something a
little different from what is being produced in the last few years,
this is an excellent choice. It's not something that you will keep
remembering for a good time like the movies that became references to
this one, but it's something that you will enjoy (a lot) for a few
hours.
