
Let me just say I had my doubts. The last couple of seasons of 'The
Simpsons' have been lackluster at best and I genuinely thought that
their chance to make a great Simpsons film passed roughly 10 years ago.
BOY WAS I WRONG!!! I am a huge Simpsons nerd and it is my privilege to
say that "The Simpsons Movie" belongs in the very small group of
classic Simpsons episodes ("Bart the Daredevil", "Mr. Plow", etc.) Very
funny and very timely. Great animation and some nice cameos.

Really don't want to give any spoilers so I'll just say if you're a
Simpsons fan: you will love this movie. And if you agree that the
Simpsons lost their edge, you will be pleasantly surprised as was I.
8.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
My thoughts on the movie can be summed up by that Homer Simpson quote
above (and if you are the type of person who recognizes that quote and
remembers what scene it is from then you probably share my sentiments). 

The movie was decent, better than anything produced in the last 5-6
years, but still far short of the glory days (Seasons 5 - 9). 

Here is basically what kept this movie from being really great: 

1) very minimal focus on supporting characters...some characters
(Sideshow Bob, Skinner, Supernintendo Chalmers, Skinner's mother, Apu,
Gil, Groundskeeper Willie, Milhouse's parents, Sideshow Mel) were
completely nonexistent. Oh, and Flanders (the secondary character who
was featured the most) had 1 funny line at most. (the one about
Buddha).

2) I understand that a movie needs a much deeper plot since it is much
longer than an episode but this was just focused too much on the plot
and not enough on creating worthwhile funny gags. Also, episodes
usually have 2-3 different ideas going on at the same time but this
didn't really (at least outside the Simpson family). There was the
whole Simpsons running away which turned into saving Springfield thing.
The only other plot ideas were the Homer & Marge (which has been done
at least, what 5 times already) and Homer & Bart (which has also been
done several times). 

3) Most of the humor in the film was shallow, slapstick humor, not the
good deep sarcastic, witty humor we've come to know and appreciate (And
you call them steamed hams despite the fact that they are obviously
grilled..Well, I,..Um, One thing I should....). It seems to me that
this movie was clearly made with the masses in mind (as compared to
hardcore fans) and the type of humor/jokes reflected this. 

An example: I thought the following line was one of the funniest in the
movie: Cletus: You know how I'm able to that trick with my thumb
Cargill: 4 generations (or 40 years I can't remember which he says) of
successful inbreeding? 

In the theater like 3 people laughed (and I was one of them). Yet at
the start of the movie when Homer was trying to hammer the nail and he
jammed the hammer in his eye, the whole crowd (except for me) was going
nuts. 

Don't get me wrong, I liked the movie..I just didn't love it..I don't
remember any lines/gags/scenes which are so memorable as to repeat over
and over again (i.e. Pray for Mojo, Steamed Hams, Homer buying the
matter transporter--"2 dollars..um, well, I don't know.... I'll give
you 35 cents"...)

Oh and one other thing. If you see a review from a person who says that
this was the funniest movie ever and non-stop laughs, etc..they
probably weren't born before 1990 and haven't seen any Simpsons
episodes pre-2000 because there's no way any hardcore tried and true
Simpsons fan would have come to that conclusion after seeing this.
<|_=00=_|>
I'll be honest, I don't think any of the reviewers that have given this
movie 10 stars have seen any episodes of the show pre-2000.

I went into the movie thinking it would probably be decent. I figured
it would probably be in the style of the newer episodes but with better
overall material. That's pretty much how it turned out. Anyone who says
it was a return to the older *better* Simpsons is kidding themselves.

The Simpsons greatness was based, in my opinion, on two things:
characters that we imagine existing in our society (think the comic
book guy, Moe, Flanders) and simply hilarious and very quotable lines.
This formula has since been replaced by humor that is situationally
based, and quite frankly, just not very funny.

I saw this movie yesterday afternoon, and I can hardly think of one
line that had me cracking up. There were some funny moments, yes, but
nothing comparable to the brilliant one-liners from the show's glory
years.
<|_=00=_|>
what more can I say. the movie is a return to the glory days of the
show, those ever yellow times when Homer jumped the gorge, when alien
ants threatened the earth and the mono rail came to town. If any of
that made sense to you then this is the film to go for this weekend. It
is a laugh a minute, unlike most comedy films which seem to think funny
is a dirty word. I have to say it is NOT really a kids film (although a
child sitting near me was crying with laughter) as some of the lines
are very naughty and near the bone. I am keen to see it again to catch
all the gags I missed. And thank God Ricky Gervais was not allowed
anywhere near it (his TV episode stunk!). So if you're up to you knees
in flood water or suffering from some other global disaster right now
and fancy a good time your local multiplex is the place to go. Lets
face it we all need a laugh right now.
<|_=00=_|>
The Simpsons in its prime was perhaps the best show on TV with incisive
satire on American life and humor that didn't rely solely on slapstick
and stupidity. Around season 9, the show went precipitously downhill
and never recovered. The show, although always a cartoon, is now as
infantile and ridiculous as cartoons are perceived to be.

The Simpsons Movie is like an 18th season episode stretched out 3x as
long. There are a few funny jokes, but it becomes painful and tiresome
to sit thru dozens of missed jokes to get to a funny one. The plot is
inane, concerning a giant dome put on Springfield to hold in the
pollution and the government wants to blow up the city to get rid of
it. What made the Simpsons great was its more subtle satire and it at
least tried to stay grounded within reality. The show is like a parody
of itself, the same kind of stupid sitcom it once made fun of.
Replacing Alf Clausen's usual score with Hans Zimmer is also a terrible
misfire. The straightforward orchestral treatment for the show is very
distracting.

It's a shame this movie and this show continue to make a fortune, no
one ever went broke catering to the lowest common denominator. This
movie will appeal to the same demographic that loves Ace Ventura and
the Ernest movies and will undoubtedly spawn a sequel. It just angers
me that Troy McClure wasn't joking in an old episode when he said the
Simpsons will continue to be around until they are unprofitable.
<|_=00=_|>
The simpsons movie is witty,fast paced, touching, hugely entertaining
and most importantly: laugh out loud funny.And if your a simpsons fan
who's loved every episode , thats all you'll need from it.

However if , like me , your an obsessive fan who's noticed a drop in
quality on the show from the late nineties onwards you'll see some
problems. You'll see that structure wise the movie is basically an
extended episode.You'll notice that the villain is a Hank Scorpio rip
off. You'll feel that a lot of the plot points and character drama seem
all too familiar.But in spite of all this , in spite of being a film
based on a show that exhausted its best gags long ago, the simpsons
movie is still absolutely hilarious and i take my hat off to the
creators for managing to make it so.

A simpsons movie in the early nineties (when the show was in its prime)
would have been better, but the very , very , very funny one we have
here in '07 works just fine. Funny stuff.
<|_=00=_|>
'The Simpsons' TV show is best in the business for plot twists,
outrageous reversals, whiplash satire and one-liners, making the best
episodes as satisfying as many great films. Topping that - or even
matching it - with the long awaited movie was always going to be a
challenge.

I was entertained but, truthfully, no more than a middling episode of
the series. The richness of the Springfield lore and background
characters is sidelined to focus on the family itself, with too much
Homer in particular - yes, I never thought I'd say that, but it's true.

We love 'The Simpsons' for its frenetic pace; it's clear here the
writers struggled with the structure for a longer format. Possibly a
Robert Altman / 'Nashville' approach would have worked better, or maybe
something like "It's A Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World", allowing us to see
the great range of characters and supporting a stronger, over-arching
story. 

The decision to focus almost exclusively on the family itself brought
out the TV show's occasional tendency towards sentimentality - Colin &
Lisa? Went nowhere. Flanders & Bart? Didn't buy it for a second. Oval
Office scenes? Rainer Wolfcastle would have been funnier, or GWB
passing the buck that bit edgier. This isn't meant to be The Waltons!

More playfulness with the film format itself would have been welcome
too - the opening 'Itchy & Scratchy' sequence and Homer's response were
great but, as it turned out, too little too early for the film seldom
ventured from the straight & narrow thereafter. Maybe Terry Gilliam to
direct Simpsons II?

Early rumours (some time ago, I know) suggested the Simpsons Movie
would be the final word on the show, but the commitment to another
couple of seasons meant the film lost that seat-of-the-pants,
anything-could-happen edge. I really believe the team should have one
last hurrah with a final movie. Just don't try to jump the shark -
blast it out of the water! 

Get radical, guys - that's when you're at your best!
<|_=00=_|>
Maybe I just expected too much. For the last two years I've been
excited about The Simpsons Movie, I could hardly wait for it to come
out. I grew up with the Simpsons and, as many others, have watched
about every episode at least 10 times. Since I was so eager to see it,
I went to the first screening on the day of release. I was so sure this
movie couldn't be bad, since South Park and Family Guy made great
feature versions of their TV-shows. I was wrong. 

Right on from the beginning, I had to realize that the film would not
come up to my expectations at all. It began with the Itchy and Scratchy
scene, right in the beginning. The typical absurd brutality and
violence of the Itchy and Scratchy Cartoons have been softened down, so
that after getting stabbed the cat doesn't even bleed. It seems the
makers of the film passed on the violence to get a lower rating. An
understandable step on one hand but after 18 years of staying true to
the Simpsons-Style, very disappointing on the other. However, next to
this little detail that bothered me, the whole plot is constructed
relatively poor. All the time, not knowing that the film is only 85
minutes long, I thought "Okay, now the film must start and come to it's
point". This thought would stay in my head until the end. The story is
everything but sweeping. 

Also I didn't like that The Simpsons Family are about the only
characters that play a part in the plot. There is just a little bit of
Flanders but almost no Mr. Burns, no Moe, no Major Quimby, no Sideshow
Bob, no Krusty and so on. They all have about a line and that's it.
Instead of the already existing beloved characters, a pig is
introduced, which disappears as inconspicuously as it was introduced.
But, the most disappointing fact was the jokes. They couldn't be
cheaper and more harmless . Missing the ambiguousness and depth of the
the jokes in the TV-version, it seems as they have only been designed
for a very young audience. The humor reminded me a lot of the one from
movies like Ice Age (which would be okay if I weren't talking about the
Simpsons). 

Also, I missed a political level, as seen in the TV-series or the South
Park movie. 

All in all, since the plot and jokes are sloppy and faceless, I
wouldn't recommend the film to anyone who likes the Simpsons TV-series.
<|_=00=_|>
After a tremendous buildup of advertising and reviews purchased by
NewsCorp, The Simpsons Movie turns out to be nothing more than an 85
minute episode of late season Simpsons.

Just like these last few seasons, the movie is heartless and devoid of
intelligent humor. It contains no thoughtful parody and only very trite
satire. Many of the gags are childish even by Saturday morning cartoon
standards. Slapstick and toilet humor cannot carry a prime time
television show, much less a full length feature film. It contains no
complex subtext, no (intelligent) obscure references, no hilarious
musical numbers and no intricate visual humor. Many jokes are recycled
from older episodes yet are very crudely put together (the similar
looking family that is arrested, the Snow White spoof which is oddly
similar to the much more well done Little Mermaid spoof years back,
etc).

The characters are, at this point, gross caricatures of themselves 10
years ago. Homer, originally a dimwitted yet very caring father and
husband, is now a brainless raging lunatic. Lisa, usually the voice of
reason and compassion, has been reduced to an intellectual who never
steps off her liberal soapbox. Bart, formerly the clever bad boy bad
student with a hidden, kind heart has turned into mini-Homer, drinking
problem included. Marge, a complex woman with a passion for maternity,
has turned into a pitiful shell of a character, only raising her voice
to nag. Other characters have either lost all complexity or just simply
are not used. Even when these characters appear, they get less screen
time than "Boob lady" or "Crazy cat lady" or "Spider pig" or "Irish
musician kid" or "EPA Guy" (voiced by Albert Brooks, the same person
who voiced a much more intriguing villain, Hank Scorpio). Some
characters were even sacrificed in the name of cheap political humor
(Reiner Wolfcastle).

The plot is a disgusting, twisted mess. The pig, an awful idea from the
start, is quickly discarded. The tension between Homer and Bart and
Homer and Marge is uninspired and forced (Marge taping over the wedding
video was clearly a failed attempt to recapture the mood and emotional
depth of a real Simpsons episode). The main plot, not to mention being
unbelievably preachy, is recycled season 12-17 plots pieced together. I
want to say that I could have written a better film but this is only
partially correct; anyone could have written a better film. I'm sorry
but I cannot remember many more details as I have mentally blocked out
most of the movie to reduce the chances of permanent brain damage.
<|_=00=_|>
I Don't want to give much away, but this movie truly is EPIC. The
storyline is great, so is the animation. The movie is hilarious
throughout, and also has one of the most emotional moments ever on The
Simpsons. You can see just about every face ever on The Simpsons and
they keep making subtle references, such as when Homer and Bart jump
Springfield Gorge, the ambulance is still crashed into the tree.

It definitely rewards long-time fans, but it is a great movie even for
those who don't watch the Simpsons. CGI only adds to the excellent
drawings, and it is very cool to see them on the big screen!

If you love the Simpsons, Old or New, you will LOVE this.
