
I watched this because I've always been a fan of GG. I think she's
pretty in a less conventional way, but definitely prettier than Kate
Hudson.

Which brings me to one point. This movie was one of those ugly duckling
movies without the ugly duckling. Rachel (GG) admits that she "never
thought a guy like you would end up with someone like me..." as if she
has three heads or a skin condition or something equally appalling. She
has none of these things. She's pretty, she has a good career, and the
only major personality flaw she has is the inability to be proactive
(which shouldn't be a problem since her love interest is the EXACT SAME
WAY). Yeah. This is a terrible movie with absolutely no action in it
until the very end. We don't even get to see the scene where Darcy is
dumped.

Adding to the incredible coincidence that neither Rachel nor Dex know
what to do in this incredibly obvious situation (we know Dex has some
mommy issues, but that wasn't really explained... I can't remember
anything his mother said or did, aside from a few woeful looks). The
only person we hear any reason from is Ethan, and by then we all want
to smack some sense into the main characters.

What bothers me incredibly about this movie is that it basically drives
loyalty between "best friends" straight into the ground. Not only does
Rachel sleep with her best friend's fiancé, she doesn't TELL her best
friend her mistake, she sleeps with Dex again, encourages Darcy to
marry this guy who is cheating on her and doesn't love her, and then
contemplates telling Dex that Darcy cheated on HIM. Who is getting
majorly screwed over here? In all the mixup and emo WHAT DO WE DO
action (or lack thereof), it's easy to forget who is being hurt the
most.

Uh oh. The script writers went a little too far...

IN COMES...villainizing! It's a common trick in cinema to demonize
characters so that we stay rooting for the main character. This was
very overdone in this movie. At first Darcy had a few good traits that
you could see, but it wasn't long before she become entirely RIDICULOUS
as a character. By the end of the movie, we discover that she's also
been cheating on Dex this WHOLE TIME...AND...she's pregnant. She had to
do something a bit worse in order for us to forgive Rachel. In doing
so, the depth of Darcy was lost - and everyone has depth, let's not
fool ourselves. Obviously the movie wasn't about her, it was about
Rachel, but it sends the message that it's okay to screw your best
friend over as long as she's doing it too - and when does that actually
happen? It also sends the message that it's okay to wait on a man to
leave his fiancé and to not give up too soon, because he might have a
REALLY GOOD REASON. Wrong. If a man isn't leaving his wife, he's not
going to, so you just better move on. Those are the cold, hard facts.
AND, if a man is cheating on his fiancé/wife/girlfriend with you, he's
going to do the exact same thing once your relationship with him gets a
little rocky (that is, if you ever make it to a relationship). But
seriously - once a cheater, always a character. Obviously his morals
are not fantastic. If he loves you, he'll leave her, if he doesn't,
don't bother waiting around. You deserve better.

Ethan was the only character that seemed to agree with this philosophy.
I really wanted the movie to end with Rachel going off with someone
else, someone who knew what to do from the beginning and didn't stand
weakly by and take forever to figure out that love is more important
than his father's glare.

I hated the weakness of these characters. I hated the message. I hated
the necessity of making Darcy's character unbearable so that we won't
end up despising the main characters for their despicable actions.
What's worse is that no one was punished for the horrible betrayal that
took place in this movie - they were rewarded.
<|_=00=_|>
If you think cheating is awesome, this is the movie for you.

Everyone cheats and everyone ends up happily.

Every little bit of it is predictable too, nothing about it is fun or
unique.

There is no moral in this story, there is nothing funny. It's just a
bunch of pretty guys and girls cheating on each other without
repercussions.

I'm thinking really hard right now about whether anything about it was
good, but I can't think of anything...

And why does everyone in these romantic comedies have to be upper-class
and from good heritage?

And why is it always set in NYC?

There's really nothing original about this one.

Do not waste 1.5 hours of your life on this!
<|_=00=_|>
Let's see! Weekly trips to a beach front house in the Hamptons.
Beautiful brownstone apartments in the City. Driving around in a Land
Rover. Taking trips to London.

All of these things happened in the movie and yet, for only 2-3 scenes
do we see anyone at work. Everyone has all of this free time and no one
says where the money comes from.

Well I got that off my che$t and I feel better.

As for the movie--someone said it best. It was a tennis match of
watching relationships change back and forth. Yes, John Krasinksi was
very good, however, I was expecting Pam Beasly to show up. He was
playing his Office character in this movie and yes he made it bearable.

My wife loved the movie and I constantly squirmed in my seat. Wish I
could write more but I have to work for a living.
<|_=00=_|>
I went in to this movie expecting a fun light-hearted funny romantic
comedy. Boy was i wrong! It started out on an okay note with a tacky
surprise party for Rachel (Goodwin) thrown by her life-long best friend
Darcy (Hudson), and did i mention life long? We'll come back to that.
well no more then ten minutes later Rachel has slept with Dex
(Egglesfield) Darcy's fiancé. Now let me remind you that Rachel and
Darcy have been best friends since early childhood.

The rest of the movie is tennis game of rationalization and guilt with
a few smatterings of clever witty one liners. and in the end Darcy and
Rachel's relation ship is completely ruined and Rachel and Dex live
happily ever after. In the final scene after Dacry has discovered the
affair and not seen Rachel for two months they meet on a city street,
and you think that maybe there is going to be some kind of redemption,
but Darcy says to Rachel "I bought him that shirt" and you notice the
dry cleaning held over Rachel's shoulder, a few more words are traded
about how Darcy is truly happy now, and Rachel goes into the arms of
Dex.

The movie was a rationalization for sleeping with your best friends
fiancé, and forbidden love prevailing. I was very disappointed this
movie, purely on content, acting was pretty good otherwise....
<|_=00=_|>
'Something Borrowed' is based on the novel of the same name by Emily
Griffin which I've never heard of. It concerns a group of
thirtysomethings as they struggle through a love rectangle or trapezoid
or whatever shape is made up by Kate Hudson ('How to Lose a Guy in 10
Days'), Ginnifer Goodwin ('Big Love'), John Krasinski ('The Office'),
and the unfortunately named Colin Egglesfield ('Melrose Place'). It's
also occasionally a love pentagon or hexagon if you count Ashley
Williams & Steve Howey. As are typical in stories about differently
shaped loves, there's lots of betrayal amongst friends, panicking of
unfaithfuls, heartfelt conversations covered in rain, and unnecessary
stupidity of everyone involved. . . but, that last bit is expected in
any romance, cinematic or real.

One major problem with a film about infidelity is that it's impossible
to really like anyone involved with the scandal. Here, we only have the
Rachel, the woman who betrays her friend (Goodwin); Dex, the fiancé who
betrays his love (Egglesfield); and, Darcy, the woman betrayed by both
(Hudson). Typically, you can associate with those cheated on solely
through sympathy, but that was made difficult for two reasons: 1)
Darcy's a secondary character who seems to always act like that girl
who always gets too drunk at college parties; and, 2) The movie
constantly acts as if it's going to reveal something negative about her
past (spoiler: it does). Granted, no one deserves to be hurt this way
for being annoying, but she's still not an enjoyable character to
watch. Maybe things would be different if Darcy and Rachel's roles were
swapped, but we all know of hindsight's perfection. Left alone behind
all this despicable behaviour is the typical nice guy Ethan (Krasinski)
who, along only with Dex's dad, acts as a voice of reason in the film.
Unfortunately, he's like an umbrella in a hurricane, unable to rescue
this mess of humanity from themselves. 

Now, I suppose this is a film that's not meant to be enjoyed on the
level of a typical romantic comedy; but, with this cast and a sugary,
generic title like 'Something Borrowed,' a viewer should not be forced
to withstand the cringe-inducing behaviour like that of Dex & Rachel.
Never have I so wanted the leads of a romance to be hit by a New York
cabbie. Then again, I also wished that fate upon myself for a while to
alleviate the misery of watching these monsters. Clearly, writer Jennie
Snyder & director Luke Greenfield, who have both successfully worked in
romance before this film, have talent that should carry them through
their futures, but a film this unlikable was not their best step
forward to that future. A romance hasn't been this depressing since
last year's 'Blue Valentine,' but at least that film succeeded because
of its sad nature and didn't have to battle against it.

Final Verdict: 4/10.

-AP3-
<|_=00=_|>
What an insufferable piece of garbage this was. Giffin's book is more
nuanced, giving the characters in this story a complexity that makes
them somewhat likable. The movie fails with this, and in all regards.
Virtually every person who graces the screen in this film is
detestable. Each is worse than the last. There's no one to root for
here. 

There is only one way this movie could have been redeemed: if the
Hamptons house these losers shared was torpedoed (with the cast inside)
in the final scene. That's how difficult it was to endure this long,
tiresome, insulting rom-com. 

If I could subtract points for SOBO's misguided inaccurate and one
dimensional depiction of New York City as a yuppie transplant's
playground (dutifully carried over from the novel) I would. And if I
could subtract points for the rampant and blatant product placement
permeating this horrific film I would. But I can't, I've already given
this movie the lowest possible rating.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie (which I only just discovered is based on a book) was
clearly written from the POV of someone who has never been betrayed,
never been hurt by a trusted friend and/or lover, someone who thinks
you should do what feels good, without any consequences.

I don't need to reiterate the whole storyline, as that has been done in
previous reviews, but let's look at a few key points. Rachel loved Dex
in college. Dex may have had feelings in return, but as soon as the
beautiful, vivacious Darcy shows up, he's like "bye-bye"to Rachel with
nary a backward glance. Considering Darcy and Rachel are longtime best
friends, we know Rachel and Dex have seen one another many times in the
ensuing years, and yet it isn't until Rachel's birthday that they
suddenly realize they really love each other? Come on! Ridiculous.

Rachel and Dex sleep together. Okay, I can buy making a mistake, even
at the cost of hurting a friend. But then, a normal person, who's as
sympathetic as we're told Rachel is, would certainly back off and make
it right, not continue down the path that will destroy her friend.

Finally, Rachel realizes she loves Darcy, and can't hurt her, after
offering herself (stupidly) to the cowardly, cheating pig Dex. She goes
to London, and is told by her male best friend Ethan that he loves her,
that she is "home" to him. Who wouldn't at least give a guy like that a
chance? And lets keep in mind that he's the only person who has always
been honest with her, unlike the rest of her "friends".

So what does she do? Leaves London, and when Dex shows up to tell her
he called the wedding off, jumps into his arms. Really? So she learned
NOTHING during the whole drama? At the end, when she runs into Darcy,
we don't get the resolution needed between them, and when her phone
rings, I just knew it was Ethan. Then she rounds the corner, and
it's...Dex??? Just how brainless is this woman? I'm pretty sure a guy
who cheated on his fiancé with her best friend will be loyal and true
to Rachel. That's realistic, right? If you have even the vaguest of
morals, or the slightest conscience, avoid this travesty. Seriously. Up
until the ending, I actually enjoyed the movie pretty well, because I
kept hoping for her to learn and grow. Instead, she took a huge leap
backwards. Any sympathy I had garnered for her during her dilemma
dissipated faster than mist in the desert.

As for the acting, John Kraszinski stole the movie. Charming and
charismatic, his was the only character at the end I still liked.
Ginnifer Goodwin was fantastic in the role (not her fault the storyline
is idiotic). Kate Hudson is annoying and almost unwatchable, nothing
much there to relate to, until her last two scenes (discovering Dex's
jacket, and seeing Rachel on the street). In those, the is immensely
watchable, luminous and sympathetic. Colin Egglesfield is beautiful,
though a bit stiff, and perfect to play the part of the swine Dex.
Steve Howey and Ashley Williams as Marcus and Claire are hilarious, and
though they didn't fit in with the drama of the movie, they were the
only things slightly resembling the "com" part of romcom that this is
being touted as.

Just a side note, I went with my mom (age 70), my daughter (age 16) and
myself (age 43) and we ALL agreed about this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't mind chick flicks. I don't love them, but I also don't mind
them. They're often light- hearted and make for a good evening out.
However, I also don't like it when a relatively good story with strong
potential is wasted by making it into a bad movie. The book wasn't
great, I'll give you that. But the movie was worse. Kate Hudson was too
over the top as Darcy (and blonde) and overall, the movie tried too
hard to fit in all the ingredients of a "standard" chick flick: The
great, good-looking amazing guy. The clumsy, not-so-obviously great
looking girl whom everyone loves. The sympathetic, funny, sense-making
friend. The gregarious, loud-mouthed party girl. The one who always
gets left behind and of course, the gross-but-somehow-gets- the-girl
through cheesy lines guy. They could've done so much better than that.
It was a very unglamorous movie made from a very glamorous book. What a
waste. That said, Ethan was absolutely adorable in this movie! His
dialog was nice and he was spot on with his character. Bravo! Goodwin
(Rachel) needs to stop taking these kinda roles. She is going to get
completely branded.
<|_=00=_|>
I've been able to watch a test screening of the movie in early February
during the Berlin Film Festival in Berlin, Germany. 

I've been a big fan of the book(s), so I was really looking forward to
how they adapted "Something Borrowed". First of all, the actors were
great. I didn't expect it at first, but Ginnifer and Colin were just
perfect as Rachel and Dex. They did such an amazing job and I was
sitting in the cinema with a pounding heart the whole time. Kate and
John were hilarious, but I didn't expect any less and just because of
those two, I really hope they'll adapt "Something Blue" (the sequel to
"Something Borrowed") as well. 

I've read the book a couple of years ago, so I don't remember every
detail of it, but I don't think they left any major facts out. It's a
great chick-flick. I'm not sure if guys will enjoy it much, but it's a
great movie to watch with your girlfriends/mother/sisters, etc.
<|_=00=_|>
"Something Borrowed" is a predictable interpretation on a love triangle
story that's as old as the ages. Girl likes boy, boy likes girl, girls
best friend steals boy, boy and girl eventually get together. This
movie is suitable for a girls night in with a couple bottles of wine.
Being a guy, this movie was actually quite enjoyable. A bit dialogue
heavy and not enough car chases, but enjoyable none the less. Actress
Ginnifer Goodwin plays the lovable geek Rachel with Colin Egglesfield
playing the love interest, Dex. Kate Hudson plays the vampy best friend
Darcy and to round up the cast, John Krasinski, as the offbeat comedic
relief complete with devastating one-liners.

The idea that 'best friends are forever' are tested in this movie
filled with infidelity. The premise is that Rachel (Ginnifer Goodwin)
falls in love with Dex (Colin Egglesfield) during their stint in
college. One night over drinks, Darcy is introduced to the mix and the
dynamic between all three changes. Rachel maintains the pent up
affection for Dex whom she cannot have. Darcy continues blissfully
unaware. Dex reciprocates Rachel's pent up longing.

Stylistically, the movie should attract Sex and the City devotees with
all the urban shots of downtown nightclubbing and long strolls through
filled city streets. Complete with shots in the Hamptons and London,
England, Carrie from Sex and the City would approve.

Predictable story and ending not withholding, "Something Borrowed" is
enjoyable to watch, but only if you have an hour and a half to kill. My
girlfriend commented that the book was much better than the movie. Well
played roles by Ginnifer Goodwin and John Krasinski keep the viewer
engaged and entertained. I give this movie three and a half wine
glasses for the girls and two beer bottles for the guys.
