
Still wondering about the reviews above that insult this film's
animation. I thought it looked terrific. (For the record, nearly every
professional critic I could find singled out the film's strong
visuals.) The character differentiation is very strong in the mice &
rats -- and all that tender-loving detail in Ratworld and Mouseworld!
You'd have to watch the movie 6 times to pick out all the tiny man-made
objects the rodents have used for furniture, clothing, etc.

I see also several reviewers' concerns about the film's "darkness."
Ummm . . . don't we find Hans Christian Andersen a bit dark too? Isn't
there something about kids being baked in an oven? And doesn't
someone's father die in "Lion King"? And a certain famous mother in
that deer movie . . . ? For the matter of that, fans of DiCamillo's
Newbery-winning book can tell that her version is a lot darker --
heart-breaking at times. At least one critic has scolded the film
version for toning down the darkness, which concomitantly weakens
DiCamillo's message of forgiveness and redemption.

AND: I don't think I've ever heard vocal work this good in an animated
film. They're not big box-office names that will draw tons of kids to
the picture, but real pros -- Hoffman, Ullman, Hinds, Watson, and that
narration by Sigourney!! -- who bring an amazing richness and
authenticity to the characterizations.

Plus, any movie that so convincingly counsels little kids to say "I'm
sorry" -- well, even if it had no other merits, it's hard to argue with
a message like that!
<|_=00=_|>
After waking up with my usual January the 1st mother of all hangovers i
wondered how i would manage to grab some recovery time in the form of
some extra shut eye later on in the day? Bingo! why not take the family
to the cinema? I great place to catch forty winks , or so i thought.
Little did i know i would find a kids film that was so good , sleep was
the last thing on my mind.

A long time ago, in the distant kingdom of Dor, A horrible accident
broke the heart of the king, left a beautiful princess crestfallen, and
filled the townspeople with despair. As the sun disappeared from the
sky and the flowers were drained of color, the laughter slowly ceased
in this once-magical land. It was into this darkened world that a tiny
mouse named Despereaux Tilling was born, and while this virtuous little
rodent may have been short in stature, his bravery was ultimately too
big for such a small world to contain. An unlikely hero with over-sized
ears and a discernible wheeze, Despereaux was taken with tales of
chivalry, and longed to one day become a noble figure among his people.
Sometimes in order to realize their true destiny, heroes must first
experience great hardship, however, and when Despereaux fails to adhere
to the rigid rules of his society, he is banished from Dor

I don't review Children's films very often . Maybe that's because they
are on all the time in my house and i don't really take a great deal of
notice of them.

To be honest i didn't even know of The Tale of Despereaux until i
checked the listings but I'm glad i did.

This is a magical production that has a mesmerising story , some
delightful characters and animation of the highest quality. It reminded
me a little of some of the fairy tale books i used to read as a kid.
The narration by Sigourney Weaver was perfect. It helped my children
understand exactly what was going on when there was two or three sub
plots going on.

The Characters voices are performed by Dustin Hoffman , Emma Watson ,
William H Macey , Tracy Ullman , Kevin Kline and Matthew Broderick but
to be honest i only recognised the voices of Hoffman and Watson during
the film.

It does make you wonder why studios pay massive wages to big film stars
when a lot cheaper alternative could be used.

If you stuck for something to do before the kids go back to school next
week you wont go far wrong if you take them to see The Tale of
Despereaux .

Without a doubt this is the best film i have see this year......and its
also the first!

8 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
I can't say I was expecting much before going to this film: I hadn't
heard anything about it prior entering the cinema, and the fact that it
was an animation didn't appeal to me. I went to see it just because my
little sister wanted to watch it very much, so I really didn't have
much choice.

Firstly, the colours and the overall atmosphere of the movie was
something unusual. The film can be divided into three parts: happy
beginning, dismal middle, and of course, the happy ending. The feel and
atmosphere of every part is enhanced by the change of colours: bright,
warm colours dominate the beginning and the end of the animation, while
faded and cold colours dominate the middle.

Secondly, I enjoyed how three different types of society were
reflected. The first and most apparent would be the Kingdom of Dor,
suffering from an incompetent ruler who puts his emotions first, while
the interests of the kingdom are second. The second type would be the
Ratworld, a consumerist, primitive society, which is ruled on the basis
of "the leader is he who provides food and entertainment". The last
type is the Mouseworld, a society governed by fear of rule-breaking,
emphasising the importance of "fitting-in".

Although I liked the middle part of the movie (the gloomy one), I was
wondering, if it was appropriate for children, as it brought up such
issues as revenge, abolishment of one's principles, treachery. I doubt
if kids can make the correct interpretations (or conclusions), so
explaining or talking to them after the movie would be reasonable.

The ending was typical of fairy tales: everyone (except for the bad
guys) is fine and lives happily ever after (?).

In all, the movie exceeded my expectations. The moral issues brought
up, the atmosphere, the unusual development of the story, the happy
ending- everything was delivered in a nice way, the only thing that
made the movie lose a star (9/10) is the doubt that children would
fully understand it.

In all, in all, a nice watch :)
<|_=00=_|>
I loved this film. Definitely the best film of the year in my opinion.
It's full of inspiration. The film was written after the novel by Kate
DiCamillo of the same name as the film. The novel won the 2003 Newbery
Medal. I have just started listening to the audio book of the novel and
it starts off just as inspiring.

Although it is a children's fantasy film it has a whole lot for the
adults. One of my favorite films to date. Fantastic, next to Peaceful
Warrior. 

Not sure about the other comments on here, I guess we have to live with
them. Hopefully you will enjoy it as much as I did, because I really
loved it and so did everyone I spoke to that's seen it. With an
all-star cast this movie truly stands out. Don't miss this one!
<|_=00=_|>
I'd be hard pressed to name a kid's flick I've seen in the last four
years that can't be summed up by "a quest to find his true self." For
once, the hero knows who he is, and lives by this truth rather than
learning to define himself along the journey. It was refreshing to see
a slightly less-linear film aimed at the under-10 crowd. There were at
least 3-4 narratives to follow (mouse, rat, servant girl, and to a
lesser extent, the royal family). The notion that one's actions and
attitude can greatly affect those around you, in unexpected ways with
surprising consequences, was a lovely lesson to learn, rather than the
rote "value of friendship" moral. I don't quite get the Ratatouille
comparisons, frankly. OK, the heroes are both rodents. And there is a
chef. This film reminded me more of Big Fish, The Princess Bride, and
Pushing Daisies with its small themes and seemingly meandering
narrative, that all comes nicely at the end. And yes, the film was
utterly beautiful.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay we applauded at the end and I got teary at times.

I have no idea when I last saw an animated film this complex made in
the US. I mean that in a good way. I also have to wonder when was the
last time I saw a real meaty fairy tale on screen, Strings perhaps (oh
what a great double feature that will be) How the heck do I explain
this simply? I have no idea. Perhaps by saying this is the story of a
mouse named Despereaux who isn't afraid of anything, who reads the
stories of a knights and chivalry and takes an oath to be a gentlemen,
who helps a princess trapped in a castle and a kingdom caught in gloom.

One of the most beautiful animated films, possibly the best looking
computer animated film yet with a lush scheme that makes it look like
various paintings by people like Vermeer. At other times this is the
equivalent of book illustrations come to life. As good as the trailers
look the film itself is even better. If you love art (both fine and
animated, see this film since the film references numerous works.

For the most part this is a beautifully adapted film that is like
curling up with a good book.Where recent films like City of Ember or
Twilight or even the Harry Potter films have links to their source
novels that make them less then stand alone movies, this film takes the
book and puts it on the screen and doesn't dumb it down or make it so
you need to have read the book. You have real fleshed out characters of
surprising complexity (What is a character like Dustin Hoffman's doing
in a film that is "for children?" I don't care frankly because its
wonderful). These are not one note sketches but living breathing
people. It doesn't rush things, this is a film that takes its time
telling the story and requires you actually pay attention. Despereaux
doesn't show up for at least fifteen minutes as we get a long run up of
why things are the way they are.Its wonderful since it beautifully lays
out the world we are walking through. Its a real fairy tale movie that
is much more complex than anything that Disney has been churning out,
or even Pixar with the film juggling several story lines-
Despereaux,Roscuro(Hoffman), the maid, the Princess- all at the same
time all seeming to get an equal amount of weight to their telling. It
wonderful.

Unfortunately the film has one flaw that keeps it from being
perfect.(This is a POTENTIAL SPOILER so you may not want to read this
bit) There is a moment or two after the meeting of Roscuro and the
Princess when the climax of the film is set in motion when it felt like
something was left out. How does all of the villainy transpire? Its not
fully clear and on some level I couldn't completely go with it to the
next level. Its like coming to a canyon and you have to bridge it, but
you suddenly find yourself on the other side without knowing how you
got there. its the sort of thing that made the almost 10 out of ten
film closer to 8 out of 10. (END OF SPOILER) Yes I really liked it. Yes
I think you should see it, especially if you like really good fairy
tales or stories that are not simple or simplistic. Its a wonderful
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I understand the less than stellar reviews from some. This movie is not
Toy Story or Madagascar. Don't expect to see Buzz Lightyear kitsch, or
Shrek fart-jokes. It is a fairy tale of the finest sort.

I am a long time fan of CGI animation, since the days before Pixar was
a household name (and I do love Toy Story). The artistry and technical
achievements in this film leave me speechless. The characters emoted
better than many live-action films. (They did seem to cut a couple of
corners on non-critical characters. The cat was pretty bad by
comparison, but it's only in two scenes.) The feel is very literary, as
it should be. And you get the feeling they made some sacrifices to get
the book to the screen. (Don't they always?) The film makes me want to
read the book and see what I missed. Still, the story stands well on
it's own.

The voice talent (What a star packed cast!!) was held in check allowing
the story to shine through. You don't find yourself thinking, "Hey,
it's Robin Williams!" or "Hey, it's Mike Meyers!" (Thank God!) Instead,
you enjoy the characters and only momentarily think, "I know that
voice." It may be too cerebral (read "old skool") for some of today's
iPod, Dragon Ball Z, Nintendo DS, 24/7 non-stop stimulation generation,
but it's exactly the kind of story they need.
<|_=00=_|>
This was a movie that was "just there." I remember being doubtful about
Ratatouille. After all, rats and food? Didn't sound like the best
combo, but Ratatouille grabs you and pulls you in. Not Despereaux. I
was waiting for it to happen, but I was sorely disappointed. The plot
was meandering and had no drive to it. I think I chuckled at one thing
during the movie, but mostly it was devoid of humor. My kids may have
laughed once, too. They didn't leave with the normal "can we get that
on DVD" questions. You're waiting for something to happen, for
something to peak your interest, for a little heart palpitation, a
little humor, an interesting plot twist. It's just not there. One
person called the movie a "hack job" on the book. I can't speak to
that, since I did not read the book, but I hope - for the author's
sake, at least - that the book was better. I'd recommend that you wait
to rent this movie. Your kids may like it, but I doubt they will find
it as good as Ratatouille, Cars, Shrek, or some of the other quality
kids films, so don't waste your money in the theater. For a $5 rental,
it's OK. But for the big bucks they charge at the theater, no way!
<|_=00=_|>
The qualities: 

- Superb graphics, expressive, beautiful and stylish; 

- Solid characters, both intrinsically and visually; 

- A compelling atmosphere, and mood in general.

The flaws: 

- A chaotic script, confusing and unprofessional. They were too
ambitious to keep as much as possible of the novel's sub-plots and
secondary characters, but didn't know how to organize them according to
the screen-writing rules.

- A linear direction: everything flows on too uniformly, the important
scenes are not accented and developed enough. As such, it gradually
becomes boring, and during the culminating moments it's positively
anticlimactic.

- The disadvantageous comparison with "Oblio". That one had spark! This
one is also smart, but less inspired.
<|_=00=_|>
My son and I read this book last year and it along with Kate's other
great work "The Miraculous Journey of Edward Tulane" we enjoyed very
much. It is rare to find witty educated authors who are able to
identify with the 5-10yr old crowd. The movie however was a far cry
from the book, nevertheless the family and I enjoyed it very much. I am
personally tired of the movies that focus on the parents more and the
kids less (Bolt, The Incredibles etc..). The movie is a great movie
particularly if you want to have a great talk with the kids on the way
home about honor and bravery. 

Was it the book? No and I prefer the book, but the movie is good
entertainment in it's own right. Give it a chance, it will touch you.
