
Just got back from the "industry screening" of Land, with GAR in
attendance (5 rows ahead of me).

Not to give out any spoilers, because I won't...but this film rocked.
Does it have a different feel than Night, Dawn, and Day? Of course it
does...why? Because of the fact that it's 2005, and movie making has
changed over the course of the years. And also, this wasn't an
independent film in the same way the other three were.

BUT, what they got away with, gore-wise, was absolutely incredible. My
buddy and I were laughing with glee through the entire flick at all of
the violence. Let me put all doubts to rest: This IS a George A Romero
zombie film. This is NOT a rip-off...it's the real deal. Head shots,
decapitations, zombie biting people with the typical fleshy
ripping...intestines...the works. I was SHOCKED at the amount of gore
they managed to get into the film. I spoke with the Production Manager
after wards, and he assured me that the gore in the film is NOTHING
compared to what's going to be on the DVD. Oh, and on the way out, I
got to shake GAR's hand and tell him that this is an incredible film.
Honestly, it's this generation's "Dawn". (And yes, that means it's more
fast paced etc etc, which some purists might be ticked off about). And
when I say this is this generation's "Dawn", I mean THIS is the zombie
movie people will remember years from now. It totally blows the other
recently released zombie flicks (including the Dawn remake) out of the
water. 

The acting was excellent all around...and I mean all around. There were
no bad performances. Even Dennis Hopper and John Leguizamo, who both
were put down on the message board for being in the film, were amazing.
Hell, even the zombies kicked ass.

Anyway, that's all I'll say. You guys will either love it or hate it. I
loved it.

Final word: Watch for the priest zombie. You'll know what I mean when
you see it...hilarious. And watch for the arm scene...a hand upheld in
a foggy mist...you'll understand when you see that too. Also, watch for
the hilarious departure of two of Dennis Hopper's assistants...his
personal assistant and his butler. LOL funny.
<|_=00=_|>
Most other comments seems to be infected by a classic case of -Let's
read a plethora of theories and commentaries into this as an
after-construction-kinda deal. It's easy to sum this movie up in one
sentence: A violent story about a group of people in search for their
missing car.

This has been praised as a stand against class-society and apparently
it should contain a vast amount on social commentary. Where? Name one
action movie who hasn't got a rich villain and a poor hero or some
misfit trying to set things right based on his unbreakable social
pathos. 

And some of the huge plot holes:

Well the monatery system in this movie can't be explained. Why does
currency still work in a world where there a so few people, and plenty
of goods to go around for everybody.

The gated community is just a silly, awfully depicted place, instead of
dealing with the situation they sit around drinking champagne and
buying designer clothes. (Is this the huge social comment?!?)

Why build a stupid land train when you can loot every tank regiment on
Earth?

Conclusion:

After the three first (Night, Dawn and Day) Land... seems to be a world
of it's own. It seems to be so far away from anything else, depicted in
the first three, it could be a pilot for a TV-series.

Many may complain about the one dimensioned actors but, be fair, how
would ANY actor act in such a humourless, wafer thin story like this.
The direction seems more to be inspired by army boot camp than any sort
film-making. It follows the same concept over and over and over again:
"Run-Shoot-Swear-Run-Shoot-Swear" And by God do not under any
circumstances show any emotion except anger.

I was almost breastfed with zombie movies and for almost 20 years it's
been a great inspirational source. It pains me to see this movie and I
hate to admit that not even me, one of the greatest fans on the genre,
can protect Romero from this failure.

Mr. Romero, get back to the drawing board, and better luck next time.

I still have hope!
<|_=00=_|>
Land of the Dead - The 4th part of George A. Romero's zombie
quadrillogy. It's been decades since the dead began to walk the Earth,
and now they practically own it (except for Canada for some reason).
There is one last little mega-city that is surrounded by electric
fences, armed patrols and barbed wire on one side, and nothing but
water on all other four sides, because the dead supposedly don't like
water. Despite the fact that the surrounding lands are rife with
zombies, this metropolis is incredibly corrupt. All thanks to evil
bureaucrat Kaufman (Dennis Hooper, who I had a ball watching) who makes
all but a select few rich folks (who have never seen or fought a real
zombie) live in slums. There you can get your picture taken with
zombies, or watch zombie fights (they fight over animals and the
occasional human). There are a few mercenaries paid to make runs in a
giant tank truck for precious commodities in the outside world.

Now I like George and could thank him endlessly for starting the zombie
franchise, but he has always favored gore just a little more over
character development, and has always liked his zombies just a LOT more
than his humans. Heck in this movie, the zombies are practically the
good-guys! They're just like you and me, except they rip people's arms
in two (and I do mean length-wise) and tear belly button rings out of
people. They are actually pretty intelligent and moderately fast at
walking. By far the biggest threats in Romero's movies (most notably
"Big Daddy" (Eugene Clark). For the most part though, it works, and
it's good gory fun. Except the character development thingy. While I
don't begrudge Romero for having fun with his zombies, I wasn't too
sympathetic to Riley (Simon Baker) or Slack (Asia Argento). Riley, like
Romero it seems, is just tired of character development as he has Riley
say "I'm fed up with back-stories". But Riley dear boy, that's how the
audience grows to care about you. Slack almost kills several of her
fellow team-mates and does not grow at all, but that's the script's
fault. Both of these characters, however are played well for what the
actors are given.

Surprisingly the secondary characters are far more endearing. Cholo
(John Leguizamo) was not only believable as a merc, but I was quite
sympathetic to him as he realized that he was a pon. "Pilsbury" (Pedro
Miguel Arce) and Charlie (Robert Joy) are endearing and funny.

So the effects are good. The story is iffy. The acting is good. The
character development is iffy. The ending is really lame. This gets an
overall B
<|_=00=_|>
I was able to catch an advance screening with friends last night, and
maybe it was just the mood we were in, but we had a blast. It took me a
few minutes to get the direction George was going with this one, but
once I did, it cranked on almost every cylinder. 

The first thing to note is this is not a serious, somber, scare you out
of your pants zombie movie. What it actually plays out as instead is a
social commentary on class, politics, and stereo types, while having a
good time doing it. Think more Evil Dead meets Mad Max meets Night of
the Living Dead, and you'll get a clearer picture of the movie George
has made here. 

Yes, it is very violent, and yes, there are plenty of "feedings."
Highly recommended for those whose take zombie movies as seriously as
they should.
<|_=00=_|>
George Romero returns to the genre he had perfected with his "dead"
trilogy (Night of, Dawn of, and Day of), with a fourth installment,
LAND OF THE DEAD. Fans of the first three films will no doubt be lining
up in droves to see this film regardless of what the critics say.
Regardless, die hard zombie fans and critics alike should be pleasantly
surprised. The sneak peak I saw had fans hooting and hollering and
received a standing ovation at the end of the film. The film, while not
perfect, is still a achievement in bringing a once dead genre back to
life. And who better to do it than the master himself, George A ROmero.
Land of the Dead, most closely resembles the dark comedy of Day of the
Dead than the other two films, and manages to blend the classic
elements of Dawn of the Dead with the modern expectations of films like
28 days Later. Romero fans will love it, and modern horror seekers
should hopefully be exposed to a great time. Great special effects,
plenty of gore, and great performances all around especially from John
Legiozomo, Dennis Hopper, and Asia Argento. Do yourself a favor, and GO
SEE THIS MOVIE on the big screen!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was terrible! The storyline - can't use the word plot as
that would give it too much credit - was tedious! Some say it was a
great perspective on class? Are you kidding me!!! From the HORRIBLE
acting to the complete and utter Lack of dialog, characters changed
motives, desires and allegiances so quickly without any second
thoughts. Plus, a lot of scenes just plain didn't make Any Sense!

*SPOILER* I realize that the two troops were sent up to keep an eye on
our main characters but why in the world did the big guy suddenly knock
out that woman?!?! What was with that? The gratuitous female-on-female
scene? What purpose did that serve? Only the one zombie guy seemed to
be learning anything and leading the troops yet was able to avoid huge
blasts from explosives while zombies around him exploded? These
characters have such amazing aim at such strange points but then they
can't kill this One Zombie? And everyone in the van just blindly
follows Choro but then immediately switches alliances? And what was
with the girl who was ready to nuke the entire city but then, when
asked to fire on a bunch of zombies and half-eaten civilians all of a
sudden she has a heart? Plus, even after Choro turned into a zombie he
was able to carry out his revenge? Not only was he able to remember to
kill that CEO guy but also he was able to find him that easily? And
what was with the horribly, cheesy ending where they just want a place
to live?!? Uh, hello, have we forgotten that THEY ARE DEAD!!!! Kinda
the Premise of the movie!!!

Oh I just was SO disappointed - and I gotta say, I didn't have high
expectations or anything, I just couldn't believe how bad it really
was. My boyfriend and I looked at each other after the movie and were
so angry - he had been particularly excited about this one and I
thought the idea that the zombies would possibly be learning something
well that was neat. OH SO SAD when a Great series like this jumps the
shark!
<|_=00=_|>
I went in to this movie expecting the worst and couldn't have been more
wrong. Romero did a good job keeping to what he does best- zombie and
social commentary. The special effects and gore were really good and
"Dead Reckoning" doesn't look as much like a DAWN OF THE DEAD (remake)
parking shuttle, as it does in the trailers. I did feel that they
introduced "Big Daddy" way to early in the film and overused him. I
would have enjoyed the movie more if he was just another zombie.
Cameo's by Simon Pegg, Tom Savini, and Edgar Wright were barely
noticeable. I would have liked to see more "daytime" scenes but I don't
think that is what Romero had in mind. Overall, it was a fun movie that
had a few sudden scares and some good humor.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film at a preview screening here. I thought it was great fun
and a return to what Romero does well - zombies. It does not pretend to
be anything but what it is and that's why I think it's better than one
of the earlier reviewers on this site did. I thought the characters
were well drawn - I'd especially like to see Charlie's back story - and
the set-up for a possible sequel (and a possible show-down between
Riley and the Big Daddy zombie) intriguing. Dennis Hopper was a fairly
clichéd villain but I always like seeing him on screen. The movie may
be seen by some to have way too few shocks (I only jumped and clutched
my companion a couple of times but then I may be jaded) and too many
"merely amusing" moments. The audience I saw it with all seemed to
enjoy it, applauding at the end.
<|_=00=_|>
I've just arrived from CineVegas at The Palms where Romero got a
vanguard award. I've never seen a zombie movie, so I thought I'd check
this one out. Anyway I'm a bit tired, but all I can say is WOW. This
film rocked! The gore was awesome. There was some cringe-worthy stuff,
one instance I remember is there's this chick with a belly button ring
who gets attacked,and yeah... imagine what happens next. Also, this
film was FUNNY! The audience just gobbled up all the violence and gore.
As the previous poster mention Dennis Hopper was just excellent and the
way he handled getting rid of one of his assistants was the funniest
part in the movie. All in all, this movie exceeded my expectations and
was money well spent.
<|_=00=_|>
This review contains some spoilers, but don't be afraid to read it if
you're planning to see the movie, it won't change much, if anything,
except perhaps your will to see it.

I find it quite difficult to grasp how so many people could still give
this movie such a high score. I think it somehow must have something to
do with people hyping the movie since it's the successor to Dawn Of The
Dead (DOTD) or something, but seriously, they're all wrong, and I'll
tell you why.

I too went in to see more of the (in my opinion pretty good) Dawn Of
The Dead, and was expecting a bit less of course, since sequels are
always worse than the first one. Point proved once more.

A few comparisons perhaps to show you what I mean: In DOTD, the zombies
were... well, zombies. In Land Of The Dead (LOTD) the zombies have
somehow "evolved" to have some kind of intelligence, with 1
commander-zombie who somehow manages to lead them all with a few
grunts, giving the others orders. This is what destroyed the movie from
the very beginning. I mean come on, "they're trying to act like us."
(one of the first lines in the movie) and then you see a zombie couple
walking hand in hand, a band of zombies trying to play something, and
the list goes on. That's not what we're here for, you know? It doesn't
feel like you're watching a zombie movie, it feels like you're watching
Revenge Of The Mentally Challenged, and it isn't working.

I don't want to see a zombie with enough intelligence to fire a gun
(seriously) or who knows that he can make a car explode by soaking it
in gasoline first and rolling a burning keg of gas (which appeared out
of nowhere) towards it, and I doubt anybody else was waiting for that
either.

The scares are all extremely predictable by the way.

One of the aspects that made DOTD good to great, was the awesome job
the crew did with the masks of the zombies. This is not the case in
LOTD, you only get about 3 mass zombie scenes, the other scenes
containing zombies are always close-ups of the same 5 zombies that hang
around the commander-zombie, and only 1 of them (the girl with the
slashed mouth) looks like how a zombie should look, the others just
appear to have had a reversed face lift.

There is no depth to any of the characters. In DOTD, you had some
outspoken personalities, here you have the stereotypical rebel-hero,
the love-potential rebel female (which is a prostitute in this movie,
nice twist on the whole Romeo and Juliet thing, I'll give them that), a
retard that somehow is able to fire a gun with inhuman precision, and a
few mercenaries (like the humongous fat Samoan guy) but who don't do
*anything* at all in the movie except just standing there and trying to
look cool.

When I thought the movie would finally kick off, the end credits rolled
across the screen, and the whole theater was going "what the ****?",
really. Everybody there was disappointed, everybody.

Just as you felt it had potential to burst into something great, it was
over, and you realize you have just watched 90 minutes of pure time
wasting. Nothing has been told, and nothing has happened during the
movie.

Also, the tank-like car they use to raid surrounding villages is over
the top and overused, and I didn't think it had anything cool about it,
at all. They tried to revoke the busting-out feeling from DOTD with
those fortified trucks I think, but again, it didn't work.

Everything was there though; the tower as a last stand (which takes
only one 2 minute scene in the whole movie when it is invaded by the
zombies), the expertise from DOTD should have created even more and
better looking zombies, the concept was a great base to build off (the
remaining humans walled in in a city with the undead controlling the
rest of the world),...

But they didn't do anything with it and decided to just create a
rip-off and milk the movie dry. And I don't blame anybody for that, but
don't expect me to like it when you don't finish the job.

The final straw for me was the ending scene, when the zombies have
taken over one of the *last* remaining human cities (remember, they
control the rest of the world) and the main character with his finger
on the button to shoot a few rockets in the mass of zombies, decides
not to do it and just leave them to raid the city and it's inhabitants,
since "they're just like us, they just want a place to call home", and
then drives off launching fireworks with his truck.

I'm not kidding, I swear.

So there I was, both mouth and eyes wide open, trying to subdue the
urge to let a well-meant "what the **** was that" slip from my lips
while the end credits were rolling across the screen, having wasted a
perfect evening while I could have been watching any other movie, which
would have had a good chance of being better than this one.

If you read this and decide that perhaps you should see a different
movie, I think that would be a wise decision.

If you have read this review, and you decide that you still have to go
and see this movie, I promise you'll get what you deserve.

Have a good life.
