
Running with Scissors reviewed by Sam Osborn 

I've become all too wary of memoirs lately. Not because of the James
Frey debacle, but because they've become the literary equivalent of the
biopic at the movies. Just as I've grown tired of seeing the rise and
inevitable fall of infamous icons during Oscar season, I've grown tired
of plowing through the literary lives of men and women compelled to
account their abusive childhoods, sexual deviancy, problems with drugs
and alcohol, and, the real must, their harebrained families. The books
sell well because readers love gossip, scandal, and melodrama. Running
with Scissors has no shortage of such pulpy details, as its hero,
Augusten Burroughs, has all the makings of memoir sentimentality. He
was born into a selfish, dysfunctional family, adopted by his mother's
psychiatrist, attempted suicide, turned out to be gay, and was exposed
to sex at a young age under the hands of a man much past his age. His
life was, if nothing else, screwed up enough to put into a book. But
while I'm a pessimist to the genre, Running with Scissors is strange
and psychotically contagious.

To oversimplify the matter, the film is a collection of people dealing
with their issues. Heading up the Burroughs family is Norman Burroughs
(Alec Baldwin), a business man with the sedated lick of alcoholism
whose only wish seems to be to sidestep his wife's raging narcissism.
Dierdre (Annete Bening), his wife, is a selfish would-be writing
starlet whose lack of talent is constantly at odds with the confidence
that she deserves a Nobel Prize. Her failure she blames on the supposed
acts of sabotage by Norman, of which she confides in her only son
Augusten. The family begins counseling with Doctor Finch (Brian Cox),
the man who eventually adopts Augusten when Norman walks out and
Dierdre begins popping Valium like prescription Skittles. The Finch
family seems to be no upgrade though, as Agnes (Jill Clayburgh), the
mother, is first seen munching on dog kibble, Hope (Gwyneth Paltrow),
the favored daughter, is known to talk to her cat Freud, and Natalie
(Evan Rachel Wood), the second daughter, tries to open Augusten up by
using electro-shock therapy. Their home is an old-money palace painted
blazing pink, with various lawn furniture, cobbled windows, and a
Christmas tree that's been erect for over two years. 

My Mother happens to be mildly obsessed with Augusten Burroughs. She
speaks of his stories and literary adventures as though they're the
loopy reveries of a second son she birthed into paperback. So several
months ago I took her to our hometown bookshop, The Boulder Bookstore,
to see Mr. Burroughs speak on his most recent book, Magical Thinking.
I'd read a few of his stories at my Mom's urgent requests and flipped
through a couple chapters of his first memoir (the film's source),
Running with Scissors, in preparation. I knew enough, I felt, to hold
my own in a book signing. But as the first hand was raised during the
Q&A segment of the presentation, a woman asked how Augusten's dog was
doing, how his partner was holding up, if they'd purchased that house
he mentioned, and if those shoes were still in mint condition. I was
obviously behind the curve. Mr. Burroughs has entrusted so much of his
intimate life with his writing. It's organic and swelling with humor
drawn from a frank self-awareness that doesn't embarrass him or his
readers. His audience isn't a third-party to his life, they're all his
closest friends; quite a job for rookie feature Writer/Director Ryan
Murphy. 

Murphy approaches the material very cinematically, using every magic
trick offered to him by his technicians. This is no shaky,
documentary-style memoir that shreds cinema to the tatters of the
broken characters on screen. Murphy's characters are heightened to
hyperbolic altitude, but are anchored to a reality only gotten from the
pages of non-fiction accounting. His film is tightly-knit, too, with
every line of dialogue truly used and with characters' stories
intertwined into a family of glowing psychosis. It makes for a film
constructed from quirk and color, but Murphy's characters can't seem to
escape from being so human. They deal with their issues, but like
humans, rarely manage to solve them. It can be appalling and sometimes
painful, but Burroughs and Murphy's stories are just too lovely to turn
your back to.

Rating: 3.5 out of 4 

Sam Osborn
<|_=00=_|>
Irritating at times but only at times when the writer, director,
producer puts himself in front of the camera and all we see it's him.
But, most of the time this is a surprising, smart comedy of pains with
a sensational Annette Bening - her best performance without a doubt -
her disintegration is, apart from everything else, shattering and
absurdly entertaining. She descends her psychic road wrecking havoc
wherever she wants to do "the best thing for you". Under the effects of
the medication and the advise of her con-shrink she slides away,
brilliantly. Alec Baldwin has three little moments that he manages to
wrap with so much truth that his character lingers in my mind. Well,
there you are, I'm talking about the performances because that's what
makes this movie really fly. Jill Claybourgh, Joseph Finnes, Brian Cox,
Gwynneth Paltrow, Evan Rachel Wood and Joseph Cross with his literary
future and his thing for hair, they all transform this stranger than
fiction real life tale into something memorable, yes, memorable. I
don't quite understand why this film was so mistreated by critic and
public alike. I found more rewarding elements here than in most of what
2006 had to offer at the movies. Give it a try.
<|_=00=_|>
If ever a movie taught me not to let critics influence my decision to
see something, this is it.

I remember when this came out in the theater and the overall consensus
of the major critics was that this film was a huge disappointment, if
not a complete failure. Wow. (scratches head)

Having been a huge fan of the book (I read it twice before I saw the
film) I went to see it anyway without high expectations, and was
surprised to say the least. I love this film, and it brought me to
tears several times. And like other posters, I thought that it was a
rare film adaptation that does justice to the book and then some. 

Aside from the fact the film remains true to the book, which will
please many fans, the performances are excellent across the board.
Annette Bening, in my humble opinion, was robbed of an Oscar
nomination. She delivers nothing less than a tour-de-force. I mean, it
truly amazes me how she was overlooked along with this whole movie. And
Joseph Cross should have had a nomination as well. He shines the light
and the heartbreak in this boy with dead-on accuracy. This is a
remarkable story that I guess is hard to believe for many people, even
in the strange, dysfunctional world we live in. I think all of the
actors made this story truly believable. Even Gwyneth, who has very
little screen time unfortunately, makes the most of it, with a
wonderfully low-key, quirky turn. Her scene cooking "the stew", in
braids, is one of my favorite moments. And how could they not notice
Jill Clayburgh??!! She manages to ground this story, ironically, with
sanity. She conveys grace and maternal love and kindness, wringing
these emotions from an almost grotesquely-written character. No easy
feat. I will admit Evan Rachel Wood is the only actor I felt was a bit
miscast if you are being true to the book. She's just cooler and sexier
than I imagined the character to be. But she reminded me of someone
else i grew up with in an uncanny way, that's how good she is at
balancing smart and damaged, as a girl who grew up too fast for her own
good, but somehow manages to prevail. I loved her nonetheless, just in
a different way than I did in the book.

The pacing, the tone, the lighting, the music, the respect the director
showed this story is really stunning as well. Anyone who grew up in the
late 70's (like myself) in a dysfunctional home with a rather eccentric
mother will probably experience this as movie magic, and feel
uncomfortably at home watching this, like being transported back in
time. You may even smell your mother's shag carpeting and scented
candles like I did. The clothing the characters are wearing, especially
Augusten, made me feel like I was back in grade school myself...wearing
a polyester plaid vest and tie and out-of-synch with my peers. The
imagery really rang true for me, along with "Your the poetry man"
playing in the background.

Maybe the problem was that not a lot of people can relate to this
story, and it seems too preposterous for them to even suspend their
disbelief for a couple of hours? I've never felt compelled to write a
commentary up here until now because I really believe this work was
done an injustice by the critics. However I don't think, as a viewer,
you would necessarily need to relate to this story to enjoy the film.
But I can't help but wonder if I'm wrong about that, because it might
explain the poor reception from so many critics.

I also trust completely that over time many will discover this movie
and be moved to both laughter and tears, and be completely absorbed in
it. It's a twisted, sometimes hilarious but mostly heartbreaking tale,
based on true events, and it is, in my opinion, a beautiful film. It's
a gem.
<|_=00=_|>
Black comedies can be very subjective to an audience. Running With
Scissors isn't for everyone. The humor comes from the often shocking
dysfunction the characters struggle with. Annette Bening plays a woman
so selfish, egotistical and full of anger that she would destroy her
family to satisfy her needs. Ms. Bening's performance is raw and
spontaneous. Brian Cox plays the doctor she turns to who may or may not
be an out and out quack, another stellar performance. Natalie Rachel
Ward stands out as the doctors younger daughter while Gweneth Paltrow
seems lost amongst the fine acting surrounding her, and although it is
always good to see Jill Clayburgh in anything, I was not as impressed
with her as I have been in the past. Alec Baldwins turn as Bening's
husband is small, but he holds his own. In the midst of all the over
the top, almost Gothic insanity is Bening and Baldwin's son, based on
the author, subtly played by Joseph Cross. Joseph Fiennes has a
difficult time with a difficult character, another victim of the
doctor's "treatment".

I would agree with another commenter who stated that the director Ryan
Murphy uses every trick in the book when it comes to film making and
then some. I fully expected a musical number or a dream sequence. As
evidenced in Nip Tuck, Murphy relies on music to enhance a mood. The
art direction and costumes capture the seventies and all it's
weirdness. As others have said RWS also reminded me of American Beauty
in it's anti-American dream nature. This movie covers dark territory,
doesn't have obvious comedy and doesn't follow any typical scenario
although it did suffer from "sappy" moments. I can guarantee that
you'll walk out of the theater happy that you aren't anyone in the
film.
<|_=00=_|>
I have read 2 of Agustine Bourroughs novels and I was, frankly, a
little afraid that this one might be ruined by being re-cast as a
movie. With this story in the hands of this director and this cast, my
fears were groundless: it translated beautifully. I am sure that this
is in no small part due to Burroughs personal involvement in the
production, but greater authors have had their work ruined right under
their noses, so it is a credit to both Author and creative staff that
the engaging story remains intact. I think it gives a truthful
depiction of what it is like to grow-up with mental illness in the
family and also presents a metaphor for the craziness and dysfunction
which is, at some level, in every family. The cast was all superb,
especially Annette Benning and Jill Clayburgh. Joseph Cross and Joseph
Fiennes were equally superb -- in fact, EVERYONE was so good I almost
don't want to single anyone out. I will recommend this movie to
friends.
<|_=00=_|>
The true story of Augusten Burroughs's beginnings, sound like a
demented work of fiction. That's true of most true things. Here,
putting aside what's real and what may be a figment of Augusten's
imagination, there is a movie. A slightly confused, a bit pretentious
but unquestionably fun movie with some high caliber actors at the top
of their game. Annette Bening to start with, extraordinary and without
clinging to one of her delightful giggles. She is a magnificent,
deplorable human spectacle. Reconizable and yet totally alien. Her
character is in her way down from the word go and she (Annette or
Deidre)don't shy away from the most devastating human blows. She is
surrounded by a beautifully designed human zoo of extreme characters.
They carry their eccentricities like badges of honor. Brian Cox, superb
as the Dickensian know-it-all, his daughters , Evan Rachel Wood and the
magnificent Gwynneth Paltrow who can tell you more with half a look
than with two pages of exposition. Jill Claybourgh! Goodness gracious
me! Where has she been? She's the throbbing heart of the matter, dog
food an all. Her sanity, hidden behind a demented, neglected hairdo, is
as real as Joseph Cross' Augusten Burroughs. Joseph Finnes's gorgeous
nut doesn't have a great deal of sexual chemistry with his under age
lover but maybe he wasn't suppose to. As if all this wasn't enough,
Alec Baldwin, giving one of the best performances of his career in a
character who's on the screen for only a few minutes. Woody Allen, John
Irvin even Eugene Ionesco and Frank Perry are present in this engaging
display of human frailty. Terrific surprise.
<|_=00=_|>
Usually when I read the book before the movie, the movie can't live up
to book. This time, the book was great and the movie more than lived up
to it. It's strange that we can laugh at others' misfortunes but these
situations are so absurd that they are hysterical. Each actor truly
inhabited their parts. Annette Benning should be nominated for an
Oscar. Brian Cox, Joseph Cross, and a great Jill Clayburgh really were
amazing.

Needless to say, I highly recommend this movie. It's even more amazing
when you realize it's based on what really happened to Augusten
Burroughs. And stay through the credits.
<|_=00=_|>
Running with Scissors takes you inside the memories of Augusten, an
endearing kid growing up under the roof of a dysfunctional household
only to find himself uprooted and transplanted into another equally
troubled one. The real unsettling twist is that his new surroundings
are even more questionable and more Edward Gory than he could ever
imagine. 

From there the film is a wild romp of scenes that build on each other
until every mentally challenged character is a pile of screaming chaos.
As complex and unattractive as that sounds Running with Scissors is a
must see, after all it is a comedy. It is highly-stylized and fashion
conscious from the costume design to the glossy editing. The technical
aspects of the film are as redeeming as the grade of the entire cast
led by Annette Bening's iconic performance. I hope you'll find it as
enjoying and engrossing as I did.
<|_=00=_|>
I am such a fan of the book RWS, and I couldn't wait for the movie to
come out. I was not disappointed! (I have seen it twice already.) The
movie was marvelously true to the book. Joseph Cross as Augusten was
wonderful. In fact, all the actors were great. Seeing Annette Bening
and Jill Clayburgh playing interesting "middle-aged" characters without
the use of Botox was refreshing. Joseph Fiennes as Bookman was scary
and sexy all at the same time. Dr. Finch was, well... see the movie.

Joseph Cross was perfect as a young Augusten. He appeared bright and
wise for his age, and at the same time insecure and afraid. His ability
to portray genuine emotion in the midst of such insanity was superb. He
seemed at times as though he too was just an observer, as though he
could not believe this was actually his life. We have not seen the last
of Joseph Cross.

I predict Oscar nominations for Bening and Cross, as well as Best
Picture, Best Director.
<|_=00=_|>
Loved the movie. Annette Bening is sure to be nominated again for her
performance. She was so crazy, and yet so sympathetic that I found
myself crying for her. Jill Clayburgh was a real treat. I'm very happy
that these women have decided to let themselves show their age and not
become the plastic people Hollywood has come to expect.The soundtrack
was also great. I had the feeling that a lot of the actors involved in
this movie were in it because they believed in the material, not only
for the money. Gwynth Paltrow has a fun, small part, and it was good to
see Kristin Chenowith on screen. A wonderful story, and a wonder that
Mr. Burroughs survived the reality.
