
This is to me just an amazing, funny, delightful movie.

But first ... to be honest, I wasn't planning on seeing this movie at
all. I had (woe be to me) never even heard of Tyler Perry. And the
film's title alone sounded ... well ... unappealing at best. The
synopsis I'd read suggested yet another movie with a man playing an
overweight black woman. That might have been funny once or twice ... in
Big Momma's House, and The Nutty Professor ... but surely can't keep
carrying so much water as to make yet another movie about this same
motif, right?

Well, be that as it may, I noticed that this film had hit the top of
the box office when it opened a week ago. And then I read a review this
morning by a typically politically correct reviewer who was "dissing"
the movie. Now this is a reviewer I've come to rely upon as always
panning movies I like and waxing enthusiastic about movies I dislike.
So reading this reviewer's badmouthing prompted me to try out this
movie ... and I am so glad I did. 

I think I can see why high-minded PC reviewers wouldn't like it. It's a
"popular" comedy, full of rough, earthy humor, celebrates Black
cultural child-rearing values, and unapologetically celebrates God and
family. No wonder it's been a hit with the general Black American
culture, especially Black Churchgoing culture.

What is it that makes this movie so funny and so deeply heart-warming
at the same time? 

Well, in some ways, this is something of an old-fashioned morality
play. Such has a wonderful tradition in Western Culture ... and in
African culture. A resurrection of the Morality Play is fine by me:
just a shocker, that's all. I kept thinking, "how are these characters
getting away with saying things like that?" As when the leading lady
says she's given her life to God and has been celibate and will stay
celibate till she's married. How is it possible for something like that
to show up in a general release movie in this day and age? Not as a
statement to be mocked, but as an expression of genuine faith in God
and Chastity? I just shook my head and smiled and enjoyed the sheer
frank morality of the movie every time it surfaced ... which was pretty
often indeed.

The music was resplendent throughout the movie, but the sound seemed a
little problematic at times. The audio was almost echoing, flat, tinny
... sort of like a somewhat bad mono recorder. 

The cinematography was fine, but in a way, very old-fashioned ...
stylistically similar to the movies from the early days when films were
often framed as theater transferred to the screen. Maybe that reflects
Tyler Perry's background, I understand as a playwright. But for
example, the camera follows the action in a very straightforward, even
simple way: head on, straight up, no angle shots, no through shots, no
complex dissolves or modern "realistic" camera "jiggling". Maybe this
is intentional: the movie is telling a plain, straight story with
feeling and humor and no hint of subtlety. If this is what's going on,
it's fine by me: because this makes for a very candid, very honest, but
never discomforting style. Perry's narrating a Story, Telling us What's
Happening. Nuance is not what we're after here. Very basic human themes
are painted with strong strokes. So we have a basic cinematography to
fit this purpose. Fair enough.

There's an interesting interplay of serious and humorous material at
two levels. First, there's some very tight sequencing in which strongly
emotional material is followed by strong humor. Some will like this,
some not, but it's very much at the core of Madea's character, and the
overall character of the movie. Second, "serious" scenes are sometimes
interspersed with humorous scenes inserted clearly for no other reason
than plain comic relief. I think some might find that a little jarring.
Still, it works for me very well. And this kind of thing goes back to
Shakespeare at least, so I know it works for others as well.

The acting and characterizations were wonderful. Now again, don't look
for subtlety, that's not the nature of the movie. But if it's good,
solid performances matching characterizations to characters, this movie
has it all. Tyler Perry as Madea and Joe was simply perfect. But the
entire cast provided strong, reliable performances. Including a
delightful cameo by Maya Angelou. 

A few "plot holes" have been alleged. I see what's meant, but frankly,
don't agree at all. This is a movie that for the most part is stylized,
full of art and artifice, not a "realist" movie in which careful
plotting is critical for believability. A movie like this is more like
a painting, or a song ... a ballad. A popular folk ballad, full of
humor and fun and tears and hugs ... and lightly textured but
unapologetic moralizing. This movie is a classic combo of Entertainment
and Edification. The final scenes at the farm, and at the wedding,
really sum up the movie in both respects, and keeping a scorecard on
consistency of details is very out of place, it's directly
contradictory to the genre.

Last but not least, I have to say that the figure of Madea ... tying
everything together with humor and wisdom ... is a sheer delight. I'm
told she'll be back on the silver screen. Good ... I can't wait to make
her acquaintance once again some day.

And needless to say I'm going to try to find and watch Diary of a Mad
Black Woman as soon as I can find it ... !
<|_=00=_|>
I'm a Black man living in a predominantly Black city. That being said,
I have some major misgivings about Tyler Perry's work. I realize that
some people out there feel the need to praise him, because he's Black
and trying to portray a positive image about the culture. But, I
honestly do believe that, were Perry White, this film would have had
the NAACP, Al Sharpton, and Jessie Jackson all over his ass.

I have been forced to watch this movie one whole hell of a lot recently
and each repeated viewing makes my blood boil. The characters are
poorly written and acted. The jokes are so bad, I have to actually be
told something is supposed to be funny. I'm just going to break this
big pile of sh-t down.

Madea=suck. The character may have had some appeal, but it doesn't
anymore. When the only thing she ever seems to do is smack around
children and threaten adults with violence she is less than useless.
She is unnecessary.

The situation with the wife beating fiancé was horsesh-t. If a woman
was so scared to death of her husband, why would she try to run away
when he's sleeping in bed. Wouldn't it have made more sense for her to
leave when he was at work. At any rate, the characters in this arc were
so annoying and overbearing that I hoped he would throw her off the
balcony and was royally ticked when he didn't.

Then there are the two lovebirds. A bus driver asks a woman out by
harassing her while he's making his rounds. I couldn't believe it. I
really couldn't believe when she agreed to go out with him even more.
But, what takes the cake is that a grown man was reduced to tossing
pebbles at a window and passing notes like a ten year old by a
castrating mega bitch. I don't use this term lightly, but that woman
only had two modes. Morose victim and psycho momma. No matter which of
these two faces she showed, however, there was one constant. The bus
driver wasn't going to get any. He even married her without sampling
the goods--WTF! 

Then there's the family reunion scene. Here we've got the mother load
which includes implied incestual taboos, grinding for the sake of
grinding, shirtless, overly musclebound, b-ball, plus the great taste
of Maya Angelou. When those babes dragged their butts outside and
called a meeting, was I wrong to wish that the oldest of them was
claimed by a heart attack. All this crap is going on at the reunion, in
laughably easy to separate groups, and then they ring a bell. When they
do, everyone drops what they're doing and heads on over for a stern
talking too, just like a pack of Pavlov's doggies--WTF!! 

Then you have the final five minutes of the film. In it we see the
abusive fiancé get manhandled by his longtime victim and all around bad
actress. There is an impromptu wedding where Black people are dressed
like angels and are hanging from the ceiling--WTF!!! The only reason to
watch it this far, besides testing your threshold for pain, is the hope
that the second villain of this story gets her ass handed to her as
well. Guess what, it doesn't happen. Instead, Perry takes the
testicularly challenged way out and plays it safe, ending the movie on
a tone of forgiveness--WTF!! 

I'm pretty sure that, if given a day , I could probably write a
doctoral dissertation on all the ways this movie sucks. Don't even get
me started on the rest of Tyler Perry's films. I'm just going to say
this. In my opinion, as a Black guy, D.W. Griffith's legacy lives on.
The irony is that it is doing so through a Black man who will be
praised for doing what Birth of a Nation did, selling us down the
river. I only wish Perry's films were dudes so I could kick them in the
nuts. Thanks a lot, dude!! What are you going to follow this up with in
2009, a comedy about the raping and savage beating of slaves in
Colonial America?
<|_=00=_|>
I rented the DVD and watched this movie three times before returning
it. I bought the DVD to watch parts of it often enough to keep me
keeping on just like Medea does. The show inspired me. I laughed tears.
Funny thing was my daughter called and told me to watch it because it
reminded her of me, her grandmother, and great-grandmother. It made me
so brave that when my 29 year old son (semi-brain damaged drug addict)
came through the house popping his mouth off at me I went into "Medea
Mode". I jumped back with, "This is my house and I will whoop your butt
no matter how old or big you are! I rattled on with I'll catch you
asleep and beat the s--- right out of you. And on Medea Mode I rode!
Sons and grandkids broke out laughing and going crazy cause NAN was
back. Get on out of here boy, I don't want to see your ugly face for
awhile." It sure felt good. Medea is my hero. No Tyler Perry is. Thank
you. You are writing my life. Whew! Do I have stuff you should hear!
<|_=00=_|>
I think it was an excellent movie. It's one of those movies that you
have every emotion with. You laugh, you cry, your shocked and angry. I
would definitely watch it more than once! Good family movie also. It
teaches kids about respect, family about caring, and shows kids right
from wrong. It also teaches you about black history and where they came
from. There are amazing actors and actresses in the movie!!! To see
Maya Angelou and Cicely Tyson was awesome. Tyler Perry is amazing as
Aunt Madea and once again keeps you laughing! The music selection was
great and the wedding was absolutely beautiful. I think it was one of
those movies that teach you that anything is possible and that you can
be whoever you want to be no matter who tells you different. Seeing a
child from the foster care system be turned around from a rough child
into a beautiful, caring, loving child shows you as Aunt Madea said all
a child needs is love, caring and compassion and to be taught to
believe in yourself. The world today is quickly falling apart. Family
values are being forgotten and everyone seems to be going their
separate ways. The movie teaches you that family is everything; never
forget where you come from.
<|_=00=_|>
I noticed on the message boards a lot of criticism about men in drag
being done before and that is true, but none of those have been done
like this.

Madea's Family Reunion is about family, love, hurt, painful secrets and
laughter. It features the infamous, gun-toting tell-it-like-it-is
Madea, but this movie introduces a lot of well-rounded characters that
are played by some incredible actors. We meet Vanessa the older of the
two nieces in the movie. She has two out-of-wedlock children and has
moved in with Madea. We also meet her sister Lisa, the younger and meek
one who is engaged to a wealthy and violent investment banker named
Carlos. To round out this group is Victoria, Lisa and Vanessa's mother,
a strong-willed, domineering mother who has a favoritism for Lisa and a
troubled past with Vanessa.

Although the movie is titled Madea's Family Reunion, the viewer gets
caught up in this dual story of the sisters. One finding what love is,
and one finding out what love isn't. The movie boasts powerful issues
that are acted out to perfection. Tackling such controversial issues is
rarely seen in films today where the movie industry has caught remake
and horror fever. What is most compelling is the way Perry tells this
story of love and pain, it is without color. Anyone, no matter what
race or status can relate to this movie.

I also liked how the movie tackled foster parenting. Madea takes in
Nikki, a rough quick little girl who has been passed around in the
foster care system. With a little patience, a lot of love and
encouragement, we see her metamorphosis into a sweet young lady.

The film also features strong matriarchs, garnering appearances from
both Cicely Tyson and Maya Angelou. The family reunion scene in the
movie is exhilarating and honest. It also gives a very moving speech by
Cicely Tyson that defies time.

This is a must-see. A movie that tackles the good and the bad. There is
good acting, great story lines, great character development, great
music and it will leave you feeling stronger, encouraged and educated
on the lessons that life deals us. Don't assume this movie is like the
play or is simply about a man in drag. Trust me, it is not. Go and see
it, you will be pleasantly surprised and definitely entertained.
<|_=00=_|>
I think everybody that reviewed this must be white. Haha, it really
seems like it, but it's funny because I am white. This movie was
awesome in my opinion. I almost didn't watch it because the rating was
so low, but I'm so glad I did. It was the most ridiculous movie I have
ever seen, in a good way. It HILARIOUS in some parts while in other
parts I was almost crying. That's crazy 'cause I'm just a 16 year old
dude. I can't wait to show my girlfriend this film, I will definitely
get it on DVD. It's been so long since I've seen a movie that's
actually made me laugh, like the kind that I would laugh at if I were
alone. This was definitely one of them. It's superb the way Tyler Perry
was able to script and produce this, addressing very very delicate
subjects in a way that somehow managed to be respectful, yet at the
same time humorous. At the same time he acted 3 characters and he was
really the life of the movie. Blair Underwood (Carlos) really did a
good job at being somebody you love to hate, it's hilarious though
because he was also the man that got left in his last movie Something
New. Overall I was very pleasantly surprised with this film,
outstanding performance by all in my opinion.

Great movie!
<|_=00=_|>
Tyler Perry really did his thing in "Madea's Family Reunion". Though it
has a strong plot like his last movie and plays this one is definitely
different from what you expect. If you are contemplating on seeing this
in theaters as to buying it for $10 off the streets or waiting for it
to come out on DVD, take your family to see this and I trust you that
from the beginning and even during the credits it is definitely worth
each minute. It addresses all the issues of family, forgiveness and
self respect to give an ending that can leave one in high spirits.
After seeing this movie, I am not anticipating to see Perry's next
work. And unlike other movies where you say the first is always better
than the others to follow, this one definitely did not leave me
disappointed and I can personally say is at the same level as Diary of
a Mad Woman.
<|_=00=_|>
I applaud Tyler Perry for his many talents including writer, producer,
director, song-writer. This movie will be included in one of my
favorite movies. The issue of domestic violence, rape, bridging gaps,
highlighting the importance of our place in society, the important
roles that grandparents, aunts, uncles, cousins, play in our lives.
Cicely Tyson is an American Icon, along with Dr. Maya Angelou. The
breathtaking beautiful actresses, Lisa Arrindel Anderson & Rochelle
Aytes, were magnificent in their respective roles. The incomparable,
elegant, sophistication and timeless beauty of Lynn Whitfield was
sensational to watch. Whitfield is a diamond. She is the female 'Denzel
Washington'. It has been said about Ms. Whitfield that her eyes can
tell a story. The emotional drama scenes featuring Whitfied and
Arrindell Anderson and Whitfield and Blair Underwood were remarkable.
No one brings the drama like Lynn Whitfield. She is so beautiful I
could watch her all day. Great movie! The wedding scene made you cry.
The look on Lisa Arrindell Anderson's face when she is walking down the
isle to the song by Johnny Gill was astonishing. It was a beautiful
movie with beautiful people and incredible acting. THANK YOU TYLER
PERRY!
<|_=00=_|>
Medea's Family Reunion was amazing, it was funny, heart warming and
important all at the same time. Of course, people who haven't been
exposed to the culture of the movie may not understand it (for
instance, Medea discipline's a girl whom she has been charged with
after the girl skipped school by hitting her with a belt several times.
However she doesn't really hurt the girl and the "beating" is mostly
the equivalent of a spanking.). There are three intertwining stories in
the movie that tie into each other, two sisters attempting to find
their own voices, two love stories (one good the other the epitome of
evil) and Medea's endeavor to help her young charge take hold of her
life and rise above. All three are tied together within Medea's family
(might I note the wonderful speech given by one of the family elders at
one point, or the beautiful character Maya Angelou portrays) I loved
this movie, and I hope everyone else who sees it will go in with an
open mind and a ready heart.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of the most unoriginal hack jobs I've ever tried to watch.
It was less a feel-good family comedy and more an over-hyped minstrel
show. The humor was painfully predictable and devoid of wit. Tyler gave
three uninspiring performances that were only outdone by a plot and
script that were deep as dinner plates. I empathized immensely with
Blair Underwood for not having enough Hollywood juice to pass up this
project. There are way too many poorly developed characters to comment
on them all but I will say that type casting must save Perry a lot of
time and money most writers waste producing memorable characters. I
don't generally waste time with this type of movie but my family
insisted that I give it a shot. All of my preconceived notion were
validated. A bad script, poor plot line, horrible acting, and a
mediocre writer/director/actor will always yield a film that should be
buried under a pile of other bad treatments in a studio executives
trash can. Save yourself!
