
I don't hand out ten star ratings easily. A movie really has to impress
me, and The Bourne Ultimatum has gone far beyond that. Furthermore,
this trilogy has come together so nicely, that I believe it to be one
of the greatest motion picture trilogies of our time. Though all three
films could not be any more different from the Ludlum novels, they
still stand as a powerful landmark in cinematic achievement. The Bourne
Ultimatum made me want to cry that the series was complete, yet I could
not even attempt to stop smiling for hours.

From the moment that the opening title appeared, I knew we were in for
a ride. Paul Greengrass has done it again. Everything we love from the
previous Bourne films is here once again: the action, the dialogue, and
of course the shaky camera. However for me, that last one was never a
problem. I think it adds to the suspense.

I will be back to see this film several times before it is released on
DVD, simply because it is genius. It is a perfectly satisfying
conclusion, and should stand the test of time as a fantastic movie, and
altogether, an unforgettable trilogy.
<|_=00=_|>
The Bourne Ultimatum (2007) Review: After a thrilling set of two, we
get the final installment. Here's my take:

The Bourne Ultimatum has it all. We have Jason Bourne(Matt Damon) on
the coattails of the ones who know everything. He has been running for
too long. This time, it ends.

The Bourne Ultimatum has a great plot, awesome writing, fantastic
direction, suspense, and some of the best action of the summer. Matt
Damon delivers possibly his best performance to date. He has the
conviction and swelling desire of the troubled assassin.

There are some intelligent humor here and some fine suspense. The
reactions to certain events will have you either laughing(in a good
way) or cheering on. (or both) I heard a lot of intelligent laughter in
the theater and lots of clapping. The audience was loving it.

The Bourne Ultimatum delivers all in a nicely gift-wrapped package. All
of the goods and then some. This is, in my opinion the best movie this
summer.

The Last Word: Excellent conclusion. The best of the trilogy. This is
how summer movie thrillers should be done. I love the Bourne trilogy.
<|_=00=_|>
This is the first 10 out of 10 that I've given any movie. What made
this movie so good for me? Constant action - there isn't any slow
parts, great acting, smart writing. I also liked the filming style
where the shakiness and different angles just made it feel like you are
a part of the scene. Finally, I get to see an action movie that doesn't
try to please all sectors of the public (i.e. there's no forced
romance).

I liked the first two Bourne movies, but I loved this one.

Warning - after watching this movie, you will be full of adrenaline and
you may want to calm down a bit before driving your car!
<|_=00=_|>
Jason Bourne sits in a dusty room in with blood on his hands, trying to
make sense of what he's just done. Meanwhile, a CIA chief in NYC
outlines the agency's response to what's just happened on screen. An
American flag stands proudly on the centre of his desk in the
foreground of the shot, but as he speaks, it slips out of focus as his
plan veers into morally dubious territory, as if it doesn't want to be
associated with the course of action the government man decides is
necessary in the interests of national security.

This shot effectively captures the mood of the film. As well as
portraying Bourne's quest to find out how he became Jason Bourne,
Ultimatum is also an examination of the human costs of the measures
taken to protect us in the interests of stability and security.

It is also probably the best film you'll see in the cinema this year. 

It's just so intense. Bourne says to Simon Ross (Considine) "This isn't
some newspaper story, this is real" and in the audience you almost
believe him. The camera shakes, but remains steady enough for you to
see everything and feel like you're there with Bourne as he tries to
elude his pursuers, and the performances are so good that these guys
seem as though they are the characters they're portraying, instead of
just being actors performing well-written roles. The action scenes are
so brutally fast-paced and well choreographed that they seem
instinctive instead of planned to the minutest movement; the stunt-work
is nothing short of amazing.

The pacing is just incredible. It keeps driving forward towards its
conclusion, but not so fast that it leaves you struggling to piece
together the plot; the script delivers the information you need as
quickly and clearly as possible before moving on to the next tense
action set-piece. While they're often simple (the Waterloo sequence is
essentially just a man on a phone being watched by a man on a phone)
they're charged with such dramatic intensity that you can't take your
eyes off them. The film is just so focused on powering forwards that
you can't help being swept along by it.

With its intense action set-pieces, brilliantly paced storyline, and
intelligent examination of the decisions made in the name of national
security, the Bourne series is one that accurately captures the
ambiguities of our age. Ultimatum is its peak.
<|_=00=_|>
I have never been one to shy away from saying that most action films
just plain do nothing for me. Most times they are blatant vehicles to
blow stuff up, show off sexy models, and throw any semblance of reality
or intelligence out the window. With that said, the Bourne series has
been fantastic. Doug Liman ushered in a new take on action by using a
more cinema verite style, showing the fights in full force and making
our super spy someone we can relate to emotionally as well as humanly.
This is not the sci-fi absurdity that was Bond (before they did an
overhaul in the style of this series no less). There was a lot to worry
for when the Bourne Supremacy came out. With director Paul Greengrass
taking over, what could have been a second-hand copy of the original
ended up being an improvement in style and flair. The stakes were
raised and the story was enhanced because of it. Greengrass needs to be
given a ton of credit for being able to keep up appearances with the
latest installment, The Bourne Ultimatum. In what is an amazing
conclusion to a top-notch trilogy, the action is brought to a new level
and story and performance are never compromised.

Once again, Bourne is brought into the minds of the CIA by false
pretenses. Someone has leaked information about the Treadstone upgrade
called Blackbriar and once Bourne is located trying to converse with
the newswriter who broke the story, he is assumed to be the mole. Only
Pamela Landy, she who was on the case to find him in Supremacy, knows
that he can't be the one. Bourne's motive has always been to stay clear
of the government and live his life in peace. It has been the CIA who
keeps bringing him back into the open to wreak havoc on them. What ends
up transpiring is that Bourne wants to know the source as well to
finally find out the truth of who he is and what made him into a
killer. The film, then, becomes a chase against time and each other to
find the source and see if the government can close the breach and tie
off all loose ends, or if Bourne can get his revenge on those who took
his life from him.

In what is probably the simplest storyline of the series, with only one
chase lasting the entirety of the story, it has possibly the biggest
cast of characters and turning over of loyalties to expose the
corruption that has been behind the full story progression. This is not
a detriment at all, however, as it allows for more fights and car
chases that work in full context to the plot. Admission to this film is
worth it for the apartment fight, between Bourne and the CIA's second
asset, alone. The chase jumping through windows in Madrid is cool on
its own, but when they finally meet up, we get a ten minute or so fight
that is as invigorating to watch as any scene you'll see. Also, rather
than using a massive car chase as a climatic set piece like in the
first two films, we instead get around three small scale road races,
just as intense, but staggered enough to never bog the action down into
monotony.

After five years of waiting, we also find out the origin of our
favorite operative with heart and feeling. By the end of the film we
will find out what has been the cause of all the espionage and
destruction that has taken place around him. No one could have done it
better than Matt Damon. He has the physique and attitude to be
believable in the action sequences, but also the range to pull off the
moments of intelligence and cat and mouse correspondence with those
against him. Joan Allen reprises her role with the same amount of
dedication to her job, but also a bit more disenchantment for what is
going on around her after how Brian Cox's character, from the first two
films, took matters into his own hands. Needing a role in that mold, we
are given a nice turn from David Strathairn. Like Cox, he is working at
the top of the food chain and answers to no one when making a decision.
With as much trying to cover up any connections to his bosses of the
Blackbriar program as he is trying to do his duty to his country, you
can never quite gauge what he will be capable of doing. Even the little
guys do a wonderful job, like Paddy Considine as the reporter who
starts the leak at the center of everything, Albert Finney as a man
from Bourne's past and possibly key to his origin, and Edgar Ramirez as
one of the CIA's operatives sent to take Bourne out. Ramirez is a nice
addition to the role that has been successfully played by Clive Owen
(Identity), Karl Urban, and Martin Csokas (Supremacy). He doesn't talk
much, if at all, but he has the look and robotic efficiency down pat
and hopefully will get more roles to show what he can do post a nice
turn in Domino.

In the end, one has to applaud Paul Greengrass for continuing to exceed
expectations and bring this series to a conclusion that builds on the
success of its predecessors rather than destroy them. His skill at the
close-up hand-held look is astonishing and has the same kinetic energy
as Tony Scott, but without quite the seizure-inducing cuts. Rather than
feel like over- production, his use of hand-held enhances the
environment and puts you directly into the action. Let's also credit
cinematographer Oliver Wood, who shot all three Bourne films. He was
able to work with both directors and work his style into a nice harmony
with them.
<|_=00=_|>
When the Bourne Identity arrived five years ago I have to confess that
I didn't think much of it. At the time I was eleven years old, so
perhaps I was too young to really get into the storyline and understand
the whole scenario. Two years ago when the Bourne Supremacy arrived I
thought it was a better movie than Identity but still didn't think it
was as good as I expected it to be judging by the trailers. Over the
past two years I had been told numerous times that the Bourne movies
were amazing, many a time I had to bite my tongue and not say what I
really thought about the movies. Until two months ago I couldn't have
given a damn about the Bourne Ultimatum, I really had no intentions of
watching it. But then I decided to go back and re-watch the first two
before I came to any abrupt decisions. So I went out and bought both
the original movies. And what a surprise it was to me when I was
gripped by them. Identity I found the superior of the two, but
Supremacy isn't far behind. They're both slick, action packed and
thrilling pieces of cinema that I have watched numerous times since I
bought them. Because of this I was first in line today to see the
Bourne Ultimatum. And boy did Bourne Ultimatum not disappoint! 

Matt Damon was never one of my favourite actors until he appeared in
the Bourne movies, I'd seen him in the Talented Mr Ripley, but I never
thought much of him in general. However, it appears he was born to play
Bourne (pardon the pun). Throughout this series we have seen the
character change before our very eyes, in this movie we see Matt Damon
at his very best, even better than he was in The Departed and I thought
he was one of the best things in The Departed. You really do find
yourself caring for the character and hoping that he finds out
everything. Matt Damon plays the role with a quiet intensity and you
always find his character extremely believable. The supporting cast of
the movie were also absolutely outstanding. Joan Allen was one of my
favourite things in Bourne Supremacy, here she excels herself. Her
character is also very believable and she has some superbly acted
moments towards the end of the movie. Julia Stiles turns up again as
Nicky and finally we learn a bit about her character. Julia Stiles is a
very underrated actress and I think she deserves a lot more roles, well
decent roles, than she gets. David Strathairn is a newcomer to this
series as Noah Vosen, he's definitely the bad guy of the movie and he
really excels. He's definitely the nastiest character we've met, and
some of the decisions he makes are truly nasty. Strathairn relishes the
role and he too gets some superb scenes in the movie. Special mention
must also go to Albert Finney who makes the most of his all too brief
screen time, I will not say anything about the character, that's best
left as a surprise, but trust me his scenes are some of the highlights
of the movie.

The Bourne movies have always had a strict focus on the storyline more
than the action sequences, this isn't to say the trilogy lacks action
sequences, good god no there's loads of them dotted all throughout the
movies. But running throughout the movie is a very well written and
well acted storyline. This storyline concludes in the best way
imaginable in this movie. As I watched Supremacy the night before I saw
Ultimatum it was nice because I could notice certain little parts. That
very final scene in Supremacy, in New York, a lot more important that I
ever imagined at the time. Won't spoil it for people but I recommend
checking up on Supremacy before you see Ultimatum. Unfortunately though
for a lot of people they will go to see Ultimatum purely because of the
action sequences. This is the part where I should condemn such people
and say they should see it for the storyline, but I'd be lying if I
didn't say that my favourite parts of the Bourne series as a whole are
the car chases. The mini car chase in Identity is one of my favourite
car chases of all time. Well the action in Ultimatum has to be the best
of the Bourne series. In fact the movie kicks off with an action
sequence in Moscow. So in the duration of the movie we get numerous
punch ups, all very violent and shockingly brutal. A bike chase that is
absolutely amazing, many foot chases which are even more amazing, a
thrilling car chase that is unforgettable, and oh so much more! But the
highlight for me has to be the scene in Waterloo station, won't ruin it
but for some reason had me gripped.

So any flaws for the movie? In my eyes no, but if you are not a fan of
the Bourne series or have not seen the previous two then I wouldn't
recommend Ultimatum for you. The movie doesn't try to win over any new
fans as it sticks to what the franchise does best and just adds a nice
bit more storyline and action sequences on top. The Bourne Ultimatum is
undoubtedly the best of the series and the best blockbuster of 2007. As
a James Bond fanatic it is a great honour for me to say that Ultimatum
is a lot better than a majority of the Bond movies, and trust me it
takes a lot for me to say that. While Bourne as a whole might not be a
better franchise than the Bond series, it is definitely nearly its
equal.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Bourne Ultimatum" begins recklessly mid-chase and in
pulse-pounding fashion explodes from there as Jason Bourne (Matt Damon,
absolutely superb) tracks down the masterminds behind the CIA black-ops
that turned him into the perfect killer in a final attempt to learn his
true identity. A devastatingly icy David Strathairn as the "man behind
the curtain" is added to the returning cast of regulars including Joan
Allen (excellent) and Julia Stiles (non-existent).

Like the second entry in the series, I wished Paul Greengrass' shaky
hand-held camera would go static at least for the few minutes of
downtime. However, that being said, it's a perfect way to capture the
tense, claustrophobic feel of the intimate hand-to-hand-combat scenes
and works equally well in the chase scenes which are mostly on foot and
across rooftops with the occasional big car pile-up. Part of the fun of
the Bourne series is the constant globe-hopping and manipulation of
technology and communications that seem to defy the laws of physics and
current capabilities. The Bourne films seem to exist in some sort of
gritty hyper-reality that is full of technological-based magic. It
makes no sense that everyone seems to be just in the right place at the
right time, but I'll be damned if it isn't a blast to watch them get
there.

With the absence of the emotive and involving Franka Potente, the
writers attempt to create some emotional connection between Damon and
Stiles, but she is so blank-faced an actress it never really leads to
anything. Still, this can be forgiven, for unlike the "Identity" and
the "Supremacy", this "Ultimatum" reveals all and we finally learn the
truth about Bourne's past. It's an entertaining and satisfying
conclusion to the series, and if they have any good sense, and Damon
gets his wish, this will be the perfect end to it.
<|_=00=_|>
Having not seen the previous two in the trilogy of Bourne movies, I was
a little reluctant to watch The Bourne Ultimatum.

However it was a very thrilling experience and I didn't have the
problem of not understanding what was happening due to not seeing the
first two films. Each part of the story was easy to understand and I
fell in love with The Bourne Ultimatum before it had reached the
interval! I don't think I have ever watched such an exquisitely made,
and gripping film, especially an action film. Since I usually shy away
from action and thriller type movies, this was such great news to me.
Ultimatum is one of the most enthralling films, it grabs your attention
from the first second till the last minute before the credits roll.

Matt Damon was simply fantastic as his role as Jason Bourne. I've heard
a lot about his great performances in the Bourne 1+2, and now, this
fabulous actor has one more to add to his list. I look forward to
seeing more of his movies in the future.

The stunts were handled with style - each one was done brilliantly and
I was just shocked by the impressiveness of this movie. Well done.
<|_=00=_|>
Paul Greengrass definitely saved the best Bourne for last! I've heard a
lot of people complain about they way he filmed this movie, and some
have even compared the camera style to the Blair Witch Project. All I
have to say to that is...are you kidding me? Come on it was not that
bad at all. I think it helps the action scenes to feel more realistic,
which I would prefer over highly stylized stunt choreography. As for
the rest of the movie I really didn't even notice it.

You can tell that Damon has really gotten comfortable with the role of
Jason Bourne. Sometimes that can be a bad thing, but in this case its a
really good thing. He really becomes Jason Bourne in this installment.
Damon also has a great supporting cast in Joan Allen, Ezra Kramer, and
Julia Stiles. David Strathairn was a great addition to the cast, as he
added more depth to the secret CIA organization.

Even though the movie is filled with great car chases and nonstop
action, they managed to stick a fair amount of character development in
their with all of that going on. This film stands far above the other
two Bourne movies, and is definitely one of the best movies of the 2007
summer season!
<|_=00=_|>
I will begin by saying I am very pleased with this climax of the Bourne
trilogy. Please, oh please don't ruin it by doing a sequel years from
now or a prequel. Just leave it alone. Right..moving on.As talented and
versatile as Matt Damon is...it seems as though he was just meant to
play Jason Bourne.

If you are a fan of the first two Bourne movies, you will not be
disappointed by the third installment. It sticks to what works and adds
a little more. I was very pleased to see how well all the information
we obtain in 'Identity' and 'Supremacy' all mesh in 'Ultimatum' to
finally paint the full picture of Jason Bourne's troubled past. The
action sequences are fast paced and keeps you on the edge of your seat.
The fights between Bourne and the assassins are always fun to watch. I
have always been a fan of movies surrounding CIA agents and how the CIA
gather their Intel and this movie is right up that street, making it
even more exciting for me.

If you choose to watch The Bourne Ultimatum without watching the
previous 2 installments..you will still thoroughly enjoy the movie but
I would still recommend you watch them first. This would allow you to
fully understand the character Jason Bourne and become attached and be
a part of his world. This allows you to appreciate and enjoy the movie
even more. I'm not sure which is the better of the first 2 but I
personally think 'Ultimatum' might, just MIGHT, have the edge when
comparing the trilogy.
