
This great black comedy in the British tradition appeals to all
generations. I went with my mother, wife and son and we all enjoyed it
very much.

My 20-year-old son, who was not accustomed to this type of dark humour,
was quite startled at how murder was portrayed in an off-hand, humorous
way. I felt it was a revival of a genre going back to the "Wrong Box"
[1966] and before. This film does not dwell on the violence, the gore,
the sentiment or the psychological aspects of murder. It seems to be
standard fare for most films but it didn't seem appropriate here.

As much I respect, Rowan Atkinson as a comedian, I was concerned that
this film would be in the Mr Bean or Black Adder vein. In fact, I was
pleasantly surprised to find that Rowan Atkinson is a very good actor.
Most of the time, he played his role as an absent-minded vicar in an
understated and sometimes quite touching way. Mr Bean fans will have
their moments. There's also lots of innuendo combined with more subtle
humour.

Maggie Smith is as ever excellent. The rest of the cast play their
archetypal characters or in the case of Patrick Swayze's caricature
well.

Though I was able to predict the overall plot, the story is
entertaining and there is a gentle message about marital problems, the
generation gap and hypocrisy. The scenery mainly in the Isle of Man and
partly in Cornwall is stunning.

I recommend it highly.
<|_=00=_|>
This is an almost perfect "naughty" English comedy whose humour is too
complicated to be described. Rowan Atkinson, Maggie Smith, and the rest
of the cast are perfect. This is the most understated I have ever seen
Atkinson, and marks an interesting evolution for him. Two young ladies
in front of me were still giggling halfway through the closing credits,
and the entire audience, judging from the laughter, had a great time. I
chuckled all the way home - think I'll go see it again tonight, as I
have an "Unlimited" card, so can see as many movies as I like for 11
pounds a month.

Seriously, this is not a "sweetness-and-light" comedy - it has a dark
side, which is evident from the beginning, but that aspect drives the
humour, because it touches feelings in us which we must restrain, but
in watching the film we are allowed to indulge them. It also has a lot
of very deep things to say about marriage and religion (Atkinson plays
a shy, self- absorbed country vicar with a beautiful wife and daughter
whom he neglects) without indulging in the usual superficial
post-modern ironic attacks on either institution. In fact, it has some
very intelligent things to say about both of them.

You really must see this movie - it is a gem - if you know people who
don't normally go to the movies (like older in-laws) urge them to see
this one, or at least rent the DVD.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film recently and I was pleasantly surprised. It reminded me
of the old Ealing Comedies as it was charming but had a definite sense
of delicious wickedness running through it. All of the main characters
are funny in their own way particularly Rowan Atkinson and Maggie
Smith. It reminded me so much of and Ealing Comedy that after a while I
could only see Alec Guinness in drag when Maggie Smith was on screen.
Kristin Scott Thomas started out as being being a bit of a female Hugh
Grant in Four Weddings and a Funeral and showed that she can be quite
funny but towards the end she gets a little unconvincing once some
revelations unfold. All in all it has it's minor misgivings and gets a
little too silly and unbelievable in places but I'd give it a go.
<|_=00=_|>
highly entertaining, good black comedy.

What seems like a perfect setting in middle england, with Rowan
Atkinson who plays the local vicar.

But all is not perfect in the family, with his wife yearning for more
fun in life & his daughter getting too much fun & his son being bullied
at school.

The vicar has lost his sense of humour over the years.

Things all change with the arrival of the new housekeeper, played by
Maggie Smith.

A surprising role for Patrick Swayze as the local gold pro but played
well.

Good fun film
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is - in my humble opinion - a gem absolutely worth watching,
and watching, and watching again. I found it genuinely funny, and
laughed the whole movie through (and judging from the decibel level in
the cinema the people around me enjoyed it too. :) It was refreshing,
and gave me much of the same feeling as when I first saw Ocean's
Eleven... it's one of those 'they don't make movies like these anymore'
(only they do - sometimes), if you know what I mean. I thoroughly
enjoyed myself! I was especially impressed by the performance of Rowan
Atkinson, who plays a more down-to-earth character than I'm used to
seeing him play, and I think it suits him very well. He doesn't reduce
the good reverend to a clown, but makes him sweet, realistic and
lovable. Kudos also to Kristen Scott Thomas, who gives Gloria a heart,
and the ever so amazing Dame Maggie Smith, who gives Rosie a soul.
Bottom line: I recommend it wholeheartedly!
<|_=00=_|>
I went to this movie looking forward to a mindless comedy. I was very
pleasantly surprised. Very! I was first introduced to Rowan Atkinson in
the 70's and have only seen him in silly, caricature ( a caricature of
himself) type roles and I love him in these roles. But he did an
amazing job as a serious, thoughtful (bordering on glum) Vicar, and was
absolutely believable as his journey and his attitude changed ... I
would never have put him in such a role, but he really pulled it off. I
was also surprised, pleasantly, at the intense spiritual undertones
(okay, at times overtones) woven throughout this most enjoyable film.
It was interesting to see a movie use religion as a backdrop for such a
deep look into what (in my humble opinion) is clearly a non-religious
aspect of human spirituality.
<|_=00=_|>
I thoroughly enjoyed this gentle comedy which as other reviews have
mentioned is in the best traditions of British film comedy, pre "Carry
On". The action is gentle paced and contains no surprises, as the plot
opener spells out the likely twists and turns. The characters are stock
British parts, almost "off the peg". It is not a film for belly laughs
but the comedy is there, but not from Rowan Atkinson who plays the role
of vicar with as straight a bat as one could wish. The other well knows
actors all ham it up beautifully and the Isle of Man looks wonderful
and, like the film, twenty years out of date. I particularly liked
Patrick Swayze's reptilian lothario and Maggie Smith was her usual
immaculate self.
<|_=00=_|>
We went along not really knowing anything about this film or seeing
anything. My daughters 16, 25 and wife tagged along. 

surprise a simple and not overly taxing film to watch we all enjoyed
the black comedy and did not expect the end. We did say to each other
how can they end this film on a happy note. Will it just end in
disaster? They carried it off perfectly and we left feeling that we had
our moneys worth, and discussing the deeper meaning portrayed therein. 

The treatment of death, happiness and how to get rid of our neighbor's
dog!

Rowan ATkinson we surprisingly good and played his part as an almost
straight vicar very well and we thought there was a good mixture of
good bad and evil strewn about the film. 

Not a taxing film to watch, make a good entertainment as so many try to
involve you in a complex plot you have to be constantly remembering who
was that.
<|_=00=_|>
You could drive a horse and cart through the plot holes in this movie.
It doesn't matter, just splash about in the humour. It has the
predictability of a Stan and Ollie routine, Morecambe & Wise or any
other such comedians who mix story telling with visual and verbal
humour. Rowan Atkinson is of course the comedian cast in the straight
part trying to regain a sense of humour. Maggie Smith is absolutely
superb as the straight actress playing the clowning criminal. A bit of
sound effect filched from Reeves and Mortimer's frying pan sketch would
have heightened the humour even more. Never mind, this is harmless,
charming, and engaging entertainment. Entertainment - now we don't get
much of that to the pound usually.
<|_=00=_|>
Niall Johnson's 'Keeping Mom' is a delightful black comedy. Russo and
Johnson's innovative screenplay, the pleasant score and the surprising
cast and the dark humour is brilliantly put together. At the same time,
the characters are very identifiable. After all, Grace is just a mother
who's protecting her children, Gloria just wants her husband's
affection, Walter just wants to excel in his 'profession' and Lance is
a sleaze you might have met once. Yet, the story cleverly takes them to
extreme ends that results in murder, infidelity and voyeurism. Pretty
much all the actors are cast in roles you have never seen them play
before. Kristin Scott Thomas is the heart of the film (as the director
himself stated) and she performs very naturally. While Atkinson has
played Reverend earlier, he actually delivers a very subtle performance
where he downplays the comedy (unlike his regular in-your-face comedy
sketches). He is proving to be a versatile comedian. I loved how
Patrick Swayze makes fun of his iconic status in an indirect way. The
actor is excellent as the jerk and it has been ages since he has been
in something worthwhile. Liz Smith is fun to watch as the annoying and
nosy flower committee member. Emilia Fox is very good as the nonchalant
killer and Maggie Smith is hilarious! This lady has never let down and
she is a complete delight to watch as she goes on 'protecting' her
family. 'Love the actress! The location shots are amazing. The
fictitious town looks lovely yet the director manages to successfully
bring out the coldness and boredom. The stunning cinematography
deserves mention too. 'Keeping Mom' is a small but wonderfully
innovative film that had me laughing all the way.
