
'Tulip Fever' transforms a promising idea into Dutch farce as its
script heaps unnecessary complications onto a tale of marital
infidelity in 17th century Amsterdam. The film opens with beautiful
penniless Sophia being married off to a wealthy middle-aged merchant
who desires a male heir. After three years have passed and no child has
appeared, the merchant commissions a double portrait of himself and his
young wife for posterity.

When Sophia unwisely falls for the debt-laden artist, everything seems
nicely set up for some intense domestic double-dealing, but director
Chadwick drowns the narrative in a torrent of subplots. While Sophia
cavorts with the artist in his garret, her maid has been dallying with
a fishmonger in the scullery. Before too long, the lovers of both
mistress and servant are speculating in Holland's tulip-mania bubble to
improve their fortunes and romantic prospects. Meanwhile, the two women
hatch an implausible plan to deal with their own problems. As the
scheming becomes increasingly absurd, the story falls apart and the
actors lose faith in their characters. Long before the end, most of the
audience will have joined them, as the resolution to all the financial
intrigues and amorous chicanery turns the final act into slapstick
melodrama.
<|_=00=_|>
Not only is the set very obviously there and visible there is very
little of it. The rooms depicted are historically quite incorrect as is
the outside depicting what looks like the back streets of London at the
time not the sort of place you would find a wealthy trader in Amsterdam
living at. But all that would be just a blemish on a otherwise average
movie. The main problem I have with the movie is that a very important
and by the clothing and position obviously wealthy man is depicted as a
man of color. Please bear in mind we are talking about 1636 - 1637
mainland Europe... There certainly where man of color but most
certainly not in positions like that this is before the slave trade had
well and truly started and +200 years before it ended. If you are
making a historical movie make it historically accurate. Just imagine
the outrage if a movie about the rise and fall of the Zulu nation was
made and a person of influence and power within the tribe would be
played by a white man...

The ridiculous distortion of history in this movie is what earns it its
low score, the movie itself is not very engaging and would not have
scored higher than 6 stars.
<|_=00=_|>
"Tulip Fever" (2017 release from the UK; 107 min.) brings the story of
a young Dutch woman's love tribulations. AS the movie opens, we get a
quick (animated) introduction how tulips entered into the Low Lands. We
then get to know Sophia, an orphan living at the St. Ursula convent in
Amsterdam. She is married out to an old guy. We then are informed that
it is "Three years later, Amsterdam 1634", and Sophia has not yet been
able to provide an heir to her husband Cornelis. At some point Cornelis
commissions a portrait from a young up-and-coming painter Jan Van Loos.
At this point we're less than 15 min. into the movie, but to tell you
more would spoil your viewing experience, you'll just have to see for
yourself how it all plays out.

Couple of comments: this is the latest movie from British director
Justin Chadwick, who previously gave us the Mandela bio-pick "Long Walk
to Freedom". Here he brings the best-selling novel of Deborah Moggach
to the big screen, and certainly it's not the talent that is lacking:
Alicia Vikander! (as Sophia); Christoph Waltz! (as her husband); Judi
Dench! (as the abbess of St. Ursula); Dane DeHaan! (as the painter).
Alas, the script is nothing short of horrible. The "love tribulations"
left me completely unmoved. The way the "tulip fever" (which actually
did happen in real life) is worked into the plot makes no sense at all.
Worst of all, the way the scenes plays out, one has the impression that
Amsterdam was the most people-congested place on earth, and literally
in a party mode all the time. Bottom line: this film was shot in 2014
and a teaser was shown at the 2015 Cannes film festival. Since then, 2
1/2 years ago, the film has been gathering dust on a shelf while the
movie makers desperately tried to salvage it by recutting it. They
should've simply let this one die on the vine, as it easily is one of
the worst movies I have seen this year (and I see a lot of movies).

"Tulip Fever" finally was recently released, and I happen to catch it
during a recent family visit to Belgium. The Saturday early evening
screening where I saw this at in Antwerp was attended poorly (6 people,
including myself). Given the dismal reception this movie has gotten, I
cannot see this playing long in the theater. If you wish to watch this
movie (say, because Alicia Vikander is in it--reason I wanted to see
it). do so at your own peril, and don't say afterwards that I didn't
warn you! I cannot recommend this film in good conscience to anyone,
sorry.
<|_=00=_|>
Oh, how the mighty had fallen for this nonsensical romance. Even the
great actors and actresses such as Alicia Vikander, Judi Dench and
Christoph Waltz couldn't save this historical period romance misfire.
Even Dane DeHaan and Cara Delevingne is involved in another follow-up
misfire (Valerian and the City of a Thousand Planets). Perhaps there is
more to meet the wilted tulip in its detail; Talk about on its crappy
Fifty Shades of Grey-styled sex scenes between Vikander and DeHaan
which NO ONE is buying it (not sexy and spicy) and probably the
chemistry is very muddled and confusing at the same time. Even the
screenplay from the acclaimed screenwriter, Tom Stoppard is completely
wasted.

Making matters worst is the execution of the film which is messy and
crappy at the same time. Plus the dialogue and the performances is
laughable and wooden. Truly this unfortunate misfire which anyone could
be thinking that the film is Oscar-bait is not worthy of an Oscar and
instead serves as a big embarrassment to the cast but not Alicia
Vikander, Judi Dench and Christoph Waltz for there are some
good-quality films that are involved that can make them forget their
participation in this wilted movie mess and probably this terrible
historical nonsense garbage is just added to the worst movies of 2017
so far.
<|_=00=_|>
On one hand - too many story lines ,which are also hard to follow, as
the characters look and dress so alike! As often happens when you get
to many story lines, the one that should have been the principal line -
In this case' in my opinion,the one of the tulip bubble - is given too
little emphasis. The miniscule roll given to judy dench will not allow
her to show even a bit of her acting capabilities. shame.
<|_=00=_|>
Something about Dane Dehaan creeps me out and every film I have seen
with him in it I find I am distracted. It's like he is a 50 year old
portraying a 20 year old. I know this doesn't seem fair, but I just
can't wrap my head around his recent rise in Hollywood and all of these
parts that he doesn't seem to fit? Am I missing something? The actress
in this was wonderful and I liked her in Ex Machina as well. This is a
very dark intense film, beautifully shot, but leaves a strange after
taste.
<|_=00=_|>
Tulipmania is one of Europe's weirder historical events. Unfortunately,
the movie barely touches on the tulip market craze, except as a deus ex
machina to bestow sudden wealth and/or loss on characters who we barely
care about and who do nothing to deserve it. 

The main problem with the film is that the love triangle that is
supposed to be the main story appears out of nowhere -- one of the
characters simply looks up pensively, as if he just solved a riddle,
and declares, "I'm in love!" Up until that point, he had shared maybe
60 seconds of screen time with the object of his affection. How can we
care about the contrived swings in fortune of such shallow people? 

Making things worse, this love triangle movie has five main characters,
leading to underdeveloped characters, repetition of ideas and
unnecessary subplots. 

I loved the sets and I thought that Christoph Waltz, Holliday Grainger
and Jack O'Connell did great jobs with the little they had to work
with.
<|_=00=_|>
(Note: this is based on a focus-group preview. I imagine they tried to
fix it, but I can't imagine how they could have succeeded.)

In the 1600s Dutch investors created a speculative bubble involving
tulips. Or at least, a book says that happened, although according to
wikipedia the claim has its skeptics as to the extent of this supposed
mania. Whether it really happened or not, Tulip Fever is about an
illicit romance that gets mixed into Tulip speculation. It's from a
book, and perhaps the book is interesting, but the movie is decidedly
not.

There are a number of issues with the film. The main character, played
by Alicia Vikander, has zero personality. Her lover has little more.
The other main characters are a little better, but it's only small
parts by Judy Dench as an acerbic nun and Tom Hollander as an amusingly
sleazy doctor that display any real personality.

The bigger problem is the script. First off, the movie doesn't have
much going on for the first half. Just an unhappy marriage leading to
adultery. 

A plot of sorts finally kicks in maybe halfway through with the Tulip
part, but introduced at the same time is the first of some really
stupid twists; a mistaken-identity bit that is remarkably unconvincing
and leads to further, equally unconvincing problems.

Towards the end, there's another stupid turn in the story that is so
poorly prepped that a character has to be asked if he's drunk to set up
a problem because the movie has never bothered to indicate he's a heavy
drinker or particularly untrustworthy. Then something both predictable
and moronic happens.

There's also an absurd, unsatisfying ending.

I mean, there's more stupidity, but I don't need to list it all.

The story's plot turns are the ridiculous sort you might expect from a
Shakespeare comedy, which would be fine if this were actually a comedy.
Perhaps the scriptwriter's intended a comedy and the director failed to
notice?

This was written by the guy who wrote Shakespeare in Love, and is
clearly meant to scratch a similar itch, but it is not romantic,
charming, humorous, or involving, so it misses the target completely.

I understand this movie had originally been intended for a release a
few months ago and then was altered, so what I saw was presumably an
attempt to fix a disaster. I hate to think what the earlier version
must have been like.

When I saw this movie it was set for a February release - a delay on
its original release date - but now apparently it's scheduled for
August. So it had one delay before I saw it - presumably because the
first version was even worse than this - and now there's another delay
which I would guess is because they still hope to fix it. 

The best thing to do would probably be to just bury it.
<|_=00=_|>
(RATING: ☆☆ out of 5) 

GRADE: C- 

THIS FILM IS NOT RECOMMENDED.

IN BRIEF: A love story that never blossoms into anything remotely
realistic or moving.

SYNOPSIS: A historical romance set in 16th century Amsterdam that
follows two star-crossed lovers amid the flower wars.

JIM'S REVIEW: Behold the tulip! Most delicate and beautiful, yet
fragile and easily bruised. Its life expectancy is short-lived and it
sags from its own top heaviness, finally withering after its bloom. The
same can be said about its namesake, 's Tulip Fever, an overwrought
illogical melodrama that is fetching to gaze upon and, quite literally,
a dull affair. 

Tulip Fever is a visual feast for the eyes and a fertilizer for the
mind. There is some good here, at least, technically: The stunning
production design by Simon Elliott, detailed period costumes created by
Michael O'Connor, and Eigil Bryld's luscious photography are first
rate. Danny Elfman has a lovely score also. These artisans deserve
better future projects. But mostly, there is plenty of bad on view.

Justin Chadwick directed this potboiler with little flourish. His film
is well crafted but its central romance is tepid at best. The
screenplay, based on Deborah Moggach's best-selling romance novel,
tries to interweave its narrative with some historical accuracy and
some sexual passion and fails in both aspects. That celebrated
playwright Tom Stoppard (along with the author) created this sluggish
and loopy film adaptation is mind-boggling to me. The love story
elements never gels with the political backstory and it all leads to an
ending that becomes thoroughly nonsensical and unsatisfying.

The story-line goes like this: Apparently tulips were all the rage in
Amsterdam, a valued commodity back in the mid 1600's. This special and
rare flower brought high prices in what appeared to be a Ponzi scheme
of sorts and the owner of this flora could earn serious guilders. Jan
van Loos (Dane DeHaan, very miscast), a talented but struggling artist,
wants to be part of the " flower fever". Hired to commission portraits
of a rich merchant and his lovely young wife (already you can see where
this is going), Jan begins a torrid love tryst with Sophia (Alicia
Vikander) while his cuckold husband Cornelius (Christoph Waltz), who is
in dire need of a male heir, is oblivious to their nightly romps.

Mr. Waltz, forever typecasts as The Man You Love to Hate, takes over
the villain role and adds some nice layers to his stock character. But
Ms. Vikander and especially Mr. DeHaan are unconvincing and unappealing
in their roles as the doomed lovers. Their love scenes together are
laughable. Mr. DeHaan, always a poor man's Leonardo diCaprio type,
seems like a little lost boy in heat and Ms. Vikander rarely finds the
right persona of a woman losing control over her life. Instead she
loses control of her character. The two actors fail to add the
necessary heat to burn those embers of passion. Yes, they're naked and
sweaty, but who cares?

The supporting cast is totally wasted and the talent involved is given
little to do. Such fine British performers as Holliday Grainger, Jack
O'Connell, Douglas Hodge, David Harewood, and the great Judi Dench are
ill-treated. American and Scottish actors are treated no better as
Matthew Morrison and Kevin McKidd are given little to do. Tom Hollander
does succeed in adding some needed humor in a minor role. But Cara
Delevingine and Zach Galifianakis are walking enigmas in their parts as
a prostitute and manservant, although if they switch roles, the film
would at least be memorable.

Tulip Fever reinforces the law of supply and demand in the core of its
storytelling. Unfortunately, good drama is in short supply and demand
to see this film should be limited. So don't invest your time or money
in this folly. It's a real bust.
<|_=00=_|>
Here is only one review of the 2014-version. Based on that review, it
is fair to say that some of the plot holes have obviously been stuffed,
while others are still wide open (or have been opened). I don't know if
the holes have been faithfully adapted from the book or if they were
specifically designed for the film.

In the 16th century there was a big economic bubble based on tulip
onions. This is the background for a romance between a painter and a
married woman. They make out a plan to get rich fast, so that they can
run away to the East Indies. So far, so good. The point is now that the
two strings never really are woven properly together. The development
of the plot is, at best, sketchy. Character development, if any, is
rather rhapsodical. The lovers (Vikander and DeHaan) are not really
likable. The script gives them zero personality and they compensate by
overacting. The only person carrying a bit of sympathy is the cheated
husband (Waltz). On the other hand the makers strive to give us
impressions of street life then, raw, loud and rather vulgar it is in
their view. The final twist of the plot is surprising, but not
convincing. 

There are further things that were rather annoying in this film: The
use of a narrator. It seemed that the makers didn't trust the force of
their pictures and thought they had to spell it out for more distracted
viewers. Shaky camera and fast clipping. I think it is a misconception
to edit a costume drama to fit the taste of the MTV generation. (Make
it more like The Girl with a Pearl Earring!) 

One reason for historical fiction is to make us understand the burst of
the recent economic bubble on the basis of a historical example. The
makers of this film didn't really succeed in doing that. The persons in
this film are far away and two-dimensional like drawings on a wall.
Unless you write a review about them, you have already forgotten them
tomorrow.
