
There are attractions to this film. One, it proceeds at its own pace
specific to the revelations the main character achieves. Some would say
it moves too slowly but, I think, this is only in contrast to recent
genre films that rush to exploit thrills, sometimes fun, sometimes
silly. The pace is more like that of classic mystery movies with a
little film noir mixed in.

The atmosphere is somewhat reminiscent of recent Japanese horror films
and remakes though the narrative is much more structured. This is
emphasized by the "washed out" look of the photography even in direct
sunlight. Of course, parts of Texas where much of this was shot appear
a little washed out in reality. While this is not especially flattering
to the actors, it underscores the uncertainty the characters must
endure. (Congratulations to Ms. Gellar for acceding to this when most
actresses are looking for every cinematographic advantage they can
get!) 

The film is more about character and the discovery of destiny than
about complex plot or even surprises. As in many Hitchcock movies, the
audience is supposed to know more about some things than the
characters. Most horror and mystery fans will have a pretty good
inkling of the answer the heroine is seeking well before all the loose
ends are tied up. (As the "Robot Chicken" version of M. Night Shyamalan
might say, "What a twist!") 

Ms. Gellar must portray a repressed young woman suffering from more
than one trauma from the past. She conveys effectively that her
character is confused, haunted, resolute, scared, brave and smart
enough to make her way in a good ole boy business world. She cannot
accept help even from the few who are closest to her. Her premonitions
(memories?) lead her to out of the way places and a man with a past as
tormented as her own. There is solid support from the reliable Sam
Shepard and from J.C. MacKenzie in a performance that is quite a
departure from his usual roles.
<|_=00=_|>
Read the above title. The thing you need to realize is when you go into
the movie is that it is a suspense thriller, not a horror film like Saw
or The Grudge. I know this because I went with my best friend to see
the film and he hates horror films, but he loved this movie as did
I...You need to go into the movie with some things in mind. One, it is
a low budget film, it's released through Rogue Pictures, from what I
have heard, it is an indie film and therefore its not going to be on
the same par as some of the other films that are out there today. Two,
think more along the lines of "What Lies Beneath" and not along the
lines of "The Grudge". I thought it was very creative, the way it was
filmed and the way the story panned out. You may not figure everything
out until the last 15 minutes of the movie, but I am sorry, I actually
enjoy movies like that and not ones that are going to give everything
away to you in the first ten minutes of the movie. Sarah Michelle
Gellar does an excellent job in this film. I think it's just good all
around. It's a good film to see if you want to be in suspense, but not
be grossed out like Saw does.
<|_=00=_|>
The restless sales representative of a transport company Joanna Mills
(Sarah Michelle Gellar) travels from Saint Louis to Texas in a business
trip. She is haunted by violent visions and after meeting her client,
she visits her lonely father. On the next morning, she decides to visit
La Salle, a small town where she has never been before, but she had
recollections of many locations. She lodges in a hotel and later she
meets and is befriended by the local widower Terry Stahl (Peter
O'Brien), who helps her from an aggression. Her daydreams and
nightmares increase and she becomes obsessed for disclosing the truth
about her visions of a brutal murder of a woman in a barn. Along her
investigation, Joanna gets close to the killer and feels that her life
is in danger.

I bought this DVD first because I am a huge fan of Sarah Michelle
Gellar, the eternal Buffy, and also because I like supernatural
stories. Fortunately I have disregarded the low IMDb User Rating since
this film is an underrated supernatural thriller. The plot explores the
concept of reincarnation in an adequate pace, unraveling the mystery in
the last scenes. The direction is sharp and Sarah gives credibility to
her character. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "O Retorno" ("The Return")
<|_=00=_|>
OK. Well...The Return. Sarah Michelle Gellar's latest genre addition
finds her running from a cowboy with a killer past. Asif Kapadia's
sophomore effort, after 2001's The Warrior, will likely disappoint more
than entertain. The story is convoluted and under developed, and aside
from Gellar's Joanna, we really don't have any idea why any of the
other characters are there. However, in stark comparison to the other
filler thrillers we have seen for years, The Return boasts excellent
camera work and even better art direction and cinematography. It is
told in heavy visual style, which is a refreshing take on an old tale.
Twitchy camera movement heightens the suspense and paranoia of the film
while the bleak colors and atmosphere add themes of isolation and
desolation. Gellar is exceptional as Joanna Mills, a successful
midwesterner constantly on the road to elude some painful past, not to
mention the hallucinations and creepy visions she keeps enduring. It is
a solid transition from horror to... something else. And while we as an
audience may not have any idea what Gellar is pulling, it's certain
that she does, and is making some very interesting and risky role
choices which adds to her versatility. (Keep your eyes peeled for her
work in Southland Tales as a porn-star come reality-television
conoisseur) I am not going to bore you with the details of the story,
since every other review basically regurgitates the little material
there is to work with. The plot isn't bad, it's just very minimalistic
and sparse on character detail, which, for an atmosphere and
mood-driven film like this one, is a fatal mistake. The suspense is
good, it holds enough tension to keep you entertained enough to keep
watching. The supporting cast are all pretty good, no Oscar contenders
here but take it for what it is. The score is effective, using violins
and chimes to purvey a sense of dread and malice. The visual style is
very compelling, we feel like we're in Texas, seeing this happen
through a series of well thought out, well lit shots that subtley take
us deeper into Joanna's psychological state. The scene where she awakes
in the field is one of the best, and proves that Kapadia's second
feature may not be the greatest, but started out to be a very
different, innovative project that got a little muddled in
post-production. A good film, I'd wait for DVD, but the creepy
soundbytes and ghostly whispers won't have the same effect as in the
theatre. The Return is definitely misunderstood, but for those keen
enough to see it through, you will get a glimpse of isolated, lonely
people just looking to connect and get over the issues that have
brought them together.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film last night not knowing what to expect. What I found was
something excellent. Now this movie does require a few things before
watching however; an IQ over 50, bit of patience, and the knowledge
that gore and cheap thrills don't always mean a good film.

The film was shot beautifully and the acting was really well done!
However my only issue was that at times the film does drag and that's
where patience is required because it is worth it in the end.

For those looking for a film full of cheap thrills, excessive gore and
no plot or decent acting in sight then this is NOT the film for you.
However if you're after a solid Drama/Thriller with a supernatural
element then definitely check this film out.
<|_=00=_|>
This is an intelligent, intense and dark spiritual movie which I
certainly enjoyed. A superior production and direction and in my
opinion appears to be well under rated by the voters of IMDb.

A young woman is tormented by her past and "returns" to her home to
discover, if she can, the reasons for her haunting recollections and
the questions raised include: is she mad? Or is her past or another's'
being relived through her memories? The film is appropriately made in
sombre autumnal colors in keeping with the ambiance of the story,and is
an adult drama.

I was impressed with all the actors especially the attractive lead
female who is charismatic, convincing and highly watchable.

Well done the film-makers, a sound, 7/10.
<|_=00=_|>
The Return is an effectively suspenseful psychological thriller and not
the standard type of horror movie that the trailer implies. It has the
feel of Korean cinema with redneck overtones, which add to the overall
vibe. Many reviews have complained that there are'nt any jump scares
and the story evolves slowly, but that makes the uneasiness all the
more effective. Please don't let the misleading trailer cloud your
judgement. Immerse yourself in the story and you'll appreciate this
film. The cast do a great job, especially Sarah Michelle Gellar who, as
always gives a believability to the character of Joanna and creates a
vulnerable person that can be easily empathised with. A movie that
should be seen more than once and that, in time, will be given the
accolades that it deserves.
<|_=00=_|>
I had high hopes for this film. Not particularly a big fan of Sarah
Michelle Gellar but she isn't a bad actress by any means and provided
my teen years with countless horror movies I enjoyed.

That unfortunately is where the connection stops. I am not even sure
this title should fall in the horror section, which is where I found it
placed in my local blockbuster.

The film starts off well, keeps you guessing and involved. However as
it goes on I find I am constantly looking at my DVD timer
thinking,...hmmm we are 45 mins in and nothing substantial has happened
yet.

This is indeed one of those films you'll get bored and itchy and glance
at the back of the DVD case to see the runtime minutes. Up until the
end I kept looking at these runtime minutes at the back assuming it
must be wrong,..nothing has happened.

Unfortunately it wasn't wrong. It was another movie where the credits
seem to pop up at the most inappropriate times claiming the film/script
is finished.

No its not,...and thats why it doesn't deserve anymore than a 3 rating.

And the film and story (if you can call it that), is very confusing and
unrealistic. I'd think its fair to say this film never intended to be
realistic but the parallels between the dimensions of reality and
fiction are just too blurred and silly. Watch "the jacket" for a much
much better demonstration of where this practice truly works.
<|_=00=_|>
I got to see the advance screening of this movie too, way in advance
though it wasn't a star studded screening.

About the movie, one thing must be said is that this movie is really
interesting and mysterious though it cannot be compared to other movies
like saw, mindhunters as this movie does not have gore at all.

It can be compared to the butterfly effect as it has that supernatural
kind of story which is very well written and i will go on to say that
to me this was better than the butterfly effect. Most importantly the
acting is top of the line from all the actors specially Sarah's. The
way this movie is directed is also very intriguing and i really have to
admire Asif's direction.

Well if you want to watch an amazing, interesting and kind of a
thriller movie you must watch this as it is certainly worth a watch.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
I am amazed with some of the reviews of this film. The only place that
seems to tell the truth is RottenTomatoes.com. This film is awful. The
plot is extremely lazy. It is not scary either. People out there who
think that because it stars Sarah Michelle Geller it is somehow like
The Grudge should forget about it. This film is more like Dark Water,
except it is even more predictable and slow moving than it. I was
extremely disappointed with this film. It didn't scare me nor interest
me either. Let's face it , this type of plot has been flogged to death
at this stage e.g. the dead trying to contact the living - Dragonfly,
What Lies Beneath, Ghost Story, Dark Water, Darkness, The Changeling
etc.etc. It seems to me that the only ones writing original horror
films nowadays are the Japanese and the Koreans. The films that are
coming out of Hollywood, like this, are cynical exercises in money
making without a shred of respect for the viewer. They're just being
churned out
