
I have so much to say about this movie but I guess I should start with
what or who is John Carter.

John Carter (Kitsch) is an American Civil War soldier who is
transported to Mars. He first encounters the green skinned warlike
nomads known as the Tharks and, due to his superhuman powers (Mars
gravity and all that), quickly becomes embroiled in not only the
political issues of the Tharks, but those of the red skinned, humanoid
Martians as well. The humanoids control Mars through a series of city
states with Zodanga annihilating everything in it's path. Helium is the
last free state. Helium also has a beautiful and feisty Princess
(Collins) and a political marriage to save all has been arranged. Then
she meets our handsome hero.yep you guessed it. The two fall in love
and are now fighting for not just what they love and believe in but who
they love and believe in.

This movie is based on the book Princess of Mars, the first in a series
of 11 novels written by Edgar Rice Burroughs 100 years ago. They are
also known as The Barsoom or John Carter of Mars series. A lot of what
you have seen in these types of movies up until now has drawn, in some
way, on this series of novels. Star Wars, Avatar, Babylon 5, Flash
Gordon and even some Indiana Jones. I am sure the list is endless but
Sci Fi is not my genre. When you watch John Carter, you will be able to
pick the similarities immediately.

If you are aware of this movie's existence, then you are probably aware
of the negative attention it has garnered. I saw this movie over 2
weeks ago and have had to watch as people all over the internet trash
it. They have laughed at Disney for spending $250 million on an obvious
dud. They have said Disney has distanced itself from the movie before
it's release. They have criticised everything from the trailers to the
posters to the casting of 2 unknowns as the leads. Oh and they have
done all this without having seen the movie! These people are best
ignored and sent back to their mother's basements!! 

Now, I will say that Disney has done itself NO favours whatsoever with
the posters and trailers for John Carter. This I will concede. But I
have found the best trailer on You Tube and it was made by serious fans
of the books thejohncarterfiles.

Please, if you are going to watch a trailer for this movie, make it
this one. It just gives you a much better idea of what the movie looks
like.

So what did I think? I LOVED it. I really, truly did. I wanted to see
it because I had read so much about it over the last few years. Sci Fi
may not be my thing but that doesn't mean I don't know what's going on
in the land of movie making.

This movie has all the blockbuster action we have come to expect from
this genre. The CGI is spectacular. The Martian characters are
fantastic. The stand out Martian is without a doubt Woola, a pet that
adopts John Carter and is as ugly as he is adorable. An ugly slug like
animal that will melt your heart. Trust me :) There is good vs evil.
There is Martian vs Martain. There is human vs human. There is serious
stuff. There is fun stuff. A stand out scene I just cannot resist
mentioning.

When Carter does arrive on Mars, his introduction to Tars Tarkas is
absolutely hilarious. The mistake with his name becomes an ongoing gag
throughout the movie and to great affect. Even our hero gives up,
smiles and just shakes his head. Oh and yes, there is a very easy and
believable reason why they all speak English.

This movie is for everyone who likes Star Wars or Avatar. It's for
everyone who ever wished they could go to Mars. It's for everyone who
likes a love story between a handsome hero and beautiful, spirited
Princess. It's for everyone who wants to see a great movie and escape,
literally, to another world for 2 hours. It's for everyone who likes a
simple Sci Fi story. It's for everyone who likes a layered story they
can think on a little later. It's for little kids (although at over 2
hours running length it may just be a tad too long for our littlest
movie goers) and it's for big kids.

Ignore the critics and go see this movie. I think you will enjoy it. I
saw it in 3D and I usually think 3D is a waste of money (sorry studios)
but for this movie, fork out the extra $5 and see it in 3D.

Mars never looked so good.
<|_=00=_|>
Star Wars, Avatar, and John Carter. That's the cinema progression
although by now everyone knows that the John Carter books came first
and inspired both Lucas and Cameron. As a devotee of the books -- I
appreciated Star Wars and Avatar, but neither produced the level of
excitement and reader/viewer loyalty that Edgar Rice Burroughs did with
his vivid and unforgettable tales of John Carter, Dejah Thoris, and
Barsoom.

So what has Andrew Stanton given us?

Anwer: A gem that shines bright and true with a light all its own.
Stanton has taken the grandmaster's story but he's made it his own and
it's fresh and emotionally stirring in ways that are unexpected and
make you want to see it a second time, and soon. The gem is not without
a few rough edges -- but the core brilliance is unmistakable and
undeniable.

Stanton is a subtle and sophisticated storyteller with a Pixarian's
understanding of how to build characters that stay with you. Whereas
Cameron in Avatar was content to extract the simple essence of the
Burroughsian pulp narrative and just "go with it", Stanton keeps enough
of that to keep the material recognizable but constructs characters
that, in deft and certain strokes, emerge as fully realized beings who
engage us and draw us in to their stories in ways that exceed what his
predecessors Burroughs, Lucas, and Cameron were able to do. The result
is a richer, character driven experience that transcends the dear sweet
old pulpy fiber on which it is based and becomes something grander,
richer, and more satisfying.

A word about how the film differs from what you're seeing in trailers:
The promotion promises spectacle and action and there is plenty of
that; but the promotion also suggests that the film will be a kind of
childishly simple, woodenly executed mashup of questionable seriousness
featuring awkward performances and cartoonish characterization while
the film itself is almost the inverse of that--a thoughtful, finely
tune spectacle that is a feast of imaginative transport and whose few
flaws flow from the fact that it's a three hour epic that plays in two
hours and twelve minutes.

Taylor Kitsch is convincing and natural and I never thought I'd be
saying that, based on the promotion. Lynn Collins is luminous and
elevates fully to the level of the "incomparable" Princess of Helium --
genuinely beautiful and strong of will and heart. Willem Dafoe as Tars
Tarkas and Samantha Morton as Sola; Mark Strong as the delicious
villain Matai Shang -- the cast is without exception strong. The
special effects are state o the art and seamless -- and the music by
Michael Giachinno deserves special mention: haunting, unique, and
uniquely suited to the material, and the editing by Eric Zumbrunnen
seamlessly supports the narrative.

The "flaws" amount to quibbles: The film feels lean and compact at 2
hours and 12 minutes and feels as if it could benefit greatly from 10
additional minutes which could have been used profitably to better set
up the moment when John Carter and Dejah Thoris "close the deal" on
their love, and clarify some story points that are there -- but could
be highlighted more. Another beat of John Carter's life among the
Tharks, implying a passage of time, would cause John Carter's later
knowledge of the Tharks and their culture to make more sense (as it is
now he seems to pick it up in a matter of days and as audience we never
see where that knowledge comes from ). Another beat of John Carter
absorbing the new world he finds himself in, and implicitly comparing
it to what he left behind, would be welcome and would strengthen the
impact we would feel when he makes that choice. But these minor points
should not distract for the overall brilliance with which Stanton has
executed a challenging assignment.

This is a film that bears watching more than once, and is complex and
nuanced enough that subsequent viewings will no doubt reveal new
treasures and clarify the minor rough edges -- yet it is also
compelling and moving on an immersive first viewing in the theater.
Perhaps the best indication of that is the fact that, in spite of my
supposed knowledge of and sensitivity to film structure -- I was taken
by surprise when it ended and was in no way ready for it to end. Could
the full two hours have gone by that fast? How? And as I sit here
writing about it the next morning, if there were an opportunity to go
back and see it again tonight, I would do so without hesitation and,
quibbles aside, that's a simple but ultimately profound recommendation.

A final thought: Like everyone, I've got plenty of things going on in
my life and my world, distracting things, things that makes me worry,
things that drag my mind out of a movie when I'm watching it and back
into my world. Not one little tiny bit of that intruded into this
movie. I was transported and when it was over I couldn't believe that
was it -- I thought there was at least another 45 minutes owed to the
audience. On a visceral level, without trying to overthink it -- that
says a lot about what Andrew Stanton has accomplished, building on the
foundation of the grandmaster Edgar Rice Burroughs.
<|_=00=_|>
I did only have modest expectations of this film as the trailer
reminded me a bit to much of Dune. Really surprised to find a film
which had a good plot line (albeit cynics will liken it to
Avatar-lite), well acted, reasonable characterisations, brilliant
visuals and a surprisingly good hero figure in Taylor Kitsch. I saw the
preview screening this morning - don't really care how much it cost to
make - what I found was a big budget film that I really enjoyed from
start to finish. My advice - don't follow the cynics and naysayers -
see it for yourself. I will normally not go see 3D films (they give me
a headache) but the 3D wasn't too intrusive on this one.
<|_=00=_|>
I am a man of obsessions. For months, a movie I hadn't seen was the
thing. Not Peter Jackson's THE HOBBIT, not Joss Whedon's THE AVENGERS,
not even the upcoming Sam Mendes directed James Bond movie SKYFALL
(which I'm excited about but it hasn't really sunk its hooks into me
yet)...

No, it was Andrew Stanton's JOHN CARTER.

My excitement was not the universal feeling. Disney advertising had
dropped the ball and the trailers seemed lackluster to most. Yet
something within directed me toward it like a compass points to True
North. There was something special about it, something just out of view
in the trailers that wouldn't let me go. I trust my obsessions, always,
but at some point I got to feeling a bit exhausted and just wanted to
know if I was right or maybe a total loon.

I've now been to two advance screenings of JOHN CARTER.

And? Holy Living Thark! The bar on science fiction and fantasy movies
has Officially Been Raised.

JOHN CARTER is based on Edgar Rice Burroughs' A Princess of Mars --a
novel first published a century ago. I expected to come out of the
movie with my head full of comparisons to all the things Burroughs'
imagination inspired: STAR WARS, AVATAR, FLASH GORDON, etc.
Understandably so, as I'm much more familiar with all of them. That
didn't happen. Put simply, if STAR WARS is a kids' science fiction
movie franchise that adults enjoy (and it is), then JOHN CARTER is an
adult science fiction movie that kids will enjoy.

CARTER is such an immersing experience. Every moment reveals something
new about Mars; about the exotic alien races and cultures that call it
home, or about their individual characters. James Cameron's AVATAR
showed us a world we've never seen before and it was wondrous to
behold, but Andrew Stanton's JOHN CARTER is a movie so rich with detail
that it left me feeling like I had been somewhere. JOHN CARTER feels
like nothing so much than as if David Lean had made a science fiction
epic of love and war set on Mars.

This movie has a confidence to it you won't be expecting. It's unafraid
to linger over the characters, and give them time to breathe and reveal
themselves. My favorite decade for movies is the 1960s, and JOHN CARTER
has some of the epic adventure movies of that time running through it
like a seam of gold. There's a bit of LAWRENCE OF ARABIA in there as I
alluded to before, and perhaps a touch of ZULU and SPARTACUS is mixed
in with the Martian airships and predator cities. Old fashioned
storytelling magic and 21st century movie sorcery have combined into a
film that's a pulp sci-fi masterpiece.

To the ERB faithful: please relax. Yes, there are changes from the
novel; no, they are not the arbitrary changes made in inferior movie
adaptations where the filmmaker just wants to do his/her own ideas.
Every change is made to tell Burroughs' story or reveal some aspect of
Burroughs' characters in a way more befitting a movie instead of a
novel.

Going into this, I had absurdly high expectations. A friend of mine
told me he was worried the movie wouldn't live up to them and that
frankly I was starting to sound a little crazy. Well, the movie went
and exceeded my expectations. I love it, and give it a 10/10. I'm
definitely going to see it at least six times in the theater, and will
finally buy a Blu-Ray player just to watch it at home.

I realize this review sounds over the top. That's just how excited I am
about the movie. Perhaps in a previous life I was an ancient Greek by
the name of Hyperboles? Anyway, see the movie. I guarantee that even if
you don't like it as much as I did, you'll see where I was coming from
with this gushing review.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this at a preview screening in London.

I never read any of the books so only had a vague synopsis of the story
just from trailers which didn't really impress me much. 

Well, this turned out to be quite a blast. Its an enjoyable if very
cheesy Sci-fi fantasy blockbuster. It has the spirit and energy of
Flash Gordon including its own outrageously nonsensical but fun
premise. It isn't as cheesy as that film but there is a definite lean
towards it. The story is quite a novel mix of Planet of the Apes,
Conan, Red Sonja, Avatar, Star Wars and Superman (yep this is a
superhero movie too). We even have a western thrown in the mix at the
beginning. I was going to say there isn't anything original here but
how can I? This story was published in the 19th century so from that
perspective, I can now see a lot of plot influences deriving from this
in later SF/fantasy films.

A lot of money was spent on this movie and it shows. The special
effects here are pretty awesome. Not necessarily ground breaking,
everything on screen has been done before but its all smoothly done at
a grand scale though not quite to the scale of the Star Wars prequels.
Effects that stood out for me were John Carters "Hulk" like jumps,
Martian sky ship battles, green martians (as good as Avatar), and a
cute monster dog sidekick that almost steels the show.

Another major feature of the film was the cinematography. Its quite
spectacular and for a barren dead desert planet, its surprisingly
stunning.

One of the biggest surprise for me was the 3D. Its post conversion
which most often results in poorer quality than films which are filmed
in 3D from the start. But an exception can be made here. This is hands
down the best 3d conversion film I have seen. The 3d depth was
outstanding and really shows its power in numerous landscape and action
scenes. This is probably the second best 3d live action film I've seen
overall (either filmed in 3d or post converted) and I am normally
anti-3d when it comes to live action films. 

Taylor Kitsch who plays John Carter has just about enough screen
presence portraying a likable anti hero with a punchy attitude and a
sense of past history haunting him. Its a Han Solo type role but he
plays it more brooding. There is even a Princess Leia and the age old
storyline of helping a Princess to fight a war but each with their own
agendas. Its all very clichéd, yet still enjoyable. 

As much fun as I had with this, there is no denying that there is a lot
wrong with it too. I could pick on flaws and lack of logic all day long
with this film some of which are smack on the head stupid and some
elements I desperately wished more or better development on. The
dialogue while often funny, also often dive bombs into
cringe-worthiness (much like a Lucas script), the developing romance
was very disjointed and sometimes embarrassing (think Anakin and Padme
levels of embarrassment). The 3 way war politics was not very clear,
major characters not fleshed out enough and there's a whole lot of
story loopholes. Yet there is still a lot more fun to be had to
override those flaws. 

I have a feeling that book lovers will be disappointed because I can
detect a lot of back story is missing here and key characters seem very
short changed on their development and motives (particularly with the
green martians) which I am sure would have been fully fleshed out in
the book. However, I reckon if you enjoy films like Thor and GI Joe,
you'll have a great time with this. This wont be a classic or even a
cult movie but it is a satisfying piece of cinema escapism. And its
enough for me to want to read the books!
<|_=00=_|>
Hearing about this Disney film's story sparked my interest in seeing
this right away! I finally did and overall, the characters, the
setting, and the plot flowed seamlessly well together! It's like
Disney's formula of "Star Wars" and "Avatar" meets "Prince of Persia:
Sands of Time." 

So, the plot revolves around a Civil War veteran who is somehow
transported to Barsoom (aka Mars), where he must help a princess and a
colony succeed in a heated battle against another feuding colony.

Director Andrew Stanton delivered well in this epic take of John
Carter. Sure, star Taylor Kitsch seems like he's trying a little too
hard as the lead guy, but it looks like he's heading toward the same
path left behind by Jake Gyllenhaal for "Prince of Persia": serious
character figure, yet sometimes able to show unintentional humor
usually without noticing. Though not bad on either one's part! 

Since John Carter was conceived as a story back in 1912 by Edgar Rice
Burroughs (of Tarzan fame), I have to say that this movie is certainly
NOT a rip-off. A film like this deserves more credit than initially
given! Epic action/adventure films like "Star Wars" and "Avatar"
wouldn't exist today without these early roots! It pretty much sparked
an influence on the sci-fi, action, adventure genre films that most
audiences came to know decades later.

It looks like Stanton's following exactly what his fellow Pixar
colleague Brad Bird had done with Tom Cruise in "Mission Impossible:
Ghost Protocol," stepping up as director for once in live-action! Not
bad for their first time.
<|_=00=_|>
We just saw a pre-release showing of this movie and I had to pick my
jaw up off the floor a few times. The movie is simply stunning. While
there may be small details to niggle at for the most die-hard Burroughs
fans, this is "inspired by" a Princess of Mars, it isn't a straight
adaptation. The movie is a whirlwind of amazing visuals, powerful
dialog and soul-wrenching storytelling.

I'd had high hopes that this movie would live up to the hype
surrounding it. It surpasses it, the hype doesn't even come close. From
beginning to end, this movie focuses on story, and expands on a great
story with stunning effects as opposed to just using great FX in place
of solid storytelling.

It also has one of the strongest pieces of non-verbal storytelling
outside of Up.

Do not miss this film. Do see it in the theaters. Do see it in 3D.

You will not be disappointed. I'm certainly chomping at the bit for
release day so I can see it again and I'm already hoping for a sequel
based on The Gods of Mars.
<|_=00=_|>
Not a movie about Noah Wyle's character from the show ER, but rather
one based on a book I've never read titled A Princess of Mars.
Originally going to be titled John Carter of Mars, the movie apparently
dropped the 'of Mars' to "make it more appealing to a broader audience"
and this film is supposed to be the origin story "about a guy
*becoming* John Carter of Mars" - this probably explains why we finally
get the originally-intended title of 'John Carter of Mars' at the very
end.

The man in question is John Carter from Virginia, ex-Civil War soldier
who lost his family and is now gold prospecting. Proceedings are rather
slow-going in the beginning of the film, although it's necessary set-up
for what's to come. Things don't really get interesting until Carter's
transported to Mars, which is known as Barsoom by the inhabitants
there, who are 9 to 15 foot tall four-armed green aliens with tusks
called Tharks. Thanks to the lower gravity of Mars, Carter has enhanced
strength and can leap great distances. We even get a montage devoted to
him discovering as much. Some Tharks discover him, the least hostile of
which is one named Tars Tarkas (voiced by Willem Dafoe), who winds up
thinking Carter's name is Virigina due to miscommunication. Subtitles
are used up until Carter is eventually able to understand the Tharks
and we hear them speaking in English. At one point he comes to the
rescue of an alien dog named Woola, who is extremely loyal/fast and
becomes his constant companion. Carter also finds an ally in Sola
(Samantha Morton). Eventually he meets the Princess of Mars herself,
Dejah Thoris, after having rescued her (it's what he does). And this is
where the real story begins.

As John Carter and Dejah Thoris, Taylor Kitsch and Lynn Collins reunite
(after the rather ho-hum affair that was X-Men Origins: Wolverine).
Kitsch fits the role of the long-haired hero well (although he is
saddled with some rather dodgy dialogue at times). His reactions to the
bizarre situations, customs, etc that he finds himself having to deal
with are pretty good. He is well-paired with Lynn Collins, who manages
to make Dejah actually very human (like when she's nervous about the
presentation she's about to give when we first meet her in the
city-state of Helium...though, oddly enough, nobody there speaks with
funny high-pitched voices like you'd expect). She's certainly the
prettiest thing on Mars, but she's also very smart, as well as able to
handle herself in a fight. She's equal parts scientist and action
heroine. Kitsch and Collins play off each other very well, sharing both
humorous and touching moments between them. Also good is James Purefoy
as Kantos Kan. Although it's not a big role, he manages to make the
most of it and is easily likable, as well as amusing at times. Mark
Strong, meanwhile, continues to be the go-to guy for playing a villain.

The story is not exactly easy to follow if you aren't paying attention.
There's a lot of names of things to keep track of, as well as some
twists and turns here and there. The film feels like it kind of rushes
things a bit towards the end, as it has to wrap up stuff. Given the
running time, you wouldn't think things would need to be like this, but
it seems the makers realised their movie was reaching the limit of its
runtime and there was still some stuff left to address at the last
minute.

The effects on display are as dazzling as Dejah's blue eyes. The
thought and effort that has gone into designing/creating the creatures,
the ships, the costumes, etc is fully on display on the screen. The
music helps too. While this movie might not be everyone's cup of tea,
it does offer something a bit different in place of what could have
been a rather paint-by-the-numbers affair. Yes, some parts are
predictable, but there are also some parts that you might not expect.
Don't let the trailers fool you, it's not just all mindless action.
There is some actual real story going on here (provided, of course,
that you can keep track of/follow it). Recommended for anyone who's
looking for a slightly off-kilter sci-fi film.
<|_=00=_|>
By my standards, "must-see" films are getting to be rather rare. This
one is by all means a MUST-SEE for everyone who loves science fiction
and/or super heroes! Long before Superman, there was John Carter. Many
have very likely forgotten what a resourceful and imaginative writer
Edgar Rice Burroughs was. Most people only know he authored the
original TARZAN. The movie JOHN CARTER is based on Burroughs' novel, A
PRINCESS OF MARS, and his 1911 vision of an advanced civilization on
Mars is truly astonishing. Upon seeing this, the first question you
will likely ask is, "How is it no one has filmed this fantastic,
mind-blowing, eye-popping, compelling sci-fi adventure saga before?"
Well, there have been a few faint attempts but the true realization of
John Carter's magnificent adventures waited patiently for the masterful
CGI wizardry of director Andrew Stanton and the 2012 resources of
Disney/Pixar. Amazingly, Mr. Stanton shot this heavily CGI-based epic
on film! According to the director, he did so simply to see what it was
like to make a movie like this on film before film is gone. The
experience apparently has made him a fan of the classic motion picture
medium and I imagine we will hear more from him on why. Of course I'm
not going to give anything away. Suffice it to say that, thankfully,
JOHN CARTER is a complete film experience: a suspenseful, dazzling
story -- efficiently and superbly told -- with dramatic and
unforgettable visuals -- and compelling, moving performances. Lynn
Collins is particularly brilliant and beguiling as the exotic and
dynamic Martian princess. Throughout the film the detail is
extraordinary and the pacing is right on the mark, relentlessly drawing
you forward into the wonder of this newly discovered, challenging,
turbulent world. What a magnificent adventure saga! Let's put it this
way: if you liked Sinbad, you will LOVE John Carter. Thanks to a
sure-handed director, an inspired cast, and state of the art technical
people, it's a fulfilling experience that I predict will remain with
you always -- especially if you are among the young! JOHN CARTER is the
ultimate exotic adventure; a masterpiece of cinematic action and
pacing.
<|_=00=_|>
John Carter did not get the attention that it needed! This movie should
of been more successful and despite what most of the critics and
viewers are saying about this movie, "that its a lot like Star Wars and
Avatar", that is not true. I have found John Carter to be an amazing
movie visually, and the story was actually great. Don't get me wrong,
Star Wars and Avatar were great movies, but I believe that John Carter
was far much different and slightly better. I saw John Carter in the
theaters the week that it came out and I had a lot of fun watching this
movie!. So the hell with the critics, in my opinion, John Carter kicked
ass!!!!.
