
First the comparison with Dhoom 1. It is repetitive in parts,
especially because of the irritating Ali (Uday Chopra), who has
outlived his utility in the first part. On the other hand, this has
Hrithik and Ash, and is basically all about the duo! Abhishesk as
Inspector Jai provides the continuity in the story, but this is
Hrithik's film all the way. He packs in a great performance, looks
awesome, fights, dances, cries, laughs and even kisses (yes, the
infamous kiss!) all the way. Just watch this for him. Ash looks
fabulous and puts in a great performance as well. The songs are a let
down, except for the title number Dhoom machale. The story is good,
however the ending is a let-down as compared with the first part. Don't
listen to your pals who tell you that this is copied from numerous
Hollywood movies. It's just that the intellectuals are jealous because
Bollywood has finally managed to look as good as Hollywood!
<|_=00=_|>
True there is nothing much in the movie except Hrithik and his special
brand of charisma. But he alone makes the movie a little more than the
usual claptrap entertainment. I personally feel he never looked better.
His dance numbers are just perfect. Though there is little scope for
acting in this flick, Hrithik does manage to give the character of
Mr."A" a special flavor of his own. All the other characters are sort
of sidelined. Pity, Abhishek Bachhan fades into obscurity beside
Hrithik, both in looks and in performance. All in all, if you are a
Hrithik fan this a must-see. If you are not, it is time to review your
judgment.
<|_=00=_|>
Dhoom 1 wasn't a great movie but was refreshing and different! Dhoom
2..it's bigger, glossier and gets skimpier! Not just in terms of the
clothes women wear, but also in terms of the script..if there is any!
It's obvious that Mr Ghandvi lost focus, with all the star cast,
glamour and money to splurge on the look. No doubt that the look was
Super cool or flashy, locales breath taking, but if that is all that
you are looking for then Dhoom 2 is for you! 

I don't expect movies..especially Hindi movies to cater to some High IQ
needs of some viewers..I for one completely switch off my brain during
the movie..but even by that standards there are some scenes that are
too much to handle!! Especially the so called Chemistry scenes between
ASH and Hrithik..oh god save me!!! 

Now, on to my take on the stars of the movie, 

Hrithik - was Simply Amazing. I am not a big Hrithik fan, have never
been, but if there is any reason to watch this movie, it is Mr A!
Roshan as A acts well, does some amazing stunts, dances beautifully
(now that is nothing new!) and looks absolutely FAB!!! the movie
belongs to him..

ASH as sunehri - the less said the better..I may be a bit biased here
for I am no fan of her's ..but seriously ASH is good as long as her
mouth is shut or she is not trying to act (or over act!) seriously she
is the most beautiful woman in the world ..but can someone teach her
acting??? She looks good even if they may have made her a bit extra
tanned!!

Bipasha - well she was definitely a treat for the men ..but thats just
abt it..not that you expect anything more from her..

uday - he is the 'funny guy' in the movie..he is funny even when he
does a serious role (in some other movies!) so ..well...

ABBY BABY - now thats one man i went to watch the movie for,,but i was
disappointed..he looks so tired and disinterested through out the
movie..obviously he couldn't resolve his wt problems and being biased
towards him its becuz of his preparation for guru..but his character
was the least developed and all attention was given to hrithik!! but
don't worry abby baby you have guru waiting! having said that ..he was
good in two of the scenes he meets hrithik! 

Overall verdict - if you are easy going, tolerant and generally not
bothered, have time or a big fan of hrithik i guess this movie will
appeal to you. Else, don;t worry you are not missing much

Dhoom 1 or Dhoom 2 - my choice Dhoom 1
<|_=00=_|>
I have no words to describe how disappointed I was with Dhoom 2. There
was no story to speak of. There was no direction. I think the makers of
Dhoom 2 would like to believe that the audience of Hindi films are like
the audience of Teletubbies. Show some colorful scenes, some song and
dance and we will all be happy and merry. I was impressed with what
Bollywood movies have achieved in terms of technical wizardry, but was
terribly let let down down by the movie makers' total lack of respect
for the audience's intelligence.

I read previous reviews about how Aishwarya Rai was 'hot' etc etc.
There are a lot of 'hot' things out there if thats what people were
looking for in this presentation. And Rai fails to impress in this
regard. Her teen 'hep' character is contrived and shallow. Especially
as the 'gritty' American girl who challenges her dude to a basket ball
game. Most of Dhoom 2 is like that... a collage of borrowed concepts
and montages which can be easily traced to their origins, giving a
feeling of being cheated. Main Hoon Na did it with panache, but Dhoom 2
is a total waste of time. Yours and the film makers. (and mine, some
might say, for writing this review)
<|_=00=_|>
Viewers had too much expectations from this movie... But it turned out
to be a biggest disaster... I watched the first day first show and
regret it. Complete wastage of 3 hours... Hritik is the only good thing
about the movie... Movie takes so many twists and turns, that it looks
like they started it without a script only... there are loopholes in
the script as big as grand canyon. The double role of Bipasa can't be
explained in any possible way. The character of Abhishek is not at all
defined... The emotions scenes are put in just for the sake of complete
traditional Indian movie... It was too frustrating... I wish the
distributors good luck!!!
<|_=00=_|>
Dhoom 2 is a mindless popcorn flick that asks for your brain at the
door and hands it back 3 hours later when you leave, hoping you had a
good time in between. I was amused more than once and I can appreciate
several things in the film. But in the end the hard reality and number
one rule of good film making is and always will be (and that really
needs to sink in more in Bollywood): A GOOD FILM STARTS WITH A GOOD
SCRIPT, EVEN IF ITS ONLY AIM IS CAREFREE ENTERTAINMENT FOR 3 HOURS.
Dhoom 2's script is simply very half baked, full of plot holes so big
the usual disclaimers for fantasy action fare are stretched too thin
here and it becomes annoying. What should be a gripping tale of the
psychology of cop and robber sprinkled with sleek action and display of
technology (in the film and making the film) degrades into standard
formula fare with unnecessary songs, forced comic routines, abrupt and
unmotivated sight seeing orgies, and replacement of a main character.
Let's ignore the heavy inspiration from many Hollywood films. That's
not the main problem. The interference of the Bollywood formula and
weak script is. Not all is bad, though, some parts are well done and in
a better film would fit in very nicely. The Russian roulette scene is
the emotional core of the film and delivers, ending included (bravo for
going against the formula here). The statue scene is cool as well
(unrealistic but in a way one can smilingly accept, l'art pour l'art).
The Queen act at the beginning, unexpected, hilarious (the action
afterwards less so). And this of course brings us to the main asset of
the film, this Indian A list actor (and I mean international A list as
far as potential is concerned) whose publicly announced goal is to lift
commercial Hindi cinema to an international quality level so it can
cross over, stuck in another local B grade effort (by international
standards) limiting his impact: The one and only HRITHIK ROSHAN. He
carries the film from start to finish and it hurts to see him work his
ass off and exude more charisma with one finger than the whole cast of
most films do with all they got, just to be let down by shoddy
scripting and stylistic choices that might impress in some quarters but
definitely not at others where international product is well known and
fighting it out for market share with Hollywood. The rest of the cast
is OK. Aishwarya and Hrithik are eye candy of the highest caliber.
Abhishek, Uday and the rest have not really got roles though. 2 of the
songs should be cut right away. 3 others are good. Film is well shot,
stunts are OK although highly unrealistic most of the time and the fact
many of them are really done by Hrithik himself is not obvious enough.
He trains for 3 months and it's over in 3 seconds. Hm. See it if you
like Ash and Hrithik, do not expect much and you will likely be
impressed by some of it. 4 points for the film and 2 extra for Mr.
Roshan. (By the way, Hrithik is NOT playing his first villain in this
film as claimed in the promotions. He's not anymore a villain than
Robin Hood. He's the hero of the film which you cheer on and want to
succeed. If Robin Hood is a villain then Hrithik was a villain before
in Fiza and Mission Kashmir).
<|_=00=_|>
OK guys, lets face it. Without Hrithik the movie is nothing which
otherwise too is nothing. Sorry, but that's an understatement. Where
and what is the plot will someone explain??? The movie sure did
showcase Hrithik's ability to take risks and do some adventurous stuff
quo dos to that and a super duper physique, that girls would swoon for.

Rest of the star-cast seems to be a wasted lot. Abhishek and Ash's real
life comedy seems to be showing on screen as well. Who cares what
happens to them. We want some life in the character that an actor is
trying to portray--not attitude show off.

And thanks to Bipasha Basu we learnt to do some aerobics. We shall try
it out in a Beach when we go there!!!!!!!!

Dhoom-2 is definitely for those people who rave and rant about looks,
physique and short dress. Thank you very much, but there are still some
human beings who care for a movie that's makes the movie a star and not
a movie where the star/s can control the story. It seems like a
desperate attempt to match the rest of the guys character to that of
Hrithik's stunts. But nothing to beat Ash's pre-movie self publicity
indulgence of having done dare devil stunts!!! What hogwash!!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was great.... I love it!! Two thumbs up for Hrithik being at
his best look and acting.... Aishwarya was looking great too (didn't
like some of her role though).... The plot was good.... A lot different
than the first....

Now for what i didn't like in the movie: Bipasha as a double role was
not needed in it at all, and nor was the girl who played Abhishek's
wife... These were just waste..... And the story didn't carry so much
weight like the first one.... But it's acceptable because most sequels
aren't good enough....

Overall it was a good movie.... I enjoyed every moment of it.... The
outfits, gadgets, music, dances and locations were great... And i also
liked the way it surprised me to some extent....

Some parts of the movie weren't acceptable to the family crowds but i
guess that's completely okay compared to a lot of movies.... First of
all this movie is not meant for kids, due to it's violence and women in
scanty clothing... Which goes for Dhoom 1 as well..... anyway am sure a
lot people enjoyed it..... 

so i give it an 8/10.....
<|_=00=_|>
OK, so I finally got to watch the much talked about, over-hyped sequel
to the under-hyped sleeper hit of 2004. And I'm glad I did! It is what
is called as the perfect time-pass, paisa vasool film.

What Dhoom-2 lacks in terms of a coherent plot and neatly crafted
screenplay, it more than compensates for through a clever and
consistent sprinkling of awe-inspiring stunts, energetically
choreographed dance routines, picture-perfect scene compositions and
oodles of eye candy.

Dhoom-2, like its predecessor, is the quintessential cop and robber
tale where there's neither the place nor the need for logic. The film
opens with a breathtaking visual of a lone train running through a vast
Namibian desert. Though the execution of this robbery is disappointing
(it almost seems that the writer and director felt that once they had a
great setting, their task was done), it sets the stage for what would
unfold over the next 2 hours. From then on we are drawn into a
high-octane cat and mouse game (so what if the robber always has the
upper hand...right till the end?). The action explodes with such energy
that one doesn't get the time to think about the loopholes in the plot.

Yes, after the movie is over you wonder if the film would have been
much better had the writer made it into a mind game between the
adversaries - a kind of intelligent oneupmanship. But as long as you're
in the theatre, you're hooked on! You don't regret that the cop - who
insists that such games are won by the mind and not the bullet - has
virtually no plan except planting a mole. You don't mind that the mole
- seemingly a consummate crook herself - doesn't show any skill except
loads of sexual energy. And you certainly don't mind that Mr. Perfect
Thief gets away unscathed every single time, thanks to - if I may use
the word - a DUMB cop who appears dumber than his bumbling side-kick.
All this, because of the charismatic screen presence of Hrithik Roshan.

It wouldn't be wrong to say that Dhoom-2 belongs to Hrithik Roshan (Mr.
A, Aryan). Mind you, that's not a tribute to his acting talent. He is
at best an above-average actor, but when it comes to screen presence no
one among the current crop of actors can come even closer to him. And
boy, what a dancer! His dance movements are more unbelievable and
awe-inspiring than the cable-supported, SFX-created action sequences.
It is absolutely clear that Dhoom-2 was designed to be his showcase.
How else would you explain the terribly underwritten character of the
cop, or the fact that Hrithik is on the screen in 90% of the scenes?

And then there's Ash (Sunehri). Could anyone believe that her 'plastic
beauty' persona could actually set the screen afire? What has she done
to her body! What a metamorphosis!! Ash's Sunehri is HOT. She and
Hrithik come across as the most perfect screen pairing in recent
memory. But, hey, what was all that hullabaloo about their lip-lock? 

On the acting front, Ash is adequate. All she is required to do is to
look hot and be a perfect foil to Hrithik. She does precisely that with
great élan. It's sad that Abhishek (Jai Dixit) got saddled with a
hastily written role. It's unpardonable that the character of Jai
Dixit, the main connecting link between the sequels - is so
one-dimensional. Numerous reviews have lambasted Abhishek's acting in
Dhoom-2, but the blame here lies with the producer-director-writer.
They seem so hell bent on making this a showcase for Hrithik that
they've given almost a step-motherly treatment to Abhishek's character.
On his part, Abhishek honestly portrays what he's been asked to do.

Uday Chopra (Ali) should find solace in the fact that his father and
brother are the most successful producers in India and they will
continue to find roles for him in their films. He has no acting talent
whatsoever. Hats off to Aditya Chopra for using the clever ploy of
giving Ali's character dozens of one-liners that manage to draw a few
laughs from the audience and divert them from Uday Chopra's
unbelievable yet unquestionable lack of acting skills.

Should I get deeper into the negatives? For one, The music is very
disappointing - had it not been for the Shaimak Davar's and Vaibhavi
Merchant's choreography or Hrithik's and Ash's fluid dance movements
the songs would have been unbearable to watch on screen. Also, despite
a larger canvas and more style it doesn't cover any new ground compared
to Dhoom....nah, I wouldn't get into all this. If one were to start,
the list of negatives for Dhoom-2 might be quite long but why dwell on
that? I found the film very entertaining and that's all that mattered
to me while watching the film.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this one in installments. The first 15 minutes go by - 

1. Thief para drops right onto a moving train 

2. The queen has the most brattish kids running around - do they not
know what royal kids are like? 

3. The queen coincidentally has a long face and beaked nose just like
the thief - what was he, her long lost son or something? 

4. The queen has guards that fire bullets that cannot penetrate a
surfboard and are super slow - the thief can deflect them one after the
other.

5. The queen hires security guards that cannot shoot at a man who is
hooked up to the train and being pulled behind it on a surf board.

6. The thief has a supernatural surfboard that can cross over train
tracks and go from side to side.

7. The thief then surfboards away among sand dunes - is the surfboard
motorized? we are now 5 - 6 minutes into the film...

8. cut to a hot number with lots of hip grinding dance moves, muscled
thief and scantily clad babes and all...

9. cut to a boat onto which a motorcycle lands and stops just like
that. Had to close my eyes and sit through some annoying Uday Chopra
dialogs 

10. Two bad guys have guns drawn on him and they wait, and they wait,
and they wait 

11. A jet boat comes out from UNDER water, flies sky high and lands on
the boat and stops just like that.

12. Is the boat an aircraft carrier? 

13. People stand around and shoot at each other, now no one even makes
a pretense of ducking.

14. Amidst all the shooting and standing around the phone rings and
some Bangla conversation starts.

This queen - he/she was the ugliest royal I have ever seen - but then
of course in Dhoom 3 Mr. A will turn out to be her illegitimate son and
so they had to resemble each other! I have watched a bit more to catch
the most beautiful woman but no appearance yet.. In the meantime 

15. Uday and Abhishek are having inane conversation while still
shooting at the bad guys. Is this supposed to be humorous? 

16. Abhishek is doing his best to imitate an inanimate object that can
talk.

17. Bipasha is hot but which respectable police officer walks with that
exaggerated hip sway? looks like a model for Old Navy clothes.

18. Bipasha says they know nothing about Mr. A, while random maps and
faces keep flashing on the screen - whose faces are these?

19. Abhishek now shows that he is an intelligent inanimate object.. he
has cracked the code, by God! 

20. Mr. A masquerades as a statue and runs the Mars Rover over the
floor to a diamond he wishes to steal.

21. The rover appears to be smarter than any human being in the movie.

22. It can not only steal the diamond just like that but can create an
illusion that the diamond is still there.. I knew that alien technology
existed in Roswell.

23. Then suddenly the statue is an old man - I loved to watch the
Transformers and maybe Mr. Gadhvi did too! 

24. The old man drops into the sewer after melting the cover with acid
in his shoes.

25. The young Mr. A explodes out of the sewer in an unknown location..
I always knew the sewers were full of explosive gases.

26. The chase is on - Abhishek is suddenly on a chopper and shooting at
Mr. A from the air.

27. Mr. A ducks each and every shot - now we know why the police in
India are incompetent. No one taught them how to accurately shoot a
gun.

28. Mr. A jumps on and off various vehicles using some LED containing
device on his hands.. Roswell all over again.

29. Mr. A roller blades on a narrow, I mean real narrow, railing and
escapes.

30. There is still no sign of the most beautiful woman and I have to
turn the show off in frustration.

Try number 3 - 

31. The most beautiful woman comes on and speaks in valley girl speak
the entire time I can bear to see this movie.

32. She also addresses herself in the third person, uses "like" in
EVERY sentence, ends it with "funny guyyy".

I bravely soldier on...

A word about the Music and the acting: To match My name is Ali we have
Crazy Kiya Re, every song is at that level including something that is
going 'Yeh love to Hai fire..' with a lot of what sounds like doom
doom! So the entire soundtrack seems to be a comic turn. Hritik is
good, OK acting, nice bod - too bad he has no credible story line or
plot to match his acting. Aish is so annoying I cannot believe it,
every sentence is like inane enough to drive one insane. Uday is
annoying as hell and Abhishek is virtually inanimate. Bipasha is hot
but what is she doing in the film? If you can bear to part with your
brain for three hours, check it in at the popcorn place, and go in to
see this film. If you were recently hit on the head then you might not
need this. Enjoy!
