
I'm not sure why this film got such a bad rating....it's truly one of
the nicest films I've seen in a long time! I brought my daughter to see
the movie today -- we both had tears in our eyes throughout the movie.
The acting was superb, as was the casting. Normally I like to read the
book before seeing a movie, as usually the book is so much better. I am
glad that my daughter talked me into going to this movie. I think
cinematically, it was one of the prettiest movies I've seen in awhile.
You are taken from laughing one moment to feeling as though your heart
is being tugged out of your body in the next moment. I will definitely
be recommending this film to my friends!
<|_=00=_|>
I caught an exclusive screening of this film a week back and I must
say, it might be the best film featuring a mostly black cast since
"Antwone Fisher." The story centers around Lily (Dakota Fanning), a
poor, lonely little girl in the deep south, who deals with a tragic
past and a miserable, cruel father (Paul Bettany). Her life revolves
around dreams of being every bit like her deceased mother and her
relationship with her caregiver Rosaleen (Jennifer Hudson).

In the midst of the civil rights movement, Rosaleen finds herself in
some trouble with the locals, inspiring Lily to flee with her to a
South Carolina town that she believes holds the secret to her mother's
past. In this town, they find refuge with the Boatwright sisters (Queen
Latifah, Alicia Keys and Sophie Okonedo), who take them in on the
strength of a story concocted by Lily. Through their cultured world,
filled with beekeeping, a lucrative honey business, religious beliefs
and love, Lily finds the security she has longed for and finds the
answers to questions that haunted her for years.

The director (Prince-Brythewood) did a great job at making us care
about the characters, even the miserable father played excellently by
Paul Bettany. Alicia Keys shows that some R&B singers can actually
perform well in a movie, playing the snooty June Boatwright. However,
the best performances has to be between Fanning and Okonedo, who played
the gentle, simple minded, manic depressive May Boatwright. If Okonedo
reminded me less of Thandie Newton's character in "Beloved," I would've
predicted an Oscar nomination depending on this year's competition.
Maybe there's one in store for Bettany? Its all left to be seen.

The film has its flaws. It dragged for a good portion of the first
thirty minutes as we watch Lily and Rosaleen mill about, doing mundane
things in their pitiful lives. But then it really picks up when they
meet the Boatwright sisters. The characters were balancing on a thin
line between empathetic and sympathetic. You never want to be in the
latter. And the filmmakers couldn't resist being a bit schmaltzy on
occasion, making most of it play like a good after school special with
nothing beyond two dimensionality. And my biggest problem with the
film... anti-climatic.

Overall, its a solid film and definitely worth the time in seeing.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. Having not read Sue Monk Kidd's
novel, I was expecting a sappy, soulless, chick flick that would have
me rolling my eyes for a couple of hours. Instead, director Gina
Prince-Bythewood (Love & Basketball) delivers a very engaging film with
a message and some very strong performances.

Dakota Fanning plays Lily, who accidentally killed her mother at four,
and has since lived with her white trash, redneck despicable father
(Paul Bettany). Lily and her nanny Rosaleen (Jennifer Hudson) runoff to
some small town dot on a map thanks to a clue Lily's mom left on one of
her few remaining personal items. They arrive at the home/business of
August, June and May Boatright (Queen Latifah, Alicia Keys and Sopie
Okonedo) who harvest and bottle the best honey in town. What follows is
a smörgåsbord of odd family life that slowly gives hope to young Lily.

Based in 1964, the film dips its toe into the Civil Rights Act and the
ongoing racism of the south, but focuses more on the strength of love
and family ... even in a Pepto Bismol home! The performances are all
very strong but three standouts are Dakota Fanning, Paul Bettany and
Sophie Okonedo.

Ms. Fanning is now 14 years old and she delivers a remarkable
performance ... and what feels like the first where her screaming
skills aren't overused (War of the Worlds, Man on Fire). She strikes me
as a young Jodie Foster ... one who has just transitioned from child
actor to real actress. I can't wait to see where her career takes her.
Mr. Bettany is such a shock here as he typically plays a well dressed,
under-spoken Brit (which is what he is in real life!). As a southern
redneck whose bitterness rages against the world, he not only pulls it
off, but manages to make grits seem even worse than I previously
thought. Ms. Okonedo (so amazing in Hotel Rwanda) pulls off the always
difficult task of making a "special" adult seem very real and vital. A
most touching performance from a top notch talent.

This is a good story with strong performances, though to take the next
step as a film, it needed to dig a little deeper into its wide range of
characters and settings. Still, definitely worth seeing.
<|_=00=_|>
Writer/Director Gina Prince-Bythewood, winner of the Independent Spirit
Award for Sundance hit, "Love & Basketball," has now brought the
beloved, acclaimed best-seller, "The Secret Life of Bees" to the
screen.

1964, South Carolina. Lily Owens (played with open-eyed honestly by
Dakota Fanning) is raised in a loveless home by her cruel, distant
father. Fourteen year old Lily longs for a mother she never knew. When
her only friend, their black maid Rosaleen, is assaulted in a racist
incident, the girls are forced to go on the run. 

Lily and Rosaleen end up on the doorstep of the Boatwrights, the black
sisters who own a successful honey farm. Lily concocts an elaborate lie
to persuade the maternal August Boatwright (played with warm dignity by
Queen Latifah) to temporarily take them in. They are met with some
resistance from the guarded June (Alicia Keys), a classical cellist and
civil rights activist. But they are welcomed enthusiastically by the
open-hearted May (played with touching vulnerability by Sophie
Okonedo). They soon find that hyper-sensitive May is moved to tears by
the mention of anything sad.

August teaches Lily how to tend the bees, and May whole heartedly
embraces both girls. They are soon accepted as part of the family. But
Lily still needs to find the truth of why her mother left her.

This is a coming of age story and parable about how to cope with the
painful truth and find forgiveness. As Lily's young love interest puts
it, "It's not just about the truth. It's about what you do with it."
The two sisters illustrate different ways to deal with the hard truths
of life. June has closed her heart and built a protective wall to keep
out hurtful emotions. While May has completely opened her heart and
feels everyone's pain. Her heart is open to joy but it is also an open
wound. 

I loved being in this world and a part of this loving family - so much
that I stayed for a second screening. This is due in part to Gina
Prince-Bythewood's excellent adaptation and the wonderful acting of
Dakota Fanning, Queen Latifah, and especially Sophie Okonedo - who is
literally the heart of the film.

If you're looking for a sweet way to spend the afternoon, "The Secret
Life of Bees" will supply the honey.

Movie blessings! Jana Segal reel inspiration dot blogspot dot com
<|_=00=_|>
I don't go around throwing 10's around for movie ratings, but I
extremely impressed by this movie. The emotional and visual scope
offered by the story, the cinematography, and the acting, gave all
viewers with eyes to see and ears to hear, a wonderful treat. I'm sure
not everyone loves this particular type of movie, but if you haven't
been desensitized by the CGI and special effects of many of today's
movies, you'll appreciate the very core of this movie, which is the
human struggle - especially the depiction of the search for identity,
and the need to give and received compassion from those living on this
big blue marble together with us. A reminder of the racism of a not too
far distant time, and the timeless theme of love, death, friendship,
and compassion, add the effective seasoning that helps us all relate in
some very tangible way to this movie. Enjoy it with someone you care
about, and taste the honey.
<|_=00=_|>
These are cynical times, and the U.S. is still struggling with it's
feelings on race, even today. The more of these types of movies, the
better. Simple human love comes through in every frame. After a summer
of superheroes and sex humor comedies, this was the most life affirming
and refreshing film I've seen so far this year. If the academy doesn't
recognize some folks from this film, they'd be remiss. I smell Oscar
all over this film. Queen Latifah was wonderful as usual. Sophie
Okonedo played an emotionally damaged woman with perfect pitch and
demeanor. Paul Bettany's performance of the alternately hurt and
hurtful father was a challenge. You needed to both hate him, and
sympathize with him for the role to be effective, and I thought he
pulled this off well. Just simply a moving story, a great script, top
notch acting, and all beautifully shot. I place it in the must see
category.
<|_=00=_|>
It's been two years since we last saw Dakota Fanning on the big screen
here, in a film which was a adaptation of the literary classic
Charlotte's Web. And what a career it had been for this child actress,
now an adolescent, to have grown from scream queen (no thanks to her
stint under Spielberg's War of the Worlds) to one controversial role in
Hounddogs, which I doubt would make it to our shores here.

Based on a novel by Sue Monk Kidd and directed by Gina
Prince-Bythewood, The Secret Life of Bees is one powerful drama above
love and the looking for love, as well as running along the theme of
forgiveness and reconciliation. It's easy to dismiss this as a chick
flick because of its predominantly female cast, but that would be a
mistake to make in making it an excuse to miss this film altogether.
For all its worth, it's chock full of extremely well delivered
performances from veterans such as Fanning herself, together with Queen
Latifah, Jennifer Hudson (proving that she's no flash in the pan),
Sophie Okonedo, Paul Bettany and even Alicia Keys!

Set in the time of Summer in 1964 Southern USA where the Civil Rights
Act was just signed and in effect, the sentiments amongst the racist
bigots still run high in a charged environment still hanging onto their
old segregated ways. Fanning's Lily Owens carries the weight of her
guilt buried deep in her subconscious from a tragic event that happened
when she was four, and ten years later, after receiving the last straw
of punishment from her abusive dad (Bettany), runs away with her
caretaker Rosaleen (Hudson).

As if led by an invisible hand, they soon find themselves under the
extreme goodwill of the Boatwright sisters, who earn a living through
the cultivation of bees for honey, and a series of incidents that bring
about some tying of loose ends, and the discovery that these strangers
do tie back to Lily's own quest to finding out the truth about her mom,
to debunk the lies as told by her father. And of course this allows
opportunity for some serious girl power bonding between the characters
as they find that they have a lot more in common, as well as the
sharing and spreading of love through their ranks.

The trump card that this movie has, is the excellent performances by
the ensemble cast. Fanning leads the pack and gives a wonderful moving
performance as the gangling Lily, who thinks that she's quite a jinx
with plenty of bad karma to go around, bringing about unfortunate
happenings to her hosts which provide the dramatic twists and turns to
what would otherwise be a flat movie. Jennifer Hudson had much to do in
the first act, though her character got quite muted by the time the
trio of the Boatwright sisters August (Latifah), June (Keys) and
Okonedo (May) come along. Queen Latifah brings about some serious
gravitas in her role as the eldest with the largest heart, and you
cannot deny her chemistry with Fanning. Keys on the other hand plays
the sister the exact opposite of August, being aloof and starting off
with intense suspicion as to the intent of their guests. And Okonedo's
role could probably be the most unorthodox of the lot, a fragile soul
who has her own wailing wall to deal with the harsh realities of life.

The Secret Life of Bees is well worth the admission ticket, and you'll
be hard pressed not to be touched by the film, or moved by the themes
it explores, especially when the third act comes by leading to quite a
number of powerful revelations and a solid conclusion. Set against its
intended backdrop, it's a reminder of tolerance, which the world lacks
these days, and of course it's not always hammering in such heavy
themes as it has its fair share of romance as well, and for what it's
worth, Fanning has her first on-screen romance in this movie, and if
I'm right, has her first on-screen kiss as well.

You might be surprised when I say this, but this film has won me over
enough for it to be considered as a contender when I shortlist my list
of ten top films of the year. Definitely recommended!
<|_=00=_|>
Personally I felt the performances were outstanding. Alicia Keyes was
wonderful,Queen was the pillar of strength, Hudson proved that her
Oscar wasn't a fluke,but most importantly you are able to watch a cute
and charming little girl actress give a phenomenal mature performance
worthy of Oscar consideration. Dakota Fanning is a delight to watch.I
wanted the story to end in a more positive manner.I believe that the
end of the movie should have been when all the women are united on the
steps with Lily,after her father leaves her behind.It is a very unique
story and I believe many will be moved by these incredible talented
women,whether black or white. It does have a few slow moments,but the
film is intriguing in a way that made you desire to see more.Absolutely
some of the most beautiful cinematic shots. Overall a great drama!
<|_=00=_|>
The Secret Life Of Bees, is a marvelous new drama. It's focus is
13-year-old Lily Owens (played with a deft emotional range, by Dakota
Fanning). The film takes place in 1964 in the southern US, during the
birth of the civil rights movement.

Lily is haunted by the fact that she accidentally shot her mother, when
playing with a pistol as a toddler. She also develops a strange
affinity for bees, which is bewildering to her. Lily's violent father
is abusive towards her. The Owen's black housekeeper Rosaleen, is a
mother figure and confidante to Lily.

One day, Lily goes to town with Rosaleen, when Rosaleen plans on
registering to vote. Racist white men confront them, taunting Rosaleen.
When Rosaleen refuses to tolerate their behavior, the men give her a
vicious beating. The police soon intervene. Rosaleen is arrested, and
held in custody at the medical ward of the local jail.

Outraged at what happened to Rosaleen, Lily goes to the jail and frees
Rosaleen, before the guards find out. Lily and Rosaleen then hit the
road, leaving Lily's brutal father far behind. The two come upon a
store in a small town, which stocks jars of honey. Intrigued with the
unusual labeling on the honey jars, Lily asks the clerk where the honey
comes from. She's told that the Boatwright sisters make the honey. 

Lily then asks the clerk, where they can find the Boatwright sisters.
And she's told that they reside in a huge, 'bright pink' house, a 'ways
up the road'. So, Lily feels strangely compelled to find the
Boatwrights, for reasons that she doesn't quite understand. 

After traveling a long way, Lily and Rosaleen spot a bright pink house,
in a remote area. Tired, hungry and needing shelter, they knock on the
door of this house. The three women who answer introduce themselves as
the Boatwright sisters, named May, June, and August.

At first, the Boatwrights are reluctant to take in Lily and Rosaleen.
They relent, when they realize that the two have no where else to turn.
August, the eldest sister, lets Lily become their beekeeping
apprentice. Rosaleen is allowed to stay on as the Boatwright's
housekeeper. While living with the Boatwrights, Lily unravels the
mysteries of her dead mother. Much to her astonishment, Lily discovers
how the Boatwrights are deeply involved in her mother's past.

Above all, this film celebrates love, and its power to transform human
lives in amazing ways. The brilliant performances by the female leads,
make this movie the gem that it truly is. Films with strong, positive
women in leading roles, are still not as common as they should be. The
Secret Life Of Bees, is a powerful film that's heartrending, uplifting,
and a definite must-see.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me just say that the movie NEVER had dull moment or even a second
in the ENTIRE film!!! Set in South Carolina 1964, Lily Owens (Dakota
Fanning) who is haunted by the memory of her late mother, tries to
escape her lonely life and bad relationship with her father (Paul
Bettany), to get past her horrible incident with her late mother. So,
she and her caregiver Rosaleen (Jennifer Hudson) flees to a South
Carolina town where it holds the secret of her mother's past. Lily and
Rosaleen finds the intelligent Boatwright sisters: August (Queen
Latifah), June (Alicia Keys and May (Sophie Okenendo) where they take
Lily and Rosaleen in, to have a place to stay for a while.

The Secret Life Of Bees is a movie of what you call a "tearjerker" and
that's what it is, the movie will touch your heart and teaches you
about life, care, love & forget about your horrible past and move on.
As for performances, everyone delivers and a couple of Oscar-worthy
ones too. Dakota Fanning and Sophie Okenendo are the ones that delivers
the Oscar-worthy performances. Come Oscars season, don't be surprised
if any of those both actresses will be in the envelope (they deserved
to get those nods!!) Queen Latifah, Alicia Keys and Jennifer Hudson
(R.I.P her brother and mother who just passed away one day ago.)
delivered their best performances yet even Jennifer (I thought this was
her best performance yet and better than ever Oscar-winning performance
in Dreamgirls.). As for the supporting actors: Bettany, Parker and
Wilds, they did great as well.

The Secret Life Of Bees is one of this year's best films, rush out and
buy a ticket for this wonderful and amazing film!!
