
Last warning for spoilers:

After falling in love with "The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe," I
was expecting an amazing sequel from the same people. "Prince Caspian"
was a disappointment, however.

The changes made from the book were so many and extreme that Adamson
(the director) completely altered the theme of the story. The character
of Peter was so changed that one questions what exactly he learned from
Narnia that he will not be allowed to return. From the fighting at the
beginning of the film in England because he is upset about being young
again to the power struggles with Caspian, his title of "The
Magnificent" was sullied.

Caspian fared no better. In making him an adult and Miraz the Lord
Regent, they made a crown Prince not even knowledgeable about the fact
that the throne is his and that no other Lords who are suspicious of
Miraz ever talking to Caspian about his birthright. That is
unrealistic. Even worse, they turned Caspian into a vengeful man who
jeopardized a mission to attempt to avenge his father's death.

What was worse, however, was that Adamson chose action and battle
scenes to character development. There were so many characters
introduced but none of them were rounded out. It felt as if the
characters were background to the action. They did what they did
because they were supposed to rather than any meaningful reason due to
their personality.

As a Narnia book series fan, this was a major disappointment. It really
felt like Adamson redid a mediocre medieval war movie adding Narnian
characters for effect.

Bob
<|_=00=_|>
Director Andrew Adamson, who helmed the first installment in the
series, after making his career primarily in animation (including the
original "Shrek") seems decidedly more comfortable in his role as a
live action director this time around, and he handles the scope and the
pacing of this epic adventure with a polished skill that is a very
pleasant surprise. In addition, Georgie Henley, Skandar Keynes, William
Moseley and Anna Popplewell, returning as the Pevensie children, have
matured, not only physically, but in their acting ability. There is a
deftness and self assuredness this time around that surpasses the
original, and makes for an extremely entertaining film.

The story begins with Prince Caspian (Ben Barnes), nephew of Miraz
(Sergio Castellito), the leader of the "Telmarines," the human
population that is now the dominant race in Narnia, fleeing for his
life when Miraz's wife gives birth to a son. Miraz usurped the throne
from the rightful King, Caspian's father, and now that he has an heir
of his own, he wants Caspian out of the way for good.

Meanwhile, back in London, Peter and his siblings are trying to adjust
to life in the real world. Peter is getting into fights because he
can't bear people "treating him like a kid," after growing to adulthood
before leaving Narnia, only to return at the exact age he was when he
first stepped through the wardrobe. But in less time than it takes to
board the London underground, the Pevensie's are once again transported
back to the magical kingdom - only it is not the place they left. Over
a thousand years have passed, and the castle of Cair Paravel lies in
ruins. 

As the children struggle to find out what has happened, they stumble
upon a Dwarf named Trumpkin (Peter Dinklage), who is being taken
prisoner by abusive Telmarine soldiers. Susan, who doesn't seem to have
had much opportunity to show off her finely honed archery skills at
home in Finchley, eagerly takes the opportunity to rescue Trumpkin from
his captors, and the surly old dwarf (whom Lucy and Edmund nickname
"The D.L.F.", or "Dear Little Friend,") explains that all is not well
in Narnia. It seems that not long after the High King Peter and his
siblings left Narnia, the land was plunged into a dark age, and the
Telmarines have ruled for hundreds of years with an iron fist. The days
of the many creatures, including talking beasts, living in harmony
together, have long since passed, and no one has seen or heard of Aslan
the Lion in centuries. And what's more, the trees are no longer friends
to the Narnians - they are just normal, everyday trees.

It doesn't take long before the children meet up with Caspain, who is
hiding out in the forest with a misfit band of followers, and soon the
young would be heroes join forces in a plot to reclaim Narnia for the
Narnians, and place Caspian, the rightful heir, on the throne.

The film moves along at a steady, exciting pace, with skillfully staged
action and suspense that will have audience members on the edge of
their seats, and while in general it stays very faithful to the source
material, there is quite a bit of added embellishment to make for a
grander and more spectacular epic, with added battle and chase
sequences that are deftly handled and add to the story and the level of
excitement, where in less skilled hands they could have easily
overtaken it. The level of action, and violence, is really quite a bit
stronger than in the first film, and the film has a darker, grittier
tone, which makes it something of a surprise that the filmmakers got
away with a PG rating for what is clearly a PG-13 film. 

As mentioned before, the actors really step up to the plate this time,
in particularly Keynes and Moseley as Peter and Edmund. But the most
delightful performances come from the great Peter Dinklage (known for
his brilliantly subtle turn in "The Station Agent," and perhaps best
remembered as the diminutive author of children's books in "Elf") and
Reepicheep, a bold and chivalrous mouse (voice of Eddie Izzard), who
really steals the show. The effects are absolutely top notch, and in
the final third the movie reaches such a fever pitch of excitement that
it recalls Peter Jackson's "The Two Towers," arguably the most exciting
installment of the "Lord of the Rings" trilogy.

So, in the end, "Prince Caspian" may not be the profound allegorical
tale that "The Lion, The Witch and The Wardrobe" was, or reach the same
level of magical wonder, but it more than succeeds at what it sets out
to do, and strongly indicates that there is a future in the Narnia
franchise.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie isn't half as charming or eloquently magical as the first,
but it engages nonetheless.

There's something about the young actors chosen to play the four major
roles- Peter, Edmund, Susan and Lucy. They badly make you wish you were
in their shoes. The film in itself is often reminiscent of LOTR, but
the major difference being in a childlike simplicity this one retains.

Aslan, despite not having much of a role, manages to be the most
striking character, and Lucy is as lovable as she was in the first
film.

The battle scenes are brilliant, as are the landscapes. The power
politics and senselessness of violence are dealt with a lot maturely in
this film as compared to the first installment. At some point you
realize you want at least a dozen more films revolving around these
four siblings, and to be able to access Narnia for ever.

The only thing that ruins this film is this strange invasion of
Hollywood-like romance as a very annoying little subplot, and the
sudden intrusion of a ridiculous song at a climactic point.

Apart from that, I am pretty sure any fantasy-hound would enjoy this
film a lot, and especially so if you're a big Lewis fan.

I know I am.
<|_=00=_|>
Since the Chronicles of Narnia are a series of widely read and revered
books I had to give my first rating of a 1 for this film. We went
opening night and I was very disappointed and my wife was in tears by
the end because of her disappointment. So much of Lewis' humor was lost
in favor of an action movie plot with running battles, some added that
aren't in the book while other important pieces from the book are left
out. It became just one long tedious battle. And a romance between
Caspian & Susan? We love those books so very, very much that it was
painful to watch. Our children ages 21, 18 & 15, who were raised on
Narnia, were not just disappointed but angry... My eldest daughter was
livid. Her close friend whom we had introduced to Narnia just two years
ago was very unhappy with what was left out of the film not to mention
all that was added. My wife and I felt it was as if the person who
wrote the screenplay hadn't read the books at all. Two revealing things
we noticed too were during the opening credits with Actors and
Directors and Producers names in huge type, it seemed to us that "From
a book by C.S. Lewis" was in much smaller type. Also, during the
previews of coming attractions, there was another fantasy movie
advertised and it had in large print, "From a writer of the Chronicles
of Narnia". They must have been referring to a screenwriter, but it was
very aggravating! There was only one author of the Chronicles of Narnia
and it was C.S. Lewis! Interestingly, they decided to cast all the
Telemarines as evil Spaniards. I found that fascinating and would like
to know the rationale behind that? In the books, the girls do not
participate as warriors, Aslan having said war is unpleasant and
decidedly so if girls participate. However, in the movie, Susan is a
major warrior and is seen leading Narnians and firing her arrows into
Telemarines all over the place. At the final climax and their departure
from Narnia, (she and Peter for the last time) she and Prince Caspian
first exchange longing glances, which you've been aware of all
throughout the film, and then they passionately kiss! I'm all for that
of course, but not in this movie about this book... to quote a little
boy who was sitting with his grandfather in front of us, "That was
yucky!"
<|_=00=_|>
I am a Narnia obsessed nerd, so of course I went to see it the night it
was released. I had very high expectations because the first movie was
so true to the book. However, with this film that wasn't the case. The
screen play was pretty much completely rewritten and included only
hints of the original story. I suppose Disney felt it necessary to add
in lame typical movie elements that attract mainstream moviegoers. For
example a sub-plot romance between Caspian and Susan and battles that
never existed. This movie not only failed to develop the characters and
events as well as the book, it changed the characters and situations
that it did develop.
<|_=00=_|>
Having just come back from a screening of Prince Caspian, I can
honestly say that I got the movie fresh in my mind...and it was
amazing! Not only was it better than the first in every way - the
story, the acting, the screenplay - but it managed to have more of an
edge without sinking into the pitfall that movies such as Pirates of
the Caribbean have slipped into.

Meaning that unlike the Pirates sequels (don't get me wrong, I love
Pirates, but this is something that bothered me a little), the makers
of Prince Caspian did not believe that to make it better and more
exciting, they had to gore and bloody it up. Instead, while it is
darker, the blood and gore is kept to a bare minimum considering this
is an action flick.

Anyway, that now aside, I highly recommend this! It's a great movie -
great action scenes, a tad bit of romance but not overly so, and a good
plot. Plus the young cast are even better in this film than they were
in the first, and Ben Barnes - well, it's right that he is the title
character,because he very nearly would have stolen the floor from
underneath the original kids if they were even the slightest bit less
perfect (William Moseley was the weakest of the five, as he was in the
last movie, but he still stepped it up quite a bit).

Granted, I've not read the books, so I don't know if this is as
dedicated to the book as many fans would like it to be. Then again,
most movies adapted from the books never are. However, if they can find
it in them to accept changes for theatrical purposes, I'm sure even the
most die-hard fans will admit it "wasn't bad."
<|_=00=_|>
I'm obligated to say that this review contains "spoilers," but I use
this term reservedly since I'm not sure this movie can really be
spoiled. At least, I'm not sure how you would be able to tell.

Einstein's famous equation E=mc^2, part of his theory of relativity,
explains how it is physically impossible for the opening chapters of
Lewis' "Prince Caspian" to be rushed through any more quickly than was
done by Adamson's abomination of the same name. It literally made me
dizzy. I'll just lay it out there and get it over with; Adamson follows
the storyline of the book very well. In the book, the Pevensies come to
Narnia, help Caspian gain his rightful throne, and then go home;
Andrewson has all three of these things happen in the movie. That's
about where the similarities end. In a pathetically feeble attempt to
keep fans of the book happy, Andrewson plugs in a few scenes or
references from the book that don't interfere with his plot. At first,
it's kind of interesting to see what kind of events he makes up to tie
in the other events he made up with the events from the book. We miss
this later in the movie, though, as he pretty much abandons the events
from the book until the end. All this happens because he really wants
the Pevensies to meet up with Caspian earlier; I have absolutely no
idea why this was so important to him. It doesn't really add anything
and it wreaks havoc with the storyline. In his determination to be as
faithful as possible to the spirit of the book, Adamson hacks out all
the events in Narnia that lead up to the blowing of the horn and almost
all of the Pevensie's journey to Aslan's How. Shockingly, cutting out
the first half of Lewis' story and replacing it with his own leaves the
scenes taken from Lewis' story, both those later in the movie and the
few scenes randomly inserted in the beginning, seeming somewhat
incongruous and forced. You can almost tell what scenes or dialogue are
from the book even if you haven't read it, simply by noticing the
discontinuity. Whenever, a character seems to be acting out of a
character or a scene seems to have little to do with the plot, it's
probably from the book.

I can't imagine what could make this Andrewson character (his real name
is Andrew Adamson, by the way) think he has the artistic credentials to
make such a massive revision to such a great work. It's not like he's
on the short list for a lifetime achievement award here. Does he
honestly think he can improve on Lewis? Does he realize that the whole
reason this movie is being made is because so many people love Lewis'
story? Does he think Lewis' plot isn't good enough? It's not like
Lewis' story lacked dramatic tension or action or character
development. Andrewson didn't supply what was lacking, he just changed
for no apparent reason, exhibiting monumental arrogance in the process.
I'm going to harp some more on this because it really baffles me, what
was gained by all these revisions? Did Andrewson just decide to use
Lewis' story as a platform for his own ideas because he has no respect
for a great author, or did he actually have the arrogance to think he
could somehow improve on or tell Lewis' story better than Lewis could?
I wish I could know what was going through his mind "hey, I just read
this book by a guy named Siyes Lewis, or something like that. Alright,
I really just skimmed it. The point is, it gave me some great ideas for
a movie" "Look, Lewis spends way too much time with the Pevensies once
they get to Narnia. This movie is not about the Pevensies. I'll have
them immediately find Cair Paravel, immediately recognize it as Cair
Paravel, immediately rescue the dwarf (whatever-his-name-is) and leave
Cair Paravel, and almost immediately get to Aslan's How. That way I can
spend more time with the central characters, the Telmarines, who Lewis
barely even thinks to mention during this time. Plus, I really need to
develop the Telmarines for the viewers since I cut out the whole
beginning of the book where Lewis did that." If Andrewson feels no
ethical constraint to respect the integrity of another artist's work,
you would think he would at least be bright enough to realize that the
easiest way to make a brilliant movie is to stick as closely as
possible to the brilliant book. That's what Peter Jackson did with
Tolkien's Lord of the Rings, and it worked out okay for him.
<|_=00=_|>
This is something you wouldn't want to miss. If you thoroughly enjoyed
the first film, then this one is a darker adventure than the first one.
Everything in Narnia goes totally out of control and tough to handle.

The film starts off with a Spanish group who have invaded Narnia and
wiped out all the creatures living there. As it goes, the Pevensie kids
are summoned to Narnia to fix up the wrong doings. A lot of conspiracy
is thrown into the movie, but it feels like a plot well presented. It's
pace is quick and starts right off not waiting to re-introduce
everything again.

The cast is absolutely fantastic. The Pevensie kids, just like the last
time, add the right amount of drama and humor to their respective
roles. Especially Georgie Henley who plays Lucy is the standout yet
again. But a worthy addition would also be Prince Caspian, played by
Ben Barnes. He acts like a courageous and brave Prince born to lead an
army. This is a good breakthrough for him. Also worth mentioning is
King Miraz, a great villain since Tilda Swinton. As for a few cameo
appearances you should also look out for, the performances are
remarkable.

The other outstanding details I loved to see yet again in the film were
the Cinematography, The Production Design, and Visual Effects. The
shots were lavish and grand. Specially the Long shots, reminded me of
The Lord Of The Rings. The Art Direction and the locations are
astounding, very vibrant and unlike anything you would have ever seen
in film. And of course the Visual Effects, those everlasting details
adds another level entirely. You will love watching all this come
together.

Even the action and battle sequences feel like a last stand to
something no one can win. Its against all odds. You would cringe just
because of the turn the film takes. It is filled with dark themes and
more mature elements which would be a little hard to take. You might
feel that the first one was pretty good. But give it another chance and
you would feel this movie is just as good as the first.

For what I feel, this is a really good movie. 9 out of 10. Go to
Narnia.
<|_=00=_|>
I caught this while on holidays but I won't give any extra details for
obvious reasons.

This will most likely go down as one of the most disappointing fantasty
films of all time. I think Lord of the Rings is going to always be the
best and hoped Narnia would at least come close but Prince Caspian has
really dropped the Chronicles of Narnia. The Lion, the Witch and the
Wardrobe was great but not groundbreaking. To be fair this movie was
based on what I think was one of the worst books in the series. It was
good but not as good as any of the others. Books can be expanded but
not in a way which makes it completely boring. The action is dull and
not interesting even though there's more of it but the visuals have
improved. I liked the kids in the first movie but now they are already
on my nerves especially the actor portraying Peter who came off as a
snobby, insufferable bully. I hope that when Harry Potter ends the
Chronicles of Narnia will be there to pick up all the fans but they
need to radically improve. At least Michael Apted is doing the next
one. Need IMPROVEMENT!
<|_=00=_|>
I was completely disappointed with the movie. I've read Prince Caspian
numerous times. The movie was terrible. It fundamentally changed many
of the important characters. Aslan, the key character of the book, was
emasculated. Peter, originally portrayed as true to Aslan throughout
the story came across as a spoiled teenager. The scene in which the
White Witch is nearly called back was terrible as well. In the book,
neither Caspian nor Peter were tempted to bring her back. The invented
romance between Caspian and Susan was awful as well. Don't waste the
money on the movie. Buy the book, or get the Focus on the Family Radio
Theatre version of Prince Caspian (and the rest of the Chronicles of
Narnia).
