
I was talked into seeing this, and I have to shout it out, because it
is a RIOT! I don't write many reviews, but when I love a film, I have
to. If I have any complaint on this one, it's the title. I expected
gross-out humor ("crude"). There isn't any, really. It's actually
extremely unpredictable, subtle and extremely smart humor.

It has a story arc that you begin to somewhat anticipate, but you don't
feel you're being patronized. Instead, you're left feeling that very
intelligent people put this thing together in hopes that everyone would
find something to love about it.

The cast is great, the animation is fun, and it's non-dizzying 3-D.

When I saw it, the entire audience clapped at the end, because we were
entertained throughout, and found the ending really satisfying.

What else? Sweet emotions crop up because we can all relate to the
family dynamics. Every family has the screw-up, the salt of the earth,
the rebel, and the stubborn one. And it has one of the funniest babies
ever put on film. A baby unlike any baby you'll ever see anywhere.

Very, very funny. Definitely recommend.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie at a sneak preview this afternoon. This was a very
enjoyable movie for our whole family. Me and my husband sat there and
laughed frequently, being completely enthralled with the story and
graphics. Meanwhile, my daughter and my 7 year-old grandson sat with
us, and they also were laughing throughout most of the movie. It has
something for people of all ages to enjoy. It was heartwarming, and at
times, it totally pulls on your heartstrings, too. The characters were
appealing, and the type you find yourself rooting for as time goes by,
and the animals that interact with the humans frequently stole the
show! I know that some critics will have issues with some of the
fantastic creatures that are seen, and they may take issue with the
extraordinary things that The Croods are able to do physically. I knew
going into this movie that this movie was a work of fiction, though,
and therefore I was able to suspend my expectations of reality, and go
on the ride that Dreamworks wanted to take me on. I thoroughly enjoyed
myself, and took this movie for what it was - a lighthearted comedy
about a family going through changes, and how they deal with those
changes. I would definitely recommend this as a great movie to see!!
<|_=00=_|>
In my life as a parent of a 10 and 12 year old, I have been to see a
lot of animated kids movies, some of them quite painful to sit through.
This one ranks at the top. The action, the humor, the characters, the
plot, all rolled up in to a big ball of fun. I was belly laughing with
my kids the whole way through it. And the message is lovely to boot.
Excellent casting...the chemistry between the characters stood out in a
way I never thought a cartoon could, no doubt due to the talent of the
actors and standout animation (not something that I'm usually all that
dazzled by.) It was the interaction, along with thoughtful humor of
what is important in life, that really put this over the top for me.
The complete implausibility of the plot didn't even mildly annoy me,
the way stories of this genre sometimes do. 

I could actually stand to watch this a second time. Well done
Hollywood, please put this level of thought in to more children's
movies.
<|_=00=_|>
I took my 3 yr old Grandson and he sat on the edge of his seat the
whole movie. We tried catching fire and flowers and once got hit in the
face by a bird. The 3d seems to be on a new level of excellence. I'm a
teacher and I totally now understand what scientists mean from cavemen
to hunterers/gatherers and I think it will help children see it too and
introduce them to tar pits, saber tooth tigers, earthquakes, and a lot
of science stuff. The story was great, the characters were realistic to
a family, and although sometimes the dad didn't get any respect, in the
end it was apparent his love for his family and theirs for him. I
highly recommend this to adults and children.
<|_=00=_|>
Take a child to see this beautifully made, thoughtful, animated
feature. I went by myself, but the theater was full of children, and
their laughter at the myriad slapstick humor added so much to the
experience. Which is better;staying safe or taking risks? This is the
premise of "The Croods" as the Crood family and Guy, a newcomer,
experience tectonic plate shifts and other violent geologic events
together. Interspersed with these big changes, though, are Eden-like
ecosystems where the colors are vibrant and inviting. Emma Stone,
Nicholas Cage, and Ryan Reynolds are perfectly cast. I will be buying
this movie when it comes to DVD.
<|_=00=_|>
The Croods, a name most bizarre to be given as a title of a movie, but
the content, just fantastic! I may even add to say that Dreamworks has
lived up to its expectations in delivering exceptionally amazing
animated movies and their latest release, The Croods is no exception.
The story begins by introducing us to a rather diverse family of a
couple, their three children and an old grandmother(who just wouldn't
die) and setting is a prehistoric age where they are supposedly the
only living humans. The movie then goes on to bring an extra character
just named "Guy" and his sidekick Belt(an animal) who goes on to
proclaim that the end of the world is near and their only hope for
survival was to aim for the mountains far ahead. A simple plot it seems
no doubt, but the way the movie was crafted was just fantastic and if
that wasn't enough, you might actually find yourself laughing a couple
of times no matter what age you might be of. There might be many movies
out there to be watched but "The Croods" is a film which is guaranteed
to be enjoyed. It might not be the best film out there, but it
certainly is a great one which has its own comedic and adventurous
moments, a movie for the whole family out there and to all those who
prefer watching it in 3-D, the effects are seriously good in this film
and your choice would be a valid one. All in all, no matter what age
you may be, "The Croods" might just bring back a smile or a few
memories of those old childhood fantasies where anything was possible.
<|_=00=_|>
From DreamWorks studios comes its latest animated adventure, the
prehistoric family comedy The Croods. It is a slapstick-heavy family
movie that should delight young children and keep parents entertained.

The Croods are the last remaining family in an arid desert landscape.
They have survived by following family patriarch Grug's (Nicolas Cage)
rules to the letter, including staying in the cave after dark and
fearing anything that seems new (new is BAAAD). Despite this, teenage
daughter Eep (Emma Stone) wants to break free and rebels against her
father, which results in a chance meeting with the highly inventive Guy
(Ryan Reynolds), who warns her that the end of the world is nigh. When
the Croods' cave is destroyed, the family is forced on a journey into a
strange new world where Grug's rules clash with Guy's techniques for
survival.

The Croods is a formulaic movie that sticks to a traditional hero's
journey and relies on typical archetypes, but it's elevated by the
writing and direction of Kirk DeMicco and How to Train Your Dragon's
Chris Sanders. Like Sanders' previous work, The Croods focuses on a
family's dynamic and relationships. This time, the focus is on a
protective father who wants to protect his family physically and
protect his daughter from a member of the opposite sex who suddenly
challenges his position as the alpha male. While the trailers and first
half of the movie made is seem Eep was the main character, it's
actually Grug who goes through the greatest change and learns the
biggest lessons.

The story is one about learning, exploring, and using one's
intelligence. It also touches on the idea that it's unhealthy to live a
sheltered life. But at times, the movie lays it on a bit too much with
Guy and his "solutions" leaving Grug on the losing end.

Most of the humour used in The Croods is very physical and slapstick
oriented. Characters have Loony Toons levels of invincibility as they
endure intense physical pain. This type of humour obviously appeals to
fairly young children, but I would be lying if I said I did not laugh
at the film at all. The Croods avoids using crude toilet humour to
generate cheap laughs. There is not much in the way of verbal humour,
but there are some running gags, and modernisms are kept to a minimum.
They are still there but they are more putting modern products in a
Stone Age setting, a little like The Flintstones, so they serve more as
pop-cultural winks to adults.

As expected from a DreamsWork movie the animation is fantastic. It's
quick and fluid, and the camera flows nicely as it follows the action.
The Croods themselves have a seemingly unpleasant, bulky design to them
but it actually works in the context of the film because the characters
live in the wild, so big and broad makes sense. It is a little
refreshing to see the main female character is not made out to be a
stunning beauty, but rather someone who has been shaped by her
environment. The beginning of the movie starts with in dry,
mono-coloured landscapes before we get to see the bright colours of the
jungle and continually seeing the weird creature reminiscence of
designs of Sanders' previous works.

Like other animated movies these days, The Croods has a big name voice
cast and they also do a decent, if standard job. No one disgraces
themselves. Cage is an unusual choice, but he gives a strong
performance. There is only one time when Cage is let off the handle;
Unfortunately, that is when we are experiencing the most modernism the
movie has to offer.

The Croods is not going to match the heights of DreamsWorks major hits
of Shrek, Kung Fu Panda, and How to Train Your Dragon. But it certainly
does not belong with the dregs the studio has to offer. It does what it
sets out to do: make a movie that will please children while attempting
to give a positive message and some heart. It has an old-fashioned
sense of humour that leads to a surprisingly enjoyable animated movie.

Please visit www.entertainmentfuse.com
<|_=00=_|>
I have never written a review on a movie before no matter how good or
bad. But this movie really deserves high praise! I had brought the kids
to see a few other animated movies before this like Wreck-it Ralph and
Rise of the Guardian, but they turned out to be somewhat boring and
unengaged. So I went into this not expecting much, it was more for the
kids. To my surprise, I LOVED IT! It's different, funny, smart, and
adventurous. I found myself giggling through most of the movies and at
other times astounded by the visual effects. I also see my kids and
other kids sitting at the edge of their seats at times. It is great for
all ages. The picture was stunning and saturated with imagination.
Dreamworks has outdone themselves with this one. I highly recommend
taking your family to see this!
<|_=00=_|>
I was of course hoping that Dreamworks would have a hit here after the
unfortunate demise of Rise of the Guardians (I actually enjoyed the
first ROTG book but couldn't get through the second book) which killed
that franchise. I saw The Croods on opening day at a matinée and I
loved it. I laughed, I cried (yes, just a bit) and I had so much fun
that I didn't want it to end (Dun Dun Daaaaa). I've been reading the
early message boards and prior mixed buzz so I was a little worried
here and it's unfortunate that folks are so quick to try and tear
something down based on a trailer or someone else's opinion. Go see it
for yourself and have fun! I give this 10 big stars and can't wait to
add it to my collection. My only regret is that I went to the first
showing rather than wait for the 3D screening. I'm a little jealous by
some of the great 3D comments. Even in 2D, the animators create a
wonderful world, make us feel good and really get us excited to get out
and have an adventure.
<|_=00=_|>
The Croods seems like it's gonna be just another Dreamworks Animated
film that has crazy little characters messing around with their antics
on a preposterous world. Well, these kinds of films are remarkably fun
and has impressive technical achievements but there's nothing else to
merit in the end. The Crood is almost one of those simple crazy films
if not because of the philosophy that was displayed on the premise.
Basically, it's about a zany version of the prehistoric times and a
survival on the continental drift. The conflict of this plot is the
titular family's choices if they would choose to follow their
overprotective father or a stranger who makes daring ideas to survive
from the natural condition. Disappointingly, the conclusion goes to the
easy way. It doesn't go beyond the comfort zone, but the visuals
transcend. The animation is getting better and better. It's totally fun
but there are things that could have been more complex.

Everything is ought to be silly and hilarious. The beginning gives a
set of ridiculous sequences to easily get to know about these
characters. When it finally proceeds to the actual plot, it tells
something sophisticated. It's an opposition between safety and getting
away from your comfort zone. It ends up being obvious when it is
suppose to be complex. But that is what the film wants, be simple and
delightful all the way. The film doesn't necessarily need to be deep or
emotional, but there is something clever to its concept that could have
been smarter.

The best thing about the film is the characters. The performances
simply brought them to life. Emma Stone perfectly gives her role a
fitting personality. It sounds perfect for Nicolas Cage to play a
caveman. He yells at a monkey in one scene which is a usual pleasure
from him, but there is more to the Grug character than just yelling.
While Cage is having fun, he brings a strong emotional depth to the
rest of his scenes. The characters of Clark Duke and Cloris Leachman
provide most of the laughs and they effectively show off its joy.

The visual effects are even more spectacular than the rest of the
studio's films. Just like their recent films, it's snappy and
energetic. The film's world looks amazingly eye candy and imaginative.
The prehistoric characters and animals are wonderfully designed. The
animal designs are meant to be ironic, like some of them got their food
chain reversed eventually or their hybrid will some day become their
fear. It's a slick joke. And for the 3D, you know it's great as long as
it's from Dreamworks Animation.

It leaves a great amount of heart and fun, but its enlightenment theme
results as being underwhelming and somewhat contrived. It would have
made this more than just a typical Dreamworks film, but it doesn't
matter because the movie is definitely suppose to be delightful for the
entire family. It still takes some clever points. It's also great to
see a load of spectacular animation. It is indeed truly enjoyable and
full of life. The Croods is far from classic but this is kind of film
that would enjoy anytime.
