
Saw this last evening at a preview screening here in Arizona and it was
a LOT heavier than the trailer leads you to believe, which, I for one,
was grateful for! Granted, this is only MY opinion, but I think that
Halle does some of her best work in a long time here and for me, ranks
up there with Monster's Ball and Losing Isaiah. Of course, Benecio is a
great pleasure to watch as always, playing the demonized friend of
David Duchovny, but I think Halle rises just a notch up everything here
and truly shines! The supporting cast is also really enjoyable to
watch, especially John Carroll Lynch playing a next door neighbor who
finds an unlikely friend in Benecio's character. Great camera work and
great direction all the way around and although the film is a bit long,
I am glad the director had the wisdom not to rush through the story.
Great film and I cannot wait to purchase it on DVD!
<|_=00=_|>
Went to a preview of this movie last night. I was blown away by the
powerful performances of Benicio Del Torro and Halle Berry. Del Torro's
performance was particularly moving - his best ever and Halle Berry
definitely delivers. This is the story of a woman who appears to have
been so invested in her husband as the center of her universe that when
she tragically loses him, she turns to his best friend (who she has
hated for years) to keep from losing her connection to her husband. In
the course of events, she discovers the redeeming qualities her husband
had always seen in him.

Del Torro gives a poignant performance of a drug addict who struggles
to change his life after the loss of his best friend - with quiet
dignity. A must see at least once. Although the movie is long, I can't
imagine cutting one moment of this powerful story. Cinematically it's
superb.

Everyone who knows anyone who has struggled with addiction will be
gripped by the performance of Del Torro.
<|_=00=_|>
While the movie itself was very even-paced throughout, it allowed time
to process the emotions that were being conveyed so the slower-pace
worked. This movie- everything from storyline to characters- was
amazing and thought provoking. I'd recommend it for anyone who wants to
see a movie full of heart, brilliant acting, and a unique storyline.
The wonderful acting didn't stop with Halle and Benecio either- the
supporting characters including the children were fantastic! There was
simply so much heart and likability in those roles. It is the type of
movie that remains your head even after you leave the theater which for
me, doesn't happen often.
<|_=00=_|>
Phenomenal acting and a riveting story make Things We Lost in the Fire
a must-see film, and an early Academy Award contender for an acting nod
to Benicio Del Toro. While the film is deceptively simple, with few
sets, fewer characters, and a non-sequential storyline, it is a
powerful acting showcase for its impressive cast.

Audrey Burke (Halle Berry) has lost her husband Steven (David Duchovny)
in a senseless murder. A few days later, the fast approaching funeral
reminds her that she forgot to invite her husband's best friend Jerry
Sunborne (Benicio Del Toro), a recovering heroin addict. Audrey is
distraught and unable to cope with her loss, and despite her constant
disapproval of Jerry and his horrific lifestyle, she invites him to
stay in her home, partially to fill up some of the emptiness in her
life, and partially because of his pathetic situation. When Jerry
begins to fill the shoes of Steven, especially in the eyes of her two
young children, Audrey must come to terms with her losses and what
Jerry's influential presence may mean to her family.

Halle Berry's character is unable to cope with the loss of her husband,
and a major theme that runs throughout the film is how detrimental
death can be to family life and friends. She mourns for two hours, and
while her contempt for Jerry (and then her slowly increasing
appreciation for his presence) makes her a relatively dislikable
character initially, her actions are not unbelievable. Berry's
performance is powerful and emotional, and while audiences will be
divided on whether she deserves sympathy or contempt, it will be
unanimous that her acting is Oscar worthy.

Del Toro likewise inspires with his heartfelt and deeply moving Jerry,
who doesn't want sympathetic attention, but whose actions demand it.
Perhaps given up on by life, he too has given up on beating his
addiction, despite his attendance at NA meetings and his once-a-year
birthday meeting with Steven, his one and only true friend. It is left
open as to how the two met and why they are so close considering their
extremely different lives, but their connection and acceptance of each
other's positions is perfectly understandable. When he becomes more
than just a house guest, unexpected kindness and attention come from
the children as well as the slowly softening Audrey. Easily one of the
finest performances of the year, Del Toro embodies his drug-riddled and
burnt out character with such authenticity and passion that it is also
Del Toro's finest performance of his career.

Two factors remain mildly unsettling during the course of Things We
Lost in the Fire. Firstly, the camera frequently lingers on extreme
close-ups of characters' eyes. Never are both eyes framed, but only one
and off-centered to boot, which is not only unusual, but also doesn't
convey as much emotion as a larger portion of the face could. Perhaps
it is an attempt to be innovative, but it serves no purpose other than
to cause the audience to take note of its atypicalness. Secondly, the
film jumps back and forth in time. Quite unnecessary for a storyline
such as this, which could have utilized flashbacks for Steven instead,
this shifting timeframe is not nearly as disorienting as it is
unamusing.

A slow moving film that steadily builds as each character is fully
fleshed out, Things We Lost in the Fire is a great character study that
thrives on exceptionally spectacular performances. Each individual part
is outstanding, but in its entirety it doesn't cross boundaries of
overall superiority. Definitely worth watching for all of its
sensational performances, look for Things We Lost in the Fire during
this year's Academy Awards.

- Mike Massie (MoviePulse.net)
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. Very good melodrama from
Scandanavian director Susanne Bier. The film is intentionally slow
moving ... just like real life tragedy. Although we could have been
beaten over the head with the cute as heck kids, the story is actually
more focused on the heroin addicted best friend played by Benecio del
Toro. This makes the point that strength can come from many sources.

Halle Berry gives her best performance since "Monster's Ball" (yes even
better than "Catwoman"). We feel her happiness, pain, desperation and
hope. The cute kids are played by an amazing 11 yr old Alexis Llewellyn
and Micah Berry (not her real life son). Also strong is Alison Lohman,
who just doesn't work enough these days. However the strongest
performance is by Benecio. I am not sure if the role was written for
him or if he just perfectly captures best friend Jerry. It is most
complicated role and requires enormous depth.

I definitely recommend the film thanks to its basis in reality and fine
performances and terrific direction. However, I will qualify it by
saying that I don't believe it is quite in the class of "21 Grams"
<|_=00=_|>
This movie played out on screen like a book. It was so amazing to
watch. I really loved how there was no music playing for like the first
15 minutes of the movie. This was one powerful film which is sure to
get some Oscar nominations. Go see this film, it's a shame they didn't
promote it better!

I was so impressed with Bencio Del Torro he gave one of the best male
performances that I have seen in a movie in a while. He was so
believable as a recovering heroine addict. Halle Berry was sensational
as a wife who is now learning to cope with the loss of her husband.
This movie has a really nice weave affect to it. It jumps back and
forth from beginning to end, but in non-intrusive way. I would highly
recommend this film to anyone who loves movies. It is now on the top of
my must see movie list!
<|_=00=_|>
I think a lot of people are skipping "Things We Lost In The Fire"
because they think it is going to be depressing. While the film is
definitely sad, it is not depressing because it is about coping and
surviving in the face of tragedy. It is one of the best films of the
year.

Halle Berry and Benicio Del Toro give amazing performances and it is
unfortunate that there are not more films that take advantage of their
talents. I bet Halle Berry would not make so many bad films if she were
given more scripts like this. The photography and directing are first
rate. 

If you have enough interest in this movie to be reading this review,
you need to run out and see "Things We Lost In The Fire." This is a
film about the things that matter most in life. It will lose much of
it's impact on video, so you need to see it on the big screen while you
can.
<|_=00=_|>
The Good: The writing and acting are top notch. The Bad: The hand held
camera pans and scans and really, REALLY, close, close-ups are a little
dis-concerting.

But Benicio DelToro is right on with his performance! Best acting I've
seen in a while.

Saw the movie at a preview in Cleveland. The Theatre was packed, and
the reaction from most people was that it was too heavy, too
depressing. But it is exactly that quality that makes it ring true. The
interplay between the neighbor that hates his wife and Benicio's
character are perfect. A smaller role is played by Alison Lohman (
Matchstick Men ) was also very well acted.

A steadier camera without the wild pans and I would give it a 9 or 10.
<|_=00=_|>
Rather than offering the usual trite "Make Sure You Don't Miss This
Film" I will simply say, "Don't Bother Watching Anything Else In 2008"

Having worked as a drug councilor back in the early 70s I can assure
you that this stunning film doesn't just get it right when it comes to
the horrors of heroin addiction it provides powerful hints as to the
best way for an addict to make good his escape! Anyone working in the
field would do well to buy the movie and watch it over and over and
over. NA might also put it to good use within its groups.

But this flick is much, much more than a primer on drug addiction. It
is simply one of the most moving and motivating flicks I've ever seen
on the potential for creative change achievable through the decidedly
Low Tech technique of people realizing that in the end the Bell Tolls
Today for us all. Better yet it illustrates beautifully and with great
emotional impacting the almost unbelievable potential inherent in the
process of one and all

working towards something a bit larger than making selfish self come
true.

My hat is off to everyone involved in this stunning piece of work!
Brilliant script, brilliant directing, brilliant acting and some of the
most innovative and creative camera work that I've every had the joy of
experiencing!
<|_=00=_|>
Things We Lost in the Fire shows the effects on family and unity after
the death of a loved one. I can relate to this story knowing how much
it hurts you missing that particular person everyday. The story of this
film is pretty even well paced, yet a bit dragged in the beginning.
Benicio Del Toro gives a very invigorating performance, possible one of
his bests. Halle Berry really surprised me in this film. She really
shows the stages of grief and acceptance very well and at one scene I
thought Oscar worthy again. The supporting cast, specifically the
children and the next door neighbor, were astounding. Good script, a
little bit over with the tight close ups, but TWLITF makes you think
about the loved ones close to you and how you should tell them
everyday, "I love you and for that I will accept the good."
