
Saw II follows on the heels of Saw, as another taught, tense thriller.
The mark of a great thriller/shocker/horror movie is the number of
twists and turns, and this is what identifies Saw II as one of the
better members of its genre.

This is NOT a movie where people walk backwards into dark rooms. This
is NOT a movie where people pull sheets off bodies. That's all too
predictable for Saw II. In fact, there's virtually nowhere in this
film, where you can say that you've got it figured out.

Few movies keep me on the edge of my seat. This was one of them. There
was no one dozing off during this flick. And the number of folks who
walked out to take/make cell phone calls was the lowest I've ever seen.

Like Saw, this sequel is more than a little bloody in some places, but
that's to be understood. It was never promoted as a walk in the park.
If you're in the mood for a thriller that will keep you on the edge of
your seat, this is worth a try.

And this movie left more than a few folks in the audience waiting for
another sequel.
<|_=00=_|>
The first Saw really through me through some spins and caught me off
guard for originality, Saw 2 is leagues above the first. Saw 2 runs
with the same game based theme as the first, with clues for both the
characters and the audience about what might happen next, but it takes
the game to a completely different level. Just when things start to
come together there is another twist to leave the viewer on the edge of
their seat for what may come next. Without seeming to give everything
away the movie was made to give it all away, but no one can catch all
the clues because they have been pulled so deep into the movie. I
highly recommend this one.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie has just mad a quantum leap in horror films. after watching
this movie i had the chills walking to my car, and lets say that i more
than enjoy a scary movie. this movie kept me up for at least and hour
after watching it. it was one of those movies were you cant let it out
of your mind. 

The movie had one of the best openings that i have seen in a long time.
after a few minutes into the movie i had to put down my popcorn. i
don't have a weak stomach and this movie got me to put down my popcorn,
that is huge. 

With a great blend of suspense, acting, and oh yes there was a lot of
blood. this movie great deserves another watch, i would pay to see this
movie a couple of times. not to mention one of the best twists i have
seen in a movie. i would say 2nd best ending i have seen in a movie.(#1
was Fight Club). you definitely have to see this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, if you've already seen the first one, you will be absolutely
disappointed. it in no way lives up to the first one at all. first of
all, saw was great because it was two kids on a low budget writing a
script. they had to make up for the lack of money with the plot and
script. secondly, the plot was really good and thick and everyone was
connected in some odd way. the ending had so many twists, it was just
brilliant. OK, now for saw 2. they had more money, so they definitely
used it. instead of the people being in one room, it was one huge
house. having more money took away from the effect, and most definitely
the script, the plot and the acting. the plot had an unbelievable
amount of holes in it. the people were connected by one stupid little
line and the ending was absolutely ridiculous. one of the characters is
just a complete idiot and decides to just get mad about everything. so,
when he finds out there are numbers on the back of people's necks,
instead of just kindly asking them to turn around, he kills them!
finally, someone points out that he has a number on the back of his
head that he's going to need, so he can't kill everyone. first of all,
he tries seeing it with his little knife, then he decides to just cut
it off, as any logical person would do. then, the murderer, john some
how came up with a lot of money between dr gordon and now. before hand,
his technique was simple. the tools he used to murder people could be
found at a yardsale. in this one, somehow he got surgical equipment,
the brains to do surgery and about five places with 20 computers. at
some point in time, the writers seemed to have decided that it didn't
matter that he had cancer, he can still do all this stuff. however,
when you see him, he's in pretty bad shape. OK, now for the ending.
remember the changed druggy, amanda? well, apparently, after she was
almost killed, she decided the entire idea was a good one. so, she
comes to john as an apprentice and decides to take his place as jigsaw.
john becomes her yoda and teaches her the way of murder. at the end of
saw 1, john had the memorable line of "GAME OVER". it was so great
because of his voice, his appearance, everything. at the end of saw 2,
amanda comes in, looking like she just went shopping and got her hair
done and put on make up, and in a very little girl voice says "game
over". absolutely horrible.
<|_=00=_|>
I have the same main problem I had with Saw II that I had with the
original (Shockingly enough, not the gaping plot holes). At the core,
both movies are about the same thing: Elaborate puzzles that stupid
people ignore so they can spend more time yelling at each other.

I really wanted to like Saw II, but I felt like I was being teased. I
catch a whiff of interesting puzzle-solving, instead I have a lot of
yelling.

It's a personal preference, I know. The movie I wanted to see was about
people adapting to their situation and using their brains against that
of an evil genius. Instead, I got the evil genius (Tobin Bell is great
as Jigsaw, by the way, one of the parts of the film I really enjoyed)
going to a lot of work for some people who, frankly, don't seem to
appreciate it. The creators seemed to want to make a film about how
people's lives are dictated by their unavoidable flaws (driven home by
the ending, the last few twists, and the general character of the cop,
all of which are the reason my rating is as high as it is), and how
panic destroys people.

And the horror... isn't. I don't find blood scary. There are some
*shocking* moments in this film, some cringe-inducing moments, but
nothing actually scary. That really disappointed me, because Adam's
capture in Saw I was one of the scarier scenes I've seen in a movie in
a long time. There's nothing for people who actually want to be scared
here, just grossed out.
<|_=00=_|>
The tag line says it all: Oh yes, there will be blood!

I've had the chance/honor of seeing the sequel of a very anticipated
movie this year at the world's premiere at the Montreal's Midnight
Madness and I haven't been disappointed one bit. Off course, there was
some magic that night, considering the fact that there were hundreds of
horror fans expecting a gory sequel to the Saw installment and they got
served! Without stating any spoilers, let me confirm that the movie is
packed with bloody action and gore at its best. Those who liked the
Jigsaw's strategy of allowing him the chance of survival to its victims
by giving them a puzzle to solve, this time it goes even further. From
the start until the end, you'll be given puzzling situation in which
you wouldn't like to be part of at any time in your life. Near the end
of the movie, the twisted game gets even more spicy...

I wasn't used to hear people applauding at the theater and it created
some kind of psycho ambiance in the room that I kinda really enjoyed.
The sadistic approach of the Jigsaw killer is still pretty impressive!
Without telling you more, go watch it with some friends that will be
able to tolerate blood in gallons and you'll be served! I give it a
9/10 for its originality, gory moments, interesting story and punch of
action. It is rare to see a sequel that beats its predecessor but in
this case, it does!
<|_=00=_|>
I anxiously waited for this film to be released---eagerly anticipating
every frame, and I was not disappointed when I "saw" the first
screening this afternoon. From the opening scene thru the end? I found
myself being transported into the big screen, taken for one of the
wildest rides I have ever experienced, and deposited back into my seat
knowing I had not wasted my money (nor the afternoon, for the matter).
I was kept guessing until the end, and I was not let down with a
"cliched and wrap it up" ending...I left wanting more. (Having seen
CUBE...I don't see the "ripoff"...I see a very well thought out
original script with a deeper story). The acting was very impressive
and very believable. A special shout out to the team who came up with
the set design and atmospheric lighting. I was moved and mentally
manipulated by this film, and when I stepped out of the theater into
the lobby and real life I had to take a minute to let my mind unwind
before I went out the theater door.
<|_=00=_|>
Why is it that so many critics, movie-goers and film patrons see such
bold and unique forms of film as nothing but bloody and un-needed
garbage? Isn't it about time to enter the age of the modern horror
film, and to realize that audiences these days have already seen it all
when it comes to the horror movie, so one-of-a-kind ideas such as the
SAW series should be seen as a much needed godsend to the film
industry. They say that this is what is takes to scare people these
days: untrue. Take the original Texas Chainsaw Massacre for instance,
upon close examination, one can notice that it is essentially a
bloodless film. So what is it about such movies that scare us? Well,
it's the idea, the cinematography, and the boldness to plant such a
terrifying seed into the world of movies. It isn't a man sawing his
foot off or a man being set on fire that scares audiences, it's the
fact that it has NEVER...EVER been done before on the big screen that
engulfs the audience into a trance-like cloak of fear over a movie. The
people who conjure these ideas for movies are not on the mindset to
create something for the SOLE PURPOSE of making someone cringe and
fray, they want to be their own level, nay, rank of movies for others
to, essentially, build off of. Are SAW and SAW II the last of their
kind? By no means, if anything they are merely predecessors of the film
noir that is going to eventually rise into the R-rated spectrum.
Forgive me for not stressing on the movie's actual content, but I feel
it is the very ideas behind SAW that make us have to see it for
ourselves. And I highly recommend those of you skeptical about it to do
so. Will you be frightened? Yes. Will you see things never before
shined onto the screen? Yes. And will you leave the darkness of the
theater in a sense that you have witnessed movie history unfold before
your eyes? YES.
<|_=00=_|>
So I just watched Saw 2 not long ago, and basically, it's not worth the
money I put down on the DVD. Not that I care cause I had that cash
sitting in my wallet for quite some time and needed something
meaningless to spend it on, but I think that money could have gone
towards something more suitable (like gas money).

Basically, the entire movie is nothing, but twists with the intention
of making the audience "think" when the twist ending happens. So people
will go back and look at the entire movie and what lead to the ending
(much like the first). The only difference is, this one completely
sucked, whereas the first was at least watchable. Not that the first
one was worth anything more than one viewing ever, but at least it did
achieve the whole "twist" ending and was an enjoyable one at that.

So what is the major problem with Saw 2? It's so wrapped up in itself
with trying to have twists or shocks, that it's all complete nonsense.
Also, the script is really bad, especially for the character of
John/Jigsaw/old guy with cancer. Basically, all of his lines are
metaphors that are completely irrelevant to the situation at hand to
make him seem "wise." His background story for why he does what he does
is such crap. He survived suicide so he decided to dedicate the rest of
his life to putting people into situations where there is a sure chance
of death, but HERE'S THE CATCH! He doesn't actually kill people! OH MY
GOD! This movie is genius! pure cinematic genius! Give me a break.

Also, the movie has quite terrible acting. The first had some really
bad acting, but compared to this one, the first Saw has Oscar worthy
performances. The dialogue was bad enough, but bad actors playing
clichéd characters makes not only for a mess of a film, but makes it
very boring.

The directing is nothing spectacular either. It's the same typical MTV
music video, quick cutting, fancy filter crap that you see in a lot of
mainstream American horror movies these days.

Then there are all those twists. What is the point? I really wasn't
shocked by any of it, and in fact, I was thinking to myself, "Isn't it
obvious?" the whole movie. The ending, I will admit, surprised me. Not
to say that's a good thing. Because unlike the first one that had me
wondering about the whole movie, the ending in this one had me asking
questions and compromising the integrity of the plot. Questions like,
"How come it wasn't reported sooner that eight people were missing? How
could a cancer patient and a girl achieve all that work? Where are they
disposing the bodies? Why are the bodies from Saw 1 still lying around?
Why did I actually spend money on this? Why does this movie remind me
so much of Cube?" Questions such as that.

Speaking of Cube, this movie borrows HEAVILY from it. Cube (though that
had its holes as well) was at least much smarter and more clever as far
as its plot. Cube and Saw 2 are a lot alike because it's basically the
same situation, only Saw 2 isn't sci-fi, with a bigger budget, and
isn't good. People are trapped where they must solve puzzles to get
past death traps in a certain amount of time before it's too late. Saw
2 and Cube do share one common bond though. They completely fall apart
near the end.

Yeah, there's really not much good to say about Saw 2. Even the DVD
packaging is terrible. I felt like I was watching another no named
direct to video horror movie made solely for Blockbuster rental, but
the difference is those movies have never seen the same promotion that
this got. How this movie has a high rating on IMDb is beyond me. I love
horror movies (and have seen some really bad ones in my time) and this
one is not much better than some of those. This movie is not worth the
time. Rent the first one, watch it once, leave the Saw franchise alone
from that moment on.
<|_=00=_|>
Let's start by saying what this movie did have, that will take a lot
less time. Gore check. Creepy puppet and various devices used to
permanently dismantle people's craniums check. Pasty cancer victim
forcing the "unworthy" to develop some want to survive check. Alright,
now that that's done I can move on to other, more pressing issues.

I know that everybody, myself included, simply adored the twist ending
to the first Saw. Finally learning that the "dead" guy who'd been lying
in a pool of his own blood for the entire movie wasn't really dead and
was in fact an ingenious, if not twisted as hell, cancer victim
striving to show people the value of their meaningless lives was a
treasured moment in horror movie history. I can't say much about its
staying power in the minds of the general public I will always remember
watching that body rise from the floor of that bathroom.

Of course the producers couldn't just reenact the twist from the first
one, they had to take it a step farther, keep people guessing. So how
do you top a twist as well developed and well executed as the one in
Saw? If you take a hint from Saw II I guess the answer is to make the
ending so ridiculously contrived that nobody would ever dream of
guessing it for fear of feeling stupid even in their own mind. Though
I'm sure the girl who played Amanda was thrilled to get her second
major acting gig reviving the heroine-addict she so briefly portrayed
in the first Saw, I didn't appreciate her reappearance quite so much.
It was completely pointless to bring her back; she was useless in the
first movie and even more useless in this one. When you get right down
to it they used her presence as out: this way they could kill off our
friend the cancer victim and still keep the series going. At least we
can sleep easy knowing "Amanda" won't soon be out of work.

Unfortunately, the real sin in the writing here is that they simply
took it too far. All they had to do was leave it with the SWAT team
figuring out that the whole thing was staged and that the kid was
really in a "safe" place. That would have been more than enough for me.
Also, I could have done without Beverley Mitchell crying constantly,
but they couldn't have cast the part better. A decade of complaining on
7th Heaven made her the perfect choice for the part.

The one redeemable quality of this film is the thing that made the
first one: a truly original and inventive antagonist. This guy ranks up
there with Hannibal and John Doe of Seven on my list of awesome
villains. This is where the writers showed their true prowess. They
managed to do what is rare these days: they created a powerfully
psychopathic serial killer that had a defendable philosophy. "Those who
don't value life don't deserve life." It sounds cruel, but there is
some part in all of us that has to agree with the sentiment if not the
deeds carried out in its name. It bothers me that he claims never to
have killed anyone because it seems to me that putting people into a
situation where they will almost certainly perish and offering them
only a slim chance for survival is grounds for a murder charge. I know
what he means, but that one statement is the only stupid thing that he
says and he continues to say it despite the glaring error in it. That
fact aside, this guy continues to impress me. He outsmarts everybody.
The beauty in his strategy is that he tells everybody exactly what they
need to know in order to walk out of their given situation entirely
intact. He just banks on the fact that people never change and they,
when put under immense stress, default to their baser instincts instead
of taking a second to think the situation out rationally. The sad truth
about humankind is that he will never be disappointed.

Overall I enjoyed the movie, but I had pretty low expectations to begin
with. I expected exactly what I got: a solid villain and an hour and a
half of gratuitous violence and blood. If you're looking for a great
piece of cinematography you're going to be sorely upset with what you
see; you'll probably be a little motion-sick by the end too. Bring your
sense of humor and check your upchuck reflex at the door, especially if
you are sensitive about the use of scalpels on eyeballs.
