
A successful talk show host leaves Los Angeles to reunite with his
family in the Deep South.

By the end of this movie's trailer, you would've thought "Oh, not
again." No, that's what you were thinking. Don't deny it. Even I did
too. But the trailer is very misleading and I found myself liking this
movie more than I was going to. A lot more.

What I loved about this movie were the characters and moral. And yes, I
loved those things. Each of the characters are unique and have their
own memorable moments. Also, this movie had some pretty decent jokes,
much better than many other comedies released this time who use clichéd
and predictable jokes.

What I also admired about this movie was the family matter and moral
this movie was trying to give out. I found it oddly touching and very
sweet. Unfortunately, the other jokes this movie seem to have were also
predictable, gross, unfunny, and crude. Some scenes in the movie just
ruin the sweets scenes before it because it felt like the filmmakers
just want to make people laugh.

Like I said, the characters were memorable. The most notable were James
Earl Jones, Nicole Ari Parker, and Mo'Nique. Mo'Nique, I must say, is
the funniest character in here, in my opinion. She throws each joke at
you and you can't have enough!

Yes, the trailers for this movie were misleading so the movie was
actually quite decent. The jokes were actually funny, the characters
memorable, and the moral is very touching for anyone who has a family.
Sure, it had its bad moments but this is better than most comedies
released this year.
<|_=00=_|>
Last year when I saw the trailer for Welcome Home, Roscoe Jenkins, I
wasn't expecting much, I'm not a fan by any means with Martin Lawrence.
When I looked at the rating here on IMDb at the time of it's theatrical
release, it was low, I wasn't sure if that's because people just had
low expectations or if it really was that bad of a movie. So I decided
to wait for the rental. Well I watched it the other day and honestly
Welcome Home, Roscoe Jenkins is not as bad as I was expecting, I
laughed more than a few times. I think the problem with it is that we
have all seen this film before. The script is also semi-insulting with
the stereotypes, so I can understand why a lot of people hate this
movie, but I think everyone just needs to let go with this film while
watching it. The story is typical but you have to admit there are some
good laughs in it.

Roscoe Jenkins is a very successful man, he's a host of a new talk show
and author of a self help book, everyone loves him pretty much,
including his Survivor wanna be star fiancée, Bianca. But when his son
wants to go to his family's big BBQ reunion down in Atlanta, Roscoe
decides that it's time for them to meet his new fiancée and life. But
what Bianca is not expecting is his crazy family that will just drive
them crazy. But Roscoe sees an old crush with his "brother like" enemy,
Clyde, flames spark up again, questioning what Roscoe's true roots are.

While Welcome Home, Roscoe Jenkins is typical, has some interesting
cast members, and can be a bit insulting, I still feel like this movie
really didn't mean to hurt anyone, just to have fun and deliver a few
laughs. Like I said, just this movie has been done before so many times
with the crazy family and you can predict what will happen at the end,
but still, I enjoyed this movie and thought it was fun at best. Just
the only thing I didn't get was how the whole family picked on him
about his success, I mean, I'd get into his good graces to share some
that fun money he must be rolling around in, lol. But I would recommend
this movie, just you have to be open to it and just have fun, I
guarantee you'll get a few good laughs.

5/10
<|_=00=_|>
Successful Talk Show Host RJ (Lawrence) is besieged to come back home
for his parents' 50th Wedding Anniversary.

I was skeptical, I was wary, I wasn't sure, but this time the promos
didn't let me down. This was good. Since the basic theme was a grand
family reunion, you know the usual obligatory things will be performed,
a softball game, (with other families it may be a touch football game),
an obstacle course (okay, this is a new one that I've witnessed, but
there you are) and other family things, etc. Nothing new here. But,
what keeps this movie fresh is the quick and lively dialogue from all
the cast. It didn't feel scripted. It was like eavesdropping on the
goings on and the timing, by all, was excellent. And, you know you need
good timing when slap-stick comedy is performed. Also, the music
throughout was perfect.

This was without a doubt a cast of characters, and not your usual every
day family members and each character member had his or her own shtick
and this helped make this a fun movie. 

Joy Bryant who played Bianca must have gone to the Molly Sims School of
Acting because I kept seeing and hearing Ms. Sims whenever Ms Bryant
was on screen. Hey, this is a good thing, not a criticism. She was
good. Nicole Ari Parker who played Lucinda is absolutely beautiful. I
am sure we will see more of these two women in future movies. 

It is indeed rare that promos deliver when it comes to comedy, but this
time they did. How about that!

Violence: Yes, family fighting stuff, Sex: Yes, Dog Sex: Yes, two go at
it. Nudity: No, Language: Yes, some, not much
<|_=00=_|>
Come on people, I think you were expecting too much. It was a comedy
and I thought it was very funny. How were the "stereotypes"
semi-insulting? I believe half of us have a relationship with someone
in our family pretty close to what Roscoe had with his father, and his
siblings. We live with it and accept it. Or if we can't accept it, we
tell the person, (finally!) how we feel and sometimes we learn because
of not communicating that we both looked at things very differently.
("I didn't know you felt that way!)Black people deal with things,
especially family issues, with humor. Ease up, not Oscar material, but
very funny.
<|_=00=_|>
I read a lot of other comments and just wanted to offer a different
perspective. Many of us have family members that are almost as
embarrassing as some of those depicted in the film. While I too agree
that the character "Roscoe Jenkins" was justified in his position to
leave home so that he could arise above the negativity in his family
environment, I also feel that the movie showed his final obligation to
accept family as they are.

No matter how successful we are in our careers nothing can compare to
being successful in our family relationships. In the end Roscoe and his
dad realized the value of having each other and they respected each
other's position for the first time.

Let's face it. When we all checkout of this life it's only family that
matters. People don't normally wish for more money or fame on their
dying bed. However they may regret that they didn't make the extra
effort to accept family just as they are (whether you agree with them
or not).

Just like the comedians that make us laugh when they share their pain,
so do many laugh at movies like this because they see their own family
represented to some extent. In real-life it's hard to laugh at. On film
it is amazingly ridiculously funny. Just another perspective....
<|_=00=_|>
African American family values movies have matured into a distinct and
popular genre and, Martin Lawrence traverses familiar territory with
this awkwardly-titled movie.

He plays RJ Stevens, a big city motivational guru who has taken the
concept of "self-help" too far, leaving him somewhat estranged from his
family in the Deep South.

In an inelegant plot device, his parents' 50th anniversary serves as an
exploitable marketing opportunity sufficiently enticing to lure him
back to his hometown.

From there, things unfold fairly formulaicly to RJ's rekindling of his
true identity, Roscoe Steven Jenkins.

Although Lawrence is the lead around whom the story revolves, it does
feel slightly like an ensemble piece. But fortunately the cast is
competent and believable, even those fulfilling comic relief roles.

So as an illustration of good ol' hometown values like "always be true
to yourself", "the importance of family", and the "power of
forgiveness", it's a good choice for family night viewing, if you can
find a way around Mo'Nique's apparent inability to avoid the B-word.
<|_=00=_|>
This MOVIE was funny beginning to end. It also told a story about life!
If you went to see this movie expecting a big story line.... a big
climatic ending.... a moving personal event then you would be let down.
If you went to enjoy a funny movie with a good purpose you probably
enjoyed it. The theater we were in were laughing hysterically
throughout the movie; so much so it was sometimes hard to hear the
follow up lines. ****THIS MAY BE CONSIDERED A SPOILER**** The ending
was weird though, I would have liked to have seen the "tv show" before
the credits. It was hilarious but most people, including myself were
beginning to exit the theater and had to stop in the aisle. Other than
that good movie worth the $20 it cost to see it.
<|_=00=_|>
Roscoe Jenkins has taken the name "RJ Stevens" and become a self-help
guru with a book and talk show based on the premise "the team of me".
He heads home accompanies by his self-absorbed fiancée, Bianca, who has
the idea that they should record RJ's parent's 50th anniversary
celebration.

At home, RJ's family does not treat him as the important semi-celebrity
he is in LA but as the child who could never defeat his cousin Clyde in
any competition and as the boy still under his parents' dominion at
home. Roscoe's relatives played by James Earl Jones. Margaret Avery,
Cedric the Entertainer, Mo'nique and Michael Clarke Duncan are all
funny and good at puncturing the bubble of Roscoe's believed
importance. Eventually Roscoe learns some important lessons about the
importance of family and remaining connected to them and becomes the
man his father has always wanted him to be. This is a decent, somewhat
funny movie so it gets a grade of C+ and a moderate recommendation.
<|_=00=_|>
When I first went to watch this film, I thought it looked rather
stupid. However, being a fan of Martin Lawrence for a long time lead me
to watch it.

When it started out, it was a bit bumpy, but soon mellowed out to
something more. The cast is great, the jokes are funny, and it just
reminds you of a regular family. Also known as, observational comedy.

Ignore the low ratings, people expected some kind Academy Award
masterpiece, but the fact is it lives up to its genre, a comedy.
Everyone seems to forget that comedies are generally never rated real
high, simply because people go in expecting some kind of serious
performance.
<|_=00=_|>
Welcome Home Roscoe Jenkins is exactly what you might expect. In an
attempt to mimic the recent inexplicable success of the Tyler Perry
films and TV Series, it's all about African American family getting
together and they all have wacky different personalities and enter
slapstick comedy, one liners, stereotypes, and sexual jokes. That
sounds like a bad thing but it turns out a relatively entertaining
comedy, if not a little run of the mill. Director and writer of the
film Malcolm D. Lee has not had a lot of experience as a big screen
director and I think in some ways his inexperience shows through a
little. I mean the film has some good laughs it just doesn't hold your
attention very long. The characters are just so overblown and there is
some sort of messed up moral there somewhere that just doesn't work out
very well. It's supposed to be this feel good moment when Roscoe
realizes the error of his ways and comes around but it's not as
climatic as it could have been. The very weak romance that exists has
very little chemistry. So the film really does rely on the comedic
talents of it's star and the physical comedy which does manage to get a
few chuckles.

Martin Lawrence stars as Roscoe "RJ" Jenkins. I do like Lawrence, he
does always seem to play the same sort of character but he does have
great comedic timing and he really is terrific at physical comedy which
I love and I have great respect for a comedian who does it right.
Lawrence is very watchable as Roscoe and definitely carries the film.
Joy Bryant plays the high maintenance fiancé to Roscoe, Bianca. She
does a good job as well. Her and Lawrence have Zero chemistry and
actually look ridiculous together I think. I suppose they aren't
supposed to look good together. Still she makes a good villain and
someone you'll love to hate. Nicole Ari Parker plays the 'other girl'
Roscoe's true love and childhood sweetheart. I hate to say it but
Parker is bland and looks like a deer in the headlights. She has almost
as little chemistry with Lawrence and she IS supposed to have chemistry
with him. She just looks bored or tired or something but doesn't fit
the cast. Cedric The Entertainer who I also think can be a very funny
guy plays Lawrence's rival and cousin. He is decent but just kind of
does his thing and never really makes any significant addition to the
cast. The real charm in the film is the incredible supporting cast that
make up the wild family including the incredible James Earl Jones,
Margaret Avery, and Michael Clarke Duncan (who is terrific as Roscoe's
older stronger brother.) The two members of the cast who significantly
drag this cast down are Mo'Nique as a stereotypical, trashy, sleazy
girl who wants nothing more than to have a lot of sex. Her role is
demeaning and as hard as she tries to be funny...she isn't. And Mike
Epps who is a decent comedian sometimes and even this role is kind of
funny but he gets lost in the bland characterization of his character.

Most will find the film genuinely funny and it is but it won't stick
with you. It's not something that will become a classic comedy unless
you're a huge Martin Lawrence fan. It certainly doesn't seem to hold
the charm, wit, or wacky comedy that Tyler Perry's comedies seem to
have although I have yet to see one. Basically as a Saturday night fun
flick to rent on DVD you might not be disappointed but it certainly
isn't something to rush out and see in the theaters. So far following
the amazing year that was 2007, 2008 is doing a lot of average flicks
and this one will get lost in the shuffle. 7/10
