
I went to this movie with the lowest expectations and i just thought i
would see a van dammed type of movie. But I was in for a surprise. The
movie has good twists and action, I really loved the acting from Jasom
Statham who is a really good actor! If you are an action movies fan
then you shouldn't miss this movie... and don't think this movie is an
all action movie, the story is well written and the twists are well
made. I'd say go for it if you don't know which movie to watch!

The movie starts with Jason Statham out of the force. So then they had
to get him back because of a bank robbery and the bad guys asked for
him. Something bad happens in the Bank, then the cops are after the bad
guys looking for them. You will have to keep a close eye at the movie,
it's a good action thriller that you will not expect to be as good as
it is!! and after this movie i'll proudly say i'm a huge fan of Jason
Statham (Snatch, Lock Stock and two Smoking Barrels, Transporter,
Transporter 2, Cellular, CHAOS), this guy is just amazing!
<|_=00=_|>
This is a reasonably brisk paced and entertaining action thriller.
There's a similar story to Spike Lee's critical hit, Inside Man, only
Chaos was made two years ago, and is as yet awaiting its release. This
may give an indication to the fact the film is not really a bankable
product. This is not down to quality, because this is by no means a bad
film, it's just what you might call a marketing nightmare, as a
theatrical release anyway. It's a "thinks it's cleverer than it is"
thriller starring two martial arts stars, but without martial arts. In
fact this isn't action all the way as you might expect with Jason
Statham and Wesley Snipes as two of the headliners. Eventually this
will find a release, but probably DTV.

Chaos is an enjoyable flick though. We have Ryan Phillipe and Jason
Statham teaming up to investigate a bank heist. As the title suggests,
this film is about Chaos, or the Chaos theory, whereby seemingly random
acts are in fact connected. Wesley Snipes co-stars as the bank robber
in question. The cast are good. Phillipe shares lead duties with
Statham, and handles the film well. His character is pretty two
dimensional but he does it convincingly and handles the action well
too. Statham, delivering another strange accent, supposedly American,
is despite his accent, charismatic. It's Wesley Snipes though who
stands out, actually enjoying himself after a string of sub-standard,
lazy performances in his DTV action vehicles and also in Blade Trinity.

The film looks polished, has a decent score and is a good watch. It
just feels very DTV but a better than the normal DTV. Indeed this may
have one or two twists too many but the twisting plot manages to keep
you guessing as it unravels. Overall not bad, but nothing new. **½
<|_=00=_|>
When I started watching this movie, I didn't expect much. in fact with
Snipes and Statham, I assumed this was a typical silly action flick,
like transporter 2. But I was wrong, very wrong. In fact this movie is
really good. I've enjoyed watching it, which is a big thing cause it
was quite a while since the last time I could say that to a movie. In
my opinion Snipes plays a really good villain. But unfortunately for
the fans, he doesn't get much screen time. OK, there are some clichés
in the story, but it's still not a bad one, and you can't guess what
will happen next. The only major weakness in the movie IMHO is Ryan
Phillipe, his performance is just simply BAD (that should be in bold).
If it wasn't for him I'd give this movie an eight. So all in all, I
think this movie is worth watching especially for those who like
thrillers. But if you only want to see Snipes and Statham fight, or
you're looking for plain action, avoid it. There are no fights, and the
action is limited to a single chase, and some gunfights.
<|_=00=_|>
Like in "Butterfly Effect", this movie doesn't have anything to do with
the chaos theory and just made to draw our attention to it. Someone
tried to do the movie a smart one so he tried to relate the plot to the
chaos theory. It looks like this person didn't know what the theory is
about, it's just it sounded "cool", and he tried on the basis of this
cool term to do a movie. He really messed up.

Chaos is trying to catch up with movies like 'The Usual Suspect' but
the plot and the actors, though they do they work fine, can't be really
compared. Although Jason Statham is as good as in any other movie,
Wesley Snipes doesn't affect to much with his role. It could be done by
someone else, though according to his last couple of movies this one is
a major step up. Ryan Phillipe beside Jason Statham looks like a school
boy at the blackboard trying to solve equations. As someone already
noted here, he reminds Justin Timberlake which is clearly not to his
advantage. As for others, I would say that they are doing well.

The worst thing is the over-smart plot that makes no logic at all. I
won't add more on this subject.

Not everything is bad. Overall the movie is well done. I think that the
appropriate word for it is - quality. This is a high quality movie in
most terms. The support actors are good, the action and explosions are
made by high standard .The best part of the movie is cinematography.
From the beginning of Chaos you know the cinematography keeps you
watching the movie till the end.

My personal feeling about this movie is that it was quite OK. I can't
say I liked it because of the lack of interest in the plot, not to that
it's dumb. I can't say I disliked it either. The camera work and Most
of the actor's play make it watchable so it wasn't a total waste of
time.

Rarely I stumble into a really good Thriller, so if you would like to
see one not expecting to much from it, I would advise you settle for
this.
<|_=00=_|>
Chaos was actually very different from the usual run of the mill *yawn
yawn* action movies. Maybe because I like Jason Statham so much, but I
enjoyed Chaos. Sure it was predictable, but it tried to be clever,
different and have that twist. And its almost funny seeing Statham
switch from London to American accent all the time, and Snipes wasn't
the best.. but on the whole it was a better than your average movie.

So the quick synopsis; Statham is a much maligned suspended detective
called in to be a negotiator in a bank robbery. The siege becomes
complicated, and the audience has to understand the past and present to
unravel the future and what is really going on.

OK down to the nitty-gritty. Chaos could have been a class act if it
was done just a tad differently. Snipes needed to be as controlled as
he was in the beginning, Statham should have stayed English accent, and
the plot (punchline) should not have been delivered with a sledgehammer
- or - not trust the audience to work things out without feeling the
need to spell it out TOO clearly. I am reminded of another excellent
and cognitive heist movie when seeing Chaos. I will not say it's name
as that may be unwittingly revealing.

Statham is one of my favourites from Lock/Stock, Transporter etc and I
like his presence in every performance I have seen him in thus far.
Snipes I could take or leave yet I was happy he didn't try to encompass
the entire screen! but the pleasant surprise I had was with Ryan
Phillipe. I think he's becoming a class actor and I would love to see
him land some plum roles that highlights his talent.

Overall, Chaos tries a philosophical and clever approach that is
different from the average outing; regardless of what the DVD front
cover may suggest, possessing a hypnotic funky score, in general good
acting and a decent enough plot... overlook the obvious anomalies, and
Chaos provides value.
<|_=00=_|>
Jason Statham is brought back on to the police force to chase Wesley
Snipes who stages a spectacular bank robbery. Paired with Ryan Phillipe
things begin to get weird as they are forced to look for a pattern in
the chaos that Snipes is causing.

Better than you think it will be action thriller. Don't let the by the
numbers opening and early moments put you off. Once this gets going its
a really good little thriller because it doesn't behave in the ways you
expect it too. indeed there are a couple of twists that really
surprised me. And of course the action scenes are very well done. I
liked it a great deal. Worth some popcorn on the couch
<|_=00=_|>
Let's be fair, it's a good movie BUT it's hardly memorable or
spectacular in the long term. I think what the director thought was...
"people like smart action movies, therefore i'll make mine smart". Well
here's the difference you have action movies that don't look that smart
but actually are. And this one looks smart but actually isn't. The
problem with that is that it tries to outdo itself, especially the last
thirty minutes... where the detective comes upon a different plot every
ten minutes, so what we get then is a Usual Suspects kinda montage of
every far fetched clue we overlooked only to be changed entirely ten
minutes later up until a point were you stop caring.

The director/writer will have to explain to me how detectives take a
mathematical theory seriously as a tool to outsmart cops. Again maybe
the director wanted to be smart again, by namedropping it's plot by
defining it with some fancy word.

Anyway i didn't think much of Jason Statham's acting at all, he's kinda
like the Orlando Bloom of the action movies... luckily he doesn't carry
this movie alone (unlike The Transporter). Wesley Snipes' character is
typical Snipes, after starring in numerous action movies i suppose it
was a walk in the park for him. And Ryan Philliphe is a very promising
upcoming actor, he really delivers probably the best acting (along with
Snipes) in the entire movie.

Just see it once and you'll be entertained. Just don't try to think
much about the plot after worths or you'll be insulted.
<|_=00=_|>
Unlike other Wesley Snipes recent movies, this one was quite a
surprisingly good movie. When I popped this movie in, I was expecting
an below then average movie, but like so many others like me, I had to
see for myself. This movie reminded me of inside man, and the cast was
worth the watch.

This was definitely a good movie. The twist in the movie was quite a
surprise. Jason Statham plays an excellent roll and Ryan Phillipe did a
great job with his performance.

I would recommend this movie to anyone who want to sit down and watch a
good action flick!
<|_=00=_|>
I enjoyed this movie, especially the first half. Unfortunately, in the
last 30 minutes or so, everything just fell apart. But it's still
worthwhile. If you're a Statham fan, I would definitely recommend it.

Also, Statham has a thick accent in this movie, but he is supposed to
be a veteran Seattle cop, which is kind of strange but I found easy to
get past. Maybe you won't.

This movie would have been a cult hit if they had filled in the gaps at
the end. The heavy editing is very obvious. This is an example where
they should have gone back and re-shot some scenes. Instead, they just
mashed everything together--scene after scene. It also ended too
quickly. What happens with Shane (Phillippe)? And how about Teddy
(Waddell) and her feelings about Conners (Statham)? One final note, the
chaos theme was just stupid and not needed. It was not central to the
movie. It also reminds me of the chess theme in Revolver, which was
stupid as well. I guess Statham likes to play the secret genius. On the
outside, he is all rough and grizzled, but on the inside he is a
mathematical genius. That said, I still think Statham is the best
action character in the movies today, hands down.
<|_=00=_|>
I will say this is the best movie of Jason Statham.Usually i find Jason
is action based film like transporter.But here his intelligent
character was really good. This movie has some reality action.All the
actors perform perfectly.Wesley Snipes is a continuous performer.I have
seen Ryan Phillipe in crash also.But he performed better in chaos.
Director really made a good link between chaos theory and movie
plot.New kind of bank robbery also impressed me.This movie has a story
twist. Before that, the movie seems ordinary .When the twist start, it
begins rolling.Overall I can say,this is a really good movie for
enjoyment.
