
28 Weeks Later has to be the most disappointing sequel I've ever seen.
This review will contain spoilers, however, it's nothing that the
filmmakers themselves haven't spoiled to start with. Let's start with
the most fundamental element of film-making: camera work. 28 Weeks
Later is one of those pretentious films with the epileptic, hand-held
camera that seems so popular with filmmakers who have nothing to
actually say or show in their films. There are precious few scenes
where the camera isn't both hand-held and in constant frenetic motion.
It brings nothing to the film, creates no tension, and brings nothing
new to the art of film-making. There are lengthy scenes that compound
the camera work problem by also being filmed in simulated night vision.
For those of you with a propensity to headaches or vision problems,
this alone makes 28 Weeks Later a film to avoid.

On to the story. This is, sadly, one of those films where stupid people
do stupid things as the only means the filmmakers could think of to
advance a pointless story. **spoilers start** These two kids have just
arrived in the "secure zone" and yet are able to sneak out, past
heavily armed guards, pas various security measures, and run off into
an area they have been repeatedly told is not safe. Armed guards
surround the city. Soldiers are everywhere. Everyone has a machine-gun,
a pistol, night vision goggles and yet, the discovery of an infected
person, brought into the "secure zone", and absolutely NO precautions
are taken? There are no extra guards; there are no extra security
measures. To make matters even more "logical", it seems that all the
soldiers in the area where this infected person is being kept are all
either idiots, unarmed, or conscientious objectors. There is not one
useful weapon to be found when it would be most useful. A soldier with
a helicopter wants to rescue his buddy, yet the only thing he can think
to do is have them crawl throughout the city to a distant spot to pick
them up? Are there absolutely NO areas closer? This is just a
completely useless gimmick to have the heroes of the story trek across
town. I could go on listing plot holes large enough to float the entire
U.K through, but I trust my warning will be enough to ward off those
who are on the fence about seeing this film or not. Somehow, the kids'
father has survived all the way through these events, despite all
logic. Like the lone zombie in Day of the Dead who has learned to use a
gun and appears to have regained some of his sentience, here we have an
infected who defies all logic, including the internal logic of 28 Days
Later, to follow his children and pop up at convenient moments for
cheap scares and bad melodramatic moments. The filmmakers have created
situations that defy logic and normalcy to advance a completely
pointless story. Characters perform actions that defy logic. Events
happen that defy logic. There is blood everywhere, yet no one seems
worried about infection. And I can assure you, if blood is what you
feel like seeing, this movie's carnage is on the heavy side. I'm not
squeamish, and I actually enjoy a good gory film every once in a while.
The problem with 28 Weeks Later is not the gore. It's the pointlessness
of it all.

I've seen some really bad films in my day. I've actually enjoyed some
of those bad films. The problem with 28 Weeks Later is that it WANTS to
be a great film. It WANTS to be a big budget gore-fest. With completely
unsympathetic characters, it fails to create any bond with the
audience. Even if the epileptic camera work gave us an instant of
respite to actually relate to those characters. We are kept at a
distance by terrible plot devices, terrible character development, and
completely silly events.
<|_=00=_|>
I really enjoyed the first film. The characters were real, they made
understandable decisions in stressful situations. It was a fresh take
on a very cliché genera; zombie films.

The second film, unfortunately, has none of that. Unrealistic
characters making the same irrational, unintelligent choices that
people in terrible slasher films make. Maybe taken on its own it would
not have been that bad, but it has a much stronger film to live up to
so it amplifies all of the weaknesses.

I am sorry if I am giving some things away so stop reading now if you
have not seen the film and want to "try" and be surprised. I say try
because there was nothing, absolutely nothing, unpredictable about this
film.

The thing I found most absurd was that after only four months of
failing to find an infected person, they already want to try to
repopulate the island. Preposterous!!!! The greatest plague in the
history of world and they are going back all cavalier? No. It would
take years, maybe even decades before any re-population attempt would
be made, and even then it would be a military only operation composed
of troops and scientists. There would have to be global wide panels of
experts and diplomats involved as the entire world would stand to be
infected if something went wrong. Anthrax can live in moist soil for
years so why not the rage virus? Maybe if the title was 28 months
later, or more realistic, 28 years later.

And then again, who would want to come back? There would have to be
fantastic incentives to get people to move back. Such as no taxes for
life, free property, hereditary titles, etc. But the filmmakers make no
effort to explain why the people who moved back were motivated to do
so.

Then there is Robert Carlisle's character who is ultimately the person
responsible for the re-emergence of the virus. He accomplished this
because he has a magnetic pass key that gives him unfettered access to
the entire complex, even top secret areas. He walks into a quarantine
room of an individual, who turns out to be his wife, that is a carrier
of the rage virus but is asymptomatic. He supposedly is some sort of
civilian contractor or maintenance worker in the facility, but that
wouldn't give him unrestricted access, he isn't even military. Come
on!!! Then when the virus finally breaks back out (Too far into the
movie to allow for much action in a 90 minute flick) the emergency
protocols are so amateurish to be laughable. It is obvious right away
that they have never given any or the re-patriots emergency drills
because as they are being shuffled into quarantine chambers, they are
all confused as to what is happening. You have to go through emergency
drills your first day on a cruise ship and they are telling us that
after repopulating Brittan after the most deadly plague of mankind,
they are not even going to do some drills???? So when this inevitably
fails (the zombies break into the quarantine zones, of course) in the
ensuing panic, the soldiers cannot tell who is infected and who isn't.
After not too much time, the general gives the order to shoot everyone
just to be sure. Again, I was sitting in my seat fuming, all they would
have had to broadcast on the PA was "Put up your right hand if you are
not infected." Presumably zombies don't follow directions. But no, the
soldiers start shooting everyone. I wonder if a Nuremburg defense would
work in this instance? And of all the other soldiers shooting
civilians, only one has moral qualms. Pathetic.

From here, the movie devolves into the typical horror film. The
surviving characters of the initial carnage band together and are
slowly picked off by circumstance and the results of terrible decision
making (Should I go into the Tube where it is dark and has no lights,
or should I stay above ground where I can see where I am going?) Oh,
and while in the tube, they navigate with a lone night vision scope on
an assault rifle that the character doesn't point at the way ahead, but
instead at the surviving characters heads, did she forget that the
scope is attached to a gun? Who points a gun at peoples heads they are
not intending to shoot. BTW this is the same character who earlier in
the film corrected the word usage of a person and then made the same
mistake herself. (What kind of writer didn't pick that up???) Oh, and
Robert Carlisle just happens to appear in nearly every scene even
though he is only supposed to be a zombie. It got really irritating to
keep seeing him pop up all the time. Was someone directing his
location????? Again, no explanation of why this particular zombie was
so adept at finding the few survivors.
<|_=00=_|>
Having seen 28 Days Later I thought I was prepared for this, but I was
not. Somewhere near the beginning of the film is a scene that goes from
zero to psycho in about 2 seconds flat. The beginning of 2004's Dawn of
the Dead also had a wildly chaotic kick-off scene, but unlike that
film, which was a great film to laugh through while chomping your
popcorn, this film is no laughing matter. 

When there's no violence, there's fear and tension. 

When there is on-screen violence, there is absolute shock and horror.
Scene after scene shows ordinary people placed in impossible situations
from which they cannot escape. This time, of course, there now two
implacable predators out there hunting them down: the rage virus from
the first film, and the military which is attempting to maintain
control of any outbreak, but is willing to visit unspeakable horrors
upon innocent people if they cannot keep that control. The horror and
scale of the virus is so severe, that the plans the military implements
are completely plausible.

The actions scenes are masterfully done, effectively placing the viewer
in the points of view of both the victims and the crazed, but still
scarily human, zombies. The portrayal of the violence pulls no punches;
people of all age groups and walks of life are destroyed without
remorse. No attempt is made to soft-pedal it. The fragility of human
life on Earth and its vulnerability to just the right nasty virus are
thoughts that stay with you after you've left the theater, and add a
nice "after taste" of fear. The soundtrack, as with the first film, is
amazing in conveying the tension and dread and sadness of the scenes.
The story is fairly tight, as well. My only complaints might be with
the acting of some of the soldiers, which just didn't feel authentic to
me for some reason.

Overall I'd say this is one of the best zombie films I've ever seen, in
fact, one of the most effective thrillers I've seen, as well.
<|_=00=_|>
This film sucks. The director used only one shooting style. Shaky-cam.

If the director somehow ends up reading this review. Shaky cam shooting
does not equal good, unique, or even an innovative shooting style. It's
used by people who need to cover up their lack of a story with a
confusing and erratic camera movements.

Seriously, even the still camera shots and the pans looked as if the
camera man was a retard who suffered from chronic epileptic seizures.

Everything was shaky cam. The friggin credits were shaky cam for
Christ's sake.

Shaky cam should ONLY be used for documentaries(Grizzly Man), or
reality TV shows, like COPS.

Now, camera work aside, lets actually get into the story.

With 28 Days Later we were presented with a unique take on zombie
films. With 28 Weeks Later, we were presented with complete destruction
of that unique take. They took a good story and turned it into your
stereotypical zombie film.

Not to mention, there were plot holes galore. Seriously, the plot holes
were such in number, that the plot holes had plot holes.

The story was so damned terrible. Small boy(who I swear on my life I
thought was a girl from all the previews, and even looks like
Hermoine(Harry Potter) if she was a dude, anyway, small boy shows up in
England, and he has two different colored eyes, which he inherited from
his mom, and is very "unique." Foreshadowing! Anyway, turns out the
mom, who turns out to be infected as seen in the first 5 minutes of
this god awful film, isn't actually infected. She had the virus but has
a natural immunity. So shes a carrier for the virus, as her saliva can
still pass it on.

So as anyone with 1/10th of a brain can figure out the entire friggin'
plot of the film from here on out. Boy has mom's genes, boy has natural
immunity, boy = possible cure for the Rage virus.

The dad goes and visits the mother who's in the medical facility, they
make out, and thus he becomes a zombie and kills the mom.

He not only becomes a zombie, but he's also a magical super zombie. Not
only can he magically bypass a locked door, but he also shows up
wherever the kid goes. He is like Jason, no matter how far you run
away, drive away, fly away. He'll end up right where you are, in front
of you none the less.

Like I said, plot holes galore. There were so many plot holes, combined
with the shaky cam, I had no idea what was going on during the film 90%
of the time. Zombies magically appear on rooftops where snipers are and
end up killing the zombies, even though they're on buildings with like
30 stories.

A population of 15,000 people can fit into a tiny room, but then fill a
field with zombies.

The zombies are apparently so bad ass they can escape a firebombed
district of London, breaking out of the zone, after the place was
firebombed to hell and back.

Not to mention, like I said before, the dad combined with shaky came =
super zombie. He is fire proof, biological weapon proof, he can even
easily kill soldiers who are highly trained in the blink of an eye,
like he was Jack Carver from Farcry.

This movie really is terrible. If anything, it would have been worth
renting, and not paying $8 to see in theaters.
<|_=00=_|>
When I first heard there was to be a sequel to Danny Boyle's excellent
28 Days Later and that Boyle himself would not be directing it, I was
less than excited.

Then the reviews began flooding in and I was surprised, shocked even,
that the majority of them were positive.

It was then after the well respected film critic Mark Kermode said it
was "very good" and "better than we had any right to expect" that I
began to raise my expectations.

Im happy to report that they were exceeded by a sequel that surpasses
the original in terms of tension and spectacle.

Boyle remained on board with the project, albeit as a producer, but
also directed some second unit footage and never allows it to veer away
from the look or feel of his original.

Not that he had cause to worry as the new director,Juan Carlos
Fresnadillo obviously understood Boyle's vision and expands on it
without getting too carried away.

The result is a faster paced, less reflective film, containing a very
intelligent political subtext and some fantastic action set pieces that
(and this is the most important part) delivers a large number of
quality scares.

It also dwarfs 28 days later in terms of gore, meaning true horror fans
have much more in the way of visceral glee to sink their teeth into
(pun intended).

Bring on 28 months later...
<|_=00=_|>
28 Days Later was one of the smartest "horror" films I had ever seen
when it came out, but its sequel pales in comparison. Someone has
paralleled the comparison between Alien and Aliens, but I think it's
even worse than that. This film will definitely find its audience, much
like Aliens did. But whereas Alien and 28 Days Later are scary yet
smart, Aliens and 28 Weeks Later are given the Hollywood face-lift with
the help of lots of machine guns and overacting. Oh, and a worthless
plot.

To be fair, the opening sequence of the film truly had me squirming in
my seat and I feared the worst for my sleep that night. One of the most
terrifying aspects of the original film was the idea of escaping to the
countryside and boarding up for safety, only to eventually be
helplessly attacked by the roaming infected. Therefore, anyone who has
seen the original will quickly deduce what is about to happen as soon
as the young boy knocks on the door seeking shelter. Things are looking
good by the end of the first sequence; a reasonable plot conflict has
been developed and the director has scared the viewer just enough to
remind them that yes, this is a horror film. After this, it all goes
downhill.

The American presence in the film is not my beef with it, despite my
subject line. At first it seems anti-U.S. in the way it portrays
military occupation, but Sgt. Doyle's character, stereotypical though
his name may be, serves as a counter to this. The soldiers are doing
the best they can, and their decision to go to "code red" and kill
everyone rather than just the infected is not out of the question. If
anything, the "safe zone" created by the U.S. presence is entirely
implausible, much like the fact that Robert Carlyle's character has
full access to all of it as a civilian employee. Given the nature of
the virus, one would think that maximum (and I mean MAXIMUM) security
would be priority number one. And this is exactly where the film fails:
completely implausible events are used to push a weak plot forward.
After Carlyle's character has been infected by the wife he thought he
left for dead, you can officially start laughing instead of wincing. I
wish I had been in the laugh-friendly comfort of home rather than a
theater, because my friends and I would have had a field day with the
latter half of this movie. At one point, Carlyle's zombie is seen
looking at a picture of his family while growling and gnashing his
teeth like the rest of his zombie brethren. Are we to believe that
certain zombies whom once had families are able to put aside their
unquenchable blood lust for some sentimental memories via pictures of
home? I had to fight the urge to do my best Don LaFontaine impression
during that scene. Simply terrible, trite film-making. Also, since it
was a U.S.-produced horror film, you can expect characters to do really
stupid things while your brain begs for mercy. Once a lull in action
comes along, someone investigates a rapidly banging door or initiates
any one of a number of cheap scare clichés to keep the sheep filling
their gullets with popcorn. Don's (Carlyle) son is the token innocent
but stupid kid of the film who initiates most of said clichés, while
his daughter is the token looker without a brain who overacts every
line she is fed. The only truly rewarding scene for me was the
helicopter massacre, and that is a disgrace considering how intelligent
the first film was.

Technically, the film looks and feels extremely rushed, especially in
the cinematography. Attack sequences (and otherwise) are spliced with
mindless hand-held camera-shaking, adding a dose of nausea to an
already visually jarring film. I'm not against hand-held camera work,
but I think a more direct and effective film might have been produced
had it not looked like the director let his kids play around with the
camera. The film looks acceptable when it's not dizzying, but it's
nothing worth noting. The soundtrack is almost exactly the same as the
first, minus the Eno track.

Basically, if you're looking for a mindless gore-fest, this is your
ticket. If you're a fan of how scary the original film was on a much
deeper, darker, and smarter level, this is not your ticket. I was
extremely disappointed with this one.
<|_=00=_|>
...Not this time.

I believe 28 Weeks Later did appreciate as a sequel (with only a couple
very minor depreciative concepts), and that was a surprise.

I'm admittedly a zombie film fan (especially the serious, non A-Team
variety). And although the Rage virus in these two films does not
produce an 'undead' zombie, the 'infected' nevertheless present a
similarly formidable and threatening antagonist. If you haven't seen
either film, Boyle's 'infected' are far less like the traditional
lumbering Romero zombies, and closer to the Zack Snyder zombies of
2004's Dawn of the Dead. Note that if you were able to get away with
seeing 28 Days Later as a date movie, you may not pull it off with 28
Weeks. There is very little breathing room, and some of it is more
disturbing and far less bridled than you might be expecting, especially
if you are used to the character-based 'safety' of most films.

Unlike 28 Days, a flashpan start to 28 Weeks Later sets the tone for
the entire film... Which although short in running time (at just over
1:30) with quite a fast pace, still seemed very much long enough to be
perfectly enjoyable, especially for any fan of the genre. Other than a
brief, but informative back-story conversation near the beginning,
there is almost no down time spent (wasted?) on emerging relationships
or overly granular side-stories. Overall the most powerful element of
the film isn't really character based, but rather the theme of a
terrible pandemic that, besides a small twist, isn't much changed from
the first movie.

There is one facet of the film that I did not really appreciate, but
can't really detail without a spoiler warning. Let's just say that
London is a fairly large playground for certain (coincidental?) events
to happen (and not just once). However, there's a possibility I may be
missing some concept that made these events intentional--I hope it's
some twist of the virus and isn't just star power.

I'll be purchasing the DVD, but probably won't offer to watch it with
any of my family and couldn't recommend it as a party movie :) 

Post Script: If you had ever wondered why the rest of the world was not
affected by this virus, consider the geographically isolating nature of
the British Isles and the extremely short incubation period of this
virus. A truly viable pandemic must have a longer incubation period and
optimally be airborne or at least infect multiple disparate species. So
the Rage virus, while perfectly suited in close quarters would likely
not travel much farther than a pair of human legs could travel.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm open to believe the U.S. Army is stupid- but THAT stupid? How do 2
kids get out of the "safe" zone and manage to steal a moped, ride
through London, hang out at their house, and meet their mother before
the Army can catch up with them? The purpose of putting the safe zone
on an island in London was for containment (I assume) and yet, the
survivors AND the zombies are able to walk across a bridge to get off
the island AFTER it's been fire bombed? I am able to guess the mother's
genetic eye-color trait is linked to the genetic anomaly that makes her
and her kid immune- how does the idiot doctor not figure it out? Is the
medical director really so stupid as to not guess these kids could be
current hosts- is she really so stupid as to whisk the two kids away
without checking their blood- and wouldn't doing a full work up on both
kids be required when they were first caught? Is she so stupid as to
risk her life to get these two kids out of Britain who can be carriers,
like their mother was a carrier? And really... the father's reaction
when he finds out his wife is alive... this is a man who should have
severe PTSD (the entire survival population should have PTSD)... and he
saw his entire nation succumb to this virus and yet he is ready to
believe that his wife comes out of an attack unscathed? And then he
sneaks through security to see her???!! Really??! And again back to the
stupid U.S. Army-- you'd think security in that place would have been
better...I get that he had "all access" pass, I just think the Army
would have guards around too.

Come on... the movie was so stupid upon stupid. Sorry to all the fans,
I really liked the first one.
<|_=00=_|>
SPOILER _ _SPOILER _ _ SPOILER I am surprised to see so many positive
reviews for 28 weeks later, as in my opinion it bares little comparison
to its excellent predecessor.

It is not completely without merit, the film does succeed is in
recreating the style and feel of the first film. The best elements of
the cinematography, camera work and score from 28 Days are again
present here.

Unfortunately what are lacking are a cohesive plot, plausible
characterisation and quality acting.

Most annoying of all is Robert Carlisle's zombie, he really should have
had the words 'plot device' tattooed on his forehead.

Until half way through the second film we had been led to believe that
all those infected with the virus become mindless psychos only intent
on murdering the nearest person to them.

However luckily for us and the film, Carlisle's zombie has the dubious
ability to teleport himself directly into the any scene as and where
the plot dictates. This is the kind of focus group thinking that ruins
the majority of US made films and I am disappointed to see this here.

Bringing me on to the acting. Imogen Poots as Tammy was particularly
weak. Luckily her character manages to maintain an indestructible layer
of eye liner during the film, thank god, I really wouldn't have been
able to believe her performance otherwise.

I imagine this film will be well received in the US as its contrived
plot and tenuous happenstance will be forgiven in the face of its
increased action and gore.

Overall it's a very poor effort.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie begins in the dead center of the original outbreak of the
epidemic in England. We are introduced to a handful of people hiding
out from the rage-infected including Robert Carlyle's character and his
wife. After a short time, the house is attacked and most of the group
killed by the zombie-like masses. The husband and wife are separated
and he flees to water, barely escaping with his life.

Here is my first of many complaints of this film. The separation of the
couple is used as a cheap emotional ploy to discredit Carlyle. Standing
across the room from his wife, whom he had desperately been pleading
that she flee with him, he is outnumbered by rage-infected and
weaponless. He makes the only choice he possibly can as a realistic
character and takes the way out which is available to him. Only the
invincible action-hero archetype could be expected any other course of
action.

The opening scene itself is the high-point of the film. From here we
jump to what the title promises as months later. NATO, led by, guess
who.. the US, moves in to begin re-population of the country.
Unfortunately the country is still littered with bodies of victims and
is, in general, exceptionally unsafe. Still out military decides to set
up a "safe zone" (glaringly pointing to our Iraq "green zone" folly),
right outside of the city with ridiculously lousy security. Carlyle's 2
children, who had been in Spain during the outbreak, return home and
are reunited with their father. In a hopelessly coincidental turn of
events, Carlyle just happens to have complete access to everything
about the compound.

Their first day back in Mother England, these 2 young characters easily
escape the compound even though they are spotted by the military, and
return home to get "some stuff". Even viewing the desolation first hand
and discovering a decomposed corpse isn't enough to open these morons'
eyes to the horror of events and stop them from trotting home for some
clothes and misc. riff-raff.

Upon returning home, the children discover that their mother some how
(which is never revealed) survived the attack and has been living in
the house for the past few months. The military finally arrive and take
the children and their mother back to the "green zone".

The mother, who is a carrier of the disease but shows no symptoms due
to a genetic abnormality, is a precious commodity as she may contain
the secrets to a cure. So since she is so very special, the military
straps her to a table and leaves her by herself and unguarded in an
area her husband can conveniently access. How we are supposed to
believe the military would give SUCH complete access to a civilian is
beyond me. The children, who are in trouble for sneaking out, are given
a guard. I guess they didn't have another to spare for the woman that
might save humanity.

Predictably, the mother infects Carlyle who flies into the usual
"rage", kills her, and escapes into the compound starting the infection
all over again.

The compound is insanely unprepared for this event and attempts to
"lock down" civilians in a room with a back door...

Panic and mayhem ensue as the infection begins to spread and the
military begins its indiscriminate slaughter of the citizens. Another
thumb of the nose to military.

From here the film just spirals into your basic "zombie chase" movie
losing red-shirts left and right. We are introduced to, then lose, a
few characters, giving us no richness of character along the way.
Carlyle occasionally pops up in the vain of a long-haired Japanese
ghost. There is no logical reason for his appearances, but at this
point, the movie is no longer at home to Mr. Logic.

Ultimately, we are given the beyond predictable "twist" setting up the
inevitable 28 Months Later. Between the illogical plot and idiotic
characters, the director burns vast amounts of film on sweeping shots
of the abandoned countryside and close-up views of the characters faces
as they "react".. or fail to react, to the horror around them.

Having hailed 28 Days Later as possibly my favorite modern horror film,
I was disappointed.
