
The movie isn't really that good. Most jokes fall flat and the film is
predictable, but the movie still has it's laughs and it's enjoyable
somehow.

Martin Lawrence gives a mediocre performance as most of everything he
says isn't funny at all. Still, the movie has it's moments like the
beer-loving chihuahua and that kid that was always falling.

The movie is mediocre, and I wouldn't pay $8 to watch it, but the movie
is still watchable. The movie doesn't deserve to be on the Bottom 100
because the bottom 100 is made for painful movies, and this one is at
least watchable.

Rating: 2 of 4 stars (Watchable.)
<|_=00=_|>
I howled at Big Momma's House. Did the same at BMH 2. If Lawrence does
not genuinely enjoy playing this character, then he certainly deserves
an Oscar because once he puts on that suit, he and Big Momma are "One."
Does the plot make sense? Sure. As much sense as most other comedies of
this type. Mrs. Doubtfire? The Pacifier? Deuce Bigelow? Most of Adam
Sandler's films? Big Momma can hold her own, honey.

The sight gags in this one are even funnier than in the first. The Bo
Derek beach scene had the audience rolling in the aisles. And that was
just one of many. I especially liked the friendship that developed
between Big Momma and the mother of the family she nannies for. Did
anyone notice the mom's southern accent? It was a refreshing change
from the humor that is usually milked from between outspoken black
females and prissy white females. Good for you, Big Momma.

But Big Momma still does some funny ragging on white culture, as well
as just yuppie culture of all colors. I don't agree at all with the
poster who wondered why Martin Lawrence tries to portray an action
hero. Personally, I thought Martin looked extremely fit in this film
and found his stunt work and role as an FBI agent very believable. I
found it to be a definite positive for the film as a whole.

Nia Long is feisty and as funny as she's allowed to be. On screen she
and Lawrence work well together. The kids in this film are very, very
good. Even the dog is funny. It's more of a feel-good movie than the
first one and as a mom who plans to now take her kids, that's fine with
me.

The bottom line: Lots of laughs if you're the kind of viewer who enjoys
screwball comedies that aren't artsy and if you enjoy humor that plays
upon cultural differences and experiences. Personally, I love Big Momma
and would welcome her at my family reunion any time.
<|_=00=_|>
You need to realize that this is not a smart comedy. It is silly and
some impossible things happen. When you are going to see this film
prepare yourself for that and you will enjoy it. It is impossible for
anyone to change into a credible fat lady in less than an hour, much
less in a few minutes. But you need to let that kind of stuff go so the
comedy in it gets to you. The father of the kids just looks amazed at
the things the nanny can do but does not try to help her. Again, don't
try to make sense of it. There is a scene where I was about to wet my
pants because I could not stop laughing, that is when Big Momma dresses
up as Bo Derek in that famous scene in 10. I liked it and so can you.
<|_=00=_|>
If you're looking for an intellectual comedy or even something with
some actual substance to it, this is not the movie to go to. It is the
type of movie you go to, to turn off your brain and just take in some
escapist entertainment. It does the job decently, better than most of
the other light comedies out there. But what really surprises is how
relatively few stupid moments come throughout the movie. A
lesser-quality movie would have gone for the easy jokes about dorky
white people vs. smooth black people. A lesser flick would have had
some of the characters be less perceptive and observant than they
actually ended up turning out to be. Poorer-quality fare would have
turned this movie into something approaching blaxploitation, where all
parties involved ended up humiliated by the experience.

This didn't do any of the aforementioned. Certain characters who could
have been written as dumber were actually written as credibly
perceptive. Certain scenarios that could have been played out as
ridiculous ended up being plausible. There was less of a black/white
good vs. evil conundrum going on in this movie, and the suspense
involved actually seemed worth it instead of just being suspense for
suspense's sake. I don't think there was one moment in the whole film
where I was rolling my eyes going, "OH COME ON," the way I was
throughout the last film I was obliged to go see, this year's remake of
Last Holiday.

Had the premise been more original, had the comedy been more sharply
written, more intelligent, I would have been inclined to give this
comedy ten stars. It really is one of the better commercial movies to
be released in Hollywood over the last five years. It even manages to
be better than its predecessor. However, the comedy was actually quite
dull, pedestrian, uninvolved, and unintellectual, which means it earns
six stars out of ten. Just barely passable, but a heck of a lot better
than its contemporaries.
<|_=00=_|>
After settling down into a desk job inside the FBI, former Field Agent
Malcolm Turner (Martin Lawrence) defies orders to stay out of the
investigation of his former partners death and travels to Orange
County, California to go undercover as Big Momma, working for an
unhappy woman (Emily Proctor) who is under investigation for the
murder. Little did he realise that he would become attached to the
dysfunctional family

After pouring myself a nice hot cup of tea, I settled down in the comfy
chair of Screen 1 to brace myself for the print check and hopefully
have some harmless viewing. The result; A relatively brain dead
projectionist trying to get to grips of where the last hour and a half
of his life disappeared to. Now, to tell you the truth, I've never been
much of a big fan of Martin Lawrence to start with but, like Jeremy
Clarkson driving from London to Edinburgh and back ECONOMICALLY, shocks
are everywhere. For the first time ever, I actually found Martin
Lawrence's humour quite funny. Giving the dog a bowlful of tequila gave
me a bit of a tickle, as did Big Momma's 'Baywatch' style slow-mo run.

This is probably the only plus side on a film which lacked the power to
keep a rather basic storyline going. The characters created weren't
complex enough. The family consisted of three children. One who was 3
and wasn't able to speak, which you undoubtedly knew he would by the
end. The 8 year old girl was a wannabe dancer, and there was a troubled
teen, who would stop her rebellious ways by the end of the movie. Emily
Proctor's acting throughout the film was, to be truthful, pretty lame.
It's like she took Calleigh Duquesne's character from CSI: Miami and
just took all of the weapons expertise out of it. No original work was
added to the character.

To sum up, this is a sequel that should have been left WELL alone. If
you are of the type of mind that requires a film that will challenge
you, I'd look elsewhere. Laughter is guaranteed as this film's
storyline is clearly based around Big Momma, allowing Martin Lawrence
breathing space to play with the character, but there were never any
genuine references to the original film.
<|_=00=_|>
Some of the greatest movie comedies of all time have revolved around
men dressing up in drag and trying to pass themselves off as women
("Some Like It Hot" and "Tootsie" being the prime examples).
Ironically, that's also been the basis for some of the worst comedies
ever made ("White Chicks" being the prime example I can think of at the
moment). Somewhere in the middle lie the Big Momma movies, both the
original, made in 2000,and the sequel from 2006, creatively entitled
"Big Momma's House 2." Once again, Martin Lawrence stars as the FBI
agent who this time goes undercover as a nanny to the children of a man
who may be involved in some sort of major threat to national security
(yawn!).

In turns of its storyline, the movie falls somewhere between "Mrs.
Doubtfire" and "Mary Poppins," with Big Momma managing to heal the rift
in the family and making the neglectful father a model parent by the
end of the film. The crime scenario is beyond stupid and leads to a
whole host of idiotic slapstick scenes involving Big Momma taking on
the gun-wielding bad guys, but if you have a high level of tolerance
for this sort of thing, "Big Momma's House 2" should provide you with a
good share of laughs amid all the clunkers.

Lawrence exhibits a great deal of energy in the role of Big Momma, but
he never brings the kind of insight and believability to the part that
Jack Lemmon, Tony Curtis or Dustin Hoffman managed to do in their
respective turns at cross dressing comedy. Unfortunately, Lawrence's
portrayal is all surface imitation, utterly devoid of the kind of
subtle shading that might suggest he had actually gotten in touch with
his character. This film would be a trifle less innocuous if it hadn't
been done so much better already.
<|_=00=_|>
My Take: Did we really need a sequel to BIG MOMMA'S HOUSE? 

BIG MOMMA'S HOUSE II is yet another example of unnecessary "ka-ching!"
sequel from Hollywood that we never needed. Although funny at times
with Martin Lawrence around, there's no reason at all to see it,
whether you've seen the first film or not. Few jokes, usually
repetitive, make a complete waste of time (even if it only runs for 99
min.).

One of the film's flaws is its confusion about what it is. It's about
Martin Lawrence's character, FBI agent Malcolm Turner, throwin' in the
old Big Momma costume once more to go undercover. His mission is to
investigate a woman (Emily Proctor), who's husband may be involved with
a murder case. But the film lags with sappiness that, when it gets to
the very serious side, it's confused and just plain lame.

Martin Lawrence is still pretty funny, making some of those tired old
humor quite effective. Lawrence has that zing that makes these old puns
lively. But even Lawrence, funny as he is, is only one aspect that is
possibly right about the film. The rest, the lame comedy script and the
lame direction make up for a lousy comedy. Younger audiences will be
amused by Lawrence, as much as preteens, but there are other films with
the same appeal, and some and most of which are better, way better!

Rating: * out of 5.
<|_=00=_|>
Bad film ? only occasionally funny ? rubbish ! this film is hilarious ,
its so funny , the cinema was in tears watching it . Martin Lawrence is
hilarious . Big Momma is a great character , she is really funny . This
film really is a must see for comedy fans , because it's really not bad
its great . You really will enjoy this film . It's funny , younger kids
and teenagers will love it , but adult will like it too , its something
for everyone who likes comedy .Martin Lawrence is great and his
character is a great laugh . If you want to go see a comedy , make Big
Momma's House 2 the film . Go see it and vote !!! You won't regret
seeing this movie !!!
<|_=00=_|>
I went along with my friend to see this movie, and we found it
hilarious! and so did most of the people in the cinema with us, (apart
from the people in front of us, they didn't see the movie, they were
sucking each others braces out) 

The movie follows an FBI agent who becomes a nanny to the children of a
wanted criminal, oh did we mention the nanny is a man dressed up as a
woman? 

In some areas of the movie i found the plot quite similar, i saw traces
of 'Mrs Doubtfire'(obviously) and in one sequence (the club scene) i
felt was very similar to 'Bringin down the house' but this did not
compensate its entertainment value 

This movie got quite a lot of bad reviews saying it-was childish
rubbish and to low brow, but i and the really packed cinema, found it
really funny, i dunno, maybe I'm the lowest common denominator....

but in the end, i would go see it, just for some easy laughs,
<|_=00=_|>
I watched and LOVED the 1st film but the sequel was no good at all.
This is one of the movies that shouldn't have had a sequel to it at all
and would've been better just left alone. Big Momma's House ran on a
few good ideas but I would've just preferred if it was a whole new
movie franchise instead of making it into a sequel of one of my
favorite films. Now, here's where the film failed at being any good.

My biggest issue with this movie was that I noticed how it tried to run
away with a PG rating while still making it adult-themed with Malcolm's
interest in a female's body and his occasional drug and sex references.
Apparently, it didn't work out because not only did the movie do bad as
a PG movie but it didn't even make the PG rating. Movies always seem to
fail when they can't just make it similar to it's 1st movie (like Scary
Movie 3, whomever thought that was funny is obviously 13 years old or
younger). I don't know why people would argue that movies aren't funny
with the cursing and sex jokes and references. That is exactly what
makes the movie funnier. Would you have laughed more is the woman in
the Bingo game had called Big Momma a "Ho!" instead of a "Heffer!"?
Think about it.

My 2nd problem I had with the film was the weak character development.
This story runs along the lines of those like "The Pacifier" and
"Bringin' Down Da House", mixing up the most unexpected person with the
complete opposite of family. In the end, the family actually likes the
person and the person ends up saving the family or their family
members, yadda yadda yadda. Not that I don't like these kind of
stories, (I LOVE them) but this one was weakly done. What made it even
worst is that when the movie was over, they made it seem like the bond
was SO special. They didn't even go that far in "Bringin' Down Da
House" and the relationship between Queen Latifah's character and the
kids actually had development, something this family didn't. I mean,
please, it even did the infamous, "I can't go yet. I still have ONE
more thing left to do." line.

My 3rd problem was the fact that my favorite characters from the 1st
film were used weakly or not at all. Jascha Washington's character
Trent was just a waste of a paycheck that could've been used to make
this movie a little funnier. Don't get me wrong, Trent was one of my
favorite characters and I couldn't picture the franchise without him
but if you're going to put him in the movie at all, make his character
a bit more useful besides the obvious, "My (step)father embarrasses
me!" crap. He was only in 2 scenes and I was REALLY hoping his
character was going to be useful eventually. He wasn't.

Nia Long's character, Sherry, was useless too. Nia Long is a very good
actress and her character was completely underdeveloped throughout the
film. Although, some may argue that being in 3 scenes and being
underdeveloped is two completely different things.

Finally, there were characters in the 1st one that made the movie what
it was and they weren't even mentioned in this film. Character's like
John(the white partner, he wasn't the one killed in the movie), Tichina
Arnold's character Ritha(the one who gave birth during the 1st one) and
Anthony Anderson's character, Nolan, (the over-sized mall cop who took
his job WAY too seriously).

Ultimately, this movie came packed with cheap shot laughs that only
someone under the age of 14 would laugh at. Falling out of chairs,
catching maniac babies, and watching over-sized woman flaunt as if
they're in the cover of vogue went out of style about 5 or 6 years ago.
Come on, when was the last time someone laughed at these corny jokes?
