
I'm sorry, but I cannot really summarize my feelings more than to say
that I was ready for this to be sort of bad, you know, in a so bad that
it's hilariously funny sort of way, but I never knew that a movie could
loop its way around again to just plain bad. And just to let you know,
this is not the only zombie movie, or "remake" of a zombie movie that
I've seen. --I guess I was just spoiled by the leetness of "Dawn of the
Dead."

This movie IS a "remake" true, but the effects were so ill done, that
except for times the actors were using something like a cellphone in a
scene, you could have sworn this was made at the same time as the
original. Which, seriously is not necessarily THAT bad, but really,
come on... The "3D" could have been way more effectively utilized as
well. Truly, if you KNOW you are making it 3D, you could do way cooler,
and way more terrifying things than, "Ooh look! A Doobie!". *sigh*

But the "horrifying" zombies were the absolute least of this thing's
problems. Oh yes, I AM speaking of the acting. Let me just first say, I
think I lost about one IQ point per minute (maybe second) of watching
these people try to act. Now, that's not that I'm saying that I thought
this was supposed to be an Oscar worthy film. When I walked in, I knew
I wasn't going to be enlightened. But dang! The crappy delivery of the
"witty" lines that the script offered was the only thing in the whole
movie that was worthy enough to make me gasp in horror. COME ON
PEOPLE!! Absolutely everyone watching has fairly low expectations of
you and yet you decide your mission in life is to lower them even
further?!?! There was not ONE person in the entire cast (including the
lead actress) that you could EVER feel for enough to root for THEM
against the zombies. I myself, was cheering for the zombies. If they
could have eaten everyone in the first 15 minutes, THAT would have been
worthwhile.

I'm not going to say more because no more is needed. It was bad and
that is it.

You can hate the review, or agree with everything. I don't truly care.
I just wrote this because I needed somewhere to vent. I had already
used up my boyfriend, who by the way agrees with me.
<|_=00=_|>
We have yet another remake of the zombie classic Night of the Living
Dead, this time with the new addition of being in 3-D. In this version,
we have Barbara, who likes to be called "Barb" being attacked by
zombies when a white BEN saves her by giving one of the zombies a close
line. Ben takes Barb back to the Coopers plant farm. Once there we meet
the rest of the victims, as zombies begin to attack the home.

If I hadn't won free tickets to see this film, I probably would never
have given it a chance. Aside of it being in 3-D it doesn't really have
anything else going for it. Upon first glance it would seem to be a
direct to video, armature film student remake of the classic Romero
film and that is exactly what the film comes off as. The only thing
that made this film slightly enjoyable would be that it was fun to make
fun of it. I couldn't tell if the film took itself seriously or not
because there were a lot of times when the film was just so bad, that
the filmmakers had to of known the cheese factor was through the roof.
The thing that rules against this is that there isn't enough comedy in
it for it to be considered a cheesy "B" movie.

The horror fans will notice Sid Haig is the one throwing his shovel
around hitting the zombies in the face. He delivers an over the top
performance, but then again when does he not? If it weren't for his
goofy delivery in his lines the film would be rated even lower. The
rest of the cast can be completely forgotten because none of them seem
to care for what they are doing. Everyone is one-dimensional and half
seem to have never been to acting school. There was no conflict between
any of the characters that lasted more then one minute. Once there was
some conflict it was solved mere seconds later. "I'm going outside!!!",
"No you're not!!!", "Okay". Even the zombies didn't act like real
zombies, I swear some of them were walking slowly like in the classics
and others were as fast as hell, much like those in the remake of Dawn.

The gore in here is lacking as well. Only two scenes showcase any real
gore, first is when a zombie is dragging itself to go after the little
kid, he has no legs. The second is when Haig thrusts his shovel into a
zombies face, it goes through his mouth and he sticks to the wall. The
zombie effects were satisfactory for the most part.

I cringe every time I think about the dialogue, which throws in awkward
pop culture references that shouldn't really be there...Scarface for
example. Whenever I laughed in the film it wasn't with it, it was at it
and most the time it was because of these horrible dialogue. More then
75 percent of the dialogue was unintentional humor.

The 3-D was painful, plain and simple. For some reason we're still
stuck in the old days of red and blue 3-D glasses for this film. It
took so much away from the experience. The red was very distracting and
was all over in this film. I had to take the glasses off on five
separate occasions because my eyes just couldn't handle it. They could
have used the 3-D to their advantage, but dropped the ball here. Only a
handful of things really "come at you", which include a bullet, shovel,
glass and zombie hands. Nothing to really make the film more enjoyable,
although I did get a kick out of the things that actually did come at
me from the screen.

For some strange reason the makers of the film felt like they had to
put in the original film, for what purpose I still have no idea. We
know this is a remake of that film, is it ironic, or comedic in a way?
No, it's just pointless and incoherent. They watch the zombie flick and
know that these things attacking them are zombies, yet when one gets
bitten no one seems to care or even know that he will turn into one.
Did they just happen to forget that big plot device from the film that
they were just watching? Don't even get me started on the continuity
because this can rival the Evil Dead films.

Bottom line is that the 3-D isn't worth your time or money. You'll
leave the theatre with a headache, from the glasses and the trash
that's on the screen. I wouldn't even recommend this for hardcore
horror fans, is just an insult. It doesn't look to good for zombie fans
after this film hits theatres, or even when the remake of DAY does.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is a pale imitation of George Romero's original. Giving
characters the same names isn't enough, pitting characters against
zombies isn't enough. The 2004 remake of Dawn of the Dead was
outstanding, while this one fails almost completely on every level.
Remember Gus Van Sant's remake of Psycho and Roland Emmerich's remake
of Godzilla? This turd is somewhere in between, trying to step in the
footsteps of greatness, but, like a zombie, exhibiting no life of its
own. This zombie movie is simply, well, dead.

I suggest you go rent the original Night of the Living Dead, or either
version of Dawn of the Dead, or Return of the Living Dead or 28 Days
Later. These are the zombie movies that will stand the test of time.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is truly an insult to George Romero. The acting and the
zombie effect were barely above normal but the story is so weak. It's
essentially a zombie movie taking place in a pot farm. The pot humors
aren't funny at all and they never ever gotten around to barricading
the windows.

Yes, they added nudity but was that remotely necessary?

The ending was also very weak with Barb just standing there even though
she was holding a gun and could have run. They had a perfectly good
movie from which to base this movie on and they still managed to botch
it up. I really do wonder about all these direct-to-DVD horror movies
that have no reasons for being made and can only trick people into
buying because there are no reviews.
<|_=00=_|>
Some movies suck and others suck the life out of the fabric of the
universe -- the latter is true for Night of the Living Dead 3D. High
school talent show level acting, oatmeal face makeup, and dialog
written in crayola on construction paper, NOTLD 3D has everything
except for charm, wit, or that occasional saving grace of 'B' film,
unintentional humor. Look! It's bad acting in 3-Dimensions, rather than
the plain ole two we mere mortals are stuck with until the
holo-projectors show up in the cineplex.

On a scale of one to ten, -200 would seem a fair score, but I feel IMDb
needs a more quantitative rating system for films that defy rating -
The Gigli Scale. The higher a film rates on the Gigli Scale, the more
soul-sucking, time and space fabric ripping it is. While only Gigli
currently scores a perfect ten on the Gigli Scale, Night of the Living
Dead 3D certainly is a worthy contender to dethroning the current world
champion of suck.
<|_=00=_|>
Barb (Brianna Brown) and her brother Johnny (Ken Ward) travel to the
country for the funeral services of their aunt, but they arrive late
and drive direct to the cemetery. They see the location empty, but
sooner they are attacked by zombies. Johnny escapes in his car leaving
Barb alone, but she is rescued by the drug dealer and college student
Ben (Joshua DesRoches). He drives his motorcycle to the Cooper farm,
and the patriarch Henry Cooper (Greg Travis) does not give credit to
Barb. When the farmhouse is under siege of a group of flesh-eaters
zombies, the local mortician Gerald Tovar Jr. (Sid Haig) arrives and
tells a scary story about the origin of the zombies.

I do not like remakes, but every now and then I see good ones. I bought
this "previously-seen" DVD in a rental expecting to watch a good remake
of the George Romero's greatest classic. My first deception was in the
beginning of the movie, indicating that it would be necessary a pair of
glasses to see in 3D that was not delivered with the DVD. After
watching this movie, I realized that it is an offense to the original
"Night of the Living Dead". The insulting story is absolutely stupid,
with terrible dialogs, unnecessary nudity and a ridiculous conclusion;
the direction is awful, with an inadequate pace associated to some weak
performances. When the group is trapped in the farmhouse, most of the
windows have glasses, and the group never protects with wood or
wardrobes or whatever. In the end, better off watching the classic
again, and I do not know how George Romero could authorize the release
of this crap using his name and the original idea. My vote is three.

Title (Brazil): "A Noite dos Mortos Vivos 3D" ("The Night of the Living
Dead 3D")
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is utter and complete garbage from start to finish and goes
absolutely no where in the 80 minutes that it runs. I thought it could
be good despite the fact that it is a remake. I like Sid Haig a lot and
the 3D idea sounded fairly good. I was totally wrong and am now hitting
myself for watching this catastrophe. It's so bad that it plays out
like an Uwe Boll film.

I think the producers realized that they had a crap script so they
tried to save it by making the film 3D. The 3D does absolutely nothing
for this film. The story is ridiculous and goes no where, The acting is
miserable with the exception of Sid Haig, and there wasn't even one
memorable scene in the entire film. The only reason it doesn't get a
1/10 is because of Sid Haig.

Don't see this movie. It's not worth your time or your attention. If
you've blind bought it, do yourself a favor and throw it away without
watching it.
<|_=00=_|>
this movie is from far the worst zombie movie i've seen, and i've seen
Bio-zombies...

the cast is totally wrong, i was attempting something good due to the
fact that Sid Haig was on the list, but the guy is only appearing from
5 to 10 minutes in the movie... wadda? if you like drug jokes, you'll
be served, lots and lots of them...

where's the black hero??? never mind...

the make-ups are way too average, the 3D is somewhere but not in the
movie... or yes it is as a matter of fact, a good drug gag is related
to it...

and a nice glimpse at the cameraman's shadow, what more can you ask
for...

Just for the record, a Romero's zombie CANNOT run, even less talk like
the dead couch potato does...

i'm sad for mr. george romero... sorry man
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was absolutely terrible. Bad acting, bad special effects,
ridiculous uninspired writing, truly an insult to legacy of Romero in
every way.

Not much more to be said, an embarrassing effort not even worthy of
scifi channel status.

Do yourself a favor and pass this weak effort by. I diddn't even want
to finish it, but I did and I can honestly say it never gets any
better.

The only way to make this enjoyable would be to give it the Mystery
Science Theater treatment, then it would be tolerable. No one in this
movie was even slightly believable and had the combined acting depth of
a puddle, INCLUDING their poster boy.
<|_=00=_|>
GENERAL COMMENTS: 

The original Night Of The Living Dead had blatantly amateurish acting
yet the film worked in spite of it. This remake has truly incompetent,
amateurish acting and doesn't work because everything else about the
film is also incompetent. The direction is static, basically place a
camera in position and film some idiots talking. The writing is
absolutely atrocious and makes you squirm, like watching a grade school
play where you feel bad for everyone involved. The zombie makeup is
truly amateurish as well and the zombies are the kind that you could
run around and tickle. This piece of rubbish rivals the Uwe Bolle films
for sheer incompetence. 

RECOMMENDATION: No. Avoid at all costs.

ACTING: amateurish 

SCRIPT: terrible dialog 

VISUAL: rubber suit zombies 

SIMILAR FILMS: Night of the Living Dead
