
I never found Greenaways attempts at serious drama very convincing,
after all, his films were less about people than about the attempt to
catch the world in some sort of system. So for me, The Tulse Luper
Suitcases are a return to form: labyrinthine, witty, and formally the
most surreal and over-the-top features Greenaway ever made. Greenaway
deliberately dissolves any notion of narrative closure: His film is
about the longing for a system that covers the world and at the same
time the futility of such an attempt. Tulse Luper leaves 92 suitcases
in his life, filled with children, candles, coins; honey, water, gold;
body parts, Ingres drawings and 55 men on horseback. In a way, he owns
the world in these suitcases, but that does not make him free: He
spends most of his life in prison, and each episode of the film (Part 2
covering Episodes 4 - 6) is one prison. Also, the film detonates any
attempt to capture the world in full by its form: There are windows in
the images that show alternative takes of the same shot, there are
repetitions, doublings of text in spoken and written form, the same
text spoken in different manners at the same time - it's wild.
Greenaway has done this kind of thing before, and it always looked
redundant to me. Here it makes sense: The world is just too big, and
you have to decide how to relate to it: Either you are paranoiac,
trying to piece everything together by Greenaways absurd classification
systems, firmly believing in some confused master plan; or you decide
that everything is nonsense anyway - but then, what about the links
between things, the narrative? I decided to just go with the flow, to
enjoy the perfidies and little moments, the beauty and inventiveness of
the images, like a complex, multi-layered symphony (the almost
perpetual music made that even easier). This is the first time
Greenaways ongoing talk about a new cinematic language makes sense to
me - although, compared with Godard, it's not as revolutionary as he
might imagine. Greenaway, of course, has more to say than just things
about classification systems: His dark and desperate world view was
never more convincing. Violence and death strike arbitrarily, dumb
sexual desires rule history, and the best option you have is try to
stand aside and make sarcastic comments. There is oppression,
injustice, obsession, gender confusion; nothing is stable, and Tulse's
obsession with classification and lists is just a desperate grasp at a
world that constantly slips away and bites back. At least, Greeneway
makes the attempt look good, and I really enjoyed it.
<|_=00=_|>
As I suspected, this is starting to get tiring. I don't like the term
"self-indulgent," it's not a particularly useful criticism. But if any
movie can be called self-indulgent, this is the one. Greenaway is
crawling really, really far up his own ass here. That doesn't
necessarily mean you can't enjoy it, I'm just pretty sure no one can
enjoy it as much as Greenaway can. What I enjoyed most of all were the
striking, original filmmaking techniques. Some of the effects going on
are extremely cool and not exactly like anything I've seen before. As
for the content, it's a mixed bag. In the first part ("Episode 4") I
was rather bored and couldn't really follow anything. Episode 5 (in the
cinema) was quite a bit more compelling, and features the most direct
references to Greenaway's body of work. My attention started to wander
again during episode 6. It was nice to see appearances by Ana Torrent
and Isabella Rossellini, and certain moments were terrific, but the
film as a whole is hard to concentrate on. Not really looking forward
to part 3, but I might as well finish for completism's sake.
<|_=00=_|>
Peter Greenaway sustains the same way of montage of the Tulse Luper
Part 01, but now the screenplay became more dynamic. It appears that he
got a better rhythm in his editing, because I watched the movie and it
came to the end as fast as the thoughts that he intercalated in this
second part. The subjective text in the screen are now more rich of
details and connections, and looks like that have been applied more
effort to get a better external photography than in the first movie.
Well, people say that Peter Greenaway does some semi-intellectual
shitty movies, but it's obviously not true. Anyone who truly enjoys
watching Cinema as a piece of art that can be bend and smashed and
broke into new ways of perception knows that every new movie of
Greenaway is a enjoyable surprise.
<|_=00=_|>

I have only seen part 2.

This film was a disappointment and I think it was a waste of the
production effort. The production itself is well done; the editing and
multi-media composition was well executed. I thought it resembled some
of the better interactive CD-ROM experiences. 

Where the film fails is that is both boring and offensive. Boring in
that the events don't have depth and don't create any emotional (and
just a little intellectual) stimulation. Offensive in that the film
uses sex and violence for shock value without building anything else
onto them.

