
I was prepared to cringe at this Atlas Shrugged, universally panned by
the critics for its low budget and no-name cast. Instead, I was pretty
impressed. The story was faithful to the book, and the message and
narrative clear, with the producers wisely sidestepping most of Rand's
stilted polemics.

Yes, the budget did confine most shooting to interiors, but there was
enough "big sky" material, railroad operations, and steel mill shots to
give the film some scope. And the SFX and CG used in the supertrain
shots, which probably absorbed half the budget, were worth every penny.

The cast, and especially Taylor Shilling, who played Dagny, and Grant
Bowler (Rearden) did a great job.

Overall, I liked AS, and look forward to the sequels. I just hope the
producers can raise the financing to make them.
<|_=00=_|>
It's been many years since I read Ayn Rand's iconic novel, but it all
came back to me as I watched this movie unfold. Indeed, the characters
have more depth and complexity in the movie version.

Most impressive is the production quality. I'm told this is a low
budget movie, but it doesn't look that way. It is a visual treat.

The story line is true to the book but updated and set in a modern
context that makes it feel fresh and exciting.

Every single performance is first rate, but the leads are truly
standouts.

I can't wait for Parts II and III.
<|_=00=_|>
Having read the book, seen the movie, and read a representative sample
of user reviews, I feel I can confidently make a few points that may
help those who haven't seen the movie yet.

The negative user reviews found here can all be placed in one of three
distinct categories: (1. Those who disagree with Rand's philosophy for
whatever personal reasons they have and would despise the movie for
that reason alone, even if it were a cinematic masterpiece (it's not --
not bad under the circumstances, but "The Fountainhead" it's not); (2.
Those who agree with Rand's philosophy and enjoyed the book, but are
repulsed by the relatively low-budget treatment of the film and the
somewhat stunted screen writing that isn't entirely faithful to the
original work, and (3. Those who are completely ignorant of Rand's work
and are seeing the film and judging it in a relative vacuum (these
negative reviews do, in my opinion, have a certain merit inasmuch as
the film doesn't really stand on its own as something that would appeal
to the general movie-going audience).

That said, I enjoyed the movie. I agree with Rand's philosophy (not the
"all-about-me" world view that her dissenters accuse her of espousing),
so seeing it on the big screen is refreshing for me. The main faults I
find with it are no doubt due to condensing roughly 350-400 pages of
book into about 90 minutes of film without butchering it beyond
recognition (films adapted from Stephen King's works generally have the
same faults) compounded by a woefully inadequate budget. That the
finished product came out as good as it did (budget limitations
notwithstanding) is a testament to the production team.

In summary, the book is far superior to the movie (as is almost always
the case), but I found the movie to be, frankly, a better adaptation
than I expected and well worth seeing -- if one can identify with or at
least appreciate the ideology presented.
<|_=00=_|>
I have to admit that it's been years since I read the book (required
high school reading) and while I struggled to get through it, I did
appreciate the concepts of a dystopian United States, the philosophy of
Objectivism and the idea that civilization and society simply cannot
continue to exist where there is no creativity.

Almost none of this is covered in this first part of the trilogy. Don't
get me wrong, the film covers a lot of ground, in fact it's
front-loaded with heavy doses of exposition. The problem is the film is
shot like a PBS made-for-TV movie (mainly a series of talking heads)
and the stiff dialog is lifelessly delivered by TV actors that lack big
screen presence.

Now, don't mistake me for one of those people who feel the subject
matter of the book is too didactic for mass appeal, I just think this
low-budget and amateur version lacks the fire and fury that Rand's
novel deserves.

I'm not saying not to see it, just avoid the mistake I made. Go in with
no expectations.

Hell, it might even make you want to pick up the book and give it a
read.
<|_=00=_|>
I was convinced Atlas Shrugged could not be put on film, but this movie
proved me wrong. It has a contemporary look and feel, while retaining
the Art Deco elegance of Rand's novel. The acting is superb,
particularly Taylor Schilling as Dagny Taggart and Grant Bowler as Hank
Rearden. Bowler manages to cram more meaning into a half-cocked eyebrow
than most actors in a dozen lines of dialogue, and Shilling captures
the sleek, cold elegance of Dagny, while giving just a hint of the
passion simmering beneath the surface. Indeed, all the performances are
impeccable. 

This is a beautiful movie to watch, with sets, locations and costumes
that are both gorgeous and convincing. The run of the John Galt Line is
thrilling, and when it crossed the bridge made of Rearden Metal, I
wanted to stand up and cheer.

Director Paul Johansson (who also plays John Galt) obviously knew
exactly what he wanted to put on the screen, and manged to do it. He is
faithful to Rand's story, and in particular to the philosophical
message that is at the heart of the work, while maintaining the
excitement of the plot. 

During her lifetime, Rand did not allow the novel to be made into a
film, perhaps for fear that the movie would not be faithful to the
book. It's too bad that she didn't live to see this movie because, I
believe, she would be surprised and pleased by how well it captures the
essence of her work. This is clearly a labor of love that will help
make Rand's ideas accessible to many who have not yet read her work.
And it's exciting and rewarding for those of us who have been Rand fans
for many years. Can't wait for Parts 2 and 3.
<|_=00=_|>
I went into this film as a blank slate - someone completely unfamiliar
with Ayn Rand and her philosophy. I am aware that there are a number of
people who cite her novel Atlas Shrugged as a life-changing blue print
for living and society and others who dismiss it as complete bilge with
incredibly destructive properties.

I cannot attest to how faithful this film remains to the source novel,
but I can attest to the fact that it is an utterly deadening,
mind-numbing and thoroughly unenjoyable viewing experience. If I
understand the gist of the Rand philosophy embodied in Atlas Shrugged,
it seems to be that personal self-aggrandizement, selfishness and greed
are the most important aspects of society and should be encouraged,
while the average working man is so much forgettable dross to be
dismissed and trod over. I believe Michael Douglas encapsulated this in
a memorable speech back in 1987s Wall Street. It only took him a moment
to convey it, whereas it takes Atlas Shrugged the entire film (plus a
projected two more) to convey the exact same message. If I am incorrect
about the Rand philosophy, then blame the film as those I went with
came away with the same impression. I find it deeply disturbing that
anyone finds this lunacy a blue print for society.

The story is pretty much a bunch of nonsense about uncompromising
glacial blond Dagny Taggart teaming with Hank Reardon to build a new
high speed rail system in the US against the obstacles placed there by
the villainous government regulations. Anyone who disagrees with Dagny
and Hank are depicted as either weaklings, villains or preferably both.

The story is purportedly set in the near future, but it is utterly
laughable because it seems to exist in a hermetic bubble that has no
relation to the world we actually live in. The fact that so much of the
story depends on the success of high speed rail transit is ironic
considering that conservatives, libertarians and Randians alike are
currently trying to throw assorted obstacles into the path of such a
plan currently being developed. The lunacy the film spouts about
regulation and Big Government is pure hilarity considering that
regulation has become progressively extinct in the US since the 1980s
and it has proved to be to the detriment of the country not to its
success. The film fails to mention anything about such modern
conveniences as the internet and mentions nothing about the progress of
other industrialized nations. Whereas we are currently looking at a
corrupt government weakened by corporate brown-nosers answering to the
highest business bidder, Atlas Shrugged seems to present such a thing
as a utopia.

The film looks suspiciously like a made for TV movie, but made on the
cheap. The cast is a wash-out with an array of unknowns and barely
familiar faces trying to invest some degree of passion or emotion into
the proceedings to little success. Taylor Schilling is hopelessly out
of her element in the central role and she is ill-supported by the
remainder of the cast. Director Paul Johansson casts himself as the
elusive John Galt, an enigmatic mystery man behind the disappearance of
the supposed cream of the crop in business, but this plot thread is so
uncompelling as to be rendered comatose.

Laughably, despite the reported nadir of the country in the film,
everyone we meet is wealthy, well-to-do, dressed to the nines and
impressed with themselves to the nth degree. The "action" is basically
a series of business meetings set in different random places. If you
think your average staff meeting is provocative and sexy, then this is
definitely the film for you. Imagine an episode of Dallas or Dynasty
with lower production values, an absence of the campy characters that
make the shows a guilty pleasure, and completely set in
boardrooms/meeting areas and you have Atlas Shrugged down pat.
Considering one must imagine the producers had some degree of passion
to bring this to the screen, it is woefully absent on screen. The film
lumbers to an exhilarating crescendo wherein we see people ride a
train...quickly. This realization of this dream is so much for Dagny
and the married Hank that they must consummate their romantic ardor in
a scene with all of the erotic splendor of a memorandum. The complete
ennui which dogs this film leaves the viewer soporific by the time it
grinds to a halt.

Based on this initial effort, one can only wish that the world will not
be victimized by Parts 2 and 3. As drama, it fails miserably. As a
propaganda piece, it is more stillborn than the least interesting story
from Pravda. As a life-changing film, one can only pity those who feel
there is something of depth or worth here. Over the weekend I decided
to give Rand another chance and caught The Fountainhead with Gary
Cooper and Patricia Neal. The story was more nonsense which is
purportedly about an uncompromising architect, but seems much more
interested in jackhammers plunging into the earth while Patricia Neal
lasciviously looks on posing provocatively in her impressive foundation
garments next to the sky. It was foolish, but you know what? At least
the overt sexuality was fun and Neal was amazing looking, both
ingredients missing from this rotten mess.
<|_=00=_|>
I have little to no knowledge of Ayn Rand or her philosophy, but if
this odious cheap-looking stool sample is an accurate depiction of her
feverishly acclaimed novel, then there are a lot of delusional
psychotic people in the world.

The plot and action has all the momentum of winter sludge.
Self-impressed icy blonde Dagny Taggart struts and preens all over the
place in some daft effort to convince us that she is "uncompromising"
and "bold" as she attempts to pursue high speed rail with an amazing
new super-steel against the wicked machinations of the almighty
government regulation and evil unions. The film is so laughably black
and white in its depictions of everything that it fails to attain even
the depth of a Dick and Jane preschool book. In short, Dagny and her
married semi-lover/compatriot Hank Rearden are pinnacles of brilliance,
while the rest of the world is comprised of either villains trying to
stop them or an offensively simplistic depiction of the average working
American as slovenly unimaginative ingrates whose fates are of no
concern so long as Dagny gets her way. Given that Dagny and Hank are
supposed to be such larger-than-life legends, it comes as a real shame
that neither has a distinct personality.

Incomprehensibly, the film is set in the future, yet the action centers
on the importance of rail transport. It would be hilarious if the film
obviously did not regard itself with such outlandish relevance and
undeserved reverence. Minimal effort is made to update the story, with
little to no acknowledgments of such issues as air travel, the internet
and the technical advancements made since Rand wrote her tome. The
material would have fared far better if it was set in the past, but
then again that would only have exacerbated the idiocy that nothing
predicted in the novel has come to pass and, in fact, many of the
policies the book/film seems to advocate so strongly for have led to
very real disasters out in the real world. Of course, that doesn't stop
this myopic piece of fiction from steadfastly advocating them anyway.

The country presented in Atlas Shrugged is supposed to be a notch above
a wasteland, yet nearly every character that promenades across the
screen seems to be a billboard for wealth and privilege. Admittedly,
the film has little interest in the unwashed masses that it hold
beneath contempt because it reasons they have no valuable contributions
to make in the grand scheme of things. The events that do not unfold on
the rails do so in ritzy clubs and swanky boardrooms, with the
characters freely imbibing and trading such banter that sounds like it
came from a particularly dry article of Money Magazine. A lot of what
they spout is suitably incomprehensible gobbledy-gook, but then we
average folk are not supposed to comprehend this level of brilliance.
Given that this is only Part 1 of a planned trilogy, one can only hope
that the action speeds up to a crawl by Part 2.

The look and feel of the film definitely smacks of cheapness, and Paul
Johansson's stagnant direction is a further detraction. The only cast
members I vaguely recognized were Michael O'Keefe and Michael Lerner,
both of whom have fallen a long way from their forgotten glory days as
Oscar-nominated actors. Taylor Schilling and Grant Bowler are the
ostensible leads of the piece - both are undemonstrative and
forgettable. It is admittedly difficult to portray larger-than-life
ideologues, but neither Schilling nor Bowler have the charisma to
bridge the mammoth personality black holes that pass for characters. If
you think they lack as singular characters, as a couple they have all
the charm of inanimate titanium rods. Their "love" scene is not only
one of the most chastely filmed in the history of cinema, but has all
of the heat and passion one associates with clenching a block of ice
between one's butt cheeks. The film does not so much build to a
conclusion or a "cliffhanger", so much as it resembles a comatose
patient that expires on the operating table in front of us with no
warning or fanfare.

For all of the film's bloated self-importance, it comes off a lot like
that old relative that everyone dreads showing up at family events, who
talks too loud and has a ragingly unpopular opinion on everything, and
whose grip on reality is tenuous at the best of times. Yes, much like
that relative, Atlas Shrugged is in dire need of being put in mothballs
or consigned to the old age home of broken philosophies where it can
mercifully fade away into the oblivion it so deserves. In the meantime,
for those who similarly endured the torment of this film, you have my
sympathy. And for fans of the film, you have my pity and I sincerely
hope your therapist is a good one.
<|_=00=_|>
How is Atlas Shrugged different from any other movie? Why has is taken
54 years to bring Ayn Rand's epic 1,100 page novel to the big screen?
Why is it lacking participation from the A-list Hollywood names once
attached to it, Anjelina Jolie, Charlize Theron, Robert Redford, Clint
Eastwood, Maggie Gyllenhaal, and Faye Dunaway? Why did it open on only
300 screens nationwide, and why was that opening on April 15, 2011,
coincident with the third annual Tax Day Tea Party? Why are the
founders and top executives of the nation's most successful industrial
empires disappearing without a trace, one by one? Why ask useless
questions? Who is John Galt? Because they have answers, that's why.
Those who have read Rand's 1957 magnum opus know the answer to the last
of those questions. This posting will suggest an answer to the first,
which may in turn offer clues to the others.

So, what makes Atlas Shrugged different? It takes place in the
near-term future, 2016 (a departure from the book). That's not it; we
have seen thousands of movies about an imagined future. The nation is
in the worst economic recession in history. Nothing new there. People
of former means are living in the streets, homeless and destitute,
while the captains of industry and owners of large corporations grow
rich. No departure from the Hollywood norm there. The story is told
from the points of view of those ultra-rich tycoons and moguls, the
movie's sympathetic characters. There it is. Never before has a major
Hollywood movie departed from its pet formula in which the "bad guys"
are the evil rich. Not until now has a movie examined the question, why
do we hate the founders of corporations, and why do we blame them for
unemployment, when they are the ones who create jobs, not destroy them?

Atlas Shrugged asks the viewer to think and understand, similar to
other business- themed files like Wall Street and Rollover. Readers may
be disappointed that the monumental size of the novel does not afford
time for the screenplay to take the user into certain folds of the full
story, since many characters must be introduced, and much of the
political/business climate must be laid down as foundation. As a
result, much of the screenplay consists of dry dialog, and much of the
action from the novel is absent, presented in exposition such as
newspaper headlines. The train wreck with which the book introduces us
to heroine Dagny Taggart's heroic can-do character is shown only on a
television news screen, and mentioned only once much later in dialog.
The story of the Twentieth Century Motor Company's failure is given in
brief narration by Hank Rearden. The back-story relationship between
Dagny and Francisco D'Anconia is not explored at all. Eddie Willers is
reduced to little more than an office messenger, periodically updating
the principles on the latest story developments.

Dagny and Rearden themselves are played with dry professionalism by
Taylor Schilling and Paul Johansson, owing to their characters'
purely-business attitudes toward life. Only in the final cliffhanging
scene does Schilling display the real passion of Dagny, in a single
exclamation reminiscent of Scarlett O'Hara's anguished cry which closes
the first half of Gone with the Wind. Some familiar character actors
are present: Graham Beckel gives a compelling performance as oil
magnate Ellis Wyatt, as do John Polito as steel competitor Orren Boyle
and Michael Lerner as Washington lobbyist Wesley Mouch (conspicuously
not pronounced, "mooch"). Rebecca Wisocky is delightfully unlikeable
Rearden's ungrateful wife of 10 years, Lillian, inducing chuckles among
viewers as she delivers snide, condescending comments directed at her
successful husband, from whom she is nonetheless not too proud to
freeload.

The cinematography is extraordinary, particularly during a montage in
which the inaugural run of the new Rio Norte train crosses breathtaking
views of Colorado. This movie gives us heavy industrial shots such as
rail yards and steel mills, not as hideous rusted eyesores but as the
industrialists see them: glorious grand machinery producing goods and
pumping wealth into the nation's economy. That is another way in which
this movie is different - its view that industry is not evil, enemy to
all that is good and healthy, but rather the foundation upon which
modern society is built.

The biggest disappointment is the sudden ending, to those who have not
read the book and were expecting more than "half a movie." In reality,
it is one-third, as the filmmakers have divided the story in same
manner Ayn Rand divided the novel: into three parts. Atlas Shrugged,
then is a trilogy, in which Part 1 only begins to hint at the answer to
the pervasive question, "Who is John Galt?" The closing credits
veritably beg for Part 2.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie isn't awful, but it isn't that good.

To anyone who has read the book, the movie lacks in several ways. The
movie jumps in right at the point where the Taggert Transcontinental
crashes after derailing. There's no background on the peoples' lives.
You don't understand the relationships between Dagney, James (her
brother), Francisco (her friend and first love) and Eddie (her friend
and employee). You don't understand how much Dagney loves the railroad
and how she took any job at the railroad when she was younger. It
doesn't show how much the employees respect her versus James. You don't
understand how intelligent and creative Francisco is and how he
respects his ancestor who sacrificed everything for his love and his
future generations so you're not confused (like you should be) why he's
acting like he is.

I didn't get the "feel" of how desperate the general public deals with
everyday life. Yes, there were a lot of street people, but the viewer
doesn't understand why or that not everyone is lazy and/or greedy. You
don't "feel" the disintegration of everyone's life and the country. You
see superficial greedy, politicians but you miss the fear in most
everybody's eyes. Also, it doesn't show how hard Dagney works to save
the railroad by building the "John Galt Line." It doesn't show her
frustrations or the long hours she puts in and how weary she becomes,
but doesn't give up. Also, her office in the basement of the Taggert
Building is sparse and cramped in the book which adds to her strength,
but in the movie it looks just like her regular office.

The one scene that I think is important to the story is when Dagney is
working very late one night and she sees a shadowy figure walk up to
the door of her office and she thinks it might be Hank Reardon. The
figure paces back and forth and then walks away. I think it's important
to the story because later you find out it was John Galt and how he
knew that it wasn't the right time to talk to her. The movie ends just
like the book (part 1) with Dagney screaming "no!" at Wyatt's Torch.
The movie is only 97 minutes long so they could have added more depth
to the movie without tiring out the audience. 

I don't think the movie will recoup the expenses of making the movie.
If not, it doesn't seem they will truly continue with part 2 or 3.
<|_=00=_|>
warning: very mild spoilers

It is difficult to believe Atlas Shrugged could be made into a movie at
all. To imagine it could be made into a movie for $10 million dollars
in only several months is mind boggling. Yet there it was, on the
screen. To be fair, the movie being released April 15th, 2011 is only
the first third of the book, with parts 2 and 3 scheduled for the same
date in 2012 and 2013. Also to be fair, if I didn't realize how
difficult this novel would be to convert to film, and if I didn't know
how tiny was its production budget, I might subtract a star or two.

Many characters, locations and events had to be eliminated to squeeze
the first third of this 1150 page book into a 110 minute movie. They
chose well what to retain and how to present it. While the novel was
set in the 1950s, the movie is set about 5 years in the future. This
was a stunningly risky decision, but to my great surprise they pulled
it off quite well. This surely saved them millions in budget.

None of the actors are well known to me, though I thought a few of them
looked vaguely familiar. The only actor I could place was Quark from
"Star Trek Deep Space 9", which is rather humorous since he was buried
deep in plastic, rubber and makeup in that series. However, the acting
was almost uniformly good, and sometimes excellent. In particular Grant
Bowler was a spot-on perfect Hank Rearden, as was Rebecca Wisocky as
his crafty and vile wife. But other actors also impressed during their
limited screen time.

One incredibly difficult aspect of making this movie is the inability
for a movie to do what novelists regularly do... explain extensively
what their characters are thinking and feeling. So by necessity this
film implies what the characters are thinking and feeling with subtle
cues, and by placing the characters in difficult situations and letting
the audience watch how they react. This makes it impossible to include
the kind of explicit exposition of philosophy that exists in the novel,
but... this is a movie after all, and no plausible alternative existed.
Besides, anyone who finds the movie compelling can read the novel and
read plenty of explicit philosophy. Furthermore, fans of the novel
already know what the actors are thinking and feeling, so this
audio-visual presentation is the perfect complement to the book they
already consumed.

Though the movie was excellent, I would have made a few changes. And
indeed, it is possible some of the more trivial of these might be
changed before formal release. First, I would not state in the movie
that the current date is 2016, or any other specific date. The novel is
timeless, and should remain that way on film as much as practical.

As I recall the novel, John Galt is not seen until quite late in the
book, except anonymously in informal lunches with Eddie Willers. In
fact, one interesting mystery for the reader was guessing whether John
Galt was a real human, or just an accidental name plugged into the
popular saying "Who is John Galt?", which was a popular synonym for
"futility", "resignation", "hopelessness" and "who knows". However,
they chose to make John Galt a very clearly real character in the movie
(albeit never clearly seen). I don't understand why they did this, and
unless I'm missing something, I wish they hadn't.

I can't ding the movie for this, but probably the worst part of the
movie was... it ended after only 1/3 of the story is told. But that's
true of many long stories, from the "Star Wars" saga to the "Lord Of
The Rings" trilogy and so forth. But damn was it annoying to think we
must wait another year for part 2, and an additional year for part 3.
Perhaps adding to the bummer was the fact that part 1 ended on a very
downer note (kind of like "Empire Strikes Back" did). Poor Dagny has to
endure her pain for a whole year before she can move forward again. Oh
well, that's life in the movies.

I hope this film works as well for people who never read the epic
"Atlas Shrugged" novel, but I'm not sure I can answer that. I suspect
it is compelling enough to get many to read the book, and learn why so
many consider why this work even more crucially important today than it
was ~54 years ago when the novel was published.

Definitely go see "Atlas Shrugged" at the theater on April 15, 2011 if
it is released on a screen near you. If it isn't, call your local
theaters and demand they bring it to your town. If all else fails,
presumably a DVD will be released in a few months.
