
Why are the previews so blah for a movie that is so awesome!! Everyone
should know what an excellent movie this is. It is engaging and funny
from moment one, original, and well-acted. I wish the movie was doing
itself as good press as it deserves!

For anyone that loved The Princess Bride, Labyrinth, and other truly
funny and original fantasy adventure, this is one of the great ones.
Robert DeNiro is hysterical. Relative newcomer Charlie Cox is an
incredible leading man. Claire Danes is fantastic as always. Michelle
Pfiefer is making quite a splash with her recent returns to the screen.
There are also a lot of wonderful moments from minor characters...even
down to facial expressions.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to a small advance screening of this movie on July 19th, knowing
no more than the names of a few of the actors and that it was a
fantasy/adventure quest of some sort.

The plot line really is nothing like I have seen, and a unique story is
certainly appreciated with everything else that is currently in or
coming soon to theaters. In spite of what first impressions may give,
it isn't cheesy, corny, tacky, or ridiculous, and is actually highly
entertaining and funny. The flow is quite well done, nothing seems
rushed or dragged out. The soundtrack, for lack of better words, is
magical and adds much to the film, as opposed to simply filling the
silence as often happens in movies or TV. And even though I might have
known what was coming at points, I still couldn't bear to stop watching
the screen; to my knowledge, not a single person left the theater
during the entire movie.

My one gripe is that there seems to be almost no marketing for this
film, and as brilliant as it is I can't figure out why.
<|_=00=_|>
Stardust Another Guarded Review (originally written June 15, 2007)

The marketing machine has only just begun for this one (no site yet?
wth?), so I doubt most of you have heard about it. In truth, I hadn't
either (sort of). When I got the posting, I thought it was another code
name and was actually worried it was Transformers, one of the movies I
wanted to see when not working so I can enjoy it 100% as a mere mortal
movie-goer. Turns out, it wasn't Transformers and I had been aware of
this movie way back when as 'that Neil Gaiman movie'. 

What is it about? Well, in short, it's a Gaiman fairy tale about a boy
and a fallen star. Any more than that and I'd be giving away plot info
which is (a) a breach of contract, and (b) spoiling your fun. If you
really want to know what it's about, go buy the book. Rumour has it,
Gaiman might be something of a writer.

Not knowing what to expect in a movie can be so pleasant if the
surprise is worthwhile. And for this one, it certainly was. This
screening was 'special' in that it included not just film critics, but
also exhibitors (they rarely have a mixed screening) and local
sci-fi/fantasy folks. So, you know the expected audience, right? I
mean, with this crowd and the title of Stardust, I knew what to expect.

Oh how sweetly wrong I was.

Yes, it is a fairy tale written by an author famed in comic bookdom
(and even books without pictures, if those truly exist). But it was not
Lord of Rings. It was not even another Lord of the Rings wannabe (ahem,
Eragon). It was much more intimate than all that.

But, like Lord of the Rings, it was the, well, humanism of the film
which sells the fantastical qualities. It's surely a romantic tale, but
with generous splashes of humour. Not slapstick Shrekian humour. It's
more along the lines of dramedy than comedy. Before I go on, let's do
this movie review thing.

Acting is, in the very least, good. It's always hard to say more than
that for fantasy films but I do believe there were significant superbly
acted roles. Michelle Pfieffer is not, sadly, one of those. She plays a
villain, and she does the job. Nothing special. Rupert Everett, though,
he was a real jerk. That is, a great villain. Peter O'Toole is, well,
Peter frickin' O'Toole -- which is marvellous. Ricky Gervais is
perfectly cast and shows why. Robert De Niro seemed to be having too
much fun for the most part. When he wanted to deliver the goods,
though, he did. And Charlie Cox (who?) as the lead character was fine
surprise from a guy I ain't never heard of.

Claire Danes. Claire Danes. Claire Danes. I've always been of mixed
opinion with her. She can be great, and then she can seem to miss the
mark. In this, she's the former. And she is, quite literally, the star
of this film. Sure, her accent stumbles here and there. And, yes, she's
not as good as she can be when Cox isn't in the scene. However ...
well, see for yourself.

Special effects are muted yet accomplished, and only significant where
they should be. Best flying ship yet -- sorry Potter. Direction is
light-hearted and flows nicely. Cinematography could have been better
but not everyone films in New Zealand. All else is top bracket.

And now that that's done...

...the writing. Oh, the writing! Neil, you devil. It's hard in today's
climate to do anything original and, at first, you begin to wonder. A
kingdom, a dying King, a boy out to prove his own worth, witches,
ghosts, a quest (or three) -- what's new? But Gaiman's story draws you
in with its surface familiarity only to subvert it all into a sweetly
original tale of a boy and his heart. And, though you suspect how it's
all going to turn out, you begin to wonder in the third act and -- if
you're me -- find yourself pulled into the rousing climactic
confrontation and hoping for the best. In the end, you'll find this
story, this movie, is what all fairy tales should be but all too often
are not. Fantastical and real.

(I wish I could talk about Septimus vs Tristan but I won't ruin it for
you. For those who read the book, rest assured, it's done properly.)

Those I spoke to afterwards had the same impression I did. A great film
for all ages to enjoy, and the new {WITHHELD} for this generation. The
blank gets filled-in only after the movie is in wide release because,
well, you might be expecting it. You'll know when you walk out, anyway.
I sincerely hope Stardust doesn't get lost among the tentpoles. Even if
it does, it'll be my pleasure to push into the hands of everyone I
know.

---

Forgot to add the {WITHHELD} reveal. I'm a few years late, but ... "A
great film for all ages to enjoy, and the new THE PRINCESS BRIDE for
this generation." 

Perhaps a bit lofty an assessment but I'm still confident that years
from now, there will be the same "Oh, I love that movie," response to
this as there is now for The Princess Bride.

(Edited for grammar and stuff. Still rather spastic in tone and flow. I
am not Gaiman. Duh.)
<|_=00=_|>
I was one of about 200 people that was lucky enough to see an early
sneak of this film.

Stardust follows Tristan a young man on a quest to find a fallen star
and bring it back to the woman he loves in order to prove his love for
her. The only catch is that the star has fallen on the other side of
the wall, a doorway between England and a magical kingdom known as
Stormhold.

This film was just a joy to watch, it has something in it for everyone,
all of the action scenes are played out beautifully and the comedy is
spread out through the film making it funny without being corny. If I
had to compare the likes to another film it would probably have to be
The Princess Bride, a classic.

All the performances are outstanding, the beautiful Claire Danes makes
you love her in her portrayal of Yvaine the trusting naive star and
under rated Michelle Pfeiffer delivers a stellar over the top
performance as Larnia...but the performance to talk about is Robert De
Niro...In every scene that he is in hands down he steals the show...

If you are in the mood for a funny fantasy love story this is the film.
Guys don't get turned off by the description there is enough action
comedy and not to mention lots of eye candy with Claire Danes and
Michelle Pfeiffer to keep you entertained throughout. The
cinematography is dead on and keeps with the feel of the film...nothing
about the film seems forced.
<|_=00=_|>
OK here is how I do this. I grade movies on 10 components. Each
component will inherently start with 5 points. It can then lose or gain
5 points for a possible 10 or 0.

Mood: Action, Romance, Comedy, Drama, Suspense - I give this component
10 points. It had a perfect balance of all five aspects. The Action was
fun and exiting. The Romance was not overdone, but still very emotional
and moving. I laughed hard and long throughout the movie and still I
was captivated by the fantastic drama, and riveting suspense.

Plot - I give this component 10 points. I thought all the good fairy
tales had already been told. I found my self, sitting in the theatre,
returned to my childhood, and in that instant I again believed in
unicorns, wicked witches, and falling stars that make dreams come true.

Cinema Photography - I give this component 8 points. While the movie
captured the story very well in the majority of the angles, I found my
self more than once trying to figure out what happened just off camera.

FX - I give this component 10 points. I love that they used C.G.I.
sparingly. The epic scenes were believable. The magical powers were
frighteningly realistic. All in all less is more, and this had it ALL!
Cast - I give this component 10 points. No names and seasoned actors
alike, the cast was amazing! Michelle Pfeiffer was wonderfully wicked,
Charlie Cox made Tristan come to life, Claire Danes gave emotion to the
stars, and I will never look and Robert De Niro the same again.

Acting - I give this component 10 points. Even the newbie actors played
their rolls to perfection. Once again, I will NEVER look and Robert De
Niro the same again.

Character development - I give this component 9 points. This felt a
little rushed and I think if the movie had been a bit longer they could
have done the characters a little better justice.

Dialogue - I give this component 10 points. The dialogue was smart,
witty, fun even the mush had good dialogue.

Score - I give this component 7 points. I can honestly remember only
one small piece of music from the entire movie. I am not complaining
beyond the fact that the music could be more memorable.

Ending - I give this component 9 points. Almost perfect ending! I feel
that certain aspects of the ending should have been more pronounced,
while others could have been more subdued, but no threads were left
untied.

Total: 93% Buy the DVD? HEL YES! See it in the Theatre? Most
definitely! Bottom Line: Excellent movie for everyone! EPIC! I strongly
recommend seeing it in the theatre, I know I'll be going back for
seconds!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie has everything a fantasy movie should have, romance, clever
witticisms, great acting and a fair dose of magic. 

I thoroughly enjoyed this movie and was drawn to its original plot
(based on the Neil Gaiman novel which I am now looking to read) and
colorful characters.

One of the most striking things to me actually was how self contained
the story is. Unlike so many sci-fi fantasy movies out there right now
which leave open-endings and such this was a pure fairy-tale,
satisfying in and of itself with no need for a sequel.

Original. Fun. Feel-good Fantasy.
<|_=00=_|>
I was not expecting much from this movie. I was given a ticket for an
advanced screening. I had just gotten off of work. It was hot and I was
tired. I had to wait in the movie line for 40 minutes and there seemed
not to be any cool air flowing through the hallways of the theater
complex.

Once seated in the theater, tired and frustrated, the movie started, I
did not recognize any of the actors in the beginning, but the flow of
the movie was perfect. Right from the beginning I became consumed with
the movie, getting more and more excited with each minute passing. I
think this movie is destined to be a fantasy/fairytale classic. The
actors were fabulous, the pace was perfect, and the ending was magical.
<|_=00=_|>
The 14 year-old in me is immensely happy that they're now able to make
really good looking fantasy movies, and that they're all the rage, what
with Lord of the Rings, Harry Potter and The Chronicles of Narnia
making loads of cash at the box office. This year will see (and already
has seen) several more, most notably The Golden Compass, which has the
most exciting trailer I've seen this year. Stardust, based on a novel
by Neil Gaiman, showed up in theaters this week with little more than a
peep. I saw no previews for it, only a couple of commercials. The
critical reaction is kind of blah. I wouldn't even have seen it if not
for the fact that I have to wait on a friend to see The Bourne
Ultimatum, and that nothing else interesting opened this weekend. Well,
if you'll forgive the horrible pun, the stars must have been rightly
aligned, because I went to see Stardust, and I loved it. It's not a
huge movie like Lord of the Rings. The plot line is your very basic
fantasy quest (the hero sets out to look for a fallen star) filled with
obstacles. But within that basic outline, the story is lively and
imaginative. It's simply aiming to be a lot of fun, and a charming
little romance. And it succeeds wonderfully. There were a lot of big
films this summer, but none of them were nearly as fun as this one.
There's a lot going on, but the story is told well and is almost
entirely coherent. It isn't a masterpiece, but it definitely can occupy
the same kind of ground that something like The Princess Bride has
(though I don't like it quite as much as the earlier film). A lot of
fun to be had here if you're a fan of the genre.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is a lot of fun. The actors really make the movie go the
distance though. Without giving away the plot, I would describe it as a
new Princess Bride cult favorite that should stand the test of time.
You get to see a whole different side to Robert DeNiro in this movie!
(Worth the price of admission just for that!) All the elements are
there from adventure to romance, and well placed comedy.

People of all ages will enjoy it. (My parents even did!) Good special
effects, may be scary for the little ones. Good date movie. Great for
some escapism.

Deserves an A. (Hope it does well at the box office)
<|_=00=_|>
The power to dream is a wonderful thing. There's a saying, "Not all
dreamers achieve, but all achievers dream." By exploring our
imagination we shape our own futures. Or build empires. Perhaps
overcome our fears, limitations and obstacles. Gain wisdom and benefit
mankind. Or (put simply) just find our way to true love and happiness.
Freud might express such things in symbols. The language of fantasy.

Tristan ventures out of a rather twee English village called Wall. He
goes through a break in the wall. A portal. In search of something that
will prove his love to Victoria (Sienna Miller). Victoria doesn't take
him very seriously. So he pledges to bring back a falling star.

Stormhold is the world outside the wall. He discovers the fallen star
has taken the form of a beautiful girl, Yvaine (Claire Danes). To
complicate matters, three evil witches want to get hold of Yvaine. If
they can eat her heart, it will replenish their youth. (One of the
witches is played by Michelle Pfeiffer, who does fabulous young-old
transformations of looks and manner.) The 'good guy' they meet on their
way is Captain Shakespeare (Robert de Niro). He has a fierce,
swashbuckling pirate exterior but is a sweetie closet queen underneath.
Heirs of Stormhold meanwhile are engaged in a pitched battle over
inheriting the Kingdom. Ricky Gervais is an added extras. A buffoon
trader throwing in standard Gervais-type gags well. Tristan's purity of
spirit arouses the love of Yvaine, so there is a nice little triangle
going. Till he achieves the maturity to discern pedestal divas from
real women.

Stardust is a full-on, large scale fantasy that does credit to its
myriad stars. Wholly positive, and written with a clarity that makes it
more worthy of psychoanalysis that a coven full of Harry Potter romps.
Production values rival Hollywood, and the storyline is free of the
racial stereotyping, misogyny, religious or class agendas than shape
and pervert so many large scale fantasies.

That is not to say that Stardust is without its faults. Plot and
dialogue have many predictable elements, and the fairytale quality may
be too saccharine for some audiences. But if you want an excuse to let
your heart fly, this film may well provide it.

As a boy, I remember listening in wonder to albums by the Moody Blues
(who practiced in a house not far from where I lived). They made
records with names like "In Search of the Lost Chord," and wrote lyrics
like, "Thinking is the best way to travel." I would fill my head with
books on magic and mystery, from Timothy Leary to Aleister Crowley.
Shaping dreams. Learning to make them real. Nowadays people might talk
of NLP or positive thinking. Adults that remember how to dream with the
force of youth but with the vision and application of maturity. Do you
still enjoy that feeling?

You are advised not to wait for Stardust on DVD. See it on the biggest
cinema screen you can find. And Dolby Digital Surround Sound if you can
get it. The actors look like they had a ball. Maybe you will too.
