
The Break-Up is a highly watchable drama that contains elements of
cleaver comedy. Vince Vaughn and Jennifer Anniston put in solid
performances in a film that feels strikingly real at times.

The Break-up does not play out as a light-hearted comedy with a
predictable wrap-up in the last five minutes. The Break-Up reveals the
very human side of a failed relationship and its potential
reconciliation. Yes, there are some very funny scenes. However, as the
misalignment of expectations quickly unfolds the movie reveals its true
self.

The Break-up does a more than credible job of displaying many of the
aspects of how people deal with conflict and remorse. Many of the
situations play all-in-one as funny, sad and realistic.

The bottom line is that the Break-Up is solid film built with Hollywood
money and stars that chooses a route its benefactors rarely allow to be
taken. This fact alone makes the movie worth viewing.
<|_=00=_|>
There have been several reviews maligning this movie. I think it's
because they may have some pre-conceived notions that this movie will
be full of non-stop laughs given that Vince and Jennifer are both
comedic actors. I happen to think that this movie is excellent! True,
the movie has many scenes where you will burst out laughing but there
are also scenes which will touch you or even make you cry. What I like
about this movie is that it's very realistic on how it portrays
relationships especially when it's on the brink of dissolution. Because
isn't that how life and relationships really are? It isn't always rosy,
there has to be a mix of gray and blue, or it would be pretty boring.

Jen and Vince did an awesome job in this movie as well as all the
supporting casts. My only comment is on the script which may be a bit
lacking in character development. Nonetheless the movie is a must see.

I urge you to watch this movie with an open mind and you might take
away a lesson or two after you finish viewing it.
<|_=00=_|>
As mama used to say, "The extent of the nourishment you get from your 
entertainment water is directly related to how deep your well of 
expectations runs." I always thought mama was a bit too verbose in her 
metaphorical philosophizing, but there's truth in them there words!

Thanks to Hollywood's constant desire to market films based on what 
they feel they have to trick people into thinking they're about, some 
audiences will likely go to see The Break-Up, ignore the insinuations 
of the movie's title, and expect something cute and fluffy. As such, 
the movie is unfairly saddled with expectations that it can't possibly 
meet for no other reason than the simple fact that this is NOT a 
conventional "chick flick" romantic comedy that will warm those little 
heart cockles and send you floating out of the theater on a cotton 
candy cloud.

After a chance meeting at a Cubs/White Sox baseball game, an "opening 
credit relationship photo montage" creatively establishes that Jennifer 
Aniston and Vince Vaughn are a couple. Just not for much longer. You 
see, Jennifer is busy cooking for a family dinner. Vince's only 
responsibility is to bring home 12 lemons so that she can create a 
centerpiece for the dinner table. So what does he do? Brings home 
three. Jen's understandably agitated.

Rather than dutifully go get the extra lemons, Vince tries to find 
alternatives that will allow him to just sit on the couch and play 
video games until everybody arrives. Perhaps use the lemons to flavor 
the chicken since he tasted it and thought it was a little too spicy 
anyway? Maybe place them in a glass and create a smaller centerpiece? 
Yeah, it's fairly clear which three letters he puts in "class." 

This leads to his lack of desire to help with the dishes later that 
evening. Oh, he'll help with them in the morning, but Jen really wants 
them done tonight. Fifteen minutes of work won't kill the guy, right? 
When Jen expresses her disdain for the lack of appreciation he shows 
her, he goes into a character-exposing rant and declares his desire to 
just be left alone. Jen's had enough and decides to grant him his wish. 
Commence with the break-up and the emotional tug-of-war that carries 
the majority of the movie.

This is where some audiences might get lost. Why? Probably because it 
feels so real, and sometimes reality doesn't always sell. People still 
love fairy tales, you know? The arguments and hard-feelings that slowly 
develop will likely hit home with anybody who has gone through a break 
up, and I have no doubt that many, if not most, guys will fill a little 
discomfort when they see some of themselves in Vince.

The thing I appreciated the most is despite his penchant for being a 
jerk, Vince isn't adorned with a black hat and presented to us for our 
jeering. It's just the way he is. He likes doing things his way. He 
treats his friends and brothers in the same manner, but they still love 
the guy and like hanging out with him; he just needs to learn to accept 
doing things he might not want to for the people he loves. He's likable 
and funny enough that we root for him to learn the lesson.

Likewise, Jennifer isn't placed on a pedestal with a golden halo on her 
head. Though she's the more sympathetic of the two, she still resorts 
to playing dirty and isn't allowed to come off completely innocent. 
Perhaps the character flaws won't play well with the "give me 
idealistic characters!" crowd, but I found them refreshingly realistic.

The movie's focal point is the often volatile chemistry between Vince 
and Jennifer, which I thought was great, but the supporting characters 
are also very effective, albeit underused. Vince has some show-stealing 
scenes with Jason Bateman and particularly one with Jon Favreau (and 
his ever-increasing girth) that are so good that you can't help but be 
disappointed that there aren't more to savor.

Speaking of disappointment, go ahead and prepare yourself for the 
potential of more as the closing credits begin to scroll. I admit that 
I wanted a little more closure than I was given, and that seemed to be 
the audience consensus. I suppose we should admire the screenwriters 
for sticking by their guns and refusing to tie all the loose ends as 
tightly as test audiences have demanded, but that doesn't mean we have 
to be happy about it. I could have handled it better had it not felt so 
abrupt and left me feeling a little incomplete.

But it certainly doesn't ruin the movie. You just need to check your 
expectations and give the film a fair chance. Don't be a pawn of the 
marketing team's efforts to mislead audiences into the door.

If you're a Vince fan I would also advise you not to expect the Johnny 
Jump-Up zaniness of The Wedding Crashers or Dodgeball. The Break-Up is 
a movie of a different breed. Abandoning the temptation to deliver a 
consistently uproarious comedy romp, The Break-Up deliberately balances 
itself with dramatic conflict, and gives us something a little 
different than what Hollywood has forced us to become accustomed to.

It doesn't do it flawlessly, but at least it makes the attempt.
<|_=00=_|>
My husband and I went to see this film on its opening night and weren't
surprised to see a full theatre.

The movie has its hilarious moments which are interspersed with plenty
of uncomfortable, tense arguments as these 2 people who love one
another try to one-up each other in the payback mode for the pain in
their relationship.

My husband thought it dragged from the middle on a little, although I
didn't.

We both left thinking the movie was really funny in some parts, pretty
sad and even tragic in others. Overall, we thought the acting was solid
& believable and though the ending wasn't expected, it was real and
even hopeful.

We both said it was worth seeing, and if you're looking for a fairly
real-life view of the life of a struggling relationship, you'll be glad
you saw this film.

I left the theatre feeling a little empty, but glad that in real life,
these two are together!! Enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>
Honestly, I was completely shocked by this film. I didn't see it in
theaters because it honestly didn't look like the type of film I would
typically find appealing. But when the DVD was released, I snatched it
up in a hurry because my wife loves romantic comedies. And that's
exactly what we thought we were going to get. Instead we got a
poignant, heartfelt and almost painfully realistic piece of insight
into the psychology and calamity of two people struggling to hold onto
something they never had ahold of in the first place: love.

First of all, I must say that Vince Vaughn and Jennifer Aniston were
absolutely fantastic. I'm a huge fan of Vince's and I've enjoyed
Jennifer in most of the films I've seen her in, but I've never
appreciated either of them as much as I did in The Break-up. Their
acting was directly on-target. The initial fight scene (when the
break-up actually occurs) was so phenomenal I actually paused the movie
when it was over just to take it all in. I've never seen two people on
screen portray a 'lovers quarrel' so accurately and realistically. Hats
off to Jen and Vince for an outstanding performance.

The movie definitely has its funny moments. Vince brings his usual
fast-talking wit to the screen and that's an instant recipe for comedy
in my book. But what I really took from this movie, as someone who is
in a committed relationship and understands (as well as the average
person can) the complexities of love, was its underlying message. Love
is not all moonlight and roses; it's not always romantic, it's not
always fun and it's sure as hell not always easy. But hard work,
dedication and a solid foundation of love and respect can bring two
people through just about anything together. This movie is absolutely
brilliant and I'd recommend it to anyone, but especially married
couples or people in committed relationships.
<|_=00=_|>
This is not your garden variety romantic comedy, thank god! I loved the
authenticity of this movie. I don't know anyone who has been in a
serious relationship that wouldn't relate to this movie. Vince Vaughn
and Jennifer Aniston are superb- they are both so credible and organic
in these roles. Not sure about the bizarre-ish people the characters
may surround themselves in the movie- family, friends and co-workers
definitely are weird- but maybe they serve as a springboard to really
bring the 2 main characters to life. (maybe comedic relief, too) In any
case, so refreshing to watch a movie that is realistic and
unpretentious. The opening scenes are scrapbook photos when the couple
were together- they were wonderful- the exact types of photos most of
us have in our own scrapbooks. It isn't an indie art-house film, but a
big production that doesn't follow a relationship formulaic predictor
for ratings, insead it portrays arguments and a break up in a realistic
way. Lack of communication, lack of effort, too much pride, battles
over what isn't so important but seems so at the time- all that. I was
also pleased that it didn't wrap up in a big red bow at the end like
most Hollywood movies.
<|_=00=_|>
'The Break-Up' is not funny. It's been marketed as a comedy, but it
certainly isn't. The constant arguing between the two lead characters
and their childish attempts to get back at one another are not
entertaining. Unfortunately, this is pretty much all there is to the
movie. We never get to see what it is that they like about one another.
What do they have in common? Why were they attracted to one another in
the first place? Why did they fall in love? These questions remain
unanswered and as a result I found that I didn't actually care whether
they broke up or not. 

The only interesting parts of the movie for me came courtesy of the
excellent supporting cast (all of whom were under-used). Johnny O (John
Favreau), Riggleman (Jason Bateman) and Marilyn Dean (Judy Davis) were
the only characters I actually liked. Favreau was of course very funny
as always, but only has a handful of scenes, and his knack for comedy
is largely wasted. I would also liked to have seen more of talented
'Arrested Development' star Bateman. He has remarkable comic timing and
a strong screen presence which could have really added to this film.
But, unfortunately, the focus is squarely on Aniston and Vaughn, who
fail to make their characters interesting or even likable. 

I really wanted to like this movie, but I didn't really enjoy it.
<|_=00=_|>
This was truly one of the very worst movies I ever saw. Though it
started on a promising note, after five minutes I found myself guzzling
an extra-large coke, just so I would have the excuse of going to the
rest room to get away from it.

My wife and I wanted a light-hearted evening away from the kids, and
this movie looked promising. But light hearted it was not. We have a
very peaceful life in our home, and I was unprepared for the amount of
yelling that was dressed up as dialog. There wasn't anything funny
about it. Probably 70% of the dialog consisted of people yelling at
each other.

We were probably taken in by the trailers, which made the movie appear
a bit humorous. The only problem is that all the funny parts were in
the trailer. Nothing else was a bit humorous.

The only good parts were the first and last songs. The last one, "I Can
See Clearly Now" made me see clearly why I should never go to an
Aniston or Vaughn movie again.
<|_=00=_|>
Well well well, this film was simply atrocious. The worst film I have
seen in the last two to three years.

The breakup advertised as romantic comedy is anything but. I can't
begin to describe how disappointed I was sitting through this movie.

Nothing made me relate to the characters and their infantile behavior.
They both came across as whining spoilt brats.

The pace of the film is slow and pointless. Arguments, shouting and
bickering don't make for light or romantic entertainment.

Silly "votes" between good friends as to who is staying at the bowling
game are just cringe factor, good grief do people really behave this
way? certainly not my circle of friends. It was just embarrassing to
watch.

Not much redeeming in this film a few short laughs, one of the better
ones being when their real estate agent friend offers to sell their
home and wants to do so at no commission. BUT unfortunately company
policy wont allow it so he has to charge it hahaha that was the
funniest bit in the film. How sad :( I would have given it one star
except for that real estate agent part LOL.

AVOID THIS FILM AT ALL COSTS !!! A great gift for that person you don't
really like but have to buy for appearances sake :)
<|_=00=_|>
It is extremely frustrating when a studio deceives you by selling a
film as something it is not. The Break-Up is NOT a laugh a minute
comedy of he said/she said. It is not the playful battle of the sexes
so guiltily enjoyed in Peyton Reed's previous film Down With Love. It
is, however, an enjoyable (that's perhaps not the right word) take on
the part of a relationship we rarely see in an otherwise romantic
comedy.

Centering a film on the ugly side of dating is a risky task, which is
why it is understandable that the studio would try to sell the
"hilarity" of incompatibility. Yet by doing so, the film's trailer
really sells short the strength that this film has as a dramatic
rendering of an adult relationship gone sour.

Vaughn and Aniston give strong, believable performances as a couple in
crisis. Their attraction and chemistry is right, in that you can see
these two hooking up, but not exactly hitching up. Neither one deserves
the other, as both display their worst faults as their relationship
devolves. A strong supporting cast plays their pals caught in the
crossfire, with some funny results and some ridiculous mugging at
times. Reed does a fine job of hitting the right notes, though the jump
between comedy and drama can be a little jarring.

The film tries to realistically deal with a couple's break-up, yet
finds truth in the dialogue more often than it does in the actions of
its characters. Some honest reactions spill forth from the mouths of
the hurt, confused couple dealing with their emotions, but their
over-the-top responses by way of making grand purchases and throwing
away their hard earned lives and bodies at a whim seem less real and
more made in Hollywood.

Still, in the end, without the misleading theatrical trailer and real
life romance (and prior break-ups) of the two leads, the film is
convincing and entertaining. Just expect a lot more screaming than
laughing.

Grade: B
