
I would consider myself to be a movie buff and I live and grew up in
Massachusetts. I must tell you that Ben Affleck has done an outstanding
job in his directorial debut. In casting his brother Casey you may
think that it's just nepotism or giving his brother a break. No. He is
the absolute perfect person to play this role. Because they know the
area they have made one of the most authentic movies I've ever seen.
And it's not just some Boston movie either. I heard a woman as I was
leaving saying it's just like The Departed. No it's not, it's much
better and the fact is, I loved The Departed. But that was flashier. As
great as it was you could tell people were acting. Not here. They
seemed exactly like the degenerates and handful of decent folk I see
every day of my life. The woman who plays the girl's mother, I don't
know who see is, but I've met her about 1000 times.

As far as the story goes I'd never spoil it for you but it's complex,
not confusing. There is a lot going on and it's so real. I don't know
what's happened in this area but people have become so lousy. So lousy
that if you're a good person you just don't know what can be done
anymore. There seems to be no answer sometimes and this film is set in
that world. If you have the brains and heart to try you don't even know
what will come of it.

Who should see this? Intelligent people. People who want to come out of
a movie thinking about what they just saw. People who want to see an
incredibly well made film. And anyone who ever liked Ben Affleck even
for half a second. He should be very proud of this movie. As far as
content there are loads of curse words, some drug use, but no nudity
that I can remember, and there is some gun violence, but nothing too
bad. Put it high on your movie going list.
<|_=00=_|>
Being retired I have all the time in the world to do what pleases me.
And seeing movies pleases me a lot, so much that I see almost
everything, good, regular, bad and really baaaad. Seeing a movie for me
is being at the cinema showing it, paying for my ticket, and I hardly
ever watch a movie in TV, direct or recorded. This means that in order
to keep up with my statement of seeing almost everything I go to see
movies a minimum of five and a maximum of seven days per week, and some
days I attend several movies (this is not an exaggeration), meaning
that I do get to see 250 to 300+ movies every year.

Today, 10/20/07 I was trying to decide what to see and Gone Baby Gone
was not in my menu, as even though I go so often to the movies I had
not seen any trailer for this movie nor heard anything about it.
Perusing the newspaper the synopsis attracted me and I decided to see
it. As Gone Baby Gone progressed I found myself being really pull into
the story, living it together with the characters, through the splendid
direction, editing and camera work. As the movie ended I thought to
myself: "This is why you go see so many bad and regular movies, so you
will not miss the occasional good one and the rare excellent movie".

"Gone Baby Gone" is easily the best movie I have seen this year. And
that includes most of the art, foreign or indie movies that I also
attend religiously. Unless something out of this world comes out in the
next six weeks, this is my candidate for the Oscar to the best picture
and Ben Affleck should also be nominated for best Director.
<|_=00=_|>
Every once in a while, amid the dross that reviewers have to sit
through, comes a movie that hits like a sucker punch to the gut and
haunts you long after you've left the theater. Such is the case with
Gone Baby Gone.

Based on the book by Dennis Lehane (Mystic River), Gone Baby Gone marks
the directorial debut of Ben Affleck, who also penned the screenplay in
tandem with Aaron Stockard, and easily puts him at the front of the
line for Oscar contention.

Casey Affleck and Michelle Monaghan star as a pair of private
investigators based in the rough working class Dorchester district of
Boston. The two are hired by the family of a missing four-year-old girl
to assist the police investigation because of their street connections
and ability to get people to talk who otherwise would never open up to
a cop. As they navigate through the neighborhood's seamy underbelly of
pimps, drug dealers and crack whores they uncover an ever-expanding
mystery that takes on the added dimension of provoking the question of
just what is right and what is wrong, firmly pitting both story and
viewer in a struggle between situational ethics and moral absolutes.

Morgan Freeman and Ed Harris round out an impressive cast, but it's the
younger Affleck who takes this movie on his back and runs with it,
easily surpassing his director brother in terms of acting breadth and
range. This is no slight to Ben, however. It's been a long time since I
was this impressed with a directorial debut, and even longer since I
was given cause to reflect upon the values that we hold dear as
individuals and a society, and the moral foundations upon which they
are based. Gone Baby Gone manages both, and wraps it up in a
hard-hitting detective story that serves as much to satisfy the baser
urges of bar fights and gun play, as it does tackling bigger issues.

It's also one of those rare movies in which it can easily be said that
the less you know about the story going in, the richer the experience.
There's no clear twist ending to give away, but rather a layered story
that unfolds like a Russian stacking doll with a moral dilemma at its
core.

One thing I do feel comfortable revealing, however, is that this movie
comes about as close as any can to being a bonafide lock come Academy
Award time. Congrats Ben, you may well have redeemed yourself from your
J-Lo/Gigli reputation at last.
<|_=00=_|>
After a decade of critically disgraced performances and brutal public
humiliation year after year, Ben Affleck took a well deserved break
from the Hollywood scene. This year he came back, but instead of taking
the spotlight by starring in a film, he went behind the scenes and
opted to direct his first feature film. Taking an example from another
actor turned director, a little independent man named Clint Eastwood,
he decided to adapt a novel written by Mystic River author Dennis
Lehane. On the surface, Gone Baby Gone tells the story of a missing
child and the two private investigators who are hired to find her. The
story transforms into a highly disturbing tale of selfish, terrifying
characters and the fact that no matter what people never change.

In deciding who to play the leading role of the intelligent, reserved,
moral and slightly naive Patrick Kenzie, Ben looked no further than his
brother Casey. Initially this may seem like a bad idea with lots of
sibling tension on the set, but the decision couldn't have been a
better one. After years of under-the-radar brilliance, Casey gets to
show his acting genius in the leading role of a powerful, emotionally
drenching work. I love the fact that everyone is finally getting to see
what a true wonder this young actor is, with talent greater than the
majority of actors I've ever seen no matter what their age. He's
getting a large amount of critical recognition for his flawless turn in
The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford, but he is
almost as exceptional in this one. Counterbalancing Kenzie is his
mature and equally intelligent partner and lover, Angie Gennaro played
by the beautiful Michelle Monaghan. The two of them grew up on the
streets of Boston and therefore are pursued to use their relationships
with the criminals involved to help find the men who kidnapped this
little girl. This leads the audience on a highly engaging and very
disturbing journey through the lowest forms of scum in the Boston
population and a climax that is just as surprising as it is haunting.

The second half starts with another missing person's case and Kenzie
discovers something that forces him to bring back Detective Remy
Bressant (Ed Harris), a character who he didn't end on the best of
terms with in the first act. In an act of high tension and in the face
of an ultimate evil, Kenzie makes a decision that he immediately
regrets and is the first time he really matures in the film and falls
into a moral crisis as he witnesses the true personalities of those
around him and re-evaluates everything in his life. A conversation with
Bressant soon after this act provides a stage for Ed Harris' remarkable
display of talent in one of his career best performances. However a
revelation Kenzie makes during this conversation leads us into an even
darker world of corruption within the police, back to the victims of
the original crime and a lesson that sometimes the most morally
righteous can people can do terrifying things if they believe it is for
the greater good.

Another stirring revelation leads Affleck to the film's second big
twist that I didn't see coming from a mile away. He finds moral
corruption, again 'for the greater good', in the most unexpected place
and is led to one of the most arduous and unimaginable decisions I've
ever seen put on film. I won't spoil anything, but it's safe to say
that this was the first and only time I've ever put myself in the shoes
of a character on screen and wondered what I would do in his situation.
It's a decision I don't think I could ever make, and one of the most
painful scenes of the year. Watching Affleck's expression and the pain
in his eyes is truly gutwrenching. In his decision we eventually see
that even in the most emotionally straining situations and no matter
how much they say they will, people never change. I found that to be
the final moral of the film, and the ending was haunting, cathartic and
emotionally painful as we see Kenzie living with the fact that maybe
his decision was the wrong one but he still tries to do the morally
just thing in the end.

Ben Affleck has come back strong to the Hollywood scene by avoiding
public humiliation and realizing that the film would be miles superior
if he directed instead of starred in it. There is one minor flaw in
this feature, and that is that it felt to me like three different
films. There are two clear cut endings, but the film picks back up
afterwards on the road to the final conclusion. With each new story
comes depth and disturbance from the characters and overall plot, so
one can easily ignore this very minuscule flaw. His casting was
flawless from the stunning magnificence of Casey Affleck to the
Oscar-worthy Ed Harris to the critically praised grieving mother Amy
Ryan. Gone Baby Gone is certainly one of the best films this year, and
I hope it's not forgotten come awards season, particularly in the form
of it's reborn director and flawless leading man (as well as the rest
of this multi-talented cast). A deeply disturbing and thoroughly
engaging picture that is sure to stay on my mind for days.
<|_=00=_|>
When I went into the theater to see Gone Baby Gone, Casey Affleck was
not what I pictured when I read Dennis Lehane's Patrick Kenzie novels.
But he won me over and will now forever be Kenzie as far as I'm
concerned.

Gone Baby Gone is a tough and gritty movie about a child abduction and
the lives it destroys. You can see the end coming a little too early in
the movie, but it's still fascinating watching Kenzie slog through a
lot of awful stuff before you get there. Ben Affleck has proved that he
can direct a movie with the best of them. There was nothing slack or
boring for the entire running time, and the ending will give you
something to argue about over dinner after watching the movie.

The best detective movie I've seen in a while.
<|_=00=_|>
It's become a hobby of mine this past year to watch IMDb's top 250,
AFI's top 100 and all Oscar winning (and most nominated) films. I've
seen over 100 films in just the past year alone, but I am struggling to
think of a film that I enjoyed more.

The performances are outstanding. All of the characters- including the
city itself - are filled with depth and ambiguity. Like a previous post
mentioned, Amy Ryan did a phenomenal job as Helene, not only do I know
many people like her, I'm related to some. I didn't even recognize her
from her wonderful performance in the Wire.

The questions that this movie asks as it unfolds do not get answered in
by the closing credits, and they still aren't answered as I type. Who
was right? Is there a right answer? Morgan Freeman- the greatest actor
alive- and Ed Harris give standard upper echelon performances. But I
was surprised by Michelle Monaghan and especially Casey Affleck. He
didn't flinch, and he didn't compromise his ideals, but in the end
compromised nonetheless. I hope he gets a nomination.

Ben Affleck lost my favor somewhere around the time he began to cry in
Armageddon, and I haven't taken him seriously since. But his
achievement here, the pace, the mood, the spot on capturing of the
desolate neighborhood, and the overall story leads me to anxiously
await his next directorial effort.

The best film I've seen in years.
<|_=00=_|>
In his directorial debut, Ben Affleck has completely morphed himself
into an emerging artist and even more challenging director. Gone Baby
Gone might be the most innovative and moral challenging film of recent
years. This is the story of young Amanda, a little girl who
mysteriously disappears from her home and the activity and dangers that
befall upon the people involved in her finding.

The film stars Affleck's brother Casey as Patrick, in his most
challenging and engrossing performance to date. Not since Sean Penn in
Mystic River has a role been so subdued yet immensely victorious and
depth defying in choice of delivery and spot on emotions. Casey Affleck
has paved the way for himself in roles that demonstrate the actor's
showcase and give the performer range. It's a bit odd what to make of
the younger Affleck in the upcoming awards season. He fairs a better
shot for his earlier raved performance in The Assassination of Jesse
James by the Coward Robert Ford for a nomination, but his performance
in Gone Baby Gone is far more superior. Especially with upcoming
prospects such as Daniel Day-Lewis, Johnny Depp and other big name
talents, it'll be a tough road ahead for him.

Ed Harris, who's been long "overdue" for Oscar recognition is purely
haunting in his role as Remy, a hard-nosed cop looking for young
Amanda. In one scene in particular, Harris shines and gives his best
portrayal since The Hours. Although his character is a bit
one-dimensional, Harris elevates the material and turns it into his
show and steals frame after frame in a role easily lost in a picture
like this.

Morgan Freeman, in a role we have not seen him in before, plays Captain
Jack Doyle, the head of the missing persons unit with personal
experience in the loss of a child. Freeman, although absent for most of
the narrative, sugar coats the top acting talent in the picture.
Freeman's agenda into more range projects in his older career is
reaffirming his Oscar win in 2003 for Million Dollar Baby, but now with
the more rewarding films worthy of consideration.

Michelle Monaghan who's a bit of an unknown face, plays Angie,
Patrick's significant other who's personal fears interfere with her
involvement in the case. To be honest, Monaghan gets lost in the
shuffle and while the audience empathizes with her throughout the
latter of the film, she's placed into a role easily overshadowed by
stronger characters. Perhaps being the only strong woman role would
have gave us something to awe at, but not with the guns at full blaze
at the hands of Amy Ryan.

Ryan plays Amanda's mother Helene, definitely not the most likable of
characters but tragic in character arc. It's like a full on tennis
match going back and forth with Ryan and audience; the viewer is hating
her one moment and then needing to hold her the next. Helene is
multi-layered and grasps her own importance of parenting and the whole
film it becomes a fallen angel lost in the fire. That is the tragedy of
the film, a film not only about the loss of a little girl, but the loss
of innocence and the torment that betrayal, guilt and corruption can
weigh on our souls.

Ben Affleck is completely in control of this film, which he has lacked
in his performances often. He knows what the mission is of this picture
and would gladly take a spot amongst some bigger, older talents among
Oscar prospects this year. Along with Co-adapting the film with Aaron
Stockard, if Oscar is feeling like inviting Affleck to the Kodak, the
screenplay category seems like a better fit, especially with an already
win for Good Will Hunting. Other possibilities for consideration is
wonderful cinematography by John Toll and a great musical score by
Harry Gregson-Williams.

Comparisons to Mystic River are all about, being done by the same
author how could we expect no less. Mystic River had more of the
message of the domino effect of one's actions on others, Gone Baby Gone
brings it to a new level. This film is about a society, a society who
has lost the importance of innocence and the beauty of life. It focuses
on the beauty of children and rest assure, when the film is over, if
you're not yearning to be a better parent of embrace a child as a
blessing, there is probably emptiness in your chest. This film is
marvelous, beautiful and spectacular. A must-see film of the year and a
pleasant surprise coming from Ben Affleck.

Grade: ****/****
<|_=00=_|>
Anytime a movie can get you to pause and consider a moral dilemma (what
would I have done?) while watching it definitely deserves a high mark
in my book!! This movie showed the very raw, mean streets of Boston's
underbelly and didn't sugar-coat anything. I liked that it was real and
not made all pretty for film as in so many other films of late. I
have/will recommend this movie to all my friends. Kudos to Casey
Affleck, Morgan Freeman and Ed Harris. This was, so far, the best movie
I've seen in 2007. I haven't been impressed with Ben Affleck in front
of the camera, but maybe he's found his niche - behind the camera? Just
go see it.
<|_=00=_|>
"Gone Baby, Gone" is one of the best films of the year. It is being
compared to "Mystic River" and "The Departed" because it takes place in
Boston, but I actually liked it better than either of those films.

The opening credits start with the camera showing close ups of people's
faces. The close ups are a recurring theme throughout the movie. It's
because this is not just a film about a child kidnapping. It is a film
about people and that is what lifts this film above so many others.

Director Ben Affleck shows confidence and style in his first film.
After this, he does not need to perform in any more films. He is a much
better writer and director than he is an actor.

All the performances in the film are superb. Casey Affleck has to carry
the film and he does a great job. He is a stoic, deadpan, detective.
But unlike the Noir detectives of the past, he is not a loner. He has a
lot of friends and he has his girlfriend played by Michelle Monaghan
help with the investigation. He uses his connections to find out things
the police cannot.

Beyond that, the less you know the better.

If you like crime dramas that also work as character studies, you
should run out and see "Gone Baby, Gone."
<|_=00=_|>
I had wanted to see this movie for sometime now. I have finally gotten
to see it and can tell you it is no disappointment. This movie had a
particular touch that gave a genuine and authentic feeling to it. Ben
Affleck has a way of writing about life on the streets in Boston that
just grabs you. Good Will Hunting was a fine example of that but Gone
Baby Gone displayed his directing abilities as well. This movie
appeared that it could fall apart any second but yet the story held up
and managed to get its message out. Ben Affleck seems to be very
creative and knows how to get your attention right when he want you to.

I had not expected Casey Affleck to play as well either because there
were so many compliments made toward his performance I expected
something totally different. Yet he also brought this authenticity in
his acting like Ben did in his directing. Youn could just see the look
in his eyes that he was totally into it, he was it. He gave a great
portrayal of a detective that should have earned him an Oscar
nomination. Also a great supporting cast was put in place with Morgan
Freeman, Ed Harris and Amy Ryan. All of them gave engaging performances
as well. Amy Ryan especially with her performance as the mother of her
girl who is the centerpiece of this story. I believe if it was not for
her this movie could have very easily fallen into an ordinary movie. 

What really made up the movie was the message. After all what is a
movie without a message. This movie did not try to pretend to be deep
or try to impress. It did what it had to do, asking the a very tough
question. Is the right thing to do always the right decision to make
and do the ends justify the means? I advise you not to miss this movie
and definitely watch this with a friend or family member.
