
The tagline for this film is "An Epic of Epic Epicness" and I couldn't
agree more. After waiting in line for 3 hours after last night's
Comic-Con and finally being sat in the gorgeous Balboa Theater, I
didn't know what to expect. I loved the comics and the previews looked
faithful. The moment the movie starts (literally; the Universal logo
and theme are 8-bit) you are thrown into a comic book atmosphere with
video game references aplenty.

The plot revolves around Scott Pilgrim needing to defeat the 7 Evil
Exes of Ramona Flowers in order to date her and it is a harrowing
sequence of battles. Each fight is crazier than the last and some are
used purely for comedy, not excitement. Almost every other line is a
punchline and they all work. References to TV shows, video games and
comics (just like a 20-something's life would include) are everywhere
and if you accept the concept of the plot, it all feels natural.

While the audience might've been biased (we held a 10-minute standing
ovation for Edgar Wright when the movie finished) there's no denying
that it's an excellent film. Edgar Wright has an uncanny sense of comic
timing with edits and sound cues to make the picture tight and focused
when it's looking for laughs.

I can't imagine a mainstream theater erupting in applause and laughter
like ours did but make no mistake; this a crowd pleaser and the MOST
enjoyable film I've seen in years. Don't hesitate to watch this
masterpiece in a theater near you.
<|_=00=_|>
This is truly a brilliant, refreshing movie. I must say that I didn't
quite know what to expect but except that I thought this movie was for
teenagers and I was terribly wrong. 

I am 40 years old and I TRULY enjoyed this movie and it had a clear
story line that targeted more than just teenagers. In addition, I saw
every age group, race, gender in the screening that I attended which
was impressive and we all were jumping and laughing at every scene as
if we were all teenagers. 

I truly left the movie saying that " I cant wait to see more films put
out by "Oni Productions/Closed on Mondays ". Well done !!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
I was lucky enough too see this film during a test preview to an
audience that weren't told what we were about too see. I was honestly
expecting some odd film that really needed a lot of help but i was
pleasantly surprised with how great this movie was.

The movie had everyone laughing, and i mean everyone, I've been too
almost every Wright film and somehow the audience wasn't as amused as i
was, but this time everyone loved it. I've never heard so much laughter
in one cinema.

The jokes were fast and although silly, they weren't stupid which made
for quite an enjoyable film. Wright's trademark quick cuts, and simple
comedy made this film, i personally think if it were directed by anyone
else it wouldn't have had the same effect.

The characters were well written and performed, every individual
character fitted perfectly. The film had many scenes that were quite
pointless but still quite funny for example the Seinfeld scene.

Apparently its based on a comic book series? I've never heard of them
before but i certainly will look out for them now. If you're a fan of
Edgar Wrights films or just good silly humour you will love this film.

Great comedy, definitely the best of 2010 8/10 Morgan
<|_=00=_|>
Scott Pilgrim versus the World is a Canadian romantic comedy and
musical based on the comic books by Bryan Lee O'Malley. Scott Pilgrim
is a 22y.o teen-age-looking insecure guy and guitarist who plays in a
rock band called Sex Bom-omb and is going out with a minor high-school
Chinese girl, Knives. He seems content until he has a dream about a
girl. She happens to appear in his real world in the form of Ramona,
the ever-changing-hair-colour American recently moved to Toronto. Scott
is over the moon, but he has to face his own personal demons, break up
with sweet Knives and fight for Ramona's love against her seven exes.

Scott Pilgrim is one of the most refreshing teen-sophomore movies
produced in the last years, and one the best movies of 2010. The movie
is cute, funny, entertaining, has great characters, a terrific
soundtrack and stunning visuals. The story is presented as in a
video-game in which the main characters are the players, and their
lives is the game. The issues regarding relationships are masqueraded
by the video-game approach, but they have depth. Unlike many other
movies focusing on the emotional challenges of very young people, sex
is not the focus, although it does not avoid it either. The movie focus
on how difficult is to make a relationship work when you fall in love
whit people who already have an emotional baggage and you are insecure
about yourself. Scott's fights against Ramona's exes are just a
metaphoric way of putting it. Moreover, the emotions of the girl are
not the focus here, but the emotions of a young man who is not obsessed
with sex. How do you get a girl who has an emotional baggage when you
are not an over-confident guy, your dream girl is uber-cool, and her
exes were brilliant guys? The good thing is that any of this is
boringly presented. On the contrary, the movie is lots of fun and does
not take itself seriously.

All the actors are great in their roles: Michael Cera as Scott, Mary
Elizabeth Winstead as Ramona Flowers, Ellen Wong as Knives Chau; Mark
Webber, Johnny Simmons and Alison Pill as the other band members
Stephen, Young and Kim. Kieran Culkin is Scott's confident grounded gay
Wallace Wells, Anna Kendrick as the know it all Scott's sister Stacey,
and Jason Schwartzman as the revolting Gideon Graves. However, Cera
really shines in this movie, in part because his physique really
portraits the character from the start.

The visuals of the movie are stunning, the camera's movement, the
video-game and comic use of the screen adding to the freshness and
originality of the film. The fights wit the exes are extremely funny
and witty. I specially liked the fight with the Vegan ex-boyfriend,
which is hilarious. Also visually stunning is the musical competition
between Scott's rock band and the techno Asian twins band.

The music is truly terrific. An extra bonus to a great script.

Scott Pilgrim vs the Wold movie is not only well done but done with
passion, a project cherished by the whole team and by director Edgar
Wright.

The movie has freshness, soul and a special something that stays with
you longer after you've seen it! It is miles away from any other young
people romantic comedy lately made.
<|_=00=_|>
I came to this films with no preconceptions of it as a movie and I have
to say I am glad. I guess I was expecting another Michael Cera movie
about some dopey kid in love. And thats what it is ... but done in a
unusually great way. For anyone under 25 brought up on gaming (I am 30
and not) this will be just brilliant. The style of the movie with its
"end of level baddies", game-play set-up and visuals are a welcome and
refreshing twist on what could have been a hum-drum movie. The music
rocked, the comedy was fast, slick and laugh out loud ... I'd
definitely recommend this to my friends looking for something that
little bit special.
<|_=00=_|>
Teenager problems (find yourself, get real, etc.) might not give
anything to people considering themselves mayor adults, but consider
this is a movie built on arcade video gaming motifs, I don't think it
concerns mayor adults at all in the first place. I for one did not
necessarily long for dark moral drama in this particular movie at all,
I think the story was just about right for this movie, but you decide,
if this is childish watch Haneke.

Now for the rest: Surprisingly, Scott Pilgrim features the best martial
arts scenes in years. Every fight is choreographed and executed in the
most awesome ways and the fact that it's not Jet Lee pulling off these
moves makes it even more fun to watch. And you get the fights
absolutely frequently which is really, really satisfying. The editing
is incredibly skillful as probably the most crucial element that makes
this work. It gives the movie an incredible rhythm, reaching new levels
of dynamism and the use of CGI and the visual design is plain
fantastic. The amount of creativity put into this part is mind-
blowing, resulting genuine and most original style. The cast is cool
and I don't think anyone should look for academy material here. I liked
these kids and they suit the movie.

So, all together I found Scott Pilgrim being one of the most original,
exciting and fun productions I've seen in my life. As a huge fan of
things like fighting games, comics, or martial arts anime I felt
satisfied to a point of screaming 'awesome' out loud after 30 minutes
into the movie. Though people who never played Street Fighter or kept
crossing fingers for Goku and friends yelling 'kamehameha' as evil
bosses get pulverized by energy beams might not really get what Scott
Pilgrim is about, it's very hard to deny the originality featured and
the creative and professional qualities of the way it's executed.

Fantastic! 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
Scott Pilgrim vs. the World is probably as close as we'll come to
having an experimental film released in theaters nationwide. This is
one of the most innovative, original movies to come out in years. It's
unlike anything I'd seen before. And yes, it is good, very good. I
could not stop laughing the whole time.

Onto the plot. Scott is something of a loser. He's socially awkward. He
shares a mattress in a bunker-like apartment in Toronto with a
sarcastic gossip king. He's in a band called the Sex Bob-Ombs, but
they're really not that great. He also has a clinging, hyperactive
girlfriend, "Knives" who's only 17- kind of a big deal when he's 22.
All this changes when he dreams of a purple haired girl on roller
blades. The very next day he finds out that she's real; that her name
is Ramona flowers and she's the cool new girl in town. His first
attempt to hook up fails miserably. His second attempt, although even
more lamed brained, actually works, and they're soon an item. But now
comes the bad news; to win her love, Scott must defeat her seven evil
ex's. He also has an evil ex of his own. Plus, there's the matter of
breaking up with Knives, and the battle of the bands is coming up!

That's the setup, what follows is a hilarious romantic comedy
punctuated by a series of completely over-the-top video game style
fight scenes. Stylistically, I'd have to call them a cross between Sin
City, Street Fighter and Viewtiful Joe. Each of the ex's has their own
unique fighting style and their own super powers, such as vegan-powered
telekinesis or summoning an army of stunt doubles. Often you hear
martial arts movies criticized because the action is obviously computer
aided. Here, that's the whole point.

The movie's humor comes not only from the sheer ridiculousness of the
situations, but also from the characters' reactions to them. After one
of the ex's has flown in through a brick wall and battled Scott in the
middle of a concert, everyone is just kind of weirded out. They don't
act like nothing has happened, which would make it hard for the
audience to suspend their disbelief, nor do they run screaming for the
police, which would only complicate matters.

Comedic effect is also generated through the use of deadpan dialog. For
instance, when Knives confesses that she's never kissed a boy before,
Scott replies, with a straight face "It's okay, neither have I." Or the
band's self-introduction, "We're the Sex Bob-Ombs and we're here to
make you all sad and depressed and stuff.

The movie also pokes gentle fun at hipster subculture with the way that
Ramona has thirty plus flavors of tea, or how Scott's roommate is
always texting. There are also quirky touches like one girl who can
bleep herself out, much to Scott's amazement, and a scene when the
intro from Seinfeld plays after the characters enter the apartment, and
canned laughter follows every line.

The editing and structure are highly non-traditional, with heavy use of
dreams, daydreams, montages, animated flashbacks and asides, and
chapter titles introducing segments. The visuals are impressive and
very imaginative, such as the way that flashes of color accompany the
playing of any musical instrument, allowing you to see the sound.
Speaking of which, the sound is another high point, not only the
energetic, rock fueled sound track, but also the sound effects taken
from classic games like Mario and Zelda.

Scott Pilgrim vs. the World succeeds in telling an offbeat story,
providing interesting characters, and in producing lots of laughs.
Other than a couple of too-obvious puns, I honestly can't think of
anything wrong with this movie. I would highly recommend it to anyone
in their teens or twenties. Four stars.
<|_=00=_|>
I have a feeling that many young people would go ape for "Scott Pilgrim
vs. the World". It involves both young people, and its video game
elements will be greatly appealing to youths. However, I think older
people (like myself) will be somewhat let down by the movie.

Before I get to criticizing the movie, let me say that I did feel the
movie had SOME positive elements. The visual effects are top notch,
successfully crossing live action with what you might see in a video
game. There are also a lot of small touches here and there that are
amusing, like defeated opponents transforming into coins.

The visual look of the movie combined with those small touches ALMOST
makes up for the flaws in the movie. The source of all the flaws is the
same: the script. The script is really inadequate in a number of areas.
The biggest flaw is that except for the character of Knives, NONE of
the characters are sympathetic or appealing. They come across as
thoughtless and kind of dumb, especially the title figure. Another
script problem is that much of the movie consists of it repeating
several times stuff that has already happened. The movie becomes
monotonous after a while. Also, the ending is very frustrating, with
Scott (in my opinion) choosing the wrong person to be with.

I have not read the graphic novel series this movie is based on, but my
guess is based on its length, a LOT of character development and story
was cut out in order to make the movie last a little under two hours.
So if you have a choice, I would advise you read the multi-part graphic
novel instead of seeing this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
For fans of all things geeky around the world, this film is for YOU!
Comedy, action, romance, video games, music; "Scott Pilgrim vs. The
World" has everything you could ask for. It very quickly became my
favourite film after watching it and I could watch it over and over
again without ever getting bored of it; the same way that you could
watch the same episode of Friends for the 'nth' time and find it as
hilarious as the first.

Though the character feels quite different to his graphic novel
counterpart, Michael Cera does an excellent job as the awkward Scott,
Kieran Culkin is perfect as Wallace and Mary Elizabeth Winstead plays a
much more tragic version of Ramona Flowers but this change still works
well.

Scott Pilgrim is a must-see and it deserves more recognition. Go watch
it, you'll love it.
<|_=00=_|>
Scott Pilgram, a comic series unlike any other, is brought to insane
life onto the big screen. When I first heard about this, I dismissed it
as some lame movie, but to my surprise it isn't. This is one of the
best movies with the word "versus" in the history of cinema. It's so
absolutely mind-blowing that I can't tell if the author of the comics
was tripping on acid when he made this.

Now on to the plot: Meet Scott Pilgram, a teenage boy who has his own
rock band, been in a few relationships, lives in an apartment with a
homosexual roommate, and happens to be the best fighter in town. When
he meets a mysterious hair-color-changing girl named Ramona, Scott
suddenly falls in love. However, to be with Ramona, he has to defeat
her seven evil ex's, each with their own skills and powers, in awesome
and hilarious video game style brawls to the death.

All I can say is that this film is pure freaking genius. Action-packed
and incredibly stupid (in a good way). I wish I had fights like these,
then my life would be complete! All the evil ex's are delightfully
despicable, each having their own funny little quirks. This is a
wonderful movie and I recommend that you check this out.
