
Let me start by saying that I loved Super Troopers. Club Dread on the
other hand was not one of my favorites. So i was hoping that this would
be better than Club Dread but I did not think it could even compare to
Super Troopers. But was i wrong. This movie was absolutely hilarious.

I just don't understand why people are giving it terrible reviews. It
was the funniest movie I have seen in theatres in a long time(as well
as Clerks II). I understand the lack of plot but who says lets go see
Beerfest, it will probably be a great epic? I went to see people drink
beer, get wasted and do stupid things and thats exactly what I got.

I laughed from the beginning to the end of the movie, there was not a
dull moment in the whole thing. And when the American team was
competing against the other countries, I was cheering as if i was
watching a real professional sport.

So, if you are looking for a good laugh and an all around good time go
see Beerfest you will not be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
Many critics are heavily scolding this movie as a stupid, drunken
frat-boy romp filled to the brim with crude humor and bad taste. I'd
tend to agree with them, aside from this one addition -- it's
absolutely hilarious.

From the truly side-splitting opening scene with Grand-papa to the
final confrontation before the credits roll, you'll be entertained. The
acting and gags are right on the mark for the admittedly low-brow
appeal that this movie is shooting for. In that regard, it's no
surprise that BeerFest won't get any Oscar nods. But to those of us who
appreciate the suds and debauchery of five cartoonish characters
embroiled in "a super secret international beer drinking contest to
take on the Germans for national pride", this is an instant classic.

To be fair, BeerFest utilizes a much feebler narrative than some of
it's gross-out contemporaries, such as Van Wilder, but definitely has a
much stronger vision than something like Harold & Kumar go to White
Castle. Within this genre, the latter is a fine movie as well --
BeerFest simply stays on track a little better, instead of being a
slapdash montage of funny scenes. That said, BeerFest really triumphs
by giving us characters so lampoon, you are able to sit back and enjoy
two hours of gaseous gaffs without too much mental investment. And
that's a good thing every now and then, right? If not, I feel very sad
for your sedate, austere funny-bone.

For the rest of us, a toast. Raise your mugs for BeerFest, the drunken
orgy of comedy that will keep you laughing!
<|_=00=_|>
First off, please give this film a chance. It starts a little corny,
but I believe once it starts with them bringing the team together, it
really picks up. All the little references they talk about while
meeting each other is very funny.

While watching, you might think this is something Homer Simspon might
have try to pull off, without the nudity, dirty words, and sex. Through
a lot of the drinking comedy would have been the same. It pulls no
punches and will offend, but the beauty of comedy, is not to give you
enough time to think about that, just laugh.

This is a long movie, but there were a few points that made no sense,
(in their world), and needed more scenes to flesh out. Sorry to say,
while listening to many commentary tracks, this is a evil that will be
in a every film.

These people all seem very real to me, and I believe I have met them
before, which helps shed light on the world of beer drinking. I been to
bars, where I have seen things like this, hell, I have been thrown out
of a bar, from some bad antics. The worst thing, is that they wouldn't
let me finish my drink.

So, to end, enjoy this film. Once you get pass the slap-stick comedy
part, it picks up steam, and takes you for a nice little ride.
<|_=00=_|>
Beerfest has got to be the funniest movie of year. It's one of those
classic movies you just watch with your buddies and laugh your asses
off over and over because some of the scenes just catch you off guard.
And trust me if you love drinking and can relate in one way or another
to some of these drinking scenes, you'll laugh hella hard. Beerfest
isn't trying to beat out other comedic movies rather it brilliantly
just let's the humor ride on its own level without force feeding comedy
to the audience; naturally funny, laugh so hard you cry typa movie,
Beerfest is simply downright hilarious. I totally recommend everyone to
go and watch this movie because it's different and it's guaranteed to
make you laugh.
<|_=00=_|>
Its not brilliant and it doesn't try to be. If you go into this movie
knowing you are watching a movie called beerfest, you should have a
good time. A lot of jokes flying fast and does not take itself
seriously, which is a good thing sometimes. I mean, there was a lot of
hyped movies this summer that really let down and took themselves too
seriously, so sometimes its great to get a movie that knows it's dumb
and revels in it. Lots of gratuitous nudity, cursing, and stupidity
make this one a lot of fun. It may not have the great jokes like super
troopers did, but it's just as funny. Perfect type of movie when you
just need to let go for a couple hours. So, if you like broken lizard,
watch this movie. If you don't, stop watching their movies and
complaining that they're not funny. I give it a 7 just cause it took my
mind off reality for a while and I laughed quite a bit.
<|_=00=_|>
When the movie opened with warning labels like this, you know you're
ready for a great movie. Beerfest was top notch of it's class. Drinking
beer for sport is a classic money maker; I'm surprised this wasn't made
sooner! We know that almost every partier will go out and spend money
to see this movie, and they should. This movie is great for learning
new games and getting wasted fast. This is a perfect example of a movie
that is not for younger audiences.

Beerfest has all you need for a good movie: comedy, plot, creative
thought process, Beer and women... lots of women. The typical frat
party kind of movie where you watch it then go out with buddies and
wake up the next morning forgetting that you even saw it. This show is
worth watching because of it's great comedy. The creators of Super
Troopers should be proud to have a good sister movie.

8/10.
<|_=00=_|>
From the first few minutes on "Beerfest" heads straight into debauchery
without making any excuses for it. However, this movie is closer to
classic National Lampoon movies such as "Animal House" or "European
Vacation" than to the vulgar sex-comedies that have been so popular
ever since "American Pie". Make no mistake, "Beerfest" is full of
nudity, dick jokes and all kinds of deliberate lowbrow humor. The
difference to aforementioned sex-comedies is that "Beerfest"'s
stupidity is much more self-aware and also aimed at an audience that
understands this and can laugh about it from one step away. Or to make
it sound less pretentious: this comedy has a lot of heart. When Germans
are merely primitive giants in this movie it's clear that this is a
comedic stereotype that must not be taken seriously by any means. The
Germans and the depiction of German traditions is really the highlight
of this movie.

Like Broken Lizard's previous theatrical adventure "State Troopers"
this one is mindless, silly fun with a great cast, but all in all
"Beerfest" is the better movie. Not a classic, but very enjoyable.
<|_=00=_|>
Beerfest was exactly what i was hoping for. After super troopers,
Broken Lizard came out with a not that great movie Club Dread but now
after seeing Beerfest i know they still have the comedy talent.
Beerfest was the funniest movie i have seen since Old School or super
troopers. It starts off kind of slow but when the brothers get a beer
drinking team together and start the training, i don't think there has
ever been anything funnier in a movie in the past few years. When it
gets going, man non stop laughter. I was even crying because i was
laughing so hard. Go and see it and trust me you will not regret those
9 dollars you spent at the theater!
<|_=00=_|>
After the death of their grandfather Johann von Wolfhaus (Donald
Sutherland), the brothers Jan (Paul Soter) and Todd Wolfhouse (Erik
Stolhanske) travel to Munich to fulfill a family tradition, spreading
the ashes of Johann during the Oktoberfest. Their contact brings them
to a secret beer competition, the Beerfest", where they are offended by
Baron Wolfgang von Wolfhausen (Juergen Prochnow) and the German branch
of their family that accuse their grand grandmother of being a
prostitute and their grandfather of stealing an old receipt of the best
beer in Germany. Jan and Todd returns to USA humiliated and decide to
organize a beer team to dispute the next Beerfest. They join Landfill
(Kevin Heffernan), Barry (Jay Chandrasekhar) and Fink (Steve Lemme) and
train long the year to participate in the competition. When they find
the lost receipt hidden in a dummy, they feel that their German
relatives told the truth. But the team is ready for the tough dispute.

"Beerfest" is one of those silly, scatological and politically
incorrect mindless movies that are not accepted by professional
critics, but entertains and makes laugh ordinary viewers like me. It is
certainly necessary to shutdown the brain and stop thinking to enjoy
the low-level and gross jokes, but what is better than watching this
type of film to relieve the daily stress of work and personal problems?
I confess that I love to watch every now and then this type of comedy
which changes my mood for better with a perfect combination of beer and
fun. The participation of Willie Nelson in the end is hilarious and a
good hook for a "Potfest". My vote is six.

Title (Brazil): "Beerfest"
<|_=00=_|>
Unfortunately me and my other half couldn't decide what to see when we
got to the cinema. And we ended up seeing this load of tripe! Right
from the start I knew I was in for 2 hours of boredom. The "German"
spoken in this movie is barely passable. In fact did they even consult
anyone who spoke the language when they made the film? Because half of
it is made up.

The "Das Boot" joke was shocking. Though by that point I had come to
expect that type of inane predictability.

My boyfriend at least thought it was passable, but only because of all
the scantily clad women featured.

The best thing about this movie was the outtakes, and they weren't even
that good.
