

Scientists estimate that the average human being has around
100,000,000,000 (100 Billion) brain cells (or neurons) and that after
the age of 20 we tend to lose them at a rate of around 9,000 neurons
per day. There are activities that can enhance that, such as sniffing
paint or glue, which can accelerate that loss to about 300,000 a
day...remarkable to say the least. In my own research this past week, I
have discovered that exposure to the new movie "Yu-Gi-Oh!" makes the
paint huffers of the world feel a little better about their eroding
brain cells, as I believe I may have lost in the area of about 1.6
billion neurons in the time span of an hour and a half.

Yu-Gi-Oh is a fantasy card game that has taken over our children's
lives and depleted our (parents) pocketbooks of hard-earned cash and
has given us some of the most confusing conversations we have ever been
subjected to. The cards have turned our sons (and some daughters) into
poster children for Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder without any help in
sight. Either my son is OCD or he is a genius, but to follow this game
with any type of success, I suspect he would have to be a mixture of
both.

This leads me to "Yu-Gi-Oh!" the movie. My 9 year-old son has problems
with his handwriting, he has issues with the use of pencils upsetting
his tactile senses and his reading could be better, but he can utilize
the internet to find the release dates of ANY movie that may, or may
not be, in production at any moment. I, on other hand, am lucky if I
can remember to shave in the morning. Anyway, he knew months in advance
when this movie was coming out and quickly began to pine away the days
with a sense of wistful yearning that is usually reserved for Sonic the
Hedgehog and Spiderman...I knew at that very moment that my brain cells
were at risk.

In the weeks preceding the release of "Yu-Gi-Oh!", I thought of so many
ways to get out of seeing this celluloid nightmare. Maybe I would be
called away to business in a Third World country...maybe I would be
forced to sell soap to the criminally incarcerated...maybe I could pay
a babysitter to go to the movie with him. In the end, after debating
with my ex and also realizing I was too poor to afford a babysitter, I
subjected myself to the experience.

We arrived at the movie theater; my son a portrait of unheralded joy
with a hint of trembling angst, and me, saddled with the look of a man
who has realized that the Governor is not going to call with a stay of
execution...I am resigned to my own fate. As I expected, we got MORE
cards upon payment of the tickets, though I did save some money by
going to the matinée, so that's a positive. We started to the theater
and as providence would have it, the movie actually started early, so
we missed the first 3 minutes or so, which probably saved me
approximately 300,000 neurons.

I cannot remember that much about the actual movie, but I do remember
the "plot" (and I use that term loosely) was just what I thought it
would be. It can be broken down into this easy to understand dialogue:

Enemy Guy: "I have this incredible card!"

Yu-Gi: "Oh yeah? Well, I have this incredible card!"

Enemy Guy: "Well, you may think that, but I have this card which
combined with this other card makes your card obsolete!"

Yu-Gi: "Ha! You only think that, but I have this face down card that
when combined with this magic card and this other spell card combine to
create the ultimate monster that you could never dream of stopping!"

This goes on for an hour and a half. I am not kidding. I got you...you
got me...I got you again. Finally someone got someone else and a card
that was never before seen makes an appearance and changes the dynamics
of the film. It was like watching theoretical Dungeons and Dragons
geeks if they were to spar on ESPN, only the latter would probably be
more entertaining because of the commercials. Speaking of commercials,
this is literally an hour and a half infommercial. 

Finally its over...its over...its over. I keep having to assure myself
that this is indeed the case. In the moments after, I realize that I
cannot remember the names of any of my teachers in grade school and
that I can no longer pinpoint the exact moment when my hair began to
recede. Thankfully, these memories are not as important as others and
"Yu-Gi-Oh!" has not taken everything from me. The only thing I can
actually remember from the movie is that the Blue Eyes Shining Dragon
is not one to be trifle with.

In closing, I would be remiss if I did not quote that great sage Dean
Vernon Wormer, "Fat, drunk and stupid is no way to go through life,
son". After seeing "Yu-Gi-Oh!" I might tend to disagree.

<|_=00=_|>
Truth be told, I'm a big fan of Yugioh. I play the card game, the video
games, and watch the anime all the time. So as a hard-core fan, even I
have to say, this movie sucked. Big time.

Truth be told,the plot sounds good, and the movie had potential.
Anubis, an evil sorcerer, awakens from a 5000 year old sleep and, like
most villains, goes to destroy the world. And guess what? He's got the
8th Millennium Item, the Pyramid of Light (picture a blue version of
the Millennium Puzzle) to help him do it. To defeat him, Yugi and the
gang have to travel into the Millennium Puzzle to defeat him, and
battle all sorts of mummies along the way. Now, had the movie focused
on the gang's battle against Anubis, then it would have been watchable.

Then, the monkey wench came in the form of 2 words; Seto Kaiba.
Maximillion Pegasus appears, but he ain't the villain. And even the
evil sorcerer Anubis can't be the big bad, he only appears for about 10
seconds (egxagerating here). Nope, it's Kaiba and his obsession to beat
Yugi (this guy needs a hobby!) that drives the movie, start to finish.

Anyone who has watched the anime knows how annoying Kaiba can be. You'd
think that, if the guy runs a multi-national corporation, he'd have a
brain. But even Kaiba can't figure out something's wrong when Anubis
whispers in his ear, and the monster attacks physically hurt the
duelist. Guess he doesn't have a brain! The movie simply combines 2
good elements that mix to form nothing: A card game and an undead evil.
Picture the cast of The Mummy playing poker, and you'll get an idea of
how bad the movie was. It was basically a 90 minute episode of Yugioh.
It contributes nothing to the anime, and actually creates a huge plot
hole (the opening sequence mentions Yugi has been dueling for 3 years,
meaning that seasons 3 and 4 in the anime take place at least 2 years
apart). And the Pyramid of Light is never mentioned ever again, nor is
Anubis, and all cards seen in the film are never seen again either. If
I, as a fan didn't like this movie, how enjoyable do you think it would
be for a non-fan? Save yourself an hour an a half, and skip seeing
this.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a movie for KIDS. Adults aren't supposed to be mesmerized by a
spectacular plot and stirring dialogue.  It is an hour and a half of
excrutiating hell for parents and absolute nirvana for kids who love the
card game and the TV show. It is a way to get more kids into the card game
and, thus, make more money.

Just remember, adults bring a pillow for a much needed nap (or at least a
cell phone with games on it!) and don't buy the kids popcorn and drinks.
Mine was too fascinated by the movie to remember to eat the candy (which
went straight to my butt) or drink the lemonade (which was thrown
out).
<|_=00=_|>

Okay, every single official review of this movie that I have seen says
it was basically the worst movie ever, or at least a contender. And yet
all of my friends who saw it thought it was awesome. Neither my friends
nor (I'm assuming) the reviewers are stupid people, so there must be
some reason for the huge discrepancy. The reason, clearly, is that we
are people who have watched a lot of the show and already have an
appreciation for the complexities of the characters and ideas in it.
This movie is simply not made for people who are viewing it with little
or no context. That's all there is to it.

Of course it's true that the plot is terribly contrived, the characters
not very thoroughly drawn at all, and a good deal of the time taken up
with the card game. Is it just a merchandising ploy? Well, yes it is a
merchandising ploy, but that doesn't mean that that's all it is--in
fact, if you know how to play the card game and know all the different
cards and their significance, much of the dueling is quite interesting.
Is the plot nothing but a clichéd "save the world from evil" sort of
plot? Well...it's more that way than I personally would have done had I
been given the task of making a Yugioh movie--I would have ignored all
the ancient Egyptian and God Card stuff and focused perhaps on Kaiba's
history and relationship with Yugi and Joey, or something. But let's
face it, especially in America, the main market for this movie was
pre-adolescent boys, and they tend to like powerful evil beings trying
to take over the world. So I understand why they had to make it that
way. Not my first choice, but understandable. The significance placed
on the God Cards is also quite annoying. In fact, in the show, they are
not used the same way--Yugi does not keep them in his deck. But they
wanted to use them here. Kinda stupid, but whatever.

All that said, in my opinion within the framework of creating a movie
based on a show that revolves around this card game, and needing to
make it marketable in the right way, they did an awesome job making the
movie funny and interesting for people who know the characters and the
show. Everyone I've talked to agrees that the dialogue between Kaiba
and Pegasus is priceless. If you don't know Kaiba and Pegasus, you
can't appreciate the line "Do you ever shut up? I know what it means!"
If you've watched Duelist Kingdom, you'll find it funny. Same for many
other such lines.

One thing I especially appreciated was the role given to Yugi himself.
The Pharaoh, Yugi's other half, isn't actually the hero of the movie,
which is nice. Without little Yugi persisting inside the puzzle during
the duel, the Pharaoh would have been toast. The movie made no attempt
to make Yugi "cooler" than he is, which I was afraid it might. They let
him be an innocent, shy, short little high school kid, not your typical
hero.

Kaiba is an excellent example of why one needs to have watched the show
to get the depth of the movie. They don't do much to develop Kaiba's
personality, so it really helps to go into the movie already having an
appreciation of it. If you do, then you'll find his struggles against
the influence of Anubis to be interesting, and you'll understand his
internal conflicts, and appreciate the significance of his throwing the
Shining Dragon card to Yugi.

Basically, overall, I would never suggest that this movie could stand
on its own as a great accomplishment of cinematic drama. Not even
close. It's for people who appreciate the show, and all the characters
and symbolism of it, and who are willing to accept that a somewhat
contrived and over-dramatic plot was necessary for marketing, and who
will enjoy the dialogue and character interaction and even the dueling.
If you don't like it, fine. Not all movies have to be for everyone. But
if you're not a fan of the show, then you have to realize that you're
not going to get much out of the movie. That doesn't mean it's the
worst movie ever made; it means you're not the right person to
appreciate it. Personally, I thought it was amusing and interesting.

<|_=00=_|>

Well,we finally got the see the Yu gi oh movie today. It was okay,for a
movie. I hate that everyone keeps calling it a ninety minute
commercial. It's only going to appear that way if you haven't seen the
show.

Now for the good parts. The best lines from the movie came from Pegasus
in my opinion. I think bringing him into the plot was a smart idea,for
those who had seen Duelist Kingdom. But for those who have not had that
opportunity...(don't know how many wouldn't have.....) Pegasus' sudden
appearance, as well as the other main characters' reactions to him
might confuse some fans. 

The music in this movie was fantastic. (hence my rabid attempt to get
the soundtrack!!) I liked "You're Not Me",played during a particular
scene concerning Kaiba

Plot: Well....okay. this is where the movie was sort of lame.
Especially for those of us who are major Egyptology nuts like me.
Anubis seems to be the villain here. Now,come on. Any idiot knows
Anubis wasn't ever human. he was a diety,the God of Afterlife judgment.
The whole "Pyramid of Light" concept was okay,but I wouldn't have
called it a Millennium Item. It wasn't even gold plated for Ra's sake!
I liked the fights with the corpse. But,I will say this. It looks kinda
like the writers of this movie read a bunch of Fanfiction on the
web,then pulled different concepts together,and somehow brought out a
semi-sloppy plot with redundant dialogue,and some seriously awesome
monster effects. 

As a Whole: This movie is strictly for die-hard Yu gi oh! fans,and
yes,that includes me. I loved the movie for it's dialogue,monsters and
music. But I know these people can do better with plot lines. I bet
Takahashi was really disappointed,if he saw this. (Word has it,it was
only made for the US. Gee,I wonder why!)

<|_=00=_|>

When I first heard that 4Kids was going to be making a Yu-gi-oh! movie,
I was skeptical, as I'm sure most true Yu-Gi-Oh fans were. Anyone who
knows Yu-Gi-Oh knows that 4Kids does an OK job at best editing and
dubbing the original anime for American viewers. So how could they
treat a movie? Especially one that they made themselves?

I'm pleased to announce that, for once, 4Kids did a good job. The plot
was well written. For starters, it made sense. It managed to
incorporate the show's past, while not giving away its future. In fact,
the only spoiler was for the end of Battle City. (As if we had any
doubts) In regards to that, I was pleasantly surprised that more was
not given away regarding the Battle City Championship. It made that
part of the show still worth watching.

Most of our favorite characters were portrayed similar to how they are
in the show. (Except for maybe Kaiba, but that's a matter of opinion)
There were great duels, some of the best I've seen yet, in fact. Duels
that can leave you on the edge of your seat. And one has to love new
monsters. And free promo cards.

As a fan, I was both surprised and pleased with the content and pace of
the movie. It had some more subtle, adult humor which I found
refreshing, as an adult fan. (I'm almost 20) Also, it moved a lot
quicker than the show, because they weren't explaining every move in
the duel and why they were doing it, like they do in the show.

All in all, I've seen this movie twice, and I enjoyed it both times.
First, I saw it with my mom, who had never seen the show, but had to
admit it was still a good movie, once I answered her questions and
explained who was who. The next time, I took my 16 yr old sister, who
had never seen the show, but is now a converted fan. Any movie that can
capture new fans, can't be that bad. I think that if you just give it a
chance, then it could definitely be worth seeing.

<|_=00=_|>
First of all, I will say that this movie at an exception to the show,
was terrible. This film just on it's on though, was actually okay. If
you did not catch what I meant, compared to the show, this movie is
crap because it tries way to hard to be cool and different when it's
just not.

All the characters are way less likable. That does not mean it was a
terrible movie itself though. It was enjoyable to watch, and even
though it definitely was not great, there are far worse than some have
let this movie on to be. A lot of anime films like this are getting
unfair treatment. Of course you will like it if you are a hardcore fan
of the show, cards, games, etc. altogether, but if you do not like
Yu-Gi-Oh!, and have not been a fan of it at all, why did you see this
movie in the first place? 

This film was made for fans and little kids, not just some random
people who want to sit down and watch this, because of course they will
not have a clue of what is going on. They might not even be able to
appreciate it. I am glad this got out of the Bottom 100, because it did
not need to be there when it was, but I really do not think it should
be considered a great movie on any standards either.
<|_=00=_|>
Okie~dokie~smokey~artichokie~mokie! (mokie= Mokuba) Now, let's see. In
order to be able to understand this movie, you have to be a fan of
either the manga (the book that Yu-Gi-Oh! started as.), the anime (tv
show), or the dubbed anime (any of the Yu-Gi-Oh! show NOT in the
original Japanese language). Yes Yu-Gi-Oh! started as 1.) a book, and
2.) in Japanese. But that's not my point. my point is that this movie
is all about the card game called duel monsters. But this game has a
secret, it originated in ancient Egypt! But bottom line is that if you
like the show see the movie. If you don't like it and think it's the
worst thing in the world, then: CRAM IT!!!! (this is the clean version)
If you don't like it, then don't bother voting or reviewing! Thank-you!
^__^
<|_=00=_|>

The movie was perfect, for what it is meant to be -- 90 minutes of
excitement for adolescent boys. Not everything on the screen needs to
be Citizen Kane. In a summer serverely lacking big screen interest for
males under 13 Yu-Gi-Oh! was just what the doctor ordered.

If you've never seen the show you're going to be lost. Actually, you're
going to be lost unless you're a fan. Like most anime Yu-Gi-Oh! is
serialized in nature. The movie takes place after the current season of
the weekly TV series. In this respect, the timing could have been
better. Fans of the cartoon don't yet know that Yugi has won the three
Egyptian God Cards, which are pivotal to the plot of the movie. Also,
cut scenes early in the movie also let us know the fates of other
characters in the cartoon -- fates that are up in the air until the new
season starts, a month after the release of the movie.

The characters in the movie are voiced by the same actors as the
cartoon -- very important to the young viewers. And it was great to see
some old favorite characters back in action.

<|_=00=_|>
Yu gi oh was an anime I watched from time to time but I was never
really that big of a fan. I was actually expecting the movie to be
decent at the very least but, boy, was I wrong.

In the movie, Kaiba defeats Peagsus in a duel and wins two new cards to
help him defeat Yugi's god cards, one of them being the pyramid of
light which prevents Yugi from summoning the god cards and Yugi, Joey
and Tristans souls are sucked inside Yugi's Egyptian god puzzle. While
Kaiba and the Pharoah are in the pyramid of light, any life points they
lose will affect their physical life force. 

One problem with this movie is that It is the usual "Kaibi wants to
defeat Yugi" plot that has been seen plenty of times in the show. It
would have been a lot more interesting if they went in a similar
direction to the Pokemon movies where team rocket are not the main
villains but still somewhat relevant to the plot. Because of this
direction, the outcome is pretty predictable.

I normally prefer dubs over subs but the dialogue in this movie is
pretty cringe-worthy. In one scene inside the Egyptian god puzzle, Joey
says "I believe we're not in Kansas anymore" which just felt forced and
unnecessary.

The biggest problem with the movie is the main villain, Anibus who
doesn't appear until near the end of the movie and by this point, you
just know that the pharaoh is going to make quick work of him.

If you are a hardcore fan of the anime, you may enjoy this movie but
otherwise I do not recommend it.
