
When I first rented Shrek a few years ago, I have to admit that I was a
little disappointed, not that it wasn't a good movie, I just didn't
think it was as big a deal as people were making it out to be. But I
had also rented the second one and I couldn't stop laughing, one of the
main reasons was the character Puss in Boots. A popular character in
fairy tales, I loved their spin on him and with Antonio Banderas's
voice, you just couldn't go wrong. However, Shrek 3 and 4 didn't hold
up so well when they continued the stories. Even Puss seemed to be
lacking interest. So naturally I was really nervous when I found out
they were making a spin off with him as the star, Hollywood needs money
and Puss would pull it in for them. Well I saw the movie today and I
can honestly say that if Hollywood just wanted my money, I'm glad to
hand it over because Puss in Boots is a very cute movie.

Puss learns that two murderous outlaws, Jack and Jill have the magic
beans he's been looking for half his life, which lead to a giant's
castle holding valuable golden goose eggs. Puss then meets his old
childhood friend Humpty Dumpty, who introduces another cat as Kitty
Softpaws, one of the best cat thieves in the world. They ask him to
join them in finding the beans, planting them, and getting the golden
eggs which lie at the top. Puss refuses to work with Humpty due to a
past betrayal that left him falsely accused for robbery, alienating him
from his hometown and adoptive mother. After Humpty explains to Puss
that he wants a second chance, Puss agrees to help him obtain the
beans, making it clear that he is doing it for the town and his mother
and to win back the respect he once had.

I always loved Puss in Boots, but I didn't know that he could actually
carry a movie. I wished he used his "cute look" more often, but I have
to admit for the one they use during his jail scene was more than worth
the wait and was way too funny. Kitty Softpaws was very nicely voiced
by Selma, her character was a lot of fun and for an animated movie had
great chemistry with Puss. Humpty Dumpty was the only character that
wasn't that interesting to me, though his story was pretty good and I
liked the bond that he and Puss shared. The animation was still great
as usual, seeing it in 3D added the dimension and looked very nice,
though the 3D is really not needed for this one.

The story worked very well and I'm glad that Puss turned into a strong
lead character. Even if the story is predictable, I love seeing the
hero rise tale, it's always so uplifting. I think it's a great movie
for the kids and adults. It doesn't insult the kid's intelligence by
making the movie too cute and there are jokes that even the adults
could get into like how Puss is more a lover than a fighter. Though I
thought it was kind of odd when he winked at a human lady, bestiality?
Moving on, I really did enjoy Puss in Boots, I would recommend it and
cannot wait to buy it when it comes out. This was exactly what the
Shrek series needed to give it some life and I hope there is a sequel.
Hollywood may be greedy at times, but at least with this film they got
it right in giving us a great story with the most ferocious smooth
talking cat on the planet.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
Puss in Boots was what I expected - interesting characters, some great
laughs (including the Shrek-like humor for adults only), and an
interesting backstory. Unfortunately, no cameos from major Shrek
characters (I always get a kick out of Gingy).

Antonio Banderas does a great job voicing the "hero" Puss, and the
movie provides Puss' history with some good laughs and great images.
The big eyes look of the adult Puss is topped by the young Puss, and we
learn how Puss received his name and his boots.

Humpty Dumpty is Puss' long-time friend, who becomes jealous of the
young hero Puss and betrays him. But, Humpty Dumpty returns with a plan
to achieve their lifelong goal - get the goose that lays the golden
eggs. Humpty Dumpty has some funny lines and great visual humor. My
favorite was Humpty wearing a golden egg costume.

Joining the adventure and rounding out the trio is Kitty Soft Paws, who
transitions from Puss' nemesis to love interest. The pair has some
great chemistry for animated characters. Their adventures include
run-ins with Jack & Jill (not what anyone will expect), magic beans,
the beanstalk, and the goose that lays the golden egg.

Overall, kids and adults will love the movie for its humor, cute
characters, and action. Puss in Boots is a worthy spin-off of Shrek.
And, the movie has a great message about learning from our mistakes,
retribution, and making good choices.
<|_=00=_|>
I was able to see the San Francisco premiere for Puss N' Boots last
night. I would say the audience was about 50% children and 50% adults.
The movie was shown in 3D and I would definitely recommend it.

The star of the movie was definitely Banderas's Puss. If you liked the
character from previous movies, you will not be disappointed. Salma
Hayak as Kitty Softpaws was decent enough although not very memorable
in any way. And finally, Zach Galifianakis's Humpty Dumpty will be a
polarizing character in my opinion. If you thought Rumpelstiltskin from
Shrek Forever After was a tad on the annoying side, I think you'll feel
the same way about Humpty Dumpty.

Anyways, the story is good. The integration of former players in
nursery rhymes and fairy tales is seamless. And the comedy is standard
Shrek-style delivering lots of laughs for children and the occasional
adult-only joke (some very funny).

The visuals are stunning. And the music is fantastic. It almost felt
like an action-packed spaghetti western with a Latin flavor. I
definitely enjoyed myself. I also talked to quite a few people
afterwords and the consensus was that the children all loved it and the
adults kept using the word "cute" in so many different ways to describe
their feelings about the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Shrek had run its course, having forcefully pushed itself into a fourth
film that was really too trying, but I suppose Puss in Boots,
introduced in the second film of the franchise, proved to have nine
lives, and extended his longevity through a spin off film of his own.
After all, there are plenty of cat lovers out there, and his antics in
the Shrek movies were undoubtedly the highlights when the Ogre and his
pet donkey were getting really tired. Originally intended for straight
to video, Puss in Boots proved to have what it takes for a big screen
outing, and it didn't disappoint.

Dreamworks Animation may seem to have a stranglehold on making a mickey
out of well known fairy tales, and this continues in its re-imagining
of characters adopted for the Puss in Boots origin story, where we go
into his background as an orphaned kitty cat brought up by Imelda
(voiced by Constance Marie), only to disappoint his foster mum when he
got betrayed by best friend Humpty Alexander Dumpty (Zach
Galifianakis), a brilliant inventive and creative mind who had turned
to a life of crime, staining the honor that Puss had gained through a
heroic deed, banishing him forever as an outlaw and bandit.

The two major story arcs in this film enriched the narrative, one
dealing with the past of Puss in Boots, while the other having him
reluctantly team up with Humpty once again if only to get close to his
new squeeze, the master thief Kitty Softpaws (Salma Hayek), to take on
the very grown up and nasty Bonnie and Clyde inspired Jack and Jill
(Billy Bob Thorton and Amy Sedaris), who are in possession of the
fabled magical beans belonging to the other Jack (and the Beanstalk),
where planting them at the correct spot would mean a path to the
heavens to gain access to the goose that lays golden eggs, with
repercussions of course that comes with a force of nature to be
reckoned with.

What worked for Puss in Boots were the strengths of its story arcs, the
major set action pieces, the voice cast really providing that level of
flair to the many flamboyant characters in the film as well as
dramatic, emotional depth to key characters, and who can forget the
comedy. There are plenty of sight and verbal gags, and innuendos galore
that hardly a moment goes by without something naturally hilarious
happening, and does so quite subtly without screaming and forcing their
way down your throat. Which I had found the later Shrek films guilty of
doing just that.

Antonio Banderas provides the voice for Puss in Boots, and it's quite
convenient that the character gets modelled after Zorro through a
series of identifiable elements from costuming, behaviour as well as
style, a character that Banderas himself have played twice in live
action films. Puss continues to drawn upon established abilities
especially that of its iconic hypnotic eyes, which somehow in a
self-fulfilling fourth wall prophecy, will have any audience in
stitches as well as held in captivating aww/awe. Zach Galifianakis
voices the misunderstood character Humpty Dumpty to perfection,
providing that balance of villainy and sympathy, while I suspect that
the animators would have had a field day with Humpty especially with
the plenty of movement gags that he got himself into, and playing upon
none too subtle fat jokes on the character, resulting in the character
stealing the scene most of the time. Hayek on the other hand did just
enough providing her sultriness to the incredibly sexy feline that
looked like, erm, Batman in costume.

Hitting the right notes consistently throughout the film, here's a
pussy cat that's both a lover and a fighter and a film that can appeal
to both young and the not too young at heart alike. The producers of
Shrek and Kungfu Panda may have found itself another character that has
enough legs to carry off yet another franchise on its own, but please
don't let it merge or include characters from Shrek too soon, as this
kitty deserves a rogues gallery and supportive allies of its own.
Recommended!
<|_=00=_|>
Puss in Boots is one of my favorite characters in the Shrek series.
Giving him a stand alone film is an interesting idea. It's suppose to
be cool and exciting. It get what it wants. The movie is fun and often
hilarious. The cat jokes are clever. Bunch of impressive scenes. The 3D
is great. The scale is large. But the plot is too small for its large
scale. It gets lazy in the second half and a bit predictable in the
end. Though the film is pretty enjoyable but it could have been a lot
better.

Puss In Boots starts in a solid blockbuster way. And one part of the
beginning, the dancing, is very impressive. It's more than funny. That
scene excites me which gives me a feeling that this film will be very
great. I don't know why but it's just my feeling. The first half is
exciting and great to introduce the cat hero. But when it comes to the
second half(after the flashback), it's large but the story has a very
little plot. It's a big adventure but ends up a little bit
unsatisfying.

The story is like what Dreamworks Animated films usually do. Flashbacks
of these critters when they were babies. They grew up being themselves.
The rest of the story of Puss In Boots is Jack in the Beanstalk with
Puss in Boots and Humpty Dumpty. It's not faithful to the original
story. It's just another fairytale collaboration but this one has
Mexican culture. The problem is the laziness of the storytelling. They
mixed all the fairytale stories and threw some heart. These things are
collaborated and nothing else. It's close to Direct-to-Video type of
storytelling since this film was originally planned to be that.

But the film is never meant to be in the small screen since the scale
is large. The movie is in 3D, as usual. The 3D is great. Just like
Megamind, the camera is flying again. Swashbuckling cats and a lot
giant stuff. The humor is clever. The natural instincts of cats are
used as a joke. Like drinking milk, chasing a light, and some meows.
It's adorable. The "Ooooh" cat is the "Do the roar" kid of this film.
Here's the thing, cats are adorable and their instincts are funny.

In the end, it's just like Monsters Vs. Aliens and Shark Tale. But this
has its heart but it's not well executed. It's still enjoyable to watch
in the big screen and 3D. The filmmaking is good enough and everything
is large. It just needs to make the story better. The film has
ambitions for a sequel. Well I got to admit, it really needs a sequel
because this adventure is not quite satisfying. More adventures to this
kitty cat could be fun. Again, this film is fun but it won't blow your
mind or touch your heart too much.
<|_=00=_|>
The best element in the last two films from the Shrek franchise was the
supporting characters; and even though I would have preferred to see a
spin-off of the Donkey, the chosen one to start its own franchise ended
up being the Puss in Boots, whose first film seems to have been cooked
on the same mold as Shrek...a lot of adventure, some romance and
abundant "meta-humor" focused on the clichés of the fairy tales. And
even though Puss in Boots is not nearly as ingenious and original as
the first two films from the Shrek franchise, I at least consider it an
entertaining family comedy with appropriate voice acting, excellent
animation and a main character with enough charisma.

The screenplay from Puss in Boots is well written, because of its
adequate character development and appropriate balance of drama, humor
and adventure. On the other hand, I found the action scenes a bit dull.
They are not badly done, but they feel as forced interruptions of a
narrative which would have may worked better with a subtler
style...almost like a spy story. But with two cats and a new humanoid.

In spite of that, I had a good time while watching Puss in Boots,
despite the final experience not being very memorable, because of the
competent screenplay, adequate voice acting from Antonio Banderas,
Salma Hayek and Zach Galifianakis, and an excellent animation which
shows consistency with the caricatured style employed in the Shrek
franchise. In conclusion, I think Puss in Boots deserves a moderate
recommendation.
<|_=00=_|>
"Puss-in-Boots" is one of the funniest and most entertaining animated
movies I have seen in recent times. Its not perfect by any means, as
some parts seem to drag and at times the movie felt a bit too long for
its own good, but on the whole it made for a nice viewing.

I remember a decade or more ago when CGI movies were an event to
behold. Each release was noteworthy. Movies like the original "Toy
Story", "Finding Nemo", "Ice Age", "Monsters Inc." and the first
"Shrek". To that veritable gallery I would venture to add the
spectacularly underrated "Final Fantasy". When I saw that movie back in
1999 (damn, I can't believe that was soo long ago...holly crap I'm
getting old!), the potential of CGI movies was fully revealed. I
thoroughly enjoyed the visionary creativity of that film, especially
since it had a more mature, adult slant (something sorely lacking in
CGI movies, especially in North America, where CGI movies seem to be
exclusively aimed at a young audience).

Since then technology has advanced by leaps and bounds and so have CGI
movies. Now it seems that there is one of them coming out every other
week. This has not necessarily translated into an all-around positive
effect, because while their quantity has increased, their quality has
steadily declined. Adding 3D effects and cutesy side-kicks cannot make
up for the lack of having a compelling story, an interesting plot and
well developed characters.

This brings me back to "Puss-In-Boots". This movie has all that, a
compelling story, a good message, funny characters and a lot of humour,
including a healthy dose of those "in-jokes" intended for the adults in
the audience, in most cases the parents who tag along with their kids
to watch the movie. That makes it a truly good family viewing because
not only will the children have a good time, but there is plenty for
the adults to enjoy too.

"Puss-In-Boots" is the most entertaining CGI (animated) movie I've seen
since "Despicable Me" and "Monsters Vs. Aliens". Not on par with the
gem that was "UP", but a solid offering of funny!

"We found a bag of catnip on you!" jail guard. "Its for my glaucoma!",
Puss. 

Enough said...
<|_=00=_|>
From the Shrek movies comes the Puss in Boots character voiced by
Antonio Banderas with all the charm one expects from the character with
the addition of Kitty Softpaws (Selma Hayek) and Humpty Alexander
Dumpty (Zack Galifianakis) also joining for a fun ride of trying to
avoid being pursued by Jack (Billy Bob Thornton) and Jill (Amy
Sedaris). Many funny scenes and lines but also much dramatically
compelling close calls abound especially in 3-D. Many amusing mixups of
various fairy tales with "Jack and the Beanstalk" being mostly used as
source. If you were among the disappointed (I wasn't by the way) when
watching the last 2 Shrek movies, this one may make you forgive the
Dreamworks animation factory. So on that note, I highly recommend Puss
in Boots.
<|_=00=_|>
11/10! an instant classic for both children and adults! this is one of
THE funnest flicks i have seen in a long, long time. as with Shrek, the
humour works on different levels. we laughed straight for the first
third of the movie, and also towards the end. it was so imaginative and
well thought out that it just makes you really respect the minds and
hearts behind this production! i found Antonio banderas incredibly
charming and his delivery was seamless and hilarious. he truly
'carries' the movie well! yes, this is absolutely worth seeing in the
theatres and in 3D! (oh and for those claiming it's not a perfect story
line, remember it's an animation! so just go and enjoy it for the
light-hearted movie, feel-good flick that it is :) puss in boots will
charm you!!
<|_=00=_|>
This film is about a cat and an egg, who have been childhood friends,
working together to find the golden goose to repay the town what they
robbed years ago.

"Puss in Boots" is an adventure filled with fun and action. It has cute
characters and colourful animation for children to enjoy. Puss has a
wide variety of facial expressions, some of which are so cute that he
is irresistibly cuddly. The songs and dance provide great entertainment
too. Adults will find "Puss in Boots" entertaining too, as the plot is
filled with proper adventure that is appropriate for both adults and
children. The brotherhood subplot is strong and gripping, and provide
the emotional elements to make "Puss in Boots" even more credible as a
film for the whole family. I enjoyed watching it.
