
First off, I can see why this film is going to be a box-office flop and
why critics and audiences alike will not like it. I, who usually
disagrees with most audiences, at least, thoroughly enjoyed this film.
The storyline itself is rather ridiculous, I must say. Some girl shows
up in a pool? She's a what-a narf? I went into the movie thinking I
would hate it, but I came out knowing that I had seen a work of art.
That's right. It was art.

First of all, it's a good family film, with enough tense moments to
keep you watching, and enough laugh-out-loud moments to calm you down.
It was refreshing for once to see a film with good, clean humour. The
dialogue was not necessarily hilarious, but the actors, especially Paul
Giamatti (Cleveland) delivered the lines extremely well.

The acting was tremendously well done also. Paul Giamatti is always
fantastic, and while Bryce Dallas Howard seemed to act in the same
manner as she did in The Village, she was still convincing. The
ensemble cast worked well together. Some might bash M. Night for
casting himself in a not-so-cameo role, but he proved that he can
actually act! No, his performance will not win him an Oscar, nor should
it, but I think there is definite talent there. I hope to see him in
bigger roles, in films not his own.

The plot had many twists, maybe too many, but no matter. I kept trying
to guess what was going to happen, but it I was always wrong. It was
quite interesting.

What most made this film a work of art was the directing. M. Night has
a rare talent that will go completely under the radar for this film
because no one will see it. The camera angles were inventive-that's
right, inventive. I may be one of the few who actually cares about
camera angles and how a scene looks, but it looked great. The final
product was polished.

I truly believe this film is M. Night's best work. He made the story up
himself, wrote a screenplay that made us laugh, smile, cringe, and jump
just a little, and directed a great ensemble cast including himself.
Quite a feat. 

So before everyone starts ranting about how stupid the storyline is or
how "so-not-scary" the film is, just appreciate the uniqueness of the
film, and remember what makes this film good. Forget the crazy story.
It's everything else!
<|_=00=_|>
Bottom line: Phili must be a crazy place to live.

I walk into every M. Night film knowing, good or bad, I am going to see
a picture that is imaginative, original, and full of hope. This is one
of very few writer/directors who actually strive to bring something new
to the cinema on each different outing.

So, how was the film? Good. Dare I say, great? If you like his films,
this one will definitely hit you deep. You'll put it at the top of your
"M. Night List", and be glad to have it in your DVD collection later
this year.

First, the acting. We all know Night has a habit of picking actors from
the same pool. People he knows, trusts, and has worked with before.
Willis has helmed two of his films, while Joaquin another two. This
will be Bryce Dallas Howards second as well. We are used to Night
writing his lead characters as more of a shadow of a man that once was.
A tragic figure; this is no different in "Lady In The Water".

Giamatti plays Heep very, very well. But, because of Giamatti's
inclusion into Nights' world, we see things much lighter. Willis,
Gibson, and Phoenix had a habit of turning everything dark and dreary.
And while Giamatti is still a tragic figure, he is eager to believe and
more than willing to take the word of a half naked girl in his home. I,
personally, believe that he is the greatest actor Night has worked
with. And the result? A much lighter film. Thank God.

This is a fantasy. Not a horror, not a film with a twist (spoiler:
there is none), which is good, because a twist would have put Night
into an early grave. As a fantasy, a bed time story, Night treats us
like children. Characters speak their inner dialogues, creatures with
interesting names plague us at every turn, and the residents of this
apartment complex are as interesting and comic as they are important.

There is still the important Night message: Purpose. We all have one.
We all are meant to be somebody. Now, all we have to do is figure that
out.

Even the intro reads like a children's' book; illustrations dance about
in order to create a younger element to this tale.

The plot is simple. Nymphs, beasts, guilds, healers, etc. Almost like a
role-playing video game in a sense.

The music and cinematography? Night kept his all-star team, and the
project was helmed and sculpted beautifully.

The faults? I dare say Night could have done with less characters. They
all seemed important, but it crowded the screen, and left us with a
question: Is this that persons' only purpose? That's sad.

But, have fun with this film. It's a treat, as rare as Nights' films
are.

Night brings a world of reality into a world of dreams, and the saddest
point of the film, was when we had to wake up.
<|_=00=_|>
As someone who loved The Sixth Sense and Signs, and who liked
Unbreakable, I've got to say it's disappointing where Shyamalan seems
to be taking his movies.

Lady in the Water has none of those attributes. For one thing, it's
boring, something none of his other movies were. Here we have a
sloppily unstructured mess of a film filled to the brim with incoherent
bedtime story "mythology" that changes from one minute to the next, so
even if you try and follow the world of the story your efforts will
only be met with frustration. The film's flaws are many, and as others
have and will point them out with much more dexterity than me, I'll
simply list the films greatest foibles.

1) Shyamalan casts HIMSELF as a John the Baptist character who will
inspire "a great leader who will change everything" from a hastily
constructed presumable political treatise entitled, of all things, The
Cookbook. Give me a break! As someone who styles himself as a modern
day Hitchcock, M. Night should take a page from that man's book and
continue to play cameo roles, not central ones.

2) His supporting characters are a mish-mash of ethnic and cultural
stereotypes. The "Asian" student who attends university but cannot
string together a coherent English sentence. Of course the otherworldly
"mythology" is the remnant of some vaguely Eastern legend based on
truth. The old Jewish woman is tackily dressed and her husband is
always in the bathroom. Please.

3) The film/movie critic is one of the ONLY interesting and rounded
characters, and Shyamalan kills him off as he rattles off trite
contrivances. This character's appearance seems like a defensive
self-conscious way to preempt the critical panning of this film. When a
writer forces one of his characters to go on the defensive in dialogue,
you know something has got to be wrong with a movie.

4) Shyamalan continues his now hackneyed convention of having a
protagonist who's suffered tremendous loss in the form of familial
death. Enough Already. Paul G is a great actor, the unnecessary back
story about a dead family and a lost medical practice trite and out of
place.

The list goes on and on, but suffice it to say this movie is a waste of
celluloid, or hard drive space if you'd prefer. Avoid like plague.
<|_=00=_|>
I can't rate this film.

When I go to see a Shyamalan film, I expect to be entertained and
stimulated, but I never know exactly how this will be accomplished.
Shyamalan's films use ambiguity aesthetically and he draws his audience
through the seduction of interpretive participation. Of all of his
films, perhaps Lady in the Water does this most profoundly. Although I
understood the entire film - the plot, the themes, the method - I
walked away asking "what the hell did I just see?" It's easy enough to
categorize the film. Lady in the Water is an absurdist comedy. But it
makes you ask yourself why you are laughing. With Shyamalan's talent as
it is, it is impossible for me to believe that any aspect of the humor
of this film was unintentional. Yet the other side of LITW is dark
fantasy, in the tradition of Michael Cohn's Snow White.

With a cast David Lynch would have been happy with, Shyamalan tells a
fable from East Asia as it is experienced by a superintendent
(Giamatti) at an apartment complex full of mundanely odd characters. A
strange and beautiful young woman (Howard) has emerged from the
complex's pool, apparently seeking contact with the surface world so
she can find folkloric archetypes who can protect her from the evil
creatures that hunt her and return her to her world beneath the waves.

Giamatti, Howard, and Shyamalan himself are all very entertaining.
Howard - a very unusual looking and uniquely pretty woman - is shot so
beautifully that it is very difficult to take your eyes off of her. M.
Night's performance is so bizarre, it is hard to tell whether or not he
is acting.

LITW is definitely the strangest film I have seen from Shyamalan. I
have been up and down with him since the beginning of his career,
enjoying his early films, very much disliking Signs, and being
impressed with the Village. I believe that with the Village and LITW,
M. Night is establishing a new and unique direction for himself. And if
he keeps going this way, I will gladly follow.
<|_=00=_|>
After the sixth sense people have been expecting M. Night to shock and
amaze them time after time. This is of course impossible. He made signs
and the village which had their twists but left the audience with more
of an "oh yeah" feeling. More importantly though his movies have become
deeper in their actual message, his newest film is no different. if all
you want is the amazement of a twist your in for a disappointment.
Instead look at this movie for the message of hope it leaves you with,
or the humor that abounds, the great acting involved, or even the
amazing visual style and suspense. but don't just sit in the theater
waiting to be surprised, your just wasting your time and missing the
point of a really good movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I have been a fan of M. Night, ever since the first film I saw of his,
SIGNS. After that, I was a HUGE fan...I had to see the others. While
SIGNS had always been my favorite, I love how he blended moving
stories, with thriller aspects. After the critics bashed the VILLAGE
(which I found to be a very well made movie) I wondered if he could
recover or not. And here is is answer.

This movie, much like the other ones, is a "theme" movie, that goes
deeper than nymphs, ghosts, or creatures in the woods outside. This
movie explores "Purpose", a theme we don't hear from much from movies.
Paul Giamatti is fantastic and real in this movie, and that's why he is
one of my fav actors. He could actually nab a Oscar nomination for this
movie. He is INCREDIBLE.

Bryce Dallas Howard is stunning...and while I think she was robbed last
year at the Oscars for Village, I think this year, she will miss out on
the award. She didn't stand out, because there was not as much depth to
her character as their was for Paul.

Shyamalan actually performed a huge part in the movie, and a very
moving part. The story was well crafted...and I actually think this may
have been Night's most original and daunting task of a story he has
written yet. I also think this is one of his best. It's not scary. It's
moving. And actually has some comedy in it, which he missed in some of
his other movies. In how many thrillers do you see a guy who performs
an experiment, and only works out one side of his body, so it becomes
4" more muscular than the other. I love how he brought some many
diverse people together: a critic who sees no originality in the world,
a crossword puzzle genius, a stumped writer and his comedic sister, an
old woman who has a thing with animals, and a man locked away in his
solitude. The way they come together is incredible.

One of the best parts of the movie is the music. BY FAR, the BEST music
in any of Shyamalan's movies. James Newton Howard has created a
masterpiece soundtrack, that's sweeping chorus of angelic voices and
swelling violins and cellos will leave you awestruck. And don't believe
Shyamalan's lies about there being "no twist". there's about 10
twists...the entire movie will keep you guessing until the very end,
which is to say the least, perfect.

People will tell you that the movie isn't worth 6 bucks, I'm sure,
because it's not scary. They'll say that your getting gypped. I say
you're not getting gypped. I'll say that Night is the one getting
gypped. This movie is worth a lot more than 6 bucks.
<|_=00=_|>
I think the thing about this movie is that people may go in expecting
it to be a weird horror/supernatural thriller. While it does have
supernatural elements, its much more of, well, I guess a fairy tale.
It's got some great scares but overall it will be enjoyed more if you
know ahead of time your not going to be sitting on the edge of your
seat.

The theme of "finding your purpose" definitely is poignant in this day
and age, I love all the self reflexive humor as far as story structure
goes too.

SFX were decent, not awe inspiring but good for what was required. The
film is really about the characters though and their arcs. I'd say the
film is much more for the introspective crowd than the hardcore comic
kids who want plenty of screams.
<|_=00=_|>
It's hard being M. Night Shyamalan. Year after year, his works of
uncompromised genius are poorly received by theatergoers and film
critics alike. Even Disney didn't want to make his latest film, Lady in
the Water, fearing that it was poorly written, featured too large a
role for the writer/director, and contained an embarrassingly
self-indulgent attack at his detractors, the crrritics. And as much as
I hate to agree with Disney, they were absolutely right.

The story, as convoluted as you've come to expect from the man, is not
the main problem here. Sure, it's chock-full of narfs, tarturic, and
poorly drawn stereotypes, but the larger issue for me was the
cringe-inducing self-indulgence that runs rampant throughout the film.
For instance, Shyamalan plays the role of an author, misunderstood in
his time, who will one day influence a boy destined to become the
president of the United States. Self-fulfilling prophecies, anyone? His
acting is embarrassing and unintentionally hilarious in turns, and his
reactions to pivotal plot points had me longing for the brief, campy
cameos of years past.

While I can understand M. Night's desire to respond to the
unenlightened critics that failed to see the staggering brilliance of
his previous works, one has to question the response itself. Shyamalan
is multitasking here, attempting to transport his audience through the
magical realism of his self-proclaimed "bedtime story" while
simultaneously denouncing his critics for trashing the gospel of M.
Night. In the end, we're left with a fairy tale too aware of itself to
fully envelop us and a pseudo-manifesto too delusional and
self-important to inspire us in any way. In the end, Shyamalan made a
film that can really only be enjoyed by himself. It's just a shame that
the likes of Paul Giamatti, Bob Balaban, and Freddy Rodriguez have to
go down with the Good Ship Shyamalan.
<|_=00=_|>
Has M. Knight Shyamalan lost his mind? Is he a mad genius or just
loopy? Has he created a masterpiece or a mess? These are the questions
I'm still grappling with after watching THE LADY IN THE WATER. This is
most interestingly beautiful, confusing, and downright strange films
I've have ever seen. Wow, trying to come up with words to explain
what's going on in my mind after watching this film is impossible. I'm
not sure if I've seen the future of the cinema or the end of a popular
director's career. But I do know that THE LADY IN THE WATER cannot be
ignored.

I think walking into this film, I had many preconceived notions. I know
what an M. Knight Shyamalan film is, or at least what it's supposed to
be. But THE LADY IN THE WATER challenges every one of those notions.
There's no surprise ending, there are very few scares, and the film
feels sloppy, half-hearted, overly confusing, and I understand why most
will dismiss it. This is a movie that can't quite be nailed down and
since the film bucks any and all convention. It's easy to find the
conventional flaws everywhere.

The acting is disjointed, the plot is a mess, the dialogue is overly
simple, the story is far too complicated and it all combines into
something that seems pieced together on the fly. It feels almost as if
Shyamalan has drawn a line in the sand. This line is all logic. This
line is how far he expects us to go, and then out of nowhere the line
suddenly falls apart. Shyamalan pushes us so past the line, it's easy
to just give up. I think the line comes at a different point for each
of us. The line disappeared to me when the little boy begins to read
cereal boxes. It is so weird, so out of left field. This was at that
point in which I had to decide if I should give up any semblance of
logic and just give in to the sheer absurdity of it, or whether I
should give up and pan it. Where that lines falls with you, may decide
if you have a positive reaction to the film or not. 

The plot is simple, or maybe not. A "Narf" named Story (Bryce Dallas
Howard) shows up in a pool at The Cove, and apartment community in
Philadelphia. What's a "Narf?" Well it's kind of like a mermaid with
human feet, or maybe more like an angel or a muse that lives
underwater, both would be appropriate. Anyway Story is rescued by The
Cove's resident superintendent Cleveland Heep (Paul Giamatti). Story is
looking for a writer who's written work will cause a positive change in
the world forever. On that trail Cleveland must protect Story from an
evil creature bent on destroying her. 

But what is this movie exactly? It is a bedtime story come to life.
It's a fanciful yarn, a child's story and a wild imagination run amok.
Like how MULLHOLLAND DRIVE was dream realized on film, THE LADY IN THE
WATER is a campfire tale, it's not a terribly cohesive, and demands
that the audience put the pieces together. I liken it to the weird
tales I created with my action figures as a kid, or a nonsense story
that a first grader may try to write. It's not designed to be pulled
apart, just experienced at that moment. None of the pieces quite fit, a
lot of times if feels as if the film is grasping for straws. Sensing
that it's lost most of the audience it gives into its oddness, and it
revels in it. But is that by design?

The other side of the coin is that this is a badly made movie. It's the
wild ranting of an over zealous personality. The first credit you see
as the film comes to a close is "Written, Produced, and Directed by M.
Knight Shyamalan" and since he's been so successful maybe this film is
an example of what happens when you allow a director too much room, and
no editorial comment from the studio. Maybe this is a self-indulgent
vanity piece, a sloppy mess of a movie that would have been easily
dismissed had it not been created by Shyamalan himself. 

Honestly, I don't know where I fall. I think I want to see the movie
again. But I like the notion that this could be a step in the right
direction for film as a whole. That Shayamalan has crafted a film that
way ahead of its time. I'd hate to realize that there is nothing there
because it would rob that odd sense of madcap joy I experienced with
the film.

THE LADY IN THE WATER is the perfect remedy for what's wrong in
Hollywood. Even if you hate every single moment of it, it encourages
strong reactions. Whether that reaction is confusion, anger, or awe,
this film cannot be easily ignored. So at this moment I think I will
argue that THE LADY IN THE WATER is a brilliant film. That Shyamalan
will get ribbed for it now, but will later be rewarded with a strong
cult following. It's easily the best film I've seen all year.
<|_=00=_|>
Hey, I just saw the movie titled in the subject, here is my review.

The SIxth Sense marked the debut of M. Night's fame and popularity. The
atmosphere and vibe that he created, along with a clever plot and a
twist ending made movie-goers everywhere realize the importance of
Shyamalan. He, to some extent, created a cult following.

Now, four movies later, many of his fans are wondering when he will
reveal a movie as amazing as The Sixth Sense. With the OK-at-best movie
Unbreakable, people were wondering if he was just a one-hit-wonder
director. Then, with Signs, there was some hope that he would make a
comeback.

But, then he released The Village. After he lost thousands of fans due
to that horrendous movie, he attempts at making another good movie. He
most certainly fails.

The movie places a stuttering man who lost his entire family in an
Apartment complex. He, as the super, notices someone swimming late at
night. This is the Lady from the title. 

You see, M. Night created an entire "Bed Time Story" about how land
people used to coexist with the people of the "Blue World" (the ocean).
These people speak English. But Land people got greedy and started
fighting. But the Blue World people stayed pure, like water, as the
Super points out. 

To help out the greedy people, huge birds that no land person has ever
seen flies them to the land, and they must confront a "Chosen One" (no
really, that is how the put it) and show them the way. The way the
chosen one is directed will end up helping the land people as a whole.

The Chosen One is, of course, M. Night himself. He can write, direct,
produce and now act. He must be the chosen one.

Anyways, there are wolves that aren't wolves, but are Scants or
something. Their fur is grass and they are green. So that is why no
person has seen them. These Scants attack people from the Blue World,
but not the land. But there are rules. 

The night that the Snarf (lady of the blue world, The main Lady)
returns to the blue world, the cannot attack them. If they do, these
monkeys that aren't monkeys will kill them. There are three. And they
are also made out of grass. 

But normal Scants wont attack Snarfs unless they are Rogue Scants. And
those usually wont do it either, unless the Snarf is a Madame Snarf.
And she is.

So now the protagonist, Cleveland must find people to help him.

You see, there are some normal people that help the Snarfs. Among the
people are the Healer, the Guardian, the Guild and the Interpreter.
These people are the only people who can see the Snarf leave. No one
else can... or else it wont work or something.

And the moral is that no one knows who they are. I'm serious.

Anyways, the main bulk of the movie is Cleveland looking for people who
can help, and being wrong a lot. And then he keeps stuttering. And it
is annoying.

This is definitely M. Night's worst directed movie. Many of the shots
are out of focus and hurt your eyes. And then there were the random
shots, like when it showed the sign of The Cove while people were
dying. And there were a lot of unnecessary close ups.

The writing is by far the worst in any movie. The Interpreter figures
out what to do by looking at cereal boxes. I am not kidding. It hurt me
inside when it happened.

The acting was decent by many, but some of the people should not be
actors. M. Night was pretty good, but his lines were kept at a minimum.

Despite the absurdity of the Bed Time Story, every single person
Cleveland told it to believed it immediately. And that is about 15
people. Just imagine someone telling you that a human that looks like
everyone else... that doesn't even have gills, lives in the water.
Nope, not happening.

The only good thing I could find was the music... and only the last
song. A few of the other songs were out of place and unnecessary. But
the song during the climax was very well composed.

M. Night should, in my opinion, stop directing and maybe pick up a
different hobby. Like not directing. Or writing.

Overview: This movie is in my top 5 worst movies I have ever seen. I
laughed at how absurd the story was, but never laughed at the so-called
'funny parts.' Do not see this movie unless you like pain.

Final grade: 3/1000
