
When someone on a trip starts to wig out, you take them someplace quiet
and talk soothingly and assure them that everything's going to be OK.
But as the tagline of this film makes clear, for these characters
everything is most definitely NOT going to be OK. 

For those who haven't read the book, it's important to know what you're
getting into. PK Dick wrote this novel as a way of telling the story of
how he and his friends in the early '70s damaged and destroyed
themselves with drugs. He tells this story within the framework of a
surreal science fiction thriller, but many of the scenes are straight
from his own experiences with the unpleasant consequences of people
using drugs and disintegrating mentally. 

This film does an amazing job of capturing the feel and tone of the
book as well as the paranoia, perceptual distortions, and chaos of
hallucinogenic overindulgence. Add to that a story that only gradually
emerges from the madness, but by the end brings in a lot of heavy ideas
such as the existence of free will, whether ends justify means, etc.
There is a sense of consequence to what happens in the film, a sense of
despair at what has been lost. So this story of drug-addled losers
becomes the story of the human struggle for identity and meaning. 

I have a couple of minor quibbles regarding scenes from the book that
only partially made the cut (no explanation for the significance of "If
I'd known it was harmless I would have killed it myself, no little kid
to explain how 6 and 3 gears means 18 speeds). Still, most adaptations
of PK Dick stories take a few basic ideas and try to shape them into
more conventional films that fit into established genres. Even when it
works, such as with Blade Runner or Total Recall, it's not really PK
Dick. Not so this film. This is PK in all his dark and perverse and
deeply thoughtful glory.
<|_=00=_|>
I've never written a review on this site before, but since I've just
been at the first screening of this movie at Brandeis, I feel like
writing a few comments. First of all, visually this movie is
incredible. The roto-scoping is a vast improvement over Waking Life
(and that's on a crappy screen with the film only 95% completed.)
Despite the overall dark nature of the film, the dialogue is at times
hilarious, and at the screening the audience erupted into laughter
several times. Now, on to the story itself. I never read the Phillip K.
Dick novel, but from what I could tell, the movie stays faithful. This
is not a popcorn thriller; like I said, it is very dark. As the
producer Erwin Stoff said after the showing, the movie reflects the bad
experiences Dick had with drugs during his life. Apparently the
producers bought the rights to the book from Dick's daughters at a
reduced rate because they promised to be faithful to his vision, and I
could definitely see the effort that was put in in order to accomplish
that. Overall, I enjoyed this movie very much. Admittedly, it was hard
to follow at times. But, as with the other Linklater films that I have
seen, A Scanner Darkly is worth seeing for the interesting dialogue,
esoteric characters (especially Robert Downey Jr and Woody Harrelson,
who provide many of the films laughs), and stunning visuals. It is not
a plot-driven movie at all; the story as described in the IMDb summary,
which is more or less accurate, is just a framework from which to
express Dick's stark and angry vision of the ravages of drugs on
society. Those seeking visceral excitement will be disappointed, but
those looking for an intelligent, bleakly funny, dream-like, thought
provoking experience that is incredibly grim yet not entirely hopeless,
will be rewarded. A Scanner Darkly is definitely not for everybody,
because its pacing and animation style are not mainstream(the same is
true of its release schedule: only 4 theaters on July 7, 8 the next
week, and so on). However, for fans of Linklater and/or Dick, this is
no doubt a must see, and you should mark July 7th on your calendar.
<|_=00=_|>
Hollywood has tried so many times to capture the feel of Philip K. Dick
terms of his style and writing. Films like Total Recall, Paycheck,
Minority Report, all were playing to the lowest common denominator and
really lost a lot of the feel that Dick conveys in his writing. Blade
Runner came close, but it still missed the essential darkness that Dick
brings to each and every one of his works.

Enter "A Scanner Darkly", aside from the Interpolative Rotoscoping that
the film maker used to put the graphical images of this movie together
and give it an amazing visual feel all its own, the vision and imagery
conveyed by the film are as true to Dick's original as any movie has
come. I left the theater feeling overwhelmed, touched, and changed,
much the same way as when I'd finished the book. This is rare, and it
is decidedly a beautiful thing.
<|_=00=_|>
It's not very often that Phillip K. Dick's writings get adapted well on
to the screen. Films like Paycheck and Impostor might have there
moments, but there is much lacking where high-tech action scenes and
dreary direction replaces more of the thought in his work. Richard
Linklater's A Scanner Darkly, however, could be part of that handful of
films (the others Scott's Blade Runner and Spielberg's Minority Report)
that do justice to his sensibilities as both a science-fiction spinner
and social satirist. The technique he uses to add some imagination is,
at first assumption, interesting but a little outdated. Rotoscoping the
live action with animation has been done since the late 70's, and
Linklater himself used it for maybe his most philosophically complex
film Waking Life. Here though the same technique he used before is put
into a narrative that, compared to Waking Life, is non-linear to the
point that it is very faithful to Dick's work. But there's more than
meets the eye, literally, to what Linklater is doing with his
technique. It really does fit the mood of the film, one where to
abscond is almost second nature, but the control over thought and the
similarly powerful self-destruction comes at high prices for decent
people.

To discuss the story would have to involve much explanation of the
characters, who they may (or may not as case is) be, and how drugs make
up the integral, damned environment. Keanu Reeves is in one of his best
performances, arguably, as Bob Arcter, apart of dealing what is called
Substance-D, a very detrimental narcotic that sooner or later starts to
play serious tricks on a person's mind (left brain vs. right brain is
in many scenes). But Reeves is also Officer Fred, who has been assigned
to infiltrate a group of addicts who might lead him and his police
force into the higher networks of drug distribution. Those around him
in his "undercover" state are James Barris (Robert Downey Jr), Ernie
Luckman (Woody Harrelson), Charles Freck (Rory Chochrane), and in one
of the most crucial parts to the story Donna (Winona Ryder, quite a
good comeback part). The theme of dehumanization around such
technologies as a scanner in this film, where Fred/Arctor takes footage
from the dingy home he usually hangs out in, are also akin to other
pieces of Dick's work. I'm reminded of the tragedy in Minority Report
of the cop who gets hooked on an illegal drug, and for what purpose in
that story is made quite clear.

In A Scanner Darkly, however, the lines of morality are never totally
clear, and the ambiguity goes along as little pieces start to fit
together. While I might hold it as being one of the great Philip K.
Dick adaptations, it's not to say that it is quite different from the
others; this is not too far removed from what Linklater's style of
dialog. To be sure to not please all in the sci-fi crowd, it's actually
closer to being another of Linklater's 'in-the-now' stories of
characters who talk, and talk some more, and it forces one to pay
attention as opposed to having the dialog go light for more action.
Downey Jr., who delivers one of the best supporting turns of the year,
maybe has the most words to speak, as he's a character with few real
morals but almost too much on his mind. And him along with Harrelson's
character help define some of the pressing facts that go into looking
at drugs in a movie. There's real paranoia, real mis-trust, a shifting
of cognizance that becomes startling. One scene in particular, when
Reeves is in bed with a woman and can't figure on if she is really SHE
or not, and then goes over in in video, is an excellent take on the
depths to which Substance-D- fictional for the film's sake but related
to many real substances- and how the style connects very much so to the
substance (no pun intended) in the film.

The style itself, provided by the animation directors, gives some
immediate fascinations for the viewer. The whole idea of a character
putting on a suit and being able to shift around faces and clothing at
a second a clip provides such catching beats each time. The variations
in certain scenes work very much as well. And there are more than a few
instances where the style of rotoscoping itself, which makes the film
seem immediately like a 'take drugs and watch this movie', is called
into question. One might then ask before going into A Scanner Darkly,
where the control of products that act as controls &/or inhibitors, is
anti-drug or pro-drug. That I cannot quite, completely answer, though I
might lean more to the former. Linklater, not just Dick, has several
potent questions among others that may fizzle that are posed into the
film, especially towards the last ten minutes. And what is even more
surprising, and closer to being a relief, is that the film isn't even
too preachy either. In fact, I was laughing through scenes in the
middle bulk of the film, as Downey and Harrelson's characters made for
some very sharp, witty lines and odd actions.

In short, it's got a different, 'quirky' artistry that combines some
very good cinematography with so much that is tested with colors and
shading and tones on the actors and settings that I will have to watch
it again to take it all in. And the actors, more often than not, are
completely fit in their roles, even when they suddenly reveal that all
is not as it seems (I loved some of the twists that pop up). A cool
premise and a superb use of abstractions as reality in the midst of the
darkest satire of the year.
<|_=00=_|>
Thanks to Rick Linklater and the Dick family for allowing a Scanner
Darkly to re-envision Philip K. Dick's great novel without straying
from its central themes and story line. Good film adaptations of
literature are very often collaborative efforts between two or more
artists - the writer and the director (and sometimes her/his production
team). Make no mistake - A Scanner Darkly IS one of these
collaborations - it is definitely a Linklater film - from the spare but
very effective and hypnotic Graham Reynolds sound track to the
disturbing but mesmerizing holosuit scenes and the pseudo-philosophical
paranoiac banter between Harrelson and Downey's characters. In fact, I
remember the last time I read Dick's novel - around the time I heard
Linklater was directing this film - thinking that some of the scenes in
the book could be lost in Linklater's wonderful film "Slacker". 

Linklater and Dick are a perfect match.

The story is about a deep-cover narcotics officer (Reeves) who is in
danger of becoming one of his own targets, since he has become addicted
to a very popular and addictive hallucinogen - Substance D (AKA
"Death") The cast is all very good, and extremely well suited for their
characters. But here again, we are seeing Linklater's interpretation of
the novel. He saw the comedic potential for the Barris character and
played it up by giving the role to Downey and presenting Harrelson as a
combination of loyal side-kick and straight-man to Downey's sometimes
overpowering Barris. 

What the story is really about is the culture of recreational drug use
and addiction. Its portrayal of this is on target, and though the
subject is treated with some sympathy, the contradictory messages,
denials, and complex rationalizations permeating that culture also come
through powerfully. In this manner, the film nails the book spot-on.

Reeves is perfectly cast as Arctur. His subtle and somewhat detached
style is exactly what was needed for this complex and sympathetic
character. And although some have stated that he was "blown off the
screen by Downey and Harrelson" I couldn't agree less. Downey is louder
and more domineering, yes, but Arctur is not a loud, ultra-dynamic,
paranoid, and could not be played in a way which could compete with
Downey's character. 

Although I believe Winona Rider to be very talented, I had my doubts
about her in the role of Donna - one of my favorite characters in
Dick's novel. However, once again, Winona exceeded my expectations. I
have never seen a bad performance out of her.

This is great casting, period.

While these are not criticisms, I feel obligated to make a couple of
comments comparing the book and the film. First, the film is not really
as dark and disturbing as the book. I can not explain why in this
review - you will have to see it to understand why I say this. Second,
I was very slightly disappointed by the reduced role of Donna in this
film. Third - though some have commented that the film was hard to
follow and that they felt they could only really get it if they read
the book - I can only say that this is probably intentional. Yes, many
of Linklater's films are non-linear and can be hard to follow for those
who expect to have things explained to them. Linklater is, if nothing
else, an artist and doesn't seem very interested in linearity or
explanation. And the original work by Dick is no less ambiguous. In
fact it is, in my opinion, more ambiguous.

This film does a great job of bringing to the screen one of the most
intelligent and emotional works of science fiction ever written. My
thanks to all involved.
<|_=00=_|>
1 Corinthians 13:12

"For now we see through a glass, darkly; but then face to face: now I
know in part; but then shall I know even as also I am known".

In 1977 I was digging through a pile of books that had their front
covers pulled off and thrown in the garbage. In this pile I found a
book by Phillip K Dick.

That book happened to be A Scanner Darkly.

This made me pick up the book and take it home and read it. And what I
read was one of the most depressing stories I have ever read in my
life: I can honestly say that at the time I read it, I really did not
have any idea what Dick was trying to say. But for some reason, I was
attracted to the story and I read the whole book in about 2 days. 30
Years Later, I believe I understand now. Which validates the bible
verse on which this whole work is based: What we do not understand will
eventually be revealed to us.

Part of this film has to do with how we perceive reality, another part
touches on what we do to lessen our daily pain. I really was not
surprised by how the story ended. The book is not an exciting (and
boring) tale of space opera, but it is one of the best works of
speculative fiction ever written. And as such, it had become one of the
most important books I have ever read.

And so I was surprised to find that this book was being filmed. I was
interested in it when I saw that it was following the styles of such
films as Sin City, Sky Captain and the World of Tomorrow, and
Linklatter's "Waking Life" - However, I did not know how deep the
animation well was.

As I watched this story unfold, I saw that this film used more of
Phillip K Dick's actual dialog than any other film based on his works.
As I kept watching, I understood that the story that was filmed was
almost exactly the same story I read 30 years ago. No gunfights,
explosions, or chase scenes were inserted. There is only one large
liberty Linklatter took with the story: It is at the end of the film, I
do not think Phillip K Dick fans would mind this small liberty taken. I
can't say what it is, due to it being a spoiler.

If anyone is scratching their head after seeing this film, they ought
to avoid films with substance and go back to the Phillip K Dick books
that have been destroyed: Bladerunner, Total Recall, and Impostor,
which bear little or no resemblance to the original books and short
stories they were taken from.

I always judge movies on their Honesty. This one is an Honest movie.
The story it tells is a hard one to swallow: Do you believe in what you
see, or do you see what you believe? Where does reality divert from
hallucination? Although this film deals with drug use and abuse, it
also challenges our perception of what is going on around us.

The animation is something else: It is a marvel. I was surprised to see
how it was done, each frame animated by hand. If any other story was
being told, this would not have worked.

Coming back to this comment after a couple of years, there is really
nothing else I can add to this comment. This film is visually well
done, which allows the viewer to absorb the story that is being told.
<|_=00=_|>
I am not a huge Linklater fan. His films usually give me a good
laugh(Slacker, Dazed and Confused) or they present interesting concepts
that will stir up good conversation(Waking Life) or they are for
children(School of Rock). I don't consider him a great filmmaker but I
would consider him an interesting storyteller and probably a great guy
to talk to.

A Scanner Darkly changes everything. Even though Phillip K. Dick wrote
it, Richard adapted the screenplay perfectly. I found that the film ran
like a combination of Tarantinoesque chronology(Pulp Fiction, Reservoir
Dogs) and a Nolanesque confusion(Memento). The rotoscoping animation
was used perfectly to highlight the cinematography. I left the theater
with a sort of David Lynchish feel(Lost Highway, Mullholland Drive) but
the plot lines were actually sewn up more neatly.

Having seen the film only once, in no way am I saying that A Scanner
Darkly compares with the films I've mentioned, but with multiple
viewings I am guessing that I may rank it somewhere close.

I can certainly see how someone that has never taken any psychedelics
or ingested any type of psychotropic substance might feel less
enthusiastic about some of the themes but I can't see them denouncing
the film for that reason.

If you have ever gone on a "trip" then you will be instantly able to
relate to some of the particular scenes.

I thought that everyone acted brilliantly in their particular roles.
Keanu's agent should win some sort of award. Mr. Reeves is not in any
way a credit to Shakespeare but his agent always seems to find certain
roles that suit Keanu's tendencies.

I think it is undoubtable that this film becomes a cult classic. I hope
it fares well at the box office because I would like to believe that
the world is starting to appreciate good film more than it has of late.

If you enjoy a good "mind-bender" of a film that doesn't stop
resonating in your head until days after you have seen it, then A
Scanner Darkly is for you. If you go to the theater simply for
spoon-fed entertainment, see this film anyway and hopefully you will
wake up and have an original thought some time soon.
<|_=00=_|>
I love Philip K. Dick's work and was pleased with this adaptation of "A
Scanner Darkly." Keanu Reeves does a really good job in the lead - he's
in his element here - but he's really upstaged by Robert Downey Jr. and
Woody Harrelson who engage in some surreal and hilarious conversations.
It's like you're sitting with a bunch of guys tripping. Needless to
say, some of the dialogue is hilarious, and I can see this film
becoming another cult classic. (When they talk about two hemispheres
being separate, I couldn't help but think about "Repo Man.") As for the
animation, I found it a bit distracting. I think I would have preferred
the use of CGI when it came to the agent suit that continually blends
the faces of about 1 million people so that the agent isn't recognized.
If you like drug films, then this is a must see. If that's not your
bag, then you might have some problems with the film. It's sometimes
obtuse and the story a bit convoluted. It's best to sit back and
experience the film. It's a drug trip in itself.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw this film today in a theater with no air conditioning on the
hottest day of the year...pretty fitting for a movie about
claustrophobic paranoia. I'd been looking forward to seeing this from
the first time I saw the trailer. Whatever can be said about this film,
there is no denying it's totally unique look. After awhile, you begin
to get used to the rotoscoping and then suddenly, there will be
something thrown in that will call attention to itself and remind you
that you are watching animation. I am a fan of Dick's work, but have
not yet read the novel upon which this film is based. Great
performances all around and kudos to Linklater for his fantastic
vision. The film could be considered a bit talky to the average
moviegoer, but is much appreciated by fans of cerebral sci-fi.
Fascinating premise is told through interesting blend of suspense and
comedy. Not for everyone, but certainly worth a look. Certain to become
a cult classic.
<|_=00=_|>
For some reason I can't get separate the way I feel about Radiohead's
Kid A and Amnesiac albums from the way I feel about this movie. If you
love adult sci-fi that is complex and strangely moving then this is a
must see movie. This captures Philip K. Dick's spirit better than any
movie since BLADERUNNER and is even more difficult to pin a reaction
on. SCANNER is a more intimate film. Anybody who has seen Richard
Linklater's mind boggling WAKING LIFE will be instantly familiar (and
comfortable) with the way SCANNER looks. The rotoscoping technique
doesn't seem that much further evolved from WAKING except for the
scrambler suit whose effect is a continuous wonder to behold. The look
beautifully suits the story because they both speak to the large
disconnect that has happened in our society via technology.
Interpersonal and immediately accessible intercommunication devices
have allowed us to avoid real communication and immediate interaction
with our surroundings and the people who inhabit them at any moment on
a grander scale than ever before. I find it rather depressing and
annoying when my current reality in interrupted by a bloody cell phone
(unless, of course, it is mine that is ringing). Dick's work often
addressed alienation and sinking so far into your own that reality
became a liquid element usually washing us up onto the shores paranoia
and madness. SCANNER evokes this strangeness in a way few movies ever
have.
