
Okay just finished watching this and wow is it bad. I could sit here
and kick the heck out've it for not being faithful to the game, which
hooo boy it isn't, but then all I'll get is a bunch of people going
"It's Tekken The Movie, NOT Tekken The Game!".

So I'll review it as a simple action movie. The plot was thin, the
character motivations were practically nil and the fight scenes were
shot with far too many cuts. The acting ranged from over the top to
poor.

Interestingly for a movie that did not in any way respect the storyline
of the game, it went out of it's way to include homages to it. Hell
entire characters were in it for no more than that. Anna Williams
didn't have a fight or indeed even a line! She existed for no other
reason to name drop and to wander about in her underwear. While we're
on the subject of the Williams sister's what the heck is wrong with
Nina's face?!? I have no idea if this is true, but it looks like it's
been constructed in the operating theatre, apologies if it wasn't, but
DAMN.

They also managed to incorrectly spell Cung Le's name in the credits.

Not for Tekken fans as they'll get angry, not for action movie fans as
they'll get bored.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay, First thing's first.. I am only writing a review on this Film
because the last guy who did a review has seriously done my head in,
and clearly doesn't know what he is talking about, he says that this
film was an awful and boring film.. however i am curious as to what he
is comparing it to.

Now on to the film, I at first wasn't too sure about watching this and
had no high hopes as there has been little advertisement on this film
and really isn't as big of a production as the likes of Mortal Kombat
and Street Fighter. The Acting wasn't too great, However the fight
scenes make up for that as when the fighting kicks in you completely
forget about the Acting. The film is highly Watchable and good
entertainment. 

I Personally would of given it a 7 if there was more back story on each
individual character, and there was more original cast.. example.. why
is raven in it and not hwoarang grrr

However the film in my opinion is far better than street fighter the
legend of chun-li and not as good as MK.. but it's exactly like the
game's which is good.
<|_=00=_|>
I was surprised positively. Yes, it's a video game adaption and from
what I can tell it doesn't stick too much too it story wise, but for me
it was quite entertaining. It's stupid, but not yet on a level where
you want to face palm yourself all the time. It's much more serious
than DOA and I still like that one better, but that's mostly because of
its all-out- trash-appeal and because the fight choreography is a
million times better. In Tekken many fights look like training
exercises, many cuts can't hide, that you're not watching one fight,
but many separate actions. Plus, there are some shots that are supposed
to look dramatic or cool, but the just look badly done.

But all in all, it's mildly entertaining, it does look more expensive
than it was, the cos-play-factor is bearable and some ideas in the
fights are nice to see. I would never buy it, but for rent it's
entertaining 90 minutes of mindless fun.
<|_=00=_|>
Look I understand Video Game movies have a stigma about them but to
hate on a movie due to the lack of authenticity you should look again.
The writers of this movie did the best they could to pick out the story
of Tekken. What people do not understand is when a movie is made they
can take liberties with the story because it is "Based" on characters
not carbon copies. I enjoyed this film from beginning to end, some of
the writing was bad and some of the actors could have been
better(Movies now a days have the same issue), but you have to realize
most of the actors in this film are actual MMA and martial artists. I
liked how they changed things around to make sense of it all,
especially for those who will be fresh to the story of Tekken. The
fighting was top notch, Jin was likable, you really felt like he was an
ordinary Joe. I loved the fact that the film was left open (watch after
the credits). This movie to me has a wonderful replay value almost like
"Kickboxer" on crack. All you fans need to get your heads out of your
A$$ and enjoy the movie for what it is. If you like Tournament,
Fighting or even a nice action flick this one is for you.
<|_=00=_|>
"You will fight, the world will watch, and my legacy will be written
with your blood."

Tekken actually wasn't half-bad. I'm as surprised to be saying that as
you probably are to be reading it. 

It probably helped that the bar is so low for video game adaptations,
and that the last such movie I saw was King of Fighters, which was
awful to an absurd degree. Tekken can't help but look good in
comparison to that. It helps that it makes at least an effort to keep
some of the story and characters from the games, while offering
frequent decent, if not great, fight scenes. The overuse of flashbacks
gets a little old, but that's a much more minor issue than I was
expecting Tekken to have. 

I have to mention that Tekken looks pretty good, with some impressive
sets and a slick, high-budget veneer. The main actors are adequate,
with John Foo as Jin being a capable fighter and believable enough as
an earnest and ultimately good-hearted guy. Kelly Overton doesn't have
a lot to do other than look hot in her greatly revised role as
Christie, but she's infinitely qualified in that particular area. She
does okay in her action scenes, too. Ian Anthony Dale is appropriately
villainous as Kazuya, and everyone else is at least acceptable. 

Tekken is basically just another fighting tournament movie, placed in a
video game setting. But, that's all it really needs to be. The story is
simple and straight-forward, and I think that's a good thing. Keep in
mind that this isn't supposed to be a 100% accurate adaptation of the
game, and it'll probably entertain you. 
<|_=00=_|>
IN the tradition of "Mortal Kombat", "Street Fighter" and other
fighting video-game series comes "Tekken" to the big screen. If you
expect a cinematic treat the likes of "The Dark Knight" or "Iron Man",
you are on the wrong planet. However, if "Tekken" conjures for you
visions of some handsome underdog hero fighting against grizzled hunks,
and scantily-clad women attempting motions of kick-boxing and
kicking-ass, you are on the right track.

And you may even be taken up by the action in "Tekken". At least for
the first half of the movie.

Mainly, the movie is about a handsome and rebellious Jin Kazama (Jon
Foo) who gets reluctantly drawn into the Iron Fist tournament organised
by the mighty Tekken Corp. Jin learnt to fight from his mother Jun
(Tamlyn Tomita) who also warns him to stay away from Tekken and the
Iron Fist tourney! Of course, one thing leads to another and Jin finds
himself in the highly-publicised tournament where he must fight
contestants twice his size and having triple his experience. These are
heavies like the 'bionic' Bryan Fury (Gary Daniels) and Russian
contender Sergei Dragonov (Anton Kasabov). No prizes for guessing if
Jin would tip the odds.

And oh yes, he also meets curvy femmes like Christie Monteiro (Kelly
Overton) and Nina Williams (Candice Hillebrand) who provide the
requisite teaser and eye candy. In the course of his battles, he learns
the truth about himself! 

With fast-paced action, brief dialogues and some dazzling fight
sequences, one can easily get taken away by the Tekken action, even if
they are ludicrous and downright incredulous. The plot is predictable,
even with its twist involving Jin and chief villain Kazuya Mishima (Ian
Anthony Dale) and his father Heihachi (Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa). Indeed,
the narrative barely helps to sustain the action sequences - and the
fighting scenes get repetitive and stale in the second half of the
film.

But then with a second-rate cast of relative unknowns, it is
unrealistic to expect anything more than the visual delights of "DOA".
What we can be thankful for is that director Dwight Little has kept the
flick within 90 minutes and does not show too many bloody and gory
scenes (yes, some video-game enthusiasts may find "Tekken" tame).

VERDICT: For fighting game fans and adrenaline addicts. - by LIM CHANG
MOH (limchangmoh.blogspot.com)
<|_=00=_|>
Before watching the movie I had high hopes that i'd get to see my
favorite character/s in action, and true enough, it didn't
deliver..unfortunately for me but then again, some parts of it were
worth a fourth of the disappointment. 

First off, it was a bit confusing to see characters from different
timelines all come together in this particular set and it was kind of
heartbreaking to even note that Hwoarang, Paul, Michelle, Julia and
Xiaoyu were not even in it, considering they already included Raven,
Steve and Christie plus Eddie too. The story was kind of hurriedly
narrated and no follow-ups for the other fighters that were
mentioned...sort of like they were just there for the sake of being in
the tournament. It centered mainly on Jin and the rest appeared to be
more like supporting backdrops of that sort. It would have had more
spice if they at least allowed the other characters to have more than
just kicking and punching roles. 

On the plus side, the fight scenes, though short and fast, were
satisfactory and did away with the fancy light-me-up hits and supers.
It made the movie look more in tune with the real martial arts
portrayed. The basic moves were there and well, the final strikes were
a bit....tame, for a fight to the death effect. 

All in all, it's entertaining to watch since it's Tekken after all and
it's not everyday that people get to watch live action renditions of
their favorite console games. My only gripe is that my favorite
character was not in it, unfortunately (Ling Xiaoyu, at your service)
and it would have been more interesting if there was a particular solid
timeline that the story arc related to and not just put everyone in a
big melting pot.
<|_=00=_|>
The legendary fighting game finally came into live action movie! As a
fans of the game, I felt that I have to watch this movie despite bad
reviews by other IMDb users.

They're right. The story was so awful? yes. The movie looks cheap? yes.
The characters had very different personality compared to the game?
yes. Nina is too horny? yes.

The fighting scenes isn't too bad, at least. Much better that that
Dragon Ball Evolution. It's still enjoyable, with fast-paced background
music. But the fights took place on very badly decorated arena.

Of course, there were many stupid things in this movie. When Jin was
attacked inside his room, Christie Monteiro can't even break the door
by force! She has to break the window with something nearby, and then
open the door using handle? What a lame way! These first class fighters
are supposed to have great power in their muscle.

The characters didn't perform their signature moves on the game.
Where's that dragon uppercut used by the Mishimas (including Jin)? I
didn't expect that the fighters will emit lightning, fire, etc from
their body like that in the game, but at least please use their
original moves in the game.

This movie will disappoint you, either you're fans of the game or not.
<|_=00=_|>
Why such a bad grade? Let me start off by telling you that I am a real
fan of the Tekken series. Don't get me wrong, the movie was *ehhh* OK,
but it was not Tekken.

The story of the movie does not fit in the time line of Tekken series.
There have been 6 tournaments so far & the movie does not adept any of
them, but mixes up everything & makes a huge mess out off it.
Everything is just misplaced. For example: Jun Kazama (Jins mother)
dies in Tekken 2, Miguel Caballero Rojo joins Tekken 6 to avenge his
sisters death, Sergei Dragunov entered Tekken 5 to infiltrate Mishima
Zaibatsu Lab, Eddy Gordo enters Tekken 3 to find the murderer of his
father, etc.

In Tekken, every character has his/her own purpose of entering the
tournament. In the movie the actors didn't even know what they were
doing there. NONE of the actors fitted the shoes of their characters &
I'm not talking about the resemblance. I could care less about the
resemblance, cause I know it's damn near impossible to look like a
fictional character. For example: Kazuya Mishima is a good person,
turned bad after the Devil Gene took over him, he only wanted one thing
ever since: kill Heihachi Mishima & Jin Kazama in order to get full
power of the Devil Gene, Codename Raven is a spy, who was ordered to
infiltrate Mishima Zaibatsu, etc.

If you are interested in the story of Tekken, you don't have to play
Tekken games. Just surf to: http://tekken.wikia.com/wiki/Tekken_Wiki &
you'll know what Tekken is all about.

So I mainly hate this movie, cause it doesn't bring Tekken, it just
brings a random action entertainment flick. It's not as if Tekken
storyline is a masterpiece or anything. It's just like going to 5*
restaurant, ordering a chicken & getting some KFC on your plate. Not as
if KFC is bad, it's just that you're not getting, what you've ordered,
thats all. You get the point?
<|_=00=_|>
When I was a child there was 3 video games that to this day will always
go down in history as my favorite games ever made. One of those games
happened to be Tekken. When I first heard about this movie I was pretty
psyched. To be honest, I didn't really know what to expect. To say the
least I wasn't "Butt Hurt" but I wasn't happy either. From the
perspective of somebody who has never played the games before, this
would in fact be a good film. However, from the perspective of somebody
who has played the games... I found myself saying "omg what are you
guys doing this isn't how that happened" almost every 5 minutes in this
film. I guess I now know how those guys who say "The book was better"
feel. A lot of the Tekken characters in this movie where completely out
of character compared to the character they portray in the gaming
world. Like I said though, I can see how someone who has never played
the console games could enjoy this movie. Aside from all that, the
content of the film as story progress wise was forced. The action is
what made up for that downside. With all that being said as a loyal
Tekken fan. I either hope A. They make an anime movie out of Tekken
that sticks true to the roots or B. Does this movie some justice in a
Hollywood remake. They're going to need to take a completely different
approach if they want to attract the interests of the hardcore fans.
