
Deep Throat changed America. It legitimized porn, creating a billion
dollar industry in the process, and sent the sexual revolution to
dizzying heights. Love it or hate it, Deep Throat was an historical
event.

Inside Deep Throat looks back at that amazing phenomenon, it's causes
and effects, and how it changed America and the lives of those who made
it.

Interviews with Throat director Gerard Damiano & male lead Harry Reems
give much insight into the porn biz of those bygone days, a dark world
of sex & drug addiction, fly by night productions, and mafia money men.
Sexperts Erica Jong, Dr. Ruth & Helen Gurley Brown offer their takes on
how society reacted to and was affected by this new sexual openness,
while 70s porn queens Georgina Spelvin & Andrea True offer quick sound
bites that explain what drew people to the business.

The film covers many bases & covers them well. We see the hypocrisy of
Jesus-inspired DAs, who waste millions of taxpayer dollars on frivolous
prosecutions of actors, theater managers, and anyone else they see as
an easy target in their crusade to "clean up America".

Censorship and free speech issues are discussed by the likes of Norman
Mailer, John Waters, Dick Cavett and others, while Gloria Steinen &
Susan Brownmiller offer their views on how porn degrades women. Both
sides are eloquent and make valid points.

We see the tragedy of Linda Lovelace's wasted life. Unable to escape
the stigma of being the film's star, she joined forces with the Women's
Movement in denouncing porn. Shortly before her death in a traffic
accident, Lovelace briefly returned to the biz because she was flat
broke.

Inside Deep Throat is a brilliant film. It takes a time, place and
event, a cultural phenomenon of it's day, and puts it under a
microscope. Future generations may look at Deep Throat the film and
wonder what the big deal was.

Inside Deep Throat explains it all to them.
<|_=00=_|>
"Inside Deep Throat" is one of the most entertaining documentaries I've
ever seen. This film doesn't cover all the aspects you may want to see
about the porn-film-turned-cultural- phenomenon, but it is fun to watch
-a thing you can't say about most documentaries. The tone is
light-hearted, which will make people squeamish about seeing a film
related to porn less threatened. It is however, one of the few films
I've seen well deserving of the NC-17 rating.

The lessons to be learned from watching it are: The Christian Right is
the American Taliban. The Republican Party spent too much taxpayer
money and time deciding what you should and shouldn't see. Their silly
"American values" platform has been around for decades. The silly
obscenity laws are still around, though it'll be a big waste of
taxpayer money to enforce them, as it was back then. The movie made so
much money because it was banned and people were drawn to the
controversy. The mafia was the biggest beneficiary, while most people
involved in the film became victims of the movie's success.

I read somewhere the late Linda Lovelace said she realized the feminist
crusaders used her more than the porn industry did. You can see a bit
of that in this movie. In archive footage, Lovelace is being
interviewed, but a feminist next to her doesn't let Lovelace speak and
answers all the questions for her. Poor Lovelace was used to push
whatever agenda she could be used for. In one part you see her
defending the porn industry and free speech, the next you see her as
the ultimate anti-porn crusader, and at an old age you see her posing
nude for Playboy, defending her change of mind.

This will be a great DVD when it comes out. Many people won't agree
with the points of view portrayed here, but we all can agree this is
good storytelling.
<|_=00=_|>
To get the obvious out of the way, yes, the movie's rated NC-17. Yes,
it earns it's rating, in part by graphically showing us how DEEP THROAT
got it's name.

I have real misgivings about this movie, although ultimately I'll
recommend it to those interested in the period or artistic subcultures
more generally. It is very well made, with a lot of interesting
archival footage. (I especially liked an interview on what sounded like
"60 Minutes" with Jack Nicholson, Warren Beatty, and Harry Reems stuck
there right between them.) This is a fascinating story, assuming you
like the subject generally. And the filmmakers have dug out all sorts
of interesting people, including Gerald Damiano himself (improbably
whiling away his twilight years in what looks like Florida) and Harry
Reems (who I think comes across really well.) My misgivings basically
stem from this: the filmmakers want to simultaneously idealize a moment
in time and, at the same time, draw political conclusions from the
story. I don't think you can do that; I think that's a contradiction in
terms. As such, the movie often comes across as very dishonest. Some of
the dishonesty seems unconscious: if you're going to idealize the early
Seventies adult film scene as brave busters of restrictive social
mores, it seems strange to at the same time castigate those who would
uphold them, since it's this very act of upholding them which gives
your guys their ennobling quality, no? It's as if the filmmakers want
to re-fight the DEEP THROAT wars again, without any sense of
perspective.

But more seriously, I think the movie shows a lot of bad faith. It's
one thing to properly make fun of a ridiculous evangelical prosecutor
who spearheaded the DEEP THROAT trial; it's another to make fun of an
FBI agent, who after all (as the movie reluctantly admits) was
investigating the Mob's connections with DEEP THROAT. It's one thing to
celebrate Hollywood's defense of the movie and Reems when he was in
trial, but the movie makers rather glibly skate over the fact that
Reems's descent into alcoholism was kicked off by his realization that
Hollywood wouldn't hire him. As for Linda Lovelace, the movie has
convinced me (rather unwillingly, frankly, and I'm not sure they
intended to do it themselves) that she was at least pressured into
performing in the movie. There's a still of her with bruises that's
hard to gainsay.

Most importantly, the movie acknowledges that porno is a huge industry
nowadays, but doesn't seem to want that realization to clutter up it's
thesis that things are more repressive now. One could argue, after all,
that the success of the current adult industry means that Damiano and
friends have essentially won. The movie seems to want to say just the
opposite, that these guys were doing more artful stuff that isn't
represented by current fare, but leaving aside the question of whether
that's true or not, the movie begins with a clip of Damiano himself
admitting that the movie isn't that good. And the merits of DEEP THROAT
seem linked to it's more-busting power, not anything intrinsic in the
film itself.

I would have preferred either a straightforward idealization of that
adult film era, with Waters, Jong et. al. commenting, or a
straightforward examination of DEEP THROAT's sociological impact, which
would have meant a more unsparing look at the realities, I fear. As it
is, the movie makers try to straddle things too much. Still, if you're
interested in the era, adult films or more generally "underground art"
you'll probably want to check this out. Has a limited release, but I
think will eventually play on HBO.
<|_=00=_|>
Yes, there is fellatio depicted inside the documentary Inside Deep
Throat. About 3 seconds. So go see the original groundbreaking porno
flick of 1972, Deep Throat, if you want to be deeply titillated and
experience a poorly made movie that grossed over $600 million and
sparked a sexual revolution that resulted for exhibitors and actors in
stiff penalties that carry through today in Nikon's' wet dreams.

Today fortunately is also a world where videos allow private viewing of
private parts and only a handful of "art" houses even try to offer
porno films. So why go back to those carefree days of free love and
iconoclasm? Because conservatives have taken up Nixon and Reagan's call
for a purer world, a world suited to George Bush's values-laden regime.
Inside Deep Throat is a cautionary tale that implicitly argues,
sometimes humorously, that young Jack Nicholson and Warren Beatty are
on to something when they complain our rights are being stolen.

Much bigger mirth arrives with the interviews of the retired director
and project manager, among others, in their cheesy Florida print shirts
and garish bungalows pontificating about the film's greatness emerging
out of a mere $25,000 into film history. Not funny is star Linda
Lovelace's return to the business, after disavowing it by taking an
anti-porn feminist position with Gloria Steinem to speak for her and
then going back to make a buck.

Sadder still is star Harry Reems' long association with substance abuse
after being hounded by the feds as a scapegoat eventually cleared of
obscenity charges. His current license to sell real estate in Park
City, Utah, is a rich bit of irony. However, the humor continues with
profundities by pop culture stars John Waters, Erica Jong, and Gore
Vidal. Only a wry Dick Cavet puts it all into ironic perspective to ask
if he could see the original now since he missed it and to aver that he
always does what Nicholson and Beatty recommend.

Inside Deep throat is not as artful as Boogie Nights or as thoughtful
as Kinsey; it is, however, a light look at a dark world that still
thrives on privacy regardless of the public hunger for sex.
<|_=00=_|>
I was impressed with this marvelous doco after watching it yesterday
and unlike Dick Cavett I remember watching the film in the heady days
of the 70s in San Francisco-perhaps not as brave and revolutionary as
watching it in Oklahoma City but a political statement none the less.

My thoughts about the film are coloured by this historical connection
but that in no way diminishes the strengths of the film. After all
these years to see the players in the flesh talking about such a
phenomenon made for an enjoyable morning of film watching. You cannot
view the film without seething anger at the religious conservatives
that made virtually all the player's lives far more difficult than
those lives should have been.

If there was a villain in the movie it would have been the Tennesee
prosecutor who doubled as a lay preacher when he wasn't trying to make
America into his own little brand of religious conservatism. Their kind
of dead-head sociology and politics is still rampant in the States and
the only difference is they've changed their target from sex to
terrorism-or at least their definition of political terrorism.

The directors, Bailey and Barbato, have crafted a superb film
inter-cutting old film clips with current interviews in order to create
an excellent vision of all the threads between the personalities and
opinions of the players. The hilarity of these characters come through
when they speak with a forthrightness that generally ends up on the
cutting room floor.

If you are an old guy like me-see the film for its historical look at a
time that we can remember. If you are a young person interested in
politics, look at the film to see the nature of the bad guys around us
now but with new crusades to fight.
<|_=00=_|>
All I can say is wow, this was a great documentary. Because of the
subject matter it isn't for everyone, and the fact that it has an
actual X-rated scene in it doesn't help either. But if you can get past
that, this is an insightful, fascinating look at adult films and our
society. And there is a lot of humor in it as well. I wasn't surprised
that several people in the audience walked out, since even I didn't
realize how graphic the language/visuals would be. Showing how
Deepthroat brought the "BJ" into the mainstream of adult films was
interesting, and the interviews with the people actually making porn
were very insightful.
<|_=00=_|>
Review by: Todd David Schwartz, Arts & Entertainment Correspondent for
"The Paul Mitchell Show," a newly launched, nationally syndicated talk
radio program. INSIDE DEEP THROAT gets Four Stars (highest rating).
DEEP THROAT, released in the early 1970's, is considered the first
major porn film. It became, to say the least, quite a "cause celeb."
This documentary, INSIDE DEEP THROAT, explores the impact of the film
on society, and shows how sex, culture, politics, and morality all
collided to explosive effect. INSIDE DEEP THROAT is an utterly
fascinating cinematic experience, amazingly thorough, ceaselessly
entertaining. I grew up during the time depicted in the film (over 30
years ago), but for those of you young 'uns who weren't around then,
this will prove particularly eye-opening. The filmmakers were able to
gather an impressive group of big-names to throw in their two-cents
worth on the subject: Norman Mailer, Camille Paglia, Erica Jong, Dick
Cavett -- names, again, that may be unfamiliar to those of you who
weren't around during the time of DEEP THROAT's release. My only
complaint about the film (an admittedly minor one) is that the
filmmakers don't spend more time delving into allegations made by Linda
Lovelace (DEEP THROAT's star) in her book ORDEAL, where she essentially
claims that she was forced at gunpoint to perform in the film by her
husband/manager Chuck Traynor. ORDEAL is quite a juicy read. It was
originally released by a major publishing house, but has long been out
of print. INSIDE DEEP THROAT certainly mentions the book, and shows how
Lovelace did a turn-around and became an unexpected spokeswoman for
anti-porn feminists. But the documentary generally leaves unexamined
just how accurate ORDEAL's claims may have been. In the documentary,
Hugh Hefner pontificates grandly about DEEP THROAT's cultural impact.
NOT mentioned in the film is the allegation Lovelace makes in ORDEAL
that, at the height of her popularity, she was invited up to the
Playboy Mansion where Hef tried to get her to have sex with a dog,
while people stood around and watched. Rather exploitive of you, Mr.
Hefner, is it not? (Assumimg the allegation is true.) Also in the book
and not mentioned in the film, is Lovelace's wild sexual relationship
with entertainer Sammy Davis, Jr. Not only did Davis have Lovelace
demonstrate her deep throat fellatio technique on him (according to
Lovelace), but Davis performed fellatio on Lovelace's hubby Chuck
Traynor! I would have personally liked to see the film examine the
book's allegations a little more closely. As it is (and as I indicated
earlier), the film IS impressively thorough with the information it
does provide, and it's presented with tremendous flair. INSIDE DEEP
THROAT is rated NC-17 for a reason: The film includes an explicit scene
from DEEP THROAT of Lovelace performing the fellatio technique for
which the porn film was named and for which she became famous.
Including this scene was a smart and important choice on the part of
the filmmakers. It would have been a cop-out to have people sitting
around talking about one of the primary reasons why DEEP THROAT became
a must see, without actually showing it.
<|_=00=_|>
i am an unashamed porn fan, not in the sense that i sit around all the
time watching th stuff, but in the sense that i find the people
involved in the making and distribution of the stuff to be very
interesting, if not somewhat shady and bizarre people but none the less
they have a story to share that not many people can lay claim to and so
i like to give any material broaching the subject, particularly in its
formative years, a listen.

so i haven't seen deep throat, and i don't really want to, if I'm going
to watch people engaging in sexual acts i will buy something a little
more intense and modern without all the premise of having a plot for
arts sake. but this documentary is not about the film persae, it is
about the people involved with it and how it affected their lives.

we see and hear from a lot of people who's lives have been both
positively and negatively affected by this film over the years and it
gives the viewer an insight into what really makes these people get
involved in the business to begin with, and surprisingly enough its not
just the money as there wasn't much money in it for the actors as such
back in the 70s.

so i suggest that anybody that has an interest in rights and freedoms
should really watch this as it gives a deeper appreciation of these
simple gifts that we have to live by today and are so readily taken for
granted.

if you like this kinda stuff also check out a film called Wadd which is
about the life and death of john Holmes and also read How to make love
like a porn star, the autobiography of Jenna Jameson.
<|_=00=_|>
This is the story of the film that changed our culture and how our
society looks at sex. Inside Deep Throat takes us behind the scenes of
the making of the film,tells us how it became a huge blockbuster, and
how it changed the lives of all of the people involved.

This is a very good primer to understanding Deep Throats impact on sex
and censorship. This film does a very good job at laying out the story
of the film and placing it into the context of the times. If you don't
know what the big deal was when this film came out, you'll get a very
good understanding of just why and how the film became so big that even
small kids knew its name (though not its content). You'll also get a
good over view of the battle to censor and to keep the film from public
view, and an idea of how it shaped our world today.

I really did like this film a great deal. My one real reservation is
that this film focuses a too much on the one film. Certainly the with
Deep Throat in the title, I expected it to be mostly focused on that,
but the censorship wars that were being fought at the same time
involved other films and other media,for example the battle over George
Carlin's Seven Dirty Words was happening at about the same time and was
just as important.

But I'm nit picking. This is a good movie. Its a good starting point
for learning about the film and the times that made our times what they
are.
<|_=00=_|>
"Inside Deep Throat" is a funny, extremely well directed, edited and
presented documentary on the 1972 porno film that broke box office
records and brought in otherwise "respectable" citizens into theaters
to see a film featuring actual acts of oral sex performed by a cute,
naive brunette named Linda Lovelace. The film simultaneously furthered
America's love/hate relationship with smut (political power attempting
to suppress and end pornography and others trying to gain access to it)
Dennis Hopper provides narration to the story of how Deep Throat was
produced, distributed and how it grossed millions of dollars and made
porn a household term. Colorful and sometimes telling and very funny
interviews with director Gerald Damiano, star Harry Reems, etc. make
this glitzy doc. full of 70s eye candy well worth seeing.

Some critics complained that this documentary didn't dig deep enough
into the subject matter and that it contains information already well
ingrained in today's pop culture time capsule. That all depends on your
age and knowledge of the matter (being born in 1985 myself, I had no
idea that in the 1970s there were medical tests conducted to see if
pornography caused physical harm to those viewing it!) File footage of
1970s newsreels, old stag loops and porno flicks, etc. make this film
an honest, unflinching and kinda cutesy look at a time when VCRs were
futuristic and porno stars looked like soccer moms.
