
If you want a good movie about Henry VIII and Anne Bolyen, rent Anne of
the Thousand Days. That was a film that used history to tell a story
about real people who had a love to change a nation. 

In this version of the eponymous Phillipa Gregory novel, historical
inaccuracies abound. Approximately fifteen years are compressed into
two hours with no indication time has gone by except for various
babies. None of the characters ever change or grow any older. The
characters in this movie are completely one-sided. Anne is ambitious.
Henry is a womanizer. Mary is simple. No one has any complexities. The
sisterly rivalry plays out like an underdeveloped soap opera. 

On the other hand, the film is engaging and the costumes lovely. Same
with the gorgeous palace settings. 

Eye candy it is. Truthful or realistic it isn't.
<|_=00=_|>
The "Other Boleyn Girl" hit theaters today, and of course, I was in for
the first showing. I've been anticipating this movie for over 2 years
now, ever since I first heard it was in production. 

Why can't directors seem to get it right when it comes to this time
period?I understand completely the Hollywood concept of "dramatic"
flair for the big screen. But there is a difference between "dramatic
flair" and complete revisionist history. This movie makes the HBO
series, "The Tudors" seem like a BBC documentary as far as factual
information is concerned.

Now, the director is not all to blame. Phillippa Gregory does a damn
good job of distorting the truth in this alternate interpretation of
the story of Anne Boleyn. Her portrayal of Anne as ruthlessly ambitious
and downright devilish is at odds with the softer portrayals favored by
Jean Plaidy and other authors of this period. Anne's own diaries would
suggest her true personality to be more of the unwilling victim and
royal pawn in the schemes cooked up by her ambitious male relatives.
Only when she discovered that her path in life would be to submit or
face death or exile does she succumb to Henry's advances. 

The opening scenes of the movie concern how Anne and Henry met. Well,
there is debate on this, the movie selects Hever. I'll allow that. But
this first it was most certainly not in front of the whole court and
followed by a hunt in which Henry takes a tumble, to be nursed back to
health by Mary, Anne's OLDER sister (the movie and book portrays her as
the younger sister-this is false). Anne's ambitions are apparent from
this very day, she indeed seems to find her father and uncle's schemes
appealing and agrees to "hunt" his majesty. Hardly the case in reality.
Anne was in love with and betrothed to Henry Percy at the time of her
first meeting with Henry. The movie has it backwards. She does not
"settle" for Percy only after Mary has "stolen" Henry. Another
extremely annoying point of order here.Cardinal Wolsey is completely
absent from this film. This is such a blaring error as to render the
movie completely abominable. Wolsey is such a force in the entire
drama, from the arrangement of the marriage AND the divorce, to all
matters of state and religion in betweento leave him out is both
amateur and foolish, not to mention a missed opportunity for much
needed plot thickening.

Running through the laundry list of other inaccuracies.Anne was not
EXILED to France because she fumbled her attempt to seduce Henry. This
is utterly ridiculous. It is well known that both Anne and Mary
practically grew up in the French court from the time they were 12 to
their late teens. Only then did the sisters join the English court,
much less begin their dramas with the king. And she was not brought
back to entertain Henry whilst Mary lay in with his child. AgainAnne
most strongly wanted to marry her first love, Henry Percy, Duke of
Northumberland. But once Henry had set his eyes upon her and chose to
make her his own, then and only then were her uncle and father's
schemes put into motion. Their original intentions were to milk the
long-going affair of her sister Mary for all it was worth.

Now, as for the "incest" theory. Gregory is taking a huge risk here by
suggesting that the allegation levied upon Anne and her brother George
was indeed founded in truth, borne out of Anne's desperation to get
with child after her miscarriage. I do believe Anne was desperate to
get pregnant quickly, and she was very close to her brotherbut this is
a huge leap, and one true historians would never make. It also suggest
that something other than Henry's brute desires were at play here when
he charged them with treason, which is not the case. He simply wanted
to be rid of Anne, to beget a male heir off of his next mistress.

And good graciouswhat of the rape scene? Not only is this disturbing,
but so far fetched. Although Anne resisted for years, when she finally
gave in to Henry, she did believe herself to be in love with himor at
the very least, resigned to accept her fate. And Henry was completely
besotted with her.why else would he break from Rome, Catholicism and
risk his kingdom for anything less? No, he would not have raped Anne
for their first sexual encounter. He was a brute, but he was most
concerned of his image of the romantic courtier when it came to women's
affections.

Finally, a note on the characters. Portman does an acceptable job
portraying the character from the bookeven though this character is
not the true Anne Boleyn. Johannson makes a lovely Maryand probably
quite close to the real woman. As for Banaa sore disappointment. Bad
casting, bad acting. Is this the same Bana of the acclaimed Munich and
Troy? Where was the range? He comes across as flat and not well
studied. Jonathon Rhys Meyers of the HBO Tudors blows him out of the
water on all levels.sensuality, intensity and evil as Henry the 8th.

Why can't I just watch these movies and leave feeling entertained? I
don't quite knowI care too much about 15th century England for some
reason. It became hardwired in me after watching Anne of the Thousand
Days as a young girl. No Tudor movie since then has gotten close in
accuracy or sheer entertainment since then. Burton and Bujold are
classic and untouchable. But after watching this hack job, I have to
say I am looking forward to the new season of the Tudors on HBO.
<|_=00=_|>
A quick glimpse at the Tudor family line on Wikipedia will yield
hundreds of years of made-for-movie material, but none quite as
compelling as the story of Anne Boleyn. Pair a classic story with airy
language, beautiful sets and costumes, and some A-list names and you
have Oscar magic in the making. Right? Well, not always. We've seen it
before and we're not necessarily impressed with royalty anymore. The
Other Boleyn Girl offers new perspectives and dramatic angles on the
saga of wives that is Henry VIII's legacy, but nearly drowns in
melodrama.

And it's not entirely the movie's fault. Boleyn Girl follows the story
of both Anne (Natalie Portman) and Mary (Scarlett Johansson) Boleyn and
their relationship with the English court. King Henry VIII (Eric Bana)
has trouble producing a male heir, so the Boleyn family offers their
daughter Anne to bed. When Henry has a hunting accident due to Anne's
carelessness, he is nursed and subsequently charmed by innocent Mary.
But Mary is already married, so the King promotes her husband and sends
the couple to court where he can meet with Mary whenever he pleases.
Mary falls in love with Henry and becomes his mistress. Anne, the elder
sister, is scorned by what she believes is her sister's ultimate
betrayal, and plots revenge. The two continue on in these roles for
some time, swapping places in bed with Henry and spurting out babies
while their relatives egg them on. This isn't quite how things went
down in reality, but the changes are minor and seem necessary to
condense the timeline and create at least one sympathetic character.

The Other Boleyn Girl fares best when it's exploring the relationship
between Anne and Mary. This isn't the first story of sister rivalry,
but the dynamic between Anne and Mary is extraordinarily well-played.
Their previous roles and their public images make Portman and Johansson
perfect fits. We believe Portman to be intelligent and coy, and
Johansson to be naive and desired. More - we believe these roles might
be easily reversed. As sisters, their relationship is deeply
disturbing: they love each other, they hate each other, they're unable
to escape the expectations placed upon them by their family. As an
older sister (with an admittedly not-as-screwed-up relationship), I
found this portrayal very realistic - rich with emotion and complex
meaning.

I wish I could say the rest of the movie was as artful. There's
constant allusion and foreshadowing to the Boleyn demise through use of
visual and editing metaphors. If some details were twisted, other
details might have been cut out - too many tear-filled scenes means
that this eventually feels like a soap opera. At one point in the
movie, Anne is sent off to France and comes back wearing a very
distracting "B" charm, which she sports until the end of the movie.
When I finally finished inventing what else "B" might stand for
(besides Boleyn, there are plenty of other fits), I wondered about
Anne's character. She's now praised as being changed and thus back in
play, but I don't see it - she was smart and ambitious before, and only
gained a bit of wit during her trip to France - certainly not the
drastic change everyone seemed to be making it out to be. There are
some very poorly done scenes where supporting cast spell out the
politics of the situation for you. This is a little condescending and
probably unnecessary, if not repetitive. The costumes are beautiful,
but the matching dresses become unbelievable and even plain in places.
PETA must have a field day with this movie and its use of fur and meat.
You won't get to see Scarlett Johansson naked in this movie, in case
you were wondering - just lots of fuzzy sex montages, weirdly full of
backlit hair and fur. Katherine of Aragon (Henry VIII's first wife) is
given some of the most powerful lines in the movie, but they're
delivered with such woodenness that my disappointment must be made
known.

The Other Boleyn Girl could be so much more. As a hyper-dramatic
costume flick, it does stand out. There's more than meets your eye, and
the costarring performances are not to be missed. There's a lot of
material to cover in this story, but a simplified script would have
helped keep this film farther away from melodrama. Especially with a
true story as wild as this, there's not a lot that needs to be changed
or added to grip the viewer. Any embellishments verge on destroying
believability and creating situations we can't relate to.
<|_=00=_|>
The Other Boleyn Girl is a compelling film due to the exceptional
performances and the splendid costumes. Additionally, there is simply a
terrific story told about the relationship of Henry VIII and the two
Boleyn sisters, Anne and Mary.

Natalie Portman (Anne) and Scarlett Johansson (Mary) are outstanding as
characters engaged in both sibling rivalry and sisterly bonding. In the
central relationship of the sisters, the film develops the social roles
and imposed limitations on women in Tudor England.

One of the film's most moving character portrayals is the mother of the
two Boleyn Sisters. In the heartbreaking performance of Kristin Scott
Thomas, Elizabeth Boleyn can only watch helplessly as her daughters
become pawns of the greedy men (Thomas Boleyn and the Duke of Norfolk),
who use the young women much like pimps in order to line their pockets
and further their own advancement at court. Another sterling aspect of
the film is the portrayal of Katherine of Aragon (Ana Torent), another
victim of the men due to the obsessive pursuit of Henry VIII to beget a
male heir, leading to his momentous divorce from Katherine and
England's break with the church of Rome.

While commentators may point out the omissions of many of the details
from the novel by Philippa Gregory, the film is still true to the
spirit of the book. It is also a faithful representation of the role of
women in Tudor age. The film effectively presents the gender issues
from the perspective of many of the remarkable women of the age along
with the reminder of the greatest legacy of Anne Boleyn, which was the
indirect result of her relationship of Henry VIII. That legacy was the
future ruler of England...and also a woman: Elizabeth I.
<|_=00=_|>
Overall, the movie is entertaining. I thought the acting was good,
particularly Scarlett Johansson's. The cinematography and editing leave
much to be desired, and the entire movie seems rushed. If you have any
knowledge of Tudor history,you will recognize the many inaccuracies,
but those did not bother me as much as did the fact that important
characters were omitted, undeveloped, or even seemingly forgotten (as
in the case of Mary's husband, William Carey).

There ARE very affecting characters and scenes, but I left the theatre
wishing for MORE. The fascinating lives of these people simply cannot
be dealt with in a movie that lasts less than two hours.
<|_=00=_|>
The Tudors are very chic at the moment. If it isn't "Elizabeth: The
Golden Age" (awful) or the television series, "The Tudors"
(soft-pornographic trash), then it is "The Other Boleyn Girl", the
latest film written by the Oscar nominated screenwriter, Peter Morgan.
After his work on the Golden Globe winning TV film "Longford" and the
Oscar winning (for its lead actors) "The Queen" and "The Last King of
Scotland", his scripts must be in demand by actors across the globe.
Little wonder then that this film attracts a stellar cast, including
Eric Bana, Scarlett Johansson and Natalie Portman. So, why is it that
this film, which is filled with great talent and potential, delivers
only satisfaction? This was originally slated for release late last
year, right in the middle of the awards season. Yet, for some reason,
it was moved back. Why this was done is not widely known, but, as the
IMDb had the film listed as completed last autumn, I should think that
the decision was taken that this film would draw more attention outside
of the congested awards season. Watching the film, you are aware of the
ambition and lavish costumes that would draw the gaze of Oscar. But the
film lacks punch, depth and the power to grip you the whole way
through.

That's not to say that it isn't entertaining. Far from it, the film is,
for an hour and a quarter, perfectly pleasant, with intrigue, scheming
and romance aplenty. A lot of the credit must go to the performances,
which range from accomplished to fantastically enjoyable to watch.
Natalie Portman is impressive as Anne Boleyn. She ranges from scheming
and nasty to genuinely sympathetic. It is her most notable work to
date. Scarlett Johansson is fine, but everybody is still waiting for
her to realise the potential she showed when she announced herself on
the scene in "Lost in Translation" and "The Girl with the Pearl
Earring". The supporting cast are a joy to watch. Eric Bana is
excellent as Henry VIII, but it is the schemers in the background who
provide the best entertainment. David Morrissey is having a lot of fun,
whilst Mark Rylance and Kristin Scott Thomas are great as the Boleyn
parents.

It is a perfectly bearable watch, but unfulfilling. There's an awful
lot crammed into the hour and fifty minutes. As year after year of
history is skipped through, the film's focus continually shifts,
failing to allow certain characters from gaining appropriate intensity.
Henry VIII is not as proactive as he might, or should, be. He is more
driven then driving, whilst his first wife, Catherine of Aragon (Ana
Torrent), is given very little time on screen, thus sidelining a
character which should be a figure of great interest. But your
expectations are dashed mainly because the film reaches its climax with
half-an-hour to go, with an emotional pinnacle being reached and never
again surpassed. A rape scene, which seems to be the start of the
culmination, with so many points of interest going on in it, proves to
be the end of it. The last thirty minutes, whilst quite stylish, are
drawn out and slow, and end with a final scene that can only be
described as cheesy.

It's a shame that this film is nothing more than admirable in places.
But it is a good film for this time of year (that springtime lull
between the quality of Winter and the bombast entertainment of Summer).
It is an entertaining and satisfying way to pass an afternoon, but it
won't live long in the memory.
<|_=00=_|>
Never have I seen an actress take control of a movie as much as Portman
did with Boleyn. She stepped into the role so perfectly and did it was
so much confidence. I could feel her pain and ambition. I started
shaking during her downward spiral and couldn't stop. It was so intense
and heart pounding.

Jim Sturgess also made a huge impression. His part was small but his
performance was big. I wished there had been more of the brother.

The costumes also should win something, anything. They were amazing and
really stood out.

All in all it was a a pretty good movie. It really grabbed you and kept
you in their world for two hours. I would recommend this to anyone
who's old enough because there is a lot of adult material.

8 out of 10 stars
<|_=00=_|>
The second half of this movie almost gave me a BLOODY HEART ATTACK! MAN
THAT WAS DISTURBING! Ignore the false advertisements that make this
movie look like a romantic bodice-ripper. One can call it a soap-opera,
but you CANNOT call it a romantic period drama! For those of yous who
don't know your Tudor history don't worry, you don't need too (on
second thought it'll probably be better if you don't know the story),
just treat this as a FICTIONAL eye-opener (and yes, it is extremely
historically incorrect) OKay...disturbing themes and historical
inaccuracies aside, the movie has brilliant acting by it's leads.
Johansson is very capable and believable as Mary (yes, I know...I'm
shocked too), whilst Portman is psychotically intense as Anne (I'll
explain later). The supporting cast is decent, Kristen Scott Thomas is
morally in-tune in the Boleyns' mother and Jim Sturgess is BRILLIANT as
their tragic brother George.

The story on the other hand is WAY too rushed (you can SO CLEARLY tell
that sonypictures butchered this movie up...BADLY, thus I'll be waiting
for a director's cut indefinitely).

OK...first half of this movie is DULLer than the movie's god-awful
cinematography, the audiences' disinterest is NOT helped by Peter
Morgan's lazy script. The first half drags and drags....UNTIL the
director and writer decides to go all HAPPY TREE FRIENDS on the lead
characters (and I don't mean in the bloody fun way either).

Whilst Scarlett Johansson's Mary remains the movie's 'somewhat' moral
center....Natalie Portman's Anne goes bloody bizerk (yes, in the crazy
psychotic bitch sense)...kudos to her for bringing such intensity and
whatever realism she can to the (clearly bias) role, although at points
you may what to strangle Anne for her conniving ruthlessness, you
nevertheless feel for her (and especially her brother) in the end.

Make no mistake, this is NOT a movie for the soft-hearted, as I
explained before the second half contains MANY series of disturbing
stomach-wrenching events that will leave you clutching your seat (or
packet of Orange TicTac in my case) making the first ELIZABETH movie
seem like the most feel-good movie of 1999. SO CONSIDER YOURSELF
WARNED! All in all, bad direction, awesome acting and melodramatically
disturbing story with a beautiful score by Paul Cantelon and gorgeous
costumes by Sandy Powell. A would overall give it a generous 7 stars
out of 10.

I hope I left this review as spoiler free as possible.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to watch this movie knowing that even though the historical
figures are real, the story is basically fiction, only Philippa
Gregory's version of the tragedy of Anne Boleyn. Watching this film
with this attitude really helped me enjoy it rather than be upset that
all the historic characters' personalities were so distorted that they
were almost unrecognizable. I suggest anyone else going to see this
movie adopt this attitude too.

Sitting back, I proceeded to enjoy the scenery, the costumes, the
beautiful actresses portraying the Boleyn girls and the over the top
acting.

It was a fun movie and it moved along quickly. Scarlet Johansson and
Natalie Portman were excellent as the Boleyn sisters. Eric Bana played
a very conflicted Henry VIII who is continually frustrated by not
getting a male heir. Eric Bana was not very good in this movie, I'm not
sure what it was, maybe it was the way how the character was written or
that he was just not comfortable in the role. He was extremely miscast
as King Henry.

The one to watch in this film is Natalie Portman who seems to have a
grand time playing the evil, scheming Anne Boleyn.

I am pleased to see that all the women in this film, like Lady Boleyn,
Anne Boleyn, Mary Boleyn and Queen Catherine of Aragon were portrayed
as having strong characters and not easily pushed around. Even Mary
Boleyn, who seemingly always acquiesce to the wishes of her father and
uncle, decided in the end to run off and marry someone who truly loves
her.

It's a very entertaining film. Just remember that it's only someone's
version of the Tudor history, not the real history, and you won't run
into trouble!
<|_=00=_|>
This story is not close to being correct. First off, Anne was the
younger sister (born in 1510). Mary was the mistress to King Francis of
France she returned to England with Mary, Queen of France after the
death of the French King Louis She became Henry's lover. She became
pregnant and was married off to William Carey. The King NEVER
acknowledged her child as his. Anne was STILL in France with Queen
Claude. She was never banished to France. She returned to England when
Henry changed allegiances from France to Spain. When Anne returned she
fell in love with Harry Percy (who was NOT betrothed to anyone) It was
a love match. The King saw Anne and became besotted. He had Cardinal
Wolsey separate them and then Percy was married off to Mary Talbot.
Henry adored Anne. He was never anything but generous to her and she
hated him only a little less than she hated The Cardinal Wolsey. She
blamed them for separating her from her love, Harry Percy. The King
pursued her and she refused him, this went on for 6 years. she finally
fell in love with him. They married (after he split from Rome) and were
happy. Elizabeth was born, and Henry changed the Act of Succession to
make Elizabeth his heir. It wasn't until the second death of a
stillborn son that Henry had had enough. The saucy temperament and
sharp tongue he loved in the beginning began to wear on him in the end.
One of the greatest historical quotes is from Anne in the Tower "when I
no longer hated him, he began to hate me"

This is a great story if told correctly. This movie was awful. Anne was
not guilty of adultery and the scene with her brother never happened.In
fact it was the situation with Mark Smeaton a court musician that
caused Anne's downfall. She was accused with him (he was tortured to
admit guilt) and with all of Henry's friends from the time he had first
met Anne, her brother was thrown in to make sure there was no sympathy
for the Queen. Interestingly, even though most of the people hated Anne
for what had happened to Katherine, Henry's actions made the people
sympathetic to Anne as they did not believe her guilty of what she was
accused. Jane Seymour was no longer a secret. I am amazed that such an
inaccurate movie would be made and the worst part of this is that in a
time when women had little to no power, a young girl changed the face
of the world.

By refusing the greatest man in the land..The King. Her end was tragic
and not her fault. It was the doing a spoiled and old man who was
always looking for the greener grass. The movie was shot horribly and
the costumes were seen too often. Katherine of Aragon was not an ugly
woman but one worn down by lost children and a philandering husband.

The best movie on this subject was Anne of The Thousand Days. The
Tudors on Showtime is good but also rife with historical inaccuracies.
Mary was not the saint she was made out to be but a whore who gave
everyone everything and asked for nothing. She did live a quite life
after the death of her sister.

And her children were honored by Elizabeth I
