
OK, so I went to see this with my mom who is over 55, my niece who is
15 and I am 26.....so you have assorted ages and opinions and point of
views...Well we all thought is was going to be cute and funny but we
didn't think we would laugh the whole time and think that it would
actually have a good story to it. I thought that my mother and I liked
it more than my niece did, I'm not sure if that was because we could
relate to the moral of the story but I know she laughed a lot louder
than we did at times. But we all laughed. The crowd was mostly teens.
Compared to other movies out this summer I think it is worth paying the
day or night rate. I would actually go see it again.
<|_=00=_|>
You'd think that a movie called "John Tucker Must Die" will approach
the parameters of a gritty look on high school-style existentialism. As
the National Geographic Channel puts it, think again.

John Tucker (Jesse Metcalfe of "Desperate Housewives") is the star of
their high school's basketball team, and he's secretly dating three
girls simultaneously. Upon learning how their "serial-cheating"
boyfriend is three-timing them, cheerleader Heather (Ashanti),
intellectual Carrie (Arielle Kebbel) and activist Beth (Sophia Bush)
plot for revenge. They set him to fall for new girl Kate Spencer
(Brittany Snow) and have her break his heart later on.

So that's "John Tucker Must Die." It's a film that tries to go for the
feel-good parts of the standard teen flick, along with the usual high
school relationship subplots. But gritty it's not. Though initially the
movie seems to head towards being an effective satirical comedy, it
immediately becomes just another stock sleaze. Betty Thomas' direction
is breezy enough but she fails to give the film a distinctive bite as
Jeff Lowell's screenplay seems not to draw a bead on to the vaguest
notion of creativity.

Metcalfe is effective as the eponymous lead while Snow (who I recall as
Zoe in "The Pacifier") could have been charming but the problematic
script doesn't give her a juicy character that could rise beyond its
stereotype and she ends up bland. In fact, one could arguably root more
for John Tucker. As for the rest of the cast, they're a mixed bag with
Ashanti and Jenny McCarthy as Kate's mom figuring prominently in my
head.

"John Tucker Must Die" isn't so much an absolute schlock. Despite its
transparent and derivative nature, it does have some of its moments
that elicit chuckles. It's that sort of movies I watch on sleepless
nights on cable given the right mood. But with a title as toothsome as
that, it tantalizingly could have been way better.
<|_=00=_|>
When I first saw the previews for this film I thought it looked funny,
but shallow..and a little trashy. However, after I saw the film I was
surprised to find the film uplifting, with some depth , and good
actors. Ashanti,Bush,and Kebbel blend together well as they team up
against Tucker. Each of their personalities contribute to this film in
a special way. Snow (the lead character) was what made the film. She
truly lit up the screen.Actors aside the movie as a whole was enjoyable
and exciting. This movie maybe was not the most spectacular movie
created. But it was fun and worth spending a few bucks to see.

If you are looking for something entertaining, you might want to give
this a try.

4 out of 5 stars
<|_=00=_|>
I was forced to see this atrocity with my gay roommate, only because he
thought the guy playing John Tucker was hot. Thank god it was on HBO
and not for rent; this wasn't even worth ten cents. I pity today's
teenagers that have to endure crap like this. All the actors looked a
decade older than teenagers, the plain-jane Kate looked a lot prettier
than the mean chicks out for revenge (how this girl is seen as
"invisible" is beyond me), Jenny McCarthy still can't act (isn't her 15
minutes up yet???), and the whole revenge storyline was just plain
boring. If they had concentrated on the
Kate-having-a-crush-on-John-Tucker's-older-brother storyline and have
them hook up in the end, the movie would've been way more interesting.
Instead, we had revenge by thongs, estrogen pills, "invisible" Kate
playing hard to get. So where's the "killing" part? If you're going to
call your film JOHN TUCKER MUST DIE, shouldn't SOMEONE kick the bucket?
What a ripoff! Save your money...and your sanity.
<|_=00=_|>
My friend and I weren't sure if we wanted to see this movie or wait
until it came out on video. Due to us already seeing almost every other
comedy out there, we decided to give this one a try. We were not sure
if we'd like it, we thought that it was more for a teenage crowd. We
found ourselves laughing out loud throughout the movie and came out
thoroughly satisfied with this movie. It was definitely worth seeing
and I didn't feel ripped off paying the night-time price. The pranks
are hilarious in this film. If you want a good laugh I recommend this
movie. Men running around in thong underwear, "it's like having your
best friend in a silk hammock". The comments are really fun in this
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
John Tucker (Jesse Metcalfe) is a guy who can't be trusted by women and
when three of his ex-girlfriends, all from different high school
cliques, team up for revenge, they do so with the help of the new girl
in town, setting her up with Tucker, with the plan to ruin his
reputation and break his heart.

John Tucker Must Die offers plenty of eye candy and a good premise yet
the final product is pretty forgettable and standard. I'm actually a
little surprised that the film didn't turn out to be better since the
trailer was entertaining and the premise offered something a little
different. I guess I was expecting something as good as Mean Girls and
it was really just direct to DVD material. The script was weak and it
used so many clichés. Jeff Lowell should stick with sitcoms since he
can't come up with enough interesting material to cover a 90 minute
running time.

Director Betty Thomas was equally useless and she just used a generic
direction. She didn't capture the teen spirit at all and she was just
the wrong person for the job. The dialog was predictable and some of it
was really corny. Some of the scenes just tried way too hard to be
funny. However, the worst part about it was that the majority of the
movie was just dull. Sure it looked nice but it only held a little
entertainment value.

The acting was, like the film, standard and forgettable. Jesse Metcalfe
was average, neither bad nor great. He should stick to supporting roles
since he doesn't have the screen presence to carry a film. Arielle
Kebbel may not be a fantastic actress but she does have an engaging
quality about her and she had a few good lines. Ashanti was so annoying
and over the top. She gave the worst performance out of everyone. Jenny
McCarthy was just disturbing to look at and her performance was awful.
Brittany Snow was cute although she was also enormously bland. Her
character was supposed to be bland at the beginning of the movie but
even after she went through a change, she was still pretty un-notable.
Sophia Bush was pretty good and she had many funny lines. The one good
thing about the cast was that they appeared to be having fun and this
helped out a little. Overall, John Tucker Must Die is familiar material
and it's not really worth checking out. Rating 5/10
<|_=00=_|>
Today it was 100 degrees in New York City and frankly I went more for
the air conditioning than the content, but this movie was much better
than the trailer or the critics give it credit for. As solid as "Bring
it On," it is definitely a notch above the average teen comedy; not
quite "Mean Girls" but a good substitute. The girls are all terrific
and Jesse Metcafe struts his acting and physique to an even higher
standard than what he demonstrated on Desperate Housewives.

Filled with quite a few clever innuendos, it might make a few moms and
dads cringe, but I guess kids today have heard worse. Also, it cleverly
used remakes of classic songs for the bulk of its score.
<|_=00=_|>
Its the typical teenager movie. Unpopular girl becomes popular, snobby
girls become unpopular girls friend just to crush the unpopular girl in
the end leading to the feel good fairytale ending! PLEASE spare me! I
honestly wasn't totally turned off while watching it, there were some
funny parts I could laugh at and the story moved pretty quick. But
there were some parts that were really unrealistic. First of all the
fact that a girl like Kate(Brittany Snow) didn't have any friends was
pretty phony! The fact that the head cheerleader HAS to date the
basketball captain is just so cliché. The thing that I really couldn't
get past was the stupid Boom Mic!!! It was in so many scenes it was
almost laughable. Who ever edited this movie might be in the wrong
career! If I was staring in this movie I would have been humiliated at
the premier!
<|_=00=_|>
...But, Jesse Metcalfe is still hot. Shame about his limited acting
ability though, as the infamous John Tucker was simply a more confident
version of his "Desperate Housewives" character John Rowland, but
nevertheless, Metcalfe seems to enjoy his characters, and certainly
makes them come to life. In the case of "John Tucker must Die",
Metcalfe's John Tucker is the most popular guy in school and a total
player, cheating on three girls from different social circles, who were
never meant to find out - until they unexpectedly had gym class
together.

The three girls being Ashanti's bitchy cheerleader Heather, Arielle
Kebbel's smart hard working Carrie, and Sophia Bush's semi-reject,
semi-slutty Beth. The girls all dislike each other very much and argue
about who Tucker likes the most, but new girl Kate (played by the
lovely Brittany Snow) points out to the girls that instead of fighting
each other, they should be uniting to get revenge on the guy that has
lied to them all - and thus begins the four girls attempting to bring
down John Tucker.

"John Tucker Must Die" is strictly formulaic in terms of teen-comedies
in that situations do not go as planned for the girls, causing Tucker
to become even more popular (if that is at all humanly possible). Throw
into the mix Kate's inexperience when it comes to guys, being caught
between John Tucker and the affections of his brother 'the Other
Tucker' Scott (Penn Badgley), and her mother (played very well by Jenny
McCarthy) who has a lot of man problems herself.

"John Tucker Must Die" is a highly-likable film in terms of some funny
moments, a fairly decent cast, a cool soundtrack and things move at a
steady pace, but the main problem is that just when some morals are
going to be dished out at the end of the film, something happens and
the morals are not told. Which is a big shame, because for the
target-audience of this film, they could really use some good morals
being dished out to them. Nevertheless, "John Tucker Must Die" is an
all-round enjoyable film. Oh - and Ashanti can act, but be warned - her
fabulous hair often takes up most of the screen and at times over
powers her performance. But she has great hair so that's okay.
<|_=00=_|>
When I walked into to see this movie, I was not looking forward to it
in THE LEAST. I was just coming to see it because a friend wanted to
and I hadn't been out of the house in a while. So, I expected the worst
possible thing. Now it wasn't the worst possible thing and so that is
why I think I didn't mind it very much. That is not to say it is that
great. If you are expecting something AMAZING, it's not. It's just a
pointless chick flick, reusing familiar jokes over and over. Some of
these jokes were funny, but very old and worn out. If you are a female
under 18 years of age looking for a non-thought provoking movie, than
this is your movie!
