
Critics and audiences both pretty much panned this movie, but I
actually didn't think it was too bad! Even the critics I normally agree
with thought it was crap, and I normally despise PG-13 "horror films."
So this means one of two things: either (1) I'm too easily pleased, and
my taste in movies has dwindled over the years, or (2) 'When a Stranger
Calls' isn't nearly as horrible as it's made out to be. Now, to be
fair, some of the criticisms of the movie are true--there's not much
character development, and not much happens in the story. But man alive
folks, how much were you expecting from a movie about a babysitter
being stalked? Cut them some slack! As a former babysitter who was
watching this flick late at night with the lights out, I can safely say
the stalker dude was one creepy mofo! Who knows? I guess stuff like
this just gives me the willies.

Yes, I admit I had fun watching this, and I don't care how big of a
minority that puts me in. ;)
<|_=00=_|>
I'm starting to wonder if all these PG-13 horror movies are just
glorified screen tests for young and emerging talent. Get a first-time
screenwriter, an inexperienced director, a few TV actors looking for
their bigscreen break and see what they can do. 'When a Stranger Calls'
is a little better than most such recent offerings, but is still
completely by-the-book; riddled with plot holes and genre clichés.

The story is unbelievably simplistic. The slim 87 minute running time
is heavily padded with inconsequential friends and a pointless cheating
boyfriend. The killer is devoid of even the token motivation of Jason
or Michael or even the original movie's killer, and as a result is
never particularly frightening. The police behave in such an
unbelievably ineffectual and lazy manner as to verge on professional
misconduct. Simon West brings the same attractive banality to
proceedings that he managed with Lara Croft, but his style of directing
is decidedly generic, possessing no indicators of real talent or
vision. The performances are routine, dark hallways replace genuine
horror, and the scares are of the tired cat-in-the-closet variety.

The cinematography and production design, however, are above average
for this kind of film. The house is beautifully designed, all dark wood
and glassy reflections, and there are a few moments that are of visual
interest.

Though lacking an ounce of dramatic originality, it acts as a
reasonably satisfying 'dark house' thriller, and maintains interest
longer than most of its ilk.
<|_=00=_|>
Having seen the original when I was 13 (and, yes, I was stupid enough
to watch it while babysitting!), I was excited to see this remake.

Camilla Bell did a great job as Jill Johnson. And the fact that a teen
horror flick could be made in the year 2006 without tremendous
vulgarity and gore, made it even that much stronger of a film. I had a
great time trying not to chew my fingernails off!

This film won't win anyone an Oscar, but it is entertaining and worth
the matinée price ticket I bought to see it. I think girls around the
world should watch the original and the remake...and then determine to
never babysit again. 

All I can say is, I'm glad I'm too old to babysit! There's just
something about being in a dark creepy house with sleeping kids that
makes this movie classic. No blood, no gore...just good psychological
fun! WINNER!
<|_=00=_|>
With all the shoot em up, blood horror movies that have come our way in
the last little while "Saw, Hostal, Saw 2, The Hills have eyes" Yes,
they have their place, don't get me wrong! I went to see "When a
stranger calls" with my buddy the other night! Why? Because it's a
remake of the 1979 classic, which at the time was excellent and scared
the you know what out of everyone! I didn't know what to expect.
However I was pleasantly surprised! It was a film made of mood,
atmosphere, suspense! Because remember people, what you can't see, what
you think you see, what you can't hear, or what you think you hear, is
far more scarier then what you do! If you love films with mood,
creepiness, suspense and atmosphere!! You'll love it! It brought it
back to the roots of the original Halloween. Thumbs up, a solid 8.5 out
of 10 Remember folks, it's well done! not perfect! It's spooky, not
bloody, It's creepy, not gory! It was nice to see a film come a long
like this. Our minds have been conditioned and warped by the glitz and
shock value of modern day horror movies, we forget, what's really
scary.
<|_=00=_|>
I liked this movie. I'm not a big horror movie buff so i couldn't
comment on similarities between this and other movies of this genre,
but i found this movie quite captivating. the story line, albeit a
little obvious, had some genuinely scary/tense moments and the acting
(particually of the lead female role) wasn't bad in anyway

Overall i'm a little surprised at the low rating this movie has gotten.
I watch a lot of movies (working in a video store tends to help) and
this really isn't as bad as people seem to think. I do have some
criticism though. The final call from the cop was terrible, almost
overacted, the dead girl in the bathroom looked liked she was having a
little sleep (probably from the amount of tequila she mentioned she
drank) and the children's reaction to what was happening instilled in
me the hope that they were ultimately killed 

hope this helps some people
<|_=00=_|>
Im a big horror fan and I quite enjoyed this remake. With all these
horror remakes floating about I think this is one of the better
attempts.

I watched it with my two little sisters and I think it made it even
better as they were quite scared. Also with the shouting at the screen
"Dont do that!", "Not that way!", etc. I thought there were some good
little jumpy moments and it built the tension well.

Camilla Belle is absolutely stunning in the lead role and a very good
actress - So she holds your attention well. 

Overall a decent film.
<|_=00=_|>
When A Stranger Calls is a remake of a 1979 film of the same name, a
movie that i have not yet seen. The plot is quite simple. A high school
chick has racked up a large phone bill and to pay it off has to do some
babysitting. She babysits in a real nice house packed full of gadgets
in a remote location.

Camilla Belle is alone for the most part, she's a good-looking girl and
acts pretty well. This isn't really a horror film, it's just about
making you scared and it does that well for much of the time but at
times it can be frustrating. It's constantly building up tension but to
be honest, will little action and that's where it can get slightly
boring.

I have a few issues with this movie, but that's not to say I'm slagging
it off because it wasn't a bad movie, with suspense and manages to
entertain somewhat. But why the did the Mandrakis' need a babysitter in
the first place? They had a maid. Why didn't she just look out for the
kids? Secondly, if she was there, then why not any conversation between
the two. They could have at least said a few words and not just the
maid saying hello.

Thirdly, why did Tiffany come along only for a few minutes?. What was
the point? and drove all the way up to that remote location. That must
have really meant at least 30 minutes or even more she wouldn't be
spending at the bonfire party.

And, why didn't Jill go check the kids more?. OK, she did after the
stranger's call. But she's the frigging babysitter. Surely, she would
have had the decency to check the children are fine more often.

Plus, there was a lot of noise. Phone ringing quite a few times. Jill
making noise from being scared, answering the phone, turning on the TV,
music, Tiffany talking and stuff like that. Might have woken the kids. 

And finally, seems that Jill will be spending more time babysitting
after another phone bill she seems to have racked up in the process.

But anyway, who cares, half-decent entertainment, nice looking girl and
house.
<|_=00=_|>
While babysitting at an isolated Colorado house, a teen girl is
terrorized by an elusive murderer on the telephone.

Remake of the 1979 semi-classic horror film basically takes the opening
20 minutes of the original film and stretches it out to fit an 87
minute time span! So it's pretty needless to say that the plot of this
remake is pretty thin. There's little in the way of originality or
interest in this movie. There's a lot of Camilla Belle wondering around
a dark house wondering who's calling her and encountering all kinds of
false scares. It all gets repetitious and routine after the first 30
minutes and never manages to muster up much in the way of suspense or
chills. It certainly never reaches the intensity of the original film,
especially since it wimps-out and changes one important plot point from
the original. I guess we have the PG-13 rating to thank for that.

On the plus side there's an impressive set design and some dark
atmosphere, unfortunately there's not much going on around it to save
this remake from being sub-par. Belle's performance is pretty mediocre
too.

It's just another unimpressive remake.

* 1/2 out of ****
<|_=00=_|>
Once in a great while I will watch a movie that completely surprises
me. One that comes out of nowhere to be a bit of rousing entertainment.
One that is pure fun from beginning to end. Well folks, When A Stranger
Calls is NOT that movie. It is an unbelievable stupid and far fetched
remake of the much better 1979 horror camp classic. Our lead heroine
Jill is forced to babysit after going over her cell phone minutes and
is harassed by telephone calls from a mysterious caller. Every cliché
in the world is used here from the stupid
cat-jumping-out-of-a-hidden-spot to the car that won't start to the
killer can be anywhere at anytime. This movie is bad...not even bad in
a "so bad it's good way" more in a "so bad it's boring way." Skip this
godawful film and save your movie for something else. You'll thank me
later, trust me on this. Grade: D-
<|_=00=_|>
What should have been a routine babysitting gig at a secluded lake
house turns into a night of terror, as high school student Jill Johnson
(Camilla Belle) receives threatening phone calls from a sadistic
stalker, while trying to stay one step ahead of him.

The first 20 minutes of the original film were pretty good but it was
all downhill from there. The remake takes those first 20 minutes and
stretches them into an 80 minute feature film. That's a good idea
because its eliminating everything that made the original bad. However,
if they wanted this film to work more effectively then they should have
hired a better lead actress, better director, writer etc. There's no
suspense, everything can be figured out long before it happens and it's
a very dull film since not much happens. At least there isn't much to
sit through since its less than 90 minutes.

If this premise were to work, then the lead actress has to give a
realistic performance. Camilla Belle gives one of the worst
performances I have ever seen and throughout the whole movie, she
seemed to be reading her lines. You get a lead role in a Hollywood film
that will be viewed by millions of people and you give no effort at
all! Why did they hire this girl? Sure, she's pretty but she can't act
at all yet I suppose this won't matter to the target audience who will
most likely eat this film up. The rest of the cast is bland and
forgettable especially the woman who plays the maid, Rosa. Even the
stranger was lame and his lines on the phone were not effective at all.

This movie reminds me of last years disappointing horror film
Boogeyman. That movie was a bunch of cheap scares and false alarms and
When a Stranger Calls is pretty much the same. Jill enters a room
because she hears a noise but its just a false alarm like a cat or the
maid. This type of scene happens over and over again until finally
after about 50 minutes, the stranger appears. He has to be one of the
lamest killers ever. He carried no weapons and didn't seem to pose much
of a threat. The ending is bad but it matches the rest of the film so
it doesn't really matter. The film is directed by Simon West and he is
really bad at building up suspense. He was using every cliché he could
think of and the results weren't very good. The house was amazing and
I'll give the film credit for that. It was an isolated house so it was
pretty creepy but that's about the only good thing this film has to
offer. In the end, if you're not a teenage girl then you should skip
the movie. Rating 2/10
