
Just saw a preview of this film last night, and I have to say, I can't
wait to see it again. Usually, I'm not a huge fan of "otherwordly" type
films, but this one is original and fun. Mark Ruffalo and Reese
Witherspoon have great chemistry, and the script is smart. He's a
depressed landscape architect trying to get his life back together;
she's a disgruntled spirit, wondering what ever happened to hers. After
their initial frustrations (she hates how he doesn't use coasters or
pick up trash in HER apartment, he hates how she appears without notice
in what he now considers HIS apartment) they try to piece together the
course of events that have left her in this state of limbo. What I
loved about this film is David and Elizabeth's progression from
animosity to genuine affection, as they alternately pester then rely on
one another. He becomes dedicated to trying to help her, despite
appearing insane to everyone in San Francisco, except for a wonderfully
quirky psychic bookstore clerk played by Jon Heder (aka Napoleon
Dynamite.) Not since Patrick Swayze quarreled with a Whoopi Goldberg in
"Ghost" have I been so amused by a spirit haunting a mere mortal. This
is a great chick flick, but would work out nice for a date, too. Just
have a tissue handy!
<|_=00=_|>
It has been a good season for romantic comedies. Earlier on Diane Lane
and John Cusack proved that comedies didn't have to be stupid, as it
was properly demonstrated in a recent sex comedy. Stick to the
conventions, find people with good chemistry and good looks, and you
might strike gold. Witherspoon has shown incredible amounts of charm in
previous outings, and this time she is on fire. The amazing surprise is
Mr. Ruffalo, as her smitten "friend". He is a pleasure to watch,
matching Witherspoon scene by scene and stealing a few on his own. He
has fantastic comedic timing and knows how to charm his audience.

The film itself will not break any grounds, instead it pays tribute to
a few classics in the past. What it doesn't do is draw too much
attention to itself by being too clever, dry, or indulge in the use of
four-letter words gratuitous. It recalls comedies of the past, when
characters were developed and actors work their magic on the screen.

There are a couple of interesting twists along the way, and some of the
romantic scenes are lovingly shot and directed. The supporting cast is
very effective, making the experience light and yet very fulfilling. A+
<|_=00=_|>
I rated this movie a nine because I feel that it has really
accomplished what movies like this should accomplish. It IS a chic
flick, and it is not going to be nominated for any academy awards, but
it is has a very solid story with a great cast and great chemistry.
Unbelievable as it may be, the story is one that should be told, and
was told well.

This is a movie that everyone can enjoy from beginning to end. It is
entertaining, genuine, and original, bringing a fresh and worthwhile
love story to life in a way that many others have tried and failed.

I would compare this movie more to films like 50 First Dates and A Walk
to Remember than I would others such as Maid in Manhattan or Wedding
Date...
<|_=00=_|>
When I went to see this movie, I went in with high hopes and I was not
disappointed. I enjoy Reese as an actor, and am becoming a fan of Mark
Ruffalo's. Reese, as always, was the perfect main character that you
just fell in love with from the very beginning and I really like Mark's
ability to be a very physical actor, which Just Like Heaven took
wonderful advantage of. The movie's storyline is good, it does have a
couple of somewhat predictable turns, but what movie doesn't? The
acting is very well done, I haven't laughed that much in a very long
time and Reese and Mark have great chemistry on-screen. If you are
looking for a really good chick flick to make you laugh, cry, and feel
every motion in between, this is a great movie for you.
<|_=00=_|>
Why is a movie starring the wonderful Reese Witherspoon labeled a chick
flick? Seems to me any male would want to see it. The viewer cannot
help but love her character in this movie. Motherhood and marriage must
agree with her, as she has never looked better.

Of course the storyline is quite fantastic and not very realistic. But
who cares? I get up in the morning to face reality every day. I don't
need to see too much of it at the movies.

Mark Rufalo did a fine job of acting, but to me it was Reese's movie
all the way. I wonder why our movie critics and voters for Oscars and
such don't give much weight to comedic actors and actresses? It takes
just as much talent, and actually there are in my estimation less who
really pull off comedic roles well. Reese Witherspoon has done it many
times, and doesn't disappoint here. Most modern so-called comedies to
me are simply not funny. However, this movie did make me laugh. The guy
who works in the psychic bookstore was hilarious. 

But this movie isn't all about comedy. It does touch at the
heartstrings of any member of the human race who feels left out, feels
like they are missing it. Usually a movie has one person who the viewer
can really relate to. In this case, both leads played people who I
could relate to.

If constant special effects, extreme violence, streams of foul
language, or total realism are for you, then perhaps you should skip
this movie. For the rest of us who can enjoy a romantic comedy, I can't
imagine not being entertained by this movie. I left it feeling great.
<|_=00=_|>
For a romantic comedy, I felt that this was one of the better one's.
Reese and Mark are so adorable in this movie together and all you do is
root for their characters for fall in love with each other because it's
such a sweet story. I did have one problem that I felt was a plot hole,
if Reese's character didn't remember who she was, how did she remember
that she spilled cough syrup on her pillow? When you watch the film
you'll understand. But besides that plot hole, I did enjoy watching the
awesome chemistry between Reese and Mark. They are two great actors who
make fun comedies. I would highly recommend this fun little love story,
it takes me back into the unchained melody days. :D Seriously, folks,
enjoy! 

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
Mark Ruffalo and Reese Witherspoon are both excellent, but sometimes
when two astounding actors act opposite one another, a movie flops--
this is not such a movie. Just Like Heaven is the best movie I have
seen all year. These two actors put all they've got into their
performances, and it shows. The movie is sweet, it has a fairy-tale
feel, which is comforting in an uncertain world. The chemistry between
Reese and Mark is amazing and the story is unusual and entertaining.
The plot is fairly predictable, but the audience is thrown a few curve
balls. There is uncanny humor, yet the movie maintains a poignant sense
of reality. I give Just Like Heaven 10 out 10 stars.
<|_=00=_|>
I admit i am a girl who hates chick flicks, and had to be dragged to
this film, and i'm happy to say this was freakin hilarious. just like
heaven follows a male widow who moves in to an apartment inhabited by a
ghost who can't remember her past. They find themselves in hilarious
situations trying to help each other.Reese Witherspoon was fantastic
and so was mark ruffalo. SO if your in for a good laugh,or a
sweet,charming chick flick then Just Like Heaven is the movie for
you!!!! If I enjoyed this anyone can.It's kind of a mix between ghost
and a romance.Women will love it!!!Men will love it!!!Kids will love
it!!! It's funny for everyone who's in the mood for a heartwarming
comedy.
<|_=00=_|>
this is a nice, light-hearted fun comedy. it is slightly different to
other comedies, in that the story is original. the concept is a bit
weird, but interesting and different.

reese witherspoon is very good in the film. she portrays a niceness and
has a touching sensitivity which comes across nicely. there is a nice
chemistry between the male and female lead characters. it is believable
and interestingly fun.

the apartment where some of the conversations between the two main
characters takes place, is very suitable. there is a nice view out of
the window and the sofas and arrangements of furniture, give a cosy and
warm feel.

i very much liked the ending of the film. A bit like a fairytale where
the end fits the puzzle.

the film improves as you watch it, and i appreciated it more, once the
film was over.
<|_=00=_|>
Its been a long while since i've enjoyed a romantic comedy so much -
possibly the last romantic comedy I enjoyed as much was Two Weeks
Notice in 2002. The cast is fantastic - Mark Ruffalo and Reese
Witherspoon make for great on screen chemistry and the script is sharp
yet it is not all out and out comedy, it has subtle moments and enough
tender moments to make it gel and become believable. Even the men in
the group enjoyed the film, they were laughing and sighing along with
us girls, which is quite impressive as usually they regard romantic
films as girly trash to be avoided like the plague. While we didn't set
out to see this film, we actually wanted to watch King Kong but tickets
had sold out, it is well worth watching and I can't wait to see it
again on DVD!
