
The year I was born was the same year Predator and Robocop came out.
When I was finally old enough to appreciate films, Little Nicky was in
theaters. I know, believe me, I know; rocky start. And often I would
watch older films, or specials on older films, and be dazzled. You know
the ones. Remember when they made Spartacus? Remember sitting in the
movies and watching Gregory Peck play Atticus Finch in To Kill A
Mockingbird? Remember the first time you heard "I could've been a
contender" through theater speakers? Well I sure as hell don't. But
I'll tell you what, now I feel somewhat caught up. Let's begin with the
obvious. Daniel Day Lewis. No one's arguing about this. The man is a
veritable God among ants on the screen. He takes his role by the reigns
and I don't doubt him for a second. In fact, at times, I was downright
afraid of the man. Lewis gives what is easily, EASILY the best
performance of the past five years. But let's get serious about it.
Lewis' Daniel Plainview is the most convincing, awe-inspiring, and
downright mortifying character to take the big screen that I can
remember. Here, perfectly in his element and at his best, Lewis could
go toe to toe with Brando and Kinski, playing a part that oozes enough
skill and pathos to earn him a place among Hollywood's, and perhaps the
world's, greatest performances of all time. He gives those of us who
missed out on the craft, depth of character, and technique of classic
cinema a chance to admire a tour de force portrayal of a memorable,
identifiable, and completely despicable character, and it's so damned
refreshing that I can't stop singing the man's praises. Paul Dano has
been taking a lot of fire for this whole thing. People continue to
spout their disapproval of the film's casting, saying that Dano has no
business rivaling the seasoned Lewis on the screen. Listen, lay down
your swords a minute and consider the obvious. The guy was cast
opposite the performance of the decade, he's not going to outshine
Lewis and you'd be crazy to expect him to. In fact, I think that he and
Lewis' back-and-forths are the films highlights, as we see the
juxtaposition not only in the characters themselves, but also in their
acting techniques. And the cinematography? Welcome to the old days of
film. The glory days of Hollywood. Anderson gives us one of the most
beautifully shot and directed films in recent memory, truly at the top
of his craft on this one. Every moment feels more epic than the last,
until the film becomes such a towering cinematic spectacle that the end
leaves the viewer exhausted. It's truly an experience not to be missed.
Yeah, we missed out on A Street Car Named Desire. And Casablanca isn't
gonna be in theaters again any time soon. But in the meantime, There
Will Be Blood is just about as good, and will likely haunt our
generation as much as the Hollywood studio epics of the past...
<|_=00=_|>
PT Anderson delivers perhaps his best work with "There Will Be Blood".
Unlike "Magnolia", the film's daunting runtime is not very daunting
whilst watching it. All acting in the film was solid, even the work of
the child actors. Daniel Day-Lewis in particular delivered a truly
phenomenal performance, capturing the power of greed, fear, insanity,
and comedy simultaneously, at many points throughout the film. At no
point does the time period distract from the power of the film.
Sometimes period pieces cannot be appreciated because they delve too
deep into historical details -- turning the experience into more of a
documentary than a narrative set in the past. This is not the case for
"There Will Be Blood", as human interactions are the focus of the film.
Johnny Greenwood's chilling score is very strong, benefiting from the
elegant minimalism that he show's in the band Radiohead. The
cinematography is also spectacular. Robert Elswit beautifully captures
the essence of the environment and the tension amongst the characters.
All in all, this is truly a perfectly crafted film.
<|_=00=_|>
People did not like this movie for a simple reason: too negative. I can
understand that this movie is so depressing in so may ways. 

What it shows that Big Fish eats Litte Fish and none of us want to
think about that anymore than most of us experience it in our daily
life. It shows the battle between the evangelicals and the corporate
business man. Or maybe even the battle between evangelicals of today
and the non-religious people or atheists of today. Even worse is that
this movie shows that religious people, priests are or can be as bad as
a corrupt oil man. Maybe why people did not like this movie is because
it might have offended them. Especially Paul Dano playing the priest.
Both Daniel Day Lewis and Paul Dano are wrong and too extreme on their
opinions. People are able to accept this. What people cannot accept is
though that these same extremities and same misguided opinions from
both characters are very much true in that they are heavily believed
still today. Not all Christains are like Paul Dano's character and not
all business man are like Daniel Day Lewis's character but many are
like them. That is the world we live in.

Now is their any alternative or positive side? The answer is yes and
that is H.W. the son of Daniel Plainview(Daniel Day Lewis). He
epitomizes hope. He shows that despite being deaf and having a father
who uses him as a ploy for better business he can still break free of
the chains that he is being tied down by. What separates H.W. from the
residents and evangelists of Little Boston? The difference is that he
and his father are educated and they are not. That is how Daniel
Plainview is able to manipulate and cheat them the Sunday family, even
Eli Sunday(Paul Dano) the priest and preacher of Little Boston. From
what H.W. sees and experiences he sees that much of what is around him
is just wrong. He uses his experience that he had gained as a kid to
break free of the corruption and chaos that could have taken over him.
That is one aspect of the education I'am talking about: our experiences
and understanding of what is happening around us. 

Now to get to the technical aspects of There Will Be Blood. It is just
truly spectacular in every way. First off the acting was amazing.
Daniel Day Lewis gave arguably the best performance of his career
playing Daniel Plaiview or ever since movies began to be made. He
freaked me out and probably shocked many people. His thirst for power
and money was at such a high level that it made me wonder about what
people are really capable of. The deceiving, the greed, the thirst for
power and the every man for himself attitude actually looked more real
than ever to me. Without Daniel Day Lewis I don't think this movie
could have achieved what it has. Paul Dano gave a great performance as
Eli Sunday though people tend to disagree. I think he gave a great
portrayal of an extremist evangelical priest of how he himself had his
own thirst for power and how he was more blasphemous then respectful
and gracious to god then how you would expect a priest to be. How could
people not be shocked by these two characters, I was myself.

Why was the music for this movie not liked. I thought this was among
the top five musical scores I have ever heard. The music perfectly gave
you the feeling of the corruption and deception setting into the movie.
It perfectly intertwined with the rest of the movie as the movie itself
was ever growingly becoming more and more chaotic and surreal. Probably
too shocking though.

Paul Thomas Anderson I believe gave the best directing job of the year.
He was able to show the oil fields and its processes, the rise of an
oil man, the way everyone can be bought even a priest and the hope that
H.W. represented. This movie was never boring and it was as stunning of
a directing job as Daniel Day Lewis gave as a performance for his role
in this movie. The intensity of this movie was as high as a movie could
possibly be and some of the credit for this has to go to the director.
The cinematography and the music seemed to intertwine perfectly like
the rest of the movie. It gave the sense of the time period and as said
before the greed, deception, etc. The cinematography did not just give
you a negative feeling but a feeling as if what you are watching is
real.

You should not like this movie just because of the great technical
achievements as you should not for any movie but for what it says and
how it says it. I'm not even sure if you should enjoy this movie in
general but you should not be blinded by your opinions. I applaud you
whoever out there who can somewhat understand this movie and get past
the lying and deceiving we do to ourselves. This movie really shows the
humanity of human beings. Why is this rated-R?It has so many intense
scenes that if you get inside this movie it is truly haunting. Now
maybe this movie was too powerful for many people, it was probably even
shocking for realists. Maybe though its not that surprising that so
many people don't like this movie because the truth hurts. Not the
truth about corruption or about people but the truth about ourselves.
<|_=00=_|>
This film raises the game for everyone out there. I have loved all of
Paul Thomas Anderson's work, including his greatly underrated
Punch-Drunk Love, but this is a huge leap from any of the previous
movies into a realm, as others have said, inhabited by classics such as
Treasure of the Sierra Madre - and then some. Every element of this
film is astonishing, from the opening twenty minutes, which feature
virtually no dialog, to Jonny Greenwood's score, which I have heard
criticized as too imposing but which seems just about perfect to me
(and brings to mind the non-Blue Danube elements of 2001 at its most
experimental). Daniel Day-Lewis' performance is in a league of its own:
his voice, his mannerisms, his physical movement, his stunted emotions,
are flesh and blood, and hauntingly so, in a way that even Tommy Lee
Jones in In The Valley of Elah (which I thought was a pretty staggering
performance) can't quite attain. I will watch this film again and again
simply to see something so raw and so moving and so gut-wrenching. This
is why I love movies; this is what made me want to make movies when I
was fourteen years old.
<|_=00=_|>
With all of the hype surrounding Daniel Day-Lewis' performance (he was,
in fact, given a Best Actor nod from the San Diego Film Critics
Society, for whatever that is worth) in the P.T. Anderson-directed tale
of early American oil speculation, "There Will Be Blood," I can only
relate my extreme disappointment.

This would have made an interesting 90-minute movie, but,
unfortunately, it runs over 140-minutes, most of which is smeared with
plasma and petroleum to the extent every character is sullied and
unrecognizable as a human being.

Perhaps Anderson wanted it that way, after all, it's really only
Day-Lewis¹ character (the lubricious Daniel Plainview) that even comes
close to developing; the others are simply there to keep him company
and accept his violent tirades.

Yes, times were tough in the early hardscrabble years of the American
West, but this guy makes Jonas Cord ("The Carpetbaggers") look like
Mother Theresa.

We first meet Plainview in 1898 mining for silver in Arizona. After a
nasty fall in which he breaks his ankle, he discovers oil in the shaft.
After a few years, he has a crew and a few successful wells.

One day, a fellow worker ­ there with his infant son (for some reason)
­is killed and Plainview adopts the boy, H. W. (Dillion Freasier) for
no other reason than to have a cute face to show while he cons the
public (see "Paper Moon").

These are some of the movie's best scenes, with Plainview - and H.W. in
tow - visiting backwoods bergs and convincing a gullible populace into
signing away land rights for a fraction of what they were worth.
Plainview, with a sinister soft-spoken demeanor plays psychological
games until the rubes are all but ready to GIVE him the oil rights in
perpetuity. 

Several years later, a visitor tells Plainview about a ranch in
California that is soaking in oil, so Pop and son head out there, under
the pretense of hunting quail. There they meet the Sunday family,
addled dad, Abel (David Willis), a few non-descript females and an
Evangelist son, Eli (Paul Dano, "Little Miss Sunshine").

Plainview and Eli do not hit it off at all, and this is the conflict
that sets up the second act. It doesn't take much to finagle Abel out
of the Sunday Ranch, as well as the surrounding property, but several
tragedies cause many in the town ­ especially the young preacher ­ to
wonder if they made the right move in letting Plainview into their
midst.

When H.W. is rendered deaf in an explosion and disastrous fire, we
wonder if the whole enterprise is worth it.

Up until this point, I was willing to go along with this film as not
only a historical drama relating the days of the early oil industry, as
well as a chronicle of rural religious fervor, sort of "Oklahoma Crude"
meets "The Apostle."

The problem is, the picture does not continue to walk that thin line.
We are now subjected to scene after scene of Plainview¹s descent into
madness and murder ­ but with little or no motivation for either.

For example, he beats Eli severely and mocks his church; meets a man
who claims he¹s his brother; abandons H.W. and generally spirals out of
control.

He's business savvy, however, and plans to build a pipeline to
transport his vast oil reserves to the coast (thus eliminating the cost
of railroad shipping). To do this, though, he has to build through a
local hermit's (Hans Howes, "Seabiscuit") land.

The only way to accomplish this is to humble himself before Eli and the
congregation and be baptized, obviously a fate worse than death to
Plainview who seems to have no morals, whatsoever.

Now that he¹s joined the church and gotten his pipeline built, does he
enjoy even one iota of his success? Absolutely not.

In one of Day-Lewis' many monologues, he gives us his motivation for
being such a bastard, "I do not just want to succeed, I do not want
anyone else to succeed."

Still, that does not explain his psychotic, murderous frenzy, and the
longer the film goes on, the less cohesive it became.

I can accept his tirades early on, and even a bit of his unmotivated
violence near the middle of the film, but Anderson pushes things to the
extreme limit. He's even admitted that he watched "Treasure of the
Sierra Madre" before beginning to film "Blood" - yet he still did not
learn anything about coherent film-making.

Friends, this is by far one of the most depressing and oppressive films
of the year. In fact, it makes "No Country For Old Men" look like "Mary
Poppins." 

Then, at the conclusion, after watching more than two-plus hours of
this evil, hateful man succeed over and over again, we're treated to
another brutal, pointless murder -­ this one coming out of nowhere.

Like "The Last King of Scotland," in which Forrest Whittaker won the
Best Actor award, this is another performance-driven, but deeply-flawed
motion picture.

Day-Lewis will certainly be nominated for this, and he may actually
win, but that does not mean one will enjoy the experience of watching
that performance.
<|_=00=_|>
PT Anderson's name already means something, or I should say something
else. His self assuredness alone gives me shivers. A modern artist with
such clear and severe vision of the world. Boogie Nights, Magnolia,
even Punch Drunk Love have an Wellesian disregard for what's in or out.
His films are landmarks that may infuriate some, confuse others and
mesmerize the rest of us. Here, with the rigorous tale of an impervious
oil man, PT Anderson outdoes himself. He has Daniel Day Lewis as his
accomplice in a performance that would be as difficult to match as it
is difficult to describe. There is a monstrous beauty here that not
even a broken nose can disguise. The saga is filled with long silent
moments of tension that take place in a cinematic canvas and an actor's
head. PT Anderson must have known that this was going to be, not only
not a mainstream opus but a hard pill to swallow. I for one stand up to
applaud his daringness.
<|_=00=_|>
What is evil? What is hate? How low can an individual go with one's
actions and still be considered human....? These, quite possibly, are
the biggest questions raised in There Will Be Blood.

Paul Thomas Anderson and Daniel Day-Lewis, the tycoons at the helm of
this dig for moral oil, tell a story that takes the archetypal
anti-heroes of 'Citizen Kane' and Travis Bickle of 'Taxi Driver' to a
whole new, 21st-century level. The film, using Lewis's character Daniel
Plainview, walks through incredibly dangerous cinematic territory that
questions religion, plays with the nature of greed and hate and evil,
and with it all, draws terrifying parallels to the world we live in
today. The film and its main character claw so deep through the limits
of humanity and the landscape of hell, that you'll be thanking the Good
Lord for the silver screen that divides you from this horrible world
Paul Thomas Anderson has portrayed. But despite how safe you may seem
in your cushy seat, you will undoubtedly walk out of the theater with
all kinds of new demons and ghosts buzzing in your head and ripping
away at your subconscious. In this way, Anderson has abandoned his
primary previous influence of Robert Altman to take more of a Stanley
Kubrick direction, creating moral allegories that creep into your
psyche and don't ever leave. You should be scared. Very Scared.
<|_=00=_|>
Who is Paul Thomas Anderson? There is something about him that does't
belong to this earth. That could be a compliment or not, it's all up to
us. That's what make his cinema so damn unique. At the end of the day
it's all up to us. But the abrasive way in which he visits universes
and throws his views to us is so powerful, so arrogant, so enthralling,
so infuriating that the experience leaves you baffled and suspicious.
but also enchanted, transformed. Here, Daniel's saga could very well be
the saga of a Hollywood maverick. So little time for sentimentality.
Daniel Day Lewis seems to understand it all and he adds his
unmistakable humanity to another monster, after his butcher in Gangs Of
New York. His performance goes beyond anything we've seen recently
anywhere. From Upton Sinclair to Paul Thomas Anderson via Daniel Day
Lewis an unmissable work of art.
<|_=00=_|>
If Daniel Day-Lewis doesn't win an Oscar for this performance, there is
something horribly wrong. His performance and this film were amazing. I
don't give this kind of accolade out generously. I was at the screening
at the Chelsea West. We waited outside in the cold and rain for a good
two hours to get in there and get some good seats and I can honestly
say, I would have waited double that amount of time. Enough of my
rambling though. In regards to the film itself; it was very well done.
The cinematography was amazing as well as the set design. As usual, PTA
gives us a flawless script with terrifying, humorous, and compelling
dialogue. All of the acting was spot on. Paul Dano played the role of a
two-faced, maniacal, and power hungry preacher. The young man who plays
H.W. Plainview was also very solid. As PTA stated during the Q&A last
night, he seemed to know everything about the story and his character
and seemed to be a natural. Daniel Day-Lewis. Need I say more? He was
breathtaking in TWBB. Amazing is all i can say. You will need to see
the film to see for yourself. Some may become bored with the film at
times, which is what i gathered from the people sitting around me. I
had no problem with the "slow" scenes, but the general public may have
a problem grasping this film. If anything, this will be the reason if
it gets snubbed at the Oscars.
<|_=00=_|>
exhilarating, suspenseful, chilling and beautiful.

i heard once that the reason people stand whenever the 'hallelujah
chorus' is performed is because it was first performed for a king, and
he was so moved by it, he simply stood up during the song. this movie
is just like that.

i'm happy to be alive and at an age where i can appreciate this sort of
thing now, because 50 years from now, people will surely say, 'i wonder
what it was like to see that movie in theaters when it had just been
released.' 

when i say, 'you should go see this movie,' i don't mean it's really
entertaining, a good way to spend a Saturday night, worth the price of
admission or what have you. i mean it in the way that i think everyone
should see the sistine chapel, read hemingway, listen to beethoven's
9th symphony and so on. it will certainly be remembered for generations
to come as an important work of art.
