
Being a huge fan of the original Ju-On movies, as well as the original
American remake, I was looking forward to this one. But my excitement
dwindled right from the opening scene, as The Grudge 2 quickly became a
predictable and mundane sequel. A typical American-ized sequel that
sadly didn't follow the unique plot of Ju-On 2.

After Sarah Michelle Gellar's cameo, the movie focuses on her sister,
but gives her nothing to do. What seems like a totally separate
storyline inside an apartment building is more distracting than
involving. The scares become very routine and there are so many
characters here, that the viewer cannot become attached to any of them.

The movie does, however, kick it up in the final twenty minutes or so.
And the ending is a lot darker and much more mean spirited than the
original, and for that, it has to earn some points for not taking the
safe way out.

The Grudge 2 is not a complete loss, but it could have been so much
better.
<|_=00=_|>
Sequels are a tricky thing. You have to serve the core audience who saw
the first film, while trying to not prove too bewildering to a new
audience that may have not seen the original. Horror films are even
more difficult to spin a sequel off from, as suspense and scares are
often, by nature, dependent on a lack of expectation from the audience.
With The Grudge 2, director Takashi Shimizu and screenwriter Stephen
Susco have attempted to not fall into that trap by approaching the
sequel a little differently, but by the time it's over, unfortunately,
it still proves to be a little too repetitive for its own good.

Unlike 2004's The Grudge, which unfolded in a largely linear fashion,
The Grudge 2 shakes things up a bit by splitting the narrative between
three different plot lines that all take place at different times.
First, there is the continuation, essentially, of the story from the
first film, where Karen Davis (Sarah Michelle Gellar) is being kept in
a hospital after surviving the ordeal of the first film, which centered
around a house in Japan where a woman had been killed by her husband
and thus created "The Grudge," a rage that consumes every living being
that enters the house. Arriving from America to attempt to retrieve
Karen is her sister Aubrey (Amber Tamblyn), who quickly becomes
embroiled in the same situation as Karen. Second is a plot thread
featuring Allison (Arielle Kebbel), an American girl in high school in
Japan who is goaded by two classmates to enter the spooky house from
the first film and finds that it lives up to its haunted house
reputation. Finally, the third plot string plays out in Chicago,
Illinois, where Trish (Jennifer Beals) has moved in with her boyfriend
Bill (Christopher Cousins) and his two children, Lacey (Sarah Roehmer)
and Jake (Matthew Knight). The same day as she moves in, so does a
mysterious neighbor, after which everyone in the apartment complex
starts acting weird.

When The Grudge 2 works, the best word to describe it is creepy. The
horrific imagery, mostly of a long haired, blue skinned Japanese woman
and a young child, is unsettling and when they appear on screen,
accompanied by some equally disturbing sound effects, it can't help but
send chills up and down your spine. However, the circumstances in which
these characters make their appearances have used up the suspense
quotient of this franchise. By now the rules are clear, when characters
are alone and everything seems normal, these beings are popping up
somewhere to scare the bejesus out of whoever is on screen and attempt
to exact their revenge. It works sometimes, but the film fails to make
any adjustments to the situations involving these beings, and you stop
really being surprised by their appearance and begin expecting it. Yes,
they are creepy, but the circumstances that surround them are
relatively rote. Suspense works well when you can't predict what is
going to happen, but in The Grudge 2, after a while, it all seems
rather familiar.

The film's fractured narrative, while giving The Grudge 2 some
difference from the previous entry, works against the film in many ways
also. Because it is constantly switching back and forth between three
different subplots, it is difficult to get attached to any of the
characters. Of course, as this is a modern horror film, the characters
are relatively thin to begin with, but with the constant cutting
between stories, it becomes enormously difficult to get a bead on
anyone and develop much attachment to them. So, when the characters
find themselves in peril, you have a hard time feeling much sympathy
for them. The Grudge 2 also has a plot twist, which early on becomes
reasonably obvious, so when it plays out at the end, there isn't much
surprise in store.

The actors are the usual batch of relative no names, for the most part.
The girls in the film, which is what the stories largely center around,
do their best to cry, scream and shake hysterically, and they are all
reasonably effective, but there is nothing revolutionary being
performed. Sarah Michelle Gellar reappears for a relatively small role,
so she doesn't make much impact, and the other major actress, Jennifer
Beals, is also saddled with what almost amounts to a bit part.

The Grudge 2 isn't a complete bomb, by any means, it is more than
disturbing enough in moments to provide some general discomfort that
horror films should try to apply. However, other than some chills here
and there, The Grudge 2 doesn't offer anything tremendously original or
scary, resulting in a largely mixed bag.
<|_=00=_|>
Hey! The Grudge 2! What up, man? I have a friend I would like you to
meet. The Grudge 2 meet Johnny's Worst of 2006 list. Johnny's Worst of
2006 list meet The Grudge 2.

What's going on here? I was under the impression that this was supposed
to be a sequel to The Grudge rather than a remake. If that's the case
then why does it do nothing but rehash the original? This floater
doesn't even feel like a movie. It's just a 90-minute soundtrack of the
weird contortionist chick making that annoying croaking sound.

A sound on which I'd recommend you not get me started. It was kind of
creepy the first time I heard it, but I've heard it about 12,367 times
since 2004, so it's pretty much run its course. And it's made even more
annoying by the 20 people in the audience who thought it'd be funny to
imitate the sound whenever there was a quiet spot in the movie. Sigh.

Folks, YOU'RE NOT FUNNY SO JUST SHUT UP! I promise you, EVERY SINGLE
TIME that a character was walking slowly through an empty room (which
is approximately 97% of the movie), somebody in the audience would
start it up, "Uhhhhkkkkkkuuuuuhhhhhkkkkkk." Yes, I know that's a
horrible way to replicate the sound with letters, but you get the gist.
So then some dude in the audience would giggle, and not to be outdone,
deliver his own rendition. I was very close to just walking through the
audience and punching random people.

I told you not to get me started.

There's absolutely nothing about The Grudge 2 that I can recommend.
There's not a single original scare or idea in the entire film. There's
not one memorable acting performance. Are you a Sarah Michelle Gellar
fan? Welp, enjoy her two minutes of screen time and one line of
dialogue. Are you an Amber Tamblyn fan? I hope you can deal with the
fact that she's given nothing more to do than walk around looking like
she's suffering from a pinched nerve. Can you believe the story (if you
can call it that) is even worse than The Grudge's? 

At least the original was fairly creepy and boasted a few effective
jump scenes. I didn't jump once during this lametrosity (yeah, I made
the word up, deal with it). That's right. Not a single time. The
"scares" are so manufactured and they are so blatantly telegraphed that
there is absolutely no shock value once the "gotcha" moment arrives.
Watching this movie is like playing a good game of chess - you're
always four or five scenes ahead.

There are also some weird scenes thrown in that make no sense
whatsoever. One that immediately comes to mind is a scene where a girl
drinks a gallon of milk and then begins to regurgitate it back into the
jug. Huh? I say HUH?!?! The audience laughed. I shook my head and
sighed. There was a lot of that during the movie. Laughing. Sighing.
Head shaking. Falling asleep (I did twice).

The movie even makes a 1/5th-hearted attempt at a plot "twist." Wow.
It's so bad that I don't think we should even dignify it by labeling it
a twist. Did they really think anybody would be surprised at the
revelation of who was hiding under the hoodie? Please. It was as
shocking as Elton John coming out of the closet.

And of course the ending goes the whole non-closure "look, we might
have another sequel" route. As soon as the credits rolled the audience
booed. My sentiments exactly. Had the audience paid money for this turd
burger then things would have most likely gotten violent, and I
would've gladly led the charge.

We learned from The Grudge that there's a Japanese belief that when
someone dies in a powerful grip of rage, then a curse is left behind.
Much like a Ben Affleck movie, it's a "stain" that forever becomes a
part of the place where the death occurred. Well, in The Grudge 2 we
learn that when a horror movie covers its budget during its opening
weekend then its sequel will be rushed out, and more often than not it
will be as bad as this and will leave a stain on any theater where the
movie shows.

THE GIST 

If you're a total wimp and never saw The Grudge then this might provide
a few cheap scares. But I strongly recommend saving your money,
otherwise, there's a good chance you'll be the one walking out of the
theater with a grudge.
<|_=00=_|>
Shoot me if you must. Shun me if necessary. But I actually really liked
this movie. It kept me entertained for 102 minutes and provided some
great scares. I never keep my hopes up for sequels and this movie was
no different. This was atmospheric and despite what some people say, it
did have a plot, although it was all over the place (so it's kind of
hard to explain). The acting was good from all. Takashi Shimizu is a
great director, he knows how to create suspense and keep it for the
duration of the movie. He also knows how to keep an "all over the place
plot" very easy to follow. I'm also glad he introduced some new
elements into the plot which made it much more interesting. (Can't wait
until the final installment)! And finally, the curse (Kayako and
Toshio) is still as scary and creepy as ever. There were many scenes
that had me very creeped out.

3½/5.
<|_=00=_|>
I was very excited about seeing this, as I love the original series, I
didn't think the first remake was that bad, Takashi Shimizu directed
it, and I have gradually become a fan of Amber Tamblyn. Unfortunately,
it was nowhere near as good as I had hoped. Of course, given the genre,
and the fact that it was a sequel to a remake and not really a remake
of a sequel, it was exactly what I expected. (Yes, I have high hopes,
but realistic expectations.)

I prepped myself for this by watching the unrated DVD of the previous
film just a few short hours before heading to the theater, which, in
hindsight, was probably a mistake. While the first film relied heavily
on cheap scares and "gotcha" moments, the second toned it down a little
and aimed at being a little more suspenseful. The end result is a
chaotic mess with a convoluted storyline that weaves through time
without ever indicating it (slightly confusing at the start, as there
is a two year difference between the events we see throughout the film,
but I will refrain from spoilers).

The attempts at building suspense fall flat, as every significant event
is telegraphed and, therefore, incredibly predictable even when you're
not trying to think ahead of the film's pace. The kills themselves are
far from satisfying, as they are simply more of the same that we saw
the first time around. I'm sorry, but even if you have never watched
the Asian originals, the creepy girl with the hair in her face and the
hitch in her step fails to frighten after two Ring films, Dark Water,
Pulse, and, of course, the previous Grudge film.

I had seriously hoped that Takashi Shimizu would bring some of his
style to the film. Alas, we are the real victims here, not those
portrayed on the screen, as we have to pay hard-earned dollars to
witness (yet another) American Cinema (read: Hollywood) bastardization
of a quality film. When will they learn that the true appeal of Asian
cinema lies not with the creepy girl and the cheap scare, but with the
overall feel of the film? The "boo!" moments may work for the casual
viewer (and the target PG-13 audience), but it is the oppressive aura
that haunts the viewer and keeps them awake at night.
<|_=00=_|>
In Pasadena, Mrs. Davis (Joanna Cassidy) sends her daughter Aubrey
Davis (Amber Tamblyn) to Tokyo to bring her sister Karen Davis (Sarah
Michelle Gellar), who is interned in a hospital after surviving a fire,
back to the USA. After their meeting, Karen dies and Aubrey decides to
investigate what happened to her and gets herself cursed in the same
situation, being chased by the ghost of the house. Meanwhile in Tokyo,
the three high school mates Allison (Arielle Kebbel), Vanessa (Teresa
Palmer) and Miyuki (Misako Uno) visit the famous haunted house and are
also cursed and chased by the ghost. In Chicago, Trish (Jennifer Beals)
moves to the apartment of her boyfriend Bill (Christopher Cousins), who
lives with his children, the teenager Lacey (Sarah Roehmer) and boy
Jake (Matthew Knight). On the next door, weird things happen with their
neighbor.

"The Grudge 2" has scary sound and visual effects, with the creepy
woman and boy, and I have startled a couple of times while watching
this movie. However, the complex screenplay with three subplots is
totally confused, making the entwined story a complete mess. There are
too much characters and situations, and in a certain moment I was
completely lost with the disconnected and fragmented narrative. In the
end, I was completely disappointed with this confused, but also spooky
film. My vote is four.

Title (Brazil): "O Grito 2" ("The Scream 2")
<|_=00=_|>
The Grudge 2...Let's see. Don't get me wrong, I'm not a Japanese Horror
Film or Horror or Grudge basher. I loved the first one and the Original
Ju-On. I feel that much more justice could have been done for this one.
Aubrey only existed to fill in what needed to be 'discovered' in the
ending, (which if you've already seen Ju-On before this, you already
know the whole movie) all it was really was a complete remake of Ju-On,
just more closely followed than The Grudge. Though everyone may have
thought that it's coming to America was a bit interesting, it was
expected as the house burning in the end of The Grudge left the 2nd
hungering for a new plot. 

Save your $6.50 and wait for this to come out on DVD, rent it, watch
it, then decide if you want to buy it. This movie is good for a fall
asleep at 2 in the morning film. But overall, I'd say a 4 out of 10.
Sorry Grudge fans, it's just...They just failed at this one.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay, first the good thing : If you saw the trailer then you know about
100% of the "scary/jumpy" moment of the movie. And yes, it's a good
thing because you should just stick to the trailer and not go see the
movie.

I now understand why Sarah Michelle Gellar did not stay alive in that
movie for very long, she did not want to associate her name with this
production. I wish her the best for "The Return".

You have to follow 3 different story in this movie, and they are all
disconnected (in time and meaning) until the very end. And even then
it's a very bad climax. And god forbid even open the door to another
sequel.

Yes, in this movie, "The Rage and Fury" is on the move. No need to
visit the house anymore, just be close to someone who when inside and
you're done. It's not a curse anymore it's kinda like a virus. Go
inside the house, get scared, return back to USA and spread the joy in
your apartment building.

It's not that difficult to follow, but you just don't really care about
anyone. The plot line is slim to none and you have many scene in this
movie where you just laugh and shake your head... Milk anyone?? I saw
Ju-On 2 at the Fantasia movie festival last summer, different story
completely but much better than this dud. It's not a remake, but this
time, maybe they should have simply done a remake....

If you must see it, wait for the DVD.
<|_=00=_|>
I did enjoy the movie for the Ghost attack scenes as well as the story
in general. I do think the movie had some very poor acting in it. Now
the bad acting was obviously not present during the scare scenes but
every time any of the characters spoke a line I cringed, especially in
the first scene with the 3 school girls. I also found that Amber
Tamblyn gave a bad performance. The only performance that didn't suck
was Sarah Michelle Gellar. I think the bad performances can be
attributed to the language barrier between the Japanese director and
the English speaking cast. And here is what bothered me the most about
the movie... How is it that a 70 year old Japanese exorcist who has
lived in a very rural area of Japan her whole life and has gone quite
crazy learn to speak perfect English?
<|_=00=_|>
This sequel now shows the infamous curse in more power and a greater
range. But it does not improvise in any manner to its predecessor. The
story remains the same. People are getting affected and dying the same
deaths. Every thing that is going to happen can be pretty much well
known in advance for a seasoned movie goer.

There are three parallel story lines that shift in ways that further
reduce the fun in the movie and does not allow you get involved.
Kayako's past is explained in more detail but the again the explanation
does not seem too buy-able. All in all there is nothing much this
sequel has to offer. It could be subjected to one watch, but on a
rented DVD or VCD. But I would definitely not choose to buy the Grudge
movies 1 and 2 for collection purpose.
