
I loved this movie from beginning to end. It was a wonderful story of
growing up and as the memories are long distant everything seems so
much more magical and larger than life. As it really does when we are
adults looking back at our childhood. I thought the acting was
excellent and it was very well cast. Daniel Radcliffe plays a very
subdued character far removed from HARRY POTTER and shows that he has
the talent to continue in the business as an adult. The other 3 boys
are good finds and I am sure we will see more of them in the future.
While there is only a small cast, each one has a strong role and Mr &
Mrs McAnsh are truly memorable. Kangaroo Island is absolutely stunning
and from the dusty outback to the crystal clear coast, the visual
splendour is a feast for the eyes. Don't expect a special effects
blockbuster, just enjoy the journey of a lovely story!
<|_=00=_|>
I believe many of the movie critics out there have been far too harsh
in dismissing this film. I found it rather refreshing from the
over-hyped, over sensationalized and big budget disappointments in the
past few years. Many of the indie/low budget films are far better than
what is making the big dollars and getting the heavy promotion these
days.

December Boys is not a great film but it certainly is good and I found
it very enjoyable. I laughed, I cried...and Mr, Radcliffe is definitely
on his way to a long and successful career. He isn't the leading
character although he is definitely the headlining star that without
him this film probably would never have seen the light of day outside
Australia. I thought his performance was wonderful. He may not have
much dialog, but the sensitivity of his character comes across
beautifully. I believe Mr. Radcliffe is underrated as an actor, one
desperately trying not to be typecast and stereotyped a "the boy
wizard". If the media would stop reminding us that he's Harry Potter,
and let him be the untapped talent that he obviously is.... Give
audiences credit that we can separate an actor from the role he plays.
Frankly, not all of us are Potter fans and I don't see HP as this great
literary work. It's an okay story that has benefited from brilliant
marketing. However, I'm grateful because HP gave us a troupe of new and
very talented young actors...and showcased just how many brilliant
actors come from the UK.

Given many of the horrific child stars and forgettable cookie cutter
actors out there in equally forgettable films , here is a young man
that shows promise in the years to come. Give him a chance. He is
obviously trying very hard to be more than what he's been painted since
he was 10. Maps isn't a huge stretch, but a stepping stone from Potter.
You can see where Radcliffe was in terms of acting ability right after
Potter 4. He is easing his way delicately from his alter ego. Then he
demolished his Mickey Mouse Club image with Equus. It's a shame that
wasn't made into a film. He was truly brilliant as Alan Strang.

Granted this film (like others with A-list stars, mind you) has its
trouble spots, but it still doesn't detract that it was beautifully
shot and some of the acting was impeccable. Radcliffe has notably
excelled further since this film was made over two years ago. Equus
showcased that he isn't a one trick pony and that we really do have
someone worth looking forward to as a brilliant actor in the future.

This film isn't perfect, but I just saw two other films this week that
had huge plot holes and continuity errors, etc, so-so acting
performances with clichéd plots and so forth but still garnered high
praise. Maybe its the high profile stars or those producing/promoting
these films. I just don't understand critics sometimes. I don't think
anyone expected Oscar-caliber from this film or Radcliffe, but at the
same time it is a helluva lot better than other films released this
year. To be honest, I would have been disappointed in Radcliffe if he
chose some dopey tween flick that seems to be the calling card of
American young stars. Herbie Fully Loaded and High School Musical are
such great films after all. Radcliffe could cash in on his current fame
like the others and make trash, and be the poster boy of the tabloids
but he doesn't. That should count for something. I'd rather read more
about him than the likes of Lindsay, Paris and Britney any day of the
week. .

I have seen complete garbage nominated for Oscars in the past and
lately I don't put too much stock into many movie critics that give "A"
ratings to films that I cannot believe someone paid money to even make
let alone ones that I would waste my money on.

There's nothing wrong with a film that has a simple story line....a
feel good movie thats enjoyable to watch. It doesn't have to have
grotesque violence, language and explicit sex scenes. Probably one
reason I love old Hollywood and independent films. Generally, I find
these films wonderful (and many great ones) and ones that are worth the
ticket price and buying the DVD. I can't say that about most of the
films that are released every year nowadays.

It just seems this poor guy (Radcliffe) can't win for losing. If he
released a candy/teenybopper flick he would have been crucified...he
really takes a risk and goes for it with Equus and people freaked out
that he wasn't a good role model for the Potter fans....oh, what a
travesty! Yet he was a splash on the London stage and has obviously
grown as an actor since this movie was made. Give the guy a break.....I
think he will only get better and better with time. I know this was
long winded, but I really champion this young actor. Not all Radcliffe
fans are squealing 10 year olds.

The only thing I found worth to criticise in December Boys was the
unclear time period and the time span in the aging of the characters at
the end. Hardy unfortunately used music from different periods. The
film looks to be set in the 60's but some of the music tells otherwise.
And obviously the 'present day' older boys are too old, in my opinion
by a couple decades.

Some say it was too sugar coated, etc...but there were many films in
the golden age of Hollywood (which I loved) that would now be
considered too chaste, too sweet, un-realistic...the list goes on and
on. I would still take those movies (and this one) any day of the week
over 95% of the garbage that is released today.

Forget the critics....go see December Boys.
<|_=00=_|>
My husband and I loved this movie. Finally a movie where you actually
care about the characters.

The acting is marvelous, the story is touching and the scenery is
magnificent. Not only does every actor in the movie look their part,
they are believable for a change. As the movie progresses, it's like
you've been invited along on the trip to the cove with these four young
orphans to see how they deal with the hand they're dealt. 

The people they meet during their holiday by sea are exactly what you'd
expect. Regular folks with real life emotions, dreams and problems.

This was a bold movie by Hollywood's standards. No car chases,
explosions, swearing or ego-feeding in this movie. Just great
entertainment. 

For people out there who love good movies; go see this one. It's made
the way movies ought to be. Good story, smart dialogue and a believable
representation of the subject matter. We loved it! Great Entertainment.
Four thumbs up!
<|_=00=_|>
The buzz for December Boys surely points to how Daniel Radcliffe will
fare sans cloak, glasses and lightning bolt scar on his forehead, to
star in a movie that's totally out of the Harry Potter franchise. Gone
are the fantastical elements and scores of ready, adoring fans, and in
comes a serious dramatic piece about the coming of age, growing up, and
raging hormones. Wait, Harry Potter is about that too doesn't it,
although it stretches over 7 movies? But Radcliffe comes through
unscathed, and it's not before long that you'd forget that here's Harry
Potter. While possibly the biggest recognizable name on the cast list,
it wasn't a walkover performance as everyone else had raised their act
and not allow a young starlet usurp the strength of the movie. Based on
a novel by Michael Noonan, December Boys tells the story of 4 orphans,
all being born in the month of December, who were sent packing to a
seaside village for a vacation, by virtue that it's a reward sent to
the orphanage, and what better (lazier?) way to select the lucky few,
than the ones celebrating their birthdays the same month.

So we have Maps (Radcliffe), Misty (Lee Cormie), Sparks (Christian
Byers) and Spit (James Fraser) sent on a journey that will test their
close friendship, and as usual, each will come face to face with their
individual challenge that will forever change their lives. Gee, I sound
like a generic trailer, but trust me, although the premise might sound
cliché, December Boys hinges very heavily on the delivery of the child
actors for its success. While the spotlight might be on Radcliffe and
Cormie, Byers and Fraser each have their own charm, but are restrained
by the frequency of their characters' on-screen appearance. The
landscape of Kangaroo Island adds vast scale to this relatively small
movie, opening our eyes to natural geographical wonders, becoming a
character in itself, with its inhabitants mere players on its grounds.

While it's not Stand By Me, there's the usual basis that lurks around
begging for comparisons. And worse, the story here allows for each of
them to try and go one leg up on the other, as they learn that one of
the purposes they are there at the village, was to allow for one of
them to be selected for adoption. Hence the competition amongst the
boys as they vie for attention, putting on their best behaviour, most
contrary to what their actual characters are like. Each child however,
have an episode directed around him, to similarly allow the audience to
pick their preferred sub plots, involving a giant fish, a misunderstood
motorcycle stuntman, dealing with mortality issues when their surrogate
guardian has to battle disease, and of course, saving the best for last
and for Radcliffe, first love, in the form of a young lolita Lucy
(Teresa Palmer).

Soon, their hot blooded young boy antics and rebellious streaks give
way to a tone of seriousness, and there's where the movie adds its
poignant gravitas. December Boys might not seem much from the get go,
but with each passing minute, it adds layers upon layers to build its
repertoire and stand up against the scrutiny of mediocrity. By the time
the final scene rolls by, even though it doesn't show much and does so
mostly through narration, I thought the ending was perfect, with a
tinge of regret, happiness, sorrow, and a show of solidarity all rolled
into one.
<|_=00=_|>
Set in the late 60s, December Boys is a beautiful, poignant tale of
adolescence and abandonment with the vast, awe-inspiring Australian
outback as a backdrop, unraveled in the same vein as Stand By Me.

"What's the big deal about having parents anyway?" Maps (Daniel
Radcliffe) retorts to his summer fling Lucy (Teresa Palmer). Maps is
the eldest of four orphan boys who get sent for a seaside holiday with
an elderly couple. Misty (Lee Cormie) is the youngest and the artistic
one of the brood. Sparks (Christian Byers) is good with mechanical
things, while Spit (James Fraser) is so named for what he does best.

Having been given a glimpse of what the orphans' lives have been like
together, you have an idea of where Maps' trend of thought comes from.
They've survived so far without parents, and they have had each other
to call as family growing up. This just becomes more glaring as they
interact with their host family's neighbors, and they get in an
emotional competition for possible adoption that tests the limits of
their brotherhood.

Unfulfilled expectations are shared by all characters regardless of age
and situation, and this is the main theme that the audience empathizes
with. It is heartbreaking to see their faces light up with hope at the
possibility of winning the parent lottery only to be passed on time and
time again. Rude awakenings and rejection are themes that most people
can relate to after hardened years, but for children to already know it
intimately at such an age is what makes December Boys the thoughtful
tearjerker it is.
<|_=00=_|>
To Jlin from the Emerald Isle .. methinks you had a little too much of
the Hard Stuff ;-)

Whats it like to be an Orphan in the days of narrow mindedness and
strange moral beliefs that were taught then ... this film portrays this
well.

Excellent Cinema Photography and composition with some excellent stills
and excellent script too with some pot shots at the ridiculous order
that Nuns were and are today :( with their strange methods at handling
Orphans not to mention their narrow minded beliefs.

The acting by the 4 orphan boys was very convincing as was the
portrayal of how young boys behave like smoking after lights out in
bed, or how the awareness of the opposite sex awakened their senses.

The orphans were the stars without a doubt the other adults competent
enough Jack Thomson was somewhat wooden in his role.

To sum up an enjoyable film devoid of any nasties ... not a masterpiece
by any means though.
<|_=00=_|>
"December boys" is a tale of growing up, of brotherhood, of love and
most of all about friendship. It's a good movie, I really felt that I
cared for what happened to the boys, especially Maps and Misty.

Teresa Palmer as Lucy is absolutely beautiful, it's the first time I've
laid my eyes on her. You'd think she is a brainless blonde when seeing
her, but this one actually can act. At least I felt so. I also liked
Fearless, Teresa, Bandy and his wife. They all seemed like so very nice
people.

After a somewhat slow start, I was entertained 'til the very end. I
found myself watching with interest. Still, It's a movie I suspect I
wouldn't like as much the next time, or the time after that. I know the
story, it doesn't feel like it would be so interesting when it's not
the first time.

All in all, this December boy gives the December boys a 7/10 stars.
Well done.
<|_=00=_|>
December Boys is an overly sentimental and cliché ridden tale, but it
has a special something that makes it work. That something is the
engaging performances of the two major boys - Daniel Radcliffe and Lee
Cormie.

The action takes place during a Christmas holiday of the late 60's or
early 70's in Australia. The December boys are four boys from an
outback orphanage whose birthdays fall in December. They are given a
treat of a vacation at the shore provided by an older couple.

The four are three pre-adolescents - Sparks, Spit, and Misty (Cormie) -
and one older boy who acts as the big brother of the younger three. He
is Maps, played by Radcliffe. The story is told by Misty as an adult
and contains many, probably mis-remembered, events of that eventful
vacation.

The boys are hosted by an older couple with the man being played by
Jack Thompson as Bandy. This is a bare-bones part, and Thompson's
considerable talents are wasted. Bandy's wife is ill with cancer, and
there are some interesting scenes of interactions with the boys but the
couple plays a very small role in the whole thing.

The vacation cabin is in a small cove accompanied by several others,
and the inhabitants of these neighboring cabins provide a number of
interesting characters. The most interesting to the boys is a young,
childless couple. They are seen as potential parents by the boys, and
the three younger ones compete in a battle for their attention - led by
Misty.

Maps is far more interested in a local teenage girl with whom he
develops an intimate relationship. Because Radcliffe became famous as
Harry Potter, Russell Edwards of Variety sarcastically states,
"Destined to be forever known as Harry Potter Gets Laid," but I saw
much more in Radcliffe's portrayal of a teenager's first love. His
performance is richly affecting.

December Boys is an entertaining combination of the vacation adventures
and fantasies of four boys coupled with that longing purity of first
love. It's not a great movie, but it gives the viewer a good feeling
and gives this viewer some memories and emotions of times long passed.
<|_=00=_|>
A great movie indeed with all that a good movie needs: love, drama,
realistic characters, joy, sadness and all the other things that a
human being might feel nostalgic about at a certain moment.

The orphans change the cove and cove changes them forever and, if you
let it, their story might change you as well.

The emotional charge simply grows bigger and bigger from the beginning
of the movie towards the end thus providing with a finale of biblical
proportions (emotionally speaking).

Although in the beginning it might not seem like much this is, in my
opinion, a movie that will not leave you unchanged and give you a new
perspective as to what your dreams are and/or ought to be.
<|_=00=_|>
A touching account of the stresses and joys a group orphaned children
(under reasonably good care at an orphanage based in Australia). 

A group of four, named "December Boys" (DB) primarily because they're
all identified as such on their birthday month, are the first selected
to be treated to a once-in-a- lifetime opportunity for a Christmas
holiday by the sea. The movie takes us across the length of quite an
amazing Australian countryside. From the get go, the DB are like
brothers in every sense. 

For Radcliffe, this film overlaps a bit with the Harry Potter movie
series. Here he is the eldest of the DB group and the "big brother" of
the group, enjoying the experience but less mesmerized by everything
than the younger boys in the group. The youngest of the group, "Misty,"
is very much reminiscent of Radcliffe in "HP Sorcerer's Stone" in terms
of his look of wonder and amazement at everything he sees. It's the
older and wiser Misty who narrates the story. He's the first to be
bitten by the temptation of the little community by the sea. (No
Spoilers.)

A very heavy element of Catholicism is present throughout the film --
the orphanage is run by religious sisters, a priest chaperones the DBs
on holiday, the family sponsoring their seaside holiday is extremely
religious, and Misty has a unique understanding of the Virgin Mary and
of women in general. (No spoilers, however you should be ready for the
religious element coupled with the boyish considerations of good and
bad.) 

The boys are entertained by almost anything, and the members of the
little seaside community each have their encounters/shenanigans with
the DBs, but midway in the film Misty turns on the group in a desperate
effort to secure his adoption by the family sponsoring their holiday.
(No spoilers.) 

Radcliffe ("Map" in the film) is struggling with the fact that he's
nearly old enough to be let out of the orphanage; for the majority of
the film he tries to play the subdued teenager who isn't easily moved
or eager to be adopted, but other factors come into play for him. (No
spoilers.)

There's a funny confessional scene you'll have to see for yourself, but
the most moving aspect of the film is that faith and brotherhood thrive
even in the desolate little neighborhood. While nobody in the town is
well off by any means, the message to "do unto others..." and to help
lift each other up is present among the adults throughout, not only
though their words of prayer, but through their quiet actions.

The story is very touching and relatable. A lovely film you should
watch for yourself.
