
I saw this with a friend of mine over the weekend in a press screening
and I really did not enjoy it. The special effects are fine but the
story is rather hammy and the performances are not very good. The main
character looks like a deer in head lights most of the time and the
villains acts like cartoon stereotypes more than real characters. Most
of the characters here seem like rejects from other films and it shows
by how unoriginal they were. The only performance in the film that has
any credibility what so ever is the dragon Saphira and that's mainly
because she is voiced by Oscar winning actress Rachel Weisz, who has
more talent in her vocal cords than all the actors working in this film
combined.

My suggestion, wait for DVD.
<|_=00=_|>
Crude, unimaginative adaptation of Christopher Paolini first novel is a
bad joke from top to bottom. The screenplay is a joke, with major
characters missing from the original novel and the acting from almost
everybody in the film is down right horrible and that's really because
most of the roles are miscast to begin with. Jeremy Irons makes an
grant effort with what he has to work with but he's let down by the
script and the bad performances of his co-stars and the only solid
piece of real acting comes from the voice over work of Rachel Weisz,
who gives the dragon Saphira enough charm, charisma, and strong will to
make her the only believable and likable character in the entire film.
That's in itself a great accomplishment considering the fact that
script really does not even try to do that with itself.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie follows nothing of the book's plot line. I think someone read
like maybe ten chapters of the Eragon book and decided to make the
movie. If they decide to make Eldest (The sequel to Eragon) it would be
nothing like the book because they have changed too many things in this
movie to carry the plot correctly. The plot of the movie shares nothing
with the book and the characters (the ones they actually decided to
add) share no similarities to the book's idea of them. The storyline
used in the movie could have possibly been acceptable if it hadn't had
such bad writing. The lines were mediocre and no one other than Brom,
Eragon and Saphira had ten lines. Murtagh had like eight or nine lines
through the whole movie, Nasuada and Ajihad had like two or three (and
Nasuada doesn't say who she is) and Hrothgar had maybe one or two
lines. They completely rushed the movie too quickly. Unless you read
the book, you have no idea how Eragon learns to use magic and are left
in the dark about most things. The actors did the best job they could
with the horrid lines they were given to read. The special effects were
great except that Saphira isn't supposed to have feathers. What dragon
has feathers? Christopher Paolini says like fifty times in the book
that Saphira's wings are a thin membrane. Also that Eragon is fifteen,
not seventeen. Every problem comes back to the horrid writing. Bottom
Line: Could have been a great and timeless movie. Not Lord of the Rings
worthy.
<|_=00=_|>
When I first heard that a movie is going to be made by the book
"Eragon" by Christopher Paolini, I must say I was very delighted, and I
was even more delighted when I heard that Stefen Fangmeier will be the
director. I have read the book, and thaught:"What a great movie this is
going to be". Unfortunately, I was wrong. First of all, I would dare to
say that half of the events that happened in the book weren't shown in
the movie at all(reason: Lord of the Rings has less then 400 pages and
the movie lasts around 3 hours; Eragon has around 500 pages and it
lasts around hour and a half). As a result, instead of complexed,
unpredictable fantasy plot you get simple, one-way heading fairy tale.
Characters that play very significent role in book(like Murtagh, Ajihad
and Angela) are hardly even mentioned in the movie, so that it becomes
centered on pretty much only 3 characters-Eragon, Saphira and Brom.
Villains and locations lack imagination, so they look cheap and
ordinary. Choice of actors is, in my opinion, good, except Edward
Speleers. There are way too much "memorable quotes" in the movie, so
that movie becomes kind of too much theatrical.Everybody, from director
to actors failed, but still, I personally bealive that the biggest
failure is Peter Buchman, screenwriter. Although he had a fantastic
material to work on, he managed to ruin it, and make a pathetic
screenplay from a fantastic bestseller. Only bright side of the movie
is always top-of-the-class John Malkovich(King Galbatorix), pretty
solid performance by Jeremy Irons (Brom), but most of all dragon
Saphira (voice by Rachel Weisz, whose vocal abilities are on very
desirable level)
<|_=00=_|>
Paolini's novel should have been left alone. It was unnecessarily
tampered with to make it into a lack-luster movie losing all magic,
motivation, and meaning. The writers, director, and producers missed a
real opportunity to make this into a great trilogy experience...perhaps
they should have read the books first because they were much better
than this. Get better actors and get a better director and you will
have something. My advice...produce the movie again . We will forget
the first attempt and bring back Rachel Weisz who made the dragon the
best part of the film and it will be a better film. If you do that, it
will succeed.
<|_=00=_|>
Really Bad. If you read the books, do yourself a favor and don't put
yourself through the agony of sitting through this travesty. The story
line (which skips about 70% of the original story line) wanders miles
from the novel. Except for Rachel Weisz's great voice over work for the
dragon (which is the best acting this film has) the acting from the
rest of the actors is just above high school play level. What were
Jeremy and John thinking in taking these roles? The special effects are
decent but that's it and the sets are cheesy Save your cash and wait
for the third novel.

Let's hope they will not be a sequel.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me start by saying I didn't read the books before seeing the movie
but I am reading Eragon now. I enjoyed the movie. Not great but not
bad. One of the most nagging problems with this movie has it was way to
short and seemed like it was in fast forward most of the movie. If they
would have increased this movie to 2 hours to 2 and a half hours I
think it would have been a very good movie (hopefully the DVD will have
more added in). The acting by Rachel Weisz was fantastic. Jeremy Irons
did a very good for his part. But those are two experienced actors that
will give good performances regardless. The CG on Saphira was very well
done. The main problem with the acting in this movie was Edward
Speleers, he had no presence in this movie, which is a bad thing for
the main character. It was all most like he was just there to read his
lines and go home. For which I hold the director responsible but it was
also one of his first movies. I think Edward would have made a good
side character, but someone with more experienced should have been
casted as Eragon or a director with more proved talent. If you have
never read the book and enjoy good CG you will like this movie. Just
change the name of the movie to Saphira and it is OK. If you have read
the book assume it is a coincidence that the movie and characters share
names.
<|_=00=_|>
Horrible and very funny adaptation of the popular children's book that
plays like a bad SNL skit that is trying to parody "The Lord of the
Rings" than the book that it's based on. The screenplay is a major mess
with dialog that even little kids would find stupid and the
performances are almost all laughably bad. Jeremy Irons and John
Malkovich should be ashamed of themselves for even agreeing to be in
this film and Djimon Hounsou should start reading his scripts a little
more carefully. The only redeeming thing about this crappy film is the
great voice over work of Rachel Weisz, who manages to give the dragon
Saphira more talent and range in terms of solid acting than all the
human actors working in the film. The C.G.I work done for Saphira was
also well done, making her more lifelike than her human co-stars as
well. 

Outside of Rachel Weisz's great voice acting and the great special
effects for the Dragon Saphira, this movie is more and less a bad
comedy that did not deserve nether of them.
<|_=00=_|>
Let's pretend for a moment I didn't read the book: 

Actors were great. Effects were great. Story line thrilling. It was an
exciting movie that kept you going! All in all, A+.

But WAIT! I did read the book! 

What the heck happened?! They absolutely butchered the storyline! I
think the only thing they got right were the names! I'm dreadfully
sorry Christopher Paolini... They got it wrong from character
description to plot line! At first I was giving them a little credit
cause they needed to edit it to make a movie, but by the time the sent
Roran off to avoid the war instead of to work in a mill, I was fed up!
I do give credit to the actors, they did very well for what they were
given. The editing was off, there were scenes that it randomly
began/stopped raining, voice overs that didn't match up, and other
random mistakes. All in all, D-

Moral: It would have been great had I not read the book. Over all, C+

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

EDIT: My friend and I saw the movie for a second time. This time
however, we knew what to expect. We both found that the second time
around was much better. (One, because we didn't spend the entire movie
complaining...) I think I was a little too harsh the first time around.
It is a good movie, not as "to the book" as I'd like it to be, but I
still think that it is better than nothing. I am definitely hoping for
some deleted scenes on the DVD though... All in all, raise it to a B
<|_=00=_|>
Eragon (Ed Speleers) is a young farmer who discovers an egg one day.
When the egg hatches, out pops a baby dragon who the human learns is
his dragon, and that he is a Dragon Rider. Through the inevitable
growing pains of child to youth, youth to adult, young Eragon is
mentored by a former dragon rider, Jeremy Irons, and learns that
dragons and their human rider are bound together by a shared destiny
until death. How they choose to live this partnership is the gist of
the story as Eragon seeks to save his country from an evil ruler and
magician with the help of a band of rebel outcasts, a magic sword, and
the brave dragon. Of course, a young beautiful girl, Sienna Guillory is
the first love of Eragon, and the partnership of Safira, the dragon and
her rider becomes a life's test of courage, cunning, and growing
wisdom.

This is a light fantasy film that is most of all feel-good with a
smattering of "ancient" wisdom and swordplay which will entertain
younger audiences. The special effects and overall look of the film is
passable, not a multi-million dollar SFX laden film, but believable in
its visuals. As for the story, I don't read fictional fantasy so I had
no basis for comparison with "the book." But, I'm not a fan of
comparing text to visuals as criterion for quality or authenticity for
each medium is its own separate art form. This is a family film that
will entertain and enthrall youngsters as well as possibly impart some
sense of honor, wisdom through purpose, and a sense of duty above self
-- all characteristics that are missing in the mindless, fart-heavy
humor of most "tweeny" movies put out for commercial distribution
today.

If only to watch the stellar performance of the excellent British
actor, Jeremy Irons as he mentors the wet-behind-the-ears Dragon Rider,
the film is worth watching as the really ugly bad guys try to bring
down the last of the dragons and her headstrong partner.
