
I just got back from an L.A. screening of Hostel. I haven't seen an
effective horror film like this in a long time. My stomach was still
knotted up after we left the screening. The last time I felt like that
was when I saw ALIENS for the first time about 19 years ago. Since
then, no other horror film has ever made me feel like that. I certainly
didn't expect it from this one. As much as I loved Cabin Fever, I'm not
blind to the shortcomings of its script. As such,I was expecting more
of the same from Hostel - dark humor, gore, and a sense of dread. I'm
happy to see that director Eli Roth has taken a big step forward in
becoming a better storyteller and filmmaker.

Admittedly my heart sank when the film began. The scenes introducing
the main characters were blandly shot and edited. All I could think
was, 'Oh no. Roth succumbed to some unseen studio pressure to make a
normal-looking horror flick'. The style was typical of the what you'd
see in crap like I know what you did last summer. But in very subtle
ways, the blandness gets washed away and as our heroes enter the
threshold of Hell, the style of the film changes as well. This, I
learned during the Q&A afterwards with Roth, was intentional.

If you've read some of the other reviews posted here from people who
saw it at the Toronto Film Festival, you get the general idea of the
story. Contrary to what you might've heard, this is not a 90 minute
film on torture. The torture scenes are brief and to the point. Roth
doesn't wallow in pointless gore. And this is where I think it shows
how he's improved as a filmmaker. He's more interested in scenes and
ideas that move the story forward. Yes, there is plenty of gore, but
it's relevant to the story and doesn't exist just for it's own sake.

One of the aspects of this film that made it so powerful was how Roth
created a sense of helpless and inevitability. He provides the dark
setup, throws in a sympathetic character, and begins twisting the
screws and ratcheting up the suspense. This isn't a movie where you
turn off your brain to enjoy it. On the contrary. The more you think
about it, the more horrifying it becomes. You begin putting yourself
into the character's situation and wondering what you'd do. When you
realize that there is no hope for the character, no way to escape, no
'buddy' who's gonna turn up at the last minute to save the hero, and
not a shred of humanity or compassion to the antagonists, real fear
begins to set in.

Another great element in the script is how the 'survivor' makes moral
choices that define their character. Instead of being merely reactive
like the characters in Cabin Fever, the survivor makes several
decisions which change the course of the story. It's a sign of well
thought-out script and a filmmaker who cares about the fate of his
characters.

For horror fans, this is an absolute must-see. It's so refreshing to
see a horror movie that actually makes you feel uncomfortable and one
in which you have no idea what's going to happen next. As for the gore,
I was surprised by what they got away with. Although there were no
credits at the end of the film, the cut I saw was rated R by the MPAA
and according to Roth, he didn't cut anything out.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw Hostel tonight with a crowd that was very receptive to the
experience. Mine was more hostile. The film opens like a teen sex
comedy. We are meant to identify with three young guys, who's idea of
fun is getting high and having sex with prostitutes. This first section
is littered with naked women, in what might just be the least sexy
presentation of naked women anywhere. One can sense director Eli Roth
and his cronies giving each other high fives off-camera, much like the
silhouetted threesome early on in the film, as they pay surgically
enhanced women to take their clothes off. 

The three men find themselves in Slovakia, and in what is referred to
as an art show or an exhibit. Rich men have paid Russian gangsters to
torture and ultimately murder a human being, our heroes? subjects? One
by one, the men are tortured and killed in escalating graphic manners.
The final man escapes, is involved in a car chase, and ultimately
becomes what he was trying to escape.

This is, at its black heart, a very dumb movie. Probably, the most
clever thing in the film, is the very weak parallel drawn between the
legalized red light district in Amsterdam, and the illicit torture
rooms in Slovakia. Everything else is just baloney. We don't really
care about the three men, so the tortures that they endure aren't
really effective at eliciting any sympathy, it's more that we're glad
it's not happening to us. The motivations for the men that torture is
never made clear, it's more a general sociopathic disconnect that's
vaguely hinted at. It's also worthwhile noting that the one character
that seems to be gay is singled out as the worst of the torturers,
further contributing to the filmic stereotype of homosexual as
homicidal.

One should also note the historical context of the film. This is an
American movie, about torturing people, made at a time when America,
right or wrong, is receiving flak for torturing prisoners in Iraq and
elsewhere, and makes no mention of the current world situation.

It's also worth noting that the audience I watched this picture with
cheered and applauded at each new horror. It all seemed so Circus
Maximus.
<|_=00=_|>
I didn't like Hostel. The premise is frightening. The idea of being
drugged, kidnapped, tortured, and killed by people who are paying to do
it, is a great concept for a film. It's just too bad that the movie
couldn't decide what it wanted to be.

It starts off like "Eurotrip" or any number of cheesy teen sex
comedies. Lots of fake boobs and characters acting idiotic, in a fake
atmosphere. Scenes in dance clubs that don't look realistic. You know,
the types of places where people are dancing to loud music, but somehow
can talk to each other in a normal tone of voice and everything is
brightly lit so you can see all the movie extras pretending to dance in
the background. Just like all the clubs, I've ever been to, right?
Anyway, this goes on and on until the bloodshed starts, giving us
absolutely no reason to feel anything for the main characters.

Then it turns into the horror film it should be. The scenes of torture
are effective and psychologically scary if you imagine yourself in the
situation, but in the context of the rest of this movie it just becomes
ineffective.

Then the end of the movie turns into an unrealistic revenge fantasy
that's played out, for the most part, for laughs. Kids payed in bubble
gum help the good guy get away by smashing the bad guys heads in with
rocks as they chew away and blow bubbles. The two girls and guy who set
them up are easily killed when they luckily appear in front of the
getaway car. The man that killed his friends just happens to be on the
train on the way home so he can kill him and somehow not get blood on
himself, then continue on his way. So is the movie supposed to be
realistic, scary, or funny? It's falls short of any of these things.
Eli Roth needs to pick one and do it.

The music is terrible. Not in the fact that the music itself isn't
good, but for the fact that, A: it doesn't fit the movie, and B:
There's way to much of it. There's a scene where the Characters are
merely walking across a courtyard, and the music sounds like it should
be a fight scene in Harry Potter. Completely out of place and
distracting, further telling you this is just a movie no need to feel
anything for the characters or get scared.

You can do a good compare and contrast between this movie and "Wolf
Creek" which came out a couple weeks ago. Everything that is wrong with
"Hostel", was done right in "Wolf Creek". Both movies are about young
travelers getting into horrifying situations, however in "Wolf Creek"
the characters actually act like normal human beings therefore you feel
disgusted when they get tortured and killed. It's genuinely frightening
and realistic, and by all means not "fun" to watch. It makes you feel
horrible inside. It's REALISTIC HORROR. To make a stupid analogy. If
"Hostel" and "Wolf Creek" were movies about Viet Nam, "Wolf Creek"
would be "Platoon", and "Hostel" would be "Rambo: First Blood Part
Two". (Note how neither would be "Full Metal Jacket" cause it's to good
to be used in this analogy).

I gave "Hostel" a 3 out of 10 for a frightening concept, and the puke
was a nice touch. . . If you're about to get tortured and killed
chances are you're gonna puke. . . Realism, Eli. More realism please.
<|_=00=_|>
The plot, in short: Three backpackers, two Americans and one Icelander,
does Europe by train with two major goals: To get high and nail as many
women as possible... In Amsterdam they accidentally learn of a hostel
in Bratislava, Slovakia where sex-mad women thirst for men in general,
and American men i particular. They of course decide to go there and at
first it seems the rumors were true. But they soon learn that the
hostel is nothing more than a front for a bizarre club, where people
can pay a huge fee to get to perform unspeakable acts...

My 2 cents: The director and writer Eli Roths biggest accomplishment
before Hostel is Cabin Fever (2002) - weather or not that is something
good is a matter of personal judgment. That he got two Evil Dead'ers
(Scott Spiegel and FX-genius Gregory Nicotero) interested in his script
is not at all surprising. But how he got Quentin Tarantino to executive
produce (and thereby act as "posterboy" for his flick) is, to me, a
total and utter mystery.

Hostel has potential, I'm not going to take that away from it. The
thought that a place exists where rich people pay money to torture and
kill other people is interesting. And a story about a kidnapped person
who finds himself locked in that very place, waiting for his assassin,
should make for a great film! The film is wonderfully lit, specifically
in the torture chamber-scenes. And the set-dressing in those scenes are
marvelous. It really feels like Roth found these places - and just shot
them as the were. But the lighting, set-dressing and potentially-rich
story, unfortunately, ends the positive things I have to say about
Hostel.

It is frustrating to see a story that could have been so exciting and
horrific get so utterly fumbled up! The movie is an hour and a half
long, and takes a whopping 50 minutes to get to the place that is
supposed to be the scene of terror and creepiness. The nearly hour-long
"intro" is spent observing the backpackers while they party, get high
and watch naked ladies in Amsterdams Red Light-district. When the story
finally starts to focus on whatever is wrong with the Slovakian hostel
it points everything out to such an extensive degree that it feels like
Roth wants to put a stupid-hat on every member in the audience. I sat,
in vain, and waited for him to take the lid off, go "ta-daa!" and show
me something intelligent that I had missed. But it never happens and
when the lid, towards the end, slowly slides off on its own accord it
turns out that the ones you suspected were bad guys were in fact...bad
guys. The ones you suspected were dead...were dead. And the entire
movie ends the way you suspected it would all along.

Jay Hernandez (Paxton) and Derek Richardson (Josh) doesn't do to shabby
in the two leads. But Roth has stayed true to Hollywood formula and
chosen picturesque before personality, and the bigger part has
unfortunately been given to Hernandez - instead of Richardson who I
thought were more likable, and more interesting to watch.

Spanish director Koldo Serra made El tren de la bruja in 2003. A
short-film about a man who agrees to partake in an experiment and
suddenly finds himself strapped to a chair in a dark room. He hears
metal objects being handled and someone pacing back and forth in the
room. When the light is turned on it dawns on him that he will probably
be tortured to death. Serras short-film is fifteen minutes long. It was
filmed in two days and is scary as hell! Hostel is both longer and has,
as it first seems, more story to build on. But it still wants to base
the horror in exactly the same sort of scenes as Serras short - and
fails miserably! Hostel is, probably, made specifically for an American
teen-audience, where drugs and naked women represent half of the movies
pull. Blood and bodyparts make up the other half. If you watch this and
expect anything more sophisticated than some blood and naked breasts
you'll be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie really could have been so much more. The idea would have
been much better off with someone who actually wanted to make a decent
movie, instead of a porno gorefest. The first half of the movie
consists almost entirely of sex, talk of sex, drugs, and talk of drugs.
Instead of, hey, maybe develop the characters a little so the audience
might care about them and make their plights a little more tense, the
filmmakers decided to have a lot of party scenes and annoying main
characters acting like idiots until, uh oh, we didn't plan on being
tortured, oops! The sad thing is, there are hints of something more
intelligent beneath the surface, but the surface is piled so high with
garbage that it's lost. For example, while at a sex club (wow,
original!) one of the characters mentions something along the lines of
"paying to do anything you want to a person," of course he means
sexually, but we know the basic plot of the movie involves the same
concept with death and torture instead of sex. One of the characters is
supposed to seem like a nice guy, but still never really develops
enough for us to care. The main character has absolutely no depth other
than a childhood story and his shallow interaction with his friend. The
last half or so of the movie actually starts to gain momentum, and the
first half not been an entire waste of film, I could have walked away
with more than a feeling that I'd just watched 15 minutes of an okay
movie, and an hour and fifteen minutes of porn and senseless gore.
Sadly enough, the idea of this movie was put into the wrong hands. A
little less than halfway through, my friend turned to me and said,
"Maybe I picked up the wrong movie..." to which I replied, "Yeah, I
think you got Eurotrip by accident." I am baffled as to why they
decided to write the first half like they did. I guess I was hoping for
something deeper. Don't watch this expecting anything special, be ready
for lots of nudity and lots of incredibly disturbing gore mixed
randomly, the two not even seeming to fit like they would in a slasher
flick.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not sure if this is a spoiler, so I figured I should do that to be
safe.

First of all, I didn't see this movie voluntarily. That being said, it
was even stupider than I expected. Probably the worst thing I have ever
seen or could even contemplate seeing. The characters were lame(I
couldn't bring myself to feel any sympathy for them), the story line
sucked(mostly because the story was "see porn! meet creepy people! see
more porn! watch people get their limbs hacked off by psychopaths for
fun! escape! REVENGE REVENGE REVENGE!!"), the gore was over-the-top and
completely sickening. I alternated between wanting to throw up and just
wanting to cry, not because it was sad, or you felt extremely sorry for
these poor people who were being mutilated to the tune of $25,000, but
because I couldn't imagine any sane, semi-rational human being enjoying
this movie.

I want my $7.50 back. And the hour and a half i spent with my hands
over my ears waiting for it to be over.
<|_=00=_|>
It's not scary. It's not funny. It's not stylish. It's not suspenseful,
exciting, thrilling or chilling in any way. It's not intelligent enough
to even be viewed as some warped social commentary. It's not ambitious
enough to do anything other than present gratuitous T&A and gore in the
dullest manner imaginable. Hell, it's not even entertaining. What it
really is is an exercise in being completely and utterly pointless
aside from presenting violent scenarios and nude women in third world
countries with unlikely silicone enhanced bodies. The "plot" involves a
trio of students (two Americans and a foreigner) vacationing in Eastern
Europe who eventually stumble upon a pay-to-slay type business that
specializes in making your sickest dreams come true (i.e. customers
paying a high price to get to slaughter a real live person). And I am
using the world "eventually" because it takes around an hour for this
movie to get to the real horror content. First we have to sit through
an excruciating hour dedicated to the juvenile frat boy antics of
characters who stay wasted on booze and drugs and pay hookers for sex.
A whole hour of this crap.

Our "heroes" are stupid, irritating, immature, one-dimensional and
thoroughly unlikable. By the time their lives are in danger, you could
care less what happens to them. I know I didn't. I was actually rooting
for the generic, anonymous bad guys to tell you the truth. To make
matters worse, this film has a tacked on ending that tries to let the
sole survivor enact his vengeance. These scenes are absolutely
ludicrous and riddled with coincidence. Certain characters just happen
to be at a certain place at the right time. Hey, there's three of them
now crossing the street right in front of me just as I'm trying to
escape the town! Well what do you know? How bout I run 'em all over!
There's another one who happens to be on the same train as me as I'm
leaving the country! Well I'll follow him into the bathroom... etc.
etc. etc. The end.

This movie is absolute garbage from start to finish. It's nothing new
or interesting. There is some gore, but it's pretty much what's
expected and nothing too shocking for anyone who has already sat
through films like Texas Chainsaw Massacre or Dawn of the Dead.
Director Eli Roth may be 35 years old, but his brain functions at the
level of someone 20 years his junior based on his juvenile screenplay
and uninspired direction. Roth himself later claimed he made this film
"to show Americans' ignorance of the world around them" and in the
process only ended up showing his own ignorance when it comes to film-
making. Absolutely the pits!
<|_=00=_|>
I like a rip-roaring horror movie as much as the next guy, but this one
just didn't do it for me. It certainly felt like it hit all the
necessary marks, from nudity and dismemberment to bloody revenge, but
at the conclusion, it just felt like eating cotton candy - no real
nutritional value, just a sense that I had satisfied some of my
prurient appetite without any logical payoff.

The movie was slow in getting started and then the sprinted to a
singularly boggling ending. I walked out of the theater asking, "What
was the point of all that?" And while this is described as horror, it
really should be classified as thriller. There was no explanation or
clever twist at the end. Just the end. I'm sure that it will attract an
enthusiastic audience of young adults, but the evisceration by the
critics will stem any hopes of huge box office.

If your expectations are low enough, and your tastes in gore
sufficiently robust, then you are in for a good time. Otherwise, skip
this and see a classic Hitchcock film. You'll feel better about
yourself.
<|_=00=_|>
My English is not very good (and i'm sorry for that), but this
''movie''is one of the stupidest I ever seen! Low budget movie with
stupid, simple and awful story about 3 guys going to Bratislava
(capital of Slovakia) to have some fun with slovak horny girls and they
get killed by unearthly brutal people of small country Slovakia. This
movie shows Slovakia like some kind of backward, poor and dirty
country. If you know Slovakia, you know that this movie was filming in
Czech Republic(there is a lot of signs with czech language on it, also
the language they speak is czech), which is lovely country with
beautiful history. You can see kids robbing these guys on the street by
daylight!?What is that? This is not Kosovo, Afganistan or Iraq. They
are not in the war or something. You should check some websites about
this. Everybody who knows something about Eastern Europe, and saw this
movie, know that this is degradation of this two countries and the
producer Eli Roth is moron!!! It is a shame, that they earn money on
this lame, full of lies rude stupidity!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was not only laughable, but morally degrading and at some
parts repulsive to watch. The only reason that I went to see this movie
is because I respect Quentin Tarantino's work in other movies, and just
because his name was on this one, I caved. Some of the scenes were so
STUPID that I found myself laughing at the screen. One scene containing
bloody floor and a chainsaw to a leg was purely comical. Another scene
where a one-eyed Asian girl jumps in front of a train after viewing her
deformed face had me crying. The large amounts of nudity were also not
needed and only added to the lack of morality in this film. I would not
see this movie ever again and I would encourage others to do the same.
