
I think people are being too hard on this movie. It's a big shiny
explosions movie, with nothing especially new plot wise, to be sure,
but who goes to action movies for plot? Not me! Clever repartee, good
looking men (Saldana is hot, yes, but I'm female so ... Evans and
Morgan, I'm lookin' at you), a villain landing somewhere between James
Bond and Austin Powers, helicopter stunts, big guns, and big
explosions. Good times.

Some great locations, good editing (also nice marriage of comic book
style to live action style in the credits),decent soundtrack.

The Losers doesn't take itself too seriously, and neither should you.
<|_=00=_|>
Hadn't heard of it and knew even less about it when I saw The Losers
and I just had a blast! It was a movie for guys who like movies with
its mean action and a constant humorous undertone that stays in stride
with the tempo of the film. It was hot chix, cool tricks, and
explosives throughout.

I didn't dig the slow-mo too much, though. That John Woo stuff just
rubs me the wrong way and I find it so pretentiously distracting! ugh.

But beyond that... if you want an entertaining "don't need to think
about it flick", The Losers generously provides. If you're looking for
something to stick with you to puzzle upon or stimulate you
intellectually, search elsewhere.
<|_=00=_|>
The Losers isn't a movie I can recommend outright as a really fantastic
example of its genre, far from it. It has some logical gaps, especially
towards its ending with the character resolutions (or lack thereof),
and the use of slow-motion in the action scenes already dates it to an
extent by its 'Hipness'. But it's also got just the right attitude,
humor and energy to get by as what I might call a 'Saturday afternoon'
quickie. This is the kind of flick that a guy would watch when he
should be doing something else around the house or something. It's
tough and unapologetic and a little too slick to be anything else than
what it is. I enjoyed The Losers against my better judgment.

The premise and follow-through is kind of predictable, as it's about a
group of elite fighters (think the A-Team) who get double-crossed by a
rogue CIA agent and find a possible entry point with a mysterious woman
to get back at him and clear their names. We see who will probably
betray who, or what twists might occur, and sure the BIG WEAPON (in
caps) that is used by Max (played with a cartoon character debonair by
Jason Patric) is so preposterous as to be wholly entertaining. But the
cast is up for playing these parts with every ounce of fun and
excitement in the material, and I liked seeing the camaraderie between
Morgan, Evans and Elba (the latter really coming into his own as a
star), and Zoe Saldana shows off again how she's becoming a formidable
talent in Hollywood films.

It's a hard movie to always defend for its plot inconsistencies, but it
works in its own lets-just-play-it-loose logic. And sometimes the
actors just cut loose, which is nice; seeing Chris Evans somehow inject
life into using 'Don't Stop Believing' by Journey in an espionage scene
is one of the most brilliant things of the year (if only because,
simply, how could you use that song again after the Sopranos). And when
it comes time for the BIG action set-piece at the end, it gives a good
dose of what action movie fans look for: plausible implausibility, some
gritty violence (albeit PG-13, it's still pretty intense), and a few
real surprises in the course of events, for better and worse. I can't
stress enough that it's not a particularly high achievement in its sort
of movie. But for what it sets out to achieve, it does alright, which
is enough sometimes.
<|_=00=_|>
Though slightly juvenile for an action film, (hence the PG-13 rating)
The Losers has wit, and that counts for something. The clichés are all
there; the distraught hero, the girl with the gun, the dapper villain
eager to get his hands on nuclear weapons, the geeky tech nerd, the
bad-guy cops. The Losers frequently plays all this for laughs, it has a
great sense of humour without which the film would be epically cheesy.
There are some familiar faces in the cast, along with some new ones,
and everyone seems to be having a good time, which helps us to have a
good time.

If I had to guess, I'd say it'd be Zoe Saldana which the studio values
most for selling the product, which is kind of degrading. She may well
be on the road to the Typecast city, until James Cameron gets Avatar 2
going. At least she can do her own stunts, something Megan Fox is
probably incapable of. The best performance in the movie though is
turned in by Jason Patric oddly enough, whose take on the clichéd super
villain ready to wreak havoc with the push of a button, is perfect.
There is no way anyone could take such a character seriously no why not
goof it up a bit. The year is young but this guy is the Col. Hans Landa
of 2010. Sometimes, the Losers doesn't work so good. At times it is
just a little too unbelievable, especially the interplay between
Saldana and Morgan, which is just gratuitous. 

So for an early blockbuster, The Losers delivers about what you'd
expect. Though there is nothing super special about it, the movie has
some tricks up its sleeve which might be worth checking out.
<|_=00=_|>
Well I don't know much to like about this movie. But at the same time
there's nothing to hate here. Not even some stilted dialogue or the
watered-down violence. The film moves in an almost self-parodying way,
as if it was aware that it was what it was, a slick, glossy, action-
packed, and fun thrill ride from start to finish.

The film is based on a comic book, and the story seems to prepare us
for the upcoming "The A-Team" adaptation (which I'm looking forward
to). It's filled with guns, girls, cars, explosions, fists, legs,
knives, motorcycles, in fact almost anything but the kitchen sink. The
actors seem to be having fun in their roles as the chemistry between
the six leads show, but Jason Patric looks like he's having a terrific
time, chewing every scene he's in and giving us what may be the
funniest (although sometimes annoying) villain in years.

The film has it's action packed moments and plenty of laugh-out loud
moments, but that's about what you can expect from a movie like this.
Don't expect anything like "Shutter Island" or "Slumdog Millionaire"
and you'll do just fine. Having said that, director Sylvain White keeps
the pace tight and frenetic, and you can see some of his camera
movements are similar to his previous film "Stomp The Yard", also
starring Columbus Short.

So in short it's a time waster, but a not bad one. Sure it may be
watered down for teens, but at heart it is what it is, big, loud,
goofy, hilarious fun.

Overall rating: A solid 6/10.
<|_=00=_|>
The Losers delivers a great deal of pleasure. It was witty, funny,
interesting and a marvelous watch. This comedy is like a parody of
hardcore action films, so don't expect any mind-blowing depth. Just go
with the flow. It's fun.

I hadn't any significant expectations for this movie, so the enjoyment
was even bigger. At times the plot might be a bit predictable but that
doesn't disturb the ride at all. It's got fast pace, entertaining
action scenes and it's fun. Fun is the word here. The cast was
brilliant, as well. Zoe Saldana was great as always. And for the first
time i felt that Chris Evans (Push-junk and Fantasticless 4) did a good
job. The villain was a bit weak though. But descent acting carried the
movie for the whole time. All you need.

As long as you don't take it seriously, it is brilliant and you won't
be disappointed. Shoot 'em up!
<|_=00=_|>
On a mission in Bolivia, a special CIA team is sent to kill a target.
Special circumstance happen when they see kids in the target zone.
After rescuing the kids, they put them on their rescue helicopter and
wait for a different extraction. Then they see their helicopter hit
with a missile, the kids are dead and they are suppose to be to. Now
they must make their way back to the States in order to get their lives
back and kill the one who set them up.

The Losers is based on a comic of the same name. It was a limited
issued series that I had never heard of, but after seeing the film,
wouldn't mind checking out. The Losers is the type of action flick that
surrounds itself with comedy and absurdity. You can't really take the
things that happen seriously and the film knows this, it also pokes fun
at itself. The Losers consist of Clay (Jeffery Dean Morgan) the leader,
characterized by a guy who wears suits with no tie. Roque (Idris Elba)
second in command and a hot head. Jensen (Chris Evans) who runs tech
and is the comic relief. Pooch (Columbus Short) the driver and Cougar
(Óscar Jaenada) the sniper expert. Each one has their own typical
character trait, from rebel to wise-ass. The leader is obviously a
troubled guy, who wants to do good and then you'll have your quite but
deadly assassin. Nothing new by an means, but going in expecting this,
I had a fun time. 

Zoe Saladana plays Aisha, the ass kicking chick who discovers they are
hiding in Bolivia and offers them a chance to kill the guy who set them
all up, Max (Jason Patrick). She tells them she will fund their
operation as long as they get Max for her. Hmm, sounds like she has
something of her own agenda. Can we trust her? We don't know, neither
do they. But they have nothing else to lose right? The villain as I
mentioned earlier is Jason Patrick, whose last memorable film was
2002's Narc. He doesn't have much of a résumé, so I kind of found it
odd that he was the villain in this piece. I don't know how well he
does comedy since it was pretty lacking here. You read that right,
comedy. The villain is comedic and his routine is the straight face
bit. His lines were delivered awkwardly for me and it really was an
awkward performance. 

I kind of expected more action from this film, it doesn't wow you in
anyway. The action sequences used are entertaining enough though,
mainly because of who the characters are and what they do. Seeing Evans
do some of the things seemed odd though, I didn't expect him to have
much of an action background for his geek/tech character. Although it
was interesting watching him with having Captain American on in the
back of my mind. The Losers doesn't try to do anything new, instead it
tries to simply entertain the audience that it is targeted at. To say
this is a no brainer action film would fit it perfectly.

There are some twists and turns in the plot that I personally didn't
like. It makes sense, but for me I wanted things to turn out
differently. I'm told that the same thing happens in the comic, but I
didn't want the dynamic of the group to be changed. I found myself
disappointed with that aspect. The use of music in points is odd,
Journey pops up in one sequence that might be the most memorable part
of the film. That scene alone should tell you that the film is not just
an action junkie film, but for people that want to laugh. 

Can I recommend The Losers? I sure can, it seems to be getting beaten
by the critics. I can see it from both sides of the looking glass. It's
far from perfect and has a lot of things that would make people
question it. Some of the comedy doesn't work, some people might not
like the action sequences and again, the lead villain is odd. But I had
a hell of a time watching it. The film is going to do very little
business at the box office, mainly because there was no big name to
draw people in and things that are based on anything that is not
popular usually just has that small cult crowd. Kick-Ass was the victim
of this last time, The Losers is the victim this time. I can totally
see this film going into obscurity and no one remembering it. Which is
a shame, because I liked it.
<|_=00=_|>
In contrast to what many others have felt towards 'The Losers', it
didn't quite work for me. Yes, clichés are expected in action movies
but I expect at least some entertainment and some kind of refreshment,
either in the form of action sequences, story or humour. At best, 'The
Losers' is your average action flick. Aside from being far from
memorable, there is nothing that particularly stands out. Even the
dialogue is clichéd and the humour fails to work. The actors are stuck
with typical action roles. For example. J.D. Morgan is the
stereotypical leader, Zoe Saldana the kickass action heroine who will
at some point turn against the group and who didn't know that one of
the five was a 'double agent'? I must give Saldana some credits for
doing her own stunts no matter how skinny she is. Jason Patric's
portrayal of Max has got to be one of the worst performances in a
villainous roles. I must add that the final sequences are marginally
better than the rest of the movie. Overall, 'The Losers' has nothing
new to offer and it failed to keep me entertained for its duration.
<|_=00=_|>
First time I checked my watch: After 50 minutes.

This is the first time I watched an action film in a long while and
though it wasn't an excellent movie, I have to admit that it was
entertaining. The cast was mostly unknowns except for the actor who
played Denny Duquette in Grey's Anatomy (I don't even know his real
name), Zoe Saldana (of Avatar fame) and Chris Evans (who played one of
the Fantastic Four). Of all the leads, it was Chris Evans who stole the
show and provided some comic moments in the film. The villain was very
annoying. Whether this was intentional or not, it would have been
better if he was less campy. Zoe reminded me too much of her character
in Avatar and just reminded me how amazing Neytiri looked. "Denny"
looked too old and chunky to be doing the action sequences. The movie
was also full of clichés. In some scenes, you can almost predict when
there will be a car blast, when someone will get shot and when the lead
star will save the day. This movie is ideally watched if you have
nothing to do and just need to watch something entertaining. Don't
expect a great action movie so that you won't get disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
tepid, monotonous and entirely lacking in depth. 

given the "not so bad" cast. I expected a whole lot more. this was a
straight to DVD movie if ever i saw one. 

Everything is so linear and the characters are cardboard cutouts. "oh,
lets give the evil guy a glove! ooooh mysterious"

no, it's lazy, poor writing. 

And i actually turned off when the bad guys had a JET parked up in a
shipping port. I'm not sure of the make, but i am sure that a container
laden dock does not provide the minimum take off distance for that kind
of plane. unless they are now making them in vtol. 

There are things you suspend your disbelief for in movies, in Rambo, or
in the transporter or something gleefully unapologetically fun. what
this movie does is come across as a lazily produced cliché of the worst
bits of every other action movie ever made. 

avoid.
