
Season of the witch was a far better film than critics and fellow
moviegoers led me to believe. The story is about Cage and Pearlman
teaming up to take a witch to a castle where she will be put on trial.
Chaos and terror ensue as they treck the mountainside and forest. The
film depicts the times very well...and most the accents aren't that
bad. But the thing i wasn't expecting was to see Cage actually put some
effort into his role. Instead of woodenly walking through the film with
terrible hair, Cage shows some true emotion and his hair ain't half
bad. Cage is hit or miss, sometimes he's good ("Bad Lieutenant"),
sometimes he's bad ("The Knowing"). I think Cage gets an A for effort.
It's no his best acting but it's an improvement. Pearlman is great as
the sidekick/friend and gets most of the good lines. The special
effects are kinda lame and the film drags in certain spots, but overall
"Season of the witch" is a decent thriller with some cheesy dialouge.
This movie isn't bad as everyone makes it out to be. If you have low
expectations like I did, you'll probably get a lot more enjoyment out
of it.

Oh, and the priest named De Balzak...pretty hysterical name.
<|_=00=_|>
I walked out of the theater so thrilled to have spent my money on a
Nicholas Cage movie. Its not often that happens. 

I heard from a unenthusiastic review (one of numerous scathing reviews
out there, as anyone with the internet can tell) about the on screen
shenanigans with Nick Cage and Ron Perlman were so enjoyable that it
made the rest of the movie bearable. Going in with that anticipation, I
found myself not only pulled into their characters' fun and convincing
friendship but also into an intense and yes even edge-of-your-seat
suspenseful movie. I forgot about my troubles for the day and enjoyed a
good adventure.

It was inspired, yes, by DnD, video games, and a number of other swords
and sorcery books and movies that preceded it, but it is its own story.
In a market saturated with sequels, prequels, reboots, comicbook
diarrhea, etc... it's nice to see a story that is it's own, however
simple.

Yes it plays by the numbers. You know guys will die. Hell, you probably
know who and in what order, if you've seen movies of it's ilk. You know
there is a supernatural bad guy. And you know there will be one liners,
oh are there ever one-liners! But the characters are fun to watch, even
a little engaging. You may not want to see them die. I didn't. They
weren't a group of scum with a bullseye for heraldry. The enemy was
threatening and tricky, a real danger to our protagonists. And the one
liners were, gasp, funny! Yes, even Nicholas Cage is worth the price of
admission here. If this was "just another paycheck" role for him, he
looked like he was having a lot of fun with this roll. And I don't know
about you, but I like to see my actors have fun in a movie that costs
me 9-12 bucks to see..

It looses some points with me for the CGI. obvious CGI is obvious. But
honestly the crispy gray CGI contrasting against a darker, colorful,
moody lighting STILL didn't detract from the encounters or the climax.
If you come to the movies to have CGI convince you that magic and
demons are real, you come to the movies for jaded and asinine reasons.
If you wanna see pretty visuals with a meandering pointless story, go
see Tron. 

But if you wanna see a fun yet dark heroic adventure, go see Season of
the Witch!
<|_=00=_|>
I was excited to see the Season of the Witch. I loved The Scorceror's
Apprentice, and I actually thought this would be better than that.
Looking forward to an epic fantasy, I was highly disappointed. I found
myself annoyed at the unnatural behavior of Nicholas Cage and Ron
Perlman. It was like watching Starsky and Hutch with their witty
bantering during battles and in the face of peril. Very cheesy. The
movie lacked a good flow. It was mildly entertaining in parts, but
never reached any peak, not even at the end, because it was just too
absurd. The acting was not good, but I think it was just a poorly
written script more than anything else. It seems like it had the
makings of a very good movie, but fell very very short.
<|_=00=_|>
Nic Cage is becoming the master of these kinds of movies. I'm not
talking supernatural thrillers, I'm talking films that themematically
start out a certain way and then flip in to the land of complete crap
somewhere along the way. (The recent film "Knowing" springs to mind as
an example) As the film progressed, I thought it was interesting,
albeit far darker then I was expecting. By the end, the story spins off
to freaky land and beyond. A movie you think could be directed towards
exploring religious fanaticism or even faith itself instead spins in to
a supernatural clusterflub of demons and stupidity. The ending and
terrible direction absolutely ruins what was a pretty good first
two-thirds of a movie. What makes this twice as bad is the fact that
it's a "journey" film, meaning that everything that was set up leads to
the resolution. In this case, the resolution is nonsensical and
unsatisfying and negates just about anything good about the first
two-thirds of its running time.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie was entertaining. I thought the acting of Cage and Perlman
specifically and a few of the others was not up to par. If you do a
period piece you should act and sound like it rather than sound like
you are just hanging out in LA. The casting could have been better. I
really enjoy all things medieval. The plot was good, the scenery was
great. All in all it was a good way to spend a few hours. To all the
Cage fans - I generally enjoy him, I just don't feel that he and this
part were meant to be. During some parts of the film, the acting was
actually rather comical although I don't believe it was meant to be so.
If you like period piece, especially those set during medieval times,
you won't be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
Season of the Witch is getting ravaged by reviews as I write this. Is
it that bad? I don't think so. Is it fantastic then? Well no. This is
one of those sword and sandal fantasy films that tread the middle
ground, having an interesting premise set up in a fantasy fellowship
quest, only for the execution to be hovering around mediocre standards
following a rote formula of introducing the problem, gathering the
players, and have them encounter sequence after sequence of battle
obstacles on the way to their objective.

Nicolas Cage and Ron Perlman play buddies Behman and Felson
respectively, knights of the Crusade who make a reputation of being
fearsome warriors fighting for a higher cause, only to desert their
army and turning their backs from continuing onto Jerusalem after
realizing that they are nothing but fighting pawns for the whims of
man. Their services get called for by a town inflicted by a plague
because of a curse by a girl (Claire Foy) whom they deem a witch, and
the agreement forged was for them to escort her to a monastery for a
group of monks to decide on the authenticity of the claim, and if so,
decide and inflict punishment.

Gathering Priest Debelzag (Stephen Campbell Moore), guide Hegamar
(Stephen Graham), one of the remaining fighting fit soldiers of the
town with Eckhart (Ulrich Thomsen) and a priest in training Kay (Robert
Sheehan) whom the party picked up early in their journey, the group has
to band together if they are to get to their destination in one piece,
with the accused girl being locked up in a cage but always seem to be
drawing undue attention to herself, raising questions about her
innocence as we get to see her demonstrate abilities and superhuman
strength even, while putting on a saccharine sweet face. Now while all
these may point to certain plot loopholes and irrational human
behaviour, I'm willing to overlook these flaws since they do get
addressed in the final reveal, so all's not totally lost in Bragi F.
Schut's story.

Battle sequence design was a little sleepy, and although the
introductory big battle scenes involving soldiers of the Crusade were
plentiful, it didn't go beyond the usual slash-parry-
stab-wash-rinse-repeat cycle coupled with cheesy dialogue exchange
between Behman and Felson that try to pass off as comedy. There's an
awfully long and painfully executed crossing of a creaky bridge that
doesn't seem to want to end, but otherwise passable CG was employed in
an attack of wolves, and the money shot in the final battle where all
hell breaks loose in the monastery with grotesque looking winged beasts
and the expected big boss to fight in an all out melee done arcade
style.

Some will probably find the themes here quite objectionable, especially
since it sets its sights squarely on how religion gets manipulated by
the few, and made suggestive queries what if the Crusade wasn't a
calling made by god as claimed by the messengers, but of more negative
forces since it involves the killing of innocents. What more, this was
played out in quite direct fashion when the final act made that
cross-reference in point blank fashion. It's bold in its statement and
association, which otherwise the story here lacks any selling points to
make an audience sit up and take notice

I'm not sure what Ron Perlman is doing here - the billing on the poster
doesn't seem to give him much respect, preferring to marquee Cage alone
instead, so while there are inside nods to Hell and the devil and
demons here, I'm hoping that we'll get to see another installment of
Hellboy instead. Under Dominic Sena's vision, you'd know what to expect
when you scan through his resume, being responsible for flicks like
Whiteout, Swordfish, and yet another Nicolas Cage starrer in Gone in
Sixty Seconds. They're no more than Guilt Trips with potential not
lived up to, so don't expect a classic or a masterpiece, but at best
entertainment that will struggle to satisfy jaded audiences.
<|_=00=_|>
Season of the Witch has a long and troubled history: production took
place in November 2008 and it was originally supposed to hit cinema
screens both in the UK and America in March 2010, but it was pulled
from release, sat in limbo for several months, and seemed likely to
bypass cinemas altogether and be quietly dumped straight onto DVD.
Instead, additional footage was shot in September 2010 amidst rumours
of extensive re-editing, and eventually a new release date of 7th
January 2011 was announced. Initially intended as a dark, medieval
horror film (rated R in America), it had been re-conceived - and was
marketed as - a PG13-rated period fantasy/action-adventure.

The movie's narrative is uncomplicated and relatively straight-forward:
in the 14th century, veteran Crusaders Behmen and Felson (Nicolas Cage
and Ron Perlman) grow weary of being ordered by the Church to slaughter
women and children whose only crime is not being born Christian.
Deserting, they set off on the long journey home and eventually reach
eastern Europe to find it stricken with plague. The Catholic
authorities have found a scapegoat for the spread of the disease: a
young woman (Claire Foy) whose 'confession' of being a witch they
obtained via torture. Arrested for desertion, Behman and Felson are
offered a full pardon if they will transport the girl to a remote
monastery, where the resident monks will perform a ritual to strip her
of her powers, enabling her to be killed and thus ending the plague. 

While nothing about the movie is particularly remarkable or
ground-breaking, the cast all acquit themselves as talented
professionals and for most of it's running time Season of the Witch is
an entertaining and watchable effort. There are a number of
well-handled setpieces on the knights' journey that whittle down their
travelling companions, such as an attack by ravenous wolves that
transform into hellhounds, and a perilous passage over a collapsing
bridge. And although the film doesn't dwell on the wide-reaching
effects of the plague, the Crusaders encounter some grisly and
impressive sights: hundred of crows (carrion eaters, remember) circling
over a city; a dying Cardinal (a cameoing Christopher Lee) hideously
deformed by the disease; a starving dog - it's body ridden with weeping
sores - feasting on a corpse; an apparently lifeless village in which
two inhabitants suddenly emerge to silently dump a body in the street,
before retreating back inside; and an open mass grave full of
liquefying cadavers. The movie also touches upon all the blood that has
been shed in God's name and the blinkered arrogance of those who claim
to be His representatives. Some of the characters also express doubts:
is the girl truly a witch? Is her early escape attempt merely the
action of a terrified young woman who - understandably - wants to avoid
being executed? And even if she does possess supernatural powers, is
she responsible for the plague? 

But eventually the travelling party arrive at the monastery... and the
film goes horribly wrong. All the moral uncertainties are abandoned and
the movie becomes a disappointingly conventional struggle between
clearly defined Good and Evil. The all-action climatic setpiece is
marred by hectic and muddled editing. But worse of all is what happens
to the title character. In the trailer that played in cinemas prior to
the film's aborted release in early 2010, there were three shots taken
from the movie's climax as it was clearly originally conceived, before
the film was substantially reworked: Claire Foy walking straight
towards the camera in close up as the caged wagon burns and melts into
molten scrap behind her; her then levitating - spinning - through the
air, over the heads of her captors; and finally Foy grabbing Nicolas
Cage by the throat and slamming him against a wall. All those scenes
are still in the film - but Foy is no longer in them. Instead, she's
been digitally removed from the footage and replaced by a CGI monster.
Yes, that's right - at the movie's conclusion, the witch transforms
into an unimpressive seven-foot-tall CGI winged demon that looks as
though it's wandered in from the final reel of The Golden Child (1986).
Ugh. In my opinion it's unnecessary, misguided and a complete mistake.
For example, I thought the 'levitation' shot in the original trailer
looked stunning... but in the released film, Foy merely morphs into a
dodgy special effect, then blandly flies away. It's hugely
disappointing. 

Hopefully the original ending, with the heroes battling a
demonically-possessed Foy (as opposed to an enemy comprised entirely of
pixels), will be included as an extra on the DVD. Even more ideally,
I'd like to see a two disc set with the original director's cut on one
disc and the theatrically-released version on the other, but it'll
never happen.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of the worse scripts I've seen.

I just saw Quest for Fire. What a difference a script makes! We have a
town that is going to judge three witches. Are these villagers going to
be punished somehow for their injustice? No, people, witches actually
exist. Why this first scene? To prepare the watcher for more cruelty
without any sense. We cut to two crusaders under the lead of a
murderer, whose only objective is to kill infidels. Well, you say,
don't worry, the moral of the story is coming.

They take a girl to trial. For half an hour you expect the film to show
how credulity should be despised, because, for the love of Pete, who's
going to believe that you should burn a person for witchcraft? In a
fantasy film, where characters have a purpose and our hero an
objective, well... OK, but what's this? Don't trust on coherence. The
sweet girl they see and that is going to be judged for causing a pest,
well, yeah, it is actually a monster and it is really causing the
disease. So, of course, you can stab, maim and kill without a hint of
conscience.

There are too many flaws in the mind of the writer. Styria, part of
Austria, becomes the cost of... Syria? I don't know. Jackrabbits exist
in the middle ages. The conquest of Jerusalem is a fanatic race to kill
the inhabitants. There is a fictitious battle of Edremit, a siege of
Tripoli moved from 1102 to 1334, the battle of Imbros, which happened
in 1717 is moved to 1337, the battle of Artah is also moved from 1101
to 1339, the Battle of Smyrna beats me... it can be the name of the
1922 Battle of independence of Ataturk... that happened in 1922. The
last crusaders were expelled in 1291 in the name of Herodotus soul!
These guys are fighting 50 years later. That's how good is the script,
made probably with a map in the hand and a LOT of imagination.

Acting is good.

Do not waste your time in this movie, unless you like stories without
coherence, nonsense killings, more than regular computer animated
characters that say nothing and films where everybody is killed. It's a
miracle that the director and cameramen weren't killed in this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
No sir, did not like it, the film felt slapped together from too many
clichés. It felt like the production company didn't know if they wanted
to make a camp horror or a historical thriller and decided to go
halfway in the middle. which did not work.

The opening scene where the heroes are shown is just the same low
budget battle shown in different lighting, with different city names
but the same bad guys, and with snow thrown in once.

The special effects were comparable to the "legend of the seeker"
series. Good for TV, bad for the big screen.

The actors where OK, nothing really to blame on them.

The dialogue wasn't horrible but the fact that it jumped from "well
site and drink at the table of my for-bearers" to "let's kill this
(female dog)" just didn't work! Please pick a linguistic style and
stick to it. Ron Perlman was speaking like hamlet one minute and
Hellboy the next.

The photography was well... bad. as in dark, grainy, who fogged the
movie screen bad.

The ending is fairly predictable and the only reason I saw the end is
because my wife said she was liking it when I asked here about 20
minutes in. If not I would have left and asked for my money back.
