
I'll state my credentials up front: I'm a chick. I have read X-Men
comics in my past, but it's been years. I don't remember every detail
of every relationship and back story, so I'm not a huge X-men expert. I
LOVED the original X-Men movie and X2.

I was so excited when I heard they were making a Wolverine movie. He
and Gambit were my two favorite characters from the comics, and
Wolverine was by far the best written and one of the best acted
characters in the X-Men franchise. I thought, "This should be good!" I
counted down the days until it came out. And I went to the theatre, and
came out not disappointed, but not excited either. It was a
middle-of-the-road movie, which seemed to not know what it wanted to
be. But I would say go see it if you're an X-Men or Hugh Jackman fan.

The main crime committed in Wolverine is in the writing. I always say
writers don't get enough credit on a good movie. But no amount of good
acting (pretty much everyone in Wolverine does well with what they're
given) and okay directing can cover up crappy writing like this. The
script was all over the place. It didn't have any of the jaunty yet
edgy feel of the first two X-Men movies. Wolverine's wisecracks and
smart wit were all but forgotten. That would've maybe been okay if they
had chosen to make Wolverine the dark, nearly evil character that he
was supposed to have been before he lost his memory. But they didn't.
He was neither good nor evil. This was ambivalent Wolverine. Kind of
Emo Wolverine. Not above doing bad, but not really into it because it
made him Feel Bad. No really interesting lines or plot points either
way. The writers didn't seem to even know how to develop the
relationship between Wolverine and Sabertooth. And was the love story
put in by the studio just to satisfy us chicks who wouldn't go a see a
comic-book movie without it? If so, the studio did us a great
disservice, because if you wanted to make a story about Wolverine the
lover (which, hey, I would go see), this movie wasn't that either. 

And when I saw in the trailer that Gambit was in the movie, too, I was
thrilled! Gambit in a movie, at last! But here he is, the
underdeveloped and kind of confusing Gambit. Couldn't he at least have
had his New Orleans accent? The cards were cool, but he was mostly
underutilized and didn't feel like Gambit that much.

The movie does have some good moments in it where you actually say,
"Yes!" I'm not putting spoilers, so I won't tell you what they are, but
for me, they made the movie worth seeing. While I wouldn't put it
anywhere on my worst-movie list, I wouldn't rank it with X-Men and X2
on my favorites list, either.
<|_=00=_|>
Like fellow 2009 superhero release Watchmen, Wolverine is that rare
comic book film which almost appears inevitably more likely to please
audiences that are not fans of the source material. However, unlike
Watchmen, which adhered so closely to its source material that a
falling short by comparison proved inescapable, Wolverine's inevitable
backlash of fan outrage stems from its flagrant disregard for its
source material. The film casually mutilates and re-writes the comic
book context of its source material with the cold disdain of its
protagonist, hacking one of the most genuinely compelling, subversive
and horrifying superhero back-stories into the worst kind of safe,
familiar, PG rated commercial dross. All of Wolverine's compelling
comic book edginess is distilled into a flaccid script which forgoes
exhilaration for only occasionally impressive fight/chase/explosion
scenes, complexity for eye-rolling cheese and broad humour, and story
cohesion for an attempt to cram in far too much subject matter and
avoid the true dramatic meat of the story. 

While further focus on the Wolverine/Sabertooth dichotomy could have
yielded a narrative volumes stronger, the film continually broadens its
scope, seemingly attempting to bank on the in-jokey winks to fans of
the comics by hinting at broadening the Marvel universe in further
sequels demonstrated in 2008's Iron Man and The Incredible Hulk. But
while their fan nods were tasteful and enjoyable, Wolverine's attempts
at matching them appear to be building up to an almost sinister bid for
Fox's superhero franchises to compete. Recognizable X-Men characters
are continually shoehorned into minuscule parts (fans of Deadpool,
Blob, Gambit or, *groan*, Cyclops don't go in expecting much but
disappointment) for seemingly the sole purpose of leapfrogging off
Wolverine's story into their own spin-offs. However, such an
overflowing mass of secondary characters only serves the dual purpose
of both derailing Wolverine's story and not even serving to satisfy
comic fans clamouring to see their favourite characters on screen, as
the fleeting, shallow depictions hardly prove satisfying character
development by any stretch of the imagination. If the filmmakers choose
to tackle established characters to appease fan expectations, doing
nothing with the characters (let alone doing them far from 'properly')
hardly seems a suitable way to satisfy a demanding audience. 

Director Gavin Hood (known for excellent African drama Tsotsi of all
things) has been vocal about his clashes with the studio over the film,
and one can only assume, given his excellent credentials, that most of
his proposed changes would have been for the better. As it is, Hood
demonstrates a shaky directorial presence at best, masking his action
scenes in whirling cameras making it near impossible to see, and
complimenting most tense or dramatic scenes with a cascade of Harry
Gregson-Williams' tiresomely banal and clichéd musical score. That is
not to say the film is entirely devoid of quality, but it is reduced to
occasional fleeting moments (sporatic bursts of creativity during fight
scenes, a promising African raid plot point, and an undeniably gripping
if under-explored sequence of Wolverine going through the Weapon X
program). But, like the irritatingly freeze-frame beset but otherwise
clever opening montage (showcasing Wolverine's progression through
numerous world wars) such quality is often overshadowed by
cringe-worthy prevailing flaws making it all the more difficult to
appreciate. 

Ironically for the film situating him most justifiably in the lead
role, Hugh Jackman gives his weakest performance in his foundational
role as Wolverine. While Jackman's natural charisma and steely
credibility still make him a far more sturdy enough lead than his film
deserved, his under-exploring of Wolverine's feral ferocity and
darkness still leaves an ultimately unsatisfying taste in the mouth.
Despite initial skepticism of miscasting, Liev Schreiber proves far
more resonant as Wolverine's animalistic adversary Sabretooth,
providing a savagely threatening yet controlled performance, which,
despite falling short of the true animalistic frenzy Sabretooth should
have been, proves one of the more successful attributes of the film.
Similarly, Danny Huston provides a welcome dash of class as
Machiavellian military official William Stryker, managing to overcome
the shortcomings of an underwritten character with an impressively
realized, wonderful presence. Ryan Reynolds also proves perfectly cast
as twisted mercenary Deadpool, thankfully managing to suppress star
showiness in favour of suitably manic humour - nonetheless, Reynolds is
criminally wasted in a far too brief and insultingly warped butchering
of his comics incarnation. Taylor Kitsch, conversely, gives a bland,
dopily flat take on fan favourite Gambit, the character's legendary
suave charisma as nonexistent as Kitsch's Cajun accent, doing little to
justify his character's near pointless addition. 

While it may function suitably as mindless summer entertainment, the
inherent complexity in Wolverine's backstory makes its reduction to
such a near outright insult to fans of the comic source material. If
left as a standalone film, Wolverine might have been dismissible as a
mostly harmless disappointment, but with such blatant spin off begging,
it evolves into something far more objectionable. While the film has
its moments, as a cohesive unit it can be considered nothing less than
a tragic waste of potential, floundering any inherent quality in gaping
plot holes and unnecessary obvious comedy or "tearjerking" scenes.
Wolverine's adage of him being "the best I am at what I do" could
hardly be farther than the truth when applied to his film. 

-4/10
<|_=00=_|>
All of the X-Men movies were great. And I mean all of them, including
the long hated X-Men 3. They had solid characters (Magneto and Xavier
were the best ones, in my opinion), and a good story arch.

I was all excited when I heard this movie was on production, and my
expectations grew bigger and bigger until I saw the movie. I was so
disappointed.

Hugh Jackman is not a bad actor (his best movie is The Fountain,
although you won't hear about this movie when they talk about the
actor), and his acting is not what screws the movie up.

The whole film is plagued with lots of meaningless characters that add
nothing to the plot (like Blob or Gambit), which were tossed there to
make fans believe that the film makers had read the original comics.

I am a fan of XMen, I have read many, many of their stories and this
movie respected none of them. None. Not even the continuity. It doesn't
respect Weapon X project, or the relationship between Wolverine and
Sabretooth, or Emma Frost, the motivations for wolverine are plain
stupid and seen in millions of movies: Revenge for the death of a loved
one.

Oh. What I was expecting the whole darn movie was a Berseker moment for
Wolverine similar to the one he has in X2 in the school when Stryker
men come in and he alone decimates the enemy forces, but hey, this is
Fox, this a family flick and you will not see explicit violence from
the most violent and gruesome Marvel hero.

Besides, I had a feeling of constant dejá vù with this movie because
Wolverine's Origins are already explained in X2, we already know how he
got his adamantium skeleton so it kind of does not make sense to make a
movie of something we already know.

I personally believe that wolverine is one of those few characters that
does not need a solid back-story because mystery is the nature of the
character. Do we really want to know how the Joker got his scars?
<|_=00=_|>
Forget the reviews that focus on dialogue (it's a comic book character,
of course it's clichéd) or other types of thing you may look for in
movies like a Room With A View. In this movie you want to see cool
action, cool use of superpowers, great fights with CGI that is not
obvious and some tension about what happens next. This movie has it
all. Academy awards? No. Amazing plot? No, but enough to keep it very
interesting, with answers like where Adamantium comes from, Sabretooth
and Wolverine relationship, introduction of Deadpool, early view of
Cyclops, and much more that keeps the movie going along just fine. This
is a solid action film, better than most.
<|_=00=_|>
The superhero genre reached a higher echelon in 2008 with "Iron Man"
and "The Dark Knight," and considering the success of 2/3 of the X-Men
franchise so far, "X-Men Origins: Wolverine" can certainly be held to
those standards, especially a movie whose title alone suggests getting
right down to its hero's adamantium core.

But "Wolverine" plays more like a spin-off, defining "origins" as the
back story and not the psychological workings of the character. It's
weak on themes, but loaded on more new mutants with new powers,
explosions and plenty of subplots. Basically, it fails where "X-Men 3"
did, trying to do too much at once, rushing the plot along and
sacrificing the deeper reason audiences are drawn to Hugh Jackman's
character other than he's cool and has a crude, sarcastic sense of
humor. However, it succeeds much of the same way X3 did and beyond:
more explosive action and creative use of an immense visual effects
budget. Although director Gavin Hood doesn't bring more insight into
the film with his work, he certainly has as good of an eye for the
stylish as anyone.

The first sign that you know this movie isn't going to be top tier for
superhero flicks is the number of mutants/villains. For a story about
one, singular X-man, there are way too many other characters to follow:
Col. Stryker is their ringleader, but Sabretooth (Schriber), Wade
Wilson/Deadpool (Reynolds), Bolt (Monaghan), Gambit (Kitsch), Wraith
(will.i.am), Agent Zero, the Blob and young Cyclops (not to mention a
slough of extras) make the film dizzying. Especially at the beginning,
we need to see more Wolverine -- it's his movie.

To the film's credit, its quick movement makes it easy to watch and
entertaining and there's some surprisingly good comedic timing on
Jackman's part for an action movie. Seriously though, it must have been
a blast (no pun intended) on the set during action sequences because
they actually destroyed everything they possibly could: CGI, real and
both. This film is the beginning of what will surely be mind-blowing
visual effects at the movies this summer. Hood gives new visual
strength to the franchise and provides a much more epic feel to this
film -- it's clearly about this grand journey for Wolverine, even if
it's more spectacle than introspective.

Surprisingly, the ending was the most satisfying part of the film. All
the subplots converge, it makes sense and the loose ends that fans of
the first three films will notice get tied up fittingly at the end. For
the whole first hour of the film you're juggling Wolverine and
Sabretooth's rivalry, Stryker's team of guys with powers, Wolverine's
romance with Kayla out in the wilderness, what's happening to the team
of guys with powers ... why the heck kid Cyclops is in the movie ...
it's not overwhelming, it's just not as enjoyable when you can't focus
on one thing or character as much as you'd like. Still, the ending
justifies the strange means, at least in terms of the epic battle that
ensues.

"Wolverine" is not a travesty for the genre, but it certainly doesn't
meet the expectations for a thorough superhero movie experience. You
get amped up action and style over meaning and that makes it
entertainment more than catharsis. Expect to be entertained and little
else and "Wolverine" will satisfy your itch for the summer movie
season. 

~Steven C

Thanks for reading! Visit my site at http://moviemusereviews.com/
<|_=00=_|>
Wolverine is a decent movie. It is worth the price of admission and the
2 hours of screen time. The movie works well as a prequel of the events
of the X-Men movies. However, to enjoy the movie, one must suspend
knowledge of the comic book material. The movie was made for the
average movie-goer and a little for the ultra hardcore X-Men comic book
reader. The story has everything anyone could want: family, a little
romance, love, comedy, revenge and plenty of action.

I was pleased with most of the acting. I will admit that some dialogue
seems forced from the minor cast, but the main characters - Wolverine,
Sabretooth, etc. - all work well together. The story did seem a little
rushed and choppy at times, however. The 1:45 time goes by quickly
enough to feel like maybe the movie could have - and should have - been
closer to 2:00.

The movie is as good as the first X-Men movie, and better than X-Men
United and X-Men: The Last Stand. I am actually looking forward to
seeing how they handle the Magneto origins movie that's being made. And
I am really hoping that all of this work brings it together for a
possible X-Men 4. I know you agree with me because after all, I know
everyone is dying to see Apocalypse as the bad guy.

My only real complaint of the movie is that Gambit (my favorite X-Men
character) did not have as much screen time as I'd hoped. He better
either get his own movie, or make an appearance in a later Marvel
movie.

Ignore the syndicated critics and the negativity surrounding this
movie. I'm glad I did. Go see it. Don't let people scare you away from
spending your money on this movie. Form your own opinions. Oh, and if
you go, stay after the credits.
<|_=00=_|>
X-Men Origins: Wolverine joins a whole host of films that's become a
genre all its own in the last few years. An established film series
taking a character back to its roots to reboot the series. Casino
Royale, Batman Begins and the upcoming Star Trek are to name but a few
examples. 

If you were going to choose an X-Man to frame an origin story around,
there is no one better than Wolverine. He's always been the most
interesting character in X-Men. Perhaps because while all the others in
the team use their mutant powers for the betterment of mankind, Logan's
bad attitude makes him something of a wild card. One never to be
entirely trusted.

I thought the idea of Wolverine getting his own movie was immensely
exciting. Especially when Hugh Jackman agreed to reprise the role. And
I'm pleased to say it was worth the wait. Quite a few have been quick
to poke holes in the film's script, but I didn't feel disappointed with
it at all. I felt it did Wolverine justice. Its a worthy addition to
the series.

To side with a few nitpickers, 20th Century Fox and director Gavin Hood
have taken a few liberties. Not just with the backstory, but also by
breaking continuity with the other films in the series. For one,
Logan's metal skeleton has always been the result of an experiment done
to him against his will. But in Wolverine, here he willingly goes
through with it, to get revenge on Sabretooth for killing his lover.

Also we get to meet a young Cyclops who runs into Logan. But no mention
is made of that in the first film. They act like they've never met.
Still, in spite of rewriting some of what we already know, Wolverine
does a quite excellent job of bringing a lot of Logan's past into
focus. All through a combination of Gavin Hood's involving, kinetic
direction, David Benioff and Skip Woods' screenplay, and another
excellent performance from the great Hugh Jackman.

The opening credit sequence stayed with me more than anything else in
the film. We watch as Logan and Sabretooth (half-brothers in this
version) grow up and go to war. The Civil War. Both World Wars.
Vietnam. And then finally they go to war on each other. They're both
recruited by William Stryker (who you may remember from X2) to work in
a special covert operations team. But while Logan and Sabretooth may
seem similar, they are quite different.

They may be part animal, but Sabretooth likes it a lot more than Logan
does. Nor does Logan share Sabretooth's love of killing. So when he
strikes out on his own, how much are you willing to bet that it isn't
long before Logan's past comes back to haunt him?

It didn't take me long at all to become enthralled in Wolverine's life
history. Some people have criticised the idea of Logan and Sabretooth
becoming brothers, but I felt it added an additional level of gravitas.
It made Sabretooth's betrayal that much more potent. And I quite liked
the way David Benioff and Skip Woods attempt to humanise Wolverine.

Some of the best scenes in the film have nothing to do with large scale
action sequences or revved up pyrotechnics. Some of the most touching
and most moving moments is watching Wolverine trying to fit into a
normal life. Away from wars and mortal enemies. And ultimately failing.
His relationship with Kayla (nicely played by Lynn Collins), a
seemingly ordinary human woman is quite affecting. Watching her take on
the near impossible task of taming Logan's primal side is involving.
Both Jackman and Collins shine in these scenes. Or the scene when Logan
befriends an elderly couple. Who pay a terrible price for taking him
in.

But Hood doesn't disappoint on the action front either. Wolverine has
some breathtaking action scenes. Logan being chased by helicopter while
on a bike is a real adrenaline pumper. And as it moves towards its
climax, in a thrilling fight on top of a cooling tower, the film
becomes something that makes you want to cry out for joy. This film
really needs to be seen on a cinema screen. The photography of the
Canadian Rockies provides a dazzling backdrop for the final fight. One
suspects the film will lose a lot in the transfer when it goes to DVD.

The acting is all superb. Hugh Jackman is expectedly excellent. He
dives into Logan's animal nature with pure, undiluted relish. But more
importantly, he always knows the need to dial it down too, giving us
that even more crucial chance to see inside the soul of Wolverine. I
was a little wary to begin with when I learned Liev Schrieber would
play Sabretooth. I just couldn't envision him in the role but he's a
revelation. He brings a real meanness to the part. Something Tyler Mane
never had in X-Men. You can see in his performance why it is that Logan
hates him so much. The two have marvellous sparkage whenever they're
paired together.

There are times when the film lapses perhaps too much into the realm of
the comic book (I'm thinking of The Blob as I write this), but for the
most part, Gavin Hood treats the material with the utmost respect. It
ends on a shocking downer that also manages to tie in neatly with the
first X-Men film. The script has many surprises that leaves you as
jolted and embittered as poor Logan. A highly enjoyable film that
exceeds all expectations, and the best X-Men adventure since X2.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie over the weekend. When it was over, I kind of sighed,
shrugged and said it was okay.

I gave the movie a 5 which I think is pretty darn generous. Here's the
positives of the movie. The actors are very good. Hugh Jackman, Liev,
Ryan Reynolds are all very good actors, and each of them play their
roles well. There was action, action, explosions, and more explosions.
There certainly wasn't any shortage of eye candy. I think most
Wolverine fans would probably like this movie.

Here's the negatives. We all learned the hard way when X-Men 3 came
out, that Fox could seem to care less about the source material. They
just want to make action moves with lots of special effects. Wolverine
is a testament to that same disappointing philosophy. While Wolverine
fans may like the movie, "Marvel" fans will probably feel a little ill.

I'm surprised that they haven't figured out yet why Marvel's movies are
blockbusters (Iron Man, The Hulk), and thiers are always sub-par.
Marvel uses good stories, acting, and smart witty scripts to keep us
interested. Every half baked, killed off for the movie, or completely
ruined character Fox throws in there just ruins the experience for a
fan somewhere. Marvel may modernize the stories, but they respect the
source material. Not only does that make comic fans happy, but the
stories tend to make more sense, and have more relatable characters.

On a side note, the fact that Fox apparently has the rights to Deadpool
makes me want to cry. Give it back to Marvel so we can get a decent
movie, without blades coming out of his arms and lasers out his eyes.
<|_=00=_|>
I have no idea as to why people bash Wolverine. I think its an
extremely well made, highly entertaining movie with great acting and a
fitting storyline. Its also pretty dark and uncompromising in many
scenes.

The fight scenes are brutal and intense which makes them really
awesome. 

I was actually surprised by some of the plot twists. Great.

The opening title sequence should win some kind of award. Gave me goose
bumps. The editing is perfect.

Only complaint is the few plot holes towards the X-men trilogy.
<|_=00=_|>
To tell you the truth I'm pretty surprised by all the negative reviews
I've been reading on the IMDb and elsewhere on the net (AICN for
example). I thought X-Men 1 and 2 came close to being masterpieces and
that X-Men 3 sucked big time. The Wolverine movie however is well made,
exciting and surprisingly effective. But that's an opinion from
somebody who doesn't know anything about the comics. To me Wolverine is
mainly a movie hero and maybe that can make a big difference. 

Two elements make this movie really work. Liev Schreiber - a very
underestimated actor - does a great job as Wolverine's brother
Victor/Sabretooth. It's their love/hate relationship that is the main
subject in this story and that really keeps it interesting. In the
first minutes of the movie this is well established. The opening
credits are really beautiful.

Second: the story. I really love the story. It has romance, betrayal,
vengeance, action, a touch of immortality... All the good elements are
there in the right doses.

Yes, I really love this movie. I hope to see more of Hugh Jackman as
Wolverine in the future, because there are a lot more adventures he can
and should have. Maybe director Gavin Hood can repair some of the
damage that Brett Ratner did with a X-Men 3. Because an X-Men 4 - with
hopefully Josh Halloway as Gambit - would be a great spectacle indeed. 

There's only one big thing that really puzzled me. So the Liev
Schreiber character is actually the same Sabretooth we see in X-Men 1?
Because the two characters really don't seem the same in the two
movies. Everything they have "experienced together in the past" (in the
prequel) seems forgotten in X-Men 1 (when they only fight each other).

Anyway, go see this!

8,5 / 10
