
This is the way the world ends. Not with a whimper, but with a bang.

This is a film about all of the seemingly random events that lead up to
the end of the world. And it's also a comedy.

That says it all right there, doesn't it? 

When this film ended, I ran to tell every one I could find about it.
The odd thing I found about it was that I ended nearly every one of
these conversations with the following: 

"It was amazing, but don't see it. You won't like it." 

It's strange to hope that a film I feel so passionately about should
not be seen by the very people I want to discuss it with. However,
that's exactly the way I feel here. This film is not for everybody; in
fact, there are only a precious few out of all of the people who see it
that will even tolerate its existence. But you know what? That really
isn't important.

Art is subjective, and no matter how many times I bother to explain a
difficult concept to somebody who hated this film, I realize that it
will never work long before the conversation ends. The problem is that
these difficult concepts are actually very simplistic: Richard Kelly
had Dwayne Johnson spoof the stereotypical, apocalyptic action-hero
throughout the film. This included over-dramatic readings of his lines,
delayed reactions and odd vocal dynamics.

What? You say that it wasn't intentional, and that it was just
Johnson's poor acting skills? 

This is where the small-minded fail to grasp the most simplistic of
concepts. The great analytical film student will analyze a crooked
frame and declare the brilliance of its intent; they will say that this
intentional error supports the themes of the piece. So why does the
same not go for Southland Tales? 

Each one of these already-marked actors has broken out of their shells
for this movie. The fact that everybody stereotypes them attests to
Kelly's genius in assigning them the roles; however, it also proves how
unfortunately small-minded today's modern audience has become.

Was this film a mess? Absolutely, in every sense of the word. But was
it a coherent mess? That's the real question, and I think that I can
safely say that it is. This film is nowhere near as difficult to
understand as anybody would have you believe. The concepts are
straightforward and are practically dictated to you by the narrator;
this becomes essential to the understanding of the story, as there is
just way too much going on to take in on your own. However, instead of
hindering the film, it makes these seemingly unrelated scenes string
together into a true tapestry that is worth exploring.

So, you know what? I'm going to go against my own advice and advise
anybody and everybody who reads this review to go out and see this
film. If you don't like it, don't come back to this website whining
about it, because nobody here has the tolerance to explain things to
you that you will never understand. No amount of discussion of
cinematography, lighting or the fantastically haunting score by Moby is
going to change the mind of an already jaded viewer.

But maybe, just maybe, you will like it. You'll get a chance to
experience something you're likely to rarely, if never, experience
again. Because as all of us who enjoyed the film know:

It had to be this way.
<|_=00=_|>
You can get a pretty good idea of Southland Tales from a quick
description of its characters. Dwayne Johnson plays Boxer Santaros, a
movie star in Richard Kelly's all-too-near dystopian future. But it's
not that straightforward. Johnson plays The Rock playing Boxer
Santaros, while Boxer is playing the role of a character he's
researching, one Jericho Kane. Sarah Michelle Gellar plays an ageing
porn-star with a business portfolio that includes energy drinks. And
Sean William Scott? Well, he plays a cop's amnesiac twin brother, as
part of a neo-Marxist scheme to overthrow the government. Or does he?
And you thought Donnie Darko was confusing. Welcome to Southland...

The year is 2008. Justin Timberlake - did I forget to mention him? He
plays a drugged-up Iraq war veteran with a huge scar on his face. Who
sits in a huge chair with a huge rifle, guarding "Fluid Karma", an
ultra-valuable perpetual motion wave machine that is the new form of
power since oil has become rare and therefore massively expensive.
Politics, anyone? Anyway, JT (who might be telepathic) narrates over an
introduction comprised of graphic novel slides and MTV-meets-FOX news
bulletins that guides us from our present to the "present" of Kelly's
2008 Southland. The passage of time has not been kind to the US; a nuke
has gone off in Texas, and the country has become a police state. The
most "recent" clip reveals that Boxer (played by Dwayne Johnson playing
The Rock) has disappeared without a trace, which is where the movie
begins. Or does it? By this stage, you just might have gotten the
impression that Southland Tales is a bit of a mess. And you'd be right.
Kelly's attempt at a politically-charged all-encompassing comment on
the world that can also appeal to the youth of today does ultimately
fall flat, but that's not to say it's without its merits. The satire's
often sharp, and the way the movie skips from genre-to-genre (dystopian
conspiracy to Scooby Doo farce to musical to action movie) works
surprisingly well without jarring too much. The music, while not
perfect (I'm pretty sure Black Rebel Motorcycle Club won't have the
kind of comeback that allows them to host LA's 4th of July weekend
party next year...) creates some of the movie's more memorable moments,
such as JT's Killers dance number and the captivating three-way dance
toward the end.

The deliberately exaggerated performances are, for the most part, very
good, with Johnson capturing the action man (playing an action man -
going through a crisis - playing an action man) role very well. The way
he switches from the kind of guy who pours beer over himself as a form
of refreshment to jittery neurotic mess is both funny and engaging,
allowing you to see a little of the man beneath the steely facade.

Unfortunately, this is as close as you'll get to the characters. While
the overplaying is amusing, it excludes you on an emotional level.
Donnie Darko worked so well because it drew you in, but Southland seems
to deliberately keep you at arm's length lest you miss out on some of
Kelly's political messages. For all its mystery, intrigue, and action,
it feels a bit soulless, and goes out with a whimper as opposed to the
bang it so desires.

Southland Tales is an ambitious film, but a messy one, and while it may
not work on the kind of level it's aspiring to, in a movie climate
where so many films play it safe, at least Kelly tries. Very flawed,
but entertaining nonetheless.
<|_=00=_|>
Summing up "Southland Tales" is a really, really hard thing to do. If I
had to use a word to describe it, I would have to go with "art." Art is
something that can spark a lot of debate without being very political,
and can be viewed from completely different perspectives and get
completely different reactions. Art means that some people will
flat-out adore this film, and some will flat-out despise it.

To be honest, I think I only understand about 20% of what I saw
on-screen, if that. This film is WAY more complex than Richard Kelly's
directorial outing, "Donnie Darko." And I absolutely respect it for
that. In a time when the most popular movies are the most simple, this
movie was made knowing that its audience would not be a large one, and
threw away all movie norms and was willing to be one of the most
original, intelligent, creative, and complicated movies that I've ever
seen.

The plot is difficult to follow, because there is a lot going on, and a
lot of characters make it even harder to follow (even if nearly
everybody is played by somebody you've heard of or seen before). The
main plot follows Boxer Santeros, played by the slightly unconvincing
but still solid Dwayne Johnson, a man who returns to Los Angeles from
the nearby desert with amnesia, unable to remember anything about who
he is. As we learn throughout the film, his ties to Hollywood (he's an
actor) and politics (he was married to the daughter of a Senator) make
him a huge target for a lot of people, and everybody seems to be keen
on finding him. At the same time, nuclear explosions in Texas, brought
upon by terrorists, caused the War on Terror to get elevated to the
next level, beginning World War 3, which gets very little attention
here.

Then, everything gets set in motion - as we are informed by our
narrator Justin Timberlake - when we discover that "this is the way the
world ends. Not with a whimper...but with a bang." And that's exactly
how this movie functions; from its political satirical commentary to
its apocalyptic feel to its very close resemblance with the
"Revelations" section of the Bible (as it is quoted throughout the film
numerous times) to its science-fiction-y style, Richard Kelly is the
absolute master of this film, giving us no whimpers, but one huge
complicated bang. He could have had somebody like Will Smith play the
part of Boxer Santeros, but instead he went with a less-talented Dwayne
Johnson, because he wanted the story to tell itself instead of relying
on an in-depth performance.

The movie is a little slow at times, and even though it's a hell of a
lot shorter than the version shown at Cannes, it could definitely have
used another twenty minutes of trimming. However, the plot is so
confusing and it's so hard to dissect everything that's going on that
maybe if it was shorter, this would have even been more of a problem.
There are so many characters with their own agendas and so much
who-is-doing-what-to-who moments that you should value every image and
second of footage that you can, because these are all the clues Kelly
has left behind for the people who will spend years figuring this movie
out, just as they did with his brilliant "Donnie Darko."

A part of the film I particularly enjoyed - and which were commonly
shown throughout - were the futuristic television broadcasts, there to
give you a little hint of what was going on in the world. If you just
stare at the screen and expect some text or voice to pop out at you and
tell you what you need to know, you won't figure out anything from
these little broadcasts. But if you look very closely at all the
different headlines and images popping up across the screen, this is
when you see all the many different brilliant elements of the film
coming together, from explanations of what's going on outside of Los
Angeles in the War on Terror (which has now elevated itself to World
War 3) to little clever patriotic puns to little details regarding the
characters we have been following. They give the film a much broader
scale than one would otherwise take away from it.

I think that what Kelly has accomplished with "Southland Tales" is
incredible, even if he did go a little overboard with all the elements
of the story. With this and "Donnie Darko," he really has proved what a
brilliant mind he has, and how he isn't about telling simple
entertaining stories, but rich, complex, and textured stories with deep
metaphorical content and plot twists that can be up for interpretation
instead of attempting to explain everything. The only very obvious
message that can be taken away from this picture is its very anti-
Patriot Act ideas, as it takes place in a world where the government
watches and controls everything. It's also very beautifully portrayed
because, as you will notice as you watch the film, nearly every single
camera shot features an American flag, showing how America wants
Americans to think that it's the best country of all, especially in a
terrorist world such as the one in this film...and in our world today.

I don't understand everything that I saw in "Southland Tales;" in fact,
there is probably a lot about it that I have no idea about, and that
anyone who simply goes out and sees it won't be able to pick out on his
own. But what I do know is that I saw a film that dared to be
different, and even though it didn't succeed on every level, it was so
intelligently made and so well thought-out that calling it a "failure"
would be an absolutely incorrect thing to say. Cheers for the most
original film of 2007!
<|_=00=_|>
Note well and full: my rating of 10/10 is for the combination of the
graphic novel "prequel saga," which is nothing less than the *first
half of the story*, and the movie itself. I'm not sure if it makes
sense to rate the movie as a separate entity, but it is wildly
entertaining enough, I think, to rate a solid 7/10 or 8/10 for anyone
who can lock into its satirical mode.

A word on that: it's amazing how tone-deaf some critics can be. I've
read numerous reviews that criticize the movie for attempting to make
deep or profound statements that instead fall flat because they are in
fact trite, shallow, or stupid. Duh! I think it fair to say that at no
point does any character say anything that Kelly thinks is profound;
what we hear is a steady and very funny parody of exactly that. Maybe
because the tone of the movie, its vision, is fresh and unique, that
those who don't get it just assume it must be serious. This is part of
the reason the movie is getting such wildly mixed reviews. Half the
critics don't get the tone at all and hate it. Half the critics get it,
and about 1/3 of those think the movie still isn't coherent enough to
recommend, while the other 2/3 of the 1/2 think it's got just enough
coherence to make it a treat.

So how coherent is it? *Without it's first half*, I think it's fair to
say that it's confusing as hell and a challenge to follow. But we are
given enough of the back story that the pieces can be put together
reasonably well *by someone with decent experience seeing and reading
complex science fiction stories*. I can certainly see how someone could
regard the story as wholly incoherent, but that's their inexperience
with this kind of story. Anyone who has "gotten" ETERNAL SUNSHINE OF
THE SPOTLESS MIND, PRIMER, or, yes, the original cut of DONNIE DARKO on
the first viewing, gotten them enough to figure out the broad outline
of the plot, should be able to do the same here (as did my companion at
the theater).

There is a big difference, though, between the movie half of SOUTHLAND
TALES and these other flicks. The broad understanding of the story that
you can get from a first viewing is an understanding of the WHAT of the
story, but not of the WHY. In particular, it is impossible to
understand the motivations of the movie's most important characters,
the Treer Corporation, without having read the first half of the story.

Now, here's the astonishing part. Usually when a movie is widely dissed
as incoherent, the best argument its defenders can muster is that some
decent sense can actually be made of it after all. Often that involves
inventing plot points that the actual story omits! However, the
complete SOUTHLAND TALES, the graphic novel first half and the movie
second half, is not just adequately coherent, not just satisfyingly
coherent, it is *thrillingly* coherent. It's every bit as coherent as
its reputation for the opposite. The big reveals near the end make
numerous pieces of the puzzle fall into place, and once you leave the
movie theater the pieces keep on locking up, bit by bit by bit. It's
one hell of a science fiction story.

In short: if you have any strong interest in this movie, do yourself an
immense favor and read the graphic novel. (Ideally, read it first, but
I think that seeing the movie, reading the graphic novel, and seeing
the movie again would be highly satisfying).

I still cannot figure out what Kelly was thinking when he decided to
split this huge story the way he did. There's one alternate universe
where this is a 600 page Hugo-Award winning novel, standing in the
precise relationship to 2007 as John Brunner's brilliant STAND ON
ZANZBAR did to 1967. And there's another alternate universe where it
was a 6-part HBO miniseries that was universally regarded as doing for
sci-fi on cable TV what the Sopranos did for crime and family drama.
It's our sucky luck that we live in the universe where it was a mostly
unread graphic novel plus a widely misunderstood motion picture. Then
again, it's the point of the story that we do live in a sucky reality,
so maybe there's perverse ironic sense in that.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, I freely admit to being pretty much the only person I
know who didn't go for Richard Kelly's 2001 debut film Donnie Darko. I
found it a weak attempt at David Lynch-level pop surrealism aimed at
self-serious teenagers. Years later, I agreed to watch it again, after
reading all the notes on the film and after Kelly, with his "director's
cut," bent over backwards to convince his audience that what he really
made was a complicated science fiction movie, not a typically Lynchian
drama about a lonely loser's fantasy life during the moments before his
death. It made more sense, but for me it also took away what little
heart the story actually had. Now that Kelly's long-awaited sophomore
effort Southland Tales has hit the screen, I am more convinced than
ever that the emperor's not wearing any clothes. Richard Kelly is a bad
filmmaker.

Set in a sci fi version of 2008 Los Angeles, Southland Tales is a
muddled mess, tying together a trillion different plot lines that
revolve around the Republican vice presidential candidate and his
family, a Hollywood movie star (Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson) who has gone
missing, a national security tracking system that keeps tabs on
everybody, a porn star (Sarah Michelle Gellar) who is trying to sell a
script she wrote with The Rock, Seann William Scott playing two
characters, a mysterious alternative fuel, neo-Marxists, World War III,
the Apocalypse, the Second Coming, and legions of cheesy B actors and
former "Saturday Night Live" stars. And Justin Timberlake.

It's ambitious, to say the least. Overly ambitious. WAY overly
ambitious. While Kelly continues to ape Lynch's trademark weirdness -
Wild at Heart, Lynch's only self-congratulatory film, is the main
influence, but Mulholland Drive is there too (Kelly even uses
Mulholland's Latin chanteuse Rebekah Del Rio in a similar scene), and
actually there's quite a bit of Kathryn Bigelow's mediocre,
undeservedly admired Strange Days in this movie too - the life Kelly's
leading as a director is more akin to that of George Lucas: Lots of
half-baked ideas, some terrible casting choices, and nobody to lean
over his shoulder to tell him "Make some serious script revisions, or
have somebody else write your screenplay." Kelly seems overwhelmingly
convinced that he is a genius, as his pretentious storyline shows -
only the last three "chapters" of an apparent six-chapter saga are
presented in the film (hey, just like the first Star Wars movies!),
with audiences expected to buy the first three chapters in graphic
novel form - essentially forcing people to once again do lots of
homework in order to fully "get" the movie, just as with Donnie Darko.
Man, what an ego this guy's got. But I'm not buying it. Despite the
heavy-handed use of Biblical references (gee, that's a new one) and
classic poetry (particularly T.S. Eliot's The Hollow Men, which Kelly
paraphrases), the low humor and flat dialogue in this tepid satire are
what betray Kelly's true sensibilities: Look, there's Kevin Smith
dressed up like an old man! Haw haw, John Larroquette from "Night
Court" got his private parts tasered! Tee hee, The Rock just called
that slutty Bai Ling a "bitch" and then she fell on the floor going
"Ooh!" - that'll show her! This is an AWFUL film, devoid of any truth,
emotion, intelligence or genuine creativity. (Kelly works hard to
explain a lot of his story here, too, and guess what - in the end, it's
kind of like Donnie Darko, with its parallel universes and temporal
shifts and such.) The actors, most of whom are the sort who need a lot
of direction to be good, recite their lines without feeling, as lost as
the rest of us. (I assume Johnson, Scott and Gellar signed on for
Kelly's hipster cred; the rest of the cast were surely just hungry for
any work whatsoever.) Even the CG effects are poorly done! Even the
cinematography's bad! I could go on, but what depresses me most is that
there will doubtlessly be new fans who will defend all this
shabbily-executed nonsense as "visionary," and the misguided cult of
Richard Kelly will only grow.
<|_=00=_|>
Or at least, not until Director's cut DVD, somewhere down the road...

I was lucky enough to attend a private screening of Southland Tales a
few weeks back(early March'07). The film was in it's full 160min form,
and was only being screened to see if the international distributors
want to release the film in full form OR wanted to wait for the
re-tooled 137min cut.(I have recently found out still has about 2-3
months of visual effect's to be finished) On to the film... The film
opens with the narrator's(Justin Timberlake) voice-over repeating "This
is the way the world ends" and then, it just about does... A huge
mushroom cloud fill's the sky over Texas, but you are never told by
who? or why?.... or are you?... The whole first act of Southland Tales
kinda hit's over the head with a large amount of info, but never really
any back-story(I have the read the first graphic novel, which
helped)... The story evolves slowly, but the film is never boring or
does it ever feel slow. The musical numbers(if you want to call them
that) work great in my opinion and gives the film a nice tone... The
final act of the film is by far the best(this is where people will be
divided), and the full vision of the film is summed up in a very simple
way(I don't think many of the critics got this), which is nice because
the film is very complicated... so to have the answer be something so
simple, was perfect.

The acting was surprisingly Good... Justin Timberlake and John
Larrquette offer the most accomplished performances. While Dwayne "the
Rock" Johnson gives his best performances to date. Sarah M. Geller is
funny and pulls off her role as the "Great Whore", while Seann W.
Scott's double-role is probably the easiest to connect with.

The soundtrack is the best thing going for the film. Moby's score is
breath-taking and most of the tracks are from great bands such as Muse,
The Killers, and The Pixies... (most of which, is live)

Over all the film is a deep, entertaining, funny, and most of all...
different.

I gave it a 8 out of 10 (And I guessing the screenings went well,
because the distributors decided to wait for the shorten and visually
improved cut)
<|_=00=_|>
This movie, maybe more than any other I've seen, is a commitment. If
you think that 144 minutes is a lot to commit to a movie, the running
time is only the tip of the iceberg.

In the DVD cut of the movie, a lot of things are obscured: what the big
picture is, why characters are motivated to do certain things, why
multiple identities are a recurring theme, why certain
characters/actions are necessary.

What is in the DVD cut is an extensively detailed alternate world.
Unfortunately, to make the actions in that alternate world make sense,
you basically have to either watch the movie multiple times, or at
least know what you're dealing with.

There are at least 4 layers to everything that's going on: 1)
political/social commentary on contemporary American society and the
apocalyptic undercurrent therein; 2) sarcastic/caustic pop culture
references (Philip K. Dick is a big one, but also subtle things... for
instance, the Rock was Sean William Scott's protector in "The Rundown"
and plays a similar role here); 3) a self-consciousness or
self-referentialism: actors cast against type, some similar themes to
Donnie Darko, actions that play out in the film are largely based off
of the AWFUL screenplay written by one of the characters (as seen in
the graphic novel prequels); 4) the actual plot of the movie, which has
deep ties to the Book of Revelation, and makes much more sense if the
graphic novels are read first.

These layers are pretty consummately intertwined. This is part of what
makes this movie to be compelling enough to make me want to put in the
necessary effort. Its imagery was provocative, and because Richard
Kelly has created such a densely layered world for himself, putting in
the time actually is incredibly rewarding.

It should also be said that this film, like Blade Runner or There Will
Be Blood, does not let its plot set specifications on its scope, or
what it's about. If you hone in on what the director thinks its
scope/purpose is, it's much easier to appreciate.

I'm not sure exactly how to rate this movie, since as a stand alone
movie it is a failure, but if you take the time to get inside Kelly's
mind, it's worthwhile. So. My advice? View it as an investment or don't
view it at all. Don't throw it on for an evening's entertainment. If
you do, you might be entertained, but you'll probably be confused and
angry.
<|_=00=_|>
overly-ambitious? probably. puzzlingly dense? certainly. meandering and
confusing? absolutely. SOUTHLAND TALES, richard kelly's much-maligned,
oft-questioned, studio-crippled but still hotly-anticipated follow-up
to DONNIE DARKO is guilty of most of the accusations that critics have
hurled at it.

indeed, it's a mess - but it's one of the most beautiful, most
engaging, most daring messes i've seen in awhile - especially
considering the fact that this is a big-studio film with such an
abundance of marquee stars. but it hits on many of the same themes that
DARKO did - both metaphysical and spiritual - and that's promising to
me, because it's indicative of a singular focus/concept that richard
kelly wants to explore in his work. i once read an essay on the cinema
of David cronenberg - i can't find it now, so i'll have to paraphrase -
it mentioned that the best storytellers often spend their entire
careers retelling what is essentially the same story, but executing it
in different ways. with only two features under his belt so far, it's
premature (downright offensive, some would say) to make
kelly/cronenberg comparisons at this point - but if this kid keeps
digging into the same subject matter over and over, he's eventually
going to produce an honest-to-goodness masterpiece. and that really
excites me.

think back to the theatrical cut of DONNIE DARKO, and how mystifying
and enigmatic it was on yr first viewing. then think about the
director's cut - did it feel "dumbed down" to you? like more exposition
had been crowbarred in, so that the film would be EASIER for us to
digest? there's some of that going on in SOUTHLAND TALES, and i'm
forced to wonder if that was kelly's original vision, or if it was the
result of studio interference. alternatively, the director might have
gotten so tired of everyone theorising about DD, that he wanted to make
certain plot points entirely unambiguous this time out. whatever the
case, the end result is one the year's best films, in spite of (or
perhaps because of) its flaws.

i've studied the graphic novel and the website, and i intend to delve
deeper into both (including the ancillary sites). i might even need to
see the film again before it leaves theaters - which will probably be
soon, as this thing has "box office flop" written all over it (box
office mojo reports a paltry opening-night take of $37,000), and has a
"wide release" that includes all of 63 screens.

at present, we can be sure of a three things: ONE, SOUTHLAND TALES has
so much going on, that it's literally boiling over, and it's going to
take years for people to realise what a treasure this film really is.
TWO, there is a TRUE maverick inside the gates of Hollywood, his name
is richard kelly, and he's going to be here for awhile. and THREE,
nobody rocks the cock like krysta now.
<|_=00=_|>
After over a year of waiting, Southland Tales is finally out in
theaters. The slightly abridged version, still clocking in at well over
2 hours, boasts an incredibly recognizable cast, and very well done
visuals.

But, with such a long wait after the disastrous Cannes screening, and a
well publicized year of graphic novel press releases, editing mixing,
and many, many reassurances, how does the final product rate up? Now,
for me, Donnie Darko was a good, thoroughly fleshed out movie with good
dialog and characters that felt real and a situation that was both
funny and ultimately horrifying. Though there were plot holes and vague
situations that left most of its viewers confused, Donnie Darko was a
good film that left people happily asking questions and trying to
figure out the films many possible explanations. A young filmmaker
creating a movie like that on his first try is pretty impressive, so
much so that Richard Kelly was billed for a time as the "next big
thing".

By sheer contrast, Southland Tales is a huge step down from his
previous film. To be honest, I was looking forward to this movie for
over a year, and forced myself to be optimistic in the face of constant
signs that this film really WAS looking to be the next Xanadu. The
initial concept is not all that unique; an ensemble piece set in the
final days of the world. The problem is, Mr. Kelly cannot seem to
settle on a singular theme or method of storytelling for this film.
Most ensemble films have an underlying theme, whether it be familial
distance or redemption in "Magnolia", social distance in "Babel", or
prejudice in "Crash". Southland Tales doesn't have any kind of
organization in the filming of its scenes. Most of the characters don't
have any real motivation behind their actions, and nearly every scene
hit a kind of dead-end as to where it was trying to go.

Its hard to see where the director was going with many aspect of the
film. The much criticized casting of the film, though very interesting
on paper, is in reality just as bad as it sounded. Most of the actors
look out of place, the acting is some of the worst that I've seen since
the trailer for Baby Geniuses. Sarah Michelle Gellar is completely
wasted in this film, Dwayne Johnson is improving, though he still needs
work, and a project like this is not the best way to do that, and
nearly all other actors in this film act as though they are appearing
in a vagisil commercial and are wishing they didn't take the audition.
Not all actors fail in these roles though; Seann William Scott is
surprisingly flexible in the role, though in the first half of the film
he looks uncomfortable, Mandy Moore is only in several scenes, but her
acting is some of the most natural sounding in the whole thing. For me,
the two most shocking transformations in the film were those of Cheri
Oteri (who actually has more to do here than most of the leads, and
caries some of her lines very well), and in probably the best special
effect of the film, Lou Taylor Pucci done up as a ghetto white boy in
probably one of the least publicized roles in the film. Justin
Timberlake is good only in his narration, though on camera he actually
is a rather pointless character.

Gregg Araki made several films in the mid-90s billed as the "een
Apocalypse" trilogy. Though there were no actual teens in it from what
i remember, these films had many cameos from actors cast out of type,
many random moments that didn't seem to fit into the rest of the film,
as well as a director that tried to comment on the modern world while
placing the story in a setting that could not possible fit into context
of our world. Just like Gregg Araki, Richard Kelly makes much use of
poetry that has mostly no real connection to the story. Robert Frost
and T.S. Elliot are constantly mentioned, as well as visual references
to the work of Philip K Dick. Often in the film, this material, as well
as others, are so often used it gets really annoying.

I'm not trying to deter anyone from seeing this film. After Donnie
Darko, Richard Kelly has a built-in fan base who will see his work no
matter how terrible it is. I'm sure some of those people were in the
audience at the sold out showing that i saw this film in. Seeing it
that way, i knew that this movie was the kind to be laughed AT, not
laughed WITH. I just hope that Richard Kelly with learn from this
mistake and organize his scripts better, or with enough of these he
will lose the few supporters that he has kept over the past few years.

So, now after ALL that, what was the point of it all? 144 minutes of
exposition and false hopes for a logical flow to the whole thing, is
there meaning to it all? Spoilers for the ending....the world doesn't
end, and if it does the film ends before the big event.

By the way, the much hyped scene where Timberlake lip-syncs to The
Killers "Things that I've done", is by far one of the most
underwhelming scenes in the film. The whole things feels kinda
pointless.

Hmmm, and after using quotes from the book of revelations to justify
floating ice cream trucks, nuclear baby bowel movements, and prophetic
film scripts, is there a final message that the movie has for us? A
sort of finality to it all that will make it sit easier for us to sit
through? Quoting the film's final line, "Cuz he is a pimp...and pimps,
don't kill themselves". Wow Richard, how amazing...like,
totally...wow...
<|_=00=_|>
I was attracted to this film because I was a fan of Donnie Darko, as
well as the ensemble cast that came together for this project. It is
with great sadness that I must declare this one of the worst films I've
ever seen. I don't usually post comments about movies that fall short
of their expectations, because film is a difficult art form. However, I
found myself getting angry with how complex the story was as they say
genius is making the complex, simple. That being said, I will applaud
the effort to make a 'modern day' revelations biblical story. However,
if Seann William Scott is or messiah, then it would truly be the end of
the world. This movie did not work on so many levels, so I won't go
into detail, but I will say that I felt robbed of 144 minutes. Perhaps
this will have a cult following like Donnie Darko, and perhaps I could
appreciate this project more by looking at the graphic novel, website
and other source material, but after experiencing Southland Tales the
film, I feel time is too precious for that. The last thing I will
comment on about this film is the wonderful.... ---Insert something
appreciative about this film--
