
When " A Night At The Museum" was sold out at my local multiplex, I
reluctantly purchased a ticket for "Boy Girl Thing". The reviews that I
read were fairly miserable and I was expecting a clunker.

I was completely surprised by how brilliant it was. Hilariously funny.
Surprisingly moving. Great soundtrack. I was completely hooked by the
journey that Nell and Woody went on in each other's bodies. I think
both Kevin Zegers and Samaire Armstrong are the stars of tomorrow. They
might have been a little old for their roles, but it didn't matter. I
was completely caught up in their journey. Even Sharon Osbourne made me
giggle.

It won't win any awards, but if you are looking more light-hearted fare
that leaves you with a smile on your face, it's a complete winner.

I guess it really shows what stupid idiots critics can be.
<|_=00=_|>
I have to admit first that I am a fan of this genre, although when I
went in I was expecting something pretty run-of-the-mill. However, this
is no teen B-movie but is actually a really funny premise and has a
story with a surprising amount of emotional depth. I'm surprised no-one
has made a movie about this before, but they haven't. It seems quite an
obvious premise. A boy and girl who despise each other, end up swapping
bodies and are thus forced to deal with each other's lives. It's like
Freaky Friday but with a bit more edge and all the adolescent teen
stuff which is what keeps it fresh. Whilst this stuff is funny it is
the love story that really gets you and I was amazed to find myself
getting emotionally drawn into the characters. Not often I say that
about an American teen movie. Only negative is Sharon Osbourne who kind
of pulls you out of the movie a bit, but other than a satisfying movie
experience and a really pleasant surprise.
<|_=00=_|>
We have had several body swap movies but this one offers something that
is a little different. It is very funny but at the same time has
characters that you believe in and care for.

This film gets plenty of laughs out of the sexual differences that
other body swap movies have not dared to explore but don't think that
this film is full of cheap jokes because it is not. There is so much
more to this movie that it should appeal to all. The sound track is
also excellent and a good cameo role for Sharon Osbourn.

The target audience is the teen market but I think everyone can fine
something to enjoy in this film.

I went with my wife and two children aged 10 and 12, my wife through it
was funnier than White Chicks and they also approved by saying we
should purchase the DVD when released.
<|_=00=_|>
Body swap movies are nothing new and here the premise is the same; what
raises it above are the two central perfromances which are strong and
the overall sense of fun mixed with some good tackling of
stereotypes...

While pretty much forgettable, while watching we found it fun and
charming and full of the right kinds of energies.

If you've got young teenagers but still want a film you can all watch -
and aren't embarrassed by the sexual innuendo that runs through this -
then this is not a bad choice.

Watchable.
<|_=00=_|>
The next door neighbors Nell Bedworth (Samaire Armstrong) and Woody
Deane (Kevin Zegers) have opposite behaviors and hate each other: the
virgin geek Nell is polite, sensitive and well-prepared to go to Yale,
while Woody is rude and his greatest expectation is to join a mediocre
university due to his abilities playing football. When Nell and Woody
are assigned to visit together a museum, they argue in front of the
statue of an Aztec god. During the night, their souls swap bodies,
bringing difficult situations to them. They first try to damage the
reputation of the other in the high-school, but sooner they discover
that their dream of joining college would only happen with mutual
respect and support.

There are many movies of swapping bodies; therefore "It's a Boy Girl
Thing" is not original. However this predictable story is very funny
and this movie is an enjoyable entertainment. Samaire Armstrong and
Kevin Zegers show a great chemistry and have excellent performances. My
vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Coisas de Meninos e Meninas" ("Things of Boys and
Girls")
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was actually really good Kevin Zegers done a great he was
really believable you could really see the difference from when he was
a guy and when he was the girl and Samaire Armstrong was amazing also
loved the man walk. It was kind of typical story line, a mix of Hot
Chick and Freaky Friday I'd say,nothing new, what makes this movie
stand from others is the chemistry they had on screen, they worked well
together which made the movie so much better. The only think I disliked
was the fact that Sharon Osbourne was the mother, she seems like a
great person, but I don't think she's a great actor some scenes made me
cringe, they should have cast someone else. But overall I was
impressed.
<|_=00=_|>
The actors are mostly likable. The plot is amiable enough too. Thing
is, it's been done before, and done much better. Consider Debbie
Reynolds and Toni Curtis in 'Goodbye Charlie' (1964), or the Steve
Martin, Lily Tomlin masterpiece, 'All of Me', where he acts out the
movie while being possessed by a woman. Or one-hit-wonder Joyce Hyser's
'Just One of the Guys', where she becomes a guy (I forget why). Or the
semi-good 'The Hot Chick', with the creepy Rob Schneider and the
ever-so-hot babe, Anna Farris. All those movies explored the notion of
girls and boys living in each other's bodies. Weener jokes, 'Hey, I got
tits!' jokes, stumbling in high heels, 'delicate flower' young ladies
belching at the formal dinner table, etc., etc. There is even a
cinemagraphic grammar about that whole thing by now.

Not to say there wasn't some appeal here. The cast is likable. Although
the dude did seem really, really gay, even when he was not being
possessed by a girl, but supposedly his own male self. I couldn't tell
the difference. But the young woman actor who had to play a guy trapped
in a girl's body managed really well. But there was also the obligatory
black guy side kick, bitchy bimbo girl rivals, an unsympathetic
'Desperate Housewives' type mom, and cool slob parents, played by
Sharon Osbourne (yaaay!) and Maury Chaykin (also yaay, but for
different reasons).

All in all, nothing 'wrong'. Nothing unpleasant nor unlikeable. Just
kind of shallow, and very derivative. There was a group of what seemed
to be 14 year old kids sitting up in the back of the movie theater I
attended, and they laughed and oohed and ahhhed a little bit at some
lame-ish jokes. Well, great! I hope they liked it. But I suspect that
they are probably the major audience that would find this movie
appealing or interesting. And that's OK. I gave it a 5 out of 10---
nothing bad, but also nothing great... just ordinary.
<|_=00=_|>
I know what you're saying. There are countless of movies out there
involving body switches, either parental-kid (like Lindsay Lohan and
Jamie Lee Curtis in Freaky Friday), and cross- gender, be it deliberate
(like Amanda Bynes in She's The Man) or through inexplicable
supernatural occurrence (like Jack Neo's Just Follow Law, or The Hot
Chick starring Rob Schneider and Rachel McAdams). Whatever the case is,
it seems that such stories still can find a market and a demand,
otherwise they wouldn't be made, will they? And comedies which arise
from such situations almost always seem to recycle some jokes, removing
plenty of lustre from what could have been funny, but not so, because
of familiarity with the subject matter.

Surprisingly, It's a Boy Girl Thing still worked, for me at least.
Sure, it had the usual jokes with respect to changing and getting used
to the new bodies, taking advantage of the change to get chummy with
the boys/girls with ulterior motives, and doing everything just wrong
deliberately so as to get back at the person whose body you now
possess. But what this one had, was plenty of heart, pounding on the
universal theme of empathy, of not being able to fully understand
someone, until you get under their skin and walk around in it, in which
case this movie of course took things literally.

Samaire Armstrong stars as Nell Bedworth, who's into literature, and
whose snooty, prim and proper parents are holding their hopes of her
daughter getting into Yale. Her neighbour is school quarterback jock
Woody Deane (Kevin Zegers), whose family is pretty much of the average
joe, laissez faire type, whose dream for their son is to work at a
sweatshop from 9 to 5. Naturally the school jock has a minor aspiration
different from his parent's expectation, and that is to score a college
education through football.

It's no rocket science that the two of them don't get along, and as the
opening credits illustrate, they get on each other's nerves ever so
often, that some ancient god decide to play a prank on them by
switching their bodies. Thus unleashing pandemonium in their lives as
they have to grapple with living in a foreign body, as well as to
ensure that they stay on their respective course to pursue their
dreams. It also becomes the usual opposite attracts story, starting
with their adversary with each other, to the inevitable finale, but
what indeed was marvelous here, were the little scenes crafted where
they have to begin to lean more about each other, and to gain each
other's trust.

What I felt helped the movie was its decision to junk a lot of
unnecessary subplots that usually bloat such movies, to just keep it
simple and very focused, delivering almost every time it called for a
punchline, or during non-comedic moments with serious drama, while
laying off the melodramatics. Simple words uttered, simple actions
made, spoke loads and went the mile. The chemistry between Samaire
Armstrong and Kevin Zegers worked wonders too, whether they're playing
it straight, or playing each other's characters, and sometimes there
are situations where you just have to do a double take to put things
into their correct perspective.

If there should be a gripe, it would be the jarring edit made for an
NC16 rating. This is one movie that didn't fear getting into the
politically incorrect field, filled with nudity and plenty of coarse
language, which I thought was somewhat of an adults-only version of a
genre done so many times. And if you're a fan of rap and hip-hop, then
you'll probably find yourself grooving to the soundtrack from Eminem to
the Black Eyed Peas. 

This movie comes recommended. It's not perfect, but it was jolly good
fun.
<|_=00=_|>
After reading the synopsis of the film my hopes were not high. It
sounded like a cross between the awful The Girl Next Door and the (plot
overused) Freaky Friday.

I was very pleasantly surprised. This is the best teen film I've seen
since Mean Girls. The script takes a shop worn plot and enlivens it
with decidedly adult jokes that will push it firmly into R rated
territory. It also manages to entwine several teen movie clichés - the
former enemies falling in love, climactic ball game where the "hero"
saves the day, prom night fantasy, first love - and makes it work in a
way that seems fresh.

The film would not work if it were not for the gifted comic playing of
Samaire Armstrong and particularly the lovely Kevin Zegers. Zegers
proved he had acting chops beyond his good (and my they are good) looks
in Transamerica and here he proves himself a talented and versatile
physical comedian. 

Even Sharon Osbourne, admittedly in an undemanding supporting role, is
pretty good.

This is perfect fluffy date movie stuff with a bit more bite than the
average. Anyone who loved NEVER BEEN KISSED will love this.
<|_=00=_|>
It's a Boy Girl Thing is a blooming masterpiece! Even without comparing
it to US movies it's still a funny, intelligent, and even moving film.

I've read several negative remarks about how many references are made
to male/female anatomy but they weren't gratuitous or as overdone as
some have said. If you woke up in the body of the opposite gender
wouldn't you be a tad surprised and dwell on the differences? Woody
can't believe he has tits and Nell is terrified by the strange object
sticking up in the middle of her bed. Even the last reference to
anatomy is amusing since Woody's biological functions take hold while
he's physically close to Nell and he, as Nell, is disgusted by the fact
of adolescent erections. Come on, guys, we all know what it was like as
a teenager when an embarrassing thing just popped up, so to speak, at
the wrong time.

Sure body swap movies have been done but so have a zillion other
genres. It's a Boy Girl Thing can hold its own with similar fare.
Samaire Armstrong is especially good as "Woody," walking and moving and
acting "like a guy" and Kevin Zegers is good also but his
characterization is more understated. His walk, facial expressions,
mannerisms, etc. change noticeably as Nell but it's more subtle.

It was pretty decently written and what it may have lacked in the
script was compensated for by the main characters and the director.
Some of the secondary characters were not as good as the rest but the
parents, Nell and Woody, even brainless Breanna were believable.

One of the main aspects I like is the understanding Woody and Nell
achieve when they literally walk in each other's shoes (yeah, OK,
that's a plot device in many body swap movies but "what the heck?") .
Nell realizes her animosity toward Woody is mostly snobbery and Woody
sees his loutish behavior for what it is. They both realize they are
better people than that. The scene with Woody/Nell asking Nell/Woody
"How does it feel to be a cheap slut?" makes Woody really understand
how Nell feels for the first time. Nell sees Woody's parents are decent
humans who are not, as her mother thinks, objects of scorn because they
are not well educated. Everything piles up on Woody when Nell's mother
declares Woody is "stupid and a loser" and adds "You told me so" to
Nell/Woody, causing Woody to see how his treatment of Nell has made her
despise him. Also, unlike Nell, Woody sees he's always gone along with
the crowd without much introspection.

Since the movie apparently spans only one week it's a bit of a stretch
to expect characters to evolve so quickly but that's a minor quibble
(they're both intelligent kids, anyway...). IABGT made me laugh and
smile more than most new movies I've seen in ages. I'd watch it just
for the bathroom scene when Woody/Nell remarks "Nice pen*s" to the guy
standing next to him at the urinals. That has got to be one of the
funniest scenes ever and a spot-on observation about (primarily)
heterosexual male mores in our culture. 

Of course it ends as it does -- what would one expect, a startling plot
twist? Like they never return to their own bodies and Nell/Woody
becomes a lesbian and Woody/Nell becomes a Catholic priest? Besides,
the end is realistically and romantically different in that Nell
decides to take a year sabbatical before starting Yale (much to her
mother's dismay) so she and Woody have time to develop their
relationship. Although it's not explicit it would seem Woody has made
the same decision unless the "sh*tkicker" college he'll attend is local
or very close to home. The end makes no sense if Nell is taking a year
off and Woody is moving away to attend college.
