
At first I thought it was going to be a disaster. I was not impressed
with Tiffany Dupont early on. She was more of a 21st century character
than a woman of 2500 years ago. She seemed silly and frivolous, and her
dialog was ludicrous -- but only in the first 10 minutes or so. She
definitely matured and grew gracefully into the role of Queen Esther as
the movie progressed -- and fortunately her dialog improved as well.

I was very drawn into scenes that featured other actors from the
beginning however. Each scene with Luke Goss was mesmerizing. He is a
very charismatic actor and was perfectly cast as King Xerxes. I confess
that I fell in love with this character and this actor. Another
favorite was Tommy "Tiny" Lister, who stole scene after scene. There
were some very funny, touching, and powerful scenes built around this
mighty actor. What a wonderful performance. My next personal favorite
was James Callis. He probably turned in the most stunning performance
of all, and I truly think he deserves a best supporting Oscar for this
captivating role. That won't happen of course. No way that secular
Hollywood will endorse this movie or praise this movie in any way --
even though it's deserved. So far, at least 75% of the reviews that
I've read from the "professional" critics dish this movie. I think
their reviews are being filtered though their bias and intolerance.

I'm a Christian, and I'm not a supporter or fan of Gen8x or TBN -- but
they finally got a movie right. Really right. And I hope it's a huge
success for them.

I loved this movie. It has everything...a beautiful love story, humor,
intrigue, great acting, noble characters, dastardly villains. Plus the
locale, costumes, and music are magnificent. I'll go see it again...and
again. I'm also going to buy the DVD as soon as it's released. I'll be
thinking about this movie for some time to come. Doralynn
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this when it was aired on TBN, and I'm glad I did not waste my
money on a ticket. This is a 'B' movie trying to be more, but failing
miserably. Maybe it was better in the theater, but I sincerely doubt
it.

Although this movie had promise, it appears that the filmmakers did not
have sufficient grasp of the mechanics of film-making to produce an
acceptable result. The dialog is stodgy and excessively verbose, and is
not uniform. The acting is weak, and the characters were not well cast,
especially the two lead roles of Esther and Xerxes. This is Esther
remade as a harlequin romance, except there is no chemistry between
Tiffany Dupont, who seems like an adolescent rather than a woman of
presence, and Luke Goss, who seems especially unfit for the role of a
Persian king. I could not believe in their romance. The score is nice,
but mixed too loudly and therefore is distracting. John Noble almost
saved the film, but was not given enough screen time. Although pretty,
Tiffany Dupont lacks the confidence to win a beauty contest.

The pace of the scenes alternates from a spastic and confused flurry of
flashbacks in the beginning to grandiose and overdone and pretentious
pomp that was not true to history. There are many unresolved dramatic
subplots that do not enhance the storyline. In fact the main casualty
of all this excess is the plot, which bears no resemblance to the
biblical book of Esther. Frankly, it was hard for me to determine what
the filmmakers were trying to accomplish. Of what benefit was the
portrayal of Haman as trying to choke Queen Esther, when the bible
tells the opposite story? I have not read the Tommy Tinney book, but
this movie gave me no desire to explore it further. The idea that
Xerxes has to physically stop a sword from hitting Esther is
preposterous in light of the biblical account. It could never have
happened. 

As a bible scholar I do not appreciate the departures from the plot
from the bible story. Even worse is the propagandistic implication that
the Greeks and the Jews were aligned in their love of democracy, which
has nothing to do with the historical events. The dramatic scenes did
not work, and the narration was excessive and detracted from the
opportunity to tell the story. Cutaways were often poorly done and did
not match the geometry of the scene. In fact, the picture has a
remarkably flat or two-dimensional appearance for a picture that was
shot on location in India. I don't think there was any clear concept of
the space that the filmmakers were trying to portray.

Frankly, I'm both disappointed and dismayed by the hype surrounding
this movie that did not correspond with the truth about the movie. Are
we American Christians so shallow that we desire neither a movie that
is true to the bible nor true to history? It might have been excusable
if the drama worked, or if the cinematography was believable. But the
cameo by Peter O'Toole seems to have been included only to enable the
filmmakers to misrepresent the film by using his name in such a way as
to imply that he had a lead role, which left a bad taste in my mouth.
As a high school or a college film school project this would have been
OK, but it did not measure up to the standards of Cecil B. DeMille,
despite the promotional statements to that effect. This film was a
resounding disappointment.
<|_=00=_|>
The story of Esther has great potential, but this film limps along with
mediocre acting (especially from Luke Goss as Xerxes) and a sub-par
screenplay. Most actors employ bad British dialects. The dialogue can't
decide if it's from the King James Bible (using the word "thou") or
modern America (using the word "okay.") I know the story well, and I
was often confused by pointless scenes about a Greek battle subplot. I
know the Greek war is historical, but it isn't in Scripture and it
doesn't serve the story. I didn't buy the love story. 

On a positive note, John Rhys-Davies, Omar Sharif, and Peter O'Toole
(on screen for about five seconds) are very good. Lovely Tiffany Dupont
displays charm and fun as Esther, although the performance is uneven.

I'm a Christian, and I'm disappointed in most films that deal with
faith. Let's hope "The Nativity" is better.
<|_=00=_|>
Please accept this letter as constructive criticism and not bashing. I
am a dedicated viewer and lover of TBN, CBN, all it's programs and
partners and most importantly the Lord! 

Though the publicity and PR were excellent I have to honestly say that
I was highly disappointed with the movie One Night with the King. 

The start of the movie was very uninformative on the reason why King
Xerses had Vashti dismissed as Queen. As a believer and for those who
are not I think it key for the audience to understand how the people of
that day and country lived and exactly why Vashti was being removed as
Queen. This really in essence speared the way for Ester to become
Queen. 

I also feel that the audience did not get a good sense of passion
between Xerses and Ester. Though this move was rated for audiences of
all ages I feel that could have done a better job of showing just how
much Xerses loved Ester. He loved her so much that he would have done
and did anything for her. I really did not feel the love. Also, this
really is not meant to be a put down but I don't think the physical
features of the character playing Ester was right in this movie. The
Bible story tells of a woman that is so beautiful. I recall reading
that after the decision to depose Vashti as queen the council decided
to have a beauty contest and invite all the most beautiful women from
all 127 provinces so that the king could select the most beautiful
woman to be the new queen. In the reading Ester was gorgeous in form
and features. She was radiant, glowing, and glamorous. Again this is
not meant to be a put down but the actress playing the role does not
represent Ester physically. The movie also did not emphasize on the
amount of preparation that was needed for these candidates to get ready
for the king. 

In addition the part in the move where Ester was running in the rain to
get to Xerses to confess her true nationality and to save her people
built up the audience but then nothing happened. Ester just fell in
Xerses' arms and that was it. This definitely needed more substance.
The audience needed to see just how much King Xerses loved Ester. The
Bible indicates that when Ester approached the King without an
invitation he faced her with a sword in his hand. The king gestured for
her to touch the tip of the golden sword. When she did this she knew
that she was safe. In the movie the king did not ask Ester of her
heart's desire. The Bible indicates that the king said, "Queen Ester.
You look absolutely ravishing today. What would you want from me? I
will give anything that you want, up to half of the kingdom." The movie
seems to show anger and uncertainly in the Kings eyes. I actually do
not recall any part in the movie where King Xerses says "What do you
want Ester? I will give you up to half of the kingdom". This was
crucial. I don't feel that the King's deep love for Ester was really
portrayed during any part of this movie. 

Overall I felt lost during the movie. This was not only due to the fact
that I know the story pursuant to the Bible. I felt lost through most
of the move and found myself struggling to understand what was
happening and what part of the story was being shown. If I feel this
way as a believer I have to assume that the non believer may have even
fallen asleep or given up on this movie. 

Again, this is not mean to be bashing but I really want to give my
honest and heartfelt opinion which I share with my Christian friends
who have also seen the movie. I would be a hypocrite if I pretended to
love it just because I am a Christian and only to show my support for
the production team and Christina film. 

God Bless,
<|_=00=_|>
I have seen the film and it delivers as much as I had hoped. The
scenery is authentic ancient Persia, filmed in India and made with a
fantastic cast of actors.

Newcomer Tiffany Dupont is so believable, and James Callis' Haman is
easy to hate. John Ryhs-Davies brings chills in his portrayal of
Mordechai, and it is nice to see O'Toole and Shariff in the same film
again - and in the dessert no less.

See the film, take your kids, enjoy it. It's the story of Purim, and
while we all know the outcome, it is powerful to watch.

It opens in theaters on October 13.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see this film in hopes that it might be worth seeing. It was
to the extent that it had a few good actors and ornate costumes. The
problem was that there was so much focus on making it a romance. There
is way to much of "Xerxes" bare (or scantily covered chest) and much
too little of dramatic story, which is the main strength of the story
of Haddasah (Esther). Most of the acting was mediocre and some big name
stars got very little to work with. Portraying Greeks and the Jewish
people of the time as "prodemocracy" is very much of a stretch. The
story was muddled as was much of the history. There was very thin
plotting and so many characters were introduced that one would have a
hard time keeping track of them, or what purpose they served to the
story.
<|_=00=_|>
I enjoyed watching this movie but they took a lot of license with the
biblical story. They especially changed time frames where they made
months into weeks and days into hours. If you know your bible, you can
really spot the differences. 

I thought Tiffany Dupont who played Esther was charming. Luke Goss who
played Xerxes was a bit overblown. The guy (James Callas) who played
Haman was way over the top. John Rhys-Davies is always a joy to watch
and he doesn't disappoint as Mordecai.

Even with that, I would rather see a movie like this than 90% of the
stuff put in theaters these days. Would recommend seeing the movie and
then go home and read the real story!
<|_=00=_|>
This story had all the elements that should make a movie attractive...
action, intrigue, romance, a little suspense... but it was wasted on
this film. The production was uneven, hopping from one seemingly
unrelated scene to another, many of them making our leading lady appear
at best adolescent and at worst delusional. The music was not well
chosen for the action, and the directing was obvious (thunder crashes
as Esther delivers what was supposed to be a dramatic line). The acting
was mostly disappointing, with fine performances by John Rhys-Davies,
Omar Sharif and a few others, but pretty amateur efforts from the rest
of the cast. In all, the only thing I really enjoyed were the period
costumes.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is amazing for so many reasons, the cast, the scenery, the
story-line and that it parallels what we see happening in the world
today. The historical truth about an ancient Persian queen is exactly
the same battle happening in Israel today. It's not often that you see
a movie that can relate directly with current world affairs and still
maintain truth and purity. This movie achieves all this and more. I
highly recommend this movie to anyone who enjoys history, wholesome
entertainment, a great love story or compulsive movie goers. What's
great about this movie is that it can appeal to a wide variety of age
groups and provides a much needed heroine/role model for young people
today. This movie will inspire you and leave you cheering at the end! A
must see!!
<|_=00=_|>
This film does have a wonderful story to tell, and the location shots
(it was filmed in India to imitate ancient Persia) are beautiful.
That's the good news. The bad news is that the actual script for the
story is weak and much of the dialog is stilted. Some of the acting is
truly sub-par, although the girl who plays Hadassa/Esther really makes
the most of some very bad situations script-wise. I felt that the
direction was heavy handed in much of the film, but some gorgeous
recreations and CG backdrops almost make up for this. Also,the fact
that Peter O'Toole is advertised as a "star" of this film is very
misleading. He appears in maybe five minutes of footage at the
beginning, and nothing more. Overall, I thought the film had good
intentions, but not enough time and effort put into a convincing
script.
