
What a waste.

The only redeeming feature of this movie were the well made action
scenes (not all were good, but overall there were more enjoyable fight
sequences than boring ones).

The story is clichéd and predictable. The acting is terrible (the main
role is so horribly sketched out that you can barely blame the actor,
the supporting roles all make a mark for their blandness). The main
couple have no chemistry, the dialog is UN-enjoyably bad and the
editing looks like it was done by a blind man. Scenes start and end
with absolutely no flow. One scene was particularly bad (I wont spoil
it for you, suffice to say its the one where the Indians charge into
battle against the hero's wishes). That is the only scene when I
laughed in the movie, and its supposed to be a sad/rousing scene.

The trailer of this film looked really pretty, but then again the
consisted of mostly the fight scenes so I'm not surprised at all. The
director seems to have had a good eye for visuals, but his effort has
ended there.

Pathfinder = 5/10 Five for the fight scenes.

I was trying to find a path out of the theater at many times during the
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not quite sure how director Marcus Nipsel and company managed to
take this screenplay, which had potential, and suck every ounce of
life, drama and coolness out of it. They did, though. Pathfinder proves
to be another completely forgettable historical action movie at best,
generic as hell, right down to your cookie-cutter indestructible action
hero (played by Karl Urban).

My biggest gripe with the film, and I have many, comes from how long it
was pushed back for. If I remember correctly, it was first slated for
release in January of '06. It was delayed well over a year, and I
assumed that the crew were editing, re shooting and doing other things
that might make the film better. I should have remembered what happens
when one assumes. In reality, they were just waiting around for a good
time to release the film, because it obviously didn't improve in that
year and a half. At one point, they literally insert stock footage of
an avalanche instead of creating their own CGI (or real) avalanche. Who
are you guys kidding? There are about six words worth of meaningful
dialog in this film. The Vikings don't even look human, nobody ever
really explains why they're going out of their way to kill everyone.
The Native Americans are portrayed as weak and stupid, little more than
target practice. This film just lets the arrows fly and the heads roll.

The acting is horrendous as well. Its got some cool action scenes, but
thats about it. It might have been a blessing having so little dialog
in Pathfinder, because if how brutal the little that was present proved
to be. It was like, Covenant bad. The script literally sounds like it
was written by a child.

Overall, Pathfinder wastes its potential and fails to prove itself
worthy of anyone's time, let alone anyone's money. No amount of good
action could have saved this film from its fate.
<|_=00=_|>
Twenty years ago, there was a terrific Norwegian action film called
"Pathfinder" set in the Dark Ages and dealing with a boy whose family
is slaughtered by marauders; villagers take him in. When the boy has
grown into a young man, the marauders return, affording our hero the
chance to repay his benefactors by avenging himself on the bad guys. It
was brisk and chilly and had a real sense of mythic resonance. It was
good.

Here, now, is another film called "Pathfinder," virtually identical in
plot. And it is everything the original was not: muddled, ugly,
pointless, silly, incoherent, overly familiar and exceedingly dull. It
is not good.

German director Marcus Nispel, who remade "The Texas Chainsaw Massacre"
a couple of years back and likely is working on a lousy new version of
something else now, has an eye: The film is handsome. But he has no ear
or brain -- or at least not those parts of the brain that deal with
such niceties as narrative, character, dialogue and logic.

Karl Urban (Eomer to "Lord of the Rings" fans) stars a Nordic boy
raised by Native Americans after being left behind in a Viking raid of
North America. Probably the filmmakers (a dozen producers are credited)
thought the introduction of Native Americans allowed for soulful
depths. Actually, it allows for painfully dim clichés about prophecy,
spirits and discovering "who you are" -- as patronizing in its way as
the most insult-ridden cowboys-and-Indians movie of the '30s.

Other characters include a heroic love interest (Moon Bloodgood), a
wise elder (Russell Means) and a mute sidekick (Kevin Loring). These
brief descriptions are about all the depth these characters ever
acquire.

Most of "Pathfinder" is given over to ridiculous chases and fights that
remind you how skillful "Apocalypto" was at similar scenes. Someone who
had never seen an action movie wouldn't credit a minute of it. In a
way, it's perfect: You can't imagine anyone seeing this mess and not
feeling lesser for the experience.
<|_=00=_|>
This is pretty good B-movie. If you want subtle plot and dialog then
you should have figured out from the trailer and the poster that this
show is not for you.

Yes, it appears to be inspired by a Frazetta painting (see Death
Dealer) and is surely derivative of Conan and Tarzan. But how long has
it been since a good Conan or Tarzan movie.

Lots of gore, lots of decapitations (but as Joe Bob would say, all
necessary for the plot) lots of low key lighting to make the special
effects easier to pull off but then again, it's not a chick flick.

If only we still had drive in movies.
<|_=00=_|>
I have read many comments here that hated the film. One of my friends
who accompanied me to the screening disliked it as well. He thought it
was a waste of time, too. Unfortunately, many viewers, such as my
friend, miss the point, as they in fact look for a point.

Unlike the new trend of films of this era, "Pathfinder" did not submit
to the theme of freedom, the political freedom. None of the characters
pronounce the word freedom, such as the main character of the film,
"300," who shouted it out loud. Instead, the main character of the
film, Ghost, battles himself and "his demons" in order to find his own
freedom and to fit in. Ghost tries to look for the peace he was raised
in.

"Pathfinder" challenges the modern stage of film-making, and
re-introduces a somewhat Western ideology that John Wayne's "The
Searchers" had introduced in 1956. Therefore, the audience has to place
themselves in a position to examine each character-groups' point of
view. In that respect, the film offers some depth to the little story
that is filled with violent battle scenes.

The battle scenes are enjoyable. There is a certain level of combat
cruciality. That is also a part of the little depth the story gives us.
Thus, the issue of good and evil surfaces in the film in how battle is
a balancing aspect of the life each side's lives.

Of course since this film is trying to appeal to the general audience,
a certain degree of love and romance is involved. The love and romance
of this film is actually not all-so-bad, although I am not quite found
of. However, it brings a little strength into the issue of choice of
life Ghost must endear.

I think "Pathfinder" lives up to its own introduction, "Legend."
Therefore, it is filmed as such, an old legend. The film-makers saw it
as such, and they wanted to let us see it too. I know I did. The
dialogue(s) is not the perfect one, but must resemble the simplicity of
older times. I do not think this is the greatest film ever made;
however, it is a well made film which I think people will enjoy its
little story, if they can go past the neo-ideology and "what's the
point?" issue.
<|_=00=_|>
Nipsel and company basically hybridized the structure of Dances with
Wolves with a not-quite-historical fiction (more like radical
speculation) plot about interactions between Norsemen and Native
Americans during the 12th century A.D.

Ghost (Karl Urban) is a Norse boy left behind aboard a wrecked ship. He
is adopted by the Clan of the Dog (the dogs who cohabitate with this
tribe are historically inaccurate, but that's just one of many
historical transgressions). As he grows up, Ghost's obvious difference
and his history become something of a stumbling block for him, but he
works hard to overcome them in order to be accepted by his adoptive
people. Eventually, it seems, he must confront the demons of his past,
and unfortunately, so must the Clan of the Dog.

Pathfinder is played well by Russell Means, and Ghost's love interest -
Starfire - is nicely portrayed by Moon Bloodgood. Urban has great
physical talent, but this story did not lend itself to testing his
ability to create drama and mood, so there isn't much to say about his
performance. Likewise, most of the Norse characters were so
under-developed and one-dimensional that it is impossible to comment on
the performances involved.

Although the story relies on stereotypes to develop both its Norse and
Native American characters, since so little is actually known about the
Norse colonies, this seems forgivable. What is not really forgivable,
in my opinion, is the reiteration of the trope established in Dances
with Wolves and other similar works which suggests that it takes a
European to effectively fight off Europeans. Although the
characterizations of the protagonists in both films are adequate to
explain their behavior, the character and behavior of the Native
Americans attached to them is less well developed, and there is a
lingering, inaccurate and disturbing shadow of inferiority implied in
their apparent inability to strategize and effectively lead in combat.

However, Pathfinder refuses to touch reality with any length of pole,
so, sit back and enjoy the action, costumes and sets.

The film contains a lot of violence, most of which is convincingly
shot. The costuming is excellent, and the sets are lovely. if you can
get past the problems - which are several - you may just enjoy it.
<|_=00=_|>
Pathfinder was not nearly as bad as many people are making it out to
be. True, the editing was mediocre at best, with the seasons clearly
out of whack. There were some pretty odd incongruencies with language
as well. The filmmakers relied on some trite Native American imagery
and stereotypes...

But Pathfinder was obviously never about the plot or silly Viking
outfits. Ultimately I think the filmmakers wanted to impress upon the
viewers the starkness of the landscape of "uncivilized" North America,
and how the people who lived there survived. One of the best lines in
the movie is delivered when Ghost tells his lady friend that the
Vikings know eternal winter, but "don't know our spring." I think the
movie, in its own kind of botched way, did a good job conveying the
awe, reverence and fear that the people who lived in N.A. had for the
seasons and the natural environment.
<|_=00=_|>
Based on a 1987 Norwegian film, "Pathfinder" stars Karl Urban as Ghost,
a young Viking who was raised by a tribe of Native Americans after
being left behind by his Viking father after a raid on the new world.
Years later, a new set of Vikings set foot on their land, and Ghost
feels obliged to defend his foster people.

While the film's acting overall is as frigid as the environment, and
that the actors are playing no more than stock characters where,
"Pathfinder" makes no pretense in presenting itself as a
more-brawn-than-brain kind of film.

Granted it's perhaps the case, but the direction of Marcus Nispel is
heavily uninspired. Whereas recent films like Mel Gibson's "Apocalypto"
and Zack Snyder's "300" prove that a film with minimal plot can have
its moments if it can build up on tension and sustain a viewer's
attention, "Pathfinder" fails to do so. Action scenes are at most
moderately entertaining and lacks a kind of punch that would elevate it
into a cinematic status. Attempts to impart emotions fall flat and
there's no chemistry between Urban and Moon Bloodgood who plays the the
obligatory role of the female sidekick.

Overall, "Pathfinder" is a film sorely lacking in impact, that it would
leave the viewer in the cold more than it would excite.
<|_=00=_|>
This was quite possible the worst movie I have ever seen. Ridiculous
plot, no character development, absurdly unbelievable: this film gives
up on the suspension of disbelief about 5 minutes into it. Sure, it has
some decent action and cinematography, but as a whole, this movie is a
joke. A hilarious joke. I can best describe it as an hour and a half of
Walker: Texas Ranger blended with Army of Darkness and a sprinkle of
randomness.

Here is the plot: insane, genocidal Vikings with apparently nothing
better to do in Scandinavia sail to America to trash the place and kill
wantonly. Unlike the Vikings of history, who at least targeted plunder
to make their raiding worthwhile, these bad guys just like to destroy
stuff: baskets of cranberries, Native American women, whatever. This
guy "Ghost," (cleverly named for his pale skin) who is himself a
Viking, embarks upon a quest for vengeance upon the evil Vikings,
because he identifies more with the natives than his former people.
Along the way, a random retarded native decides to follow him in his
quest and gets killed, for no apparent purpose. The love interest also
tags along, occasionally helping, and this old native "The Pathfinder,"
who is apparently some sort of badass, shows up to provide some wisdom
("If you cannot defeat the bear, use the bear's strength against him.")
and also to get killed. The inexplicably idiotic Vikings then take
Ghost as a guide to the next village, presumably to wreak more
senseless destruction. Ghost tricks them into getting caught under an
avalanche, and everyone lives happily ever after. The End.

Sound pitiful? That's because it is. I must say, however, that the
final scene of the movie is so overwhelmingly cliché that I honestly
laughed the entire walk from my seat in theatre to my car in the
parking lot--a distance of about 200 yards. It was that laughable.

That said, I do not regret seeing the movie, as it isn't often that one
gets to view a serious contender for the worst movie of his life. Hope
this helps.
<|_=00=_|>
If you went to see the movie expecting something like Mel Gibson's
Apocalypto, you will be disappointed obviously. But why would you
expect it to be Apocalypto if you've seen the trailer? It tells a
mythical tale of a legendary Norseman who was raised by native
Americans. They called him ghost. And it's this ghost who ended up
protecting the tribes from the destruction of the Viking Clang who
shared the same lineage with him. The plot line is just that simple.
What kept me entertained was the action sequence, absolutely stunning
cinematography and the overall presentation and atmosphere. The overall
tune of the movie is dark, mythical and menacing, fit perfectly well
for the theme. Vikings are presented more like beast than man, with
giant statue and equally ghastly giant armors and weapons.

Some may argue that the vikings in this movie kill senselessly without
any purpose. Does having a purpose makes evil more sensible? I have
good news for people who are looking for reasons behind evil: they all
have purposes and reasons, so don't waste time seeking one for them.
Bad news for you: it absolutely makes no difference! Throughout human
history, all aggressors had plenty of reasons to invade, ravish and
destroy other culture and lives, the list goes from Vikings to
Hitler... and it will probably go on forever. But does having reasons
and purposes to kill make the killing more sensible? Absolutely not.

In this movie, Vikings are symbolic evil. Giving it a reason to kill
doesn't make any differences as I stated above: they all have reasons,
pick one and get over with it. On the other hand, the movie was trying
to suggest that not only there's this battle of good and evil going on
in the physical world, there's also a battle of hate and love in one's
heart. When asked: who would won, Ghost was given the answer: the one
you feed the most. It's a very interesting theme that I wish the
director would explore a little bit deeper. But in the end, violence
prevailed the screen time. The thought of inner struggle and loftier
redemption was lost in the midst of killing and vengeance. No sin was
forgiven and no bad deeds went unpunished. Though it's a more
satisfying end, but a shallow one.

Overall, I enjoyed the movie for what it is. I'm not looking for
complicated plot nor deeper character development. For an action movie,
its visually stunning, fast paced and immersing. It kept me interested
throughout the 90 minutes and left me pondering about some unfulfilled
premises. It's not as bad as some have painted it to be.
