
Horrible cardboard acting. Silly plot line. The characters are
obviously idiots who should know better -- even if they moved the
initial 500 hits of ecstasy at $40 a piece, that's still only $20k.
Minus whatever the boss' cut is, there's no way they could live as
large as they seem to be. This film is a total joke -- basically an
after-school special with swearing. I couldn't find myself caring about
any of the characters or their problems. How anyone thought this movie
was a good idea is beyond me. How it actually got made is even further
beyond my comprehension. The 10-star review by indiefan looks to be
from someone associated with the production...I can't imagine anyone
else who could appreciate this.
<|_=00=_|>
Contrary to what most of the posts state here, there is NO WAY this
film is a 10. Those people obviously worked on the film or are friends
of the director. It WAS an engrossing tale, one that has been told a
million times in cinema, but I give the director credit for trying a
fresh approach. 

People have been getting caught up in the tempting world of drugs on
film for decades, only to have their dreams of quick cash and instant
cred go up in a ball of flames. But this time, director Dave Rodriguez
took a bunch of no-name actors, made them middle-class working stiffs,
and gave the old story a modern twist. The three central characters,
Joe (Lindberg), Kevin (Forsythe) and Mickey (DePaolo) are all life-long
buddies who have taken different career paths. Kevin is a commodities
trader, Joe (who resembles Giovanni Ribisi) a bartender, and Mickey (a
dead ringer for a young Kevin Spacey) a salesman; all of them dream of
a better life. So when Mickey picks up a bag of Ecstasy dropped by a
dealer as he was getting busted at a club, they start to talk about
making a quick score. But the drugs belong to the local "X" kingpin,
Paul Diaz (Sanchez), who is like a little Tony Montana, right down to
his 2nd in charge named Manny. Not wanting to get busted selling HIS
stuff, the boys go to Diaz' house and offer a deal: let them sell the
stuff- they have plenty of connections- and they push hard to do it.
After some debate, Diaz agrees, over Manny's objections, and the clock
starts ticking to their implosion. 

Of course they start out like gangbusters,slinging "X" all over the
place, especially in Miami's gay clubs, thanks to Kevin's friend Toni
(a hilarious turn by "Entourage"s Paul Ben-Victor). Things are going
great; they're all making cash AND paying Diaz on time, so they start
to think bigger: Kevin wants to leave his job after making some large
investments, and push full-time; Mickey is becoming a hero with the
teen rave crowd and trusting too many people under him; and Joe has
dreams of getting out soon and buying the bar when the owner Vince
(Palminteri) retires.

Here's where the flick starts to sag a bit. Everyone watching knows
what's coming- it's going to end badly. But we are treated to numerous
scenes of "emotional heft" that were, frankly, pretty amateurish. When
Joe's girlfriend confronts him about sleeping with Diaz to get Joe out
of the biz, their crying almost brought me to tears- of laughter. Kevin
also becomes an emotional wreck, unconvincingly. This was when the
solid but inexperienced cast looked over-matched, which brought down
the rating of the film.

Anyway, not to spoil it but it doesn't end well for the boys, and it
tells a cautionary tale of not going for the quick buck to sacrifice
your whole life. Like I said, nothing new there. But the
cinematography, Miami backdrop, and decent if not spectacular
performances all made it a film worth watching. Oh, and Michael
Rappaport was great as the big time trader with a major drug problem
and an attitude.
<|_=00=_|>
The reviews here seem to be divided between those who consider "Push" a
10-star masterpiece and those who say it's total garbage. First of all,
there's no way in hell this movie rates 10 stars. I can't imagine why
anyone would rank it that highly; and yes, one does wonder whether some
of the more enthusiastic reviewers were involved with the production in
some way.

But I'm just as baffled by those who panned it top to bottom and gave
it the lowest possible rating. If "Push" is one of the worst films
these folks have seen, then I'm sorry, but they're simply not watching
enough bad movies. Much of the plot is predictable or silly, and the
sets and settings are limited and unimaginative, but the atmosphere is
enjoyably tense throughout (helped by excellent, nervous editing), and
the script is, for the most part, sharp and tight. There's quite a bit
of overacting---the cast may have watched "Scarface" one too many
times---but it never falls below professional level. No Pacinos here,
but a talented young cast doing a solid job.

I found "Push" in the local bargain bin for $2, and fully expected to
watch it (or part of it) once, then sell it back to the store for a
buck. Instead, I'm keeping it.
<|_=00=_|>
I have never seen so many enthusiastic responses that were obviously
staged when the film first came out in 2006 - LOL had a good laugh with
them. The film had its merits, a decent attempt at a crime/drug
thriller but what bothered me was the source - are there really people
like this - have decent jobs, great girlfriends, lives seem together
and accidentally find some drugs and then track down the big time
dealers to offer their services? That's a serious WTF moment right
there! I know some folks idolize the bad guys but usually they are
impoverished and see it as a way out. Well to do folks that dabble in
crime are in it for the thrill but go about it smarter. If they had
come from a different angle it might have been more plausible. Chad
Lindberg from Fast and the Furious tried hard in his role but I kept
seeing the vulnerable character he played in that film. Chazz
Palminteri did great as usual in a small role, but would have been
better as the bad guy. Michael Rappaport was excellent as usual and
Charlotte Ayanna while gorgeous, needs some acting lessons as much as
the rest of the unknown cast does. Decent attempt at Drama but filled
with so many script, acting, editing, and production flaws I would have
sent them back to the lab!
<|_=00=_|>
All we wanted was a decent movie to watch on Sunday. The only reason I
gave this 2 stars was for Chazz Palminteri. He is a great actor and is
the only thing good about this movie. The other acting is ... I don't
know how else to explain it... crap. I came on this site hoping it
would indicate the actors were given the story and script minutes
before filming. I would have felt better if it had been impromptu...
not much better, but better than I do now. It was frustrating to watch
and the characters were unbelievable... and I mean I could not identify
or feel empathy/compassion for any of them - except Chazz' character.
Are some people really as stupid as they seemed to be in this movie??
<|_=00=_|>
Having watched over 800 movies from past few years (don't
ask.blockbuster / netflex unlimited rental for flat price).....

I have to say...anyone who rated this movie more than a 5 star is an
absolute nut....

This moving is got to be the lower button 10% list....

I see no exciting drug/sex or fast money sense as promised.... and not
enough suspense to make this interesting. Not enough action to make
this interesting. Not enough sex to make this interesting. I mean....I
do watch and enjoy variety of movies but I can't seem to put a category
on this movie (it just fail on funny, suspense) a crime movie maybe?
And that was it. No way a normal person would rate this film 5 or more
stars.

Unfortunately. My advice is to Stay away.
<|_=00=_|>
After reading some of these other comments rating this film good and
even great with good acting, I am absolutely convinced that people
associated with this film are installing these comments. I can
understand people having differing opinions. But this movie was flat
out horrible, and the acting was some kind of joke. It was like a bunch
of high school kids made this movie. I almost never make comments
unless I see something so bad or so great that I need to vent my
feelings for spending the 2 hours. This movie was that bad. The film is
so ridiculous it could be used as comedy or camp ranking right down
there with Reefer madness and ShowGirls.
<|_=00=_|>
I Sat in anticipation of this film expecting to be entertained but
sadly that was not to be. I found the camera work to be very jerky at
the start and during the film which did not add to any aspect of the
film. the sound where characters were sat in a room sounded like the
mic man had the mic set on echo and again did not add anything to the
film. music was good if that is to your taste and the storyline I found
to be predictable. overall I did not enjoy this film and now have to
find a way of gaining the two hours of my life wasted watching it,
maybe I will go to be two hours later tonight and watch Kill Bill
again.
<|_=00=_|>
I remember hearing the arguments of "The Godfather" vs "Goodfellas".
"The Godfather" is a gangster fairy tale. "Goodfellas" is gutty and
real. I've seen "The Godfather" twice. I've watched "Goodfellas" at
least 10 times.

Perhaps this movie is to "Goodfellas" what "Scarface" is to "The
Godfather" "Scarface" was a drug dealer fairy tale. "Push" does have
some rather stylish bad guys. But this movie has a very real gritty
feel to it, ordinary Joe's selling drugs and what happens to a group of
life long friends when the fast money and fast drugs comes into their
lives.

I'll be interested in seeing Dave Rodriguez's next movies.
<|_=00=_|>
all the other reviews here were written by the production team. this
movie is just that pathetic. bad acting, worthless plot, no logic....
they should have just played the soundtrack to a black screen with the
words XTC is cool on it. that would convey the same idea. alas i bet
the ritilin generation will love this "movie" (read: feces) because it
has shiny lights. im assuming this was produced by some coked up
Hollywood idiot. which explains how they sell x for 40 / pill. guess
what. no one has payed that much in a decade. 

please don't watch this. 

please.
