
I saw this film at the New Orleans premiere and found it to be an
interesting spectacle that I largely enjoyed watching. I'm writing to
let the public know that the numbers look strange at this point
(September 17, 2006). Why? Nearly 20% of the votes have been in the 1-3
range (which would rate this film to be in the ranks of the worst low
budget films ever made). One voter has commented that he did not see
the film, but hates Sean Penn's politics so he won't see it and will
give the film a 1 just to spite Penn. At the same time, nearly half of
the votes give the film a perfect 10. I don't think that the polarized
ratings to date reflect careful attempts to rate the film. Perhaps
that's often the case with IMDb. I suggest taking them with a grain of
salt for the time being and deciding for yourself if you are interested
in the film.
<|_=00=_|>
The critics slammed this movie and I loved it. Shame on the critics.

I love movies that transport me to an exotic place and a distant time.
"All the King's Men" lushly recreates mid-century Louisiana. There's a
lot of money up on the screen, beautifully lit and photographed:
vintage, boat-like automobiles, forties and fifties fashions and
fabrics, Spanish moss, ante-bellum mansions, a bronze bas relief map of
Louisiana, set in a floor, that is put to amazing use.

There's a scene where a young woman returns from an illicit tryst in
dim light. Her hair ripples to her shoulders in honey blonde waves. Her
plump lips are painted, matte, in the color of dried blood. Her jilted
lover, his fedora slung low on his forehead, stands in silhouette,
watching her every move. Neither speaks.

In another scene, a backlit woman enters a bar and places her white
cotton gloves over her hand.

Just, lovely scenes that capture another era.

I'm a political junkie, so I went to see this movie in spite of the bad
reviews. It didn't let me down. It's a political soap opera from the
first frame to the last.

Deals cut in smoke filled rooms, double crosses, fiery speeches to
enthralled crowds. I ate it up.

The stars! Sean Penn, Jude Law, Kate Winslet, Kathy Baker, James
Gandolfini...Jackie Earle Haley, someone I'd never heard of before, was
memorable as a gun toting body guard.

Sean Penn's performance has been panned - too much arm waving. I loved
the arm waving. Penn's arm waving doesn't come across as forced or
inorganic. This is a man who can barely contain himself -- he's a human
tornado. The historical figure with whom Penn's character, Willy Stark,
is associated, Huey Long, was a powerhouse builder of bridges,
hospitals, and roads. Penn conveys that kinetic energy and passion.

And the script! Thank God someone was willing to write a script in
which people take some risks with language, communicate complex ideas,
employ figures of speech! Heavens! In a movie in which nothing explodes
and no cartoon superhero saves the world! I loved having to listen to
what people were saying to know what was going on. I loved the flowery
language. This is the South, after all, from several decades ago, and,
yeah, those folks did love their language skills.

Another reviewer denounced the film's score as bombastic. It is
bombastic, wonderfully so. It suits the subject matter perfectly. This
isn't a movie about a shrinking violet who sits at home and writes
poetry; it's a movie about a sweaty man who takes power and makes his
mark.

Okay, so why didn't I give the movie ten stars? Sean Penn's character
is fully realized, but the other characters are not. "All the King's
Men" is a big, fat soap opera. There's a lot of sex, threats, lust,
longing, suicide, and betrayal to fit into two hours. The film should
have been longer so that characters other than Willy could have been
fleshed out.

Patricia Clarkson is a case in point. Her character sets some key
events in motion, but she's barely there -- either the character or the
actress.

Anthony Hopkins comes across as just that -- Anthony Hopkins -- not the
character he is playing. While everyone else does their best to produce
a Southern accent, Hopkins insists on speaking with a British accent,
and this sticks out like a sore thumb.

Kate Winslet and Mark Ruffalo are meant to be, like Blanche Dubois,
representatives of degenerate Southern aristocracy, but they both seem
entirely too robust to be degenerating.

Jude Law is better in a similar role as a member of the fading
aristocratic class. Law always seems to do well in roles where he is
punished by, rather than enjoys, his beauty. Just so here. Too bad
that, in key scenes, Hopkins doesn't create any chemistry with him.

The lack of development of secondary characters -- and everyone,
compared to Willie Stark, is secondary here -- made the film oddly
emotionally unmoving to me. Again, there are scenes that contain the
kind of elements that might have packed an emotional wallop that left
me dry eyed.

Willy Stark's rise to power is built on the poverty of the citizens of
Louisiana. The movie didn't convey that poverty to me. According to one
website devoted to Huey Long, Lousiana had three hundred miles of paved
road, two bridges, and high illiteracy rates when Long took office. If
true, those stats are startling.

Finally, something else was missing, for me. Whenever one observes a
charismatic politician, there is always the question: Does he really
care about the people? Or is he just addicted to the adulation? I never
had that question about Sean Penn's Willy Stark, as I do about, say,
Bill Clinton. Willy Stark, here, is imperfect, but sincere. He wants to
help his people.
<|_=00=_|>
If there was one film in 2006 that suffered because of hype and rather
uninformed critics, this would be it. First, the magazines played it up
because of the all-star cast and fantastic source. Then, all of sudden,
the nation's movie critics decided it wasn't what it was cracked up to
be, and piled on it. One problem with the critics is that many of them
clearly have not read the book. Richard Roeper complained in his
newspaper review, for example, that the movie never shows you how Stark
went from bad to good. Well, having reread the book in anticipation of
the movie, I can state emphatically that that is because the book never
explains it. Take your pick critics: is your criticism going to be that
it's unfaithful or that it followed the book? Furthermore, the move is
NOT a remake. The original All The King's Men movie, no matter how good
it was, focused the story on Willie Stark. The real story (and this
version) is focused on Jack Burden (which is why the whole backstory
with Anne Stanton is thrown-in). To call it a remake shows how
self-centered Hollywood can be (as fans of Brokeback Mountain are no
doubt ruefully aware).

Now, what I thought of the actual movie: first and foremost, Sean Penn
gives a absolutely brilliant performance, one of the best I've ever
seen. I saw a Huey Long documentary a couple month before the movie,
and Sean Penn evokes him magnificently. The scene where Willie Stark is
stumping the state is simply film-making brilliance, as are his several
hauntingly shot speeches. Jude Law gives a fine performance, as do all
the supporting actors, especially Patricia Clarkson, who nails Sadie
Burke. Some people had a problem with the accents, but I thought that
Jude Law and Kate Winslet did adequate impressions and did not lose
anything for it. And of course, the power of Warren's story shines
through the whole movie. I do not personally know anyone who did not
really like the movie.

Why did it not work with people? I'd say two reasons: first,
first-person narrated classics are notoriously difficult to translate
to film. Another example that comes to mind is The Great Gatsby, which
has a similarly detached narrator, and did not succeed despite Robert
Redford, Mia Farrow, Karen Black and Sam Waterston among the ensemble.
Second, to be brutally honest, if your favorite films are normally
comedies or horror movies, you won't like this kind of movie.

All I can say is that I am surprised and somewhat astonished at the
negative piling on. For any moviegoer who likes an epic story of
humanity and politics in their harsh reality, All The King's Men is a
must-see.
<|_=00=_|>
Being from Louisiana I really enjoyed this movie. The acting was great
and the story was entertaining. As others have stated, the accents are
not done well. In fact there are more than a few characters who don't
even try to imitate a southern accent, for which I am very grateful. I
am quite sick of actors trying to portraying a southerner by speaking
as if all the teeth were removed and the brain has been lobotomized.
Others have complained about a boring script to which I completely
disagree. This is not a fast-paced movie but it keeps the story moving
and the dialogue is fresh. The slow periods give you time to pause and
let the previous scene sink in, while also giving the viewer the
opportunity to absorb the ambiance of the scenes. The people in this
movie are portrayed as they really were in the 1940's and 50's. There
is no surprise hidden here. Although this movie is based on the book of
the same name, neither are factual of Huey Long and his legacy. These
stories are loosely based on a person, with a few facts thrown in for
recognition, but not for historical purposes. I applaud the entire cast
and crew for their great efforts in bringing this movie to fruition.
This is what entertainment is all about and it shows a little of the
corruption that existed (and some would say still exists) in Louisiana
politics of the past.

Go into this movie with an open mind and you will find yourself
entertained and pleased with the whole experience.
<|_=00=_|>
A door-to-door salesman, Willie Stark (Sean Penn), is a straightforward
man with decent morals and a commitment to the common weal. Such a
winning profile is quickly spotted by political hucksters who
disingenuously persuade him to stand for Louisiana State Governor
simply to split the opposition vote. Stark gets wise to this attempt to
use him as a pawn and, in a dramatic turnabout, throws away a prepared
speech and appeals to the people, declaring himself a 'hick among the
hicks' who will stand up for the commoners' needs. Once made Governor,
he does indeed set about popular reform programs, also hiring reporter
Jack Burden (Jude Law) to dig dirt on anyone who stands in his way.
Jack, unfortunately, comes from the wrong (well-heeled) side of town
and soon finds his loyalties torn when Judge Irwin (Anthony Hopkins)
refuses to publicly support Stark. Jack also has some unpleasant
surprises in store as he is reunited with childhood friends Adam
Stanton, a determinedly unmaterialistic character who doesn't want to
be in anyone's pocket, and his luscious sister Anne (Kate Winslet),
both of whom are tangling in different ways with Willie Stark before
very long. This is a towering story set in the deep south, amid
sweltering ideals and where goodness only comes out of the dirt - which
means that everyone has some dirt on them somewhere.

All the King's Men is quality, heavyweight cinema with outstanding
performances backed up by very professional direction and
cinematography. Penn sets the standard, delivering one of his most
moving demonstrations of carefully chiselled acting skills but, aided
by a tight script and editing that doesn't waste a frame, every other
actor also seems to be giving it their all in every frame. At well over
two hours, it kept my attention all the way through, and a score by
Oscar-winning composer James Horner served only to underline how
effectively all these top talents are assembled.

Having given All the King's Men such accolades, you might think I'd be
struggling to find fault with it but, although many of the elements
might individually be worthy of an Oscar, my overall impression was
that the film showcases a lot of remarkable talent rather than putting
it to its finest use.

This is the second time Robert Penn Warren's book has been made into a
major movie, yet we might wonder if much of the subtle analysis that
space allows an author is being woefully denied filmmakers because of
time restraints. Although the movie is to be congratulated for not
using a trowel to lay on contemporary analogies about political power,
corruption and oil, some character development in other morally
ambiguous areas would not have gone amiss. Did power finally corrupt
Willie Stark, and how far did he go in using criminals to further his
beneficial public works? Penn creates a powerful figure, but the story,
for all its tension, remains sadly predictable. The title is never
clearly explained in the film, although it can elsewhere be attributed
to a motto used by real life Governor Huey Long (on whom the story is
arguably based): "Every Man a King" - which was part of a Share Our
Wealth program of heavy taxation for wealthy individuals and
corporations. In 1929, Long had called a special session of the
legislature so as to enact a five-cent per barrel 'occupational license
tax' on production of refined oil, in order to help fund social
programs. What would originally have been complex trade-offs between a
rich elite and an impoverished, post- Great Depression lower class, is
in the movie reduced to high-sounding truisms about ideals and finding
things of value. The rhetoric, forcefully delivered (as it is here) is
an actor's dream, but although the story is beautifully and
dramatically told, it lacks enough surprises, is heavy with the
gravitas of its own self-importance, and may tempt some audiences
simply to exclaim, 'So what'? Reading up on the background can supply a
context that gives All the King's Men greater depth, but as
entertainment it is a tour-de-force that is at the same time slightly
unsatisfying.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved the book and have taught it every year to my AP students. We've
been excited to see the film and have had big hopes for it. I find the
1949 film nearly impossible to watch, because they made so many changes
to really critical parts of the book. 

I think this movie will be a great addition to my DVD collection to
help establish setting and so on for future AP English classes. 

The script keeps lots of the dialogue, images, and the looping
storytelling from the text I understand the compressions they needed to
do--and they generally worked. 

The acting was powerful: lots of nuances from Jude Law, Sean Penn, Kate
Winslet, Anthony Hopkins, and the rest. I saw reviews busting on Law
for being so beautiful--a tragedy we share, of course--but honestly, I
thought he did well at getting to the heart of Jack. 

It really helped me to see the locations where they filmed: the
statehouse, Burden's Landing, Mason City, and more. 

My one quibble is the ending-- I love the book because it tells a tale
of redemption, of making things right, of reconciliation--I think the
film hints at it, but doesn't quite get there.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw the New Orleans premiere of this movie, and my friends and I all
thought it was amazing. The way it was written by Zaillian (straight
off of the book, not an adaptation of the previous movie) was great.
And the cinematography added so much to it. Sean Penn is an amazing
actor, and that really shows through in the role of Willie Stark. It
was kind of funny to watch Anthony Hopkins use an extremely bad
Louisiana-British accent. I am a fan of history, so lots of little
things worked their way in to amuse me. And seeing New Orleans things
and knowing right where they are was a great thing. I recommend people
go see this movie, as I plan to go again on Friday when it opens
officially.
<|_=00=_|>
I was fortunate enough to catch the premiere of this movie and I am
endlessly pleased that I did so.

There have been comments about the miscasting, but from what I have
seen, this is mostly relating the movie to the original. All of the
people that I talked to said that they liked it and that the actors
portrayed the people really well. These comments came from natives of
New Orleans.

The movie itself is gripping throughout most of the some 2 hours. The
visual and auditory effects do a great deal to enhance the story. It is
evident that the actors put a lot of passion into their roles and the
fact that they returned to New Orleans for the premiere shows that a
part of them went into the movie.

All in all, the cast is great, the sound is great, the movie is great.
<|_=00=_|>
Steven Zaillian wrote "The Interpreter", one of the most improbable
screenplays of last season. This, a remake of a very good movie, he
wrote and directed, and it's a meticulous Southern soap opera buoyed by
terrific performances from Sean Penn, Kate Winslet, Jude Law and James
Galdolfini. Though a period piece, it proves that what we learn from
history is we don't learn from history. A tale of the haves (oil men
and the judiciary, ably repped by Anthony Hopkins here)) working like
heck to keep the have-nots in their place, it is more relevant today
than it ever was. Penn plays a naive traveling salesman who rises to
the position of "Governor of Louisiana" after he taps into the
prevailing zeitgeist. Naturally, his efforts to improve the lot of the
working man fall foul of big business interests, so Penn is forced to
solicit an ally with the assistance of well connected Jude Law. Films
about political machinations are as common as bums, but this rises
above its weary brethren by focusing on the personal agendas of its
players and wisely sitting on the fence with regard to Mr. Penn's true
motives. It takes a while to work through the gears, but once it's
cruising, it's a pretty thrilling ride and possesses a refreshing
European sensibility in its more intimate encounters. Photography by
Pawel Edelman, who shot "The Pianist", serves the material perfectly.
Solid, old-fashioned picture making and a jolly good show.
<|_=00=_|>
Contrary to some of the bad reviews out there, this is a good film. Not
great but an enjoyable ambitious yarn that suggests just enough to make
you think. It does have grave defects which I put entirely at
Zaillian's feet, but it is worth your while to see it.

First off, the film is perfectly coherent. I did not read the book but
I had no trouble following the story or the time shifts. What it lacks
is cohesiveness (more on that later).

The actors' accents were not distracting to me. I can't tell a
Louisiana accent any way so for me, accents are not a big deal.
Differences between Penn's and Law's accents and delivery are actually
an asset because they reinforce their class differences. If there's a
problem here, it's that some of the actors don't even try to sound
Southern at all (Winslet and Hopkins). Hopkins started out with some
sort of Southern drawl and then gave it up altogether later. But as I
say, it's not a big deal for me.

Next, THE GOOD STUFF: 

-- I am a fan of Jude Law and for me, his sardonic, sly take on Jack
Burden is the best thing in this movie, though I have to say his
efforts are undermined later on by the inexplicable script (more
later). Law is an honest, gifted and clever performer, and he plays his
Burden as an outside observer whose idealism is used as an excuse for
moral irresponsibility. Burden is drawn like a moth to Stark's flame
and he lays aside his scruples in Stark's service (but it is not clear
whether Burden had scruples to begin with or whether he lost them with
Stark). Law makes you sense Burden's growing self-hate and hints that
what he actually resents is his privileged heritage. You also sense
that somehow the key to Burden lies in his blighted relations with Anne
Stanton, but this is under-developed as well. Law gives a thoughtful
controlled performance. Sadly the story does not give it more
substance.

-- The film looks beautiful; each scene is gorgeous. Trouble is, the
scenes don't quite flow and the film feels oddly static.

-- This is NOT a message movie. It doesn't offer easy answers. Instead,
it does make you think and ask questions. On the other hand, I am not
sure what exactly it's trying to say and what questions it intends to
raise.

THE BAD: 

-- Sean Penn is miscast. I actually like the actor. I don't agree with
his politics but they don't bother me. However, he is wrong here. He is
supposed to the a man of the people and a natural leader, but that's
where he is least convincing. In his public speeches, he is a one-trick
pony, playing off people's anger at the establishment and nothing more.
But there should be more, shouldn't there, something that makes people
including Burden love him? Also, Penn's over-the-top gesticulation may
be true to Huey Long, but they are distracting on screen. In the
private scenes, Penn is fine, excellent even. He suggests the insecure
little guy, the loser at heart that knows deep down he's out of his
league. But then that has always been Penn's forte.

-- The script *SPOILER* -- this is by far the gravest defect. It's as
though Zaillian could not decide whether to tell Stark's story or
Burden's story. He ends up with both and succeeds with neither. You
don't see at all how power corrupts Stark. One day he is a clean-living
guy, passionate about advancing the causes of the poor. The next he's
having affairs and taking bribes. With Burden, you don't see why he
should do the things he does for Stark. When his actions killed the man
closest to him, he merely shrugged it off and explained it in a
voice-over. It is exasperating There are hints about his thwarted
relations with Anne, but this is left frustratingly vague. Why did Anne
end up with Stark? Was it to get back at Jack? Why did Adam get tangled
with Stark in the first place? There's not enough in the film to
indicate anything. I suspect much of the story ended up on the cutting
room floor because Zaillian bit off more than he could chew.
