
Highly enjoyable film. Nary a dull moment as Diego, Sid and Manny find
their way through the meltdown. The peril found in the first Ice Age
movie was not duplicated here. The danger wasn't as imminent due to the
fact that the meltdown is partly a blessing, while the ice age itself
was all bad. A subtle flaw but not something the creators could avoid
unless they wanted to make a "Mid-Ice Age" movie. How the tribe
survived multiple thousands of years is not addressed, but who cares?
Maybe they were actually living on the ecuator in the first movie and
the ice caps just reached them in the final years of the ice age. A
decade later, the climate warms up and causes the mixed emotions found
in Ice Age II. The central theme of friendship in spite of differences
and the humor found in trying situations plays well. Overcominging
fears in the face of danger is a prominent theme. Jokes fly fast and
furious for all ages. And the proto-squirrel steals our hearts with his
absolute devotion to caching acorns. A strong production for Twentieth
Century Fox.
<|_=00=_|>
Similar to the first Ice Age, the promotional material for the sequel
was out in the theatres way in advance, and courtesy of the Scrat
character too, up to its usual antics of getting to that elusive acorn.
Here, Scrat opens the movie, and emulating the style of the first, he
provides most of the laughs, also as an intermission from the actual
scenes from the main cast.

Our gang of prehistoric animals are back - Manny the Mammoth (voiced by
Ray Romano), Sid the Sloth (John Leguizamo) and Diego the Sabre-tooth
Tiger (Denis Leary). We learn that Sid has gone into the early
childhood business, educating the young minds of pre-historic brats.
However, I felt that this movie was somehow darker in tone than the
original. While the original was one which dealt with hope, this one
had its setting in extinction, disaster and death.

The valley which they live in is threatened by the melting ice, no
thanks to global warming. So all the animals embark on a journey to
salvation, to that rumored ark which will save them from the massive
floods to come. Along the way, our trio meets up with another trio of
characters, who were added to expand the cast, featuring 2 Possums
Crash (Seann William Scott) and Eddie (Josh Peck), and another, but
female, mammoth (Queen Latifah).

Needless to say, Manny's still anti-social, and Diego can't get along
with those rascal possums who get on his nerves, and Sid's the
"philosopher" ever providing the laughs. Various themes like romance
(hey, we got 2 mammoths here), friendship, trust, and believing in
oneself to overcome one's phobia get covered. Pretty wide scope, but
they manage to fit in place nicely.

The villains in this sequel are pretty nasty, besides the looming
natural disaster, we have two sea creatures with nasty teeth and
attitude, as well as menacing vultures ever ready to pounce on the
flesh of animals who have fallen.

But it's not all that bleak. Keep a lookout too for that mad sloth
song-and-dance sequence, which has potential to become the next ear
worm ala Madagascar's zany "you-got-to-move-it" song. The animation is
as usual, top notch, and I just can't get enough of the photo-realistic
ice and water landscape.

This is one piece of animation that doesn't rely too much on sight
gags, of spoofing current affairs, but one filled with more witty
dialogue and kept on an even keel with its interesting storyline.
Though at times it might feel clichéd, somehow it excelled in its
execution.

And that makes this sequel, as enjoyable as, if not better, than the
original. Recommended stuff this week!
<|_=00=_|>
I wanted to take my older kids to the movies for some family time. We
went and saw Ice Age Meltdown really for lack of something better to
see. (Looks like a bad year for movies again- on the bright side, we'll
save a couple hundred bucks.) I am pleased to say, I loved this movie.
I laughed so much and found it very enjoyable. It was much better than
the first one and I don't know if I've EVER said that about a movie.
The characters are witty and entertaining and Scrat gets a lot more
screen time in his plight for the great acorn. If you liked the first
Ice Age then seeing the sequel is completely risk free. A great film
for young and old alike. Enjoy! =)
<|_=00=_|>
Ever since Hollywood fully adopted computer animated family films,
there has been a great variance in quality. Some have been have great,
and others aren't worth the film they are printed on. Pixar continues
to set the bar with movies like Toy Story, Finding Nemo, and The
Incredibles. A lot of people complain that no other movies of this
genre are on par with Pixar. So what? Does that mean they are all bad
movies? Not at all. If Finding Nemo is the gold standard, then Ice Age
is the silver. The animation is beautiful, the characters are funny and
engaging, the story is fast paced and moving, and most of all it
deserves another follow up. The story centers around Manny the Mammoth,
Syd the Sloth, and Diego the Sabretooth Tiger, making their way out of
the great valley before the quickly thawing landscape floods the land.
Along the way they meet two possums, and a female Mammoth named Ellie
that thinks she is a possum. (Don't ask...you'll find out) They join
several other species as they make their way to "the boat" that will
carry them to safety when the great flood comes. They are also trying
to stay ahead of two fierce sea monsters that have already been thawed
from their icy prison. Also back is Scrat the Squirrel who continues in
his hunt for his beloved acorn. Will our heroes reach their
destination? Will Manny and Ellie find love? Will Scrat ever been
reunited with his prize acorn? Will Diego conquer his fear of water?
Will Syd ever find respect? Most importantly...will you and your family
enjoy this movie? Of course you will! This is an excellent family film
that mixes humor for both kids and adults. Some of the very young
children my be a little frightened during the sea monster attacks, but
it will by no means induce nightmares. The characters are still
incredibly lovable, and the movie is very good at teaching the strength
of family and togetherness. It's better than the first movie on all
counts. My personal favorite scene has to do with Scrat vs. a school of
hungry piranhas. When Scrat falls in the water, the piranhas snatch his
acorn. Let's just say he does not take it well. This ranks high above
other recent CG animated movies like Madagascar and Doogle. Personally
I like the Ice Age films better than the two Shrek movies which I find
HIGHLY overrated. Both my kids and I hope there will be an Ice Age 3.
Is there any higher praise?
<|_=00=_|>
There are several aspects of this film that I found to be very
enjoyable: Its terrific animation, the delightful vocal performances of
all the actors involved, and its irresistible imaginative charm. John
Leguizamo shines as the heart of the movie, the sloth that inspires all
of us to have a good time and gives us hope that there is still some
imagination left in Hollywood. His creation and very talented vocal
turn perfectly interacts with the other actors' styles. Romano's
deadpan delivery this time has found the heart that it sorely missed
last time, when it was a just boring attempt to leave his character
with no personality. Romano has now found the essence of Manny and has
some fun with it. He compliments Queen Latifah's lovely and goofy
Ellie. Leary's Diego is not the showiest turn, but he also has some
great moments.

In addition to the principals, the possums and the mini sloths are
welcome arrivals, and there are some wonderful moments of nutty
entertainment, as now computers can portray some truly wacky moments,
such as the Berkeley-inspired moment in the sacrificial fire pit and
the vulture "food" numbers.

This film is a throwback to what made classics such as "The Little
Mermaid" and "Beauty and The Beast" work: solid acting and a good
writing base. It's a commendable and admirable effort.
<|_=00=_|>
Scrat brought us the most laughter for his extremely positive attitude
towards getting an acorn. In a film, it is difficult to create a
memorable character with no lines. After laughing at Scrat's funny and
unsuccessful attempts, we need to reflect that life is a bumpy road and
we should not give up easily.

There are several humorous one-liners, as well as cliché phrases. Some
subtle; some blatantly obvious. We were probably smiling when one of
the possums was doing the Robert Deniro's famous gesture in 'Meet the
Fockers' (2004).

Suppose I am given a chance to delete a scene, I would probably pick
the vultures' musical scene. The musical scene seems awkward and does
not fit into the film nicely.

Interestingly, the voice actor of Scrat is Ice Age (2002) director,
Chris Wedge. However, he did not direct the sequel, Ice Age 2.

Mao points: 9/10
<|_=00=_|>
At first, "Ice Age: The Meltdown" looks like the inevitable sequel to
the famous 20th Century Fox animated blockbuster, trying to cash in the
success of the previous movie. Well, despite being exactly that, this
new adventure of the prehistoric mammals manages to stay on its own
legs and delivers nothing but great fun becoming a worthy sequel. That
alone is an achievement in its own right.

After some years living in peace in a new pack, our old friends Sid the
sloth (John Leguizamo), Manny the Mammoth (Ray Romano) and Diego the
Sabertooth tiger (Dennis Leary) discover that the ice is melting and a
flood will cover the valley they now call home. Soon they organize a
migration, but the trip won't be easy, specially for Manny, who begins
to believe that he is the last Mammoth on earth.

"The Meltdown" continues with the style of its predecessor both in
humor and animation, so those who fell in love with the original will
love the sequel too. The difference however, is in the fact that now
Manny is our main character. We get to know more about this character
apparently anti-social and cynic, but who in the inside feels very
lonely after the loss of his family. Sid and Diego make good sidekicks
in this adventure and while their roles in the film are somewhat
diminished, they still are very well-developed characters. Scrat, the
nut-obsessed squirrel is back too in his constant quest for his lost
nut, giving slapstick humor of the finest type in every scene he is in.

It is always hard for sequels to live up to the expectations, specially
in family-oriented animation films, but director Carlos Saldanha and
his team manage to make a funny movie that never gets boring or
tiresome (something vital as it is a movie mainly oriented for kids).

While probably the story is not exactly original or complicated,
writers Peter Gaulke and Gerry Swallow make up for it with good
character development and funny one-liners that fit the movie tone very
good. Two new characters, the young possums Crash (Sean William Scott)
and Eddie (Josh Peck) are a welcomed addition to the family, as well as
Ellie (Queen Latifah), the lost mammoth.

Ellie, Manny and their relationship is a very important subplot in the
movie, and one that was perfectly handled by the director and his crew.
While Diego's subplot was also interesting and served as basis for very
good jokes, it didn't had enough screen-time; a shame in my opinion,
but overall the movie was very good.

To summarize, fans of the first "Ice Age" won't be disappointed by "The
Meltdown", and sure the movie will give laughs to both kids and their
parents. While still not as good as the first one, this sequel breaks
the "sequel's curse" and is an entertaining film on its own right. 7/10
<|_=00=_|>
This is a lovely film. Great animation and a brilliant storyline for an
animation film!

The characters are all lovable and there are a few extremely funny
parts in it! Just little phrases and actions the characters do is
hilarious!

Ice Age: The Meltdown follows the animals on their journey to find dry
land when they discover that their lives are at risk if they stay put
due to the ice melting.......there are some little adventures and
discoveries along the way though!

If you have seen the first one you will like this and in case you are
wondering......he is still trying to get his nut!

I think it is a must see for all ages, not just children.
<|_=00=_|>
In 'Ice Age: The Meltdown' the gang is back. Manny (Ray Romano), Sid
(John Leguizamo), and Diego (Denis Leary) find themselves in a post-ice
age catastrophe. The ice is melting and they have to move the herd out
of the valley before it becomes a lake. Fortunately, they do not have
to worry about any carnivorous dinosaurs. They are all extinct, or are
they? This was a cute film worthy of the original. The kids will really
enjoy it. I thought the best part was that Scrat, the acorn-loving
rodent, has a larger role to play in this movie. Queen Latifah is also
really good as Ellie, the mammoth that thinks she is a possum.

I did think the original 'Ice Age' was a better movie, but this one is
pretty good.
<|_=00=_|>
Manny the woolly mammoth (voiced by Ray Romano), Sid the sloth (John
Leguizamo), and Diego (Dennis Leary) the saber-toothed tiger embark on
yet another journey in "Ice Age: Meltdown, "the sequel from the 2002
blockbuster by Blue Sky Studios and released by 20th Century Fox. This
time, ice is melting and a great flood is threatening to drown all
animals in the valley in three days, much to the delight of vultures
who are keen on having a buffet with the bodies of those who will be
unfortunate enough not to outlive it. The only way to survive is to get
to an "ark" at the other end of the valley. Along the way, they meet
Ellie (Queen Latifah), perhaps the only other mammoth left aside from
Manny, but unfortunately, thinks of herself as a possum, with her
"brothers" Crash and Eddie (Sean William Scott and Josh Peck... who's
who, I don't know because I never got to track their names).

"Ice Age: Meltdown" is, first and foremost, the inevitable sequel. And
while it is still an enjoyable movie, it's very clearly more, or less
(depending on how you would look at it), of the same. It still follows
up from the first one, but all in all it feels that there wasn't enough
material to hold a full-length movie that the character of Scrat has
been given more screen time even if what he does trying to get his
acorn doesn't advance the plot at all, albeit helping the film reach
barely an hour and a half. While this movie still does manage to amuse
from time to time, on the whole the plot feels more obligatory and
jokes seem to be a little bit more blunt.

That's not to say "Ice Age: Meltdown" is a total waste because it does
still have a few aces up its sleeve. Latifah brings a brilliant
performance on her character Ellie, as are Scott and Peck on Ellie's
two "brothers." And while much of the first two parts of the film lags,
it builds up during the climax and from there never lets go. The
animation looks quite excellent as well.

It still has enough wit and laughs to support it most of the time but
it's really much more of a standard film than the first one, and the
animation genre in general doesn't reach new levels with this. Still,
it's one of the better sequels there is, and it's a cool way to start
the summer (in this side of the world, that is).
