
I thoroughly enjoyed Passengers, its moving (and rather sad) story,
strong emotional impact, beautiful photography and convincing
performances, especially when it comes to the part of Hathaway. Some
minor flaws (slow pace at times and a number of questions left
unanswered) can be easily forgiven.

But I made a terrible mistake to read the IMDb comments before watching
this film. Even if those reviews are mostly accurate and do not
expressly reveal the truth behind the mysterious events on the screen,
the suggested references to other movies that may (or may not) be
inspirational for the creators have significantly diminished effect of
the surprise ending.

I can easily name at least half a dozen of titles dealing with similar
subject matter, but it may be difficult to guess what is actually going
on until the punchline, unless you are "tuned to a specific station"
from the very beginning and know what to expect.

Do yourself a favor - watch the film with an unbiased attitude, read
the comments afterwards.
<|_=00=_|>
I enjoyed this movie, but you need to be wary about how it's being
described as a drama- horror-thriller. It's far more a drama than
thriller, and I can't think of any horror elements in it at all. I
don't want to give any of the movie away, so I'd like to describe what
might make it more likely that you'd enjoy it.

Passengers concentrates on character development and primarily on
Claire Summer (Anne Hathaway), a therapist who suspects she's
discovered a cover-up while treating the survivors of an airplane
crash, but also deals with her awakening to the reality that she's
sacrificed too much personal life for her career. Her loneliness is as
important to this movie as the mystery she's trying to unravel.

I liked Hathaway in this role. I wouldn't normally have thought of her
as playing the part of a professional woman with two Masters degrees,
as she usually conveys beauty and warmth instead of intellect. However,
she's portraying a young academic on her first real-world case and
she's convincing when she spouts the predictable, psychobabble an
inexperienced therapist would likely spout. I also liked her
relationship with her mentor Perry (Andre Braugher). The only weakness
in the film might be insufficient scenes exploring her loneliness. It's
the reason she gets involved with Eric (Patrick Wilson) but it should
have been set up better. I'm not sure we're entirely convinced she
would have gotten involved with him. Her isolation from family and
friends should have been developed more.

It's not a great movie, but I did enjoy it, and I don't find the
complaints I've heard about the movie credible; that it's slow and
derivative. North Americans have developed such short attention spans,
"slow" often only means there's not a car crash every few minutes. Yes,
it's derivative, but so is Eagle Eye, a film currently doing very well
at the box-office, which is obscenely derivative, but it doesn't seem
to bother anyone since it's loaded with car crashes and other mindless
action. (Eagle Eye is also appallingly dumb!)

If you're looking for a drama with some elements of suspense which
takes it's characters seriously, then I would recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>
Well I'm dutch, so bear with the English language...

I really liked this movie... It has almost everything. Mostly I watch
action movies.. but sometimes a different genre attacks me. This movie
was one of the others. Ik love the psychological real feelings.. the
people with open judgement on others. The readiness to make yourself
vonourable.

Still this one has some action.. some real people (well as real as you
want them to be in movies).. and it warms my heart. 

This is my first comment on a movie... and I am absolutely not ashamed
that it is for/at this one. See it and you'll like it.. Its more than
fine.
<|_=00=_|>
Since there was no publicity for this film, my expectations for it were
pretty low. 

It has a slow pace and at times things don't make sense, but they do as
the story moves forward. You just have to give it time.

At times it doesn't quite work and in a way doesn't break much new
ground, but Ann gives a low key performance that I liked. 

And the film did make me think about my life and what it is like to
deal with death in sudden fashion, like a plane crash. Don't think
they'll be showing this one as an in-flight movie. 

I've heard that Sony kept this film quiet so it wouldn't interfere with
the Oscar buzz Ann Hathaway's getting for Rachel Getting Married. Which
makes sense, but I feel bad for all the people that worked on the film.
They must feel abandoned by the studio.
<|_=00=_|>
I'd like to start off by saying I began watching this movie with a
little suspicion, because I checked the ratings here and they weren't
really high.

Well, my suspicion wasn't necessary. This movie isn't all about action,
explosions and that sort of things. What is does have is a heart, it
shows the bond between people and it explains why that bond takes
place. Just not in a corny way, this is more of a mix between real-life
personalities, suspension, and a big plot-twist at the end kind of like
Hitchcock did back in the days. Just not that elaborate. Some comments
on this movie say that it lacks originality, but what movie doesn't do
that these days ? Almost everything has already been done over and over
again.

As concerns the quality of acting, it's just good. Nothing more but
certainly nothing less. It's nice to see Anne Hathaway play a different
sort of role, besides comedy. Her co-star Patrick Wilson also performs
on a high wire. Andre Braugher and David Morse are good at supporting
roles and thats is simply what they did in this one. You can't say that
the acting wasn't good, therefore I feel sorry that it hasn't been
properly promoted because it would have had some potential to getting
to be a popular movie.

Conclusion: Like I said in the beginning, it's good, just not a
masterpiece. I suggest you watch it and go with the flow, you won't
regret it.
<|_=00=_|>
I was very impressed by this film, it means something special to me, I
considered it as a revelation of another existence beyond ordinary
life, where even a good psychiatrist trades her every day role in
exchange for immortality, and needs to understand the process of
dying,as a spirit.The dead ones help each other to discover the
serenity and the eternal love.I entirely forgot about the need to be
scared,would it make any sense,as long as I was purely invaded by such
a fascinating story? I want to congratulate the director of the
film-that includes the choice of the subject,the inspired cast,the
music that led me to the heart of the subject.
<|_=00=_|>
A film where only cast makes the difference, in fact without the skills
of Patrick Wilson and Anne Hathaway "Passengers" would have just been a
melodramatic mess. This isn't certainly a very original or scary film
(although reminds a lot "The 6th Sense" and "The others"), but it's not
the worst either, due to some interesting twists. Anne Hathaway is a
talented actress and gets to make feel her fear and frustration. She
got chemistry with Wilson and they end up being plausible by
complementing one another. "Passengers" is not a movie I would strongly
recommend but the shocking finale and some good acting performances
make a decent (barely decent actually) choice for an evening rental.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, I just saw it! And the movie is still with me. Its not like those
movies you watch and just move on. There is something that makes you
think. And I like it. Overall that is not a bad movie, but you have to
watch it at least twice to really understand. The idea is great, but
there is too little time to make it all understandable, so you need to
really watch. This is deep movie, so basic entertainment is not what
you get. If you are art and emotional kind of person you will find much
for yourself from that movie. It reminded me of "Peaceful Warrior".
There are no direct similarities, but if you watch it, you will know.
Acting is little bit weird, but that is understandable. I am big fan of
psychological movies, so I may not be most objective, but still, I will
recommend it. Not a waste of time...
<|_=00=_|>
Though there are similarities in this film to others, ie... not
completely original... it is a very good, very touching movie. It has
its moments of intensity, its greatness in the acting and directing.
Its not a classic, but with all of the mediocre works that are out
there to take your money, this is one that would NOT be a waste of your
time.

I would highly recommend this film if you are into suspense, drama,
intrigue of any nature. 

There are certain aspects that are left open, but so minor that it
doesn't distract from the impact of the movie.

All in all -- a very good watch.

6 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
I haven't reviewed a movie for a long time...there are just so many
movies that don't warrant it.

On a quiet, rainy, lonely Saturday afternoon, I felt frustrated to see
that there was NOTHING on cable to watch that I wanted to watch, and if
I liked the movies, I had already seen them. I kept looking on Movies
on Demand.

Then I sat down to watch Passengers...not really knowing anything about
it. I forgot how wonderful it used to be just to pick a movie when I
was growing up and just go see it...with no preconceptions. Most of the
time, I would really enjoy myself. Discovering one more way of looking
at life.

I was mainly attracted to the movie because I like Anne Hathaway's
acting.

What I didn't know was that I was about to embark on such an
interesting journey that was so hard to describe.

The premise is so simple. But as I have realized...there are no new
ideas under the sun. It is in THE TELLING that we are enriched.

The director, RODRIGO GARCIA, has created a near-masterpiece. The
chemistry between the two leads is palpable...that is as much a product
of the director as it is for the actors.

Let's not forget Edward Shearmur's engaging score, Igor Jadue-Lillo's
beautiful cinematography, Thom Noble's fine editing and last but not
least Ronnie Christiensen's wonderful script.

The ending came to me as a shock similar to the end of Sophie's
Choice...and then the well of tears came forth as an unexplainable
phenomena of the human soul.

Really, it was such a perfect movie.

Kudos all around.
