
Will Smith. That's all you've got to say, and you're guaranteed a big
opening at the box office. Well, from the looks of it, Smith also
guarantees you at least a mildly entertaining film, which is what we
get in his latest movie, Hancock. In the hands of any other leading
star, Hancock would probably end up being a below average film. It's
Smith's charisma, charm, and unwavering likability that ultimately save
the film. He can make you laugh, cheer, cry, and even root for his
character (who is a total ass, as he is reminded a number of times
throughout the movie) no matter what kind of shenanigans he may cause.

Hancock is not the generic superhero film and is probably one of the
more ingenious ideas to come across a producer's desk in quite some
time. To me, what it seems like is that the writers of the film loved
the idea, started off extremely strong, and then began to realize that
how hard it is to sustain a simplistic idea over the course of a full
length motion picture (and it is because of this that Hancock is
relatively short). The writers' plan to solve this problem is to throw
in a totally unnecessary and badly handled plot twist to keep the
audience guessing. The lack of a central villain also hurts the movie a
lot. The character that serves as Hancock's enemy in the finale isn't
even well acted. The person is laughable.

This is an action movie, so it should come as no surprise to see well
done and original action in the movie. However, I felt the effects
could have used a few more weeks of polishing in the editing room. The
camera is also quite crampy. I also have problems with the film's
score, as it does not add an epic feeling to the film like it should
have. I felt like something was missing in the climax of the film
(which is not the end). The action scenes, while entertaining and
original, were not long enough to engage the audience like say, The
Incredible Hulk, nor were they as jaw dropping as those in Wanted.

The film's strength rides on its three stars. Action veterans Will
Smith and Charlize Theron both deliver winning performances as usual,
and that should come as no surprise. Smith's charisma is enough to make
anyone happy, and it's so easy to see why so many people love him.
Theron is always a sight to behold (except in Monster, lol), and this
film is no different. I enjoyed her performance the most, especially in
the second act and the beginning of the third. Jason Bateman, who seems
to be the bridge connecting the performances of Smith and Theron, is
great as usual, and likable, marking a change from his recent turn in
"Juno". There really isn't another performance to note, and part of
Hancock's weakness is that there are really only three main engaging
characters. It should also be noted that the kid who played Bateman's
son was absolutely adorable.

Hancock is the classic case of great idea, and mediocre execution. I
can see this idea being remade years from now, and pulled off even
better. It's not a fault of Peter Berg, the film's director, as the
real weakness is in the screenplay, which falters after an excellent
and wonderful opening act. It's not a bad film by any means, nor is it
great. It's in between "okay" and "good".
<|_=00=_|>
I was lucky enough to go to a pre-screening of Hancock last night and I
really enjoyed it. I don't understand all of the criticism this movie
is receiving. Everyone take a second and realize this is not a Marvel
or DC comic book superhero movie. Now think about that again. It is a
different story entirely and has some very unique elements.

Hancock isn't action packed. It doesn't have a Superhero vs.
Supervillan plot. I would probably describe it as a character study of
the superhero. I think this movie does a better job of addressing some
of the issues (and vices) a superhero probably would have if they
existed today. The biggest conflict in the movie is within Will Smith's
character's attitude, not necessarily good vs. evil.

I think much of the criticism I have read about is motivated by
expectations that were not met, which isn't fair at all. If you watch
Hancock with only the expectation of being entertained, you will leave
happy. Its a good movie, don't jump on the bandwagon of not liking it
just because you can. Give it a chance and take it for what it is, a
July 4th action/comedy.
<|_=00=_|>
I've read a lot of the reviews here complaining about the film flagging
in its final act. I respectfully disagree.

Hancock is most definitely DIFFERENT in it's last half - it drops off
the comedy significantly and introduces some fascinating superhero
mythology that is almost like an ancient Greek myth in its context. It
also introduces some pretty tense and violent moments that really made
me wonder if they should be marketing it as the kid-friendly summer
blockbuster that they are. However, both halves have their own merits -
the first being the humour, and the second being the (almost tragic)
origin mythos. I suspect if you are prepared for the switch in tone,
rather than shocked when it arrives, you might enjoy Hancock as much as
I did.
<|_=00=_|>
Lots of people, including the critics, are ragging on this film.
Seriously, what did they expect? It's a Hollywood blockbuster with Wil
Smith in. Get over it, turn your brain off, and sit back and enjoy the
ride.

For what it was, I thought it pretty good. It was entertaining, took a
unique take on the superhero thing, and didn't have an overt number of
huge gaping plot holes or completely blithe dialog.

If you're feeling like a Wil Smith movie, go for it. It's not as bad as
they say... just don't expect any more than the typical Hollywood
affair.
<|_=00=_|>
Hancock was a pretty interesting as well as entertaining movie. It
definitely wasn't your typical superhero movie; and it wasn't
originally a DC or Marvel comic. It's more about what would happen if
someone with superheroes was around in modern times, and that is what
makes it interesting. If there's some property damage done while
catching criminals, people will be angry; if a vigilante has a bad
attitude, people will be angry. I suppose Batman explores some of that
not being liked by the public, as well as the bad attitude and personal
trauma of the hero, but I found Hancock to be quite original in its
handling of these issues. I liked the media attention and the use of
sunglasses as a "mask" of sorts. I really liked how Hancock progresses
as a character, and I liked the other characters as well. Usually
little kids in movies annoy me, but the son of the supporting character
was pretty cute and endearing. This isn't really a hero movie where
there is a superhero and a super villain; I think it's more about what
it means to be a human and relate to other people, to do good things
and the desire to be accepted. I think the best part of Hancock is that
it's about a superhuman who is just very human. It was a lot of fun.
<|_=00=_|>
I also was at the test screening in Peoria AZ. The film was spot on for
the first hour. Jokes were hitting left and right, Smith and Bateman
displayed good chemistry, and the special effects, though not always
finished, were eye popping nonetheless.

Without giving it away, the final half hour was flat, straying from the
comical nature that had preceded it and instead tried to get
philosophical and introduce a week paint'by'numbers villain. I spoke
with director Peter Berg after the film and he seemed fully aware of
the issues relating to the final act. Hopefully the recent "re shoot"
will polish up that last act, making Hancock one of the must see
blockbusters of the summer. In the form I saw it; it still has a ways
to go.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw the movie tonight and enjoyed it a lot so here's my take: 

Pro's:

Good special effects (even though there not all done) 

Excellent hour and fifteen minutes (the movie is probably 100 minutes
in length if I had to estimate the pacing in that time period was spot
on) 

Good combination of humor and action (I'd say more humor though say in
the vein of Beverely Hills Cop, which had a good mix of humor and
action) Will Smith nails the character (even if the character goes
through a number of sudden changes out of nowhere) 

Even though there weren't as many action sequences as expected they all
were pretty memorable especially a fight between Hancock and another
superhero (I won't spoil it)

A really good twist that I didn't see coming at all (when you see it
you'll understand) 

Cons: The villain wasn't fleshed out at all in any way (they really
didn't need to have one in the first place and could have changed a few
of the last scenes)

The last 25 minutes shifted more into a drama and didn't totally fit
the character of Hacock of the first hour of the movie 

Charleze Theron didn't have much to work on for the first forty-five
minutes besides not liking Hancock 

The relationship of Jason Bateman's character, Ray and his wife Mary
isn't fully fleshed out and the chemistry isn't all there (towards the
end Will Smith has better chemistry with her and there scenes together
are juicy and easily the best parts of the last twenty five minutes) 

Overall I'd give the film an 8.5/10 because it was an innovative look
at a superhero other then all the Batman's and Supermen we're given a
truly conflicted character who isn't fully invincible. There are many
quotable scenes, funny moments, and good special effects that you
haven't seen in other movies before. I expect this film to make a lot
of money at the box office this summer and please many Will Smith fans
along with action fans or people who are looking for a solid popcorn
flick.
<|_=00=_|>
*** MAY CONTAIN SPOILER ***

I NEVER write on these opinion boards but I might start with this one.
I felt as though I needed to stick up for the movie after reading all
the horrible reviews. I went to see it on the 4th, mainly because the
trailers looked entertaining and because I enjoy Will Smith. This movie
is not at all what I expected. There is a surprising turn of events
that I did not see coming. Will Smith, in his usual style, is quick,
funny, witty, and charming and I thought the timing between he and
Jason Bateman was perfect. If you are expecting to see a movie along
the lines of Hulk, Iron Man, Batman, etc, don't go because you won't
enjoy it. If you are going because you like the cast and are ready to
be entertained for 1 hour and 20 minutes out of your life, then it is
definitely worth the price of admission.
<|_=00=_|>
The latest Will Smith effort is much different from the average big
budget flashy superhero movies that have dominated the box office the
last few years. Don't go to Hancock thinking you are seeing another
Superman, Fantastic 4, Ironman or Hulk. The superhero angle is treated
much differently here. I think part of the perception problem with this
film is from the silly trailers we have seen for the last 6 months.
Those trailers represent a small part a movie that is so much more to
than a drunken superhero throwing a whale at a boat, swearing at a kid
or wrecking the city. Sure, there are laughs in this movie, but it's
Will Smith! He's FUNNY! Go see Hancock because it's DIFFERENT from the
mega-budget movies that come straight from the comic book pages
complete with a witty Stan Lee cameo. Don't get me wrong, I loved
Ironman and The Hulk. But Hancock is not a movie that will have comic
book geeks arguing on message boards about how the movie left so much
out and the character was nothing like the comic. It is a film with a
story that happens to be about a guy with super powers. Besides, it's
got Will Smith and Charlize Theron in it! How can you go wrong?
<|_=00=_|>
I caught a preview showing of Hancock tonight. I enjoyed it for what it
was which is a fun, mostly fast-paced popcorn flick. The writers of the
film also tossed in a nice plot twist that I didn't see coming but it
turned out to work just fine. This isn't Shakespeare so I don't demand
a lot of deep thought just some escapist fun. Will Smith does an
excellent job of playing the disinterested superhero with an
existential crisis. It was good to see Jason Bateman again but a bummer
as well seeing how he has aged. This means I am not so young myself
anymore. Jae Head didn't overact nor did the script writers push the
"cute" button to the point of being saccharine. It will be interesting
to see how this movie performs to see if Smith wants to do a sequel. So
I am more than happy to recommend Hancock to fans of the "Summer
Blockbuster" and those who enjoy Will Smith.
