
I hope this is the last incarnation of Richard Mathesons's brilliant
classic. Why does Hollywood have to mess with perfection? I was anxious
to see it, having read the book several times, and I'm a fan of
Hollywood's first impression of the original tale, The Omega Man
(1971). I've also seen 28 Days Later; On The Beach; The Stand; Fail
Safe; Threads; and The Day After several times each. I guess you could
say I love the Apocalypse as a theme.

I've been a fan of Richard Matheson almost since I learned how to read.
Besides Rod Serling, he is the man behind many of the classic Twilight
Zone stories (second only to Serling himself), and has penned other
novel-to-film classics like What Dreams May Come; A Stir of Echoes; The
Legend of Hell House (paralleled, if not plagiarized, by Stephen King
with his Rose Red); and countless screenplays. Where American Sci-Fi
fiction is concerned, he is right up there with Isaac Asimov, Michael
Crichton and Ray Bradbury. Stephen King and Dean Koontz are great too
and I enjoy their work, but they write pulp. Unlike Matheson, Crichton,
Bradbury and Asimov, there are no lessons or morals from King and
Koontz. It's just entertainment.

This brings me around to my critique of the movie I am Legend. As
entertainment, it works just fine. Will Smith is just okay, like the
Chevrolet of Acting. He's predictable, and does what you want him to
do. He brings no depth or personality to the protagonist at all. He's
just a body. As for the other actors.......well, they are mostly CGI or
creatures. Oh, yeah....there's a dog too.

For the second time in film (The Omega Man being the first), Robert
Neville is portrayed as US Army medical officer who is intimately
familiar with and is partially the cause of the virulent disease that
has turned the world into bloodthirsty homicidal maniacs. In Matheson's
book, as well as in The Omega Man, there is a biological warfare
element. In the current film, the virus has more benign origins, but
that's all I'll say. Matheson's literary Neville is just a blue-collar
guy who is smart enough to try and find an answer to the catastrophe.
That theme is what made the book so compelling. No state of the art
laboratory, no heavy credentials. Neville was an ordinary guy who was
caught up in extraordinary circumstances. By night, he holes up in his
modest but heavily fortified LA home, blasting Beethoven and getting
drunk to drown out the howling hordes of quasi intelligent vampires who
want to kill him. By day, he hunts them down in their lairs and kills
them in their sleep. He is actually the bogeyman....the terror by day,
a daymare. "Brush your fangs, junior, or Neville will come and get you
in your sleep!" Think about it. What does the title I am Legend really
mean? Apparently, Akiva Goldsman has a very different opinion.

Obviously, Hollywood decided long ago that CGI and special effects will
trump a good story every time. Like a child's video game, imagery has
become the stimulus. It was briefly interesting to see Manhattan as
deserted and overgrown, but the special effects seemed to be what the
movie was relying on. Take them away, and there was nothing left. Was
the movie bad? Not at at all, but it would have been more accurate to
title it as Home Alone 4: WTF am I doing here?. Matheson's tale was
botched again. So badly in fact, it bears no resemblance to the
original book. That's ashame. Call me a purist, but why does Hollywood
have to rework a classic, or inject so much "artistic license" into a
plot that it becomes something utterly different than what was
originally created? M. Night Shamalayan showed us what is still
possible with superior writing, directing, and minimal special effects.
Just watch The Sixth Sense. Here we have a film that had huge
potential, given over to a mediocre screenwriter/producer and a
relatively unknown director whose only experience was with music videos
and the forgettable bomb, "Constantine." I think that the egos, greed,
and arrogant laziness of the producers and screenwriters have a lot to
do with the dumbing down of great original fiction.

There are a number of key elements from the book that this film
virtually ignores: The overall vampire legend itself, Neville's
personal struggle to save his little family from the dust-borne plague;
his undead wife returning to him; the daily vampire hunt; his former
carpool buddy and neighbor, Ben Cortman, who has become his nightly
nemesis; and most importantly, the near fatal "stopped watch" incident,
which even The Omega Man indirectly paid homage to. All of these items
would have required the screenwriter and producer to do some actual
writing, rather than letting the CGI guys take over the production.

Some ironies to consider: The book itself was only about one hundred
and forty-odd pages long. Three movie attempts essentially blew it. The
Omega Man wasn't close either, but was far more original in execution
than the current version, in my opinion. The Spaghetti thriller, The
Last Man on Earth(1964) with Vincent Price, was almost perfect where
the story was concerned. Unfortunately, it was so low budget that the
production quality made it almost unwatchable.

Matheson spun an enduring classic in less than two hundred pages. It
was the quality of the material rather than "pictures;" or special
effects, that made the story. What ashame that this movie couldn't have
done the same. If you're into apocalyptic Sci-Fi, you'll probably enjoy
this film. But don't expect too much.
<|_=00=_|>
This film could easily have filled 2.5 hours of content. Why did it
only last 1.5? I want more back story. I want more character
development, especially toward the end. I want to know more about what
happened, and how Will Smith's character is dealing with it. In short,
I just want MORE.

All in all, this film left me feeling a lot like I did in Spider-Man 3:
A lot happened, but none of it was really EXPLAINED.

It's a shame, really, because the concept is golden... and Will Smith's
films usually feel quite epic and full. I'll definitely pick up the
novel... hopefully it will give me the depth that I want.
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw this movie today, the day it opened here. And was deeply,
deeply moved.

I've got to start with the scenes of a deserted New York City
post-apocalypse. These were so very, very moving; and very, very
convincing. The clips in the trailers for the movie were good, but you
really have to see the full panoply of close-up shots, distance shots,
etc to really appreciate the sheer scale of what this movie is
depicting. There's something of On the Beach and Resident Evil and of
any number of disaster movies and zombie movies here. But none of them
do justice to the New York depicted here. This is a New York City we
see large-scale and micro-scale in order to show us the environment in
which the main character is acting.

And Will Smith is simply brilliant as the sole survivor, Robert
Neville. Will delivers movingly and convincingly on a script that
really focuses on giving us a picture of "what it would be like" ... to
be the last man on earth, living off the land in NYC. This is the real
strength of this movie: there's really not a lot of blood or gore or
zombie scenes at all. Yet I was riveted as Robert goes through his
"typical days" in NYC. Every moment was full of pathos and full of
menace, too. And occasionally we got some relief from Smith's trademark
humor that blended seamlessly with the rest of his performance to give
us "what it would be like" with a powerful delivery that just leaves me
almost breathless.

There's an effective use of flashbacks that partly tell us the story of
how we got to where we're at in this grim New York City; and the
flashbacks also serve to give us an overwhelming contrast between Life
Before and Life After the apocalyptic disaster wiped out the city. Yet
use of flashback was sparing, which I found all the more effective.

Cinematography was excellent throughout, the storyline and script are
brilliant, the use of a dog, Samantha, as a key actor was perfect to
show us both Robert as companion and Robert as lonely, isolated
survivor.

I won't give away the ending, but think it was satisfying as far as it
goes, but not nearly as appealing, from my angle, as the foregoing
material. That brings up my one complaint: the title. By the end of the
movie, we have some sense of the meaning of the title. Yet it still
seems to me to feel cheesy and really unworthy of the movie.

But that's a minor plaint. If you haven't seen this movie, and would
enjoy seeing a really powerful story about a survivor in
post-apocalypse New York City, hey, go check out this flick. It's
really worth it.
<|_=00=_|>
If I could sum this movie up in one sentence, it would be this: Go
Will. Will Smith is the driving force of I Am Legend. His performance
as Dr. Robert Neville is impeccable. Living in a deserted NY city, his
acting is reminiscent of Tom Hanks in Cast Away, but instead of a
volleyball, he has mannequins and a faithful German Shepard named Sam.
His basement, a retro-fitted, high-tech lab to find a cure for the
disease that has turned the population of the entire planet into
mutant, zombie-like, hive mind, blood-thirsty monsters, and, for some
reason, Robert is immune. His days, spent hunting. His nights, sleeping
with a high-powered rifle and hoping that the mutants don't find him.
Keeping the movie flowing are well placed flashbacks that show what
happened to Robert's family and why he is there. The movie falters a
bit at the end, maybe at the last 5 minutes, but it doesn't ruin the
plot or acting put forth. Containing wonderful cinematography and CG, I
Am Legend is a spectacular film that I will be seeing again! PS - Shout
out to my NY National Guardsmen in this film! Great job!
<|_=00=_|>
At first, I thought that this movie would be okay at best, abysmal at
worst. But I was pleasantly surprised to see Will Smith, "Robert
Neville," give a spectacular performance, full of emotion and anger,
and bordering a bit on the insane side. I take off points only because
it seems like a film that's been done before (and it has, I know, but I
don't mean literally). What sets it apart from the rest of the
post-apocalyptic man made human killing virus that zombifies people
films is the depth of Will Smith's character. With cross-cuts to dreams
and the portrayal of Robert Neville's loneliness, the audience connects
with him on both a deep mental level and a more surface level driven by
pathos. You both laugh and cry with him, you jump out of your seat when
he gets scared, and you cheer for him throughout. I walked in expecting
a zombie shoot-em-up and settled into something much more thought
provoking and intense. It wasn't perfect, but it certainly deserves a
look, even if you're not into the whole undead thing.
<|_=00=_|>
Is it me, or does every movie that portrays the future, it's always
some post-apocalyptic setting or the fall of man with man itself to
blame? Not a lot to look forward to is it? Anyways, after years of
being let down by so called scary zombie/virus movie genres and other
blockbuster thriller debacles, "I Am Legend" really separates itself
from the group.

Without giving too much way, Will Smith plays a sole survivor of a
world dominating virus created by man that was originally created to
cure cancer. Three years into the "new" world, Smith (who was a former
doctor) dedicates his life to survival, finding a cure....and talking
to mannequins. In order to find a cure he seeks out the infected, who
only come out at night, and hoping to correct man's mistake.

"Legend" was the first truly scary movie I've seen in some time.
Realism is the main factor in scary movies in my opinion. If it can
happen, than that's pretty scary. Also, Smith's portrayal of despair
and borderline insanity of three years of seclusion added to the
effect. With the exception of his dog, Smith had no live contact with
constant failure attempts of his cure only leading to his insanity. It
had a "Cast Away" feel to it with his dog as to Hank's volleyball and
his house reminding you of that stranded island.

The action/suspense scenes coupled with superb sound direction were
also heart pounding and unexpected which added to the "scare" factor.
Whenever Smith engaged with the zombie-like survivors, there was that
claustrophobic feeling that I haven't felt since "Alien." My only real
complaint was the overuse of CGI over real actors for these characters,
but with their speed and strength that these things showed if may have
not been possible.

"Legend" overall is one of the better movies of 2007 and a must see.
Not Oscar-worthy by any stretch of the imagination, but it's certainly
entertaining, realistically tense and maybe even thought provoking.
<|_=00=_|>
The 1954 sci-fi/vampire novel "I Am Legend" by Richard Matheson has now
been filmed three times: as "The Last Man On Earth" in 1964 originally
scripted by Matheson himself (which I have never seen), as "The Omega
Man" in 1971 without the vampire elements (which I have viewed three
times), and now with the original title and expensive sets and special
effects. This time the seemingly sole survivor of the worldwide
pandemic Robert Neville is played by Will Smith who is an actor with
real charisma and charm and considerable box office appeal who has
beefed himself up for the role.

The main strength of this version is the location shots in a deserted
New York City (a move from the Los Angeles of the book and earlier
films) and, although the filming of these scenes apparently caused
traffic chaos and much anger for local residents, they chillingly set
the tone for this dystopian thriller. To see the silent streets around
Times Square or South Street Seaport or the lone scientist fishing in
the Metropolitan Museum of Art or playing golf on the "USS Intrepid" is
to view this heaving metropolis as we have never experienced it before.
The German shepherd dog who is Neville's sole companion deserves an
honourable mention for showing greater thespian skills than most of the
extras and stunt men.

The principal weakness of the movie, however, is the realisation of the
surviving victims of the virus. The CGI characters are almost as silly
as they are scary but, above all, they are presented as more
animalistic than human. "The Omega Man" handled these characters much
better presenting them as sad as well as scary. The other serious fault
is the lack of clarity in the narrative - at times, it is simply
unclear what is happening and why and a longer director's cut would be
welcome. Finally the references to Ground Zero and God may play well
with American audiences but will not be so resonant to audiences
elsewhere in the world.
<|_=00=_|>
Let's get the obvious stuff out of the way - Will Smith is excellent,
as usual. The scenes of an abandoned New York are amazing, in much the
same way as the shots of a deserted London in 28 Days Later.

Now on to the disappointing stuff - the CGI work throughout the film is
terrible. 14 years after Jurassic Park, and this is seriously the best
they could do? I could live with the CGI animals, but the CGI
'infected' are just beyond belief. They all look the same, they all
behave in ways that are clearly opposed to the laws of physics, and
they all look as though they've stepped out of a cartoon or a computer
game.

It's hard to overstate just how unconvincing the CGI work is; about
half-way through the film stops being 'real' and turns into an absurd
mix of the real world and sub-par animation. It's more 'Mary Poppins'
than '28 Days Later'.

Real people with prosthetics would have made a much greater impact, and
may have added some genuine thrills into what is otherwise a fairly
dull film.

The ending - and I won't use any spoilers - is very weak. Ultimately,
'I Am Legend' is a wasted opportunity; worth watching, but only just.
<|_=00=_|>
Normally I have an opinion on a movie when it's over, I can reflect on
it for a few minutes and then I'm done with. It becomes cataloged in my
brain as 'awesome' 'pretty good' 'worst.movie.ever.' or a host of other
standard issue classifications.

Not so with 'I Am Legend.' I can't recall the last time I was this
frustrated by a movie.

It had so much potential to be so great, and then just fell apart in
the last third of the movie with every summer blockbuster/zombie movie
cliché known to man, run one after the other.

The movie creates a fantastic atmosphere of post-apocalyptic New York
and requires your patience as Will Smith's character begins to unravel
as the monsters around him begin to become more aggressive and
intelligent. Before heading out to see the movie, I did some research
on the book the movie is based on and the reason it is such a well
known classic story is because of the twists, perspectives and grim
ending. What you find out towards the book is that Neville really is
the last man on Earth, and the rest of society are now these
zombie/vampires, and Neville's ability to walk around in the daylight
and kill them has basically made him the monster. He is the one feared
by them, he is the villain, and they will stop at nothing to eradicate
this day walker who preys on them.

Keeping that in mind, I was super impressed by how the movie seemed to
be heading in that direction with that head Zombie guy's heated
animosity towards Neville as if it were personal (and perhaps the
zombie Neville captured were his significant other, thus lending the
zombies an actual 'society), and not merely 'meee hungry for flesh.'
The movie basically went right down the tubes when Will Smith decided
after he had to kill his dog that he was going to go on a suicide
mission at the docks playing Destruction Derby with his Explorer. All
of the haunting, edge-of-your-seat suspense and fear created
brilliantly with the scene in the abandoned bank, and with the zombie
dogs clamoring for the last sliver of daylight to cede, and creepy
subtle atmospheric effects throughout went right out the darn window
and we suddenly found ourselves in '28 Days Later.' With some random
chick coming out of nowhere to somehow scare off 100 angry zombies (who
had just blown his UV truck to hell mind you; but apparently she had
outfitted a better one than an incredibly resourceful Military
Soldier/Scientist), carry Will Smith, who weighs twice as much as her,
into her car, and somehow drive them to safety.

So we find ourselves in an incredibly uncomfortable scenario with the
Brazilian chick and her creepy Columbine son, and some Bob Marley
metaphors laid on top of terrible dialog. Then, instead of a
suspense-ridden in-the-dark atmospheric climax, with heavy breathing,
flashes of gore, heart pounding scene, we're left with cheesy CG
explosions, zombies body slamming people, no one keeping a gun on them
when there's about 50 scattered across the house, and other usual
stupid horror/action movie miss-steps.

We finally find ourselves with Neville, back against the wall, Zombie
leader separated from Smith's neck by a rapidly deteriorating inch of
glass and I'm hoping the movie will be somehow salvaged with a great
twist, a grim conclusion, or at worst, a convoluted piece of
foreshadowing from the first twenty minutes of the movie being pulled
out of the scriptwriters pie hole to be played out here. (I personally
thought he could have awakened the zombie girl he was curing and seen
if the reaction of the intelligent zombie would have caused a reaction,
or if some communication could have been made between Neville and his
antagonist who at this point we've come to realize is moderately
intelligent). I'm an idiot for expecting anything but 'yo, hide in the
chimney while i blow myself up.' Don't even get me started on the
Utopian Vermont safe-haven, seriously. You're going to tell me 1
million zombies couldn't overrun some 20 foot walls spanning what would
approximate 2 miles of land? Christ. I could have written a better
ending in 20 minutes on the back of a cocktail napkin.
<|_=00=_|>
Just finished a pre-screening here and I'm actually pretty
disappointed. The first half of the movie was great and started to
build something interesting despite the glaring lack of any background
regarding the story. Yes, I realize that you get a few flashbacks but
the writers decided not to include any flashbacks of how the disease
started, no clips of people progressing through the stages of illness,
in essence, everything that led to the point Will Smith ultimately
arrived at. 

*SPOILER ALERT* While this certainly was a drawback, it is nothing
compared to the non-events that surrounded the relationship between
Smith's character and what seemed to be the head of the
vampire/zombie/darkstalkers. Just as the plot was beginning to develop
between them, the film took an epic dive right around the time Smith's
dog died. There was absolutely no further development and even though
the darkstalkers seem to show some intelligence and evolution, the
movie is concluded with their leader banging his head against the glass
and screaming like an idiot. It all leads to an ending that seems like
a cop-out and left me feeling wholly unsatisfied. *End Spoilers*

There were definitely some great parts, the cinematography was
fantastic and the computer generated scenes of a dilapidated and
"uninhabited" New York were amazing. It most certainly was scary and
there were times that made me jump though the animation on the
darkstalkers was not particularly impressive; in fact, it reminded me a
lot of the movie "The Mummy" with Brendan Frasier. Smith once again
proved himself a very capable and believable actor. The first half is
great, though the second will definitely leave you with a bad taste in
your mouth. My advice: leave halfway through and you won't be
disappointed!
