
Disturbia tells the story of a teenage boy named Kale who is sentenced
to three months house arrest after punching a teacher in the face for
making a comment about his recently deceased father. When his mother
takes away his TV and his computer, he resorts to spying on the houses
surrounding him. Things begin to get frightening when he begins to
suspect one of his neighbours is a serial killer. He gets his friends
involved with his impromptu investigation, and soon the neighbour
realizes he's being watched...And he's not too happy about it.
Disturbia is loosely based off the 1954 Alfred Hitchcock classic Rear
Window, but it is still a film all in itself, and it is the best
thriller I've seen in a while.

What makes this movie better than most horror movies that are released
today is that is doesn't rely on excessive gore and gross out tactics
to frighten you. It relies on mood and suspense, and that works so much
better. As the film went on, the tension got so high that I was
literally on the edge of my seat rubbing my hands together because I
was so anxious to see what was going to happen next. I actually felt
the adrenaline rush that the characters in the film must have been
feeling when they were snooping around in the neighbour's garage. The
movie has a realistic feel of how creepy it would be to have a serial
killer living across the street from you and you had no way to prove
it. Everything in this movie is done well. The writing, the directing,
the way it all pans out. I was actually shocked when I left the theatre
over how good this movie really was.

The acting was very good from everybody involved. Shia LaBeouf has come
a long way from Even Stevens. Something tells me that he has a nice
career ahead of him. David Morse is perfectly sinister as the
neighbour. He's just one of those actors that you might not know who he
is to hear his name, but he pops up here and there and you always say,
"Cool, it's that guy." Overall, this was an amazing thriller, and I'm
glad I went to see it because I really wasn't expecting that much. It
leads me to wonder why Hollywood continues to pump out absolute garbage
like the Saw trilogy, Hostel, and Dead Silence when they could be
making movies like this instead.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
Disturbia is one of the best PG13 thrillers that I've seen in a long
time. After all the other rated PG13 thrillers that have come out in
the past six years or so, DJ Caruso, who directed, proves that it has
always been possible to make a good suspenseful thriller these days
without all the gore.

Shia Labeouf plays Kale Brecht. After witnessing the death of his
father in a car accident, he becomes sullen and withdrawn. This leads
to him being put under house arrest after he punches out an
unsympathetic teacher. Imprisoned in his own house, and unable to go
beyond 100 yards, he finds himself turning into a peeping tom and
spying on all the neighbors. One of them is the attractive new girl in
town named Ashley (Sarah Roemer) and another may be a killer named Mr.
Turner (David Morse). With the help of the new girl Ashley, his friend
Ronnie (a great comedic turn by Aaron Yoo), Kale goes about
investigating Mr. Turner to see if he is the killer or not. The three
teenagers use cell phones and the internet as well as video cameras in
the investigation, and DJ Caruso shows some of his sly wit by using
these same devices in the film to not only investigate the spooky
neighbor, but also to create some humor to go along with everything
else.

The plot is a familiar one. That would be because the great Alfred
Hitchcock used it first with his famous suspense thriller Rear Window.
Yes Disturbia is a blatant rip-off of that movie, but it is done with
skill, and the acting by all, including Carrie Anne Moss as Kale's
mother, was very good. All the characters are likable, and David
Morse's turn as the creepy Mr. Turner was well done as well.

Disturbia may not be a great movie, but it is definitely one of the
best PG13 thrillers in years. It outshines such horror thrillers as
Cursed and Pulse, as well as the recent horror thriller The Messengers.
Disturbia also once again proves that you don't need a bunch of gore to
make an effective horror thriller. Horror directors take note.
<|_=00=_|>
Disturbia star Shia LaBeouf appears to have a great future ahead of
him. In the past few years, amidst forgettable roles in I, Robot, and
Constantine, he contributed strong performances in films like A Guide
to Recognizing Your Saints, and now in the thriller Disturbia. Although
it is basically a remake of Hitchcock's Rear Window, Disturbia is
unique in that it mixes elements of teen comedy, romance, drama, and
gripping suspense in an entertaining way. Not to say the film is
perfect, as it definitely isn't, but it accomplishes exactly what it
sets out to do and then some. 

All of the acting is decent and believable, with standout performances
by the aforementioned LaBeouf as Kale, and David Morse, as the
suspected villain, Mr. Turner. Serving as great comic relief is Kale's
friend Ronnie (Aaron Yoo) while the new girl next door, Ashley (Sarah
Roemer), provides a romantic interest. Also notable is The Matrix's
Carrie-Anne Moss as Kale's mother who is great as always, yet
underused.

Kale gets put on house arrest after punching his Spanish teacher in
class. It's his third run in with the law since his father died in a
car accident a year earlier. Under house arrest, he begins to learn the
secrets of everyone surrounding him through the use of binoculars and
video cameras. His most important realization in his voyeurism is that
his somewhat reclusive neighbor shares many suspicious similarities to
a wanted serial killer whom the police have not yet identified.

It's generally difficult to create such suspense under the restrictions
of a PG-13 rating (do not watch this at the theater between 7-9 PM to
avoid the loud middle school crowd), but instead of just trying to
shock, the film conveys paranoia and fright through the use of mood and
mere suggestions of menace. The script could have used another rewrite
to further develop the cast of characters, as the only one who is
fleshed out at all is LaBeouf's. 

LaBeouf, who turns twenty-one in June, is looking to join Joseph
Gordon-Levitt and Ryan Gosling as one of the few great actors under the
age of thirty if he keeps turning in strong performances in interesting
projects. His star is certainly rising with Transformers due this
summer and the fourth Indiana Jones film in the summer of 2008. 

We have to realize that even though there is so much that makes
Disturbia unique, at heart it is a very commercial effort. The twists
are quite obvious, many characters are underdeveloped, and there's
product placement everywhere (which is realistic nonetheless). However,
at a brisk 104 minutes, it would be a lie to say the movie wasn't
extremely satisfying, and an undeniably entertaining film.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was extremely well paced -- there was very good character
development without excessive dialog. The story is exciting and
thrilling: a modernized Rear Window. The acting was very solid, and
every actor, major or minor, sold their part. Shia LeBeouf was a
likable protagonist, Carrie-Anne Moss did a great job in her role as
the mother, and David Morse played an exceedingly ominous and creepy
neighbor. The climax is very suspenseful, although it did contain a few
minor lapses in rational behavior by both the heroes and the villain,
but I suppose that could be written off as desperation. Overall, it was
refreshing to see a well-paced thriller with great suspense, humor, and
character development.
<|_=00=_|>
The first half of this movie is really promising with its solid
establishment of the characters and plot. yes, it's a rehash/ripoff of
"Rear Window" but that's okay. And for those of you who haven't seen
that classic, rent it immediately.

The last 30 minutes of this movie feels like another movie. The
filmmakers abandoned their slow and methodical escalation of suspense
and throw us a wicked and stupid twist. All of the sudden, without any
provocation or motivation (spoiler alert), the David Morse character
goes ballistic. He goes on a senseless rampage which allows the
filmmakers to give us some gratuitous and ridiculous "shock sights",
such as the bodies in the pool of water under the basement.

what's even more ridiculous is the fact that Morse was all along a very
smart if brutal killer and yet, at the end, he acts totally
irrationally. Why? because the filmmakers couldn't think of anything
clever to do.

a waste of the talents involved.
<|_=00=_|>
Apparently... in Disturbialand, all adults are idiots. As a teenager,
you can point out direct evidence of a murder and the adults will
simply laugh at you. Your mother will insist on going over to the
murderer's house and apologizing for you. The murderer will suddenly
and stupidly (after years of calculated planning of all his murders)
start attacking all of his neighbors.

What could have been a decent homage to Hitch, is instead, a direct
descendant of John Hughes. There's the misunderstood (but extremely
perfect) lead, who lives in a perfect house in the perfect
neighborhood, and who has a crush on the perfect member of the opposite
sex. Amazingly, he has the perfectly funny Asian sidekick and he's a
perfect outsider at the perfect teen party (he's so perfect that he
can't attend!), and he has the perfectly, ever absent parents (a dead
father and mysteriously disinterested mother).

They should have made Molly Ringwald the killer. That would have made
perfect sense.
<|_=00=_|>
Not expecting a masterpiece, I can honest say I was very pleasantly
surprised at just how much fun I had watching this movie. While it
clearly tries way too hard to be hip, and the staggering amount of
product placement serves only to distract, the story serves its purpose
of allowing DJ Caruso to pull every trick out of the book, to very
satisfying effect.

Shia LaBeouf just about gets by on his charm, but also hints at his
ability as an actor, which was firmly cemented through his stunning
performance in 'A Guide To Recoginzing Your Saints' last year. His
character is nothing new, nor is his predicament, but he remains
likable enough and it is hardly difficult to see why he is so taken by
his new neighbour, played by the gorgeous Sarah Roemer.

David Morse is appropriately creepy as the neighbourhood nut-job and
Carrie Anne Moss, while given little to work with, is fine as LaBeouf's
mother.

The story unfolds well, and the red herrings serves to stretch the
anticipation until the brutally tense finale. If you're looking for 90
minutes of unabashed, self-indulgent fun, you could do a lot worse than
'Disturbia'.
<|_=00=_|>
Are you serious? I wonder why this stupid movie has made even a penny.
This movie would have been a thousand times better without the stupid
teenage lust fest. It was not my turn to pick the movie, and I had no
curiosity to see "Rear Window Jr." and boy I wish I listened to the
inner voice! 

There seems to be an alarming trend that I call "through the eyes of a
teenage boy vision" You think from the way the director ordered so many
shots of the teenage girl, that he had some crush on her! How about
making a suspenseful movie that appeals to everyone, and not just males
who have just exited puberty? Great job alienating your "broad"
audience.

WAAAAAY too many shots of the "hot" girl next door doing Yoga, slow-mo
swimming, sun bathing, and your teenage angsty stuff. I like Shia, he
was great in "Holes", I even liked his cameo in "I, Robot." Poor David
Morse, he's a tremendous actor, but given NOTHING to do here. What a
waste of Carrie Ann Moss! There are a couple of "shock" moments, but
they appear and leave in the first 5 minutes of the film, after that,
the teenage love puppy story sprinkled with tepid moments of "tension".
This is a predictable, silly, unrealistic and awful movie. To quote
another IMDb user.."why would someone who was so calculated and
precise just start sloppily and obviously killing neighbor's?" Couldn't
wait to leave, Giving a generous 2 stars for my respect of Mr. Morse
and Ms. Moss, Shia, shame on you for being in a mess like this, you're
much better.
<|_=00=_|>
The first time I saw this preview, the first thought that came into my
head was "Oh, my God, how could they rip off Rear Window?", Rear Window
is one of my all time favorite movies. But my boyfriend and I had
nothing better to do last week and decided to see it, I have to say
that actually, it wasn't as bad as I expected, I have to admit that it
was a pretty good re-introduction to one of the greatest thrillers of
all time. It had a new and fresh feeling with teens and it worked,
despite how it seemed a bit more predictable than Rear Window, it still
was pretty clever.

Kale has had a rough year, while driving his father back from their
father/son fishing trip, they get into a horrible fatal car accident,
the Father dies, but Kale is alive trying to deal with the guilt of
what happened. But a teacher pushes him too far in his high school
Spanish class and he hits the teacher, putting him on house arrest, he
cannot leave outside his property. But he's in luck when a hot young
girl moves next door, they quickly develop a peeping tom type of
relationship, they spy on the neighbors, but when they see the neighbor
across the street on a date, but the date "never leaves the house" and
they want to prove him as a cold hearted murderer, but is he? You'll
have to see this movie to find out.

So Distubia was a pretty good movie, I would recommend it, although
before you see it, I would highly recommend seeing Rear Window, but
this was a good updated version that I'm sure you'll enjoy. It keeps
you on the edge of your seat and will make you ask questions over and
over again, those are always the thrillers that are worth seeing.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
I hated this movie! I don't care what kind of star power you have ( if
you can even call the kid from "Even Stevens" a star), how much money
you have, or how well your movie is made, if the script is bad you have
nothing. Disturbia is a stylish, highly-polished thriller. Everything
looks good, it is well-directed, well-acted, and has an authentic,
modern-suburban feel to it. However, once you get past the impressive
first five minutes, the film falls completely flat! Without giving
anything away, the movie has absolutely no surprises. In fact,
Disturbia is so formulaic that anyone over the age of 10 should be able
to predict exactly how the movie ends, including what happens to every
single character. The dialogue is cheesy and ridiculous, every
character besides the main kid (Kale) is completely one dimensional. By
the time anything that is supposed to pass for scary happened I was so
bored I didn't care who lived or died. This movie had absolutely no
emotional resonance. I watched it alone, late at night, in the dark and
was not scared once! I have worked in video retail for almost six
years. Maybe I've just seen so many great movies that this one just
seems especially bad. It is a mediocre film at best. There are good
performances, but the actors really had nothing to work with. David
Morse's suspected killer is a complete waste of his talent. I am happy
I have a job where I can directly influence what people are renting (at
least in one neighborhood of Seattle). I am going to make it my
personal mission to keep Disturbia out of as many hands and homes as I
possibly can!!!
