
Insane really. Even if you haven't seen the original George Cukor movie
with Norma Shearer, Joan Crawford, Rosalind Russell, Paulette Goddard,
Joan Fontaine and a cast of a thousand other stars you may dismiss this
forced, politically correct, depressing comedy. Depressing for many
different reasons. Meg Ryan for one. What has she done to herself? Her
face can hardly move. That alone puts her miles away from Norma
Shearer. Annette Bening should be suing the DP and Debra Messing, what
the hell was she doing here? Actresses with no connection in the
public's subconscious trying to pass for friends, totally
unconvincingly. Eva Mendes in the Joan Crawford part is an outrageous
piece of miscasting. What a terrible idea! Her character is like a
trans-gender performer without any taste or subtlety. Bizarre to think
that a woman adapted and directed this women.The only positive things I
can mention are a short but very funny appearance by Bette Midler and
Cloris Leachman as the housekeeper.
<|_=00=_|>
It was an impossible task to update a classic that was embedded in its
time and as such could travel the waves of time intact because we could
adapt to its historical context. Now this 2008 version seems the one
that's dated. I used to love Meg Ryan, reminded me of Carol Lombard now
she's more like Joan Rivers, in appearance if not in spirit. There is
nothing funny about her. Strangely enough she looks better in the
second part of the film. In any case, the modernity of Norma Shearer's
performance is unbeatable. Annette Bening is better but couldn't cancel
the memory of Rosalind Russell, who could? If one can divorce oneself
from the George Cukor original, and one must to be able to sit through
it, there are a few pleasures to be had, mostly thanks to Cloris
Leachman, Candice Bergen (playing Meg Ryan's mom for the second time,
remember "Rich and Famous"?) and Bette Midler in a much to brief stint
playing the part once played by Mary Boland. The most unforgivable
blunder is Eva Mendes's Crystal. She couldn't fill Joan Crawford's
shoes not even by mistake. Her performance is vulgar, jarring and ugly.
How strange that someone as smart as Diane English could give us such a
confusing picture of women. Oh well, I had to see it, I saw it and I'm
very disappointed but hardly surprised.
<|_=00=_|>
As a Spanish tourist in Los Angeles and a fanatic movie lover I
committed a terrible mistake. I went to see "The Women" The remake of
one of my all time favorites. I've seen the original many many times,
in fact I own it. My rushing to see the remake was based on Diane
English, the woman responsible for "Murphy Brown" My though was: how
bad can it be? She must know what she's doing. Well, I don't know what
to say. I don't understand what happened. The Botoxed women is a rather
depressing affair. Meg Ryan or whoever played Mary - she looked a bit
like a grotesque version of Meg Ryan...another actress perhaps wearing
a Meg Ryan mask - she doesn't bring to the character nothing of what
Norma Shearer did in 1939. The new one is a tired, unconvincing
prototype of what has become a farce within a farce. The "friends"
Annette Bening, Debra Messing, Jada Pinket Smith are as disconnected as
anything I've ever seen and if this wasn't enough: Eva Mendes as
Crystal, the character created by Joan Crawford in one of her best and
funniest performances. Eva Mendes's casting is really the poster sign
for how wrong, how ill conceived this commercial attempt turned up. I
didn't give it a 1 out respect for Candice Bergen and Cloris Leachman
<|_=00=_|>
I believe an entire book can be written about the odyssey to remake the
classic film on which this film is loosely based. When Hollywood first
started talking about such enterprise, the reaction was always negative
because there were just too many aspects that could have gone wrong,
starting with the solid ensemble that made the original unforgettable,
and that's exactly where things begin souring here, with the selection
of actresses that otherwise can do remarkable work, but that are not
suited to the parts, and sadly enough, have been directed with the
heavy hand of a director that doesn't understand or appreciate the
source material.

It seems as if there is no focus or direction, or as if the direction
that has been taken is to obliterate anything that was good about the
original film. This is called an updating, as in let's drain the story
out of humor, snappy dialogue, and any interesting premise. Most of
all, let's prove that women have come a long way, except that the
problem is that we don't really get (at least by watching this film)
where the women are truly going.

For starters, casting Meg Ryan in the central role proves almost fatal
to the movie because somehow she seems to have locked herself into some
sort of limbo where women don't really change appearances, even after
20 years of working in the movies. Her Mary which proved to be a
difficult role in the 30's, somehow grew from her interaction with the
other stereotypes, like Dorothy in "The Wizard of Oz" by learning,
observing, and realizing that she had a choice in the matter. It might
not have been a choice that women would celebrate nowadays, but it was
fun ride, and part of the fun, was the catty, silly, sometimes
slapstick routines that elevated that movie into the realm of the
sublime. In here, we are down to earth with a thud. By changing the
nature of Sylvia, the film has lost a lot of its spark, and it isn't in
anyway Annette Bening's fault. I couldn't help but admiring how she
tried to save this sinking ship and got a sinking feeling as she
struggled with the horrible lines she was handled. Thankfully I
entertained myself by looking at some of her terrific outfits and kept
reminding myself how talented this lady really was. Her Sylvia is wise
but flawed, and she could have been a great creation. Unfortunately Ms.
English wasn't paying attention to her own work and loses control of
the one character that could have turned the film into a fresh
direction.

Yet that wasn't the biggest blasphemy of them all. In the original, we
have Joan Crawford doing probably one of the best performances by a
woman. Her Crystal is legendary, with conniving lines, incendiary
moves, duplicitous maneuvers, and some very sexy poses. She was the
link between the male and the female, and through her we knew what the
whole catastrophe was about. She provided the tension between men and
women. She was dangerous, sexy, the ultimate femme fatale. A woman of
intelligence that we feared and admired, and most importantly, we
wanted to destroy to save our heroine. Eva Mendes, as gorgeous as she
is, is two dimensional in this outing because of weak writing, and once
again, some bad casting.

There are more atrocities in the film, such as the addition of a
terrible role for Mensing as the dedicated mother who lives for having
babies, and the rather annoying lesbian turn by Pinkett. Then comes the
biggest waste of talent in the movie, as Bette Middler, who is a little
unrecognizable in her make up, shows the spark of what could have been.
Her acidic delivery reminds us of the contemporary angle the film could
have taken. Her words revive and put a big of much needed naughtiness
in the film, and it is exciting to see that it could really fly, then
she is gone. She is in the film all of six minutes, and she fades away
in the middle of the muddle.

Here is a movie that raised our anticipation level and truly
disappointed us, a film that could have joined the successful "Sex in
the City" who made an amazing transition to the big screen because it
respected its source material and didn't compromise. It gave us more,
bigger and better adaptation. It truly updated what had made it
successful before. "The Women" in its present reincarnation needs to go
back and rework itself, much like "The Hulk" did it this year, find
more suitable performers, a really good writer, and most of all,
someone who truly treasures what good movies are about.
<|_=00=_|>
To say I was disappointed is an understatement. An amateur film made by
professionals. I was about to leave the theater in two or three
occasions (something I've never done)I was stopped by Cloris Leachman
really. She rings true, the only one I should say. This new women are
less modern than the George Cukor women of the 30's. This ones are
"acting" for us trying to be with it but their "conflict" is exactly
the same as it has always been, in movies anyway. The fun of the
original was based on a crisp, vitriolic and very funny script. A
masterful direction and an unrepeatable cast. All the elements that are
missing here. TV actresses mingling with models and Oscar
nominees/winners. There wasn't anything organic about it. The whole
thing felt like a put on, improvised in the moment without a clear
objective. 2/10
<|_=00=_|>
First, I should say that I've seen the '39 version at least 100 times;
know all the dialog, and have read the '36 play, which is different
from the '39 and contains nuggets of gold of its own. This version is
as flat as a Lifetime movie on adultery. There's a reason you haven't
seen an expensive campaign of TV ads for it. According to Entertainment
Weekly, Bening hated the catty tone of the original and how the women
spent the whole time going to war on each other. GUESS WHAT??! That was
Booth's intent. It was a slick, theatrical take on gossip, adultery,
and back-biting among a set of well-heeled Manhattan socialites. The
crowd that made this new version had no intention of honoring the
original source material. They pick at it weirdly, putting in half a
scene here and half a scene there that come from the first version.
Bette Midler (who is in just a few scenes and acts the old Countess
part in a broad, grinning style) doesn't have any context in this
version. She mentions going after "Buck," which is a key element in the
original -- then he's never mentioned again. This movie is so dull that
I'm not going to over-analyze it, but here are a few things that I
found unbelievable: > Mary Haines bragging to her domestic staff: "I
can suck the nails out of a board!" Right. Great writing. Norma Shearer
could've done a line reading on that & gotten an Oscar nom, right? > A
COMPASSIONATE Sylvia Fowler!!!??? Annette Bening got what she wanted,
and the movie just sort of withers away. Claire Booth used Sylvia as
the comic engine that swept through the play. As portrayed immortally
by Rosalind Russell, she was an ignorant, spiteful woman who rattled
off reams of petty, ridiculous, irresistible dialog that is still
classic and quotable. She wasn't above biting Paulette Godard's ankle.
The 2008 filmmakers decided that this character had to die. In killing
her off, they killed the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I really wish I had read everyone's review before going to see the
movie... it was one of the most excruciating films that I've ever seen.
I was ready to leave the theater 5 minutes into the movie; I should
have followed my instinct. The movie offered nothing new or clever, it
was boring and very cliché. I was surprised to find that it was
directed by a woman! The characters did not represent any women that I
know, they were boring, bitter and melodramatic. The movie was
unrealistic and depressing and a waste of time and money. And the
actors looked tired, poor make-up and hair styling. It was recently
compared to the Sex and in the City movie; it was not even half as
good. My suggestion, do not see this movie!
<|_=00=_|>
I was very disappointed by this movie. Ms English who says that she is
a fan of the original movie seemed to have taken a great piece of
artistic work, and transformed it into a flat-lined "ho-hum" you've
come a long way baby production. I tried to like Meg Ryan's Mary
Haines, but she was just boring. She didn't seem to feel anything about
her husband's affair. There was no emotional struggle, no deep hurt. In
the original 1939 movie Norma Shearer's Mary Haines felt betrayed,
shocked, vulnerable, confused and angry. The 2008 production was more
about some fake sisterhood theme, (Actually my wife's words)and didn't
make you shed a tear or even chuckle. The only performances that were
note worthy we're of Debra Messing, and Bette Midler. (I wanted more of
Bette.) There was really no protagonist in this movie. The Sylvia
Fowler character had too many sub themes to it. And Crystal Allen had
no fire. The remake of the department store encounter with Annette
Benning, and Miss Mendez was Luke warm. Also the pacing was slow as
well. Obviously the 1939 version needed to be updated, but this one
wasn't it. The reason that the original version worked so well was that
the characters were dealing with "man" problems. A subject by the way
which isn't out-dated. The magic of the original movie was that the
movie was about both sexes, while you never saw the men.
<|_=00=_|>
I have never seen the original 1930s version of the film, but this
remake is one of the worst I have seen from a major production studio
in years. Seeing actors such as Meg Ryan and Annette Bening, once near
A level talents, sleepwalk their way through poorly scripted roles is
painful. There appeared to be no desire to be in front of the camera
for anyone in this film.

Jada Pinkett Smith and Debra Messing play worthless roles that have no
bearing on the plot and add no entertainment value. Jada Pinkett
Smith's character is used as nothing more than a ploy to appear modern,
having an African American lesbian character, but in actuality she is
there to just look cool. There is no actual reason why Messing in this
film other than to fill out the amount of women in the original I take.

The side characters played by Eva Mendes and Debi Mazar are
stereotypical female characters, with Mendes portraying the vixen
looking to steal the wealthy but bored and mildly neglected husband and
Mazar covering the gossip roles.

The movie is boring, lacking charm, humor, or sympathy for any
characters. It almost felt like the movie was a punishment for everyone
involved, whether in front of or behind the camera.

There is one glimmering hope in the film, however little it is allowed
to shine surrounded by the dim and dying stars around it is Cloris
Leachman. Leachman is still an amazing talent that brings her
remarkable charm and humor to the film, in the small role that she has.
<|_=00=_|>
I've never seen the original movie others have commented on, so my
perspective is just about this movie without comparison.

I found the message of the movie to be,: if you only worry about
yourself, all will be right with the world, everything will fall into
place, your lovers will love you more, your friends will respect and
like you more, your employers will want you more, pay you more and even
your own children and parents will love you more.

I find this message to be reprehensible and totally false.

Kudos for the very funny birthing scene at the end; there isn't a
mother out there who won't laugh during that scene.

Overall a very disappointing movie plot. I didn't find myself rooting
for anyone in this movie. I thought they were all pathetic self
absorbed individuals that I just didn't care what happened to them and
that's not a movie people want to see.
