
We've been subjected to enormous amounts of hype and marketing for the
Dark Knight. We've seen Joker scavenger hunts and one of the largest
viral campaigns in advertising history and it culminates with the
actual release of the movie.

Everything that's been said is pretty much spot on. This is the first
time I can remember where a summer blockbuster film far surpasses the
hype.

For as much action as there is in this movie, it's the acting that
makes it a great piece of work. Between all the punches, explosions and
stunt-work is some great dialog work. All the actors have their
moments.

Bale's Batman is the definitive Batman because we see everything in
this character finally on film. Martial arts skills, cunning, great
tactical thinking, forensic application, technological genius to
advance or improve Luscious Fox's inventions/technological
breakthroughs, intimidating personality, and even a little
swashbuckling. 

As for Heath, yes he gets credit for his performance as the Joker. But
you have to also recognize Jonathan and Chris Nolan for the writing and
treatment of the character. It's not just the fact that Ledger makes
the Joker so menacing, but the Nolans have given the character this
great manifesto that drives its actions. The Joker's stance on chaos,
order, anarchy, the morality of the average modern human being make the
character so interesting psychologically. The Nolans drafted a complex
character and only a perfect performance could've pulled something like
this off. That's how difficult of a role this was, and that's why
Ledger's performance is so great.

This isn't an action movie. It's a film that explores literary themes
of the hero and villain, as well as order and anarchy. Yes, listen to
the dialog because it's all in there.
<|_=00=_|>
Christopher Nolan's second bundle of joy "The Dark Knight" EXCEEDED all 
of my expectations!!! With the success of 2005's reboot of the Batman 
franchise, they took what was already established and expanded it, 
amped it up, and gave a deeper, darker and brooding story that is more 
gripping and the suspense is likely to catch you of guard several times 
throughout. Christian Bale delves more deeper into Batman, sworn to 
fight evil and injustice, though also quite reluctant and uncertain if 
his crusade can ever end and cleanse his inner turmoil from his 
fractured soul due to the murder of his beloved parents. But with the 
help of his trusted butler/ally Alfred (played superbly by Michael 
Cane) grounds him, gives him moral support, and keeps him in check. But 
the real star of the show is Heath Ledger as Batman's most deadly 
enemy, The Joker. I can HONESTLY tell you that: as good as Jack 
Nicholson was in Batman'89 he is CHILD'S PLAY compared to this Joker. 
He is sadistic, psychotic, and downright SCARIER and PSYCHOLOGICALLY 
disturbing than the previous incarnation of The Clown Prince of Crime 
and Ledger gives it his all to do him justice. Along with the original 
cast comes some fresh faces such as Aaron Eckhart, Maggie Gyllenhaal 
and more. I must say though I liked Katie Holmes, Gyllenhaal gives a 
much better performance and is a far cry from the "damsel-in-distress" 
stereotype (though there's a little of it, THANKFULLY) that's common in 
films. Bale and Gyllenhall have MUCH better chemistry this time around 
more so than Holmes. Even better, the fight sequences are vastly 
improved and feature more brutal and bone crushing combat than "Begins" 
in addition to new technology at Batman's disposal.

Also worth mentioning is screenwriter Jonathan Nolan, who gives the 
film an added frosting to an already delicious cake.

Simply put, The Dark Knight is totally more bad ass than "Begins." The 
action is great, and the plot is more deeper and engrossing. I applaud 
Christopher Nolan, Christian Bale, and especially Heath Ledger (who 
sadly passed away earlier this year) and all those aboard for believing 
in Mr. Nolan's talents for this second installment. Although some may 
feel a bit of melancholy over Ledger's death, but as a final note I 
will say this sincerely from my heart: Remember Heath Ledger and honor 
him in your minds and hearts not only for his performances, but as a 
human being and father to his daughter Matilda 
Ledger. May we issue him best wishes for his family and friends and his 
daughter for years to come. Remember . . . Honor him not only for this 
role and past roles, but as an incredible individual and talented 
actor.

Rest in peace. Heath Ledger: 4/4/1979-1/22/2008.
<|_=00=_|>
I had the honor of watching TDK during a screening and was completely
blown away! This isn't just the best Batman movie ever made, this is
one of the best movie ever made. Everything in this film is excellent,
not one piece of annoyance.

Bale marvels as Bruce Wayne/Batman, Ledger has made The Joker in to an
iconic movie villain. His performance belongs there at the top with
Hopkins Lecter. The Joker has finally been portrait properly on film,
he has earned his place between the big boys in movie villandom. This
is the true Joker every Batman fan knows, loves and fears. Ledger
deserves any and every movie award known to man for this brilliant
display.

Nolan has made his "I will always be remembered" movie, this is the
crownjewel in his portfolio. Perfect directing, perfect story, perfect
balance between action and drama, everything is perfect. 

Even if you hate Batman, you will love this film. If you don't, then
something beez wrongz with youz!
<|_=00=_|>
I used to leave a theatre after seeing a highly anticipated movie,
specifically a sequel, and be so revved up about what I saw that I
would declare that movie to be the best of a series. After each of the
prequel "Star Wars" films, I rated that one the best, as good as any of
the originals...for a time, until my opinion balanced out and I had a
more well-rounded take. For that reason, I steer away from that
mindset, and did for "Dark Knight".

Though my opinion is solidifying already after having seen a Warner
Bros. screening last night, "Dark Knight" ably stands on its own with
or without "Batman Begins". At a two and a half hour runtime, it's
definitely an epic of a movie, but one that never runs out of gas. A
delightful addition to this experience was a healthy amount of IMAX
footage, which significantly adds to the feel of being on a personal,
and gruesome, tour of Gotham City.

Christian Bale plays such a well rounded Batman and Bruce Wayne,
qualities that none of those who have donned the cowl before him have
pulled off. I still have to remember that Bale is British since he
speaks with such a spot on American accent. Bale has a particular
slurring lisp that serves him quite well, charmingly for Bruce Wayne
and threateningly for Batman.

Countering him is the late Heath Ledger, who plays such a scary and
creepy Joker that I found it impossible to NOT have chills half the
time I saw him on screen. What really separates this brand of Joker
from Jack Nicholson's portrayal is true unpredictability. It's obvious
that, to be a good guy and think like the Joker, it really takes a
toll, and it sure isn't easy. How exactly does one take him down when
he's woven his harebrained plot around multiple hostages, explosives,
or disappearing parlor tricks?

Initially, I was uneasy about how the character of Harvey Dent would be
handled. In my mind, there was really only one faithful portrayal of
him, and that could be found in the "Batman" animated series of the
early 90s. As well as Tommy Lee Jones COULD have handled him in "Batman
Forever", he certainly did not, though it still was a highlight of that
movie. Aaron Eckhart ably assumes the mantle here, delivering a
performance out of this world, easily on par with the Batman animated
series.

Be it known, this caped avenger stands for the good of Gotham City that
the police force and its counterparts can't represent, the good that
has no jurisdiction, no procedures...and no rules, save for one. I can
only hope that we've seen just the prelude to the Dark Knight's
upcoming legendary battles with the worst of Gotham City's dark
underside.

"The Dark Knight" gets a solid 10 of 10 stars.
<|_=00=_|>
I must say I was excited for this movie since the instant BATMAN BEGINS
appeared on screen at the end of the first film. It was always going to
be good, and sadly, it was always going to be over-hyped by the
advertising warhorses.

It is rare though, that a movie can surpass all the hype and pass all
expectations on the film. Nolan (The Prestige, Begins) delivers on more
than the Joker we remember from the 'Old Days' of Burton and Nicholson.
Instead we're given a psychopathic sadist who pleasures from sheer
anarchy.

All the hailing of Ledger's performance are grounded. Watching it will
make you feel a different chill down your spine than you'd remember
from any other film. It's impossible, quite literally to relate to The
Joker. He gets inside your head with his stories of how he got his
scars, makes you laugh at his sick jokes, then makes you instantly
wonder why you're laughing.

If Ledger wasn't enough to horrify you - wait for Harvey Dent.
Brilliantly portrayed by Aaron Eckhart as Gotham's 'fallen White
Knight' and Batman's direct counterpart. His transformation will put
Tommy Lee Jones' portrayal look like children's breakfast cartoons.
Gyllenhaal had perfect chemistry with both Bale and Eckhart, Michael
Caine and Morgan Freeman both work well as Batman's 'conscience' and of
course, Gary Oldman as Lieutenant Gordon were all solid.

There are some major differences between The Dark Knight and Begins.
Firstly, the music is extremely disconcerted compared with the
'majestic but unfinished' tones of Begins - but it suits the film's
tone: Anarchy in every sense. There was a more solid singular villain
(compared with the many in Begins) - but there was also a lot more
henchmen in TDK. The martial art direction was faster and more
efficient - as mentioned in the film, learning through experience.

I was disappointed at the role of Scarecrow in this film, it just felt
like a loose thread and wasn't quite closed up or explained, and the
ending, while it wasn't what I expected (others have said that it was
predictable, but for me it wasn't) was solid and suited the film well.

All in all, this is a film that is quite close, if it isn't already, a
masterpiece. Nolan has a great thing going and unlike previous
'Superhero' adaptations (Spiderman and Fantastic Four for example),
there isn't campiness creeping in. In face, if Batman Begins was 10/10,
The Dark Knight deserves a 12. Quite simply, the best possible sequel
that could've been given.

If you watch this (which I implore that you do), you certainly won't
regret it. One of the best movies of 2008 (I'll wait till Quantum of
Solace comes out before I pass judgement) - but certainly a film worth
getting excited for. If you don't like it, then that's also fine - but
keep in mind that you probably thought Meet The Spartans was a good
movie, so the rest of us won't take it to heart.

Stunning in every aspect, and exceeds all hype and expectation... Can't
wait to watch it again, or for the Blu-Ray!
<|_=00=_|>
I thought Batman Begins was a very well conceived and put together 
movie. We finally get Batman as a fully rendered character. We gain new 
insight into his motivations and the variables he must contend with in 
his role as protector of Gotham. We get to see Gary Oldman as an 
honest-to-goodness good guy. And we get to see Liam Neeson conducting 
perhaps his strangest facial hair experiment yet.

But after seeing The Dark Knight, Batman Begins will forevermore be 
viewed (by me at least) as a handy little prologue to a FRICKIN' 
MASTERPIECE of a superhero film.

To say it's the deepest mainstream comic adaptation ever produced would 
be akin to calling the Nolan/Ledger Joker 'a bit eccentric'.

While watching it, I found myself thinking it was very long, which is 
usually a sign that it's TOO long, and therefore boring. But that's not 
actually the case here. The script is bulging with ideas, philosophical 
musings, THEMES, which Christopher Nolan is not content to gloss over 
in favour of cool set-pieces (as many comic adaptations are), but wants 
to explore, wants to allow the characters to explore, at a logical 
pace. So, what I guess I'm saying is, considering what it sets out to 
do, the movie is long ENOUGH, while still constantly holding the 
viewer's interest.

And that's not to say the thematic exploration comes at the EXPENSE of 
big action, either. On the contrary, there is some truly awesome stuff 
going on here. The chase with the truck, for example, is fantastic, and 
there's some great hand-to-hand stuff too.

But what engages us most is the characters, and, while the script is 
brilliant (the dialogue is sharp, and quite funny for the first 
two-thirds, before the drama really kicks in), this mainly comes down 
to the cast.

Christian Bale. Taller than Michael Keaton was. More menacing than Val 
Kilmer was. Less like Adam West than George Clooney was. Solid and 
committed as always. He gives the character LIFE, and actually makes us 
feel for him. The word 'tortured' keeps coming to mind...and I suppose 
it's pretty appropriate.

Heath Ledger. Y'know, I'd heard talk of an Oscar nomination, and 
thought it sounded a bit dubious. A Batman villain? Winning an Oscar? 
Is that what it's come to? Then I thought, is it because he didn't get 
one for Brokeback? Or more dubious still...is it because he...died? 
But...well...how can I put it...? 

It seems a bit blasphemous to compare Jack Nicholson to Cesar Romero, 
but after seeing Heath at work...Jack (who once seemed so awesome) just 
looks...well...lame.

If you've seen it, you hopefully get what I mean. If you haven't...you 
need to. You will discover the true definition of commitment.

Maggie Gyllenhaal. I didn't have any problem with Katie in the first 
one (at the time), but I doubt she could have pulled off the more 
emotional stuff Rachel goes through here. Seeing recasting was 
necessary (does Tom have a problem with his wife being involved with 
Batman? Too many bad memories perhaps? Why am I even talking about such 
garbage here?) they could have done a butt-load worse than Maggie. She 
rocks.

As does Aaron Eckhart. But I'm not giving ANYTHING away. Suffice it to 
say my mind was blown...AGAIN. Makes Tommy Lee Jones look like...you 
get the idea.

Michael Caine. Still one of my favourite actors. Alfred is the shiz.

Morgan Freeman. Morgan Freeman. AOK.

Gary Oldman. As in BB, no mania. No psychosis. No nervous tics. 
Absolute subtlety. Manages to hold his own alongside Christian, Heath 
and Aaron without resorting to parlour tricks. Sign of spectacular 
talent. Go Gaz.

Eric Roberts! William Fichtner! Michael Jai White! Tiny Lister!

The whole thing is just a big bag of thoughtful, well-executed 
entertainment. It's equal parts cerebral and visceral. Ideas and 
action.

I've liked every Batman movie so far (okay, besides Batman & Robin), 
but this one makes them all look pretty bloody ordinary.
<|_=00=_|>
Batman has always been my favourite superhero ever since the first time
I heard about him because he his human with no powers, also he is much
more questionable than any other superhero. The story of the film is
about Batman, Lieutenant James Gordon, and new district attorney Harvey
Dent beginning to succeed in rounding up the criminals that plague
Gotham City. They are unexpectedly challenged when a mysterious
criminal mastermind known as the Joker appears in Gotham. Batman's
struggle against the Joker becomes deeply personal, forcing him to
"confront everything he believes" and to improve his technology (which
introduces the recreation of the Batcycle, known as the Batpod and the
Batsuit was redesigned) to stop the madman's campaign of destruction.
During the course of the film, a love triangle develops between Bruce
Wayne, Dent and Rachel Dawes.

There are now six Batman films and I must say that The Dark Knight is
the best out of all of them. The title is good because that is what
Batman actually is. It has been 3 years for the adventure to continue
from Batman Begins but that entire wait was worth it. Gotham city is
very Gothic looking and is very haunting and visionary. The whole movie
is charged with pulse-pounding suspense, ingenious special effects and
riveting performances from a first-rate cast especially from Heath
Ledger who gave an Oscar nomination performance for best
supporting-actor. It is a shame that he can't see his terrific work
on-screen. The cinematography is excellent which is made so dark &
sinister that really did suit the mood for the film. Usually sequels
don't turn out to be better than the original but The Dark Knight is
one of those rare sequels that surpasses the original like The
Godfather 2. I also really liked the poster where the building is on
fire in a Bat symbol & Batman is standing in front of it. Christopher
Nolan is a brilliant director and his film Memento is one of my most
favourite films. He hasn't made 10 movies yet and 3 of them are already
on the IMDb top 250. Overall The Dark Knight is the kind of movie that
will make the audience cheer in the end instead of throwing fruit &
vegetables on the screen.
<|_=00=_|>
I got to see The Dark Knight on Wednesday night, the reason though why
I'm writing this movie comment this late is because I didn't wanna just
jump and say this movie was awesome, I wanted to think it through,
still today, I can't stop thinking about this movie! The Dark Knight
lives up to it's hype and goes beyond it, this is the Batman movie that
goes where no other Batman movie has gone before. It gave us a real
sold story, we are finally told why the villains are the way they are,
how all the injustice in the world can get underneath Batman's skin,
how you have to believe that people still have faith in good on Earth.
Heath Ledger, I absolutely loved Jack Nicolson's performance in the
1989 film, when I first read that Heath was signed onto The Dark
Knight, I was like "What are they, kidding?", once you see The Dark
Knight... Heath was incredible! I'm not going to compare Jack and
Heath's performance, because they were two different versions of the
Joker, but Heath's Joker was definitely the more scary and intense of
the two nominations. You didn't know what he was going to do next, he
was so crazy, he was also so charismatic to the point where you could
relate to his character, and the worst part is not only that he's
crazy, he's driving Gotham crazy and treating everyone like little
puppets on strings that he can control, and guess what, he is doing it
so well with a smile on his face. 

This was so much more than a Batman film, this was so much more than a
comic book film, The Dark Knight truly delivers with drama, action,
romance, horror, dark humor, the study of a psychopathic killer, a
detective story. The force behind this epic movie is Christopher Nolan,
who's previous film, Batman Begins, didn't really thrill me, but his
incredible film making is truly shown in The Dark Knight, the shots
that he got of Gotham City were absolutely fantastic and made you feel
part of the city, part of the Batman story. One of the things that I
absolutely loved about The Dark Knight is that normally with a comic
book movie, you know it's not real, people don't dress up in costumes,
and save the day, villains don't name themselves crazy names and dress
in make up or crazy costumes, but The Dark Knight actually makes it
seem incredibly real, like it could happen.

Bruce Wayne is still learning how to be in his double life of Batman
and himself, he has lost Rachel to the new district attorney, Harvey
Dent, he's inspiring others who are dressing up as Batman and are
trying to take on the villains of the city themselves. But things are
much worse when the Joker waltzes into town, and he's going to bring
Hell upon Gotham City. Constantly playing with Gotham's mind and trying
to get Batman to reveal himself, Batman has never dealt with such a
psychopathic genius before. The Joker has named himself as the "Classy
Villain that Gotham needs", he also has brought a new thought into
Batman's head of them actually being more alike than different, that
Batman completes him, the Joker would be nothing without him. But
Batman is relying on Harvey Dent, who is Gotham's "White Knight" trying
to put all of Gotham's scum in jail. But when the Joker plays Batman
and Commissioner Gordon, Harvey and Rachel find themselves in very
horrific position and Harvey must discover if he will die a hero or
live long enough to become a villain.

All the performances are dead on in this movie, now everyone's going
crazy over Heath Ledger's performance, but one performance I would also
love to credit is Aaron Eckhart who plays Harvey Dent/Two Face, his
performance was just as great as Heath's and made Two Face a human
villain. You could understand his hatred and vengeance on what happened
to him and why he became Two Face. I know that everyone is saying this
but I truly mean when I say this is one of the best movies I have seen
in a very long time. We had some great movies these past few years, but
I think The Dark Knight is seriously something special, but I don't
wanna build it up too much since some people go to the theater
expecting my words to be the same as your own. In my opinion though
this is not a great movie, I can't come up with a word describe how
incredibly powerful this movie was, to be honest I would go above a 10
rating if I could; this is the Batman film that we have been waiting
for. I've seen it twice in one weekend, I'm going to see it three times
this upcoming week, I don't mind one bit. I can't wait for the sequel
and I would just like to say RIP to Heath, wish he could have seen his
breath taking performance as The Joker.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>
(Synopsis) Bruce Wayne/Batman (Christian Bale) continues to eliminate
crime in Gotham City with the help of Lt. Jim Gordon (Gary Oldman) and
the new District Attorney, Harvey Dent (Aaron Eckhart). The Dark Knight
wants to finally get rid of organized crime for good and be free of
their corruption. Batman soon finds that a new psychopathic mastermind
known as the Joker (Heath Ledger) has taken over organized crime. The
Joker's plan is to terrify the citizens and throw the city into chaos,
and kill Batman. Batman takes the fight with the Joker personal, which
makes him confront his own beliefs. The Joker is the most dangerous
criminal that Batman has encountered, and he will need all his strength
and vigilance to defeat him.

(My Comment) This film just blew me away. Christian Bale is a natural
as Bruce Wayne/Batman, and Michael Caine fits the part of Alfred, the
trusted butler. Heath Ledger's performance as the sadistic Joker was
absolutely disturbing and scary yet simply amazing. I would not want to
meet the Joker in a dark alley, and whatever you do, don't ask him how
he got his smile, especially, when he has a knife in his hand. Ledger's
performance has turned the Joker into a new iconic movie villain image.
Between all the punches, mayhem, and explosions, there is some good
sinister dialog. The movie not only has a lot of action, it also tells
the story of the internal struggle that Bruce Wayne is having with
being the Batman hero. Bruce Wayne wants to be himself and maintain the
difference between himself and Batman. Bruce must decide to follow the
code or do what has to be done without affecting his own morals. The
movie explores the literary themes of Hero verses Villain, as well as
Order verses Anarchy, and the Joker explains to Batman that to have one
you must have the other, and because of that, they will always be
connected. The movie is long, but it went by so fast. You will love the
last 45 minutes, because of the non-stop action with Batman in his new
sonic suit and his BatPod. With all the explosions, body count, and the
dark mood of the movie, I don't think parents should take young
children. (Warner Bros. Pictures, Run Time 2:32, Rated PG-13)(10/10)
<|_=00=_|>
I think the big question...or the question everyone actually cares
about is this: Is Christopher Nolan's follow up to the critically
acclaimed 2005 film "Batman Begins," The Dark Knight, as good as
everyone is saying? Quite simply, yes, yes it is. There is no doubt
about it, one of the most anticipated movies of the 21st century duly
deserves every amount of praise lavished onto it. This is no ordinary
superhero movie, this is a character and dialogue driven piece, not as
action orientated as you might expect.

I will not go into plot details, because there is a lot of it. However,
a basic one sentence summary is: Batman now has to face his most
cunning and psychotic enemy, someone with no real motives...The Joker.
Now that that is out of the way, I will start off with the actors (and
boy, is there a lot to talk about). Christian Bale has done a
tremendous job as our beloved Caped Crusader, with him already blowing
everyone else out of water with "Batman Begins." Bruce Wayne has a
flawed personality that hangs on the balance between righteousness and
criminal. His perception of justice causes an emotional and personal
shift, whether he is a wealthy businessman who fights crime in a
gadget-riddled suit or just a normal man who is sick of all the scum in
Gotham City and decides to give the law-breakers a dose of their own
medicine. Because of this, and Bale's tremendous acting, Bruce Wayne is
justified, and we emphasise with Bale's flawed hero more than any of
the other actors. If there ever was an excellent Batman, this is it.
The theme of right and wrong is played well with his character here.

Of course, I am sure you all want know if Heath Ledger was that good.
And I can safely say that he most definitely was. Ledger's Joker is not
only the best, but is now the greatest superhero film villain ever. His
performance is truly terrifying, chilling, brilliant; any synonyms of
the previous adjectives. Every scene he is in is stolen. The Joker
truly is Batman's worst villain; cunning and psychotic, nothing quite
matches his laugh and sinister makeup. If Ledger nabs the Oscar for
Best Actor, I honestly will not be surprised. It is a true tragedy to
see such a talented actor fall at such a young age...

All the other actors cannot be forgotten, though. Aaron Eckhart has
definitely proved himself previously ("Thankyou for Smoking") as
someone to watch out for. Here, as Harvey Dent (and later Two Face) he
is very powerful. All he wants is justice; to bring down every single
criminal. Eckhart is the definitive Two Face. Maggie Gyllenhaal as
Wayne and Dent's love interest, Rachel Dawes is much better than Katie
Holmes. Gyllenhaal's performance has substance, I really cared for her
and her future and she was terrific in every scene. Michael Caine can
do no wrong, and as Alfred Pennyworth he provides some comical and
emotional scenes. Morgan Freeman as Lucius Fox, although a limited
role, does inject some sly humour and much needed morals into the
story. Finally, Gary Oldman's Lt. James Gordon is riveting. He at least
needs a Best Supporting Actor nomination for his performance as another
crime-fighting hero who faces some challenging situations.

Wally Pfister's cinematography is simply stunning. Gotham has never
looked so good, so big and deep. His wide shots purvey a dirty aura and
contribute to the feel of the film. Without it, it may not have been
the same. Another Oscar worthy portion, THE MUSIC! With Hans Zimmer AND
James Newton Howard at the helm, how could it go wrong? The score sets
the mood in every scene, giving an epic and thrilling tone. During the
action sequences it really ups the adrenaline. And on the topic of
action, The Dark Knight succeeds in having the best fight sequences and
car chases in a comic book adaptation yet. With no obvious or over-use
of CGI, the explosions and accidents are the real deal. Thrilling, edge
of your seat and violent, this is brutally awesome stuff.

Nevertheless, none of this would be possible without Christopher Nolan,
the man behind it all. Pairing up with the writer (and brother)
Jonathon Nolan, the darkest Batman movie yet is the best, and the best
so far this year. This does not feel like a comic book film, the
dialogue and situations feel so realistic. And, it IS the script that
drives this film. The dialogue is very, very well written and is the
centre of the conflict and the movie.

It may be bold to say this, but this is the best superhero film of all
time. There are others that are magnificent ("Superman" and "X-Men" are
two examples) but this is the most complex, the most dark and the most
spectacular and epic of them all. See it for Bale, for Ledger, for the
music, the action and for Nolan's flawless direction.

5/5 and the best film of 2008 so far!!
