
As an old surfer, and a lover of penguins, I was totally PUMPED for
this movie! So I went out to see it last night, and I laughed several
times. One of the most awesome things to me, was how Big Z encompassed
the ideal of just having fun and letting everything go while you surf.
You've got to watch it to see that, but really, this movie is
spectacular. The animation is great, the characters develop nicely, and
the "documentary" format adds to the humor aspect of it. 

I don't know about the comparisons to Happy Feet, but it seems rather
weird to get all upset because there's another penguin movie out on the
market. Bottom line, for me, is that this movie was very fun to watch,
and I thought it had some classic bits of humor. It may be a bit too
much for some younger kids, but it was great for me. I loved this
movie!
<|_=00=_|>
First off, I got the chance to watch the Hollywood premiere here in
Hawaii with the cast being there to watch it too. Due to the recent
release of penguin movies, a lot of people are turned off by them.
Please do not judge it so. I admit, at first I was turned off by it
being a penguin movie and I couldn't think of anything new. Although
this type of story has been told before (what story hasn't?), it's
always interesting to see how it will be presented. And I liked it. The
characters and events keep you in the movie. Yes, you're gonna have to
deal with penguins and their habitats, but it won't be for long. And
besides, this is no happy feet, which I liked also. This movie has an
amazing cast with enjoyable characters. So be ready to laugh your butt
off because I pretty much was. Great family fun movie, or just a movie
for you. Now I regret watching it so early (May 20, 2007) because now I
have to wait until June 8 to watch it again. = (
<|_=00=_|>
It's not the funniest animated movie you've ever seen -- most of the
jokes are amusing, rather than laugh-out-loud -- but it does the job.

Sometimes the humor just seems to be "it's penguins doing human things
-- get it?" 

But it's fast-moving, colorful, and the voice cast is good.
(Fortunately, they didn't give Jon Heder too much to do, so he wasn't
out of his depth.) 

Shia LeBeouf was very good (esp. considering how young he is). Several
of us thought it was Bruce Willis doing the character of Cody. Snappy
and smart. I liked Mario Cantone as the snarky sandpiper.

The animation is so deft you can actually see subtle emotions play over
the faces of these birds. The waves sometimes look real, not animation.

There's a lot of stuff about surfing. Seemed like one of those old
surfing documentaries sometimes. I didn't know if the kids could follow
all that -- but the 3 little girls sitting in front of me pronounced
the movie "fantastic" afterwards, so I guess it did its job.
<|_=00=_|>
It's easy to roll your eyes when you see yet another animated movie
starring talking animals, and what more, talking penguins. Guess you
can credit the popularity of our feathered friends from down south to
award winning films like the documentary which started it all, March of
the Penguins, and the other animated movies Madagascar (where they were
scene stealers) and Happy Feet. But before you actually decide to pass
on this one, Surf's Up a surprisingly refreshing tale set in the bright
sunny beaches with laid back "dude" attitude, which doesn't seem to try
too hard to please, and comes up just about right.

One of the good things about the movie is the voice talent featured.
Like Happy Feet, it contains some recognizable names, but just as a
reminder to our Legend of the Sea friends, big names doesn't
necessarily equate to good voice acting. Shia LeBeouf (a name which we
will see quite frequently over the next few months with Transformers
and Disturbia) gets the lead role of Cody Maverick, a surfer penguin
wannabe who dreams of making it big in the surfing community. His idol
is Big Z (Jeff Bridges), a world champion who had made an impression on
a young Cody. However, Big Z is presumed missing in action during one
competition, and the new world champion, Tank Evans (Diedrich Bader)
looks set to retain his status for the umpteenth time.

The supporting characters too are a delight, with Zooey Deschanel as a
Baywatch lifeguard babe and James Woods as a sports tzar, and Jon Heder
continues his stereotype by playing Cody's new best friend Chicken Joe,
a chilled out surfing chicken who finds himself at probably the wrong
place each time and associating with the wrong species.

What made this movie work is that the filmmakers recognize they have to
come up with a narrative style that is different in order to engage,
and given that it's a sports type movie, they went for a sports
entertainment channel style, complete with replicating camera
techniques including details like less than perfect wireless camera
transmissions (love those on-board cameras, nevermind if it doesn't
make complete sense or is illogical), over the top channel transition
sequences, and you just gotta love those faux pas interviews with just
about every character. If you can't get enough of baby penguins, the
filmmakers too are shrewd enough to include these crowd favourite
characters in endearing scenes.

With Father's Day mood all round, this movie is apt too for the season,
given its theme of family, and bonding with (surrogate) father types.
The humour injected ranges wide, from subtle lines and references, to
the more obvious physical slapstick moments. I can't resist but to
again advise our Legend of the Sea friends, this is what computer
animation is about, with its depiction of photo realistic quality of
the sun, sand and the sea, with realistic surfer moves, a simple story
yet packed with adequate thematic moments, with song and music that
don't irritate, but serve to move the narrative along smartly.

Recommended animated movie, despite the overused penguin characters.
Stay until after the end credits for a short scene (there's also one
played during the credits, so don't walk out of the hall just yet).
<|_=00=_|>
The previews drew me in, and when a rainy weekend coincided with Surf's
Up coming to the local theater I went. Here I am old enough to be a
grandmother and I love animated films. And the animation makes the
film. The water is surreal in how lifelike it is with all the
variegation of color. The plot of little guy, big dreams, dream crash,
dream re-found, and priorities set straight is definitely cliché. It's
how it all gets there, is what we spend our $5.00 matinée for. The
voice talent is perfect: Jeff Bridges as the laid back Z, Shia LaBeouf
the young hero in the making, Jon Heder as a stoned chicken from
Michigan, and Zooey Deschanel as the good-hearted lifeguard who keeps
secrets well. They made the movie flow.

As for the penchant of "children" movies using poop and pee for laugh
lines--I ask why? It didn't add to the movie, and it certainly lowers
it. It's as if they are afraid the movie won't hold up on its own
without a bit of naughty and disgusting jokes. Hey, leave it alone and
let the movie go. Urinating and flatulent penguins just aren't that
funny. Lots of other funny stuff. Like I said to the floor sweeper when
he asked me, "Was it any good?" It had it's moments.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is great for the whole family. As a non-pixar film, my
husband and I though it would be cute for our pre-schooler, but we
didn't expect it to be as much fun as it was for our enjoyment. The
mocumentary-style animation was refreshing and adorable. It was
incredibly witty, and the story was classic! The animation itself
rivaled the realness that pixar turns out - I couldn't take my eyes off
the details in the penguins' markings and the clarity of the ocean
scenes. Shia did an excellent job with the voice as well. I didn't
think his voice would be recognizable enough to pull off a lead
animation character, but because he's got such excitement and energy in
his voice, you could really see him through the animated character. I'd
recommend this to anyone. As my 3 year old has been saying since we
left the theater: "I like penguin movie."
<|_=00=_|>
Cody Maverick(Shia LeBouf), a rock-hopper penguin and native of
Shiverpool, Antarctica, truly lives up to his surname, unlike his
highly domestic mother and brother. He seems quite talented as far as
finding his own way--he surfs when others fish, surfs when others sit
on eggs, he surfs because that's who he is. The legend of Big Z, the
emperor penguin who changed surfing forever, helped to make Maverick a
maverick. So when neurotic event liaison bird Mikey Abromowitz (Mario
Cantone) appears with a chance to compete in the annual "Big Z
Memorial" competition, Cody literally jumps into the chance. Along the
way, he meets characters such as Joe (Jon Heder, well-cast once again),
a surfing chicken from Michigan, and Lani Aliikai (Zooey Deschanel), a
lifeguard penguin who also knows a thing or two about Big Z. Like most
other heroes of animated film, Cody learns something about what really
matters, but don't let that put you off. This is some true summer fun,
kept low-key, which, hopefully, will make this the sleeper hit of
summer. Everyone is nicely cast, and the characters are easy to care
about (that's saying a lot for modern cinema right there). The film
looks wonderful as well--nice character design almost gets dwarfed by
the environments, as the folks at Sony Animation show that they have
successfully taught computers the difference between freezing, harsh
Antarctic Ocean and beautiful, blue, tropical ocean. Truly stunning.

I feel I should also mention the soundtrack; no Beach Boys, but still
appropriate. If you've been waiting to hear Incubus, Green Day, or
Lauryn Hill in more film soundtracks, now's your chance. The
mockumentary approach makes it even more engaging while amping the
laughs. Christopher Guest would be proud. All in all, if you're looking
for a break from all the holler and hoopla that summer movies bring,
and as Big Z says, you're ready to just have some fun, catch a wave...
<|_=00=_|>
They both have penguins. Big Deal. Whoops...does that count as a
comment? Anyway, "Surfs Up" is not a terribly original but fresh and
new hilarious comedy just in time to kick off summer. Shot in a unique
mocumentary style (that may possibly fly over the heads of youngsters),
the visuals are flashy and the look of the film digests well. Water
animation seems to be rapidly progressing. The sand forms foot prints.
The palm fronds sway in the wind. The film looks great. The story is a
cliché, and we know what will happen in the end. The point of the film
isn't however to construct philosophical debate, have an amazing story
or even create memorable characters. It's a fun comedy, and it's humor
is more sophisticated then other past animated comedies such are "Shrek
3". It has a more subtle reflexive quality. We know the story, the
characters, and we know the familiar plot (quite like last year's
"Cars"), but it isn't the fact that they're penguins that makes the
film funny. We only get a few moments were the penguins act "penguiny".
They are what they are for pure aesthetic value. A bipedal animal
(perfect for surfing) that usually dwells among ice makes for a more
pleasing artistic scope. And we're bored with humans. The film succeeds
with it's sense of wit. A character like tank, another reflexive
villainous character like Peter La Fleur from "Dodgeball", is a hoot to
watch. The same for main protagonist Cody Maverick, a familiar trophy
craving teen who is easily out of place amongst the elders. The film
will win no Oscars, but animated films need not be restricted to epic
stories and exercises in perfection. However, it is rather
uncomfortable that the genre in America is restricting itself to this
type of humor. Or really, does all animation have to be humorous even?
But, at least this film takes the convention one step further. The
documentary style doesn't wear out its welcome or include any truly
objectable material for a PG film, and with a sparing running time of
85 minutes, it's fun to see something different.
<|_=00=_|>
Anyone who knows me, knows that I love me some penguin. Of course, I am
referring to the line of clothing and not the waddling bird.
Regardless, I too fell in love with the emperor penguins along with the
rest of the world a couple of years back when THE MARCH OF THE PENGUINS
swept the summer documentary box office. That was the same summer the
mischievous animated penguins of MADAGASCAR had people begging for more
(which they were unfortunately given months later with the dreadfully
drab short, A Christmas CAPER). Penguins were all the rage. After
winning the Best Documentary Oscar, the penguin love only continued to
grow with the holiday hit, HAPPY FEET. The premise there, after
essentially crafting an animated reenactment of the mating ritual
outlined in the aforementioned documentary, penguins sing to express
themselves while one dances instead. HAPPY FEET was a big success and
went on to a surprising win for Best Animated Feature at last year's
Academy Awards. And so the trend continues with another animated
feature about penguins, SURF'S UP. Only now it may seem the public is
growing weary of these tuxed-up birds. Perhaps there is only so much
penguin love to go around. It's a shame really because SURF'S UP may be
the best of the (animated) bunch.

To differentiate itself from all the previous penguin fare, SURF'S UP,
is constructed as a mockumentary. To capture an on-the-cuff style, a
special motion capture camera system was mounted to an old Sony video
camera to give the illusion that the movie was shot with a hand-held
camera. Factor in jump cuts and film scratches from different stocks
and you have a style that is both authentic and dynamic. A film crew
(voiced by the actual directors, Ash Brannon and Chris Buck) has
decided to follow an aspiring surfer by the name of Cody Maverick
(voiced by Shia LaBeouf) on his journey that begins at his humble home
in Shiverpool to the Penguin World Surfing Championship. With blizzards
gusting in the background at home and forestry looking lush and wet at
the championship, SURF'S UP uses nature to not only establish its
fish-out-of-water story but to wow its audience. The beauty of the
animation itself is enough to make SURF'S UP a serious contender come
award season when the waves of praise come crashing ashore.

Set amidst these beautiful backdrops is a bevy of lovable, genuinely
hilarious characters. What is perhaps the film's strongest achievement
is the spontaneity it creates in a style that is so meticulously
designed and planned. The penguins sincerely seem as if they are on
camera. They are both uncomfortable and candid. At home, Cody is
surrounded by his doting, doubtful mother (Dana Belben) and over-sized,
pesky brother (Brian Posehn). The tension in this family is palpable
and unnervingly funny. En route to the competition, Cody comes into
contact with talent scout, Mikey Abromowitz (Mario Cantone), whose
neurosis run through his head almost as fast as his little bird legs
run on land and an oddball surfer/ rooster named Chicken Joe (Jon
Heder), who is as laid back (read potentially stoned) as one would
expect a surfer to be. Cody is taken under wing by a former surfer
named Geek (Jeff Bridges) once at the competition and their playful
interactions keep your gliding through to the finals. SURF'S UP packs
in more unexpected laughs than one would expect and the fact that they
are unexpected is what makes it so incredible.

SURF'S UP also makes sure to bang home an important lesson for the
kids. After all, this is a summer family film and there needs to be a
lesson learned. Cody learns a number of things along his way but they
all amount to understanding a thing or two about patience. "Winning
isn't everything" and "There are more important things to life than
winning" make appearances but what is most important is the philosophy
that will help Cody win out overall. Stop fighting and learn to ride
the wave. It is a lesson that even the filmmakers should have heeded as
there are times when the imposing hand of the powers that be can be
felt in the film's construction to ensure it is as marketable as
possible. Oddly placed soundtrack choices and shots that could not have
been caught by documentary filmmakers undermine the credibility of the
mockumentary but hardly take away from the fun to be had. SURF'S UP
will surprise you, crack you up and leave you wanting to catch the wave
again and again.

The only question left to answer is whether polar bears will be over
saturating the marketplace after the people who brought you THE MARCH
OF THE PENGUINS bring you AN ARCTIC TALE later this summer.
<|_=00=_|>
What is it with this sudden surge of penguin movies appearing? Or
penguins appearing in movies? I've always found watching penguins on
real life TV programmes to be very entertaining because they just seem,
well there's no other word for it, cute. But just recently Hollywood
has seemed to start to overuse them a tiny bit. March of the Penguins I
suppose really kicked it all off. I can't see what all the fuss was
about that documentary and quite why it was the success it was. But it
was an interesting movie. Then came along Madagascar, while admittedly
not completely about penguins the penguins that did feature were
undoubtedly the best things in the entire movie. Since then penguin
items, TV shows and penguins on our screens have been appearing like
crazy. It reached its pinnacle in my eyes last year when Happy Feet
arrived on our big screens. Now I really wanted to love Happy Feet,
when I first watched it I actually did adore it. But after multiple
viewings I realised something, it was actually pretty boring, and way
too depressing at times for my liking. Its animations was beautiful,
but it just didn't live up to its potential. When the first trailers
for Surf's Up arrived I didn't know what to make of it. Dancing
penguins is one things, surfing penguins is just plain ludicrous. I
felt like Sony were merely cashing in on this penguin phenomenon. So
what a pleasant surprise to find that Surf's Up is not only a movie
that'll appeal to both kids and adults, but also the best animated
movie of the year so far! The fact that its a surfing penguin movie
didn't make it as good as it is, no the movie succeeds for daring to
try something different. A mockumentary style movie somewhat
reminiscent of Creature Comforts, trust me if you like Creature
Comforts you will adore this movie. The script is well written, the
voice cast absolutely brilliant, hell even the animation surprised me
for being very well done. If it has one fault its that its obligatory
sentimental streak felt a little bit too forced for my liking.
Nevertheless this is a small fault in an otherwise enjoyable and very
well made animated movie.

The voice cast of the movie are particularly brilliant. Shia Labeouf
leads the cast as surfer wannabe Cody. Labeouf was until recently one
of the few actors I could not stand to see on a screen. My past
experiences with him on movies were usually films that cast him as the
annoying kid. For this reason I couldn't stand him. However, then he
starred in Transformers and changed my mind completely. He is actually
a great actor, he can deliver a joke easily, he's easily likable and he
just does everything in such a great way. This shines through again
with his performance here, and because of his work in this movie I
would be quite happy to see him lead another animated movie some time
in the future. His character is always funny, he definitely gets some
of the best lines and moments in the movie. Jeff Bridges is pretty good
in his role, he works best in the funny moments of the films, when it
comes to the sentimental stuff I just found his voice work to be not as
good. Jon Heder almost runs off with the movie as Chicken Joe, who got
the biggest laugh from the audience. Zooey Deschanel was average I
suppose, her character deals more with the icky stuff towards the end
than the great comedy stuff. James Woods seems to be having a great
time as Reggie, he also gets some great comedy moments.

The actual comedy side of Surf's Up is perhaps the movie greatest
success. The mockumentary style allows us to see a different way of
making animated movies. The movie of course has to switch to a more
movie-ish feel at some points, its in these moments the movie isn't at
its best. Whenever they're doing the documentary style the movie is as
perfect as you could hope for. Meeting Cody's family at the beginning
is pretty hilarious, and meeting all the other supporting characters,
especially Tank who has the best scene of the movie with his trophies,
is definitely the movies highlights. If you are planning to see this I
highly suggest you watch the characters in the background more so than
the characters in the foreground, they made me laugh all the time to
see them waving at the camera or pulling faces behind the other
characters backs. Chicken Joe is definitely best comically, the best
scene with him involves a hot tub and the natives, its pretty
hilarious, a shame most of the joke is ruined in the trailers.

So what are the negatives of the movie then? Well I suppose if I look
at this from a kids point of view then I realise that there are a lot
of jokes that might leave the kids a bit cold. The kids will still be
entertained for the majority of the movie, especially during the very
cool looking surfing sequences, but some of the humour is more directly
aimed at adults than anyone else. Also the sentimentality factor
obviously starts to kick in towards the end. While its never sickly
like a lot of other animated movies are, it still feels a tad forced. I
wish for once we could have a kids movie without all the obligatory
kiss and make up feel at the end of it. Why can't everyone just still
hate each other or something like that? Anyway the sentimentality never
makes the film bad at all, its still a great movie.
