
I found that this movie had a very original storyline. A little bit of
'Real World' mixed with 'I Know What You Did Last Summer'. This was an
Indie movie at best. It seemed more surreal when it came to the 'cruel'
scenes of murder, as far as acting. Everyone's acting was exactly how
anyone would react in the situations they were put through. Especially,
when it came to the meet and greet sessions pool side. Edward Furlong
plays a great villain in my book. The Asian girl kicked ass fighting
for her life. Thats the way to do it. If I was put in that situation
and I knew martial arts I would use it too. The action was well placed,
and the music kept you thinking, "Uh oh, somethings getting ready to go
down." Whats best about this movie is that the music didn't overtake
the dialogue and action in this film. I recommend this movie for all
Indie film buffs. Watch and Enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>
I'm one of those people who try very hard to see the good in
everything, even movies, and this film "Cruel World" deserves far more
credit than it seems to get, as it is actually rather good. Part of the
reason people seem to think it is terrible may be because, whether
intentionally or not, the film sets about mocking Reality Television
(which is a major part of the film), so while you may watch the film
and think that it is rubbish, perhaps that is what the creators want
you to think.

The premise of the film is an interesting one. A jilted loser, Philip
Markham (Edward Furlong) of a bachelorette-style reality show seeks
revenge on the woman who turned him down (Jaime Pressley), by killing
her and her hot husband (who doesn't appear to be credited
unfortunately), then starts his own reality show, where one by one the
contestants are killed off - usually by Markham's dimwitted brother,
Claude, leaving only the "final girl" (Laura Ramsey). The reality show
is presumably fake, that much is not revealed, but it is similar to
"Big Brother" in which the nine contestants are all in a confined house
and are made to do tasks which determine who gets "sent home".

The contestants are certainly a varied group of people, and most have
distinct personalities, which is nice to see. Laura Ramsey plays the
"final girl" Jenny, and though she is nice, as per usual in many horror
movies (horror is one of several genres that are merged in this film),
she is rather bland. However, it would seem that Laura Ramsey is off to
a nice start in her acting career. Andrew Keegan, in yet another
obscure film, plays the "hero", Bobby, and does so with his usual
gusto. The lovely Nicole Bilderbeck as Mikko puts up the best fight in
her death scene, but her role is relatively small, which is a shame, as
for someone who made their debut in the smash hit "Clueless" she hasn't
really had as big a career as the others, (she was great in "Bring It
On"), but as usual she gives a terrific performance.

Sanoe Lake makes her first on screen appearance since "Blue Crush",
though one might wonder why she bothered, as she gets nothing to do.
Brian Geraghty is terrific as the hot Southern boy Colin, who
surprisingly shows the most humanity in the film, especially when
placed in a "kill or be killed" situation. Joel Michaely on the other
hand plays the terribly annoying gay Jack, who you cannot wait to get
"voted off". As far as Edward Furlong goes, playing the villain, he
does eccentric well. Daniel Franzese however sure is a step down from
his role in "Mean Girls". And as for the lovely Jaime Pressley, she
adds a touch of sophistication to the film, and as usual gives a
terrific performance.

Even if you don't believe that the film is smarter than it sets out to
be, at least enjoy some near-mindless fun for 90 minutes.
<|_=00=_|>
The cover of the Blu-ray for this movie proclaimed that Edward Furlong
is fun to watch. You'll notice this isn't really praise for the movie
itself. There's a reason for that: The movie is pretty damned stupid.
Furlong does create a rather unique sort of serial killer character,
but there's a reason this hasn't been done before. He's a master of
ceremonies who does barely any killing himself, nor does he set up
elaborate traps or make contestants kill each other for the most part
(which would have made more sense thematically). He has a dumb goon do
the killings on his behalf. The goon never really makes any sense in
terms of his motivations nor does he tie into the themes of the movie
in a discernible way.

Furlong's character is presumably supposed to be a commentary on the
exploitative nature of TV production. It isn't very subtle, but this is
a slasher film, or at least tries to be, so I won't begrudge them that.
The only other characters of any significance are the contestants, who
are of course a bunch of whiny idiots who only care about being on TV
and all consciously adopt personas based on previously successful
reality TV stars.

This sounds clever in theory, but doesn't work in principle. This is
partly because the villain mainly sits at a monitor yelling stuff into
the intercom, partially because the actors are mostly bad and partially
because many of its points that it seems to be trying to make about
reality shows get lost in ridiculous set-ups. There are some legit
criticism to be made here, but the movie mostly misses the mark. It
doesn't help that I wasn't sold on its resolution either because of the
writing or the the acting. I'm going to go ahead an give this a three,
because the movie did seem to be making some effort to be good, just
not enough.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is a rare gem! It's b-grade horror exactly how it should be
done! The fact that a bunch of celebrity wannabes would do whatever an
all-powerful voice told them to do is DEFINITELY believable and the
young Jaime Pressly (from My Name is Earl fame) is a sight to behold! 

Edward Furlong plays the role of a deranged killer perfectly and as the
story unfolds you may even find yourself sympathizing with him just a
little bit... (awwwwwwwww) This is not your typical horror flick -
you'll have no idea who will and won't survive! 

It's no Terminator II but then again there isn't nearly as much money
behind it so give the small guys a go and check this one out!

Plenty of gore for the sickos out there and plenty of tense moments for
suspense fans and well made film for the budget - horror fans look no
further than CRUEL WORLD
<|_=00=_|>
CRUEL WORLD is a very silly little comedy horror film made on an indie
budget. The setting is a mansion in the Hollywood hills, where a
typically maladjusted Edward Furlong (yep, the kid from TERMINATOR 2)
takes a bunch of airheads hostage and forces them to play in his deadly
game show. The acting is very cheesy and the story non-existent; just
endless bikini beauties paraded around mixed with the occasional
disappointing gore scene. Pity Furlong - who I like - for being reduced
to this level.
<|_=00=_|>
The formula for Horror is very simple. Outrageous characters, creepy
music, blood, and lots of beautiful people, but Cruel World is one of
those rare Horror films that actually has a story worth telling. After
being scorned on a reality dating show, Philip Markham (Edward Furlong)
has decided to create his own show. A fear factor type competition with
a one million dollar reward. The only problem is when you lose the
game, you lose your life, a stipulation the contestants weren't
previously aware of. This was a fun film for me, because not only is it
original, but it has a cast full of seldom seen 90s teen idols. My
regular readers know by now that I consider Edward Furlong to be one of
the hardest working, most under appreciated actors in all of Hollywood,
but to be honest, he wasn't anything special in this film. Furlong's
character is one of those evil geniuses that really seems to be all
bark and no bite. The true stars of this film are the lesser known
contestants like, Andrew Keegan and Sanoe Lake. The contestants are all
oblivious and watching them trying to figure things out under the guise
of winning a competition was really clever. The contestants and the
competitions are really what helps to distinguish this film from all
the other slash films. While including the four elements, and finding a
lot of reasons for the pretty people to take their cloths off, there is
actually a better than average story here and an experienced cast. The
combination of the two make this film much more entertaining than the
slasher films you've become accustom to. While I was disappointed in
the fact that Edward Furlong couldn't carry this film in the way I've
become accustom to seeing, there were still plenty of great
performances and exciting moments. If you're a big Horror fan like I
am, and you're looking for something a little bit different, give Cruel
World a try.
<|_=00=_|>
First off I've watched a LOT of badly made cheap 'horror' films and
this is not the worst I've seen. In fact, the plot is interesting, the
acting reasonable and the dialogue could be worse. However, there are a
number of faults with this movie that would prompt me to dissuade
anyone from watching it. My biggest issue comes in the form of
characterisation. The group of would be reality show stars starts off
as a mixed bag of people with seemingly good representation of various
ethnic/cultural groups, but, they are horrendously stereotypical e.g.
the Asian contestant is the shy, intelligent one whilst the gay
character generally fits in with many other movies' portrayal of the
token joke character (whom we later find is also backstabbing and
generally less decent than any other male character...figures).
Furthermore, the story is often lacking in structure, the so-called
tasks that contestants must face are not well thought through and this
generally leads to boredom throughout. Overall I'd say this film
started relatively well and ended much the same as any other cheap and
tacky horror movie, I wouldn't bother with this one again and to be
honest wish I hadn't in the first place.
<|_=00=_|>
"Cruel World" is a thoroughly disappointing slasher without too much
going for it.

**SPOILERS**

Arriving at a secluded mansion, Jenny, (Laura Ramsey) Bobby, (Andrew
Keegan) Ashley, (Susan Ward) Mikko, (Nicole Bilderback) Ruby, (Sanoe
Lake) Jack, (Joel Michaely) Collin, (Brian Geraghty) Gina, (Aimee
Garcia) and Techno, (Nate Parker) learn they have been selected for a
reality show to take place there, and set upon trying to form alliances
between themselves. When the games start the next day, they immediately
start to question the meaning and intent behind them, as they're not
traditional reality show games. When it dawns on them that the losing
contestants aren't been sent home but actually being murdered by the
psychotic host, Philip Markham, (Edward Furlong) who is using the
format to avenge his humiliation on an earlier reality show, and when
the games get deadlier and their numbers dwindling, they try to get out
of the situation alive.

The Good News: There was a few good points to this that did make it
watchable. The games that are played, which are far removed from the
normal kind of games on reality shows, are enjoyable for that reason.
From the trapped-in-a-coffin one, which is inherently creepy and a lot
of fun, to the sword-fight and the balancing act game, this one has a
ton of fun games that they play and are responsible for most of the fun
parts during the film. Even some of the crazier ones, from the race
around the house wearing prison outfits and a gigantic ball-and-chain
around their ankles or a midnight paint-ball fight, without really
showing anything too graphic, are somewhat fun just because they, like
the others, have no real point to being here but provide some fun
nonetheless. It's also a lot easier to get into them since they do
manage to take up the majority of the film's running time, almost to
the point of exclusively all else, and the fact that they have such a
high priority is a great factor. The deaths we get in here, while not
at all that graphic, do provide the basis for a really decent body
count, as there's an impaling with a sword through the stomach, a
decapitation, an arm lopped off, a slit throat and several thrown into
a pool and drowned, which are a lot better than they sound but still
don't have a whole lot of normal slasher goodness to them. The last
plus here is the fun finale, which is an extended chase through the
house and adjoining grounds which make for a couple thrilling
mini-chases, a great death and some other surprises. All these here are
what make the film entertaining.

The Bad News: There was a couple really severe flaws to this one that
hold it down. One of the biggest, and perhaps the single most egregious
one to be had, is the fact that this one features a killer that is so
lazy he can't be bothered to get his hands dirty and do the actual work
himself. Despite appearing clearly as the mastermind behind the whole
situation, which is really quite easy to see, the fact remains that he
spends the majority of the time hiding out in a control room smoking
and barking orders at everyone, from his henchman or to the
contestants, and really only has a direct hand in one of the deaths,
which is done through a gunshot no less. Granted, there's two earlier
ones but still, the bulk of the kills, which is the contestants, is
handled by a henchman, making it appear as if the killer is too good
and mighty to get down to business when it counts, and that makes it
quite easy to be completely unafraid of the killer when he acts like
that. It's also not hard to do that when it's clearly visible that the
women are much more physically intimidating than he is, as the few
times he gets to interact with them the women are shown to not be that
much smaller, merely inches, than he is, and these just do wonders for
the credibility of the killer in here. Another big factor to this one
is the fact that the games on here don't make much sense. Granted,
they're fun to watch, but as the characters rightly point out, there's
no rhyme or reason to what they're doing, which is just more confusing
when it's never once brought up as to what he's trying to do here.
Strictly seeking revenge for the humiliation should've ended with the
early kills with no reason to go after the ones here for the show, yet
nothing comes out as to what the purpose of the events here mean. The
last flaw to this one is the fact that there's so much censoring going
on it really sticks out in here. The constant teasing of the nudity
gets really old, especially when he comments on it from the monitors
but doesn't show it. From the proposed lesbian experience in the
hot-tub, which shows them running off pulling off their shirts, cuts to
his comment then back to show them already in there covered up is a big
tease, and a shot of them topless sunbathing is again commented upon
rather than shown, and there's also the film's tame kills to count
towards that as well. These here are the film's real problems.

The Final Verdict: Not a whole lot really going on for this one, as
there's just too much going against it for the few positives to really
stick out. Really only give this one a shot if you're into the
reality-TV slashers or a fan of the creative side, otherwise this is
best to be avoided or approached with extreme caution.

Rated R: Graphic Language and Graphic Violence
<|_=00=_|>
Two brothers somehow sucker a bunch of young people into believing
they're part of a reality game show in which they do whatever challenge
the mastermind comes up with. Eventually it becomes apparent that the
stakes are life and death, and the contestants start getting killed
off, sometimes by each other.

Perhaps the craziest part of this movie is Edward Furlong as the lead,
Philip Markham, who overacts at every turn as he screams at the
contestants from his control room, where he chain smokes and eats gas
station food. His performance is not one of his finest, but given that
he appears to be past his prime at this point, he does deliver
something that is, at very least, entertaining (not always for the
right reasons, though).

As others have pointed out, Markham is a fairly lazy killer. Mostly he
just yells a lot. It is often up to his simpleton brother, Claude, to
carry out the dirty work for him.

The big question is whether or not the flick is worth seeing. Well, for
me, the movie came with four others in a small package that was located
at the bottom of a bargain bin. Given what I paid for it, it wasn't too
bad.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this at Screamfest where it was playing as the opening night
movie. Having not heard anything about it before, I was surprised by
how cool it was. Totally unpredictable from start to finish. The crowd
went crazy from laughing, to gasping, to yelling at the screen. I told
some friends about it who are way into Ed Furlong. He was awesome.
Scary fun. A total trip. Let's face it, reality television is totally
played out. I recommend it for anyone who loves to hate reality TV! I'm
a girl, but have to admit that Jaime Pressly looked hot ;) I'm trying
to find out who did the music at the end, because it sounded like
someone famous. No spoilers, but the ending made me wonder if they're
gonna do part two.
