
I can understand why some people may be disappointed watching this
movie, especially if they were expecting a CGI laden gore-fest. If you
do not expect this then you should not be too disappointed.

I think the negative comments go too far. It never pretended to be
anything other than an action/adventure movie from the beginning (so
why compare it to hardcore historical stuff), it was funny, mixed up a
few legends, and had a very simple but nevertheless entertaining story.

This light hearted and enjoyable movie provides well-paced
entertainment that would be suitable for a teenage audience (perhaps
10+) but can also be enjoyed by adults.

There is no gore, sex, or swearing, and whilst the fine cast will not
win any Oscars for their performance, they did a fine job in fulfilling
their roles, given the movies objectives.

This movie does what it says on the tin and does it well. A fine
example of how a movie can be enjoyable without every scene being
covered in blood (although I enjoy those movies too).
<|_=00=_|>
As others have said, I don't know why people are giving it bad
reviews... The movie was good, entertaining and very family orientated(
No Gore/blood - no nudity ). Granted, its no Troy, 300 or King Arthur,
so if your looking for some epic battle with plenty of digital effects
then this isn't for you. Having said that there were plenty of fight
scenes just no massacre. Its not a movie you will buy but for a one off
rental its good enough to entertain the family for the night, so grab a
popcorn, sit down, put ya feet up and relax while you watch another
tale unfold!

The kids will love it!
<|_=00=_|>
After reading through the comments, I was floored at how many people
totally missed the point of the film. This is a tale of legend, and it
tells it quite well.

For those who commented on the historical inaccuracies of costumes,
armor etc., they are completely wrong, the costumes are accurate to the
late period, (ask a recreator, we know). And yes, the long sword was in
use by the Roman Army for a very long time. Late Imperial
cavalry-length Roman blades were around 26 to 27 inches in length as
opposed to the standard legionary 22 inch Gladius.

Anyway, as I said in the beginning this is a film about a legend. Do
you think "Gladiator" was a true story? Yet it swept the Oscars. It is
what it is, and after two viewings, I still have found no fault in the
story, the acting or the direction. Historical fact and cinematic
storytelling are to a certain degree mutually exclusive. No matter how
hard you try to stick to facts when creating historical fiction in any
medium, be it books or film, you will inevitably come across the
necessity of a compromise between what can be established as "fact"
(and even there period sources of the time are questionable) and what
suits the story. In other words, you can be accurate to a fault, so to
say, and have a story that reads - or visualizes - like a lead balloon,
or you can alter the so-called "facts" to suit your purpose and create
much more - and far more visually compelling - drama.

I guess some people just need to find fault to make themselves feel
superior.

(Possible Spoilers) As for the story line... The concept of a Roman
link to the Arthurian legends is not a new one. Mary Stewart's "The
Crystal Cave" was the first book that introduced me to the concept, and
since I'm a Western Civilization teacher, I'm fascinated by the
histories and legends that have risen from what is known as the "Dark
Ages" of Europe.

All and all, "The Last Legion" is a great film. I recommend it to any
SCAdian, recreator, Pagan, Wiccan or Dark Ages history freak.

P.S. It was certainly better than "King Arthur" starring Clive Owen.
<|_=00=_|>
Reading the back cover of the DVD and seeing that Colin Firth and Ben
Kingsley are given top billing, I expected an intelligent King Arthur
story. Well, it really wasn't either, although I did find it
entertaining. I must not have read the description carefully enough. No
matter; overall, it was fun but just a little too silly. I'm beginning
to wonder about the discernment of some of these actors, how they can
play such intelligent roles for a film or two and then revert to
something like this.

Anyway, the story is really a Roman empire one, not a King Arthur
story. We only see the tie-in to the later in the last few minutes of
the film, in the epilogue. This action story is all about the last
Caesar, a small boy, and the last legion that fought as Rome had now
been taken over by the Goths. The Roman Empire had come to an end.

Mixed in with that tale was the famous "excalibur" sword. We see the
origins of that and how it eventually got into the hands of King
Arthur. But, once again, that is only explained in the final minutes.
However, the sword is used by the good Roman general who protects the
last Caesar from the Goths, who want him imprisoned for life, or
killed.

What made the story interesting, at least for me, was the chase-scene
type atmosphere of a small band of heroes protecting a little boy,
fleeing the bloodthirsty Goths until they could mount some sort of
counter-attack in the north in Brittania. That, and the pretty
computer-generated scenery and action stunts, kept it interesting.
However, don't look for credibility in those action scenes and expect
the typical political-correctness of today (i.e. where a woman beats up
hundreds of men and the good guys of all colors prevail despite
ridiculous odds).

Some parts of this will leave you shaking your head in disbelief. You
will feel you're watching a kids' film at times. However, if you want
an hour-and-a-half of decent escapist fare, and can put your brain on
hold for that time, it fits the bill and will at least entertain you.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, i just read the previous comment and i can't say I'm quite happy
with it :( I mean, the movie was not that bad at all!! Everything was
in the right place: the music, actors, the plot and all... No,
really... I just don't get why he said (I mean that guy) the actors
were bad. They were just brilliant! Well, maybe to watch this movie u
gotta have a sense of humor because many scenes in it were quite funny.
Ben Kingsley, Colin Firth and Thomas Sangster were really good it
seemed to me. Well Aishwarya Rai could of acted better probably... But
anyways I reckon there are so many really bad movies and I don't think
this one is just watch-it-once-and-then-forget-it film! Besides, the
whole thing was real: I mean the castle, all the decorations, they shot
it on location, and if you see throngs of people running on the
battlefield you know this is all real! I guess u gotta appreciate it
because they could of made in on computers... I mean, it's such a rare
thing nowadays... Speaking about the plot... Yeah, maybe it's a bit
naive and even silly (remember this when you watch the final scene) but
overall it was quite dynamic and everything. Finally it was Dino De
Laurentis production, they've been writing the script for 6(!) years so
do you really think they didn't notice it was crap or something? Well
maybe it's not that great compared to '300' but it's good enough anyway
My conclusion is: you gotta watch the movie especially if you like
Colin Firth, Ben Kingsley or Thomas Sangster or if you like adventures.
And it seemed to me it's a kind of a teen movie rather than a serous
one (i suppose it's for people of 12-25). And one more thing to say:
though it's a historic movie (and i really hated history at school!!!)
somehow i liked it and I've seen enough movies to tell a good one.
Enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>
I just got done watching this movie. And I must say, if you really want
to see this movie, save yourself an hour and a half, and just watch the
trailer. The trailer is really as good as this movie gets. I'm sorry, I
had high hopes for this movie too. I'm a big fan of medieval and roman
films, but this one really just falls short on everything. I would say
thats its worthy of being a sci-fi channel original movie, but I don't
don't want to insult the sci-fi channel (Seriously, they have tons of
aliens and monster, don't tick them off. You will get eaten.)

This movie falls short on pretty much every account. Casting was awful.
I'm a fan of Sangster, he was great in Love Actually, but he's not yet
strong enough to be a leading man. Firth, with his quirky charm, should
stick to romantic comedy. He's much better at fumbling through a
confession of love than being an epic hero. The plot, dialog, acting
and directing were all horrible. I kept sitting there thinking how it
could have been done better, only to come to the realization the best
thing to do would be to throw out everything and start over from the
plot outline. The sets cheap and generic. They would have done better
dusting off set pieces from Ben Hur(1959). Costumes were pulled from
every generic Barbarian/Roman stock wardrobe or Halloween store.
Perhaps one of the most distracting things was the music. I think the
composer is sleeping with one or more of his trumpet players because
thats all we heard. Trumpets playing as they hide, Trumpets sounding
during the battle, Trumpets here, Trumpets there. Couldn't get enough
of them.

At best this movie is a rental to watch at home. When you're alone. In
a windowless room. Don't invite your friends over, they will make fun
of you. I'm sorry if this sounds cruel, but, like the parent of a child
failing kindergarten, I'm simply trying to express my disappointment
for a film that could have been so much better. Its just sad.
<|_=00=_|>
There are many adaptations and versions to the tale of King Arthur and
his Knights of the Round Table, with Merlin the sorcerer, and of the
magical sword Excalibur, some versions which set it into stone, while
others, handed out by a lady in the water. The Last Legion is
essentially touting a story about the beginnings of Excalibur and how
it took to the former. However, it took a long route to tell this
story, going all the way back to 400-something AD, a time where Rome is
in turmoil.

Actually Rome is in turmoil ever since Julius Caesar got killed by
friends, Romans, countrymen. In a time where generals scheme to usurp
the throne and politicians of the Senate are corrupt as hell, it's
little wonder why one of the best and most loyal generals Aurelius
(Colin Firth) gets recalled to protect the rear of the new
boy-king-god-Caesar Romulus Augustus, played by Thomas Sangster (the
kid in Nanny McPhee and Tristan and Isolde). Naturally the enemies
spring a surprise attack, and our merry men have to flee Rome, and
journey to Britain to regroup with the 9th Legion (henceforth also
known as the Last Legion), bringing in tow a seer Ambrosinus (Ben
Kingsley), and a lady warrior in Mira (Aishwarya Rai).

Like most medieval stories with elements of magic or involving the
higher powers from Mount Olympus, The Last Legion does away with the
sorcery portion, like what Troy and King Arthur had done, opting
instead to focus more on reality, and what possibly could have been
done without divine intervention, or fantastical assistance. Thus this
makes Kingsley's role a little redundant, and relegates him into a
fortune teller rather than an all powerful wizard, despite his garb
looking a lot like Gandalf's. 

While it could have gotten away with its material given 10 years back,
unfortunately the stakes in the genre have been raised, and everyone's
expecting a spectacle of huge armies battling in hand to hand combat,
with its combatants having some form of fancy killing moves. The Last
Legion pales in terms of providing that level of detail and spectacle,
and chose instead to provide unsophisticated battle scenes, or
swordplay that is a tad too uninspiring. Most of the fanciful moves
were reserved for Aishwarya, but even that too began to become
repetitive. Not even her booby trapped enhanced short sword offered
anything we're never seen before.

With characters you don't really care about, what made it a little
unbearable amongst the good guys, was the totally hokey, unbelievable
romance between Rai and Firth's characters. It doesn't mean that having
characters from the opposite sex means they find each other
irresistible and want to get into each other's pants. There is
absolutely zero chemistry and zero buildup. One minute they're allies,
the next they're admiring each other's swordplay, and then, the bed
beckons. And if the villains justify what kind of heroes we get, then
it's a no brainer that they are bland and devoid of any interesting
notion. World domination seems to be their only objective, and both the
Romans and the British (using the term loosely here) villains are
merely caricatures. 

As I said, while The Last Legion might have worked if it's released 10
years ago, this movie can't justify it being made now. It's suitable at
most for that DVD rental for a lazy afternoon, but nothing more, and
only if you're in dire need of some, or any, form of entertainment.
<|_=00=_|>
There was a lot of potential in this story about the fall of the Roman
Empire and how the last Roman Emperor became Pendragon, father of King
Arthur.

Unfortunately the entire thing is reduced to a very poor TV movie, and
although the weak screenplay plays its part, this film is really case
study for anybody who wants to know how abysmal directing,
excruciatingly poor cinematography, bafflingly bad editing and over
used scoring can take a cast that for the most part is award-winning,
(with the exception of the dreadful man playing the villain) and make
them look worse than community theater.

It is clear from the outset that the director has not got the first
clue what he is doing. The actors have been given very little guidance.
They deliver their lines, but are given absolutely no room to emote.
Any moments where these world class actors would be looking thoughtful,
or considering what they're saying with gravity is all edited out of
the film, and the interchanges in dialogue are spliced so close
together, there is never a moment where scenes are alllowed to breathe.
It's all edited and directed at schlock B grade television pace. Add to
this the fact that the cinematographer is obsessed with mid-shots and 2
shots and a composer who doesn't know when to shut his orchestra up,
and you something that is barely movie of the week material.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched The Last Legion with some hope, but not that much and was
still disappointed. What starts as a huge CGI filled epic, goes into a
weak,empty story with not the best acting,action and a terrible story.

The acting talents and chances of a good film as so badly wasted and in
parts the film seems to not know what it wants to be.Action film, Epic
historic tale, kids adventure and even comic farce, which was a huge
mistake.

Its empty and totally soulless.The ending is so bad, so very very bad
that Myself and a friend sat stunned.lol

Its such a great shame that the main star of ROME the TV series was
anywhere near this film.Rome it totally superior in every way. If you
want a well written,acted and totally realistic version of Rome, see
ROME don't waste your time on this.
<|_=00=_|>
Somehow I missed the trailers and promotion of this film. Normally I
see most movies like this right away, but I didn't get to see this one
until just yesterday.

If you are going in looking for a historically accurate film then you
are waisting your time with ANY Hollywood movie. But this one doesn't
have anything that ruined my suspension of belief at all. One of my
biggest pet peeves is when a movie misses something obvious (Like
Romans using stirrups on their horses, yes I am looking at you
Gladiator!) but this movie didn't have one of those.

The fighting styles that they gave the characters, while flashed up for
filming, were believable for the cultures that they came from (A Roman
Cataract using Japanese sword techniques! Come on King Arthur!) and
while I wouldn't rank the fight scenes anywhere near anything done by
Wu Ping, they again don't take away from the story.

Now the story its self is where I have some problems. They seemed to
rush it most of the way. I almost wish that they had made it a
mini-series on TV just so they could have told the whole thing. I think
that there is some missing story that I would like to hear, like the
origins of the villain and where he got his scars and what not.

Anyway, just don't go into it with any expectations and I think that
you will enjoy yourself for an hour and a half.
