
"The Nanny Diaries" did not get very good reviews but I liked the
previews so I decided to see it instead of another movie that got much
better reviews and I'm glad I did.

"The Nanny Diaries" is entertaining the entire time. It might not have
you rolling in the aisles like "Superbad," but it is not that kind of
movie.

The main reason to see this film is because of Scarlett Johansson. She
makes Annie the Nanny such a sympathetic character, that we stay
interested in the film and we care about what happens to her. Scarlett
Johansson made a name for herself doing a lot of independent film but
this is probably her best performance in a mainstream film. Not only is
her acting phenomenal, she is the world's most beautiful nanny.

A lot of the professional reviews seem to have been disappointed by
"The Nanny Diaries" because it was written and directed by the same
people who did "American Splendor." They were expecting something more
like that film. "The Nanny Diaries" is not that kind of film. It is not
particularly quirky and it will probably appeal to a wide audience. I
thought it was better than "The Devil Wears Prada," which it often gets
compared to.

"The Nanny Diaries" is absolutely mandatory viewing for Scarlett
Johansson fans. For anyone else, this film might win you over.
<|_=00=_|>
When this movie was unceremoniously yanked back in April 2007, right
before its initially scheduled release, I thought it must be pretty
bad. I had enjoyed the book, and so was already disappointed. But I
decided to see it anyway, just out of curiosity. At first, I found
myself finding fault...like when the preschool doors just open up and
small children pour out of it onto the street. Like that's going to
happen in an urban area ANYWHERE in this country what with all the fear
of kidnapping we have these days. That and a few other little niggly
details bothered me at first, but as the movie went on, I found myself
caring about the characters; enjoying the story. It's not like the
book, but that's probably good. I don't think the book is written in a
way that would translate well to the big screen. The ending was a bit
happier than the book, but in this kind of movie, the happy ending was
welcome. I found myself enjoying this movie in spite of my own
predisposition to be underwhelmed by it. It's not going to win any
Oscars or anything, but I thought it a find effort for all involved,
particularly Laura Linney, Paul Giamatti, and Scarlet Johansen!
<|_=00=_|>
This watered-down social commentary about the caste system among NYC
snobs and their domestic help is as esoteric as the book that inspired
it. Given a title that promises biting wit, bitch fights, and
outrageous behavior, one wakes up the morning after watching the film
curiously empty; not only does he not remember a single scene from the
film, but he forgets he saw the bloody thing in the first place. Laura
Linney's usually electrifying screen presence is dumbed down to a few
tantrums and forced smiles, all meant to imply, I suppose, the
shallowness of a rich and privileged life. The usually wonderful Paul
Giammatti fares no better, coming off as a fat stupid lout whose
dialogue was apparently written by someone who watched too many
Lifetime movies. In fact, the whole endeavour is EXACTLY like a
Lifetime movie: mind-numbingly insipid, told from the point of view of
the oppressed woman (here represented by the horribly miscast Scarlet
Johansson), complete with sistah support (Alicia Keys) and one of the
most boring gay guys you've ever seen on film. Love interest WASP Dopey
the Wonder Boy rounds out the cast of caricatures as a down-to-earth
Harvard graduate with a sob story and dimples, and of course he's
nothing like his dumbass friends. He really wants to date the nanny.
Really. Okaaaaaaaaaaay.

But I could forgive all of that junk if the film had dared to plumb the
depths of the social strata with which it purports to be familiar. But
it doesn't, it carefully flits across the top of the upper crust
society, never landing anywhere, and we frustratingly see only glimpses
of tantalizing gossip: What the hell does Mrs. X exactly do all day
long that takes her away from her weirdly-named son (Grayer)? The movie
won't tell us, preferring to keep its mouth shut and devoting the
entire hour and a half to Annie's moral dilemma in staying with Grayer
instead of moving on with her life. It's an admirable quality for a
protagonist, but also a very boring one. What I wouldn't give to see
Mrs. X on a bender, eating mini donuts in the back of her limo wearing
only a fur, or flirting with a doorman or something. ANYTHING. Did
anyone ever see Valerie Perrine in that dumb movie with Ally Sheedy
years ago, where Sheedy was her maid? The ultra-rich Perrine was
fantastic, saving all her bits of aluminum foil so she could recycle
them and make a few cents, mashing up all the soap slivers in the house
into a big ball so she could make "soap for the servants' quarters".
This is what I wanted to see, rich people gone weird.

Anyhoo, the movie ends pretty much as you might expect, Mrs. X becomes
enlightened, etc etc etc. You've seen it all before if you've ever
watched five minutes of any Lifetime movie.
<|_=00=_|>
So I'm not a reader, but I did read The Nanny Diaries awhile back.
Having been a nanny, I was very interested in the content. I really
appreciated the issues brought forth by the authors, and agreed with
many of their insights.

The movie, unfortunately, seems to lighten rather than shine light on
the core issues of the book, adding a whimsical tone throughout that I
found disappointing. Of greater disappointment, however, was the
addition of greater sympathy for the child's mother (Mrs. X) paired
with continued vilification of the child's father (Mr. X). In fact,
Mrs. X's character is even redeemed at the end while the evil Mr. X is
sent packing.

I found it quite irritating that this "modern-day Mary Poppins"
followed the bizarre precedent of its predecessor in ultimately placing
much of the blame for the children's woes in the lap of the (overly)
hard-working father who is, at least, providing income for the family
while the mother is off pursuing her own unrelated interests.
Thankfully, the male-bashing was not quite as overt as using the phrase
"as a group, they're rather stupid" in reference to men, which is a
line from Mary Poppins. Don't get me wrong, Mr. X did lack any
redeeming qualities, however throwing Mrs. X an undeserved lifeline at
the end while allowing Mr. X to drown seemed a bit fishy.

A somewhat confusing subplot also exists with Annie's (the Nanny)
mother. While the main focus of the movie seems to be on the evils of
luxury and the importance of raising children, Annie's sweet, lovable
mother consistently nags Annie to enter the world of business and
finance in pursuit of a "better" life. The mother reminds Annie that
she worked years of overtime, etc. as a nurse to give Annie the chance
to go to a good school and work towards the high life. She is also
appalled to learn of Annie's waste-of-time job raising a child.

So, what I gathered from the movie is that it is only OK to leave your
child for hours on end if you are a nurse from New Jersey who is trying
to give your child an opportunity to one day work his/her way up to a
life of luxury (which will, in turn, presumably make said child evil
and heartless). Needless to say, the messages in the movie were quite
mixed. I read a couple of personal reviews on this movie and they both
used the word "cute", which is a far cry from the point of the book.
Although I did enjoy seeing the book come to life on the big screen, I
have to say that the book was much better. I knew I shouldn't have read
a book - it ruined the movie for me.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved the book The Nanny Diaries, I lost myself in it, the story of a
student taking care of a 5th Avenue family's son and all the mishaps
that happen was truly a delight to read. So when I heard about a movie
adaptation I couldn't have been happier. When they started announcing
the cast I was pretty pleased with the choices, being a big Scarlett
Johansson fan I knew she could pull if off. Then the movie came out, it
suffered from bad reviews and low ticket sales, so my hope that the
movie would be as good as the book were dampened, but I was still
interested in it.

Well, I finally watched it and I feel so disappointed in this film. The
cast are all great and they all did an adequate job. I liked Scarlett
Johansson as the lead. The real problem of this movie is that it really
strays from the book. I have no problem when film adaptations of books
are done differently, if I enjoy the book I might enjoy the movie as
well no matter how much the film is changed, as long as those changes
are positives one. In this movie the changes were not positive.

It tries to be quirky and funny and really bombs in the humor. And it's
source material is both quirky and funny and all the changes they made
really made the humor feel forced. That might the problem with this
film, it tries to hard to be funny and it just bombs. The magic of the
book just didn't translate into the film. What made the book good isn't
present here and it's a shame because it is a really fun book to read
and this is a really boring movie to watch. The changes in storyline
weren't what bother me so much, but the fact that they took something
original and turned it into something generic.

The film does have it's saving graces. Johansson and Evans are both
very charming in the film and the rest of the cast do a good job. But
what they succeeded in doing, at least for me, was establish a
relationship between Annie and Grayer. I really bought their
relationship and could see how much they meant to each other. Their
relationship was truly touching and believable. Unlike the book, which
leaves things pretty unresolved, maybe that gives it a touch or
realism, this film gives us the perfect happy ending, were the bad guys
are reformed and our heroine has found what she was looking for.

I didn't hate the movie, it's fine, it just drags a little. The book is
just great and I was hoping that it's film adaptation would live up to
it, but it didn't. It's sad to see that something with so much
potential was ruined by trying to make it commercial and what ended up
happening was that the ruined a great opportunity. Don't let this movie
fool you, it is nothing like the book. And though I cannot recommend
this movie I do recommend the book to anyone.
<|_=00=_|>
Scarlett Johansson fans will of course make sure not to miss this one.
The premises of this movie are however so familiar and cliché that they
will really need to do a fantastic job to make this a memorable movie.
This the movie makers have not achieved.

The Upper East End parents are so stereotyped that the movie makers
don't even bother giving them names, but just call them Mr and Mrs X
(Paul Giamatti and Laura Linney). He is a business tycoon who finds
relief from fooling around with female subordinates. She is a typical
snobbish, dominating, high society woman, but also a victim in the
sense of having an even more dominating husband. What kind of life the
little kid goes through needs no elaboration and his transformation
from a hostile brat to a longing and loving child in his relationship
with the new nanny (Johansson, of course) is predictability itself.

And I don't agree with what some critic say that this movie is
comparable to The devil wears Prada, just because both have a
dominating middle-aged woman and an unsophisticated lassie. How lazy
can the critics get in resorting to such superficiality? There are
dominating women and there are dominating women, and for those who have
seen both movies, it's an insult to their intelligence to try to
explain why the characters played by Meryl Streep and Laura Linney are
far more different than they are similar.

And I don't agree either with the critics who say that Laura Linney has
turn in a particularly great performance. She is an excellent actor,
she delivers in this movie (I never expect her to be otherwise, in any
movie) but I've seen her doing better in many other movies ("Kinsey",
"The squid and the whale", just to name two). But it is quite
refreshing to see Paul Giamatti, after appearing in so many endearing
roles ("Sideways", "Lady in the water" and even "Cinderella man"),
portray a totally disgusting character. While the mere sight of
Johansson will bring eternal joy to her fans, I don't think this is a
particularly impressive picture for her. I like her much better in
"Scoop".

"The nanny diaries" is not a movie that will irritate or annoy you;
it's just one that you are not likely to remember. What I'll remember
most will be its references to Mary Poppins, from the cute montages
with the red umbrella, down to even the cell phone ring tones of "chim
chimney, chim chimney".
<|_=00=_|>
"The Nanny Diaries" certainly has to be a feel good summer movie, it's
entertaining and sweet and a coming of age story as told thru one
characters point of view. The ever beautiful and attractive Scarlett
Johansson stars as Annie Braddock a suburban New Jersey girl who just
graduates college and she has dreams of becoming an anthropologist. Yet
beyond that much isn't clear so Annie moves to New York City to take a
job as a nanny and first she feels freedom! Only to soon have reality
crash in once she's hired by a Manhattan socialite and sophisticated
classy upper east side narcissist called Mrs. X(Laura Linney) who does
nothing, but shop and eat out all day and attend glamour events. So it
now falls on Annie to look after five year old Grayer(Nicholas Art) and
it's very tough as to Mrs. X Annie never does anything right. Also Mr.
X isn't much better played okay by Paul Giamatti who really is nothing
more than a successful business man who's hooked on any attractive
female in a skirt and short shorts. Yet all along the way attachment
and friendship is developed between Annie and Grayer a real coming of
age story for Annie to see this society in an anthropological way and
learn from it and come of age. As in the end Annie convinces Mrs. X to
be a loving mom and Annie sees her real passion is grad school not a
nanny. Really a touching comedy that educates showing people have to
learn thru experience and culture what life is right for them and that
dealing with different cultures is a loving and life remembering
experience. Scarlett Johansson gives a very sweet and people pleasing
performance that she just glows on the screen making this a sleeper hit
comedy.
<|_=00=_|>
I realize most books require a LOT of adapting to work as movies, but
Emma Laughlin & Nicola Kraus's biting, insightful "Nanny Diaries" was a
slim book, with a straightforward story line -- we aren't talking
"Gravity's Rainbow" here. It was sharp and gossipy, amusing in a
clear-eyed, first-hand-knowledge sort of way (both authors worked as
nannies in NYC before writing the book).

None of that makes it to the film, which changes the plot & characters
so completely that it might as well be a different story with an
entirely different title. In the novel, NAN (presumably short for
Nancy) becomes a PART-TIME nanny while she's finishing a graduate
degree -- she's not a live-in. The point of the book is that the
ridiculous demands of Mrs. X encroach on her life to the point that a
poorly paying part-time babysitting gig eventually takes over her far
more real needs to finish school and get a real job. She is NOT an
anthropologist trying to get a job on Wall Street (why would an
anthropology major be trying for a financial job anyways?)

NAN in the book is herself from an old-money New York family -- not a
Jersey girl! I guess the filmmakers decided it would make the character
"more sympathetic", but it skewers the whole point of the story. In the
book, NAN's parents and even grandparents are entirely aware of her
part-time babysitting gig -- it's no secret, and it's no more
"degrading" than someone who works at the Gap while trying to finish
college.

Far from "great paying", one big point the book makes is that the very
rich are awful cheapskates when it comes to their "servants". The
sharpest detail of the novel is when Nan leaves the summer cottage, and
Mrs. X has only paid her $50 for a whole week of 24/7 work -- because,
after all, wasn't it a "free beach vacation"?

Scarlett Johannson continues to underwhelm me -- she's very miscast as
"Annie" and doesn't look or sound like a Jersey girl. The production
has her dressed down, with stringy brown hair and frumpy clothes --
stripped of her beauty, we have to confront her limited acting skills
(like not being able to mimic a New Jersey accent). It's painful. The
character of NAN called for an actress with a Yuppie, upper class vibe
-- in some ways, she's a younger version of Mrs. X and both characters
know this .... i.e., if she marries Harvard Hottie, she'll become the
next generation Mrs. X. Both the film & actress seem oblivious to this
brilliant concept, and instead labor to make this "Upstairs, Downstairs
-- which it emphatically is NOT.

The usually wonderful Laura Linney tries hard, but is wasted in a part
dumb-ed down to that of a Stepford wife -- not mention, she's dressed
and coiffed as if it were 1962, not 2007. (In the book, Mrs. X exudes
"casual chic", like plain ballet flats that cost $600.)

The stunningly beautiful Alicia Keyes has a small part, but despite a
lovely husky voice she has no real ability to carry even a small
supporting role -- and the cliché of the "black best girlfriend" is
painful. Donna Murphy has a thankless role as the controlling Jersey
mom -- a working class nurse who is "horrified" to see her college age
daughter doing child care, a distinction that makes no sense (who
watched Annie while her single mom was working as a nurse? duh!). This
is a tired cliché, and doesn't exist in the novel.

Unable to see clever, sharply observed social critique in the novel (do
the filmmakers have their own "nanny issues"?), the film relies on
prolonged, uncharming fantasy sequences ala "Mean Girls" (i.e.,
treating the subject matter as if it's an anthropological study, etc.).
It's not a surprise that this film was held back from release for a
long while (probably reworked a lot, to no good effect).

SPOILER ALERT: In the novel, Mr. X is cheating on Mrs. X -- and we
learn that SHE stole HIM away from his first wife in the exact same
way. In order to hang on to him, she does indeed get pregnant -- it's
not a hoax. She doesn't divorce him, she doesn't "reform", and every
indication is that poor neglected Grayer will grow up to be exactly
like his selfish dad. NAN graduates and presumably gets a "real"
(non-nanny) job. But there is no apologetic letter from Mrs. X to her
-- the point of the novel is that the X's have learned nothing and will
continue on with their horrible ways, oblivious to their son and
(presumably) their next baby.

This film needed to be a sharp, humorous, black comedy of manners and
instead, its a flabby, un-funny mess that suffocates every potentially
amusing scene and strains for sentiment where none exists. Even the
chance to show the "posh lifestyles of the rich" is lazy and
unimaginative.

In conclusion: not even worth a rental
<|_=00=_|>
As another reviewer pointed out-> "Better than expected". So if your
expectations are low, you will be positively surprised. I watched it a
sneak preview with some friends. I guess Scarlett Johansson haters
won't like the movie from the start, but everyone else can give it a
shot.

Yes it is predictable, yes it has it's awkward moments, but it's also
likable. The cast is stellar throughout, most of the jokes work and the
kid performer walks a fine line, but always stays/plays it straight.
The movie keeps a light tone overall, but has it's dark(er) moments
too. They might not work for everyone (and some might hate the ending),
but overall it's a decent movie (effort)
<|_=00=_|>
I knew absolutely nothing about this movie going in. Didn't know who
was in it or what it was going to be about. To my surprise I enjoyed
the well made movie very much. It had great acting, a solid story, and
whiles not being original had its own unique charms that makes it a
very enjoyable movie.

-The movie tells the story of Annie, who is a recent graduate plucked
into a world she wasn't expecting. She plans to be a financial
consultant or something like that but ends being a nanny by chance. The
rest of the movie follows her on her adventure as she learns what it
takes to be a nanny in NY, and also learns what it takes to survive
life.

-The film-making technique is not necessarily an original one in which
the main character narrates the whole story but what helps in this one
is that its quite an entertaining narration and she doesn't narrate the
whole movie so it does help. The odd visual style is also nicely done
with some unique effects and one really weird scene in which we see
Annie flying through New York all Mary Poppins style.

-Scarlett Johansson is building quite an impressive resume with this
brilliant movie. Last year she was great in "The Prestige" and now this
year she knocks it out of the park in this. I unlike 99.7% of men don't
find her hot nor do I fantasize about her, but she is a very good
actress and I hope she gets more roles that showcases her acting assets
like this one did. 

Singer turned actress Alicia Keys plays the best friend Lynette. She's
not featured an awful lot in the movie, but the small doses of her are
well acted.

Laura Linney plays the cold and kinda misunderstood Mrs. X. Yeah she
seems like z shrewd cold hearted woman when we first meet her, but
after getting to know her husband Mr. X played the great Paul Giamatti,
we begin to understand why she does certain things that she does.
Linney has one great scene towards the end of the movie in which she
realizes what horrible mother she has been and the way Linney plays
that scene is truly the stuff of great acting. Instead of going all
over emotional, she simply just lets a tear fall down her face and that
simple tear just nails everything she's feeling at that moment. 

At the end of the day I really enjoyed this fun movie. It had comedy,
romance, child abuse and life lessons. It may not have great replay
value but the first viewing should please everyone that watches it.

Recommended
