
I was lucky enough to see a preview of this film for free after I
attended a random screening of Scorcese's the Departed. Naturally
hearing that the makers of Shaun of the Dead were behind this I had to
go see it - if a group of people can make a romantic comedy with
zombies, then a buddy cop film HAD to inventive and original.

I can safely say that it was. I haven't laughed as hard in a film as I
did with Hot Fuzz. The parts are all cast brilliantly - in particular
Pegg and Frost as the two lead police officers.

Pegg bringing the smart, intelligent, action hardened London cop to the
sleep north England village works in a classic fish out of water
scenario. It surprised me with it's direction and I will confess I
couldn't have predicted how everything would pan out.

When this is fully released I urge you to go and see it.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw this last night at a special screening followed by a Q&A with Simon
Pegg and Nick Frost. I liked "Shaun of the Dead" but wasn't a huge fan
but I liked what I'd heard about "Hot Fuzz". I still wasn't prepared to
be quite as blown away by it as I was.

This film works both as an out-and-out comedy but also as a high paced
action film and also manages to showcase the directing talents of Edgar
Wright and the acting of Simon Pegg (who can really *act*) The first
half is a gentle build up but is generally and genuinely amusing, but
once we put the pedal to the floor for the second half the pace is
relentless.

The plot is substantial enough but isn't really what we've all come to
see - it's about the snappy dialogue and the gags. To describe it as a
spoof is unfair - they just corrupt the genre a little and turn up the
comedy.

Great fun from start to finish.
<|_=00=_|>
Hot Fuzz is a brilliant new Britsh comedy that really hits its mark!!!
Hands down this fantastic film is the new benchmark in British
comedies!

Simon Pegg throws you into the extremely tongue in cheek narrative with
its quick pace edits, booming sounds and terrific camera work that we
have come to expect from Edgar Wright since Shaun of the Dead. Simon
Pegg has really exceeded my expectations and credit must also go to
Nick Frost who plays the classic sidekick which he accomplishes so
well. The aforementioned crafty work by Edgar Wright proves that his
style creates some of the best action sequences in the business.
Whether it be the shoot'em ups, chase scenes or the jump out of your
seat surprises, Wright can really make a film move and does this one
ever!!!

This is definitely one of those films you have to watch at least twice
to come close to getting every single joke, because they come so hard
and fast it is sometimes hard to stop laughing at the previous one in
time to hear the next.

Even though the film does take a lot of twists and turns there isn't
really a moment where it lacks energy. Sure there are parts that slow
it down, but it needs this to build momentum to one of the most
climactic and hysterical pieces in film history. 

Speed is the key! It keeps this insanely funny narrative flowing while
at the same time giving a huge insight into the extremely detailed
characters. Each character brings something to the table. It is an
inventive yet classic comedy that reaches most audiences with its
tongue in cheek and witty humour. 

People who thought the cop-comedy genre was finished should definitely
see this creative film which will pluck those heart strings and have
you slapping that knee while feasting your eyes on the adrenaline
fueled action!!!
<|_=00=_|>
Hot Fuzz: The story tells us of an over-active 'policeman officer',
Nicholas Angel (Played by the co-star of Shaun of the Dead, Simon Pegg)
who is sent to work his duties out in the countryside, to avoid his use
of excessive arrests. Suspicions arrive in the town however, as people
start getting killed 'accidentally'. Coupled with his rather
unprofessional partner Danny Butterman (Similiarily played by Shaun of
the Dead star Nick Frost) they get themselves into suspicious
circumstances Nicholas Angel fails to ignore.

But what can I say? It's just hilarious! An incredibly funny, witty,
intelligent British comedy that manages to bring you to tears with
laughter and also offers extremely well directed and executed action
scenes! If you liked the likes of Shaun of the Dead, you'll love this,
simple as that. I was oddly surprised to find that it was incredibly
violent, albeit, in a cartoony way, but it will definitely make you
squint. Plenty of cameo's by the likes of the hilarious Bill Bailey and
a great cast will make this a action/thriller/comedy hard to forget!
Excellent.
<|_=00=_|>
I was lucky enough to see an early preview. I am a big fan of Spaced
and Shaun of the Dead, but wow!!!. I have never laughed so much at a
film. Even colleagues that weren't that impressed with Shaun of the
Dead loved Fuzz.

It was non stop comedy, with some action and a little gore but only for
comic effect.

Essentially a spoof of big action American cop films set in a small
sleepy village in Somerset, UK. 

Nicholas Angel (Pegg) is a top cop transferred from London to a place
where finding a missing swan is about as exiting as it gets. However,
things are about to change as there are a few 'accidents'. Can Angel
and his new partner local boy Danny (Frost) find out what's happening.

It's got a start studded cast who all add to the sheer brilliance of
the script. 

There are so many memorable bits that keep me giggle to myself as I
recall them. I cannot wait until it gets general release so I can see
it again. I'm sure I missed a few visual gags and film references.

Having it introduced by the stars Simon & Nick was a real bonus. Thanks
guys a comic classic.
<|_=00=_|>
Hot Fuzz satirizes American action films in a way that an American
satire would not. Edgar Wright and Simon Pegg don't simply spoof the
plot threads and the car chases. They know the smaller details of
Hollywood's formula, as they exemplify with its continuous references
to the scene in Point Break where Keanu Reeves fires his gun into the
sky in anger and the scene in Bad Boys II where Martin Lawrence, in a
circling tracking shot, says, "S*** just got real." Not only do they
tackle those less clear characteristics of Hollywood, they also
perfectly portray people who talk about awesome scenes in action
movies, hilariously by Nick Frost. The film is brilliantly in precise
tune with the American mainstream action adventure.

The irony in this film is that it takes place in the serenely beautiful
English countryside. In some ways, the film is very important for
Americans to see. It delves very deeply into the conscious social
mannerisms of the English, and parodies the timid insular English
village life. Perhaps the most brilliant element of Hot Fuzz is the
intertwining of a big-budget action film with gimmicks and a
desperately fast pace and a quaint, atmospheric English village given
the secrets-of-its-own flavor and a Agatha Christie-style expository
structure.

The film-making style in and of itself is complicit in the satire. The
cinematography and editing is a product of the school of Tony Scott and
Guy Ritchie. It's filled with jump cuts accompanied by loud and
constantly changing sound effects, occasional strobe, and montages of
grainy, bleached out, extravagantly lit shots edited together at
machine gun speed. The soundtrack is that of any super-cool action film
from Hollywood. This works so well not only as a dead-on impression of
Hollywood film-making but also as a hilarious opposition to the English
countryside.

Simon Pegg's performance is a work of comic genius. His character is so
well-developed as a man of invincible and authentic confidence and
incredible drive, a workaholic, a zealot, and also an action hero
stereotype. Nick Frost is a great second banana because not only is he
the punchline to Pegg's straight line, he's also funny in such a
direct, adolescent way, an unlikely comic relief sidekick.

The film's great surprise is a comeback performance from Timothy
Dalton. Not only is it a reappearance from the abyss he's been lost in
since his two-year stint as James Bond, but also a vindication against
all who've continually dismissed his credibility as an actor and
doubted his comic ability. He's very funny and one of the film's great
highlights.

I've rarely seen a comedy so cleverly written, beautifully directed,
atmospheric, or intelligently ridiculous.
<|_=00=_|>
Hot Fuzz is the story of Sergeant Nicholas Angel (Simon Pegg),
hardboiled super-cop. Intimidated by his arrest record, his
cameo-appearance superior officers (Martin Freeman, Steven Coogan, and
Bill Nighy) transfer him from the busy streets of London to the sleepy
village of Sandford to keep him out of the way and balance the books,
because, to be honest, he's making the rest of them look bad. A big cop
in a small town, Angel sees murders and conspiracies where the cameo
cast of cops and locals see accidents, but, with the help of his
partner Danny Butterman (Nick Frost), it's not long before he discovers
that not everything in Sandford is quite what it seems.

Sound clichéd? Good. That's the point. Once settled in Sandford, Hot
Fuzz becomes a vehicle designed to send up every action film that has
ever taken itself even slightly seriously from Police Story to Point
Break, and it does this brilliantly by simply taking everything from
these films and pushing them that bit further, making them appear both
ridiculous and awesome at the same time. The characters are massively
exaggerated (especially Pegg's super-cop and Timothy Dalton's
fantastically over-the-top super-villain). The action sequences are
outrageous, exciting, and feature a surprising degree of rough justice,
perhaps most notably in the form of an old woman getting karate-kicked
in the face (or maybe a pub landlord getting his head bear-trapped).
The dialogue ranges from obvious parody ("Did you tell him to cool
off?") to clever Pegg-Frost exchanges, and even the music is perfectly
balanced between action-scene rock songs and mock-epic slow guitar
pieces.

However, that's not to say that Hot Fuzz is non-stop comic action. The
first half an hour or so seems a little slow, but there's no reason to
worry; the cast are simply setting up jokes to be knocked down later
on, and it is definitely worth the brief wait for the well-paced
comic-action masterpiece that's lying just around the corner. As with
Shaun of the Dead, the people behind Hot Fuzz are affectionately poking
fun at a genre that they clearly love, creating a film that embraces
its genre's inherent ridiculousness, and is all the better for it.
<|_=00=_|>
"Hot Fuzz" is brilliant! People who like British humor will love this
one! It is really funny! It manages to make fun of ridiculous plots
used in action movies and at the same time entertain you with their own
ridiculous plot which is quite thrilling! Even when you don't get the
subtle humor there are more than enough visual jokes to be enjoyed! I
thought it was a stroke of genius to use some serious actors like
Edward Woodward,Stuart Wilson and Timothy Dalton! (Timothy Dalton was
accused of playing a much too serious James Bond! Well,in "Hot Fuzz" he
shows that he can be dangerously funny!) As a parody on action movies
this movie succeeds where others have failed! I think the credit has to
go to the whole team who made this and "Shaun of the dead" including
the actors! It shows that they actually like the movies they make fun
of! That is essential for the the jokes to work! I thought "Hot Fuzz"
is hilarious and very entertaining! It certainly is one of the funniest
movies at the moment! Go check it out!
<|_=00=_|>
So here we have it, the eagerly awaited follow-up from the same team
that brought us Shaun of the Dead. But whereas Shaun (hereafter
shortened to SOTD) drew its inspiration primarily from zombie films
(more specifically, George Romero's "Dead" films), Hot Fuzz throws its
net a bit wider, taking in every buddy-buddy cop action film made in
the last 20 odd years and combining it with a very British perspective.
Think Midsummer Murder spliced with Bad Boys 2 and you should have the
rough idea.

Through a series of quick cuts we are introduced to Nicholas Angel
(Simon Pegg), an outstanding officer in the London police force, a
super cop with an arrest record 400% higher than anyone else. In fact
he's so good, he makes everyone else look bad. So Angel is packed off
to the picture-perfect village of Sandford, alone save for his beloved
Japanese Peace Lilly. On arrival Angel finds it difficult to adjust to
village life, constantly on the look out for crime in a place where
there hasn't been a murder for over 20 years and the police station is
so quiet that the staff spend most of their time eating cake and
ice-cream. He also finds himself partnered with over-eager constable
Danny Butterman (Nick Frost), the son of amiable Police Chief Frank
Butterman (Jim Broadbent). Danny is obsessed with action films and
believe's that Angel is his chance to live out his dreams of car chases
and gunfights.

With the set-up completed within the first 15 minutes it's on with the
plot as people start to die in a series of grisly "accidents". Angel is
suspicious but no-one believes him apart from Danny. With the body
count rising though, the two need to work together to find out what's
going on or could it be that Angel is just wound too tightly for
country living? Pegg and Frost have been doing their double act for so
long it's become second nature and it's nice to see them playing
(slightly) different roles. Just like SOTD, they are ably supported by
a cast of familiar faces from British film and TV. It's good to see
Timothy Dalton having so much fun, playing the sinister Mr Skinner with
a moustache-twirling relish. Other standouts include Paddy Considine
and Rafe Spall as the Andy's, two detectives who spend most of their
time verbally abusing Angel and Danny.

The film is packed full of references, which I'm sure will take
multiple viewings to catch. There's some inventively gory scenes which
are sure to make everyone a bit more careful around churches and model
villages, though they are a bit too obviously CGI. It's a shame that
the action doesn't kick into high gear until the final third but with
the plot not going down the most obvious of routes and since I was
laughing all the way through I can't really complain. The film is a
success in it's attempt to create a "British" action film, combining
adrenaline-fuelled action with the mundane and everyday.
<|_=00=_|>
I was Lucky enough to be invited to a special trade show of Hot Fuzz
and there is little to say that could begin to describe it, awesome is
a first step.

Thankfully the majority of trailer material happens in the first 15
minutes so you get the bits you know out of the way. i cant really say
a lot as it may spoil the film. but if you loved Shaun of the dead you
should certainly want to see this.

if you have seen spaced and Shaun of the dead you will appreciate the
handywork of Edgar Wright. and you will see the return of some of the
of the old faces such as spaced landlady Marsha

Simon Pegg and Nick Frost both fit into the roles of policemen, sorry
officers, well, and Pegg is the usual High Flying guy who is too good
for his job, While Frost plays that tag-along soon to become sidekick
who doesn't really know uite why he's there.

This is totally one you have to see or you will be missing out. if
comedy is your thing, this is your film.
