
Anyone who expected this movie to be an amazing, intelligent film will
be severely disappointed. However, from the trailer, I made a guess as
to the general quality of the film. I was right, and I enjoyed myself.

Hot guys who do magic. That's pretty much all you need to know about
the movie. The dialogue is crap, most of the acting is so-so,
characters are woefully underdeveloped, and the plot is flimsy at best.
That said, it was a fun movie. There was exciting action, and lots of
fan service for the girls in the audience (Don't worry boys, there are
girls in dubious sleepwear, too) It's one of those movies where you sit
and watch and say, "This is a really good idea, but even *I* could
write a better movie than this." The concept is cool, the execution
not-so-hot. But as a break from the grind of class? Definitely good.

The action was cool. The boys were pretty. And, really, what more does
a girl need?
<|_=00=_|>
Basic summary: Ipswitch used to be a community of witches and escaped
the Salem witch hunts by forming a covenant of secrecy. The first born
males descended from these families have supernatural powers, and must
come to terms with the seductive, addictive nature of using those
powers.

Well, I usually give movies the benefit of the doubt and start from a
5, going from there:

Production: -1 for very obvious audio out of sync, +1 for nicely done
special effects, the darkling actually gave me chills, +0.5 for nice
colorization (I like the dull blue), -0.5 for the stupid sound track,
+0.5 for the opening sequence -- I'm a sucker for stylish compositing
and flashy title design.

Story / Script: +1 for decent main idea, -0.5 for DBZ/Matrix/Street
Fighter ripoff/pastiche, -1 for not explaining some plot threads very
well (spiders, darkling), -1 for boring, predictable ending, -1 for
gratuitous exposition, both as words on the screen and as bland
monologuing

Acting / Characterization: -0.5 for bad bad acting, although it gets a
little better as the film progresses, -1 for lack of character
development, especially among all the females

Other: +1 for gratuitous male and female nudity, which is fun to watch,
and +0.5 for no sex scenes, which for this genre are usually done very
badly and end up being boring rather than hot, +1 for hitting its
target audience, teenage sci-fi/horror/thriller fans, even though this
movie is not exclusively any of those genres.

Conclusion: This is not a "film," this is a MOVIE. There's really
nothing to analyze, it's just good, (relatively) clean fun. Lots of
really attractive actors and actresses. Lots of boys fighting in the
style of DBZ and Street Fighter. If you like cute actors and actresses,
supernatural special effects, and/or mindlessly fun plots, this movie
is for you. If you prefer Oscar-worthy, exquisitely-produced film
masterpieces with tons of multi-layered, allegorical plot threads and
groundbreaking visualization techniques, you probably won't like this
film.

Using my twisted logic, this movie gets a 4/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Just came back from an advanced screening tonight.

No, this isn't going to win any awards. It didn't 'reinvent the genre'.
It is just a very well made horror/action film.

Renny Harlin has taken a bunch of unknowns, a small budget, and has
made a great looking film with some nicely fleshed out characters, nice
fight scenes, some decent scares, and some VERY impressive special
effects.

What really impressed me most of all was the tender love story between
the teenage couple. When was the last time you saw a film where
teenagers were in love and they just kissed, smiled and said goodnight?
it was so sweet and innocent - far from the graphic bump and grind of
most of today's film. I suppose the PG-13 was partly responsible for
that - and if so, then bring on more PG-13 teenage films! 

Don't let the PG-13 put you off. This is a very good film that anyone
should enjoy...even adults like me : ) 

If you have seen the trailer and liked it, then I think you will like
the film. I had a great time tonight and will get this when it comes
out on DVD..
<|_=00=_|>
Going into seeing "The Covenant," I had little expectations. I had
expected this to be a big budget movie, full of action sequences and
nothing else. Some parts of me believed it would be terrible, but other
parts of me had hope because "Underworld," the producers of "The
Covenant," was great. Honestly, I can say that I enjoyed it. There were
flaws, but not enough for me to walk out or demand my money back.

In 1692, in the Ipswich Colony of Massachusetts, five families with
untold power formed a covenant of silence. One family, lusting for
more, was banished and their bloodline disappearing without a trace.
Four young students at the elite Spencer Academy who are bound by their
sacred ancestry. These boys have all been born with special powers. The
powers, however, are addictive; if they use them excessively, they will
start to weaken and age. The fifth "Son of Ipswich" has surfaced and
has plans to destroy the other four and steal their powers for himself.

The premise had a lot of potential. I must admit it did fulfill its
potential since it focused manly on the premise then the action
sequences. It was more then just a good vs. evil story; it was a story
about battling yourself. I liked how there was an obvious metaphor
about drugs ruining your body. This should be used as life lessons for
teens of today. Unfortunately, there were zero twists or surprises,
which means that everything told in the trailers happened in the movie
and just that; nothing more.

For a group of unknown actors, the acting could have been a lot worse.
Everyone did their jobs and all made believable teenagers. Steven
Strait (Caleb Danvers), Taylor Kitsch (Pogue Parry), Toby Hemingway
(Reid Garwin), and Chase Crawford (Tyler Sims) played the four main
characters concentrated on. Sebastian Stan (Chase Collins) plays the
villain. Laura Ramsey and Jessica Lucas (Sarah Wenham and Kate Tunney),
were also believable as two teenage roommates.

Some people might complain about the horrible dialog, especially coming
from the character, Chase Collins. I personally enjoy it because it was
very campy and comic book like. Lex Luther (Gene Hackman) and the Joker
(Jack Nicholson) were like that, yet there is no one complaints. Why
should you make a complain about Chase Collins? It looked like
Sebastian Chase had fun with the character. Sure it was more comic book
then graphic novel, "The Covenant" is based on a graphic novel, but it
was still fun nonetheless. 

Visually, I felt I was watching "Underworld" without the Lycans and
Vampires. The special effects were decent as well. There was nothing
new or revolutionary, but for a low budget movie, $20 million- low for
today's standard, it was still acceptable. Most blockbuster movies run
about five times that amount, and some have even reached up to ten
times the amount. A final battle between Chase and Caleb reminded me of
a "Street Fighter" battle, which some may complain about, that made me
feel very nostalgic. The cast is loaded with eye candy for both the
male and the female audience.

While "The Covenant" is placed in the action/horror/thriller genre, it
should not be considered a horror. Two scenes involved spiders, which I
will not reveal anymore, which would not look out of place in a classic
horror movie and I was surprised how well those scenes worked.
Unfortunately, other than those couple of scenes, the movie is not
scary. Therefore, if you go into "The Covenant" expecting a horror you
will be disappointed.

The writing could have used some improvement! They needed to spend a
little more time explaining some of the subplots. One example was that
the four main heroes kept referencing "darklings." We knew what they
look like, but nothing else. In addition to the unexplained subplots,
one of the characters, Taylor Sims, was horribly underused. I believe
he only had one line in the whole movie. They could have just taken him
out of the script since he had no purpose. They even left the ending
open for a sequel. If they release a sequel, they should spend more
time on the things mentioned above. I would be up for seeing one,
though it might be more suited for a television series.

Overall, I enjoyed "The Covenant." It was not one of the better movies,
but there certainly have been worse. If you enjoy movies that are part
supernatural, part comic book, and part TV movie, you will like this. I
could see why there were complaints, but I think those were from people
that took it far too seriously. This is not a DVD worthy purchase but
when going into the theater on a Saturday or Sunday afternoon, to spend
your $8.50 or more, you should still consider this.
<|_=00=_|>
The idea of the movie was better than the movie itself, I thought. It
did have potential, but didn't really embrace it as much as it should
have. Basically, it's about four warlocks who are descent from four
families from the 17th century who were able to harness the power of
witchcraft. But when a fifth one shows up, stronger than all of them
and seeking the power of the others, they must stop him before he kills
them and everyone they care about. Think Underworld meets Highlander,
and that's the basic mood of the movie. It's easy to think of this as
an Underworld knock off, but it was actually better than that. The plot
is predictable, and drags at times, and there is almost no character
development. A lot of interesting subplots are touched upon, but never
really explored, and the way they ended it, they obviously want
sequels. Check it out, there's some pretty cool action scenes and an
interesting story to back it up, but don't count on being blown away.
<|_=00=_|>
After seeing the previews for this, I went in expecting to see
something like a slightly cheesier version of "The Craft," but with
boys, and I wasn't disappointed. At the most basic level, the premise
is similar: four teenagers at a private school dabbling in supernatural
power/magic. However, while "The Craft" is by no means a brilliant
film, the writing and acting are both substantially better than what's
seen in "The Covenant." 

The story has a lot of potential, but it's not very well presented.
There's very little explained before the last 30-45 minutes of the
movie, and even then there's very little of the background explained.
Combined with the poorly written script, this makes it difficult to
develop and real interest in the characters. The protagonist (Caleb
Danvers, played by Steven Strait) comes across as unrealistic, and the
antagonist (Chase Collins, played by Sebastian Stan) as annoying at
best. And Sarah (played by Laura Ramsey) is little more than a plot
device.

And despite claims to being a horror movie/thriller, there's really
nothing scary about it- unless you've got a fear of badly written
dialog and cheesy special effects.

With all this in mind, it does have some redeeming qualities. There's
plenty of eye-candy: all of the leads are gorgeous, and the boys spend
a considerable part of the film shirtless. And there are a few moments
that make for a good (if unintended) laugh. Over all, it's
entertaining. Not that bad for a PG-13 movie with a target audience of
young teenagers- but I'd recommend either catching a matinée or waiting
for the DVD to arrive at your local Blockbuster.
<|_=00=_|>
I must admit this wasn't as bad as I expected. I've seen several Renny
Harlin movies, none of which I've liked (in fact, I hated them). So,
going into this one, I had little hope (if any). The story isn't the
most originial thing I've ever heard of, but it's not a carbon copy of
anything else. The story development is pretty straight-forward and
predictable. The graphics are what you'd expect, as well. My main
complaint with this film is what I call gratuitous dialogue: when
people talk too much or think outloud to fill the audience in on what
they're thinking. There's a lot of "ha ha I'm so evil" talk from the
villain, as well. But, hey, if you can't have fun at the movies, why
bother going? All in all, worth seeing at least once.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay, so it's a male version of the Craft...kinda. Yes, I'd have to
agree with that summation; however, this features MUCH more story, more
meat, more history, and a FAR better execution than the Craft. It also
presents a much better developed story, characters, and production
style.

This is dark, yet shines throughout. It is witty without being stupid.
It is serious without taking itself too seriously. It is entertaining
without losing sight of the fact that its audience wants to be uplifted
by their entertainment.

This work features some innovatively creative elements, great
performances, and strong dialog combined with historically based
characters, enlightened direction, and an incredibly slick production
style that does not lose itself in its...slickness. *L* I really enjoy
this, and have the extended edition in my DVD collection.

All in all? It's not good for the kiddies. It tends to be a bit harsh
in places, but falls well within the PG-13 rating it receives. Billed
as "horror," this work is more "thriller," in my opinion. It makes for
decent Friday/Saturday night viewing, if you have not yet seen it.

It rates an 8.7/10 from...

the Fiend :.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is essentially for teenagers. The cool boys in the school
meet the cool girls. The boys have supernatural powers and it's all
about being in control and appealing to the opposite sex. The plot
itself is fairly shallow and offers no twists or turns.

Unlike the movie "Underworld", this movie moves a little too slow and
doesn't have anything interesting to offer other than some occasional
special effects and some scantily clad actors. The girls run around in
their underwear and the boys walk around in swim trunks.

The special effects and the display of the supernatural powers are very
well done, but after awhile they evoke yawns, and not excitement. You
can only slam people around so much before it quits adding to the plot.
The movie fails at upping the ante. No matter how intense the action
should feel, it all just looks like more of the same.

Strangely, the adults in this movie offer forth the worst acting. The
younger actors do quite well and it is the story and overall plot which
leaves the most to be desired.

The movie isn't bad, it just isn't good either.
<|_=00=_|>
In 1692, in the Ipswich Colony of Massachusetts, five families of
powerful witches commit to a covenant of silence to protect themselves
against the witch hunters, but one of the families transgress their
pact and is banished from their lands. Along the centuries, the power
and the covenant are transmitted through their descendants and when the
eldest son is eighteen years old, he ascends to a higher power.
However, the use of magic addicts and if used in excess, ages the
warlock. In the present days, four wizards teenage friends are in high
school and their leader Caleb Danvers (Steven Strait) is close to his
eighteenth birthday and consequently to ascend. He has just met Sarah
Wenham (Laura Ramsey) and they are dating, when the appearance of
darkling and supernatural dreams haunt the group. Sooner they find an
evil warlock, descendant of the fifth ancient family that wants to
strip Caleb's power.

I liked "The Covenant", a supernatural teenager movie in the style of
"Angel", Buffy", "Charmed" or "Supernatural". This film has good
special effects, but the story and characters are not well-developed
and some lines are terrible. The acting is only reasonable, but Laura
Ramsey is extremely beautiful and natural in her great performance, and
I liked this unknown actress. In the end, I found "The Covenant" very
entertaining, but could be better and better with minor improvements in
the screenplay. My vote is six.

Title (Brazil): "O Pacto" ("The Covenant")
