
The Equalizer is NOT Man on Fire. The Equalizer is NOT your typical
action flick. Washington's Robert McCall is not self-destructive or
addicted. Though there are great choreographed fights, special effects
and fantastic explosions, The Equalizer is more Bourne than Bond.
Denzel Washington portrays this ex-CIA operative, who is content to
live a meticulously simple life. Quietly contained, but with
ever-building intensity, Washington turns in another stellar
performance. 

Chloe Grace Moretz, as the teenage prostitute, is a force...

Antoine Fuqua, the directer who brought us Training Day, which earned
Denzel his Best Actor Oscar, helms this movie with a steady hand. His
direction of the drama and the action blend seamlessly, drawing us into
the complexity of this character-driven piece. 

Robert McCall keeps to himself, content to live his ordinary life; he
is every man's man. But, his steady moral compass, and strong sense of
justice lead him back into the fray. This character is not infallible,
and he is not looking for trouble. He just wants what's right. 

This film is a superbly acted, exciting and violent ride! In the
pursuit of justice, there will be blood. But this time, you'll be
rooting for the good guy, and I, a fifty years young woman, loved every
minute of it!
<|_=00=_|>
Antoine Fuqua's and Denzel Washington's paths collide once more as they
come together to create a stylish and daring action thriller about a
man with a mysterious past, whose quiet life suddenly turns into a rip-
roaring adventure of guns and thrills. Both Denzel Washington and Chloe
Grace Moretz give stellar performances and display perfect chemistry as
two friends stuck in a world of crime and violence. Arguably Fuqua's
best film since 'Training Day', 'The Equalizer' is a brutal and
merciless tale that explores the Russian underworld on the East Coast
and the corruption ties within the law enforcement of Boston's police
department.
<|_=00=_|>
Some reviews have characterized this movie as your typical,
run-of-the-mill, action movie, nothing you haven't seen
before....nothing could be farther from the truth!! 

This movie is based off the television series called "The Equalizer".
It is about an ex-CIA operative who uses his special skills to help
ordinary people who have no other recourse. This movie version of The
Equalizer is more reminiscent of Matt Damon's Jason Bourne, and it is
this that sets this movie above your typical action flick. In fact, in
Mr. Damon's own words, The Equalizer "...reminded me of the Bourne
Identity, in that both are sophisticated adult, thriller franchises
where the protagonists are capable of high-action exploits, but aren't
running around in spandex." Directed by the great Antoine Fuqua, the
man who brought us Training Day, The Equalizer is a gritty and violent,
suspenseful and superb action film. This movie is very
character-driven, and Denzel Washington, who plays protagonist Robert
McCall, gives another stellar performance. His character lives alone,
keeps to himself, and seems to suffer from some form of OCD. Most
importantly, McCall is not McClane! He is not a wise-cracking cop in
the wrong place at the wrong time, but rather a quiet and complex
character, whose sense of justice is awakened when a young girl is
brutally beaten. 

This movie gives you everything you would want from an action film:
guns, explosions and great effects. However, the violence and bloodshed
in this movie are deserving of it's R- rating, and create this film's
authentic feel. The excellent performances by the cast are also what
raise this movie well above your ordinary action movie. Team
Washington/Fuqua gives us a darker hero for darker times, and one you
will cheer on every step of the way!!!
<|_=00=_|>
At the end of it all, I found this movie very boring. The story is old
as dirt. The plot is so obvious that as soon as characters appear on
screen one can identify, "He'll be killed," "She'll be kidnapped and
used as bait," "Something bad's gonna happen to him," and my all-time
favorite, "He's the innocent, likable guy introduced early then ignored
for 90 minutes (so we'll forget about him), only to have him turn up as
a hostage in the big showdown." And every prediction is spot-on.

Example of bad writing: Two thugs walking up to a door. The last thing
Thug 2 says to Thug 1 as they approach the door, "Whatever you do,
don't call him Little John." Very next shot, inside the door, Thug 1
starts talking smack... and guess what he does? When the setup is
literally 5 seconds earlier, we all see it coming. Give us the setup in
a different location, maybe? Or at least disguise the setup amidst a
longer, funny/entertaining conversation? Nope, just lay out that one
line setup, then walk on in. We the viewers will just deal with it.

Denzel's character is likable. I mean, insanely likable. Beyond the
depth of my willful suspension of disbelief likable. He's always
friendly, always in a good mood, always smiling. He's ecstatic just to
be alive. Everyone loves being near him. He's never "just a guy." He's
more helpful than a college professor, more inspirational than a
priest, more motivational that a fitness instructor. Every scene in his
workplace (which is visited repeatedly throughout the movie) includes
no less than 2 background guys smiling giddily when Denzel arrives to
work, and laughing loud at every word Denzel speaks. Going to work at
Home Depot - sorry, "Home Mart" - surely isn't like that in real life.

But there's more to Denzel, isn't there? Who is this guy? Where'd he
come from? Who knows? We'll never know. But clearly he's bad-ass. More
moves than Shakira and deadlier than Seal Team Six. He seems to know
how to handle any situation and any number of attackers - just because.
No reason; he's just awesome. If you ever saw the classic comedy PLANET
TERROR, just think of the scene, "Give him the gun. Give him all the
guns." Because, ya know, he's just so bad-ass for no logical reason.

The bad guy was awesome. While Denzel's fight scenes were a lot of
super-close blurry shots, the few scenes where the Bad Guy establishes
his badness were rather good, very tense, very violent and
cringe-worthy.

THE EQUALIZER has all latest bells and whistles with music, atmosphere,
and build-up. The one female lead is developed nicely (especially
compared to every other innocent victim who may as well have stepped
out of Little House On The Prairie). Much of the movie is very tense,
and keeps you hanging on to each scene, waiting to see what happens
next. But ultimately, we all know Denzel will kick ass, so it's all
just a waiting game. It felt very long. The wait is made so much worse
when the viewer knows exactly what's coming. There's just no surprises
here. You've seen this movie 500 times, I'm sure.

Oh yeah, and Denzel knows everything. He appears magically inside
buildings and rooms where one shouldn't be able to sneak in. He has
cell phone numbers one shouldn't have access to - the characters even
comment on it, "How the hell did you get that number?!" No answer.
Doesn't matter. It's a movie. Just turn off your brain and enjoy the
tension building. How does Denzel know when the bad guys will appear at
a time and place, so he can intercept them in the night? Don't know,
doesn't matter, I guess. How does Denzel sneak into a closet-sized room
without the occupant noticing? How does Denzel have time to set up his
trap, rig wires, etc, without anyone seeing this work being done? Who
cares, the resulting deaths are cool.

Go to sleep. Tune out. Enjoy. But don't expect to take this movie with
you. You'll have forgotten it by the time you leave the parking lot.
<|_=00=_|>
Rooting for a badass hero with a kickass attitude has never been as
satisfying as watching Denzel Washington dish out some brutal
punishment. This is exactly what you get in The Equalizer, an action
thriller based on the late 80's TV series of the same name, but amped
up with ultra-violent realism.

Reunited after their collaboration in Training Day, Washington
(received his first Academy Award in a leading role) and director
Antoine Fuqua are back in this simple yet deadly effective action film.
Using a Mark Twain quote about people who find their true purpose late
in life, Washington plays Robert McCall, a loner and tragic widower
with a mysterious past. On the surface, he is an amiable home depot
worker who keeps to himself, indulging in conversations only when
spoken too, and slave to some sort of OCD while remaining invisible to
people around him. After befriending a Russian teen escort called
Alina, (Chloe Grace Moretz all grownup), and discovering she is the
victim of sexual abuse, McCall's nice-guy demeanor melts away to expose
an aura reverberating layers of darkening complexity. There's a tightly
restrained compassion in McCall's eyes, fighting a father-figure
compulsion to do what he must, while Alina's is a muted plea for
deliverance. This scene takes place in a diner they frequent in Boston,
and it's the first of two powerful moments in the film. What follows is
the film's first action sequence in a Tarantino-styled dialogue first,
and blood splatter later, McCall dispatches Alina's Russian pimp and
his goons. When news reaches Moscow, mob kingpin Pushkin sends Teddy
(Marton Csokas), to clean up the mess. Covered with satanic tattoos,
Teddy is anything but the moniker he goes by and with half the Boston
PD on his payroll, it's just a matter of when and where McCall is
eliminated. Or so they think.

Having previously scripted The Expendables 2, Richard Wenk's story here
is nothing new when considering McCall's proverbial 'set of skills', a
comparison if you must, to certain characters Liam Neeson has played.
On the other hand, there is a mechanism in place, partly due to the
aforementioned OCD, allowing McCall a brief study of the situation
before striking with lethal accuracy. While that sounds like a
knock-off version of combat tactics employed by Guy Ritchie's titular
hero in Sherlock Homes (2009), the payoff is watching McCall take out
bad guys with improvised weaponry. It gets a bit hokey towards the end,
with McCall using all manner of booby traps to slice, dice and blow up
Teddy's dumber-by-the-minute henchmen. Having said that, it is still
rewarding to watch Washington demolish enemy after enemy and this is
largely due to Csokas' terrific portrayal of Teddy's loathsome nature.
To that effect, the best scenes in the film are when Teddy and McCall
are face-to-face and denting each other's armour with nothing but well
written dialogues. One such scene is a powerful dinner table
battering-of-wits, a taut reimagining of that iconic scene in Heat
(1995).

While humour and drama throw some light on Boston's mob controlled
dirty cops, McCall's relationships with his colleagues, and even a
short segment that suggests his origins as a trained killer, The
Equalizer really shines with Fuqua's deft handling of action scenes.
But topping it off is Washington in a vigilante role that is the best
we've seen in years. Fans of Man on Fire (Washington opposite Dakota
Fanning) and Léon: The Professional (Jean Reno opposite Natalie
Portman), both films about male heroism influenced by female protégés,
are in for a visual treat. Heck, who needs improbable superheroes when
you have an average Joe with extraordinary capabilities and all without
hiding behind a mask or costume? Although compelled to use the N-word,
I'll just say  Ma man Denzel. . .doesn't disappoint and neither does
The Equalizer.
<|_=00=_|>
Sorry Denzel, not even your amazing talent could save this laughably
insultingly lame, simple-minded, patronizing movie straight from the
mind of a toddler trapped in a 38 year old Hollywood screenwriter
fantasizing about saving abused hookers from fat Russian mobsters. But
2 good things about this movie: 1) Denzel AND 2) Mustache twirling,
bootleg Kenneth Branagh main villain.

And from this point on my review will simply be titled "Hollywood
Thinks...."

1) Hollywood thinks that Russians speaking to each other randomly
pepper-in English for some odd reason & then go back to their native
language to say important info like "Yes"

2) Hollywood thinks every man only gets mad about injustice when it's a
young attractive female who is being abused and beaten by rich, fat,
ultra violent, mustache twirling foreigner/weirdos.

3) Hollywood thinks ex-CIA members go around wiping out entire crime
families not because they want to stop crime or injustice to the
general public, but because one white woman was abused by Russian
pimp-mobsters who very obviously had done that type of thing to
countless men/women before. But it is okay for the hero to murder
people because, hey, they hit a woman & they are one-dimensional
evildoers who don't deserve even a trial or gas chamber for their
crimes, they deserve a vigilante death.

4) Hollywood thinks the Russian mafia and the Boston PD are both
incompetent fools: These rocket scientists run around saying things
like "no witnesses" but brashly brandish guns in broad daylight and
shoot at things all the time out in public while doing faux-military
hand- gestures thought up by the 5 year old screenwriter while playing
Contra. And apparently half of the corrupt cops in this universe are
making gobs of money with the oh-so-dangerous yet generic "mafia"
groups while the other half is shaking down Mexican Jack Black's mom
for pocket change at a taco stand because that's such a booming
industry in the Southy Projects. Feed me to thah POOR by dah way.

5) Hollywood thinks an ex-CIA member can lecture mobsters about lying,
killing, and insulting a government agency for corruption...as if they
have such a squeaky clean record. And they also think we the idiot
simpleton audience is supposed to shake in our boots at these tired,
played out tropes revolving around the "RUSSIANS" and "CIA" and
"CORRUPT COPS" who talk like caricatures from an unreleased Sopranos
sub-plot. 

6) Hollywood thinks that every vigilante murder, destruction of
property, torture, etc. can be written off as legitimate because said
vigilante was an ex-CIA/FBI/Law enforcement officer with some current
tie to an operational government contact (in this case a female instead
of a male because that is just so out of the box & unexpected) So
progressive this film.

7) Hollywood thinks they need to shoot everything in slow motion
because MATRIX.

8) Hollywood thinks people with guns often give vigilantes 20 minutes
of slow motion time to plan out killing them with random blunt or sharp
objects just after adjusting skull-shaped items to foreshadow their
doom.

9) Hollywood thinks the audience is stupid (and they may have a point)
so constantly have characters yell out things like "OH THIS IS THE RING
I LOST" and "OH MY GOD YOU DID IT!" because we idiots could not done
figure that out oh golly geez and a wippdee doo!

10) Hollywood thinks by shooting people talking that are famous and
telegraphing what is good and evil, over and over again with the same
idiotic tropes, that it counts as great cinema. F**K Hollywood and F**K
this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Antoine Fuqua's big screen adaptation of the 80′s TV series The
Equalizer opens with an impressive tracking shot through an open
window, and into the orderly and near empty apartment, belonging to
Robert McCall (Denzel Washington). McCall lives a Spartan existence;
for the first twenty minutes of the picture, he hardly says a word.
Fuqua (Training Day) gives a lengthy shot as you watch McCall fold
something delicately into a napkin. When you see him unfold the napkin
at his regular diner, and place the teabag into a cup of hot water, you
understand immediately that this man is a creature of habit, firmly set
in his ways. Every night he's there, reading a book. He's such a
regular, that he strikes up a familiar acquaintance in a young teenage
prostitute, Teri (Chloe Grace Moretz)), which eventually grows into
something of a friendship. There is something undeniably hidden within
him, however. When he realizes the danger Teri is in thanks to her
nefarious Russian pimps, he forgoes his cautious life, and willingly
brings on the pain.

Director Fuqua accordingly really brings on the style for these
sequences. His relative quiet touches give way to mayhem. Before every
murder McCall commits, the camera slows down, taking on a golden hue,
and you literally see McCall breaking down every element of his
victims: tattoos, facial expressions. And then he lets loose: even
timing himself to see if he can voice dispatch Mafiosi in 30 seconds or
less.

And The Equalizer is undeniably fun. It's one of those thrillers that
begins moody and atmospheric, and then decides it would be more fun to
see how many people can be dispatched with nail guns or corkscrew
openers; and it is similarly unconcerned with logic in the idea that
McCall decides to take down the entire East Coast hub of the Russian
mafia, simply over one teenage prostitute. But with Fuqua this
stylistically assured, and Washington equally game, does it really
matter?

As Teri, Chloe Grace Moretz (Kick Ass, Carrie) forgoes the sarcastic
strategy Jodie Foster used as a teenage hooker in Scorsese's Taxi
Driver. Teri is arguably much more frightened of her violent handlers,
and is less given to false bravado as result. And even though her
character really amounts to little more than a glorified supporting
part after she is sent away, she is a great deal of fun to watch, and
she holds her own more than capably against Denzel Washington (The Book
Of Eli). The habit of extended cameos in The Equalizer is even more
extreme in the case of Melissa Leo as Robert's former CIA contact, who
pops up to give a vital piece of information on the evil mobster, and
to tentatively tiptoe around the subject of his wife, while offering a
small measure of comfort. The bit part parade reaches
"blink-and-you-miss him" cameo status, by casting a reputable star like
Bill Pullman as Leo's husband, and giving him no more than four lines
(though of course it's possible that this may be a larger part that met
with cuts in the editing room).

If anything, a weakness of The Equalizer is that McCall's troubled
personal life is left as somewhat ambiguous. Who can blame it really?
The opening aims for a quiet kind of profundity, and it succeeds, but
isn't really interested in following through. For all its thin
characterization, there is something just as nice in watching Denzel
Washington coldly and calculatingly firing a nail gun in righteous
vengeance.

- See more at: www.mediumraretv.org
<|_=00=_|>
The movie was action packed and I love when the good guy always win.
The character don't talk much but you can only pull that off if you are
a good actor. The young actress I hear she is 17 did an amazing job to
play that part.Denzel no words you still got the box office power. My
husband ex marine he would not stop hollering when one scene came up he
gets a kick out of that stuff. Never seen the Equalizer series at all
so my opinion is from the movie only. Sequel is wide open lets have
more next year. Hope to see more. Love It. Hope the DVD be out for a
Christmas Present for the husband I will be buying it. All I can say is
go see this movie because it is very good don't listen to the haters.
<|_=00=_|>
Action, drama, humor, Denzel can due it all. Based on the TV show,
Denzel Washington is yet another old man, similar to Pierce Bronson in
the November Man, trying to prove he's still got it by playing a
mysterious dude who works at a Megamart who decides to help a young
hooker who got beat up pretty badly and ends up taking down some major
hitters in the Russian Mafia, then becomes a target for the main boss.

The movie had a quiet tone similar to Denzel and Director Antoine
Fuqua's last flick, Training Day, but Denzel's performance in this is
far more Oscar worthy. Denzel still brings passion to movies in an age
were other actors like him are phoning it in just for the pay check,
and basically that's what makes the movie. Watching Denzel on screen.

In all fairness, The Equalizer's main antagonist, A man the mob sends
to take care of their problems, was no slouch either. It was so
entertaining watching these two hunt each other down.

Possibly the worse part of the movie was there was not enough Chloë
Grace Moretz whose role in the movie is no more than a gloried cameo.

Overall Mr. Fuqua directed the great Denzel in another amazing role.
<|_=00=_|>
In 2003 while Denzel Washington was promoting his dumb but fun thriller
Out of Time he gave an interview stating how it was nice to star in a
film that didn't require him to do too much. Coming off the back of his
2002 Oscar win for Training Day, Washington didn't exactly sugar coat
the idea that Out of Time was a pay check gig pure and simple. Since
then Denzel's film choices have seemed littered with these quick cash
movies. For every Man on Fire or Inside Man we get a Safe House or last
year's forgettable 2 Guns. The Equalizer sees Washington re-team for
the first time since 2002 with Training day Director Antoine Fuqua.
Audience's hoping to see a return to form from the Training day duo
maybe disappointed. The Equalizer feels like another pay check gig, it
certainly is dumb it lacks any of the fun of Out of Time...And that
movie stared Dean Cain.

The Equalizer is a remake in name only of the 80's television series of
the same name. The show starred Edward Woodard as a retired government
agent turned private detective. He spends each episode helping people
similar to the A-team or Highway to Heaven. It was never a show I was
practically aware of but it seemed to be stable Television for my
parents growing up. The 2014 version sees Washington play Robert
McCall, a mysterious quiet man who gets sucked back into his old
violent ways while trying to help out a number of people in his life.
These people include a young prostitute played by Chloe Grace Moretz.
She is under the control of the Russian Mafia who doesn't take to
kindly to their business being interrupted. If the plot synopsis sounds
familiar it's because it's the basic premise for most Steven Segal
movies or any action movie in the 80's. Don't get me wrong The
Equalizer is far better than any Half Past Dead or Exit Wounds (maybe
not Under Siege) but it is the first sign that this long awaited big
screen Equalizer lacks any sort of Originality. Antoine Fuqua with the
exception of Training Day has never really dazzled on the big screen.
Films like Shooter and Tears of the Sun look the part but never really
excite as action films. The Equalizer is no different. Long when it
should be tight and loud when it should be quiet. The Equalizer is a
bit like a spinning plate. It starts off straight before quickly
wobbling then completely crashing to the ground. Fuqua and writer
Richard Wenk should take the full brunt of this. The script feels like
it should have undergone another re-write, you can feel every minute of
the films 131 min running time. In an effort to include elements of the
show Denzel finds himself helping multiple characters during the movies
2nd act. Great for them but this puts the main plot on hold killing all
momentum. At one stage Washington leaves the film altogether to meet
with old work friends (sorely underused Melissa Leo and Bill Pullman)
for a scene that does not add to the story in any way. Elements are
brought up but never go anywhere. It is eluded that his Character has
OCD but this is never established and appears and re-appears at random.
All this makes the film disjointed and adds to the already bloated
running time.

At this point you could forgive all this because it is an action film
and you paid to see Denzel kick ass and take names. Unfortunately Fuqua
drops the ball in this department also. An initial confrontation with
Russian heavies is well shot for maxim tension but quickly unravels
once the action starts. The film feels like it's edited in an attempt
to cut around some of the violence and this makes the fight scenes seem
clunky. It doesn't help that it is so poorly let, a similar compliant
that was leveled against Fuqua last film Olympus has fallen.

Denzel is always a watchable presence no matter what he is in and here
it is no different. Unfortunately the screen play doesn't give him much
of a character to work with. The story goes out of its way to keep his
character a mystery, we learn next to nothing about him which makes it
difficult to root for him. He just comes across as bored or
uninterested. He does get some moments to shine and he is a warm
presence in the his scenes with Chloe Grace Moretz. Moretz here is
excellent in the role bringing a real vulnerability as a young Russian
Call girl and the late night conversations they share about books
(although very on the nose) are engaging. She brings a real heart to
the film which is sadly lost when she is sidelined for the bulk of the
running time. Without her Washington's character has no one to bounce
off. He just becomes a bore. 

It would be easy to compare this film to Tony Scott's excellent Man on
Fire and the marketing has gone to some length to draw a similarity
between the two. Man on fire succeeded because Tony Scott was wise
enough to spend an hour of the running time building a relationship
between the two leads. Denzel's anger and revenge seems justified. In
the Equalizer it feels like Fuqua skips through this stuff to get to
the money shots. It's interesting that both films contain a shot of the
lead character walking away from an Explosion, In Man on Fire it's a
moment which signifies the storm that is to come and the level of
violence he is willing to go to. In the Equalizer it's a hollow eye
rolling moment thrown in just because it looks cool. It kind of sums up
the whole film. (D)
