
As a member of the Hollywood community, I was blown away by this
film... By the tight screenplay, the professional direction, and the
phenomenal acting. In my opinion, I think this is one of the best films
of the year so far. 

With that said, it is not a film for children. It is not a film meant
to portray ideal role models for children. It IS a film meant to
realistically depict the lives of people who live at the very bottom of
America's socioeconomic ladder. 

If you find yourself unable to reserve judgment against people born
into a life so vastly different than your own, you will probably not
like this film. In order to appreciate it, you have to be able to see
past the moral and ethical ambiguities of these characters.

So if anyone feels unsure whether they can handle the ugliness of this
type of world, but still feels curious enough to see it, take a cue
from the Anthropologists... 

When studying a culture vastly different than your own, make sure to
leave the rights and wrongs of your society at home. Because once you
impose the moral judgment and ethical standards of your world upon
another's, you've sacrificed your objectivity. And by doing so, miss
the very point of empathy.
<|_=00=_|>
...and I enjoyed it. What saves the film from being just another badly
made 'hood flick, is Terrence Howard. I am so glad Craig cast an actor
and not a rapper to play the lead. Terrence brings depth of character,
pathos, and sympathy to a low brow pimp with low quality product to
hustle.

This movie could've turned out bad with clichéd acting and over the top
performances (there were moments where I felt his strip club whore was
too much), but what makes you stick with the story, is that you really
feel sorry for these people and you want them to succeed. The producer
Stephanie Allain was at the L.A. premiere, and said that the character
wanting to have a dream of better things was the universal theme that
struck her. Craig (the director) also said that the story used bits and
pieces of his own life and people he has met in Memphis to craft a
story that really does happen to a lot of black people trying to get
into the rap game. True, the hook of the story, a pimp wanting to be a
rapper, sounds really funny. Lord knows if Mike Epps or Brian Hooks (or
God forbid, Snoop) had been cast in the lead, this movie would've
turned booty real quick. But once again, Terrence Howard makes this
story come alive. I enjoy rap, but don't find crunk and a lot of lyrics
enjoyable, but I must admit, in the context of the world it comes from
and the hopes that these characters have, I was one of many people (the
black ones in particular) who found myself swaying and singing the
lyrics to "Whoop that Trick" et al.

As for the person on this board who commented that he too was at the
Los Angeles Film Festival and found the white characters "acting black"
tiresome, it must be said that in the south, black speech patterns and
culture get picked up by whites. Living in close proximity creates
that, and I didn't feel that the white characters were playing black.
There was one comment in the movie where DJ Qualls arrives and Terrenc
Howards character pulls Anthony Anderson aside and and questions the
white boy's skills as a beat junkie, but that was the only time his
color was brought up. But it was natural, no different than guys from
Metallica questioning the skills of a black dude auditioning for a
guitar gig. The subtext was simply "Does this dude even listen to crunk
music?" Once his skills are proved, there is no question of race
anymore.

The film should do well. I will see it again with my mother. Yes my
mother. She loves Terrence Howard as much as I do, and I feel the movie
should have a wide audience, young and old (with parental supervision).
I enjoy watching Terrence Howard work, he makes you feel everything he
feels on screen, and if this thing doesn't make him blow up, I don't
know what will. He is the movie. See it for yourself and decide for
yourself. Cuz it's hard out here for a pimp, ya'all.

Ps. For those feminists who get their panties all twisted because of
any images of female exploitation, I must comment that all the women in
this film (as broke down and trashy as they are) have dreams too, and
Terrence's character realizes that they deserve better and strives to
help them by helping himself. There is no such thing as a good pimp
(like there is no such thing as a good slave master) but what redeems
Terrence is that his pimp transforms his life and all those around him
for the better.
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw this flick to a packet house in NYC and the entire audience,
myself included was with every frame of this film. Every single beat
hits exactly where it is supposed to. Every review I read talks about
the music and the acting, but how about how genuinely funny this film
is a way that few are?

They took the material seriously rather than letting it devolve into
schmaltz or comedy. The direction is straight on, no BS, no showy
shots. They take their time with each scene.

Good story, perfect characters well realized. Witty, crackling
dialogue. You can't make this stuff up. And comparing this to 8 mile is
like comparing dogshit to gold.

A deeply flawed protagonist who is able to reach into himself and
transform himself through the power of art, larger themes involve the
disillusion with fame, consumer culture.

This is everything a film is supposed to be. If it makes you feel good
to knock this film, then you are a snob. If you think can make a better
movie than this, then go ahead!

People who love movies love this film. This is what film is about.
<|_=00=_|>
Incredibly moving, yet definitely not for everyone, Hustle & Flow tells
the story of D-Jay, an incredibly conflicted Memphis pimp down on his
luck. In one of the most raw and intense performances of recent memory,
newcomer Terrence Howard embodies D-Jay with an animal-like ferocity
that will help you overcome what few formulaic clichés embody the
script. In his mid forties, D-Jay seems too old and far too nice for
his profession, and his "hos" seem to take notice. You see, D-Jay
represents a lifetime of failed dreams, ambitions, and wrong turns. It
seems as if it could all be over, but then fate offers him the
opportunity to realize his life-long goal of becoming a successful rap
star. D-Jay pours his heart and soul into his music, just as Howard
pours his into the performance, and the result is somewhat of a urban
Rocky, a true underdog tale. This is perhaps the first hip-hop film to
actually get it right, and everything that 8-Mile should have been.
Don't let the subject matter keep you from enjoying Howard's brutal
tour-de-force.
<|_=00=_|>
"Hustle & Flow" is a very strong directorial from writer/director Craig
Brewer, and it is very worthy of the buzz that it has been generating
for the last couple of months. I got to see it last night at an AFI
screening at Arclight Cinemas in Los Angeles, and the audience really
reacted positively to what they saw. The story is similar in some
respects to "8 Mile," but it is a far better movie (and "8 Mile" was
pretty good too). It features a tremendous performance by Terrence
Howard as a low level pimp who suddenly breaks out of his dark
surroundings to become a respected rapper. Craig had commented that had
he made this movie within the studio system, he probably never would
have been able to cast Terrence in the movie, and that would have been
tragic. Anthony Anderson is also excellent as his friend/producer, and
there is also Taryn Manning who is very strong in a role as a
prostitute who wants to do more with her life. It's a movie with a lot
of heart and integrity, and will appeal to anyone who has ever aspired
to something with all their heart, regardless of the road blocks ahead.
Here's hoping that "Hustle & Flow" gets the audience it truly deserves!
<|_=00=_|>
Terrence Howard plays a Memphis pimp who decides to give hardcore
rapping a shot in this arresting, gritty drama. Howard plays DJay, who
pimps girls out of his beat-up Chevy Nova. When he comes into the
possession of an electronic keyboard, DJay plays around with it and
finds he has a talent for writing and performing hard, violent lyrics.

On its face, this seems like a typical "man rises from the ashes of his
hardscrabble life to experience success and then watches it all crash
down around him" kind of movie. It's not a movie about suffering,
success, and redemption, in other words. But it's not as predictable as
it may seem at first blush, and Howard is not your typical actor, by
any shot.

DJay lives with his small stable of prostitutes in a tumble-down shack
in the Memphis ghetto. As pimps go, he's not exactly Donald Trump. Some
dance for an exotic club during the day and hook at night; some hook
all day. But the money's not rolling in for DJay, who remains somewhat
confident that he'll someday come out ahead. When he obtains the
keyboard, inspiration strikes, and a chance encounter with an old
classmate (Anthony Anderson) who's now a producer (of sorts) gives DJay
the opportunity to jump out of the rotten life he's carved for himself.

This never feels like a typical rise-and-fall story, and that's thanks
in no small part to the powerful performance by Howard, who's much
better here than in the critically lauded (by some) Crash. Appearing
with Howard in Crash was Ludicrous, who also has a big role in Hustle
and Flow - hey, some rappers are very good actors, it turns out.
Howard, aided by a crisp script from Craig Brewer, who also directed,
never portrays DJay as simply a nice guy with some flaws, someone who's
been handed a bad hand and is making the best of it. It's clear that
DJay's made all of his own choices, and the situation he finds himself
in - depending on hookers for his livelihood - is of his own doing.

But neither does the script show DJay as being entirely bad, either, as
evidenced by some surprisingly tender, moving scenes between DJay and
Key (Anderson) and DJay and Shug, his pregnant woman. These scenes
don't come off as stilted or insincere, and that's thanks especially to
Howard's strong performance. True, too, are the scenes in which DJay
lays down a rap track in his home; you can feel the rage seeping
through your television.

This movie might be a difficult sell to those who have trouble relating
to the environment and atmosphere in which DJay operates. Undoubtedly
those who grew up on the wrong side of the tracks will recognize
aspects of their own lives, identifying strongly with one or more of
the characters. But even those of us who have never lived in squalor,
who've generally had advantages that others do not, can appreciate the
intense, gray world in which DJay and his associates live. Had this
been a simple, typical biography of a musician from the mean streets,
it wouldn't have had near the effectiveness, the passion of Hustle and
Flow. The movie intrigues you, makes you want to know what happens to
DJay, even when it's obvious he's a bit of a jerk. But because he's not
a stupid man, his actions cannot be painted as simply good or simply
bad. Howard, in particular, is well deserving of his critical accolades
here.
<|_=00=_|>
(Synopsis) DJay (Terrence Howard) is a streetwise hustler and Memphis
pimp with a stable of 3 girls, Shug (Taraji Henson) who is pregnant and
not working, Lexus (Paula Jai Parker) who works in a strip club, and
Nola (Taryn Manning) who works out of DJay's old beat-up car in a back
alley. Even with two girls working and DJay selling dirt-weed on the
side, it is hard for them to make ends meet. The utility company is
about to shut off their utilities, if they don't pay the bill. DJay
feels that he has hit rock bottom, and he needs a change in his life. A
bum trades him a Casio keyboard for some weed, and DJay takes it home.
While playing the keys, DJay gets an inspiration to write rap music. He
begins to write down his pimping style raps, his flow, in a little
notebook while Nola is turning tricks. DJay runs into Key (Anthony
Anderson), an old friend and sound engineer, who takes him to a church
choir performance that reaches DJay's soul. DJay looks inside his soul
and decides to get out of the business, and now he has a dream of
becoming a rapper. DJay teams up with Key to make a demo song. Skinny
Black (Ludacris) is a platinum selling rapper about to return to
Memphis for the 4th of July. DJay believes he can hustle Skinny to hear
his tape, and his dream will come true.

(Comment) The movie was filmed all around Memphis during 2004. Memphian
Craig Brewer wrote and directed 'Hustle and Flow,' and I went to the
red carpet movie premiere in Memphis on 6 July. Craig Brewer told the
audience about his father's watch that was used in the movie, and he
was wearing it for good luck that night. He was also wearing a 3-carat
diamond ring that belonged to Sam Phillips. As for the movie, Terrence
Howard's role as DJay is a remarkable one in that he becomes immersed
in the character of DJay. Howard comes off as a real pimp with all the
anger, conflicts, and frustrations, which he encounters in life. There
is no such thing as a good pimp, but the character of DJay realizes
that his women have dreams too, and that he wants to change everything
around him and them for the better. The subject matter and the lyrics
to the rap music are a little rough, but the movie is a good one to
see. (Paramount Classics, Run time 1:54, Rated R) (8/10)
<|_=00=_|>
Movies and music, that's the winning combo when it comes to industry
amalgams but haven't we seen it all? We have the good; The Bodyguard
and 8 Mile, the bad Honey and the downright ugly aka Glitter (put the
crossbow down, I had to mention it). However, this John Singleton
produced flick snipes at the genre from a different angle.

The increasingly talented Terence Howard (recently seen in Ray and
Crash), plays DJay, a pimp turned rapper who wants to prove his worth
and swap his tricks for a trade in America's crunked up south.

Newcomer Craig Brewer takes the helm as we visit Memphis and see it
through the eyes of the down but not outters consisting of DJay and his
working girls. When he reunites with school friend Key (Anthony
Anderson) they decide to take charge of their lives and realise their
dream by putting together a demo tape of their skills, with the hope of
hitting the big time.

This is not a bad movie, in fact Howard is equally as convincing as a
pimp with a newly found heart and as a rapper, something that was both
a bold and a fruitful choice. If the star hadn't convinced on any level
it is a sure-fire guess to say a non-rapper would never be allowed to
rap in a movie, but he did and he did it well.

The standard underdog making it to the big time route has been bypassed
and replaced with a story that hold's your attention and has an
unpredictable and real conclusion.

Amongst Flow's supporting cast, Isaac Hayes takes stage as the
bar-owner who puts DJay in touch with the hometown's former star-
Skinny Black, played sneeringly by Chris 'Ludacris' Bridges. As well as
these two familiar songsters, Anthony Anderson and DJ Qualls, of Road
Trip fame, make up the group and put in solid performances. The female
cast who constitute DJay's trade are Eminem's ex-girlfriend in 8 Mile,
Taryn Manning and Paula Jai Parker as the outspoken Lexus, again all
providing non-sterling but convincing turns as part of the phat pack.

But it is Taraji P. Henson's part as the heavily pregnant Nola who
catches the eye as a sweet and naïve part of the outfit. It is her who
seems to be the only person that allows DJay to relinquish his
sometimes brutal pimp suit and put on something more responsible and
caring as he ventures out hustling for his right to fame.

This is not your standard cheer at the screen rise-to-fame story that
Americans seem to love, too much. What it is, is a well thought out
project that takes you on a journey of trials and tribulations that are
the all more convincing when performances by Howard, Manning and Henson
garnish the story.
<|_=00=_|>
I recently had the pleasure of viewing a local Hustle & Flow screening.
I referred to this site beforehand to look at the technical details of
the movie and to gain a general understanding of the buzz from the
message boards. All I seem to recall reading were negative comments
about the movie saying that it was such a cliché. Well, maybe I haven't
seen as many movies in the hip hop coming of age genre, but the only
movie I recall being remotely close to this one was 8 Mile (which I
liked btw). Anyways, I saw the movie and I really don't think it was
that cliché. The dialog is definitely original, the characters are
original, the location is original, and there is a lot of depth within
the character of DJay, the pimp trying to become a rapper. I thought
the acting in the movie was excellent and I am glad that there is a
wide release movie out this summer that isn't a sequel and didn't cost
$200 million to make. This movie is bound to do very well, it only cost
$3 million to make and it is a pretty good movie. The only problems I
had with this movie were with some of the logic and character
motivation. I don't think the movie explained very well WHY DJay (the
pimp) wanted to become a rapper all of a sudden. They make the entire
music making process seem like a piece of cake, but hey it is a movie
and there are ultimately time constraints. I thought DJ Qualls was
gonna be just a really lame piece of comic relief, but he actually adds
depth to the film. I found Hustle & Flow to be very enjoyable and much
more memorable than Batman Begins (which I saw last night!). This movie
is definitely worth seeing this summer.
<|_=00=_|>
A very good film. I have noted criticism that the film slips into
formula in its second half; true. But the situation is so bleak for
these characters, I doubt that American audiences would have accepted a
more believable ending; and, after all, there were far worse "happy"
endings that it avoids.

The gritty staging, the solid no-frills camera-work and editing, and
some really excellent performances make this well worth the effort to
confront dishonest characters struggling to find some sort of integrity
in their efforts to survive and succeed. These characters are not
likable - none of them are, they each have a tic that denies them total
sympathy from the audience. But they are all very human for that, and
so ultimately win our respect if not approval.

Among the actors, two performances especially shine. Terrence Howard as
DJay shows timing and expression worthy of much older, more "schooled"
actors. Anthony Anderson is a real and pleasant surprise; stuck in
character roles for the past decade, Anderson has become a real
annoyance to me, as the usual character he plays is really excessive, a
caricature. In this role, he is allowed to just act, and he delivers a
wholly believable multifaceted performance.

Hollywood has been producing such bad films that saying this film is
among the best released this year may not be saying much (there are
real and undeniable weaknesses to the film). Nonetheless, on the whole,
the film is a commendable and rewarding effort to present a drama
involving human beings living close to real life, and not cartoons. I
credit that effort, and recommend a viewing.
