
I could tell from the trailers that if you were not a committed Will
Ferrell fan, or stoned out of your mind, that this movie would probably
be trashed by the experts. You either find his absurd comedy funny or
find it a senseless insult to your intelligence. For me, there were a
couple times when I really laughed out loud (and I was sober as a
judge), most of the time I simply had a smile on my face as I watched
the master make a complete fool of himself - which is what Will Ferrell
does. I read some of these in-depth critiques in utter amazement. I
mean, really, what were you expecting to see? It is a very light
hearted spoof of one of the most ridiculous TV series in history.
Generally, I thought it was funny, we've been repeating some of the
funnier, albeit, totally ridiculous scenes all day. I do strongly
caution parents with children. When Will Ferrell says PG-13 he isn't
kidding. Sexual innuendo and drug references are going to be quite
uncomfortable for the prudish crowd.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is definitely better then most of the reviews on this page
have been saying. From reading the comments it seems like it is mostly
due to parents bringing their kids to see a movie including an actor
from movies such as Old School and Anchorman and getting mad when they
see crude humor. If you like Will Ferrell you will like most jokes in
this movie, it is very funny and in my opinion close to The Hangover.
This movie is not supposed to be taken seriously and as long as you
don't try to compare it to the original show and go along with it you
will laugh. Go in with an open mind and don't listen to the critics
this movie is for sure worth checking out.
<|_=00=_|>
I have just watched 'Land of the Lost' and i was curious to find out
what everyone else thought about it. As i was expecting to see a
family, comedy film i was pleasantly surprised that it was not just
your ordinary clichéd family movie but something aimed for a slightly
older audience. This maybe why it was so poorly received.

Looking at trailers and TV spots, this movie did really look like just
another pointless summer blockbuster, which may have appealed to all
you people looking for something family friendly. But for me i was so
thrilled to be watching something that is just plain FUN! That's all it
is! just fun, fun, fun!

You people that have posted nothing but negative comments about this
title don't know a great movie if it slapped you in the face. so relax
a little, sit back again and realise that your watching another
fantastic movie from will ferrell, and lets face it: when has will
ferrell released a movie for families? (excluding ELF)

Just stop your complaining and enjoy a non-stop, exciting,
unpredictable movie that has everything you could ask for. and even
more---- what do you really expect from a movie based on a TV show
created by someone who practically lived off acid? Three words to sum
up this movie: trippy, adventurous and fun!
<|_=00=_|>
Many reviews for this will have you thinking this film is terrible, i'm
baffled as to why this is the case. The fact of the matter is that this
film is fun and well made. 

To get some negatives out of the way first, its definitely got a few
obnoxious crude jokes. It also could have been a bit funnier at times.
But overall it definitely put me in a good mood, especially because I'm
a huge Will Ferrell and Danny McBride fan. I love how Wll Ferrell can
deliver such ridiculous lines of dialogue with a straight face. 

Despite being a major Hollywood film, I felt like this film had heart
to it and didn't really feel hollow. I know I had already touched on
this before but I just don't think all the hate on this movie is
justified. It's coherent from beginning to end, all the lines are
delivered well and it's very goofy. Not to mention the cgi isn't half
bad as well.

Overall it's definitely a fun movie with a few small flaws. Ignore all
the hate and go into this with an open mind, not expecting it to be
quite like the old TV show, and you'll probably enjoy yourself.
<|_=00=_|>
First I must state that I am NO fan of Will Ferrell. Outside of his SNL
days of doing a dead-on spoof of Bush, Ferrell hasn't made a movie that
I wanted to see. After reading these reviews I was even more set on
avoiding it. However, I decided to suffer thru it for my sis's
birthday. To my surprise, we laughed quite a lot at the sweet goofiness
of this movie. I agree that they could have cut out the useless mature
sights and words that left the kids out because it would have appealed
to them. We particularly loved the scenes between Farrell and the
obviously more intelligent Dino. Danny McBride was sweetly silly too.
The female actress was okay as eye candy for the guys. All the
criticism on this site is for people who place stock on what others
have to say. Happy to say, we avoided these critics. By the way, if you
hated the movie so much, why spend so much of your time to write such
long-winded diatribes??? Seems to me these are people who need to feel
a sense of importance that they don't have. Oh well, the movie goer
should always make up their own minds. We did, and I'm happy to say it
turned out well. We really laughed!! And my sister is not one to laugh
easily. I just wish they wouldn't show so much of the sight gags in the
commercials for the movie. But don't let that keep you away. There's
more context for the funny parts in the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I cannot believe after watching this film that it is rated 5.5 or less,
so I start reading the reviews and I find ratings of
1/10...seriously...why can't people give this film a realistic rating.
OK if you thought the film was bad give it a low rating, but 1/10??
there are numbers in between 1 and 10. I thought Love Actually was one
of the worst films I ever saw but I would give it at least a 3. All I'm
asking for is abit of consistency take a look at another film I really
hated - Crank high voltage 2 rated above 6 how are these scores
accurate?? you're telling me that crank is funnier than this film...I
can't accept this, so here I am I've signed up at IMDb because of the
unfair ratings this film is getting.

Anyway about this film I thought it was kind of similar to hitchhikers
guide to the galaxy but not really aimed towards kids both in my
opinion were great films.

Key point to this rant**if you do not like sci-fi comedy don't watch
this film** even more important if you disregard my last comment Do Not
then go on IMDb and then think oh I don't like this film so I will vote
it 1/10 because I didn't know there are any other numbers apart from 1
and 10.

I read another review about how this film had no plot...are plots key
to comedies?? uh no. Also this person stated his kids found it boring,
is this a kids film?? not really. One more thing there are quite a few
saying this film was not very intelligent...have you watched crank 2??
if you expected to watch a film with an intelligent plot and intricate
story lines watch death note this may satisfy thirst but then again it
probably won't. Because how people can say this is for people with low
IQ and then these people will go on watch things like crank 2, quantum
of solice with require even less intelligence than this film.
<|_=00=_|>
"Land of the Lost" is another in a long line of old TV shows lazily
packaged into summer movies, too dumbed-down for fans of the original
show and nothing all that memorable for those younger viewers coming
into it for the first time. There is no doubt it will join the class
("Bewitched"-which Will Ferrell also was in, "Dukes of Hazard" and
"Wild Wild West") of films so bad that they make "The Brady Bunch
Movie" look like the "Ben-Hur" of the genre. There is just zero reason
to care about anything in this movie. Will Ferrell, you should have
known better. 

Ferrell plays Dr. Rick Marshall, a paleontologist disgraced by what
others call his nonsensical theories about space-time vortexes. The
only one who cares to believe him is Holly Cantrell (Anna Friel), a
research assistant from one of those fancy British universities who
encourages him to keep working on his tachyon thingie-majigger, a
device that finds tachyon particles that somehow allow people to jump
between worlds. They find the most amount of the stuff in a crappy
little souvenir shop run by a redneck named Will (Danny McBride), and
before they know it Marshall, Holly, and Will are traveling back to
another dimension that's all desert. The place is complete with T-Rex,
creepy-crawly bugs, a bunch of things from our world littered about
like a stretch limo, Bobs Big Boy and Golden Gate Bridge, and a primate
named Chaka (Jorma Taccone) who befriends them and helps them navigate
their way back to their dimension. 

What needs to get lost is the screenplay by Chris Henchy and Dennis
McNicholas. When Matt Lauer, playing himself, is the funniest thing in
a movie, you know that something went horribly wrong. The laughs are
childishly inane. Ferrell is forced to embarrass himself considerably,
in one scene drenching himself in, and yes, even drinking dinosaur
urine. Dino poop and gross insect infections also get high regard. Then
you have Chaka, a supposedly lovable primate who's big comic bit is
molestation. Hilarious! And this is the big-laugh stuff. The rest is
hard to even remember. That this movie manages any chuckles at all is
due to Ferrell and McBride's improvisation abilities. Ferrell is the
arrogant goof-off and McBride the brash sidekick, but they're facing an
uphill battle with this screenplay.

And the plotwait, what plot? And what character development for that
matter? It's all very basic, aimless, and easy to follow, except you'll
be too bored to do so. Characters run around like idiots, dinosaurs and
insects chase after them, not much happens. And when not being chased,
the aimlessness doesn't stop, it just gets more persistent. A scene
where Marshall, Will, and Chaka sit around in a stupor getting high off
of some coconut drink (yes, this is a family movie) is unbelievably
drawn out, unnecessary, and above all, pointless. Finally in the third
act the Slestaks, reptilian villains bent on world domination, start to
put their plan into effect but even then it's too little, too late to
care. The special effects are cheesy. I'm assuming that was the plan
cause the show was the exact same way but what you can see at home for
free and what your willing to pay for are two different things. A
dinosaur against an obvious green screen isn't much fun and little
green reptilian men in obvious costumes and masks that barely move,
other than to open and close their mouths, are hard to take seriously. 

"Land of the Lost" is just lost, misguided in every way, starting with
even deciding to make the movie in the first place. It deserves to be
shunned and left to be the summer's first big box-office bomb. Ferrell,
McBride, and Matt Lauer are the only things that keep it from being
horribly unwatchable but not from being one of the very worst of the
summer and the year thus far.
<|_=00=_|>
I really enjoyed this movie; I think it might be the best Ferrell movie
I've seen in a while. Yes it's goofy and silly, but I think a lot of
the negative reviewers here are people who were fans of the original
and are judging thru the haze of nostalgia. The original was every bit
as goofy and ridiculous, it's just that this movie has the good sense
to acknowledge it. And yes, it may not be appropriate for very young
viewers as there is some sexual innuendo and cursing, but it does have
a PG-13 rating so I don't know why you would be dragging young children
to it anyways...

'Land of the Lost' starts with a quirky and oddly arrogant scientist,
played by Ferrell, claiming to Matt Lauer on 'Today' that we can solve
our energy problems by tapping into inter-dimensional blah blah blah.
Of course, no one believes him but a beautiful student from England
(Friel) who convinces him to build his whatsit to open the portal to
other dimensions. And of course they soon find themselves trapped in
what appears to be a large dumping ground for inter-dimensional portals
along with a yokel (McBride). From there it's just a journey across
this strange land to find their way back home.

I realize I'm glossing over a lot of details here but you really don't
need to know them. The whole point is to get a kick out of the satire
and broad physical shtick as they encounter the bizarre inhabitants of
this world and react to them. If you don't get too hung up on the logic
of it all and just roll with the jokes, I think it's quite good. And
Ferrell, who I have often disliked in previous works because of his
tendency to gnaw on the scenery, was reserved enough to deliver a good
number of very funny scenes.

In short, don't go to this expecting a children's film, a summer action
flick, or something akin to the original. And, as with almost all
Ferrell movies, don't go if you don't like physical humor. But do go if
you are looking for a pleasant hour or two of goofy gags and simple
fun.
<|_=00=_|>
This was a great movie.The visuals were superb! My girlfriend and I are
both big fans of the original 1974 series and we had a fun time. We
went into the theater having heard all the negative reviews, expecting
a horrible film. Glad we ignored the critics. It doesn't deserve the
rap it's getting and if this is the movie Sid and Marty wanted then
that's fine with us. It's their creation and we enjoyed their take on
it. I can't help but think that a more serious treatment might have
been more pleasing to hard-core fans like us but a film has to span the
masses so we understand the direction they went. Now bring on the Sony
H.R. Pufnstuf movie!
<|_=00=_|>
What I hate about people is how they don't give Will Ferrell a chance.
He's a funny man. Granted not all his works are great, but neither were
all of Chris Farley's or Adam Sandler's.

"Land of the Lost" is worth the ticket price because it's funny,
random, most likely improvised and holds true throughout. Granted the
last half hour is a bit of a drag compared to the first hour, the movie
is still full of laughs and unbelievably original story-line.

Yes the costumes are weak in detail, and the whole interaction between
the humans and animals is far-fetched, but that's the whole point of
the comedy: it's supposed to make you laugh.

All those people expecting their 1970's TV show to be revived can get a
life. The movie is good, definitely makes a good rental, and I enjoyed
it.
