
There is a scene at the beginning of the film that seems to set the
tone of "Two for the Money". We watch as Walter Abrams is talking on
the phone with someone who will not be able to provide an elephant for
his daughter's birthday party. Walter barks to his assistant, "Get me
Ringling". When the call finally comes through, he demands to know
whether he is talking to Barnum or Bailey, which is a funny line.
Wasn't P.T. Barnum himself the man famous for that quotation about a
sucker being born every minute? 

Walter Abrams is a man who is in the sports betting business. He and
his associates stand to make millions out of the jerks they pursue to
do their betting with his firm. Having found a new rising star, Brandon
Lang, a man that knows a lot about the intricacies of point spreads and
picking winners. Walter wants to transforms him into a man who can
bring more money into his outfit.

In order to do that, Walter must groom him to "look" the part. As such,
Brandon becomes John Anthony, the man who can produce fabulous results
every week end during the football series. Brandon gets to meet the
insiders, but little does he know who he is dealing with, or much less,
what is expected of him. After all, he is just as good as the winners
he can produce.

The film, directed by D. J. Caruso, a man who has worked extensively in
television, has a glossy look. The screen play by Dan Gilroy could have
used some tighter editing, because at two hours it feels a bit long.

Al Pacino, as Walter, has some good moments; we have seen him in better
roles, and this one is a composite of other things he has done before.
Mr. Pacino compensates when the screen play is not going anywhere by
applying an intensity that doesn't go well with the others playing
opposite him. Matthew McConaughey is a light weight actor who, aside
from his good looks, doesn't bring anything to this story. Rene Russo
is obviously a tall woman who towers over Mr. Pacino in most of their
scenes together. Their relationship doesn't come across as being a real
thing. Jeremy Piven and Armand Assante make good contributions in
supporting the principals.

While "Two for the Money" is by no means a horrible film, it just
doesn't have anything new to say.
<|_=00=_|>
Mathew McConaughey is Brandon Lane, a former football star recruited by
Walter Abraham (Al Pacino), the head of a sports consulting firm to
help them set the line for their sports betting business. Lane's
ability to predict the outcome of games quickly turns him into a golden
boy, but it soon becomes apparent that he's bitten off more than he can
chew when his abilities start to falter.

Two for the Money is a forgettable, generic thriller that doesn't
really offer anything new. The film does have some entertaining moments
and the first half of the movie is actually pretty exciting to watch.
But, the second half is really slow and very tedious. It just drags on
and on and for no reason either. It could have been a nice 90 minute
movie but the story is stretched out into a two hour film. Luckily, Al
Pacino is in the movie and he keeps the film exciting. He gives a good,
over the top performance and he pretty much raises the film up to
mediocrity. Personally, sports betting isn't that interesting to me but
Al Pacino makes it interesting. He can turn a bad script into an okay
movie which is what he does with the film. Let's be honest, the script
is not very good and the direction is weak. It's so obvious where
things are going which is not surprising because this is the same guy
that made Taking Lives.

Al Pacino is playing mentor to Matthew McConaughey and their chemistry
together isn't very strong. McConaughey is a pretty weak actor and he
can't keep up with Pacino. The lead role should have gone to someone
else. Rene Russo is okay as Pacino's wife. She gives a decent
performance but she was a little too bland to truly stand out. Another
thing about the film that people may not like is that every character
is unlikable. It's hard to care for these characters because they are
either pretty mean or bland. It didn't really bother me because I
watched the film to be entertained and I did get some entertainment
value from the movie. In the end, if you like Al Pacino then you should
give the film a shot, if you don't then just skip it. Rating 6/10
<|_=00=_|>
Two for the Money is a decent, diverting picture. The material at times
seems a little beneath these fine actors, but the film ends up hitting
enough of the right notes to make it worth seeing.

Matthew McConaughey would seem a little out of his league on the same
screen with Al Pacino and Rene Russo. By the end of the film, you will
most likely feel that he's more than held his own, however. McConaughey
plays a former college football star who sees his chances of a
professional career destroyed by a serious injury. He quickly finds
himself picking college football games for a low-rent betting line.
With all of his past experience as a player, he does quite well with
it. Well enough to attract the attention of Al Pacino, who runs a more
up-scale operation in New York. By the end of the first half hour,
McConaughey is picking all kinds of football winners, and making Pacino
a ton of money. As you would expect, this success does not last very
long as various egos spiral out of control and the betting gods turn on
our heroes as they eventually do to all of us. The film is more of a
character study about the minds of gamblers and lost identity than it
is about the workings of an actual betting organization. Overall, it
works on a couple different levels.

Pacino is fine, but not as out of control as you might hope. His
character has a bad heart, so any typical Pacino tantrums are not
really in order for him. He brings as much dignity as one could to the
role of an addicted gambler, though. Rene Russo is terrific as his
long-suffering wife and a former junkie. Pacino at some points seems to
be trying to lose her to McConaughey. He being one of those terribly
afflicted gamblers who only feels alive when he's just lost everything
he wagered. The supporting cast is pretty good, too. Jeremy Piven is
always appreciated, and so is the appearance by Armand Assante.

The best scene in the film takes place at a betting support group
meeting that Pacino and his new protégé walk in on. Pacino, being a
hopeless gambler himself shows empathy toward these degenerates, then
has the nerve to pass out his business card to them!!! The logic I
guess being that if you people have to lose, you might as well do it
through a fellow degenerate gambler.

The biggest flaw I noticed was too many shots of McConaughey without
his shirt on. Yes, the guy has great abs, but we don't need to see so
much of them!! Overall this is a good film with some interesting things
to say about people who bet. Notice how in the end, the "experts" are
really just like the guys they take calls from. During the big games,
we're all just sitting there with a beer in our hand, hanging by every
first down or dropped ball.

7 of 10 stars.

The Hound.
<|_=00=_|>
TWO FOR THE MONEY takes on the topic of Sports Gambling and makes a
serious attempt to turn it into a movie. The story is apparently based
on a true one (as per the opening screen statement) but it is from the
pen of Dan Gilroy that the well-drawn characters are realized. DJ
Caruso (Smallville, The Salton Sea, The Shield) knows his way around
matters such as these and his pacing is fine, allowing for the isolated
'arias' in the film to work well. The problem, for this viewer, is the
topic: how interesting can bilking chronic gamblers over football game
wagers possibly be? The story is related by Brandon Long (Matthew
McConaughey) who begins life as a sports hero and just at the moment
when he is ready to break in to the Pro Football domain, he fractures
his leg in a winning touchdown. Six years later, and still dreaming of
making it as a player of football, finds him in the numbers game with a
talent for picking winning teams and calling 900 numbers to urge
gullible people t place bets according to his predictions. Enter Alter
Abrams (Al Pacino), a recovering Gambler who is making it big in the
sports gambling arena. He coerces Brandon to join him in New York,
wines him, dines him with the aid of his smart and beautiful wife Toni
(Rene Russo), and in no time Brandon Long takes on the persona of John
Anthony and makes it big as a TV personality who successfully bilks
willing gambling people out of their money. Long as Anthony takes on a
life of his own and it is the conflagration between the creator Abrams
and the protégé Anthony that fleshes out the film.

Interesting to a point, the story loses steam in the last half and we
soon lose interest in the outcome or the characters. And not that that
is the fault of the actors! Al Pacino is very effective as the reformed
gambler still fighting demons and Rene Russo is as beautiful as ever,
acting her role with complete conviction and holding what is left of
the story, once started, together. Matthew McConaughey spends much of
the movie without his shirt on which is a major contribution to the
visuals of the film! Buff and beautiful he manages to keep the heart of
Brandon Long beating inside the persona of John Anthony.

Not a great movie by any means, but some truly fine acting from the
trio of stars. The supporting cast also gives solid roles despite the
skimpy script. If gambling of any sort, and sports gambling in
particular, is of interest to you, then this is a movie to recommend.
Otherwise see it for the actors, not the story. Grady Harp
<|_=00=_|>
Al Pacino carries this film all by himself.

I can't think of a way that this could have been made without Pacino.
Sure, Matthew McConaughey and Rene Russo gave convincing performances,
but Pacino makes you feel sorry for the miserable, empty shell of a man
he is.

The plot was amazingly intricate and well carried, but (once again)
without Pacino it would not have been delivered nearly as well. I think
that they should have found a way to include a small explanation as to
how sports betting works, so the fans who came in just to see Pacino
would be able to understand how it works. Also, at times the movie just
dragged on and on and on...

I still think that Al Pacino is that movie. Pacino really extends
himself the way he always does to keep the movie alive and moving. His
character was one of the most miserable men I have ever seen, and while
i hated him, I still identified a small part of myself with him, and
that is the sign of a truly great actor.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
Matthew McConaughey is Brandon Lang, a former college football star who
devastated his knee and was never able to play professionally. Six
years later he's recording "sports predictions" for a 1-900 number in
Las Vegas and living with his mom and younger brother, still dreaming
of playing professional football one day. He never hears from the
Cowboys, but he does get a call from Walter Abrams (the Godfather
himself, Al Pacino), an entrepreneur who runs his own sports betting
business, inviting him to move to New York and work for him.

Though Brandon Lang is the hero of the story, Walter Abrams is the
beating heart of Two For The Money. He's a recovered gambling addict
who runs his own empire of "sports betting advisers." No other film has
ever explored the psyche of the gambling addict so precisely and
intimately. Abrams describes what it feels like to win, but even more
fascinatingly, he discusses the addict's subconscious desire to loose
it all. Gambling addicts don't bury themselves in debt because they're
sure they can win. They do it because they need to loose everything to
feel alive.

Two For The Money is better than I expected. The characters are rich
and complex and the story is never dull. Hell, this movie is worth
seeing for the topless McConaughey shots alone.
<|_=00=_|>
In Vegas, after breaking the knee in a game, the former promising
football player Brandon Lang (Matthew McConaughey) has to work in a
phone service foreseeing the results of the games due to the lack of
professional options. After many successful predictions, he is invited
by Walter Abrams (Al Pacino) to move to Manhattan and work with him in
his gambling advising business. Brandon changes his name and
personality, becomes famous advising clients and close to Walter's
family, and a good friend of his wife, the owner of a hairdresser
saloon Toni Morrow (Rene Russo). When the predictions of Brandon fail,
he feels that it is time to return home.

"Two for the Money" is a good entertainment, mainly because it is based
on a true story, inclusive in the DVD there is an interview of the
screenplay writer with the real Brandon. The story partially discloses
an illegal business that deals with billions of dollars, and keeps the
interest until the end, without being exceptional or unforgettable. Al
Pacino, Matthew McConaughey and Rene Russo make this film worth. My
vote is six.

Title (Brazil): "Tudo Por Dinheiro" ("All for Money")
<|_=00=_|>
This film is not as bad as many say, its a decent film about sports
betting. I give the director credit for keeping it interesting as this
film could have potentially been a bore. However there were some
problems with the script, mainly the last act which was not logical.
The acting and smart direction from Caruso save this project. Although
it isn't a terribly convincing film, Pacinos performance allows is to
not be a total disappointment. McConaughey was good as well, casted
well in his role. Jeremy Piven was great in his supporting role, but
Armand Assante was bad, boy does he not know how to perform lines and
be convincing while doing it. Most of my problems with this film was
Dan Gilroys screenplay which although at times smart, and entertaining,
all in all not concise and consistent. 7/10
<|_=00=_|>
Networks can't talk about it. The government can't tax it. Yet sports
betting is a $200 billion a year business. A business that strives to
exploit every vulnerability, manipulate every gullibility, and convince
the client that it can provide them certainty in an uncertain world.

Two for the Money is the story of one man's journey into the sports
gambling world. Matthew McConaughey delivers one of his more impressive
performances as he transforms from Brandon Lang, the smooth-talking
golden boy, into John Anthony - "The Million Dollar Man with the
Billion Dollar Plan." A transformation that comes complete with a new
suit, a new car, a new attitude, and slicked back hair - a sure-fire
movie sign that corruption or a loss of innocence is imminent.

Portraying a character that must deal with this corruption of
innocence, McConaughey demonstrates that he can act with more than just
his dimples and down-home Southern charm. Lang is a machine. He knows
the teams, the leagues, the players, the game. All he does is work out
and pick winners, two facts made abundantly clear by McConaughey's
propensity to walk around shirtless just as often as he makes football
picks. I may have rolled my eyes once or twice, but I heard nary a
complaint from the ladies in the audience. Except for that one that
looked a little like my Uncle Larry.

Lang's corruption rests solely on the fragile shoulders of Walter
Abrams, a sleazy character played so effortlessly by Al Pacino that you
can't help but feel slightly disturbed by the ease with which he seems
capable of tainting ambitious young men. Screaming less than usual,
Pacino's portrayal is nothing short of an indictment of those sports
advisors who feed on the weak. Sports gambling may be illegal in 46
states, but Abrams is well aware that "sports advising" (the
politically correct preference, no doubt) is not. Despite the false
promise of certainty, sports advising is presented as more used car
salesmanship than mathematical study. Figure out your client's needs,
and get his money. That's the name of the game. As for actually picking
a winner? It's 50-50. A flip of the coin.

Sure, Lang is able to compile a pretty impressive hot streak, but what
happens when it comes to a crashing halt? The peaks are indeed very
high when the fun and money are flowing, but is it worth the lesson
learned when your family is threatened and you're hit with the
realization of what losing $380,000 can do to a family? 

Ultimately, the movie would have proved more effective if there had
been a greater emphasis on the devastation of the lows of losing.
Consequences are touched but never fully realized. I would have also
liked less predictability in a movie about a very unpredictable
lifestyle, but Two for the Money still succeeds in giving the audience
a glimpse of what gets in the minds of those willing to gamble. Is it
about the game? Is it about the money? Or, as Abrams believes, is it
about the risk some people are willing to take to feel what they
perceive as being alive?

The dialogue and character interaction happen at a quick enough pace to
grab and seal your attention, and while the last act is somewhat
weighed down by the two-hour runtime and the semi-sappy melodrama of
plans gone awry, Money still manages to convince the audience to care
about whether or not Brandon can get back to where he began - the
purity of the game.

You want certainty in an uncertain world? Then put your money on
obligatory shirtless Matthew McConaughey scenes and Pacino's incisors
getting a nice scene-chewing workout. It's a safer bet than trusting
your money with the decision-making of those who care more about the
profit than they do about you.

THE GIST 

Two for the Money will prove to be most enjoyable to those with some
familiarity or interest with sports and the gambling side of the
business. But McConaughey and Pacino deliver enough laughs and energy
to make this more accessible to those with little knowledge of the
subject matter. If you have your doubts about this one then don't worry
about spending the big bucks to see it on the big screen - it'll make
for a good rental.
<|_=00=_|>
I went into watching "Two For The Money" cold- had not read anything
about. I enjoyed it! Pacino had some hilarious dialogue. I kept on
laughing throughout the movie at his witticisms. I read some other
postings, yes, Russo was towering over Pacino as his wife. I would take
this that Pacino was secure in his life and could handle having a tall
woman walk with him. We all know Russo was a fashion model in real
life. Many short, powerful men want a woman like that. As to another
posting, yes Matt M. was a light-weight, but boy did he give beefcake
appeal! I liked his shirtless scenes. Who cares if the boy can act??
Then shock of shocks, one of my 70's favorite actors popped up- -Armand
Assante! I was so happy to see him! I wish he had more screen time.
Seeing three of the four actors/actresses as big names, I was happy
overall with the movie. The running time flew by for me.
