
I saw "Stay Alive" tonight, and I was surprised to come home and read
reviews discounting it as stupid or pointless.

Actually, I think that the plot was fairly substantial and well thought
out for a horror movie--especially a PG-13 one. Granted, it probably
would have been better as an R version, but there's always a chance for
an unrated DVD. This movie made me think AND scared me, which is a
combination hard to find. The time line is fairly stable and simple to
follow--except parts of the end--which makes for an enjoyable
experience. Without worrying about when things are happening, you are
free to instead concentrate on WHY they are happening.

I really liked the video game plot--it was entertaining enough just to
watch the gamers get so into it! Everything is interconnected, so it
kept me interested enough to look past the "jumpy" parts to the
underlying meanings and symbolism.

The characters were fairly dynamic and complex, and the acting was much
better than I expected. I actually FELT for them, an element often
missing from horror films. The procession of events may have been
slightly predictable at times, but the characters remained real and
believable throughout. I was happy to see that everything wasn't
discarded simply in the name of gore.

The lighting was surprisingly good for this genre--every scene was
well-lit and easy to make out what was happening. The colors were
perfect to set the mood, and the cinematography was on the better side
of average: no complaints here.

Overall, although the ending was a bit of a let-down, I believe this is
worth seeing if you like horror movies that also make you THINK--it's
not all about scares. I'm also a novice gamer, so I might have
appreciated it more than a non-gamer--I don't know.

In conclusion--it's worth a shot.
<|_=00=_|>
For what it is, this movie rocks! I know it's silly and predictable and
even just plain-out awful, but it is ENTERTAINING, and yeah, I had fun
laughing at it. Also, Some of it was creepy, but in a very formulaic
way. Very fun. You should see it if you want a silly horror movie that
doesn't completely suck. The countess was weird-looking, and that was
somewhat purposeful because she's a VIDEO-GAME CHARACTER. Malcolm in
the Middle was in it -- too bad, I thought that kid was actually good.
The house itself is pretty creepy, and the game, if it does or will
exist, would be very fun to play. C'Mon! You can't hate it for being
bad, it even makes fun of itself! It is really a good hour and a half
of...something. Something okay in my book.
<|_=00=_|>
STAY ALIVE Rated PG-13 for horror violence, disturbing images,
language, brief sexual and drug content. Directed By: William Brent
Bell Starring: Jon Foster, Frankie Muniz, Samaire Armstrong, and Sophia
Bush Runtime: 85 minutes

TO MAKE A LONG STORY SHORT

7 out of 10. Not very scary, but it is enjoyable.

THE LONG VERSION

OK. I was not expecting much from this flik from the get-go. Script
although more original than most of the crap movies to come out lately,
was still nothing ground breaking. And, having a relatively unknown
director on the project wasn't giving this film any better buzz. Then
the trailer was released, which made this movie look even worse. So
today I see a matinée for this film with a friend of mine, and I'm
surprised to find myself watching a genuinely interesting film.

Is it scary? Not really. There's a few boo scares thrown around, but
none of them really work. I like during some of the creepy scenes how
silent it was, but it never really paid off properly. 

Is it at least suspenseful? Yes. It is, in fact, very suspenseful.
There are some really cool chase scenes, and some pretty decent "what
was that!?" moments. 

Is it gory? No. The pictures were, as most suspected, quick shots in
the film, and you barely saw any of it. This was, of course, to keep
this flik pg13. That's annoying, but whatever, I could get over it
rather quickly.

Editing, Directing, etc. was all pretty solid, nothing shocking, but
nothing horrible either. 

And now, to the part most people are probably interested in: How was
the video game sequences? Awesome. This is by far the best part of the
movie. When it goes into the video game, it gets really cool. The
beginning shines best in this particular style the movie goes for. With
some creepy "Samara" like ghosts crawling around, and plenty of
stabbing, the video game sequences are the scariest and goriest parts
of the flik. These are the scenes that truly shine.

So what else can I say? It's an enjoyable flik that floats in
mediocrity until the video game sequences. Thats when it shines. Which
makes this a 7 rather than a 6 out of 10.

All in all: Not very scary, but suspenseful. A pretty solid film that
can entertain you, but there will definitely be haters. I say lean back
and enjoy a decent rental (when it's released on DVD that is) It will
be worth the 6-8 bucks you pay for it.
<|_=00=_|>
Stay Alive is a new game in which you have to stay alive or suffer the
consequences in real life, it's a pretty cool concept and one that
could have been executed way better than it actually was.

Surprisingly the film is far less cheesy than i figured it would be,
the cast are quite convincing, albeit as pretty shallow characters and
the direction, editing and general production are adequate enough. What
let it down was the way it sets out the rules and then picks which ones
it will follow depending on what stage the story was at, contriving
every step of the way to make it fit.

It was mildly entertaining to watch and there is a decent sense of
tension throughout, although the scares were all a bit cheap and
clichéd, and it definitely didn't need the twist at the end, i hope
it's not a setup for a sequel.

5/10
<|_=00=_|>
One of the most fun movies I have had the pleasure of watching this
year! But then again, i am a regular movie junkie. The plot line was
very gripping and intense. The story behind the countess was just
downright spooky and the graphics were amazing! I loved the fact that
the game looked so much like all those other horror games out there,
like clock tower 3 or sirens.

The only reason I am giving this movie a 7 and not a higher ranking is
that there were a bunch of unanswered questions, like 'who exactly made
the game and for what reason?' and the most annoying unanswered
question 'why did the characters die even before they died in the
game?' Otherwise it is very VERY entertaining! I'll think twice before
playing a horror genre game!!! ^_^
<|_=00=_|>
A group of teenagers discover a bootleg video game, but once they start
playing it, they each start dying just like they do in the video game.
As they become addicted to the game, they need to find a way to beat
the game's central villain, The Blood Countess, before she kills them
all.

The premise does sound a little stupid and familiar but this film could
have still been mildly entertaining. However, this "horror" movie is
not scary at all. It's actually more of a comedy than anything else.
The film takes itself way too seriously and the movie is not a lot of
fun to watch. Sure, there is the occasional laugh but for the most
part, the film is very dull. PG-13 horror films can still be good like
The Ring or Cry Wolf. The Ring and Stay Alive aren't really the same
type of horror film though. Stay Alive is more of a slasher movie and
since its rated PG-13, the death scenes are very tame. It should have
been the movie's main sell and since it had an interesting concept the
deaths could have been really good. Unfortunately, the studio wanted a
bigger audience and the film had to be altered.

The acting is a complete joke and most of the cast give awful
performances. Jon Foster is not a very good leading man. He lacks
charisma to really engage the audience or for the audience to care
about him. His character isn't unlikable just very bland. Samaire
Armstrong actually gives an okay performance though a little too bland
to truly stick out. Frankie Muniz probably gives the best performance
in Stay Alive. That's an honor on the level of being the best player on
the Houston Texans. Sophia Bush is absolutely terrible as October. Her
performance feels so rushed and so fake. The most annoying character in
the movie is Phineas played by Jimmi Simpson. His character is so
unlikable you will be rooting for him to die.

In fact, most of the characters are pretty unlikable so that makes it
even harder to become interested in the film. It's just hard to feel
sorry for some of these annoying kids and it's a lot more fun to watch
if you want the characters to actually survive. The only real good
thing about the movie is the atmosphere. It's a little old but it still
kind of works. The film is also really short so it's not too much of a
pain to sit through. I wouldn't really blame the cast though because
they were working with an inexperience director and writer. The
direction is not very good and the screenplay isn't much better. Stay
Alive is actually not the worst horror film of 2006. That honor would
go to When a Stranger Calls. Stay Alive is still a missed opportunity
though. In the end, this cheesy and lame horror film is better left on
the shelf. Rating 4/10.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, I actually just saw the movie today and I gotta say: it's not too
bad. Yeah, it's not that scary and while the script in and of itself is
mildly (very mildly) original, the dialogue and the reactions of the
gamers remains hopelessly cliché. That is the world of horror,
unfortunately. So, why do I like this movie? Because I didn't go to get
scared (obviously, the movie is PG-13), I didn't go to critique it,
though I guess that's what I'm doing now. I went to get a good hour and
a half of entertainment. And, boy, was I entertained.

Let's start with the premise of the movie. A group of attractive
20-something gamers find this new, underground video game called "Stay
Alive" where the objective is the title. Despite the fact that the main
character's friend died shortly after playing it, the gamers decide to
give it a go. They find the effects creepy and fulfilling, but the fun
ends there when one of their group, the main character's boss, dies in
exactly the same way as his avatar in the game. It just escalates from
there. Now, I'm a big fan of games with an interesting plot, so if this
were a game, I would totally play it.

A lot of people were complaining about the CG effects. I liked them. It
was supposed to look like a video game. I realize the normal route was
to have these characters look real when they step off the computer
screen, but I thought it looked so much cooler when it seemed like the
game itself was killing you. Some of it seemed far too reminiscent of
Japanese horror, but considering that's the trend these days, I let it
go. Overall, I loved the fact that the demon children and the crazy
Countess looked exactly like the game until the very end.

The characters themselves were fun. You had the goth chick, but what I
liked about her was that she wasn't the stereotypical "I'm creepy and
dark and depressed" chick that always seems to grace these movies. Then
there was her brother, whom I was alternating between laughing at and
wanting to hit. The main character, Hutch, I believe, was cute enough
that I didn't really care whether or not he was cool. Swink, played by
Frankie Muniz, was utterly adorable. The only one that I didn't get was
the blonde, Abigail. Why the hell was she there? To create suspense, to
be another love interest for Hutch? I really wanted her to be evil.
That would have made so much sense in the long run. I mean, she shows
up at Loomis' funeral and suddenly becomes buddies with Hutch and then
later his new girlfriend after the goth chick dies. That entire
relationship I could have done without. I would have absolutely LOVED
it if she turned out to be some psycho obsessed with the game or
something. But, whatever. She was decent, too.

The only part of the movie that I didn't like, which always drives me
nuts, is the fact that they never mention why and how the game was
created. The company, apparently, was the plantation itself, but who
made it? The Countess? That doesn't make sense to me. I get the idea of
mixing an old ghost story with today's technology. I find that
fascinating. But how does a Civil War-era ghost come up with the idea
of making a video game to further her evil purpose and then manage to
go through with it? Also, how did she manage to distribute it after she
was supposedly destroyed? If there is one thing that can tie a movie
together for me, it's a good backstory.

Other than that, I found the movie enjoyable and I would definitely
watch it again when it comes on TV. If you're looking for hardcore
horror, look elsewhere. But if you want some fun with a great ghost
story, then definitely watch this. If anything, you can have fun with
rooting for who dies next.
<|_=00=_|>
After seeing the movie, I was freaked out to even go down to my
basement in fear that I may see "The Bloody Countess". I was truly
freaked out by this movie. The whole storyline of the video game tied
in very well. Made it almost believable. The next day I checked the
movie out online to find that this was based on the REAL bloody
countess, Elizabeth Bathory. I found it quite interesting the life this
woman led. That people (NOBLE PEOPLE) can get away with things like
this. The depths she would go to, to stay youthful and the harm she put
on to so many girls. I would recommend this to anyone to enjoys a heart
stopper and to encourage them to check out the real story behind this
woman. Quite graphic and gross to be truthful but interesting at the
same time.
<|_=00=_|>
I haven't laughed so much in a theater in years. The only problem is
that it was not the intent of the movie to make my throat raw from
laughter.

This movie is absolutely overflowing with bad CGI, absolutely terrible
duologue, absolutely terrible *acting*, and enough geek references to
make the whole thing come off as nothing but complete cheese.

As a gamer and a geek-type girl myself, I did recognize all of the
obvious game references in this movie as well as the geek STUFF that
was just thrown into the background as eye candy (the Steamboy poster,
the t-shirts from thinkgeek.com and j-list.com), and that didn't redeem
the movie at all.

The only thing that might have been good at ALL were the ghost children
type characters that were purposefully badly done in CGI to make it
look like they were from a game, and who were OBVIOUSLY stolen from
Japanese horror movies.

To be honest, it was hilariously bad, and something I'd expect from a
midnight showing of a made-for-TV b grade Sci-Fi channel movie. Don't
expect more than that and you'll have a great time. Just don't get a
soda or you'll spit it everywhere when you get great lines like: "Why
did you bring that game into our lives?! WHY?!"
<|_=00=_|>
As a major horror game fan i loved the fact that this film included
references to my favourites "fatal frame" (project zero over here in
blighty!) and silent hill... so what if there's a couple of holes in
the story? that just makes it even closer to a horror game! how many of
you who have actually played silent hill or fatal frame can honestly
say it made perfect sense? It just added to my enjoyment of the film,
and pointing out similarities in the film from the games made me feel
like a big fat nerd :0) but a happily entertained nerd! I liked that it
wasn't a slash-em up gross out like the majority of horror films are
now, and that the story was based on an actual legend (the story of
Elizabeth Bathory, not the characters in the film). Overall, impressed,
would recommend it, but not to wusses who get nightmares easily :0D
