
I'm not gonna lie to ya, i wasn't looking forward to final destination
3.Just seeing a roller coaster full of screaming people on the poster
made me roll my eyes and assume that this franchise has run out of
steam .

So you can imagine my surprise to find that final destination 3 is a
entertaining , funny and shocking thriller that proves that horror
sequels can be pretty darn good if handled properly .

Directed by james wong with style and a pace that hits the ground
running ,the film is very much like a roller coaster in its self -
fast,packed full of laughs and most importantly full of frights .

The film is essentially a remake of the first film only with a
different cast, gorier deaths and a higher level of self awareness.But
this is a rare case in which copying the original isn't a bad thing- it
keeps that sense of inventiveness and wit that made the first one
great. It may be a clone , but its a very good one !

Final destination 3 is gory ,homourous and clever fun that will make me
think twice about my horror sequel prejudice....
<|_=00=_|>
I've always been a huge fan of the Final Destination series, mainly
because it got me to look at the world in a whole new light. Granted, a
slightly paranoid light, but a new light all the same. Any film capable
of doing this deserves some recognition! The first and second were 2
gory, brash and trashy films, and didn't attempt to pretend they
weren't, and the third followed the same route.

The plot in itself was pretty thin, and the characters were really just
people on a hit list, no strong characterisation, but then, it wasn't
needed! This is a no brainer snuff movie and it rocks. Some gratuitous
amounts of gore, and a little nudity here and there and you have the
perfect film to waste away the boredom welling up inside you after
sitting through Harry Potter. The actors all do fine jobs, and the
special effects are pretty much top-notch (when they're not CGI) and
the pace just moves along nicely.

The 2 major bad points are : The CGI - It was pretty noticeable, and it
did take away some of the magic of the Roller-coaster scene,in my
opinion anyway, and secondly, it was way too short and there weren't
enough deaths in it! That sounds a little demented, I know, but I
actually found myself yearning for just a little more... but no.
Excellent ending though, it surprised me, I have to say.

A good strong film altogether, a perfect date movie, but you'll never
EVER look at a Tanning Bed (or a picture for that matter) the same way
again.

GO SEE IT!
<|_=00=_|>
Poor Death. The guy can't seem to catch a break. He's got a job to do,
and now for a third time he's being kept from doing it. What's worse is
he's being foiled by a bunch of high school kids! That can't be good
for the ego. Within that context you can't really blame the guy for
trying to finish the job. Heck, if I were Death I'd totally relish
taking some of these brats out. Particularly the guy who calls himself
Frankie Cheeks. Sheesh, if that guy were any more annoying then his
name would most likely be Chris Kattan.

Anyway, this is a movie that's very easy to review. Did you like the
first two entries in the "Final Destination" franchise? Do you like to
watch irritating characters meet unseemly demises? If so then you'll
love it. If not then save your money. I don't want to hear any
complaining.

Personally, I morbidly enjoyed it. The movie starts off with a
cringe-inducing roller coaster disaster, one that will likely make you
think twice about setting foot in an amusement park again, and it
rarely slows down for a breather. The filmmakers set out to ensure that
the viewer, like a child at Neverland Ranch, is never at ease, and that
goal is accomplished as each scene leaves the viewer nervously
anticipating who is going to die next.

Yeah, yeah, Wendy and Kevin are desperately trying to save their peers
from Death's cruel hand, but come on. We all know somebody's head is
about to be turned into ground beef or somebody will be on the
receiving end of a dismemberment soon. We wait ... wait ... wait ...
and then BAM! Gory kill. I should probably feel guilty for laughing out
loud at some of these fatalities, but since these are silly little
characters that didn't die in real life I've decided not to let it
weigh on my conscience.

A new element to the franchise is that clues are being left as to how
the characters will die. Using her nifty digital camera, Wendy was busy
taking pictures for the yearbook on that fateful night. After the
accident, she begins examining the pictures and realizes that she has
taken at least one picture of each survivor. A little more studying
reveals that she might be able to use the photos to help the characters
escape Death. Is this a case of Death playing a sadistic game with
Wendy and Kevin, or is there some sort of benevolent life force that's
trying to help them save their friends? The filmmakers leave it up to
the viewer to decide.

This is a nice touch that keeps the viewer actively involved in the
cinematic proceedings. It gives us the chance to try to interpret the
clues and guess who might be Death's next victim and how they'll be
violently killed. Perhaps that's not exactly an activity you want to
participate in so keep it in mind before laying your money down.

One thing that really gauges whether a movie connects with its target
audience is the crowd's reaction, and I have to say that "Final
Destination 3" got the loudest, most involved reaction I've witnessed
in quite a while. While the deaths were being thrown at us fast and
hard, the audience was oohing and ahhing with every single one. During
one particularly brutal scene a girl behind me let out a high-pitched
shriek so loud that I had to turn around and make sure Chris Tucker
hadn't wandered into the theater.

No one goes to see a "Final Destination" movie with the expectation of
great acting and high brow art. They just want to be scared or freaked
out. Love it or hate it, there's no denying that "Final Destination 3"
at least forces you to have an opinion about it. It'll make you cringe,
it'll make you turn your head in disgust, but at least it's original
and creative enough to make you feel something other than absolute
boredom like some other so-called horror movies out there
COUGHwhenastrangercallsHACK.

If just one person decides not to ride a roller coaster the next time
they're at an amusement park then the filmmakers have done their job.
<|_=00=_|>
Once you've seen Final Destination there's not much more of the story
to tell, or twist, or reveal. All three films could actually be
compiled together to make one long film, in other words, the story is
told and the scene is set in part one, the two that follow just get
more creative with how messy, bloody, and bazaar each person is
slaughtered. And thats why I love these films.

Final Destination 3 is really no different than the two before it,
except the creepy bald morgue guy who seemed to have a fetish for death
does not make an appearance in this one. There's not much to say, if I
told you how each person were sliced, diced, smashed, crushed,
impaled...you get the point, then I would be revealing the only reason
any of us purchased a ticket. There is no denying those who seen this
one in theaters were there just to see how bad death could be dealt.
Let me tell ya, "There's some really sick and twisted ways these people
die." Anyway, for those who enjoy gross and disturbing this one is
worth checking out. Enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>
I'd just have to say that this movie was a grand slam. OK so it wasn't
all that good, but its good enough to hold your attention. If you have
seen the 1st 2, the 3rd is a charm. It just makes you wonder how can
you beat death this time. There is much more action and effects in this
one. It is guaranteed to make you jump out your seat. For all you
people out there who can't hold their stomach, this movie is NOT for
you. The way it ended, I don't think there will be another one. Movies
don't have a 4 or 5 do they? Unless you are Wes Craven. LOL! This is
one of the coolest trilogies that are out there,besides Scream. I give
this movie a thumbs up without a doubt.
<|_=00=_|>
I was pleasantly surprised by the 3rd installment of the FINAL
DESTINATION series! The worst part of the movie is the beginning and
the whole roller-coaster accident, the CGI was so obvious and not real
good. The first death scene was lacking any imagination and not
particularly gory so it was a let down, but after that it took it up a
couple notches and really won me over!! Let's face the facts we go see
these types of movies for the gore factor! These types of movies aren't
scary so the gore better be good and this one was! If you go in
expecting great gore below average acting and a so-so story line then
you won't be disappointed! I loved it for what it is supposed to be! I
would recommend seeing it, buying it and showing it to your friends if
you are all fans of this genre!!!
<|_=00=_|>
I am a Final Destination fan, and could not wait till this movie came
out, and it was NOT a let down. Excellent scenes, excellent storyline,
and new and unusual ways to die makes this an excellent addition to the
first two. I gave this a 9 star rating because I felt they could have
focused a little more on the premonition side of the story, (it was
made so important in the first two), and I almost expected to see our
two survivors from the 2nd movie in this one, **I think that would have
been a great addition**, on the other hand, I was extremely pleased and
say it is definitely a must see for any Final Destination fan, or
anyone who enjoys a great trilogy that keeps you on the edge of your
seat waiting to see what might happen next!!
<|_=00=_|>
To be honest, I hadn't expected too much from "Final Destination 3" as
the 2nd installment disappointed me. While the 1st part was refreshing
and suspenseful, the following one was repetitive and went over the
top. What about "Final Destination 3"? It's a some kind of combination
of two previous installments. In the film seriousness coexists with
comedy, while the latter is more frequent than the first. Comedy, most
of all, stems from characters with very low IQ. One of them shouts with
superiority something like "death will never defeat me" and then dies
in most ridiculous way. Thus, the film is intentionally laughable at
times. What's more, the flick abounds with awesome deaths and these
quality gore scenes are probably the biggest virtues of this horror
movie. Besides, the script is rather superficial and repetitive. I only
liked an idea of photos depicting how victims will die. That's it.
Other feature ideas were taken from previous parts. To sum up, this
flick is worth watching especially with your mates.
<|_=00=_|>
I just got back from the sneak preview screening. I went into the movie
not expecting much of a sequel. For some reason the trailer made it
seem to be kinda cheesy. However, i could not have been more wrong. As
soon as the roller coaster crash occurs its intense all the way to the
end. It just seemed like the deaths kept coming and coming non stop.
The deaths i thought were very creative and many came to be a surprise.
The ending i thought was great and surprising. The acting in the movie
i thought was better then in any of the other films. The only complaint
i had was that it was only 90 minutes long. Anyone that is even
considering seeing this go see it as soon as you can. You will not be
disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
Just got back from the world premiere of Final Destination 3 at the
Grauman's Chinese Theatre in Hollywood and I must say that this film
was surprisingly good. Definitely one of the gorier films that I have
seen in quite some time, but very well put together and quite
suspenseful. In fact, about half way through the film (during one
particularly gory scene) about five audience members had to excuse
themselves from the theatre. I have not seen either of the first two
movies but was still able to enjoy this film so I'm sure I missed out
on soem references that would have likely enhanced the experience.
Still, I was quite pleased (especially because I expected the movie to
be stupid) that Final Destination 3 was enjoyable for those who were
not familiar with the original story. I also had the opportunity to
speak with director James Wong to congratulate him a job well-done. He
seems like a very nice guy.
