
I walked into "Crank" with low expectations, as I do with many films.
The previews made it look like it had a clever story, but I was worried
that with Jason Statham playing lead, I might just get a re-hash of his
"Transporter" films.

I got a pleasant surprise. From the very beginning, the film moves. And
moves damn fast. Not in an obnoxious way either. In the first minutes
of the film we are set up with a possible story of corruption between
hit men, a botched job, and the set-up for the whole movie-- Statham's
Chev Chelios being fatally poisoned with a Chinese-made serum that
slows his heart rate, and will eventually literally make his heart
stop, killing him. The only solution-- get the adrenaline pumping and
keep his heart rate up! The whole movie is like one long action
sequence, with pauses for story elements. This is the common thing now
in films, but in other movies, it generally doesn't work so well. But,
with the premise of "Crank" being the need for speed (Literally), the
idea of all-action, little-plot actually works. And works well.

However, don't be mistaken, there is genuine plot in the film. Clever
stories about the pasts and workings of crime-lords and their cronies,
and how they all relate to Chelios. Some of it went over my head
because of the constant action, but I was able to understand everything
enough to enjoy the film.

The direction and editing is something I want to talk about briefly
before I wrap this up. For a film like this, one would expect flashy
camera work and crazy fast cutting, but I must say, the director/writer
and the editor went beyond the call of duty. The film is shot as though
the cameraman himself was the one who was poisoned, with the camera
flashing and moving around nearly constantly, only settling during the
slow scenes. Quite a genius use of camera-work to emulate the story.
And the editing certainly adds a lot to the already excellent camera
work. We get cutting when necessary and when not necessary, to further
illustrate the needs of the main character.

Overall, I would say "Crank" was the coolest movie I've seen in the
last several years, leaps and bounds beyond the standard Hollywood
action flick. I would recommend to any action-fan or adrenaline junkie,
because take it from me, this film is the ultimate rush!
<|_=00=_|>
Back in the 1990s British action star Gary Daniels was at the height of
his fame. Headlining a string of bland, stunt filled features for PM
Entertainment (the B Simpson/Bruckheimer). In 1996 he starred in RAGE,
a non-stop action movie with a very "high concept" premise. Injected
with a deadly drug an ordinary man becomes a one man army. Hunting down
the bad guys, on the run from the cops and trying to get his normal
life back - the film was stunt filled madness. 10 years later we have
CRANK which is essentially a rehash. Albeit a big budget, MTV-style
version. Our hero is still a Brit, the location is once again Los
Angeles, but there are gangster movie connotations, wild visuals and a
tongue-in-cheek tone (you cannot take the name Chev Chelios seriously
and I don't think you're supposed to) which makes this a lively,
engaging ride which knocks Daniels' effort for six. The similarities
between the two cannot be ignored but this is clearly the superior of
the two. RAGE was the prototype, but CRANK takes it to the limit with
set-pieces and jokes as silly as they are inventive. In addition there
are connotations to films such as Tony Scott's MAN ON FIRE and DOMINO
and Brit gangster movies such as Mike Hodges' GET CARTER and Guy
Ritchie's LOCK, STOCK and TWO SMOKING BARRELS which add to the thrills
and keep us entertained. Much more restrained than CGI-filled, action
pantomime that was TRANSPORTER 2, CRANK is Statham's best star vehicle
yet. He's a pure physical presence with a maniacal glint in his eyes.
There are no Corey Yeun-style martial arts scenes but it doesn't
matter. The film is OTT but somehow grounded. The action is rough,
fierce. Statham's character is a relentless one man army in classic
tradition. Young guys and longtime action movie fans are going to love
this for its sheer vigour. With creativity in the genre previously
limited to new twists on chases and fight scenes, it's a real pleasure
to see films such as CRANK, ONG-BAK and BANLIEUE 13 (District 13)
emerging. Not to be taken too seriously, Crank is one of the best
popcorn movies of 2006.
<|_=00=_|>
If ever a movie was made to get one's heart pumping, Crank is it. It
takes a marginally believable and undeniably awesome premise, adds one
of the brightest up-and-coming action stars around, stirs in some new
ingredients that the genre hasn't really seen before, and bakes until
the final product rises beyond all expectations. The catch phrase "a
thrill a minute" doesn't really go the distance to describe how
ridiculously action packed this film is. A thrill every ten to fifteen
seconds is more like it. First time directors Mark Nedveldine and Brian
Taylor relentlessly bash you over the head with the action hammer.
Their cinematography is manic and the style is reminiscent of that used
by Tony Scott in Domino. It fits the pace of the film quite well.

Jason Statham delivers to audiences the only thing he knows how to
deliver, and that is pure, distilled ass kicking. That is his job, and
he is very, very good at it. Make no mistake, the film is very strongly
'R' rated. There is a bounty of flesh, and a strong smattering of
violence, and drug use. Don't be thrown off by Amy Smart's name on the
poster. Even though she does a fine job as Statham's on screen
girlfriend Eve, hers (and every other) part takes a deliberate and
distant backseat to Statham's charismatic portrayal of hit-man Chev
Chelios. He also manages to wind more than a few threads of pretty
solid humor into the performance. All in all, its Statham's most
impressive job in a leading role yet.

In a nutshell the plot revolves around Chev Chelios, poisoned by his
employer after a hit went sour with a synthetic Chinese compound that
blocks his adrenaline receptors. The only way for him to stay alive is
to get pumped up and stay pumped up. Anything he can get his hands on
to raise his adrenaline is fair game, from drugs to energy drinks to
raunchy public sex and more as he tears a path of carnage and mayhem
through the streets of L.A. in search of the man who tried to kill him.

Crank is everything you could feasibly ask it to be and more. The
filmmakers take an iffy premise, work their magic (read 'good casting
and direction') on it, and produce reel after reel of pure adrenaline
on film. It packs over the top action in with incredible stunts, clever
and biting humor, a decent story and some above average acting. It's
one of the most entertaining films of the year and may well be a career
highlight for Statham. It's one of those films that you'll definitely
want to go see with a bunch of the guys. What it lacks in depth, it
makes up for in pure fun and distilled manliness. A high 8 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
Fast. Hyper. Action-packed. Drug-induced. Insane. Crank is all these
things, and extremely entertaining too. No doubt a movie made just for
the guys, it's filled with guns, car chases, sex, random humor, nudity,
Amy Smart, Pedro from Napolean Dynamite, sex, nudity, etc. The only
thing missing were some hand-to-hand fight scenes that would have made
this movie complete. Instead, we do get a nice confrontation where one
person is armed with a butcher's knife... but I shan't spoil that one.

But yes, this is a live-action video game on the big-screen. Google
Maps zooms into the next location Chev visits and on screen text gives
you its name ala a video game's "next level" sequence. Chev's
girlfriend thinks he is a video game programmer. The opening titles for
"CRANK" are shown in the blocky, pixellated style of a 1980's Atari
game. Chev is just trying to get to the boss at the end of the game.

And a tip for those of you yet to see it- STAY THROUGH THE CREDITS. It
reinforces everything I just said.
<|_=00=_|>
Crank was... Great. It's was what you hope it might be: Cool, fast, and
Jason Statham kicking butt (and Rated R - It's great to hear Statham be
able to go off). It was also much funnier than I expected, and once I
figured out the tone I was in for the ride. I should've figured out the
tone when the movie started with an 80's classic song from Quiet Riot.
Or when the director and writer spoke before the movie and thanked
"Jesus" and then said something like, "Hold onto your seats, it's going
to be f-ckin great." This movie will probably be considered a cult
classic soon. But it could be a huge box office success too. So, here's
my story: I was invited to the Cast screening. My friend worked on the
crew of Crank, and I got a call Monday morning to go (after another
friend had to cancel - I'm always last to get the call, but glad I did
TD - So don't worry). I loved Snatch, and I was probably more excited
to see Jason Statham in the flesh, than to see the movie. Well, I was
simply surprised. Jason was phenomenal. The movie was weird, really
good weird. The action never stopped, and right when you were cringing
from a needle, or something gruesome, you would be hit with something
hilarious. It's was a great blend of action and humor. The writer
obviously wrote this tongue in cheek. It was like he was making fun of
other films. At least I think so. The movie was subtitled in a couple
of random places and I found myself keeled over laughing when the Cab
Driver was subtitled. The action really stood out. It was very violent,
and at times very real. The bad guy, Verone, also stood out. And I
think Amy Smart did a good job playing naive. The movie starts with a
bang, and I was surprised that the bang held up to the final scene in
the movie, which I think was simply great. My heart is still racing a
bit, two days later. Yes, it's that's good.
<|_=00=_|>
This is my first review and I've been reluctant to write one because I
don't really think anyone will read it... but here it goes.

Crank is fun, really fun. In the way of Snatch and Lock, Stock, and Two
Smoking Barrels (kind of) it's got its violence and action tossed into
a mountain of humor. The writers (and directors) took these three
things, tossed them into a movie blender, put the blender on puree, and
came out with this movie.

The directors (and writers) did some visually awesome things with this
film. People on the other side of phone calls appear on walls,
rear-view mirrors, and other things. Random words from a person's
dialogue appear on screen along with their part of speech in
parenthesis afterwards (ep-i-neph-rine (n), man). This visual style I
have declared... accidytrip-o-vision.

Other movies with accidytrip-o-vision: Easy Rider and A Scanner Darkly.

In conclusion, Crank is an action-filled, blood encrusted, comedy
haywire, accidytrip-o-vision, adrenaline-pumping achievement.

Kudos to Statham and the rest of the team for the new bible of popcorn
flicks.
<|_=00=_|>
I love action movies, but they have to be intelligent. No "The Mummy"
or "The Fast and the Furious" for me. Crank nails it in every way.

It's hard enough to pull together a film with a lot of stunts. Then top
that by making it non-stop action throughout. Then top that by having
an intelligent plot that keeps you thinking and characters whose
motivations and decisions make sense. Then top that by adding in some
humor that doesn't blow the seriousness of the movie but adds some
charm and -- listen up, Jet Li -- originality to the stunts.

But then, pump it up with cinematography that (unlike The Bourne
Identity, which didn't work for me) makes the whole thing even more
original and adds to the drama instead of being puffery. Then add Amy
Smart, yum. Despite the fast pace, there is actually real chemistry
with her as the love interest.

Every action movie lover should go out and see this film immediately.
It is everything that Snakes on a Plane, which is cheesy and bad, and I
don't mean good-bad, is not.

Who should see this movie:

-- Action movie fans, you might not want to bring your SO, it's pretty
hardcore with the gore and violence

-- Enraged assassins with 2 hours to live I'll give "Crank" a 9 out of
10, the only missing point being that there's no real depth to the
drama, it's strictly "just for the action".
<|_=00=_|>
This is like a roller coaster of a movie . It's fast paced , have a lot
of surprises , it's not a politically correct movie . The movie
received 3 stars from the movie critic in the Spain's movie magazine
Fotogramas. I think that is a fair review, this movie is good and avoid
many of the common places in action movies and in many cases go against
it .Some of the dialog you hear here you've never heard it in another
movie , cause the situations are so unique .Jason Stantham is amazing
in the lead character , even giving some comedy moments .This movie
don't deserve a direct to video release , but even if in some countries
are released direct to video , go and watch it.
<|_=00=_|>
I thought this movie had it all. Action, humor, and a little bit of
sexiness. I thought that they could have gone a different way for the
ending, but it was still a unique idea.

One of the main reasons for my approval, was the fact that this movie
was different. It's not something that you see all the time in
traditional "I have to claim revenge for what the bad guys did to me"
type of film. I really liked the action sequences, I thought that this
movie was choreographed really well. I didn't find any glaring
weaknesses in the film, but the overall storyline was a little lacking. 

Jason Statham is an amazing actor (not just in this film specifically).
He can do much more that play the action hero like in the Transporter
movies, and this one as well. I really liked his performance in SNATCH.
I thought that his character in SNATCH was really made for him, and
that nobody else could have pulled it off. I'd like to see him in
movies like that more often.

One more thing that I'd like to add, is that the new "Hitman
Codname:47" movie that's coming out would have been a really good role
for Statham instead of Vin Diesel. Just a thought

- Ziad
