
I remember fondly, Henry Fonda and Raymond Massey as Lincolns in "Young
Mr.Lincoln" and "Abe Lincoln in Illinois" They gave remarkable
performances. But, here and now in this extraordinary Steven
Spielberg/Tony Kushner version, the illusion is complete. I was
watching the president and not for a moment thought of the actor. That
in itself is close to unique. I left the theater with the feeling I've
just had an out of body experience. Everything around the central
performance - and I call it a performance because I don't know what
else to call it - falls into place in a miraculous way. The
photography, the production design, the wardrobe made it possible to
actually smell the period. Congratulations and thank you.
<|_=00=_|>
So what happened? 

1. The first problem with this film is the script. The writer Tony
Kushner is a Pulitzer winning theater writer, but other than "Munich"
he hasn't done any motion pictures. The long drawn out dialogue between
Lincoln's cabinet and the lengthy parliamentary congress sessions might
play well on Broadway, but they linger on screen. It wasn't just
Kushner's fault. Spielberg is one of the few directors who has final
cut on anything he does, so ultimately it's yet another vast
mis-judgment by the best known director and one of the wealthiest
filmmakers in the world. He's currently slated to direct Indiana Jones
5, so I guess that tells you where his judgment is. We're all waiting
patiently for him to retire with some dignity, but he's just Brett
Favre'n it all the way. 

It was a huge mistake for Dreamworks when deciding on the story, not to
include Lincoln's childhood, his struggle with schooling, the severe
poverty he faced growing up on the western frontier, and how he had to
teach himself how to be a lawyer, family roots, his political career,
and ultimately, his assassination. It's very clear from the beginning,
that this film is not about Lincoln's life, but a very specific part of
his presidency,(The Emancipation Proclamation). 

90 minutes of this 150 minute film was spent on the 13th Amendment. So
much so, that every single member of congress when voting, had their
own screen time to voice that vote. It should have been called,
"Emancipation" or "ep13", but not "Lincoln." Do not go into this movie
expecting to learn about Abraham Lincoln's life. You will be hugely
disappointed.

2. There was no sense of space. No aerial shots of Washington DC in the
1860s... no city shots showing how life was back then... just interior
scenes, a few battlefield scenes, and a few outdoor speeches. And this
coming from one of the greatest special effects pioneers of the medium-
lame.

3. No secret service. The Secret Service was created by President
Lincoln on April 14, 1865, the day of his assassination. Don't you
think that would be an interesting thing to showcase in a movie titled
"Lincoln?" One third of the US currency in circulation was counterfeit
at the time. There was no mention of it. And also, at no point did you
see ANY security around the president except for a few soldiers around
him in wide shots. It just made it seem even more like a filmmaker
trying to tell his own pretentious tale of history instead of what
really happened.

4. To much cabinet delegation and congress discussion; not enough
"Lincoln." Sure, the film made an attempt to show his affection for his
son Todd, and you did see some private moments with his wife Mary, but
it was all put there in a disingenuous way because the story wasn't
about his family. It was hammering the 13th Amendment down our throats
the whole film. Did the NAACP make this film? Lol. 

5. The cast was too big. There's over 120 speaking roles in this film.
120! That's insane. Daniel Day Lewis was dazzling- his eyes just
penetrated you, as usual. He projected the essence of Lincoln (at least
from what legend suggests) through an indirect manner that can only be
witnessed to understand. He will get the Oscar nomination for this, no
question. My prediction- he will win the best actor Academy Award.
Everyone else was very good, a few were great- Holbrook and Stratharin
especially. Sally Field was good, but not great- and Tommy Lee was his
old self- always brilliant, but never stretching beyond his usual.

6. The ending. Instead of showing the horror of what happened the night
of April 14, 1865, Spielberg decided to leave out the Ford Theater
altogether and instead show another theater during another play, in
which a man comes on stage and makes an announcement that Lincoln was
shot. Then Lincoln's youngest son Todd, who happens to be attending
this "other" play, looses it. And that's it. Not only do you have to
sit through 2.5 hours of boring film, but there is no pay off at the
end (because we KNEW this ending was coming). To show it like they did
was almost as tragic as the event itself. I'm not saying show the
bullet rip through his skull, but show us the event as it unfolded-
don't deny the audience of that emotion.

I understand not wanting to glorify Booth. I get that. But this is
history now. It happened almost 150 years ago. And Spielberg didn't
think twice to show civil war soldiers being brutally murdered in the
beginning of the film, why not show the murder at the end and
DE-mystify it for all of us? And if his argument is that this film
isn't about that, then why even show that part of his presidency at
all??? Why not end the film with Lincoln still living... insinuating
that his efforts and spirit still live on? This Jewish filmmaker can
make a film about Oscar Schindler and show atrocities of monumental
proportion... he can make a film called Saving Private Ryan and re
define brutality, but he can't show the death of our most beloved
President from Lincoln's perspective? - there may not have even been a
holocaust if Lincoln had survived. So Steven, please don't give me the
"we can't show that" line because you showed it a hundred times in
Schindler's list and you won an Oscar for it.

It saddens me a great deal to write this review. I never would have
dreamed that I would be giving Steven Spielberg's "Lincoln" a 2 out of
10. My advice: Watch this film for a clinic on acting and
cinematography- but wait for it on video. I might buy the DVD as a cure
for insomnia.
<|_=00=_|>
Daniel Day-Lewis is something of an unsung miracle; the man will come
out of nowhere, select an unlikely role, knock it out of the park, then
quietly crawl back into the ground for the next three or four years
before repeating the same process. He is an underrated talent most
likely due to his lack of a prolific career, somewhat like director
Terrence Malick. Here, Day-Lewis teams up with one of Hollywood's most
prolific men, Steven Spielberg, who is coming off a stellar 2011, where
he produced both Super 8 and Transformers: Dark of the Moon and
directed both The Adventures of Tintin and War Horse, two acclaimed
pictures.

Spielberg mans the camera in one of the most exhilarating biopics in
recent memory. Lincoln is a stunning humanization and coloring-book job
of American politics, shedding a light on the skepticism and grayness
of the government during that time. To simplify the story, Spielberg
chooses to focus on the political interworkings of our sixteenth
president's cabinet rather than the Civil War itself. It shows the
long, grating process of amending the United States' constitution for
the thirteenth time to abolish slavery and grant African Americans
equality, and how that more than one men stood at the center of the
action when the process was taking place, along with how he was
incorruptibly confident that ending the practice of slavery will lead
to ending the war.

While titled "Lincoln," we get several other characters with a fairly
surprising amount of screen time. Among them are Joseph Gordon-Levitt
playing Lincoln's oldest son, Robert Todd, Tommy Lee Jones playing
Thaddeus Stevens, the fiery Radical Republican leader who is strongly
passionate about abolitionism, Sally Field as the president's devoted
wife, Mary Todd, and David Strathairn as William Seward, the secretary
of state. It could also be said that at times Abraham Lincoln is not
writer Tony Kushner's (who also penned Spielberg's Munich, unseen by
me) prime focus, as much as it is the backroom deals of the 1865
congress and the political battles and obstacles each member faced when
their morals and ideology came forth in abolishing one of the most
inhumane acts ever allowed in the United States.

Daniel Day-Lewis is mesmerizing here, never overplaying or
shortchanging Lincoln in one of his most reliable roles yet. Here, he
seems much more cinematic than his previous works, and seems to be
smitten with Lincoln's character and persona as he embodies him for
one-hundred and fifty minutes. His voice is not stereotypically deep
manly, and guttural as many other works have made him out to be, but
reedy and poetically satisfying, boasting not much more than historical
records claim. Day-Lewis is only assisted by the wealth of invaluable
talent he is surrounded by, yet some of the most powerful work of his
career comes out when Lincoln is reciting stories or parables to a
group of bewildered, yet fascinated individuals who recall and cherish
every word the man is saying.

One requirement upon seeing Lincoln is you must commit to two and a
half hours of dialog and monologues from several characters about
several different topics. One challenge faced by the filmmakers that is
inherently difficult to overcome is the wealth of information, history,
and knowledge of the period, and we see the struggle they face at
attempting to sum it all up into a structured, disciplined film. I
could've seen this as an HBO ten to fifteen part miniseries,
elaborating on smaller characters, extending the work of the amendment,
and even showing Lincoln's impact on a still vulnerable United States.
But such an action may have proved too heavy for even history buffs.

With this film, there is a lot going on in terms of subtleties and
there is a plethora of weight that rests on the film's script that at
times makes this a challenging picture to watch. I'm reminded of my
recent adventure to see the Wachowski's Cloud Atlas, and how that film
was beautiful, striking, and increasingly ambitious, but also maddening
and occasionally tedious. I wouldn't so much call Lincoln maddening or
tedious as I would challenging to stay in-tuned with.

But that does not mean I couldn't see thousands of people emerging
pleased and delighted with the film they just saw. This is a richly
detailed and unsurprisingly intellectual picture that will go down as
one of the greatest cinematic endeavors to ever focus on American
politics. Kushner and Spielberg have gone on to make quite possibly the
best film we'll ever see about the passage of an amendment through
congress and the exhausting compromises and deals that go along with
the process. Finally, I must note Spielberg's top notch use of
subversive elements from Lincoln's voice, to the focus of the picture
from a narrative point of view, to the inevitable conclusion that still
leaves us impacted and shaken.

Starring: Daniel Day-Lewis, Sally Field, David Strathairn, Joseph
Gordon-Levitt, James Spader, Hal Holbrook, Tommy Lee Jones, and Jackie
Earle Haley. Directed by: Steven Spielberg.
<|_=00=_|>
It's seldom that I leave a movie knowing that I absolutely will go back
to a theater to see that movie again rather than wait for distribution.
As I walked out, I absolutely knew that I would be back. There are so
many amazing actors in this movie that I need to go back to fully
appreciate the story.

In my estimation, Spielberg's Lincoln will become the definitive movie
on Abraham Lincoln. Daniel Day Lewis absolutely disappeared into this
character and out gallumped Honest Abe - country lawyer, gifted orator
and a man born more fully suited to the desperate needs of a nation
than possibly any other man in history. This movie is not the shiny
myth, but a portrait of an amazing man who inspired, cajoled and even
bribed the Representatives of the People into representing ALL of the
people. 

If you go, and I hope that you do, go with ears ready to hear voices
speaking out to us from our violent past, telling us that we can be
better than we are, that some things should be done because they must
be done and that we can sometimes accomplish the impossible.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm prepared to admit at this point that Daniel Day Lewis has succeeded
to the title of most brilliant actor of his generation--and I do not
say that lightly. But when I consider what he has done here--imbued the
most sacred president in our history with such aching, gorgeous,
complex humanity--seemingly without conscious effort on his part--I say
give it to him.

His Lincoln is at once ordinary and divine, passionate and all too
earthy...and he inhabits the role so fully that not beyond the first
minute do you think to yourself that you are watching an actor and not
the man himself. I admit, at the first speech, I rather expected the
voice to be deeper and more commanding, but that wore off instantly,
and Spielberg to his credit gets every scene note-perfect. The scene
where soldiers on the field were quoting back to him the Gettysburg
Address was heartbreaking--The big guns, to be sure, but everyone in
the theater stopped breathing. Spielberg has the mood and light
fine-tuned to the point that when the characters are donning shawls
against the cold--this in the white house--you shiver. I can'think of a
single actor who was not up to snuff, but James Spader as a rascally
vote procurer stands out. Sally Field as the troubled Mary Todd Lincoln
is a sympathetic gem, and her portrayal should go a long way towards
explaining and perhaps inviting history's revision of that unhappy
woman. The film focuses most on the nuts and bolts of legislative and
presidential processes, and while that may be boring for some,it has
such a ring of authenticity and research that it had me scrambling for
the history books to check on things I hadn't known. This is the most
difficult of all subjects to film, a dense scholarly work translated to
popular culture, but it succeeds on all counts. See it, make your
children go with you. You won't regret it.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie examines Abraham Lincoln's (Daniel Day-Lewis) efforts to pass
the 13th Amendment in the last few months of his life. It is a detailed
account of his strategy and the negotiations of the members of his
cabinet, especially his Secretary of State, William Seward (David
Strathairn). 

The story deals with the minute details involved in making slavery
illegal; conversations between pompous politicians are endless and dry
and I found it boring. I would have preferred a biography of Lincoln's
life; the nonstop speechifying was tedious in the extreme. None of the
dialogue sounded spontaneous; each line sounded well-rehearsed with the
result that it looks like a filmed play.

Day-Lewis certainly looks the part, but his Lincoln isn't very
interesting or charismatic. His soft, high voice is particularly
unengaging. I expected his voice to sound like Gregory Peck as Atticus
Finch. 

For me, the movie was too long and a crashing bore.
<|_=00=_|>
Steven Spielberg visuals are excellent in movies and this one is no
exception. He does a wonderful job recreating the time period that
Lincoln was a part of. The difficulty I have is in believing some of
the dialogue and the revisionist history that takes place in this
movie. The opening scene is a bloody battle and it appears realistic.
Unfortunately the following scene has two black soldiers chatting with
Lincoln outside in a makeshift camp. He's sitting at a table while they
discuss their observations with him. Listening to them you'd think they
all grew up on the same block together. One soldier lectures Lincoln
and interrupts him during their conversation, while the other is
Lincolns best buddy. A soldier wouldn't ever talk to a president in
2012 in this manner. In 1865 if two black soldiers acted this way they
would have been immediately been put in irons. Blacks had to be
extremely deferential interacting with whites during that century
because the law looked the other way when they were murdered by whites.
The scene is ridiculous. 

Throughout the movie Spielberg emphasizes slavery as Lincolns
motivation for engaging with the South. Fact check: Lincoln goal was to
preserve the union. He did not remotely believe in equality of the
races. Like most whites at that time, he considered blacks inferior. He
stated that he would free some of the slaves, or all of the slaves, or
none of the slaves if it would preserve the union. The movie is sort of
a Disney version of Lincoln and loose on the facts.

This movie is over rated (probably because Spielberg is so powerful in
Hollywood) and if you know any civil war history you will be
disappointed. Lincoln, like all presidents, was a mixed bag. He
believed in that it was acceptable to pay $300 to buy your way out of
the war (the Irish didn't like that idea). Lincoln seriously considered
deporting blacks to central America or Africa after the war. There was
a great deal of corruption during his administration. Like most elites
he believed the war should be fought by others(he wouldn't allow his
son to put on a uniform until the war was over). Spielberg paints
Lincoln as a saint and it would have been better (and far more
realistic) if he had been portrayed a man with faults. The movie is a
disappointment, if you want real history, read a book. This movie is a
fable for children.
<|_=00=_|>
Just read some of the "bad" reviews & simply just don't get how you
can't like this GREAT MOVIE. Spielberg's "Lincoln" was AWESOME. The
Director was able to take you "Back In Time" when things were much
simpler & primitive, way back in the 1860's. And Daniel Day Lewis moved
me in this film like no other actor has ever done. Mr. Lewis'
performance was mesmerizing and spellbinding. He was "Abraham Lincoln."
His acting in this movie is definitely "Best Actor/Academy Award
Worthy.

"Lincoln" was not directed or produced with the main intention to
deliver an Action "Civil" War Movie concentrating on horrific action
battle scenes. If you want mainly entertaining action scenes then James
Bond & "Skyfall" should be your pick. I'm sure it is also an awesome
film. I want to see "Skyfall" also. But "Lincoln" was my first pick of
the holiday blockbuster season.

Stephen Spielberg, designed this Movie to specifically concentrate on
"The Man" Abraham Lincoln: Our 16th President of the United States. And
how Mr. Lincoln helped end the CIVIL WAR and at the same time Abolish
Slavery in our United States of America in the last few but Very
Important months of this Great Man's Life. Daniel Day-Lewis helped show
the truly human sides of Abraham Lincoln. 

I Admire and Honor Abraham Lincoln even more so after viewing this
Film.
<|_=00=_|>
Spoiler Alert - specific spoilers in here.

This is the most ridiculous movie I've watched in a long time. A wasted
effort.

I understand this is not an action movie - so why start with a war
scene straight out of Saving Private Ryan, play that for ten minutes
and then spend the rest of the movie exploring the political
machinations of Washington and trying to get around 20 votes to pass
slaving reforms. Spoiler alert, it was passed. Oh and right at the
start the two black soldiers were able to quote a previous Lincoln
speech word perfect, thanks Mr Spielberg, completely believable.. I'm
sure that really happened.

Daniel Day Lewis spends WAY too much time talking to the floor, there's
absolutely and completely no passion from him, he wanders off into
little stories that have little relevance to the topic and at one point
even one of the senators buggers off because he can't be arsed
listening to yet another boring story.

His son wants to join the Army and Lincoln does his level best to stop
him, even taking him to a hospital where he witnesses cartloads of
limbs being thrown into a pit but STILL the son signs up BUT Mrs
Lincoln completely illogically spends a entire scene berating Lincoln
for letting their son sign up - that scene was just put in there so she
could show her acting chops, it lost all of it's dramatic effect
because Lincoln DID try everything in his power to stop his son signing
up, no wonder he spends the entire time looking down and talking to the
floor, it's because he gets blamed for everything..

The amendment gets passed (hurrah!) but the reasons for each senator
changing from a no to a yes isn't fully explored, it seems almost
random, THEN it gets REALLY disjointed and amateurish - Lincoln gets
shot, Spielberg spends A LOT of time showing Lincoln leaving the house
for the last time and next scene it's some guy in the theater shouting
the Presidents been shot, next scene its a doctor declaring him dead at
home and then some fantasy sequence with Lincoln giving what I can only
imagine is meant to be a soaring speech to a large crowd but it was the
dullest speech in the whole movie and should have been moved to DVD
extras.

If it's not a Lincoln bio-op then why do the shooting, it was meant to
be about the 13th Amendment but why add 30 minutes extra about the
assassination. This movie was a wasted opportunity, a confused mess
which doesn't know what it wants to be, and just because DDL is in it
and it's about abolishing slavery everyone is applauding it but even
'Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter' was better than this pile of dog pooh
and that's saying something!
<|_=00=_|>
Lincoln (2012) 

A highly polished, restrained, important movie.

That doesn't make this an exciting movie. The acting is terrific, and
filming excellent (including a color saturation pulled back to give it
an old look without seeming affected). It is clearly expert in the way
we expect from Steven Spielberg above perhaps anyone, at least in the
mainstream conventional sense.

But there are two things that make this movie a must see. One is the
content. It's about one of the two or three most important things ever
to happen in this country--the fight to end slavery during the Civil
War. This is such powerful stuff it will make you weep. (If it doesn't,
you'll have to ask why.) It's laid out as clearly and emphatically as
possible while still keeping accurate.

The second thing is simply the overwhelming performance by Daniel
Day-Lewis. It is so good you forget it's a performance (unlike, for
example, his intensity in "There Will Be Blood" which stood out as a
work of acting above the movie). Here he is so woven into the fabric of
things he is indistinguishable from the historic truth, somehow. It's
really the magic of the transparency of movie-making of this kind.
Amazing performance.

It seems sacrilege to say this but the movie isn't perfect. Because of
its material--getting the anti-slavery amendment through Congress--it
involves a lot of talk, and a lot of people that you have to keep track
of. I think Spielberg did this as good as it could be done, so no
criticism there, but it does mean a lack of physical and even emotional
drama through much of the film. I don't mean it's dull, just that it's
conversational. I also found shreds of Spielberg's Frank Capra quality
of making the movies--and his subjects--a little simplified. He ties up
loose ends. He makes it all a fine package, very fine. Maybe too fine
for what I would call high art. At times.

I think we'll have an easier time judging it in six months, or six
years. Also the subject matter makes it almost unassailable, since
clearly most of us are all for the passing of any anti-slavery
legislation.

See this for all the reasons you have heard. Don't miss it. Maybe down
a coffee before you go, but see it no matter what. As I say, it's
important. It reminds you of greatness, and that's not something to
miss.

UPDATE over one year later: I see that I accepted a lot of decisions by
the writer and director as their prerogative, like focussing on one
issue and narrowing to a short period of time. I had no bones with the
scope of the movie. But in retrospect I see how the limitations of time
and scope and background also create a sense of mis-information. That
is, if you want a bigger picture of Lincoln, this movie is not quite
right. Its aggrandizement is also not unavoidable, like the somewhat
insipid (and yet moving) recital of the Gettysburg Address at the
beginning by soldiers. Overall, though, I stick to my main thought--see
it, and soak up what you can, without expecting perfection. Yes, see it
for what it is, nothing less.
