
In all its silliness and tongue-in-cheek disposition, the first
"Fantastic Four" movie wasn't really a landmark as far as comic book
films go. But it wasn't so bad either; it's just that after Marvel
Comics' recent domination of the film genre, it's natural for one to
expect that each of its characters having a shot at the big screen
would present something legitimately entertaining to the audience.
Something the first installment failed and the second struggled to
achieve.

In "Fantastic Four: Rise of the Silver Surfer," the four superheroes
are back once again to help everyone solve their gamut of problems.
Reed Richards aka Mr. Fantastic (Ioan Gruffudd) is about to wed Susan
Storm aka Invisible Woman (Jessica Alba). However, an unknown cosmic
entity is causing a screw-up in earth's natural phenomena, prompting
the couple to postpone the wedding, and work with Johnny Storm aka
Human Torch (Chris Evans) and Ben Grimm aka The thing (Michael Chiklis)
to find out the cause of the mysterious occurrence. They soon come face
to face with the Silver Surfer (Doug Jones, voiced by Laurence
Fishburne) and realize that the world's survival is hanging on the
balance. In addition to this, Victor Von Doom aka Dr. Doom (Julian
McMahon) returns and is intent on destroying the Fantastic Four.

Granted, "Rise of the Silver Surfer" has a greater scale than its
predecessor. But for all this, it's still very... middling. The title
and the trailers suggest something of a grand battle between the
eponymous characters but aside from the chase sequence involving the
Human Torch and the Silver Surfer (which, by the way, has been shown
numerous times in the teaser trailer), nothing much exciting still
happens. Not even the team's rescue attempt in London. The quality of
the special effects are inconsistent and all the visual polish
expectedly goes to the Silver Surfer. (And while I personally don't
think it's an issue, I imagine how some fans of the comic book might
sneer at how the characters of Silver Surfer and Galactus were
handled.) Instead, director Tim Story and screenwriters Don Payne and
Mark Frost opt to flesh out the characters more but the end result
feels less natural and more repetitive. Gruffudd does an okay job with
Mr. Fantastic but there's really no feeling of chemistry between him
and Alba, who manages to adequately portray a tough yet vulnerable
character. In contrast, Evans and Chiklis continue to generate an easy
rapport between them and the two get majority of the film's most
amusing moments.

"Rise of the Silver Surfer" barely does what it sets out to do. It
fares a little better than its predecessor with a more serviceable
story and a little more enjoyable action sequences. But taken on its
own terms, the film doesn't present anything to its characters that has
been done much better with other characters of their ilk. The movie is
entertaining to some extent but in the end, it doesn't really rise to
something special.
<|_=00=_|>
As a comics reader who knows the source material, FF2 left me with a
great deal of reservations. The ending in particular disappointed me.
The new superhero movies always let us down when it comes to the cosmic
part of the original stories.

Let me be clear: I am not a purist. I don't demand that the movies
should be slavishly faithful to the comics. It's fine by me that they
change the story, as long as what they put in there instead is just as
good. And this, of course, is the problem. In the X-Men movies, we
never see the alien Shi'ar, even though that's where the X-Men got
their super-science. In Spider-Man 3, we never saw the planet from the
Secret Wars storyline, where the alien symbiont, Venom, came from. And
now, in FF2, we don't get the huge back-story of Galactus. We don't
even get Galactus as a defined character. In the movie he's just some
sissy-ass cloud monster who, ridiculously, can be destroyed by his own
servant, the infinitely less powerful Silver Surfer. No way. Does not
compute.

Galactus, in the comics, is a force of nature. He can be stopped, and
sometimes even reasoned with, but he can't be destroyed. His fate is
tied in with the fate of the universe. If you like the science fiction
part of superhero comics, the ridiculously diluted "Galactus" of this
movie is a massive, massive letdown.

And unfortunately, there were a great deal of other problems with the
climax of FF2, especially this:

- The power swapping. That kind of thing does not happen in the comics
without a whole lot of proper explanation. Here: none. AND, after
seeing that whoever the Torch touches will swap powers with him, how
does it follow that he can just absorb all the powers of the other
three, who are then powerless? It doesn't. But they just casually know
that that's what will happen, and casually go ahead with it, making the
fight and climax equally casual.

- The Surfer's allegiance. When exactly does he switch? Surely not
before he sees Susan die (another stupid element - the comics Surfer
does not go around resurrecting the dead). And yet, Reed and the others
plan for him to stop Galactus even before Susan dies. Doesn't make
sense.

And that was just the climax. We also have other problems: Why is Doom
even in the movie? They tried to conflate several of the greatest FF
stories of all time, but stuffing these plots into this storyline just
makes it half-assed. There's none of the original impact here.

Another thing I wasn't too fond of was the comedy. It's okay to have a
few funny scenes, but in this movie they just went on and on playing
the powers for laughs. It detracts from the seriousness of the story;
ESPECIALLY a Galactus story, for cripes' sakes! So, I have to say this
movie was a big disappointment to me. I really liked the first one. I
rated it an 8. This one only rates a 3. Considering my great
expectations, this comes as nothing less than a cosmic letdown.

And to all those who claim that this sequel is better than the first
one: Shyeah. What do you know.
<|_=00=_|>
What is wrong here? You'd think the director and writer second time
around would get better right? Yea, you'd think but no such luck. Tim
Story directed this thing like a newbie while both writers could'not
seem to shake corny near senseless dribble. If I was Exec Prod, I'd be
one ticked off guy for spending more than 130 million on this. Hell,
for 10 million and real talent they could have done so much better.

I never felt taken away by this film in any way. No drama, sense of
danger or urgency, even from the actors. Like eating spicy buffalo
wings made of pink flavored bubble gum. Simply the whole film was a
paper tiger of itself.

The best about this film... Every scene with the Silver Surfer and the
magnetic Dr. Doom, Julian McMahon, whom was used far too less, made you
feel like you were took along for the ride. They're the only
charismatic, interesting and professional energies in this film.

Some effects, like in most fight, Surfer and earthly scenes were pretty
impressive. However in the corny, "oh, let me stretch over here to get
those papers" scenes, it looked like Barney Budget scale. And the
unfunny cliché after cliché was embarrassing and frustrating.

And what's up with Alba's distractingly fake colored Lil Kim contacts?
I mean, every time she was on screen, you'd have to fight being
distracted from what's going on.

Or Mr. Fantastics gray hair changing density and shape with most every
shot.

That the larger than life 'Thing' Ben Grimm is seemingly reduced to a
pint size butterball party favor.

The interaction and perception of our hero's with the general public is
tapered down like a cheap parlor trick leaving no sense of drama or
superiority.

Ioan Gruffudd's acting was wimpy and stylized by director Tim Story as
if he was in a day time soap opera.

Too bad the great possibilities for one of the best comic groups ever
thought of, were laid to rest on such an incompetent team that possibly
could have ruined it's chances forever.

I would have enjoyed myself better watching the animated series from
decades ago.
<|_=00=_|>
As difficult as it was, I decided to view 'Fantastic Four: Rise of the
Silver Surfer' as a film, not as a chance for redeeming a franchise. I
thought this method might take away any fan boy predilections I had, in
anticipation of this second installment to 'The Fantastic Four'
universe. So, for a moment let's forget that the first film was without
artistic merit. Let's forget that the story about a family of
superheroes is arguably the most adored of all comic book properties.

'Rise of the Silver Surfer', opens with a planet light-years away,
being obliterated. After the opening credits, we are on Earth getting
ready for Sue Storm and Reed Richards to tie the knot. During the
preparation, the scientist instead of concentrating on the details of
his impending nuptials is busy studying a cosmic anomaly. We soon find
out that this cosmic energy is in fact an alien on a surfboard zooming
down to Earth to prepare it for destruction. These two story lines are
the principle actions guiding the story. There are two other subplots.
One is in regards to Dr. Doom being 'resurrected,' while the other
involves Johnny Storm's selfish nature endangering his family.

Four plots that should make an epic film span a terribly short running
time of 1 hour and 30 minutes. Did it work? Did they abandon the goofy
nature of the first film and reinvigorate the franchise with an epic
story about the fate of the entire planet. No on both counts. The humor
is entirely aimed at children (which goes along with its PG rating.)
'Thing' is played for laughs without any degree of intensity. Johnny
Storm's crisis of conscience robs all of the charisma established in
the first (even if it wasn't much.) Sue Storm is more of a nag than an
asset to the team. In addition, there is nothing to signify Reed
Richards as the leader to a powerful team of superheroes. He comes off
as a self-esteem deprived, blow hard jackass. There isn't one iota of
chemistry between any of the characters. The wretched family dynamics
are trumped only by Dr. Doom, who can only be described as the worst
villain to ever grace the screen. Julian McMahon's portrayal of Victor
Von Doom seems barely suited for a Sci-Fi cable channel movie, let
alone a mega-budget studio film (not that they always choose the best
talent, but come on!).

For a story such as this, the amount of claustrophobia throughout,
borders on pure agony. It lacks anything even resembling 'scope of
vision.' The only audience 'Rise of the Silver Surfer' is suited for is
children between the ages of 5 & 10. Anyone over that age looking for
an entertaining piece of escapism will run into a wall of
condescension.

Now, let's look at it with comic-book eyes. As most may know, The
Silver Surfer works for a planet-devouring villain, Galactus. The
Surfer scouts out planets, using his board as a cosmic beacon for
Galactus to follow. There is no definition, no rules; they just make
them up as they go along. There is no Watcher, so we are told about
Galactus through an unbearably cheesy heart-to-heart with Sue and The
Surfer. There isn't a shred of genuine impending doom because they
never establish what Galactus really is (in the press kit, under
character description, it should just read-big damn tornado).

The director Tim Story and his band of screenwriters have once again
broken the hearts of FF fans all over. They have no respect. They have
no understanding on what makes the 'Fantastic Four' story work, or any
story for that matter. I gave Tim Story a break the first time around,
but not this time. He should'V looked back at the first one, compared
it to the comic book films that work and just said, "Damn! I gotta sit
this one out before I do it all over again!" However, he didn't do
that. He looked at the numbers from the first one and assumed that
money always equals success. Now as for the screenwriters; give them a
Cartoon Network show and let them have at it. If they have any talent,
it could be realized there.

However, FF2 wasn't a total failure. The Surfer is phenomenal (with the
exception being Lawrence Fishburne's distracting voice). His entire
body seemed to be in constant motion. I was mesmerized for every moment
he was on screen. The special effects team did an outstanding job.
However, what is perplexing about the look of the Surfer is what it did
to the other special effects. Reed's ability to stretch looked even
more unnatural than in the first. Sue's shield, Johnny's fire,
everything else was sidelined. It was as if the team only concentrated
on The Surfer.

I have been teetering on the edge of spoiling the end. I won't, but
damn I want to. Any self-respecting Silver Surfer fan would scream! It
is horrible. It makes no sense and it will enrage fans even more than
Alba being cast as Sue Storm. I will only say this-Hollywood Cop Out.

No doubt, this movie will make money. I was shocked by the public's
positive reaction to the first film. Audiences will be so dazzled by
the effects that they will forget that they are watching a terrible
movie.

I knew in my heart it would happen, but I had hoped our optimistic
nature would pay off. I was wrong. I won't make that mistake again, no
matter what the 'Fantastic Four' future may hold.

'Fantastic Four: Rise of the Silver Surfer' is a disrespectful, sleight
of hand circus show devoid of any elements that make a movie a movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I think it's safe to say that when it comes to special effects we have
no more expectations, they all nail it these days. This movie was no
exception, good graphics and pretty colors as another guy here said.
Unfortunately, the moment the special effects kicked in the world of
the movies, the good old script got a good kick in the nuts and can
barely stand now let alone hold a whole movie on it's feet. This movie
again, it's no exception. I have to admit, the plot was OK, the lines
good, there was humor, romance, action, a reasonable balance to
everything. Yet, I could not feel it taking me in; I remained a
spectator, while the short dialogs even though containing the essence
of the story, were still dry and well, short. No wonder the movie was a
mere 92 minutes. Conclusion, a good PG movie, a bit better than the
first one, but which still failed big time to impress, just like the
rest of this summer blockbusters.
<|_=00=_|>
Tim Story stays true to the roots of the 2005 film, keeping this sequel
fun and clean, while developing a new story with a couple new
characters and making our favorite 4 heroes grow even more. Fantastic
Four: Rise of the Silver Surfer is better than its predecessor, and one
of the better sequels of recent memory.

Things appear to be going great for the Fantastic Four. Reed (Ioan
Gruffudd) and Susan (Jessica Alba) are in love and ready to be married,
Johnny (Chris Evans) is still on fire with the ladies, and Ben (Michael
Chiklis) has finally found happiness with Alicia Masters (Kerry
Washington). However, their happiness will be tested when strange
occurrences around the globe point to one culprit: a mysterious being
known only as The Silver Surfer (Doug Jones and Laurence Fishburne).

One of the biggest improvements 'Rise' has over the first film is the
fact that the Fantastic work more as a team in this film. Yes, in the
first movie they fought together, but it seemed as if they each were
fighting different battles within one big one. Here, they take a
different route and take on even the smaller events together. Also, the
writing is much better, making Reed aka Mr. Fantastic out to be the
leader of the Four, much unlike the first movie, which bothered me.
Ioan Gruffudd really seems like a leader in this movie, which was a
definite strength. Chris Evans also flexes some acting muscle, as The
Human Torch is also well written this time around, giving him a wake up
call and turning him into a more believable human character this time
around. Alba and Chiklis are both good as The Invisible Woman and The
Thing respectively. Doug Jones and Laurence Fishburne portray the
Surfer brilliantly as body and voice respectively. Fishburne has this
incredible ability to say the deadliest of lines (All that you know is
at an end) with unbelievable ease and charismatic calm. He is the
perfect choice as the voice of one of the most powerful comic book
characters. I liked how they wrote the Surfer as well. He does become
vulnerable in the film, but at the same time, you'll have no doubt that
he is the most powerful character by the time the ending rolls around.
Doug Jones always impresses me with how he captures and creates a
character while doing so little, and after successful turns in Pan's
Labyrinth and Hellboy, Jones gives the Surfer life just as he did Abe
Sapien in Hellboy. Kerry Washington and Julian McMahon are also good
reprising their roles as Alicia Masters and Dr. Doom, McMahon
especially. He's even better as the evil and manipulative Dr. Doom this
time around.

Tim Story really did a good job with the atmosphere of 'Rise'. He
really explores every corner of the planet, with action scenes in
Germany, New York, China, outer space, and the heroes' kitchen. All the
action scenes are well done and the special effects are used smoothly
and effectively, even though it looks as though most of the increased
budget was spent on The Silver Surfer and Galactus, who look amazing.
They forgot to make Mr. Fantastic look as realistic as possible,
because most of the time you can see the visual effects. All in all,
Fantastic Four: Rise of the Silver Surfer (PG) is a fun movie
experience that anyone over age 11 or 12 should enjoy. There is some
mild sexual innuendo, but it's not too bad.

--spy 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
Like many other people, I was also thrilled upon watching the Fantastic
Four: Rise of the Silver Surfer trailer at the cinema. Similar to
numerous people who adore CGI, read the comic books when they were kids
and thought the first installment was decent enough to justify a
sequel, I was more than willing to get myself ready to be overwhelmed
by the mere strength of the eye candy and CGI effects within the film.
And then I watched it at a special press screening in Ramat Gan,
Israel. 

To make a long story short, FF2 is not a bad film. I was actually quite
entertained throughout wide parts of the film (particularly at the
beginning - but more on that later). Problem was, once I stepped out of
the theater, I couldn't actually recall anything specific or special
about what I have just seen (other than that cool CGI Silver Surfer,
that is). It was just so mediocre in terms of plot, direction and
acting (somebody really ought to give Jessica Alba some acting lessons
a.s.a.p), that I didn't even care enough to remember it. Furthermore,
while the original film required some suspension of disbelief, let's
just say the plot in its sequel stretches this boundary one step too
far, IMO. 

As I've already mentioned, FF2 actually starts up in quite a promising
manner. While Reed (Ioan Gruffudd) and Sue (Alba) get ready for their
media circus wedding (think Tomkat style - but bigger), strange
electronic and climatic disturbances occur across the globe. From here
on out, you have this huge build up that pays off about half an hour
into the film, continues with a bang and some dazzling CGI shots, and
suddenly ends abruptly while the initial novelty of the Silver Surfer's
appearance wears off. As usual, Chris Evans as Johnny Storm steals the
show as the only character to truly evolve during this film, Mike
Chiklis as Ben is seriously under-used, my 1.5 year-old nephew could
play better than Gruffud's Reed and Alba isn't even that pretty
anymore. Then you have all these villains (Silver Surfer is definitely
not working alone, as implied in the IMDb official plot line) and some
twists and turns that leave you feeling mildly entertained, but also
incredibly under whelmed. 

You see, if you're looking for mindless big-budget fun, this is the
place for you and your bucket of popcorn. However, don't expect to find
the heart of Spider-Man 3 or epic feel of Pirates of the Caribbean: At
World's End. Don't even look for credible acting or intelligent plot.
Only decent thing you'll find are some good looking money shots, and
mindless action sequences. This formula of a film may work well as a
matinée, but not as something you'll want to come back and watch again
in the coming future.
<|_=00=_|>
Yes, if you liked 1 you'll like 2 and if you didn't, you won't (and you
won't like it if you expect to see the source material faithfully
reproduced without tweakage). And I didn't see any Galactus helmet
silhouette anywhere apart from a couple of points where I kind of
almost persuaded myself a bit that I might have seen something which
kind of reminded me a bit of what it might look like if it had been
there except maybe I was just imagining it.

But what of the film itself? Well, don't expect any deep themes -
there's the underlying theme of family, of course, but it's gentle and
understated. And don't expect profound subtext - there's Johnny taking
on some responsibility when it counts, of course, and the Surfer
fighting his "programming" in order to do the right thing, but these
are simply part of the story, and not nailed up as an object lesson.

They got the group dynamic right in the first film, and that still
holds strongly in this one - no messing with a successful bit of the
formula. Doom - well, I simply have to get used to the fact that the Dr
Doom in these movies is an entirely different character to the one in
the comics. An OK villain, but a lightweight. And he doesn't speak with
a Bela Lugosi accent.

Galactus - I can cope with the cloud. It works, in this context. The
film has a cosmic menace, but it deals with it by reference to its
effect on people. You get a glimpse of the cosmicness, but the people
are the important thing.

The Surfer is nailed perfectly. They have captured the air of injured
nobility, of tragic predetermination, in both Doug Jones' physical
performance and Laurence Fishburne's voice-over. This is Norrin Radd,
in every way. And for those who raised the Chrome Surfer criticism,
that's dealt with too - he is indeed silver for much of the film, it's
only when he's powered up that he becomes reflective.

Don't expect depth, expect fun - 92 minutes of action-packed Fantastic
Four comic. This is EXACTLY what I would expect a comic movie to give
me. It is much more entertaining than the overly angst-ridden Spidey 3.
My parents, who rated FF1 very highly (more so than the Spidey movies,
and on a par with the X-Men movies) will love it, my son (23) loved it,
and I loved it too.
<|_=00=_|>
Wow. Where to begin. Let's start with the positives: The Surfer looked
excellent. He really did. I was impressed and excited when he first
appeared.

Now, the negatives: Apparently Tim Story decided Stan Lee's work, which
has lasted for years because it was a great story that stood the test
of time, wasn't good enough for his motion picture. Apparently the
Hollywood big wigs sat in a big executive board room around a large
table and decided that they could come up with a better storyline along
with changing the powers/abilities of various characters and basically
murdering a storyline that was near perfect.

***SPOILERS*** Let's get a few things straight, people. I'm not one to
hate on a movie because of a few nitpicky things. There were MAJOR plot
flaws in this movie that were completely different from the original
adaption. To begin with, and I want to be sure everyone understands
this, The Silver Surfer DOES NOT get his powers from his board. There
is no other way to say this other than "um, no, that's incorrect."
About halfway through the flick Dr. Doom "discovers" that the Surfer
gets his powers from his board, and you can obviously infer that at
some point he is going to try and take it for himself.

In the comics, the Surfer is able to fly and use his powers all on his
own; he only uses the board so that he doesn't expend the extra energy
that flight requires (and very rapid flight at that - faster than the
speed of light).

It's kind of like doing a Superman movie and saying that he gets his
powers from his cape - Everyone would stare with a confused face and
say, "Wha?" Once "de-boarded" The Surfer takes on an almost human-like
existence (e.g. breathing heavily, fatigued, etc). Again, this is -
what's the word? Oh yes - RIDICULOUS. I'm not trying to sound like some
fan-boy, but it's just simply incorrect. Doing a Batman movie and
making him a chimpanzee would irritate many who read the comics. The
Surfer does not breath, eat, drink, etc. If you want an in-depth look
at his abilities, use a search engine on the web and use a nice wik*
site to explore.

Aside from these obvious blunders, at the end the Surfer apparently
"kills" or at least "deters" Galactus from doing his work. This is kind
of like saying that an ant got the best of Rambo in field combat. I
can't stress this enough - it was storyline murder.

What made the Surfer stories so great is that they weren't just wham,
bam thank you ma'am comics. They were very philosophical and contained
a heavy amount of dialogue. In today's silver screen, most of the
actors complain that they can't "act" enough in superhero movies. The
unfortunate thing is, the creators of this movie had a great chance to
appease both the fans and the actors by just simply FOLLOWING THE
ORIGINAL STORYLINE.

I'm not going to bore you any further complaining about this
catasrophe. If you are still reading to this point, you obviously get
what I'm trying to explain here. I'll sum it up like this: This movie,
although visually appealing (while the Surfer is fully powered), is a
complete nightmare.

If you want to read a very entertaining, thoughtful, and insightful
story about a man who gave up his life in order to save others and his
incredible journeys after this event, go to an online search engine and
type up the word "parable" after the words "silver surfer." And a few
last mathematics for you, according to the comics: 1. Galactus created
the Surfer 2. The Surfer, in the comics, was far too powerful for the
Fantastic Four (The Surfer alone is capable of destroying planets and
stars, and has done so before), board or no board. The only reason he
decided to help the Four was because he was touched by humanity and the
goodness of the people on Earth (specifically the Fantastic Four). 3.
In the Comics, when the Surfer tried to stop Galactus, he attacked him
with enough force to destroy the solar system, and Galactus didn't even
budge.

Now, hopefully you go and read the Parable story, so I won't ruin what
happens for you. But using those guidelines, as for the movie...

How in the heck is the Surfer supposed to, if you are using the least
possible scenario, DETER GALACTUS?!?!?! Give me a break. I know Stan
Lee was a part of this movie, but it's widely known that the Surfer is
perhaps his most favorite creation, along with most comic book fans
loving this specific character. So why would he go and let Tim Story
literally murder this character on the big screen? Well I have the
answer, folks.

When you start getting old and senile, and someone hands you a big wad
of cash, you pretty much stop caring about what's going on and what
someone is doing with your most famous storyline.

Congratulations, Avi Arad and Tim Story. Thank you for nothing.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't know what it is about this movie that keeps me watching it
every few months. It almost as if I need to watch it on occasion to
remind myself how mediocre it is. It was hard to believe that a Marvel
film utilizing one of the most interesting characters from the comic
universe, Galactus, could be so bland. I suppose one of the reasons I
keep returning to this film is that I want so badly to see the
Fantastic Four franchise survive. I know it has potential; I love the
characters, it has an interesting collection of villains to select
from, and the comic series provides some great stories as starting
material. It just isn't happening, thanks to poor writing and a little
too much creative license at the hands of director Tim Story and
writers Don Payne and Mark Frost.

The second installment in the F4 franchise suffers from the some of the
same problems as the first film, while adding some new issues on top.
The story potential is high: Reed Richards and Susan Storm's wedding is
postponed (again) when the Earth receives a visit from the Silver
Surfer, herald of Galactus. Further complications arise when Victor von
Doom returns with plans of his own. Just writing that synopsis made me
want to watch the film again; it sounds like the foundation for a great
F4 film. My issues began with the fact that we wasted the first 30
minutes of the film preparing for Reed and Sue's wedding instead of
getting to the meat of the Silver Surfer plot. Then, once the plot
kicks into gear, we're rushed through the next hour to a deus ex
machina ending that fails to satisfy (and may even aggravate some of
the comic series' fans). When the film was over, I felt as if the
Surfer was never given the opportunity to reach his full on-screen
potential and I've been left hoping he's given another shot.

Just as in the first film, this movie is plagued with some
cringe-worthy one-liners (once again, Doom is given some of the worst).
I know the F4 was a bit goofier than some of the other Marvel
properties but the filmmakers need to tone it down a bit. Though, I can
deal with corny dialogue; what I can't abide is blatant
slap-in-the-face product placement. I loved that the filmmakers were
able to work the Fantasticar into the script (especially since I'd
considered it a bit too cartoonish to work in a film) but the shout-out
for Dodge when Johnny first sees it and excitedly exclaims "A hemi!"
went a bit too far.

All of the original cast from the first film return, which is both good
and bad. Just as before, Ioan Gruffudd, Chris Evans, and Michael
Chiklis are perfect choices for their characters and do a (no pun
intended) fantastic job bringing their characters to life. Also, just
as in the first film, I was unimpressed with the performances of
Jessica Alba and Julian McMahon. Alba is a beautiful woman and fits the
image of Susan Storm, but I've never felt her to be too talented an
actress and she remains the weak point of the series. McMahon, again,
does not feel right in the role of Dr. Doom; he has a hard time doing
insidiously evil without coming across as a hammed performance and I
just can't take him seriously. These are not traits I want in the man
given the role as one of the best Marvel villains.

For what time we're given with him, the Surfer is the most impressive
aspect of this film. The visual effects team did a great job with
creating the iconic character and Laurence Fishburne was an inspired
casting choice for his voice. Galactus, unfortunately, does not receive
the same treatment and we are never given a real glimpse at the demigod
through his surrounding cloud. In my opinion, it was a waste but the
director Tim Story clarified in the film's supplemental material that
he chose to keep Galactus vague so that future filmmakers could do him
justice. After two average films, now we need to hope someone is even
given the chance.

Honestly, this film will only appeal to fans of the series and, even
then, don't expect to be wow'd. The second F4 film isn't a bad movie,
but it never rises above mediocre. The impressive special effects and
production design fall victim to plot holes, poor writing, and
under-use of the film's assets. It's a quick, mildly entertaining means
of spending 90 minutes but, if you're anything like me, you'll walk
away from this film wondering what could have been if the epic
introduction of the Silver Surfer and Galactus had been put in better
hands.
