
I just got back from seeing this movie and I have to say it was pretty
good. I didn't go to the theater with high hopes, however, so it was
easy to meet my expectations. We loved the other 2 movies and had to
finish the trilogy! This one could be titled Santa gets a midlife
crisis--the plot is based on Scott's frustration over having so many
responsibilities and not enough time with his family. There are some
disappointments; of course, Bernard isn't in it and we all love him;
just one line with no explanation tells us he must be gone. Also, Santa
doesn't seem himself; yes, he's frustrated, but you don't see the
excitement he had before. And,the plot gets resolved so close to the
ending that you still haven't processed it, and the credits are
rolling! But if you liked the other movies, go see this one; it's not
as action packed, it's a little sappy, but it's clean fun and you'll
laugh if you let yourself! 

Just remember that it's not Shakespeare, it's just a Christmas movie.
Go and have some fun! Enjoy the Canada subplot, eh?
<|_=00=_|>
Yes, I am am adult and yes, I was probably more excited to see this
third movie than my 3 children. I really loved the first two movies.
This third is a must see in the "set", but I have to say, it's not my
favorite. It's very hard to compete with the excellent first 2 movies.
I didn't like that Charlie isn't played often enough. I also did care
for the actors that starred as Mrs. Clause's parents. Yes, Ann-Margaret
and Alan Arkin are terrific actors, but not perfect for this role as
the in-laws, I thought. Martin Short was excellent! He is so evil and
he does it well! Lucy is a doll! She stole the movie. I loved this
movie... it's a great end to the other two, but I don't think they
should make any more. Curtis's role as an elf was better when he was a
kid! Yes, Bernard's appearance was highly missed. If you loved the
first two, see this 3rd, otherwise wait until October of next year to
rent it.
<|_=00=_|>
I had great hopes for this movie...none of which were fulfilled. My
family and I enjoyed the first two Santa Clause movies, but this was a
major let down. Sad, too, because it had great potential. I enjoy
Martin Short, and think he was well cast in the role of Jack Frost.
However, the writing and editing were so disjointed, and it seemed like
there were too many subplots going on for any one story line or
character to get any substantial development.

Unless you have kids who are dying to see this, I would skip it
altogether or wait for it to come out on DVD. I definitely wouldn't
spend another $20 to go see it.
<|_=00=_|>
Look, I recommend that everybody just take a chill pill and relax for a
second. This movie is not trying to be anything more than a fitting
finale to what has proved to be a great trilogy of films. Too many
people are being too critical and expecting too much from this film.
The story is fine, a nice pleasant easy to follow plot with help from
some nice additions to the cast, especially Alan Arkin as Santa's
father-in-law.

Tim Allen continues to impress as the big man himself and Martin Short
is great as Jack Frost. I strongly recommend this one as a holiday
pleaser and whilst a number of adults will sigh at the films relatively
corny ending I strongly recommend staying around for the bloopers
during the final credits.

Overall I would definitely say that this is a movie worth seeing,
ignore the critics and make your own mind up on this one, you wont be
disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
Took the kids to see this and they loved it. I didn't have high
expectations but was entertained and got the predictable feel good,
happy ending. I agree with others that it was a couple notches better
than the second movie. All and all, a good way to kick off the holiday
movie season.

Other notes of interest: The actress playing Mrs. Clause is on the T.V.
show Lost now. That took a little getting used to. Martin Short did a
nice job as Jack Frost. The blooper reel at the end of the movie is
pretty lame. Not funny at all. Plus, when the bloopers are literally
shown 3 seconds after the end of the movie, it takes away from the
movie itself. The kids are still smiling and in a magical place then
"poof", magic is over here are the actors messing up their lines. It's
like seeing Peter Pan on stage and right after the show, they show you
all the wires that were used to make him fly. Save the bloopers for the
DVD.
<|_=00=_|>
I suspect the movie-going public generally loathes taking chances on
upcoming movies. They want reliable, reassuring entertainment,
preferably with an upbeat, if unrealistic, ending. Last Sunday, I
suppose my parents and I had that hankering for that "cinematic comfort
food" when we saw Tim Allen play the jovial, corpulent one for the
third time. Overall, the movie fed us well, even if the food consisted
of eye candy, ear candy, and tear candy.

The plot basically consists of Santa Allen juggling his expecting wife,
her bemused parents (Ann-Margaret and Alan Arkin) who complain of
insufficient family time, and the machinations of the devious original
Cold Miser himself, Jack Frost (Martin Short). It's no surprise that
Santa successfully keeps all the balls in the air, although it's also
no surprise that he also almost loses his world because of Jack.

"Santa Clause 3" is cute, sweet, innocuous fun, with occasional flashes
of jaded Christmas cynicism from Short and, to a lesser extent, from
Arkin. For example, Short's conversion of the North Pole to a
Vegas-like production had bite, even if it was a bit hackneyed. When
Arkin pouts after Santa's (Scott Calvin's) daughter by his ex-wife and
Judge Reinhold's psychiatrist character (whew!)defeats Jack with a
literally warm hug, the audience guffawed. Another scene, where Scott
is tricked into giving up Santahood by Frost and becomes corporate
Scott Calvin again reminded me a little of Bill Murray's character in
"Scrooged". However, the movie is ultimately geared to the little ones,
on whom it seemed to work, because the theater I saw it in was full of
very young children, and they kept quiet and still!

The movie gets the majority of its laughs from the emoting Short, the
skeptical Arkin, and the sight gags like the yawning "Santa Fireplace".
Allen wisely defers to them in the humor department, although he cuts
loose in the hilarious outtakes at the movie's end. ("Mother Nature,
can you thaw him out? Uhh, oops!")

If you are willing to leave your logical cynicism at the front door and
bathe in the usual Christmas treacle, go see this movie. It will put
you in both the shameless sentimental AND shameless commercial
Christmas spirit.
<|_=00=_|>
We just saw this movie tonight. I was surprised to see it out so far
ahead of Christmas, but looked forward to it having seen the first two
and enjoyed them. The special effects are as good as before and it was
a treat seeing all the actors back. Didn't really miss Bernard until it
was over when it suddenly hit me he wasn't in this movie. I was getting
kinda irritated with the negative in-laws and thinking I didn't like
the whole film until the end which had me laughing and really enjoying
myself. Know I'm a sap, but I LIKED the warm fuzzy feeling of family
and friends coming together. Martin Short was pretty good as Jack
Frost. Tim Allen was perfect as Santa and Mrs. Santa is lovely. If you
enjoy seeing movies just for light entertainment, I think you might
enjoy this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Went to see this movie today with the family. Personally, I was alittle
disappointed in some aspects. There just didn't seem to be a lot of
comedy or comic relief in this movie as with the other two. The absence
of David Krumholtz was unmoving, for he provided a lot of stability to
the plot lines in the other movies.

I did however, enjoyed Martin Short as Jack Frost. He was great!
Everyone else returning was a pleasure. It seemed their screen time was
increased over SC2, with the exception of Charlie. He just seemed to be
there this time around. Lilian Mumy shined in this movie, one of many I
hope. And of course Tim Allen....he is superb as Santa Clause.

Overall, the movie was so, so. I thought a lot of the context and
situations in the movie were alittle over the heads of children my age.
(ages 7 and 5 respectfully) And to me, the original movie was based for
all ages. The third installment had to many "grown-up problems" that
could loose the interest of a child real quick. But for the most part
all the elves, toys and of course Santa made seeing it will the kids
worthwhile! Although, it is not up to par with the original, it does do
a great job of completing a trilogy that will warm the hearts of
families for many holidays to come.
<|_=00=_|>
My girlfriend talked me into seeing this movie because she loves
Christmas movies. I don't generally mind them either, so I went. I was
bored. I'm not often bored, especially at the movies, but maybe that's
because I'm careful about what I pay ten bucks to see. I was truly
disappointed in the lack of comedy, writing, or anything else that
usually goes into making a movie. Tim Allen wasn't funny, Martin Short
was REALLY annoying as usual, and the head elf this time around is a
little nervous guy with a lisp. Who the filmmakers ride as if it's a
stroke of comedic brilliance. The only thing this film had going for it
was that it has Santa Claus in it and was released at Christmas time.
Boo, Hollywood. Shame on you. But I guess I fell for it, and maybe kids
who marvel at shiny things and bright lights liked it.
<|_=00=_|>
Perhaps, I shouldn't have waste my time watching this movie. I thought
it would be funny based on the preview. When I went to watch this movie
on Saturday, I did not find one scene funny at all. The only funny
stuff in this movie was the bloopers. Overall, the movie just sucks! It
wasn't that great as the first one. The first one was more funnier. The
second one was good too, but this one was just not that great. It was
okay and all but it just wasn't that funny. I personally think that I
should have seen Borat instead of this movie. At least, I would have
something to laugh about! I miss the 90s! They used to have such good
movies that were much more funnier! If anyone want to see a good
Christmas movie, I would recommend Home Alone 1,2, Miracle on 34th
Street, and The Santa Clause 1,2.
