
I saw this at a special screening. I have not stopped thinking about it
since. A emotional and powerful film that I will remember forever. I
can't fault anyone who doesn't want to see this film. But please put to
rest any fears that this film was made purely to turn a profit and
serves no purpose.

For all those who were afraid that this film would be exploitive,
propaganda filled Hollywood schlock, I'm sorry to say that could not be
farther from the truth.

Though for the most part I'm still at a loss for words I'll do my best
to give you a short and sweet overview. 

Paul Greengrass has done the seemingly impossible by making a Hollywood
film about this subject everyone is afraid to touch, but made it in
such a way that it's hard to find fault, despite everyone's initial
misgivings. No 'rah rah' patriotism. No veiled political stances. No
cartoonish villains. No making the enemy sympathetic. Just a
brilliantly executed look at what did happen and what 'might' have
happened on that fateful day.

What makes it more effective is that all throughout you don't recognize
any of the actors. They may as well be "real people". You're never
thinking to yourself, 'oh that's Nicolas Cage', conscious of the fact
that it's acting. And come to find out, many of the air traffic
controllers and military personnel are playing themselves! This makes
it all the more real and draws you in and takes you back to that day.

And when the passengers decide to fight back? There's no swelling of
violins or slow motion shots. They don't have a rallying cry or 'lets
do it for Uncle Sam' type speech to motivate everyone. No, these
passengers were reacting spontaneously to the situation as it played
out and were acting on their survival instinct. You can't help but
think how you would react in that situation and makes it all the more
compelling and powerful. 

I won't say this film is for everyone. It IS hard to watch at times.
But I'm so glad I did see it. Very cathartic in a way. And trust me,
this film couldn't have been done in a more professional, classy way.
This feels genuine; of course they are going to 'profit' off it, but
you get the sense that the filmmakers and everyone involved poured
their hearts into this project and did this to tell a story. A more
dignified and heroic story I don't think I've ever seen.
<|_=00=_|>
I was one of the people who said I wouldn't go see this movie because I
felt they were capitalizing on a national tragedy and the trailer gave
me nightmares. But, my curiosity got the best of me when I read several
positive quotes by numerous critics outside the US. So, I picked up a
ticket for the 2:00 show.

There truly are no words to describe the power of this film. The
cinematography is excellent, albeit a little unsteady with the shaky
lens thing going on. I found that the film very much followed the
reports in the 9/11 Commission's book, as well as numerous others. They
stuck to the facts and didn't add in any glorified scenes that weren't
warranted. You saw the mass confusion as the various air traffic
control centers tried to make sense of what was going on. You saw the
events on the plane unfold as we think they did that morning. You saw
ordinary Americans, scared and frightened, band together and try and
keep that plane from hitting another target.

Do we know exactly what was said between people on the planes? No. But
there are survivors who had messages from loved ones on their answering
machines and people who talked to them that day. The film is a little
violent for my tastes, but no more so than any 'Blockbuster' fictional
hit out there right now, and this is reality as we know it. Any
discrepancies are not for me or you to decide, as those secrets are
buried in Pennsylvania.

When it ended, I've never seen a more still theater. You could hear
people breathing as they pulled themselves together. This is something
that happened to our nation, and while it shouldn't take a movie to
make people remember, maybe it does. Maybe we have forgotten or chosen
to ignore what happened that day, falling to politics and quick to
accuse people who didn't prevent it. Maybe we are against this movie
because it makes us uncomfortable, as all meaningful things should. Who
knows? Not I.

But, I do know that United 93 was done in a tasteful, respectful
manner, and many of the families affected on 9/11 supported its
release. Who are we to say otherwise? See the movie and then make your
judgment call. You may find yourself surprised, just as I did.
<|_=00=_|>
When this film was over a silence hung over the theater unlike any I
had ever heard. My eyes watered as I left the hall, and I said a quick
prayer as I exited; simply in honor of all the people who died on
September 11th.

There is a sequence in this film where the passengers are portrayed
praying, as are the terrorists. The languages and prayers are spliced
together through a series of short scenes that depict the emotional
impact that everyone was feeling.

That is what this movie is about. It does not deal with conspiracy
theories. In fact, to do so would be more untrue than any other lie
that the film-makers have been accused of telling. This movie is about
what the people around the country were feeling as the tragedy of that
day unfolded. No one was sitting there thinking, 'I wonder if our
government was in on this?' All the people on that plane were thinking
of only one thing: survival. That is what this movie portrays, and it
addresses several themes in doing so, such as god, faith, unity, and
the will to survive. These are not 'American' themes. They are human
themes. The terrorists in the film are not portrayed in a horrible,
demonizing light. In fact, the audience is ushered to feel sympathy for
them in certain scenes. This movie was not made as propaganda, or as a
means to make money. If one simply views the film, this becomes
apparent. If any 9/11 movie is an attempt to make money, I would say it
is Stone's 'World Trade Center.' This film was a prayer, not
propaganda, and not propagating falsities. It was something that came
from the heart, and after viewing the intense performances and
believably real reactions, that also becomes apparent.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie approaches an incredibly sensitive subject in an entirely
appropriate manner: with subtlety and understatement.

The actors look like real people and talk like real people talk. There
are no dramatic exclamations. Even the signature "Let's roll" line is
stated almost in passing without any special significance being brought
to it. The movie was utterly convincing in portraying how real people
would have responded. There were no Bruce Willis or Wesley Snipe types
amongst the passengers; they were ordinary folk in extraordinary
situations, responding the best way they could.

Kudos to the filmmakers for not allowing this to become an overwrought
melodrama. Instead, we saw a glimpse into the confusion and pain of
people in the middle of the events of 9/11. Because it was understated,
because it felt real, the impact was much stronger and gut-wrenching.
<|_=00=_|>
There are two reasons why people go to the movies. They either go to be
amused, entertained or distracted from the pressures of the real world;
it's called escapism. The other is to learn, experience, educate,
inform and face what our world is all about. Films like Schindler's
List, Black Hawk Down, Saving Private Ryan, All the President's Men,
and this week another film joins that list; Paul Greengrass' visceral
and heartbreaking United 93. Some say it's too soon for a film about
9/11 to come out, but I disagree. I think this film is a bold and
important reminder of why we're still fighting to this very day, and it
puts us up close and personal with our very enemy; face to face. I
don't think I've had such a profound and sober movie going experience
like this since I saw The Passion of the Christ, and when the film was
over how did the audience react? Applause.

United 93 is shot entirely with hand-held cameras to perfectly capture
the realism of the events that happened that day. The film was written
and directed by British filmmaker Paul Greengrass, who's previous films
include 2004's blockbuster hit The Bourne Supremacy and the critically
acclaimed 2002 docu-drama Bloody Sunday, and every frame of his vision
is unflinching, intense and heart pounding from it's quiet beginning to
it's nerve-wracking and stomach turning finale. The film is never
exploitive of the events of 9/11 and always remains respectful to the
memories of those on board that fateful plane.

Everybody knows the story, and everybody knows how it's going to end,
but that never stops the film from being suspenseful. The film is
pretty much void of any character development, and the film never, not
even for a second feels like a movie, it looks like a documentary. And
I'm sure the way Greengrass has captured the shock, confusion, chaos
and panic of that morning is how it must have gone down. The cameras
cover the action from all perspectives; from the National Air Traffic
Control Center, airport towers, regional air traffic stations, and a
military command room where soldiers try to figure out if and when they
have the authority to shoot down a necessary target in order to protect
Washington. One of the amazing things about United 93 is its casting.
The casting of the film includes a number of real life United pilots,
stewardesses, air traffic controllers and military personnel, many of
them actually playing themselves. The cast of passengers are a group of
largely unknowns, which lends great respectability and reality. We are
seeing these people for the first time, with no previous knowledge of
them as actors and it only works in their favor.

The film opens quietly with several hijackers going through their
morning rituals, reading aloud from the Koran; praying to God and
kneeling on the floor of their hotel room and then packing their things
to head to the Newark airport. And from there we are introduced to
several different air traffic controller technicians and we watch as
they discover that two planes have been hi-jacked and eventually
discover that they've hit the World Trade Center. These scenes are
heartbreaking and feel somewhat surreal. But it's not until United
flight 93 takes off that the towers are hit and the plane is up in the
air when the terrorist's plans are set into motion.

The final fifteen minutes of United 93 will leave you speechless and
paralyzed, as a group of passengers plan to attack and over throw the
terrorists and try to take back the cockpit. It's intense, violent and
overwhelmingly inspiring. The film is a well done memorial, dedicated
to those who were killed on September 11th, and I truly believe that
the film was done with the utmost respect to those involved and with
amazing passion and sensitivity to "get it right". Director Paul
Greengrass does get it right, and I honestly believe that it would have
been impossible for it to have been done any better than it is here.
United 93 is absolutely amazing, and to see a better or more important
film this year seems very unlikely, and I think this film should be
required viewing for all Americans, but when they feel that they are
ready for it, because this is as real as it gets. This film is
responsible film-making of the highest level and the experience is both
sobering and cathartic.
<|_=00=_|>
A most cathartic experience came over me when I viewed the much
publicized "United 93". At once speculative and realistic, the
111-minute film will surely bring back the pall of fatalistic
inevitability one feels about 9/11, but its more defining
characteristic is revealing the untapped heroism and humanism of people
caught in the most malevolent of circumstances. Masterfully written and
directed by Paul Greengrass, this relentlessly intense movie covers
that fateful morning when United Airlines Flight 93 departed Newark for
San Francisco with 33 passengers and seven crew members on board.

As it turns out, Greengrass's heavy background in documentaries turns
out to be a blessing in this treatment, as he tracks the subsequent
events in real time and uses either under-the-radar actors or actual
aviation personnel to play the real-life characters. Instead of
focusing on the higher profile passengers to provide an emotional
locus, which a more commercial filmmaker would have done, he
encompasses all the passengers within the emotional purview of the
film, including the four hijackers who killed the pilots and took
control of the plane. The key dramatic difference is that we get to
know not the people but the situation at hand. Consequently, we get a
more realistic sense of the scale of the events that may have occurred
on that flight. That's not to say it is any less devastating. In fact,
the last half-hour is harrowing in the most personal sense as the
inevitable becomes reality.

The power of the film comes from its surprisingly apolitical
perspective and the inclusion of the ground personnel trying to
comprehend the scope of all the redirected planes that day, in
particular, Ben Sliney who effectively plays himself that day, the
just-promoted supervisor of the National Air Traffic Control Center in
Herndon, Va. None of the actors stand out because the film cumulatively
achieves a verisimilitude that simply knocks me out. The film also does
not pretend to be the definitive version of what happened on the last
few moments of the flight. In an emotional sense, it is rather moot as
we are talking about degrees of detail at that point. This is truly
essential viewing.
<|_=00=_|>
Never has a movie stunned me as much as "United 93". I was literally
shaking during the final minutes of the film. Even though I knew the
outcome I tried to fight it. I kept yelling under my voice "come on
guys, PUSH PUSH..., KEEP FIGHTING". But unfortunately none of us can
escape the eventual tragedy. I didn't leave the auditorium until the
final credits ended. When I walk out of the theater, I felt like I felt
on that dreadful day of September 11th, 2001...Numb.

Paul Greengrass's film in no way exploits, sensationalizes or points
fingers about what happened that day. There's no undertones or
overtones. This the most respectful film i've ever seen. "Shindler's
List" and "Saving Private Ryan" come to mind when I think about impact
and power. But both Spielberg's film's followed the film-making
standards of; three acts, character development etc. Greengrass throws
us into the events of 9/11/01 as if it were happening right now. In
fact, we never even really get introduced the the people on the flight.
All we know is that whatever happened on that plane was shear terror.
And from that terror hero's rose and fought back.

I live in Southern California and even though the events of 9/11
happened across the country and didn't affect me directly, I still am
shakken by the events. Where I live, most people have forgotten. It's a
time in history I will never forget and dread every single day. I can
only imagine what the families of the victims live with everyday.

"United 93" was the most challenging film I've ever watched. It's not a
popcorn flick and should not be seen for entertainment. It's a personal
choice to see this film, in my opinion. But whatever you do never
forget September 11th, 2001; it's victims and Hero's
<|_=00=_|>
Frozen, speechless, devastated. That's how I was at the end of the film
and judging by the silence in the auditorium the whole audience felt
the same. A remarkable achievement. Not a single cheap shot. Knowing,
as we all know, what happened on that fatal September 11th. The time
lapse between the first plane hitting the World Trade center and the
second seemed interminable. The faces of the passengers, without even
knowing their names, are still vivid in my mind. Extraordinary. Not to
mention the terrorist's faces. So real, so human. Tears were running
down my face as a chill run down my spine witnessing the terrorists as
well as the passengers praying. God, seen through a different optical
at different times for exactly the same reasons. The brave decision of
the passengers to die trying to protect all of us is something that we
in the ground we seem to have forgotten. We could all stand together as
well in everybody's name for everybody's good. You see, here I am,
inspired and aspiring to inspire.
<|_=00=_|>
I was nervous to see any movie on September 11th due to the fact that
in some ways I felt that it was too soon, seeing how we just had the
5th anniversary. Not to mention, I didn't want to go through that
depression again and watch those horrifying events happen again, a girl
at work had mentioned how she saw United 93 and World Trade Center, she
said it was nothing like what you would expect of an action movie, it's
more dedicated to those who lost their lives that tragic day.

United 93 is a truly inspiring tale about the 4th hijacked plane that
crashed in Pennsylvania. I remember seeing this on the news on
September 11th, we heard so many different things, that it was shot
down, the passengers gained on the hijackers, and to be honest I'd
rather believe that the passengers stuck together and prevented more
lives from being perished that day. These people were truly incredible
and the thing that I loved about the film was that it was made to show
that they were not victims, they chose to not be so, they knew what
they were facing and unfortunately died trying.

Another thing that I appreciated is that I think we did forget about
those planes that were hijacked and the horror that the passengers must
have gone through. We usually only think of the World Trade Centers
when we think of September 11th. I could never imagine what thoughts
were racing through those passenger's heads. It truly was devastating
to just think what the families were going through when they received
phone calls from their loved one's and having to say good bye. We can't
forget those who were so brave to help others and those who
unfortunately who crashed into the World Trade Center and Pentegon,
nothing could be strong enough to say about them, my sincere
condolences to the families.

I was wrong about these films, they truly are important. Even though
it's fresh in most of our memories, let's not forget those who died
trying to save others. God bless the souls on Flight United 93, you
truly are hero's and will never be forgotten.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>
In 'United 93' we take a look at what might have happen to United
flight 93 on September 11th. Of the aircraft that were hijacked on
September 11th, only United flight 93 did not reach its intended
target. This is the story about the events leading up to the hijacking
and about the people who tried to save United flight 93.

At first I did not want to see this film. I had no desire to see
someone's interpretation of what happened. However, I am glad I did see
it. This is probably one of the most riveting and intense films I have
ever seen. It is a little slow at first. But, as you follow the events
as they unfold, you become captivating in this movie.

Several people have pointed fingers; wanting to blame someone for what
happened. I think the more people that watch this will understand a
little more about human nature. I do not think anything could have
prevented these tragedies; we can only hope to prevent history from
repeating itself.
