
1st time i'm writing a review on IMDb, but i had to say how bad is this
movie.

Im french and the original movie "Le diner de con" was one of the
funniest movies have ever seen. I still can remember the 1st time i
seen it in theater 12 years ago. Like all the people in the room i
laugh my ass of. I cry by laughing so hard during all the movie (sorry
for my English). And every time i saw it again on video, the magic
still working

The only time i laugh in "Dinner for Schmucks" was in the very
beginning when we see the mouses pictures. I thought it was well found
, a good idea for the lobby of the "idiot". After that, nothing... Few
smiles in the first part of the movie but thats all. 

Im a big fan of Steve Carrel but in this movie his character is too
idiot, its too much. The reason why the original movie was that funny
its because its was realistic in a way. Her its just too much and for
me it make it loose all the fun. And its like that for all the
character and the situation.

The reason the original was so funny, and was such a huge success when
it was released in France,it is because the writing was very well done,
very subtle. "The idiot" is funny because he is clumsy, do some stuffs
too quick without thinking of the aftermaths, but he is not in any way
somebody that look like he escape from an asylum with 10 of IQ like
Carrel character in this remake..

Very hard to go to the end of this movie.. In fact during watching it i
had to check on IMDb to see some reviews to see if i was the only one
who didn't laugh at all. Im surprise to see that many people finding
this one hilarious. May be the fact i see the original movie, knowning
the mecanic of the script. But i try to see this one with a fresh eye.

Anyway it doesn't work, and this one is the worst movie iv seen this
year. My English isn't good enough to express what i fell about this
movie but for me its a waste, a shame consedering the original
material, as i said its my first review her but i had to warm people.
My only advice, watch the original.

It is a typical Hollywood failed remake when the writter thought "let's
make the schmuck even stupidier so it will be even funnier!!!" Nope...
it doesn't work like this.

Again, sorry for my English, i just hope you get the the point.
<|_=00=_|>
In order to impress his girlfriend, Tim (Paul Rudd) needs to secure a
promotion. So he decides to accept his bosses challenge; bring an
'idiot' to their annual 'Dinner for Winners'. A competition run by
white-collar executives and disguised as a celebration of brilliance in
unrecognised individuals. In reality, the meal is simply an opportunity
for elitist senior-management types to laugh at some quirky and
eccentric members of society. Tim's girlfriend tries to convince him
the whole idea is abhorrent. Just as he is beginning to agree with her,
he meets Barry (Steve Carell). An IRS worker, with a passion for
creating art from taxidermied mice, Barry might just be the perfect man
to help Tim win the competition.

The US version of The Office has shown us that Carell can do awkward
better than most and Anchorman proved his capabilities of making
stupidity funny. However, his character here is completely unlikeable
and, more often than not, irritating. His bowl haircut, glasses and
protruding teeth, evoke bad seventies sitcoms. A time when this look
would have been a stylists shorthand for 'socially inept'. Paul Rudd,
on the other hand, is given little opportunity to make us laugh,
playing two-dimensional straight man, Tim. Director Jay Roach's
previous franchises (Austin Powers, Meet the Parents/Fockers) may not
have been the greatest comedies of the past fifteen years, but
delivered as and when expected. The problems with Dinner for Schmucks
lie in the pacing and the writing. With a 114 minute runtime, it is
simply too long. Entire characters and subplots are superfluous. It
also suffers badly from second-act-drag, believing that given enough
on-screen time we will somehow empathise with our two leads.

Producer Sacha Baron Cohen (Borat, Bruno), seems to have called in a
number of favours from celebrity friends and cast them in every
available role. The idea, presumably, is that good performances can
boost a weak script into something amusing. Of Course, this is not the
case. Jemaine Clement (Flight of the Conchords) as avant-garde artiste,
Kieran, makes the most of his characters nonsequiturs but only manages
to raise a smirk at best. The same cannot be said for David Walliams
(Little Britain), whose Swiss, aristocratic character, Mueller, is
completely redundant in every way. The only worthy gag in almost
two-hours is provided by Chris O' Dowd (The I.T. Crowd) as a blind
swordsman. However having only a handful of lines and appearing twenty
minutes before the credits roll, its far too little, far too late.

Dinner for Schmucks starts with a premise full of comedic
opportunities, but spends the next hour and a half ignoring these. The
original, a French film from 1998 entitled The Dinner Game, was a
social satire focusing on the ridiculous measures the aristocracy will
go to amuse themselves. It was full of witty dialogue and, at 80
minutes long, it worked. As often happens, Hollywood seems to have
missed the point and delivered a broad and bland remake.
<|_=00=_|>
The French original was a scream, which is why they bought the rights.
Instead of subtitling the original, they went for a remake à la sauce
américaine. Just as in the case of The Vanishing, La Femme Nikita, Un
Indien Dans la Ville, Le Grand Chemin and a dozen other films (at
least), the remake is just plain awful. Steve Carell is reprising the
late and much-regretted role played by Jacques Villeret. While the
latter was believable as tax inspector with an interest in building
structures out of toothpicks, Carell as a half-looney artistic
taxidermist is way over the top. Bollywood made a version which was
watchable, but the Hollywood version is a mess.
<|_=00=_|>
Dinner for Schmucks is the adaptation of the French movie "Le dinner de
Cons" which in itself is an adaptation of the play of the same name. In
the original version Pierre Brochant (Thierry L'Hermitte) is a
successful editor that takes part in monthly dinners where each host
has to invite "a schmuck". On the night where Pierre and his "schmuck
are supposed to go to dinner Pierre hurts his back and is unable to
attend the dinner, therefore the evening takes a very strange turn of
events including his wife's ex-husband an I.R.S inspector and a car
accident.

When David Guion and Michael Handelman put there hands on this script
not only did they change the whole idea of the movie they also
transformed it's meaning, the original version had a deeply ironic tone
in which Francois Pignon (Tim) trying to do the right thing makes
everything worse whereas in this version everything finishes well.

In the American remake the movie is filled with an insane artist, a
crazy ex-girlfriend and a psychic nemesis. The American company
responsible for this release turned into ridicule a French classic. The
message of hope conveyed in the movie is feeble and not believable in
any way. 

Overall Big Brother has come in with a big wallet and once again
transformed a French masterpiece into a ridiculous feel-good American
production. 

The only positive note is the act of both Steve Carell and Paul Rudd
who despite a shaky scenario manage to pull off a great performance.

To sum-up I highly recommend the original version and advise you to
stay away from the American re-make.
<|_=00=_|>
An account executive (Rudd) discovers the only way for him to get a
promotion at his company is to find his own "special person" (Carell)
and invite him to a company dinner. If you go off just the main 2 stars
alone this is a must rent. This is one of those movies that come out
where the script alone has a chance of being really funny, but it all
comes down to casting. In this case the casting of every part, even the
little ones, is what pushes this movie over the top into one of the
funniest movies that has been released in a while. It's hard to imagine
what the movie would have been like with out Rudd and Carell but I'm
guessing not as good. This part seems written for Carell, he plays it
perfectly and it is his funniest role since Brick in "Anchorman". The
one downfall of the movie is that it is entirely predictable (most
comedies are), but it is still a fun ride till the end. It seems like
every comedy since the "Hangover" promotes itself as "The funniest
movie since the Hangover", this one can actually live up to that
standard. A definite must watch and I dare you not to laugh. I give it
a B+
<|_=00=_|>
I think it was the great comedian Edmund Gwenn who made the statement
that "Dying is easy, comedy is hard." That is probably true but I am
convinced that there are some actors who can make comedy look easy. At
his best, Steve Carrell does just that. In 'Dinner for Schmucks' he
occupies the role of Barry Speck, a blithering idiot for whom life is a
jolly holiday and cynicism is a notion that seems to have passed him
over. Barry's view of the world is devoid of irony or whimsy, he stares
blankly with wide eyes and a stupid grin and never seems to understand
what is happening right in front of him.

Let me give you an example. Near the beginning of the movie, Barry is
being seduced by a blond bimbo who tells him that she thinks she needs
a spanking. We get this exchange: 

The Blond: "I'm a naughty school girl. I've been bad." Barry: "You look
a little old to be a school girl" The Blond: "You're my schoolmaster. I
need to be punished." Barry: "I'm not really qualified for that. I work
for the IRS."

That kind of idiocy makes Barry the perfect tool for Tim Conrad (Paul
Rudd), a mid-level financial executive who curries favor with his
implacable boss Lance Fender (Bruce Greenwood) when he manages to sell
a Swiss billionaire on the idea of turning defective bombs into
effective, yet unattractive, lamps. Fender is impressed and invites Tim
to an annual dinner party at his mansion, a "Dinner for Winners" in
which the purpose is for each guest to bring the biggest idiot they can
find. The guest with the most entertaining idiot wins a trophy.

The journey getting to that dinner party mostly involves Tim trying to
survive Barry's idiocy. He has a way of saying and doing the most
outrageous things while maintaining a demeanor that lets us believe
that he hasn't the slightest clue that his behavior is the least bit
odd, even his hobby of making cute dioramas with dead mice.

The first half of the film is genuinely funny, as it observes Barry and
his world as he looks out with wide eyes, a goofy smile. Yet, the rest
of the movie is spotty. Once we get to know Barry, the movie tries to
mix a riot of slapstick comedy with moments of sentimentality that are
mostly made up of half-baked speeches about the value of friendship.

The third act gets the film back on track somewhat as we finally arrive
at that dinner party. What works are the simple observations about
Barry and the other morons in attendance (one of whom is Jeff Dunham
who is in a marital spat with one of his dummies). Those characters are
funny but the scene goes overboard with a very long battle involving
Barry and a nitwit mind-reader named Thurman Munch (Zach Galifianakis)
who wears Dickies over his shirts and has a self-satisfied
autobiography called "Your Mind Is My Puppet". The scene quickly
spirals into a very bizarre area reminiscent of some of Monty Python's
lesser sketches.

Steve Carrell is the the entire reason for seeing 'Dinner for
Schmucks'. His wonderful performance is pitch perfect, playing a
lovable dolt who genuinely believes what he says, even when he
confesses to Tim that the reason his wife left his that "I lost her
clitoris". To see the deadpan look in his eyes is to understand that
Barry believes this statement completely. It is also possibly to
understand why his wife really left him.

*** (of four)
<|_=00=_|>
"Austin Powers" director Jay Roach serves up a less than appetizing
rehash of French director Francis Veber's 1998 comic masterpiece "The
Dinner Game." "Dinner for Schmucks" casts Paul Rudd cast as the
straight man, while Steve Carell hams it up as a dim-witted idiot. Rudd
and Carell have now co-starred in three comedies. Previously, they
appeared together in "The 40-Year-Old Virgin" and "Anchorman: The
Legend of Ron Burgundy." No, "Dinner for Schmucks" isn't half as
hilarious as either "40-Year-Old Virgin" or "Anchorman." The premise of
this half-baked hokum is that our hero's arrogant boss throws a
once-a-month dinner party where his best and brightest employees
compete to see who can bring the dumbest dinner guest. Typically, the
dinner guests are such incredible imbeciles that they don't realize
that they are being roasted instead of toasted. Essentially, these
cold-blooded bigwigs at a private equity firm that cuts up other firms
and sells off their assets need something for a good laugh.
Unfortunately, "Dinner for Schmucks" comes up short on yucks. 

This politically incorrect plate of pabulum concerns an ambitious,
young analyst who is prepared to sell his soul to the Philistines so he
can realize his dreams, specifically marrying his girlfriend. Along the
way, our hero realizes the error of ridiculing idiots so that he can
attain his dreams. Long before he grasps what he has done, the humor in
"Dinner for Schmucks" has lost its seasoning. The original French
comedy concluded before the eponymous dinner. "Dinner for Schmucks,"
however, goes in for a seven course meal and wears out its welcome.
Mind you, it is always a pleasure to watch Carell cutting up, and he
seems to be genuinely having fun as an IRS processor and mouse
taxidermist who assembles the dead rodents in detailed dioramas.
Incidentally, designer Joel Venti and the cult effects Chiodo brothers,
Charles, Edward and Stephen , who fashioned the puppets for "Team
America: World Police," whipped up these inventive dioramas. The point
is that Carell steals the show, but the show really isn't worth
stealing. When Carell isn't carrying on his shtick, "Dinner for
Schmucks" sucks.

Financial analyst Tim (Paul Rudd of "Sidekicks") has been pestering his
cute girlfriend Julie (Stephanie Szostak of "The Devil Wears Prada") to
marry him, but she is a career girl who orchestrates elaborate art
deals. Meanwhile, Tim lives in an elegant apartment and drives an
expensive sports car that he really cannot afford. After the president
of Tim's firm, Lance Fender (Bruce Greenwood of "Star Trek"),
pink-slips an executive who took the business down the wrong path, Tim
angles for the promotion. Tim concocts a scheme to bring a fabulously
wealthy Swiss entrepreneur, Mueller (David Walliams of "Stardust"), to
Fender Finances. Mueller owns a munitions firm with tons of leftover
ordinance from World War I, basically bombs, and Tim has figured out a
way to convert the bombs into lamps. Of course, Fender Finances will
take a bath marketing the bomb lamps, but they will clean up managing
Mueller's portfolio. Fender is desperately looking for ideas to turn
his company around when Tim pitches his proposal. Initially, Fender
wants to hand the project over to one of his surefire executives, but
he finds Tim's blind ambition so refreshing that he lets him woo
Mueller. Fender tells our hero about his super-secret party and invites
him to bring the biggest boob. It doesn't take Julie long to convince
Tim that the dinner is a dumb idea. Nevertheless, Tim needs that
promotion so desperately so he can sweep Julie off her feet that he
sets out to find a loser.

Literally, Tim runs into a loser. Barry (Steve Carell) is picking up a
dead mouse for his mice diorama when Tim hits him. Fortunately, Barry
is none the worse for landing on Tim's hood and then being hurled
several feet away. Initially, Tim fears the worst when Barry and he try
to reach a monetary agreement, until Tim realizes that Barry plans to
pay him for the damage to his sports car. After Tim breathes a sigh of
relief, he asks Barry what he was doing in the middle of the street.
Barry shows Tim a dead mouse that he was trying to retrieve from the
street before our hero could flatten it with his care. Barry flaunts a
book that contains photographs of the dead mice after he has dressed
them up to resemble famous paintings, such as Whistler's mother. Tim
knows a good thing when he sees it and cultivates Barry's friendship.
Meantime, after Julie gets wind of what Tim plans to do, she wants to
break up and devote herself to her latest insane art client, Kieran
(Jemaine Clement of "Gentlemen Broncos"), whose art works of himself
dressed up in a satyr costume are selling like crazy. As nutty as Barry
is, Barry stands no chance alongside the warped, egotistical genius of
Kieran. Predictably, Tim learns his lesson, and Barry and he show up
Fender for the snobbish ape that he really is. However, before Barry
can win the trophy as the biggest idiot, he must confront his
intimidating IRS co-worker, Therman (Zach Galifianakis of "The
Hangover"), another hopeless moron who constantly overshadows Barry.

Incongruity is the source of the best comedy. The buffoons that Steve
Carell, Jemaine Clement, and Zach Galifianakis play in "Dinner for
Schmucks" are as funny as this labored comedy gets. What makes these
performances work so well is that the actors appear to have no idea how
ridiculous they look. Carell looks like he is channeling the comic
actor Austin Pendleton of "My Cousin Vinny" with his spectacles,
buck-teeth, and wacky haircut that makes him look particularly nerdy.
Jemaine Clement scores points for "Dinner" as an eccentric artist
obsessed with all things goat, and Zach Galifianakis never misses a
chance to make himself look hopelessly cretinous. Despite its
interesting characters, "Dinner for Schmucks" belongs in a richly
deserved doggie bag, but not as a treat.
<|_=00=_|>
Even though this movie features some of the grand talents in today's
comedy - Carell, Galifianakis and to the lesser extent Rudd - it is an
utter disaster. The jokes are unfunny, the plot is atrocious, the
dialogs are cheesy or/and stupid to the point of absurdity, the finale
is typical of a Hollywood "blockbuster" - everything turns out great
for the main characters and we're not even sure why because the plot is
so unconvincing and poor. Even the gags by Carell and Galifianakis,
some of which are even amusing, cannot save this tragedy. The only
proper thing I could spot is the acting. And I mean proper since most
of the employed names are trained actors therefore one cannot see any
faults in that department but on the other hand observes average acting
without any spectacular attempts. 3 out of 10 is one of the lowest
ratings I had ever given a movie and hence the review.
<|_=00=_|>
It might help if you never saw the original French version, "Les Diner
des Cons," Somehow, when Hollywood appropriates French films it nearly
always leads to a disappointment (or loss) in translation. This is no
exception.

The original French film was built on a satirical premise of French
social manners, based on how the French view a cultivated person. I
don't know what this version satirizes, and I don't think anyone
involved in this film did, either.

The original version was also very funny. The humorous situations, very
similar to the US version, were beautifully timed and very plausible.
I've never laughed so much as I did watching the French version. 

To make this story plausible, the Rudd role really needs to be
convincingly ruthless and mean. But Paul Rudd as a supposedly ambitious
private equity analyst trying to climb the corporate ladder only comes
off a nice guy, a regular guy, a bland guy - not someone who really
wants to win at all costs - which would justify all the bad luck the
character has.

Carrell, as the idiot, should almost immediately gain our sympathy, but
this over-the-top performance with the fake hair, nose and buck teeth
only plays for low humor laughs. In the end, it's really hard to care
about his broken marriage or the fact that he was ridiculed. The manic
Carrell pitted against the bland Rudd comes off acting like Jim
Carrey's Lloyd Christmas in "Dumb and Dumber", except without the
laughs.

My advice - get a copy of "Les Diner des Cons" if you want a to see a
really great film and laugh yourself silly.
<|_=00=_|>
It's not just that it's a completely awful adaptation, it's that it's
an extremely BAD movie. I didn't watch this movie to compare it to the
original, I really just wanted to watch the American version, after all
the American version of "The Birdcage" was great. However, this movie
is just plain crap! The original movie is funny because it's smart but
the people who put this horrible fart of a movie together seem to have
relied on the assumption that viewers would be either extremely drunk
or superbly stupid to exude even a mediocre giggle.

I can't even finish watching this thing but it looks like the makers
adapted what they thought were the best scenes from original and threw
in some ridiculous scenes of their own without providing any material
to connect or justify it all.

Really, total crap! It looks like the whole production was slapped
together with the minimum amount of effort possibly required. Even Paul
Rudd's acting is sloppy at many points. His character, Tim, is
inconsistent throughout and the casting for his secretary is just
awful. I just don't see what is funny about that bland woman. So many
talented actors out there, it doesn't take much to select someone
half-decent.

Some of the worst scenes: it makes no sense that Tim was able to spot
an idiot if he'd never had to spot one before. The scene where Darla
the stalker goes to Tim's apartment is just plain stupid. And when
Barry & Tim go to the artist's apartment, c'mon! The artist doesn't
even ask how they got in, just acts as if they've run into one another
in the street.

I wonder if Rudd's and Carell's careers are already on the decline for
them to accept doing such a terribly awful movie. And what's happening
in Hollywood? Gotta stop hiring each other's friends and get some
talented people to write scripts. There's NO shortage of writers in
this world, the industry can do better if it wants.
