
This movie was everything I hoped it would be. It is especially (or
maybe even primarily) for fans of Kevin Smith's "ViewAskewniverse".
(And yes, it's in color...mostly.) Also, there was no subtitle...it was
titled simply "CLERKS II"...no "the second coming" or "the passion of
the CLERKS".

I don't want to hit any spoilers this soon before the movie comes out,
but the general idea is that it is a "coming of age" story for the Gen
X slackers, who finally in their 30s find themselves not having
advanced very far in life, careers, personally or even in general (this
is primarily Dante's role, anyway). He decides (due to some things
beyond his control) to FINALLY move on, "grow up", get married and
leave Leonardo New Jersey and its band of bad influences behind.

Randall, of course, is not so keen at his only friend leaving NJ, is
perfectly happy living with his parents and doing as little as
possible, and a good part of the movie is spent on Randall challenging
Dante's decision and exploration of their friendship.

Now, this may sound like some kind of melodrama, BUT IT ISN'T!!! That
basic story is weaved between the plot devices, smart dialogue and
gritty or "pushing the limits" humor we come to expect from Kevin
Smith.

There's Jay and Silent Bob of course, who have a mini-character
arc/growth experience themselves, Jason Lee in with an all new
character for one short scene (I think this is his 5th new character in
Kevin's ViewAskew franchise), and Ben Affleck with a mercifully brief
(one or two line) cameo. Jay and Bob's antics are always a great break
from the other action, never an intrusion, even when they are TRYING to
intrude, by making asses of themselves (literally) in the background of
the primary action.

Plus, a couple of new characters, a crew member at Mooby's (a
McDonald's type fast food joint) named Elias who is a very religious,
naive counterpoint to Randall's ruthless and jaded personality, and
therefore the butt of many jokes/gags. His and Randall's comments
regarding "Lords of the Ring" vs "Star Wars" are priceless and vintage
Kevin Smith.

Another new character, "Becky", is played by Rosario Dawson, who is the
manager at the same restaurant. She plays the part of the good female
friend who depends on Dante and challenges Dante to consider if he
really wants to settle for a girl who is merely tolerable.

As with the first "CLERKS", this movie pushes the limit of what can be
put on film and actually get released in theaters. I hope the more
controversial parts make the final cut because I think the shock value
that makes you say "NO THEY DIDN'T!" is a valuable part of the equation
and expected from this film franchise. Without giving anything away,
there are particularly two of the films ongoing jokes, one having to do
with bestiality, the other in which some very NON-PC racial terms are
used, REPEATEDLY, including the "N-word". No one else has the guts to
address these issues and make them funny. 'Cept Kevin Smith.

Finally, the movie really does have a story without being preachy,
we're treated to known characters without it being a nostalgia-fest
(for instance, Jay and Bob are in their signature places in front of
the Quick Stop, but Jay utters not once "Snootchie Bootchies"...but not
to fear, he finds a NEW way to crack us up...Bob's discovered a way to
keep Jay's mind off of drugs. Fans of Jay will NOT be disappointed.)And
the movie goes through an interesting story arc, with surprises and
twists resulting in a satisfying ending.

I'm concerned that the more risqué scenes might have to be neutered for
ratings' purposes; hopefully not. If so, they will be on the DVD for
sure. I can say that even in very conservative KC, the audience laughed
A lot, no one walked out during the most "offensive" part, and everyone
seemed to really enjoy the edgy wit, smart dialogue as well as the
bathroom humor that kept the film at a fun pace.

*EDIT-I've since read that 3 people walked out, which isn't bad from an
audience of nearly 500 and with a movie this edgy. I guess I was
enjoying myself too much to notice the walkouts!

The movie is also more realistic than some of the other View Askew
movies; more like Clerks, obviously. None of the comic book type stunts
like in "Mallrats" (Silent Bob's batman utility belt and flying around
with a cape) or "Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back" (with the fake
lightsaber scenes and flying on the bicycle through a wall and not
getting hurt) or all the special effects,mythology and divine
interventions of "Dogma" (Alanis Morisette as God appearing at the end
to save the world). There are no scenes to groan at and think "ah,
right, like that could happen". These characters are real, and real
things happen to them, no special abilities, creatures from the
underworld or new age messiahs. Just real people that many of us can
relate to.

In closing...don't take your grandmother to this movie. It is full of
obscene language, profane concepts, drug references, "unnatural" sexual
references, etc. Unless you know your girlfriend is hip and not easily
offended, test her with a DVD of "CLERKS" first to see if she "gets"
the humor.

Otherwise, get a gang of friends, go to this movie and get ready to
laugh your freakin' BUTT off!
<|_=00=_|>
Clerks II is a worthy successor to Kevin Smith's 1994 debut, "Clerks.".

The continuing adventures of Dante and Randal speed along with witty
dialogue, insightful social commentary, and a touching look at various
levels of life, responsibility and most importantly, love.

There's a lot of the requisite dirty jokes, but they enhance the golden
center of the flick. I laughed and cried in many of the same moments.
But mostly, I watched two characters I had grown up with grow up
themselves and face some of the dilemmas I've faced since I went from
being a teenage slacker to an adult. I was reminded of a better time in
my life, and also reminded to look forward to the future.

Brian O'Halloran knocks Dante out of the gate, with pitch-perfect
delivery. I believe that this is still the Dante we knew - just a bit
older. Jeff Anderson takes Randal, an already amazing character, and
brings him to a new level. Randal becomes even funnier - and more
touching. Trevor Fehrman's Elias adds the perfect foil for Randal's
brand of mischief. Jay and Silent Bob, the dynamic duo, are also back -
proving that Jason Mewes is back in top shape, and really enjoying
making you laugh.

~Steve
<|_=00=_|>
I've been lucky enough to see this movie twice, and I can't wait to see
it again in theaters. I laughed so hard I NEED to see it again to hear
what I missed the first two times around, and I even shed a tear or
two.

Kevin Smith is in fine form as Dante and Randal return 10 years older.
But are they 10 years wiser? After the Quick Stop is unexpectedly shut
down, Dante and Randall continue their meager existences at Mooby's, a
fast food chain. The movie takes place on the day before Dante is set
to leave for broader horizons with his overbearing fiancé, played by
the stunning and impressive Jennifer Schwalbach.

Can Dante really survive outside of the comfortable confines of New
Jersey? What will Randal do without his hetero-lifemate? And speaking
of hetero-lifemates, what are Jay and Silent Bob up to these days?
Brian O'Halloran and Jeff Anderson give stellar performances. Dante and
Randal are back and in fine form. Trevor Fehrman is an excellent
addition to the cast as Elias, new coworker and perfect whipping boy
for Randal. I absolutely fell in love with Rosario Dawson as Becky,
Mooby manager, several times over. Jay and Silent Bob pop in and out
without disappointment. I can't tell you how fantastic it is to see
Jason Mewes looking healthy and in top form.

Those looking for the intelligent, wry and vulgar humor of Clerks will
find it here. Can you top screwing a dead guy in a bathroom? Oh yes,
you can! Those who appreciated the heart of Chasing Amy will find that
here too. Only Kevin Smith can pull off that combination. The
soundtrack is a must buy as well.

I can't wait to see this movie again.
<|_=00=_|>
I had reservations about a sequel to the cult classic, Clerks. The
charm of the first movie was how Kevin Smith relied on convoluted
dialogue and effervescent characters to launch the movie. I was not
confident that he could return to those roots after 12 years of success
under his belt.

Fortunately, this movie does not disappoint. Smith's trademark witty
dialogue is ubiquitous as ever. The characters argue and rant about
meaningless topics with the same intensity as family members faced with
the decision to pull the plug. O'Halloran continues to portray Dante as
the hapless slacker who simultaneously makes us feel sorry for him and
urges us to smack him for not doing anything about his circumstances.
The latter feeling is embodied by Anderson, who plays the irresponsible
malcontent, Randall. Fans of the first Clerks movie will be amused by
their continued antics. One of the new characters is Becky, played by
Rosario Dawson. Dawson performs admirably, making us fall in love with
the free spirit who took a wrong turn in life and ended up managing a
Mooby's restaurant. Becky provides a refreshing contrast to the stodgy
and suffocating Emma, played by Mrs. Smith. Emma appears a bit too
one-dimensional, but her purpose as Dante's fiancée is clearly to show
yet another disappointing facet of Dante's life. Another new character
is Elias, played by Trevor Fehrman. Elias's role is a bit over-the-top
as the hobbit-obsessed geek whose life is enriched by the promise of a
live-action Transformers movie. The flaw is that Elias is too repressed
and weird and cannot garner much sympathy from the audience. This might
be Smith's intent, as we enjoy a little schadenfreude every time
Randall torments him.

The story is fairly basic and picks up where the first movie leaves
off. Dante and Randall seamlessly move from the end of Clerks to the
beginning of Clerks II. This may seem sad, since they are now
30-somethings working as clerks, and that is intentional. The sequel
shifts the focus from young clerks trying to determine what to do with
their lives to clerks approaching middle age trying to figure out why
they're still in their dead-end jobs. The story of Dante whining about
his life and Randall putting him in his place is rehashed from the
first movie, but with a sudden afflatus, Dante is finally able to do
something about it.

The humor is still strong with Kevin Smith, as he throws ridiculous
sight gags at us in between the labyrinthine dialogue about
Transformers, Star Wars, racial slurs, blogs, and life in general. Fans
of Kevin Smith naturally will enjoy this movie and do not need to fear
that he has "sold out." It's hard to say if newcomers will enjoy the
movie. If they are into the humor of the movie, then they logically
should already be aware of the first Clerks, as well as Dogma and
Chasing Amy. I can only suggest for the moviegoer who is unaware of
Kevin Smith's credentials to go rent Clerks. If the story bores you,
then Clerks II probably won't appeal to you, though there are more
sight gags that may appeal to some audiences. Those who are easily
offended are also urged to stay away, as this movie contains scenes of
profanity, bodily fluids, and (for most people) sexual deviance.

All in all, it is a solid movie. It has a few pacing problems (or did
at the screening) but nothing that negatively impacts the movie. Some
scenes are utterly ridiculous, but it is par for the course for this
type of movie.
<|_=00=_|>
You'll like Clerks 2. If you liked the original Clerks, this is Kevin's
Smith's masterpiece. It mirrors the original Clerks, but it shows how
much he's grown as a writer and a director. From the black and
white/color shots, to the crane shot (a *beep* crane shot), to just the
placement of people in the Camera shots...everyone one of these things
contributed to the overall enjoyment of this movie.

The script is crisp and tense, with just the right amount of reality
and joy. There is no long monologues or actors stumbling over lines.
There's this freedom in Smith's work that doesn't feel forced or
attempting to impress anyone...but he impresses everyone with just the
beautiful way of putting together his scenes.

I wholeheartedly recommend this movie to anyone and everyone, but
especially those who are on the verge of 30 and the rest of your life.
It definitely impressed me and touched me in a way that I didn't
expect. It's a fitting end to the Jersey Viewaskewverse.

Hopefully, in 10 years, they do another Clerks movie. I'd love to see
these guys in their 40s. Randal and Dante are the most engaging of
couples and Smith writes such an engaging story about friends in their
30s without pandering or compromising the vision of their piece.

You will love it. Even if you hated all his other movies past Clerks,
you will love it.
<|_=00=_|>
Clerks II:**** Clerks II is a strong and poignant retelling of the
story of when two slackers grow into adulthood. In many ways this is
writer/director Kevin Smith's most adult film in that we see four
characters that we've grown up with over the past 12 years finally grow
themselves. It opens on the final day of work for Dante who is finally
getting up and out of Jersey with his fiancé, leaving Randal
figuratively alone at Mooby's. Randal hasn't changed much over the past
years, and in many cases neither has Dante. Randal still wrestles with
the customers in pitiful pop culture debates, among them whether the
LOTR trilogy is better than the Star Wars trilogy, but this time around
he has a new foil in a 19 year old gamer-geek named Elias. The banter
between these two is really funny especially when Randal tells him what
he has planned for Dante's departure gift (but you'll have to see the
flick to find out what that is because it is too gross for me even to
write). After a short stint in re-hab Jay and Silent Bob have found
solace in the Lord but this doesn't stop them from the dispensing with
the drugs. Its odd to find that in the past decade it is Jay and Silent
Bob that have changed the most, true they still are up to their
perverse antics such as ass rubbing on the window and the disturbing
recreation of "The Silence of the Lambs" dance but they have grown more
sensitive to other people's emotions and needs, especially Jay. I
haven't mentioned Rosario Dawson, who gives a very charming performance
as the clerks' boss. She brings a lot of presence to a slightly
underdeveloped character. But it is Jeff Anderson, Randal, that
deserves the full attention this time around. He gives an award worthy
performance and delivers it with an astonishing amount of sympathy.
He's loosing his best friend which, though he'd never show it,
absolutely devastates him. The last 20 minutes are really tear jerking,
I know I was in tears and couldn't stop the flow. This film sort of
keeps to the feel Smith created with Chasing Amy and Jersey Girl in
that they lay the drama on thick and it almost works better than the
comedy, an oddity for Smith proving he too has grown as a writer. It
isn't all drama though you do get great comedic scenes such as, my
favorite, the "porch monkey" scene. I nearly had laughing tears during
it. This is probably Smith's best looking film elevating it to the
quality one would get whilst watching a really good episode of
television. The camera even moves! And a neat little digital effect is
shown at the beginning where the clerks' world seamlessly transforms
from black and white to color, I was shocked because I didn't even
realize it was happening. This is one of Smith's best films and one of
the year's best. I give it a high recommendation but I ask that you
stick with it a little while because it moves at a slower pace then any
of the other Jersey Chronicles, it may take a bit of getting used to
for some, but this is a film that can not be missed.
<|_=00=_|>
You don't see the words excellent sequel together very often but this
film lives up to them. I have not laughed out loud in a movie in a very
long time. I almost couldn't catch my breath from laughing so hard.
This movie is just awesome. Kudos Mr. Smith and crew. Every part of
this movie is worth watching from the opening credits to the very last
frame of the film. Kevin Smith plays to the fans of his films and we
appreciate every last bit of it. We are rabid and loyal and this film
does not disappoint. At the theatre I watched it in the entire audience
cheered when it began and were clapping and cheering at the end. I
could have watched it again immediately.
<|_=00=_|>
I was lucky enough to go to an advanced screening of this film, a
luxury not often afforded to us normal movie goers, and a luxury not
appreciated by a critic that I don't need to name. This movie was
filled with laughs, but still managed to tell a truly genuine story. A
story about people that get trapped in their dead end jobs, and
struggle to find happiness and try to decide what they want in life.
Eventually teaching acceptance and promoting individualism rather than
trying to live up to some kind of social standard.

I was very impressed with the casting, everyone was great, and it was
great to see some familiar faces, Afflec and Lee really left an
impression even though they were only present in one scene each. Smith
really presents a dramatic tone with his directing, a tone which is
rarely set nowadays with most directors trying to match the style of
Spielberg, Hitchcock, or (insert successful director here), and leave
the movie looking like an impression, Smith isn't afraid to use his own
style. Most movies today are very cookie cutter, but this is a
refreshing change. What happened to directors just directing, instead
of trying to follow a formula to get rich? Smith is a genuine and
modest filmmaker, we can only hope that he keeps making movies, and
maybe he'll inspire more "Hollywood" directors to stick to
good/original material rather than weak big budget movies with all the
latest young stars stinking up the screen. Cheers to Kevin Smith,
cheers to Clerks II.

9 / 10
<|_=00=_|>
I saw an early screening of C2 and I must say that the flick is way
better than anyone thought it would be. Mr. Smith is back in prime form
and I would dare to say that this is quite possibly his best work yet.
Granted, this is not a film for everyone but, if you are not offended
by purposefully vulgar humor, C2 should be on your "must see" list.
Dante (Brian O' Halloran) and Randal (Jeff Anderson) are back with
their humorous banter as if a whole decade had not gone by since we saw
them last. Dante/Brian is practically flawless as the straight man
while Randal/Jeff is one of the funniest actors around and their
on-screen chemistry is simply wonderful. The new guy Elias (Trevor
Fuhrman from "Now You Know") is a clever addition to the group while
Rosario Dawson shines her irresistible charm on this little world of
dysfunctional employees. The combination is a winning one and, if you
add an healthy dose of Jay and Silent Bob to the mix, and even a
musical number worthy of "The Blues Brothers", you have quite possibly
the best comedy of the summer. This film is enjoyable even if you are
not familiar with the original Clerks, but it's even better if you are.
To top it all off, Kevin Smith shows us that he has learned from his
mistakes and has now mastered the fine art of balancing comedy with
truly heartfelt moments, staying clear of the sappiness that sunk
"Jersey Girl". At the end of the film there were quite a few shiny eyes
in the audience... bravo Mr Smith! You pulled off your best trick yet.
<|_=00=_|>
Wow, the return of the clerks, indeed! I went to a pre-screening last
night of Clerks II and let me say that it was actually really good. The
title, as Mr. Smith explained, has been simplified to undersell the
movie so fans and moviegoers in general will be pleasantly surprised
when they see it. So here is my contribution to word-of-mouth
advertising: if you liked ANYTHING about Clerks I, go see Clerks II.
More of the same and then some; and then some more. I have always been
hit-or-miss with Kevin Smith and, sadly, the original Clerks was still
my favorite of the group. And this movie is his best yet.(In fact, the
only way I can appreciate "Mallrats" is to watch it with the audio
commentary on.) To me, Mr. Smith is a lot funnier when he's just
add-libbing. He said during his Q & A, last night, that they spent more
time on this movie in pre-production than all the other movies combined
and it shows. I am sure he was kidding but this movie is actually well
written, very well acted (Rosario especially; she is the topping that
is going to make this movie sell), and just well thought out in
general. Good pacing (especially with the sight gags, one after
another) and the Decalogue that I've come to appreciate is priceless.
Like the argument over which franchise has the better "Return" movie;
"Lord of the Rings" or "Star Wars". Clerks II has become my favorite
movie of the summer and I hope it becomes the sleeper hit of the summer
because it is just that good. Oh, and Kevin, if you're reading this,
sorry about the title, I am sure you pondered it. Maybe if you hadn't
already used "Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back"?
