
It is refreshing to find a movie which does not take children audience
for granted. I discovered as an adult by sheer luck this movie and went
through it wishing they had completed the second part (which they did
not alas). It is set in the Russian equivalent of our pagan Dark Ages
just before Aethelbehrt of Kent marrying Bertha of Frankia. And we have
invaders, different faiths opposing each other and the opening of
Russia to other realms- Here the Byzantine world, as opposed to the
Late Roman/early middle age European rewriting of borders. Clearly our
hero Vladimir is imperfect and well, he does kill his brother (but
Disney got away with murder see Malefice and the evil queen in
SnowWhite right?. I think it would be unfair on the movie to expect a
politically correct story because well our ancestors were not, and did
things our times does not judge right to do. yet rewriting historical
facts is wrong and this movie has done the best it could to still bring
a story for children, while making history appetising and wholesome for
children. The nice pagan priest is rewarded, the evil pagan priest is
punished, the prince improves and opens up to the world. there are
numerous positive messages. I have read that the movie was unfair to
other religions? which is odd because in this movie, we see different
forms of paganism and the only Christians are the Byzantines??? plus by
the way at one point this man great grand children will marry Harold
Goodwinson's daughter while another will become the ancestress to the
French royal family! Rather than blame the story, it is a movie where
as a parent you can make the dark ages alive and explain so much to
your children and I do not speak one word of Russian. Enjoy and if only
we had more movies like this delightful one.
<|_=00=_|>
Prince Vladimir has been criticised for taking liberties with history,
ideological pandering and being unfair to religion. That personally
didn't come across as a problem, Prince Vladimir does take liberties
with the truth but does so in an intelligent and entertaining way- like
Don Bluth's Anastasia- instead of playing it for laughs and ripping off
blatantly(like The Magic Voyage and the Titanic animated movies did).
As for the pandering and religion stuff, they come across as somewhat
nit-picky in comparison and I'm not going to go down that route as I'm
not an expert in this regard. Prince Vladimir came across really well
and deserves to be judged on its own. The animation is gorgeous with a
lot of detail, beautiful colours and you can tell that a lot of care
and effort went into it. The music is both rousing and heartfelt, with
a distinctive Russian feel, whether folk-song/tale or patriotic. The
dialogue is intelligent and interesting, is not restrained or
disturbing, is not too complicated and not too dumbed down either and
manages to entertain and teach. The story draws you right in, is
constantly interesting and well paced and may give you the incentive to
read up on the subject matter afterwards. That is fascinating also
though there may be a few whose enjoyment of the film may be tainted
after reading what really happened. The characters, while archetypes in
a way(especially the villainous pagan priest), are still engaging, in
particular the prince of the title is a flawed character who positively
matures and changes. The voice acting is dynamic and noble, if
sometimes with a theatrical edge that is hardly inappropriate. All in
all, intelligent, fascinating and a wonder visually. 10/10 Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>
its basic virtue is to translate historical reality in a language
useful for many viewers. the price - high liberty about the events. but
it is a kind of inspired mixture of legend and fairy tale and a Russian
animation is a delight. the music, the dialogs, the magic are the real
proofs. but it is little more than a beautiful story. in a correct
argument to discover one of the most important Ukrainean heroic figures
and that could be the fundamental purpose. than, it remains , for many
viewers from East the historical cartoons from childhood. it is cool,
nice and fresh and that are details very important for a form of subtle
propaganda. so, a fairy tale. and little more. but, behind each
verdict, a real delight.
<|_=00=_|>
This Russian Animation piece which melts history with (lots and lots)
of fiction/fantasy is very graceful and quiet fascinating. It may look
quiet Disney-like at first, but the storytelling got something quiet
beautiful and refreshing for a children movie.The background design and
the animation,two things you should take for granted I don't care very
much or know very much about usually-took my breath from pleasure in
few scenes, and were generally quite delightful .The characters design
isn't in this league, but is quite solid .Also as characters, none of
the characters were amazingly notable or very original ,but they were
mostly likable and interesting enough. Especially likable is
Aleksey,the poorest little boy in the history of cinema.Or,ah,will
quite make it to the top 200.Some of the romance in the movie seems to
be quite forced(to all of you don't like romance,the film got only
little bit of this)and illogical,if you can accord to romance with this
word.The music seems to be very fitting and pretty-but sadly in the
copy of the movie I saw there was no translation of the songs,which
seem to add a lot to the movie.

I don't remember seeing a children movie which is dealing so much ,
subtextly and textly and with certain complexion, with politics and
religion and does is it a way(or so do I think-I'm not a child and
didn't have the opportunity to talk to a kid about the movie)that won't
bore them away or would be understandable for them. 

In kids, see title etc, begin the problems.

A dangerous wind of Russian nationalism is blowing from this movie. a
kid who would watch this movie would will learn from it that horror can
be nothing but heroic and fun while done by Russians-or at least by
blonds. While horror done by Asians and so stay,surprisingly,horror. I
strongly recommend to all parents out there ,espcially Russian parents,
who agree to expose their children to such conceptions, to sit with
their children through the film and to state and carefully explain the
wrongness that seem to be in the film's pov. Although for such a close
-minded-seeming film ,the movie got some interesting moments of
religious pluralism.Than again, the villain of this movie is a
blood-thirsty pagan priest. So, watch this film if you are an adult who
likes animation films for kids, either you like Disney or despise them.
Watch it it you would like to see an interesting represation of Russian
history mix fiction for the wide public, or just like to watch some
pretty and somewhat different animation. And if your kids want to watch
it-make sure to watch it with them, if to let them watch it at all.
