
I saw this at an advance screening in Oslo, and going in, I didn't
expect it to be any more than a cheesy and somewhat gory tribute to
eighties actioners by a star/director/producer/writer who was desperate
to relive past glory. That latter may or may not be true, but my former
assessment was plain wrong. This movie is authentic, shocking and
unlike any other comparable movie.

Given its genre, the movie is a masterpiece. The story is simple but
solid, and works on several levels. The action scenes are unparalleled,
more intense than "Black Hawk Down", "Saving Private Ryan" and
"Stalingrad" put together. The level of brutality and gore will shock
and fascinate, and no doubt cause some level of controversy.

Stallone proves himself to be an excellent director, as well as in
excellent shape for his age. I had little faith in him going in, and I
stand corrected.

This is a Rambo who has come to terms with who and what he is, in a
movie that holds up when compared with the original "First Blood". Well
done, Sly. Well done indeed.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, let me start by saying John Rambo is a masterpiece. They
don't make them like this anymore. It is a return of the classic action
movie of the 80's and 90's but with a touch of modern directing. Some
will say it is gory, some will says it has no plot. But let's be
honest, nobody wants a dramatic twist or a deeper meaning when they go
to see Rambo! And even if you want to, you can still find it in traces.
John Rambo is a killing machine but he is also a guy with strong moral
values so if you are really looking for a message it is there to be
seen. Other than that it is a full blooded action movie that will strap
you to your seat for whole 95 minutes!
<|_=00=_|>
During his career, Sylvester Stallone gave the audience many great
times to remember him.From Rocky and Rambo, to Demolition Man and
Shade, Stallone was always a true super star. As an almost exclusive
action films actor, he brought to the audience for over three decades,
high quality action movies. However, aging is always a problem for such
actors and Stallone could escape it....a little though! His physical
condition is tremendous! Let's not forget that he is almost 62. It is a
fact that his last films did not manage to reach the quality of his
previous successes. Driven, D-Tox, Avenging Angelo and Shade, were
really good films indeed but their shine was not as big as Rocky or
Rambo. That is why Stallone returned with his major two success roles.
Rocky Balboa was excellent and meaningfull. Now it is time for...John
Rambo! This film is simply excellent. Although it is mostly an action
movie it has also deeper meanings such as ethical values and political
messages. Just like Rocky Balboa, John Rambo uses the formula of the
first movie mixed with this of the forth!Monosylabic dialogues from
Rambo meet the political messages of the activists, The violent
reaction of Rambo towards the brutal soldiers is justified by his
ethical code with a deeper meaning that oppresion and injustice
generates strong reaction! Acting as a whole, is very good and
convincing. Stallone is really born to be Rambo and the supporting cast
is made by young actors who meet the quality standards of Milo
Ventimiglia. The project budget is 50m so as you understand there are
many real-like explosions and effects. What is new is the ultra violent
death scenes. They really look true!The story is interesting although
,as you expect, not complicated. To summarize, John Rambo is one of the
best action movies that 2008 will probably bring to us.Also it is a
must to see because not only it is a really good movie but also because
it is the last Rambo film. Stallone even if he is 62, looks no more
than 45 and his condition is impressive. A must for all action film
fans and not only by them, Rambo is a really good film and you should
not miss it.
<|_=00=_|>
Just watch it, words don't justify it! People didn't believe Sly still
had it, but they were so wrong. After the the great performance at
Rocky Balboa I expected another great performance for him. But this was
even better than I imagined. You don't have to be an Stallone fan to
enjoy this movie. If you like action movies, this one is for you. A
word of caution though, this isn't for the light hearted, there are
some serious violence in this movie. I am gonna say this is one of the
best action movies I have seen in a long time. But you don't have to
take my word for it, just watch it. It's better than the previous Rambo
films. Expcept for about 15 minutes in the middle, the whole film is
action packed. You can't possibly be bored. If you hate action movie or
if you have something against violence, this isn't for you. But if you
are not, than sit back and enjoy the legend that is Rambo for one last
time.
<|_=00=_|>
OH the Haustacity. Yes...I will say it again, HAUSTASTIC!!!! Rambo at
his best...I don't care, he may be old, but crap man. This movie is
awesome.

Stallone definitely took a step towards the Mel Gibson approach in
making it realistic. That is what a .50 caliber round does to a man.
The genocide scenes are rough and graphic...definitely not for young
audiences, but for everyone else. HAUSOME!!!

The story is solid. It doesn't take long at all to get to the action.
This is a must see for any person looking for some great action.

Rated "R" for Ridiculous, rampaging, reoccurring Rambo
<|_=00=_|>
Being a huge Sylvester Stallone fan, I was more than happy just seeing
him on screen again, and I would usually just be content watching any
movie with Stallone, and that's what I went in expecting. But hell, was
I wrong, this had me jumping up from my seat every 2 minutes. This had
one hell of a message, and wasn't just a mindless action movie with
gore. I loved each bit of the movie, and watching Stallone act so well
was a total pleasure. It was also kind of shocking at how Stallone is
still in physical form, considering his age. He was very flexible for
his age, and that's also what helped push the movie further. Also, his
ruthlessness in regards to the injustice. Overall, a brilliant 10/10 if
you ask me.
<|_=00=_|>
Rambo is a great action movie and reminds me on how the action movies
were made in 80's. The plot is developing very fast and the pacing is
very good. Sly is doing all his stunts and doesn't speak much.
Mercenaries were good in my opinion and without them the movie would be
to unbelievable and unrealistic.

Rambo displays the war like I've never seen it before and believe me
I've watched many war movies. Camera is beautiful, music is perfect and
fits to the action scenes. Bryan Tyler's take on Goldsmith "Home
coming" theme is in the beginning and in the end of the movies (ending
is great).

I have 3 objections: 1. - the acting of Julie Benz was too unbelievable
to me. 2. - maybe more drama and less action (not necessarily). 3.
-camera work in some places is to "shaky" for my taste, but on the
other hand it gives a lot of tension to the action.

Everything else is great.

My expectations were high and now I am pleasantly surprised. I had my
doubts about the movie (especially after some negative critic reviews),
but now all I have to say thank you Sly for giving us Rambo IV. 

I must say the movie may not be for everyone because of violence, but I
think every Rambo fan and fans of the action movies of the 80's will be
happy with this movie. My theater was filled .

I hope it does well at the US box-office because Sly deserves it. I
have no doubt that the movie will be success in other parts of the
world also.

Rambo is definitely back!!!
<|_=00=_|>
Rambo is without question a sick action movie and Stallone has proved
himself again as an intense actor and as a solid director. This
installment combines elements from all three previous movies but this
one had a much more realistic feel. Yes some dialog is questionable and
there are a few, albeit brief, scenes that don't quite work, but make
no mistake, this movie takes no prisoners. Stallone slips back into the
role with ease and his supporting players do an admirable job. Critics
will whine as they always do about the excessive violence, gore and
lack of story. (Stick to giving awful movies like The Skeleton Key
thumbs up guys). The ironic thing is that Rambo actually gives a vivid
and some would say accurate portrayal of war. It has a similar feel to
Black Hawk Down and borrows its chaotic action. Rambo pulls no
punches...It's brutality, violence and gore are rooted in reality. Gone
is the "fun" action of 2 and 3. It is replaced with realism which
amounts to some of the best and most intense action sequences I've ever
seen. My only real gripe with the film was scenes that were sped up in
post. (No big deal) 

Finally, the integrity of the series as a whole has been kept in tact.
Everything from the music, to the action to the character to the final
scene. An extremely well crafted movie. Rambo/action fans will not be
disappointed...And neither will the critics who rave about The Princess
Diaries
<|_=00=_|>
Rambo is an 80s-style action movie with modern sensibilities. Stallone
is not a one-man army as in previous movies but rather a dogged old
soldier that comes to terms with what he actually is while racking up a
body count that would make Tarintino proud. In many ways, this movie
parallels Rocky Balboa as a mature ending to a series of sometimes
over-the-top but fun action movies. John Rambo in this movie is an
aging but potent killing machine that for the first time since First
Blood accomplishes his mission in a very believable manner. The action
is visceral and downright gory at times surpassing the hard-core scenes
of Omaha Beach in Saving Private Ryan. The film pulls no punches when
showing exactly what a Barret .50 caliber sniper rifle can do to a
human body. Stallone mutters only a very few lines of dialog in this
movie... there's no speeches or patriotic flag waving going on here but
there is a clear lesson on how well liberal idealism holds up under
barbaric realities amid genocide and war.

A must see but not one for the kiddies.
<|_=00=_|>
A straight action film only Stallone could deliver. Nobody else could
direct such an uncompromising pursuit of battle. The battle sequences
of this movie are glorious and violent in a way that is special, a new
extreme level of tension was achieved in my opinion and I don't say
this in blind excitement.

This movie delivers a movie-high that is not often attempted. Movies
usually hold back or simply fail at achieving visceral action and
instead try to balance themselves between action, plot, drama, comedy,
etc, and in many cases in modern films this only lowers the quality of
the experience. The downfall of Rambo you could say is its small
concern for character drama, indeed the scenes looking at the female
lead and the mercenary group are pretty poorly acted (though this
allows the scenes to focus on Stallone's disregard for their antics, it
can get annoying to sit through).

The mercenary group's character were so over the top in acting however
it came off like farce to me which was actually really entertaining,
seeing their macho lines fall dead in the air, Stallone giving them no
respect.

The battles were glorious even if the film has flaws, but it focuses on
the battle as it should, and achieves glorious cinematic victory. Great
experience.
