
We went to see PULSE yesterday afternoon (got to the theater too late
for DESCENT). I have not seen the original KAIRO for comparison. So,
it's not the worst movie I've ever seen, and not the best. Yes, it was
slow to start and get to the point. But IMO it had a creepy, dark
atmosphere (god, if I lived there I'd want to commit suicide in any
case), the visuals weren't bad, and it had a few good scares.
Unfortunately, it also depended on VOLUME to enhance the scare. If
you're more of a gore fan, then it's probably not the movie for you.
The movie may not be worth the price of a ticket, but I think it's
worth a rental. Eh, I'm just your average moviegoer and don't watch
movies to analyze them to death. I even liked The Grudge. That's my
opinion and I'm sticking to it.
<|_=00=_|>
I had just went to see a pre-screening of pulse last night, and I must
say that it was not all that bad compared to recent horror films. The
main problem with pulse is that in trying to be original it borrows
from other films. I understand that this is an American version of a
film from Japan. The film just reminded me of too many other films for
me really to appreciate it. Once again this was a pre-screening and I
am 100% sure that parts of the version I have seen will be changed. The
other problem with pulse is that it is very hard to follow at times,
and you are left to interpret the movie in your own way. The deaths are
also very cheesy, and not really that creative. I am a huge horror fan
and I was really interested to see this film because of the trailer
that I very much enjoyed. The movie gets a boost in points for breaking
away from the normal horror films we have been seeing as of late.
Another thing that I had to pick at was the mediocre acting of the main
star Kristen Bell. She just did not give a great performance...the rest
of the cast with the exception of Ziagler give somewhat good
performances. To continue on the scares were another part that bothered
me..once again we see a pg13 movie relying on loud noises and crashes
to make the audience jump...but on a brighter side there are a few
scenes (the laundry room scene, and the car attack scene towards the
end) that were actually pretty scary. One last thing the ending is not
all that great, it is one of those things that you either love or
hate...the audience at our screening mainly hated it, I will assume it
will be changed come the release date. Overall "Pulse" is a decent
horror film which is a step above the horror movies that I have seen as
of late, just do not be surprised if you are left scratching your head
after this film is over.
<|_=00=_|>
We just came home from seeing Pulse. Sorry friends, this is one film
you won't be sorry you missed. Slow, boring, and lots of loose ends. No
thrills, chills or characters you can care about. You are presented
with a group of close friends -- yet no one seems concerned or even to
notice that one of their buddies hasn't been around, anywhere, for a
few days. No one seems to care when his fate is discovered. For some
reason, all the college students seem to reside in apartments with
black walls and leave food scattered all over the place to rot. I'm
guessing the props dept had a lot of bugs around and wanted to use them
up. Better to wait until this film shows up on cable at 3 am and you
have nothing better to do before you watch this one.
<|_=00=_|>
Here's another in a long, long line of predictable horror movies aimed
at teens.

Like so many tired teen horror films before it, we get a
semi-interesting premise that is never given the chance to take off the
ground. We get a tried-and-beaten-to-the-ground formula that's becoming
nearly a parody of itself. "Pulse" has the laziest of horror film
ambitions: an endless series of characters making slow, deliberate
walks to some sort of random objective (in this movie, it is usually a
computer screen) with the steadily rising score beneath their paces.
And then, the orchestra crashes, the sound effects are blasted at
dangerously high levels, and something (ghost, corpse, animal,
landlady, Dick Cheney, etc.) bursts out at the character. Over and over
and over. If the characters aren't doing that, they are setting up an
opportunity to do so. Again and again and again. Such payoffs are not
payoffs. They are sudden, very loud noises that explode suddenly after
rising, slightly-softer noise.

It's tough to tell whether the director is a cookie-cutter hack
emulating everything that's been released in the last five years, or if
he is just being ordered by the studio to emulate everything that's
been released in the last five years. Either way, "Pulse" is a dreary
movie with nothing to say and little thrills to share. Mostly, it's a
take-off of "The Ring"...we get the always-overcast urban setting. A
Naomi Watts look-alike as our lead. A lonely piano hits nearly the same
keys as the above-mentioned film. And we get the quick cuts of single
scenes. Instead of the mysterious video used in "The Ring", we get
equally mysterious images in computer screens. At times, it has the
disorienting sensation of watching a film student's class project
titled "How To Make Creepy Images Like What Was Used In That Video In
The Ring".

Throughout the movie, characters go through the motions as if they've
just been locked in a room watching a marathon of awful teen horror
films. They laugh, they grieve, they act confused, they act scared,
they act concerned, blah, blah, blah.

A plot summary for those interested: an internet virus is rapidly
spreading across a college campus. Basically, ghostly images appear on
your computer screen, and then at some point in the near future, a
ghostly image will sneak up on you and take what appears to be your
soul. Thus, you are left very sad to the point of being despondent.
After that, you off yourself. Or you just spontaneously combust into
ash. Either way.

The better looking of our leads manage to doge the virus, unlike
literally the rest of civilization, despite the fact that they are more
immersed in the virus than anyone else. Funny how that works. Whether
or not they succeed in stopping this ghost virus (if you're the
screenwriter there's no need to explain anything beyond "ghost virus"
when all you're writing are set-ups for characters to peek slowly into
things) is for you to find out. If you choose to find out, God bless
you. Please keep in mind that it is a real bitch getting your ticket
refunded at the average multiplex.
<|_=00=_|>
I am sure you are all familiar with how a good book can be ruined by
its movie rendition. Well, this is a perfect example of how a good
movie can be ruined by its American remake. Sure there are advantages
to Hollywood-ification; take a look at the difference in special
effects for 'The Ring' and 'The Grudge'. But, in turn, what is then
sacrificed is quality in story and plot development, case and point
being the American 'Ring 2' involving an attack from possessed deer.
Yes... deer.

The movie that inspired this one, 'Kairo' (aka 'Pulse'), had a very
complex plot line with real suspense, real attachment of audience
feeling, and real take-home messages. The storyline for the new 'Pulse'
is something a child could have come up with and is highly reminiscent
of a movie released a few years back - 'Dot com'. The whole direction
and point of the American version is so far distant from that of the
original Japanese that I have no idea why they didn't just separate
themselves from it in the first place. Basically, whoever wrote the
script had just seen 'Kairo' and thought to himself, "Hey, some of
those scenes were awesome! And the way they did this and that? Wow."
Twenty minutes later, the script for an 'original' Pulse was created
where certain events were directly copied but liberated from all that
'plot' baggage.

Honestly, I cannot find an ounce of merit for this film. Not
suspenseful, not scary in the least, and even the effects failed to
impress. The action felt rushed, the logic behind everything abandoned
for the sake of a 'just go with it', and the message dumbed down so far
that even the densest of movie-goers can get smacked across the face
with it.

I am not preaching that you should watch the original; just, please,
for the sake of America's general intelligence level, do not consider
this movie good or clever or inventive. Or good. Thanks.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see Pulse knowing it was PG13, so I didn't expect much gore,
but couldn't the writer of this story at least have done something more
with it?

Pulse is a movie about a hacker who releases a strange computer virus
which immediately affects computers everywhere as well as cell phones
and even TV screens. We soon find out that the virus is really the dead
who have found a way to return to the living world. What they want is
the life force of every living being. So it is up to our heroes to try
and find a way to stop them before they can consume the entire world.

That's the plot which in my opinion was a rather clever idea. Too bad
that the story makes very little sense and is filled with
implausibilities that go against the very story that the writer and
director were trying to get across. I won't explained these because of
the spoilers that would be involved. Of course there aren't many
spoilers anyway, since the commercials give much of it away.

The acting was decent, and some of the visuals were nice, but there is
very little suspense. This is more of a simple shock film like so many
other horror movies that have been filling our theaters for about three
years. There is one horror movie that is the exception, and that is The
Descent which was released last week. If you want to see one of the
best horror movies in the past couple years, go see that one instead
and forget about Pulse.
<|_=00=_|>
I haven't seen the original Japanese film, "Kairo," upon which "Pulse"
is based. There was enough here to make me want to see the original,
though, because the central ideas in this film are very interesting. I
suspect that much of the core of the original was lost in translating
the story into a summer film for an American audience.

The essential element of the story here is the idea that the technology
that was created to connect us and make our lives more interesting is
equally capable of sapping our individuality and will to live a real
life, as opposed to giving ourselves up to thing like the Internet and
cell phones. These things are meant to augment an already full
existence, but when they become the most important things in our lives,
we soon lose ourselves entirely. The ghosts in this movie are what is
left of a person who has abandoned themselves to technology. They can
"only exist where there's a signal," as the movie puts it, because when
there is no signal, there is no life for such people. They rely on the
real lives of others to give substance to their own artificial, inhuman
existence, in other words. This is a powerful idea, and I wish that
"Pulse" had taken more care in developing it.

Instead, "Pulse" touches on this theme from time to time but sacrifices
much of its importance to become a summer horror flick targeted to an
18-24 year old demographic without giving its audience much credit for
its intelligence... and that's too bad, because the film winds up doing
the very thing that the story should be a warning against doing. It
sells its soul in the end.

That's not to say there aren't some good scares here. There are
certainly some very effective scenes in the film that will raise the
hairs on a few necks. Considering that there is absolutely no gore
anywhere to be seen in "Pulse," it does manage to frighten viewers with
some potent ghostly images. Horror-savvy audiences will recognize
elements from both "The Ring" and "Night of the Living Dead" at work
here. Unlike the latter horror classic, however, "Pulse" tries too hard
to shift between the plight of its central group of characters and the
demise of civilization at large, diluting both and leaving me wishing
that it had focused on one or the other.

The acting in "Pulse" is nothing special. None of the characters ever
fully develops. Other than the special effects nightmare that happens
to them, one never has the chance to feel any connection to them before
they evaporate in a puff of black ash. Considering how much the main
theme of the movie rests upon the idea of someone's losing their will
to live, that's a big problem. It would have been much more effective
to show the transformation of people who actually have lives into
depressed shells than what happens in "Pulse," where we see people who
live vicariously through computers stop living altogether. There isn't
much contrast between the two states; it's all a matter of which side
of the computer screen a character is sitting on at any given moment.

Still, if you're up for a couple of quick and effective scares, there's
something to be said for "Pulse." It could have been so much more,
though, with just a bit more work. Ah well. I'll have to see if "Kairo"
did any better.
<|_=00=_|>
For what its worth, I enjoyed this movie. I tend to rent all B-movie
DVD's from my local Blockbuster (big plug for the movie pass). Despite
what many of the folks have posted on this site, I can tell you that I
have seen The Grudge, The Ring, The Darkness, and many other Japanese
remakes. I also have lived in Japan for many years and (as much as
westerners can), I claim an understanding of their film-making. I
thought that this movie was well done, but I cannot in good faith
recommend any other remakes. Unfortunately, there is generally an
element lost in translation. Luckilly, IMO, Pulse does not lose that
and manages to keep its Japanese nature very well intact in its U.S.
translation. Kudos to the producers.
<|_=00=_|>
I've seen the trailer for this movie some time ago, and I decided to
watch it. It's one of those horror movies with eerie sets and shots.
They chose Bucharest, Romania as a main location, so I found familiar
places in it. The campus featured in the film is the one from
"Politehnica" University.

The movie itself is well written and has a coherent plot. Of course,
there are times when you can predict the next turn of events. But this
does not happen very often.

The special effects are OK, not dated or something. They integrate very
well in the unfolding of the plot. The soundtrack is also good, many
low frequency noises, kind of electric ones (reminds me of "The Ring").

For a remake of a J horror movie, this one does a pretty good job.
Worth watching if you have a couple of hours to spare.
<|_=00=_|>
Towards the end of Pulse, a US remake of the hit Asian horror Kairo,
there was a moment which actually made me jump. It was a cheap
mechanical scare that was totally predictable, but it still managed to
jolt me. And I was grateful that it did, because it stopped me from
lapsing fully into a coma.

After the dreadful American remakes of other J-horror hits such as The
Ring, The Grudge and Dark Water, all of which did their best to cause
my brain to shut down entirely, I did wonder about the wisdom of
watching yet another. But I'm a fair man, and I like to give films the
benefit of the doubt, so in went the disc...

Sporting a grungy, desaturated look, and nasty MTV style editing, Pulse
is typical of the unimaginative and stale horror output that has
blighted the genre this decade. The film, aimed at the teen
demographic, does away with logic, suspense and a decent plot; instead,
we get an easy-on-the-eye cast, some cool CGI effects, and a story that
makes no sense whatsoever.

In this confusing tale, a hacker accidentally allows strange creatures
from another dimension to come into our world, using communication
devices as conduits. Once in our world, these things suck out our will
to live, which results in people either disintegrating into ash, or
committing suicide (and by the end of the film, you'll know exactly how
they feel!). As these monsters slowly take over any part of the world
in which technology allows them access, a couple of teens discover the
existence of a computer virus which may be able to put an end to the
evil invaders, but with red tape as their only protection (don't ask!),
will they succeed?

Dreary cinematography, coupled with a dull-as-ditchwater script and
uninspired performances from a bored looking cast, make Pulse an
experience that I am not in a hurry to repeat. Director Jim Sonzero
manages one or two visually impressive moments (involving the bizarre
other-worldly freaks, which look like they're straight out of a Chris
Cunningham video), but for the most part, he seems content to translate
the illogical, badly written and plot-hole ridden screenplay into
uninspired visual tripe, without giving a moment's thought to the fact
that nothing makes much sense.
