
Occasionally when editors send reviewers a list of new and upcoming
films, a kind a war-weariness can set in: even more so when one's gut
feeling suggests an obvious divide between worthwhile cinema and the
barrage of rather missable comedy. Even more so when a film in question
has not risked journalistic censure by having an advance press
screening. I am not one of the many people who thrilled excitedly to
Simon Pegg's efforts in Shaun of the Dead or Hot Fuzz. And I was even
less impressed the last time he joined forces with David Schwimmer in
Big Nothing. So it was with a feeling almost of self-sacrifice that I
volunteered to sit through Run, Fat Boy, Run. Which doesn't even have
car chases or zombies to recommend it.

The surprise was that it is actually quite good.

Simon Pegg studied drama at university but earned his spurs in working
life as a stand-up comedian. Which perhaps explains why his timing is
so split-second perfect. The gags in Run, Fat Boy, Run are not that
remarkable. At times you can even see them coming. But the performance
and skillful delivery is so polished that they are entertaining anyway.

Run, Fat Boy, Run uses a formula that has served Pegg and his growing
fan base well: he is the nerd who eventually turns hero. We feel sorry
for him, irritated by him, repelled by him. He's the well-meaning
hopeless case we just want to 'fix'. So the audience is relieved and
rooting for him by the time he makes good. We are fully behind him by
the time he makes his resolve that he is "sick of being a
'nearly-man'." In this present incarnation, Pegg (Dennis) has an attack
of nerves just before getting married. He runs out on his gorgeous
wife-to-be Libby (played by Thandie Newton) - literally - running off
as she stands in the road in full bridal dress. And pregnant.

Five years later, Dennis is working as a security guard at a women's
clothing store. The predictable jokes are spoon-fed us faultlessly.
Pegg rescues any situation that threatens to become too silly by a look
of open sincerity (rather like Ricky Gervais does with political
humour). But Pegg seems to have an instinctual grasp of cinema that
enables him to extract the best results from his material. On a hot
Saturday afternoon, and with strong competition from much publicised
movies, the auditorium was fairly packed.

The second theme from the film's title comes from Dennis' decision to
run the London marathon. This is mostly to 'prove' something to Libby
(for whom he has now discovered undying love) but also to win a bet for
his mates and to prove himself equal to Libby's super-fit, super-rich,
super-handsome suitor, Whit. His five-year old son provides the magic
glue to pull all the elements of the story together.

In a wise choice, the filmmakers avoid anything that might belittle the
Marathon (given that many UK viewers may have a deep respect for the
institution). But they also bring in much underused and very photogenic
shots of London en-route - particularly the Docklands area.

With such a vanilla story line, Run, Fat Boy, Run is relying on Pegg's
reputation to pull in audiences. I suspect that many of his fans may be
occasional movie-goers who simply demand something light and untaxing.
He has the ability to make a futile chase after stolen women's
underwear amusing. When he seems to be rubbing himself off against a
shop mannequin it could be a pathetic or tacky sketch in any other
hands, but his wide-eyed expression and fast pacing move us from one
joke to the next before we have time to analyse.

I wasn't bored. And I had expected to be. In fact I was laughing
loudly. It reminded me of when JM Barrie had planted children in the
audience of his first performance of Peter Pan. It helps to be in the
company of people who see the joke. Run, Fat Boy, Run has not made me a
convert to Pegg's brand of humour even if I enjoyed the film, but I
have to admit that he is good at his job. Sometimes it is the
difference between a sterile press screening and an audience of fans.
On this occasion, marketing gets the benefit of the doubt.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved Shaun of the dead and hot fuzz so i knew i would like this but
it was even funnier than i thought it was going to be.

A strong cast, the storyline was obvious but then i think that was the
point, it was supposed to be a cliché, that's why it seemed funnier.
The direction and writing were very good and generally the pace of the
film was perfect.

I adore Simon Pegg in these roles, his ability to play the straight,
flawed individual but make him the funniest man on screen is great and
you're drawn to his story, no matter how ridiculous his predicament is.
His best friend was hilarious, the setting of the London marathon was a
great idea and Hank Azaria played his part well as the whole way
through i wanted him to not get the girl and lose the race.

It's not as funny as Simon's other films but i really enjoyed it and it
was well worth paying to see, in fact i'd watch it again tomorrow as
there was so many laughs throughout to hold my interest.

Overall i love the Britishness of this film, the good guy and his basic
life, it's not showy, or Hollywood it's just a simple film with comedy
stars doing silly things and making us laugh, a perfect pick me up if
you ask me.
<|_=00=_|>
Simon Pegg leaves his pregnant bride at the altar and 6 years later is
regretting it -- especially when he sees her new rich, handsome,
perfect suitor (Hank Azaria's comedic talents wasted in a straight role
-- you know he does 100 voices on "The Simpsons", right?).

Simon loves his little boy dearly and fears the new guy might take his
place in the boy's heart. So he's going to try to pull himself together
before it's too late.

There were only 26 people at my noon-on-a-Monday (!) preview screening,
but we all were laughing a lot throughout this film. I even found
myself wiping away a tear at the moving ending.

This film was written by Simon Pegg ("Shaun of the Dead" and "Hot
Fuzz"-- which I loved) and Michael Ian Black (edgy American TV
sketch-comedy) and I expected it to be a lot wackier than it was.

But maybe they wanted to make something more mainstream to reach a
wider audience. Or maybe it was the tempering hand of new movie
director David Schwimmer ("Ross" of "Friends"), who does a good job.

A quite enjoyable movie to go see when you want some laughs. A good
date movie too, I think.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved this film from start to finish!!! The story, the cast, the
acting, the directing all of these things are bang - on hats off to
David Schwimmer i say !! This is isn't exactly the most intellectual
storyline and it isn't going to change your life, but it is very
entertaining Pegg at his best offering some of the funniest lines and
on screen hilarity iv'e seen in a while. Plus Dylan Moran is excellent
and usually i find that Stand-Up Comedians don't carry into films very
well but this didn't seem a problem for Moran.

the film is also riddled with cameo's from famous British Comedians!
That really put the cherry on top of of this film.

If you want to see and honest comedy with a very heartfelt and original
script Run,Fatboy,Run is for you!!!
<|_=00=_|>
This was a great film and had me and the rest of the audience in
stitches. Well worth seeing and for those that have seen Michael
Douglas in the Running [1979] the tale will be somewhat familiar.

Simon Pegg delivers the comedic moments superbly (doesn't he always?)
and yet also convincingly parts a warm touch to, well, those warm
touching moments in the film that he shares with his son.

Harish Patel deserves a very honourable mention as Pegg's
landlord-cum-mentor-cum-trainer. The only problem with the film was
that all the way through I was waiting on Nick Frost to make at least a
cameo appearance - talking of which the David Walliams scene will bring
a smile to those Little Britaners out there.

Great film.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this at the Toronto Film Festival (film not yet on General
Release in Canada) and it was Funny with a capital F. The audience
received it very well - it was both humorous and moving and Peggs
everyday Joe with a big heart and very human foibles was believable
while bumbling, entertaining and at times driven.

I don't know about most people but I go to the cinema to be entertained
- I know there are problems in the world and I face them every day, and
I like a bit of escapism - this is the best kind - humorous but dealing
with real issues, things we don't like to admit we are afraid of -
commitment, failure, our children's welfare. Well written, well
directed, well acted, a really sharp film. Better than Sean, better
than Fuzz :)

With a Q&A session straight after the film, David Schwimmer with Simon
Pegg and Thandie Newton in tow entertained the audience with their
little anecdotes, - I particularly liked Thandies improv!! Well done to
all involved.
<|_=00=_|>
"Big Nothing" was a decent collaboration, but lacked punch. RFBR is
much closer the mark - classic British humour all dressed up as a good
comedy sports romance movie.

It looks and feels like it got Ealing Comedy in its genes - or more
recently The Tall Guy from the 80's, or Steve Coogan's The Parole
Officer rather than class based comedies like Four Weddings - a good
small low-key British comedy, with a nice parade of eccentrics - not
high concept, not too low brow, rather good old fashioned heart which
it absolutely wears its heart firmly on its sleeve.

David Schwimmer seems comfortable behind the camera - our favourite
scene in terms of camera was the bin fight - but overall you know what
genre you watching and it doesn't require too much effort to relax and
enjoy.

The plot is a simple one - Dennis (Simon Pegg) gets cold feet and
literally bolts on his wedding day from his pregnant fiancée, Libby
(Thandie Newton). Five years on, and life has not been good to Dennis,
he's suffering from middle-aged spread, working as a rent-a-cop for a
lingerie store, and living below his Indian landlord (A wonderful
Harish Patel, who deserves lots more work based on this).When his son
starts bonding with Libby's new man Whit (Hank Azurius), whose
everything Dennis is not, and American to boot, Dennis realizes the
relationship with Libby is what he cares about and the only way to beat
Whit is to run the same marathon as him. Needless to say Dennis is as
fit as beached whale, but where the heart will, the body doth follow.

His best friend, and unrepentant gambler Gordon (A super cynical Dylan
Moran at his absolute laid back best) urges him on, partly for
financial gain, and partly, well, because he enjoys seeing Dennis
flounder and succeed.

Like any competent sport movie we get the training etc; but here the
emphasis is on the laughs.

Of course, like any romantic comedy the pay off is sweet, and
uplifting.

It doesn't have enough bite to lift it up to the echelons of classic
comedy - but it works well as a small comedy - there are lots of sweet
touches that pay off - but not enough belly laughs to really satisfy.

We like it a lot - the camera tells the story really well - nothing too
smart, just good narrative filming. David Schwimmer definitely knows
his British films - this looks and fells straight out of the genre -
and you'd never guess a Yank made it - all the nuances are there. Nice.

These guys obviously like each other and we look forward to seeing more
from them in the future...

Recommended as a good small British comedy.
<|_=00=_|>
There have been many British rom coms in the past couple of decades,
many of them including Hugh Grant and his slightly off putting foppish
hair.

I have personally found that the Simon Pegg take on romance to be far
more personable and less likely to make you throw up over other people
in the audience.

Yes it was predictable, yes it wasn't original but the humour was spot
on, the characters were believable and the directing was brilliant in
my eyes as it captured the English town vibe without seeming like a low
budget British soap.

Although it contained every cliché in the book from the genres of rom
com and 'training to win something' movies it didn't seem forced to me
and was light hearted and genuinely funny.

It also had some of my favourite actors from Bristish comedy in it.

Basically if you like spaced (one of the best series ever) and you
don't mind the obvious plot and just sit back and enjoy the movie then
you may find, like me, that this is just a purely brilliant movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Simon Pegg is back, this time as a fatboy, with a new gang, in David
Schwimmer's 'Run Fatboy Run'. Schwimmer has already gained recognition
as a very talented comedy actor in the famous (and one of my all time
favorite) sitcom 'Friends'. He tried his hand in direction with a
couple of episodes of 'Friends' and 'Joey' and a few films. With 'Run
Fatboy Run' he proves that he's a very capable director and does a
brilliant job here. Being an American, I wonder how he studied the Brit
humour as he does a great job giving the film the right Brit charm (of
course with good collaboration from the actors and screenplay).

'Run Fatboy Run' fits into a category which I have freely termed
'Little British Movies' (other movies fitting into this category
include 'Kinky Boots', 'Calender Girls', 'Billy Elliot' etc). These
movies are about people from an ordinary background facing ordinary
problems and tackling them with extraordinary results. Unlike the other
films, 'Run Fatboy Run' relies more on slapstick (just think of 'Shaun
of the Dead') but the dialogues too have the sharp wit and smart humour
that make this a charming film. The story pretty much follows a
'tested' formula where the goofy guy tries to win back his ex-fiancée
(whom he dumped at the alter) after the entry of a rival and when means
fail, he decides to take somewhat drastic measures like run a marathon.
But, what makes turns this formula into something new is that it is
cleverly parodied (again, think of 'Shaun of the Dead').

Pegg stands out doing what he does best. His comic timing is impeccable
and his expressions will surely draw laughs. The actor prevents any of
the comedy that might have fallen flat (had it been performed by a
lesser actor) by making his scenes amusing and entertaining. It's great
to see the sensational Thandie Newton play a Brit after a long time.
Even though her character is pretty much the typical love interest, she
does a good job nonetheless. Hank Azaria is fits the bill as the
nice-guy-we-should-hate. He brilliantly spoofs up his part towards the
end. Dylan Moran is spot on as the cynical goofy friend. Harish Patel
is hilariously phenomenal as the landlord-mentor-friend. Watch out for
the pleasantly surprising cameos.

The camera-work is very good and the makers make good use of the
photogenic park locations in London by making them look colourful and
beautiful. The whimsical soundtrack too adds to the light-heartedness.

Overall, 'Run Fatboy Run' is genuinely funny. It has all the
ingredients finely put together to make it a successful comedy. It
works as a great date movie, a fun family film and a cool comedy to
watch with friends.
<|_=00=_|>
RFR hits all the right rom-com targets - I laughed, I teared up, I
cheered for the little guy and boo-ed the buff villain. Pegg has some
laugh-out-loud lines, especially in tandem with Moran as his Irish mate
Gordon. Moran holds his own in the comedic moments - perhaps the
funniest moment is when he appears in the dressing gown after some love
drama, and asks, "What did I miss?". The fight between the two layabout
friends is hilarious, the staging somehow reminiscent of a Friends
episode (didn't Ross and Chandler once fight this way?). That's a
compliment - Schwimmer has strong comedy pedigree and uses it to full
effect. Also, good to see a US director move seamlessly through a UK
film setting.

If you are in the mood for light, entertaining fare, Friday-night date
stuff, then RFR won't disappoint.
