
I got to go see Sky High at a free preview last night. When I saw the
commercials, I wrote this movie off immediately. It looked like a
strictly-for-kids, stupid-but-cute, teeny-bopper funfest. Blech!

I was pleasantly surprised! I love going into a movie like this with
low expectations and being proved wrong. I am a hardcore comics fan
("weenie" I believe the earlier reviewer said) and I still found a lot
to like here.

The movie has a better take on what a superhero world would actually be
like than many "serious" movies. It was almost like a kids version of
the "Astro City" comic book.

The jokes really made Sky High for me! I wont spoil any for you but I
will point out that the cast included Bruce Campbell, Kevin McDonnell,
Dave Foley and Lynda Carter!

If you're a comics fan, go see it! If you've got kids and want to have
a fun evening, go see it!

I am kinda hoping that this becomes Disney's next live-action series.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw "Sky High" at a preview screening tonight, and I must say I was
pleasantly surprised! A lot of laughs for kids and grownups, a couple
of good plot twists, and a nice message for the youngsters. Kurt
Russell steals the show as an over-the-top super hero, who wants
nothing more than for his son to follow in the family business. Kelly
Preston looks amazing as his flying super hero wife. A great group of
kids play the Sky High students, with cool effects to help them into
their roles... and some nice parables about life in high school. I
expected lots of eye rolling and lame super hero humor... but there was
no lameness, no eye rolls, but plenty of good laughs and sweet moments.
Parents, feel free to go with your kids to this one!
<|_=00=_|>
I think Disney misfired with the very poor The Pacifier and had higher
expectations from the Herbie movie. But they'll do surprisingly well
with this kids flick, I think. Perhaps we even have a sleeper here.

When I saw the Sky High trailer I thought I was going to see the next
installment of Spy Kids. Okay, there are a lot of crazy special effects
in this movie, but the story is actually driven by the nice
performances by almost all the actors instead of lots of SFX.

The film is about young Will Stronghold (charming performance by
Michael Angarano), son of the two most popular and successful
superheroes in the world, The Commander (Kurt Russell) and Jetstream
(Kelly Preston). Will is about to go to Sky High, a school especially
founded for superheroes, but there's one problem: he doesn't own any
superpower. Instead of being a superhero, his highest goal seems to be
the one of sidekick. So how can he survive at school being the son of
the world most famous super duo? And how will his parents react when
they hear the bad news?

Sky High is a very entertaining family movie with lots of good hearted
humor. Early in the movie Bruce Campbell (oh yeah!) steals the show as
(ex-hero, now teacher) Sonic Boomer, who has a 'Sorting Hat' scene in
which he determines which student will go to hero class and which ones
will study for sidekick. Kurt Russell gives a great tongue-in-cheek
performance as proud daddy who thinks it's great that his son defeats
all the bullies at school but has to condemn it in front of his wife.
And that's the opinion of a someone who isn't actually a fan of the
actor himself. The original little ideas dry out after the first half
of the movie, but who said that all family movies should have Oscar
power?

Sky High is a movie about friendship, falling in love with the wrong
girl, falling in love with the right girl and trying to succeed in your
parents footsteps. Very entertaining for the kids, and some nice laughs
for parents too (during the Sidekick lessons given by ex-All American
Boy for instance: lots a references to the Robin from the Batman
TV-series). Great 80's soundtrack as well, with covers from songs by
The Smiths, Talking Heads, Tears for Fears and even Till Tuesday and
Modern English.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw the advance screening of this movie last night and I have to say
that I was very pleasantly surprised! I went into this movie expecting
a cheesy kiddy movie and ended up spending the next hour and a half
being seriously entertained. The story is about a group of freshmen in
their first few months at a super hero high school named "Sky High."
There are all the familiar struggles of high school, such as fitting
in, finding a date, and choosing between the friends you have known and
loved your whole life and the new popular crowd. These high school
newbies have the additional dilemma of learning to use their powers and
live up to the reputations that their parents have established as super
heroes. The movie is sweet without sending the viewers into a diabetic
coma, and has a great message. The theater I was in was also full of
little ones, who I never heard a peep out of! The movie is a great
treat for the entire family and will make a great break from the heat
or a rainy day activity!
<|_=00=_|>
This has the makings of a completely unoriginal hour and a half:
super-hero's, high school, special effects. Much to my surprise, it's
funny, well acted, and original. Apparently, this movie was in
production before the Incredibles was released. It's not a result of
the success.

As someone who grew up during the Love Bug, Benji era of Disney live
action kids movies, it's a nice change of pace. 

It was well worth the time and $. A family movie without a lot of
violence, language, or sexual "near misses". 

Who'd a thunk it!
<|_=00=_|>
Well, I must say that this movie was surprisingly good for it being a
Disney Kid Movie. Now it won't win any Oscars, but it really kept up
the Disney Tradition for being a clean and fun film. It was wonderful
to see Kurt Russell on the screen again with Disney. The acting, again,
not an Oscar performance out of anyone, was clean and sincere, very
believable. The sets and special effects were, well, good. The
diversity and conflict between students of the school, once again...
good. There were some very witty and dry remarks about high school life
as well. Good writing. I say the most surprising thing about this film
was that it was just plain old fun! It had the patrons laughing as well
as I. My 7 year old and my 3 year old loved it and it was still adult
enough with a strong enough plot to keep the parents interested as
well. All in all, it made for a fun afternoon.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was awesome. I went with two other adults & we all enjoyed
it. There were tons of young kids there & in typical Disney style lots
of fun things the adults understood, but the kids didn't (like who the
principal was in our youth)! The kids around me seemed to enjoy it,
along with the adults. If you are looking for an action movie, this is
not it, if you're looking for mystery & intrigue this is not it, if
you're looking for amazing cinematography, not it, but if you're
looking for a fun movie to go to with your family, this is the movie to
go see. I got to go for free, but would definitely pay to go see it
again!
<|_=00=_|>
I remember the days when I was a kid and loved Disney comedies. Son of
Flubber, The Shaggy Dog, etc. Then there was the classic period after I
got a little older with Kurt Russell Disney movies. Well those days are
back and you can even take your kids. It is PG rather than the G of the
old stuff but that is only because of violence and that violence is
directed mostly at property. The characters are not killed or injured.
(A lot better than the Bad News Bears which the theater had warnings up
about being a STRONG PG 13). Anyway Kurt Russell is so campy in this
one and (what a shock) so is Bruce Campbell. The plot and theme borrow
a lot from the Incredibles (which is a good thing because I liked it
the best of Pixar's flicks) Also you might think Hogwarts when you see
the classes except the high school floats in the sky and rather than
potions and avoiding the dark forces the student learn how to be
superhero sidekicks and how to build ray guns in science class. Won't
go any further on that except to say that those scenes are a hoot.
Anyway the good guys win, the bad guys lose, the hero is taught lessons
about life and everyone gets a laugh a minute as it all comes about.
<|_=00=_|>
Kurt Russell went back to his Disney roots with Sky High, a fresh take
on the superhero craze. The story revolves around Will Stronghold(
Michael Angarano) who is the kid of two superhero parents, The
Commander( Kurt Russell) and Jetstream( Kelly Preston). Will is off to
be a freshman at his dad's alma mater- Sky High, a school for
superheroes where they can find their powers and learn how to use them.
High school angst is then thrown into the mix as Will and his new group
of friends, headed up by the typical girl best friend Layla( Danielle
Panabaker), are told they don't fit the superhero mold and become
sidekicks, otherwise known as the losers of the school. 

I loved the idea of this movie and the people in it seemed to be having
a great time. The roles were cast perfectly and it was easy to believe
everyone. A few favorites were Warren Peace( Steven Strait), Layla and
Zach( Nicholas Braun). Sure the plot was a tad predictable, both in the
superhero plot and in the teen drama area but because of the setting
and the mix it made it still worth seeing. Also, anything that has
Bruce Campbell, who plays Coach Boomer, is automatically quirky enough
to be given a chance. Of course the world ends up in danger and the
underdogs must fight to save it, but for once I wasn't upset that I
knew it all.

Disney needed a hit as the past few movies it's put out that were live
action failed to do much. I think Sky High is it. Action for the boys,
cute boys and drama for the girls and Kurt Russell for the moms- great
family movie. All I can end with is I can't wait for it to come out on
video.
<|_=00=_|>
I attended a screening of this movie last night and I must say this is 
the only comic book film I have seen in a long time that I immediately 
want to see again.

I was there with a row of press and was invited to bring my kids, 
seeing as I do't have any I took my nephew. This boy is all over the 
place most of the time, but he was rivited when the movie started and 
when it ended he wanted toys, I don't think there are any.

I spent time at a round session conducting interviews of the cast and I 
was lucky enough to run into the creator of Sky High, Paul Hernandez.
Hernandez was surrounded by Latino press who were all hitting him with 
questions. I was about to leave when he stopped me and said jokingly 
"don't worry, I speak English too." We chatted about his attempt to set 
this up as a television series in 94 and how he left the production to 
work on Greatest American Hero at Disney, as well as Instant Karma for 
New Line, a film he is directing staring the Rock and Pierce Brosnan. 
With just the 10 min or so I spent with him, I could tell where the wit 
and vision of this film came from.
