
A good thriller is my favorite genre and I was hooked into this film
within the first few seconds and stayed involved for the entire ride.
It kept me guessing throughout. The contrast between eerie cop shop and
stark, beautiful prairies is a stylish treat for the eyes. The
performances are believable and compelling. Well cast, without
exception. The little girl is surprisingly good. Her even performance
made me wonder about what had happened to her and drew me into the
story. When she wasn't on screen, I worried about her safety. The
ending is a clever, eerie choice. I was taken completely by surprise
and I usually predict a telegraphed ending a mile away. In this case,
any other choice would be a cop-out (pardon the pun). I was glad that
the director resisted the temptation for a blood-fest. It could have
gone much further in that vein. Instead the tension relied upon
intelligent visual storytelling. Kudos to everyone involved. I
thoroughly enjoyed this film.
<|_=00=_|>
Surveillance proved to be highly entertaining from beginning to end. A
clever blend of dark comedy, crime thriller, and a slight dash of
horror. I was a little surprised by the choice in cast as several well
known comedic actors appear in serious roles. What surprised me more is
how well they did portraying their characters. For me the characters
hold equal credit (as the story) in the entertainment displayed in this
film. My only complaint would be the sheer confusion in the story for
the first quarter of this film. Of course everything begins to come
together but a little more clarity as to what exactly everyone was
discussing would have been nice. A minor complaint for an otherwise
brilliant movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm usually happy to spoiler away in reviews - this time I shall be
very careful not to spoiler.

I hadn't realised that the tendency to make disturbing movies is
hereditary, but Jennifer Lynch's Surveillance is every bit as
disturbing as anything Dad David has made. It starts with a moderately
familiar scenario - two FBI agents arrive at a small police station (4
officers, one captain, one dispatcher) in the back of beyond to tape
video interviews with the survivors of some sort of incident: the
nature of what happened is revealed during the interviews. To say any
more is to spoiler, so I'll shut up about the plot.

But I will say that "disturbing" is the best word to describe almost
all of what follows. And not just one lot of disturbing, but several.
The film is gripping, visceral, and features some stunning
performances, notably from Bill Pullman who is not someone who I would
normally have put high on my list of those I expect to surprise me
performance-wise.

Not an easy film in many ways, but definitely worth catching.
<|_=00=_|>
How have I not heard of this movie before? Absolutely fantastic. It's
difficult to review a movie by Jennifer Lynch without comparing it to
the work of her father. 'Surveillance' possesses the Lynchian small
town banality, stilted dialogue, awkward character dynamics, brutal
violence, truly twisted killers, and generally off-kilter weirdness
that you'd expect. But despite the stylistic similarities, the two are
very different filmmakers. 'Surveillance' has a far more traditional
structure with a familiar art-house/indie conceit of multiple
perspectives and unreliable narrators. The central mystery is expertly
revealed through the eyewitness accounts of several individuals, slowly
building the sense of dread to a knock-out last act revelation that
doesn't disappoint. One of the best thrillers in recent years and
deserving of a much larger audience. More than enough evidence that
Jennifer Lynch is a talent in her own right.
<|_=00=_|>
............................................................from
Pasto,Colombia...Via: L.A. CA., CALI, COLOMBIA and ORLANDO, FL 

Jennifer Lynch, daughter of David Lynch (Mullholand Dr....Yes, I can
see that!) You can rest assured, with each passing year, Ms. Lynch's
name will grow ever more prominent! Several friends have rated this 6*.
Hmmm, up front, for the record, 9*; loud and clear, front and center.
My prognostication: SURVEILLANCE will soon attain "Cult Classic"
status, with legions of aficionados. You heard it here first, from the
Id of Dr. Morbius! 

Now I'll tell you why. Almost from the very onset, the underlying
tension, the nail-biting, sparks-flying friction between characters is
hypnotic and entrancingly numbing. Surveillance is beyond dark, to the
point of being "Non-commercial"! Now, is that good? Well, you'll have
to decide that for yourself! 

***** Very MINOR SPOILERS Coming Up! ******

Lots of reviewers have mentioned the "surprise ending". IMHO there are
quite obviously 2 back-to-back, from-out-of-left-field plot twists at
the end of the movie. Well 3, if you count theOOPS! I can't really
say, now can I? Ms. Lynch is really up to snuff on her movie-making
technique. Editing, camera-angles, photography, close-ups, and pacing;
SUPERB, ALL of them! WOW! 

SURVEILLANCE wasn't a .22 Caliber bullet to my brainit was a .45! Blew
my mind in one fell swoop! But this film has "POLARIZING" written all
over it! From sincere, soul-searching reviewers, we should see lots of
either 8 to 10* ratings, or 2* and 3* ones. 

The violence, although mostly not extremely graphic, nor taking up much
on-screen time, considering the genre, was so pathologically twisted,
I'm sure it'll prove too just intense for the likings of many. For this
reason, I've had a change of heart, or let's say GUTS, to
8*......ENJOY/DISFRUTELA!

Any comments, questions or observations, in English o en Español, are
most welcome! 

KissEnglishPasto@Yahoo.com
<|_=00=_|>
Jennifer Chambers Lynch, one would assume had been nursing her pride
from the dreadful reception of her debut, Boxing Helena. Fifteen years
later she releases Surveillance. This one, a murder mystery, is a major
improvement but it still has problems. It is a well-crafted seventy
minute movie with a remaining twenty minutes of clumsiness, bad writing
and a twist which unfortunately is predictable. The movie comes apart
when it needs to come together, and the result is medium good, when it
could have been very good.

FBI agents Anderson and Halloway for months have been investigating a
series of interstate serial killings. The latest chapter in their
investigation brings the stories of two odd-ball cops, a dis-communal
family on a road trip, and a couple of coke-snorting kids, together in
Rashomon fashion. 

I like the way Surveillance plays out. Lynch keeps everything slow and
mannered, unlike Boxing Helena which is over-blown from the beginning.
Lynch is able to keep the film under control, but unfortunately is
unable to pull the wool over the viewer's eyes. The answers we are
looking for become obvious too quickly, making one question whether her
intention was to have the viewer fooled or not. Survaillance is not
designed to be conventional thriller. It is too deep and psychological
for that, but it sort of ends like one.

If I was gonna label Surveillance in a word, it would be 'bitter'. When
it's over, you come to realize that none of the characters (save one or
two small roles) are all that respectable. Lynch's screenplay breaks
them down into those who mistreat and those who get mistreated,
sometimes both. On a positive note it contributes significantly to the
drama or tension of the picture. There is a major lack of heart to the
film, although at the same time, there is a certain lack of credibility
as a side effect. Any attempt to explain may be a spoiler so I wont go
that far, but that raises another question...

If I don't intend to spoil it, does that mean I am recommending it?
Well, truth be told, I didn't dislike Surveillance. It is eerie and
grim, which is certain a plus for a thriller, but the outcome is kind
of disappointing. My advice: watch it only if you are curious, but it
is not a movie that needs to be seen.
<|_=00=_|>
A pair of serial killers is on the loose, and their latest hotspot is
Nebraska. When the FBI investigates, they find that all the witnesses
have conflicting stories and are leaving out parts that make them look
bad.

Jennifer Lynch is not her father, and it is not fair to her for
everyone to compare them. However, for those who are concerned, this is
not on the level of David Lynch (but few things are). In its own right,
it's a very entertaining and suspenseful film, and it might keep you
guessing until the end. For the first half, we are only given a small
part of the story, and it works well... I just had to know the rest.

Bill Pullman is fantastic as always (though he's beginning to show his
age). I can't see anyone else in the role. Julia Ormond is not familiar
to me, but she is also excellent. Cheri Oteri and French Stewart did a
great job in serious, and in Stewart's case menacing, roles... a nice
adjustment from their past.

I haven't seen anyone compare this film to the crimes of Charles
Starkweather (which inspired "Natural Born Killers"), which strikes me
as odd. Two killers driving through Nebraska? Seems like a
connection... but then, maybe I'm just crazy.

This film is worth seeing and a fine piece of work. It may not be
remembered in a few years (it has already begun to fade quickly), but
hopefully word of mouth keeps the attention on it for a while.
<|_=00=_|>
As if to demonstrate the old adage that "the apple doesn't fall far
from the tree," director Jennifer Lynch gave the world in her belated
sophomore effort, 2008's "Surveillance," a film just as disturbing as
any in her father David's oeuvre. Her follow-up to 1993's "Boxing
Helena," the film follows two very atypical FBI agents, portrayed by
Bill Pullman and Julia Ormond, who are investigating a string of
homicides in the plains of Nowheresville. (The picture was shot in the
grasslands outside of Regina, Saskatchewan.) The pair interviews three
salient witnesses: a young female coke addict (Pell James, who is
excellent here), a local cop and an 8-year-old girl (Lynch elicits a
wonderfully mature performance from young Ryan Simpkins). By the film's
end, the conflicting accounts yield a somewhat clearer picture, before
a twist ending really pulls the rug out from under the viewer. Indeed,
this ending--a remarkably downbeat, merciless and outrageous
shocker--should stun and flabbergast most of the film's audience. A
repeat viewing of "Surveillance" demonstrates how very fairly the
writers and Lynch have played their game, and will give an added
appreciation for certain actors in the cast. "I promise you, it's not
like the other films you'll see," Ms. Lynch tells us in one of the
DVD's copious extras, and darn if she isn't right! I cannot offhand
think of another picture so deliberately amoral, and so blithely
ruthless in the treatment of its entire roster of characters. While
some might walk away from "Surveillance" clucking "sick, sick, sick,"
most, I feel, will applaud its bravura daring, technical brilliance,
fine acting and shocking windup. It's certainly not a movie to watch
with the kids or with Aunt Petunia, but for those game for something
different, it should just prove the ticket....
<|_=00=_|>
A good thriller and I was hooked into this film within the first Ten
Minutes and stayed involved for the entire ride. It kept me guessing
throughout. The contrast between eerie cop shop and stark, beautiful
prairies is a stylish treat for the eyes. The performances are
believable and compelling. Well cast, without exception. The little
girl is surprisingly good. Her even performance made me wonder about
what had happened to her and drew me into the story. The ending is a
clever, eerie choice. I was taken completely by surprise and I usually
predict a ending a mile away Not In this case. It could have gone much
further in that vein. Instead the tension relied upon intelligent
visual storytelling. Kudos to everyone involved. I thoroughly enjoyed
this film it left me Wanting More!
<|_=00=_|>
"Surveillance" starts so promising... its a pretty raw movie and from
the obscure opening on to the landscape shots, introduction of the
characters until the unfolding of the stories begins its interesting
while not using any music or effects or whatever. Basically the movie
is about a couple of FBI agents who are interrogating three survivors
of a bloody crime and trying to find out what happened. The way the
story is told through the eyes of the different survivors who all got
something to hide and therefore all tell different stories while the
real occurrences are shown is really interesting and tense. The
characters, especially the twisted corrupt cops, the little girl and
the drug-addict are also great and everyone in that backwoods police
station where the interrogations take place delivers. Funny thing is...
to me the 2 FBI agents are the least interesting although they are the
main characters.

So the whole story is unfolding, interweaving different points of views
and everyone being suspicious, the crime is even shown in a pretty
brutal way and the movie has a strange nihilistic feeling to it right
until the bleak closing shot. Especially the way how the corrupt cops
act out somehow really got to me.

But then in its most important part, the final resolution of the story
they go for a twist of the most idiotic kind...

SPOILER ALERT:

The FBI agents are the killers and the whole movie was just a kind of
sick mind game. Yeah, pretty smart... problem is that nothing makes any
sense at all. You don't get explanations to why they make such a big
hassle of interrogating everyone for hours just to kill them in the end
and having some strange sexual pleasure of it. Sure, the real FBI
agents are found dead in a hotel room and identified by their badges,
but how the hell our 2 smartasses identified themselves as FBI agents?
How did they learn to set up and operate their interrogation
surveillance equipment and why does the little girl only tell her
secrets to the most demented people around... first the cops after
harassing her family, then the killer who killed her family. No
explanation in any of the actions of her or her family. Its just a bad
twist turning the whole movie upside down and leaving you with a total
mess of a story that looked so promising when you didn't yet know what
was happening.

Until the last quarter I really liked "Surveillance", then i started to
hate it. I guess that still makes it a clean average movie...
