
Frankly I'm rather incensed that on the basis of the dazzling reviews
attributed to Steven Smith I wasted nearly two hours on his debut
offering. Have they all been written by his pals? The action clunks
along, the music is irritating and over used, the script is simply dire
and the actors (with the exception of the gardener) mediocre at best. I
do think we should support the efforts of a young filmmaker but saying
it's brilliant when it's not will surely only encourage him to make the
same mistakes again i.e. continuing to write his own scripts and using
the same actors for another venture. Yes, it's his first film, low
budget etc. - I get it, but it's also out there for members of the
public to purchase and it's just not up to scratch.
<|_=00=_|>
It's one of those dramas that's so bad that it almost hits the point of
being very funny, the script is absolutely dire, direction appalling,
lighting purely armature, the only thing letting it down from a true so
bad it's good feel is that the sound design is only quite bad; it adds
no suspense to the story although trying hard, but doesn't at least
destroy any speeches. There's continuity problems of seasons of out
door shots throughout. And finally last but not least the acting is
appalling. For a professional production it very much has the feel of a
university media project you have to feel sorry for the sorry for
anyone who had to put their names to this.
<|_=00=_|>
Happened upon a copy of this. Not mine and if I had spent my own money
on this I'd be finding those responsible and demanding it back! All I
can say is this would be a terrible student film. Any understanding of
the medium of film is absent. Acting is god awful, the story would have
been rejected from the original Twilight Zone series as unoriginal and
lame, and the change in tone of the lead character's reaction to the
'ghost' is laughable.

I can only agree that the 'glowing' reviews of this film are from
friends and family. I'm afraid it's not even entertainingly bad.

Amateur in the extreme! 

Avoid! Avoid! Avoid!
<|_=00=_|>
The film is bad on virtually every level-even student films run circles
around this for quality. The dialogue and acting is dire. The
exposition dumps are hilarious. Virtually all the actors seem to be
just reciting lines into space, there is no sense that they are talking
to each other or have any sense of timing. The lighting fluctuates
wildly. The tone flicks all over the place and the lead actress can't
decide whether to be chummy with the ghosts or terrified- so she goes
back and forth throughout the film. She also receives and forgets
information consistently- maybe the script changed throughout filming.
If I had to hear the fake asthmatic gasp of the lead one more time, I
might have had an asthma attack myself. It's completely inaccurate as
to English inheritance law and just generally doesn't make much sense.
Part of the reason my review is so harsh is that I am very leery of all
the 10 star reviews- an adoring mother wouldn't be able to give this
'baby' more than a 6 and an honest review is truly a 1.
<|_=00=_|>
"A REAL GHOST CAPTURED ON FILM" trumpets the front cover. "WAS IT ONE
OF THE STARS AFTER SEEING THE FINISHED PRODUCT, HAUNTING THE SET OF
WHAT DROVE HIM TO THE EDGE OUT OF SHAME". I ask. But I kid... Suicide
is no laughing matter... so don't do it. There are people who love you,
the Samaritans are only a phone call away, it'll take ages for your mum
to clean the bathtub... etc. But IF there was a good reason for taking
the ultimate step, being part of this... THING must rank somewhere
between your family discovering you're a poultry molestor, or that you
have all of Shaking' Stevens back catalogue in your collection.

I have to ask... Is this a joke? When they picked these actors, who
must rank among some of the WORST I've ever seen (they can't even smile
convincingly) was it because they paid into the project, or the casting
director had a LOT of extended family members? And as for the
dialogue... Jeez. It starts off like a bad episode of Eastenders, then
we get the historical flashbacks... And it starts to resemble a REALLY
bad Jane Austen adaptation. (Apologies for linking the great lady's
name with this tripe). Seriously, if you set up a cringe-o-meter for
the lines here, it would be off the scale every 10 seconds.

AHA you might add, it may be a boil on the bum of Satan, a complete
disgrace to the film industry and anyone with a brain, but at least
it's good for a few unintentional laffs, right? Well... Yes, and no.
Yes, in that there are some choice moments here which'll have you
rolling in the aisles, but having to tolerate the rest of the crap that
is bundled along with it... I don't think so.

I'm thinking back to that supposed spectre "CAPTURED ON FILM", and I
have another theory. Could it be... Jeremy Beadle playing a gag on us
all from the afterlife? Did the spook have a big bushy beard, and was
he carrying a microphone? If it was indeed the prankster himself, than
THAT WOULD EXPLAIN EVERYTHING!! Making a fake movie... that must rank
as one of his most audacious set-ups yet. Of course... anyone who's
watched it would figure it out immediately... NO-ONE would spend money
on making something as shoddy as this. Right? RIGHT?! 0/10
<|_=00=_|>
I usually love ghost stories, but this was dire.

To begin with, in parts of this film I got the impression that someone
on the crew had watched 'Moondial' one too many times and decided to
make an adult version. So frankly, not even particularly original.

Then there's the lead actress. I've seen better in school plays -
wooden, unattractive and looked continually puzzled throughout the
entire film. 

It has the feel of something shot by a group of friends with a
hand-held video camera - so amateurish it's ridiculous. Is this a
student film project? If so, I don't know what it's doing listed here.

If you're thinking of watching it - seriously, don't waste your time.
<|_=00=_|>
I've just had a chance to see this film, and having read the comments
below, feel the need to add my say. First I must say that I have spoken
to Greenway about working in their next film, 'The Book', so bear in
mind that I think the film is more than good enough to warrant putting
my time and effort into the opportunity of working with Steven Smith. I
would not discount all of the negative points in the previous two
postings (although I'm glad that one had the sense to point out the
dazzling performance of the Gardener), however it is clear to me that
Steven is going to go far in his career. I did enjoy watching the film,
and found that as the story progressed I, like the characters, became
drawn into the story of Hylands House.
<|_=00=_|>
The quality of the film is way beyond its budget with good acting and
beautifully filmed across historic landmarks in England. The storyline
keeps your attention and the music provides the right atmosphere
throughout the film. The film starts off as a suspense thriller and
turns into a period romance so it should appeal to a large cross
section of people. The movie switches across two hundred years between
the present and the past, with some clever effects when the two times
are interacting with each other. Due to the nature of the film with its
strong storyline and the way it was shot, it will look good both on the
big screen and on DVD.
<|_=00=_|>
I had the pleasure in watching this movie at Cannes in May and
considering it was made for less than nothing it was a very well put
together feature. The buzz was it had a real ghost caught on film and
true, there it was, a silver orb floating behind the older actor in a
scene straight out of Pride and Predujice. I looked into this and it is
apparently very rare to film an orb in daylight!!!! Where do I get
these things from? Watched too many "Most Haunted" episodes I guess!!
This is a must buy if when it is released. The story was excellent,
it's simpleness was it's charm!! Want to get this on DVD. When is it
released? Anybody help out?
<|_=00=_|>
For director Steven M. Smith's first feature film, I was very impressed
with how nicely handled this story was played out. The locations are
beautiful and the actors are great! Ally (played by Laura Penneycard...
who also has some small resemblance's to British actress Kiera
Knightley, no joke!) plays a young girl who is an inspiring
photographer who happens to be drawn to this old English house she
comes upon with a group of friends one day exploring. She then realizes
that she has had a connection to this place..through recurring dreams
she has been having often. She doesn't know what it all her dreams mean
until she meets the ghost who haunts the gardens..named Emmett (played
by Geoff Shaw). Emmett, a kind and humble man has been bound to spend
his eternity in the gardens..is determined to find his true love that
he lost many years ago when living there. Apparently, the ghost of his
true love is also roaming the gardens in search of him too! Only Ally
holds the secret deep down to where he might find his long lost love,
the only thing is, she needs to figure it out. Through the help of the
ghost Emmett, Peter the Gardner (played by Colin Bower), and various
other characters and clues will she unlock the secret to Emmett's past
and the mysterious connection she herself holds. Check this out if you
get the chance if you like ghost stories with some mystery, twists, and
a love story! The real ghost caught on film also had a sweet cameo!
