
*Minor spoilers involving structure of the film, no plot points*

In short, it isn't nearly as bad as everyone is saying. Let me
elaborate. 

In case people don't know, the first Sin City from 2005 was based on
the 1st, 3rd and 4th books in the 7 part series by Frank Miller. These
follow the story lines of Marv, Dwight and Hartigan respectively. In
addition to those, there are also a few shorts thrown in, either from
the books or not. So, needless to say, Sin City and its sequel are both
anthology films. If you want one single story that takes 2 hours, this
may not be your thing. 

Sin City 2 follows almost the exact same structure as the original,
which I found nice. Sure they didn't do anything original with the
structure, which was sort of playing it safe, but I liked it. It felt
familiar and reminded me of the original which I loved very much. It
begins with another short story, this time starring Marv. It rocks. It
continues on with a new story not contained in any of the books. It
stars Johnny, a gambler who "never loses". Mid way through, we cut to
another story. This is the 2nd book, titled "A Dame to Kill For". If
you've read this, you won't see anything new. Like with the first film,
they essentially translated the story from page to screen, and it works
for the most part. There was one detail I didn't like, but it doesn't
last long. Then after that, we finish up the story with Johnny, and
finally, we get to the revenge mission involving Nancy and her hunt for
Senator Rourke. That's all I'll say about that. 

Everyone is complaining about how the movie looks like a cutscene from
a video game. They are sort of right, but not entirely. Even after
waiting 2 weeks, I was unable to find a theatre in my city showing the
film in 2d. It seems like this is happening more and more now. If you
want to see an action movie in theatres, it's 3d whether you like it or
not. Now, having not seen a 2d version to make a comparison, I can say
that the 3d is most likely what makes it look so video game-y. I'm sure
in 2d it'll look slightly better at least. 

Update: I did see it in 1080p and in 2D, and it does look less like a
video game cutscene. You can still tell that there's a lot of CGI, but
it's done better than a lot of films. 

Also, greenscreen sets have been used for over a decade now, I don't
see why people are complaining so much. Everything is a CGI-fest these
days, and this story, with a fantastic setting and extraordinary
physics pulls it off nicely. You can tell, but it's far from awful. 

Everyone is saying they loved the first one, but hated this one. I
don't see how that's possible. They stuck very close to the original in
most ways, such as cinematography, soundtrack, and directing, all of
which were great (for a Sin City movie). Sure it isn't a masterpiece my
any means, and it's not as good as the first, but it's super
entertaining, very violent, and is sure to please anyone who enjoys the
books or the first film. Forget all those jaded movie snobs saying it
sucks. They're just focusing on all the negatives, and letting that
cloud their vision of the awesome stuff.
<|_=00=_|>
Sin City was one of my favorite movies of the 2000s. A fun, creative
film noir cartoon with unique visuals and a style all its own. The
first problem you run into with this sequel is that it offers nothing
new. It's a stylistic retread of the first movie, only less impressive.
The visuals copy the first movie but somehow seem cheaper. The makeup
effects aren't as good either, with Marv's jaw easily twice the size of
the last movie. The action is weaker, with no memorable sequences and a
final showdown that is derivative of the first movie. The other big
problem is that the writing is very poor this time and the stories
don't flow well together. The Dwight story is lame. The Johnny story is
pointless. The Nancy story is impossible to take seriously, especially
the ghost parts. Sadly, this movie is boring, listless, and disjointed.
It's a movie that didn't need to be made. Still, it's always nice to
see Eva Green naked. That's something that never gets old.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me begin by saying that the first Sin City is one of my favorite
movies of all time. I thought it was an absolute blast to watch, and
the filming style blew me away.

A Dame to Kill For is the same type of movie as the first, but it is
not executed quite as well. It may just be be cause the style lost some
of its original appeal, but I thought it didn't live up to its
predecessor. With that said, I still thought A Dame to Kill For was a
great time at the movies. Everything about it was solid. It continued
the action from the first and did not fail to keep me at the edge of my
seat. And, Marv was his normal, b.a. self.

A Dame to Kill for consists of two story lines that are prequels to
those of the first Sin City and one that is a sequel. I felt that it
delivered very well in its attempt to support what happened in the
first movie. I would recommend re-watching the first one so that you're
fresh for this. Sometimes you can forget the names if you haven't seen
it in a while.

Overall, this movie was great. If I had not seen the first Sin City, I
would have been blown away.

I give it a 8/10. A definite must-see.
<|_=00=_|>
A Dame to Kill for is by no means a boring or bad film. It succeeds as
a satisfying sequel to the far more novel and perhaps stronger Sin
City... it is bloody, violent, beautifully made, with cool deep voices,
nudity and clearly fitting into the film noir genre. Where it falls
short is in the charactersationssliding a bit, the strength of two
original stories, the change in actors and the gap between the first
and second film. There is also a desperate need for more iconic moments
which the Sin City comics and the film has plenty of, but they never
really come in A Dame to Kill for. 

The characters seems less edgy, less strong charactered and some
despite being far more stereotypical carries less of a punch.
Especially Marv and Dwight who are the central characters fall a bit
short. With Dwight almost feeling detached from the story he is the
centre character of. I never thought I would find myself ever thinking
that Owen over Brolin. Rourke however seems to have lost some of his
edge again, but still causes plenty of mayhem. The new original story
lines is probably as good as the rest, but it feels like we never get a
very satisfying end out the first one of it especially because it plays
as probably the most straightforward story with less of the iconic art
work or stunning scenes put in it, it relies on Gordon-Hevitt's
abilities more than anything else. The second original story however
fairs better mostly due to Alba's dancing and Rourke's brute. If one
has not recently seen Sin City and goes to see this it can be a bit
hard putting things into place in it's sequel... most people benefit
from having seen Sin City recently in order to truly enjoy the film's
anachronistic narrative. 

It is an awesome film, I will not argue against that, and it does give
people more of what they want from Sin City. And there is maybe couple
of camels to swallow. But I think in time when seen in union with it's
predecessor and sequel(s) it will come out stronger than it might
appear now.

I saw the 3D version and surprisingly it actually works well for the
film, although I am sure the film would be just as good in 2D alone. It
is worth seeing in the cinema, it has the scale/action/importance and
beauty to justify that. It will not be remembered for it's visuals as
much as Sin City, but it will be recognised for how it fits into the
Sin City style.
<|_=00=_|>
I went into this film with very high expectations, being a dedicated
lover of the graphic novels & the original film, I have waited a long
time for this film to come out.

I will start with the positives, the film is as beautiful as the
original & stunning in its visual appearance. Mickey Rourke is
excellent as Marv yet again.

Sadly, that is about all the good I can say. Joseph Gordon-Levitt was
very weak & his character almost pointless, beyond being time filler.
The script writing was not as snappy as the first. The whole thing just
didn't flow as well nor feel as polished as the first, a real let down,
they could have made something stunning & just went for easy money
<|_=00=_|>
OK, maybe this movie isn't aimed at "mature" audiences, but for adults
looking for a trashy good time at the movies then you won't get a movie
any better than this. If you want to see unrelenting brutality & most
of Eva Green you will get your money's worth & then some. 

Green totally owns the "Dame" role that she was perfectly cast for.
When her story ends the movie does drop off (fortunately her story is
most of the movie).

The "Sin City look" is enhanced by 3D (I normally avoid 3D) & rates as
one of the best uses of 3D I've ever seen. Fans (like me) of Miller's
"A Dame To Kill For" comic book will be thrilled at it's obsessive
loyalty to word & frame screen treatment. It looks fantastic! (Maybe, I
mean to say that Green looks fantastic. It's both.) I don't get all the
criticism of how this "look" has grown tiresome --not for me in 3D.

All the actors in big roles to small look like they are having a sinful
amount of fun, but Joseph Gordon-Levitt is almost as strong as Green in
a new role in one the new stories written for the movie. If you saw
"Looper" (or "Inception") you already know that JGL can play a tough
guy despite his physical size.

Make no mistake this movie is a feature length Roadrunner cartoon for
adults --emphasis on "adults"--with all of the ridiculous action &
over- the-top violence that only a cartoon can get away with because of
the way it's rendered.(No kids, please: there is just enough gore that
isn't so cartoonish to make it unfit for children.)

Like the first Sin City 9 years ago, this new Sin City is B-movie
bliss. (I still don't like Jessica Alba as "Nancy".)
<|_=00=_|>
I'd like to begin by saying the original 2005 Sin City is one of my
favorite movies. The way it was put together, the cinematography, the
characters, the dialogue...everything. It was truly a breakthrough
film. This sequel however is a letdown. It's not the type of letdown
where the product can't match the hype, it's just everything I enjoyed
about the first movie turned over. Yes, A Dame to Kill For is still
broken into chapters and shot in B/W with occasions flashes of color,
and I loved the allusions to the previous film and comic books-
however, in contrast to the rich character depth and storyline, the
storyline(s) is flat, bland, and lacks the energy the dialogue
contained in the previous film. Also, the storyline isn't remotely as
interwoven as it was in the previous, the directors struggled to keep
the chapters intertwined-the *only* connection being Kadie's Bar, which
all of the characters visited at least once. I appreciated that Robert
Rodriguez and Frank Miller attempted to bring humor into the mix, but
Marv's second, "I hope you don't mind me saying this...." scene really
doesn't belong in the movie. 

This was my first review I hope you like it, I know it's not perfect,
but these are my thoughts in a nutshell.
<|_=00=_|>
Almost ten years later, writer/directors Robert Rodriguez and Frank
Miller try to strike gold again with a second screen adaptation of the
Sin City graphic novels.

Unfortunately, A Dame to Kill For suffers from all the afflictions of a
bad sequel: an overcomplicated plot forcing a resolved story forward,
recasting of previous roles and the addition of new but significantly
less compelling characters, and exploiting the spark that made the
first film great while still not having that magical appeal.

Once again we find ourselves in hardened and corrupted town of Basin
City where the inhabitants exist and resist against the sinful city,
while others revel in its reprehensible environment.

Producers started working on a sequel seven years after the initial
film was released. In that time Brittany Murphy and Michael Clarke
Duncan passed. Though they portrayed minor characters, their
characters, Shellie and Manute respectively, were vastly effectual and
favorites in the film. Rodriguez elected to retire Shellie, smartly,
but recast Manute with Dennis Haysbert, but he did not stop there. He
also chose to recast Devon Aoki's Miho with the exceedingly inferior
Jamie Chung and Michael Madsen's Bob with Jeremy Piven. Further, Clive
Owen's Dwight McCarthy is seemingly recast and played by Josh Brolin.
Mickey Rourke's Marv makes a surprise appearance considering he died in
the previous film. Eye candy Jessica Alba dons the stirrups once again
as Nancy but this time gets an unnecessary and boring principal role.

It's almost impossible to write a summary for the film without giving
away key aspects of the plot. Note, the term 'spoiler' was not used
deliberately as nothing would be spoiled. Despite having several
fascinating and explicit story lines from the comics, Frank Miller and
Robert Rodriguez decided to force five seemingly unconnected and
irrelevant segments worth of content into a Sin City sequel that is
really a pointless prequel-sequel hybrid. Within thirty minutes at
least seven main characters and their associated stories, all in
infancy, branch out with no time to become invested or even care about
the outcome.

The revolutionary awe and savagery of Sin City is gone. The inventive
techniques that made the first film extraordinary are exploited and
bludgeoned to death. Rodriguez and Miller over-utilize popping colors
against the stylized black and white motif so that the significance in
these items and moments diminishes to nothingness.

The witty dialogue that succinctly dripped with a retro film noir edge
falls flat on the tongue of the, arguably, main character portrayed by
Josh Brolin. Brolin lacks the debonair and commanding force that Clive
Owen has in the first film. Peppered with lazy and lame metaphors, the
script sounds like the banal ramblings of a poorly followed twitter
account of a desperate writer. Example: "An atom bomb goes off between
my legs. A freight train barrels into my jaw." Then to keep up with the
gruesome and shocking content of its predecessor, A Dame to Kill For
randomly adds violence as an obvious afterthought.

It is incomprehensible that, after seven years, the producers would
rush into filming besides a hefty paycheck with this paltry, tame and
inconsequential movie. A Dame to Kill For is painfully contrived and
completely pointless.

For more FULL reviews, please check out our website.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm a big fan of Frank Miller's work, and "Sin City" (2005) and "300"
(2006) are two of my favorite films. But just as the sequel "300 Rise
of an Empire" disappointed, this sequel is not up to the original. In
fact, it is so far from the original it's disturbing. There is nothing
new here, and much of what made the original entertaining is missing as
well. More problematic, everyone's voice seems the same.

Some of the guest stars (Christopher Lloyd, Jeremy Priven, Chris
Melonik, Jude Ciccolella) are on screen for such a short period of time
it's a waste. Meanwhile, the bulk of the story revolves around John
Brolin who doesn't have the charisma to carry the film, and Bruce
Willis as a ghost is a waste of everyone's time. Jessica Alba has
little to do except dance, which she does very well.

If like me you're a fan of Miller's work you'll want to go see this,
but don't get your hopes up too high.
<|_=00=_|>
Sin City: A Dame to Kill For, much like its predecessor, should really
be considered a bad film. Yet its bizarre mixture of cartoonish
ultra-violence, cheesy dialogue, and noire aesthetic come together to
create something incredibly unique. It is also a film that makes good
use of 3D, as at times it looks like you are staring at a three
dimensional diorama of a comic book frame, and it is beautiful.

The cast is strong, although with so many big names a lot of them only
end up getting a few minutes of screen time. Mickey Rourke returns as
Marv, and is clearly the heart of the movie, featuring in three of the
four stories in major roles. Josh Brolin takes over for Clive Owen as
Dwight, which works well given the darker tone in A Dame to Kill For.
As for Joseph Gordon-Levitt as Johnnie, a newcomer to the franchise,
Gordon-Levitt does well enough with the role, but Johnnie's story
itself is rather forgettable. Jessica Alba returns as Nancy, and is
both appropriately sexy and scary at the same time. The casting
couldn't have been better.

The plot itself consists of four loosely connected stories featuring
the four lead protagonists respectively, it does feel a little rougher
during the transitions between them compared to the original Sin City.
The titular story, A Dame to Kill For, certainly stands out among the
four, and fans will be more than pleased with this adaptation of one of
the most beloved Sin City comics.

Sin City: A Dame to Kill For may not be as innovative or as seamless as
the original, but it is still a great, unique piece of cinema.

Now I hope you don't mind me saying this... But this here is a film to
kill for.
