
Got a free screening pass to see it 6-12, saw it with some car buddies,
the dork I am took notes.

This movie had more semblance of a plot than the rest of the franchise,
the action stayed fresh and actually flowed with the plot, and the
characters actually had motivation this time! There weren't any HUGE
glaring inaccuracies (other than daddy throwing sonny the keys to a car
with NO ENGINE in it...) The three cameos in the film were well placed,
though a bit campy at the very end. The cars and action sequences were
amazingly choreographed, one even leaving my whole theatre clapping for
the protagonist.

I give 8/10 because of low expectations, and being totally blown away
when it was much better than I expected.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm getting the feeling that the majority of reviews here as of June
14th are bogus. Why write a review if you've only seen the trailer for
the film? Anyway, I had the opportunity to see this movie yesterday.
Yeah, this is the one of those film series people will hate before
seeing. It's over the top, has cheesy dialogue, and has an unlikeable
protagonist. With that said, it's actually pretty entertaining, and
isn't all that bad.

We are introduced to Sean Boswell (Lucas Black), a high school kid who
can't seem to find his niche in life. He's moved from town to town with
his divorced mother, and getting into problems with the law, before
finding himself in Southern California. The California scenes pay
homage to Justin Lin's earlier film, Better Luck Tomorrow, almost
feeling like an extension of that film. We see the crowds of students
in the courtyard, almost peripheral to a particular point in time.
Moving to California doesn't change anything, and Sean, the outsider,
finds himself racing Clay (Zachery Ty Bryan, from Home Improvement), a
rich kid who has it all, including a brand new Dodge Viper.

In trouble with the law yet again, Sean finds himself moving to Japan,
for reasons that aren't particularly clear. We don't know exactly why
he *had* to move; however, it doesn't really matter anyway.

Sean continues to find himself as an outsider. From his distant father,
to his language barrier, to being unfamiliar with traditional customs.
Unlike other particular American films, the culture of Japan was
portrayed in a positive light. This was particularly refreshing, as the
food jokes, Engrish jokes, height jokes, etc. have become very tiresome
over the years.

Sean meets Twinkie (Lil Bow Wow), and Han (Sung Kang), the latter of
which appears to be the same character from Better Luck Tomorrow. Both
Twinkie and Han serve as guides or mentors to Sean, as he becomes more
familiar with Japan, school, drifting, and its associated group. In
retrospect, Twinkie seems like an unnecessary character, and quickly
gets shelved to Sung Kang's Han, who steals the show like a pimp.

Sean also meets, and is attracted to Neela (Nathalie Kelley), who is
the girlfriend of DK (Brian Tee). DK is a nickname for "Drift King."
Sean quickly realizes this as he loses badly to him in his first race
in Japan (and smashing up Han's S15 badly). The altercation between
Sean and DK heats up leading to the climax of the film.

Sean Boswell is an unlikeable character. His mannerism is interesting
during the California scenes and you actually do get to like him,
however he quickly outwears his welcome. From his unjustified temper,
to his grating southern accent, Han becomes more of the likable
protagonist.

The dialogue was cheesy as hell too (remember the "I'm free" line from
the first one? This is worse - the moonlight drifting scene is
embarrassingly bad).

Character development is too hurried at times, much like this review.

As with Kill Bill, Sonny Chiba is as charming as ever, this time
playing a Yakuza boss, who happens to be the uncle of DK.

Now, the racing scenes were actually not that bad. Compared to the
outlandish effects of the first two FF films, Tokyo Drift is pretty
understated.

Racing-wise, this was a vendor-fest. 350Z's (VERY prominently
displayed), RX-8's, and an EVO. Other than that, there was an R34 GT-R,
S15, and the Veilside RX-7. That's really about it (with the obvious
exception of the Mustang). I think I saw a glimpse of an AE86 hatch.

Will it make people drift in the parking lot leaving the theatre? Yes.
In fact, I saw some guy in a Camry attempting to do so.

Will it spark interest in the vendor-sponsored cars? Probably.

Will it increase resale value of your S13 or AE86? Probably not.

Finally, there are two notable cameos in this film (among others). The
first cameo has to do with "DK" (not the film character). The second
cameo ties the film to its predecessor. Both appearances were pretty
well done and drew laughter from the crowd.
<|_=00=_|>
Usually when a film has a Part III, it leaves you with, "Why did they
make a third film?" Case in point, "Smokey & The Bandit". Now I am
dating myself if that's the only film I can come up with when it comes
to trilogies. But car movies are seldomly done in trilogies. Star Wars,
The Godfather, Lord of the Rings and Back to the Future are the only
exceptions that have worked in the past because there's an on-going
story line.

Tokyo Drift was a good film. Good plot line (if you disagree, then
you're a "Too much to think" film-goer, stay with chick-flicks then).
Good action. And of course, cool cars. The fact that it strayed away
from Part I & II was a good idea. And film director, Justin Lin did an
great job getting his vision to film. The mounted camera on a
super-fast go-cart gave some spectacular shots.

It's a good escape film with the "new kid in town, gets beat up or
loses in some sort of competition, learns from a local to be better
then wins in the end." But for a trilogy film it's excellent compared
to other Part III films that have been released.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Fast And The Furious" series opened the cinema for a whole new way
to make car movies. This 3rd movie from this series added the cherry on
the top of a sweet cake. Lots of action during the whole movie and, I
must say, a very good argument. Way better than the 2nd movie with some
characters very well created and also their evolution through out the
movie.

Although, sometimes, it seams that the story walks a bit too fast and
things happen too early, this 3rd movie has one of the best arguments
of the 3. And I'm still undecided if it is better or not than the 1st
movie.

Some really good change in this 3rd movie was the feature of drifts
instead of pure racing (shown so far in the previous series). THAT is
the main innovation in this series as long as in cars movies. The
creators of "The Fast and The Furious" were PROBABLY pioneers in making
underground car movies and they were surely the first doing a movie
about drifting.

I must say that Tokyo was indeed a very good place to film this kind of
driving.

Just to finish, I just wanna say there's a great surprise at the end of
the movie!!! ;)
<|_=00=_|>
I just came home from the drive in, i was looking forward to this movie
since i have read some good reviews about it and also that I'm a car
freak. A lot of people have been bashing this movie without even seeing
it and bashing the idea of putting a RB26DETT Motor into a Mustang, i
agree its not right, but it is just a movie and if you can get past
that then you will enjoy it...anyone who loves the sound of a tuned
skyline will love it. Keiichi Tsuchiya makes an appearance in this
movie and so does Sonny Chiba, but i wont spoil the other cameo. 

Justin Lin does a good job, the movie itself has great action scenes,
awesome drifting and car choreography/stunts, the cars look and sound
awesome, there are a couple of one liners that make me laugh ("Can i
have a copy of that?") you will know what this means when you see it
and the babes....the babes are just gorgeous. Overall its a fun and
enjoyable movie, far better than the first two.

Car lovers will like the movie but for everyone else....don't bash it
till you've seen it, you might be pleasantly surprised.
<|_=00=_|>
What can I say about this movie that many haven't already noted? Well
first of all I saw this movie twice, and probably shouldn't have. The
cinematography was phenomenal and the racing sequences were jaw
dropping. Unfortunately, this movie lacks substance. The storyline was
really iffy and probably not likely to happen and the acting was a
little shaky.

But thats not the reason why everyone goes to watch this movie. We all
go to see the cars and the girls which fortunately delivers. Beautiful
cars, beautiful ladies and beautiful scenery and destructive driving is
never in short supply in this genre and the scenery of Japan is just
breathtaking. All in all, just a movie you'll want to see with the
boys.
<|_=00=_|>
As expected, it doesn't take long for ''The Fast and the Furious: Tokyo
Drift" to hit the gas. 

As the film opens, we meet Sean (Lucas Black), the new kid at a
Southern high school who's harboring a need for speed. After Sean
ruffles the feathers of a resident jock (Zachery Ty Bryan), a scantily
clad girl suggests, ''Why don't you boys let the cars do the talking?"
And so the adrenaline rush begins. 

''Lost in Translation" with a driver's license, the third installment
of the popular franchise takes its car chases and souped-up engines to
the Far East. Fans of Vin Diesel and Paul Walker will miss the
tough-talking duo, but the mean streets of Japan deliver some
action-packed goods. 

Of course, don't expect more than a load of eye candy and the regular
rumbles. The flashy drama begins when Sean is shipped to Tokyo to avoid
jail time and live with his strict, military officer dad (Brian
Goodman). 

Making nice with the tough crowd, the American befriends Twinkie (Bow
Wow), an army brat with a car that looks like it came straight out of
''Pimp My Ride." It isn't long before Sean is taking test drives with a
new set of wheels, not to mention getting on the bad side of the
mafia-affiliated DK (Brian Tee) and falling for his girl, Neela
(Nathalie Kelley). 

Directed by Justin Lin (''Better Luck Tomorrow"), ''The Fast and the
Furious: Tokyo Drift" is injected with testosterone and saturated in
masculinity. Branded a gaijin (Japanese for foreigner), Sean tries to
master the driving skill of drifting while trying to impress his crush
and settle the score with DK and his crew. What's the best way to solve
the world's problems? Racing, of course. 

Sure, it's not the wittiest, smartest or most memorable piece of
cinema. But the film delivers everything it promised: loud music, loud
cars and a whole lot of glitz.
<|_=00=_|>
Where do i start with this film? When i first heard this film wasn't
going to have any of the original cast in it i felt rather disappointed
but my opinion has totally changed after seeing it for the first
time.The cast in it are great.Lucas plays his part well as does bow wow
and the guy who plays Han. The things that stood out for me were the
racing scenes mainly.There are a lot more than there were in the other
2 films and in my own opinion the races in this third are a lot better
than any in the first two. The story isn't half bad either.I actually
prefer this one to the 2nd film because of that as well as the racing.
This is definitely a must see for all fans of the other two films
though.
<|_=00=_|>
The first film was BREAK POINT with cars. The second one was Miami VICE
with cars. This is REBEL WITHOUT A CAUSE... with more cars. To be
honest, I kinda liked this one better than the last two, despite Lucas
Black somehow beating Paul Walker as the least charismatic actor in a
starring role. What I mainly like is the direction by Justin Lin. The
focus on police undercover stories is dropped in favor of the street
racing culture and its connections to the mob. Was actually delighted
to see Sonny Chiba appear, I must have missed his name during the
opening credits. Purely as a movie about car action, I think it
succeeds better than the first two. There's a goofy quality to it that
kinda helps one go along with things. Best to sum that up is Lucas
Black smiling like a dork with blood on his teeth, living for the
thrill. That's probably what this film series needed, and less soap
opera/undercover drama. Consider me surprised.
<|_=00=_|>
When I first heard about Tokyo Drift and realised that it would feature
none of the original cast members, I was sure it would be a major let
down that was just cashing in, so I ignored it. Eventually, I sat down
to watch the movie when it arrived on Sky and I must say that I'm
impressed. The film more than exceeded my low expectations and whilst
it way a little bit routine in places, I had a great time watching it.

Not only is this film a damn good car/action film in it's own right, it
is arguably the best in the series. The new cast is great with Lucas
Black heading up the roster as Sean Boswell, an American street racer
who moves to Japan and becomes embroiled in the underworld Tokyo street
racing scene. Black proves to be better to watch than Paul Walker was
in the previous movies in the franchise because he is a better actor
(which isn't saying much but still...), whilst the other characters all
have chemistry on screen too, creating an authentic Japanese street
racing feel. The stand out character in the movie for me though was
Sung Kang as Han, easily the coolest character in the film.

Justin Lin does a great job of capturing the art of drifting as well as
keeping a good sense of speed and a focus on the character development.
Whilst it's never going to win any Oscars, The Fast and the Furious:
Tokyo Drift is infinitely better than 2 Fast 2 Furious and is in some
ways better than the original movie too. If Lin can continue this trend
into the fourth film in 2009, I will be the first in line at the cinema
to see Vin Diesel return to the franchise.

If like me, you were initially put off by the lack of ties to the first
two movies, give Tokyo Drift a chance and you'll probably find you'll
enjoy it. Car fans should have no problems liking the subject matter
(Cars and beautiful girls) and whilst it doesn't make you think a whole
lot, you really can't go wrong with the 3rd effort in the popular Fast
and Furious franchise. Oh and by the way, the last scene is guaranteed
to make fans of the series smile, the movie is worth watching just for
that.
