
The remarkably low rating that this film has so far received (4.1 as of
Thursday 8th of June) is indicative of its ability to raise the hackles
of people who haven't even seen it. How can it be otherwise when the
film has not yet been released? 135 people have voted; have all of
these 135 people actually watched the film? Of course not. They're just
voting on the basis of their perceptions or assumptions concerning its
political agenda. IMDb voters are not alone in this; already Simon
Heffer in The Daily Telegraph, Dominic Lawson in The Independent, Ruth
Dudley-Edwards in The Daily Mail and Michael Gove in The Times are
attacking a film they haven't seen (by their own admission). These
attacks are the predictable reaction of empire apologists unable to
abide the depiction of the dark and brutal underside of that imperial
machine, or the suggestion that anyone on the receiving end of that
brutality might be justified in rebelling against it. The title of
Dudley-Edward's lazy hack-job says it all, really: 'Why does Ken Loach
loathe his country?' Loach is a traitor, and must be punished, the
rotter.

It's a pity that this political controversy seems poised to overwhelm
discussion of the film, because it's an extremely able piece of cinema
and deserves to be seen as such. Barry Ackroyd's cinematography is
superb, ably capturing the beauty of the Irish countryside without
indulging in it. We are rooted in a locale without being lavished with
pretty pictures. The acting is also excellent. The charismatic Cillian
Murphy carries the movie, but the support from Liam Cunningham, Orla
Fitzgerald, Aidan O'Hare and Padraic Delaney is also commendable.

But it's the collaboration between Loach and his scriptwriter Paul
Laverty that makes the film something like a masterpiece. The grim
progress from the murder of an Irish youth to the growth of an armed
I.R.A. campaign, with its attendant violence (shown in stark and
horrifying detail) is expertly managed; the only let-up comes not far
from the end, after the signing of the 1921 peace treaty. Loach tries
to show the brief jubilation and relief that ensues, but in terms of
momentum almost drops the ball. The pace is re-established in time for
the inexorable tragic denouement, and the film's final emotional impact
is considerable. The load is occasionally lightened by the odd touch of
Loach's characteristic wry comedy, such as the belligerence of the
opening hurling game, the teenage message-boy who loses his message,
the melodramatic pianist accompanying the newsreel announcing the
momentous news of the creation of the Free State.

One of the most disturbing scenes occurs when a group of I.R.A. men
return from a successful battle and discover a farmhouse being attacked
and destroyed by a group of British soldiers. The rebels, who have no
ammunition left, are forced to look on, concealed in the bushes; they
watch powerless as the farmhouse's inhabitants are abused. We watch
along with the characters, just as helpless as they are. Why do we
watch? Do we want to intervene, to play the hero and save the day? Do
we perhaps enjoy it? The trouble with many so-called anti-war films, as
Loach has said, is that they outwardly condemn the violence while at
the same time encouraging (intentionally or not) a vicarious pleasure
in the thrill of it all. We want to take part, we imagine how we would
behave in such circumstances (of course, we usually imagine ourselves
behaving with impeccable bravery and surviving to fight another day).
This scene, rather than placing us in the thick of the action, forces
us to occupy the position of impotent bystander. Perhaps this is what
being a film-goer is all about: powerless voyeurism. As we watch the
country tear itself apart in civil war, manipulated by a devious and
callous colonial master, this point becomes all the more pertinent. A
quietly devastating film.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a truly great film and well deserving of the Palm D'Or.

It has been said that it is pro IRA or IRA propaganda. I disagree. In
fact I think the reverse is the case. It shows up both the brutality of
war and the even greater brutality of civil war that sets nation
against nation and brother against brother. The film provides an
understanding of how Ireland became independent in 1920-1921. It is
well documented (e.g. visit the BBC or CAIN websites) that the Black
and Tans were a brutal and oppressive irregular force sent to put down
the rebellion. The IRA reacted with similar brutality. The film records
both with equally graphic scenes. But that is only the first half of
the film. The second half deals with the civil war. That's even more
tragic and brutal.

Who was on the right side or the wrong side? The film presents the
arguments but I really don't think the film takes sides. More of the
anti British and anti treaty argument is advanced. But this is
understandable because it is historically accurate that West Cost was
ferociously anti British and mainly anti treaty. That's why Michael
Collins was destined to die there. And it is more important to
understand why people/nations go to war or civil war rather than why
they don't.

Understanding the reasons does not mean support for war. The film
highlights the futility and awfulness of war. Misery destruction and
death. Is there such a thing as a just war (apart from 2nd World war)?
Aside from the historical debate, the story, filming and acting is
magnificent. Much better than the Green Berets on the just war by USA
in Vietnam! Blackhawk Down brilliantly covered Somalia from the
external US perspective. This film brilliantly covers the 1920/21 wars
from the Irish perspective. We need all perspectives.

Well worth seeing with an open mind. Then read the history if you want.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw it at private screening too.

Editorial from a Cork newspaper sums it up well:

This wind shakes more than barley

In Ireland we are in rare position internationally when it comes to our
media. Most of what we read, listen to and watch is usually interpreted
in two perspectives, through our own media and through that of our near
neighbours across the Irish Sea. There are other instances of large and
small neighbours with a common language (Germany and Austria; USA and
Canada; Australia and New Zealand), but nowhere is the penetration of
the larger nation's media into the neighbouring market as pronounced as
it is in Ireland. Viewership of UK TV stations and readership of UK
owned newspapers in Ireland is at a level that makes them as
significant to our view of the world as our own media. This breeds a
familiarity with our neighbours that can make us Irish assume the
British know as much about us as we do about them. Nothing could be
further from the truth however as has been graphically illustrated by
the reception given in Britain to Ken Loach's Palme d'or winning movie
The Wind that Shakes the Barley. There is no question that this film
makes the British forces look bad, but of course the reality as all
Irish people know is that they were. In the UK normally reasonable and
intelligent reviewers and commentators cannot cope with this depiction
of occupying British forces as violent repressors of a largely
defenceless native population. It has been described as unbalanced and
portraying the valiant British soldiers in an unfair and unflattering
light. The truth is that the vast majority of British citizens couldn't
tell you where Galway is and why should they? They're ignorance of
their own colonial past so close to home and denial of it shouldn't
surprise us; it is not something to be proud of. This is not to attack
Britain, but to remind Irish readers of UK newspapers and viewers of UK
television that Britain is indeed a foreign country. They view the
world through an entirely different perspective than us, and in truth
our views are inconsequential to them. That's why Loach's film, which
tells essential truths, will not get a general release in the UK.
Despite the fact that Anglo-Irish relations are probably better now
than they have ever been the truth about Britain's history in Ireland
is something that they just aren't ready for, and probably never will
be.
<|_=00=_|>
An exciting piece of Ken Loach drama based on events that sparked the
Irish war of independence. Despite being labelled 'anti-British' by
critics born 60 years after these events took place, the incidents
depicted in this film have in fact all been documented by the British
government and are a matter of historical fact. Events such as the
treatment of the local population at the brutal hands of the infamous
convict drafted Black and tans force have all been recorded assiduously
by both sides in the conflict. And the civil war that followed a
decision to allow the mostly protestant north to be a part of the new
British welfare state. A clash of ideals, deftly handled by Loach, it's
a real pity that so many will have their minds made up before they've
even seen the film.
<|_=00=_|>
An admirer of Ken Loach's unique style of film making, I say this is
the best I've seen. His direction and techniques are now so finely
tuned they sit almost subliminally behind a brutal but superlative
story set in 1920s Ireland. I say 'almost' because I came out knowing
I've never seen a film like this ever before, thanks to Loach.

Approach it as if you are about to watch a play. Listen intently to the
dialogue complete with Cork accents depicting beautiful people forced
into situations where they cross lines they cannot return over. Share
in their juxtaposition of feelings of remorse with acts of
war/self-preservation. In the horror of it all you might wish to be
able to suspend disbelief in the fictional sense, but that'll be
replaced with the overwhelming sense of truth and a not-so-long-ago
reality. The individuals could be you or I at anytime and we take
solace in the fact that perhaps we are among the lucky ones to have
escaped this. Make space then to contemplate if, as a nation, we still
effect this turmoil on others today. Remain with the story though. You
feel as if you are there, smelling the turf in the air, privileged to
be on the doorstep of the thatched residence that witnessed so many
tragedies.

The character portrayals are mesmerising as Loach maximises body
language; hesitancy, fear, stuttering and small moments of humour in
his realistic approach. You already know each character before s/he
speaks. But when they do speak, you are in the room with them agreeing
or disagreeing - ready to pitch in if the moment were to present
itself. As each personal struggle is revealed you again feel fortunate
to have witnessed it. Simultaneously you feel relieved to be able to
pull out and watch from a distance when more horror action scenes
unfold.

This is true drama seeking no false gratification akin to other current
films. Unstinting in its portrayal of the Brutish (not a spelling
mistake) it is nevertheless universally significant and local at the
same time. The photography is exquisite capturing timeless Ireland. The
sound plays the noises of the times so well the viewers could imagine
the scenes with their eyes closed.

As a Scot I am dismayed at the general poor response/reviews of the
British press and I'm reminded that the British psyche has to learn to
come to terms with its recent past. I wish that today we could
transcend that and promote this film to ordinary people as an important
film to see at some point in their lives. In future, any young adult
asking me about the 'Irish problem' - I'll simply lend them my own
personal DVD of this film and say "watch this!" It'll make it all the
more easier for all of us to see the past and to avoid repeating it.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film at a private screening and found it difficult yet
beautiful to watch. I have a personal history with the subject matter
as I come from a family from both sides of the political divide in
Ireland. A stigma that exists to this day but is reflected so
profoundly with this film. Ken Loach's direction is crisp and perfect.
The performances are, each and every one, incredibly believable and
achingly visceral in the depiction of the conflicts of civil war.
Cillian Murphy is wonderful and quite possibly the best Irish actor
ever. Pádraic Delaney as his brother and enemy takes the role and makes
it one of the best male performances I've seen. It is rare when a film
allows you to understand both sides of a violent divide so clearly. The
Wind that Shakes the Barley does this with blinding perfection. This
film is a template for what film makers can achieve with a small
budget, dedicated performers and a timeless topic.

Some who find this so provocative need to look further into their own
loyalties to determine why the truth bothers them so much. Those who
feel this to be Republican propaganda, ( and for you Americans I mean
Irish Republican ), need, seriously, to investigate their own history.
It doesn't surprise me that so many British people know nothing of
their countries colonizing tactics in Ireland and elsewhere in the
world. Six counties of Ireland still remain under British control. The
sacrifices made 80 years ago still resonate today but the Republic of
Ireland is now the third richest country in Europe. The question still
debated is Was it Worth it? The question we ask is how's Scotland and
Wales doing?
<|_=00=_|>
An excellent film that outlines that tragic period of Irish history.
Anyone wanting to understand the modern day troubles in Ireland MUST
see this film to get a better understanding of things. I Thoroughly
enjoyed this film and there was hardly a dry eye in the house by the
end. It shows how easily communities, indeed families, were torn apart
by divisions over the best way forward to achieve Irish freedom and how
desperate people were. This is a film that should have been made years
ago and should be viewed with an open mind by those who are not from a
nationalist background. These events did occur and the time for denial
is now % !

A first class film.
<|_=00=_|>
Another powerful movie from Ken Loach and a well deserved winner of the
Palm D'or at Cannes. Some magical performances not only from the stars,
but from the whole cast. I would urge you to find this film and go and
see it. You will be educated, moved and it will leave you wanting to
understand more.

From the start you feel as if you are in the 1920's and this feeling
stays with you throughout. Obviously with a lower budget than most of
the summers blockbusters, the film still manages to contain amazing
action sequences and just has a wonderful atmosphere throughout.

Truly fantastic!
<|_=00=_|>
OK so there's movies that you cry at...Bambi's mum dying, step mom,
titanic etc but there is never going to be another movie that hits home
like this. I cried so many times because it was so real. It is based on
fact and contrary to the critics I don't believe there is any over
exaggeration of the conditions and abuse that went on during this time.
Not one member of the cast doesn't put everything into this piece and I
have never seen such outstanding performances and truthful acting. Most
blockbuster movies have actors trying to look pretty and
interested...trying...but this has actors portraying people the way
they were not the way that looks best! It is fantastic!!! It is also
very educational but those looking for your traditional blockbuster
movies turn away, this is for drama lovers, history lovers and those
with a passion for true art!
<|_=00=_|>
"The Wind that Shakes the Barley" is a fantastic film, and extremely
apt given the current socio-economic climate in Ireland. We seem to be
losing part of our heritage everyday, once again slave to foreign
influences (both sides of the water) and willing to lose sight of our
past to embrace the future. I left the cinema in Navan, Co Meath,
wondering to myself "are we really as free as we think we are?". We
have the highest debt ratio per capita of any country in the EU, a cost
of living that is spiraling ridiculously out of control and criminals
that make the Manson family look like the Partridge family. So what did
we fight for in the rising of 1916, the War of Independence and the
Civil War? To be more like the British? The day of real patriotism is
gone, it has been replaced by cash hungry capitalists willing to sell
out in the name of progress. Back to the film! This was probably the
first "war film" that I have seen that did not over step the mark in
terms of taking sides. It was extremely objective and a credit to Ken
Loach for the accuracy of his research and the depiction of the times.
I would liken it, in some ways, to Mel Gibson's "Passion of the Christ"
as it was really devoid of any sustained periods of levity and stayed
constantly true to its theme, unconcerned by commercial considerations.
A masterpiece of film making and a credit to the superb cast,
particularly Murphy and Cunningham. Film of the Decade so far
