
Unskilled, belligerent group of young boys on a losing Little League
baseball team get an alcoholic coach who eventually cleans up their
act--and his own. Any film-buff well acquainted with the 1976 Michael
Ritchie film "The Bad News Bears" will watch this remake in a perpetual
state of deprivation. For every new ingredient added (a kid in a
wheelchair, Hooters waitresses on the sidelines, a skateband
interlude), there's a classic sequence dropped, funny lines omitted, a
bracing sense of importance missing, and uncharismatic, non-plussed
child actors who walk through their roles colorlessly. Of course, Billy
Bob Thornton is a terrific substitute for Walter Matthau, but Matthau
didn't carry the original film all by himself, and Thornton isn't fully
in-character anyway (he's just breezing through). The whole early
morning feel of Southern California Little League is missing, and the
urgency of the original is gone, too (those kids had something riding
on these games). Director Richard Linklater obviously was fond of the
1976 version, but he knows the notes without hearing the music; he
supplies updated comedic touches without seeing the relevancy, and his
tone and narrative are doggedly straightforward (except for the strange
opening sequence, which immediately gets the picture off on the wrong
foot). A sad botch. *1/2 from ****
<|_=00=_|>
When filmmakers get the idea to remake a classic movie, often it's
because he or she feels that something was missing from the original.
They feel that, by placing their unique stamp on the new film, they can
satisfy unanswered questions, plot points, etc, while maintaining the
basic dignity and character of the original.

So...based on that theory, Billy Bob Thornton's rationale for the
remake of "The Bad News Bears" was that the original had too many
letters in the title (in a bold and highly daring move reminiscent of
Ed Wood at his finest, Thornton decided to drop "The", changing it
simply to "Bad News Bears"), not enough swearing...and a kid in a
wheelchair. Oh, and he changes enemy Yankee pitcher's last name from
"Turner" to "Bullok" for reasons unbeknownst to anyone but himself.
With revolutionary alterations such as these, don't be surprised if you
pick up the rental box half a dozen times while watching the movie to
make absolutely sure that you have indeed rented the correct film.

Basically, the plot can be summed up as "Bad Santa coaches a group of
misfit kids". Yawn. We've seen this role, this performance, from Billy
Bob Thornton one too many times. Thornton wants to bowl us over with
the 'shocking' vulgarity of youth, but a trip to "Hooters" and Tanner
teaching a boy in a wheelchair to curse both turn out to be so
lightweight that it is likely that only the Reverend Jerry Falwell
would take offense.

At best, the casting was marginal, and at worst, the audience is forced
to wonder if the director actually auditioned the kids or merely closed
his eyes and chanted 'Eenie, Meenie, Mynie, Mo" while holding a stack
of acting resumes. Sammi Kane Kraft (as Amanda) was a great baseball
player with limited acting ability, and Timmy Deters was only modestly
successful in trying to recreate the role of Tanner Boyle. Tyler
Patrick Jones as Timmy Lupus was far and away the most talented of what
basically amounted to a mediocre cast of child actors, but he was
utterly wasted in this film and was limited to a few one-liners that
must have ended up on the cutting room floor from "Bad Santa".
Naturally, Thornton is no match for the venerable Walter Matthau as
Buttermaker. Whereas Matthau was irascible and cantankerous in a
lovable 'Grandpa's dipping in the cider again' kind of way, Thornton's
version of Buttermaker is creepy enough to make us think of adequate
background checks and the stupidity of parents who would willingly
leave their children alone with him.

Per his film tradition in his post "Sling Blade" days, Thornton goes
out of his way to remove any heartfelt sentiment from the plot, and
thus the friendship between Timmy Lupus and Tanner Boyle never
materializes. That adds to what is perhaps the most irritating part of
the film: the introduction of a new player (Tony Gentile as Matthew
Hooper). It is an unnecessary plot device, possibly added only because
the always classy Thornton had some good 'kid in wheelchair' jokes that
he was just itching to use, and adds a touch of surrealism to a movie
that should be imminently grounded in realism. In fact, Thornton
changes one of the most touching moments of the original movie by
handing it to Hooper (a character who, let's face it, has no redeeming
qualities other than the fact that he's in a wheelchair) in one highly
unrealistic scene; he thereby successfully strips even more of the
heart away from the original film. Which, judging from Thornton's
film-making history, was probably exactly what he intended to do.

In short, there are undoubtedly worse remakes out there ("War of the
Worlds" and "Bewitched" come to mind), but not many. If you're thinking
of renting this film because you're desperate for some true seventies
banality, allow me to suggest that you save the money and instead try
catching either the rerun of "Alice" where Flo says "Kiss my grits" for
the eighteenth time or the action-packed episode of "My Three Sons"
where Fred MacMurray lights his pipe. If you choose to rent the film
anyway...well, don't say I didn't give you any other viable options.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm a fan of Billy Bob - but he ain't no Walter Matthau. Every
character is just plain flat - with nothing to act off of. You don't
really care about anyone in the movie. Linklater is a much better
director and you are better off watching any other movie that either he
or Billy Bob has made. A waste of money all around in my opinion. Just
go and watch the original - you won't regret it. (They won't let me
make my comment unless I have 10 lines of text - but I have nothing
else to say. Guess I'll just have to keep typing until they let this go
through. Opps not enough yet - how about this time. Still not enough -
I think this will make it)
<|_=00=_|>
I just want to know exactly who Mr. Linklater was trying to appeal to
in this movie. Not only is the kids' sport genre tired, they are geared
primarily for children most of the time. But with Billy Bob Thorton
(who I thought was hilarious in "Bad Santa"), one would guess they are
trying to bring in the older audiences.

The movie feels like it has split personalities. There is a ton of
swearing and adult humor that would definitely NOT appeal to parents of
younger children, but many of the jokes just weren't funny to me
because they were aimed at the younger children. 

The movie is not terrible, but its not good either. It is simply a
forgettable movie, which is a shame because I think Richard Linklater
is a great director and Billy Bob Thorton seems like a natural when it
comes to comedic timing.
<|_=00=_|>
If this had been the original, it never would have been remade. Here
are my observations of where they went wrong: The original was well
acted and believable. The remake was an over the top farce with some of
the worst acting I've seen in a major motion picture in along time.

In the original, Kelly and Amanda looked 12. In the remake, they looked
17. Watch them walking with the other Bears, they are about a foot
taller.

The Coach Turner character in the first was clearly defined. He was an
over aggressive sports dad pushing his son and team relentlessly,
eventually melting down and hitting his son in public. The audience was
never given a feel for the new Turner, except that he was somewhat
wimpy, but unreal as far as any person anyone has ever met.

They removed the scene of Turner hitting his son, then telling his wife
that it was because Joey could have killed Engelbert. In reality,
Turner was p'd off because his son disobeyed him. In the remake, Turner
seems genuinely concerned for Engelbert.

There was almost no character development in the remake. When I saw the
first, I felt like I knew the major characters. In the remake, we
learned very little. For instance, Lupas in the original was a
painfully shy kid who would prefer to be left completely unnoticed. In
the remake, he was just a weird kid who had trouble catching.

The emotion was totally gone. The scene where Joey wouldn't throw the
ball to put Engelbert out to get back at his father; the scene where
Lupas begs not to be put in and Buttermaker tells him he didn't come
into this life to watch from the bench; the scene where Lupas finally
catches the ball to get the Bears out of the inning; the scene where
Kelly gets thrown out at the plate; I could go on forever.

There seem to be strippers in the remake for no apparent reason. The
Buttermaker character is supposed to be a sad loner type. To think that
Buttermaker is dating strippers take a lot of the sympathy away from
him.

Ultimately, there was no magic in the second one. And quite frankly no
reason to remake this movie. It occurred to me that the producers of
the remake didn't quite get the point of the first one. Or they are
insulting teenagers by not believing they are smart enough to get it.

I thought that changing the sponsor to a strip club was funny. And
having the representative who sued the league be a woman was a nice
update. Other than that, I see nothing where this movie adds to what I
already saw. And I didn't even list half of what was worse about it.

If you honestly thought the new version was better, can I ask
specifically what you thought was flawed about the original and how the
remake did it better?
<|_=00=_|>
Along with others who were born in the late Sixties, I felt that seeing
the new *Bad News Bears* was somehow mandatory, if only to indulge in
the guilty pleasure of nostalgia. We all knew it would suck, didn't we?
-- but we had to see it anyway.

Let it be said at once that Billy Bob Thornton as Coach Buttermaker is
quite a come-down from the immortal Walter Matthau in the same role.
Since the script of this new version is quite identical to the
original, much of the degradation displayed here must be put at the
feet of Thornton, a notorious ad-libber. None of us, young or old, need
to be subjected to exclamations such as "You guys look like the last
s--t I took." Or to hear copious references to Greg Kinnear's family
jewels. 

But whether through the script or through Thornton's egregious
improvising, director Richard Linklater reveals a complete lack of
control. Evidently, the best that he feels he can do with this material
is to allow it to subside deeper into crassness than the original. The
whole enterprise becomes a dreary exercise in upping the ante:
Matthau's Buttermaker was a pool cleaner; Thornton's Buttermaker is a
rat-exterminator . . . in the '76 version, the Bears are sponsored by
Chico's Bail Bonds; in the 2005 version, they're sponsored by a
strip-club. Get the idea? What had been a gritty, rather incisive look
at everyday Americana has become merely an exercise in crudity. This
degeneration of standards can legitimately be argued away as the
eternal complaint of the old, but the feeling persists that the
original *Bad News Bears* was still made for KIDS, despite the more
realistic dialog, situations, and characters. (And Matthau was never a
scene-stealer; Tatum O'Neal shone just as brightly as he did. And
rightly so.) The Little Leaguers in this film are sadly subordinate to
the leering Coach -- guess who the intended audience is? (Hint: not
kids.)

By the way -- speaking of come-downs -- the iconic role of bad-boy
Kelly Leak as portrayed by the super-iconic Jackie Earl Haley has been
utterly neutered, here. The new Kelly is played by some incipient
Calvin Klein model pretending to be a skate-punk. Pee-yew, man. Hey
Jackie Earl, wherever you are: your status as the preeminent
prepubescent bad-ass is, like, totally safe.

1 star out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
I generally am a Richard Linklater fan and consider Mr. Thorton one of
the finest actors and writers we have. I'd like to kick them both dead
on in the nuts for this one. The original was a structurally flawless
piece of work and their version was horrendous and stupid. Everything
the original did with grace, skill and humor they trampled over
needlessly. Every time they changed Lancaster's original script they
did so without tact and screwed up the rhythm of the piece 

See the original. It remains a masterpiece and one of the greatest
sports movies ever made. This is a cheap remake that should have never
been made. So many great scripts and premises have been screwed up, why
not remake those and start with JJ Abrams original screenplay of
"Regarding Henry" another movie where a top notch director did not do
his best work. Now that should be remade how Abrams envisioned it.

He's never written anything better, nor have most of the rest of us.
<|_=00=_|>
First, let me say that it's been years since I saw the original and not 
being a baseball/softball player myself, I couldn't remember a thing 
about it. I thought this movie was funny and had some good messages 
promoting "team concepts", even though it was hidden sometimes under 
crude language, sexual innuendo and other subjects not appropriate for 
very young children. I am a Billy Bob Thorton fan and I thought he 
played the part well and was exactly the guy for the role. You 
generally wouldn't expect to see him in a PG-rated movie anyway. I just 
want families with young children to keep this in mind when choosing a 
film for all to see. A few families walked out after the first few 
minutes that contained some language not appropriate for their young 
children. The child actors in the movie are great and make the picture 
enjoyable to watch. The other benefit to this film, again for the 
appropriate aged audience is that it is about two hours long so you 
feel like you get your money's worth!
<|_=00=_|>
I love Billy Bob Thornton in Bad Santa and the Bad News Bears remake to
2005 after a 29 years since the original film. The film has changed to
modify today's world where computers rule the world which I said at 10
years old to an skeptical neighbor and where even a handicapped
wheelchair-bound boy can play baseball. Thornton plays Buttermaker, the
major league baseball player who turns coach rather than get a jail
sentence. The mother of one his players is played by the divine Marcia
Gay Harden. I think the kid from Bad Santa also has a role as does Greg
Kinnear who plays a competitive coach. I love watching the kids learn
the sport by killing insects since Buttermaker is an exterminator and
they sponsored by a strip club. They start getting better in the
beginning. They are lovable losers who face ridicule and humiliation
every day at school. Suddenly, they get help with a girl pitcher and a
guy who's a rebel.
<|_=00=_|>
Some of you may be wondering what exactly the "Bad News" in "Bad News
Bears" really means. Well it is supposed to mean bad news for the other
teams in their baseball league, as it did in the original movie.
Howevair, with this movie it means bad news for the viewers.

All kidding aside, it really eats monster butt. Sure, there are a few
good one liners (3 maximum), but not nearly enough to hold the movie
together or make it enjoyable for that matter. Oh, and if you are a fan
of the art of acting at all, it's a good move to side-step this one.
The child acting is HORRENDOUS on all accounts, nearly making it
unwatchable. But definitely making it un-rewatchable. Then there are
the lame updates in the script only topped in horribility by the
complete changes to it.

Fans of the original don't taint your memories with this god awful
movie.
