
I'm annoyed at all the "know-it-alls" on these boards who are judging
this film solely based on what they think they see in the trailer.

One guy went so far as to say that it was shoddy script-writing.

Let me just say this... I spend most of my time helping to make feature
animation look really good... it's my job.

I've been involved with some very slick looking films. However, no
matter how good it looks, if it's not a good story, it's still a crappy
film.

Like the old saying goes: "you can polish a turd, but in the end all
you're gonna have is a shiny turd." 

I've seen Hoodwinked. I can say from experience that the animation
isn't the greatest, the deformations aren't the greatest and the
general tech of the film isn't the greatest. There have been many
"prettier" films to hit the silver screen. After all, this movie was
made on a shoe-string budget by CG standards.

Having said that, I fell in love with this movie after five minutes.
The characters are endearing, the humor was fantastic and there's a
level of originality and sophistication in the scriptwriting and
storytelling that have not been seen before in the area of animation,
not to mention a level of "cleanness" that is rare nowadays.

And, I'm pretty sure that I'm not the only one who has this opinion...
after all, Bob and Harvey Weinstein decided to distribute it.

Go see the film... you won't be disappointed.

-Matt Steele

(edited for misspelling)
<|_=00=_|>
Hoodwinked is an ultra low budget affair compared to the average 3D
CGI-animated film (it was shot for a reported 15 million vs 70 to 90
million for films like Finding Nemo or Shrek 2). If you want a fairer
comparison in terms of animation quality, you'd have to look at
something like Jimmy Neutron (30 million budget).

What really made the animation work in terms of style is...the style.
Hoodwinked almost looks like a revved up Rankin-Bass stop motion
animated film in the vein of Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer. Once you
get absorbed in the world of Hoodwinked, you stop comparing it to Pixar
and simply enjoy the magic little world the creators obviously put so
much care into creating.

And the film is indeed absorbing! It starts a little slow, but once the
story picks up steam, it is non-stop fun. It's clear that the writers
weren't going to let a lower budget stop them from writing a clever and
often laugh-out-loud funny script. My kids, aged 12, 8, and 3, giggled
throughout the film. Your kids will LOVE the squirrel, the granny, and
the singing goat, and adults will pick up more culture references in
terms of homage scenes (not in adult content) to pictures like Fletch,
Kill Bill, and the Matrix.

One thing comes across very clearly in Hoodwinked--love of the craft.
So many seemingly throw away gags end up being very important to the
story later on. Enjoy this little gem of an "indie" animated film, and
imagine what these young guys could do with a bigger budget next time
around!
<|_=00=_|>
Lots of people bitch about the animation being pretty stone age in this
film, and for a reason. Technically, "Hoodwinked" is far behind
"Finding Nemo" or "Incredibles". However, if you look past the unpretty
exterior, there is plenty of goodies to found inside. Hilarious
punchlines and a clever script by far makes up for the lack of
jaw-dropping animation. Actually, I found the outdated CGI to add
another layer of quirkiness to this little flick! When comparing
"Hoodwinked" to other recent releases in the genre, it comes out with
flying colors. Where "Chicken Little" and "Valiant" fail, this one
really excels! Dialogues are well written and full of treats that makes
this one a movie to see more than once. And for once, I even enjoyed
the musical numbers, catchy and well performed. It doesn't have any
scenes that - like "Shark Tale" - fell plastic or numb, instead it's an
80 minute, twisting and turning roller-coaster that doesn't stop until
the credits start rolling. All you have to to is buckle up, and enjoy
the ride
<|_=00=_|>
Despite low-budget animation, the newest feature by the Weinstein
Company, "Hoodwinked," is saved by some silly animal and human
characters, as well as great writing and hilarious jokes.

Basically, it's the story of Little Red Riding Hood as told from the
vantage point of Red (voice of Ann Hathaway), the Big Bad Wolf (Patrick
Warburton), Granny (Glenn Close) and a dimwitted, axe-wielding woodsman
(Jim Belushi).

The four are arrested, accused of stealing goodie recipes and
interrogated by a long-legged frog, Inspector Flippers (David Ogden
Stiers). Each suspect tells a different story that somehow cleverly
ties the whole event together. In other words, it's like a version of
Kurosawa's "Rashomon" as produced by computer animators who could not
get work at Pixar, Disney or Dreamworks.

Seeing the studio's press release, I noticed the poor computer work and
thought this would be another "Valiant," but the crisp dialogue and
truly funny situations made me laugh almost all the way through this
film, which is director Cory Edwards' feature debut.

It's also a much more entertaining picture than "Chicken Little" or
"Shark Tale" could ever hope to be. And while the puns are pretty much
aimed at adults, the kids will enjoy the many animal characters, such
as pigs as policemen (get it?!), a singing, hillbilly goat (Benjy
Gaither), a squirrel on speed (director Edwards), a Huggy bear-type
stool pigeon sheep (Chazz Palimeri) and a tricky little bunny, Boingo
(Andy Dick).

This film runs 85 minutes and opens for wide release on Friday, Jan.
13.
<|_=00=_|>
I'll confess something up front which seems to be place me in the
minority--I didn't go to see this movie hoping for great animation, a
break-through in story-telling, or the chance to see self-proclaimed
"artists" waxing philosophic about their personal world views. I went
to have fun and enjoy myself.

On that score, Hoodwinked fully delivers. A brief glance at any trailer
will tell you the animation is not the greatest, and I know some people
have taken that to mean the movie itself is not worth seeing. However,
that assessment is just wrong. I walked into the theater not really
knowing what to expect, and spent the next hour and however long
basically laughing the entire time--sometimes so hard I had to make
myself stop to catch my breath. It's a really funny movie, and when it
comes down to it, isn't that the point of a movie like this? 

Hoodwinked basically tells the story of Little Red Riding Hood, but as
seen through the eyes of several different characters. Not an original
plot, by any means, but once you get into the story the quirkiness and
eccentricities of the characters wrap you up so much you don't care.

Bottom line: If you want to have fun and see a good movie, check out
Hoodwinked. If you want cutting edge technicality that may or may not
reflect on the actual quality of the story and writing, go look
elsewhere.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a very fast paced movie that plays to the two levels successful
animated films play to: The kids are entertained, but so are the
parents. There are zingers that come out of nowhere, some but not all
of which are shown on the trailer. Some of those zingers will only
catch the attention of the adults in the house, but don't detract from
kids' enjoyment. But some will get all generations to laugh, like the
"Run!!!" sequence from the trailer. A four second bit. 

I was at a screening attended by families in the business, but mostly
kids. Hard laughter throughout the movie. As for quality of animation,
which was clearly done on the cheap, you don't notice it. The basic
story quality is there. I think it is also possible that this film may
nab a best song nomination. Some very catchy original tunes, well
orchestrated and well sung. All in all, worth the trip to the theater,
and worth buying the DVD.

Sequel probable.
<|_=00=_|>
A few months ago I was speaking with a friend who runs a drive-in movie
theater. He asked me what movies I may want to see when he opens for
the season. I remembered seeing ads for "hoodwinked" but never caught
it in the theater so I told him I'd like to see it. He remembered the
film and played it last weekend.

As it turned out, I could only bring my 9 year old daughter and 2 year
old son because my wife had some sort of meeting. I really wasn't
looking forward to seeing it with a 2 year old but surprisingly he
watched the entire movie! That was a first for him. My 9 year old girl
loved it laughing out loud every few minutes. Her favorite characters
were the singing goat and the squirrel. I thoroughly enjoyed it too and
will buy the DVD on my way home today so I can show the rest of the
family (and see it a few more time myself).

Thanks for making such a wholesome and clean movie that is NOT lame in
any way at all. It was genuinely clever, original, entertaining and
funny, very very funny. I sincerely hope you make movies like this for
years to come and that each one is more successful. Thanks!
<|_=00=_|>
I got a sneak peak and had the pleasure of seeing this film at the
Cannes Film Festival in May. I was blown away by how clever this movie
is. Sparking, fresh witty dialog. Original engaging characters. I was
rolling in the aisle. I see a lot (I mean a lot) of movies and this
film is better than everything out there. I would highly, highly
recommend this to everyone I know. Let me tell you the average everyday
movie goer is not looking at all the effects and cgi .. WE LIKE A GOOD
STORY - DON'T SELL THAT ASPECT OF A FILM SHORT! Plus their were clever
references and homages sprinkled throughout which the any intelligent
moviegoer will appreciate. It is refreshing to see an Independent
Animated Feature. Someone comment something negative about who was in
it. Who cares? Its animation. The story is paramount, I don't care
about whose voice it is. Hoodwinked is clever start to finish. I think
this film is going to do well at the box office. And I think it will
open the world up animation to other independent filmmakers. This film
is original and a whole lot of fun.
<|_=00=_|>
To me, the animation didn't seem to be quite state-of-the-art, but the
movie as a whole was very creative and entertaining. I loved it, as did
my wife and my two children (ages 7 and 4). I think the PG rating is
appropriate - I don't think it's quite a G, but neither did I have to
give a whole lot of parental guidance. I certainly have no qualms about
having taken my kids. Very enjoyable for all ages. 

The animation was good, just not the best I've seen. And I think it's
FAR better to have a good story and a good script than to have
eye-popping animation. 

We saw the Tulsa premier. We liked it enough that we will see it again
in the theatres when it opens (per my children's insistence), and will
buy it on DVD when it's available.
<|_=00=_|>
This movies was absolutely hilarious! We laughed so hard we were all
crying! We would have liked to see more of Japeth the Goat. We would
see this movie again and tell everyone to go and see it and get the DVD
when it comes out! Definitely worth spending some money on and a great
family movie! I didn't have any problems with the animation. I am not
an expert but it was not about the animation but the story line. The
writing was great and so was the plot line. All the characters were
funny and they picked the right actors/actresses to voice the
characters. I give "Hoodwinked" two very major thumbs up and so does my
daughter, my neighbor and her little girl! Very intelligent humor and
very witty!
