
Reading a wide variety of "Scoop" reviews over the past few days, I
walked into the theater prepared for a subpar outing from Woody.
Happily, I couldn't have been more wrong. Granted, Woody the performer
is slowing down a touch or two, but Woody the writer/director is in
fine form - and found a credible way to integrate his 70-year old self
into the story. Judging from the laughter and guffaws, the audience ate
up Allen's one-liners and dialogue in a way that I haven't seen in
several years. 

In a movie landscape dominated by software-approved story arcs,
twentysomething tastes and assembly-line formula fare for kiddies, it's
a source of both satisfaction and inspiration to see Allen pursuing his
highly personal and still-rewarding path.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to the movie theater this afternoon expecting to be underwhelmed
by Scoop. Happily, the film exceeded expectations, at least a little
bit. It's nothing heavy, nothing deep -- and not anywhere as good as
any number of real Allen masterpieces -- but it's also completely
enjoyable as a light, bantering comedy. There's something kind of
simple and sweet about it. "Cute" was the word I heard from people in
the audience as they were walking out after the show. It doesn't feel
like Allen set out to create a masterpiece here, it feels like he
wanted to make a little comedy and have fun doing it. Compared to just
about everything Hollywood is producing, Allen's stuff has a tendency
to charm. Even the fluffy stuff. These days it's just refreshing to go
to a movie made by an actual human being.
<|_=00=_|>
"Scoop" is easily Woody Allen's funniest film of the 2000's so far.
Allen, although finally looking his age, is at the top of his game as
low-brow magician Sidney Waterman. His one-liners and demeanor are
hilarious. Don't let the critics sway your opinion. "Scoop" is a top
notch "Woody-Lite" picture. 

The classical music score is an excellent compliment to the action on
screen. Scarlett Johanson looks gorgeous in that bathing suit. Jackman
is dashing. The cinematography glows. "Scoop" is wonderful escapist
fare from start to finish. The last shot of the film alone is worth the
admission price.
<|_=00=_|>
I was lucky enough to get a free pass to an advance screening of
'Scoop' last night. Full house at the theatre and when the movie ended
there was spontaneous applause. I didn't speak to anyone who disliked
'Scoop' although two teenagers sitting next to me sighed and fidgeted
uncomfortably for most of the film. They were the exception though
because everyone else including myself really enjoyed themselves.

'Scoop' is a quickly paced murder mystery. A young female journalism
student is unwittingly maneuvered by forces beyond her control into
trying to catch a serial killer on the loose. Plenty of hijinks ensue
as she partners up with a traveling illusionist and falls in love with
a frisky and charming young nobleman.

'Scoop' isn't a bad addition to the Woody Allen filmography. It isn't
his best work but it is a very enjoyable and light hearted romp. I'd
say it fits quite comfortably into being an average Woody Allen film,
right in the middle of the pack. If you're a Woody Allen fan you'll
probably enjoy yourself. If you're indifferent to his work then 'Scoop'
might be enough to get you interested in seeing more. I don't think
that anyone who dislikes his style of film-making and acting are going
to change their mind. Woody plays the same kind of neurotic character
we've grown so accustomed to although it borders dangerously close to
forced and over the top in this film. While potentially aggravating for
some who might find themselves wishing he'd hurry up and just spit out
the words, Woody Allen fans know what to expect.

Very good performances all around in my opinion although I found myself
missing Ian McShane who is excellent and not on camera nearly enough.
Hugh Jackman is great as the charming nobleman and I think Woody Allen
has found a new regular star to work with in Scarlett Johansson. I
think that with 'Match Point' this is their second pairing and she's
just magic with the material that Woody gives her. Could be the
beginning of a beautiful relationship! I'm glad I saw the movie and
definitely recommend it. More sophisticated comedy than movies like
'Scary Movie 4' so if your brand of comedy is the latter rather than
the former, 'Scoop' probably isn't for you. If, on the other hand, you
like a touch of class, sophistication and fun, 'Scoop' is for you.
Probably not the Woody Allen film I'd introduce to a newcomer but all
others should give it a try.
<|_=00=_|>
I thought this was a wonderful way to spend time on a too hot summer
weekend, sitting in the air conditioned theater and watching a
light-hearted comedy. The plot is simplistic, but the dialogue is witty
and the characters are likable (even the well bread suspected serial
killer). While some may be disappointed when they realize this is not
Match Point 2: Risk Addiction, I thought it was proof that Woody Allen
is still fully in control of the style many of us have grown to love.

This was the most I'd laughed at one of Woody's comedies in years (dare
I say a decade?). While I've never been impressed with Scarlet
Johanson, in this she managed to tone down her "sexy" image and jumped
right into a average, but spirited young woman.

This may not be the crown jewel of his career, but it was wittier than
"Devil Wears Prada" and more interesting than "Superman" a great comedy
to go see with friends.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. Remember all the "What happened to
Woody Allen?" jokes? Even Mr. Allen poked fun at the fans who wanted
him to continue making his same "funny" films. As with any great
artist, Mr. Allen's craft evolved over the years and he lost some fans,
while picking up others. Last year's masterpiece "Matchpoint" showed he
is still every bit as relevant and poignant as he was in the days of
"Annie Hall" and "Manhattan". What is most striking to us 40 plus year
fans is that Mr. New York himself seems to have a bit of a crush on the
mother country. Apparently he actually likes England!! While filming
"Matchpoint", Mr. Allen became enamored with Scarlett Johansson and her
real life spirit and sense of humor. This attraction motivated him to
write his best comedy in years. Scarlett, while risking overexposure,
must be given credit for not just picking films that cast her in some
glamorous light. She is unafraid to look and act like a real person. In
"Scoop", she flashes some real on screen comedy chops and, in many
scenes, delivers the real punchline to Mr. Allen's straight man. Of
course, any time Mr. Allen decides to put himself in front of the
camera, he will get more than his share of one liners and social
commentaries in - which is fine, because few do it better.

Very nice support work from Ian McShane and Hugh Jackman. In fact, Mr.
Jackman provides a few glimpses into why many of us thought him the
best choice to replace Brosnan as the new Bond. As with most of Allen's
films, the star is the script, not the actors. Although Scarlett
delivers superbly here and is a nice contrast to the polished Allen and
Jackman, what makes this one crackle is the dialogue ... especially the
banter between Allen and Scarlett. If you are not a huge Woody the
actor fan, fear not. He does limit his screen time and he is quite
effective, except in two or three brief scenes that almost seem out of
place. Another Woodman tradition is a sparkling musical background and
"Scoop" is no exception ... especially the Strauss composition.

"Scoop" is a nice cross between "Annie Hall" and the best of the Marx
Brothers films or the Cary Grant comedies. Yes it is an adult comedy,
but it is actually very cute ... especially for a serial killer and
talking ghost comedy!!
<|_=00=_|>
"Scoop" is also the name of a late-Thirties Evelyn Waugh novel, and
Woody Allen's new movie, though set today, has a nostalgic charm and
simplicity. It hasn't the depth of characterization, intense
performances, suspense or shocking final frisson of Allen's penultimate
effort "Match Point," (argued by many, including this reviewer, to be a
strong return to form) but "Scoop" does closely resemble Allen's last
outing in its focus on English aristocrats, posh London flats, murder,
and detection. This time Woody leaves behind the arriviste murder
mystery genre and returns to comedy, and is himself back on the screen
as an amiable vaudevillian, a magician called Sid Waterman, stage
moniker The Great Splendini, who counters some snobs' probing with, "I
used to be of the Hebrew persuasion, but as I got older, I converted to
narcissism." Following a revelation in the midst of Splendini's
standard dematerializing act, with Scarlett Johansson (as Sondra
Pransky) the audience volunteer, the mismatched pair get drawn into a
dead ace English journalist's post-mortem attempt to score one last top
news story. On the edge of the Styx Joe Strombel (Ian McShane) has just
met the shade of one Lord Lyman's son's secretary, who says she was
poisoned, and she's told him the charming aristocratic bounder son
Peter Lyman (Hugh Jackman) was the Tarot Card murderer, a London serial
killer. Sondra and Sid immediately become a pair of amateur sleuths.
With Sid's deadpan wit and Sondra's bumptious beauty they cut a quick
swath through to the cream of the London aristocracy.

Woody isn't pawing his young heroine muse -- as in "Match Point,"
Johansson again -- as in the past. This time moreover Scarlett's not an
ambitious sexpot and would-be movie star. She's morphed surprisingly
into a klutzy, bespectacled but still pretty coed. Sid and Sondra have
no flirtation, which is a great relief. They simply team up, more or
less politely, to carry out Strombel's wishes by befriending Lyman and
watching him for clues to his guilt. With only minimal protests Sid
consents to appear as Sondra's dad. Sondra, who's captivated Peter by
pretending to drown in his club pool, re-christens herself Jade Spence.
Mr. Spence, i.e., Woody, keeps breaking cover by doing card tricks, but
he amuses dowagers with these and beats their husbands at poker,
spewing non-stop one-liners and all the while maintaining, apparently
with success, that he's in oil and precious metals, just as "Jade" has
told him to say.

That's about all there is to it, or all that can be told without
spoiling the story by revealing its outcome. At first Allen's decision
to make Johansson a gauche, naively plainspoken, and badly dressed
college girl seems not just unkind but an all-around bad decision. But
Johansson, who has pluck and panache as an actress, miraculously
manages to carry it off, helped by Jackman, an actor who knows how to
make any actress appear desirable, if he desires her. The film actually
creates a sense of relationships, to make up for it limited range of
characters: Sid and Sondra spar in a friendly way, and Peter and Sondra
have a believable attraction even though it's artificial and tainted
(she is, after all, going to bed with a suspected homicidal maniac).

What palls a bit is Allen's again drooling over English wealth and
class, things his Brooklyn background seems to have left him, despite
all his celebrity, with a irresistible hankering for. Jackman is an
impressive fellow, glamorous and dashing. His parents were English. But
could this athletic musical comedy star raised in Australia ("X-Man's"
Wolverine) really pass as an aristocrat? Only in the movies, perhaps
(here and in "Kate and Leopold").

This isn't as strong a film as "Match Point," but to say it's a loser
as some viewers have is quite wrong. It has no more depth than a
half-hour radio drama or a TV show, but Woody's jokes are far funnier
and more original than you'll get in any such media affair, and
sometimes they show a return to the old wit and cleverness. It doesn't
matter if a movie is silly or slapdash when it's diverting summer
entertainment. On a hot day you don't want a heavy meal. The whole
thing deliciously evokes a time when movie comedies were really light
escapist entertainment, without crude jokes or bombastic effects;
without Vince Vaughan or Owen Wilson. Critics are eager to tell you
this is a return to the Allen decline that preceded "Match Point."
Don't believe them. He doesn't try too hard. Why should he? He may be
70, but verbally, he's still light on his feet. And his body moves
pretty fast too.
<|_=00=_|>
Great Woody Allen? No. Good Woody Allen? Definitely. I found myself,
along with the audience in attendance, laughing hard and often at some
of the best Woody Allen lines we've heard in a while. The aging Allen
created an appropriate role for himself as Scarlett Johansson's
"father" ... well, sort of. Some have said Johansson plays "a young
Dianne Keaton." I beg to differ. She plays Woody's dialogue, which, in
his comedies, always has a very similar feel...like, well, a Woody
Allen comedy. That's fine for us Woody appreciators. She certainly did
Woody's dialogue far better than the young cast of his last comedy,
Melinda/Melinda. Some may find Woody's humor tiresome, but for those of
us who love it when it's done right, we look forward to the next.
<|_=00=_|>
I'd even say some shades of Hitchcock...this is clearly better than
MMM, which is seen as a guilty pleasure by some if not most Woody fans.
By the way, did you know that Annie Hall was first conceived as a
murder mystery? Anyhow, Woody reclaims some relevance in film comedy
with this one. The plot turns are nice and tight. I will say that in
the first 20 minutes or so, some of the actors are a little too hasty
at delivering their lines, but stick around. Scarlett Johansson proves
well-cast in the Diane Keaton-type role, and at no time is there any
uncomfortable moments between her and the much older Woody. No one
could imagine a more perfect actor for the role of Peter Lyman than
Jackman.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, let me comment that the audience LOVED it from the first
moment. Perhaps current events in the Middle-East led people to take
the attitude, "I came for a comedy and by George I'm going to enjoy
it." but for whatever reason, everybody seemed really into the comedy
of it. The last few times Woody has tried to do a straight comedy
(Small Time Crooks, Curse of the Jade Scorpion, Hollywood Ending) I've
felt like the one-liners felt strained and a bit antiquated. I remember
thinking at one point, "That would have been funny in the early
sixties." So going in to this movie, I was afraid Woody was becoming
tone deaf, however, in this one his comic sensibilities were in perfect
tune. Admittedly, there were plenty of my fellow AARP card carrying
folks in the screening, but there were also plenty of 20-somethings and
30-somethings as well, and they all seemed to get it and give up the
occasional belly laugh in addition to numerous guffaws, chuckles and
the like. In many instances, the throw-aways had people laughing so
loud you missed the next line.

Thematically, Woody was traipsing familiar ground. As I suspected from
the trailer, this film had a lot of Manhattan Murder Mystery in it, but
then again, there was more than a smidgen of Oedipus Wrecks (New York
Stories), Alice, and even a little tribute to Broadway Danny Rose at
the very beginning.

Even with Woody in the movie, Scarlett, as Sondra, was, at times the
Woody-proxy, but her character was far from the Nebbish that, say, Will
Ferrell gave us in Melinda and Melinda or Kenneth Branaugh attempted in
Celebrity. Instead of archetypal ticks and quirks, Sondra's nerdishness
comes directly from the family history which she shares early on. On
numerous occasions the "family business" leads her to malapropisms that
we get as an audience, while the characters on the screen can only
perceive them as strange non-sequiturs. Since we are all in on the
joke, we can't help but laugh. But the laughs don't come from
recognizing the Woody nebbish, but truly from the character. To a great
extent, unlike Farrell, Branaugh, Cusack or even Mia Farrow before her,
Scarlett is not required to use the Woody voice to evoke the Woody
role. Thus, we don't find ourselves ripped out of the narrative as a
Woody's voice suddenly emerges from someone else' face.

As my friend commented on the way out, Sid, the character played by
Woody, is a supporting role, but more center-stage than I was hoping
going in. However, this time Woody seems to have written a character
that truly fits his current persona. Unlike his Ed Dobel sage character
in Anything Else, or his blind director in Hollywood Ending, this time
the character is a comfortable fit. Perhaps more importantly, this time
the character works in the story. Within the elevated circles they find
themselves in, he is even more fish-out-of-water than Scarlett, which
is used to great comedic effect throughout. Sid is a declining,
itinerant magician playing to small audiences, but the fact that he is
from another era is placed front and center for our enjoyment.

But what about Jackman? What about Ian (Swearengen) McShane? I liked
both of them to the extent that they are used in the piece. I
particularly liked McShane's short but effective turns. Jackman is
charming with the ease of "Old Money" that was so often portrayed in
films from 50 years ago. (Class echoes from Purple Rose of Cairo?)

So what did I think? Short answer, maybe his best straight comedy since
1994's Bullets Over Broadway. Less stylized than Mighty Aphrodite. Less
caustic than Deconstructing Harry. Less forced than Small Time Crooks
or Hollywood Ending. Woody has finally found a comic voice that works
in the 21st century.
