
We know that Mark Wahlberg refused to play Rockstar's "Max Payne" game
before performing in this film, but, in addition, I must assume that
neither the director nor the screenwriter ever played this game before,
either. If there weren't so many shots of the background scenery that
tied in with the game (although they were never fully or, in some
cases, partially explored), I would assume that no one involved in the
movie had even seen cut scenes from the game. I would have assumed that
they got a one paragraph synopsis on the game, with character names,
and just made up their own story that barely connected to the game
storyline.

When this movie was made for a "PG-13" rating instead of an "R" rating,
most of the fans were nervous. And, after seeing the train wreck this
film became, it's clear to see that our worst fears were realized.
Worse even than whether this works as a movie adaptation of a video
game is whether this film would works as a movie if you have no
knowledge of the video game. Unfortunately, if you went to see this
film looking for an action flick, you would say that this was one of
the most boring, yawn-inducing films you'd seen in the action genre.

The lack of narration throughout this film, the lack of a solid action
director like John Woo (who knows how to do slow-mo), and the lack of
anyone from the Rockstar team helping with screen writing added up to
what can only be described as a hollow, dull film that has virtually no
tie to the amazing game that spawned it. The studio system strikes
again.
<|_=00=_|>
Max Payne was a game that was born of Film Noir and John Woo. This
movie? Voice overs = 1 or two. (There was hope in the opening but then
nothing) Action scenes = minimal. (Not too bad other than being sparse)
Acting = very good for what little the script offers. (The actors do
not deserve the blame for this atrocity unless it is for choosing to do
this script.) Scenery/Cinematography = Brilliant but wasted on scenes
like 8 minutes picking up a folder with no conflict in the scene. (The
scenery was impressively accurate to the game. I kept feeling like it
was going to get better because of it. Then nothing would happen.)

I wanted this to be good. I kept lying to myself and saying it would
get better any minute.

People who say I am disappointed because it isn't the video game need
to understand I didn't want the video game I wanted an action film that
captured the essence of the game.

We are left with no reason to care for Max Payne. If I was the writer I
would have been ashamed to have my name attached.

Max Payne got the Indy treatment.

I really want my money back on this one. I felt insulted that they
thought this script was a passable story.
<|_=00=_|>
I've had the pleasure of beating both Max Payne 1 and 2, so let us
start this off by saying I like the games a great deal. At the very
least I expected a dumb, entertaining action film. What I was shocked
to find was a film so poorly made I am impressed that Mr. Moore
actually put his name on the credits.

In the games Max is pushed over the edge and goes on a rampage of
survival and revenge. He works his way up from person to person and
every once in awhile, he has crazy dream sequences. Throughout there is
a dry wit and extremely overdone noir dialog. It's so over the top,
it's hard not to like.

I have no idea why the filmmakers chose not to follow that fairly basic
plot setup because the replacement is absolutely horrific. The movie
wobbles from scene to scene, alternating from making no sense at all to
making Max and every other character in the movie look like complete
morons.

What's further astounding is that the film can't even get the basics
down. This is the worst directed film I've seen in over a year. It's
pretty but the action is sparse and boring. Conversations are so badly
shot it's no wonder that the whole theater was laughing at most of the
scenes. At least one actor turns in a performance so stiff he should be
declared legally dead.

And as for the 'staying true to the game' part? Well, they had some
slow motion shots, but beyond that, all the style, humor, and over the
top action is missing.

Alright, I'm done. I still can't believe the film was that bad. Oy!
<|_=00=_|>
"I don't believe in angels, but I believe in pain..." Those opening
lines of the movie can only mean one thing, trite bull****. I don't
know what the people over at Fox Studios were doing when the subject of
making a movie out of one of the best shoot 'em up, film noir inspired,
and heart racing video game franchises came up for discussion. It
certainly wasn't "Hey, we should play the game to see what this thing
is all about." Nope. It was more like "Hey! This game made a lot of
money. Someone quickly tell me what the back of the box says about the
game and we'll write a crappy screenplay around it and miscast the
whole thing." Mark Wahlberg plays Max Payne, the brutal, no holds
barred and out for revenge cop from the video game of the same name...
but wait! They rewrote nearly the whole character. He couldn't seem to
give a rats ass about his murdered wife and child except for a few
bland flashbacks. The acting is so misplaced and frozen in this movie
and adding the likes of Mila Kunis, Chris O'Donnell, Ludicrous (holy
crap what were they thinking?), and Beau Bridges didn't really give
them much of a leg to stand on.

To sum it all up, I felt like falling asleep during the film (a feat
not so easily accomplished for me). This was an action movie turned
into a long boring drama with a few shooting sequences.

Don't waste your money. Rent 'Shoot Em Up' instead
<|_=00=_|>
No spoiler here - it doesn't need one, its already spoiled!

OK so I am biased, having played both games to completion several times
over I loved them both - dark, gritty, twisted, film noir greatness.
the games, as most will no doubt know, were almost a scripted story
board that was ready to go as a movie - seriously it should have been
easy - don't bother with script writers - the script was already there,
the games are a screen play! even down to camera angles and lighting -
it should have been a no brainer. I would love to know what would have
happened in the production crew and actors had actually played the
game, but alas I suspect they had a treatment to work with and they
just ran with that - Mark was an awesome choice for the role of Max but
there it stops. 

My big question is if your going to make a film of a great game why
risk alienating the original fan base by not sticking with the already
existing story line and instead running with an "off the shelf" plot
(that was on the shelf for a good reason - it sucked!) and just putting
in the appropriate names.

So whats next? do we have to now watch as Hollywood works it's way
through more games - maybe Halflife? or Deus Ex - both could make
awesome films but if this is what they are going to do with them why
bother.

Simply put if your going to make a movie from an award winning game
that sold in the millions - STICK WITH THE f*&KING STORY! games
designers spend a lot of time making great games with great stories -
gamers spend a lot of time enjoying them where the hell does some half
arsed hack of a director get off knocking out crap like this. Yes its a
given you name a film after a game with this sort of following and it
will sell seats in the cinema - but do a good job of it- stick to the
story and it will be a blockbuster! - it can be done - they said that
Lord of the Rings and The Watchmen couldn't be done - but they were and
were fantastic - granted they aren't games but the principle is the
same - you research the material of the story before you make the film
- get some of the original artists and creative producers involved
instead of knocking out crap like this, it's not fair on the fans - and
thats who the film is made for surely - do it well and they will market
the game via word of mouth far better than any amount of trailers and
hype will ever do and that means more money for the producers, I really
don't understand why you would do it any other way.
<|_=00=_|>
Mark Wahlberg plays popular game hero Max Payne, a cop who sets out to
find the man who killed his wife and child, while doing so he uncovers
a potential conspiracy that could lead him to the killer.

While Max Payne boasts a great tone, atmosphere and great
cinematography, the overall film wasn't really all that great, the
acting was tough to judge, there were some good performances but the
actors seem like they didn't have much to work with, the action scenes
are minimal, and was just a ton of shooting and they weren't all that
exciting, however if you are interested in this film, you can watch it,
but I feel that there are better options.

Without comparing it to the game, I felt they could have done more to
make it a bit more interesting and exciting, and possibly add more to
Max Payne's back story and they could've been more inventive with the
action scenes instead of making people just shoot at each other.

Otherwise, its a good concept and is well shot, but the execution
needed a little more work.
<|_=00=_|>
I never thought it was possible to turn a story that great into such a
terrible movie...

First let me say I loved the games, I love action movies, crime movies,
film noir and thrillers, film noir and thrillers, but

I hate this film, I really hate it. It is nothing like it should be,
everything is missing - the drama, the violence( which really is an
important part of the tragical tale of max payne), the dark humor, the
characters... everything.

Max payne is the tale of a man who looses everything, who doesn't care
about anything but personal justice any more and just fights his way
through, getting in a worse condition every minute - he gets beaten up,
he gets shot and drugged and yet he never gives up.

Personally I found many aspects of max payne in sin city.

The Max Payne movie however is like the children's edition, there is no
pain, no blood( red is the third color next to black and white that is
actually needed in max payne), no great bullettime actions, no film
noir. The great characters from the game seem all ridiculous, like
nicole horn (the evil mastermind) acts like the friendly ant from next
door, BB is not nearly the cool suit he should be, no alfred wooden !?,
jim bravura needs to be that old wasted guy from the game - and also
the extremely precious sideline characters like vinnie (who was such
fun to meet in the game) seem all wrong.

When they would just have filmed game scene after game scene, level for
level the would have provided a better story. The included the wrong
unimportant plots from the game but ignored the stuff that really
matters.

They should have let the guy who cut the trailer make the film, cause
it was really an awesome trailer that actually captured a pretty good
image of the original Max Payne style.

The great funny scenes are gone completely too, you never have to laugh
at all, nothing like a gansta in a capt. baseball bat suit...

Really, really terrible.

The 2 points I give because there are actually some nice images like
the valkyries and the drug trips - and because of the super gorgeous
Natascha^^ (sister of mona) ... who max did not sleep with, another
reason to hate the movie, one of many though...
<|_=00=_|>
A movie shouldn't really be rated on its quality as an adaptation.
Rather it should be rated on character development, storytelling,
suspense, etc. Honestly, this story had potential. I was decently
intrigued for about the first 15 minutes. But that just makes it worse
because it got my hopes up.

I'm not sure why I sat through it. The ending was utterly predictable..
and not the kind that makes you feel clever for figuring it out. I knew
who the 'bad guy' was the second he walked on screen.

The only reason I gave it 3/10 was because I watched the Unrated
Edition, which, in my experience, often means "this movie sucks!" (In
other words I AM giving the benefit of the doubt.) So, why did I watch
this version??? I don't know ask, Axxo...

Don't waste your money OR your bandwidth!
<|_=00=_|>
Oh, my dreams have sort of come true. Max Payne, on film. I had prayed
for months that it wouldn't stink to the high heavens like every other
video game adaptation. Thankfully, Max Payne does not stink as a
standalone film or adaptation, nor is it anything like the other game
adaptations. John Moore's obvious goal in the film was to match the
spirit, tone, and grit of the game, and I have to say that he reached
it.

While I was disappointed in the lack of action sequences, I think that
including even half of the action from the game would have taken away
from the realism of the film, as mountains of action sequences work a
lot better in a game than they do on film. The film opts for a quieter
tone, and a much more thoughtful and introspective approach. I
appreciated this a lot, as a fan of the game. By no means is Max Payne
just thrown together to make a quick buck. It is well made, and well
thought out. I was not disappointed in this aspect.

Mark Wahlberg, thank you for not failing. That would have ruined my
year. Wahlberg delivers a quiet, yet subtle and intense performance in
the title role as the most "pain" and "pun" inducing detective of all
time. While there is a large supporting cast, I really wasn't swayed
either way by any of them, besides Chris Bridges, who was actually
playing a character for once instead of himself on screen. Mila Kunis
as Mona Sax wasn't the best casting in the world, but Mila proves that
it wasn't the worst casting either. There isn't as much depth to her in
the film as there was in the game.

As an adaptation, the Max Payne film is very different from the game in
pretty much every aspect besides the tone and the characterizations.
Once again, all I wanted was the tone to be right, and I got what I
wanted. Though the noir aspect of the game is somewhat lacking (I
missed Max's inner monologue so much), I still found it to be the dark
and effective thriller that the game was. A brooding performance from
Wahlberg and a matching score only add to the film. Stunning visuals,
engineered by the fictional hallucinogenic drug in the film, in
addition to the dark cinematography, steal attention away from the fact
that the film's editing is subpar.

I have to bring to life the fact that Max Payne is not an action movie
at heart. It is a mystery film with some action scenes (and some very
well done visual effects). The game may have been a shoot 'em up style
game, but I know that you can't do this on film and expect to be taken
seriously, which Max Payne should be.

At it's core, Max Payne, despite a lot of changes from the game,
remains the dark, story driven thriller that I've loved for a good part
of my life. I'm proud of the film as a die hard fan of the game, and
respect it for what it is as a film by itself. I'm satisfied, and not
disappointed. For those who haven't played the game, Max Payne is an
effective mystery film that is driven by the main character and the
exposition around him. For those who will inevitably complain about a
lack of action sequences, wake up and realize that Moore & company got
the tone right, at the expense of necessary cuts.
<|_=00=_|>
I have never played the Max Payne games, so I have no idea if the movie
was faithful to its origins. I've heard some people say that it was and
others say it wasn't. But in any case, this really wasn't as bad as
everyone seems to think. No, there wasn't as much action as you might
get in a "Transporter" movie, but that didn't really bother me because
sometimes I like movies that have a little more thought behind them.
There were still some really awesome action sequences though and it was
definitely beautifully shot. The atmosphere that they created with the
lighting was great.

However, there were still some things that I didn't like about this
movie and that they could have done better. First, most of it,
especially the beginning, seemed very jumbled and hard to understand.
The writing and the editing were sub-par. Second, and this is probably
due to the bad writing and editing, you never really connect with any
of the characters and so you can never really feel any overwhelming
emotion about their situation. The whole thing seemed slightly hollow
and empty, as if the writer and director themselves were not quite sure
what they were trying to get at. Third, the acting sucked big time in
some scenes. It wasn't horrible throughout the whole movie, but it
still left much to be desired. Fourth, there were many things in the
story that weren't fully explained, which only contributed to the
hollow, confused feeling of the entire movie.

So, overall, it is not a bad film, but I was slightly disappointed. It
really could have been an amazing movie, and I blame the writer and
editor for almost completely ruining it. The only thing that saves it
is the few awesome action scenes and the cinematography. But please
don't believe anyone that says it one of the worst movies ever because
it's not. It's just not as good as it should have been.

7.5/10
