
I saw this movie at the 2006 International Film Festival of Rotterdam.

Heartwarming family movie about imaginary friends.

The 9 year old daughter of a family in an opal mining town enjoys
company of two imaginary friends. She becomes ill after something
happens to them. The father is suspected of theft, making his household
outcasts in the rough Australian mining community. The older brother
has always felt embarrassed of his sister's behavior, but decides to
help her anyway.

Movie manages to make the audience both laugh and care about its
subject "imaginary friends". Very entertaining, Excellent performances
from the child actors. Recommended.

9/10

Credits Trivia: The story is based on the book "Pobby and Dingan"
(2000) by UK-based author Ben Rice. Pobby and Dingan are the names of
the imaginary friends. I just happened to run into this little 100 page
book a week after seeing the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
This is quite a good film about a sun-scorched prospector town and
family members whose dreams and imaginary worlds drive each other nuts.
It's deeper than the director's best-known film, The Full Monty, though
the topic is similar: the struggles of working-class folks to stay
closer to their dreams than they are to their failures. The depiction
of the town dynamics seemed to me as flawless as the individual
performances, and as someone who comes from a family with shall we say
a non-standard member, I was impressed with the film's ability to
produce a familiar emotional mix of exasperation, devotion, and desire
for a truly imaginative cure for the main problem. The movie delivers
on this last point. It would be wrong to see this as a chick flick,
because as in The Full Monty the cast and crew are interested in men
who try to figure out how to resolve conflicts and fix disasters
without using anger and force, and who pretty much succeed. British and
Commonwealth film is generally better than American at avoiding
stereotypes of blue-collar masculinity and this is a particularly good
and heart- warming example. The boy in the picture, who has to figure
out what to do about his dad and his sister, is one of the great kids
of recent film history.
<|_=00=_|>
The Australian film industry has over the last few decades produced a
number of haunting, poetic films, quite different from the standard
Hollywood output. Examples include "Walkabout", "Picnic at Hanging
Rock", the lesser-known but excellent "Celia" and the more recent "Ten
Canoes". "Opal Dream" is another in this tradition; as in "Celia" the
main character is a nine-year-old girl.

The film is set in the opal mining town of Coober Pedy, here disguised
under the fictitious name of Lightning Ridge, and centres on the family
of opal miner Rex Williamson. Some on this board have labelled the
family "dysfunctional", but this does not seem an accurate description.
Rex and his wife Annie are loving and affectionate parents to their
children Ashmol and Kellyanne, and Ashmol seems a normal, likable
eleven-year-old lad. The problem lies with his younger sister
Kellyanne, a shy, withdrawn child who finds it difficult to make
friends. To compensate for her lack of playmates she has invented two
imaginary friends, Pobby (male) and Dingan (female).

Many children go through a phase of having an imaginary friend- I
remember my younger sister inventing a boy called John Ted- but
Kellyanne's case is rather different. Even at the age of five or six my
sister was well aware in her heart of hearts that John Ted was a
fantasy rather than a real person, and by the time she was nine he had
long been forgotten. Kellyanne, however, has quite convinced herself
that Pobby and Dingan are real, and has retained her belief in the
reality of their existence long after most children have waved their
imaginary friends goodbye.

Rex and Annie are concerned about their daughter's fantasies, but
pretend to believe in the existence of Pobby and Dingan to humour her,
and one day Rex pretends to take them to his opal diggings. When he
returns, however, Kellyanne becomes convinced that he has left them
behind and insists that he take her back to look for them. Rex does so,
but while looking for the imaginary pair he inadvertently strays onto
another miner's claim, which leads to him being arrested by the police
and charged with "ratting" (illegal mining). As ratting is regarded as
the most heinous sin an opal miner can commit, this leads to Rex and
his family being ostracised by their neighbours. Kellyanne falls ill,
partly because of stress caused by the family's situation and partly
because of grief over the loss of her friends.

There are parallels between Kellyanne's situation and that of her
parents and the wider community of Lightning Ridge. She is living in a
world of make-believe and so, in a sense, are they. The opal miners are
not employed by a big mining corporation, but are self-employed
prospectors. Each miner has his own jealously guarded individual claim,
which explains why "ratters" are regarded with such contempt. They have
been lured to the town by dreams of wealth, but in most cases these
prove to be as illusory as Pobby and Dingan. (Hence the title "Opal
Dream"). Until about a year previously, Rex and Annie ran a pub in
Melbourne, but abandoned that life to try their luck in the opal
fields. The fact that the Williamsons are outsiders makes many of their
neighbours ill-disposed to them even before the "ratting" allegations,
and there is a suggestion that Kellyanne's emotional problems may be
connected to her sudden uprooting from one environment to another.

I did not like the ending, which I felt amounted to a retreat into
tear-jerking sentimentality and avoided, rather than resolving, the
tensions and conflicts inherent in the plot. That, however, would be my
only complaint. The adults all play their parts well, and the two child
actors, Christian Byers and Sapphire Boyce, were excellent. Sapphire
(interesting that the leading actress in a film about jewel mining
should herself be named after a jewel) deserves a special mention. Most
excellent performances from child actors come in films where they are
required to play lively, outgoing youngsters- a good recent example is
Anna Sophia Robb's performance in "Bridge to Terabithia", a film I did
not otherwise much care for. To have played an introverted, withdrawn
child like Kellyanne must have been more difficult. The film's haunting
atmosphere is also heightened by the photography of the South
Australian desert landscapes, made to seem even more barren and
otherworldly by the slagheaps from the mineral workings. "Opal Dream"
is very enjoyable as a sensitive and poetic exploration of a difficult
childhood. 7/10
<|_=00=_|>
Most of the people I know here in Canada have never even heard of Opal
Dream, A.K.A. Pobby and Dingan. One night while they were out watching
another pathetic rerun of that disgusting Family Guy show, I went on
eBay and bought a DVD of Opal Dream. When it arrived in the mail two
weeks later it seemed to be a movie for little children, but as
innocent as it seems, it's still got a quality to it that can be just
as powerful for adults as for kids.

Set in the great outback of Australia, Opal Dream is the story of the
love between a little girl and her two best friends... whom no one else
can see. Pobby and Dingan are imaginary friends, and very friendly and
caring creatures. Her parents, teacher and brother try to understand
Kellyanne's friendship by telling themselves that it's just a phase,
that she'll grow out of it, that they're just emotional support for her
since the family moved out to Coober Pedy for her dad's mining job, but
one day they get fed up with her imaginary friends and force Kellyanne
to lose them. In turn, they all learn just how powerful imagination can
be, and the only one who seems to be able to finally try to set things
right for Kellyanne is her brother Ashmol, and by the time the adults
in town finally wake up and start seeing things from Kellyanne's point
of view, it may already be too late.

I'm not really sure of the theme of Opal Dream, or even if it has one.
My best guess would be that it is trying to show how when a child, or
anyone for that matter, loses something important to them, it can have
irreversible effects. When it comes to imaginary friends, modern media
has made them out to be monsters and signs of mental illness, from the
1978 horror movie Magic to the recent 2012 movie Imaginary friend. It's
rather unfortunate that today anyone who has an imaginary friend is
viewed as having some sort of trouble, because for some people an
imaginary friend is their support, their coping mechanism and the only
one they can trust. Believe it or not many adults have them, and these
people are still normal, happy members of society. Kellyanne's parents
were worried that their daughter was getting to old for her unseen
companions. They got their peace of mind, but Kellyanne got cheated out
of her childhood.

This movie is surprisingly sad for a children's movie, I won't ruin
what happens at the ending but it's incredibly depressing and will
leave a lasting memory, that's for sure. The Australian scenery is very
beautiful and the acting was excellent. I liked the soundtrack and the
whole movie had vague elements of Paperhouse (1988) and Don't Look
Under the Bed (1999). Sadly most kids today only want to watch cr*p
like The Hunger Games and Disney's Frozen, so it's nice to see that
there are still good movies out there for kids if you know where to
look. My little brother loved this one too, but because of the ending
of the film, you may want to watch t yourself before showing it to your
kids. I think it deserves a 10/10 stars, even more than that, it's a
beautiful movie with a timeless message and will definitely be one of
my favorites for a long time to come.
<|_=00=_|>
A hauntingly beautiful Australian film about the power of belief, and
of the love between siblings. Rex Williamson (Vince Colosimo) is an
opal miner prospecting in the outback town of Cooper Pedy. When his
daughter Kellyanne's (Sapphire Boyce) imaginary friends go missing
after a visit to the family's mine claim, he searches for them, and
gets accused of attempted theft from a neighbouring claim in the
process. Faced with his father being charged with attempting to steal
from someone else's claim, and the family being shunned by the
community as a result, as well as his young sister becoming ill through
grief for her imaginary friends, Rex's son Ashmol (Christian Byers)
sets out to put things right. This review really doesn't do justice to
this heart warming and unusual tale. This is an Australian
co-production with the BBC, so watch out for some familiar faces in
atypical roles.
<|_=00=_|>
Screened on DVD June 8, 2008

It's a warm holiday season in the South Australia mining town of Coober
Pedy, and for the Williamson family, festivities are juggled around
nine-year-old Kellyanne's devotion to her invisible playmates, Pobby
and Dingan, and her dad, Rex's, single-minded pursuit of the perfect
opal.

The hypnotic gems possess a dangerous allure, as the girl's brother,
Ashmol, says in his framing narration to "Opal Dream." Everybody comes
to the place to dream -- presumably about a better life somewhere -- as
they dig for opals. The more you dream, the deeper you want to dig, but
if you dig too deep, you might never get out -- never wake up, he says.

For the Williamsons, the town offers dreams and not much else. Rex
hopes to strike it rich for his wife, Annie, and their kids. But after
a year in town, they don't have much. Rex needs a bit of luck at the
races to afford the kids' Christmas presents.

Moving to Coober Pedy has taken the hardest toll on Kellyanne, for whom
Pobby and Dingan are two very real people, and she shares with everyone
her enthusiasm for her friends' artistic, gentle, natures. "They're
pacifists," she explains.

Her teacher says Kellyanne has a vivid imagination but she's a dreamer
who doesn't have many friends -- "she doesn't find people very easy."
When Rex complains about Pobby and Dingan, Annie points out that
they're as real as opals are to him.

Rex has his share of more tangible problems. He has relocated after an
apparently minor brush with the law, and he finds himself in a
community of narrow-minded ruffians who don't coddle to "ratters" --
blokes that come around at night and noodle around your claim for
highly prized colored opals.

Adapted from a Ben Rice novel, "Pobby and Dingan," the movie "Opal
Dream" is the story of Rex's reconciliation with his new town and his
growing family as two crises unfold.

It all starts off innocently. In a clumsy but well-meaning attempt to
wean his daughter off Pobby and Dingan, Rex offers to take the
amorphous pair along to the mines with him and Ashmol while she and Mom
go to a holiday party. Kellyanne agrees, but when he comes home without
her unseen sidekicks, Kellyanne talks him into going back to look for
them. When he does, the bloke at a nearby mine discovers Rex on his
claim and calls the cops.

Rex is soon headed to a hearing to face mining violation charges.
Worse, the whole town turns on the family: Annie loses her job at a
grocery store and, when Ashmol goes for a bike ride, he finds a rat
swinging from the handlebars left by a gang of jeering kids. Again,
Kellyanne gets the worst of it -- without Pobby and Dingan around, she
falls ill and, to the bafflement of her doctors, steadily deteriorates.

The way the reconciliation is achieved carries the story satisfactorily
through Act III. But the climax and resolution are squeezed together so
tightly that the outcome for all the characters can only be described
as ambiguous, especially for poor Kellyanne, whose actions were only
the metaphor for her family's isolation.

Director Peter Cattaneo's production has an outstanding cast
throughout, particularly the Williamson clan. Production values are
excellent. Newcomer Sapphire Boyce is a strikingly beautiful child.
