
There is a new genre infesting our nation's movie theaters. With
apologies to Garrison Kellior, let's call it "guy noir". Films aimed
directly at the young, hip male audience. Movies that are an unholy
combination of old fashioned film noir and the modern action movie, as
directed by the class clown. They offer fast paced entertainment, great
character actors, twisty plot lines, explosions and more spent
ordinance than used in a typical week in Baghdad. Even new genres breed
clichés however and the original freshness heralded by Quentin
Tarantino's Pulp Fiction is beginning to smell the slightest bit stale.
This brings us to Smokin' Aces, a movie that isn't so smug as to be
intolerable or so brilliant as to be ground breaking. Rather it is
good, competent, workmanlike example of its genre, which is bad news
for a movie that wants to be hip and edgy.

Smokin' Aces has the requisite twisty plot. Actually it has at least
nine plots, all twisty. In fact it has so many plots the movie
dissolves into a series of incidences strung together by a smattering
of narrative glue. Aces, a card magician and mob nabob, turns federal
stoolie and a dying Godfather posts a high dollar contract on him.
Naturally every photogenic hit-man with the weekend free descends upon
Ace's casino penthouse to do the job and collect the dough. Smokin'
Aces tries hard and includes everything needed to qualify as guy noir.
It even tries to incorporate the "Tarantino Digression". That is,
extended expository flashbacks incorporated for no good reason except
that they are fun to watch. Smoking Aces can't quite pull these off as
they require a defter touch than the movie is capable of.

There aren't any real people in Smokin' Aces. All the characters are
strictly stereotypes played for effect rather than reality. Jeremy
Piven as Aces is the self loathing hop head, Alicia Keys and Georgia
Sykes are the hot lesbian hit team, Ben Afleck is the hipster bounty
hunter and so on. Everything you need to know about these guys you
learn in the first split second they are on the screen. There is no
star in Smokin' Aces. Afleck, the biggest name, has a relatively small
part and is upstaged by his hat. You might remember Chris Pine, Kevin
Durand and Maury Sterling as the Tremor brothers if only because they
were the loudest, most violent bunch in a loud violent movie. The only
actor who rises above caricature is Ray Liotta, who invests his FBI
agent with quiet dignity and a touch of pathos and in doing so sticks
out like a sore thumb. It takes a strange sort of movie for a review to
criticize the one genuinely good performance in it but Liotta just
doesn't fit.

Smokin' Aces manages to hold its whirly gig self together for the most
part. There are a few problems. It goes on too long after the climatic
blood bath wrapping up plot threads you probably didn't notice amongst
the explosions. There is a denouement where a hero, brought in from way
out in left field, makes an existential choice that is not nearly as
agonizing as the movie thinks it is because we have no emotional
investment in the fellow making it. Though the final plot twist is
prepared for and makes as much sense as anything else in the film,
still it feels flat and unsatisfying. Think of Smokin' Aces as a shaggy
dog story. It's long, involved and fun to listen to but ultimately goes
nowhere.
<|_=00=_|>
Smoking Aces is a film that tries hard, and in doing so is one that is
not going to be easy to describe. The basic plot revolves around the
central character "Aces" who is testifying against the mob, and in
return has a contract out on his head. Locked away in his suite in Las
Vegas, he is protected by the Fed, but there are multiple contract
killers (all different from each as can be imagined!) out to get him.

First hour seems to be stuck piecing the different contract killers
together and their background, whilst the Fed are shown to be trying to
figure out what is going on. No one set of actors though gets above the
others, and in doing so you have multiple stories in the film tied into
the whole premise of the film. Acting is great by the general assemble
which includes fine performances by Andy Garcia and Ray Liotta.

Problematically, the film tries to be too cool at the start, and
reminds me too much of "Things to do in Denver...." and so on. In
addition, the film is really confusing at points but is worth
persevering with nevertheless. The complexity makes it very original,
and you never know where its going, but it wraps up together in the
last 30mins which are more than worth the cinema ticket alone.

No classic, but enjoyable, original and interesting overall..
<|_=00=_|>
I've read some of the reviews for this movie, and I can't agree with
them. I completely disagree in that I thought this was a very
entertaining movie. The concept was very well thought out but it wasn't
perfect, obviously.

Basically, the movie was about several groups of assassins all gunning
for the same man for the same price. The reason he is wanted dead is
because of his snitching and deceitful ways. I'm not going to give
anything away, but once you watch the movie you'll know there's a lot
more behind that. Only thing you really need to do is pay as close
attention as you can during the beginning, because it does get a little
confusing. The story moves along pretty quickly, but you will get the
gist of it.

Overall, I thought it was very well done. The plot was good, the
characters were amazing (especially Ryan Reynolds), and there were some
nice action parts. Even though it dragged on a little bit during the
middle, it was necessary to develop plot details. 9 out of 10 stars
from me; it was very entertaining and thought provoking. Last but not
least, the white karate kid in the trailer was hilarious, "Why you
eye-ballin' me son!?".
<|_=00=_|>
Here's another addition to anyone's list of definitive "guy flicks".
Compared to testosterone treats like Jason Statham's pair of
Transporter stints, this one offers a more complicated plot, fewer
explosions and chases, but more gruesome killings. Plus some fine
touches of grim humor, and a dash of eye candy. It comes from the
fertile, if demented, mind of Joe Carnahan, who struck first with the
cheapie hit Blood, Guts, Bullets and Octane, before upgrading to
studio-quality crime drama in Narc. Arguably, he's the US doppelganger
for England's Guy Ritchie (Lox, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels and
Snatch - both also featuring Statham), since he's less arty and
cinematically historical about showcasing mayhem than Quentin
Tarantino.

Jeremy Piven plays a Las Vegas lounge star and gangster wannabe, who
first endears himself to the Mob, runs afoul of the local Capo, then
offers his testimony to the FBI in exchange for protection and profit.
When the Mafiosi put a $1M price-tag on his head, hordes of hit persons
(solos and teams, male and female, foreign and domestic; the EEOC would
be more than satisfied with this field's diversity), some hired, others
freelance, converge on the casino penthouse in Lake Tahoe where their
quarry is "hiding", while his agent (gifted, yet underemployed, Curtis
Armstrong) negotiates terms with the Feds.

The deep cast includes Ben Affleck, Ray Liotta, Andy Garcia, Jason
Bateman, Alicia Keys, and plenty of other familiar faces. Carnahan
careens among multiple arenas of plotting, with FBI briefings filling
in the audience and their agents on some of the players they're about
to face, building to the inevitable chaos of competing factions
converging on Piven and his legion of bodyguards, in what promises to
be a dazzling display of carnage and comedy. The reality comes pretty
close, with a couple of cool surprises along the way.

Unfortunately, Carnahan, like a certain US President who comes to mind,
crafted his superb attack without a viable exit strategy. After the
cosmic convergence, there's more exposition and anticlimactic wind-down
than anyone needed, or the preceding frenzy deserved.

Enjoy the movie, fellas. But for those who wait (or double-dip), expect
the DVD's extras to include at least one alternate ending, and several
bloody and/or sexy deleted scenes that were axed for optimal running
time, rather than lack of titillation.
<|_=00=_|>
Ray Ray Ray....did 'Revolver' teach you nothing?? For a man who was
once in a Scorsese movie, its hard to imagine he'd end up like
this....sunk to depths of the lowest degree. Well hopefully the reviews
this film will no doubt receive will teach Mr. Liotta a thing or two
about 'money over credibility', because this film is enough to
suffocate anyone's career. (And Affleck should be ashamed of himself...
wasn't 'Gigli' enough of a lesson!!!READ the Scripts in future Ben)

'Now thats what i call gangsters 2006'

Possibly a more fitting title for such a dire film. 

Please allow me to elaborate 

Think of possibly every single 'villian' cliché in cinematic history,
presented to us in a rapid 'MTV' style manner, all after one guy, and
all introduced to us within the first ten minutes of the film.

You've got Ace, (the guy they wanna kill because he double crossed the
mafia, or something along those lines....it all becomes a blur after a
while), the million members of the mafia (nice of them to explain what
'La Cosa Nostra' stands for right at the start, and then fail to
explain anything else from that point onwards). and then comes the
villains

In no particular order:

Some guy who takes on the deranged Hannibal lecter type character, (you
gotta have the psycho), followed by the redneck Neo-Nazi brothers with
the 'Mad Max' style attire, (and the inconspicuous
chainsaws....discreet), Alisha Keys makes an appearance as the 'badass'
street talking contract killer (thus bringing a more urban flavour to
whole melting pot), you've got the eastern European master of disguise
(who makes faces out of latex, and disguises himself as his dead
victims...cunning)and a few other characters (who you soon forget
about)...headache is the only way of describing this intro.

After half an hour you're still probably as perplexed as you where
within the first five minutes, because nothing is clarified (fine...a
linear narrative, as we know is not the be and and end of all of
films), but some kind of coherence is surely a must.

Anyway in an over the top (being an understatement) way they all go to
bring ace back to the mafia, trying to each get there before anyone
else. The big twist (i say twist, although i really failed to care by
this point), comes at the end when you find out the truth about why the
mafia wanted ace really.

OK heres what i don't get:

The man who makes the faces from latex.....how on earth did he manage
to kill Hugo, mould the guys face, let it dry, put it on, (powder it up
with a bit of makeup), and get a wig identical to Hugo's actual
hairdo...all in the space of what appeared to be no more than 10
minutes!

Alisha keys' character.....runs off with that guy who worked for Ace,
after about 2 seconds of meeting him, and allows her 'friend' to get
gunned down by police, whilst shes outside with prince charming
arranging a date location!rather unfair.. and WHY was she not
arrested????

why were there another lot of prostitutes coming to aces penthouse when
about 6 had just left! has this man never heard of chlamydia!

This whole thing was very very laughable,especially the last part of
the film with the '90's action movie' style blowing up and gunning down
of everything in sight.

I'm sure this movie wishes it was a Tarentino, because it tries so hard
to be cool...but we all know that when you try too hard it shows. It
upsets me that people are even trying to find comparisons between this
movie and 'Goodfellas', because its like comparing a Mcdonalds to fine
French cuisine.

In Liotta's defence however, he was possibly the best thing about this
mess of a movie. He just wasted his talents on such a bad movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't think I have seen such a mess of a film before. I found myself
thinking "Will this movie pick up and get better... will something
happen that will somehow resurrect this trainwreck of a film... perhaps
if I just wait a little more...". It never happens - the film continues
to get worse until a final scene which is so embarrassingly bad it
hurts. I'm amazed that some people like this film.

Just to list some objectively bad points about this film: During the
first ten minutes, characters names and jobs flash on the screen, again
and again. They often flash too fast to read, and too often to remember
how they tie to what is being said on screen. This is hugely irritating
- you end up not bothering to remember and later wont have a clue who
is referring to who.

Ben Affleck is rubbish in everything he's in. Always coming across like
a middle-class nerd boy pretending to be cool. Dressed up like a tough
guy, trying to talk tough, with sparkling white teeth.

So many ridiculous comic book characters are trying to kill the same
person, you have no idea why, it doesn't make sense, and its so absurd
that you just couldn't care less.

The guy who everyone wants to kill is a disgusting, slobby, boring &
dull. Who cares what the hell happens to him.

The guy everyone is trying to kill is also a magician - part of me was
hoping this would have some relevance somehow but it never did - was
never used and another pointless idiosyncrasy thrown in for no reason
at all.

The final scene tries so hard to suddenly become meaningful it hurts.
Its impossible to care about any of the characters. The final scene,
when you think about it afterwards, makes the rest of the film totally
pointless and IT Doesn't make sense. Basically the reason the kingpin
wants the guy dead is for a reason that doesn't lend well to any old
assassination attempt - so putting a bounty on his head is totally
stupid. This will make more sense if you have the torturous opportunity
to see the film.

Urrgh what a waste of time and money, cinemas should have counsellors
for this sort of experience.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie should get high marks for its style, but everything about
its style that is likable, was ripped off from Guy Ritchie. The plot is
sooo out there, that I can only imagine that the writer, director...
producers and pretty much every studio exec was doing more blow than
the characters in the film. 

I got the distinct feeling that the ending was done in re-shoots. There
are only two main characters in the entire ending. And the ending is
basically Andy Garcia reading you the reveal, as one gigantic
paragraph. Something tells me this was not the original ending.

At its best, the movie is a psychedelic, post-modernist romp through
the crime genre. All the usual wash-outs and degenerates from the
Mickey Spillane novels are here, but they have a 21st century spin to
them. High high marks for Jason Bateman. His cameo appearance is almost
worth the price of admission. 

The violent scenes are pretty much the best part of the film, and some
of them are genuinely tense. But they are filled with glaring holes.
Time and again, cops and security guards fail to follow basic
precautions and wind up getting killed for it. Alicia Keys and Ryan
Reynolds are miscast. Andy Garcia! Holy cow, what does he call that
accent? Southern/Boston.

Most of the pivotal events of the film are based around happenstance
and freak luck. Without getting into the details, the ending is
unbelievably hack and unimaginative. Put it this way, the emotional
core of the story is based around a character that we never meet,
except in flashbacks. And the inciting incident of the film (the hit
being put on Israel) appears to have been a giant misunderstanding.
(the guy said they wanted "Israel's heart". They construed that to mean
they wanted him dead. But who put the million dollars in a swiss bank
account and told every hit man in the Western Hemisphere that they
could have it for killing him? Makes no sense) What a rip off!!

High Points: 1) Jason Bateman (is AMAZING, in fact I swear that when he
is slapping high-fives in the hotel room, Ben Affleck is struggling to
keep a straight face.) 2) The Neo-Nazi characters (even though it felt
as though they had been lifted from Big Lebowski and The Road Warrior).
Their malevolence is so gleeful that it's contagious. 3) Jeremy Piven's
coked-out, paranoid Israel. If there is a shred of human emotional core
to this film, this is it. He nails the character, both megalomaniacal
and insecure. As his situation becomes increasingly desperate, he sinks
further and further into self-delusion. The camera trains on his eyes
and Piven somehow builds a universe of frailty inside. It's wonderful.

Low Points: 1) Andy Freakin' Garcia (yeesh!). Speaking of a universe of
self-delusion. Watching an actor slip in and out of an accent is like
listening to a guitarist play out-of-tune. But it is clear that Andy
Garcia is utterly convinced of his own prowess. Sad. 2) Guy Ritchie
rip-offs everywhere 3) Movie begins and ends with tons of back story
given in paragraph form. Always a bad sign. 4) The sense of time is
extremely distorted (I swear the skinheads were riding the elevator up
to the penthouse for twenty minutes) 5) The cops and security guards in
this movie are only one step above Keystone Cops. Bumbling idiots who
fall for the flimsiest deceits. 6) There are at least five characters
who take a ton of bullets, and somehow live through it. And when I say
a ton of bullets, I'm talk ten to twenty at point blank range. One is
difficult to believe, but it happens over and over again. 7) Everything
about Alicia Keys' exit from the building is contrived and impossible
to believe. 8) The writer and director seem to treat story like style
and style like story. The story behind this movie is confusing at best
and ridiculous and contrived at worst and serves only as a silly excuse
to get Nazis and Lesbians and coke-heads and cross-dressers together
for an orgy of violence and cool dialog.
<|_=00=_|>
Smokin' Aces was most certainly a bit of a magic show within itself, in
that while you watched the evident plot go one way, you didn't notice
the actual plot until BAM! it came out of nowhere. It wasn't the most
coherent of plots sometimes, but for the most part it all wraps up in
the end.

As far as greatness goes, this won't be up there winning awards.
Rather, it might be remembered fondly as "that cool movie I saw a while
ago." Good drama, good action. Ryan Reynolds breaks out in a truly
serious and compelling role.

Definitely a movie worth viewing.
<|_=00=_|>
Its very hard to sum up this movie in just a few words, but if i had
to, they would probably be OH MY GOD WHAT A PILE OF CRAP!

Really, im not kidding here, its rubbish! This film is slow, and i mean
SLOW! Its a big build up to.... well.... nothing! The trailer (probably
the best thing about the movie, whoever made the trailer is clearly a
genius as he managed to make this film look interesting) made the movie
look like an all out action film. Well, it isn't! In fact, when there
is some kind of "action" sequence, they pull away! I mean there is one
scene where you watch the FBI close in on a lift with smoke coming out
of it, they cut away, and later come back to the FBI still watching it,
it opens, they burst out and then........ it cuts away! Im not a person
who goes to watch a film for its action, but an hour in the film i just
wanted some sort of entertainment at least! And people kept dying...
then coming back to life! That happened too many times

The dialogue is appalling! The writer has clearly watched a few
gangster movies and a couple of sopranos (best series ever) and thinks
he can write a mafia movie! well he cant! Its very annoying! 

OK, so the story. well in the first 10 minutes you learn that there is
a man and everyone wants to either save or kill him. Then.... nothing,
until the very last 5 minutes. I mean what the hell happened in the
middle! it wasn't story, or action, or entertainment! it was just a
build up to nothing (or at most some very dull, unimpressive scenes) !

So the acting. ray liotta seriously needs a good script! he is really
putting himself down with these movies. Affleck was good, as always,
but once again he needs a decent script behind him. 

The good thing about this film (there are 2) is that ryan reynolds is
doing something a little different to his normal gig. And he managed to
do something i didn't expect at all, he impressed me. He proved that he
has potential to be a good actor. The other good thing was a cameo from
mathew "jack from lost" fox. Which i enjoyed

Anyway, i don't want to end this review on a positive note, as i don't
want to encourage people to see it at all. This is a boring, pointless,
poorly written movie with no story or emotion that will leave you angry
that you had wasted your time watching it
<|_=00=_|>
Here we have Joe Carnaghan the writer/director of Narc? They say that
human cloning has not yet taken place but this film may be the proof we
were looking for. This just can't be the same Joe Carnaghan can it. He
must be a doppelganger who has no idea about writing, direction and
tension.

There hasn't been such a jumbled mess on the screen since Revolver and
unfortunately both Ritchie and Carnaghan have proved that too many
characters doesn't help! However these actors are struggling with a
garbled plot which has a twist at the end (two in fact) which were so
see through that they were obvious from the beginning. Possibly the way
the actors laboured over the "heart" line and following this the
flashback story which was levered in for one reason and one reason only
and therefore (although stylishly shot) must be relevant to the main
plot.

Performances are not bad given all these things but none of the
characters are particularly likable for any reason. People die, you're
not bothered. People predictably revive to do one last thing, you don't
care. It's bloody, not gory, if you like that thing - which I have to
say I don't mind - but I was so non plussed.

I think you can always get some positives out of a film and the score
wasn't bad at all and some scenes were passable.

But did anyone find the karate kid just annoying. The people in the row
behind me certainly did and I have to say I was in complete agreement!
