
Why? 

Because everybody in the entire world would be able to create a better
movie than this. I saw this movie because comments on this site. I
didn't believe my own eyes! A drunk monkey would surely have done a
better job than the writers & actors in this movie.

WATCH this movie and be AMAZED... Please do, i beg you! Actually i DARE
you! Then you can say to yourself, "Hey, at least i will never watch
anything this terrible again" 

And people... Try to avoid hitting yourself in the head, while watching
it. I had a hard time doing that.
<|_=00=_|>
Fantastic movie? Fantastic? Are you kidding me? This "fantastic" movie
has an average rating of 1.1, with 1 being the lowest rating on IMDb
after over 1,200 votes. Fantastic? Fantastic trash, maybe.

The acting was bush league, and the plot was lame. All this is is just
more of this same old tired and boring
urban-up-and-comer-defeat-the-odds-make-a-life-from-nothing worship
garbage.

I can't believe I wasted my time with this movie.

Voters rated "Gigli" higher than this, which should give you an idea of
exactly how bad this movie is.
<|_=00=_|>
For all who have cried for quality urban film-making free from gangsta,
thuggin, and drug related themeskeep looking.

Detroit is a city rich in culture, history, ethnicity and empowerment
but in recent years has developed an unfortunate reputation that upsets
many natives. Those with a voice, the politicians, the rappers, even
the filmmakers try desperately to reverse that negative image much to
their credit. Writer and Director Preston Whitmore II, a loyal patriot
indeed, attempts an urban tale about street ball, dreams fulfilled, and
dreams deferred. It seemed like every few minutes there was a needless
montage of city landmarks that were not part of the storyline. A
gimmick that seemed patronizing at best, insulting at worst. I too love
my city and I understand patriotic sympathies. However, they simply
have no place on the celluloid. If a filmmaker wants to show the good
of the city make a good movie! But that was just part of my problem
with Crossover. It wasn't dramatic enough to be taken seriously and not
funny enough to be a comedy. The funniest thing in the movie was the
main character Tech (Mackie) spending half the movie studying for his
GED. The plot was mediocre and the acting simply ghastly. Wayne Brady
(who said he could be a leading man?) has to prove he's black to all
his critics and quite unconvincingly portrays Vaughn, part businessman,
part thug who has more than a legitimate interest in street ball. The
cookie monster is a scarier underworld figure. Wesley Jonathan who was
absolutely priceless in Rollbounce was less than thrilling-- almost
boring. And Eva Pigford's play acting of the femme fatal just ruined a
character that might have been interesting.

Crossover (or Crapover as I was calling it by the end) was a film that
probably looked good on paper but lost its focus somewhere between the
pitch and the production. I often advise urban screenwriters to beware
of this potential peril. It's a death sentence to the film, but more
importantly it is another unwanted blemish on the genre of film that is
blemished enough.
<|_=00=_|>
Do you like crossovers? Then do I have the movie for you! It is called
Crossover. When I heard they were going to make a movie called
Crossover I started practicing my crossover like everyday. When the
movie came out I brought my rock to the theater and crossed-over all
these dudes in line, it was hilarious. Then I crossed-over the popcorn
dude. I got the Producer's Pick, you know, a hot dog and a large soda,
then I crossed-over that too. Then in the theater this guy started
talking on his cell phone, you know what I did Yup! Crossover!!! Shut
him up real good. EDITOR'S NOTE: The basketball scenes in Teen Wolf are
better than the basketball scenes in Crossover. Crossover.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was a Crossover that is for sure. I broke my ankle on
purpose just to try and get through the painful story line and horrible
streetball action. If you want to see streetball just rent the And1 Mix
Tape tours, even though they are a jumble of random moves, they are
still better action then Crossover. This acting was not good either.
The character development and personalities are cliché. And why now is
Wayne Brady trying to get this tough guy persona. Ever since the
Chappelle show appearance he is now all of a sudden more sinister. All
in all this was not a good movie, I guess you can tell from my vote 1
out of ten, and that is 1 is just because there is nothing lower.
<|_=00=_|>
You know what's funny? I'll tell you...this movie. Once again drum roll
please....Or, should I say DRUMLINE please. Drumline type movie that
bombed like all of the rest. Nothing was good about this movie except
the end credits where some persons name was my name and it made me as
giddy as a school girl. I thought I was renting a movie about a
poltergeist, but that didn't happen. But I was wishing that I was in
the grave at the end of it. It's kind of strange that director's would
take on something of this crappy caliber and try to make something of
themselves. Writing was dumb, actors were...you know, and the scenes
just made me want to take a bath and scrub myself from all of the bull
that I've encountered.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was the worst movie I have ever seen. First off every single
character is the most shallow, worst drawn out character I have ever
seen. I've seen better acting in porno's!! The movie is BARELY about
basketball. Instead there are 3 times in the movie where you actually
see a freaking basketball! The rest of the movie is set at the mall.
The two guys, Tech and Cruise are so stereotypical it was hard to
believe that was actually written and partially directed by a black
man. The story line is so bad it hurts. Cruise (who you never see in
school or even reading) got some scholarship to "Cal U" and its
dangerous for him to play street ball (Ooooo lets all get scared). What
the hell.

The worst part are the women. They have the worst one liners. "Is that
true" "Its so big" "are you kidding" "is that for real . Yeah if you're
going to put hood rats in your movie please don't let they say
anything. The 'love story'is so unbelievable. Cruise and the better
looking hood rat magically fall in love after he revels he wants to go
to California and become a doctor. Less than 3 minutes later in the
movie. (I think 3 days went by on screen) She's pregnant with his baby.
He wants to marry her. HAHAHAHAHA. People in the movie started throwing
things! (Come on now mister producer I did the math. It takes 2 weeks
after sex for a women to have a baby. They were together around 3
days.)As for The ugly hood rat, she and Tech they get into an argument
after tech realizes that he is a body double in a commercial and not
the main man. (oh and his rival is the main man) Whatever. Then we find
out that mister Dummy Tech that was the one that wanted to go to
college. (WTF this dude couldn't add 125 plus 35 they're round
numbers!) The plot thickens, Mister "thug" tech took a felony for
Cruise, and that's the reason why Tech is so stupid and had to get his
GED. (yeah so now apparently you get felony's for hitting white people
and when you skip your senior year you can't add either).

Eva reveals that she is a gold digger to Cruise and only wanted him
because he was going to California. (who didn't see this coming) Cruise
falls off his bike (the stunt work was horrible) and punctures a lung.
(he didn't even hit the ground that hard) What the hell why does that
even matter. NONE OF THIS CRAP DOES. Play some basketball why don't you
and don't montage it.

So in the end. Everyone breaks up. Eva (the pretty hood rat) is a ho
who had a baby by the whole freaking block. And the two guys to to
community college. WOW. Crapola.

The acting is bad, the script is bad, there isn't much basketball, the
film is low budget. Don't see it or if you want to see some crap at
least sneak into the theater through the back door.
<|_=00=_|>
My kids and I enjoyed this dreadful exercise in predictability and bad
acting for all the wrong reasons: We playfully wagered on what actors
would say next (and I use that word "actors" very loosely). It's full
of clichés of all kinds. We would rewind and laugh at the scenes
containing Eva Pigford's unbelievably horrid acting (please, for God's
sake, stick to simply being a model!). We'd pretend to be menaced and
afraid by appearances of that definitive "hood" slick guy, aka Wayne
Brady ("New Jack City's" Nino Brown has got nothing on him!!!). And we
were amused at how surprisingly weak the basketball scenes were. The
on-the-court scenes contained lots of edits and cut-aways that marked
staged shots. And for a movie about b'ball, the court scenes were
extremely minimal and unexciting. On a serious note, please observe
this theory of mine if you rent this film (for God's sake don't buy
it): Sometimes, being surrounded by bad actors and faced with a bad
script can even make a good actor bad. Case in point, Anthony Mackie.
He's clearly got skills, but he had no business being in this foul of a
film! This movie surely falls under the "So bad it's good" banner. If
you rent it expecting anything else, you will surely be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
OK.. first of all Wayne Brady should be shot for doing so terrible!
Johnathan Wesley should have had enough experience to do better than he
did! I mean after all he did play "Sweetness" in Roll Bounce which was
only a tad bit better! Eva The Winner from America's Next Top Model
should definitely stick to modeling! Her acting was so bad, that it
seems like she was joking! I guess winning an award for acting is out
of the question! At least it is, based on this movie! LOL. The rest of
the cast, I had never seen and hopefully I won't ever see again! This
movies was awful! THe plot was weak!They all need to take more acting
classes IMMEDIATELY! I barely made it through the movie! This movie
should have been called CrossOUT!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
someone asked? Hmm... Where should I start? Well, let's start with the
blueprint: screenplay.

The dialogue was on-the-nose, predictable babbling about nothing. The
jokes were even worse. The characters were less than one dimensional
while accomplishing all sorts of inconsistencies, which attributed to
outrageous behavior. I mean, at one point, the main character was just
having a nervous breakdown for absolutely nothing, for the sake of
drama. The plot was as believable as Rudolph the Rednose Reindeer. And
even with the absurd plot, the writing failed to be original at all
levels. I mean, we saw the same subplots done before in way more
superior films like "White Men Can't Jump".

The directing was Amateur night at the Apollo. He did nothing with the
camera or the blocking of the actors to make me believe he has an ounce
of talent in his body. And the shots were so flat and uninteresting. I
hope they shot the movie on HD. I'd hate to think one can make film
stock look so bad.

The acting was the worst. Inappropriate and unjustified outbursts of
anger, straight line readings off the page and so much wooden
actions/reactions that it started to look like a smörgåsbord for
termites.

And the basketball playing was terrible, even from the actors who are
known for basketball, like Hot Sauce. They made a big mistake trying to
pass off Anthony Mackie as some ballplayer. He looked uncomfortable
with the basketball every time he touched it. I had a hard time
watching him.

Uneventful montages. Glossy cinematography looking like someone's home
VHS camera. Lame jokes. Inept editing.

You know when you have watched a bad film? When you're a passionate
cinephile and after watching the film, it was so bad, you're left with
a temporary bad taste in your mouth for movie making since the
beginning of time. This film is that bad.
