
I was extremely fortunate to obtain a ticket to the very first
screening of "My Name Is Bruce" during the Ashland Independent Film
Festival in Southern Oregon. Bruce appeared there in person and he was
as charming, funny and charismatic as his alter egos on screen. It was
a real privilege! Before and after the show, Bruce talked a bit about
how making a film in one's hometown, how great it was for him to "be
able make a film and sleep in his own bed for the first time in 10
years" and that you don't need a big Hollywood studio and a big
blockbuster budget to make a good movie everyone can enjoy. 

He proved his point completely with the screening of this film. "My
Name Is Bruce" was filmed entirely on located in the Rogue Valley,
casting locals in many of the major roles, who all did a wonderful job.
No big celebrity names, exotic locations or blue screen studios were
necessary in making this a real good movie. 

But enough patting on the back. 

If you love any of the Evil Dead movies, if you've ever loved him as
the dashing king of thieves in Xena: Warrior Princess, or if you've
just been charmed by his delightful cameos in the Spiderman films, you
will LOVE "My Name Is Bruce"! Even if you don't know that much about
Bruce Campell and you just happen to be a fan of B-Movies, I still
think you will enjoy this movie. Everything we love about Bruce is
played so well over the top you can't help but laugh yourself silly!
Bruce takes no mercy in making fun of himself - in this film, he's a
washed up, boozing, C-movie actor, who's just finalized his divorce,
making horrible alien movie sequels while treating his devoted fans
like crap (the scene where he kicks a fan in a wheelchair down a hill -
PRICELESS - but just one of many)! This, of course, all done in comedic
good taste. None of this could be considered is autobiographical, and
it's far from some cheesy Lifetime channel oh-pity-me "the Bruce
Campbell story" special. As Bruce beats himself up, we all laugh our
bums off. 

Then, there is of course, the evil monster, Quan-Di, who's chops
peoples' heads off in a cool, Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon style. I
would also like to add by the way that this Chinese God of Bean Curd
has his own folksong sung by two humble guitar players, and it's a
rather catchy-tune. Quite frankly, if you don't leave the theatre
singing: "Quan You, Quan Me, Quan Di...", well then I just don't know
what to say to you. ;) The violence in this movie is very much like
what you may find in the Evil Dead movies. There's much homage from
that. 

Something else in this movie that's uber-cool and cult fans will enjoy:
Ted Raimi... Is... EVERYWHERE in this film. He has (as far as I could
count) three different significant roles, which are both delightful and
hilarious to watch. 

The movie also takes some of its strength from the two main supporting
roles, the plucky fan boy who practically worships Bruce Campell (whose
name I can't remember at the moment) and his mother, played by Grace
Thorsen. 

I should note that what I saw was a rough cut of the film, not entirely
finished, so I don't know the names of all the actors because there
were no opening and closing credits. So, sorry for now, plucky fan boy
who worships Bruce Campell. I thought you were very good, but I can't
remember your name. And kudos to the actor who played Quan-Di, who's
physical characterizations behind the mask made him more than just
another monster. 

In conclusion, when there is a final cut and it lands in theaters in
October, do go see it. It was quite an entertaining film and well worth
seeing it on the big screen. I would write more, because this movie
ROCKED in practically every detail, but I fear I'd be giving too much
away. Just take my word for it: it's groovy, baby. Go see it.
<|_=00=_|>
I just got back from the first screening of "My Name is Bruce," and I
am very impressed. To put it simply, the movie is a film made by Bruce
Campbell for Bruce Campbell fans. If you're not a Bruce Campbell fan,
then you're probably not reading this post, so I'll move on.

An ancient Chinese deity is set free a small Southern Oregon town (a
town Bruce Campbell calls the sequel to Deliverance at one point), and
the townsfolk (and, yes, they are folk) decide to enlist the help of
Bruce Campbell to stop the evil force. Bruce, however, believes the
whole thing to be an elaborate hoax and plays along.

This movie is funny, but it's two kinds of funny here. There are the
jokes that anybody can sit down and enjoy, and then there are the "in"
references that only Bruce fans can really enjoy. And there are a lot
of "ins" (I don't envy the person who has to do the trivia section for
this one). Some are from his more famous works (Evil Dead, Army of
Darkness, etc.) and will only truly be appreciated by the hardest of
the hard core (Mindwarp, McHale's Navy).

I can't really discuss much of the technical merits of the film, since
my screening was done on an early edit. There were no special effects,
the music was of the stand-in variety, and some of the sound effects
sounded like they had come from a Warner Bros. cartoon (also stand-in).
However, the movie's slant toward the realm of the B-movie makes these
quirks seem perfectly in place. I still enjoy myself despite them, and
the movie might have taken on a whole new charm because of them. I'll
have to check out a clean version to be sure.

In conclusion, if you're a Bruce Campbell fan, you're going to see this
movie regardless of what you read here; however, I'll save you the
anxiety and say you won't be disappointed in the least. If you're not a
huge fan, this movie is still worth a viewing, since it's comedy could
be seen as ripping on the horror genre in general and in a far superior
way than the "Scary Movie" trilogy ever did.
<|_=00=_|>
I too obtained a coveted pair of tickets to MNIB.... 

The plot is basically what it says---a town of goobers kidnaps Bruce
Campbell & pins their hopes of defeating the monster thats killing off
the town members using all his B-Movie beast killing knowledge
etc....Bruce thinks it's a big joke...till the Bean Curd hits the fan!!
very slapstick, cornball, digs all over him self as an actor

uses his old lines in new and inventive ways "...and maybe later honey,
if your lucky I'll let you look at my BoomStick!" Anyone on the inside
of these jokes will get it, love it and want more.... And those hard
core haters who tear films to shreds will find plenty to hack on...But
they wont get any fodder from me....just trust that if your a Bruce
Campbell fan....your gonna buy it, and force your unwilling friends to
watch it.
<|_=00=_|>
As of this writing, I've only seen the "work in-progress" version at
the CineVegas film festival. But for a work in-progress, it was
amazing.

"My Name Is Bruce" is pretty much a movie for Bruce Campbell fans. It
contains references to almost every movie he has done in his 26 year
career, and every fan should pick up on all the references within this
film.

The plot is very simple. Dumbs**t teenagers, whom are messing around in
a graveyard built for Chinese people who mined gold in the town of Gold
Lick, Oregon, unleash the Chinese war deity, Guan Di.

The film then cuts to Bruce on the set of his latest movie, Cave Alien
2. A fan then kidnaps Bruce, thinking he is the only one who can stop
Guan Di, and brings him to Gold Lick in order to save them from the
monster. Bruce thinks this is an elaborate joke and plays along until
he finally sees Guan Di.

The movie is filled with laughs, which I think only Bruce fans will
enjoy. But if you are a Bruce fan, as I am, you will be laughing
throughout the whole movie.

Although this was an unfinished version I saw, it was still incredibly
satisfying. I can only wait for the complete version to hit theaters,
where I shall watch it as many times as humanly possible.
<|_=00=_|>
First, my comments are based on a sneak preview of the film. I was not
completed--lots of special effects were missing, the soundtrack was
said to be not final, so the soundtrack (including dialogue) was not
polished.

Having said all of that, and based on the reaction of the small army of
Bruce Campbell fans in attendance, this is clearly a movie that every
Ash fan will want to see. Without giving away more of the plot than is
in the outline, an monster has been unleashed on a small town in
Southern Oregon, and Bruce is enlisted by local fans to fight it. But
it's Bruce, not Ash, and he does his level best to portray himself as a
washed-up B movie actor with no scruples or morals worth mentioning.
There's a lot that reminded me of Galaxy Quest, but with Campbellian
twist, and about one-tenth the special effects budget.

The crowd couldn't stop laughing, so go see this when it's out!
<|_=00=_|>
When a small town in Oregon is attacked by a evil monster, who do you
call? Bruce Campbell of course.

My Name is Bruce is a hilarious comedy directed by and starring the
great Bruce Campbell. It's a creative low budget film that does so much
with so little. The whole cast is enjoyable, it looks like they all had
a fun time filming it, like a bunch of friends getting together and
shooting a film. And Ted Raimi is awesome as always, playing several
roles, it looks like they just put the camera on Ted and told him to do
his thing, and man the Rhyme Throwah sure delivers.

There are a lot of laughs throughout, I was smiling the whole way
through. It's filled with a bunch of inside jokes that all Bruce
Campbell fans will appreciate it. But this isn't just for people that
love Bruce. This is a movie for everyone that appreciates film-making,
and most importantly films that aren't trying to make millions of
dollars. My Name is Bruce knows what kind of movie it is and doesn't
try to be anything else. It makes fun of itself a lot of times (and
Bruce rips on himself so much throughout).

I saw this at the East Lansing Film Festival and the audience could not
sit still. There were so many cheers and constant laughter throughout
the film.

It's an entertaining and funny film. Seek it out, watch it, then spread
the word.
<|_=00=_|>
Bruce Campbell is called to Gold Lick to fight the evil Chinese war god
Guan-di after one of his biggest fans, Jeff, awakens the demon and
mistakenly believes that Bruce would know how to fight such creatures.
Campbell accepts, but only because he believes the entire thing to be a
movie shoot.

Not surprisingly, there is going to be two groups of people for this
film: the die-hard Campbell fans who love it, and the others. The
others might like it, they might hate it, but they'll be left cold if
they realize the jokes aren't meant for them. The film really has no
solid plot (it's been done before...) and the acting isn't great... and
the jokes are, at best, average.

Campbell's actor friends show up: Timothy Patrick Quill, Ted Raimi, Dan
Hicks and even Ellen Sandweiss. Some of the in-jokes are slightly
clever (having Sandweiss play "Cheryl", the same character's name she
had in "Evil Dead") while others are just too blunt and insult the
audience's intelligence. Other references such as "I worked with Sam
Raimi" just seem thrown in for good measure. I understand the point was
to reference Campbell's past films, but it wasn't subtle at all and
seemed poorly thought out.

Bruce Campbell is Bruce Campbell, so if you like him, you will like
this film. That's pretty much all there is to say about that. He
directed it, he stars in it and he had a strong guiding hand in the
writing process. You get the best of Campbell and the worst in this
film... and don't forget for every good Campbell film ("Army of
Darkness") there are at least two bad films.

I had the privilege of catching a screening in Madison with Campbell
himself on hand for questions and answers. This really made the
experience special, but did not make me feel any better about the film.
The audience generally seemed to laugh more than I did, so maybe I'm in
the minority. But when Bruce answered questions, he didn't offer any
reassurance that he cared much about the film... if anything, his
appearance seemed to suggest he felt he couldn't sell tickets without a
gimmick.

I received a DVD copy in the mail as part of my reviewing duties, and
gave it a second viewing. In all fairness, I en joyed the film much
more the second time, having a better sense of what sort of humor and
style the film would be going for. My suggestion is this: if you're a
Campbell fan, pick up a copy. If not, you'll want to see other Campbell
films first to really appreciate this one. Luckily for the people who
made this film, there are plenty of Bruce Campbell fans to see this one
with a smile on their face.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw the flick last night at the Ashland Film Festival. I had a great
time with my wife as we were laughing pretty much throughout the whole
movie. I think a comedy is one of the hardest films to make and I don't
find too many of them to be that funny, so when I caught myself
laughing out loud at MNIB I knew this was gonna be fun. You just got to
let go and have a good time and ride with the movie. Don't get deep or
analytical, just enjoy it. I was a part of the production crew on this
film and really did not have an idea of how good or funny this was
gonna be until I saw it. I want to own this one when it gets out on
DVD.
<|_=00=_|>
It's already been said that My Name is Bruce is a movie for Bruce
Campbell fans, by Bruce Campbell; and I'm going to say it again because
it's true. I won't say that I'm (quite) a part of the crowd that
idolises the Evil Dead star; but I am a fan of his and his mere
presence is generally enough to make me want to see a movie, no matter
how bad it sounds. I decided that I was going to go into My Name is
Bruce and rate it solely on how good it is rather than based on the
fact that Bruce Campbell is in it; and overall I certainly wasn't
disappointed; as My Name is Bruce is a thoroughly entertaining and
hilarious comedy horror that is sure to delight anyone that is willing
to enjoy the movie for what it is (or for the fact that Bruce Campbell
is in it). The film focuses on Bruce Campbell, who plays an over the
top version of himself. He's down and out and tired of starring in
rubbish low budget horror. Meanwhile, a young kid (who loves Bruce
Campbell so much that he uses Army of Darkness quotes to pick up women,
without much success) unwittingly unleashes a vengeful demon, and the
townsfolk see the actor as their only means of survival.

Much of the movie's humour is focused around Bruce Campbell and the
actor is certainly willing to laugh at himself. I doubt the actor in
real life much resembles his character in this film; but even so, I
don't think there are many Hollywood stars (or 'stars') out there that
would, for example, drink liquor out of a dog bowl while playing
themselves. The fact that its Bruce Campbell playing Bruce Campbell is
the brunt of the movie to such an extent that the rest of it almost
comes off like an afterthought; but since most fans will go into this
movie wanting that; and Campbell clearly made this movie purely for
those people, that was always to be expected. The monster in the movie
is a Chinese demon and it really looks ridiculous, but in a fun campy
sort of way. The film features plenty of death scenes; although
unfortunately most of them are not particularly bloody. I have to say
that the film doesn't really capture the manic style of the Evil Dead
trilogy (despite featuring some lines of dialogue, actors and scenes
from said films) but the film has its own style and it works well.
Obviously the story has no depth at all; but it just wouldn't be proper
to criticise it for things like that, and overall I have to admit that
I really liked this film a lot and I'm sure that my fellow Bruce
Campbell/Low budget horror fans will too.
<|_=00=_|>
If you consider yourself a fan of Bruce Campbell (Evil Dead 1 and 2,
plus it's third chapter,Armies Of Darkness,etc.), you owe it to
yourself to seek this one out. Bruce Campbell (who also directed this
film) plays a down & out actor, taking any & every part in every no
budget piece of crap horror flick, named....well...um...Bruce Campbell.
His sleaze bag of a manager sets him up with what is the promise of a
birthday present that's to die for. What he happens upon is a small
town that is in the throes of an ancient Chinese curse,involving the
awakened spirit of a angry protector of bean curd (I am not making this
up). What follows is a nearly non stop roller coaster ride of a movie,
with loads of in jokes, pop culture references,a beautiful woman,and
some bloody (but darkly funny)violence. Put them all together,mix in
some campy humour & you have yourself a fun time at the movies. This is
the kind of film that should be screened as a midnight movie,if there
were any cinemas that featured them these days. Slapped with an 'R'
rating, this film serves up some raunchy language,bloody violence,and
the central protagonist's sleazy lifestyle. (AFTER NOTE:Some screening
of this film have actually had Bruce Campbell,himself, hosting a half
hour post film question and answer session---check your listings for a
cinema that has one,and remember to bring a camera).
