
Every once in a long while a movie will come along that will be so
awful that I feel compelled to warn people. If I labor all my days and
I can save but one soul from watching this movie, how great will be my
joy.

Where to begin my discussion of pain. For starters, there was a musical
montage every five minutes. There was no character development. Every
character was a stereotype. We had swearing guy, fat guy who eats
donuts, goofy foreign guy, etc. The script felt as if it were being
written as the movie was being shot. The production value was so
incredibly low that it felt like I was watching a junior high video
presentation. Have the directors, producers, etc. ever even seen a
movie before? Halestorm is getting worse and worse with every new
entry. The concept for this movie sounded so funny. How could you go
wrong with Gary Coleman and a handful of somewhat legitimate actors.
But trust me when I say this, things went wrong, VERY WRONG.
<|_=00=_|>
I was not expecting much going in to this, but still came away
disappointed. This was my least favorite Halestorm production I have
seen. I thought it was supposed to be a comedy, but I only snickered at
3 or 4 jokes. Is it really a funny gag to see a fat guy eating donuts
and falling down over and over? What was up with the janitor in Heaven
scene? Fred Willard has been hilarious with some of his Christopher
Guest collaborations, but this did not work. They must have spent all
the budget on getting "known" actors to appear in this because there
was no lighting budget. It looked like it was filmed with a video
camera and most scenes were very dark. Does it really take that much
film to show someone actually shoot and make a basket, as opposed to
cutting away and editing a ball swishing through a basket? I try not to
be too critical of low budget comedies, but if you want to see
something funny go to a real Church basketball game instead of this
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, let me say the I am LDS or rather, I am a Mormon. So when
I watched this film, I automatically gave it the benefit of the doubt.
I can usually find something redeeming in every movie I watch. And this
one was no exception. It does have its redeeming moments. But they are
few and far between.

One of the first things I noticed that bothered me very greatly was
that it seemed as though Halestorm was ashamed of our Church! In the
LDS Church, congregations are called "wards" and the basketball court
is in the "cultural hall". NEVER ONCE are either of these two names
mentioned. The Church is never referred to by name and "the standards"
is as far as it goes in mentioning what our Church believes.

It makes me wonder if the directors are really LDS or LDS wannabes?
This film had so much potential! It could have really shown our Church
in a positive light and helped the public to see not only what we have
to offer, but also what we believe. Instead it was only mildly
entertaining and left much to be desired. If I were not already LDS,
I'd be left thinking Mormons are stupid, idiotic and ashamed of their
beliefs.

It is NOT a film I will recommend to my nonLDS friends.

Sorry Halestorm. You can do better than this!
<|_=00=_|>
I wanted to like this film, I really did. It's got some good actors but
ultimately it falls flat. It tries too hard to be funny in some places
(the daughters over zealous cooking attempts), over reaches in others
(the scene where they clean up someone's yard, so he agrees to join the
team) and has some scenes that, while mildly interesting, are really
just filler (all the work scene's). And I didn't find the "villians"
intimidating, or worth hating, so much as I found them to be childishly
annoying. 

I've met people like those in the film while playing church ball. And I
will say the referee's are spot on, Still, in the end, I really didn't
care all that much about the characters, or their quest for church ball
glory. Maybe because they were all so one dimensional, which I might
not have minded so much if the film were funnier or seemed to flow a
little more smoothly overall. 

Kurt Hale, and Halestorm entertainment, has made some good films, but
this is not one of them.
<|_=00=_|>
Here's a movie from these producers that's not Utah Mormon culture
specific, but it is Utah specific just as Napoleon Dynamite was Idaho
specific. I don't have a problem with that.

I saw the movie at a 12:10 matinée in Tooele, UT (the closest theatre
to where I live). There were about a half dozen people in the theatre.

The POSITIVES: *Good message (despite the "misleading" taglines on the
ads for it) that shows people matter more than sports or winning. *The
acting was above par. *Jeremiah is the best character because he has
the largest character arc. *The feel good sub story involving Moses
Mahoney (Thurl Bailey) *The soundtrack I'd give a 7 out of 10. *The sub
story romance between Thurman and Bertha was refreshing. *The
cinematography had a more natural look instead of a bright clean look
like previous Halestorm productions. *Seeing Gene (Clint Howard)
wearing athletic shoes at church and the rest of him being dressed in a
suit. *The opening "documentary" footage was excellent. *The location
scout(s) did a pretty good job of finding a variety of locations. One
of my little fears was that 90 % of the film would take place in a
basketball gym. There was a good variety of locations. *The slow
motions shots of opposing teams walking the halls. *The church restroom
doubling as a locker room. *Dennis Buckstead's (Andrew Wilson) epiphany
moment that has some humorous but realistic result. *The way the
opening credits were presented was a lot of fun. *Some excellent
laugh-out loud moments--it takes something really funny to get me to
laugh out loud. *The fact that a good variety of ethnicities were
represented--Polynesian, African-American, south-American, etc.--added
because it didn't feel like a Caucasian movie made by Caucasian guys
for a Caucasian audience.

The NEGATIVES:

-Some of the night shots looked grainy. -Some of the running jokes
(like the fat guy eating doughnuts) were 

repeated a tad too much, but not to the point of annoying. -The climax
could have been ratcheted up a notch or two. -There was one subplot
that seemed a little too ridiculous that didn't add much to the film. I
won't give too much of it away only to say that it reminded me of the
RM in the RM going door to door trying to sell knife sets.

Though the producers' hope is having this film reach a wider audience,
I think that it's popularity will still be limited in some respects
because it is Utah specific (Utah landscapes, Utah license plates, a
BYU/Notre Dame reference, "Utah" celebrity cameos, Delta Center shots,
etc.) I believe the producers' intentions are good in filming the movie
entirely in Utah and paying tribute to it's charm/beauty/it being their
native state or whatever you want to call it. However, I feel this will
still limit its universal appeal.

Overall, I found the film funny, endearing (unexpectedly) and a great
film for all ages. It's pretty clean language wise even for the most
sensitive viewer. No swear words, just about 20 that are bleeped out,
which is actually pretty funny considering who the character is.
There's a "dang", "holy crap," "crap," a "that sucks," "freakin'," and
one time the really heavy guy says "darn it" which almost sounded like
"dammit". Then, another character asks, "Is this hell?" referring to
the place.

Peace out...
<|_=00=_|>
The movie lived up to my expectations from the perspective of making
light the saying 'No blood, no foul.' I appreciated the message
developed along the way to reinforce the 'would-be, should-be' true
purpose of the program.

I ask my Elder's quorum president every year if they'll be having a
recreational league based team this year. If so, to sign me up. (They
been the region champs three years in a row.) I think the story line
could have been developed further. The hotrod/eaten scenes were cheesy.

Not great, but I think anyone that has participated in church ball will
feel that they got their money's worth.
<|_=00=_|>
Well done, creative, good casting, not as annoying cliché as I thought
it would be. Something everyone can relate to whether you played church
ball or not. Gary Coleman's surprise participation was hilarious. I
fully expected to hate it, but for it's industry, I was impressed.
Loved the cameos. How did they get these big names for a dinky movie
like this? I especially liked how it was obviously a spoof on the
Mormon take of it, and took place in a Mormon church, etc., but was
done in a way that all religions (or non religious- just anyone that
has played basketball) can relate to. Realistically emphasized that
even those who strive to live a good live are human with weaknesses,
and slip up from time to time, and we can have fun with that. The moral
was laid in creatively, subtly, tactfully, and humorously.
<|_=00=_|>
It was dumb, but so much of it was true, and it had a good heart and a
good ending. It seems to be a part of the gender to compete. And even
when we don't compete, we watch. The younger guys play video games. I
remember helping to take the rims down in the Stake Center because the
basketball players would be trying to get the Relief Society and other
groups to hurry up whatever their activity and get out of the Cultural
Hall, even when the other groups had it reserved long in advance. The
guys felt that they had a permanent reservation on the gym. And
recruiting was true even for the youth teams. There were so many high
school players playing on church teams, that the schools finally put
out a rule against it.
<|_=00=_|>
Trot out every stereotype and misrepresentation you've heard about
semi-devout Mormons, and you'll see they've all starred in this
ridiculous excuse for a film. Finally Kurt Hale's fortunes have changed
(thank goodness) and hopefully it will be a long while before we see
any of his features in theaters.

The cinematography was amateurish (I think they used a camcorder for
some of the basketball scenes). The plot was limp and very unfunny. You
really didn't understand why anyone did anything. It was like I had
sand in my eyes, and a 300-pound lady was sitting on my face, it was
that painful.

The only reason I didn't give this movie a negative rating was because
the scale won't let me.
<|_=00=_|>
The really sad thing is that this was supposedly the highest budget
"Halestorm Entertainment" has had to work with. All involved should be
fined for littering since all the celluloid they wasted is good for
nothing more than filling the trash. Not only is the writing atrocious
and the jokes awful, but the camera work and film quality are amateur
at best. The soundtrack sounds like it was created on some guys laptop
PC. The worst part of all is that I actually sat through the whole
thing. I think just because I couldn't believe that I had actually paid
to buy a ticket and that the theater I was watching it in had actually
agreed to show the "film".
