
Congressman Stephen Collins (Ben Affleck) is helping with the
government investigation of a shady military-based company when he
receives word that his mistress has committed suicide. Visually
distraught, he leaves a hearing in tears and sets off a media circus.
Seasoned reporter Cal McAffrey (Russell Crowe) was his roommate in
college, and the two have remained friends. In a bid to quash the
political blogging of junior reporter Della Frye (Rachel McAdams),
McAffrey sets out to find the truth about the story.

State of Play sets itself up early on to be a cookie-cutter,
predictable thriller. But as the film progresses, it rather quickly
becomes the twisty and conniving thriller it needs to be. Despite being
heavily dialogue driven, the film is an intense ride that will keep
people on edge throughout. Some scenes are downright terrifying in
their amped up suspense and political intrigue. This film really set
out to be tense, and succeeds wonderfully. It knows just what punches
to pull, and when to pull them.

The script, written by political scribes Matthew Michael Carnahan, Tony
Gilory and Billy Ray, is insight and intriguing. It could have easily
been made boring and inundated with rehashed politicalisms (like all of
their last films), but this film revels in how interesting it becomes.
It has laughs strung throughout (a genuine surprise), and lacks the
nerve to become loaded to the brim with facts and innuendos. Instead,
it expertly weaves between scenes, amping up the intensity of some
scenes, and downplaying others.

But this is mainly due to the incredible performances by the cast.
Crowe (who I usually loathe) and Affleck are simply outstanding in
their roles. Age issues aside, both play their character with finesse
and charisma. Affleck looks and acts like a confused
wet-behind-the-ears, gunning-for-higher-office political pawn from
beginning to end. Some of the reactions on his face are downright
devastating in how excellently they are conveyed. And this is a guy
critics once said could not act. Coupled with one-two shot of acting in
Hollywoodland and directing Gone Baby Gone, we may be seeing a renewed
resonance and importance for the Oscar-winner. Crowe on the other hand,
delivers his strongest performance in years. While he has been
downplayed and underused in his last few films, he carries this film.
He is stubborn and vaguely likable, but he makes his character work for
all of his idiosyncrasies and ethically-questionable tactics. He makes
a seasoned journalist look like an amateur.

McAdams, all but a ghost recently, holds her own against the two
heavy-hitters and delivers a performance that is both inspired and
emotional. It gives her a lot of room to act, and she delivers in every
instance. The rest of the cast is a bit mixed however, as so little of
them is given that much to do. Harry Lennix, Robin Wright Penn, Jeff
Daniels, the horrifying Michael Berresse and especially Jason Bateman,
all deliver noteworthy performances, but never get to really shine in
them. They all have their traits and motivations, but get little screen
time to truly express them. They each are developed quite strongly, but
they lack the movement afforded to Crowe, Affleck and McAdams. I simply
loved Helen Mirren's scenery-gauging editor and all of her subtleties.
But she too, is downplayed to the point of almost barely being in the
film.

Despite its intensity, the film is bogged down by its dialogue-heavy
scenes and consistent character additions. It is easy to keep track of
everyone, but so many people are introduced that the film loses its
focus on more than one occasion. It makes for a few scenes that are
merely filler between the scenes of useful heavy acting. It just feels
so tiring. I understand now how daunting a task it must have been to
convert six hours of British television into a 127-minute film, but
there are scenes that are just too easy to not have been cut out (some
entire mildly useful subplots may have helped). Adding characters in
makes sense for a story about two journalists frantically searching to
lift the lid on a story, but there needs to be more emphasis on what
was needed and not needed. A brilliant montage in the middle of the
film goes almost entirely to waste because the filmmakers lack the
knowledge of what should be cut. Limiting the preposterous and silly
climax could have also done wonders. The scenes that are left in the
film (including the finale) are great, but they could have been
stronger if they were as tightly wound as the film wants itself to be.
A little less shaky hand camera movement could have also significantly
benefited the film.

Even with its problems, it is clear from the on-set of the first shot
in the bullpen at the Washington Globe that the filmmakers are going
for a very keen sense of homage to All the President's Men. While the
on-going and very professional relationship between McAffrey and Frye
is very similar to Woodward and Bernstein, the fabric of journalistic
integrity and researching are the core of State of Play. The film is
loaded with allusions to the Oscar-winning film, and even mimics shots
right out of the film. While it is obvious for anyone who has seen Men,
this film's nods are done in such a delicate and unique way that they
never become distracting or blatant. The film is its own, and does not
ever feel like it is living in its big-brother's shadow. It is a fresh
take on old-fashioned reporting in a very digital age, and frequently
walks the tight line of old versus new.

State of Play looked interesting, and surprisingly delivers on almost
every count. It is not a perfect film, but it is a solid example of
great film-making. It wants to be more, but seems content at being a
twisty and suspenseful modern thriller. 

8/10.
<|_=00=_|>
I attended a pre-release screening of the new film, State of Play, with
anticipation of seeing both quality work from actor Russell Crowe and
screenwriter Tony Gilroy. I also entered the theater with a degree of
apprehension about how well this feature length film would measure up
to the brilliantly acted and crafted six-part BBC series that was the
basis for the film. Crowe well-embodied the tenacious old-school
investigative journalist that we've come to know from classics, such as
"All the President's Men." However, the multifaceted ensemble of
journalists, portrayed by a rich range of actors from the BBC series
(John Simm, Kelly MacDonald, James McAvoy), is missing from this
feature film where Russell Crowe does all the work. The complexity of
the plot, which includes the competing professional interests and
emotional needs of the characters in the British miniseries, is largely
eliminated in this big screen version. Ben Affleck and Robin Wright
Penn do not seem to appreciate and respond to the high stakes events
that could turn their lives inside out and upside down. What this film
shares with the miniseries is the glimpse into the mechanics of running
a journalistic investigation under the pressure of time and editorial
interference, but the personal stories suffer from not being fleshed
out and made to feel real and compelling to watch. It is not fair to
compare one piece of art to another, but when two productions are
related, and you've seen the original, it is difficult to view the
second production without prejudice. It is like trying to unring a
bell.

The new film, State of Play, is a convincing thriller, but it fails to
also deliver as a richly defined character drama.

Curiosity will drive those who saw the BBC series to see this film, and
the rich pedigree of the film production will draw in those who know
nothing about the original miniseries. Everyone will ultimately be
satisfied by seeing both productions (miniseries is on DVD) so that
they can make the comparisons and connections that any thinking
film-goer will want to do.
<|_=00=_|>
Whether you loved em' or hated em', espionage thrillers made up a
generous portion of cinema from the 1940-50's. With fast paced, edge of
your seat story lines, plot twists, political undertones and dramatic
personal struggles with morality, nobody did it better than Emeric
Pressburger and Michael Powell. Their attention to character detail and
it's purpose in conjunction with the narrative gave heart and humanity
to this new string of movies which could have fallen into similar (yet
shallower) alpha male characters such as James Bond. Never the less, we
cannot forget that ultimately if it weren't for their vision and
invention of the genre, Hollywood may have never capitalized on the
staggeringly profitable Bond franchise that's still going strong today.

In the mid 70's, due to the heat of the political environment at that
time, the genre decided to go in the same direction. All The Presidents
Men, brought to light the investigative strategies of Bob Woodward and
Carl Bernstein and tackled the Watergate scandal from the perspective
of the Washington Post. As audiences, we shared in the thrill of being
able to follow the case as it unfolded, interviewing witnesses and
piecing together clues in order to make a 10 O'clock print deadline. We
were part of the chase, the scandal and always privy to the evidence
necessary to solve the mystery at hand...that is until a new piece of
evidence arose and bashed in all of our original assumptions.

State of Play may be the first film to pay homage to this Pakula
classic while dually creating more poignant themes for today's
political atmosphere. Crowe plays a reporter for the Washington Post
and McAdams, an internet blogger, serving as our Woodward and Bernstein
clones on the case of a Senator, Affleck, whose mistress succumbs to a
rather untimely death VIA train tracks. To add insult to injury, it
turns out that our reporter and senator are practically best friends.
The plot unfolds, relationships falter and the real truth, to our
pleasant surprise, blindsides us like a drunk driver on a narrow road.

Director Kevin Macdonald clearly knows what he's doing here and along
with a well written screenplay by Tony Gilroy, carefully crafts a neat,
sharp and extremely entertaining thrill ride of a movie whose run time
is 2 hours and 15 minutes, but feels like 30. State of Play never fails
at keeping you guessing, does a fine job of throwing in a few curve
balls, and leaves you with a clean taste in your mouth come end
credits. What more do you want? Sure. It isn't the next Best Picture
and Crowe won't take home an Oscar, but you'll enjoy some nail biting
action scenes and there are much worse things to look at than Rachel
McAdams on the big screen for a few hours.

Helen Mirren is delightful in what little screen time she is given.
Affleck is "good", although decided to play it completely safe in a
role that even he really can't screw up. Lets face it, he needed to
gain even a small amount of points since Hollywoodland and the flops
that followed in his footsteps.

Overall, you'll be as pleased and refreshed as I was to see a picture
that has the finesse of an espionage thriller, the entertainment value
of an All The Presidents Men political drama and the edginess that we
should expect from a modern day piece of cinema that doesn't star Miley
Cyrus.
<|_=00=_|>
You have to see this movie. I am not playing any games here. If you
want to see a classic style movie that is cunning, interesting and lets
you have fun with your imagination, you have to see this movie.

In the waning years of the newspaper industry, we see a very classy
Helen Mirren play a "Devil wears Prada"-ish editor who runs The
Washington Globe. Overpowering his boss(with charm and experience, of
course), Russell Crowe is the very type of gutsy(almost brave)
newspaper reporter that anyone who wanted to be in his shoes can
admire. And yet he teams up with a Globe blogger(Rachel McAdams) who
dares to see herself as his equal(and she really is). Crowe's and
McAdams' characters brilliantly investigate a deadly situation tainted
with national intrigue that includes the young yet powerfully
influential Stephen Collins played by Ben Affleck.

I was on the edge of my seat most of the time, thrilled with this
actual adventure in the city without any fear of cartoons or ray guns
spoiling the appearance of authenticity. Movies like this are made so
rarely, it was almost sad to leave the theater. I will see it again
this weekend for sure.

I give it a high 9 and now I will try to get the BBC Miniseries version
of State Of Play for comparison's sake which stars my favorite BBC TV
star who I enjoyed as Sam Tyler on the BBC's Life On Mars (which had a
better appeal than the US version).
<|_=00=_|>
About a month before State of Play came into theaters, I read an
article in The Washington Post (I live in the D.C. area) about the
realism of the news industry as portrayed in the movie. One of the Post
reporters served as a consultant on the set and I must say that he
seems to have done his job. Almost every aspect, from the constantly
chaotic state of the newsroom to the reporter-lingo, feels authentic
and true to reality. While there are occasional times when the movie's
main character, the reporter Cal McCaffrey, strays from the usual
ethical and professional guidelines, there are logical explanations for
such instances that are given in the movie. At one point, Russell Crowe
even ad-libs a line about the outdated technology he has compared to
the state-of-the-art computers given to Della Fry, Rachel McAdams's
gossipy blogger: "I've been here fifteen years, I've got a sixteen year
old computer. She's been here fifteen minutes and she's got enough gear
to launch a f***ing satellite." This line was inspired by the feud
between print journalists and their online counterparts that, according
to the Post reporter, exists in real-life. Because journalism is so
crucial to the story of State of Play, every minute detail contributes
greatly to the believability of the film as a whole and it is this
attention to detail that really elevates State of Play above the
average political thriller.

The cast, which includes three Oscar winners, though Ben Affleck won
for screen writing, could not be more perfect. With his long, shaggy
hair, bulging belly and old, trash-littered car, Russell Crowe looks
appropriately scruffy and he disappears into his role, becoming one of
the most convincing journalists on screen in recent years. It is
impossible to imagine anyone else in the role, especially Brad Pitt,
who was originally signed on for the part. As his partner on the story,
Rachel McAdams delivers, giving her character a very energetic yet
idealistic flavor. Della Fry is, at least in the beginning, a rather
obnoxious woman but, in large part due to McAdams, she gradually
becomes more likable and we learn to accept her for who she is. Helen
Mirren is splendid as Cameron, McCaffery and Fry's insistent boss, and
every time she appears, the screen comes alive (not that it's dead when
she isn't there). Ben Affleck once again proves that he can act when
given the right material. He gives his character, a promising
congressman, an air of detached arrogance mixed with frustrated
vulnerability. Representative Stephen Collins certainly has his
principles but throughout the film, that sense of morality is largely
shrouded in secrets and mystery and the audience is forced to
constantly guess and re-guess his true intentions. Aside from the main
actors, the supporting cast does a terrific job with a slightly
comedic, almost delightfully over-the-top performance by Jason Bateman
as a pretentious PR agent. Also worth noting is Viola Davis, who plays
a contact of McCaffrey's in the morgue, and even though she only
appears in one scene, she makes the most of that short screen-time
that, in turn, makes us remember her well.

Other than the superb cast, one of the most impressive things about
State of Play is the script, which was written by Tony Gilroy, Billy
Ray and Matthew Michael Carnahan and based on the 2003 BBC mini-series
of the same name. However, it bears Tony Gilroy's distinctive mark not
only because it involves corporate conspiracies and unending twists,
but the witty dialogue could have been written by almost no one else.
Occasional instances of humor help lighten the otherwise rather dark
mood. Also, the writing is highly intelligent and makes the audience
actually think rather than simply go along with the complicated plot.
This can also be contributed to the direction of Kevin MacDonald who,
after winning an Oscar for his documentary One Day in September in 1999
and directing the Oscar-winning feature film The Last King of Scotland,
proves that he has loads of talent and hopefully, will remain prominent
in the film-making industry.

Other noteworthy aspects of the movie are the cinematography and the
score, both of which help carry the tension throughout the entire
two-and-a-half hour film, even during quieter scenes. However, State of
Play is not quite perfect. The main, and perhaps only, flaw is the
minor plot holes that, while virtually unnoticeable during the actual
viewing of the movie, become more obvious upon dissecting the movie
afterwards. It is impossible to discuss these errors in detail without
giving anything away, but they do make the conclusion a little less
satisfying.

Nonetheless, the movie is so good in all other areas that it is still
easy to overlook the implausibility of the ending. From the virtually
flawless cast and writing to the authenticity of its portrayal of
journalists and the thought-provoking political themes, State of Play
stands out among all the conventional political thrillers churned out
by Hollywood in recent years. Go see it!
<|_=00=_|>
A gruff old-school reporter (Russell Crowe playing his A-game) becomes
personally entangled in a breaking news story surrounding his old
college buddy turned congressman (Ben Affleck, not as bad as you would
think) and a young female aid who died under mysterious circumstances
in the surprisingly plausible political thriller "State of Play" from
director Kevin MacDonald who was previously responsible for "The Last
King of Scotland". Though designed as a throw-back to paranoid
investigative thrillers from the 1970's, relevance is gained when the
massive cover-up revealed becomes a vehicle for the filmmakers to
explore the death of print news at the hand of digital mediums.

The twisty and engaging screenplay is credited to three scribes:
Matthew Michael Carnahan, Tony Gilroy and Billy Ray. But it's Gilroy's
fingerprints that shape the story with all the overlapping dialogue and
conspiracy talk that will remind many of his "Michael Clayton". Adapted
from a sprawling BBC miniseries created by Paul Abbott, the trio is
especially deft in their condensing of the story into a fully
digestible two hours. Even as new characters and twists keep coming,
the audience is never left out in the cold. They also give the cast
plenty to chew on with some great throw-away lines amidst all the
posturing between the cops, reporters, politicians and sleaze-bags.

Though it's Crowe and Helen Mirren as his sparring and quick-witted
boss who shine the most, this is essentially an ensemble piece, and
it's especially clever when Jason Bateman arrives on screen for a few
pivotal scenes as a smug public relations guru who's too dumb to
realize he knows too much. The cast also includes Robin Wright Penn as
Affleck's wife, Jeff Daniels as the arrogant majority whip and Harry
Lennix, who as a D.C. detective makes a compelling case here for the
lead role in the Barack Obama Story. The only miscalculation in the
casting is poor Rachel McAdams, lovely but annoying in her high-pitch
as Crowe's blogging tag-along looking to kick it old-school and get
something in print.

By the third act "State of Play" overplays its hand in its attempts to
be timely with too much talk of the privatization of the military,
Capitol Hill sex scandals and traditional newspapers losing out in the
digital age to bloggers more concerned with gossip than real
journalism. It could've also been more subtle in its preaching about
the importance of serious investigative reporting. It should be
commended, however, for an otherwise smart screenplay that doesn't
spell out all its twists and turns too early and the well polished cast
who give the film a slick sheen. Even though it might be reporting on
yesterday's news, "State of Play" still makes for solid rainy day
entertainment and is worthy of blogging about.
<|_=00=_|>
Crowe brings his A game (despite an occasional accent slip) to his role
as a world-weary reporter with the newly purchased Washington Globe,
helmed by Helen Mirren's very engaging take on Perry White/Katharine
Graham. If you like thrillers you won't be disappointed in this pic
that runs 2 hours and feels less than half of that. "State of Play"
isn't perfect and the number of plot points that need to come together
veritably dictate some implausibility at the end but if you compare
this film to any five suspense-thrillers (at least Hollywood-made) that
have come out in the past five years, you have to appreciate the whole
package: Acting (and I disagree with the Ben Affleck naysayers here, he
acquitted himself very well), character acting (Viola Thomas, Jason
Batemen and Harry Lennix compete equally with a fraction of the time of
the major players), interesting and gripping plot and story
development, and overall believability all make this a first-rate film
and one all involved should be proud of. The subtext of love and loss
surrounding the non- entertainment print media also lends more than a
little credibility and sympathy to the effort. I hope this film
succeeds on a financial level and inspires at least one or two
ambitious filmmakers to make movies in the same vein. Without doubt,
there are too few genre pics of this caliber and State of Play shows it
can be done well, even into the 21st century.
<|_=00=_|>
So I gave this movie a 10, but that's coming from a thriller fan. With
most thrillers, this movie has it's faults. Some exaggeration,
implausibilities, annoying twists, but the film transcends other
thrillers on all other levels. Even with the overly dramatic plot and
scenarios, I felt this film was a very realistic portrayal of
journalism and posed an interesting argument between old fashioned
print journalism and the new age of the internet. Of course, for the
"thrills" they'll have to make some cliché twists, but it goes beyond
the generic nonsense thriller to making a mild statement about the
media today. In addition, the cast was fantastic. I couldn't be more
relieved that Russell Crowe took over Brad Pitt's role, Pitt would have
been a terrible choice. Russell was a much better fit for Cal. However,
I kind of wish Edward Norton remained with the role of Senator
Collins... Affleck and Crowe didn't have the greatest chemistry.
However the many supporting players were fantastic. Rachel McAdams did
a fine job. Not exactly the meatiest role but she played the revised
role of Della as a young popular blogger greatly. Rachel brought that
playful naivety but at the same time made Della intelligent and
respectable. Helen Mirren was perfect, and perhaps a little underused.
There is also a plethora of strong performances from the minor
supporting players. Jason Bateman gave my favorite performance out of
all of them, Harry Lennix was another who was underutilized, and Robin
Wright Penn continues her reputation as one of the most consistent
supporting actresses.

But as a thriller, it really was a fantastic and entertaining movie.
I've never seen the BBC series and could only imagine how much better
it could be with more time to develop characters and stories, but the
film does the best it could and that's enough. It isn't your typical
mindless thriller though, which is what I respect about it most. It is
paced well but if you don't pay attention you may get lost, but seeing
as the film really does keep you on your toes, it shouldn't be that
hard. What makes this thriller so much better though is that it makes
you think, even after leaving the theater. It isn't just some formulaic
story with mindless twists and turns, it's actually saying something
about the world today that is very relevant, which not only makes a
great thriller, but a great film as well.

I've read some complaints about the ending, but I don't understand what
the big deal was. I don't want to give anything away, but I think it's
an ending that could be taken in different ways depending on the
viewer.
<|_=00=_|>
Character-wise, this movie doesn't have the complex figures of the best
political thrillers. Dialogs are the brightest. Editing is great and
the music's appropriate without being too prominent. But those are
small quibbles when it comes to one of the most honest major features
to come out in a long time. You'll hardly know where the facts end and
where the fiction begins, because so much of it, barely obscured by a
change of name, is real. As much a fiction this movie is, it may as
well be a documentary.

I watched this in a mostly empty theater on a Sunday night. Americans,
they told you so.
<|_=00=_|>
Cal (Russell Crowe) and Stephen (Ben Affleck) have been buds since
their college days. They still stay in touch, but their lives have
taken two different paths. Stephen is an up-and-coming politico who has
acquired the beautiful wife, Anne (Robin Wright Penn), the spiffy
mansion, wealth and prestige. On the flip side, Cal works as a
respected but hardly rich reporter for the Washington Globe, where
publisher Cameron (Helen Mirren) reigns supreme. One day, as Stephen,
who has been investigating the possibly nefarious doings of a
Blackwater-type marines-for-hire group, is about to give a press
conference, the gallery informs him that one of his committee members,
Sonia, has been found dead near the DC subway. Beginning to cry,
Stephen stumbles out of the press talk in a daze. That's because, it
seems, red-haired, pretty Sonia was having an extra-marital thing with
Stevie. Cal and fellow reporter, Della (Rachel McAdams) begin to
investigate the case and also the death of two other gentlemen in the
region whose demises may be connected. But, will the personal
relationship and past that Cal has with both Stephen and Anne get in
the way of the search for truth, especially when it comes to the
billions of funds made by the "hired guns" Stephen was trying to
explore? This is a top-notch thriller which may put fans of the genre
into a state of euphoria. The script is flat-out terrific, based on a
British miniseries, especially in its uncanny skill in blending a great
deal of humor amid the chills and thrills. Likewise, the cast is most
wonderful, with Crowe, McAdams, Affleck, Mirren, Jason Bateman, Jeff
Daniels, Penn, and many others delivering strong, strong performances.
Special words of praise should go to Crowe, for his head-turning but
carefully nuanced role as a man caught in the middle. As for the
movie's production, the sets, costumes, camera work and direction are
nearly flawless, except for a ruffled blouse that some fashion diva
thought would enhance McAdams' look but which hits 100 on the hideous
meter. But, that's small peanuts, as they say. All in all, if you love
thrillers, especially ones that include the juicy realms of politics
and secret government operatives, you would be wise to head to the
nearest theater and fork over some cash for this one. It is a
definitely one fertile "playground" for the cinematic enthusiast.
