
I saw this at the LA Film Festival and frankly was expecting it to be
very artsy, interesting, and a real downer. It was far above all those
things. The split screen is easy to adjust to and really wraps you in,
you're quite fascinated to see what these two people will do next. I
loved the set up; it lent itself to a nice surprise for the audience
and felt completely natural.

What really shines in this movie is the dialog...it's some of the most
brilliant original dialog between two people with a shared past that
I've ever heard. During the Q&A afterward, I was actually a bit
disappointed the director didn't give the screenwriter more credit for
her amazing script (which she wrote in three weeks). It's so engaging
and natural, you might guess it was improvised...but 99% came directly
off the page. 

Helena Bonham Carter and Aaron Eckel really landed plum roles for
themselves in this story and I've never loved them more than here. The
reviewer who thought Helena was miscast is way off in his perception.
It's not about wedding sexual tension (good grief) and it's far from a
chick flick...it's about the deep connection between two people
regardless of time and similar to "Before Sunrise," etc., yet quite
different, but I don't want to spoil it. 

The film is touching, very humorous, and deeply thoughtful. You will
want to watch it several times to catch all that happens.
<|_=00=_|>
I was lucky enough to see this movie on Monday, September 5, the last
day of Telluride 2005. There were five other screenings that had sold
out before that. I'd heard the about the film, but wasn't sure I had to
see it until I read Roger Ebert's review of the film on his website's
festival writeup.

I didn't think that a movie made entirely in split screen could be
anything but a gimmick. But after seeing the film, I agree with
Ebert--the split screen comes to seem necessary. The split screen is
used not only to show the simultaneous actions and reactions of both
characters, but also shows flashbacks juxtaposed with the present,
alternate versions of the present, and moments imagined or hoped by the
characters that quickly return to reality. Sometimes the present is
fractured into more than one emotion for a given line or action,
showing an actor performing the same moment in different ways. The
editing is assured and masterful, employing storytelling techniques
that couldn't exist without the split screen. The writing is brilliant,
full of humor and insight. The movie is like nothing you've ever seen
before.

Aaron Eckhart and Helena Bonham Carter are amazing--funny and
heartbreaking at the same time. I really can't wait to see this movie
again. If a movie ever rewarded two viewings, it's a movie that plays
in two frames.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is a bit different than most because is filmed for dual
screen, meaning that during every scene there are 2 cameras capturing
the action. Usually we are shown the same event from different angles,
other times the 2 sides are splits in time, so we see the past and
present. The main characters, played brilliantly by Helena Bonham
Carter and Aaron Eckhart, meet as participants in a wedding and
rediscover their past. The dialog is brilliantly written and the acting
superb. In the question and answer session after the screening, Ms.
Carter was asked if the split screen made acting more difficult. She
replied that unlike the shooting of a "normal" movie where they would
have to shoot each person's part separately then take a break and move
the camera and do the other person, with both camera's running at the
same time, the whole scene could be shot nearly continuously allowing
for a more realistic conversation situation. This made things much
easier, but she did admit she missed having any "down time" since she
was always in front of one of the cameras.
<|_=00=_|>
This exceptionally well-written and stylishly directed film reminded me
a lot of the Linklater films, in that it was essentially an extended,
intense, and modestly cross-cultural conversation between a woman and a
man. In this case the darker character was the woman, played by Bonham
Carter, and the charming and ebullient character was the man, played by
Aaron Eckhart. The dialogue was as engaging and intelligent as Before
Sunset's, but, unlike that film, this story didn't bail out before its
ending. Bonham Carter's performance was excellent, and I think I'm
being objective in saying that Eckhart managed to keep up with his
co-star, bringing much more than pure charm to his role. The
split-screen will be thrilling to some viewers and offputting to
others. I'd usually put myself in the latter camp, but the movie's
myriad other virtues held me in such thrall that I couldn't manage to
get too annoyed with the split-screen. Definitely worth a second
viewing.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie's character development runs more like a play than a film
and contains really excellent performances by Helena Bonham Carter and
Aaron Eckhart. I was initially worried the split-screen effect would be
distracting and irritating, however, not so! Splitting the screen
allows the viewer to watch each actors performance in more depth, see
bits and pieces from the past, as well as what the characters each
might be imagining. I'll avoid spoiling any plot details, but will say
the performances really do justice to the complexities of romantic
relationships. Highly recommended for lovers of character exploration
and exploring life's complexities.
<|_=00=_|>
Given the way the story is told, "Conversations with Other Women" plays
out as somewhat of a romantic mystery demanding a slow, selective
unraveling by a keen audience. It follows two deliberately unnamed
characters (a man and a woman) through the latter part of a wedding
reception and holds on them through their evening together. Earlier
works like Richard Linklater's duo "Before Sunrise" and "Before Sunset"
come instantly to mind. Although it might not literally be conveyed in
real time, there's such immediacy to the conversation that ensues. Like
Linklater's films the dialogue heavy film never feels overbearing and
stage-like, possibly due to the writing and possibly due to the visual
technique that will no doubt color many reviews and comments about the
film. It's told with a constant use of split-screen, in an attempt to
present two perspectives. Mostly the use of this style assists with
pacing, and never fully follows through on the promise of conveying
opposing story lines. Regardless the choice to use split-screen never
becomes flashy, like it did in when it came into vogue in the
mid-1960s, but it does seem more fueled by digital ability than
narrative necessity. Whether it's this curious technique, the
impressive performances of Aaron Eckhart and Helena Bonham Carter, or
the subtle screen writing, "Conversations with Other Women" seems to
effortlessly become one of those quickly cherished works that demands
you hang onto every word, every gesture. It's really a beautiful work
and has the potential to become a classic love story couples and
hopeless romantics will go to for years to come. But it very likely
won't.
<|_=00=_|>
There are so many conventional movies about adulterous chance meetings
that the prospects of another one wouldn't seem to be too promising.
However, director Hans Canosa takes a rather novel approach with this
small-scale 2006 indie film in looking at the illicit one-night stand
with a pervasive split-screen process. Most often, the two sides
reflect the perspectives from the man and woman at the center of the
story, and at other times, we see their individual memories as
flashbacks to their youthful courtship. Initially, the gimmicky aspect
of watching the duality of the action is rather jarring, but it
gradually becomes a dramatically effective means for exhibiting the
dynamics of the two characters in real time. Gabrielle Zevin's sharply
delineated, often amusing dialogue also helps to bring an immediacy to
what could have been a predictably drawn situation.

The intimate, verbose plot itself turns on several contrivances, some
more forgivable than others (like the absence of names for the lovers
and the misunderstanding arising from matching cell phones).
Regardless, it's really the adroit charm and emotional dexterity of the
actors that sets this movie apart. Playing yet another rascally
man-child, Aaron Eckhart adds shades of mid-life romantic vulnerability
that make his character likeably flawed. But the picture really belongs
to Helena Bonham Carter's richly textured performance as the woman,
easily her best work since 1997's "The Wings of the Dove". As a
complacent married woman who feels herself hurtling palpably toward
forty, she provides such revealing nuance with each scene that I ended
up wondering more about her character's fate than his. With her sad
dark eyes and pouty mouth, she looks more like legendary French actress
Jeanne Moreau as the years pass.

Shot in only thirteen days and with a running time of only 84 minutes,
the movie is quite small in scope, but it is also a relatively
undiscovered gem that will hopefully take on new life on DVD. Speaking
of which, the 2007 DVD has a surprisingly robust number of extras
beginning with Canosa's thoughtful commentary track. Also included are
an entertaining 25-minute interview with an easily bantering Eckhart
and Carter from the Telluride Film Festival; an insightful five-minute
short with the director showing a demo of his dual-camera film-making
technique; a helpful four-minute explanation of why split-screen was
used specifically for the film; and a less interesting, more technical
twenty-minute demonstration of how Canosa used Apple Final Cut Pro
software to make his complex edits.
<|_=00=_|>
From the moment I saw the trailer for CONVERSATIONS WITH OTHER WOMEN I
wanted to see this film. The combination of Helena Bonham Carter and
the terrific Aaron Eckhart together on the screen with dialog that is
out of this world, both funny and sad, at the same time, makes this
film an intelligent and smart artistic piece of work. And the split
screen makes it even more interesting as you get to watch the actors
pull off such marvelous performances. I want to see this film again
just to see what I might have missed.

When the film begins at a wedding and continues with the momentum of
the attraction a couple feel for one another, it is impossible not to
think of your own wedding experiences and perhaps the magic of meeting
"the right one" as time ticks away in your life. New York is the
perfect location for this film and as the last frame of the film
appears before the credits roll, you simply don't want to have this
couple leave. CONVERSATIONS WITH OTHER WOMEN makes you really think
about what is important in your personal life and when you finally meet
that "special person", hold on to him, or her, for the rest of your
life. Bravo, Hans Canosa for this brilliant film.
<|_=00=_|>
The flirtation starts off innocently enough.Using the split screen is a
brilliant device for flashbacks.

Of course, the flirtation turns out to be the rekindling of an earlier
romance, which is what this movie is all about. These people knew each
other in an earlier life, having had a childhood fling.

Juxtaposing one's early life against the conservative patterns that we
all seem to be heir to, is at the heart of the movie.

No doubt all of us sometime try to imagine what life would have been if
one's first love had been pursued.

This movie answers that question - you can't go home again. There was a
good reason why the first one did not last, but one has to relive it to
understand it.

That is the theme of this movie.Well done. Good acting. A beautiful
actress, and a handsome lead man.
<|_=00=_|>
Hans Canosa makes a strong debut with Gabrielle Zevin's intelligent
screenplay (read two character dialogue) CONVERSATIONS WITH OTHER WOMEN
and while some viewers may be distressed about his choice of use of the
split screen presentation, Canosa's decision to be the editor of the
film makes a strong argument for his artistic decision. We are able to
not only see ell sides of the characters physically, but we are also
allowed to step into the 'private space' created by each of the
characters, a space that grows in meaning as the film proceeds. For
this viewer it enhances the story.

It would be difficult to imagine two finer actors than Helen Bonham
Carter and Aaron Eckhart to pull off this story. Bonham Carter has
flown in form London as a last minute replacement bridesmaid for an old
friend and is bored by the wedding until she encounters Aaron Eckhart
whom we soon learn is the bride's brother. But coincidences don't stop
there: soon the couple decide to have a night together and as they
begin to share their current uncomfortable lives they recall that they
were young lovers (well played by Erik Eidem and Nora Zehetner in
flashbacks) and more than likely were married as first
marriages.....but to say more would ruin the repartee that these two
brilliant actors enjoy playing against each other.

Canosa manages to create a solid interplay between his actors and then
capitalizes on the gifts of each by placing them in simultaneous and
revealing views that more that provides his rationale for using the
split screens as his technique. Bonham Carter is more beautiful than
ever and proves she is one of our finest actresses on film, seen far
too seldom these days. CONVERSATIONS WITH OTHER WOMEN is a sly look at
relationships that slowly creeps up on you as you learn the secrets of
each character. It is a fine piece of film-making! Grady Harp
