
I was a fan of the "V for Vendetta" graphic novel, and Alan Moore
disinheriting the film was a bit discouraging. But he's always been a
little crazy. The film version is everything I could have possibly
hoped for - gripping, chilling, intense, exciting, heartbreaking. It
gets Moore's music if not his exact words; elements are slightly
different, subplots removed. But the idea - as V himself would be so
proud to say - remains the same.

The plot is surprisingly complex and nuanced, and I don't want to give
anything more away than the previews already have. Suffice it to say
that a masked anarchist (voiced by Hugo Weaving) must save a young
woman (Natalie Portman) during his attempt to expose corruption in the
government. Weaving is perfectly cast, using his formidable physicality
and imposing voice to give gravitas to the insanity of the character.
Portman has gone from child to teen star and is finally emerging as a
talented, adult actress following her Oscar-nominated turn in "Closer".
Here, she gives her best performance to date as the orphan Evey. John
Hurt is characteristically impressive as the enigmatic government
leader, and Stephen Rea gives a wonderful supporting turn as the police
inspector charged with finding V - before it's too late.

The Wachowski Brothers' former protégé, James McTiegue, takes on the
directing duties here and helms an enormously impressive first feature,
using every trick in the book in a manner reminiscent of his mentors'
breakout hit "The Matrix". Unlike "The Matrix", McTiegue allows the
story to be more of a focus than the action, and as a result the film
is a tense and emotional thriller, with outbursts of spectacularly
filmed and choreographed action. Showing more maturity and restraint
than the Wachowskis, McTiegue doesn't show off, and his trickery isn't
self conscious. When slow-motion overtakes a late action sequence, it
seems as natural as breathing. The late cinematographer Adrian Biddle
(the film is dedicated to his memory) does an outstanding job,
Oscar-nominated Dario Marianelli's score is a fantastic accompaniment
to the piece, and the visual effects are astonishing, terrifying, and
deeply moving, especially in the climatic moments in Trafalgar Square.

With solid acting, great action, and fantastic technical wizardry, it
sounds just like another "Matrix"-style ripoff. But the biggest
difference in "V" is that it is a story of real ideas - not a
fantastic, science fiction creation, but a genuine examination of the
human condition. The power of fear takes center stage here - the fear
of war, of disease, of famine. Fear is a basic human nature, and has
been exploited as a weapon - a method of control - for centuries. And
for those who would use it, a masked man waits in the shadows to carry
out your sentence. The verdict? Vengeance. "V for Vendetta" is a
must-see.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>
"Remember, remember, the fifth of November, gunpowder treason and plot.
I see no reason why the gunpowder treason should ever be forgot." 

I've never read the graphic novel, but I don't think you need to read
it to appreciate the movie. I saw the film last night at it's World
Premiere at the Berlin International Film festival. Though it became a
little weighty in the middle (one part seemed to drag a little) other
than that it was a great experience. The story was so topical that I
got seriously emotional during a lot of parts. Weaving did an excellent
job with the mysterious title character "V", creating a poetic,
intelligent, and compassionate yet ruthless character. Portman always
seems to surprise me, except with her Star Wars character. She portrays
tremendous emotional range and transforms completely throughout the
movie. This is one of those movies that really sticks in your head long
after you watch it though... and it continues to stir and grow.
<|_=00=_|>
I am speechless. I just came back from the theatre, where I watched 'V
for Vendetta'. There are three main elements in the movie and it excels
on all three of them.

First off the dialogues and script. Intense, witty, honest but not
patronising, intelligent but not pretentious. That's the first level at
which the movie surprises you. You don't except such high level of
script from an action movie. But it is slowly revealed to the audience
that V for Vendetta is not just an action movie. The story is filled
with current events and has a definite strong political sense.

Secondly Hugo Weaving's performance. It is definitely what grabs you
from the start. He delivers some of the hardest lines with incredible
charisma. His performance shines throughout the movie and honestly he
sounds as good as any of the best actors out there. He should be
nominated for an academy award.

Finally the visual part. Incredible, yet no "Matrix" effects used.
Everything looks beautiful, dark yet vibrant. The cinematography is top
notch. The final battle scene brought tears to my eyes.

Do not miss 'V for Vendetta'. It's one of the best movies of all time,
an eternal classic.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>
There are some that will, upon seeing this film, say that it was akin
to Andrew Lloyd Weber attempting to make a political statement: overly
dramatic. These people would be well served to remember that the symbol
of drama is a mask, which certainly begs one important question- Why,
if you are so put off by an overtly dramatic motion picture, would you
choose to see a movie that stars as the (anti)hero a man in a mask? I
just saw this film at an advanced screening and I must say it is
nothing short of uniquely brilliant. Entertaining from the start, V
manages to combine a strong socio-political message in a compact and
highly intense experience. Infused with issues and concepts that
pervade in the global political climate of our times, this movie is
endowed with a tremendous timely relevance that belies its trappings as
a mere action adventure.

The acting, the cinematography, the effects, and the general vision of
this film all lead me to believe that it will likely receive a cult
following. It is only my hope that the message of this film will come
to summarize the history of our future ascendancy to true liberty.

Ask not what your country can do for you, but what you can do for your
country. In the meantime, go see this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie yes today here in Denmark, and i didn't know what to 
expect, because i haven't heard of the V or read the Comics from 
publisher DC comics.

But was i in for a BIG treat, this movie is so superbly acted by all 
the actors, especially Natalie Portman performed according to me to an 
Oscar nomination next year.

The movie is perfectly put together, so if you haven't read the comics 
you will be on the edge of you seat the whole movie. Its really that 
good folks.

And lastly, the visual effects is fantastic, and the action scenes is 
nothing but spectacular.

Watch this movie :-).
<|_=00=_|>
V for Vendetta 

rating: 3.5 out of 4

V for Vendetta is a swift and smugly entertaining portrait of
revolution. Albeit, this is a Wachowski Brothers revolution, meaning
there must be wildly theatric heroes and crisply tailored CGI stunts
all set comfortably in an oppressive Totalitarian society. But this is
more than The Matrix with a Victorian flare. V for Vendetta offers up a
convincing vision of the near-future paired with an operatic comic book
tale of love, mystery, and a Guy-Fawkes-masked rebellion. 

Our hero is V (Hugo Weaving), a masked terrorist with a mind for the
subversive, a taste for the eloquent, and a hand for knife-wielding
acrobatics. His accidental apprentice (or maybe hostage) is Evey
(Natalie Portman), a young woman V saved from the fondling grasps of
corrupt Fingermen (kind of the CIA for the V for Vendetta world) as she
hurried across town past curfew. Our oppressor in this world is High
Chancellor Stutler (John Hurt), whose persona is shown primarily
through a five-story tall projection of his ever-angry head. The
exposition for this near-future lies mostly in the implosion of America
after the middle-eastern war expanded into a world war that reached its
tendrils even through Western Europe. America folded into civil strife
while Britain became the final bastion of modern civilization after a
biological attack isolated the island into a zone of quarantine.
Stutler rose to power in the chaos and now rules Britain with the
mantra "England Prevails!" Rest assured, however, this is not a reality
governed by rolling robots and giant overhead blimps; it's a world
that's, instead, very similar to ours. The technological innovations
are hidden subtly into the film's environment, refusing to take
precedent over the historically opulent flavors of England's
architecture. V for Vendetta has a flare for the theatric and operatic,
after all. There's no room for bleeping robots and bounding technology. 

On the eve of November 5th, when Britain traditionally celebrated
freedom and truth, V launches a subversive plot to topple High
Chancellor Stutler and his surrounding administration. Hijacking the
British Television Network, he broadcasts a speech that sets the date
one year from November 5th as the date of the revolution. Our story
takes place in the interim year leading up to the supposed revolution,
with the evolution of Evey's politics, the ongoing vendetta V has set
against the players of a mysterious government plot, and the deepening
hole V digs for Stutler and his boys to stumble into once that fateful
date arrives. "Remember, remember the fifth of November." 

What separates V's rebellion from the teeming hordes of other cinematic
coupe d'etats made over the years is that V for Vendetta approaches the
topic with one eye held straight at the politics of the present. Hot
button headline topics continually rear their heads here. Bush is
paralleled to Stutler, the news media is heavily clouded, our hero is
paired with images of suicide bombers and subway attacks; not to
mention the undeniable fact that we are asked to sympathize with an
outright terrorist. Is terrorism justified when paired against a strict
oppressor? In the political climate of today--where the title of
terrorism is threatening to mirror the clout McCarthy granted the title
of Communism--V for Vendetta's answer to that question is a sure-handed
yes. 

But V for Vendetta is no heavy-handed political allegory. At its heart,
V for Vendetta is entertainment. And as any entertainment with a hand
in Victorian elegance, V for Vendetta must have romance. But before you
conjure images of the Fawkes mask flying in a sweaty bald-headed scene
of lust, realize first that there also is a master-grasshopper dynamic
between Evey and V. The romance is formed as an understatement and
rarely addressed, let to simmer below the surface and lend more
chemistry to scenes that would otherwise ring hollow.

Natalie Portman may have stolen the tabloid exposure with her shiny
shaved head, but Hugo Weaving is the masked performance that steals the
show. Much of the role's success lies in the writing, for V is made not
to be simply a mask. There's a theme throughout the film asking whether
behind masks of revolution, there lie fighting men and women, or only
their ideals. V answers this question with charisma. Contradicting the
common mantra that masked figures must be laconic, V, in fact, probably
has the most lines of all. The character is full and rich with quirks
and personality, but still exists with that essential air of mystery.
Weaving achieves the same level of iconic performance that he did with
Agent Smith in The Matrix. It really is that good.

There's been debate over the quality of adaptation the Wachowski
Brothers offered to Alan Moore's original graphic novel. Moore has
publicly separated himself from the film, quoting in the New York Times
last week that "the screenplay's rubbish." Well, before we all walk
away from the ticket line, remember primly that Alan Moore will be the
first to tell you himself that he is a selfish, pretentious prick. He
knows it, and we know it. Let's move on. The screenplay's fine. In
fact, it's a near-masterpiece. What the Wachowski Brothers have done is
find the right balance between the theatrics of the graphic novel, and
the solemnity to the richly Victorian narrative. They form a dynamic
that plays to both sides, allowing for a story that sparks both
political debate and giddy entertainment. We'll first shake our heads
at the sentimental, soft-focus flashbacks and silly sub-plot for
"nuclear human experimentation"; but when mulled over, we realize it's
just the comic book mentality showing its spots. After all, V wouldn't
start all his sentences with v-words had this film shunned its comic
roots. And anyway, V for Vendetta is a vividly vivacious and voluptuous
volley of a very violently fun time.
<|_=00=_|>
well... all i can say is goddamn.

keeping in mind that anytime you see a movie as part of a major film
festival world premiere, where the cast and creators are present, along
with hundreds of avid film fans and press, it tends to raise the
experience a notch or two... but having said that - i found it to be a
work of monumental genius. i thought it was so amazingly good in fact
that i actually had to say something as extreme as that to express my
current mood towards it, which is still only a mere fraction of how i
felt when i actually left the theatre. it was seriously that good.

and yes, i'm biased, if you can call it that. but i like the
wachowski's for a reason, not blind admiration. they're geniuses, and
they've trained mcteigue well.

naturally, i think it will be under-appreciated by much of the general
public as its not nearly as action-packed as the trailer would have you
believe, but whether it makes 100 mil or 200 mil, it should at least
completely redeem the wachowski's legacy in even the most critical of
critic's minds.

i have to say, the rush of adrenaline i felt when...well, you know if
you've seen the trailer - made me want to stand u and cheer. when a
movie can make you feel like that, it's succeeded.
<|_=00=_|>
This marks the fantastic return of the Wachowski brothers.Those who
were disappointed with their last two efforts will not be disappointed
here,there is no doubt that the Brothers are talented.Here they make
their comeback.But not as filmmakers,but as producers and writers.And
to be honest ,this film thrills you from beginning to end.You'll be
blown away with this adrenaline excitement and dramatically intense
thriller.

A finely complex storyline about V, a reluctant freedom fighter , a
rebellion who fights for freedom against the government in London in
another time line.Set against the futuristic landscape of totalitarian
Britain,a mild-mannered young woman named Evey who is rescued from a
life-and-death situation by"V." Incomparably charismatic and
ferociously skilled in the art of combat and deception, V urges his
fellow citizens to rise up against tyranny and oppression. As Evey
uncovers the truth about V's mysterious background, she also discovers
the truth about herself--and emerges as his unlikely ally in the
culmination of his plot to bring freedom and justice back to a society
fraught with cruelty and corruption.

This is perhaps the first and fully realized and most successful of all
the Moore adaptations.What I liked about this film was the way it
balances action and drama.The script is fantastic and directing is
equally worth a mention.The assistant director on the Matrix(James
McTeigue) movies really has some talent ,and handles the action and
drama very well.The film is fast paced and exciting.It is also
politically charged and quite controversial but that is the point.It
makes you think about the current situation, how well is the government
handling the situation of terrorism.V serves as an anti-hero on a quest
of freedom.His actions are right but his methods are wrong,he is trying
to bring about a message in the wrong way.

This film focuses on the source material of the book, more on the
characters than on the action.More on the emotions and the drama than
on the violence.This film doesn't glorify V as a terrorist but shows
that under certain circumstances he was tempted to be what he is.The
film has an intriguing atmosphere throughout,never once boring,an
apocalyptic future setting really heightens the tension with starkly
dark set designing and stunning cinematography.The action is striking
and the performances in the drama are standout.This is a terrific movie
at all points, it has a strong script , impressive directing and
commendable performances.But having read the book after the movie,I
must confess this film is still nowhere close to being better than the
book.No way.It feels incomplete adaptation,leaving a lot of details
behind,whereas the book had a more in depth look at V's life and his
relationship with Evey.But I guess the filmmakers wanted to take a
different approach,to which they succeed completely.

There is a reference or close resemblance to Guatanamo prison and 9/11
issues echoes throughout the film.And it made the film even more
direct.There are several more references to our world dominated by
politics and government,regarding terrorism.And what they do to secure
their safety.This is one thing that makes V so controversial.His
actions will make you think he's insane,but it's just an idea,a notion
that alerts us to take actions if our own Government ever try to
control us,and inflict fear into our lives. 

Hidden behind the creepy mask ,Hugo Weaving really proves he is a
versatile actor.His character provokes thoughtful questions in a
dystopian future ,and every emotion of his character is brought out by
Weavings performance.Portman on the other hand also excels,with a
convincing accent.She really is the heroine of the film and she handles
the role quite well.The scenes between Evey and V are touching and well
handled.The rest of the film is superb in its execution.

V is an idea,a symbol,a metaphor that cannot be destroyed.A man can be
obliterated but as an idea,an icon he is indestructible and his message
becomes more powerful to convey as people look upon this figure ,but
not the man beneath it.One man can make a huge difference but united
men and women can change something.And that's what made me respond to
this film's ideas.It's full of it.Shed with technical and visual
brilliance.

A spellbinding adventure , exciting action, superb directing and
writing and a Sci-Fi film with a thoughtful message,and the first fully
satisfying Moore adaptation.This film is the most controversial and at
the same time breathtaking Action/thriller.A terrific achievement
produced by the Wachowskis' and Silver.The climax,especially,was
uplifting and beautifully executed.And will live on to be one of the
most memorable conclusions.It always get me.

If there's anything out there in the theaters that will blow you away
before summer season kicks off ,then this is a blast for you.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, I only went to see this because of the Wachowski brothers
involvement. I went totally expecting to hate this movie about a
terrorist but it was so much more. I'm amazed to say that it's AWESOME!
While not an action picture there's plenty of action and at least one
funny homage to The Matrix. You've gotta see it. It's very inspiring,
believe it or not and it didn't make me want to blow up buildings
either. It just made me appreciate freedom even more. Hugo Weaving is
terrific and Natalie Portman leaves Princess Amadala far behind with
her performance as Evey. Everyone's great. Stephen Rea is terrific
too. I just can't believe I liked this movie. I'm still in shock.
<|_=00=_|>
...I am well aware that my summary line invites several retorts, and
given the nature of my comment those retorts may very well be
resoundingly, unanimously negative. If I say "This is one of the Best
films I have ever seen..." One would think the immediate response would
be, "Then you must not have seen many films in your time, dear boy."
Butoh I have, and it has been far too long since there has been
something up on that screen in the darkened theater that I enter to
leave this boring, monotonous existence that had the capacity to
inspire. To see the possibilities of what might be, what could never
be, and what could happen if the leaders of the world keep things going
in the directions that they are headed. V For Vendetta is just a film,
yes? But it is also a wake up call of which there are not enough in
this time we live in. It speaks directly to the hardship that we endure
but seldom take notice of because we are distracted by things that do
not matter...upon leaving the theater I saw people, teenagers mostly,
the very people who should be pro-actively questioning the methodical
erosion of this thing called government in the modern age, react with
complete apathy. Most try so hard to be so outwardly different from the
rest that they do not realize that in doing this they become just like
everyone else; oblivious. We as a society do not want to see films like
this, we do not want to acknowledge the atrocities going on in the
world, all we want to do is play our video games, watch reality
television, spend our money on clothes, jewelry, entertainment. Things
that for all intents and purposes we do not need. These are the
distractions that keep society from pondering in the wee hours of the
night what they can do to prevent true injustice. The evils committed
by those that govern are far worse than any fiction the cinema can
dazzle us with these days. Yes this is a truly great film and one that
I will cherish for a long time. I can only hope that its message finds
a wide audience that is open to seeing things from another perspective,
in a uniquely human light. In the end that is what the film is
about...being human. Having the capacity to choose weather or not to
recognize the evils of society and take a stand to make things better
than they are. The film of course takes this idea to extremes but for
the viewing public dramatic examples are needed to awake them from this
artificially induced state of being we call existence and say, "I see
there is wrong, and it is my duty as a human being to do what I can to
make it right." To the makers of this unique and wonderful film, I
salute you.
