
Im not sure what video gamers were expecting when this series was
turned into film. Just like books, comic books, and whatever else, the
source material will more often than not be different from the film.
However, that is not always a bad thing. Take Jurassic Park for
instance. The movie was phenomenal, but nothing like the book. Anyways,
the reason i'm saying this is because I myself have played the games
and have enjoyed the movies quite a bit. Sure, there not masterpieces
by any means, but I think they are time well spent to escape reality
for a couple of hours. I think Milla plays a great heroine in distress
and a serious badas s. The character development in this is non
existent. You get a little speech to bring you up to speed, but if you
haven't seen these before, you will be lost in the film. (A friend that
I had brought asked me how Claire Redfield knew how to fly a
helicopter.) But you're not in this movie for the character
development. You want to see zombies die and Milla kick butt, and that
is what this film delivers. There are some great scenes here and some
pretty fun kills, not a whole lot that you haven't seen before, but
still entertaining. The movie goes pretty quick and has some very nice
things to add. Alice's telekinesis was very cool to watch, and I can
see why she didn't get to use it a lot. A lot of the special effects
were much better here than they were in previous films, and that was a
definite plus. The bad is that it ends for another to be made, and this
is supposed to be the last. A lot of main players lose their lives, and
that's fine, cause the movie doesn't give you time to care for them.
Nope, the main focus here is Milla and she delivers the goods. Good
fights, good kills, not much logic, pretty decent special effects, and
the greatest pot smoking scene in history make this worth seeing in my
opinion. If you liked the first two, you should enjoy this just the
same. Personally, I don't think any of them have been too bad.

P.s. why did they keep airbrushing Milla's face, she is entirely too
beautiful for that.
<|_=00=_|>
After the second movie i was ready for this one to be cheap and
boring... But this film totally proved me wrong. It contains The plot
and suspense the first film had and the action the second film had.
Perfect combo! The story is beyond amazing, Very creepy in a way yet
totally awesome for the people in the theater watching it all play out.
An apocalyptic world with few human survivors banding together,
fighting, traveling etc. to try to find a place of safety from the
infection and all the dangers that come with it. I'm guessing if your
on this page you have read the plot so Anyways back to the review. The
film was a pleasant surprise... though there was one setback, There
wasn't much time for any info or background on important members of the
convoy, all you know is they are there... Your not really given time to
hear a little out each one and kind of get each one to have there own
amount of screen time due to the lack of time the film was working
with, I mean come on... Why not make it 2 hours and add a little more
in? Anyways besides that i thought the movie was a blast to watch and i
am definitely going back to the theater sometime this weekend to see it
again...
<|_=00=_|>
With Extinction, the Resident Evil franchise perhaps have made its mark
as the most enduring computer game turned movie to date. Most of such
movies usually make for cheesy lazy weekend entertainment, little in
depth but filled with plenty of set action pieces, which for the most
parts are nothing groundbreaking. But what this franchise has to credit
for its longevity, is Milla Jovovich.

OK, so she has made mostly mediocre movies of late (I sense some
fanboys will get me for this, but let me put it straight, I'm a fan of
hers too), especially with the lacklustre Ultraviolet, and the really
showy .45. If not best remembered for her role as Leeloo in Luc
Besson's The Fifth Element (still credited in my books as the ONLY film
I watched with having zero prior knowledge on anything about it), then
it'll be for her role as Alice, the zombie butt kicking superbeing
whose blood holds the key to a reversal of the effects of the T-virus
engineered by the evil Umbrella Corporation.

The premise here is similar to that of 28 Days/Weeks Later, where the
virus is now out of control, and mutates humans into flesh chomping
zombies, spreading mayhem worldwide. Human survivors are few and far
between, and where we left off from Apocalypse, Alice is now travelling
the world alone, seeking refuge and peace, while evading Umbrella's
gunsights. It presumably takes place a significant amount of time after
the predecessor, given that Jill Valentine (Sienna Guillory) doesn't
return for this, keeping the doors open for either an unlikely spin
off, or a revisit into the gap in timeline should Guillory sign on the
dotted line.

But I guess as Juvovich fans, we don't really care, do we? So long as
we get to see our heroine in action, we're satisfied, whether she's
causing misery to her opponents from her twin handguns, double Kukri
knives or just her incredibly toned limbs, we're rooting for her all
the way, dressed in garb personally designed by Juvovich herself, which
provides for both form and functionality. The trend of casting pretty
women to pair with her continues, with the first movie having Michelle
Rodriguez, the second with Guillory, and now, Heroes' Ali Larter and
Spencer Locke join the fray. However, they are relegated to more
pedestrian roles as compared to previous partners, so don't be
expecting much from them, especially for fans of Larter.

The story can be no more simpler than Alice serving as a messiah for a
small convoy of survivors headed by Larter's Claire, delivering them a
message to journey to the promised land in Alaska. But of course the
road to Peace and No Infection is plagued by challenges which
culminates in a big battle in Las Vegas, where the trailers have teased
with the entire city being semi-buried in sand. And like a video game,
all levels will lead to their respective Big Boss to do battle with,
and Extinction doesn't evade that formula too. Watching Alice grow in
power, provides a lot of kick in some of the cool things she can do,
enhanced with special effects of course.

Don't expect the franchise to slam the door of opportunity shut on
itself. By the look of things, we might even see a fourth movie coming
up in perhaps two or three years time (the interval between the movies
thus far). Expect plenty of blood and gore as our heroes cut through
ugly zombies like hot knife through butter, and none other does it more
balletic and graceful than Milla Juvovich. You go, girl!
<|_=00=_|>
The increasingly tired premise of a zombie-producing virus has been
around for some years, having replaced the seductive living dead
mystery of prior generations. I don't expect much of horror films, but
I expect more than this. RE:E is just silly.

The cast is all here: evil corporation, out-of-control scientist,
hapless minions who get locked in with the experiments gone wrong,
multicultural gang of human fugitives strangely dressed in skimpy
clothing and carrying military grade technology, etc. The story is
advanced, but only in the direction of absurdity. Alice is still alive,
but this time it would appear she's an android not only with superhuman
agility and strength, but also with the ability to shut down satellites
in space using her mind. She's always been one. And if that wasn't
enough, she's also psychic--with the ability to generate force fields
around herself and her friends. Most of the zombies look alike this
time, strangely clothed in identical gray jumpsuits. You can now kill
them by cutting their throats, shooting them in the abdomen, or
dropping them off short buildings.

A few dozen overly loud bangs, crashes, and gunfights later and we get
a showdown between Alice and the mutated evil doctor, carried out in a
bad paste of unconnected rooms from previous films.

Close on a scene with the greedy corporate suits getting a holographic
warning of their impending doom from a snippy Alice, and you have a
film designed to sell wholly on the game's reputation and not because
it's sincerely engaging, scary, or even interesting.

PS: here's an idea for a drinking game. Every time Milla Jovovich is on
screen and her face has been digitally altered to look smoother than it
actually is, that's a shot.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't see how anyone could compare RE: Extinction with the first two
in this series. In addition to a lack of plot altogether, there are
more holes in RE:3 than a golf course and more ripoffs of other movies
than I've ever seen. The characters are so undeveloped that most
shouldn't even have come equipped with names. Both Olivera and LJ, who
were the two leading males in the 2nd movie, are without energy and
lack inspiration. The vehicles were outright ripoffs from Road Warrior,
especially in the desert setting. In fact, you really get the idea
pretty quickly that this movie is set in a desert to save money,
whereas the first two movies obviously were pretty expensive in the
setting department. Umbrella's board of directors, who meet several
times in the flick in an underground bunker, appear to be of the under
thirty variety; perhaps they are the descendants of the former
management. The bunker is a shameless ripoff of Day of the Dead. The
zombie scenes are actually very limited, with few traditional up close
yet slow battle scenes. Mostly the zombies in RE:3 jump out of closets
with ferocious speed and bite somebody. There are running zombies in
this movie, which do not fit the sequence at all.

In general, this was a very poor finale to a good series.
<|_=00=_|>
We saw this at our local hometown theater, Movies on the Parkway in
Sevierville, TN. I have to start this by saying that this installment
is a bit reminiscent of George A. Romero's 1985 cult classic, "Day of
the Dead," in one major plot element. I won't give it away, but if
you're a Romero fan, you'll see it for yourself when you view this
film.

This work is wholly entertaining, whether you are a fan of the games,
or not. There are new elements, old friends, and a plethora of great
innovations - some of which I've never seen present anywhere, and a few
which were reminders of former masterpieces. I would name them, but to
do that would spoil these innovations for those of you who have yet to
experience them.

The acting, direction, and quality were above par, while the style was
more that of the action flick with horror elements. The predecessors
were horror movies with great action. The suspense, the intrigue, the
atmosphere were all horror-oriented. This time, the horror elements
were minimized and the action reigned. This is not a bad thing, fans.
Without some change like this, the franchise will suffer franchise
sickness! As it stands, there is no danger of that happening.

All in all? We were totally entertained, enjoyed our movie experience,
and were blown away by the wrap-up. See it for yourself to understand
what I mean.

It rates an 8.9/10 from...

the Fiend :.
<|_=00=_|>
Oh my goodness i haven't reviewed a movie in so long on here but after
seeing Resident Evil: Extinction and knowing fanboys are gonna give it
a bad score i was compelled to completely gush about how completely
awesome this third installment was. To recap my opinion i thought the
first film was really cool some little thrills, some neat special
effects, but Alice was just so cool, i fall in love with bad@$$
heroines like that character with the exception of Halle Berry's
Catwoman for obvious reasons lol. The second film only furthered my
adrenaline rush with Milla doing all kinds of crazy stunts and that
film felt closer to the games also made nemesis look amazing thank god
they didn't use CGI. The third movie takes place in the Nevada desert..
well for the most part anyways Alice and a core few of the survivors
unfortunately not including Jill *cries* are scrounging the world
trying to survive and find food, gas, supplies etc without being eaten
by the massive army of zombies that surrounds pretty much the whole
world. Milla is amazing once again but this time she takes the reigns
from Sigorney Weaver because this time Alice is no sex symbol she's an
angry woman on a nonstop rampage not afraid to kill and think twice.
The action in this movie is so amazing the change of directors really
helped get away from the choppy hand to hand fights in Apocalypse plus
this is the director of Highlander here mister Russel Mulchy is no
stranger to great action films. There's a lot more scares in this one
and a lot more gore and grizzly murder creating entertaining mayhem on
the big screen. I love truly epic films like Alfred Hitchcocks work,
The Departed, and Requiem For A Dream but i go to the theater to be
massively entertained by more than just my bucket of popcorn and
Resident Evil: Extinction keeps your eyes on the screen.
<|_=00=_|>
I am happy to say that Resident Evil: Extinction was a great entry into
the franchise. Being a fan of the games since their original inception,
I was very skeptical seeing the series turned into a movie, as the
trend for video game movies is to be completely terrible. I didn't hate
the first two movies, but I definitely left the theater disappointed.
The first film tried to invent an original story line revolving around
similar events which didn't work that well because it just felt like
the connections to the game were tacked on. Apocalypse delivered on the
fan service by adding characters Jill Valentine and Carlos Olivera, and
tying in the movie to the third game in the series. And now with
Extinction, Resident Evil has finally found a good balance. With
characters from the games making appearances, nice comedic moments, and
a gritty style of action I was not disappointed in the slightest bit. I
also feel like with the third film in the series, it could finally open
up into a more mainstream audience. The characters from the game give
nice feelings of nostalgia for those that have been playing for a
while, but their stories from the games are not necessary for any one
coming to see this movie without any prior knowledge of the game
series. My only two complaints with this film is that it doesn't over
view the last two films (which doesn't bother me, but I can see how it
would for any one who is just coming to see the movie without seeing
the others. Although, it might spark their interest to check out one
and two), and the film ends on a cliffhanger. With Milla Jovovich
stating that the film is written as a trilogy, it makes me wonder
whether or not there will be another entry. Overall I couldn't
recommend this movie more for some one who is looking for an enjoyable
time at the theatre.
<|_=00=_|>
One thing that's for sure is that the "evil" of the title is becoming
less and less "residential." This time around the nasty T-virus has
spread all over the whole world and humanity is in grave danger. I
guess that's where the "extinction" part comes in.

Once again we find ourselves not too long after the previous film left
off. Humanity is in shambles and "Extinction" plays itself like a
post-apocalyptic thriller, no pun intended. Alice is evading the evil
Umbrella Corporation who needs to conclude some experiments but they
can only do it with her blood and clones don't work. While wandering
the desert Alice finds out she has mental powers, meets a group of
survivors, and happens to be tracked by Umbrella all within what must
be one hour. I guess it's not her lucky day. The audience however,
providing you're fans of stylized carnage, is in for a little treat.
"Extinction" not only provides a more interesting plot than the
previous film, it also provides much better action and special effects.
These effects feature zombies (naturally) but also demonic crows and a
nasty mutation at the end. The action scenes are nicely done with
somewhat unpredictable approach to who gets munched and who doesn't so
tension is there throughout.

There are also many absurdities, but they can only be expected in a
film like this. For instance, the film is set in a desolate world with
supposedly little supplies yet the women look like they put on make up
every morning and regularly get a manicure. The GOOD women that is.
Alice meets some BAD people in the beginning and these people somehow
haven't picked up any of those bathroom supplies and make up kits that
are laying around. Those bad people are another thing, they appear in
an early scene that demonstrates that Alice can fight and kick ass...
seeing that this is the third movie in the series do they really need
to make this point again? If they avoided it, then the climatic fight
might have been longer and a bit more, you know, climatic. But I guess
that wasn't the point of that fight since right after it we are set up
for Resident Evil 4.

"Extinction" is enjoyable for what it is, but that's it. --- 6/10

Rated R for violence/gore and horror. Ages 13+
<|_=00=_|>
This movie defines the term Epic Fail. If you are a fan of the games or
zombie lore at all, you will walk away wondering how anybody let this
travesty run amok so badly. While there were plenty of scares (cheap
startles and loud noises), this movie fails to deliver on every other
level.

****Possible Spoilers***

FOR THE GAMERS: Just because there is some guy with sunglasses and
slicked hair, do not actually expect any actual representation of
Wesker. Additionally, red-hair and a gun do not turn Ali Larter into
Claire Redfield. These were simply manufactured (forced may be a better
word) elements to keep the fans happy, but after doing such a great job
with Jill, S.T.A.R.S, Nemesis and Carlos in RE2, this was pretty
insulting. Also, wasn't RE about skill and willpower in the face of
nightmarish odds and monsters? Meh...who needs shotguns when you can
use your "magic" powers? I never minded Alice being super strong and
such (it is the t-virus after all), but when did Invisible girl/Jean
Grey fit in?

FOR THE ZOMBIE FANS: I don't even know where to begin. It would seem
that slashing a zombies throat is just as good as shooting it in the
head (and Alice is even carrying the finest chopping blade in history).
The prop crew must have gotten a great deal om zombie masks in bulk,
because most of the "Umbrella soldier zombies" are identical looking to
me (and who thought putting them in uniforms made any sense at all).
There is also a main character (LJ) who gets bitten, and despite
battling zombies for the last few years, decides to conceal it from his
allies. Can you guess what happens next? If you are looking for good
combat against hordes of undead, you are not getting any here. The
clichés are stale, and the tactics from the heroes are unimaginative.
Despite shots that had throngs of the undead, most fights are against
2-3, not hundreds. As others have stated, this movie is a poor remake
of "Day of the Dead" with better effects and Alice tossed in.

FOR THOSE WITH ANY STANDARDS IN ACTION MOVIES: Why is LJ still carrying
that ridiculous GOLD desert eagle? Why, in a gun fighting movie, would
they not have competent tactical advisors? Clearly, someone showed the
stars of RE1&2 how to move and fight with a gun, but I guess that
detail was deemed unimportant this time (even though I thought everyone
except Carlos looked very...awkward in their scenes). Further more, and
this is just me, the yellow Hummer2 from a NAIL SALON was the lamest
and most pathetic product placement I have ever scene. Kinda ironic to
use a such a trendy and gas guzzling truck in the back drop of a global
warming message.

I could go on, but I think the point is made. I'll let you go see this
movie yourself, so you can discover all the other atrocities that this
movie commits on the unsuspecting viewer. It is a shame this movie was
poorly done, because I really enjoyed the first two. It may have tried
to achieve too much, and ended up falling short everywhere because of
it. 

It was nice to see Johnny Cage though...I guess Anderson threw him a
pity role. I liked him in Mortal Kombat and Wyatt Earp.
