
I just returned from seeing this film at a preview/test screening.

This film was much better than I had expected. The story brings to mind
movies such as Mad Hot Ballroom or Dangerous Minds, but is different
enough that it is able to stand on its own.

Overall I thought the acting was well done. The dancing was great (both
the hip hop dancing and the ballroom). And while I am not a huge
Antonio Banderas fan, I thought he was excellent, and I really liked
him. He was able to be the star of the movie, but not the center of
attention at all times. He looked good and seemed to provide a
different element to what could have been the same old "help the inner
city kids find hope" story. 

The script and dialogue had nothing too cheesy or corny, which is
usually found in "feel good" films, or movies about highschool
students. There are plenty of funny parts, as well as enough drama and
interesting character conflicts to keep everything interesting.

My only complaint was that the ending didn't seem to wrap up everything
- there were some back story lines and issues that weren't resolved.
But a few unanswered questions can sometimes be better than a cheesy,
unbelievable ending where suddenly all is right in the world. I'll be
curious to see if they make any changes before it is released in
theatres.

I give it an 8 out of 10, because I was genuinely entertained.
<|_=00=_|>
Attended a premiere of the film yesterday without knowing anything
about it, and I was pleasantly surprised. 

Along the lines of similar films regarding inner city schools and the
use of fine arts to motivate students, this film chooses dance as its
educational medium. It provides a realistic examination of true life in
the New York public school system, and of New York City in general...no
"Sex and the City" or "Friends" glamor here. I applaud this film for
its casting of Antonio Banderas as the teacher who really cares for his
student's lives in a world of despair. He does a great job conveying
the inner struggle of a person who yearns to offer their help despite
limited resources and support. Meanwhile, the students that make up his
class are relative unknowns, but all are fantastic dancers with acting
skills to match. 

Even if you are not a fan of either Hip Hop/Rap or
Ballroom/Jazz/Ballroom styles of music and dance, this film will have
your foot tapping and imagination wandering..."maybe after some
lessons, I could dance like that". Both worlds are depicted with
accuracy and realism, allowing followers of either genre to spy on the
other.

For parents looking for the suitability of this film for their
children, I would say the minimum age should be 13-ish. Other than the
odd curse word or gun play, there is not much else to worry about. The
benefits and moral lessons taught by this movie far outweigh the
negative aspects.

If you've ever secretly wanted to join a dance class, this film will
(hopefully) push you past your fears and have you dancing in no time.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a feel-good movie. You will enjoy it, laugh, maybe even cry,
despite being able to predict what is going to happen. Banderas does a
nice, understated job and the actors portraying the urban kids are
outstanding. I didn't like some of the camera angles and chafed at the
dance shots often being too close up to really see what the moves were,
but the choices in filming undeniably added to both the realism and the
energy of the scenes. 

Altho based on a true story, one has to wonder how much was added for
dramatic effect. Some of the relationships/developments seem just too
trite and stereotyped -- and yet the portrayals are enjoyable enough
that ultimately you don't care. After the number of times audience
members laughed or exclaimed over scenes or lines in the movie, I was
surprised that they didn't clap at the end -- it's that kind of movie.
It reminded me of both Strictly Ballroom and Stand and Deliver. You
won't be sorry you've seen it.
<|_=00=_|>
There are so many good films being released and so many formulaic films
like these are released that it seems like we can do without a film
like TAKE THE LEAD.But guess what,this ain't your average coming-of-age
inspiring story.This is rather more fun and effective drama powered by
fantastic dance sequences,with the aid of Benderas who leads the kids.

The entire film depends on Benderas' energy and wit.He fills the film
with energy and wit and excites everyone in the film.I really enjoyed
the superbly choreographed dance sequences as it brings about different
cultures together and shows how much fun it could be.It's really
enthralling.

A finely made entertaining film with a different treatment to an old
formula.Surprise is on their side.
<|_=00=_|>
First off, let me say this. You've seen this movie a million times
before. From the 'Black Board Jungle' from the 50's, to 'To Sir With
Love' in the 60's, 'Dangerous Minds' and 'Sister Act 2' in the 90's,
the formula is exactly the same. Well meaning teacher, or non-teacher
(usually Caucasian) goes into the inner city to help mold the lives of
the usual assortment of troubled kids who just want to be noticed and
loved. On a side note, I find it amazing that Hollywood continues year
after year to make the same movie over and over again. Come to think of
it, I really shouldn't be surprise. It is Hollywood after all, the land
of originality. But back to my review. After having said all that, and
knowing within my head that I've seen this story done so many times, I
have to admit I really enjoyed the film. Don't ask me why. Maybe it was
the mood I was in. I definitely wanted to see something light and
breezy, because the rest of my day would be pretty hectic. Somehow the
film affected me in unexpected ways. I tend to be an idealist, and
freely admit that I'm the perfect sucker for this type of film.

My recommendation is for you to go and experience this film. Don't
expect to see the finest film ever made. Just go in and let it wash
over you. You'll be surprised.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie I will applaud for it's use of the art of montage. Every
montage had a purpose - and they were edited together with the music
super well. Not only were images from two different worlds combined in
the montages - but music from two different worlds as well.

Growing up in East Los Angeles I could relate at a lot of different
points. My family didn't have it bad, but the people around me did. I
can see how the dance programs would boost self-esteem and add culture
to kids who didn't have chances at culture.

The characters are well fleshed out (which is amazing for most recent
movies) and Antonio Banderas gets to be his uber-suave, ultra-rich
self. Dulaine opens doors and stands for ladies - moves that one kid in
the movie calls "punk-@ss".

It's a familiar story line for anyone who has seen the typical teacher
movie, but there's enough intrigue in the characters, the dance and the
music to keep in highly entertaining. The theater audience with us was
cheering, laughing and cat-calling at different points and the lady
next to me kept saying how she couldn't wait for this to come out on
DVD.
<|_=00=_|>
I, for one, thought this was an excellent movie! True, it does have a
familiar plot, but that does not at all distract from the true
intention of the film. If I had to categorize it, I would say it's a
seamless mix between Dangerous Minds and Save the Last Dance. However,
unlike those, this is a TRUE story. This is not some script that came
from someone's head, it really happened. I would highly recommend this
film to anyone who loves a great story. This movie is very
inspirational and has phenomenal music to boot. I was dancing in my
seat. So forget what you think you know, and just give this film a
chance. I think you'll be pleasantly surprised.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw this movie at River Run Film Festival. The editing is incredible.
Liz constantly inter-cuts between several stories at the same time, all
in beat with the background music. Her background in music videos
really shows in this film. Bandaras does a good job in this role. But
the really significant aspect of this movie is the realistic portrayal
of the lives of the high school students. I've never seen a movie with
such believable gritty realism. At first, I was put off by not being
able to understand every word of dialog but realized I didn't need to.
This was another aspect of the realism of the film. Very creative
storytelling.
<|_=00=_|>
TAKE THE LEAD (2006) *** Antonio Banderas, Rob Brown, Alfre Woodard,
Dante Basco, Lyriq Bent, Brandon Andrews, Laura Benanti, Yaya DaCosta,
Jenna Dewan, Elijah Kelley, Shawand Mckenzie, Marcus T. Paulk, Joseph
Pierre, Katya Virshilas, Heidi von Palleske. "To Sir With Love" meets
"Dance With Me" could've been the pitch for his entertaining melodrama
based on the true-life account of Pierre Dulaine's (Banderas in one of
his best performances) unorthodox method of communicating with
Manhattan high school delinquents with teaching them ballroom dancing.
While Dianne Houston's screenplay is riddled with clichés and formulaic
storytelling, novice filmmaker Liz Friedlander, who cut her teeth on
music videos, inhabits the film with a lot of style, panache and energy
thanks largely to her unknown ensemble of willing young talent and
stand-up and cheer moments including a ménage a trios tango that
sizzles.
