
Similar to Madagascar but not the same this is the story of a zoo lion
and his friends who race off to save the lion's son who has been
shipped back to the wild. The movie is the race to find the son before
he gets to the wild and what happens once they get there.

I have to start by saying the voice cast is top notch here. Everyone
does an excellent job. However I must single out Jim Belushi and Eddie
Izzard as turning in classic animated performances. Belushi plays a
street smart squirrel who is in love with a giraffe and he is a ball of
fun. Its clear why he is the best friend of Keifer Sutherland's lion.
He is a joy to behold. 

Even better is Eddie Izzard as Nigel, a koala who is totally crazed.
Izzard is in constant motion and is constantly chattering about
everyone and everything and he effectively turns a movie about a lion
and his cub into a movie about a deluded koala with a tenuous grasp on
reality. Izzard's Nigel will probably go down in history as one of the
great cartoon characters of all time.

This is a movie with fantastic animation. It all looks great. The
director and some of his crew are from the effects team that made
Terminator 2 and other big budget special effects movie look so great.

The problem with this movie is that it was made by guys who until this
film made their living making soulless special effects for soulless
action films. The net effect is a soulless film. There is no pacing,
there is little sense of danger. Worse the characters inhabit a world
that isn't real. In this world, especially in the New York scenes, no
one exists except the characters. They drive all through the city and
encounter no one. There are no other cars on the street. To be frank
there is no sign of life anywhere. Its terrible. It kills the film. Its
sad but as alive the actors are their animated characters, while
looking good, come across as dead constructs.

Still the movie is worth seeing. Eddie Izzard, with an assist by Jim
Belushi make it worth seeing. Clearly abandoned by Disney in theaters,
you should make a run by this on home video or cable, where its less
than the sum of its parts construction will be less annoying.
<|_=00=_|>
At first, this appears to be a rip-off of "Madagascar," with New York
City zoo animals leaving the comforts of "home" for the wilds of
Africa. However, it is a totally different story and feel to it, more
serious and sentimental than "Madagascar." Personally, I like "serious
and sentimental" but not in animated movie, at least not to the degree
it was in here. I preferred the other "NYC zoo" film to this one
because "The Wild" lost almost all of its great humor in the last 20-30
minutes. 

The first 50 minutes of this film was spectacular. I was thinking,
"Wow, another great animated film. How many is that in the past year or
so?" The jokes were excellent, the characters mostly funny and the
animation superb. The dark, rich colors in here are magnificent. This
is a beautiful movie! The minor characters are the best in here: the
snake, koala bear and squirrel. Eddie Izzard, Richard Kind and Jim
Belushi, in particular, are great in their voices of these characters.
The two crocodiles that the wandering zoo animals meet in the sewers
are hilarious. They produced the biggest laughs, at least with me. The
major characters: the lion (Keifer Sutherland), his cub (Greg Cipes)
and the giraffe (Janeane Garafolo) were all a little too much on the
serious side.

Speaking of serious: the last third of this film totally switched
gears. I wonder how this went over with very young kids and their
parents? It got too serious, frightening in spots (for little ones) and
then the usual corny Disney ending. It's too bad: this could have been
super if they had just continued doing what was working the first 50
minutes.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to the Premiere this weekend of THE WILD and I must say I was
pleasantly surprised. I was concerned about the same thing that
everyone else was.

Is it going to be like Madagascar mixed with the same theme as Finding
Nemo?

To my surprise I did not even once think about either of those films
while I was watching THE WILD. There were some great jokes and gags and
it had the pacing of a good action film. This movie is nothing like
either of those movies. I encourage everyone to see this movie for
themselves and am curious what they think of it. There is a couple plot
holes and weak story points. But other than those few moments it's a
fun film to watch. The look is refreshing because it doesn't look like
every other CG feature in the world. My final statement is this. Kids
will absolutely love it. And the parents will be entertained and won't
be bored.
<|_=00=_|>
I was lucky enough to get tickets to a preview of this film last week.
I also initially wondered why they would copy Madagascar (which I
didn't find very good)...I came away with the realization that it's a
very different and way better movie with only the basic premise bearing
somewhat of a resemblance (not unlike many kid's films and the
"formula" that seems to be used).

I found the film hilarious and had a great time watching my kids get
such a kick out of it as well. The animation is absolutely incredible
and this was a great escape for me and my kids (10 and 7)...if I could
only get my 7 year old to stop continually quoting Nigel the Koala then
all would be well...

I read a few reviews which panned this flick. I wondered if they saw
the same movie we did and/or why an adult who wants to bring a kid for
a few laughs would listen to some of the negative crap that's been
written?! I would suggest that there is many a jaded movie critic out
there who may not appreciate this for what it really is (perhaps
they're taking their own "grown-up" opinions too seriously?)...a kid's
flick which just happens to appeal (thankfully) to the adults who are
brought along in tow. Either some of these reviewers have a different
political agenda or they're really out of touch with the audience
demographics a film like this is geared toward. You watch...You
decide...

This film was quite simply a blast! We hope you enjoy it as much as we
did!
<|_=00=_|>
The Wild was advertised as a movie for kids, and it lived up to it's
billing. I saw it this past weekend with my 5 year-old. It had a good
story line and enough action and music to keep him entertained. He has
already asked can we buy it when it comes out on DVD. Since it is a
clean movie I will happily get it for him. I didn't have to cringe or
be on edge because of suggestive dialog or foul language like Ice Age 2
has. I don't enjoy exposing my son to entertainment that contains
language he cannot repeat. If you want to treat your kids to a real
kid's flick, take them to see this. It's not a contender for an Oscar,
but you'll enjoy it, too.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw a preview screening last night, and it was really fun. First, the
movie is visually gorgeous. The texture (hair especially!) work alone
is enough to recommend the film to animation enthusiasts. To all the
comparisons with Madagascar I will add that The Wild is much funnier.
And judging by the 10-year-olds sitting with me, kids will love it. As
the movie was made by C.O.R.E. in Toronto, was directed by a Canadian,
and stars a lot of Canadians -- there are a few Canadian jokes (and
sports) in the movie that international viewers might miss. It also has
a fun self-referential attitude in the humor that's enjoyable without
becoming gimmicky. To build on the previous poster, it is not Citizen
Kane -- but has much funnier animals. It's a movie that does what it
sets out to do -- entertain you. And it does that very well.
<|_=00=_|>
If the case on the DVD didn't say Disney, I wouldn't have believed it.
Disney has been synonymous with quality in everything...but not in this
case. This was so bad, my little girl asked if she could go to bed
before it was half over. Go to bed! She hates going to bed, but she'd
rather go to bed than be subjected to this piece of...trash. And a 'G'
rating? Really? The adult humor and innuendos? All that violence and
scenes of fright? A 'G'? Please. Whoever was in charge was trying to
rip off other Disney movies with every new scene. In case you haven't
gotten it yet, it stinks. There, I said it. And Disney, please don't
even think about sequel here, it couldn't get much worse. Rent
Madagascar instead. The Wild makes Madagascar look like an Oscar
contender.
<|_=00=_|>
For the record, even though the plot of The Wild has all too many
similarities to that of Madagascar, I must note that The Wild - or
Madagascar 2.0, as I like to think of it - is on an order of several
magnitudes better.

-Of course, let it be noted that some say work on The Wild was begun
before Madagascar, and Madagascar was simply released first, while
others say the Madagascar was begun first. Let's just say they were
created in parallel, and independently.- When originally viewing the
commercials I wasn't impressed. Like others, Madagascar was too fresh
in my mind, and the comedic clips extracted seemed artificial and flat
when taken out of context. On viewing, I'm glad I gave it a second
chance and allowed it to win me over. Furthermore, those who demonise
this film because of its alleged similarities to The Lion King are
really misunderstanding the whole point of the Lion King references -
this is *comedic satire*, not plagiarism. Please learn to see a running
gag when one presents itself. (The Snake character is also a stab at
other snakes who have appeared in past Disney movies...) Sure, The Wild
wasn't perfect; admittedly, I had a few of those cheesy cringe moments
whenever the musical montages came on (I had far more during Madagascar
- Chris Rock's character grated somethin' mightier than two lions at
times)... as well as through most of the musical numbers. There is the
one huuuuuge plot hole in The Wild: Tugboat... fuel?!. Although a hoot
in her own right, Janeane Garofalo's giraffe 'Bridget' is all too
similar to Ellen DeGeneris' 'Dory' from Finding Nemo, one among many
similarities to this film's aquatic Disney cousin. The overall premise
- even where it varies from Madagascar - is tired and predictable.
However, while the penguins are really the only reason I would buy
Madagascar, I would actually consider purchasing this DVD... Hey, you
can't beat William Shatner - as the *villain* for once! I was
unexpectedly impressed with Shatner's characterisation and performance,
and the special details he put into his voicing. Jim Belushi's squirrel
was also quite memorable.

The animation quality of the The Wild has miles on the first in terms
of textures, realism, character design (I disliked the too-"stylised"
look of the characters and animation in Madagascar), and motion. The
script, dialogue, comedy, wit (all the tongue-in-cheek moments were
keepers), plot, and characters too, are all vast improvements, with the
possible exception of Madagascar's penguins. The secret agent
chameleons of The Wildcertainly give the penguins an excellent run for
their money, though. One more note about characters: it is the
secondary characters that really shine in this movie. The chameleons
are used in a very interesting way, given their abilities. The villains
of the film turn our notions of good and evil on their tails... or
hoofs. That is where The Wild shines the most.

Measured purely by LOL moments, I found I had many more for this film
but then again, I'm an adult viewing this film. And... Oh... being
Canadian, the rif at Canadians helping out Americans was one for the
books. That, and *curling*! And as for crazy squirrels, if you liked
Over the Hedge, you should quite enjoy this film.
<|_=00=_|>
I would have to say I personally thought this movie was wonderful. The
animation was superb, the characters were amusing, and the dialog and
banter was fabulous. I laughed throughout the movie, sometimes so hard
I thought I might hurt myself. My husband also enjoyed it. 

And I have to say, I disliked Madagascar immensely. I never laughed
once during that entire film. The humor in The Wild was much more
believable. And I thought that the plot in Madagascar was much more
predictable than that of The Wild.

Overall I would have to give The Wild a 9 out of 10. The only thing
that could have made it better would have been if it was longer. But
you know, you really can't go wrong with an all star cast.
<|_=00=_|>
I have heard mostly bad reviews for this movie so when I was told to
rent it for my preschool movie day I was wary. Boy, was I surprised!
This movie was awesome. The writing and characters were well done ( I
loved the Hindi Pigeons) and the song Really Nice Day was stuck in my
head for weeks. But what really got me was the graphics. The characters
actually looked like the animals they were supposed to represent
instead of bad caricatures. I do not know how anyone could not love
this movie. I watched it with roughly fifty children ranging in age
from 3 to 8 and they all loved it. They were laughing and singing along
it was a great experience.

I have learned a valuable lesson from this, Disney rocks. I used to
know that but I had begun to doubt it because of such negative press
they have been getting. The Wild reminded me of how creative Disney can
be and the amazing skill they bring to the table In short, give this
movie a chance and it will not disappoint you. And to all of those who
didn't like it, I feel bad for you. You missed out on a great movie. To
those of us who know a good movie when we see it We're havin' a REALLY
NICE DAY, REALLY NICE DAY, REALLY NICE DAY!!!
