
Despite what many others may say, this movie is VERY good for what it
is: a mindless action movie.

I enjoyed the game itself very much and it really scared the **** out
of me. I was expecting a horror movie, but i soon realized that it is
an action movie. Well, what can you expect from an action movie other
than lots of shooting and SOME suspense? If you think the movie is
shallow, it is, but its supposed to be. Anyone who complains about the
movie being a mindless shooting movie should realize that this is not
the movie for them, so they should go watch one of their "emotional"
movies if they want. However, if you need a break and just want your
testosterone pumping so you can take a break from life and just be a
manly man. If you don't like The Rock, then go watch a romance or
comedy, this movie isn't for you. However, if you like the video game
and like mindless action, this is the movie for you. Remember, not
every movie has to have some deep meaning or evoke emotion, some movies
are just for fun. This is one of them.
<|_=00=_|>
I, unlike other people, did not find this movie to be a disappointment.
I didn't go into this movie with high expectations. A movie based on a
video game will never have an amazing story, or exceptionally good
acting worth an academy award. A movie like this will have good action,
reasonable suspense, and be the type of movie you can watch again and
enjoy it just as much as the first time. For the most part, this movie
lives up to those expectations. It has good action sequences, it is a
re-watchable movie, and the storyline isn't quite as bad as I thought
it would be. Sure, they changed stuff from the video game during the
transition, but it still worked, and you cant expect everything in the
video game to work as a movie, they had to change some things to help
the cinematic view of it. I would recommend this movie to anyone who
wants to watch a movie with solid action sequences and anyone who is
looking for some fun with their friends.
<|_=00=_|>
*Warning* This review contains mild spoilers to the GAME, but not the
movie.

A dig in the nevada desert have found a portal to an ancient city on
mars. Since then, scientists have struggled 20 years to find out more
about the civilization that built the city and why they disappeared.

Apparently they found something. In an emergency transmission sent from
the science facility on mars a head scientist explains that there is a
"level 5 breach" and quarantine procedures must be implemented
immediately. A squad of elite soldiers are sent to the science facility
on Mars to protect and retrieve property and make sure quarantine is
kept. What they find is naturally more than they are trained and
equipped for.

This is another game that made it into the silver screen, and the DOOM
franchise isn't exactly known for it's multi-depth story lines. This
made me seek out and watch this movie with plenty of ice in my stomach,
ready to forgive the producers for mistakes they made.

And mistakes were made. The greatest one was of course to change the
entire plot. As a gamer who put more value in story than the action, I
would personally say that the DOOM3 storyline was better than the
movies (completely changed) storyline. In the game the city plays a
central role. In the movie you never leave the work areas, you never
get to see the old ruins. The city isn't even mentioned beyond the
intro. Beyond 2 <10 second scenes, you do not see the Mars exterior.
You barely register that these events take place on Mars, not on earth.
The artifacts that played a central role in the game is not mentioned
or present in the movie. The entire "Hell is loose" plot was completely
cut away, the events of the movie blamed onto something *COMPLETELY*
different. The theme "one man against hell" became "a few men and their
issues". The ghost of the little girl (one of the games scarier parts)
did not make it to the move.

DOOM3 was also a horror experience playing both on achluophobia (fear
of darkness) and Monophobia (fear of being alone), this was an aspect
missing in the movie where areas was lit and the characters was always
going at least two and two. I almost think the movie could have been
better if they hired less actors and put more money on storywriters.

Another aspect completely gone is the ambient red tone of being on
mars, something that could have added a more artistic flavor to the
movie. Except for very short moments in the beginning of the movie you
never see that these events in fact take place on mars.

I was not happy to see the storyline almost completely changed and the
horror downscaled to almost not scary at all with nothing better added
to it. There are no deep questions asked here, no philosophical
submessage to the audience to go home thinking about. This is a
lighthearted actionmovie and that's it.

The most faithful part (to the game) is the labs and the monsters. he
developers who made the game gave the areas/monsters/weapons an unique
design that wouldn't have been right to move away from. If you care
zero about the plot, then yes this is DOOM.

There's also the first person sequence in which we get to follow a
series of events through the eyes of a soldier when he runs around and
shoot monsters in corridors. It was fun, although I would say that it
failed to capture me. I was mostly annoyed with the choice of music and
it could have been more scary.

I see some ways this movie could have been made better with the
material it's based on, but I did not expect it. At least the action is
well done. If you want 2 hours of entertainment that wont change your
world, DOOM offers just that. If you do not watch many movies and want
some extra quality when spending time on one, you can jump this one.

Game-movies so far are between "awful" and "ok". This one was "ok".
<|_=00=_|>
OK, we are all hearing how Doom the movie is a complete sellout etc,
but still this is an enjoyable movie. The Rock as Sarge is absolutely
perfect! i just couldn't imagine Karl Urban doing a better job then The
Rock when it comes to Sarge. Although many have branded this film
"Resident Evil in Space" and yeah it is but that doesn't subtract from
the film at all. The 1st person scene was especially pulled off well
and will give you some giggles (c'mon who didn't laugh?).The Score is
absolutely awesome and sets the atmosphere perfectly! too me this film
had an old school 80's horror feel to it which i felt made it that more
enjoyable (we got lots of uncensored over the top gore which now we
don't get enough of). Overall don't judge this movie till you see it
because it is a lot better then people rate it unless your looking to
find something thats a 100% identical too its source material (Doom 3)
then i'd advise you to not watch this film because some of it has been
completely rewritten from its original context hence no hell. Overall a
lot better then what i was expecting too see
<|_=00=_|>
So many people everywhere have some sort of Doom memory. Whether it be
playing with friends, siblings, or hell even family, Doom seems to be
something that anyone who's played enjoys. 

If anyones seen the film Alien and Aliens -- the difference between the
original dooms and Doom 3 is exactly the same. Doom 3 being more like
alien, more horror with less action, and the originals like Aliens,
more action, with some horror.

Now the film review. After seeing my title, "Faithfull no? Good film?
Yes." your probably wondering how it could be unfaithful to the games
and still a good film at the same time -- i'll explain.

Anyone who's played any doom game as much as I have(Which is a lot)
will DEFFINTLY be disappointed in this film. It's got light rough
elements of the original games in there yes, but not enough. 

Lets not even talk plot for a moment. Say the whole 'hell' involvement
thing didn't even matter. Think demons, think weapons, think
action/horror. Thats what dooms always been about more then anything,
right? Right. Which is why this film comes to a disappointment.

Lets talk demons first: They included 4 of the demons from the doom
games, The zombie, The imp, the pinky, and the baron/hell knight
whichever you want to call it, it really dose't matter in this case.
The zombies behaved well, like zombies. You don't see much of them, but
you see them none the less and they never do crap. You just see them
die. Thats it. The imps and barons? They don't shoot fireballs anymore
sadly. The barons use brute force, while the imps either just scratch
or attack you with their tongue to turn you into an imp, IF your souls
24th chromosome is declared "Evil." If thats not bad enough, you don't
even get a good look at them or see them very much! The pinky, he was
in one very short scene, and pretty much just acted like a slow CGI
monster, so it was kinda obvious. It was fun to see it get slashed with
the chainsaw, one of the few moments that everyone loved in doom.
Though, in doom 3 they at least explained why chainsaws were on mars..

Weapons: You see the rocket launcher picked up, but never used. You see
the shotgun shot ONCE in a very dark scene, meaning you see flashes and
hear a shotgun sound and thats it. The big mini gun/chain gun was used
ONCE to shoot a monkey. Other then that you see the machine gun used
the WHOLE time, and the BFG used twice. The double barrel shotgun and
plasma gun don't even get a mention! The chainsaw just happened to be
on a random table and used to kill the pinky. The pistol was used a few
times. Shooting wise - this film was dull. The first person section was
really the only place you felt doomish, other then the 2 times the BFG
was used. Not to mention the BFG color changed from green to blue..

The action / horror: You don't see much of it. You see some action here
and there, but it's mostly random. You don't see much shooting and
stuff dieing. You do, but it's dark not very gory and hard to see. The
horror? Absent in this film sorry to say. They tried 1-2 cheap scares,
which didn't even work..

Plot: I'm not going to go into this. Only one thing to say : Not doom.
The plot of hell and demons was taken out, and replaced with a genetics
plot. Not much else to say.

Now i've explained why it's very unlike doom, i'm going to say one more
thing on the matter, and thats that the soundtrack was nicely
done(Remiended me of the original doom music sort of..) and the sets
were constructed mostly very well and close to the game.

The next part of this review: Good as a movie.

Anyone who's never played a doom game, can DEFFINTLY enjoy this. Anyone
who's never played video games: Can ENJOY this. They won't understand
the FPS section maybe, but you can still enjoy it none the less. As a
sci fi film, it's not the best out there no, but it's pretty well done,
and if you don't see it as seeing Doom the movie, and just some sci fi
movie on mars, you can DEFFINTLY enjoy the film.

The plot, is out there yeah, but it explains why some people are
infected and others are not. It explains a lot about chromosomes, and
hey, they even included an ancient civilization bit, which was in the
game, AND makes sense in this plot. 

Don't worry about knowing nothing about the games - it won't matter.
You'll be able to understand it all.

Overall, you can defiantly enjoy the little action mixed with the
strange sci fi plot, into a nicely mixed film that lets not refer to as
doom.

My final judgment: If your a doom fan see it, but don't expect to like
it. You may enjoy it as a film, but you won't like it as doom. If your
a video game fan, see it, you'll probably find yourself enjoying it. If
you like Sci-Fi, give it a go, if you haven't seen Sernity yet, which
is the only other sci fi playing to my knowledge at the moment. If you
just want a movie to see on a Friday night with some action, go for it.
If your looking for a in depth rich story lined sci fi action combined
film, go rent aliens..

I gave this a 6/10, because though unlike doom, it was still a well
done film, and maybe one day Hollywood will learn to make a successful
video game adaptation..
<|_=00=_|>
There are certain genres that are despised no matter what. The genre of
movies based on video games is one of those and rightfully so. There
have been a large amount pretty awful video game adaptations of such
games as Wing Commander, Super Mario Bros., Tomb Raider, Street
Fighter, Double Dragon, and House of the Dead. There have been,
however, some decent adaptations like Mortal Kombat (the first film,
not the sequel) and the Resident Evil films. Now that I've viewed the
unrated version, DOOM can be added to that list. Although not nearly as
stylish and entertaining as Mortal Kombat or Resident Evil, DOOM may
not be the mind-blowing spectacle that fans of the video game were
hoping for, but at least it knows what it is: a fun ALIENS knock-off.
Unlike ALIENS, Doom lacks a strong story and well-developed characters
that the audience can cheer for. The characters here are barely one
dimensional. They are given essentially no motivation for what they do
and as a result, the movie suffers. Still, it's better than one would
expect thanks to some slick directing, a couple solid action sequences,
and The Rock. 7/10
<|_=00=_|>
Oh. My. God.

There are good reasons I voted for a one, mind you the graphics may be
nice and flashy and there may be lots of guns involved, but that
doesn't even come close to redeeming this movie's fatal error - The
raping of Doom.

Doom was about an aerospace agency experimenting with dimensional
gateways and thus opening a portal to Hell, spilling demons out that
soon started warring with mankind.

This movie, is just another genetic experiment sprinter zombie movie,
as if we didn't have enough, and the classical zombie wasn't defiled
plenty. Still that isn't nearly as much of an atrocity as completely
discarding everything that's Doom, or well, they have retained some
resemblances with Doom as they said. Resemblances like them having
guns, and them having to shoot bad guys. It's nothing but another shite
movie about a bunch of roughnecks with big boomsticks fighting with
more sprinter zombies, hence I vote to rename this movie to "Resident
Evil 2: RE on Mars" and stop this good for nothing possé of "actors and
scriptwriters" from dragging along with Doom's fame because they can't
produce anything good of their own.
<|_=00=_|>
Doom was quite an entertaining video-game turned movie. It promised
violence and it definitely delivered. While you did not have to think
too much about what was going on, it did have a plot with some great
twists. I expected a straight forward "shooter" movie, very similar to
the game and, frankly, I expected it to be boring. I was anything but.
The video game style of the movie was limited pretty much to one scene.
One awesome scene that, if you felt the movie lacked in violence in any
way, should fulfill your blood lust.

Sarge (The Rock) is the leader of an elite USMC team which is sent to a
space station on Mars to investigate a problem of disappearing
scientists. Upon discovering most of the scientists dead, they soon
realized they were not going to stay that way. I do not want to give
away much more than that but there is more to this movie.

Sarge's team consists of Destroyer (Deobia Oparei), the religious Goat
(Ben Daniels), Duke (Raz Adoti), Portman (Richard Brake), The Kid (Al
Weaver), Mac (Yao Chin) and John Grimm (Karl Urban), who happens to be
the twin brother of one of the scientists, Samantha Grimm (Rosamund
Pike).

Doom started off pretty slow, but once the ball got rolling, it
resembled the game more and more and kept the excitement up as well.
All of these actors pulled off their parts to great avail. Really, how
could they go wrong? I went into this movie with extremely low
expectation. Especially after reading some of the reviews so I was very
pleasantly surprised. I can recommend this movie to those who love a
good, bloody action movie. Basically, if you can relate to Sin City,
then Doom is also the movie for you. 9/10
<|_=00=_|>
This movie should have been the "Aliens" of the 21st century. The
Phobos base should have appeared dank and deserted, save the occasional
body. The atmosphere should have built to an unbearable, silent
tension. Then, and only then, the hideous creatures from hell should
have started climbing out of walls and from under floors, and devouring
the marines.

But instead, the set of the base was boring (the film looked like it
was shot in a single corridor). The atmosphere wasn't scary enough. The
monsters were, frankly, pathetic. A guy in a rubber alien suit covered
in KY jelly to make him look slimy may have worked 30 years ago, but
not now. Where were the horrific bio-mechanical perversions of nature
that characterised doom? (i.e. Spider Demon). Where was the demonic
imagery? The torsos hanging from spikes in the ceiling? The five
pointed stars painted on the floor in blood?

The plot had nothing to do with the original games. The whole "24th
chromosome" thing was actually less believable than a portal to hell,
and undermined the tension when you found out that the creatures were
actually human (once).

There was no point to the film. No objective. Just people walking round
corridors with guns. That may make a good game, but a film needs more
than that. Even in Doom 3 (the game) there is a series of objectives,
i.e. crossing the base to get to the transmitter and call for help.
That's what this game needed - an objective for the marines to
accomplish other than killing things. Without this, the film rambles on
and the dialogue is superfluous, with no influence on the storyline
whatsoever.

I wonder if the producers of this film have actually every played Doom.
The film did a fantastic job of incorporating none of the atmosphere of
the games. It wasn't scary enough, it wasn't gory enough, and it wasn't
evil enough.

To summarise: it was crap. And I'm gutted >:-(
<|_=00=_|>
Doom is not a masterpiece. However for what it is, a video game to
movie franchise, it does a decent job. I was watching this film when
suddenly my parents came in. They immediately sat down and watched the
last 50 minutes with me. Surely that's an indication that the film
itself wasn't too bad. My favourite part of the movie was the FPS
scene. It showed a level of originality which has been absent in other
Video game movies, such as the Resident Evil franchise. Another Pro was
the casting of the Rock as Sarge and Karl Urban as Reaper. Both made
decent performances in the movie.

The level of action was decent and I was happy that the film branched
out a bit further than the 90 minute restriction. Furthermore I
particularly enjoyed the fact that the makers decided to use models and
suits, similar to Alien rather than rely on CGI. It again shows a level
of originality that implies the makers wanted the film to stand out and
was not there just to make money.

The cons were that overall the acting was not great. The other marines
for example, other than The Rock and Urban, did not put in great
performances and Rosamund Pike, I think was particularly bad. They
seemed an ordinary group of guys thrust into battle. They just didn't
seem to act like a group of elite, disciplined soldiers. It just didn't
feel realistic. 

Another con is that the film was not particularly scary. The actual
game is deemed to be one of the scariest games out there to play. So it
feels an opportunity missed that the film was not a terrifying
roller-coaster ride filled with suspense and was more like a variety of
action sequences containing grim monsters.

All in all Doom is a movie which is by no means perfect, is a decent
film for what it is. A video game.
