
I was at the World premiere in London and I was apprehensive about
watching a film adaptation of a book as some of them work and others
don't. This one definitely does. From the first minutes of the film,
you know that you're in for a thrilling adventure. Alex Rider, played
superbly by Alex Pettyfer, is very believable as a school kid thrown
into the deep end by Bill Nighy who hams it up brilliantly as spymaster
Alan Blunt. Alex Rider is a deadly weapon on two legs as you'll see as
the film progresses. Marvellous Micky Rourke, plays the evil villain
who keeps a very unusual and deadly pet and looks as if he's just
stepped off the set of a Revlon ad (you'll see!!). There's lots of
action, some love interest, but that's not overplayed and although some
of the evil characters look as if they've been loaned out from Cirque
Du Soleil, including Micky Rourke, they play their parts as they should
be, comically but with a twist of evil thrown in. It all works very
well but Alex Pettyfer is a revelation. He plays the part coolly,
calmly and with a great deal of conviction. I think Sean Connery would
be proud of him. The film throws in a few James Bondesque clichés and
there is one scene in the film which will remind you of a particular
person from Goldfinger !! All in all highly enjoyable, my 11 year old
niece and 14 year old nephew and their friends really enjoyed it and I
think you will too.
<|_=00=_|>
Book adaptations rarely capture the excellence of the novel which they
are based upon and though the same can be said for 'Stormbreaker', it
still is a rather good film considering the fact it is mainly aimed at
the pre-teen and young teen audience.

Based on the first of Anthony Horowitz's 'Alex Rider' novels, the story
is centred around orphaned fourteen-year-old Alex Rider who lives with
his Uncle Ian, a man who his nephew assumes is a dull bank worker but
is in fact an MI6 operative. When Ian is killed on a mission, his
superiors are determined to recruit Alex to break the case. Pressured
into complying, Alex is trained at an SAS-type camp before being sent
undercover to discover the true intents of psychopath Darius Sayle, who
is planning a nationwide release of computers he has dubbed
Stormbreakers.

In his big-screen debut as Alex Rider, sixteen-year-old Alex Pettyfer
was a shade too old for the role (he was as tall as most of the adult
cast, which took away the shock his role as a child thrust into
danger). However, although he did have lapses where his performance
turned wooden, he was quite successful in bringing the character to
life, depicting Rider's determination, anger and cockiness well. It's
just a shame he was no-where near as good as he proved himself to be in
'Tom Brown's Schooldays'. Mickey Rourke was great as the unhinged and
vengeful Sayle, his real-life disastrous plastic surgery only enhancing
his character's crazed nature. It was Pettyfer and Rourke who carried
the bulk of the film but their co-stars, including Ewan McGregor,
Sophie Okonedo, Robbie Coltrane and Stephen Fry, made their presence
known despite having minor roles.

The fight and action scenes were nicely performed and depicted a
suitably odd feel by conveying the fact it is a boy in the heat of the
battle. I also enjoyed the homages to James Bond such as how the main
credits at the start exploded onto the screen and how Mr. Smithers
nicely complimented Bond's Q. And it was also change for the better to
meet Ian Rider as he is already dead in the beginning of the novel so
we never really get a feel of what his character might have been like
(although we could have done without the stereotypical busy
father-figure/neglected child scenes).

However, there were numerous low points in the film. I love Bill Nighy
and he did give a good performance as MI6 boss Mr Blunt but the
character just didn't come across right. He was too slapstick to
properly depict the cold edge to Mr Blunt, a man who doesn't think
twice about sending a child into the line of fire. The change to the
character of Jack Starbright was also annoying. She isn't meant to be a
karate expert nor does she ever become directly involved in Alex's
missions so there was absolutely no need for the fight scene. It was
quite irking to see the script was poorly handled in terms of keeping
Alex's role a secret. Instead of both MI6 and Alex himself taking great
care to ensure no-one ever learns of his part in bringing down Sayle,
he's all over the news in the film and even his little girlfriend knows
the truth. It ruined the idea that if recruiting Alex as a child spy
became public, it would be humiliating for MI6 and disrupt whatever
chance of normality Alex tries to harbour for himself.

For a first outing though, 'Stormbreaker' was enjoyable and would
probably please young members of the family as well as parents dragged
along. However, the unnecessary humorous touches to the film will very
likely leave many older teens and twenty-somethings wanting a bit more
'meat'. Hopefully when they adapt 'Point Blanc', the darker edge that
makes the novels so addictive is retained.
<|_=00=_|>
I was so excited about this film. I absolutely love the books, and
although the trailer of the movie implied a few silly changes had been
made, I still thought it would be true to the heart of the book.

What a travesty. From the moment it began I knew that being a fan of
the book was not a good idea. Alex Pettyfer is not Alex Rider. Since
when was Alex Rider actually particularly good at being a spy. In the
film, he's already far better than any spies MI6 have to offer before
he goes to training. HE'S MEANT TO BE RELUCTANT. The training camp is
supposed to be a huge task for him, but apparently falling off a zip
wire to music by the Gorillaz is a tough training programme. 

The characters became gimmicky and ridiculous, they were like cartoon
caricatures. Jack Starbright is not some kung-foo, puffer-fish loving
idiot that she is in the film. Alicia Silverstone is wooden and
irritating. Alex Pettyfer spends the entire duration of the film
content with the fact he looks good, and doesn't feel the need to
really look upset or happy or anything when these kind of emotions are
required. He basically sat back, had a few facial shots of him looking
moody filmed, and let his stunt double do the rest. Smithers - Stephen
Fry what are you doing?? He was sarcastic and moody, he's meant to be
practically the only jolly person Alex meets. And MISSI PYLE MAY JUST
BE THE MOST IRRITATING ACTRESS EVER. WHAT WAS SHE DOING?!? If at any
time the film started to redeem itself, she'd come on stage and run
into something and say something in her ridiculous accent (By the way,
that entire sequence with Jack and her made me want to walk out). 

Everything was wrong. All the suspenseful moments from the book - Alex
swimming under water in the mine, the jellyfish scene, the quad bike
scene (which wasn't even in the film, and is one of the best scenes in
the book), EVERYTHING, was just rushed and ruined, and linked together
with bad one-liners such as, "what is this, Hogwarts?"

Utter, utter farce. If you are a fan of the book, do not waste your
money. The Alex Rider films will certainly not be getting any more of
my money.

READ THE BOOKS!
<|_=00=_|>
I came to watch this film because I have been a fan of the Alex Rider
books for many years. However, I was rather disappointed by the film.
The main problem was that the film was very different from the book,
with many parts of the story changed and with parts added. The ending
was entirely made up for the film. I disliked the way that many of the
actors chosen had no resemblance to how the character was described in
the book.

I also felt that many of the action and fighting scenes were overdone
and the superfluous parts annoyed me. The acting, particularly from the
person playing Herod Sayle, was boring and unimaginative. The film was
very jumpy in places, and I thought that people who had not read the
books would have been confused by the ending. I thought that some of
the lines in the film were quite strange and didn't really fit in with
what was being said/going on!

However, I still gave the film a 4 out of 10 rating because of the many
(usually unintentionally) funny scenes. I was particularly amused by
Bill Nighy's acting in the role of Alan Blunt. Stephen Fry also added
some comedy to the story in his role as Smithers. The film is
reasonably watchable, probably because it only lasted 90 minutes.
<|_=00=_|>
This was by far the most absurd film i have ever seen. I know spy
thrillers are supposed to be a bit over the top, but this takes is to
far. Missi Pyle's character was probably the worst, it was so cliché it
hurt. Mickey Rourke was OK but again an absurd stereotype. I have not
read the book but i doubt it had as many plot holes as the film. The
only mild bit of comedy was the parody of Odd Job but it was pushed to
far and ruined. The "bad guy" has no gain from his "evil plan" and the
"girl" appeared like 10 minutes before the totally unbelievable ending.
In short almost every actor lived up to his/her typecast and yet again
Hollywood produced a movie i was offended anybody spent money on.
<|_=00=_|>
Stormbreaker was a decent film; this is an opinion coming from someone
who has little knowledge of the books. It isn't as innovative as Spy
Kids, but it is decent. The special effects and the action are above
average, the performances from Mickey Rourke, Ewan McGregor and Bill
Nighy are great and Alex Petyfer is an appealing enough lead, the
soundtrack is nice and the film goes along at a fast pace. However the
storyline is very predictable and sometimes ludicrous, the script is a
bit weak in places, I found Alicia Silverstone surprisingly irritating
here and the cameos from Stephen Fry and Robbie Coltrane are too brief
to allow them to shine properly.

Still, it is a fun and mildly enjoyable flick. 6/10 Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>
I can't believe how disappointing this movie was. I'm not saying it was
horrible, it was just disappointing.

The Alex Rider Series is my favorite book series in the whole entire
world and when I heard Stormbreaker the movie was coming out, I was SO
excited to see it! That was early July, late July came (the said
release date for the movie) and I hadn't heard a thing about it, no
commericals...no nothing. A little while later I figured out that late
July was England's release date. So I spent another several months
pouring over fan sites, reading comments about the movie from English
people. Then October 13th (the release date for the US) finally came. I
was very very VERY excited, but once again I hadn't heard anything
about it. I looked the movie up in the newspaper and on movie theater
websites and I found out that it wasn't showing in my area, in fact
Stormbreaker wasn't showing within a two-mile radius of my town! I
finally drove two and a half miles to see it and was greatly
disappointed. The movie was okay, probably a 7/10, but everything felt
off. I don't think the actor that played Alex Rider was right for the
part. Also the fact that everyone figured out that Alex was a spy it
got rid of the secretive atmosphere and theme that the books had. This
fact and because Alex Rider's actor was a bit too old for the role, got
rid of the scrambling of MI6 trying to hide the fact the they are
risking a child's life.

This movie was defiantly not what I expected it to be. It might not
have been so disappointing if the movie company actually spent some
money on advertising and got it in more theaters so then I wouldn't
feel that I wasted my time and money driving so far.
<|_=00=_|>
this film is absolutely awful. If you are a fan of the book, do not see
this film. It is as if the director has only flicked through the book
and picked out a few moments and changed everything else. The fact they
can't even get the names right is pathetic eg.Crawley becomes Crawford,
Felix Lester is now Kevin Blake and it pains me to even think about how
they ruined the character of Herod Sayle. NOT DARRIUS SAYLE. And also
Sabina Pleasure shouldn't even be is this film. Another bad feature of
this film is the constant attempts at cheeky humour from Alex Rider.
The book is not a comedy, therefore the film shouldn't be either. To
sum up, I would give this film 2 out of ten in quality and 0 out of ten
in how well it kept to the book.
<|_=00=_|>
Many people who have read the Alex Rider series were looking forward to
this upcoming film which projects the amazing adventures of the teen
spy onto the big screen, however many people were afraid this would
turn into another Cody Banks film and be given a bad image because of
the recent teen spy films That fear can now be forgotten!

Being a fan of the Alex Rider books myself you would probably expect a
good review from me, but at first I had my doubts too. Things such as
including Sabina Pleasure in this film seemed like a bit of risk and it
looked like this film was going in the usual direction of a teen spy
film (The save-the-girl-and-get-home-to-watch-the-Simpson's storyline).
This turned out to be wrong, the author of the book incorporated these
changes himself, and we can now call them improvements. It seems if he
had one more chance to make changes, this was it, and they were great.

As promised we have been delivered an action-packed, amazing and
riveting film! Book to film transitions often have their setbacks and
sometimes turn out to displease the audience, but obviously having the
author of the book writing the screenplay was a very, very good idea.

With amazing performances by stars such as Ewan McGregor, Mickey
Rourke, Bill Nighy, Sophie Okonedo and many others this film turned out
to be an excellent piece of work. Alex Pettyfer was an amazing Alex
Rider delivering a performance worthy of an award.

Far from a family film, this movie was packed solid with action from
start to finish. Lasting only around 90 minutes this proved to be
enough time to fit Horowitz' well-written and great story into a
feature film, nearly every aspect of the plot was included from the
book.

A true work of art.

9/10
<|_=00=_|>
The Alex Rider books have been very successful so therefore it is a
shame that they couldn't have been converted into a franchise. All the
signs are there in this film that the production company wanted it to
be one but sadly box office takings meant that dream faded fast. As a
stand alone film Stormbreaker is good but fans of the books will know
there was so much more we could have seen in later films had they been
made.

Spy Kids and Agent Cody Banks set the bar for young spy films very high
and despite some big name British actors jumping to appear on screen
this film was not a hit. Everyone tries hard but there obviously was
something missing.
