
"Zodiac" may frustrate viewers who come to David Fincher's latest film
expecting a traditional serial killer thriller. The film begins with a
couple of hair-raising and rather brutal recreations of murders carried
out by the mysterious killer who terrorized the San Francisco Bay area
in the late 1960s and early 1970s. These early scenes are shocking and,
compared to the rest of the film, disorienting, because they offer the
only time that we come close to seeing events from the killer's
perspective. As the film progresses, the Zodiac killer himself fades
into the background, and the movie turns into a meticulous and
engrossing document of the investigation to track him down, an
investigation that includes countless blind alleys and false clues and
which to this day has not reached a conclusion. I would be more prone
to label the somewhat rambling screenplay as sloppy storytelling if I
did not feel that Fincher tells the story exactly as he wants to. The
elusive narrative works, because the film is about an elusive villain.

Jake Gyllenhaal plays Robert Graysmith, a cartoonist working for the
"San Francisco Chronicle" at the time the Zodiac killer began his
gruesome work. He becomes fascinated by the case, and takes it on as a
sort of morbid personal hobby long after the police department has
given it up as a lost cause. Graysmith eventually wrote the book on
which this film is based, and according to his accounts, he discovered
enough evidence about one of the suspects in the case to put the police
back on his trail years after he'd been cleared for lack of evidence.
Other characters come and go. Robert Downey, Jr. does
characteristically terrific work as a reporter at the "Chronicle" who
grabs his own portion of notoriety through his involvement in the case.
Mark Ruffalo and Anthony Edwards play the two detectives in charge of
the investigation. Chloe Sevigny plays Gyllenhaal's put-upon wife, who
gradually loses her husband to his obsession. All of the actors deliver
thrilling performances, many of them against the odds. Since this isn't
a character driven movie, many of the characters remain undeveloped,
but not, for once, to the detriment of the film. This story isn't about
the people involved, but rather about their role in the Zodiac saga;
once they've served their purpose, Fincher dispenses with them.
Ironically, a film that clocks in at nearly 3 hours exhibits a great
deal of narrative economy.

Parts of "Zodiac" are intensely creepy. Fincher effectively uses the
rainy San Francisco atmosphere to its maximum potential, and the grimy
browns and grays of the production design call to mind Fincher's other
well-known films, like "Seven" and "Fight Club." But "Zodiac" is much
more grown up than those films, and for an audience to enjoy it, it has
to have an attention span. Long scenes are given to analyzing
handwriting samples, recreating the scenes of murders, digging through
newspaper clippings and files. You can tell that Fincher is fascinated
by police work in the pre-CSI era, when fax machines were still a novel
invention. He delves into the investigative process with a nearly
fetishistic attention to detail, but he makes all of it endlessly
mesmerizing. He does his best to bring everything to some sort of
conclusion, but the real-life end to the story makes a complete
conclusion impossible. This film is more about the journey than the
destination, and what a journey it is.

Grade: A
<|_=00=_|>
Usually when a film gets made about a media grabbing unsolved crime,
the resulting movie tends to be overtly sensational and at best
remotely connected to what really happened. Considering that director
David Fincher's last film about a serial killer was the gripping but
deeply disturbing Se7en, his take on the Zodiac killer almost seemed
primed to be an extreme, nail-biting thriller.

Instead what he's given us is a well argued thesis on the possible
identity of the Zodiac. While there are some very intense scenes,
Fincher takes a somewhat unexpected approach on the subject. All of the
killings take place pretty early on in the movie, with the bulk of the
story centering on the actual investigation into the killer by both the
cops and a cartoonist who becomes obsessed with the case. In fact, the
depictions of the murders are done in a manner that is fairly reverent
towards the victims while still conveying the cruelty of them.

Some people may find themselves disappointed by this two and a half
hour epic if they go in expecting the usual serial killer fare. But
it's a must see for any fan of Fincher's work, or anybody who likes a
good detective story.
<|_=00=_|>
I am tired of people writing comments like this, "Not Fincher's best".
Honestly who cares. We all agree that Fincher's best is either Seven or
Fight Club, two outstanding masterpieces. There is a big margin between
a film like one of those and a terrible film, and people don't seem to
realize that. These people even do this with other filmmakers like
Spielberg or Scorsese, the fact that these filmmakers don't reproduce
Schindler's List or Raging Bull doesn't mean that their new stuff isn't
good, or worth seeing. I think it is a stupid way to comment on a film,
eliminating the critic's credibility. I was lucky enough to catch an
advanced screening of Zodiac last night, and I must say that at first I
was discouraged by two things, some of the comments I have read and the
running time. However I am glad to say that I enjoyed this film, very
much. It is a solid suspense thriller that pins you to your seat. Being
a true story adds quite a lot to the experience, and besides, Fincher
did a wonderful job is staying loyal to the story and at the same time
adding his unique flavor to it. The cinematography, like every Fincher
film, is great, the darkness and griddiness of the story are perfectly
portrayed in the film's visual elements. I was surprised by the picture
quality of the Viper, the digital camera with which this film was shot.
Many people have been criticizing this choice, but I respect it, he is
embracing a new technology and making it work. Of course its still not
a match to 35 mm, but if quality filmmakers don't start experimenting
with it, it will never be. Now the reason why this film falls behind
Seven and Fight Club, I think, is because of a problem with the
characters. They seem to be a little weak at times. The performances
were great, especially Robert Downey Jr., but I think that this film
falls short, when it comes to a true exploration of complex characters,
which is the key to Fincher's previous films.

So... my advice to everyone is to ignore most of the negative comments
and see the film yourself. I found it to be a great story told in a
remarkable way, very entertaining, with great performances, and
wonderful direction.
<|_=00=_|>
I have been highly interested and engrossed in the Zodiac killer story
for the last 5 years now and I can say, without doubt, that this is the
best and most accurate telling of the story. The film presents numerous
details that were unknown to me before seeing it. All of these facts
and theories are thrown together in a way that strings the viewer
along, you think it's someone, then you get new information and that
person is no longer a suspect. Fincher really puts you into the life of
a detective working on the case. You feel just as excited when new
information comes about and are equally disappointed when it leads to
another dead end.

The film is beautifully shot (on VIPER digital cameras) and once again,
Fincher shows us his wonderfully adept skills with CGI shots. All of
the actors shine and truly become their characters. Jake Gyllenhall and
Robert Downey Jr. put in excellent performances, as does Mark Ruffalo.
I was also pleasantly surprised to see Phillip Baker Hall join the
ensemble.

The only complaint I have heard that holds any water is that the film
is too long. At roughly 2 1/2 hours, I can see how many would think
that is long, but you have to realize that this is an intricate story
with deep characters who need to be examined and understood. A standard
90 minute film, or even a two hour cut, would not have been able to
tell the story as well. Character motivation and important details
would have been left on the cutting room floor.

If you have followed the Zodiac case, you will be happy to see how well
done this movie is. If you don't know anything about the case, you will
be given an excellent story that will make you want to learn more about
it. Regardless, you should do yourself a favor and see this movie. If
nothing else, it's better than "Wild Hogs".
<|_=00=_|>
Dark. Moody. Atmospheric. All words to describe a candlelight dinner
with Johnny Betts. But these words can also be used to accurately
describe David Fincher's latest foray into the serial killer genre.

Zodiac has been on my "most anticipated" list for quite some time, but
having watched many documentaries and read several articles on the
subject, I couldn't help but wonder how the film could completely keep
my interest when I already knew so much about the material. Plus, we're
all aware that the case officially remains unresolved, so are we to
resign ourselves to accept an unsatisfactory conclusion? 

It took no more than the film's chilling opening scene to cast my fears
aside and glue me to the seat for 158 minutes. My familiarity with the
source material actually heightened my enjoyment because I was
surprised at how accurately the film depicted the events. I recognized
names and details that I wouldn't have otherwise.

I also feel that not definitively knowing the Zodiac's identity adds
more suspense to the story. We're introduced to a number of suspects,
and since this is, in part, one man's interpretation of circumstantial
evidence, we're allowed to assume that any of the suspects could be the
mysterious killer. It's a plot device that effectively keeps the viewer
in a constant state of unease.

I know there are multiple theories on the Zodiac's identity, so you can
argue that the film ends on an anticlimactic note. But the movie does
have focus, and it presents a compelling case against one of the
suspects in such a way that it delivers as much closure as you can
expect.

The actors are great (especially Downey and his welcome comic relief),
the atmosphere is foreboding, and the investigative process is
engaging. It may run a little long for some, but I didn't mind the
runtime at all. It's a fascinating case, and I wanted all the
information the movie was willing to give me.

Zodiac is the kind of film that sticks with you. I was at a friend's
house late after the screening, and when I arrived home I saw a lone
car's headlights appear from up the street. My heart began to race a
little as I hastened to my door. I knew then and there that a new
Zodiac killer was in the vicinity, and I had no time to tarry.

It's been a while since a movie instilled that sort of realistic dread,
and I don't know if that's a good thing, but it's certainly a sign (no
pun intended) of the film's success in heightening our awareness of
what kind of real-life monsters might be lurking in the shadows.

THE GIST 

Zodiac gives viewers an excellent combination of nerve-racking suspense
and desperately obsessed police procedural work. The majority of
viewers with even the slightest interest in the case should be riveted.
Those of you with a severely small attention span should probably stick
to Norbit instead.
<|_=00=_|>
Audiences have waited a while for a new piece of work from Mr. David
Fincher and now that hiatus is officially over. Straying away from his
style that earned him a 'cult' following, he brings out a new side to
himself, some techniques not yet observed in his repertoire.

ZODIAC feels like it was made by a perfectionist, everything flows so
smoothly. The editing is pinch-perfect. Not only that, but Ficher shows
that he is an actor's director as well, directing his cast into true
life roles wonderfully. But the credit does not go all on to his
shoulders. The actors have a lot to do with that themselves. Jake
Gyllenhaal, who plays the author of the book of the same name, plays
his character with an irresistible 'nerdi-ness' that is just fun to
watch. Then it is amazing to watch Gyllenhaal transform that character
into an obsessed wannabe detective, losing all focus and normal aspects
of his life. Mark Ruffalo plays a humorous and overworked cop with
incredibility. He really gets the job done. Downey Jr., however small
his role was, plays on the screen with a witty insanity that brings
most of the laughs of the movie. The acting really is a major pro.
ZODIAC may come out at a long time slot but the viewer will never
realize it because of the film pulling one in, and not wanting to leave
until the case is solved. That is why ZODIAC is fantastic and a great
welcome back gift from Fincher to not only his fans, but to everyone.
ZODIAC is definitely the best film of 2007 so far.
<|_=00=_|>
The era in which Zodiac takes place bridges two eras in urban America.
The Zodiac appeared on the tail end of a crime-spree that rampaged
across the US in the late 1960's. His settling in the SF Bay Area may
be one of a number of social phenomenons that pushed America's view of
itself out of an innocent 1950's sensibility and into a harder and
darker view that became more prevalent starting in the 1970's and into
the 1980's. People, even in urban areas, used to be far more trusting
of one another, friendly, and civil. Many of the events of the 1960's
gave urban Americans a much more cynical and cautious attitude toward
people they didn't know. Don't trust or talk to strangers. Better to
sacrifice helpfulness than to wind up dead. People are out to take
advantage. At least in urban areas nowadays, it seems, people are much
less willing to take the risk to meeting someone they don't know,
largely out of fear.

The film Zodiac chronicles the strange unknowable and faceless figure
that emerged as a serial killer in Northern California in the late
1960's and early 1970's. He sent letters to the San Francisco Chronicle
and other newspapers, outlining his last and future kills, and he
revealed he was inspired by the 1930's cult classic "The Most Dangerous
Game". The point of view is largely from the side of the press with a
character from SF Homicide that is also tracking the case. One
character, Robert Graysmith (Jake Gyllenhaal) is an SF Chronicle
cartoonist who at first takes an amateur's interest in the case, often
bothering fellow beat journalist Paul Avery, played brilliantly by
Robert Downey Jr. Only later does the cartoonist engage on his own
investigation to reveal the identity of the Zodiac. When Graysmith
begins receiving anonymous phone calls with nothing but heavy
breathing, you can't help but wonder if he's also playing the same
game, and if he may also become one of the hunted.

One of the most brilliant aspects of the film is its pacing. It never
lets up and the suspense is always there, which becomes unsettling when
you realize that these events actually took place instead of purely in
the imagination of a modern suspense novelist. There is an eeriness
which pervades the entire film. A car stopping unexpectedly in a
nearly-deserted area is more frightening than most scenes in your
average low-budget slasher flicks.

I do have a couple of shortcomings to this film. There are a couple of
scenes where the cruelty and brutality of the violence is such that not
all viewers will be able to handle this movie. I found I did have to
turn away at a couple of scenes. Also, there are a couple of moments
when the state of the investigation is not made clear. However, even
given these shortcoming, Zodiac is a brilliant movie that tackles a
subject-matter that probably could not have been brought to the screen
during the period it depicts.

The Zodiac came to personify one of the constant fears of living in
urban America: a faceless, emotionless killer that comes out of the
shadows of a dark alley to commit heinous violence. In the end, we fear
strangers because of this, but we end up sacrificing love. It is an
ironic aspect of human nature that people can do to strangers what
would be almost unthinkable to do to people that we know. In addition
to the poor innocent people that were brutally murdered, the Zodiac
committed another crime against humanity. He compromised our sense of
trust, civility, and in many ways, love for our fellow human beings
even when we might not know them.
<|_=00=_|>
Zodiac, David Fincher's film about the impact the San Francisco Bay
Area serial killer's case had on three primary characters is delivered
with great attention to detail and proper pacing. Zodiac is not a film
that uses or relies on suspended disbelief to succeed and does not
attempt to compress five years of story into one in order to keep
viewers interested. Instead it relies heavily on the facts and uses all
of its 158 minutes to present them in almost linear form and staccato
fashion.

Set primarily in San Francisco in the late 1960's and 70's (and
eventually the 80's) Fincher's Zodiac takes no artistic license by
adding the obligatory car chase scene down Russian Hill, drug enhanced
evening in Haight-Ashbury or conspiracy oriented behind the scenes
moves by City Hall. Instead the audience is presented with a credible
story that portrays how stress, tension, frustration and fascination
play upon the lives of S. F. Police Inspector David Toschi (Mark
Ruffalo), S.F. Chronicle Editorial Cartoonist Robert Graysmith (Jake
Gyllenhall), and S.F. Chronicle reporter Paul Avery (Robert Downey
Jr.). Each of these people, as well as those surrounding them are
operating well within the confines of every day life and the
establishment. Fincher does not let Zodiac wander outside its central
story, and therefore no editorial comment about the Vietnam War or
similar events of the day are offered. Insights about the impact on the
victims (who survive) or their families are only touched upon if they
remain central to the story.

The initial scenes of the movie depict the killer in operation and they
are not sugar coated. However, viewers wanting to see a film in the
style of Fincher's Alien (3), Se7en or even Fight Club (i.e., blood and
gore to almost surreal levels) should look elsewhere.

Zodiac is a well crafted production on all fronts. In addition to
Fincher, the lead actors and extensive (and well known) supporting cast
Zodiac producer's assembled a credible team. James Vanderbilt
(Screenplay), David Shire (Score), Donald Burt (Production Design),
Keith Cunningham (Art Direction), Victor Zolfo (Set Direction) and
Casey Storm (Costume Design) all deliver quality work in their
respective areas. There are no weak spots in this film. Zodiac may not
(or attempt to) dazzle, but it does please.
<|_=00=_|>
First up (and it's already been said)...this film is not going to
appeal to the crash-bang- wallop-attention-span-of-a-bored-gnat brigade
out there. Having read a lot of the reviews here, everyone seems to be
divided in two. Love it...hate it. Which way will you go?

Yes, it's long. But let's face it, this is not a film that can be
wrapped up in an hour and a half. There's an awful lot of detail
involved in this case. David Fincher was very thorough in his research
and full marks to him. This is an excellent, compelling film for anyone
interested in true crime and general detective work.

I saw this film a few hours ago and was completely absorbed by it. The
opening 4th of July sequence is worthy of the ticket price alone. And I
challenge anyone to listen to "Hurdy Gurdy Man" by Donovan without a
cold chill running down their spine after watching this...

The main performances are excellent - Robert Downey Jr and Jake
Gyllenhaal in particular are a standout. Any feminists out there won't
be happy with the rather one-dimensional women's roles (and I happen to
be female), but this is not what this film is about. It's about a
handful of men's obsessive involvement with one case. And these men ARE
utterly obsessed. And after so much taunting by the Zodiac with his
letters and cyphers, who can blame them for their obsession? 

As for the depiction of the murders, they are quite shocking in their
brief brutality with absolutely no glamorous or excessive lingering
shots of the aftermath. This makes them infinitely more real and much
more disturbing...

Combine this with utterly believable dialogue, a superb soundtrack and
marvellous production design and you have one classy movie. For all
those tired of your average eye and brain-candy fodder...Go see. For
those who can't appreciate a class act when you see it, you've missed
out...
<|_=00=_|>
I knew a good amount about this case going into the film as I always
found the famous serial killer ones very interesting when I'd see a TV
special about them on. It's also no secret that it's one of the few
that went unsolvable to this day, so I really didn't know what to
expect from a thriller that pretty much everyone already knows how
it'll end. However "Zodiac" was made with a style that allowed the
perspective to seem fresh, even if it ultimately wasn't. This is a must
see for any true lover of real police work that gets down to the
nitty-gritty of what detectives have to go through in actuality. No
one's job is glamorized and in fact it's portrayed as the other way
aroundpeople get fired, demoted, or simply go flat out crazy. What
fascinated me so much about the 'Zodiac Killer' more than the other
murderers I've heard about was how he kept changing his methods, which
is the main reason why he was able to elude capture for so long. All in
all this made for one excellent cinematic puzzle that remained that
way.

The biggest surprise of this movie was that David Fincher directed it.
Even though he doesn't come out with many new filmswith the exception
of maybe "Panic Room", those that he does direct are both highly
innovative and entertaining. However this effort strayed away from the
beaten path and was very different from the type of flick he usually
churns out, which turned out to be a worthy venture. While I still
prefer the likes of "Seven" and "Fight Club", this was close to them in
overall quality. So much detail was taken into account when recreating
the time period and crimes. Even though the film was shot digitally
they edited it so the appearance had a grainy texture as it did back in
the 70's. Also the costumes, settings, modes of transportation, and
everything else was matched to a T.

The acting was strictly topnotch here and the biggest kudos goes to
Robert Downey Jr. He was absolutely amazing! It's sad that he's at his
best when he's playing a character that gets lost in a world of drugs
and alcohol as his life has imitated this art for quite some time.
Nevertheless he was so amusing to watch and added a playful quirkiness
to Paul Avery that I don't think it would've been possible to play him
any better. While Robert easily stole the show, a very honorable
mention was Mark Ruffalo. He did quite well too and while he usually
does, this went above and beyond what he's normally capable of. It's
evident that as decent as Mark always has been in the past, there's
always room for improvement. Everyone else put in great turns too, and
there wasn't a single performance that came close to being
unbelievable.

Potential viewers should also be warned, this film isn't for everybody.
There are a few very disturbing sequences, that while they aren't even
terribly graphicstill manage to be creepy beyond belief due to their
realism pertaining to the sheer coldness in which they're displayed.
Another factor is the 160-minute running time, which except for the
first third when the actual killings are taking place, quickly starts
dragging on following that. All the facts had to be included though, so
it really couldn't have been much shorter without losing its potency.
You also have to remain open-minded if you watch it and can't demand
any kind of closure except for what you can conclude on your own;
otherwise you'll leave awfully disappointed. Finally it can be argued
that only one viewpoint is being showed here and that is the author's,
this automatically leads to a bias. I personally think it's the most
logical account of events, but if you want an impartial take on what
went down, your best bet is to watch a documentary on the history of
events that took place.

It's very scary to think that such a gruesome individual could go about
undetected for so long and that we'll never get to find out the real
answer on who it was behind everything. Fincher's latest contribution
is a compelling view for all those with strong stomachs and was eerily
refreshing compared to what junk has been streaming out of Hollywood
lately. There are many notable guest appearances and is quite simply a
well-done movie, even if it did get hammed up a little bit. I
personally am going to avoid secluded places for awhilejust in case my
astrological sign reads anywhere near the same as it did for all the
poor victims.
