
It seems the other reviews either love everything about this, or hated
it...

Well, I have to say for what it is, it is OK and watchable if you know
you just want a no brainer evening.

It doess a real sense of fun without too much silliness and even a
definite charm.

It is sexy, and has a fair amount of nudity, but it's all done in a
spirit of fun...

It is a bit of Carry On, a bit of Romeo and Juliet, with sexy romance,
and dashing sword fights, some decent one-liners and some running gags
it all works if you're in the right mood.

The plot is a take on the Comedy of Errors, three suitors, one girl,
but one is mean and nasty, the other falls in love with another girl,
and one is her true love... it ain't Shakepseare but it is fun to see
what happens next.

Nicely shot with good costumes and settings this is one to just enjoy
for what it is: escapist comedy reasonably entertaining and fun...
<|_=00=_|>
I really wanted to like this film but instead I'm bemused as to how
David Leland managed to make such a mess. The plot is scrappy at best,
there are far too many characters you are supposed to care about you
end up caring about none, it's never clear who or what the film is
really about, the acting is below par and the nudity is gratuitous.

The love affair between Lorenzo (Hayden Christensen) and Pampinea
(Mischa Barton) is implausible and you can't help but feel that
something is missing from the beginning of this film to help ground
their relationship in something other than the odd coy glance. The
acting isn't terrible but it is unforgivable in key places, in
particular whenever Barton and Christensen kiss, which feel so forced
and unnatural that it makes me wonder if Barton's real life boyfriend
was on set watching.

I wouldn't call this film a comedy however there are some very odd
moments where it seems comedy is the intention but it just doesn't
work. For example a cameo from David Walliams would be welcome in any
comedy but in Virgin Territory it just doesn't seem to fit - his zany
exploits are mistimed and misjudged.

Also, there are many moments that defy all logic (what is Elissa
suddenly doing in a lake on her own?) and a part me thinks that Leland
was maybe trying to create a film that felt something akin to The
Princess Bride. He failed, and he failed because I think he was also
trying to create a film that felt like Zoro, or Sense and Sensibility,
or Carry on Camping, or American Pie, or...in fact I don't think even
Leland knew what he was trying to do.

The sexual elements are also misplaced with one or two moments where it
seems Leland was gunning for the gross-out-teenage-sexual-angst genre.
He fails again, falling well short of what we're used to and only
confusing the audience further.

There are some facets of this film I did like: the film is pretty well
shot and the scenery in many scenes is a joy. I found Count Dzerzhinsky
(Matthew Rhys) a welcome light relief and his character by far the most
interesting and Christopher Egan did a fantastic job of portraying
Dioneo as the unhinged antagonist. However, these things could never
make up for a film that really doesn't know what it's doing, which is a
shame because it did have potential.
<|_=00=_|>
Virgin Territory is for secondary and high-school teens. If you're
older than 18, you can't get any taste from this work of fiction, or
wise to say, a tale.

Tim Roth, Mischa Barton and Hayden Christensen form a love triangle.
Tim Roth is the bad guy, the grim Roman knight; Mischa Barton is the
princess popular with her virginity; and Hayden Christensen is an
adventurer exactly seems like Robin Hood. By the way, we have a
narrator, our storyteller who also plays a role, too.

The tale takes place in feudal Europe, at the age of Roman Empire, and
in the most leisured class of this empire: Florence. It's the epoch
just before the invention of the gunpowder. Nevertheless, there is no
historical coherence in this movie; for it's a fantasy. An absolutely
complete fantasy of a craftsman working at the construction of a
cathedral, who is also our narrator. While he was drawing artistic
figures to the ceiling, he dreamed of an erotic and desirous fantasy of
one man and a full nunnery of nuns playing the doctor-and-patient game
altogether.

If you're not from this world or have never watched a B-movie about
nuns teaching sexology to a lad yet, then this could be a movie for
you. The eroticism factor of Virgin Territory is very modern. Within a
negative view, it's purposely making fun of the people who don't
believe in sex before marriage. In an optimistic view, love still
exists; at least whoever in love with someone, stays in love with the
same one at the end.

A funny and total shameless teen adventure movie for both boys and
girls is what you will find. Don't worry if it's disturbing, obviously
it's not. It's basically a modernization of 80s' eroticism epoch. New
generation youth wouldn't watch Emmanuelle, right?
<|_=00=_|>
I laughed (out loud) once. I hardly think that constitutes a 'comedy'
for me.

There are a few witty one-liners, and a touch of situational humor, but
most of the humor is pretty stale and dry. I think they were trying for
something along the lines of The Princess Bride, but missed the mark
entirely.

There were a few sword-fights, but that hardly supports an entire
'adventure', and the plot was utterly formulaic and you could see 10
minutes ahead of the film at any given point.

As for the romance, well, the ONE romantic idea present in the film
just wasn't enough to qualify it for a romance film either.

My hat is off to anyone who can find an ounce of drama in this movie
either...

So, what is it? Something to pass the time if you literally have
nothing else to do. As I mentioned before, I'd recommend watching the
Princess Bride if you haven't, or watching it again, rather than watch
this.

I gave it three stars because the acting wasn't terrible, there were
those witty one-liners, and I did manage to laugh once.
<|_=00=_|>
"Virgin Territory" stars Hayden Christensen and Mischa Barton (don't
laugh), in a rowdy medieval tale in the vein of Monty Python (though
not as witty), Robin Hood: Men in Tights, and the Princess Bride. Of
course, it begins with Christensen speaking with a believable British
accent, which I personally feel he should adopt for all of his movie
roles. He sounds more comfortable and realistic than he does using
Northern American English. His accent has bothered me for years but
strangely he didn't mangle the British one.

Well, Virgin Territory surprised me. And I mean I am pleasantly
surprised. The movie was filmed two or three years ago and was finally,
very quietly released in March 2008 straight to DVD. Were the producers
too embarrassed for a theatrical release? They needn't be. I've seen
much much worse and for the record, Virgin Territory isn't
horrible-bad, but intentionally bad since it's a parody and a sex
comedy, its demographics clearly with teenage boys in mind. If any of
these actors are Catholic they might be ex-communicated now, with all
the sex with nuns, in twosomes and threesomes-- naked peeing cherubs
and all.

Aside from the questionable Mischa Barton, Virgin Territory manages a
reputable cast in Tim Roth, Matthew Rhys and a handful of other actors
some of you may recognize.

I didn't think it was great, but think it deserved a little more than a
straight to DVD release. Some obvious flaws? Mischa Barton's acting was
absolutely abysmal. She had no chemistry with Hayden Christensen. The
plot was aimless and probably should have been grosser. If you're going
to do a dirty sex comedy, you need to bring it or the jokes fall flat.

Anyway, it wasn't an entire waste of time. I really wanted to know what
was going to happen next. I would recommend it. Just for the giggles.
It wasn't great. It wasn't completely horrible. You've seen worse, I'm
sure of it. The costumes were nice, the director managed to make the
period look real, despite an able Rupert Friend in cornrolls and bad
guys in leather jackets designed by Roberto Cavalli.
<|_=00=_|>
As a big fan of classic swashbucklers i wasn't expecting much of this
movie and because of that I liked it very much. It's very low budget,
but has some decent sword fights. Besides that its filled with
beautiful women (actually beautiful) and yes, quite some nudity. But in
a non-offensive and quite charming way. Mischa Barton is looking great
as a historical figure (better than perfect-teeth Keira Knightley in
PotC, P&P) and Hayden is quite good with his sword and a better
swashbuckling hero than for example Heith Ledger in Casanova or Orlando
Bloom. the movie is just great fun. its highly entertaining with the
simple stuff: swords and love. i enjoyed it a lot. Actually the first
entertaining swashbuckler of the 21st century.
<|_=00=_|>
Of course this movie will never win an Oscar, but that is not what it
aims for. It aims to entertain the audience, with a certain amount of
nudity and sexual innuendo, and it does that quite well I've to say.
Mischa Barton and Hayden Christensen act their roles quite well, just
like Tim Roth, and basically I can say that if you want a night of
light entertainment, this movie can provide that.

It is loosely based on the Decameron by Boccaccio, and if I have to
find a problem with the movie, it is the Italian title for it, because
really, the references to the Decameron are not so many, but at the
same time, the situation of a group of young people leaving Florence
for the plague is the same, so I guess it could be accepted. However,
it's all the "adventures" these people go through once they leave the
town that make the movie somewhat interesting and amusing.

I know I'll be watching it again in the future.
<|_=00=_|>
If you're looking for an intelligent, well thought-out and realistic
comedy, this is not the movie for you. Virgin Territory will never win
awards, it will not be studied in film classes and most definitely will
never be among the top movies ever made.

However, if you're looking for a movie with juvenile humour, ridiculous
sex references and just an overall silly movie, you're in the right
place. That being said, this movie is hilarious. With a rather famous
main cast including Hayden Christensen, Mischa Barton, Tim Roth and
Mathew Rhys, somehow, even Mischa Barton's acting doesn't stink as much
as normal. But, hands down the best performances go to Tim Roth and
Craig Parkinson. Tim Roth as Gerbino di la Ratta, the villain and Craig
Parkinson as Tindaro, the artist/priest and narrator. How either of
them kept a straight face with their lines is beyond me.

I can't say for certain, but there's no way this movie was made to be
taken seriously. For crying out loud, they all have British accents
when the movie is set in Florence, Italy during the Dark Ages. It
follows the antics of six teenagers who flee Florence to escape the
plague. What follows them is one Russian count, an evil villain out to
steal a bride and a priest. Along the way they encounter a variety of
obstacles and people, and somehow at least four sex scenes get thrown
in before they reach their final destination.

It's an over-the-top teenage sex movie that is an excuse to have boob
shots, with a lot of purposely eye-rolling puns and ridiculous
situations. It's not remotely realistic, and definitely isn't meant to
be. But it's not as excessively crude as the American Pie: The Naked
Mile, and such but more akin to American Pie I. But with better music.

None of the above is necessarily bad; I found this movie to be a
refreshing medium between overly sexed movies that try too hard such as
the Scary Movie series, new American Pie movies and similar and the
annoyingly stupid and obnoxious movies like as Knocked Up and 30 Year
Old Virgin. Especially with lines like, "Tindaro: (narrating about
Gerbinos sex-life) There isn't much going on under his pants. Funny,
I've heard that he's the biggest dick in town..." how can you not
laugh?
<|_=00=_|>
This isn't exactly "The Grapes of Wrath" or "Citizen Kane"...but so
what? I found it a very adequate period-piece comedy that even
occasionally had a hint of Monty Python humor. The musical soundtrack
was decidedly 21st Century...but it "worked" for me.

The cinematography was surprisingly well-crafted, in my opinion, and
the acting was perfectly adequate, albeit nothing exceptional. All the
actresses were decidedly attractive -- why do I think that 14th-Century
nuns in an Italian convent during the Black Death were maybe not quite
so hot as depicted here?? -- and Mischa Barton proves once again that
she is a truly gorgeous young woman (although she was NOT one of the
several females who had any nude scenes).

Bottom line: worth a rental, and also an OK "date movie".
<|_=00=_|>
"Virgin Territory" is a silly, lame and unfunny film, where the sexy
women and their breasts are the only entertainment (at least for the
male viewer). The plot is a complete mess with scenes without any
explanation. For example, why is Elissa naked in a lake seducing the
Russian count? Or when Pampinea felt in love with Lorenzo? There is no
chemistry between them. The narrative is also boring. Why Tim Roth and
Hayden Christensen (after performing Anakin Skywalker in Star Wars)
accepted to work in this film is the greatest question. My vote is
five.

Title (Brazil): "Território Virgem" ("Virgin Territory")
