
Although this film has bizarrely been described as breezy summer
entertainment by some top critics (which leads me to wonder if they saw
the same movie I did, or just the first half hour), "Vicky Cristina
Barcelona" is the closest thing to the sort of examination of
relationships that Allen became famous for in quite some time
("Anything Else" counts, I suppose, but lacks the sharpness this film
has), and although it is far from as weighty as some of his dramas or
even some of his comedies, this is his first really inspired script in
a while, featuring a cast of detailed, well-developed characters, some
razor-sharp observations on relationships, and a wicked sense of humor.

Although I never thought Woody's work this decade was particularly poor
(other than "Cassandra's Dream" and although I'm in a minority "Match
Point"), it has mostly been completely inconsequential and almost
entirely dependent on broad characterizations and heavy plotting rather
than real people and awkwardly comic situations (which has always been
Allen's strong suit). A career-best performance from Scarlett
Johansson, a wickedly entertaining turn from Penelope Cruz, and the
absolute revelation that is Rebecca Hall form a great cast along with
Javier Bardem in a role that may surprise the majority of the American
public (well, for most of the movie, anyway). You can feel Allen's mark
on their mannerisms, but they all seem to disappear into these
characters, that's how good they are.

I'm keeping this as spoiler-free as possible, because it's really worth
going into the theater not expecting anything in particular and
savoring the film's often unexpected but never contrived plot twists
and turns. All you should know is that Vicky (Rebecca Hall) and
Cristina (Scarlett Johansson) go to Barcelona for the summer and things
get complicated when they meet a charming, mysterious, and rich painter
(Javier Bardem) and he makes a rather upfront proposition to both of
them. It's best if you know nothing of how Cruz' character impacts the
film prior to watching it.

In relation to Allen's other work I thought it was interesting that he
never attempted to analyze sex. The whole movie is in many ways about
sex, and there is a lot of the expected philosophical and psychological
examination of the relationships between the characters in the film,
but sex itself is never analyzed as it is in much of Allen's work, and
is instead treated as the impenetrable mystery it is. That said,
Allen's script is extraordinarily nuanced, something that I haven't
expected from his writing in a while. Sure, the characters still
represent opposing romantic philosophies, but there's a spark in the
writing that makes these feel like real people as opposed to mere
characters. That spark, that chemistry is there throughout "Vicky
Cristina Barcelona", it's there in the vibrant cinematography by Javier
Aguirresarobe, it's there in the performances, it's there in the shot
composition, and it's there in the editing, and in pretty much anything
else I haven't mentioned yet. 

The first forty minutes or so of "Vicky Cristina Barcelona" may be the
sort of romantic comedy (very good romantic comedy, at that) that the
advertising campaign seems to suggest it is, but for the rest of the
film there's the sort of pessimistic optimism that colors much of
Allen's work (if that makes sense, pretend you didn't read it if it
didn't), and let's just say it doesn't end well for these characters.
There's real complexity and intensity in this film, and all I have to
say is this: Woody Allen is back, the perceptive, intelligent examiner
of the human heart, that is, not what we've had for the past while. To
say this is one of his best films would be ignoring the fact that
through the 70's and 80's he pretty much made nothing but great films,
but I can at least say that this is on par with some of his better
work.

8.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
Vicky (a neurotic and sexy Rebecca Hall) and Cristina (a neurotic and
gorgeous Scarlett Johansson) are two American tourists in Spain
examining their differing views on love in Woody Allen's breezy and
alluring "Vicky Cristina Barcelona". Amidst a tempestuous summer in
Barcelona, the ladies are both seduced by a free-thinking painter (a
perfect Javier Bardem) whose own life is complicated by his still
passionate relationship with his ex-wife (a devastating Penelope Cruz,
who has never looked more beautiful).

Much like the change from New York City to London invigorated Allen in
"Match Point", this vacation to Spain has revived some of the
director's more artistic aspirations. The scenery is postcard perfect
but drenched in that same dizzying lushness that made Allen's view of
NYC so intoxicating in "Manhattan". The churches, the homes, the art
museums, the countryside, the intimate city streets and touristy
details make you feel like you are visiting Barcelona along with Allen
and his cast.

There's also sharpness to the trademark Woody dialog that has been
missing for quite some time. Like all of Allen films, this one is
endlessly talky, but there's some great subversion when certain lines
that seem like throw-aways actually pack a punch when given a second
thought. When Bardem first attempts to talk Johansson's character into
bed, he says something clichéd about her being hard to please. Quick
witted, Johansson replies, "I'm famous for my intolerance." She says it
casually, but it packs a bite as it's the complete antithesis of her
character's outward desire to be someone who rallies against cultural
norms, and she presents herself as someone who is easy-going and
tolerant of all.

Allen also displays a keen sense of pacing when he creates tension in
his build up to Cruz's appearance after her character is endlessly
talked about but never seen until about half way through the film. When
Cruz finally arrives, her moody whirling dervish of a performance is
the perfect spice to liven up the soupy proceedings. Her seething,
fiery line readings combined with looks that could kill make her the
front-runner for Best Supporting Actress at the Oscars.

The baseline archetypal characters are essentially clichéd, but the way
in which Allen handles all of their interpersonal relationships is
fairly sophisticated and entertaining even when it grows absurd. There
is of course that kiss between Scarlett and Penelope but also some
moments of Lynchian-lite when Allen photographs the brunette Hall and
blonde Johansson similarly to make them seem like they are two sides of
the same woman. There's even more weirdness when die-hard Woody fans
realize that in some perverse way Scarlett Johansson's character is the
"Woody" part--as in any film he does not star, there is always one
character who represents the part he would've played had he been in it.
However, film buffs will enjoy some of the nice touches like when Hall
and another go to see Hitchcock's "Shadow of a Doubt" (one of my all
time favorite films) or the repetitive use of a Spanish guitar in the
soundtrack whenever Bardem and Hall get together. But then there's the
mostly unnecessary voice-over narration that fills in expository gaps
and shows Allen can still be a lazy tactician.

Woody Allen has always been an acquired taste, even more so in his
latter years when he sometimes forgets how to provoke, but his fans
should be delighted with this latest European flavored effort. In the
end, you'll feel like Javier Bardem is the luckiest man in the world,
Penelope Cruz is operating at the echelon of her appeal, and Rebecca
Hall and Scarlett Johansson, well, they'll always have Barcelona.
<|_=00=_|>
I just got back from a free screening of this movie. Wonderful,
brilliant, thought provoking, funny, great story in the way only Woody
Allen could do. The acting was great, the writing was great, the story
was great. As well as the fact that it wasn't a poor rehash of Crimes
and Misdemeanors like Match Point and Cassandra's Dream. So refreshing
on all levels. Javier Bardem embodies the character and truly allows me
to forget about his role in Old Country. Patricia Clarkson, a gem as
always. The girls were all great. Had not been impressed with Scarlett
Johansson since Lost in Translation and was bored with her work in the
last of his films but she held her own and did the part great. Penélope
Cruz was wonderful, vibrate and funny especially when doing the
Spanish. At 71 the man still has it and has rehashed the place in my
heart where I hold his wonderful art. Simply happy and fulfilled. Thank
you Woody!
<|_=00=_|>
Vicky Christina Barcelona isn't quite the work of genius that several
critics are making it out to be, but it is Woody Allen's most solid
film in nearly a decade and by far his sexiest.

I will admit that the claims that it's his best movie in 20 years may
have raised my expectations unfairly. After all, the past two decades
has brought us Sweet and Lowdown (inspired Sean Penn and Samantha
Morton), Another Woman (inspired Gena Rowlands), Husbands and Wives
(inspired Judy Davis), Bullets Over Broadway ("Don't Speak!") and what,
in my humble opinion, is his most extraordinary film ever: Crimes and
Misdemeanors.

That said, there is much in the film's Plus Column. Bardem has never
been sexier in English. Rebecca Hall is a sublime revelation. Scarlett
Johansson does her most consistent and least grating work since Girl
With the Pearl Earring. The supporting cast is a treasure trove of
great character actors: Kevin Dunn (usually but effectively charmless),
Chris Messina (a complicated mix of sexy and dull), Pablo Schreiber
(virtually a cameo), and Patricia Clarkson (earthy, tragic and terrific
as always).

And then there's Penelope Cruz. Incapable of wrong-doing in my eyes
since All About My Mother, she is everything you've heard she is. At
first, the character appears to be another version of Rahda Mitchell's
bad Melinda only dark and Spanish. But she evolves and blossoms, like a
mushroom cloud in slow motion.

The story is simple and the structure is a bit unwieldy. As a result,
the film feels longer than it is and while it does saunter, it's never
boring. The screenplay seems more concerned with re-arranging the
configurations of lovers and exploring its themes than it does with
sustaining the dramatic tension.

The films only significant, though ultimately not fatal, flaw is Miss
Johansson. For the legions who thought Javier Bardem could generate
romantic and sexual chemistry with anyone or anything, well, I have bad
news. When she is sharing the screen with both Bardem and Cruz,
Johansson's limitations as an actor and as a screen presence.

Ultimately, though, Vicky Christina Barcelona is still a worthwhile
endeavor. An enjoyable romp filled the requisite angst and passion of
Woody Allen's better efforts. Best of all, there's Spain and Barcelona.
The landscapes, people and architecture provide even more spectacular
real estate porn than Melinda & Melinda. Not only does it make you want
to go to Barcelona, it will make you feel like you've lived there and
loved it.

Despite its unevenness,
<|_=00=_|>
First of all i would like to say that I'm a big fan of the old woody
Allen , i mean the great director/writer woody Allen , who created in
over thirty years in the business some of the most romantic , funny .
dramatic , masterpieces that shined in Hollywood starting from Annie
Hall , to Hannah and her sisters , Mighty Aphrodite , and last but not
least Sweet and lowdown . But the new woody Allen has produced many
unbalanced , mildly funny , and romantically dead movies such as
Melinda and Melinda which was acceptable , but not a woody Allen
material , Hollywood Ending which wasn't so bad as well but wasn't good
either , and this year his latest film came out and i had mixed feeling
about it , i was frightened that another disappointing movie from the
master Allen could destroy my love to his earlier masterpieces , and
unfortunately , it was even more disappointing than i could ever
imagine . 

The movie's basic concept is actually more similar to a combination of
Baywatch and Desperate housewives , but apparently with higher level of
acting . It's about two amazingly beautiful women Vicky (Rebecca hall)
the committed ,engaged , and somehow mature woman who chose Barcelona
to get her masters degree in Catalan Identity , and Cristina(Scarlett
Johansson) , the spontaneous , free spirited , less mature who came to
Barcelona in a self finding journey . Vicky and Cristina Meet Juan
Antonie the passionate painter who suffers after a bad split from his
girlfriend Marie Elena who tried to kill , Juan Antonia has an affair
with Vicky, before he gets involved in a relationship with Cristina ,
then Marie Elena comes back in the picture and lives with Cristina and
Juan Antonia , after she tried to kill herself . However i can't see
the whole point of the movie , and as i said before the movie is an odd
combination of Baywatch and desperate housewives ,because so many
affairs happen during it's kind of short length , and it's basically
about good-looking people showing off on screen with good acting skills
, but no real sense of the movie . but Despite that Penelope Cruz
managed to catch the eye with a very good performance that actually was
the most and only beautiful thing in the movie . 

In The end i really hope that Woody Allen comes back to what he did
before making great movies and entertaining , and making millions of
people all around the globe laugh .
<|_=00=_|>
Barcelona is recognizable enough and exotic enough to frame the latest
complication from Woody Allen. Allen himself claims to care very little
about films. He doesn't consider them the center of his life. Strange,
because I do, Woody Allen without his films is...well I don't know who
or what he is. Here he ventures again outside New York in a shape and
form that reminded me a little bit of Jacques Rivette. Scarlet
Johansson and Rebecca Hall, as the blond and the brunette of the title,
make a great pair of opposites or seemingly so. Javier Bardem is the
artist that comes to ruffle their world and the spectacular Penelope
Cruz (getting better and better with every movie) is the hysterical
side of the artist's past. We spend a great deal of time sitting at
tables eating and drinking while a voice over guide us through their
physical and emotional journey. I was delighted, entertained ever
aroused. Woody Allen keeps surprising and he's got it whether he cares
about it or not.
<|_=00=_|>
Vicky Cristina Barcelona is among the cream of the Woody Allen crop, in
the midst of Annie Hall, Manhattan, Hannah and Her Sisters and Match
Point. It may even be a wiser film than any of them. What Woody has
done throughout his film career is seek the answers to his own life
questions in any number of ways. Some later films contradict the
philosophical implications of previous ones. Some reaffirm them. His
foremost theme has always been the complications of love and sex, and
this ultimately genre-less film that I suppose could be considered a
romantic seriocomedy may be his magnum opus of his sexual and romantic
revelations.

Vicky, played by Rebecca Hall, and Cristina, by Scarlet Johansson, go
to Barcelona for the summer, settling with Vicky's distant relative
(Patricia Clarkson) and her husband. A Narrator, present all through
the film, the particular matter-of-fact likes of which Allen has never
before used, illustrates the two friends: Vicky is no-nonsense and
conservative in her attitude toward love and commitment, engaged to the
dependable but less than passionate yuppie. She is in Barcelona getting
her masters, and is deeply stirred by Spanish guitar. Cristina, in
contrast, is impulsive and irresolute of what she wants in life. She is
just out of a relationship and wants to forget about her experience
making a short film about Love, perhaps a nod to Woody's own admitted
negative reflections on his previous works.

At an art exhibition, these two symbolically contrasting women observe
a notorious painter, played with suavity and charisma by Javier Bardem.
Cristina is immediately fascinated with him, and grows captivated when
she and Vicky learn that he has undergone a violent relationship with
his ex-wife. Later, the girls spot him in a restaurant, where he
stoically approaches their table and unexpectedly invites them to go
along with him to Oviedo, where they will tour, wine, dine and, with
any luck, make love. Straight away Cristina consents, Vicky refuses,
but Vicky is is ultimately persuaded and the twosome go with the self-
designed artistic and drifting romantic on a small private plane
through a rainstorm.

What follows is a free-flowing rectangle of romance with any
combination of Bardem, Vicky, Cristina, and Bardem's unmanageably
volatile ex-wife Penelope Cruz, who deserves an Oscar nomination for
her work here. There are many ways in which the two American women
change for the better and change not at all. One facet of the story is
a clash of conventional American and liberated European cultures.
Another is spiritual freedom, signified by Vicky's conventional
reticence and thus conflicted feelings that she may be missing out on
so much, and Cristina's mutability. A lesser title for the movie but an
apt one nonetheless could have been Why Not?

Woody is expressing through his characters his urge to be free of all
psychological and emotional restrictions. In any case, characters as
open as Scarlett Johansson and Javier Bardem's seem to need similarly
adaptable significant others. I find it interesting that Louise Lasser,
Diane Keaton and Mia Farrow, Woody's women, all brought out their inner
nebbishes due to intimate involvement with him, as in his eagerness to
lift a lover's state of mind, he ends up, sooner or later, virtually
turning his woman roughly into a female version of himself. Johansson
and Hall's summer in Spain, if anything, releases them from the sludge
of mediocrity, particularly that which results from fear and common
custom.

By saying all that, I have not even come close to giving anything away.
The way things turn out would hardly make sense to characters like
Vicky, or her fiancé, and that is what makes it a natural flow from the
heart. Woody Allen's brilliantly written, guilelessly directed and
convincingly acted Spanish debut-and-swan song is not a comedy for the
same reasons as nearly every other comedy Woody has made. It is a
comedy essentially because of the culture clash. The film depends on
our reactions to things that really are not inherently funny except to
unaccustomed eyes. Likewise, the bewildered Americans are just as funny
from the other side of the gamut. Without any doubt in my mind, this is
not only Woody Allen's best film in years, but one of his very best of
his entire 42-film, 42-year career as a writer-director of consistently
good films.
<|_=00=_|>
To be true, I really enjoy Woddy Allen's work. When I heard that this
film was on making the first thing I thought was «gotta see it». And to
be sincere too, I was very disappointed for the results. 

Even only lasting an hour and a half it felt very long. None of the
action is plausible, none of the interpretations are convincing and
none of the characters are fully developed. The soundtrack keeps going
most of the film and it becomes so noisy that goes from interesting to
a nuisance. I am sorry to bash the film this way but the script felt so
childish as it was written by a teenager in love. There is no really
turn-over in the history, no surprises, nothing new under the sun. The
darkroom scenes were some kind of fan-service, the bed scene with
Scarlett was lengthy and poor and character of Vicky feels mostly dull.

The film would have left me a better taste if at least Maria Elena
seemed truly mad: when Cristina tells them she is leaving Maria's
reaction goes down to sadness because a sexual lose. What comes to the
spectator's mind is «this is wrong, it seems that Woddy Allen just
wanted to film these to women, not to make a film». In a word, this
film feels like a high school project more than multimillion
production. 

I cannot really understand what all these eight-star reviewers feel for
it.
<|_=00=_|>
Some have commented about the use of a narrator. Yes, that was lazy and
intrusive, but not nearly the worst part of this boring mess of a film.
And I wouldn't care if Woody Allen wasn't the director and writer - at
this point I just watch films for what they are, not who was involved
in making them. I found myself trying to stay awake while watching it,
but when it had my full attention, I found myself amazed at the
flimsiness being presented. Boring, self-indulgent people walking
around a beautiful city, not knowing what they really wanted out of
life, not really interested in anyone or anything else, except for what
it meant to themselves.

And yes, Johansson's performance was quite bad, as others have
mentioned, but it actually was consistent with the tone of the film, if
that's in any way a "positive." There was a turning point, however,
which I thought might save the film, at least to some degree, and that
occurred when the Johansson character decided she no longer wanted to
be in the menage a trois situation. When the viewer isn't given any
reason for this decision, I had to laugh, because that was the final
confirmation of my thoughts up to that point. Like Johansson, the
paintings, which were just AbEx rip-offs, reflected the lack of overall
depth the viewer is compelled to endure.

These are just unappealing, narcissistic people I would not want to
know. Their only goals in life concern self satisfaction, and the
viewer isn't even given a reason why this is the case. Is it that Woody
himself is now like this and assumes everyone else in the world is?
That's really the only somewhat interesting thing that I took from this
film. Unlike in some of his early films, there is no sardonic wit here,
or anything else that would allow us to find something special about
this. If someone else had given us this film, especially if it was a
young person, I'd think that this person had a lot of "growing up" to
do. The people in this film are the kind of bit-part characters that
the main characters in Woody's best films would make fun of !
<|_=00=_|>
When Match Point came out in 2005, I was impressed, but no blown away
like most of the public and critics. I thought it was an interesting
movie that dealt with dark issues, but it didn't feel like Woody Allen.
Scoop was a cute movie, but felt like fluff.

I am here to tell you after going on opening night that VICKY Christina
BARCELONA isn't only enchanting, but so well written. I always look
forward to Woody's writing because he is the best. The film just looks
beautiful from the way it is shot. Javier, Scarlett and Cruz (Hilarous)
are all good, but it is Rebecca Hall who stands out in this picture;
giving Vicky such depth and character.

Allen is just the master. In the summer of effects and action, it is
nice to have a film with such wit and smart observation in it. GO SEE
IT!
