
I just saw this a couple of nights ago at a media screening in New
York. There are no spoilers in this review.

Just to preface this, I am a HUGE fan of the Exorcist. It is the
greatest horror movie ever made, and perhaps one of the greatest films
ever made period. With no major expectations, I saw the Harlin version
last year just hoping for a somewhat scary sequel movie. I cannot tell
you how irritated I was by it. I was so annoyed that I actually wrote a
letter of complaint to Morgan Creek Pictures demanding my money back.
What bothered me the most is that Exorcist: The Beginning made no
effort to keep the same aesthetics as the original. The 1973 classic
had very little gore or special effects. It was more about strong
directing, good sound editing, and building mood and atmosphere.
Harlin's version, on the other hand, was more of an action movie along
the lines of The Mummy or Van Helsing, only with more R rated thrills:
loads of gore, loads of special effects, none of it the least bit
scary.

Well, once I found out about the Paul Schrader version I became
obsessed with wanting to see it. From what I heard it was more in the
spirit of the original Exorcist and more of a "thinking man's film".
Plus it was written by Caleb Carr, author of one of my favorite novels:
The Alienist. I was even more excited when I found out they were
releasing it in the theaters this year.

So onto my review...

I wasn't exactly "blown away" by Dominion, but it's 100 times better
than "The Beginning". It at least maintains those aesthetics that I
described above. It's not a straight up horror movie, there's probably
only 2 or 3 real scares in the whole film, but those scares are far
more terrifying than any of the cheap fun house type thrills that
Harlin's version has to offer. 

Although the big scares are minimal, there's loads of creepiness in the
movie. It manages to make you feel uneasy the whole way through. I
didn't have a hard time falling asleep that night, but I did wake up in
the middle of the night kind of bothered thinking about some of the
weird images that were burned in my brain.

From the beginning, what I liked immediately is that it was kind of
grainy and looked like a 15 or 20 year old movie. There was something
old fashioned about the style of film-making which made me feel like I
truly was in Africa during the 1940s....much more so than the other
slick Hollywood version. The cinematography is excellent. Much like a
David Lynch film, you need to see it on the big screen because there's
so much detail to enjoy that can be missed on a small television
screen. My favorite scenes revolve around the archaeological expedition
of an ancient temple buried in Africa. As they're exploring the
catacombs under the temple, there's some bizarre faces carved into the
rock. They don't jump out and say, "boo!" but they creep you out as
your eyes discover them on their own terms.

I definitely took this version much more seriously. It's a very
emotional film: many scenes managed to make me feel upset, bothered,
unsettled, and sometimes even disturbed. Even simple scenes like people
getting shot were so much more upsetting in their treatment. It also
was successful in getting me to think about god, religion, and faith
the same way that the first Exorcist did.

Of course Dominion does have it's flaws:

-Some of the acting could have been better and I can understand the
need to do some recasting. The Nazi officer in the beginning wasn't the
least bit intimidating. And Father Merrin's assistant Father Francis
had sort of a Keanu Reeves quality about him. That's probably the
biggest advantage that the first Exorcist has over this film. When you
watch that movie, the actors are much more convincingly terrified. And
that's what makes a great horror movie. Fear is a learned response. If
the viewer is convinced that the actor is scared, then he/she gets
scared, too. There's no substitute for good acting, not with all the
special effects in the world.

-There's very little special effects in this movie, but the few scenes
that do have CGI are really bad. There is no reason to use computer
effects to portray animals such as jackals, cattle, scorpions, etc. Get
the real thing or use puppetry. This movie did not need special
effects.

-The ending climax scene, the confrontation between Father Merrin and
the devil, could have used a little bit more intensity. I felt like he
got through that scene much too easily, considering that in the first
Exorcist, one priest died and the other was brought to near death
during the exorcism. Stellan Skarsgard didn't even break a sweat!
William Friedkin would have worked him to the ground. This scene kind
of reminded me of a Star Trek episode.

If you are at all interested (and are still reading this), these are my
personal letter grades to the Exorcist films I have seen:

Exorcist (1973) A+, Exorcist: The Beginning (2004) F, Dominion: A
Prequel to the Exorcist (2005) B-

Although not perfect, I think 75% of Dominion was salvageable. There
was no reason to scrap it and make an entirely different, much worse
version. With some minor changes, Dominion could have been raised a
whole letter grade into a very scary, very respectable, and probably
very successful installment into the Exorcist franchise and at much
less cost, too.
<|_=00=_|>
If you go into this film thinking you are going to see twirling heads
and pea-soup you are going to be disappointed. If you go into this film
with an open mind you will be pleasantly surprised by the depth,
sophistication, spiritual drama, and sheer craft involved. There is
meat to this picture. I think the artists involved rightly avoided
trying to best or even mimic the original and instead focused on
dread-- a creeping sort of existential dread-- instead of cheap, quick
scares. You don't jump in your seat with fear, but you walk out of the
theater feeling unnerved and it stays with you. Unlike most of the
American popcorn horror flicks being made today, this film lingers in
your head long after.
<|_=00=_|>
Another reviewer claims this film was just "Exorcist: The Beginning"
with some "extra footage" added. Anyone who has been following the
history of the production of this film know this is not the case.

This is the film that Paul Schrader shot and edited. The studio was
unhappy with the results, fired him, and brought in Reny "Die Hard"
Harlan to re-film it. The resulting Harlan film tanked at the box
office, so Schrader was given permission to fully finish and release
"Dominion" as a separate film. 

If anything, this is a chance for film fans to see the "Exorcist"
prequel they had been promised before the studio big-wigs stepped in
and brought in a hack director to "bloody it up".
<|_=00=_|>
I was among the lucky ones to see this film in Brussels too. Are you
going to like this film or not ? Well it all depends on what you
expect. As a horror film fan, for me there is no doubt : no one will
ever make a better Exorcist film as William Friedkin's original. They
can make 100 more exorcists, the 1st will remain the reference, it was
innovating in many ways. Exorcist 2 took its best horror sequences from
the first one. Number 3 was a cop movie. Now we have numbers 4 and 5
with the same story and even the same actors sometimes. So where is the
difference ? I saw them both but I did not expect to see a better movie
than the first. It is probably why I liked them both. So if you prefer
horror, well see Harlin's one, it is a decent successor. And if you
like Paul Shrader' s movies, I don't think you will be disappointed
with his version, witch is softer but deeper. But please, as he said to
the public before the film : forget everything you have seen about the
exorcist movies before and watch the film with a open mind.
<|_=00=_|>
Exorcist: The Beginning was an ineffective film that contains
everything I hate about current genre films: impatient editing and
storytelling, lines of dialogue that stop just when some characters are
about to actually say something, bombardment of CGI visuals and some
seriously unnecessary gore effects that are akin to the movie-makers
hitting the audience over the head with a Warner Brothers iron anvil
normally reserved for their cartoon characters. What a nice surprise it
was to finally see DOMINION on it's (unfortunate) limited run. Here is
a movie that doesn't assume the audience is too stupid to actually sit
down and take a story in without excessive music video stimuli. Here is
a movie who's build-up is effective and will have many working hard to
shake the uneasy feeling that, indeed, evil IS everywhere. There were
some story elements from "The Beginning" that made no sense whatsoever.
In this film - all is presented clearly, thoughtfully and much more
unsettling (but it really hits you when the film comes to its climax).
There is a scene in "The Beginning" where some crazed hyenas savage a
character to shreds. Their appearance was curious and not presented as
necessarily crucial to the film other than for one scene. In this film,
just one look from them and you know right away they add to the whole
atmosphere of the film. They are an ever present danger not only to the
surrounding location but the always present evil watching humanity just
out of sight and ready to attack when one is most vulnerable and alone.
Another sequence featuring Father Merrin and Nazi soldiers is given a
very clever, diabolic twist and adds MUCH to the notion of how the
Devil deceives and tricks. In the other film, it's a scene where you
know only that "this is what torments Father Merrin" - and that's it.
Which is how this movie plays against Renny Harlin's "The Beginning" -
an easy sell to the masses (it STILL didn't work). "Dominion" is a
crafted piece where one single shot holds more story information than a
30 second sequence rife with vulgar, over-the-top digital effects. See
this version - especially if believe that The Exocist story is actually
more effective today than it EVER was.
<|_=00=_|>
Much has been made of the peculiarly Kafka-esquire journey of
'Dominion': originally in the hands of the late John Frankenheimer, the
'Exorcist' prequel project was turned over to Paul Schrader,
director/screenwriter best known for dark, gritty, existential dramas
such as 'Taxi Driver,' 'Hardcore,' and 'Auto-Focus.' Schrader delivered
a film allegedly close in spirit to the original, but the suits were
unsatisfied, feeling that the film they'd been given lacked the
necessary frights to please the current audience for horror films. As
has been amply explained, the original 'Exorcist' was itself much less
a horror film than a psychological drama, spare of excessive fun-house
shock value, but the audience has changed--younger, dumber, and trained
to expect cheap thrills--and the decision was handed down to re-tool
the film to add more special effects and gore. Schrader refused, was
fired and replaced by Renny Harlin, who re-shot the film almost
entirely with a significantly revised story, several new actors and
characters, and a decidedly less cerebral approach. But Schrader's film
was already in the can, and horror purists and Exorcist junkies were
left to wonder what might have been--if, for once, there might be a
sequel/prequel that made genuine efforts to add to a story's mythic
tradition rather than merely to exploit its notoriety to sell tickets
and popcorn.

At last, we are able to weigh in on 'Exorcist prequel: take 1,' and
while it certainly doesn't capture the original's aura of terror and
dread, 'Dominion' reminds us that the most frightening terrors are in
the subconscious and the imagination, and offers a more patient and
believable glimpse into how Father Merrin first encountered the demon
that would later find its way into a particular corner townhouse in
Georgetown.

Schrader's direction--aided by the camera of legendary cinematographer
Vittorio Storraro--is patient but not without scope. They frame the
African hill country beautifully, and while things at times seem a bit
too clean and tidy, I didn't consider the film 'slow.' Skarsgard's
Merrin is essentially the same character as in 'Beginning,' and while
he isn't inadequate, his performance may be a bit too restrained. As in
the Renny Harlin cut, we are told that Merrin has left the priesthood
out of guilt and anger at God over a particularly horrific
confrontation with man's inhumanity to man in Nazi-occupied Holland
near the end of WW II. More is made of this back-story in 'Dominion,'
but Merrin's crisis of faith seems less palpable and torturous than
that of Damien Karras in 'The Exorcist,' so that his re-conversion to
belief doesn't register the expected intensity. Gabriel Mann appears as
Father Francis (due to schedule conflicts with the re-shoot, he was
replaced by James D'Arcy in 'The Beginning'), and his tender, almost
androgynous demeanor makes him an endearing and appealing character.
Clara Bellar appears as Rachel, a character entirely written out of
'The Beginning' and replaced with a sexier version of the same, played
by Bond girl Isabella Scurupco. Bellar is more believable as a nurse in
East Africa, and her back-story creates a connection with Merrin, but
she still seems a bit out of place (though certainly far more
appropriate to the story than her counterpart in 'The Beginning').
Julian Wadham reprises his role as a tormented British Major, to strong
and believable effect. The climactic confrontation with Pazuzu is
entirely different in this film, and far more believable (and
chilling). 

Nevertheless, there are some inconsistencies, and the framing of the
exorcism scene lacks the intensity of the first film's, largely because
the audience is never adequately introduced to the victim. A big part
of what made 'The Exorcist' terrifying is that the audience is given
the opportunity to watch the full transformation of a sweet,
affectionate child into a bile-spitting, profane shell for a malevolent
spirit. 'Dominion's victim is never fully introduced, and thus, the
audience has less of an investment in his exorcism. 

In the end, however, this film far exceeds the quality of the
amusement-park silliness of 'The Beginning,' and while it's not likely
to break the bank, it is certainly the most respectable of the films
based on Blatty and Friedkin's original.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched DOMINION last night and found it to be excellent. The
difference between this film and the Harlin film are like night and
day. I love the slow build and the character of Cheche. Schrader
delivers a film that not only comments on the balance and choice
between good and evil, but also a great statement on colonialism. The
only bad part is the choice of Gabriel Mann as Father Francis. Boy, he
is awful ("Satan...is...here!"), especially when he is working of
Skarsgard.

But I can totally see why the studio panicked. Say what you want, but
THE EXORCIST has become synonymous with vomiting, spinning heads and
little girls cursing and I think that is what a majority of the
audience expects or wants (based on my former dealings with customers
at a video store and some heckled filled screenings). This is as far
from that as possible and had they released this version, it would have
died faster than Harlin's version or Blattey's own THE EXORCIST III
(another film I think is brilliant but plummeted 60% its second week;
yes I am a former box office nerd).

Regardless, this is a horror film for anyone who wants to think. If you
want spinning heads, cursing and vomit, go for the Renny Harlin
version.
<|_=00=_|>
Having seen the second made but first to release Exorcist - The
Beginning, the Renny Harlin version of the movie, I was very keen to
see the original movie which the Studio saw and then scrapped, the Paul
Schrader version.

This I managed to do during the Edinburgh Film Festival 2005, and
actually with paid tickets I managed to even get to hear a Q&A with the
Director, which in itself was extremely interesting. For now though,
let's look at the movie.

It's really hard to watch this and not do any comparisons with the
Harlin remake, and with so many similar scenes, the same actors and a
very similar story I found it almost impossible not to. In doing so you
realise how weak and one dimensional Harlin's version is, the and depth
of character and their development just adds so many layers to each of
the characters, giving them a much more human feel and making you
connect with them rather than just watch them as you did with the
Harlin movie.

Subtlety, dialogue and development are the keys here, things which were
drastically missing from the Harlin version, and instantly you see the
differences. The opening scene with Father Merrin and the Nazi's is the
first strong example of the difference in style and Schrader handles
this wonderfully. The single scene builds the Nazi character much
thicker with some uncertainty of the Priest, whereas the Harlin is
shown as a stock Nazi character. You also understand the root of the
crisis in faith that Merrin has come to, and through this single scene
it hits you just as hard as it did he.

It's this that I felt was the strongest part of the movie throughout,
the characters richness and depth, and the fact that you could see them
as real individuals and connect with some part of them. Merrin in
particular is the real focus of the movie, and the analysis of his
crisis, his faith and who he really is.

The following of the second, younger Priest in Father Francis, played
well by Gabriel Mann, mirrors for Merrin the faith and hunger that he
had as a young Priest, and watching his own slight crisis in faith
provides an interesting viewpoint for the audience. Not only to
understand what Merrin went through, but to watch Merrin witness this
himself.

Stellan Skarsgård plays the character superbly as well. There's so much
more restraint in the performance with inward pain and anger, he's
superb to watch and really does make you feel as though he carries a
tortured soul. The slow climb out of the crisis to the fight back
against the Demon is played slowly and with a lot of passion. It's the
moment when Merrin relives the Nazi slaughter and his second choice
that shows us who he really is as a person, not just as a Priest.
Comparing the two performances of Skarsgård together is, as Schrader
said, an example of a masterclass in acting. In fact the whole two
movies are a film students dream.

Another excellent character was Major Granville, very well played by
Julian Wadham. He was far stronger, richer and deeper than the Harlin
version, and his scenes were a lot more believable and striking than
the Harlin version which had him going mad over his butterfly
collection. Here he really plays a man getting out of his depth and
letting events overtake him, and he has a superb scene in the village
which provides with a strong connection to Merrins past.

A couple of things that stuck out in the movie but were then
understandable during Schraders Q&A, were in the CGI and the famous
flash of the Demon face. The face flash, which was so subtly done in
the original Exorcist movies, was hugely prominent and did not hold
with the subtlety in the rest of the movie. Some of the CGI was also
poorly done, and during a sweeping camera shot across the front of the
buried chapel the CGI rocks moved together as they tried to hold with
the camera shot, the first appearance of the hyenas was also poor,
showing as pure CGI and not looking in the least bit real.

The script for this movie is very good, and in stark contrast to the
Harlin version. This has less blood, more story and characterisation,
and much more concentration on the personal battle between Merrin and
the Demon. It provides a much more intelligent and subtle story
building characters and the plot to a much more satisfying climax.
<|_=00=_|>
A metaphysical treatment of the story. Thoughtful and intense. Horror
is implied in this film... you don't get beaten over the head with it
as did the Harlin film. Schrader has always been a master at atmosphere
and story over shocks and thrill rides. This is a thinking man's horror
flick. You don't find many of those anymore. Remember the original
"Haunting". The horror is left to the imagination. That always makes it
much more scary. Remy Harlin's film was over the top, which is what the
suits at Morgan Creek wanted. When monetary considerations come before
artistic considerations, you usually get schlock. Paul Schrader made no
such compromise... which is why he was canned.
<|_=00=_|>
I was lucky enough to be in Brussels at BIFFF to witness the rebirth of
Schrader's Exorcist.The theatre has 900 seats but it held a 1,000 that
night,sold out standing room only.The audience feel into rapt amazement
from the get go,the picture challenged and evoked each viewer until the
very end when the place erupted in an electrically charged cheer as the
high priest of darkness in Paul Schrader rose from his seat with a
cheshire cat smile looking years younger than 2 hours before.Afterwards
the press from all over europe converged on Paul,actors and crew for 2
hours of searing and insightful questions,the mood was light and
Schrader delivered what we all wanted to hear,"That the film is alive
and he was glad for that".He held no grudge against Morgan Creek for
holding back the film a couple years.See this movie.
