
I was lucky enough to see this film on DVD recently, and I was charmed
by it. Its utter lack of pretension, coupled with an affectionate
glimpse of what real Buddhist monks are like (funny and self-effacing,
but serious about their mission), make for a unique viewing experience.

Be warned: This is not a slick Hollywood production. Shot in an
unpolished "guerilla style," it is, as the narrator says, more of a
poem than a story. This nonlinear style is fascinating -- sometimes
seemingly random images are juxtaposed with those of the smiling monks,
statues, or even of the filmmaker exploring the world. It is an
entertaining and informative, even compelling, ode to the life and
mission of the world's hundreds of thousands of monks, especially the
Theravadins in southeast Asia.

If you're interested in Buddhism -- or in human nature in general --
and get the chance to rent or buy Buddha Wild, do yourself a favor and
take advantage of the opportunity. It isn't the most straightforward
trip you'll ever take, but that just makes it all the more rewarding.
<|_=00=_|>
IN the world of film today,where so much emphasis is put on the
negatives of life-or the reverse-humor of all varieties is produced to
counteract those negatives-it was a positive relief -indeed a release-
to see the happily refreshing film about the life of Buddhist monks set
in a small missionary monastery. The film Buddha Wild Monk in the Hut
was a real "feel good " movie.The Producer and Director Anna
Wilding,who has obviously gained the deep friendship and trust of the
small community,has portrayed so much of the joy in living ,through
color ,beauty and laughter ,to be found in both humans and nature.I
came away from Buddha Wild feeling 100% better than when I went into
the cinema and am inwardly uplifted every time I recall it.Buddha
Wild-Monk in the Hut - GO see it.!
<|_=00=_|>
The director (Anna Wilding) has done a wonderful job of getting us, the
audience, to see the life of some through a different set of lenses. Ms
Wilding, has found a style that allows the audience to see the textures
and patterns of her reality. Future film makers need to take note as
the gentle and subtle tones throughout allow for the audience to become
involved with nothing else but the story - A story which is told with a
reverence that is as golden and delightful as it is insightful. Nice to
see this approach to film making and also nice to see this film be
rewarded with audience members who appreciate it. Thanks for the view &
I am sure that I am not the only one who will be forever grateful!
<|_=00=_|>
I loved this film.I was honored to see it at a SAG cinema screening a
friend invited me to. The film was modest yet it was throughly
engaging. I chuckled and at times I pondered.It really was like being
taken close up into the monks world.Something very pure about the film.
We were surprised at the screening by the presence of a robed monk and
Anna Wilding.The monk said"Anna Wilding got it right". Afterwards he
said that "the monks really did live like in the movie" .The monks in
the movie are charming. Anna Wilding was articulate ,very pretty and
naturally beautiful.It appeared though,she did the whole movie
guerrilla style without make up or hair style.That lent to the story
well.For the most part the cinematography is stunning and the close ups
of Thai women in dress are memorable. The music is an added bonus to an
already colorful mix.This films deserves to be in cinemas.It is
colorful vibrant and good as any story.It blends creative and real
elements poetically. The monks and Anna Wilding's easy rapport makes
for very pleasant and entertaining viewing.The monk confirmed it was
rare for these monks to be filmed or even give their permission to be
filmed.Wilding got her facts right and made an original and splendid
little feature film.
<|_=00=_|>
If you are feeling played out,washed out,then wrung out I advise you to
go and see this happy little film Buddha Wild- Monk in the Hut.This is
a film that doesn't scour the depths of your conscience,leaving you
small and inadequate.Nor does it require you to laugh immoderately at
"manufactured" jokes to show you understood them.All it requires of you
is that you sit back,completely unwind and give yourself over to Anna
Wilding's gentle portrayal of a small happy community of Buddhist monks
in a remote Buddhist monastery.I was impressed at the way the director
and Producer,also the Presenter and Narrator played down her role even
to the extent of spurning glamorous attire,make up hairstyling and
general shunning any unnatural contrivance.This means she managed to
portray calm,colour and happiness as a possible way of living.I learn
from it,I loved it.Well done!
<|_=00=_|>
MMM...well I liked this film immensely.And as a practicing Buddhist who
not only saw this film,but watched many people willingly and happily
clap at it,including several Buddhist monks I'm proud of it as a
Buddhist.Is it the best film I have ever seen on any subject..no? Is it
ONE of the best for its utter simplicity and beauty and truth!Yes.I
preferred it to films like Brokeback Mountain which had very little to
do with love if you ask me!I found this film far more about love and
loving kindness.And I enjoyed Anna Wilding's humble commentary.At the
start of the film it states that "wild means : to be one with nature"
and the theme of nature is carried throughout the film which I like.The
monks live in a wild remote monsatry .Wilding's narration was a nice
balance to the monks words and the whole films focus was and is clearly
on the monks,and to say otherwise would question who has watched it in
full and who has not. I fact I really don't see how that one commenator
can say that about the scene when Anna goes into the hut.It was far
from that.I am actually wondering if whoever said that actually watched
it.I agree with the LA Weekly..it was cute and real and honest. Look,I
don't know much about these things but surely it is special and unusual
for a woman, to be allowed and approved to "penetrate" a Buddhist
community and film it?This is what Anna Wilding has managed to do
-seemingly and effortlessly as a sister calling into a brothers
house.And she has been welcomed and allowed to show the monks as they
are, and to tease(as they tease her),to question lightly and portray
appreciatively the life and ideals of a small missionary Buddhist
Community.She certainly has allowed for me, a practising
Buddhist,greater understanding. And it has all been done in a colurful
and natural manner that surely and successfully hides all the thought
and work that has gone into producing this gem. I commend the film
,Buddha Wild Monk in the Hut,the monks , and its writer,narrator and
Presenter Anna Wilding.A more humble and honest film could not be
told.Thank you thank you thank you.
<|_=00=_|>
Anna Wilding does a good job in telling the story of her journey with
the monks, in a simple way. She does an excellent job of narration, and
her voice is mellifluous. There are no "gimmicks" to this documentary
(I'd call it a documentary more than a movie). Sometimes the passage
between one scene to another is choppy. But nevertheless, it is a
lovely way to spend a rainy afternoon or evening. Relax and enjoy with
a cup of tea, but if you're expecting a fully edited Hollywood
production, this movie is not for you. You should purchase it if you
want an honest look at the lifestyle of the monks, and the essence of
the spirit of Buddhism.
