
American Gangster has been really hated upon in many of the former
posts I have read. Yet it seems like they are all saying the same
thing, that Gangster didn't have enough action and was really drawn
out. Anyone who has every seen a Ridley Scott film will know that his
films are long! Blade Runner, A Good Year, Matchstick Men, Hannibal,
Black Hawk Down, Gladiator, G.I. Jane, Thelma and Louis, and Alien all
ran for at least two hours or more, so big surprise there guys. In
addition Scott didn't set out to film another scarface, he set out to
tell a story not just about Frank Lucas but rather a tale of corruption
and how pervasive it is. One user commented that this film had many
side story lines that "bloated" the story. This is completely untrue as
every "side story" is actually the overarching story about the fight
against corruption in every facet of life, even Frank Lucas attempts
several times to eradicate the corruption in his organization.

Over all this is a great film which really gets into every nook and
cranny of an issue. Don't see this film if your just looking for cheap
thrills, this is a thinking film about the pervasive dishonesty of our
culture.

I gave this film 8 stars because i could find nothing solid that
detracted from it, but rather a slew of minor details which gradually
brought its score down. But I will put this film in my top films for
the year, if only because I have been immensely unsatisfied with the
bulk of releases this year.
<|_=00=_|>
Ridley Scott's new flick American Gangster was a good one. Though Im
not gonna be saying it's the best film of the year or anything like
that. It was directed well, barely any dull scenes, great acting by an
enormous cast and was really well-written. Unfortunately the story
never seemed "new" to me. I was reminded of other drug-related/crime
movies, like BLOW, CITY OF GOD, and evening TRAINING DAY....."My Man".
Though it's in the leagues as being entertaining as the above mentioned
movies, it really just never felt like I was watching a "new" story.
But speaking of story, I never knew anything about Frank Lucas, and his
story is fantastic. A black man who was more influential than his
Mafian brethren? Tell me you're kidding. Nope, he was a force in Harlem
back in the late 60s and early 70s and barely anyone knows about it.
But for me this area of the film was the only stand out part. Sure
there are other good scenes, done well, but nothing worth mentioning.
Well, scratch that, naked women workin in a drug lab was an eye-opening
scene.

Denzel Washington won the Oscar when he portrayed the crooked cop in
Training Day who said "My Man" all the time. Well, in the American
Gangster you got him saying this line again, and by God does he have it
down. There are scenes when you know he's gonna say it, and he still
pulls it off incredibly well. Denzel is one actor you really never have
to worry about it in the acting department. You've got Russell "Mr.
Oscar" Crowe playing the other lead, and like always, he always has the
character down. He was great in this flick, the accent, the mannerisms,
all of it. Though, his character's story was interesting in that he was
in charge of the case to figure out who the big boy druglords were, his
side story with his wife was for me the "dull" parts of the film. They
were well-acted and all that, but mostly, it was just character
development that isn't needed. Russell Crowe's good enough an actor to
portray a struggling cop without a family problem. And also let me say
Josh Brolin as the crooked cop was great. I didn't need a side-story of
him doing tons of drugs and banging prostitutes....but ya know he was
doing it.

American Gangster was a really good flick. It had amazing acting mixed
with scenes that shed a new light on drug-trafficking....or should I
say Old light. Though since there are so many other drug/crime cop
films out there it seems a little been there done that. But don't let
that sway you if you enjoy good movies and or crime films. And also,
Frank Lucas is one hell of an interesting personality. My man. 8.5
outta 10
<|_=00=_|>
Watch American Gangster without preconceived ideas. While the film is
long it never drags. You don't get the sense that you've seen this
movie before. It's not Serpico. It's not The Wire. It's not The
Sopranos. While much is going on, the story is easy to follow. There is
action, but this isn't an "action movie".

Both Denzel Washington and Russell Crowe act convincingly and give
depth to their characters.

The film leaves you wanting to know more about about happened to the
lead characters. You care about them that much. Now *that's* film
making.
<|_=00=_|>
Now i've heard some mixed reactions to this movie, and I must say I
don't think that. American Gangster is a perfect gangster film. A rise
and fall film, but it is done better than both Empire and Carlito's Way
put together. Where Empire fails, American Gangster prevails where
historical accuracy is needed as well as a good background story. It's
violent and sometimes shocking, but being an avid gangster/crime fan i
know that compared to others this is almost nothing.

A brilliant biopic of New York gangster Frank Lucasm the film also
utilises Lucas's relationship with the Italian Mafia perfectly, giving
you almost a two way view of the city's underworld. Denzel Washington
excels at the part as Lucas, and Russell Crowe as the cop out to get
him is almost blinding. Crowe does a great American accent, as well as
portraying a cop out to just do his job but can't properly. It's a a
film about Lucas's rise to fame in New York's Heroin business, and his
fall due to both Crowe and police persistence.

Like with most gangster films, you are always put off by either the
acting or the story. But here this is not the case, you have a true
story that does not mask Lucas's violent life but rather portrays it as
a life of both murder and violence. It does not glamorise his life in
any way, it's a film that says criminals never get away with what
they've done. Both Denzel Washington and Russell Crowe are perfect in
the criminal and cop relationship.

I would say now do not listen to the negative reviews of this film,
they do no justice for the film. I'd recommend this film to fans of
crime flicks and those who just want a riveting film to watch.
<|_=00=_|>
Starting off, this probably shouldn't be grouped in as a mob film. For
one, Crowe's character is as much the lead as Denzel, this is a cops
catching the criminal movie. But also, there's not much mob, it's Frank
Lucas at the top and everyone else trying to attach to him, he's one
man and that is made very clear.

American Gangster works on numerous levels. It's in part a portrait of
late 60s-early 70s Harlem and America, full of drugs and desperation
and weakness, where the strong rise above the rest and the cops are
dirtier than the rats. As a crime thriller it's entertaining and at 2
hours 37 minutes, never loses interest. But, maybe most surprisingly,
it's also a superb character drama and study. Literally every character
who steps on screen is compelling, has depth to them, has their
motivations, and is tossed into conflict. For example there's a scene
early on where Crowe's character Richie and his partner are searching a
parked car and find a very large amount of unmarked money in the trunk.
Without giving away more, it and the following scenes lead to some
surprising moral and character statements by Scott. Richie's morals vs
everyone else the temptation of the streets is commonly laid on him
throughout the film, and thanks to Crowe's great great performance, it
adds a lot to the movie.

Denzel is brilliant here. Frank Lucas, with his collected yet fiery,
always powerfully menacing performance is one of the better king bosses
I can think of in recent memory. When he's not talking, just the way
his face is set, he totally totally gets in this character. The academy
would do right to easily give him a nomination this year. I also wanted
to add that while the two leads don't get on screen till the last 20
minutes, they have a long extended scene that is pure dynamite and
gold. They play off each other perfectly and it's well worth the
build-up, and maybe are among the highlights of each performance.

Going through supporting actors, Josh Brolin gives one of the year's
most surprising performances as an insufferable and despicable dirty
cop. He's so slimy, money-grubbing, and yet intelligent and an equal,
he's just cunning. Cuba Gooding, Jr. is decent in his one scene, though
it's hampered by being mostly unneeded. Chiwetal Ejifor makes a
believable side character though he's not given as much to do, and
finally I think Ruby Dee could be a sleeper Best Supporting Actress
contender for her role as Mama Lucas. Every other short and thankless
role I didn't mention is acted superbly here as well, it's a sign of a
great director that they're all so on their game.

Ridley Scott's direction, brilliant, what can you say. He creates New
York and the rats living in it to the point with fantastic attention to
detail, and most of the scenes in the film are shot and constructed
simply perfectly. This includes the short but brutally effective
opening scene, which stands as one of the more memorable openings I've
seen in a while. Actually any time there's gunplay or action, even if
there isn't that much overall, it's stunning. Particularly, at the end
there's a police raid scene that stands as the "holyyyy crap" sequence
of the film. Going from a hallway to a heroine preparing apartment, and
without revealing anything more, it's incredible, simply incredible.
Remember when people were going nuts over the tracking shot gimmick in
Children of Men? I felt that way about this one. If there's a god,
Ridley will finally pick up his directing Oscar this year, he deserves
it for this and his wide career.

American Gangster is probably one of the best cop-based films I've
seen, and up there with gangster ones. It does one of the best jobs of
examining the rise and fall of a crime or drug boss right from the
beginning, and dives right into on the other side what it means to be a
cop and to strive for something, as well as just telling an awesome and
magnificently directed gangster story.

One of the year's very finest films.
<|_=00=_|>
American Gangster seems on the surface to be what has been dubbed by
some critics as "the black Scarface." As Ridley Scott's new film
details, this isn't really the case aside from the point of 'rose up
from nothing became something through crime', which could be said about
almost every gangster film including the Godfather. Here Scott and
screenwriter Steve Zaillian, without calling attention to it ala Paul
Haggis, have made a film about class issues underneath the typical
gangster-movie form. Even more than the Departed, one sees as the film
goes on an environment of paradox: Frank Lucas was a low-life, a
killer, a ruthless thug, and at the same time found time to take his
mother to church every Sunday and gave out turkeys to folks in the
neighborhood while providing them enough dope to die off in the
process.

In fact, Scarface has got nothing on Frank Lucas when it comes to moral
complexity: here's a man who did rise up out of poverty, learned the
stakes of gang life as a driver for the Harlem boss for fifteen years,
and then after he died cut out the middle-man as an importer of the
freshest product of heroin right out of Vietnam. Then through this
there's a whole other level to American Gangster; Scott and Zaillian
could have made it simply a saga of betrayals and investigation via
Richie Roberts. But the side that one saw in Serpico is amplified here-
it becomes all the more engrossing to see how the crooked cops and
"honest" gangster Lucas were linked together, which also leads to an
ending that amps up the interest. Lucas didn't get out like Henry Hill,
but a good man all the same? Probably not (he ended up in jail again,
as the film doesn't point out).

So there's a lot of story to explore, and Scott makes it one of the
most invigorating, nostalgic (ironically speaking) New York crime films
in years, as far as the storytelling goes. And like Heat, Scott gets a
lot of mileage from his star power. Washington goes even deeper into
the role of the villain than he did in Training Day- he plays him as
classic family man, cold businessman, and charming
man-of-the-community. He makes it so much his role that you can't
imagine anyone else going down a Harlem street shooting a guy point
blank in the head. And Crowe also adds some good subtlety to the piece,
a flawed man with his family and someone who tries to keep his morality
straight (the million dollars given in to the station) amidst total
bully-crooks like Josh Brolin's "special" detective. By the time the
two stars finally sit down for one scene, it's on par with De Niro and
Pacino.

Why not a 10/10 or 4 stars? It is, despite a rightfully fleshed out
narrative, with some unnecessary bits (Cuba Gooding Jr, what happened
there?) on a two hour and forty minute picture. But Scott does make
American Gangster gain momentum as it goes along and reaches a
powerhouse climax that is first intense and bloody (it IS Scott after
all), followed by a striking human angle. And it holds nothing on
Scarface, at the end of it all, as far as being legitimately dramatic
without the ham, as the actors and director click for most part on
material that just needs to be told without any pretension- and with
that dose of significance of real urban crime in the 1970s in NYC.
<|_=00=_|>
American Gangster is one of the best movies i've recently seen and it
is a pleasure to watch even if you are not a gangster movies fan. The
story is more captivating than i expected i must say, following Frank
Lucas(Denzel Washington) - the afro-American drug lord who raised above
all, even the Italian mafia - and Richie Roberts(Russel Crowe), the
honest cop in a city full of corruption, sort of Frank Serpico but with
less guts. 

Denzel Washington delivers a marvelous performance of a man calm and
patient yet heart-stopping ferocious at some points, fearless and
ambitious but likable as always. His performances are always
incredible, he's a great actor, the greatest afro-American actor of all
time i dare to say, it's simply a pleasure to watch him in any role.

Russel Crowe delivers a good performance, he's one of the actors that
never disappoint in my opinion and i think there's a great chemistry
between them (Washington and Crowe) even though few scenes bring them
face to face. Richie Roberts is in danger for being one of the few cops
that actually do their jobs and refuse to take bribe so i think there's
a big resemblance between Richie Roberts and Frank Serpico (Al Pacino
1973).

Cuba Gooding Jr. could have gotten a bigger part, or more scenes
because he's a very talented actor and he proved himself many times
that he's more than capable of delivering excellent performances. 

The drama is less than expected but the movie is very well paced and it
never gets boring even if it lasts more than two hours. Everything fits
perfectly and there is an excellent antithetical presentation of the
wealthy life of Frank Lucas opposite to the lives that he's drugs ruin
every day, every hour, every minute... 

I strongly recommend to gangster movies fans, actually to those viewers
who enjoy good movies because this movie is above average and you will
enjoy every second of it.
<|_=00=_|>
Finally a good, accurate, gangster drug-trafficking film that makes you
think. It's far from Polyanna and lets no-one group off; not gangsters
of any race or ethnicity, not cops on the take, addicts, etc. And
importantly, the story, based upon the true life story of Frank Lucas,
does not profile a stereotypical black gangster gone wrong but instead
shows an elegant, intellectual man who rises to the top of his game but
then learns something new in the end. The film is a sure-shot into the
Oscars but more importantly, for me, it's a film that is socially
responsible and imparts a thoughtful message for any viewer,especially
in light of current times.

Technically, it's got it all going on. Script,Camera, lighting,and not
only par excellence from Crowe and Washington but the entire acting
cast. The film uses fabulous close-ups and unbelievably good action
shots. I disagree with any reviews that claim the movie is not packed
with enough action or violence. How tiresome that would be! Instead,
while including some of the best action/violent shots ever filmed, Mr.
Ridley gives us a relevant and real-life look into the narcotics
business top-to-bottom and across the board. I would far prefer to see
a movie that has a dozen or so magnificently staged violent shots that
dare to go deeper and translate both internal as well as external
motivations as to depict real life. The film is not only entertaining;
its portrayal is authentic to the real life grizzly and sometimes
grayed world of crime/justice as well as didactic and
amazingly...uplifting. What a nice surprise.
<|_=00=_|>
The story about Frank Lucas is one that proves fact is more interesting
than fiction. The fact that such a character really did exist yet I do
not remember it certainly intrigues me. I guess I was just too young at
the time it broke. Now approaching my later forties finds me longing to
research it further after seeing this movie.

I get the feeling Ridley Scott was amazed a person such as Frank Lucas
was actually able to do what he did and live to tell about it. I
certainly share that amazement. The care in which he tells the story
serves it well. Though it's basically a gangster movie it's not
particularly graphic in violence except in a few scenes. Even Denzel's
and Russel's portrayals of the two central characters are not quite as
dark as the usual more stereotypical gangster/cop persona...Still there
is a sense of doom and danger ever present as the viewer knows neither
law enforcement, government, or mafia will let this man's drug empire
go on.

To sum it up I believe this is an excellent telling of a true crime
story. It's intriguing, entertaining, and certainly serves as a
cautionary reminder to remain vigilant in combating drugs.
<|_=00=_|>
If you have seen Serpico, Scarface, and The French Connection, you
don't need to see American Gangster. Ridley Scott's new biopic
unfortunately shows how a group of stunningly talented craftsmen can
create an uninspiring, lackluster, and by-the-numbers piece of cinema.
Certainly there are good moments. There is a nice verbal face off
between Crowe and Washington (ala HEAT) but its appeal lies more in the
power of its stars than in the power of the story. Never is there a
moment when I was unaware that I was watching Crowe and Denzel.

The film makes much of the fact that this is a true story about a
powerful BLACK gangster whereas other mafia-ish crime stories usually
feature Italians. While this may have been an interesting counterpoint,
the point is only dealt with in showing that the distinction is
irrelevant. Denzel can be just as powerful a crime lord as the rest. So
where's the drama?

Crowe's character is yet another, in a long line of movie cops, who is
a womanizer and bad father/husband, and yet the most honest cop on the
force. This never changes throughout the piece. Where's the drama?

None of this is to say that Scott and company failed at presenting the
authenticity of the world and it's characters. The production design is
flawless, the characterizations seem to be right on the money, and the
music recalls a hipper time. Authenticity, however, does not always
translate into dynamic and exciting story telling. 

There are no surprises, no real twists, and the inevitable fall of
Washington's character and thus his organization, is anti-climactic.

Worth watching if its free.
