
Mirrors was pretty much doomed for terrible critical reviews from the
start. Horror never scores big with film critics; in fact I can't
remember the last horror film that got more positive reviews than
negative. If the horror film in question is a remake, especially of a
foreign movie, it's almost destined for critical failure. There's a
reason for that: most horror remakes are utter garbage and are solely
created so studios can make a quick buck. However, once in a while, a
horror film remake will come along that actually isn't half bad, yet
will still suffer negative reviews based on the fact that it's a horror
film remake. It happened several years ago with The Texas Chainsaw
Massacre and more recently, with The Hills Have Eyes.

Mirrors has suffered a similar fate. Directed by French horror director
Alexandre Aja, the same man behind The Hills Have Eyes, Mirrors is a
remake of a Korean horror film, as well as the best wide-release horror
film of the year thus far. While I'll admit I probably enjoyed the film
much more than most will, it's still miles better than the critic's
lousy reviews or lackluster promotion would have you believe.

Kiefer Sutherland stars as Ben Carson, an ex-cop suffering from
emotional issues after a "workplace accident" and a messy divorce. Sick
of sleeping on his sister's couch, he takes up a job as a security
guard at an abandoned department store that was devastated by a fire
many years back. The job seems easy enough, primarily consisting of
walking through the building every couple hours, making sure there are
no trespassers. Things take a turn for the worse though, after several
strange encounters involving the mirrors in the building, and Ben
begins to find that his own reflection is haunting him, not only at the
job, but in any mirror or reflective object (or liquid) he comes
across. Soon enough, Ben find his life, as well as his families, in
danger.

Mirrors biggest strength is the storyline, easily one of the best
horror premises to hit the screen in years (even if it is recycled).
Reflections are practically inescapable, not only appearing just in
mirrors, but in doorknobs, windows and water. The inescapability of
reflections is what makes the idea of one's reflection out to get them
so chilling. They're everywhere. You can't escape them. Not since
Nightmare on Elm Street, where ones own dreams were the cause of death,
has there been a supernatural premise that has gotten so much under my
skin. The fact that whatever the mirror images do to themselves happens
to their real life counterparts, only heightens the hopelessness of
Carson and his family.

Alexandre Aja has already proved his ability to create genuine scares
with previous films, but most have been of the brutal, violent kind, as
opposed to the atmospheric chills usually employed in supernatural
horror movies that are more reliant on the mood and feeling than
shocking acts of brutality for scares. Surprisingly, Aja's penchant for
gore and violence complements the film surprisingly well. The sequences
inside the derelict department store at night build up suspense very
well, utilizing the eerie location with corpses manifesting themselves
within the mirrors and screams emitting from within deep recesses of
the building. It's fairly generic stuff for movies like this, but Aja
is talented enough stylistically to pull them off. However, it's the
sequences where Aja really lets loose that prove to be the most
frightening. One sequence that takes place in a bathtub ends up being
one of the most brutal and unsettling death scenes of the year. There
are several of these sequences sprinkled throughout the film and they
are extremely effective, utilizing a combination of brutality and
atmospheric suspense that are, at the least, shocking. When a ghost
pops out in one scene, it isn't a pale, long black haired Asian woman,
nor a semi-transparent floating apparition: it's a half-naked female
with half her body burned off, the flesh still sizzling off her burnt
carcass as she wails in pain. That's the difference between Mirrors and
most other ghost films.

The biggest downfall of the film is when it tries to provide an
explanation for the horrific events taking place in the second half.
The idea of one's image terrorizing oneself is horrifying on one level,
but at the same time, it's extremely unrealistic. Trying to explain why
this happened back fires on the film, as no explanation is going to
make sense and instead, will just draw attention to the fact that this
would never happen in real life, destroying a bit of the film's effect.
The audience doesn't need to know why this happens. Ambiguity in this
case would be much more frightening and wouldn't take away from any of
the other scares. Once you throw in a sub-plot about mental institution
experiments and haunting tragedies taking place in the building, you
lose a lot of the suspense. Despite the unwise direction the movie
takes in its second half, it's still entertaining and manages to retain
a few good scares here and there, while finally rebounding in the last
act.

Mirrors isn't perfect (what film is?), but its strengths far outweigh
its weaknesses and in the end, it's the most enjoyable wide-release
horror film of the year (although personally, the only other decent
wide-release horror film this year would be The Strangers). Benefiting
from a brilliant premise and the unlikely combination of French
director Alexandre Aja's love of blood and brutality with an
atmospheric, supernatural storyline, Mirrors is definitely much better
than what one would expect of a typical Korean horror movie remake, let
alone any horror movie that hits theaters.

- Dylan, allhorrorfilms.com
<|_=00=_|>
These days, at over $10 per movie ticket, the question I most ask when
I go to these review boards is...was it worth it? The answer to that
question depends upon how effectively the movie brings its genre across
to the audience...the interesting plots, the action sequences, the
drama. Yes, perhaps I've seen the movie's take on these things before,
but to me the movie's worth is defined by the movies own merits, not
necessarily the merits of what preceded it...

We have I think all seen variants of what Mirrors is about, yet I still
recommend it. I found it to be atmospheric and suspenseful (with some
gore, one effect in particular will probably make your jaw twitch for
the remainder of the movie), although the suspense wears off once
certain things are revealed about 3/4 of the way through the movie. The
atmosphere remains intact however, and the ending of the movie delivers
an unexpected twist that brings the movie full circle. While I'm not
likely to see it a second time, I found a single viewing to be a worthy
investment of my time and my $10.50....
<|_=00=_|>
Let me start off by saying: I was stoked about seeing Mirrors. I liked
High Tension, and I loved Hills Have Eyes. Both were awesome, awesome
movies....especially Hills Have Eyes. So of course, again, I was stoked
to watch Mirrors, because it sounded interesting, it looked scary, and
the guy who made to great horror movies made it. What happened when I
finished Mirrors, you ask? I was left disappointed as hell. Very, very
disappointed. Which sucks because it started off so scary and so
interesting. 

Kiefer Sutherland plays Ben, a down and out ex-cop who's battling an
alcohol problem and the stigma of killing a man while in the line of
duty. While waiting to be reinstated into the police force, he takes a
job as a night watchmen at an old, burned down, creepy-ass shopping
mall. Of course, once there, he notices insanely scary and creepy
things going on inside, particularly with the mirrors inside. He starts
seeing disturbing things in the mirrors: People burning alive,
grotesque people lying on the floors, crying for help, things of that
nature. Since Ben is so unstable, we're not sure what's going on, at
least I wasn't. I wasn't sure if all this scary stuff was in his head,
or if there was a genuine explanation for all of it. Well, I was
wishing that the former was true, because that would've made the movie
that much scarier and that much edgier. Instead, the latter was true.

The movie has some really, really scary parts....all of it is scary
until they explain why everything's happening. Then you're just left
there thinking, "Well, that's not that scary anymore." There's some
really crazy gore effects, especially the opening scene and the scene
with Amy Smart. These parts, especially the Amy Smart scene, will make
you cringe just a little bit.

But after the first half, the half filled with mystery, intrigue, and
scary, horrific moments, the movies take a turn down dumbass-idea
boulevard:

SPOILER Ready for this? The reason for the all the strange happenings
in the movie, i.e., in the mirrors, is because
of.....ready?......demonic forces. No psychological reasons, which
would've been cool and interesting, but because of stupid demonic
forces that lived in the mirrors. Even if they didn't go down the
psychological route, they could've at least handled it better and made
it interesting instead of just saying, "Bad s*** lives in the mirrors.
Jack Bauer's gonna take care of it." When his wife starts believing him
and when you know for sure he isn't just crazy and broken, that's when
all the interest is sucked away.

Everyone does a pretty good job with their roles, but since the movie
doesn't get any deeper than "Bad stuff lives in the mirrors," there's
not much to do with these characters, especially Ben, who's a pretty
broken and messed up guy. But as the second half comes along, you
forget that he's a recovering alcoholic with a pill problem who may or
may not be completely insane. When there's no more doubt about his
state-of-mind and sanity, the movie loses it's punch and mystery, at
least I thought so.

SOME MORE SPOILERS The movie takes a turn for the absolutely ridiculous
when all the demonic forces in the mirrors manifest themselves in an
old nun. She pretty much turns into a freakin' licker from the Resident
Evil games. She starts crawling up walls, jumping off walls, and gets
into a physical brawl with Kiefer Sutherland as he tries to shoot her.
She throws him through a freakin' brick wall, and he throws her like
six feet away from him. I was just thinking to myself, "What the hell
am I watching? Is it still the same movie?" This part was so stupid it
pretty much ruined the rest of the movie. My God. It was so stupid. 

I personally thought they could've done much more with the story
instead of just saying "Bad things live in the mirrors." It started out
scary, suspenseful, and frightening, but then just ends up being corny
and stupid. The only thing that made the last half somewhat tolerable
was the last few minutes, which was a little shocking and cool. Loved
the ending.

But again, don't take this review as a definitive view on the movie. Go
watch it for yourself and you might end up liking it very much. I
didn't, even though I really, really wanted to.

Score: 5 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
As a remake of a Korean film of 2003 this film tells the tale of a guy
that picks up a job as a night-watchman in what is left over of a
burned down department store. What starts as a somewhat dull somewhat
creepy job quickly turns into a living nightmare.

There have been at least a dozen horror films where the evil lived on
the other side of the mirror - nothing new here. Most of them share the
same build up as this one: get to know the victim(s), get to know the
evil(s), see them getting maimed/slaughtered/eaten one by one - nothing
new here. In effect, this film is like nothing new all over and it
would be a standard run of the mill one if it weren't for the fact that
most of the settings used are worked out pretty nicely and that the
ending isn't the normal sloppy one.

I haven't seen the original but I am interested into seeing it now that
I have seen this one. It might be even better.

7 out of 10 mirrors on the wall
<|_=00=_|>
I have to admit I was on my toes. It's one that gets better and better
as the movie goes. It keeps you wondering and there is pretty much no
foreshadowing at all. I really didn't know what was going to happen
from minute to minute. This movie is one of those you'll want to watch
again. Sutherlands performance is good but I've got to give props to
the other actors as well. All their performances were pretty remarkable
too. I'm not the type of person that enjoys crappy films. I definitely
have to say I know a good movie when I see it and I'm confident of
that. The overall twist and turns... yeah it's a definite popcorn
lights off cuddle with your boyfriend scary movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Mirrors is the U.S. remake of Korean horror movie Geoul Sokeuro, it is
good and scary but not as much as the original one. The movie is about
A mall security guard becomes wrapped up in a mystery involving a
particular department store's mirrors which seem to bring out the worst
in people. The story is almost the same as the original as well as the
plot which are interesting although a little predictable. It has a good
rhythm and the tension grows in its intensity as the movie moves along,
these are two very good things because it never makes the movie
tiresome to the viewer. The cast is good, Kiefer Sutherland gives a
very convincing performance, although he reminded me of Jack Bauer in
some moments of the film. Amy Smart's role was good but very short and
Paula Patton as Kiefer character's wife gives a decent acting job. In
conclusion, it was a good movie but it could be better.
<|_=00=_|>
Maybe it's because I only heard bad things about this film. Practically
every review said "disappointing," "skip it," etc.

So I got the DVD not really knowing what to think. I really liked Haute
Tension and I like Kiefer Sutherland. Though the trailer made this look
like Jack Bauer and Kim stop a mirror terrorist attack.

But once the opening credits started (with that great pre-credit
scene), I was hooked.

Never once was I bored, and there were quite a few times I jumped out
of my seat.

Maybe others figured out what the plot was all about, but it took me by
surprise.

I found the film eerie, suspenseful, scary and well directed and acted.

And that house! not since Event Horizon have I see a production design
so impressive! It was like another actor in the film. The people behind
that work deserves an Academy Award, in my opinion.

I also loved the ending. Very un-Hollywood and while in retrospect it
probably didn't make a lot of sense, somehow it 'felt' right to me.

All in all, I found this a refreshing take on a horror film... and
considering the villain was a piece of glass, It think everyone did a
great job.

Not sure why others didn't like it as much as I did, but all I can say
I found it a very satisfying experience, and will probably watch it
again one day.
<|_=00=_|>
In New York, the former NYPD detective Ben Carson (Kiefer Sutherland)
is hired to work as night watch of the remains of the Mayflower
Department Store that was partially destroyed by fire many years ago.
Ben became alcoholic and was retired from the police force after
killing a man in a shooting. His marriage was also destroyed and now he
is living in the apartment of his younger sister Angie (Amy Smart).
However he has not been drinking for three months and sees the
employment as a chance to rebuild his life. When he goes to the rounds
in his first night, he finds that the mirrors are impeccably clean and
his colleague explains that the former night watch was obsessed by the
mirrors. After a couple of nights, Ben sees weird images in the
mirrors, but due to the lack of credibility of his past, his ex-wife
Amy (Paula Patton) believes he has hallucinations as a side effect of
his medication. When Angie is found brutally murdered in her bathtub,
Ben discovers that there is an evil force in the mirror that is chasing
him and jeopardizing his family.

The first half of "Mirrors" is intriguing and scary, with a promising
ghost story with good special effects and good performances. The dark
cinematography is top-notch. Unfortunately, the resolution and the
conclusion of the plot are very weak and quite disappointing with an
open end ready for a sequel. The death of Angie is really an impressive
scene of this horror movie. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Espelhos da Morte" ("Mirrors of the Death")

Note: On 11 November 2016, I saw this film again.
<|_=00=_|>
I love when a movie really makes my hair stand on end, this one did it
for me throughout. There are so many twists and turns, and the ending
was very unexpected. All the characters were believable and Kiefer
Sutherland's performance as the inwardly tortured ex-cop teetering on
the edge of insanity was excellent. If you rent this, definitely view
the unrated version, I yelped out loud a few times. I would definitely
put this in the category of supernatural horror guaranteed to scare the
s___ out of you. It's really quite intense, and even though most horror
movies don't really scare me (I actually laugh at most and find them to
be more comical than scary), this is not a movie you want to watch just
before going to bed. You might want to watch it during the day, just so
you can filter it out later, otherwise you might be dreaming about it.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is certainly not the best horror movie I have seen but out
of horror movies that come out now of days it is one of the better
ones. The death scenes were a little over the top and gory but at least
the movie didn't really on mostly gore that a lot of horror movies
these days do. Keifer Suterland was pretty good and there were a few
jump scares. I like it that they added a little bit of mystery to it. I
give this movie a B for effort. It did seem a little long though, they
could have made it at least a little bit shorter. They had some cool
special effects like when the mirror got shot and the holes repaired
themselves. Overall it was not that bad of a movie.
