
The film Boxtrolls is so jam packed with themes that cut to the core of
our society that you might expect it to be cobbled together, choppy,
overreaching, and pretentious. It is, in fact, none of those things.

A thoroughly entertaining, not too cerebral, romp down one box conveyor
after another, the film succeeds at wrapping it's central theme of
persecution and prejudice in layers of equally significant ideas: group
self-identification, class ambition, dalliant obsessions, self-esteem,
and self-destructive addiction. It follows a nicely predictable plot
arc that will satisfy your children while you ponder whether the plucky
heroine's ostensible obsession with the macabre is likely a reflection
of a Freudian complex with roots in her father's indifference. The bad
guy with his crooked teeth and greazy hair is unmistakably evil. But at
the same time the good guys aren't wearing the white hats. In fact,
it's comparing and poking fun at both incompetence and maliciousness.

The animation finds it's grounding in a setting that is reminiscent of
Corpse Bride. From the industrial green palate of the box trolls to the
stiff and starched characterization of the patrician class, the visual
design of the film holds together well.

After the film you'll walk out of the theater with lots of things on
your mind, but you won't be walking out with a child who was bored to
sleep or fits by another didactic feature of animated hogwash. That is
an impressive achievement for any film.
<|_=00=_|>
We took our 3 year old son to this film, and was not expecting much
entertainment for us adults. However, both my wife and I really enjoyed
it and my son has been walking around in a bottomless box with holes
cut in it,(for his head and arms),for two days.

It has a lot of charm and a slight edge of darkness. I am surprised
that it has received such poor reviews from the critics. I have noticed
they tend to rate realistic, depressing films; whereas we like happy
escapist fun and this film delivers that. 

We are from the UK and the voices are perhaps better known here, which
may have contributed, a little, to our perception of this film's charm.
<|_=00=_|>
The "animation" genre now has a common trait: it is known for broader
gags, bullet speed pacing, and eye candy visuals, but out of many
animation studios out there, Laika Entertainment could be the only one
that stays loyal to their own direction. Aside of the stop- motion
animation and love to the horror movie camp, their storytelling and
themes are equally unconventional, though charmingly daring at best.
The Boxtrolls is no different from their last two movies, except this
one might be gentler, but the strangeness is still there intact. And by
those merit, the experience becomes special.

It might get immediately be assumed that the film has the same moral of
2012's ParaNorman. It does have that feeling: strange people being
treated as outcasts by everybody and describes their fear to them out
of caricatures. But the film tends to explore more messages beneath
besides of that, if you can get behind with the whole rescue plan
stuff, you may also get to notice that it's really about separating
people's common views and expectations from the reality; like the
Boxtrolls they're against with aren't actually bad creatures, or some
fathers turn out to be not as supportive as they're supposed to be, or
even the difference between being good and bad. The sentiment may sound
a little familiar, but the delivery here is often steady and bitter to
acknowledge its sincerity, and it indeed makes it remarkable.

As for the animation, there's no hiding for the love of the horror
movie aesthetics. The world already looks magnificently whimsical as
the filmmakers transcend their stop-motion animating abilities by
making grander and crazier set pieces and physical comedy, but when it
comes to featuring its creature and character designs, the camp just
brings lots of it to life, some parent might find it a little creepy
for smaller children, but if they don't even bother then there is no
denying how beautiful they're designed anyway. In another angle, it
offers a larger extent of warmth compared to many family movies today.
The nearly wordless montage of the Boxtroll Fish raising young Eggs is
one of the sweetest things you would see in recent memory, while the
sadder montage at the middle act could surprisingly be affecting. These
storytellers just know how to drive emotions. Among the voice actors,
Ben Kingsley predictably becomes the best. He brings the main pizazz as
both the villain and his hilarious drag disguise. Isaac Hempstead
Wright and Elle Fanning are great as well, giving their characters the
personalities they need. There are more big names (mentioning the
favorites like Simon Pegg and Richard Ayoade) that bring the extra fun
of the film.

The Boxtrolls is probably going to be the least attraction for the
animation genre this year, mostly because it's nearly apart from the
comfort zone of today's entertainment. If you don't care about trends,
then this movie is a treat, and as usual from its studio, the overall
film is dark, campy, but visually stunning and eventually endearing.
They still haven't changed and I hope it always stays that way,
especially the monster movie tribute and strong heart and perspective
towards things. The Boxtrolls proves that these types of animated films
shouldn't be antique yet, there is a huge value to its quality and
moviegoers should once again encounter it.
<|_=00=_|>
For the potential viewers of this film, don't worry if you didn't read
the book Here Be Monsters! first. The Boxtrolls movie stands on its own
as an excellent story wrapped in visuals that pay homage to the craft
of stop motion animation. It's funny, clever, gross, a bit cheeky, and
a bit dark. Everything kids and many adults who accompany them or with
others in the age group will enjoy. Whether it will be a classic or
not, is hard to say.

The Boxtrolls are, well, basically trolls that have boxes they use as
clothes and safety. They are a modest and timid sort. They are also
industrious and like all kinds of gadgets. Since the story takes place
around the time of the Industrial Revolution, there is no shortage of
gears, crankshafts, bolts, wheels, or any manner of metal part they try
to put to some other use. They also are good at babysitting. None more
so than Fish and Shoe, the two de facto fathers of one young boy that
goes by the name of Eggs (it should be noted that their names are the
names of the boxes they wear).

Without getting into too much detail about the origins of their young
charge, these three along with the other Boxtrolls have been labeled as
kidnapping, baby eating, monsters by the fine townfolk of Cheesebridge.
Led by the elite White Hats and their leader Lord Portly-Rind (Jared
Harris) and the upwardly mobile Red Hat Archie Snatcher (Ben Kingsley),
they have vowed to eradicate their hamlet of the Boxtroll vermin. The
only thing more important than accomplishing this task is their love of
all types of cheese. Some of the funniest and strangest scenes of the
film is the discussions and consumption of cheese by the ruling class
and the aforementioned Mr. Snatcher.

Besides a wonderful voice acting performance by Sir Kingsley, The
Boxtrolls is full of great turns. Two of Mr. Snatch's henchmen Mr.
Pickles and Mr. Trout, (Richard Ayoade and Nick Frost, respectively)
offer up metaphysical and philosophical commentary musings about life
and their career choices. On the other hand, the overzealous Mr.
Gristle (Tracy Morgan) is a man of few words, rather letting his
actions do the talking. Elle Fanning (Maleficent) and Isaac Hempstead
Wright (Game Of Thrones) are a perfect match as Winnie, the daughter of
Lord Portly-Rind and Eggs. She teaches him how to act in public, while
he indulges her thirst for all things creepy and crawly.

The look of The Boxtrolls can be summed up in one word: amazing. Not in
a super saturated color, larger than life way, but in a painstakingly
meticulous, attention to detail way. Although the film is in 3d and
might lose something when viewed on a smaller screen, the skill,
reverence and affection the animation/modeling team poured into the
sets and characters, along with top shelf screen writing and acting
make this film one of the best animated features to come out in quite a
while.

- See more at: www.mediumraretv.org
<|_=00=_|>
This mix of stop-motion and CGI brings a fun, charming tale that
appeals to all ages.

Set in the town of Cheesebridge (it's motto - a gouda place to live),
the 'minion'-like creatures called boxtrolls have for years terrorised
the habitants and are hunted by childcatcher-esque exterminator
'Archibald Snatcher', voiced by Sir Ben Kingsley, who has been promised
a place in the town council if he's destroys every last one. The story
is enjoyable, heartwarming and is really brought alive by the stop
motion animation and topped by a plethora of famous British voices.

The themes are a little darker than explored in a lot of younger-aimed
films, and there is a sense of adventure and danger that you don't see
in the majority of animations. But this doesn't mean that it isn't
entertaining. Those who are fond of the Despicable Me's minions, will
love the Boxtrolls' actions and personalities, resulting in many
lighthearted moments too.

For those that have seen creator Laika's other works - Coraline and
Paranorman - you will enjoy this very much. They don't have as much of
a fan base as the biggest stop motion Aardman - the visionaries behind
Wallace & Gromit, but their quirkier, darker animations can appeal to a
larger range of audiences. Here, with their third film, they have made
really enjoyable film, entertaining from beginning to end. Be sure to
stay at the end for a little credit sting showing how it was made.
<|_=00=_|>
There are cute children's films - like "Frozen, the first movie to
which I ever took my granddaughter (then just under three) - and then
there is the more challenging kind - like "The Boxtrolls" to which I
took her nine months later. We haven't read the source material, the
novel "Here Be Monsters!" by Alan Snow, but she knows all about trolls
from "Frozen" and other stories and these are very cleverly represented
through stop- motion capture by the specialist production company
Laika. But it's a little bit scary for young ones, so my granddaughter
held on to my hand most of the film and sat on my lap for the final
third.

For British adults of a certain age, the characters of the town of
Cheesebridge look like people from a Gerald Scarfe cartoon and the
subterranean habitat of the boxtrolls themselves is like a cross
between the worlds of Heath Robinson and Hieronymus Bosch. The voices
are very well-done and for me the best of comes from Ben Kingsley as a
hard bad guy and Richard Ayoade as a soft bad guy. Stay for the credits
when early on there is a little bit of existential angst on display
from two of the stop motion characters.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is recommended.

The Boxtrolls, a well-crafted stop motion animation film combined with
the latest CGI advances, is an entertaining but somewhat safer and
slightly sanitized film from Laika, the same studio that delivered
Coraline and ParaNorman, two earlier children's film with a twisted
Gothic edge. A pleasant antidote to the cheery Disney fare regularly
served to the young set, the film is diverting fun. 

There are still twists and turns in the film but it's less of a giddy
roller coaster ride than expected. Based on Alan Snow's novel, Here Be
Monsters, the darker tone of the book has been substantially altered
and lightened up for a more crowd-pleasing effect, although there are
some grotesque moments that may frighten the little ones.

Moviegoers are immediately transported to the dingy squalor of brick
factories and small shoppes that line the cobblestone streets of
Dicken's Ole Victorian London town, or, in this case, renamed
Cheesebridge. The upper and lower class live here, both in fear of the
Boxtrolls, a lower lower subspecies that dwell underground who are part
monster, part cardboard. Living amidst them is Eggs, an abandoned child
who was lovingly raised by these creatures that roam the night to
recycle the discarded refuse left by people. They avoid human contact
as much as possible. Who can blame them! There is the haughty and
aristocratic Lord and Lady Portley-Rind, their inquisitive and
precocious daughter, Winnie, and especially Archibald Snatcher, a
scheming and hateful villain whose main goal is to do away with all
Boxtrolls! 

As with most animated films nowadays, the visual elements are far
superior to the narrative story. The Boxtrolls are not the exception.
While the script has some clever dialog, an involving tale, and its
charming characters, the plot becomes too formula-driven and
conventional. The screenplay by Irena Brignull and Adam Pava relies too
heavily on slapstick and chase sequences rather than developing any
deep characterizations. The Boxtrolls themselves lack any real
distinctive personalities and that British droll humor is in short
supply. Everything seems a tad too predictable and ordinary, except for
the artistry of the filmmakers and their wonderful details with the
elaborate settings, steam-punk gadgetry, and off-beat characters.
Special kudos to the remarkable production design by Paul Lasaine. 

The voice-over work by the actors (Isaac Hempstead-Wright, Elle
Fanning, Jared Harris, Simon Pegg, Nick Frost, and Tracy Morgan) is
highly accomplished and adds even more joy to the film, especially with
Sir Ben Kingley's marvelous line delivery as the nasty baddie who
completely steals the film. (In fact, Archibald is more interesting
than our hero, Eggs, at least, as viewed in this film adaptation.
Kingsley has created one of the best animated villains in years,
although part of his great performance pays direct homage to Dame
Edna.)

Directors Graham Annable and Anthony Stacchi painstakingly create a
unique world of grime and clutter. They also allow the surreal elements
to emerge to maximum effect, particularly in the underground sequences.
Though the film lacks some cohesiveness in its story-telling, The
Boxtrolls, more often than not, does think outside the box. With all
its creative energy and technical inventiveness on display, even Roald
Dahl would be proud. GRADE: B

Visit my blog at: www.dearmoviegoer.com

ANY COMMENTS: Please contact me at: jadepietro@rcn.com
<|_=00=_|>
If you haven't yet seen 'Coraline' or 'ParaNorman', it may take you a
while to get used to the world of 'The Boxtrolls'. The third feature
from Oregon-based studio Laika Animation, it is told using the same
stop-motion technique (with some CG and hand-drawn work) as their
earlier films, but the similarity doesn't quite stop there. Yes, once
again, the animators have eschewed the cuteness of Disney or Dreamworks
for something much darker than your normal kiddie fare at the Cineplex,
and therein, we would argue, is the reason why it proves so uniquely
charming.

Adapted from British children's author Alan Snow's fantasy adventure
'Here Be Monsters!', it retains the Steampunk setting of the novel but
takes quite a few creative liberties. Instead of an over-
industrialised Ratbridge, the city in question is Cheesebridge, so
termed because the dairy product is what separates the rich in "White
Hats" from the poor in red ones. What unites the humans across their
class distinctions is the subterranean Boxtrolls, little blue- skinned
fluorescent-eyed creatures who emerge from the sewers at night to swipe
anything and everything they can get their hands on.

So named on account of the cupboard boxes they wear their bodies, the
Boxtrolls are feared by the humans as much they fear the humans. The
fear of the former is stoked by none other than Archibald Snatcher
(voiced by Ben Kingsley), a truly detestable rascal who is responsible
for spreading nasty rumours about the Boxtrolls in order to justify his
eradication for a coveted place with the "White Hats" and a seat with
them at the cheese tasting table. As you can probably guess, their
leader is no saint either, but rather a self- absorbed aristocrat by
the name of Lord Portley-Rind who cares more about his Gouda and Brie
than the welfare of his citizenry.

It's a lot of setup, but co-directors Anthony Stacchi and Graham
Annable deftly lay out the intricacies of their make-believe world
while setting the narrative in motion. For reasons only revealed in a
crucial flashback sequence later, a boy is taken as a toddler under the
care of the Boxtrolls and is named Eggs after the carton he wears over
himself. While on the prowl one night, Eggs runs into Lord Portley's
precocious daughter Winnifred (Elle Fanning) who is shocked that a
human would be associating himself with the dreaded Boxtrolls; but
before she can make his acquaintance, Eggs is forced to flee from
Archibald and his henchmen.

As such stories go, Eggs sets off on a quest with Winnifred in tow to
convince the humans that the Boxtrolls aren't sinister beings who
kidnap children. To top it off, Archibald turns out to have a nefarious
scheme after all, building a contraption to assert his authority over
Lord Portley and demanding that he be given the latter's white hat. But
parents need not worry - writers Irena Brignull and Adam Pava don't
deny the kids of a happy ending, though not before subjecting them to
some grotesque images that may just make them swear off cheese for some
time.

Consider this as fair warning - visually, this isn't cast in the same
mould as the usual CG animation, and one might even go as far as to say
that 'The Boxtrolls' operates in a realm of ugliness. But once you look
past the cruder-than-usual designs, you're likely to find the
cardboard-wearing critters surprisingly endearing by their guile and
naivety. We urge you too to pay attention to the dazzling production
design that makes up the world of Cheesebridge and the underground lair
in which the boxtrolls call home; there is a whole cornucopia of
details that will leave you wowed if you pay attention to them.

Still, compared to their earlier features, this latest lacks the heart
and poignancy that made its predecessors memorable. Eggs never comes
across as someone whose plight we would sympathise with, nor for that
matter is Winnifred a likable enough character. The way the boxtrolls
communicate in an Ewok-like language is amusing all right, but they are
lacking individually in any defining personality. Because we never
quite understand the reason why the humans so fear the boxtrolls, their
eventual reconciliation doesn't quite resonate as it should.

It isn't that 'The Boxtrolls' is underwhelming though; against a
surfeit of clean-cut CG animation, its stop-motion aesthetics make it a
refreshing change of look. Rather, because its earlier two adventures
were such singular accomplishments, Laika's latest seems more like a
walk in the park. Yet its refusal to be boxed in (pun intended) by
conventional animation features is still evident in its design as well
as its choice of themes, and if there ever were need to prove that it
is possible to be both grotesque and charming at the same time, then
'The Boxtrolls' would be it.
<|_=00=_|>
Based on Alan Snow's children novel "Here Be Monsters", The Boxtrolls
follows in the eerie and murky footsteps of Coraline and Paranorman for
an animated caper with more quirkiness than a Come Dine With Me at Tim
Burton's house.

Isaac Hempstead Wight voices "Eggs", a boy who grew up under the
streets by a group of box-wearing trolls, who roam the streets at night
finding anything they can to make into useful devices. Deemed a menace
and a scourge, the city employs The Red Hats, a team of brutal
Boxtroll-catching goons led by Snatcher (Ben Kingsley) - a ruthless and
ambitious tyrant, who hopes to climb the social hierarchy in order to
swap his red hat for a white one.

White Hats are the political strata of society, the decision-makers,
who spend more time scoffing cheese in the Tasting Room than providing
any worthwhile contribution to the town of Cheesebridge. When a White
Hat's daughter, Winnie (Elle Fanning), falls in with The Boxtrolls and
Eggs, the town becomes the setting for a rough-and-tumble adventure as
the gang attempt to find and free the Boxtrolls who have been taken by
the Red Hats.

Fun, funky, and full of creative freedom, The Boxtrolls delivers a
meatier and more enjoyable family film than its predecessors, with a
spectacular cast of voices, and some of the best animation in years. It
is lively, perfectly-timed, and some of the weightier themes will keep
even the snobbiest of film-watchers interested. The film delivers
commentary on very relevant class issues and green themes, whilst
keeping them tucked under a bombastic and explosive film for families.

The Boxtrolls themselves are like ugly Minions, speaking an
incomprehensible dialect of baffling gibberish, whilst looking
petrified by the harsh realities of human interaction. They are, in
fact, more appealing than Minions as they each have subtle differences
(like the one with false teeth, or the one with anger issues), and
varying boxes - such as Fish or Eggs.

Just as The Boxtrolls roam the streets recycling garbage into new and
useful things, the film itself has recycled some of its makers' past
imagery (wouldn't quite call it garbage, although Paranorman tested
this particular reviewer) and created a late summer film that thinks
outside the box.
<|_=00=_|>
Fantastic animation. Fantastic animation and fantastic animation.

The movie though falls flat. The trolls are far less scary than the
humans. Perhaps part of the, 'preachy', 'theme' the production team was
looking for. From a kids perspective it's hard to tell if they'll have
sleepless nights or enjoy the quirky, over the top characters and all
their gross out detail. From an adults a little childish and annoying
as the characters don't fit into the standard category of kiddies/adult
flicks; inside out comes to mind - the perfect mix of made for children
and adult fodder.

If your little one scares easily. Avoid. If they can sit through a
period piece and get over the humans they'll be just fine. If you're
the baby sitter you might want to take along something to read to keep
you entertained during the long periods of dull script and story line
and look up at the screen during the sprinkle of odd ball gross out
humor combined with some cringe worthy boy/girl lines.
