
R.I.P.D. is exactly what it looks like. The plot was not mind-blowing
but it was good enough to hold my attention, the acting was not Oscar
worthy but they did a very good job in their respective roles and it
wasn't the funniest thing I've ever seen but I did laugh. I would
almost categorize this as an action before a comedy, it's got quite a
bit going on! 

I liked the second half of the movie more than the first, though that's
not to say the first half was bad. It just felt a little repetitive and
right about the time I began to feel like it was going to go in
circles, it kept moving and saved itself. The second half steps it up
in both action and comedy and the climactic ending was great.

Overall I enjoyed R.I.P.D. It was just a fun movie that you don't need
to think about!
<|_=00=_|>
The movie basically follows the three act formula, and although the
crusty veteran and out of element rookie has been done before I enjoyed
Jeff Bridges and Ryan Reynolds on the screen together. There is plenty
action and a fair amount of comedy. there were some plot holes and the
ending left a few unanswered questions. Even with these flaws my wife
and I both feel like there are many worse ways to spend a few bucks on
a hot afternoon. This is not a blockbuster or a classic movie, I would
classify it as a good popcorn flick. Contrary to many other opinions
here we both recommend this as a watchable movie, as long as your
expectations are reasonable.
<|_=00=_|>
When I first saw the trailer for R.I.P.D. there were 2 things that made
me wanna see it. 1. I love Ryan Reynolds Jeff Bridges and Kevin Bacon.
2. It just looked really entertaining. Thats not to say of course that
this movie is without it's flaws.

You do get a feeling like in a way you have already seen this movie
before and thats because in some ways it's a lot like Men in Black.
that does somewhat pull you out of the movie at times but it really is
not that big a problem. In my opinion the pros in this movie far out
weigh the cons. It is a fun movie with interesting and likable
characters. A cool idea that is fairly well writtin and just an overall
fun movie to watch.

Thats really all I have to say about R.I.P.D. I don't really understand
all of the hate thats it has gotten it really does not deserve all of
that. Have people forgotten how to just have fun sometimes? I give
R.I.P.D. a 7.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
Seen this 5 days ago and I loved it! Don't really understand what the
hate is about or whats the deal with the critics and the awful 25
rating on metascore. The movie does what its supposed to,it
entertains,its fun,its not heavy,just plain summertime fun. And all the
comparisons with MIB?! They ONLY replaced the alien angle with the
deados angle,and its not agent K and J,but its ONLY 2 dead guys,and one
of them is a Wild West lawman. This has nothing to do with MIB,plus its
a better movie than the last two sequels of MIB. And people say they
took the rookie/veteran mismatch from MIB,although it was already done
in a million different movies before MIB. I know i've mentioned MIB
quiet a few times in this review,but all for you to see that it is
nothing like it. Go see it and you won't regret it. Jeff Bridges is
hilarious and Ryan Reynolds is cool as always. Its fast,its fun,the
special effects are great. Do yourself a favor,buy a lot of popcorn,sit
back and enjoy the ride!
<|_=00=_|>
Yes, it's formulaic in some areas. As a writer, I could see several of
the plot elements more or less from the beginning. But this movie isn't
intended to be complex, or at an "Avenger" level in terms of
characterization. It's just plain good summer fun, with an interesting
cast and a lot of laughs. Jeff Bridges is priceless, and he & Ryan
Reynolds work well together. Ryan, with his trademark choirboy looks
and deadpan delivery, is definitely watchable. Mary Louise Parker, with
a scarily perky character who gets to chew the scenery with a load of
offbeat lines, is wonderful as the Proctor.

Some reviewers seem to insist on portraying the film as a poor man's
ripoff of Men In Black, or Ghostbusters. It's neither. It's just a fun,
wisecracking film based on a well known genre comic from independent
publisher Dark Horse. Go, have some popcorn, laugh a lot, and enjoy the
summer.
<|_=00=_|>
'R.I.P.D.': Three and a Half Stars (Out of Five)

One of the summer's biggest expensive casualties is this Dark Horse
comic adaptation starring Ryan Reynolds and Jeff Bridges as two police
officers in the after life fighting undead ghouls. It was directed by
Robert Schwentke (who also directed the action films 'RED' and
'FLIGHPLAN') and written by Phil Hay, Matt Manfredi and David Dobkin.
Peter M. Lenkov created the comic book it's based on and also executive
produced the film. The film also co-stars Kevin Bacon, Mary-Louise
Parker, Stephanie Szostak, Marisa Miller and James Hong. Oddly both
Reynolds and Parker had two big films opening the same weekend
(Reynolds also can be heard in the animated family film 'TURBO' and
Parker reprised her role in the sequel to Schwentke's 'RED'). All three
films bombed and Reynolds now has a pretty big reputation for
constantly delivering box office misfires. That doesn't mean they're
bad films though and I actually enjoyed 'R.I.P.D.' to a certain degree
(definitely not an especially good movie though).

The film opens with a Boston cop named Nick Walker (Reynolds), having a
dispute with his partner, Bobby Hayes (Bacon), over whether or not to
turn in gold they found at a recent drug bust. Walker is shot and
killed by Hayes during a shootout and is recruited by the R.I.P.D.
(Rest In Peace Department) in the afterlife. The R.I.P.D. specializes
in catching 'deados', which are souls who have refused to leave the
land of the living. Walker is teamed with an old U.S. Marshal from the
Old West, named Roy Pulsipher (Bridges), while he attempts to track
down his old partner and clear his reputation with the love of his
life, Julia Walker (Szostak). 

The biggest complaint I've heard about the trailer for the film is how
much it resembles the film 'MEN IN BLACK' and I have to say, after
seeing the film as well, that it very much resembles a 'MEN IN BLACK'
movie. It's of course not nearly as good as that campy sci-fi classic
but it is better than it's first sequel (arguably 'MEN IN BLACK 3' as
well). The fact is the movie is not nearly as bad as a lot of people
like to say it is. It's a lot of fun, funny at times and the visuals
are spectacular. It had a budget of approximately $130 million and as a
purely visual treat it paid off; as far as the special effects go, plus
the women are all super hot (Szostak and Miller are breathtaking in the
flick). Watching Reynolds and Bridges together (as an odd couple duo)
is a treat as well and it's funny to see Reynolds being mostly the
straight man while Bridges mostly hams it up (Bacon is also once again
a great despicable villain). Not a great film by any means but not a
bad one either.

Watch our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK' at:
https://youtu.be/NdWU81GeyN4
<|_=00=_|>
I saw he trailers and wondered if the movie would be as funny, or if
they had shown all the "good stuff" in the trailer. Well, I'm happy to
report that the trailers captured much of the essence of the movie, but
the movie itself has much more. 

I don't know what some of the critics expect. Shakespeare? Hey, this is
a comic book movie. It is a fantasy. It is not real and not meant to be
real. But it IS also fun. It is quite possible that this movie will
lose money, but that is simply because of bad positioning, overwhelming
competition, and failure to deliver adequate advertising. But none of
those things detract from the movie itself. 

I went to the movie with some trepidation, but found it to be funny and
entertaining. It was consistent with its premise and it certainly had
enough action, and even (gasp) character development. There is nothing
really deep about this movie, okay? But it is good summer entertainment
and definitely worth seeing.
<|_=00=_|>
Foghorn Leghorn comes alive in the person of Roy in this hilarious
spoof of the Men in Black series. After reading a slew of reviews that
trashed this movie, I decided to watch the movie and judge for myself.
Apparently, what I watched significantly differed from what these other
reviewers had seen. This movie is obviously a spoof on the Men-In-Black
movies, with Jeff Bridges reprieving his Rooster Cogburn role, this
time in a character named Roy, with highly amusing results. Indeed at
times Bridges performance is hilarious as he and his sidekick Nick
bicker and exchange taunts and insults when not destroying "Deadies"
who have escaped back to earth. Although Ryan Reynolds co-stars,
Bridges dominates the movie. His performance is so strong that he
overshadows every other cast member in the movie. Although some of the
special effects are cheesy and most of the story is hokey and
contrived, such as the love interest between Nick and his wife which
really stretches literary license to the limit, the movie nevertheless
is engaging and keeps the audience's attention. This is the case
because despite his gruffness, Roy is an engaging character. Mary
Louise Parker and Kevin Bacon perform wonderfully in supporting roles,
with Parker demonstrating a talent for dead-pan humor and Bacon playing
a bad guy with much effectiveness. Furthermore, the movie ends on an
upbeat note, with the two main characters having resolved the
interpersonal issues that had initially strained their relationship.
Jeff Bridges and Ryan Reynolds work well together; also, Bridges sings
two songs, revealing an excellent singing voice. If one is expecting a
sci-fi classic, you will be disappointed. But if one is expecting a
well-crafted comedy that will keep you entertained, then you will be
gratified.
<|_=00=_|>
From the trailer, I had high hopes this film would deliver a smashing
spectacle with great humor and a unique premise. Alas, this turned out
to be one of those cases where the trailer is better than the movie
itself.

To be fair, the film has its moments. The comedy never made me laugh
outright, but there are amusing lines and situations throughout. Some
of the most amusing moments emerge from the interplay between the
characters, and the clever gag in which everybody sees them as
different people. As far as the action goes, there is quite a bit of
mass destruction and plenty of shoot-outs and fights. However, it is
very manic, over-the-top, and strangely cartoony. The overall tone felt
really uneven; the movie was fairly serious at times, deadpan in
others, and overblown the rest of the time. I was never bored, but I
was never fully engaged or invested in things.

It is a shame, because the film has some unique ideas here and there.
The overall premise of an undead police department is pretty neat, they
use a lot of cool weapons, and they have some really quirky rules and
ideas. It's a weird world where Indian food causes the villainous
"dead-o's" to "pop" into gaudy monsters (if you remember the beginning
of Van Helsing, with Mr. Hyde...pretty much all the monsters look like
that, perhaps cross-bred with the zombies from I Am Legend). Everybody
perceives the two main characters as a hot blonde chick and an old
Chinese dude. Sounds fun, right? For whatever reason, it all comes off
as a superfluous effort to build comedy from being weird; it worked so
well for the Men In Black films, but it all falls rather flat in RIPD.

The story overall is pretty fast and compact. It does a fine enough job
of introducing the characters, slapping them together, and crafting
some dynamic chemistry between them. However, the plot is pretty
standard fare, and it never takes the time to truly invest the audience
in the world it portrays. It shows just enough to make the plot work,
but it never explains much, never builds on the things it briefly
touches on, and never really makes us care.

The film uses a lot of stylish camera moves, fast-zooms, and
slow-motion effects, which you could either see as being really cool or
really dumb. Editing is okay in general. Acting is a mixed bag: Ryan
Reynolds is strangely flat and emotionless throughout, save for the few
love scenes, while Jeff Bridges steals the show repeatedly, in a role
that almost seems to parody his role from True Grit. Kevin Bacon is
pretty much himself, and I loved watching Mary-Louise Parker. Writing
is not that great. This production uses okay sets, props, and costumes.
Special effects look cool, but are on the cheap side. Music is hip and
fun.

In the end, I couldn't help but to think of other films and how much
better they are than RIPD. For stories that involve parallels between
worlds of the living and worlds of the dead, I couldn't help but to
think that the Bleach anime was a better story, and the Dead Like Me TV
series was funnier. For that same concept with the perfect blend of
action and comedy, the two Hellboy movies are effectively perfect. For
comic-book-inspired stories about enforcers tackling the supernatural
without the general public knowing, the three Men In Black movies
succeed in everything RIPD tried to do, but failed. And even with the
climax, with the dead threatening to rise up and end the world, I
couldn't help but to remember how much better Ghostbusters was in this
field. RIPD even has a brief staircase gag that reminded me of GB. All
of those come recommended, but RIPD, not so much.

Given its poor box office reception, I think it's safe to say that RIPD
will Rest in Piece, buried alongside such equally marginal pictures as
Jonah Hex and Priest.

3/5 (Entertainment: Average | Story: Marginal | Film: Average)
<|_=00=_|>
In Boston, the dirty cop Nick (Ryan Reynolds) hides gold that he has
stolen from drug-dealers with his partner Hayes (Kevin Bacon) in the
backyard of his house. However, on the next morning, Nick tells Hayes
that he will deliver the evidence to the police since he loves his wife
Julia (Stephanie Szostak) and he could not face her acting that way.
Nick and Hayes are assigned to a raid against a dangerous gang and
unexpectedly Hayes kills Nick.

Nick is drawn by a tunnel and based on his previous experience in the
police department, he is assigned in the afterlife by the Proctor
(Mary-Louise Parker) to join the Rest in Peace Department that protects
the living world from the undead and work with the old- fashioned agent
Roy (Jeff Bridges). Roy and Nick accidentally find that Hayes in
plotting a scheme to revert the sense of the tunnel to the afterlife
and bring the Apocalypse to Earth.

"R.I.P.D." is a silly but entertaining M.I.B. and Blade Runner rip-off
combined with the clichés of a rookie cop that is assigned to work with
a veteran one. Why Hayes had split the gold with Nick if he intended to
use in his scheme is one of the many holes in the plot that alternates
funny with silly and annoying moments. However, "R.I.P.D." is an
entertaining popcorn in the end. My vote is six.

Title (Brazil): "R.I.P.D. - Agentes do Além" ("R.I.P.D. - Agents from
Beyond")
