
Brilliantly acted film depicting two soldiers whose job it is to inform
families when loved ones are killed in battle. Harrelson has never been
better and Foster more than matches him all the way. It's emotional and
engaging and genuinely painful at times. I had always thought how hard
it must be to carry out such a job but had never really considered just
what psychologically damage it could do long term to the person doing
it. Harrelson depicts a man who has been doing the job far too long
brilliantly and Foster in turn shows just what it can do to you
initially. It's a perfect blend and the chemistry is excellent from
start to finish. Deserves a much wider release and is with out doubt
one of the best films of last year.
<|_=00=_|>
The Messenger has incredible acting by Ben Foster, Woody Harrelson, and
Samantha Morton. 

The film has a curious flow to it. It begins predictable, yet remains
engaging, exposing a heart-breaking consequence of war no family wants
to face. Although the news remains the same, emotions run just as deep
at each door. Every scene is handled marvelously through subtle
performances by the actors. As the film unfolds, the viewer sinks into
the complex characters on screen, discomforted by the internal
struggles that slowly surface. 

The Messenger is a non-linear, character-driven film with exceptional
performances but might not be for everyone.
<|_=00=_|>
I was fortunate enough to see this at the recent NY Drama Critics
showcase, where both the director (Mr. Moverman) and a co-star (Woody
Harrelson) participated in after-show Q&A. First of all, the film is
superb - but the summaries I've seen so far do not do justice to what
the movie is really about. Sure there are ethical dilemmas, sure there
are soldiers who have returned from Iraq. But the great strength of
this film is its focus on individual human beings and their reaction to
humans' most important concerns: life, death and love. Oren Moverman -
accomplishing this so beautifully, accurately and subtly in a
small-budget film - is to be congratulated. Woody Harrelson, Ben Foster
and Samantha Morton are all magically on the same wavelength in their
performances. And the writing (by Camon and Moverman) acknowledges the
fact that reasonably intelligent people might be watching... people who
don't need every little detail spelled out. Oh yes - I should mention
that there's a lot of humor interspersed throughout. The result of all
this? The people you meet in this film will stay with you for a very
long time - and you'll be glad for that.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw The Messenger (as well as Oren Moverman and Ben Foster luckily)
at the 2009 Philadelphia Film Festival and can say sincerely that I was
captivated and moved by it for the majority of its runtime. No matter
what your background or stance on the war, you need not worry because
it is not a movie that attempts to have an opinion, but merely one that
captures a different kind of war- one between civilians and the
military, between following procedure and following what you believe.

In his last three months of service, Officer Will Montgomery (Ben
Foster), is assigned to be a messenger to next-of-kins who have died in
Iraq alongside the elder Lieutenant Anthony Stone (Woody Harrelson). He
struggles with being the bearer of bad news to heartbroken parents and
wives, delivering the messages to people of all ages, ethnicities, and
social classes. His work becomes compromised, however, when
complications with his girlfriend arise and he becomes involved with
one of the widows, challenging his ethical and moral considerations. He
plays the younger, more vulnerable to Harrelson's gruff,
uncompromising, and often cold ethic.

The film is, in a word, compassionate, as it is almost entirely
character-driven. The chemistry between Foster and Harrelson is
incredible, demonstrating talent beyond the range of what one would
expect for both actors. I would be very surprised if either one of
these two were not nominated for an Academy Award. The cinematography
is also very unusual, filmed in long takes, letting scenes unfold,
rather than wide/medium/close- up/reverse formula, and heavily based on
improvisation.

All in all, The Messenger is a touching story about the differences we
can make in others' lives simply by being the right person to break the
news and having an open heart. It's a tribute to the men and women in
arms without letting political differences get in the way. A story of
the war at home shared alike by civilians and military, it's hard not
to feel emotionally affected.
<|_=00=_|>
I will not reiterate the plot of The Messenger; it has been done
exhaustively already. The relevant facts, to me, are: This movie is a
work of art in which the intentions of the director, writer,
cinematographer and actors are all united. The actors, especially leads
Ben Foster, Woody Harrelson and Samantha Morton, give subtle, nuanced
performances. The plot is not cookie-cutter; you cannot guess what is
going to happen at every turn. It is serious at its core but is not
devoid of humor.

Lately, I have been happier with the older movies I see on cable than
the movies showing in theaters. This is the exception.
<|_=00=_|>
THE MESSENGER is by far and away one of the best works of art that
addresses the deep tragedy behind the current U.S. war in the Middle
East that I've seen. THE MESSENGER is an attempt by Director Oren
Moverman and screen writer Alessandro Camon to place themselves between
the ears of two career soldiers who serve a vital place in U.S. Army
Special Services, Casualty Notification teams who inform the families
of soldiers that their family member has been killed in battle. As
someone who remembers full well the devastating feeling you got in your
insides when you saw these teams turn up at the quarters of friends and
their families when my own father was serving in Vietnam in the late
1960s, I found the film an important effort.

Staff Sergeant Will Montgomery (Ben Foster) is a Iraqi war veteran
recovering from a battlefield wound who is reassigned to a State
Department and United States Army Casualty Notification team, which is
led by Captain Tony Stone (Woody Harrelson). Montgomery is also facing
an impending breakup with his girlfriend Kelly (Jena Malone), who is
playing him off against a wealthy, established suitor. When he is
assigned to Stone's team, he is at first resentful. The military
decorum which is demanded of the Casualty Notification Team is very
exacting, with learned routines that come from a spit and polish
military professionalism that requires a distance that is extremely
difficult to attain. 

What follows is a series of well connected vignettes, in which the
younger soldier is asked to stride this nether world between the
jaundiced, dry-drunk outlook of the seasoned bearer of bad news,
Captain Stone. Stone is a bitter man with some frustrated ambitions of
his own, which are revealed late in the film. Obsessed with sexual
victories and teeter tottering between professional sobriety and
complete emotional collapse, Stone is far from a steady colleague
mentor. Encounters between he and Montgomery go into emotional roller
coaster as each man learns to accept the other on his own terms while
acting out an extremely trying professional military role.

In short time, Montgomery comes into contact with the widow of a
soldier who sparks his interest, and becomes torn between
professionalism and attraction to the young widow Olivia Pitterson
(Samantha Morton). Montgomery is forced to grow into himself, despite
his outward cynicism, and in short time begins to mentor his mentor,
Captain Stone. The story has an open ending, with Montgomery seeking to
be part of the life of widow Olivia as she is seeking to reestablish
herself in New Orleans. No morals are offered, and this is the true
strength of the work as a whole. There isn't much humor to be found
here, but watch for the scene where a bender fried Montgomery and Stone
attend the wedding reception of the woman who has broken Montgomery's
heart. The lampoon of upper middle class phoniness is priceless.

The beauty of THE MESSENGER is that it does not fall into the usual pro
war or antiwar camps that film making in an era like our own are
usually so encumbered with. The film makers are ambitious and
restrained. I have no idea whether the plot line is itself "contrived"
as some here have argued, which I have to say is a rather ridiculous
critique given that movies are rarely anything but "contrived", and
this is particularly true of the genre we call the war film. Some who
have written here seem to believe that the film discredits the
"professionalism" of those who do the work of Stone and Montgomery, as
though "professionalism" were itself some sort of fetish that protects
one from emotional or mental illness generated by both war time trauma
and the mystique of military culture. Such are the times in which we
live, ideological blather is rampant.

THE MESSENGER is important because, in the words of that great Vietnam
war era politician, the late President Lyndon Baines Johnson, it is
art, it shows us who we are, not who we say we are, not who we think we
are, but who we are as a people, and as a political culture. At various
moments, it is clunky. But it is an early effort to give some true
definition about what the debacle in Iraq has done to our culture, and
to the people who are expected to do the dirty work of the empire's war
machine. It is a rare gem in mainstream contemporary U.S. film making.
<|_=00=_|>
After countless inert and strangely uninvolving films that have been
released over the last few years and have used the war on terror as a
backdrop for their action ("Jarhead," "Rendition," "Stop-Loss," more I
can't even recall at the moment), 2009 produced two films that finally
feel plugged directly into the tone the war has taken in our culture --
one of wearying sadness.

One of those films was "The Hurt Locker," and the other is "The
Messenger," Oren Moverman's somber and haunting story about a troubled
soldier back from the front lines who's assigned the task of notifying
people about the deaths of their loved ones in the conflict. I can't
vouch for the accuracy of either film, but I can say that both
communicate the same emotions I feel when I see or hear first-hand
accounts about what's going on overseas. I'm not enraged or galvanized
into either pro or con positions -- I'm simply depressed by the
meandering, pointlessness of it all and the human waste.

The acting trio of Ben Foster, Woody Harrelson, as Foster's instructor
in how to be a harbinger of death and especially Samantha Morton, as
the widow of one of the dead with whom Foster strikes up a romance of
sorts, are formidable, and the film feels authentic in its settings and
in the people who populate them. If you had to label the film one way
or another, you would definitely have to come down on the side of
anti-war. But it's really too resigned and matter-of-fact for that
label to fit, and that's what I like about it. It almost seems to be
saying that being anti-war is beside the point. Wars are always going
to exist, and to be opposed to them is a waste of time. What's most
troubling to think about are the innumerable number of lives that are
going to be snuffed out because of them.

In a film filled with terrific scenes, the one that haunts me most is
the one set in Morton's kitchen where she tells Foster about the
relationship she shared with her dead husband. Filmed as one long take,
the scene is mesmerizing, and Morton is so good I can't imagine how she
managed to go overlooked at end-of-year awards time.

Grade: A
<|_=00=_|>
I'm normally pretty hesitant about watching movies that have to do with
war, but I'm glad that I chose to watch The Messenger. The movie took a
completely different stance than what I'm used to when watching a movie
about war. I never really thought about the people that had to deliver
the message about a loved one that died in the military, and the way
the story is told made me really care for the characters and feel for
Harrelson's and Foster's characters and the important job that they
have to perform. I would never want to have to do their job, but I
truly respect the people that have to perform that job on a daily
basis. 

Harrelson, Foster and Samantha Morton put on really powerful
performances that I honestly believed. And the rest of the cast did a
fine job, as well. The emotion was so intense that I could feel it, and
I easily got sucked into the story. It was a powerful movie that really
made me think about the hardships in a sincere and thoughtful way.
Overall, I enjoyed the film and I will continue recommending it to all
my friends because I think everybody should watch it at least once. The
story sticks with you long after you finish watching the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
The Messenger is being overshadowed by other war films like The Hurt
Locker, yet it is different and a great film. It has a very slow pace,
but it has some incredibly powerful scenes and some amazing acting.
Woody Harrelson is getting Oscar buzz for his performance, and he does
deserve it. He has had a great year, with this and Zombieland. As great
as he was, though, Ben Foster is just as great. Samantha Morton is
probably better than both because she possesses a subtle and powerful
gesture that only she has. I have only seen her in one other film,
Synecdoche, New York, and she plays completely different types of
personalities in both. Here, she is very quiet, but she is able to
portray the reason why Foster's character is intrigued by her. The job
that Stone and Montgomery (Foster and Harrelson) have is very difficult
to do, and this is the first film to portray a job like that that I
have seen. The director and writer did a great job. One of the flaws is
that by the ending the film has no real directional focus, and this is
a flaw in the screenplay. However, still a great film that should be
seen not just for Harrelson but for the entire cast. Don't let the
subject matter turn you away
<|_=00=_|>
Another gloomy drama depicting what life is like when back home in
wartime; this movie features some really great acting performances and
a subject that resonates every time very powerfully. The plot hasn't
been developed too much, as the story feels more focused on the
characters, on their moody and attitudes/emotions. It's about a
remarkable direction relying very much on the introspective work of the
lead actors. Ben Foster is terrific as a man permanently on the edge,
Woody Harrelson excellent as well as one who's crossed the edge
already. Impressive is also the approach to heroism, without ever
simplifying it and with a strong attention to the story-telling detail.
And even though the plot takes a couple of contrived turns, there's a
subtle, observant film-making about what's going on inside the
characters for a change.
