
My girlfriend got invited to a screening of this movie and though I
tried to wiggle my way out of it, I was trapped into going. Walking
into the theater with the worst possible predisposition, I have to
admit I left smiling. 

Men will immediately sympathize with the Chris Evans character:
Slacker/musician/womanizer. Not the classic perfect catch man of these
type of movies, which is breath of fresh air. I am not particularly
fond of Farris, but she was another pleasant surprise. She makes her
character very likable and though pursuing a completely ridiculous task
she is absolutely relatable. Excellent character development by both,
we see them grow and change and their on screen chemistry is just
right. The reason I think the movie is perfect for all is that it has
the right amount of romantic elements, mixed with a fair amount of
raunchy and naked butts to keep everyone laughing. Not once during this
movie did I feel it was falling into a sappy whole, and trust me I am
the first one to stick two fingers down his throat when that happens
(sorry for the image). 

This movie definitely brakes the mold of Romantic Comedy, hopefully
this is the direction they will take in the future. Let's make one
thing clear: If you go see "What's your number?" be ready to laugh, be
entertained and have a fun time. Don't expect "The Godfather", cause it
ain't. 

I'm not much of a review writer but there's something bugging me and I
want to get it out. As a person who works in the film industry, I am
particularly offended by the comment left below. You can like or
dislike a movie for many reasons, obviously nobody has the definite
truth. However, these folks create, develop, and put their names out
there just to entertain you. You chose to stay behind your computer
screen and criticize their work (poorly, I might add). Guess who's the
coward?
<|_=00=_|>
a friend invited me to a screening of What's Your Number the other
night and i went, but thought it was going to be lame. It wasn't! the
trailer is so bad - why is it so bad? but the movie is funny! i swear,
there are parts that are still making me chuckle days later.

Anna Faris is darling. Chris Evans not as boring as you think he's
going to be - he's actually quite charming. (and his body is sick, but
that's beside the point.) They have good chemistry and the banter
between them is hysterical. they say the things that you think and
would never dare to say out loud, which made me laugh and laugh. some
people might find that offensive, like my mom, but i'm not recommending
this movie to her.

i am recommending it to my girlfriends though. i see a lot of movies
and this is waaay better than that No Strings Attached or horrible
Justin Timberlake rom-com. this one is cute and has some really funny
lines.

also - it's a fun shopping movie. i covet her apartment, i want to go
to Boston in springtime, and it made me want to dig up some of my 80's
music. is it winning an Oscar? no, but it's cute. i don't think you'll
be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
"What's Your Number?" follows the standard Rom-Com formula as all the
other Katherine Heigl or Jennifer Aniston movies that came before it.
The only difference is this one is actually funny and has a bunch of
laugh out loud jokes.

The reason this film is so much better than the other R-rated Rom-Com's
is that Anna Faris is a true comedienne and is not afraid to show a
little butt-cheek to get a laugh. She is essentially the whole reason
to see this film.

Chris Evans, Blythe Danner, and Ed Begley Jr. make up the fine
supporting cast. The jokes are mostly foul, crude, and unsophisticated
but the audience at my showing was laughing throughout most of the
film. The ending gets saccharine and sentimental at the end, but most
of these types of films do that.

If you have felt cheated by the films of Jennifer Aniston and Katherine
Heigl, you should check out "What's Your Number?"
<|_=00=_|>
Do you looooooove Rom-Coms? Do you looooooove Anna Faris? If the answer
is yes to either, then you can add at least another star or two to this
rating.

For me, rom-coms are just too damn predictable and therefore never
going to get above a six rating (unless you're talking unconventional
genre spasms like 500 Days of Summer).

However taking into account I don't like rom-coms, this is the highest
rating one of these films will get from me. Anna Faris is extremely
likable as ever and Chris Evans is very funny and probably a perfect
specimen of man in the eyes of many an audience member.

Watch the trailer and you'll know how it ends but the journey provides
the kind of rude laughs and romantic moments in iconic locations that
are becoming ever more familiar in the modern rom-com.

Like the recent Friends With Benefits (not bad) and the hilarious
Bridesmaids, What's Your Number? is ruder and funnier than many older
rom-coms with hand-job jokes, potty-mouthed dialogue and a female
character who is liberated, crude and played by a star who is
definitely not too shy or vain to embarrass herself.

As Faris' character searches for the perfect man among her twenty
ex-lovers, cameos from Martin Freeman and Andy Samberg maintain
interest but it's Faris and Evans that provide the real laughs and
chemistry.

Nothing new if you're not a rom-com fan but ticks all the boxes for the
target audience and keeps the genre headed in a dirtier direction.
<|_=00=_|>
WHAT'S YOU NUMBER? is a flimsy bit of fluff based on the novel '20
Times A Lady' by Karen Bosnak and transformed for the screen by
Gabrielle Allan and Jennifer Crittenden. It is a very light comedy that
has some observations about today's dating/quasi-relationship scene,
but those impressions are a bit too true to be funny, so it is best to
just concentrate on the film as a diversion of the kick back, put feet
up, and giggle along with it genre.

Ally Darling (!) (Anna Faris) has a history of having many ex-boy
connections who turned out to be losers. Reading an article that offers
number amounts for judging sexual encounters (Ally has exceeded the
norm) she freaks and believes that she can't find THE good guy.
Deciding to reevaluate her ex-encounters searching for Mr Right, she
decides to look up all of her exs to see if any of them have changed
for the better. Finding this task daunting she turns to her apartment
neighbor Colin Shea (Chris Evans), a would-be musician who sleeps with
women every night and sneaks out the morning after to avoid relating to
them, to act as her detective. The rest is a contrived series of ups
and downs of the manhunt that has few qualified candidates. And the end
is predictable.

For once Anna Faris has snagged a role that shows her talent (and
fingernails-on-the- blackboard voice) and she looks terrific. But the
biggest treat in the film is Chris Evans appearing in the buff often
enough to keep the movie on: not only does he enjoy his Adonis body but
he seems happy allowing it to buff up an otherwise routine comedy part.
There is another attraction in the wings - Oliver Jackson-Cohen - who
seems to have a future in film. Tuck in the always reliable Blythe
Danner and Ed Begley, Jr and this is a cast worth an evening's outing.
But the treat on top of the confection is the eye candy generously
shared by Chris Evans. 

Grady Harp
<|_=00=_|>
I know I shouldn't have liked or enjoyed it. Especially because I'm not
really a big fan of Anna Faris (as an actress that is). But you can't
fault her in this one. She really gets the most of many scenes (as
stupid as they seem and feel like). And while this isn't really
something that should be accounted for (as a positive), it really is
nice, that it does not pull any punches (talking about the R-rating,
although there is a longer cut to be released later on).

Of course you know where this is heading and while the ending again
might fall short of all the swagger that has come up to that point it
still feels like a nice comedy. Or should I say "raunchy" instead of
nice? But both words fit the bill here. Both lead actors are obviously
having fun and it translates and really transcends to the viewer. Not
comedy gold, but entertaining enough
<|_=00=_|>
I'll be honest. This was the least challenging movie showing at the 
cinema that didn't involve 3D sharks, hence its appeal. In a nutshell, 
Anna Faris vows not to sleep with anyone else unless he's 'The One' 
after learning (via the ever reliable medium of the woman's mag) that 
96% of women with more than 20 ex-partners are unable to find husbands 
- I don't deny that it's cinematic candy floss. 

Unfortunately, even with expectations thus lowered, What's Your Number? 
still isn't premier league viewing. It's a shame really - Anna Faris 
and Chris Evans are a likable (and immensely buff) central couple, 
which makes them easy to root for/drool over. However, the film itself 
is merely a sequence of plot devices, some of which work, more of which 
don't. It's a terrible waste - few actresses have as much comic 
potential and willingness to make an ass of themselves as Faris. Even 
the open comedy goal of Faris re-visiting her exes is wasted - despite 
some promisingly perverse material, numerous cameos (including Martin 
Freeman, and a finger sniffing Joel McHale) are fluffed or wasted. The 
only positive is that the unmemorable male characters leave Blythe 
Danner clutching the best supporting actor role (as Faris' demonically 
elegant mother) by default.

As for Evans, while he is effectively rehashing previous roles, most 
notably The Human Torch, as a cocky but lovable man ho', he (and his 
magnificent abs) are still worth the price of entry. Plus the 
basketball scene is probably the sexiest thing involving one ball that 
you'll see in a cineplex this year.

Unfortunately, despite a plausible premise (rare is the woman that 
hasn't questioned everything about her existence after reading an 
article in a lifestyle magazine), the film sags. I wasn't expecting an 
exhaustive treatise on feminism, but What's Your Number? doesn't even 
acknowledge the irony of a woman 'taking control' of her life on the 
basis of a single spurious statistic in a Marie Claire article, or the 
flagrant double standard at play as Faris' character freaks out about 
her number - a number easily surpassed by her male neighbour. Such 
omissions push the film beyond light and fluffy, and into outright 
vacuous territory instead. Sub plots come and go without arousing much 
interest, the insurmountable obstacle and various declarations of love 
are extremely contrived (yes, even for a rom com), and then there's the 
perennial question of how two penniless people can afford such 
magnificent apartments (I rent a hovel at vast expense, so naturally it 
bothers me).

In short, there were better rom coms released in 2011 and unless you've 
already seen them, you should probably save this one for a rainy Sunday 
evening.
<|_=00=_|>
What's Your Number simply is better than most rom-coms. It's a lot of
fun, and puts some sizzle into the shizzle by giving it a little bit
more sexyback than most. It's saved by two cute lead performances, a
solid script, and a nod to the world that life ain't the 1950s anymore.

We really enjoyed this - it has a lot of heart, some genuine laughs,
nothing too crude, it's sassy, even sexy, without being anything
dangerous, and it's main plot device - what if you could go back and
meet all your Exes - is one that has to ring true with a wide swathe of
people.

All in all, if you like rom-coms then this is going to be exactly what
you like; it makes you feel romantic, like true love is possible, and
does so without being either prissy or crude; and it scores points for
pointing out what really matters in life.... all in all a fun outing
that both the heart and the mind can enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>
For a typical romantic comedy, "What's Your Number" sort of surprised
me, as it was just a tad more than your average movie of this sort.

What initially made me watch it was Anna Faris (playing Ally), because
she usually makes funny comedies, and I have always found her acting to
be enjoyable, and her selection of characters is usually great as well.
Her performance in "What's Your Number", however, wasn't her best
performance in her career, in my opinion. It wasn't bad either, it was
just that she are better off in straight comedies in my opinion, not
these romantic comedies. But hey, we all have different likes and
dislikes.

Working with Farris was Chris Evans (playing Collin), whom I can't
claim to be a big fan of. I think I have only seen him in the previous
couple of superhero movies that he did. And I think he was better cut
out for action movies of that sort compared to the romantic comedies. I
will say that Farris and Evans did have a certain good amount of
on-screen chemistry that worked out well enough.

As for the story in "What's Your Number", well it is basically your
average standard run-of-the-mill plot line here. An unlikely couple
starting out as strangers, then eventually becoming closer and closer,
until they realize that the right one was right there in front of them
all along. So nothing new to be seen here in that department. The plot
did thicken with the layer added when the story was given the part with
how many sexual partners does a woman have in her lifetime. That aspect
was kind of fun and did add some pretty awkward situations here and
there.

For a comedy, there wasn't all that many laughs throughout this movie.
The best scene, and the best laugh (for me), was the very last phone
call that Ally got while they were in the apartment. That cracked me
up.

"What's Your Number" isn't a boring movie, and it does have some more
substance compared to other romantic comedies. However, I think you
have to be a woman to fully appreciate this movie. As a guy, I can now
say that I have seen it, and it is doubtful that I will be putting the
movie on a second time, unless wifey wants to watch it again.
<|_=00=_|>
This film turned out to be much more than I thought it would be. The
story line is really something that any modern-day woman can relate to.
After the sexual revolution of the 60s, it seems like women are still
characterized as whores if they have more than a handful of partners,
while men can screw hundreds of women and never be chastised. As a
result, progressive women are left with either hiding their conquests
or risk being branded a whore - for life. Hard to believe that in this
day and age, there is still such a double standard.

Once Ally Darling (played brilliantly by Anna Faris) finds out that she
has doubled the average number of partners that a woman has had - she
is desperate to ensure that her next sexual partner turns out to be her
husband. That desire, in and of itself is sad. She shouldn't have to
think this way and is responding to a status quo ... yet, people can
relate to the fact that she longs for real love. It's just that she
shouldn't be under that kind of pressure. Yet, this is what happens
when women compare themselves to other women in our society -- they
often take drastic measures in an effort to conform. 

What do men do? Their noncomformity is celebrated, so they needn't be
bothered to even attempt to change it. Got no job? No problem! There's
a woman out there who will look right past that, happy to carry all of
the weight. Sleep around and cheat? Again, usually not a problem - as
long as you don't get caught. And, even if you do, there is a strong
chance that your woman will take you back. In fact, there are entire
websites built to help you continue your wicked ways. This is not to
say that women are not equally as guilty of being lazy, stupid or
cheating. Just that women seem to be held more accountable for being
those things. 

To make matters worse for Ally, she gets sacked from a marketing job
that she hates. So, really, that's a good thing. She just doesn't know
it yet. This is actually one of the best things about this film - if
nothing else, realize that when one door closes, the right door may
open - if you give it a chance. This movie is full of that kinda stuff,
which made it even more endearing.

Immediately after vowing to connect meaningfully with her next partner,
she gets drunk and winds up screwing her old boss. The morning after
scene is hilarious... and Joel McHale plays a great douchebag.

Her neighbor, whom she seems to be the female version of, saves her by
the bell as he tries to get away from his own coyote ugly episode. 

Ally realizes she needs to change her life around and comes up with the
seemingly brilliant idea of checking on all the guys she's slept with
from her past because -- gee! They may have been the one! Except that
as most of us know -- that is not the case. Some people just need to
stay in your past, as she will soon learn.

Hilarity ensues as we see what has been happening with all of these
guys. Of course, her lofty neighbor has been helping her track the guys
down. That is, until he realizes he likes her for himself. But her
friends caution her that he is just another douchebag and not good
enough for her. Certainly not boyfriend material. Of course, the truth
is quite different - as we will see as the story plays out. 

I disagree that this film does not compare to other raunchy romcoms --
in fact, I think it is better than many of them. There are really great
messages buried beneath the surface of this movie that are really worth
watching. 

The chemistry between the actors as really great, too. As with other
films of this type, there are some over the top hard to suspend
disbelief moments, but that is to be expected. Truth is, they're still
funny, even if hard to fathom.

Some of the lines in this film had me howling -- for the sheer truth
behind them. The writing was absolutely superb when it came to that.
The main thing about this film is remember that it is, in fact, a
romcom. It is not a Merchant Ivory film. Realizing that -- for what it
is -- it's a great film and I'm really glad I took the time to watch it
because I was totally entertained -- all the way through. Also -- the
messages that love means being yourself - not feeling bad about who you
are and chasing your dreams - weren't lost on me and if people can get
those too, then it's really worthwhile to see this movie. Especially at
a time when society is still hung up on certain old school values that
modern and evolved people could never live up to.
