
The problem with most reviews today is that people have lost their
innocence and playfulness the world once new.

The days when the family would go to the cinema together and buy
popcorn and coke and it was a rare treat for all seem to have been
replaced with an over critical and harsh assessment of anything!! The
film itself deals with a similar subject when Burt Wonderstone loses
his ability to realise that to somebody, even an old trick is a new one
that can bring wonderment to even the oldest audience.

Lets stop and look at the film for what it is! Its not supposed to be a
drama or intense film like The Green Mile. Its a innocent throw back to
the era of stage magicians when rabbits from hats would trigger gasps
of amazement by crossed legged kids watching in the front row.

The introduction of a 'Criss Angelesque' character was to show the
shift in social attitudes in regards to what we consider entertainment
is (and jim carrey does it hysterically).

Yes the story is not meant to be compared to anything of a serious
nature but does have some underlying content that should make us think
a little.

Today when films like 'Kickass' and 'Jackass' seem to warrant high
ratings and are viewed by kids its sad to see such a fun, innocent and
laughable film getting a bad rap.

In Australia at my cinema everyone was in hysterics (and this was a
late session 1/4 full).

If you liked Jerry Lewis and can still laugh ... you'll love it if you
enjoyed the fun of films like back to the future ... you will love it
If hearing a 13 year old girl in kickass say "Suck my &*#$" was funny
to you... then you missed the boat on what funny really is.

Take a chance be amazed and let yourself laugh like no one is around...
let it out and let the joy of "Burt WOnderstone" lighten you heart for
just a couple of hours.
<|_=00=_|>
Burt Wonderstone may be more pleasant than it really deserves credit
for. Maybe it's because the past two months have been such a wasteland
for films, or maybe it's because I am somewhat easily amused. None the
less, this is a pleasant film. It didn't blow me away or leave me
crying from laughing so hard, but the combination of the comedic chops
of the delightful cast and the entertaining magic tricks left me
smiling when I left the theater. In a time when there is little in the
theater to get excited about, this is a film I quite enjoyed.

Steve Carell plays magician Burt Wonderstone, the boastful,
self-indulgent, and obnoxiously asinine half to Steve Buscemi, who are
partners, and best friends since childhood, in the magic business in
Vegas. However, both Burt's obnoxiousness and a new street magician,
played by Jim Carrey, soon get in the way of his success, and he's
forced to re-examine what his career means to him.

While the magic might be a mystery here, the plot isn't, and it's a
plot that goes through all the motions and hits all the points. But if
you're someone who doesn't mind that, you will find yourself enjoying
this film for it's bright points. Steve Carell is both pompous and
lovable here, an idiot savant so to speak, but as a magician lampooning
well known, silly performing magicians in Vegas, he's hilarious. Jim
Carrey is the second part of the equation, at his best since years. Jim
hasn't been this funny in a long time and steals the show every time
he's on screen. Rounding out the cast are an underused Steve Buscemi,
who disappears for a good chunk of the film, Olivia Wilde who seems
like a bit of a mismatch for the goofy Carell, and James Gandolfini as
James Gandolfini running a casino. There's also a wonderful appearance
by Alan Arkin as an aging and inspirational magician.

There's a lot here that works, and a lot that doesn't. All of the
mockery towards magicians of all kinds are spot on. Carell and Buscemi
are perfect as send ups of well known magicians like David Copperfield
and Jim Carrey is likewise as a caricature of "street magicians" like
Criss Angel. And there's just enough Jim that he's hilarious, but not
obnoxiously overused. Olivia Wilde gets her own spotlight to shine and
she's as pleasant as ever here. And the combination of magic and comedy
are a great and somewhat refreshing mix. I'll also add that just about
everything with Alan Arkin is hilarious.

However, the film is pretty formulaic and there's a lot that feels
forced. The love story, for one, feels generic and plastic. It's hard
to believe that, after everything Olivia Wilde's character goes through
with Carell's character, she falls for him (though there is a
particular scene between the two that is pretty hilarious). Most of the
plot points also feel very by the numbers. Most of the comedy comes
from gags and one-offs.

But, in the end, it all adds up to a fun and entertaining time. If
you're going expecting something amazing, you'll probably be
disappointed, but if you're going expecting to have a fun time, then I
think you will find yourself pleased.
<|_=00=_|>
A lot of times I go into a movie with an opinion already formed about
it. It's not based on any research or critical reviews, simply on the
trailer. That was case with The Incredible Burt Wonderstone. My opinion
of the film was not too positive going in. I was dragged to it by a
friend of mine with questionable taste in movies to begin with. I could
have not been more surprised. I found myself laughing through the
entire feature.

The movie is pretty farcical to say the least, at some junctures
borderline silly, but found myself quite enjoying the humor. It was a
nice change of pace from all the recent comedies that have to go to the
extreme with language and sex humor to make their point. It pokes fun
at inter-workings of the illusionist and the final scene before the
credits is classic.

The characters were very well cast. It is no secret based on past films
and TV that Steve Carrell has experience in magic tricks, and he pulls
it off in the film. It was also refreshing to see Steve Buscemi reprise
a comedic role and carry, an impressive contrast to bootlegger Knucky
Thompson. And as you would expect, Jim Carrey steals the show as the
antagonistic shock magician, Steve Gray. For those who like these
actors, The Incredible Burt Wonderstone is a silly, light hearted but
enjoyable hour and forty minute movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Good comedy has a ring of truth and reality to it. This movie was
mostly nonsensical. It had some laughs here and there, but I was pretty
much the only one in the audience of three parties laughing. I think
the comedians in it are funny, but the story is kind of shallow and
stupid.

It wasn't a total waste of time but it wasn't something that held your
attention very well either. It was sort of a time killer type comedy.
Parts of it were just plain disgusting or scary, making it hard to
laugh. People in the audience actually seemed to be in a bad mood
watching it.

Jim Carey was funny as a sex symbol magician and Alan Arkin was funny
as a cranky old man. They were just funny characters. There were little
ironic jokes here and there but the piece didn't hold together well.
<|_=00=_|>
Who doesn't like magic and be in aw? That is one of the observations by
master magician Rance Holloway (Alan Arkin) as he shares with Burt
Wonderstone. In The Incredible Burt Wonderstone, this magician Burt
Wonderstone (Steve Carrel) is on the top of his career shared by his
magical friendship co- showman Anton Marvelton (Steve Buscemi). They
are on top at the world playing their own show in Las Vegas, then they
are challenged by new comer Steve Gray (Jim Carrey) who claims to be a
"mind rapist" and not afraid to push the boundaries of normal to get a
good reaction. Their challenge is to stay relevant is a world that
seeks guts to simply glory. Steve Carrell plays a good "diva" in Burt
Wonderstone. This is a silly, funny movie and slyly pokes fun at some
well known magicians. I loved it and abracadabra you will soon reappear
with a smile.
<|_=00=_|>
There are some hysterically funny moments in this movie - and many
other laugh out loud moments. A big name duo magic act faces some tough
competition from a new extreme magician.

The performances are endearing and well acted. Jim Carrey acts as only
he could in this Criss Angel type extreme magician. It's good to see
Steve Carrell in a laugh out loud role compared to the rather maudlin
romantic comedy things he has been doing a lot of. Steve Buscemi shows
a not often seen comic side and is good in his role. Olivia Wilde is a
bit rounder looking and looks much prettier because of it. Poignantly
this is one of the last James Gandolfini movies.

The magic is inventive and great fun to watch.

Can't understand why it wasn't a bigger hit at the box office. One of
the funnier comedies of recent years.
<|_=00=_|>
I didn't have very high expectations for this movie, given what I had
heard about it. With that being said, I was left wondering why this
movie didn't get more positive reviews/higher ratings.

There were moments that left me thinking that it was going to go in a
very predictable direction and disappoint me in the end, but I was
wrong.

I think Jim Carrey really held this movie together. I couldn't hold
back laughing every time he came on the screen. One of his better roles
as of late.

I would recommend that you definitely give this movie a chance,
regardless of what you've read/heard.
<|_=00=_|>
We're too harsh on comedy titles, we want them to be perfect and epic.
It is okay for comedies to be silly, stupid and out there at times. We
never hold the same standard for thrillers we watch the same formula
plots over and over again and still be okay with it. But with comedies
oh no why did they do that , its stupid. As apposed to the 1 min hacker
of pentagon in every film.

It's a genuinely funny the story of two life long friends and magicians
who share a magical act and are threatened by the modern chris angelisc
magician played by Jim Carrey. I cannot think of another person playing
the role. 

A story of a long lost love for magic dusted by fame and money over the
years. Steve carrel is his awkward a bit toned down 'The Office' self
trying to get back on his feet and getting a little help along the way. 

A great Sunday watch with the family.
<|_=00=_|>
I dunno why people hate this movie, or why have they rated it so low.
Oh wait, I kinda do. They just don't get it.

Before CGI, before VFX, all people had were real magicians doing
elaborate and jaw dropping acts, in theaters, where live audiences were
entertained, not some recorded and processed show.

The movie essentially captures that golden age and blends a
heart-warming story with magic.

Stellar performances by Steve Carrell, Steve Buscemi, Jim Carrey and
Olivia Wilde. An absolute delight. A must watch, whether or not you
like magic.
<|_=00=_|>
I couldn't help but enjoy this movie. Everything was telling me that
this was a stupid ridiculous comedy but it was still quite funny.
Magicians are a special breed, what they can do can be shocking but
when it comes down to it they will always be kinda weird and geeky : )

Steve Carell and Steve Buscemi play the "old school" magicians i.e.
Siegfried and Roy, and Jim Carrey plays the intense "too cool for
school" magician i.e. Criss Angel. Their portrayals may be over the top
but they are a completely accurate spoof of them. It was so
pathetically funny watching their ego's destroy them.

If you normally don't enjoy comedy from Steve Carell and Jim Carrey
then you probably won't like this movie. This is classic them in every
way. Silly, a little lame and completely over the top but nevertheless
still enjoyable.
