
It is rare for me to feel so strongly about something that I actually
register on a website JUST to add my own comment to it. Well, this is
what I just did here on IMDb because.... this movie rocks. I'm looking
at the ratings breakdown and almost half of the votes are 1 out of 10
while the other half is evenly spread over ratings from 2 to 10. Is it
just me or does someone want to bring this gem of a movie down? o_O 

Eddie Murphy is awesome as both Dave (the ship) and its captain, and
the supporting cast is brilliant...I smiled throughout the whole movie
and had some real laughs, the plot is tight with no real holes I could
make out, AND... whoever it was that said the whole premise is silly
and laughable is forgetting one important thing about these kind of
movies: They're fantasy entertainment. 

And on that basis, "Meet Dave" works. Humor, warmth, a
friendship/self-confidence message, faith in the good in humans, it's
all there and wonderfully done. Of course the plot is more than
unlikely, but that's the beauty of movies in general - they can take
you to an imaginary world and let you be amazed at the "what-ifs." 

It's just such a shame that most people aren't even going to bother
seeing this once they glance at the IMDb rating. As for me, I can't
wait for the DVD release. It rocks, from the first minute to the last.

Welcome back, Eddie Murphy :)
<|_=00=_|>
I've just watched the film and wanted to take a look at it on IMDb. I
actually couldn't believe that it's scored only 3.2 . Well, if your
understanding of comedy is chicks with no tops in it and using slang
language, then maybe this is not a film for you. But the film has
clearly nice, fun jokes. It's suitable for families. I actually enjoyed
the film and would suggest it. I have enjoyed watching film of Eddie
Murphy since my childhood and with this film he still shows he's really
a nice comedian. So i can say to people who would like to spend some
time with laughing, they can go and see this movie. I don't think
they'd not like it if comedy is what they are looking for.
<|_=00=_|>
I just finished watching this movie and i have to say that the rating
for this movie should have been a lot better.

A lot of people are suggesting that eddie's career is going downhill
but in my opinion its gone from good to bad back to good. He started
his career with some brilliant movies (Coming to America, Beverly Hills
Cop, trading places etc) and also two of the best stand ups i have ever
watched (Raw & Delirious). His career hit a snag with movies like
boomerang, metro, holy man etc.

His latest films have been very good and i think they will keep getting
better. Shrek trilogy, Norbit, Dreamgirls, Daddy Day Care etc.

If you want to watch a good movie with a few good gags i would
definitely recommend this one.

Eddie Murphy plays an alien captain who his sent to earth with his crew
in a ship shaped as eddie murphy to retrieve a rock. During their time
on earth they learn more about human life learn to become part of it.

I wont go into to much detail but i would recommend this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Before I start ranting I would like to make it clear that I think this
site is fantastic as it epitomises democracy and allows people to
present all their contrasting opinions which are all equally valid.
However I have a problem with some people who seem to take a snobbish
attitude to films (and culture in general), and seem to discount a
film's credibility before/after they've seen it, often due to the
actors or even the audience that it is aimed at. If you don't like
silly films with dubious reality, then why go and see an Eddie Murphy
film in the first place?!In my opinion each film should be rated on
it's individual merits, and how it compares to the genre. Why not go
and see a film with an open mind and then rate it on the reaction that
it provokes? This is a film for children and adults alike, not meant to
be taken seriously but is a Hilarious film! There is not one person in
the cinema who was not creasing themselves...I was sat next to a man in
his fifties who enjoyed it just as much as I did!I am normally a bit
undecided when it comes to Eddie Murphy, but this is by far the best
film I have seen him in. His physical comedy and facial expressions are
comic genius, and there are plenty of laugh out loud moments. Yes, it
is definitely a silly comedy and the plot deteriorates vastly in the
last third and is swamped in sentimentality. However isn't that what
you expect from Eddie Murphy and a Hollywood film?! If you fancy 90
minutes of fun and pure laughter then this is the film for
you...however if you are not a fan of Eddie Murphy or silly comedy
(elf, galaxy quest etc) then give it a wide berth!
<|_=00=_|>
Once upon a time, in a magical world we like to call the 1980's, Eddie
Murphy was on top of his game, not only was he on top, he was actually
funny! He made comedy after comedy after comedy of non stop laughs and
nothing seemed like it could stop him; then the world of the 1990's
came, as much as we hoped for Eddie, it seemed like he had more
mediocre comedies; then the new millennium, oh, boy, his world has
shattered since then. He was very lucky to have an Oscar nomination
with Dream Girls, yet continued to release bad movies such as Daddy Day
Care and the disaster that was Norbit, now we have Meet Dave, which
would've been a good bad movie with unknown actors, but since we have
well known actors, you can't help but feel bad for them, but Eddie
Murphy just keeps making mistakes after mistakes and I'm just wondering
what the heck was he on to think this was the script that will save his
career, because I want whatever he's taking since he's in a La-La land
right now.

I feel silly telling you the "plot", but I'm going to try to make it
work. Dave is an alien who has crashed into Planet Earth, he has little
people inside him who control his movements and voice. Dave is on a
mission to gather all of the Earth's water and bring it back to his
home planet. But when he meets a single mother, Gina, she shows him a
good time in New York City and all of a sudden the little people wanna
stay on Planet Earth. But one little alien named Agent number 2 is
planning on succeeding at the mission and take over, yeah, that's the
plot.

I work at a movie theater so I get to see movies for free, the way I
figure it is even if a movie looks bad, just give it a shot, it may not
be as bad as it seems. Now granted, this movie is one step above
Norbit, that's the relief, but the major problem here is, this movie
isn't even good for the kids, it insults everyone's intelligence. Now I
love movies, I also have an extremely open mind and will say if a movie
was fun and to give it a shot, but Eddie Murphy, we need to save him if
he can't save himself, his intervention must be the biggest movie flop
in the world, well, I think he's succeeding with Meet Dave. Meet Dave
has 2 funny moments, then the rest of the script could have been
written by 5 year old. I wouldn't recommend this, the only thing it
wasted was my time.

2/10
<|_=00=_|>
I didn't expect much from this movie, but it had me and my 18-year-old
son laughing almost every minute. That doesn't happen too often.
Thanks, Eddie!

Oops, I see I need a minimum of ten lines. OK, Gabrielle Union was
gorgeous. That guy from 30 Rock who always wears the baseball caps with
goofy slogans on them was in it. Ed Helms was really funny as the
mutineering 2nd in command. Murphy's stint as a substitute teacher was
hilarious (watching him speed-write the math equation on the
chalkboard). He did the best Nathan's hot dog eating performance ever.
Are we up to ten lines yet? No need to go on. It was a funny movie that
deserves higher ratings than it's gotten, which is why I wanted to post
a short review. Enough words yet? Did I mention Gabrielle Union was
gorgeous?
<|_=00=_|>
I am part of those people who surfed on IMDb to check the rating of
this movie and was amazed to see it scoring less then a 4... Obviously
this is not going to deserve an Academy Award, but still I don't get
all those people who gave it a 1/10. What where they expecting from a
movie with this kind of plot? 

On the other hand, I found the movie a LOT more entertaining than
expected! I had "normal" expectations for the movie, thinking that I
would have sat having a decent time for a couple of hours. Instead I
found myself laughing out loud most of the time! Eddie Murphy proved to
be in great shape, as just his facial expressions were enough to set
the audience on fire! The movie was also carried on in a smart way,
without turning boring or too obvious. 

This is STRONGLY suggested if you have kids!
<|_=00=_|>
I haven't written many film reviews lately but I felt compelled to talk
about this one since it has been beat up so much in the press. And it
imploded at the box office, where people are seeing the mediocre WANTED
instead. It will be very unfortunate that people will miss out as this
film was an absolute surprise to me. Based on the trailer, I was
expecting the worst. The film, especially in the first half, is a spot
on spoof of normal human behavior. The film has a lot to say about
consumer culture, the homogenization of people, racism, etc. All done
via elements that owe a lot to INNERSPACE, STAR TREK, even CRIMSON
TIDE. Eddie gives a fantastic performance and certain elements of his
turn as the Large Dave actually were an homage to Steve Martin, Buster
Keaton, and other slapstick comedians. One particular sequence will
make you never hear the employee greeting, "Welcome to Old Navy" the
same way ever again. Things do get watered down in the last third,
which is a real shame. I still think it's worth checking out
though....all the adults were laughing the hardest so it totally
doesn't appeal to the target audience. I think that's what will make
this more of a cult classic over time as people discover it....anytime
you make a film that is judgmental about modern society and its values,
people seem to ignore it, a la IDIOCRACY. Be the one to discover this
picture before other people eventually catch on when it hits disc.
<|_=00=_|>
Meet Dave is the story of a crew of miniature people inhabiting a big
robot who has come to Earth on a mission to save his people. Eddie
Murphy plays the Captain of the vessel and the outward version of the
vessel which as automaton has limited capacity for emotion. However
after he is damaged in a collision with a vehicle he decides to attempt
to learn more about these earth people, spending time with Gina who ran
him over and her son Josh, who worries that he isn't a hero like his
late father. As you can tell from what's been written so far, this is
no kitchen sink drama but a light-hearted Disney-esquire comedy.

Meet Dave is a fun family film that doesn't challenge us too much and
has it's heart in the right place. There is plenty of toilet humour
which kids always love and some genuinely funny moments throughout, I
laughed, the audience laughed. We did not pelt the screen in outrage
and nor did we sit there in silence for 2 hours as we did with the film
I mentioned to start with. The film is like a cross between "Galaxy
Quest" and "Doctor Dolittle" and while the humour is more akin to the
latter "Dolittle" this is still a fun family film. So why three or
less? 

I think that for many film reviewers that sit through and be nice to
the usual tripe that passes for entertainment over this season there
has to be a villain, a film that they slate that then bombs as a
result, and sadly this is that film. I also suspect that there is also
an element of "compromise movie on a date" disappointment and maybe
even a few "The film I wanted to see was full and I have to sit through
this" resentments going on. Having seen some truly terrible mediocre
films that critics rave about like "Charlie's Angels" and "Forty days
and forty nights" these films that no critic has the b*lls to slag off
for fear they won't be invited to more screenings, well boo hoo! I have
no cross to bear in that department and this is a film that is funny
when it wants to be, it means well, and, whilst it is a tad
predictable, the same age group of kids that liked "Dr Dolittle" will
certainly like this, especially appropriate for younger children who
may find "WALL-E" hard going, bearing in mind it is great for adults
and older children, but not necessarily very young kids. P

Critics are just jumping on the bandwagon to attack this film, it
really isn't as bad as the examples I've mentioned. The only drawback
in this film is that the effects aren't particularly great at a number
of points but better to have a film that's okay with poor effects than
poor with okay effects. 

If your family enjoyed Firehouse Dog, and the silly humour of that,
chances are they'll like this.

Family Fun
<|_=00=_|>
I'll start by saying I was surprised to see it got such bad scores. The
wife and I thoroughly enjoyed it and liked the movie a lot. OK, so no
gazillions of dollars in special effects and touch ups, but the story
is good and cute, and got funnier as it went along. Interesting too and
it was just fun. Enjoyed a lot. If you see it try to take it lightly
cause its what it is.. fun. (Just imagine a Star ship that looks
human.) Now I am just a movie fan, but i enjoy movies so this is it.
Anymore would be a spoiler. This movie needs more support so here goes.
Go get it and enjoy.

-Jerry Cohen
