
I'm not much of a comedy fan, mostly because in recent years they've
strayed too far into smart-ass one-liner dumb-formula potty-humor
cardboard-cutout territory, which is fine if you like that sort of
thing, but I don't.

This, though, is an old-fashioned comedy with heart. Can Bill make his
life better with the help of a precocious teen? Sure he can. But the
way he gets there isn't just the standard formula, and that makes it a
fun watch.

It also helps that the technical work is all top-notch, and the
supporting cast is pitch perfect, from the staid father-in-law to the
somewhat manic doughnut franchisers.

This isn't a movie that will make you guffaw and belly laugh for an
hour and a half, but it does make you feel inspired and offers a few
chuckles along the way. In that regard, it reminds me of "Charlie
Bartlett," "Juno" and "Rocket Science."

I'm glad this style of comedy didn't die out because of the Farrelly
Brothers' success. Their kind of comedy is redundant and dumb -- this
type leaves you happy for a while. And Hollywood should do that more
often.
<|_=00=_|>
I just watched Meet Bill last night, and while it wasn't fantastic, it
was definitely worth the watch.

This movie follows the main character Bill, who, after a series of
downfalls, realizes life isn't going they way he wanted. He then offers
to mentor a rich, self-assured high school student. In the end, the
student more or less ends up mentoring Bill, and helps him to change
his views on life.

I thought the chemistry between Logan Lerman (the kid) and Aaron
Eckhart (Bill) was fantastic! they both did a great job with their
role, and stole the whole show. These roles were out of style for both
actors--I've never seen Eckhart do comedy, and Lerman's character was
much more rebellious than usual. It just shows the talent of both
actors, especially the versatility of Lerman. The rest of the
supporting characters were slightly under-developed.

The style of comedy in this movie is more..."old school" in my opinion.
It's not slap-stick or non-stop laughter, but the comedy is
inter-weaved throughout the film, with several vary funny scenes and
one-liners. I would say the film is geared toward audiences from the
mid 20s to mid 40s. However, I am a 16 year old female, and I enjoyed
the film.

The plot does get lost a bit, and some characters are under-developed,
but overall it's a good independent film. Is it the best or funniest
movie you'll ever see? Probably not. But it delivers a style of comedy
not found often these days, and if you connect with the style and the
story, you will definitely like this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I attended the World Premiere of "Bill" at the Toronto International
Film Festival. That fact alone is actually surprising to me, as my
viewing habits tend to lean towards dramas, and this is anything but.
In fact, festivals this year have been weighed down by heavy films that
are about as dark as they come. "Bill" could not be more different, and
what a refreshing change and much-needed uplift is this all-out,
unabashed comedy. Co-directed by the husband-wife team of Bernie
Goldmann and Melissa Wallack (who penned the script), "Bill" has all
the elements required of the genre: characters to whom we can relate, a
clever storyline, and laughs aplenty.

Aaron Eckhart ("Any Given Sunday," "Erin Brockovich," "Thank You for
Smoking") is Bill, smack dab in the middle of a life becoming all-too
familiar. His job is falling apart (he begrudgingly works for his
irascible father-in-law), his marriage is going to pieces, his body is
going to pot, and, perhaps most horrifying, his hair is rejecting his
head. Bill needs a change, fast, and is not-so-voluntarily signed up
for a mentoring program at the local high school. He is teamed up with
young Logan Lerman ("The Butterfly Effect," "Hoot," "3:10 to Yuma"),
who plays The Kid, literally (Lerman's character is never identified by
name), and the two join together in battle to fight the demons at the
heart of Bill's midlife crisis.

A magnificent ensemble cast including Elizabeth Banks, Timothy
Olyphant, Jessica Alba, and Kristen Wiig (and far too many more to
mention) are all up to the task of providing enough comedic fodder to
fill several films. Discussing their characters in depth would be too
revealing, and my policy is to allow the reader to find a synopsis
elsewhere if desired. Ultimately the partnership between Bill and The
Kid is what drives the story, and the chemistry between Eckhart and
Lerman is central to the success of the film. And it works. The Kid is
smart, streetwise, sexy (or so he thinks), and has the self-confidence
of someone thrice his age. In short, he's everything Bill aspires to
be. It's a role-reversal device that's at the heart of many classic
comedies, and Wallack's brilliant writing makes it work.

Despite being an independent film (read: low budget) "Bill" has the
look of a Hollywood movie. The design is bright and the sound and
editing give it a crisp, bouncy feel. Best of all, the cinematography
with Peter Lyons Collister at the helm is second to none. He's one of
the best in the business, a classic comedy veteran, and it shows.

It's always hard to single anyone out in a fine ensemble cast but in
both screenings I attended Lerman stole the show. He unquestionably got
the biggest laughs and was the crowd favorite. I hesitate to call him a
newcomer, as at the tender age of 15 he already has 10 movies and 23
television episodes under his belt, but he's one to watch for and has a
bright career ahead of him. But this is Eckhart's film to make or
break, and his sense of comedic timing and puppy-like ability to elicit
just the right amount of empathy from the audience create those
touching moments that leave the viewer wanting more. And so I attended
the second screening as well, and enjoyed it even more. And that's the
true test of a comedy. From this writer's perspective, "Bill" not only
hits its mark but is also sure to be a winner for years to come.
<|_=00=_|>
There's really no way so screw it, I'll be blunt. ONLY a female
writer/director would consider it a satisfying story where on top of
being shamelessly unfaithful, kicking around her husband, and behaving
like a spoiled, entitled brat for the majority of the film, not only
fails to redeem herself or receive any kind of come-uppance for being
such a bitch, but is rewarded by her husband who simply gives her what
we just watched him spend the entire movie working to acquire. WHO DOES
THAT??? I literally came away from this wondering if emasculation was
an intentional theme here. It's like watching this man get kicked in
the balls for an hour and a half just to pull himself together
(apparently by losing his gut and getting a haircut), give farewell
hugs and kisses to all the ball-kickers and we're supposed to applaud
this as his triumph.

I spent the whole movie saying to myself "I know a woman wrote this...
I know a woman wrote this..." I came on IMDb to check it out and guess
what. Wrote AND co-directed! Not that there aren't female writers &
directors who are excellent at what they do. Not that a female
writer/director is obliged to write "for" a male audience. Not even
that a female writer/director can't bring feminist sensibilities to her
work. But was the writer/director here really so pro-female (or
anti-male) that the main character isn't even allowed to give his
cheating wife the telling-off and/or retribution that she'd been
begging for the whole film? Am I the only one who feels this way? Or
maybe I'm missing the point. If I am, maybe someone could help me
understand. Because I can't imagine any man who would think this
"works". And I can think of quite a few women who would agree.
<|_=00=_|>
I thought this movie was utterly terrible. It was completely unoriginal
and there were so many superfluous characters and scenes that is was
just ridiculous. What as the Jessica Alba character supposed to be?
What was she supposed to add? The Kid character was pretty pointless
also. There was an endless series of scenes that, I assume, were
supposed to be funny, but added nothing to the narrative. There is this
whole subplot where we are supposed to imagine that the Kid and Alba
might have some romantic chemistry, but it is just ludicrous. Also, one
of the major plot points is Bill trying to win back his wife. However,
we never get a sense of why he would want to do this. After all, she is
uniformly terrible to him throughout the movie, and he doesn't seem
that into her, until it's convenient for the plot. If they had taken
out some of the more pointless scenes (especially the one with the Kid
dancing around in women's underwear--what was that about?), and spent
more time exploring the relationship between the two leads, then it
might have made more sense. Aaron Eckhart is a very talented actor, and
did the best with the story he had. However, there was no saving this
train wreck. I would say that it would benefit from better editing, but
in all honesty, it would have to be edited to the point of
non-existence to be improved. Largely, this movie seemed like a
low-rent, cheap rehash of some of the themes from American Beauty,
without any of the depth, humour, or intelligence. They had the
repressed husband attempting to break free, the bitchy adulterous wife,
and drug dealing rebellious teenage boy. What a waste of time, and in
Eckhart's case, talent.
<|_=00=_|>
Reading the reviews here on IMDb, it looks like a lot of the reviews
are positive, which is leaving me scratching my head. The critics
panned the film, and while I don't always agree with them this time I
have to say I agree. What I don't get is that I don't see any of the
comments I would have expected to see. Case in point, there are several
scenes with Bill (a 40 year old man) smoking pot and drinking with his
teenage mentee. There's even a scene that implies that Bill and the kid
got it on with a couple of girls in a tent together. In the film, this
is passed off as no big deal, but watching it I was cringing. I guess
I'm just surprised. I don't consider myself to be that much of a prude,
but it just felt wrong. Maybe I'm out of touch.

Anyways, the film never hits the right notes, and despite a decent cast
the actors all feel as if they are auditioning for different films.
Bill seems to be in American Beauty, his mentee seems like he thinks
he's in a national lampoon film, the wife in a dramedy, and Jessica
Alba seems like she can't wait to leave the scene and hop on the first
flight out of town. Apart from Bill, none of the characters are fleshed
out even a little. This is particularly true for Bill's gay brother,
who's only role seems to be to pick him up from jail and look concerned
while Bill rants. According to the notes on the film there were a lot
of last minute cast changes and, I'm guessing, script changes to
accommodate the different actors. Whatever was done, the whole thing
feels like it unraveled in a spectacularly bad way. I can't get the
hour and a half of my life back, but its not too late for you. Save
yourself and avoid this flick.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is like someone standing on a beach watching a man drown 6
feet from shore where, instead of throwing the drowning man a life
preserver, the sadistic watcher throws him a series of concrete blocks.
Aaron Eckhart is the drowning man, desperately trying to save himself
and this film, while the insipid script and lifeless direction of Meet
Bill keep dragging him down.

Bill (Aaron Eckhart) is less a character and more a collection of
characteristics. He's got a pot belly and a bad haircut. He has his job
only because he married his boss' daughter, even though his boss treats
him more like an intern than an executive. He's got a gay brother and a
serious candy addiction. I guess this mix of common and quirky traits
is supposed to make the audience empathize and identify with Bill, but
he's really just an annoying and self-pitying shmuck.

Bill is unhappy with his life and dreams of trading in his job at his
father-in-law's bank for running his own doughnut shop. Then, two
things happen. First, Bill is roped into being a mentor to a high
school kid (Logan Lerman). Second, Bill finds out his wife Jessica
(Elizabeth Banks) is cheating on him.

Let me digress for a moment. The high school kid in Bill doesn't have a
name and is, in fact, listed in the credits only as "The Kid". If you
ever write a screenplay, on behalf of everyone who might ever read it,
I beg you to please, please, please give all of your characters actual
names. You might think it's cute and clever to have one just be called
"The Kid" or something, but it's not. It's stupid and aggravating.
People, whether close friends or relative strangers, call each other by
their names all the time and it's both very noticeable and irritating
when a script goes out of its way to avoid that. I don't care if you
think the character being nameless has some thematic significance. It's
just dumb.

Returning to the movie, Bill freaks out when he discovers Jessica is
sleeping with a cheesy local news anchor. He beats the guy up and gets
thrown in jail. Bill also moves out of his own huge house and into his
gay brother's equally huge home. He hangs out with The Kid, who tries
to help Bill loosen up and enjoy life. Bill also takes up swimming and
keeps trying to finagle his way into owning that doughnut shop. There's
also a sex tape, a big party where everything goes wrong and a
pointless subplot where The Kid keeps hitting on this lingerie store
clerk (Jessica Alba). Not that hitting on Jessica Alba is pointless,
but it serves absolutely no purpose in the story.

The things that happen in this movie either don't make sense or you
don't care about them if they do. How does a dorky loser like Bill end
up with a woman who looks like the incredibly appealing Elizabeth
Banks? There's no explanation of what Jessica could have ever seen in
him. Bill obviously gets paid a lot of money for very little work, has
a huge house and a smokin' hot wifeand we're supposed to care that
he's not satisfied with all that? When we find out Jessica is cheating
on Bill, there's no emotional impact to it because if you were married
to a pathetic non-entity like Bill, you'd probably cheat on him too.
There's absolutely no reason or explanation for why The Kid makes such
enormous efforts to attach himself to Bill and try and help him out,
like an overexcited hybrid of Ferris Bueller and Jiminy Cricket, and
The Kid is so theatrically irreverent that you just want Bill to smack
him. The story also connects Bill's growth as a human being to him
shaving off his body hair, which is just odd.

This movie is completely uninvolving, even though Aaron Eckhart is
working as hard in this film as I've ever seen any performer work in
anything. He does everything but drop trou and show us his Little
Eckhart to make us laugh or feel ANYTHING about Bill. All of his
efforts, however, are smothered by the relentlessly limp work of these
filmmakers.

Unless you enjoy watching a drowning man being thrown cement blocks,
there's nothing in Meet Bill for anyone to enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a bad movie. why ?

1. Plot makes no sense. (where are the kid's parents? Why did Bill
shave himself?)

2. Horribly horribly uncomfortable to watch. (Bill and the kid
entertain two babes in a tent. And we are led to believe that there is
sex involved, and the next morning the kid is there in his underwear.
So, they had an orgy ? A 40 year old, 15 year old kid and two babes ?
Yuk.)

3. The dialogue is cringe inducing (Kid: You suck. Bill: You suck.
Lucy: You both suck. Me: Facepalm)

Skip this one.
<|_=00=_|>
Premise is Adventures of a (presumably) working class Son-in-Law in a
Dysfunctional rich family. This is a great premise. There are at least
2 funny TV series on based on this plot. First 15 minutes of this movie
are exciting & you think you are in for a 2 hour ride of comic
situations involving rich people doing unbelievably stupid stuff.
Camera work is also nice. Acting looks decent. If you've seen Aaron's
"Thanks You for Smoking" earlier, you know that he can play his part in
a witty movie.

However post 15 minutes, it appears that someone else decided to finish
the project with high school kids in director's/ editor's/ script
writer's chair. Nothing seems to move forward or unfold or deepen the
characters. Funny situations blow up before the punch line. Most of the
sub-plots are totally inconsequential. And if someone thinks they made
a movie dealing with existential dilemma, I am sorry to inform them
that's certainly not the case here.

6.4 ? Really, my fellow IMDBians ? This turkey is 6.4 ? Tarsem Singh's
"The Cell" is 6.2. Al Pancio's "88 minutes" is 5.9. I am giving it 3
stars for the casting dept, which did a fantastic job in casting hugely
talented Aaron and shapely Ms.Banks.
<|_=00=_|>
Review: Although the cast looked impressive, this movie really wasn't
that good and the storyline was pretty terrible. It's about a man who
thinks that he has everything that a man wants out of life, until he
finds out that his wife is having an affair and his career is going
nowhere. He then becomes a mentor for a sharp kid who helps him turn
his life around and shows him how to get the most out of life. I'm
usually a fan of Aaron Eckharts work, but he really did make a fool out
of himself in this movie. The jokes weren't that funny and the
storyline went from one ridiculous scene to another. The director piled
up to many different elements which made the film seem messy and not
that enjoyable. None of the top actors put in an outstanding
performance, which is due to the terrible script, so this is yet
another movie that has to get the thumbs down from me. Disappointing!

Round-Up: Aaron Eckhart really let me down in this film, alongside
Jessica Alba and Elizabeth Banks who were also not that great. There
were also some other big names in the film, like Kristen Wiig and Jason
Sudeikis, but they weren't in the movie that much. I was impressed with
the young looking Logan Lerman whose also starred in Fury, the Percy
Jackson franchise and Noah but I just found it hard to find the film
slightly amusing. I'm not surprised that it made such a lose at the box
office but I am surprised with the budget which must have gone towards
the actors wages. Anyway, it's worth a watch if you just want some
noise in the background but I personally think that it was a waste of a
good cast.

Budget: $5million Worldwide Gross: $347,000 (Terrible!)

I recommend this movie to people who are into their comedies about a
man whose goes through a mid-life crisis after finding out that his
wife is having an affair. 3/10
