
This movie was a bit of a bore. I walked in rather neutral with my
expectations, and after the first 10 minutes realized that this ball of
cheese was not for me. I sat through it all, for the sake of the
company I was with.

Mandy Moore and John Krasinski are cute, but very flat characters.
There is little or no character development in this film. Robin
Williams as Reverend Frank tries to save the show with his humorous
antics, but was unfortunately cliché in his attempts. The little boy,
Josh Flitter, does an excellent job as the annoyingly forthright
"minister in training", as do the other children playing minor roles,
but the overall attempt was bland.

The movie neither humorously avoids morals, nor does it end with moral
enlightenment. The "lesson" in the end is weak and predictable.

If you're looking for something heartwarming, inspiring, or
thought-provoking, turn elsewhere. If you'd like a few cheap laughs
with a weak storyline, this could be your film.

I rate it a 2 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was terrible.

I was more than a little tempted to just get up and walk out early in
the movie, when it just wasn't funny. I thought maybe it would pick up
and really get going soon, it didn't. It tries to be a romantic comedy,
and what little chemistry exists between the couple is ruined by Robin
Williams trying to be funny while doing unfunny things. Instead he
comes off as a creepy, sadistic voyeur with a phony veneer of humor
(and a minister having a prepubescent boy sidekick with him at
apparently all times day and night is more than a little creepy in it's
own right).

There isn't a single funny joke in the film that's not in the trailer,
not one. There are a lot of gags that fall flat though.

The whole thing made me miss the time when Robin Williams in a movie
was a sign it was going to be a great film.

In retrospect, I should have gone with my hunch and just walked out
early, and saved myself the time.
<|_=00=_|>
My friend and I were so excited to see this movie when we saw the
trailer to License to Wed, it looked like a fun comedy. But when we
heard all the bad reviews, we were a bit hesitant, but we figured that
we still wanted to see it and why not? I don't get all the horrible
reviews on IMDb, yeah, there were a few things wrong with the movie,
but it seemed like nobody really wanted to enjoy this film. I'm not
saying this to offend anyone, I just don't get how you could not laugh
at least once in this film when it was just a cute romantic comedy
that's better than most.

Sadie and Ben are one happy couple, after only six months they feel
that they are ready to tie the knot and get married. But Sadie's wishes
are to be married in the church her parents got married in and their
family minister, Frank. Frank isn't going to give this couple an easy
time though, he'll test them from Heaven to Hell to see if they are
really ready for marriage and slowly the realize what might be wrong
and different in their relationship.

Now, I admit that some of the situations were predictable and
unbelievable, but I think if you let go and just have fun, you'll find
yourself laughing. This movie was all in good fun; I loved the scene
where they have to find out what having kids was like. Those little
mechanical babies were so ugly and scary, but so funny! I expected a
fun and cute movie and that's what I got with License to Wed, so don't
trust the IMDb reviews, just go and have fun! 

6/10
<|_=00=_|>
I'm going to say something that no one in License to Wed has the guts
(or the brains) to say - Reverend Frank belongs behind bars. Frank is
supposed to be a goofy and likable guy who grows on us despite his
unorthodox methods toward couples coaching. Unfortunately, the movie
goes to such extremes that we are not so much charmed by Frank, rather
we are terrified by him. The man is a menace, and the fact that nobody
seems to realize it except for one character makes everyone in this
movie come across as completely oblivious.

Young lovers Ben Murphy (John Krasinski) and Sadie Jones (Mandy Moore)
have just made plans to take their relationship to the next level and
get married. It's always been Sadie's dream to be married at the family
church with Reverend Frank (Robin Williams) doing the ceremony. Before
they can get married, however, Frank forces the young lovers into a
bizarre program where they will have to pass a series of tests to see
if they are right for each other. Frank, along with his young student
(Josh Flitter), sets up a series of challenges and simulations that are
supposed to represent the difficulties that the couple will face in the
future together. While it sounds reasonable enough in theory, the
Reverend goes so far as to invading their private lives, even bugging
Ben and Sadie's apartment with concealed recording equipment, letting
him hear everything that happens when he's not around. Ben's patience
with Frank's extreme program starts to wear thin, and the young couple
start to contemplate if things are as compatible between them as they
initially thought.

There's nothing really wrong with License to Wed whenever Reverend
Frank is not on the screen. During those times, it's a perfectly
ordinary romantic comedy that plays by the rules. Unfortunately, Frank
is a major character, and the movie devotes too much time to him. He's
an evil, manipulative man, and we're supposed to laugh at him, because
he's played by Robin Williams, and he's constantly shooting off zippy
one-liners. If this character had been played straight, I have no doubt
believing his Reverend Frank would be right up there with his
"deranged" performances in Insomnia and One Hour Photo. At one point,
he has a 10-year-old kid break into the couple's apartment while
they're away at a session, and conceal a wire tap in their home. The
character of Frank comes across as someone who enjoys tormenting young
couples who just want to get married, and is not below employing
children to do his dirty work so that he remains off the hook. If this
sounds like a jovial, comical character to you, I highly suggest
counseling.

My question is why does nobody else in this movie but Ben realize just
how evil this guy is? And when Ben discovers the wire tap, why doesn't
he make a bigger deal about it? More importantly, why doesn't Sadie?
When Ben finally does tell her about the hidden recording equipment,
Sadie doesn't even react to this revelation, nor does she even act
offended. Are we to believe this woman doesn't even care that this man
has been violating their privacy? If I seem to be putting too much
stock in one character, I can't help it. He is what makes this entire
movie go wrong. The character hangs over the movie like a black shadow,
and causes everyone to become incredibly stupid, because no one can
admit to themselves that this man is wrong. Even Ben, who distrusts him
from the moment he lays eyes on Frank, winds up liking the guy before
the movie's over.

It's hard to get behind a cast when they're forced to play clueless
morons for the sake of the plot. Mandy Moore, once again finds herself
playing a woman who refuses to even look at the obvious until the
screenplay feels its convenient for her to do so. After Because I Said
So and now this, I'm starting to wonder if she has some kind of bizarre
fascination with women who make bad decisions for no reason other than
to move the plot along. John Krasinski is passable, but not much more
than that. He seems to kind of be playing a Ben Stiller-type character,
only without Stiller's enthusiasm. The rest of the cast spend most of
the time in the background, not contributing much of anything. That's
because Reverend Frank keeps on hijacking the movie at every
conceivable opportunity. It gets to the point we start wondering if
we're watching a movie, or if we're watching one of Williams' lesser
improv performances.

License to Wed is a movie that goes so extremely off course, and it's
all because of one man. If he had just been written a different way,
the film could have been salvaged. As it is, he drags the entire movie
down with him. It's amazing how the wrong lead character can affect
everyone and everything around them. When the movie came to its
predetermined happy ending, I didn't feel joy. I felt sorry for this
couple that this guy was still a part of their lives, and imagined what
hell awaited them in the future. I'm sure we'll hear all about it if
we're unfortunate enough to get a sequel.
<|_=00=_|>
License to Wed is exactly what I expected it to be when watching the
previews. An overall average movie, nothing mind blowing, but also not
impossible to watch.

The movie is a little cliché at points and most of it you have seen
before in whatever romantic comedy you decide to think of, but there
are a few additions to this movie that made it enjoyable for me.

As a huge fan of the TV show "The Office", I went to the theater the
other night hoping that the movie would keep me as entertained as the
small screen gem does. If this is what you are hoping for, sorry, its a
bit of a let down. However, the simple appearance of a couple of
"Office" stars is enjoyable.

The only real beef that I have with the movie overall is Robin
Williams' sexed up priest character. I can understand what they were
trying to do (humor from sex dialogue), but the conversations seemed
uncomfortable to me. A priest becoming sexual isn't that far fetched in
this day and age, but really, when your movie makes it look like a
priest is hitting on a woman in his marriage counseling class in front
of her soon to be husband, just rubs me the wrong way.

License to Wed is neither terrible nor wonderful. My recommendation
would be to watch it if you really don't care what you watch and just
need a popcorn movie to relax. No huge laughs but no huge let downs
either.
<|_=00=_|>
Robin Williams is certainly a very gifted comedian. It would be a sin
to classify him as untalented. But somebody needs to send this guy some
decent scripts. I think the problem is people feel that all you need to
do is cast Robin as the lead, and viola! You've got yourself a
hilarious comic romp! Weak writing is weak writing. End of story. The
film is not without laughs. I certainly did laugh several times, but as
you would expect, most of the good jokes are given away in the trailer.
Altogether, "License to Wed" is a predictable romantic comedy filled
with lots of sitcom-level humor. It's worth checking out on cable. Like
I said, there are some laughs, and watching the gorgeous Mandy Moore
certainly doesn't hurt either. But this is one of those comedies you'll
probably forget soon after you've seen it.
<|_=00=_|>
"License to Wed" might as well have been called "Meet the Minister,"
since all the film does is to recycle the nightmare-before-marriage
scenario from "Meet the Parents" - albeit with one crucial deviation.
Needless to say, lightning rarely strikes twice when it comes to
Hollywood happenings and "License to Wed" is no "Meet the Parents." Not
by a long shot.

Ben Murphy and Sadie Jones are a young Chicago couple who agree to
undergo an intense pre-marital "training course" conducted by an
obnoxious local reverend in exchange for being allowed to hold their
nuptials at the church Sadie's dearly departed grandfather helped to
build. To pass the course, the couple must agree to be abstinent until
the wedding night, take care of two fully operational and anatomically
correct mechanical infants, and undergo various forms of trauma that
even Sigmund Freud himself would have trouble undoing after years of
reparative analysis.

As a "Meet the Parents" wannabe, "License to Wed" stumbles right out of
the starting gate in that one can imagine suffering the slings and
arrows of outrageous humiliation and abuse in order to win the favor of
a prospective spouse's PARENTS, but to go through all that just to
placate her MINISTER? I don't think so. In no time flat, the laughter
turns to frustration as we find ourselves wondering why Ben doesn't
just tell the dear old Reverend to go take a hike - or worse - and then
seek out some religious establishment with less stringent requirements
for walking down the aisle.

And let's face it, there's something more than a trifle off-putting and
creepy about an unwed man-of-the-cloth running around with a young boy
as his personal protégé and sidekick, planting listening devices in
young couple's bedrooms. Even for an alleged comic fantasy such as this
one, that may be just a bridge farther than most people will be willing
to go in the queasiness department.

John Krasinski and Mandy Moore make an appealing enough couple, and it
isn't really their fault that they've been handed a screenplay -
written by no fewer than three writers, a sure sign of trouble - filled
with cornball humor, heavy-handed slapstick and unappetizing secondary
characters. In the role of Reverend Frank, Robin Williams, all cutesy
mannerisms and third-rate mugging, hits a new low in teeth-grinding
unctuousness, although one likes to believe that, if director Ken
Kwapis could have gotten the actor to dial back his performance even a
little, this might have been at least a tolerable movie. As it is,
though, "License to Wed" is a painful experience that you will have no
trouble leaving stranded at the altar.
<|_=00=_|>
Disappointing to say the least. Where is the old Robin, I sure miss
him, and I sure as hell am not the only one. Clichéd wedding movie with
Robin as a crazy pastor who takes soon-to-be married couples through
grueling challenges to see if they are worthy enough to be married in
his church. Basically, an unfunny script is all the writers could
muster, as the only funny bits are but two and both of them are shown
in the trailers. John Krasinski is horrible in this movie, which is a
shame (after seeing this movie, I almost immediately played The Office
on my Tivo to forget his embarrassing and crappy performance). Mandy
Moore is still Mandy Moore: Beautiful and talentless when working with
lazy scripts. And Robin, poor Robin; stop appearing in these types of
movies! We love you, but we hate it when you waste your talent on crap
such as this. In the end, don't bother with this bland and unfunny
movie, a 3/10, avoid!
<|_=00=_|>
I really really wanted to like this movie, in theory, it has all the
right elements for a strong comedy, but I was very disappointed.

I went to see this movie today at a 12:30 p.m. showing. The audience
was a good mix of older couples, young marrieds, teenage girls, a few
stray singles, a family or two--a well-rounded audience, let's say.
That well-rounded audience spent an hour and a half with Robin
Williams, god of comedy, with not a single good laugh. There were a
handful of mild chuckles over things like poop jokes and a man getting
smacked in the face with a baseball, but that was all we could muster.

Mandy Moore was luminous (but not given much to do, I wish she'd pick
better roles, I really want to like her), her fiancé utterly and
instantly forgettable in every way, the rest of the very talented cast
(The best man was delightful, his relationship with his wife hilarious,
and he was given all of 4 minutes of screen time) hopelessly misused,
and Robin Williams as unfunny as the man can possibly get. The "plot",
so to speak, consisted of Robin Williams as a minister conspiring to
make the future marriage of Mandy Moore and the other one strong by
torturing them at every turn and doing such charming things as bugging
their apartment to ensure they were not having forbidden premarital
sex. It was creepy and disturbing and predictable and boring, and, the
worst sin of all for a supposed comedy, not funny.
<|_=00=_|>
Is it too much to expect even mild entertainment from a Robin Williams
film. What happened to the comic genius behind 'Good Morning Vietnam'?
The man who turned in a reliable dramatic performance in 'Good Will
Hunting' is simply lackluster here. Mandy Moore and John Krasinski are
a likable couple subjected to some humiliating 'jokes' by priest
Williams. The film doesn't even give us enough time to get to know the
young couple. This could have been a cute romantic comedy, but the
barrage of juvenile material and creepy jokes make it unsuitable for
just about all audiences. Avoid.

Overall 2/10
