
Let's face it, often we go to the cinema for a bit of inconsequential
fun. In case you were in any doubt, Music and Lyrics kicks off with an
80s-style Wham-like video of a band called as 'PoP'. Firmly tongue in
retro-chic, Hugh Grant is Alex Fletcher, the washed-up has-been now
playing the nostalgia circuit for middle-aged housewives. He meets
bubbly Sophie Fisher (Drew Barrymore) who waters the plants in his
apartment but has a knack for writing lyrics. This saves his day when
current pop-diva princess Cora asks him to write and record a duet with
her.

Chances are you are now reaching for the vomit bag or saying that maybe
sounds like quite a giggle. If you can stomach the idea of Hugh Grant
singing his own songs and staging a come back then rest assured, this
is a very polished and unsubstantial rom-com. He and Drew Barrymore
propel the movie with energy, wit and a warm, lovable enthusiasm. While
perhaps doing little more than playing new aspects of themselves, it is
a delightful performance, and one backed up with catchy songs, a
fabulous debut by Haley Bennett (Cora) and a heartfelt, realistic
script.

Cora is a sort of teenage megastar, somewhere between Shakira, Britney
Spears and a youthful Madonna. Her elaborate stage-shows have a
'Buddhism & thong'(mysticism and sex) philosophy. Here, as with Alex
and Sophie, the echelons of the music world seem realistically
portrayed. While the matches seem unbelievable at first, by the end of
the film we want Hugh and Drew to continue their romance offstage, just
as with classic romance films of the 30s, so by any mainstream
yardstick, Music and Lyrics is a success. The film is as unpretentious
as its two lead actors, makes no great claims, and satisfies
Valentine's Day release requirements with a sincerity that takes it a
notch above the average cheese. Casting is spot-on, even down to
Sophie's older (and much larger) sister, who has similar
characteristics and mannerisms. It's easy viewing, and even contains
nothing unsuitable for older children. If you want more sophisticated
and substantial fare, you probably don't need film reviews to find your
way to the nearest art-house cinema or Oscar blockbuster. But for
straight enjoyment, Music and Lyrics slides down like a very reasonable
glass of rich chardonnay. Silly, formulaic, but rather well done.
<|_=00=_|>
There are already 222 reviews of this movie, so the chances of anyone
ever reading this are slim. However, I'm a sucker for a longshot. (so
if you read this review, please give it a thumbs up or a thumbs
down...I'm curious to know if anyone will ever read this, buried under
more than 200 other reviews)

When a friend suggested we rent this movie, my initial reaction was,
"NO!! It's a chick flick. And besides, it's got Hugh Grant in it. Those
are two really big strikes against it." However, and remember my
fondness for longshots, the movie also casts Drew Barrymore in the
other lead role. I couldn't resist.

To my complete surprise, both actors were excellent, and Hugh Grant
doesn't have a bad singing voice. To be honest, if he and Drew
Barrymore wanted to record an album of pop songs, I think it could do
quite well. Her strength is that she is perky and funny, and that
compensates for lack of trained vocal talent. Sometimes you DON'T want
to hear Barbra Streisand.

Here's the quickie plot summary: Hugh Grant was in a popular band of
the 1980s, and now he's reduced to playing for embarrassing venues like
shopping malls, amusement parks, and High School reunions. When a
Britney Spears-type singer wants him to write her new single, his life
changes completely, but only due to Drew Barrymore's help.

I now judge movies in part by how my European friends would react to
them. I have to admit that some American movies are a little corny, but
this movie passed the test with flying colors. A friend from Slovakia
not only loved the movie, he insisted on watching the trailers and
special scenes.... twice! It was a welcome relief to actually be proud
of a Hollywood movie.

I now have new-found respect for Hugh Grant, and my admiration for Drew
Barrymore is higher than ever. She sure has a lot of talent for playing
someone with pluck and a little bit of endearing wackiness.
<|_=00=_|>
I must warn you -- Being a guy, I had pretty low expectations to begin
with. However, there were a couple of things I enjoyed:

1) The movie was funny. 

-- Hugh Grant's one-sentence witty remarks came out natural and funny. 

-- Their ability to poke fun of two distinct musical decades could be
better, but still turned out pretty funny. 

2) The plot was novel (at least to me). 

-- "Meshing" the two music periods (the 80's and today) in the same
movie provided a good way to contrast the two styles. 

-- Since I'm not so familiar with the music industry, I enjoyed the
"behind the scenes" with the trial and error of coming up with lyrics
(at least in the way the movie portrays it.) 

Other than that, it was the typical "chic-flick." Guy has problem with
girl, he says some bad things, stir up some emotional scene and the
usual -- will they get back together? 

Other than that, if you're just looking for a good laugh, I'd give it a
go!
<|_=00=_|>
I've just read the first review on here and I'm a little surprised at
the things it said but as always, these things are only an opinion.
Anyway, I went to the World Premiere last night and here's what I
thought.

The plot is fairly simple - Hugh Grant plays a washed out 80s pop star
with a flair for melodies but no clue about lyrics. Cue the dizzy
plant-girl (do people really have a plant-girl??) Drew Barrymore who
can throw lyrics together without a problem. The relationship between
Drew and Hugh is built well - especially when you remember that Drew is
31 and Hugh is 47. There's nothing wrong with such a gap, I'm simply
saying the chemistry is there (or they would have looked a little
creepy).

Haley Bennett plays Cora, a Britney/Christina/Shakira mish-mash who is
looking to do a duet with Hugh's character. She is brilliant at the
shallow, superficial teen-nymphette and it's a surprise to see that
it's her first feature. And check out her costumes! The soundtrack is
good fun - pretend 80s songs mix with Cora's modern pop and the
Hugh/Drew demo track is nice too. One of the songs sounds a bit like
The Whitlams. The spoken section at the very start of the film sounded
awful but the rest was fine - maybe the cinema's problem but I was in
the Odeon Leicester Square....

The editing seemed a tiny bit, er, clunky at times - scenes cut into
each other messily and dialogue at one point seemed to be cut short. It
hadn't been but it just sounded that way at the time.

I didn't expect to like the film that much - I only went as I fancy
Drew to bits (and having seen her close up I'm right to!) but both my
girlfriend and I came out laughing and humming the main song. It's
genuinely as good as any other Hugh Grant film and is another great
performance from Drew (though it doesn't get near Wedding Singer or
Doppelganger (joking about Doppelganger)). It's well worth going to see
at the cinema and is a proper feel good rom-com. There's no shame in it
for us fellas as Drew is nice to look at, as is Haley. My girlfriend
loved it.
<|_=00=_|>
I'll admit it, I love this film! OK, the plot line is thinner than
paint stripper, the lines more mildly amusing than witty, and the
acting isn't going to win any Oscars, BUT...

it's one of those movies that just makes you feel good. 

Right from the hilarious opening, showing Hugh's make-believe band
"Pop" in their "MTV/VH1" hit video "Pop Goes My Heart", you can't help
but smile. Obviously it is especially amusing for those of us who lived
through the pop excesses of the 80s, but I have to say the teens in the
audience seemed to enjoy it too.

All the songs are pure cheese (and incredibly infectious), which
coupled with some amusing lines, a very lovable Hugh Grant, a very cute
Drew Barrymore, and fabulous supporting roles from Kristen Johnston and
Aasif Mandvi make this movie a great romantic comedy for those of us
who actually enjoy a "bit of fluff".
<|_=00=_|>
From the moment the movie started it was apparent that it was going to
be cute. The opening sequence is a hoot and must have been incredibly
fun for Hugh Grant. I, as well as the most of the audience started
laughing as soon as the movie came on. First time watching a movie that
I didn't even notice the opening credits. I really liked the chemistry
between Grant and Barrymore. They played well against each other. I
could do without the woman from Third Rock From the Sun. I find that
she acts a tad too cartoonish in her show/films and this one is no
exception. Nice to see Brad Garrett in a straight role. I love the fact
that actors and actresses are doing their own singing. I like movies
that don't stop at the end of the movie, but have fun things to watch
during the closing credits. I suggest you stay for them.
<|_=00=_|>
It seems odd for me to give such a high rating for romantic comedy as I
always find them frothy and lightweight. Yet I found this wonderfully
pleasurable. Hugh grant may have been in his usual role of self
depreciating charming English Gent who is living on his past pop star
glory but the dialogue and one liners gave his role substance. He more
than gave justice to them by his superb timing. Drew Barrimore also
fell into the part as a woman who comes to feed the plants and ends up
feeding ideas to him for a song in which he cant complete. The acting
was spot on, the one liners witty but I think it was the music added
joy to the film. As he said in the film don't quote me on this but
something like " there is nothing like a good song for lifting your
spirits in a second." I left this film feeling happy not only for the
characters but in myself.!
<|_=00=_|>
Music & Lyrics is a great romantic comedy. Hugh Grant plays the
charming English guy role effortlessly as ever and Drew Barrymore
demonstrates great comedic timing and brings a sweetness to the part
and together, the two have a believable chemistry. The age gap isn't an
issue when you watch the movie because it just seems right that these
two characters should get together.

What sets Music & Lyrics apart from other rom-coms is the music. The
music is woven seamlessly into the fabric of the movie. There are three
main characters in Music & Lyrics, Grant's Alex, Barrymore's Sophie and
the soundtrack which is enjoyable and deceptively catchy. I came out of
the cinema and i had the lyrics to the main song "A way back into love"
in my head for hours after the movie had ended.

Mix all this together and throw in great supporting performances from
Kristen Johnston & Brad Garrett and you get a sweet movie that will
definitely make you smile.
<|_=00=_|>
I was pleased when I finished this movie... normally by the end of most
romantic movies my legs ache from non-use and I have just enjoyed a
nice little nap.

I found Music and Lyrics to be charming and clever.... Hugh Grant gives
a great crisp delivery on his very witty lines... good interaction
between he and Barrymore, some well-timed jokes and a heartfelt ending
make this a nice date movie that did not follow the norm in it's
character. 

Here is where a few things were different

1. The main male character was a not a womanizer charmed out of that
life 2. The two characters had no secret shame to be revealed halfway
through the movie 3. He did not cheat on her... then they got together
in the end

He just did... as Sophie Fisher's sister in the movie, says "Something
Extraordinary" to win her love.

See it.. you will smile!
<|_=00=_|>
I'm a fan of Hugh Grant and Drew Barrymore. Their personalities alone
are enough to carry a movie. And such is definitely the case with Music
and Lyrics. Hugh Grant's self-deprecating, dry sense of humor charms.
And Drew Barrymore's slightly daffy girl-next-door shtick lights up the
screen. These two could read me an economics book and I'd be
entertained.

Music and Lyrics has its moments (campy '80s videos, shots at reality
shows and pop divas), but overall, the story isn't as good as its
stars. And while I love Grant and Barrymore separately, I'm not sure I
love them together. Each of their personalities seems somewhat
compromised in Music and Lyrics -- as if Grant's sarcasm and
Barrymore's sweetness are both toned down. They meet somewhere in the
middle, and it's very pleasant...but it's not as good as it could have
been. Music and Lyrics is very much along the lines of Two Weeks Notice
(both are written and directed by Marc Lawrence).

Bottom line: it's light fluff with some engaging stars, fun pop culture
mockery and a song that will stick with you (like it or not!)
