
I was able to catch this movie at a test screening in California while
i was on vacation and its not much of a film. Its the same story as the
previous ones and most of the stuff in the movie were taken from them
as well. I love Brendan Fraser but he didn't look happy to be there and
with how the story was set up, you can't blame him for looking
miserable. He has no chemistry with Maria Bello, who was just awful
(She's no Rachel Weisz, that's for damn sure.) and he has even less
chemistry with his own son played by Luke Ford, who has the charisma
and the charm of a brick, not to mention the fact that he looks just as
old as both Fraser and Bello. Fraser has more chemistry with John
Hannah, who is a welcome distraction from the lousiness of the film.
The movie itself is just a flat headed mess of bad visual effects with
no soul. Jet Li lacks the menacing presence of Arnold Vosloo from the
previous films but that problem is more than less on the shoulders of
the director, who was in my opinion more concern with the style of the
film than any substance it could have had and because of that, Jet Li
and most of the cast got the short end of the stick and it shows.

They should have ended it with the second film but instead, we have a
movie that manages to make even "The Scorpion King" look as good as
Iron Man.
<|_=00=_|>
A true honest review? Some true honest advice? Don't waste your time on
this, its terrible. 

I am a true fan of the original. I like the way it was weaved together
with interesting characters, hammy dialogue and breath taking action
sequences not to mention a beautiful location and some great plot
devices. Brendan Fraser and Rachel Weiz lit up the screen with his
charisma and her likability factor. They made a good screen presence
and carried the story along until its fantastic action packed finale. I
also like the way the producers mixed up the scenes, to spoon out not
only violent and eerie scenes involving the main villain himself but to
water it down to family standards with John Hannah's comical brother.
It was a film of epic proportions. A fun story, likable characters and
good use of live action and cgi, for the most part. Then about 2 years
later Universal ran out of idea's and so decided to return to the
bandwagon to churn out another cash cow sequel. 'The Mummy Returns' was
released and whilst not as good as the original at least had the
decency to be spectacular enough for the risibility. Fraser and Weiz
returned (having made an offspring) and warbled, walloped and crashed
through the bustling busy streets in a less than original screenplay
but at least maintained their charm and kept the spark glowing from the
first film. It was a likable sequel, and whilst no where near as good
as its ancestor still managed to be entertaining.

So here we are folks. 2008 and yet again we are re-visiting a tired
series. The next gruesome threesome to bring home to Hollywood is not
only the worst of the Mummy films, but quite possibly the worst sequel
of the year to date. Its so bad in fact that even Rachel Weiz turned it
down, but its not surprising having listened to some of the laughably
dire dialogue churned out here. I bet she took one look at the script
and threw it in the trash can. The story goes something like this...
Brendan Fraser (back as Rick O'Connell) his wife Maria Bello (yes they
replaced her with someone with half as much talent) her brother John
Hannah (what is he doing in this?)and their son Luke Ford (who has now
aged by about 20 years) are somehow prancing around in their ordinary
lives (in the Far East?) but suddenly the son awakens an evil Mummy
Emperor (because hey thats what your bound to do in a movie like this)
who wants to use his army of the undead to take over the world and get
revenge on the sorceress who put him to sleep so many years ago. The
only people who can stop him are the O'Connels who crash and bang
through armies of stone beasts, supernatural winds and all sorts of
other unoriginal menaces. Of course the showdown at the end will result
in global domination or ultimate Savior. But by that time, you just
wont care.

So.. why do I hate this one? when when one of the main stars from the
original backs down and bails out and when the other looks bored
throughout the whole darn thing you know you have a problem on your
hands. And its sad because Brendan Fraser makes it blatantly obvious
how unhappy he is reprising the role without Weiz by his side. He is
never able to connect with Bello who tries to be chirpy but comes off
looking rather ridiculous as the smart girl. And there we have another
problem. Bello just cannot squeeze into Weiz's cleverly filled shoes.
Its embarrassing to watch her warble on and you can really tell she
felt uncomfortable trying to live up to the characters standards. The
same can be said for Luke Ford, who makes a very unconvincing action
hero-sidekick next to Fraser. Again they have no spark or connection
what so ever. It feels like a cheap decision casting Ford because he
never really brings any emotion, good or bad to the screen. The
exception here is Jet Li, who whilst is not as menacing as Arnold
Vosloo (the original mummy) still pulls off a good dark role. Its fresh
seeing him portraying an evil character and it pays off when he is
actually on screen. However his presence is short lived and at times
feels like a guest appearance. And of course John Hannah who never
disappoints and steals the show altogether with his one liners and
witty charm. He almost makes this passable. Almost.

The movie deserves another good kick in, this time for its overly used
CGI action sequences which feel cheap, tacky and unoriginal. Imagine a
Roger Corman flick added into a Uwe Boll video game adaptation and your
halfway there. The sets are nice to look at, but the CGI is really
distracting and you can tell they did things all by computers. The
character development is replaced with an endless array of pointless
battle sequences. Pointless !

Its also really degrading seeing our much loved characters from the
first movies spout lines of almost ridicule. Brendan Fraser cringes as
he reads his lines (is he auditioning for the high school play?)and
like I said Bello looks uncomfortable. Even Hannah looks bored and
whilst trying to rescue this epic failure always looks like he wants to
be doing better things. Like the ironing for example.

There is just so much to bash this movie about. Its an obvious cash in,
but even fails at being entertaining. It doesn't live up to the first
or even the second. It is boring, confusing and the characters are
bland. The action is over the top and don't get me started on the
screenplay. Its just an all round failure and should be buried in the
Tomb of the title, never to be re-awakened.
<|_=00=_|>
I really like the Mummy series for its epic action, sense of humor and
great special effects. I was very excited when I started seeing teasers
for this sequel to be shown in July, mostly because it was quite
unexpected.

This movie has all the required elements of epic action, sense of humor
and great special effects. Of course there is still the swashbuckling
hero Rick O'Connell played in grand style by Brendan Fraser. He
undoubtedly has this action-comedy genre sewn up right in his alley.
John Hannah is still around playing his brother-in-law, Jonathan, in
his old annoying manner.

For the new stuff, the setting shift to China as the titular "Mummy"
now refers to an ancient Chinese emperor who desired immortality,
played by Jet Li (who really personified his anti-hero role with relish
here). The emperor sought the help of a "witch" (played with much
bravado by Michelle Yeoh), with whom he gets attracted to. However, the
witch fell in love with his main general (played by Russell Wong, whom
you'd wonder why he isn't getting more breaks in Hollywood). From hence
starts the conflict and the resultant curse on which the movie stands.

The requisite martial arts you would expect in a movie set in China are
of course in full play. Very well choreographed, especially that
thrilling sword fight between Jet Li and Michelle Yeoh. The exciting
action sequences inside the booby-trapped lost tomb, the truck and
chariot (!) chase in the streets of Shanghai and the final fight
sequence with the "Mummy" are all executed very well as in the two
previous installments.

But then there are the drawbacks that for me pulls this one down to a
five star rating. The quality of the spoken Mandarin is at times
unintelligible. However, the major beef involves what for me are
severely miscast actors.

The actor who plays the now college-aged son of the O'Connells, Alex,
looks too mature to be the son of Brendan Fraser. I just checked to see
that the actor Luke Ford was born in 1981, but he looked older than
that, so it was a bit of a stretch to believe that he is Brendan's son.
Furthermore, he also does not act like a son, but more like Brendan's
younger brother.

But the worst and damaging mistake was the decision to cast Maria Bello
in the beloved role of Evelyn O'Connell, which is wholly owned by the
more beautiful and credible Rachel Weisz. I felt absolutely NO
chemistry between Maria and Brendan. Her acting was also quite wretched
when compared to Ms. Weisz, who was able to maintain her
intellectuality, demureness and gentility on top of her topnotch
fighting skills. Ms. Bello fails miserably in this regard to recapture
the unique character of Evie we have loved before, in my opinion.
<|_=00=_|>
I do have a question, what ever happened to the slow walking lame
Egyptian mummies? I mean, as silly as they are, they're still
entertaining. Now we have The Mummy: Tomb of the Dragon Emperor, I
loved The Mummy, The Mummy Returns, it was watchable, but this one was
just an excuse to make some quick cash. I was actually looking forward
to seeing this movie, I got the opportunity to see it today, I was
excited, but unfortunately, we now have Chinese mummies that can do
anything that will fit into the CGI budget. Another disappointment was
the recasting of Evelyn, I know Rachel Weisz turned this script down,
but she was seriously needed, Maria Bella, who is a decent actress,
actually made Evie a very flat character and not as enjoyable. Then not
only that, but we have Brendan and Maria who do look incredibly good
for their age, they have a 20 year old son in the movie? This story was
a waste of time and money.

The Emperor of China wanted to rule the entire world, but when a
Chinese witch curses him and his army, he is put to sleep for thousands
of years. Rick and Evie are now retired and have lost the spark in
their relationship, but when they are asked to go to Shanghai to
deliver a small little ball, they bump into their son who has
discovered the Emperor. Rick and Evie are forced to wake the mummy by
his followers. Now the whole family with Jonathan and the protector who
was supposed to keep the emperor from rising, must destroy the Emperor
or he will take over the entire world.

The Mummy: Tomb of the Dragon Emperor has some OK moments, I loved the
beginning story and the ending battle scene is held pretty strong, it's
worth the look for that, but I would say this is more of a rental. It's
just a sad disappointment, considering how much better it could have
been. The one liners were too cheesy and we have three headed dragons,
karate kicking abdominal snow men, why not just go all the way and have
leprechauns with machine guns? That's how out of control the CGI
effects are. Luke Ford makes Brandon Fraiser look like Marlon Brando
with his acting and the love story between him and the protector girl
was useless. Like I said, wait for the rental, not the worst movie of
this year, but a huge let down for sure.

5/10
<|_=00=_|>
I was able to see this film about a month ago in a preview screening
and to put it in kind words, its terrible. Jet Li is about the only
good thing about the film but he's hardly in it. Brendan Fraser was
phoning in his performance and looked if he was waiting from a call
from his agent to get him out of the movie. Maria Bello looked goofy
and miscast and the actor who plays their son makes Hayden Christensen
from the Star Wars films look like an Oscar winner. John Hannah manages
to bring some laughs to the table but his stick is not as fresh as it
was before and Michelle Yeoh does not really do much with her role.
This movie lacks the creepiness of the first two Mummy movies and the
stone warriors of this movie don't hold a candle to the ghouls of the
first two films at all. Not to mention the fact that the visual effects
in this film look even worse than the second film(The Mummy Returns).
The film itself seemed toned down in the fun and thrills department and
just feels tired in certain scenes not to mention the dialogue, which
seems like it was written by a five year old. This film seemed like a
quick payday from all involved and sadly with the little effort spent
in giving the audience something to root for and care for, its just
feels like no one even cared about what they were making.
<|_=00=_|>
Like so many great movies that became dragged-out trilogies, the newest
Mummy falls right in. Don't get me wrong, I absolutely loved the first
movie. But like so many sequels, this story line becomes repetitive.
The first rule of sequels is to keep the cast. Rachel and Brendan and
an amazing chemistry, but Maria Bello was abysmal as the new Evelyn.
Her fake British accent and melodramatic acting was inexcusable. The
sets looked like they were built by 3rd graders, the effects were
overwhelming, the scenes were disjointed and the cheesy one-liners got
old fast. Sure, Brendan Fraser still looks hot in a tux, but he still
looks 35 even though his son is in his young 20s. Overall, I was
terribly disappointed. I wouldn't even bother seeing it in
theaters...and please tell me this series is finally over.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is painful to watch.

The special effects are decent, but everything else is an absolute
mess. The first half of the movie is a series of cringeworthy jokes and
atrocious dialog. Once the action picks up, it doesn't get much better
because of how campy and cheesy the action really is.

There is a big final battle at the end, but even that's pretty
disappointing.

At one point, a Yeti throws a dude through another Yeti's arms,
simulating a goal.

This movie is bad... Really bad.
<|_=00=_|>
First, Brendan Fraser is an actor who I really enjoy watching no matter
what he's in. Second, I was hoping he would do another mummy movie - I
like him in these campy action movies so I was looking forward to this
movie. Now I wish he had turned this one down as Rachel did, I wouldn't
have wasted my money. And I have a high tolerance for so-so movies. I
felt so bad for Fraser, he was trying - but you can only do so much
with a crappy script and poor direction.

Pros: Very good special effects. Jet-Li, Yeoh had good fight scenes.

Cons: Forced dialogue, Maria Bello trying too hard, No chemistry
between Fraser-Bello-Ford (the son). Music either too much or just not
a good fit, I found it overwhelming the scenes at times.

Everything comes across as trying too hard. I miss the Sommers touch. I
just didn't have any fun this time. Seriuosly, wait for it to come to
cable.
<|_=00=_|>
This is probably one of the worst films I've seen in my life, and I
don't tend to toss around accusations like that lightly, but this third
installment of The Mummy series initiated back in 1999 deserves such
dishonor, cause it's such a bad example of film making, it borders on
offensive.

I'm a guy with simple tastes, I'm not one of those people who think
cinema begins and ends with Bergman and Goddard, I actually enjoyed the
previous Mummy pictures, even the second one, which I know was cheesy
as hell, but like film critic Michael Phillips said about cheesy
movies, a movie sometimes is just "10.000 pounds of cheese on a
cracker, but sometimes, I'm exactly in the mood for 10.000 pounds of
cheese on a cracker." But The Mummy: Tomb of Dragon Emperor is, at
best, feces on a cracker, the cracker being the amazing trailer of
Quantum of Solace before the movie, probably the highlight of the
experience.

I won't go into any details regarding the plot, cause, well, the plot
is pretty much explained fully on the trailer. We pick up with the
O'Connell's, retired and bored as well, just as I was while watching
the movie. They get at again to stop the evil Mummy of the Emperor Han
from taking over the world...how original, when will these Mummies just
wanna lay back and enjoy the comforts of the modern age. I'd love to
see a movie about an ancient Mummy , brought back from the dead, only
to be flabbergasted by the technology of the present, and lay around
drinking beer, watching TV, and getting fat with McDonald's. That would
be more fun that all that this movie had to offer.

All of the actors were there for their paychecks, Brendan Fraser has
never been more boring. John Hannah was also incredibly stupid, and the
jokes they wrote for him were not funny at all, some are even
distasteful. Luke Ford, playing Rick's son, not only looks like two
minutes younger than him, but less charm than R2-D2, Michelle Yeoh is
wasted, Jet Li doesn't have the Mummy gravitas that Arnold Voosloo had,
and finally, Maria Bello; filling in for Rachel Weisz, who had the good
common sense to stay away from this dregs, she is horrible, she looks
so concern with her fake Posh accent, which she got wrong anyhow, so,
at the end, we are left with nothing in the acting department.

Rob Cohen, man, is he getting worse and worse, when you though Stealth
was really the lowest a director could get, he managed to enlighten us
with an even lower level of mediocre work. He has never been an
interesting director, and his campy style has butchered many movies
that looked interesting, if only for entertaining purposes, like
Dragonheart and Daylight, but you would expect at least, with all that
money spend on these summer movies, to have something to show for. But
no, no, no, everything looks poor, the action sequences are dull as
hell. To prove my point, this will probably be the only movie where a
sword fight with Michelle Yeoh and Jet Li lasts about 20 seconds, and
it's all in slow motion. If a director cannot make a sword fight
between those two modern icons of martial arts films, he should really
think about retiring for good.

The story is stock, which is to be expected from a B movie of this
sort, but like Raiders of the Lost Ark proved, even B movies can be
Oscar Hopefuls, but there was no attempt at all with this one. The
pacing of the story is terrible, the special effects are sub par, and
at the end, you are left with a 2 hour yawn fest, to which you would
fall to sleep within minutes, if it weren't for the loud noises coming
from the speakers.

The movie is shameful, and not worth the price of the ticket, this
movie is the reason why some theaters have money back policies, and had
the theater I saw this had one, I would have asked not only for my
money back, but for a year of free admissions, for having seen this
awful mess.
<|_=00=_|>
Since we saw Mummy III and Hellboy II as a drive-in double bill we're
doing sort of a twofer - reviewing both movies simultaneously and
posting under both titles - because we discovered that we were actually
watching the same movie twice. It was a fascinating way to see these
films; giving us the opportunity to directly compare and contrast them
and analyze why one succeeded and the other failed.

Synopsis: Ancient Relic must be returned to Undead Villain so that
Villain might be reanimated in order to summon his Demon Army and
destroy the World. Hero's task is to thwart this process. In the course
of attempting to prevent Armageddon, Hero is nearly killed but is saved
at the last minute by Love. Hero's power is not great enough to stop
Villain, so secondary characters must make the Ultimate Sacrifice in
order to dispatch Villain and Save the World. The End. If it all sounds
familiar it's because it's also the plot of nearly every superhero or
fantasy movie made over the last umpteen years. Note to Hollywood: It's
time to come up with a new plot line, OK? Please? 

We were expecting to enjoy Mummy III. First, there was Brendan Fraser
and most of the cast of the previous Mummy films. Then there was the
rich potential of the setting - the Terra Cotta Warriors, the mystery
and lore of China...even a trip to Shangri-La and Yetis. The table was
set for a feast of mystery, wonder and enchantment. How could they not
produce an entertaining film out of all this? 

One word: Writing. We're always amazed when megabuck films apparently
cap the writing budget at a buck ninety-seven. Early on, didn't anyone
involved in this say, "Hey, the script we're working from really
stinks!"? The rich mythology available to them was utterly wasted by
the writers. Shangri-La was a cheesy set that served only as a platform
for one of the progressive plot elements. The Yeti, though well done,
performed their little shtick and left the scene. One appearance by the
shape-shifting villain as a three-headed dragon and so much for the
fascinating potential of Chinese dragon lore. The hero's skeletal army
could have offered another little tribute to Ray Harryhausen (as was
done so well in the first Mummy), but no, why bother? And the dialogue
was uniformly clumsy, blunt and contributed nothing to either character
development or plot movement.

The writers in Mummy III were obviously in video game mode. Video games
need progressive plot tasks. So the Relic is returned to the Villain.
But wait - now the Villain must carry a jewel to the mountains that
will reveal the location of Shangri-La. But wait - now the Villain must
enter the waters of Shangri-La to be fully restored. But wait - now the
Villain must return to his tomb and summon his Terra Cotta Army. But
wait - now the Army must make it over the Great Wall in order to
achieve immortality. And so it goes. Played out like the levels of a
video game, and with even less explanation of the rationale than you'd
get in a video game. These are game levels rather than story elements,
and since the audience's need to be informed isn't fulfilled, it winds
up not understanding - and consequently not caring about - what's going
on.

In Hellboy II director/writer del Toro had the more difficult task.
Without a wealth of Chinese mythology to squander, he had to invent his
own...but he does it so very well (to see what we mean, watch Pan's
Labyrinth - please!). Del Toro is an imaginative story teller and myth
maker and proves it in Hellboy II. He also appreciates something the
writers of Mummy III don't - the wonder of small magic. The single
moment in Mummy III that made my wife "Ooooh!" was the transformation
of the egg-thing that awakened the emperor. Beautifully done - but the
only thing of its kind in the movie. Everything else was bigger than
life, overblown. In contrast, del Toro is full of small magic. From
tooth fairies to troll markets to wheels within wheels, he understands
that an audience can be just as enchanted by the small wonder as by the
huge spectacle. It's the difference between stage and close-up magic.
Make an airliner disappear and I will only wonder about the mechanics
of how you did it. Make a coin float in mid-air before my eyes and I
will be mystified.

A hallmark of both the Mummy and the Hellboy franchises is the
effective use of humor. Mummy fell flat at every attempt. thanks to
inept writing. Hellboy pulled it off very well - two love stricken,
clueless guys getting plastered to Barry Manilow's "Can't Smile Without
You" was delightful. We also have to mention del Toro's mastery of
lighting, set design and mood. His movies are consistently visually
evocative, which makes a good movie even better.

The movies shared one flaw with several other recent movies: climactic
action scenes that go into visual and auditory overload, causing the
eyes to glaze over and reducing the ability to comprehend what's going
on. When we lose the ability to take in what you're showing us this is
a bad thing. Please don't toss everything at us at once just because
you can - let us absorb your work so we can fully appreciate it. Had
the intense action not drenched us a few times in Hellboy II it would
have another star.

In summary, both movies had capable casts and premises with wonderful
potential. Mummy III failed, sadly, to capitalize while Hellboy II
succeeded very well. The difference was the quality of the writing and
the talent of the directing. We only wish the Mummy III crew could take
a mulligan, sit down and take a few lessons from del Toro and try
again. It's a shame that can't happen.
