
I must say that I was somewhat excited when my friend told me she got
us tickets to the premiere of "The Spirit", especially since I've never
been to a real premiere. It was an entertaining experience, all except
for when the film was rolling. 

I liked Sin City a lot, and I thought 300 was intriguingly well made
and quite entertaining. Let's just say that compared to 300, "The
Spirit" entertains more like Howard the Duck. The entire film seems
like a total farce, an unfortunate mockery of Miller's unique style
himself. It has been a very long time since I've seen a film with such
little (to no) heart, and hardly any soul. I must say that Sarah
Paulson gave the greatest performance by far of anyone else, as the
Spirit's unconventional doctor. She is the sole source of any feeling
or depth in the film. Macht was also at his best in the lead role when
sharing scenes with Paulson, otherwise, he barely filled the part. I
don't know if that was his fault however, given that the character
himself was depicted with very little depth overall. I never read the
graphic novel, but I'm going to go ahead and guess that this doesn't do
it justice. How can I say that? Because novels build key characters
into "people" that you care about, whether you hate them or love them,
the characters stimulate your mind on some level or another. This is
far from the case in this film. There is very poor development of the
characters, which the majority of potential watchers are unfamiliar
with. Sam Jackson has unfortunately chosen another terrible role, as
the non-intriguing villain, the Octopus. Jackson however does give us
some of his crazy wild eyed antics that we've grown to accustomed to,
although his character falls flat for the most part, especially
considering his opposite on the screen, Scarlett Johansen. It almost
seems as if Miller was asleep on the set when her scenes were shot.
She's THAT bad in this film, with a deeply sub par android-like
performance. Eva Mendes did what she could to somewhat save the film
from being a complete and total joke, although it's pretty close to
being just that. She plays the bling digging female lead opposite
Macht. Now quite possibly the most annoying character(s) ever portrayed
on film are the Octopus's cloned henchmen, which were frighteningly
reminiscent in annoyance levels of.......... dare i say it... Jar Jar
Binks. My four year old nephew would surely find some entertainment
value there. 

This film ultimately succumbs to its poor writing and direction, which
are almost cleverly masked by the signature visual style of Miller,
which is hypnotizing at times. Unfortunately, it's hardly hypnotizing
enough to mask the true, soulless identity of "The Sprit".

- Crimsonica
<|_=00=_|>
I was very excited about The Spirit because I am a big fan of Sin City
and was looking forward to see Frank Miller in action again. Also, the
cast seemed to be a great lineup. However, it doesn't matter how good
the actors are if the plot and script are lame, and I am here to tell
you -- I don't even think the likes of Anthony Hopkins and Meryl Streep
could have saved The Spirit for this reason.

I kept waiting for the story to intrigue me and for the characters to
develop. I watched a couple of people walk out of the theater about an
hour through... Finally, I checked the time (never a good sign when
you're watching a movie), only to discover that the movie was nearly
over, and there would be no chance for redemption.

Aesthetically, The Spirit was interesting, but I couldn't help feeling
like I'd seen it all before. The cinematography and graphics were
pretty much a carbon copy of Sin City. I expected to see similarity
(Frank Miller's style is distinct, after all), but not identical visual
imagery.

Bottom line, I rarely see movies in the theater because it's expensive!
For three people, we spent over $50 in downtown Seattle for this
experience, and it was so disappointing. I hate to waste that much
money on such a poorly written, boring movie. My recommendation is to
skip The Spirit altogether (really, the plot and script are that bad).
But if you're really curious, save your money and rent it when it comes
out on DVD.
<|_=00=_|>
Big fan of Sin City, big fan of 300, bigger fan of Watchmen. The Spirit
was sadly a big let down for me. The visuals and art direction were
amazing, strong cinematography, very "Roger Rabbity" sorta feel with
the rotoscoping of some scenes, his tie, shoes, backdrops etc. The
script was supposed to have this sorta old school Raymond Chandler
sorta film noir sorta feel to it and it just didn't hit it. 

Cheesy liners, a lot of the acting felt as if it was rushed, and some
of the scenes were just very...awkward and boring to say the least. I
went to a 10pm showing of it tonight and there was only about 20people
in the theater. Halfway through everyone except me and my company left
to "get their money back." Blah, hope Watchmen isn't as much of a let
down :/ Totally not worth the 10bucks a ticket unless your a die hard
DC fan and have actually read the Spirit comics, if not then its kidna
not worth seeing, unless your friend has it on DVD and your high and
need a good movie to pass out to. 

Also does anyone else find that whenever they watch a movie with Samuel
Jackson in it now, ever since Snakes on a Plane you just cant friggen
take him seriously anymore? Its like every time he says a line or has
some sorta goofy quote I just laugh in my head. ARG okay peace
<|_=00=_|>
I love the interview with Lorenzo Semple Jnr, screenwriter for 'Flash
Gordon,' when he suggests that the film would have been a big hit if
only they'd been able to market it as a movie that would be a cult
classic in thirty years. He goes on to explain what the core problem
is: A cult film, by definition has fanatical supporters ... just not a
lot of them. Those who 'get' the film will keep it alive forever, but
Joe Moviegoer won't care if he ever sees it again. And so I turn to
'The Spirit,' a film which has similar qualities to 'Flash Gordon': bad
enough to be awesome, tongue firmly in it's cheek and gentle satire in
it's hand.

'The Spirit' manages to be wondrous and infuriating. A visual feast,
Frank Miller was the perfect choice to bring the film to life. On the
other hand, the dialogue is often so cheesy and the characters so over
the top that the movie never allows you to be lulled into that
wonderful moment of forgetting that you're watching a movie. There
isn't a single character in the movie who talks like a real person.
They all talk like, well, comic book archetypes: gruff commissioner,
megalomaniacal super villain, brilliant evil assistant, sultry femme
fatales, loyal and uninteresting love interest, and on and on. Take
Samuel L Jackson's character, 'The Octopus' for example. It is a
character that Jackson was born to play and Sam throws every ounce of
his endlessly entertaining and over the top style into the character.
It works and he plays the part brilliantly because he takes ridiculous
dialogue and ridiculous material and has wild amounts of fun with it.
The cast, by and large, follow his lead. Scarlett Johansson is
hilariously withering with her acerbic barbs to The Octopus' clone
lackeys, all of whom are played with deadpan wit and verve by Louis
Lombardi. It is hard, in fact, not to feel some pity for Gabriel Macht
who has to play Bud Abbott to a cast of rollicking, scene-chewing Lou
Costellos in an over-acting competition. It all works wonderfully if
you're willing to view the film as, uncharitably, being unintentionally
funny or more genuinely as a gentle lampoon of comic book films by one
of the great figures of the graphic novel genre.

Frank Miller takes 'The Spirit' and has great fun with it. It is quirky
at times, ham-handed at times, but lovingly made. A brilliant Noirist,
Miller actually has much better luck in 'The Spirit' in moments of
levity. The noir angles of this film don't work unless designed as a
kind of self-righteous satire. The noir feels forced and dramatic
moments are mercilessly skewered by the corny dialogue that a helpless
Gabriel Macht delivers with straight-laced determination. 'The Spirit'
has the look of 'Sin City' and the heart of 'Flash Gordon.' When it
works, it works well, but the film is a terrible mess whenever it is
trying to be serious.

So is it worth the ride? I think so if you go in with the proper
expectations. There's not really anything new visually if you've seen
'Sin City' or '300' -- both Miller works of course -- but that didn't
make them any less interesting to me. Plenty of humour where it may or
may not have been planned and the potential to be a cult classic. This
is the kind of movie you can best enjoy in the company of friends and a
cold six pack. Look for diamonds and you're looking for too much. And
if nothing else, Eva Mendes has never looked better on film than she
does here. That's got to stand for something, right?
<|_=00=_|>
Spirit was marketed to be the next Sin City or 300 which makes you
think of hardcore action not quirky humor or PG-13 

What most people hate about this movie I found awesome

Yes, one liners were cheesy. Yes, Samuel Jackson is in every movie
ever. Yes, the acting was over the top. Yes, the film looks like Sin
City. Yes, I loved this movie. Its so bad, its good. The one liners,
the acting, and the style all made it feel like the comic strip.

The plot was a little thin but they had the back story catchup so you
still get the whole movie experience.

The only major downfall I see to this movie is the PG-13 but thats why
the DVD will be amazing.

You will know if you love/hate this film within the first 10 minutes so
go see it and if you hate it, walk out fast so you get your money back.
<|_=00=_|>
No really. He takes a property that is fun and clever and entertaining,
spews his well-worn brand of "dark and gritty" all over it, and
proceeds to waste a little over an hour and a half of your life (more
if parking was a pain in the rear - as it tends to be during the
holiday season).

We'll start off with what's right with this movie.

It's... um... "visually stunning?" Maybe. If you haven't seen "300" or
"Sin City" or "Sky Captain" before. (Please note that while two of the
three mentioned films are based on his work - there's a good reason
they're watchable. You guessed it - he didn't write and/or direct them)
And that's about it.

The acting was phoned in - it takes a great director to wring a great
performance from actors who are given laughably bad, pseudo-noir lines
to puke out and guess what? Frank Miller isn't a great director. He
isn't even mediocre. He's just plain bad.

So, what possessed the studio to gamble several millions of dollars
when Robocop 2 and 3 should have been all the proof they need that one
shouldn't waste more than the cover price of a comic book on this man's
dubious talents? I'd like to think it was drugs instead of just plain
stupidity, but I somehow doubt it.

There's several good reasons why they waited until Will Eisner was dead
before making this. Do yourself a favor, take my word for it, and don't
waste your time and money finding out what those reasons are for
yourself.
<|_=00=_|>
I really wanted to like this but the main actor who played the Spirit
was just plain awful. And everyone acting was dreadful, the writing is
dreadful and the direction is dreadful. Maybe Frank Miller wanted that
actors to Over act and over act they did BIG TIME. Sam L. Jackson is so
over the top that it was painful. We were laughing at some scenes not
because it was that funny, it was just that embarrassing. The first
fight scene (not giving anything away), that the Octopuss had with the
Spirit was force and confusing and so out of place and completely
uninteresting.

This movie is STYLE over SUBSTANCE. And it's hugely disappointing from
the guy that was part of The 300 and Sin City. I guess every good
person have their bad movies. I think perhaps Miller wanted the
characters to be cartoonish. At one point, I wouldn't have been
surprised to see an anvil drop on someone's head, thats how ridiculous
this movie was. Perhaps one has to be a fan of the comic book... (or
graphic novel in some circle) in order to truly enjoy this. I went with
three other friends and 3 out of 4 of use thought it was awful and the
other person just said, "it wasn't that bad".

That voice over of the spirit was just bothersome the entire movie. I
was thinking... please, for the love of god, shut him up. The Spirit's
voice over is irritating like Jock itch.

Now for the other actors, Eva Mendes is as beautiful as always and at
one point I heard at least 10 independent dayums go out like some said
it once at the grand canyon and you got 9 echos... .DAYUM! dayum dayum
dayum dayum...

The other ones didn't get to do anything, except there are moments of
irritating joy in the Octopuss' creations. The Spirit gets a 4 out of
10 for not actualizing the film that it could have been. It is a pass.
<|_=00=_|>
The Spirit is a film with few virtues. There's a fingerful but that's
it.

Gabriel Macht delivers a certain charisma in the titular role as Will
Eisner's classic middle-class superhero. This is his first time
carrying a movie and had the focus been shifted more on him, his antics
and his conflicts it would have been a better film. We witness some
lovely moments when The Spirit talks about the love he has for his
city, echoing something at the very heart of the superhero mythos. One
scene has him even using the city as a shield, a weapon and a guide in
his role as its guardian. These are poignant moments that evoke that
somewhere underneath all the terribleness there might have been a spark
of a good film here.

That's where all the virtues end. 

People will probably gravitate to the cinematography of Bill Pope which
does its best to marry Frank Miller's Sin City with the pulp comics of
The Spirit's origins. But as pretty as the cinematography does look
here and there, most of it is too busy, too dark and too careless. As a
film that tries to show the protagonist's relationship with his city
the cinematography should have created a sense of being in a vast
metropolis. Instead the visuals feel completely green-screened and the
effect is that the film ends up looking like it was shot on a stage
instead of in a wide open city. There is also something that feels
unfinished about the green-screening process as though some more work
needed to be done and as such the film has the look of the cut scenes
out of late 90's full motion video games with the characters standing
out from rendered CGI effects like sore thumbs.

This is Frank Miller's first time out as a solo director. He is
credited with co-directing Sin City and after seeing this film one
realizes that Miller had very little to do with the physical directing
on that film. It's sad to see one of the greatest comic book creators
of all time helpless in trying to do justice to Will Eisner's
creations. Miller even casts himself as a police officer whose head
gets ripped off and used as a blunt weapon in the film's opening. One
wonders if that was CGI or if the lack of any thinking going into this
film can be blamed on Miller's headlessness. Either way it's an apt
metaphor for a project that steams forward without any direction. 

The film is a mess of tones and genres. Scenes tend to go on forever
without anywhere to go in the first place. There's an overuse of
flashbacks. And most of the dialogue is delivered in soliloquy
(including a scene where The Spirit talks to a cat for 5 minutes).
There are no subtleties in delivery, pacing or acting. Everything is
blunt, harsh and cold. The audience knows everything in the first 15
minutes and it takes the rest of the characters an hour to catch up.
It's frustrating, busy and excruciating to watch. Even attempts at
humor fall flat. A running joke with 24's Louis Lombardi is amateur in
its rendition. 

The acting is where Miller's lack of film-making chops shows most
prominently. Sam Jackson plays the Octopus, a villain whose face was
never shown in Eisner's comics and rightfully so. Jackson is fresh off
of a plane full of snakes and still acting like it. He plays the same
tough character he always plays - shooting off big guns while shooting
off his even bigger mouth. It's beginning to get boring and he needs to
seek out more parts that explore his range. In order to make up for
having no character depth or any credibility as a villain, Jackson and
his henchwoman, played by the vastly overrated Scarlett Johansson, go
through more costume changes than a Vegas strip show. Jackson goes from
dressing like a pimp to a mutton-chopped samurai and even (I can't make
this up) a monocled goose-stepping heil-hitlering Nazi in an offensive
scene that seems like a bad pun on the classic Patton.

Further to the acting, there is a bevy of female characters that
clutter this film in an attempt to create some element of pulp sex
drama. Johansson's Silken Floss is just money thrown down the drain as
she brings nothing to the movie. I've never understood her appeal and
this film is perhaps best proof of her need to hire an acting coach.
The Morgenstern character is a time-waster and eats up screen time
lecturing the audience on the Electra principle (Miller you created a
character named Elektra, you have a fascination with it, we get it, but
it has no place in this film). To believe her character we'd have to
believe that a rookie cop would be the only one to notice a gigantic
clue two days after a crime scene has been cleared. Sarah Paulson and
Eva Mendes, both in terribly written roles, try the hardest and as an
audience member I appreciated that.

The free screening I attended last night had a number of rows oddly
empty from the get go. And within 10 minutes about twenty people had
already gotten up and left. The rest of us stayed because it was cold
outside and perhaps hoping that things would only get better. They
didn't. After the film we had a unique experience where audience
members cultivated together, like strangers at a traffic accident, to
criticize the film. People were upset over a film that failed in every
possible way a film can fail and yet the advertising campaign paints it
as a brilliant, exciting holiday adventure. I assure you it's not.

Lionsgate this is a train wreck. If this is your idea of giving your
audience a holiday present honestly shame on you.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw the Spirit at a special advanced screening in Montreal yesterday
evening... Wow! what a bore-fest! Granted, Frank Miller's style still
makes for beautiful imagery, but Holy God, the man doesn't know the
first thing about about the cinematic language! Some scenes go on like,
what seems, forever! One scene in particular where the Spirit finds
himself tied to a dentist chair while the Octopus and his sidekick
Dental Floss, or whatever the name of Scarlet Johansson's character is,
talk and talk and talk for... at least twenty minutes! I'm kidding you
not! See for yourself when it opens.

There is no sense whatsoever of pacing or rhythm, scenes start abruptly
and close for no reason, without ever building or leading to something
else... The movie (or un-movie as I like to call it) is more like a
collage of beautiful images. There is no real story, no real danger, no
characters real enough to connect to.

I'd like to tell you to skip it, but you'll have to see it for yourself
to believe how bad it is!...
<|_=00=_|>
I honestly thought he would treat this much-loved and admired classic
with some respect. Guess I'm naive. It certainly looks gorgeous, but
that's almost regrettable in a film that's otherwise so utterly,
grindingly, gone-to-hell stupid. Awful performances (except by Gabriel
Macht as Our Hero, who looks great with his wide earnest eyes and buff
physique, and handles the lines about his love for the city with fine,
tough conviction), jaw-droppingly overdone dialogue, what seems like
hours of totally unnecessary comic material ...man, it's just dreadful,
and a great disappointment to me. If I ever buy the DVD I'll only watch
it with the sound turned off.

Poor Will Eisner must be spinning in his grave tonight.
