
Brad Anderson is probably the best unknown director working today. He's
the independent Christopher Nolan, often making character-driven,
psychologically complex flicks that transcend the trappings of their
respective genres. In the past he has successfully combined elements
from time-travel thrillers and romantic comedies in 2000's "Happy
Accidents", delivered a taut "Shining"-esque thriller in 2001's
"Session 9" and then provided a stirring Hitchcock homage with 2004's
"The Machinist" (which also featured a gonzo performance from Christian
Bale). With "Transsiberian" Anderson attempts to breath life back into
the often forgotten train-based thriller. Like those three earlier
films, "Transsiberian" was made on the cheap, yet still manages to
feature great camera-work and well known faces headlining the cast. In
terms of the logistics of the location shooting in Lithuania (doubling
as Siberia), this arrives as Anderson's most accomplished film from a
technical standpoint.

The story starts off with an American couple (a goofy Woody Harrelson
and a criminally underrated Emily Mortimer) returning from missionary
work in China by route of the famous Transsiberian railroad. Once on
board the train, they befriend a young couple (Kata Mara and Eduardo
Noriega) who claim to be student-teachers returning from Japan but
might be hiding something sinister. The screenplay does a good job of
building up to "something" and developing the characters, especially
Mortimer's Jessie, delving into her past with expository dialog that
makes you care about where these characters are headed and think deeply
about their motives. Without giving away too much of the film,
entanglements ensue as a drug smuggling operation comes to light, and
in steps Ben Kingsley (excellent as a Russian bruiser) as a narcotics
detective with a special interest in the case.

There is a point, however, where (pardon the pun) the screenplay
derails, and despite some unexpected twists, there never seems to be
that big payoff. The film keeps the viewer on their toes with a bizarre
turn of events at an abandoned church and a shockingly grim torture
scene, but the psychological ramifications of these events are never
probed as deeply as they could've been. The seductively cute Mortimer
gives a nervy, complex, and excellent performance as Jessie, keeping
the viewer invested in her character and what could happen to her even
as the screenplay goes all over the map with her development. Woody
Harrelson's performance is more of a conundrum as he seems to be
playing a book-smart version of his moronic character from "Cheers". He
makes you laugh during some of the more ridiculous scenes as the plot
holes get deeper, and whether that was intentional or not to break the
tension or gloss over the leaps of logic is never clear.

"Transsiberian" should please those looking for something different
from your run-of-the-mill Hollywood thriller. Though the screenplay
initially gives us characters that feel like real people, the mechanics
of the convoluted plot spoil the potential of that development.
However, the film still offers up an exotic locale, solid direction,
and interesting performances, which makes it easy to recommend.
<|_=00=_|>
2008 Sundance Film Festival ★ ★ ★ ★ (out of four)

My favorite movie from the first day of Sundance 2008. Roy (a very
young-looking Woody Harrelson) and Jessie (Emily Mortimer) are a young
Iowa couple, returning from a church humanitarian mission in China via
the Transsiberian Express, where they encounter the much more
adventurous Carlos (Eduardo Noriega) and Abby (Kate Mara). Boarding
mid-way is Ben Kingsley, who we have learned from the opening scene is
a Moscow police detective.

Like a Hitchcock classic, we are grabbed from the start with a feeling
that things are not all as they seem, and don't lose that uneasy
feeling that something very bad is going to happen until bad things
really start happening. The tension is eerie and relentless, with
telling glances and social conversation that suggest the relationships
between these four are going to take a disturbing turn. Written by
Director Brad Anderson (The Machinist), and inspired by a Transibberian
trip he once took, the script is inspired and very tight, the
characters infused with extraordinary depth and interest, the Russian
state a harrowing umbrella and the dialog consistently powerful and
compelling. (My favorite line, from Ben Kingsley, goes something like
this: "We have a saying in Russia: You can always go forward with a
lie, but you can never go back.")

As Anderson said in the Q&A, the confined spaces of trains make for
heightened drama. Shot in Lithuania, the cinematography is haunting,
capturing the mysterious, bleak and unsettled state of post-Soviet
Russia, which makes for a marvelous backdrop to the action. 

This movie should do well in national release. Maybe very well. 

Sundance Moments: Brad Anderson and all the principals of the cast were
at the Sundance premiere. More so than usual, they all praised Anderson
as an extraordinary and meticulous director, one of the greats. Ben
Kingsley noted that what attracted him to the movie, besides the
Russian sub-story, was that the characters were archetypes and not
caricatures, which is quite true. Anderson talked about how bitterly
cold it was shooting in Lithuania.
<|_=00=_|>
Loved this movie and wonder why it was so under-marketed. I went to see
it because I actually took the Trans-Siberian train this summer and so
of course this movie intrigued me. (Luckily my trip was not so
eventful!) While of course the movie was more personal for me since I
could really relate to a lot of the scenes about life on the train and
in the stations, this movie will appeal to anyone who likes a good
mystery. This movie keeps you on the edge of your seat and is really
well-done. And it definitely captures the current political and social
climate of Russia today. Having dealt with the border guards in Siberia
(over a visa problem) I witnessed first hand the 'wild west' mentality
that currently exists in that country. It may be hard for Americans to
believe that the events that occur in this movie are realistic. But
they are. And Woody Harrelson is a revelation. Ben Kingsley is great as
always. I was not familiar with Emily Mortimer prior to this film but I
will be on the lookout for her next film. It's a shame not many people
will see this movie. Hopefully they'll catch it on pay per view. Highly
recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
Trains are famously atmospheric, especially on long runs across remote
areas like China to Moscow through Siberia. Voilà: the Transsiberian
railway. The quartet who meet in a compartment aren't really likable,
but you're thrown in with them, like on a train--the way Roy (Woody
Harrelson), his wife Jessie (Emily Mortimer), Carlos (Eduardo Noriega)
and Abby (Kate Mara) are thrown together in this tight, exciting,
basically old fashioned thriller. This is the new Russia of big money
and mafia corruption, but the ingredients are tried and true. Strangers
on train: there's something Hitchcockian about the way innocent people
get roped into incriminating situations and then appear perhaps not to
be so innocent after all.

They're on a very long ride, and in the overheated intensity of the
cars (you can't seem to pry the windows open) things are blown out of
proportion. They're too naive, too suspicious, too sexy. Roy's too
pious and decent and upbeat. Look at the donut and not at the hole, is
his motto. He's a very Christian hardware dealer and Jessie is his wife
with a wild past that comes out when she meets another woman. They're
returning from some sort of Christian outreach project in China. Roy's
like a little boy: he loves trains. The Express is like a huge toy all
for him. He's very devoted to Jessie, but the sex hasn't been going too
well.

The next day into the compartment comes a younger couple. Carlos and
Abby say they were teaching in Japan. However, Carlos, a handsome
devil, who has his eye on Jessie, seems to know a little too much about
how to get past customs with a dodgy passport. He shows off theirs
proudly to Jessie, who's had a bit of trouble with the Russians. Her
passport and Roy's are too pristine, he says. It makes the officials
suspicious. His and Abby's are packed with stamps. They look "real."
He's got some of those Russian dolls, the little lacquered things like
shoots only with babushka heads, one inside the other. He says his are
special, and he's going to sell them for a lot of money.

Well, he is, but that isn't why.

The train makes long stops, and Roy is so fascinated with the cars, he
gets involved in a conversation with Carlos, and then the train takes
off without him. Abby and Jessie have had a heart-to-heart and Jessie
has confessed she had a lot of drug and alcohol problems. Roy says they
"met by accident" because they met in an accident, when she was driving
drunk and he stayed with her in the hospital. That's when he told her
the donut and the hole story.

Carlos is dangerous, handsome, and predatory. Jessie has that wild side
gesturing wildly to be let out again. And he could be the one to tease
it out.

When Roy gets left behind Jessic has to get off at the next stop and
wait for him. Carlos and Abby insist on getting off with her and
keeping her company. And that's when the trouble really begins. Stuff
happens. Surprising stuff. Or not. Depends on how good you are at
predicting this kind of plot.

But the thing is, Brad Anderson and his writing collaborator Will
Conroy have put together a story rich in atmosphere, that really
convinces you all this could only happen here, on the train, in the
snow, in the none-too-touristic rural Russian hotel and on a bus, and
out in the middle of nowhere. The outdoors is all snow. The train cars
are rickety and yet tough. The woman attendants are all Nurse Ratcheds
who speak nothing but loud angry disapproving Russian. The food sucks,
but the vodka flows. (Jessie refuses it, but when things get tough, she
downs a shot. This is a world bad enough to make all but the strongest
lose their sobriety, and she wears her heart on her sleeve.) The
Russian fellow travelers are a mixture of camaraderie and hostility.

And then, of course, along comes Ben Kingsley, as Grinko, detective of
Russian Narcotics Bureau (no articles, please). When Roy reappears,
he's made friends with Grinko. Well, before that, early on, we happen
to have seen Grinko examine a man at a table with a knife buried in the
back of his head. Cherchez les drugs.

I can't tell you any more. I can tell you that the trains are so lovely
they make you understand Roy's enthusiasm. Whole cars give off a smoky
ooze of white frozen air whenever you look at them. To heighten our
sense of the visual in all this, Jessie is a good amateur photographer,
armed with an expensive digital Canon with a big lens, and the images
on screen often jump with a hand-held camera, but also step back to
take in long views of a skeletal ruined Russian church out in the
waste, or to snap a hawk in the sky, or a bunch of huddled old ladies
at a station near a rubbish bin where Jessie is trying to dump
something incriminating. But wait. Mustn't tell.

It all hinges on moral ambiguity--people who used to be bad, who still
are bad, or who turn bad, and getting trapped in your lies. There are
some questionable details, especially at the end. Mortimer, usually a
supporting actor, has depth and a central role here. Kingsley is as
good as ever. Unfortunately the character of Roy is bland and
conventional, Abby silent, Carlos more a smile and a sexy body than a
personality. But the milieu itself is the richest character, and the
too little known Brad Anderson, who made Happy Accidents and The
Machinist, again proves his originality with material that follows a
time-honored template but with a very fresh feel that keeps you
absorbed from beginning to end.
<|_=00=_|>
Just screened this great film at Sundance 2008 and came away very
pleased with the experience. It appears that Director Brad Anderson has
successfully created a modern thriller worthy of attention. The
backdrop of this film is the wondrous Transsiberian Express railway
which in itself makes this completely watchable and makes for fantastic
cinematography. The story takes us along the railway with Jesse (Emily
Mortimer) and Roy (Woody) who are taking the trek as an adventure after
a stint in China. The two Americans find themselves befriended by a
young couple Carlos and Amby (I think thats her name,the character was
played by Kate Mara) who themselves are traveling around Russia. After
some time together an awkward friendship forms between Jesse and Carlos
who has several different motives. As the train keeps pushing across
the frozen tundra some situations occur that separate the newfound
friends and places certain individuals in compromising positions that
ultimately result in some stressful events. Russian narcotics officer
Grinko (Kingsley) arrives just in time to really make things chaotic
and turn the train ride into a thrill ride. Jesse finds herself pushing
and pulling between dealing with the truth and what it will take to
survive the train trip home.

First of all whether one loves the plot or not, its hard to deny the
fantastic cinematography that takes place throughout the film. The
train sequences inside are so authentic that one can truly feel the
atmosphere breathing. Overall the whole film just feels authentic to
the locations and the people who wander in and out of the film are
completely genuine. Superb performances by all, just really good stuff
from actors you would expect it from. Plot runs a little weaker towards
the end and inevitably its somewhat predictable as most thrillers are,
but with the train and the location its a enough of a twist to keep
viewers interested. Flick definitely should appeal more to mainstream
audiences then the typical indie sorts, so buzz might be a bit weak on
the indie circuit but this movie should have decent release interest
and definitely get good views on video and cable when people give it a
chance.
<|_=00=_|>
A church-going Iowa couple has just finished missionary work in China
and is headed home via the Transsiberian railway. Hubby loves trains.
Wife, who we learn has an alcoholic past, wants a bit of adventure.
They get more than they bargained for.

They meet another, younger adventurous couple on board the train. He's
a charming, raffish Spaniard. She's a 20-year-old American runaway from
Seattle who clearly bears psychic wounds. They seem to be up to
something sinister.

Emily Mortimer is Jessie, the American wife. She senses danger long
before here clueless husband, played by Woody Harrelson, who thinks
being an American gives you a free pass all over the world.

The movie opens in Moscow, where we see police detective Grinko, Ben
Kingsley, investigating a double murder of two gangsters. A big stash
of heroin is also missing. Hmmm. Who has that heroin now?

Back in Siberia (actually Lithuania), things are getting tense aboard
the train. The charming Spaniard is making a subtle play for Jessie.
Outside, endless miles of frozen forests. Inside, raucous Russians
downing vodka, comparing scars, smoking and singing. The railroad
"hostesses" live in a constant state of pissedoff-ness toward the
passengers. Amtrak it ain't.

The first half of this movie is fairly slow as we get to know the
characters. Then, during a layover at a remote village, an incident
happens that puts the movie into total, nail-biting overdrive. The
second half is as gripping as any movie I've ever seen. As riveting as
anything Hitchcock has ever done ... and this is from a major Hitchcock
fan.

Warning: late in the movie there is a torture sequence of a woman that
caused a few in the audience I saw it with walk out.

I'm sorry they walked out. The final sequence is a scene of absolute,
though non-violent, reciprocity.

I hope this movie makes it to a large audience of suspense movie
lovers. They won't be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
I had heard little about this film before watching it, apart from the
cast that included the wonderful Ben Kingsley as well as Emily Mortimer
and Woody Harrelson. Who each added a great depth to their respective
characters making for compelling viewing. The blend of great actors and
natural dialogue makes for an emotive and visceral experience.

Brad Anderson has made a well paced thriller that explores the vast
emptiness and deprived parts of Russia, and at the same time in
contrast capturing the beautiful scenic landscape, as the characters
delve deeper into the twisting roads of the narrative. Other than The
Machinist (2004) I was unfamiliar with his work but will probably
lookout for upcoming features as he has shown great competency in both
the writing and direction of this film. Balancing the dramatic aspects
of the narrative with the overall film.

The most important thing to note is that it is an independently
produced film, which means it is free from the constraints of the
mainstream but unfortunately this may mean that it falls through the
net as independent films are often unable to compete with the marketing
capacity of studio productions. As a result this film will probably not
receive a nation wide release across UK cinemas, which is a shame. 

This film is great watch with a solid narrative structure and with
honest performances from all actors involved, hopefully you'll find
Transsiberian a worthwhile watch as I did.
<|_=00=_|>
A handful of familiar plot elements (all used effectively by Hitchcock,
so let's not look down our noses here) is vividly drawn in a great
location. We're not on Amtrak and the more perilous side of American's
traveling in distant lands is beautifully rendered by the director Brad
Anderson and sensational cinematography by Xavier Giménez.

However, it's the cast that takes this from something routine to
something very unsettling. Emily Mortimer gives a fine performance as a
woman trapped by her past. She does more with this role than perhaps
was written and finally cinches her place as an actress you can count
on. Two supporting roles, Eduardo Noriega being a great predatory
villain who sees a mark in Emily Mortimer's character and plays her for
all she's worth. At his side is an unsettling performance by Kate Mara,
who with less to say makes a very vivid impression as a girl who's both
mysterious and sympathetic.

Woody Harrelson stumbles, but he's always interesting to watch. His
character doesn't belong in this film (which is almost the point of the
movie) but he plays naive closer to dumb (or dumber). And we understand
why Mortimer may be frustrated with her marriage, but it's halfway
through the film that lots of beans are spilled about her past and
everything we've seen and will see is dead on and convincing.

Less convincing is the plot which isn't up to the level of the other
elements. I'm not sure in a real world these characters would have
faired as well as they do or nearly so long.

Ben Kingsley shows up and works fine as someone who may be the lifeline
to our travelers, but as the action heats up too many things require
answers that the plot doesn't have time (or the audience much interest)
in figuring out.

Yet it's one of the better films this summer. And if you don't like
what's going on with the plot, you can always look at the exotic frozen
Lithuanian scenery, or the shadows of fear the Emily Mortimer sends
across her face tingling up our own spines. Terrific performance.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm a writer so maybe I think more about these things than certain
other people... BUT SERIOUSLY - if you go to poor Siberian territory
and 1) Don't learn the language 2) Shout "I'm American" every 5 seconds
3) Take pictures every five seconds with your GIANT camera 4) Let
strangers into your room when your alone 5) Leave said strangers with
your stuff 6) Go 4 miles off any main roads ALONE with random strangers
7) INITIATE a kiss and say "I used to love a pointless f***" 8) When,
after initiating, he wants to have sex with you, beat him senseless.
9)After you beat him senseless, he is powerless and bleeding and for no
reason at all decide to hit him really hard in the head with a 2x4 an
extra 3 or 4 times.

THEN YES, bad stuff will happen to you. I'm absolutely shocked the
woman who committed the above 9 deadly sins (any combination of 2 could
get your stuff stolen or yourself killed) has the gumption to consider
herself a pawn of the situation. If you love watching disturbingly
stupid people get away with murder then this movie is absolutely for
you! Go ahead, watch and enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>
It is amazing that one can now associate Siberia with one of the best
movies of 2008, a film that is put together adroitly, flows delicately
with the help of a tight script that touches on topics we have seen
before in dozens of movies but gives it a fresh spin, and the end
result is a movie that recalls some of the best work Hitchcock could
have made, a piece where innocent folks are suddenly snared by dark
forces. In the end, their fate is pretty much left to destiny.

Doing some very good work, Emily Mortimer and Woody Harrelson play the
unsuspecting couple who see their adventure turn sour as they run into
a couple of young people who might be or not be who they say they are.
Before the audience can start wandering what's going on, things become
uglier and more twisted that we expected.

Mortimer's role is one of the best female roles in years, a woman with
a complex past that returns to haunt her as she confronts very
dangerous choices during the ride through Siberia. It is amazing to see
her transformation from a bored housewife to a woman who starts
questioning the consequences of her actions and how easily she can sink
into madness.

In order to make the tension effective, there is a cop who comes in to
question our heroes and help them get out of their ordeal. With the
persona created by Ben Kingsley, one wonders exactly what makes this
character tick, there is an air of mystery, of knowledge that can be
effective and dangerous, if obtained by the wrong people. The one word
that comes to mind as interrogations begin is who can be trusted? The
film moves with elegance rarely seen in contemporary cinema, one can
recalls the classic work of Hitchcock in much of this piece, and there
is definitely references to the fluid camera-work seen in Spanish films
like "The Others", a movie that delivered by relying on the
presentation of images and evoking moods that a simple dialogue
couldn't.

This is a fine film, a movie that tells an old tale in a refreshing
way, a presentation that satisfies the viewer because it engages the
audience with its dramatic power. One is likely to want to see it again
to clarify a few points and also to enjoy it again and again.

It is almost a perfect film.
