
Science fiction as a genre exposes two things about a culture: our
hopes for the future, and our fears for the future. What foreign
science fiction does for us then is tap directly into the hopes and
fears of a culture that is alien to us.

The story of Memo mixes the Mexican condition with a cautious approach
to an exciting technology. While "nodes" allow people to directly
connect their brains to an Internet of sorts, "sleep dealers" construct
cheap, unsafe sweatshops where noders can perform dirt-cheap labor for
developed nations, without leaving home.

There are plenty of eye-opening layers of apprehension for the future
that are taken straight from the Mexican psyche: the construction of
the authoritarian Del Rio Dam in Memo's village echoes the ongoing
"water rights" controversies throughout Central America; the closed
border with America echoes isolationist fears; the ability of an
American corporation to send warships into Mexican villages not only
with impugnity but complete openness echoes fears of American
corporate-driven hegemony.

Flag-wrapped Americans will deride this movie as Anti-American at
worst; cultural ignorance at best. But it is a different sort of
cultural ignorance that remains ignorant of the sentiments illustrated
in this well-done foreign film.
<|_=00=_|>
'Sleep Dealer' is a bright, shiny, hard-working little sci-fi movie
that bristles with allegorical and literal messages about technological
imperialism, globalization, the exploitation of foreign labor and other
serious matters. It's also about the theme of Sterne's 'A Sentimental
Journey:' a "traveler" who essentially stays at home--and about how the
world's clamoring have-not South in the future will be as full of
technology as the North, as indeed it is already. The means of
exploitation will be extended into the land of the exploited.

What saves this heavy talk is a soulful innocent who's connected, or
'branché,' as the French say--in the most literal sense: he gets fitted
with electronic "nodes" all along his arms, neck, and back, so he can
be plugged to a central computer in at the border and thereby help
America to achieve its fondest dream: making others do all the menial
physical work, but without allowing them to enter the country. Thus
Mexicans in virtual factories, at a distance, in 12-hour night shifts,
walled off by a militarized barrier, do America's hard labor by proxy
just outside the actual physical USA. Memo (Luis Fernando Peña), Sleep
Dealer's young hero, comes to the "Sleep Dealers" in a mixture of
desperation and hope, to save what's left of his little family in a
rural village in Oaxaca.

Memo isn't a lily-white Candide. He has hope and love to give, but he
also has a kind of primal curse upon him: he has caused disaster to his
nearest and dearest by eavesdropping on a totalitarian northern force
that sends drones to make strikes anywhere and blow up what it defines
as "bad guys." They detected his radio, assumed he was an enemy, and
brought down tragedy on his family. Both as penance and because nothing
keeps him in the village any more, he goes to Tijuana, "the world's
largest border town," and gets a pretty woman named Luz (Leonor Varela)
whom he meets on the bus to fit him with the necessary set of body
nodes. She calls herself a writer. Actually she works for a high tech
firm that sells memories, and in this Orwellian world of spiritual
deprivation, his experiences become fodder for her.

All the machinery in 'Sleep Dealer' is grotesque and comic but it works
inexorably to serve the North. Farming has become impossible for Memo's
father since the river was damed and a private company took control of
the local water supply. In their part of Oaxaca the "future" has become
a thing of the past, the father says. They must appease a machine that
will shoot them if they disobey, just for permission to go to a river
and collect water that they must pay for. Later another threatening
gadget gobbles up Memo's 'Sleep Dealer' earnings and transfers them,
minus a big fee and taxes, to his family further south. He can talk to
his mother and brother on a videophone.

It seems an unintentional irony in Rivera and David Riker's screenplay
that the man who ultimately helps Memo and his family, though of
Hispanic origin, is an American "pilot,' himself "connected by nodes:
the system not only stands for immigrants who can't work at home but
for how technology alienates people from real work everywhere.

'Sleep Dealer' was made after a long struggle through Sundance
financing, and got good buzz at the Sundance Festival itself. Because
the Hispanic-oriented distributor Maya is buying the film and may
finance a substantial stateside theatrical release, Rivera was saying
in December, it may have a better fate than the mere straight-to-DVD
issue Justin Chang of 'Variety' predicted. It's hard to see why Chang,
who did acknowledge the film's colorful visuals and "A for effort" f/x,
indeed remarkably polished and stylish and at times even mind-blowing
considering the low budget, describes Peña, who's like a combination of
Javier Bardem and Robert Downey, Jr., as "a blank." The actor makes a
sympathetic little man hero in the classic picaresque mold, and the
film's story dramatizes its theme of how immigrants are at once
exploited and excluded in a way that's not only full of vividness and
irony, but trippy. Though Rivera said his real models are more in
sci-fi literature than film, one can see why he'd also describe Terry
Gilliam's 'Brazil' as "the Holy Grail." Rivera made the film in Spanish
in Mexico, but is an American whose first language is English. One
parent is from the US and the other from Lima, Peru, and he grew up in
New Jersey. He has previously explored global have/have-not issues in
documentary formats.

Seen at the San Francisco International Film Festival. It was also in
the New Directors/New Films series at Lincoln Center.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, the above reviewer beat me to my warning: If you are some god
forsaken film student, or "Hollywood" film buff, you will hate this
film. The structure is open and allows for a great deal on viewer
interpretation that most US film goers hate, and even fear. But I love,
I love the director giving me images and direction, and then letting
fill in some inferences and this not clearly delineated.

The film makes excellent cinematic use of cultural and social cyphers,
and (I hate to say this almost for fear of "tainting" it; a slight
magical realism to cast a wide net of meaning, not to tell some stupid
plot arc formula. It is a brilliant, exciting, deeply satisfying movie
(finally some one is talking abt these issues cinematically, and making
a great movie), and I even found it fun. A well crafted daring film.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was excellent and entirely not boring. It gave me chills at
certain points. If you know anything about the privatization of water
you will overly enjoy this movie. This is a take on how people are not
connected to each other anymore and our ignorance/negligence helps
large corporations/governments take us over and control us. The movie
states a problem and brings about a touching solution with the help of
well developed characters.

If you're a movie snob and can't get a useful message out of this film
you didn't deserve to waste your money on it..

Watch this movie knowing that not a lot of money was spent on it.. It's
not a 150 million dollar budgeted movie.. it used 2.5 million. I think
Donnie Darko used about the same amount 7 years ago (to put into
perspective). Rivera did an excellent job.
<|_=00=_|>
Sleep Dealer takes place in tijuana,Mexico, in a not so distant
future.The world is heavily militarized, the boarders are closed and
there's a global computer network to which people connect(trough nodes
in their skin) that makes several kind of experiences possible like
upload of memories and cyber labor.When Memo, a young man, accidentally
gets his father killed; he decides to go to the city and look for a
job. Soon he decides to get nodes implanted...Sleep Dealer is a very
legitimate take on the future by the director Alex Rivera and at the
same time it deals with some interesting issues like
globalization,immigration and the coexistence of humans and
technology.Obviously since this is a low-budget movie, the special
effects are not impressive and a bit dated but that shouldn't keep you
from enjoying this flick.The acting is average, what is truly great
here is the premise,the inspiration behind all of it and the very smart
concept of the movie. With a big budget and more resources this movie
could had been truly amazing. Having said that, if you're a fan of
sci-fi movies this is definitely a must-see.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
There I said it...BLADERUNNER

Why did i say it?..

because watching this movie reminded me how I felt the first time I saw
Ridley Scott's masterpiece.

What gives?..

Well, although the two movies are light years apart in terms of budget
and storyline what caught me was that Sleep Dealer creates a 100%
believable future with it's inherent beautiful,nasty and grotesque
humanity/technology co-existence. Very few sci-fi movies ever get that
right, its usually "too shiny". The future looks scary after viewing
Sleep Dealer, and all too real. Roy Batty would approve.

Great acting, real looking (non-hollywood-ed) people, a plot ...that
develops throughout the movie, even a love story of sorts, and all this
with cinematography and music that accents the whole thing just right.

To all involved:

THANK YOU / MUCHISIMOS GRACIAS
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of those movies that you watch and slowly "connect" to its
reality. Many people disliked that. It was either to slow compared to
most of the movies today or too intense an experience to people that
don't like the feeling of immersion into something else. However, from
what I am sitting, it was a great movie.

First of all, one must take a step back from the usual reviewer
practice and take into account that all the actors in the movie are
Mexican and so is the writer/director. I don't know what budget the
movie had, but it was well done in acting, atmosphere, plot, details
and special effects. Winning the Sundance festival (and not being about
crazy people) should also count in its favor.

Second of all, I really enjoyed the movie. It has the feel of films
like Blade Runner, only it hits really closer to home. Luis Fernando
Peña was a real good choice for the main role, even if it wasn't a very
challenging one. As in many good movies, the main character was the
idea, the plot, and the actors were just slipping into their niche.

Bottom line: this is a sci-fi movie that needs to be seen. Whatever
faults it has, they are far surpassed by its qualities. The social
message is just as important as the vision of a future where we can
have whatever we wish for, only that we wished wrong. See it. It is
worth it.
<|_=00=_|>
In the US we are inured to dealing with corporate service centers with
call takers that speak barely understandable English. This form of
remote cross border servicing is one of the characteristics of
globalization of work made possible by the internet. What this film
does is imagine the next logical step: the similar globalization of
manual labor. By means of robotics and the WWW, the film depicts a
world where robotic drones in the US do all kind of menial and
dangerous work while the brains that control the drones sit or stand in
a third world country. It's the ultimate dreamworld for the US of A:
work without the annoyance of immigrants.

While the near-reality sci-fi concept is clever, the film itself
screens as an Hollywood B-movie. The acting and plot development styles
will be familiar to the popcorn-eating crowd that populates the local
shopping mall multiplex. The special effects are not that impressive
(not surprising considering a 2.5 million dollar budget). There is a
dated Star Wars bit with planes shooting at each other while flying
through a canyon. It's tiresome if you don't dig this kind of infantile
action scenes.

On the positive side, the film is peppered with clever manipulation of
language, satirical takes on American impressions of foreigners, jabs
at the excesses of capitalism, and inspired blending of present and
future. The "coyotes" of today have been replaced by "coyoteks" who
will, for a fee, pierce your skin with the appropriate hardware plugs
(called nodes) that will enable you to directly connect your body to
the internet and to vie for a job at a cyber "maquiladora". If you get
such a job, you will send some of your salary to poor relatives back
home in the countryside. Money transfers have been simplified, but
there are so many fees and surcharges (think of your cell phone bill)
that one third of the principal is pilfered by corporations and the
government.

You can read more about this subject of remote work at the faux website
www.cybracero.com (read cyber plus "bracero"). Check it.

On the net, users have gone beyond sharing personal data. Now they
upload memories (yes, sucked out of one's brain) to the TruNode central
database and sell them to interested readers. While plugged in --
literally -- TruNode will even sense if you are lying. More interesting
or juicy memories, more money. It's the hyper-commercialization and
surrender of the human soul.

The ultimate target is the privatization of water. Alas a sad
development currently in progress. In good Hollywood fashion, a
successful attack is gathered against that idea. The dream of revolt is
not dead. Cyber poor of the world, rise up!
<|_=00=_|>
............................................................from
Pasto,Colombia...Via: L.A. CA., CALI, COLOMBIA and ORLANDO, FL 

This Mexican surprise is a real "SLEEPER" in every sense of the word!
9*, right up front, no ambivalence about this little gem! Lends a
totally unexpected new dimension to the phrase "Hook Me Up"! 

Before I begin enumerating the list of great things DEALER has going
for it, a word about the title: How many of you know some Spanish? Mine
is on a par with my English: "Sleep Dealer". Weird translation! That
would be "Traficante de SUENO"(Singular--BTW, can't render an "enyeh"
here, sorry!) "Traficante de SUENOS"(Plural) should be "DREAM Dealer".
That even sounds a lot better, doesn't it? I'm clueless as to why the
misfire on the title, but that's about DEALER's only misstep! 

A Tremendous cinematic power courses through this DEALER's veins!
during its 85 minutes of on-screen life! First, it's a genre bender. An
interesting fusion of not-too-distant-future Sci-Fi, Suspense, Drama,
Political Thriller and Still-Third-World-and-Definitely-NOT-Hollywood
Foreign/Mexican! 

The storyline delivers some very convincing/ interesting 3rd world
perspectives on globalization and exploitation, but devoid of soapbox
style preaching. It simply presents events and lets them speak for
themselves, in a "You draw your own conclusions" fashion. 

One truly surprising element was the AUDIO of DEALER. The quality of
the sound and sound mixing was right up there with the very BEST U.S.
films. ALL audio elements complimented the film perfectly, adding a
very subtle, sophisticated level of highlighting of mood, texture and
ambiance enhancement. DEALER also spins language like no other foreign
film. Reminiscent of Aldous Huxley's NEW-SPEAK in Brave New World,
which influenced A CLOCKWORK ORANGE some 30 plus years later, the
dialog is brimming with the likes of COYOTEC; from Coyote, those who
organize illegal border-crossings; and LIVE NODE GIRLS, for that
ultimate "Hook Me Up" experience! 9*.....ENJOY/DISFRUTELA!!!

Any comments, questions or observations, in English o en Español, are
most welcome! 

KissEnglishPasto@Yahoo.com
<|_=00=_|>
I liked the film and think it deserves more than a 6.2 so I gave it a
high score to try and bump up it's overall score. It deserves about an
8. A really good film that tries to deal with the idea of a dehumanized
black economy working for an ever increasingly fascistic USA. Some
interesting idea's, some not so interesting. It definitely has a
cyberpunk feel but being from Mexico it was always going to be
different.

I am unsure of the budget but the film holds it's own and the sfx
budget seems to have been spent wisely. The acting was good with the
lead and support actors being enjoyable enough to watch. I also liked
the score which was essentially Latin pop/dance.

The ending is a little unrealistic given the portrayed future realism
of the rest of the film. A good film that is not the greatest sci-fi
ever but deserves higher marks considering the obstacles the production
team faced. A low budget, sci-fi drama from Mexico is not something you
see everyday so it should be applauded.
