
The lonely souls that are forced to live in places like Woodlands, one
imagines would be more attuned to bonding with peers and form long time
friendships with similar folks in their own circumstances. Alas, the
people in this lovely Irish senior center appear to be mean spirited
individuals at the end of their lives. The lead bitter existences as
they have no interest in mingling with people they clearly abhor.

We come into this milieu where a four of the residents don't have a
place where to spend Christmas. It is Ellie, the young sister of the
woman that runs the place to stay behind to take care of this quartet.
When she doesn't get anywhere with them, she lets them all know how she
feels about their rudeness and ill manners. Instead of angering them,
she rouses them up and make them come to their senses. 

The foursome consists of Donald, the retired judge, who must have
things his way. Georgia, the former showgirl who loves her martinis in
a certain way. The bickering sisters Heather and Hazel Nightingale
complete the group. When Ellie explodes and tells them truths they
haven't heard in a while, they wake up to reality. Thus, for the
Christmas dinner, Ellie decides to take the residents to a nearby town
to get the ingredients. Together, they will have a great time and come
together in ways no one even thought possible.

Anthony Byrne directed the film, which is based on a Mave Benchley
short story. He couldn't have asked for a better cast, Vanessa
Redgrave, Joss Ackland, Imelda Staunton and Brenda Flicker are seen in
the major parts. They are joined by Hayley Atwell who is perfect for
the role of Ellie. 

This film will appeal to audiences of a certain age who will appreciate
the nuances in the story and will certainly enjoy the magnificent cast
chosen to bring it to life.
<|_=00=_|>
'How About You' is one of those "feel good" films from Ireland (just to
let everybody know that we're not just a bunch of gloomy,depressed sods
that like a good cry). Anthony Byrne directs a crackerjack cast of
seasoned veterans,including Vanessa Redgrave as an over the hill
actress (or so she claims),Joss Ackland as a retired judge who's
chronic alcoholism brought his career crashing down early,and a cast of
other fine actors & actresses playing the residents of a nursing home
in the beautiful Irish countryside (filmed mostly in County Wicklow).
The story concerns a young woman,who arrives at her older sister's
nursing home in need of a place to live & work. As she arrives around
Christmas time,most of the residents have already gone home to family,
except for a scant handful miserable,cranky residents,who are nick
named by the staff as "the hard core". Hayley Atwell shines as Ellie,
the obviously pretty,young face,among the resident batch of sour balls,
who refuses to put up with their b.s. This film reminded me a lot of
the British comedy,'Experience Preferred,But Not Necessary' (which was
also about a young lass who goes to work for a Summer holiday resort in
the English seaside coast). If you like a light,refreshing,breezy
comedy that will make you smile as you exit,then 'How About You',from
2007 may just be your cup of tea. Not rated,but contains profanity &
drug humour.
<|_=00=_|>
A story of four spiteful nursing home residents spending Christmas with
a young hippie type of girl as their caregiver.

This overlooked holiday movie gives us some fairly memorable
characters, sort of like Grumpy Old People who are stuck in a nursing
home during Christmas. The young, pothead caregiver watching over them
goes from apathetic to ticked off when they pull their curmudgeon
routines on her.

The acting is good, atmosphere and cinematography are spot on, the
whole production is as good as any large budget feature. The characters
get developed during the movie, from the young girl learning to live
her own life and accept some responsibility, to the old folks who learn
that they can live a little while they are waiting to die.

There's a lot to like in this movie. It has some genuine holiday spirit
and a decent ending. It's hard to say why more people haven't seen it
because it is worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this last month at the 2008 Palm Springs International Film
Festival where it was among the 10 films selected as Audience
Favorites. It features a great cast of seasoned stage and film veterans
as a group of nursing home residents not fondly referred to as "The
Hardcore." Well, it isn't actually a nursing home but a posh assisted
living retirement home in Ireland's lovely Wicklow area. Kate Harris
(Orla Brady) runs the retirement home that she started out of an old
estate she bought. Her younger college dropout sister Ellie (Hayley
Atwell) needs a place to live for a while so she has moved in to work
as a staff member. Christmas is a time where most of the residents
leave to spend time at the homes of family members except for a group
of four. This dysfunctional bunch cause a lot of problems and keep the
home from full residency because potential residents refuse to live
under the same roof as them. Donald Vanston (Joss Ackland) was a judge
whose alcoholic lifestyle forced him off the bench. Georgia Platts
(Vanessa Redgrave) was once a glamorous stage and screen star who has
chosen to drop out of society. Hazel Nightengale (Imelda Staunton) and
her sister Heather (Brenda Fricker) are two spinster sisters who can't
cope with life. Hazel is only 50 and doesn't even belong in a
retirement home but can't live away from her domineering older sister
Heather. Kate is suddenly called away as Christmas approaches and Ellie
is left in charge of the gang of four as all the other residents and
staff have left for their Christmas vacations. Additional supporting
roles are the late Joan O'Hara in her final screen role as Alice
Peterson, Elizabeth Moynihan as the stern Nurse Healey and Darragh
Kelly as Mr. Evans, the government's mean retirement home inspector who
would like to see the home shut down. Anthony Byrne directs. Jean
Pasley adapts the screenplay from a short story by popular Irish writer
Maeve Binchy. Veteran cameraman Des Whelan is cinematographer. Nial
Byrne provided the music score. This is a good film and it's premise
and cast naturally appeals to an older audience but the role of Ellie
keeps things pretty hip. I would give this an 8.5 out of 10 and
recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>
I really found this story touching and heart warming; every actor is
confident and seems to be suitable for the setting and ambiance. Joan
O'Hara's role, as Alice - a woman on the verge of death - is probably
the more moving but Hayley Atwell as well is truly confident and easy
going. Overall the mood and atmosphere are lighter than expected, with
humor and also some energetic parts. The beauty of the countryside and
an intelligent music choice add a gentle touch to the earnestness of
the characters; there are also many lyrical moments and a lively
ending. Nevertheless I'd say that heartfelt performances are the best
of the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Grand, luxurious country squire manor turned into ritzy nursing home.
Beautiful gardens, pristine river, chintzy comfortable rooms, and yet
not much peace nor content. The old age is hard enough without endless
regrets, ruminations on missed opportunities, and so many memories
colored with dark tinges of grief. So, in this pleasant, overly sweet,
albeit very enjoyable truffle of a movie, comes young rebellious women
and with a bit of attention, a dollop of booze and an occasional joint,
turns around few difficult residents played by masters of British
acting. Of course, none of this makes any sense. But, we don't always
need to be hit on a head with the truncheon of reality. It is nice to,
for a split second, believe in a possibility of redemption.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. Based on a short story by Maeve
Binchy, this film is prevented from going too deeply thanks to the TV
direction of Anthony Byrne. This one really has the feel and pace of a
Hallmark Movie of the Week ... only with a really nice cast.

Hayley Atwell (The Duchess) plays Elle, the black sheep of the family,
who shows up unannounced at the private retirement center her big sis
owns. The home is struggling due to the rude behavior exhibited by four
of the residents played by Brenda Fricker and Imelda Staunton (as
sisters), Vanessa Redgrave (a former performer who longs for the
spotlight again) and grumpy, lonely widower Joss Ackland (from the
EverReady Bunny commercials, and for his line "Diplomatic Immunity" in
Lethal Weapon 2). These four don't much like each other and certainly
don't care for any others. Until ... you guessed it ... Elle reminds
them what living is all about.

Must also mention a terrific supporting turn by Joan O'Hara, who brings
a little wisdom and a twinkle in the eye to Elle. Sadly Ms. O'Hara
passed not long after filming. I really thought Ms. Staunton stood out
for her interesting portrayal of the co-dependent sister with a dark
family secret. Well, at least it is dark for this film, which again,
just doesn't dig too deeply into anything.

A message film with the simple message that loneliness should be
avoided and don't stop living until you have taken your last breath.
The title song is played at least 3 different ways in the film.
<|_=00=_|>
I never imagined I'd see Vanessa Redgrave give a bad performance, but
then I never would have imagined she'd end her career in stupid movies
like How About You. What a waste of some great actors.

The story is achingly maudlin and predictable, and the dialog is corny
and phony - like a sappy Lifetime TV movie larded with profanity, in
which consuming cannabis is the magical solution to every problem. It's
stupid.

And the song! I never hated "How About You?" until I had it force-fed
to me by this movie. Sung in its entirety first by Bobby Darin over the
opening credits, THEN by Redgrave in a pub; a brief ragtime version by
the young sisters on a piano; and again by Redgrave and an unseen
chorus at the finale. That's more than enough for a lifetime.

The director is a moron. He not only has the talent and esthetic
sensibility of a soap opera hack (every stupid point he is determined
to get across has to be repeated ad nauseam, to make absolutely sure
that NOBODY will NOT get it), but has some kind of fetish for things
drifting down out of the sky.

He has snow falling while everything is green (including the ground,
where the snow evidently melts on contact, although it sits forever on
actors' hair) and dead leaves drifting thickly down at Christmas-time
although there's absolutely no wind to pluck them off the trees. That
does not happen except in this idiot director's imagination. Trite and
heavyhanded metaphors for death, maybe? Who knows. Or cares.

This dumb, irritating movie is only for folks who are either fascinated
or terrified by death. People get old, they fall apart, and then they
die. So what? It happens to everybody. It's happening to me now. It's
perfectly natural and good, except to people in strong denial, who
believe if they do everything the doctors tell them to do THEY won't
die; which, of course, is a lie.

So I advise skipping this stupid movie, unless you have a death fetish
that won't allow you such freedom. The only good thing about it is
getting to LOOK at Redgrave, who gets more beautiful with each passing
year. What a marvel she is! If only she hadn't had to say such
relentlessly stupid lines she single-handedly would have made this
movie worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
How About You is an uplifting little film about human interaction, but
shouldn't be taken too seriously.

The film centres on the relationship between a young girl left in
charge of an old people's home run by her sister. Sweet, funny moments
occur, although many are predictable and overdone. The characters
transform themselves far too swiftly, so the film loses in credibility.
It is, nonetheless, a pleasant watch and an agreeable alternative to
typical American romantic comedies.

Redgrave and Staunton deliver excellent performances as usual, but this
film definitely wasn't a challenge to either. Atwell (the younger
sister) was very much lacking in subtlety, although the fault may lie
with the director or writer rather than the actress.

How About You should be watched as a fun way to wind down the day, but
not as an example of Vanessa Redgrave and Imelda Staunton showing what
they're truly capable of.

(Please take the time to say whether or not you found this review
useful. Thanks.)
<|_=00=_|>
"How About You..." brings together some brilliant actors to perform in
a movie that is unworthy of any of them -- a Christmas fantasy about a
group of ill-natured and demanding residents of a nursing home who are
transformed into a loving family by a young woman who is left in charge
of the place when her older sister makes an emergency trip to take care
of their mother. Vanessa Redgrave and Imelda Staunton are the best
known of the featured players in this movie: Redgrave as Georgia, an
elderly but still beautiful former stage star, and Staunton as Hazel
Nightingale, a talented artist living under the loving but oppressive
supervision of her older sister. But that isn't the end of the talent.
Hayley Atwell as Ellie, the trans-formative sister, and Orla Brady as
Kate, the careworn elder sister, Joss Ackland as a former judge with
demanding ways and a nasty temperament, and Brenda Fricker as Heather
Nightingale, Hazel's older sister, all display considerable talent. But
the plot is treacly and the execution is worse. I really felt sorry for
the actors who deserved a lot better from the scriptwriter and the
director. I haven't read the original short story by Maeve Binchy, but
having seen the movie I certainly don't want to.
