
Well, there's bad movies and then there's BAD movies. I didn't expect
this one to be high art, but I didn't expect it to be this bad.
"COLLEGE" is a low budget, uninspired, horribly written waste of time.

The most amusing part of the movie was watching the fat kid try to
mimic all of Chris Farley's mannerisms as an acting style. Pathetic.

I've seen a LOT of "teen comedies" and "raunchy comedies" and enjoyed
them. But "COLLEGE" is an embarrassment to those types of films. To be
honest, it was just...boring.

The three main characters

- pale ripoffs of the three main "Superbad" characters, by the
way...there's a Micheal Cera clone, a Jonah Hill wannabe, and a poor
man's McLovin...it couldn't be more sadly obvious - 

spent most of the movie covered in urine, vomit, and feces.

And THAT, dude, is the joke. For the ENTIRE movie.

"Whoops, we've got pee thrown on us. Whoops, we were thrown up on.
Whoops, now we're covered in pig crap." I can't remember the last time
I was willing to just walk out in the middle of a movie at a theater.
But, had I paid to see it and not gotten a free pass, I would have left
and asked the manager if I could see something else.

I've got no personal stake in this, and it obviously won't affect me if
people see or don't see this film. But, I'm telling you, you'll kick
yourself for paying money to see this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I have also caught a screening of this movie....Seriously, the comments
about this movie look so set up and not authentic. Each commenter
leaving a positive review says almost the exact same thing in the exact
same amount of words. They re-hash the same stuff until they hit the
minimum amount of lines for a comment. Plus, look at the demographic
that has given the highest scores for votes....middle aged and elderly
women. Also, the group that has the best chance of enjoying this film
(18-29 yr old males) have one of the poorest ratings. If they are this
desperate to get a good word out about this movie and are failing at
doing so, I'd avoid this trash heap.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me begin by saying this. I am taking time out of my day to sit here
and write about how awful this movie is. Rarely do I ever write a
review on here. I only do so if I really like a movie, or can't stand a
movie so bad that I think others should be warned about going to pay to
see it. All told, I've written probably four reviews. This is hands
down the worst movie I've seen in the last five years. Sadly, I thought
the previews made it look alright. Seeing as how I'm 23 and recently
graduated from college, I also thought that this movie could bring back
some nostalgia from my recently deceased college years. Me and three
ex-fraternity brothers from school went to catch this movie with hopes
that it would at least provide us some decent laughs before going out.
We were dead wrong. Not only is this a blatant rip off of Superbad,
Accepted, The Girl Next Door etc., it also is host to three of the most
annoying main characters in the history of film. The jokes suck, the
situations are beyond dumb, and the portrait it paints of college is
completely wrong. In order to hang out with frat guys you have to take
shots of tequilla from a dude's a$$ crack? Really? Don't remember
seeing that in my college days. Annoying fat kids hooking up with hot
blondes? Yeah, no, don't recall that either. College kids even caring
that high schoolers were at their parties? Not the case. Where I went
to school they were introduced and greeted with a beer. No one f**king
cared if they were there. I could go on forever, but the bottom line is
save your time and money. Go rewatch Superbad or Dazed and Confused or
something. Or better yet, save your 10 bucks, get a 12 pack of shi**y
beer, get drunk, and let the night unfold. There's a more realistic
college experience for you.
<|_=00=_|>
Oh thats right, I have.

Lets see. Animal House, Revenge of the Nerds, Van Wilder, American Pie,
Beta House, Accepted... ETC. ETC. ETC.

Whats the difference between those movies and "College?" The others
managed to come up with more creative titles. Oh, and "Animal House"
had John Belushi.

Seriously, if you've seen any of the above movies, then you've seen
"College." The original ideas in "College" are so few and far between
that you'll have to wonder if the creators of "College" actually
bothered to write a script, or rather spun a wheel of clichés and
inserted them in the appropriate spots. "College" once again tries to
tell you what life on a University campus is 'supposed' to be like, and
fails pretty horribly. You begin to wonder if the 'College' students in
"College" are actually paying attendants of Fieldmont University (F.U!
Get it? hah...no.) or they just happen to squat in the decrepit house
near the campus. Apparently they don't attend classes, don't even OWN
textbooks, and believe a GPA is a "Great Party Area" rated on a 0-4
scale.

Long story short, "College," while it claims it has something different
than those other "College" films, is NOTHING you haven't seen done much
better before. I hope it drowns out in its own filth and causes several
film companies to go bankrupt, thus ensuring they'll never spit out
cookie cutter crud like this.

Drake Bell and Co. deserve MUCH, MUCH better. They do well, but given a
better script I would have been more impressed. I'd give it a 1 1/2
just because of their performances, but it won't let me so hey, their
loss.

PLEASE, avoid it. You'll thank me later. And tell your friends to avoid
it. Thats the only way to stop the cancerous spread
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is pathetic. Awful. Just awful. Really bloody awful. The
jokes -- if there even are any, it's hard to tell -- are painfully
unfunny. They all fall flat. They are also all of the "poop", "fart"
and "getting laid" variety which we've all seen done to death lately
(and done much better) in other movies about us young people. Whoever
made this movie should be jailed for the rest of their life just to
make sure they can't possibly even accidentally wander onto a movie set
again. That is how awful this movie is. I almost vomited. Somehow this
movie gave me some kind of a flu. Everyone involved with this movie
should be banned from movie work for the rest of their lives. Horrible
acting, horrible writing, a horrible script all the way around. Not
funny at all.
<|_=00=_|>
If you go into college expecting the bare minimum of a movie and taking
it for what it is (a mildly entertaining cliché filled coming of age
comedy) you will still not enjoy yourself. The reason is simple, it
tries too hard to be funny. It's most easily compared to that annoying
guy at work who stands at the water cooler making immature mom jokes or
an annoying teacher at school who desperately wants to impress the
students. The script surprisingly isn't bad but this movie rips off of
Superbad so much with the character of Fogel in relation to this movies
Morris you could call it plagiarism. The ever so ridiculously cliché
character that brings sympathy and laughs from the audience because of
how naive he is always being so sexually insecure and inexperienced is
just so old. The only actor who deserves any sort of a nod is Drake
Bell for his mediocre acting and decent carrying of his co actors
(Andrew Caldwell and Kevin Covais.) It's sad watching this movie really
because the actors so desperately want to be funny (except Drake Bell)
so that they can get recognition and be cast into an Apatow film. They
have a chance really with the script and extremely humorous atmosphere
filled with jocks and egotistical lunatics both male and female.
They're acting coaches and idiotic attitudes hurt them here as they
failed to make a humorous movie. You average group of teenagers may
enjoy this, which is not a bad thing but if you go into this movie
looking for a cohesive story line and enjoyable plot then go watch
Tropic Thunder where the actors actually succeed in some of these
categories.
<|_=00=_|>
Very boring and unfunny. Seems to rip off so many other movies. For
example the three main characters look like an exact carbon copy of the
cast from Superbad, a shy skinny person, a fat snob, and one complete
dork. Jokes aren't very funny and are old. In trailers the movie brags
that this will be the colt classic of the decade comparing itself to
Animal House, Revenge of The Nerds, and American Pie, but this movie
seems to be a rental movie at best. The title college doesn't fit the
film, sure the movie takes place at a college but thats it. This movie
portrays college students as drunk,stupid, horny kids which might worry
some parents.
<|_=00=_|>
When I first saw previews, TV spots, advertising's, etc. for college I
thought that they were just over hyping another overrated movie. I
thought that College would be a decent comedy for late August, but
still I did not expect it to be such a comedy classic as the previews
proclaimed. The TV spots tried to put this movie into the category of
such classics like Animal House, Revenge of the Nerds and American Pie,
which it is by-far none of those at all. I went to see this with some
friends thinking that this would be a decent time filler before we went
to a bar later in the night, boy were we wrong. This movie sucked from
start to finish. The college realisticness is truly unbelievable and
the characters get on your nerves. Drake Bell should go back to his
Teen Choice award crap and stay out of the Rated R comedy genre for a
while, because they pushed him into a Rated R party movie way toooooooo
fast and he wasn't good at it. The fat kid tries so hard to be funny
that he really gets on your last nerve. That is all this is, a bunch of
drunk partying that has already been done before and lame jokes that
could have been thought of by preschool students. So don't waste your
time with this and watch Superbad, Dazed and Confused, Fast Times at
Ridgemont High, Animal House or anything that is actually a good party
movie.

1/10
<|_=00=_|>
The first thing I must say about College is that since the beginning,
its IMDb rating has been flawed due to a number of studio-funded plugs
claiming it to be a genius comedy (which of course it isn't). These
false reviews are easily recognized by both the fact that they are
positive and their complete lack of any detail about the film. In fact,
if you replace the various movie titles with other movie titles in
these reviews, it still works. Not a great review. Then, further
corrupting the rating came a series of one-star reviews from people who
had not seen the film and were merely infuriated by the studios pitiful
interference. I can sympathize with the feeling, but it is nonetheless
partially their fault that College will never have a realistic rating.
The regulators at IMDb really need to go through and delete these false
reviews. However, for those of you who are curious, I saw College last
night, and here is my take on the film. From the get-go, you feel like
you've seen this before. Drake Bell, who plays Kevin, the nice smart
kid in the movie (the characters in College really are just stereotypes
*sort of* brought to life), is getting ready for a college visit with
his friend Morris, played by Kevin Covais who is semi-famous for being
known as Chicken Little on American Idol. Covais is atrocious, but
we'll get to him. In comes Carter, as portrayed by Andrew Caldwell, the
apparently mandatory overweight obnoxious kid who wants to get laid and
constantly talks about doing so. This guy's bound to draw some
comparisons to Jonah Hill's character in Superbad, but I assure you
that is both groundless and insulting. Hill's character Seth in
Superbad was obnoxious, but was in fact being so to cover up his
concerns with losing his friend because of his going to a different
college. Caldwell is unredeemed. He just goes about throughout the
movie running his huge mouth and mocking others, particularly Morris,
whom he also abuses physically on a routine basis.

This constant cruelty is one of the film's greatest failures, but it
also disturbingly gratifying, because quite frankly, Morris's character
is unbearable. His voice is whiny and aggravating, and he spends the
entire movie complaining. I found myself pleased to watch bad things
happening to him, and that made me realize how terrible the filmmakers
are at their craft. How can you make a movie about characters that are
meant to be sympathetic, but that people instead hate? Even a character
like The Silence of the Lambs's Hannibal Lecter has some appealing
qualities, but this teenage boy has been portrayed so unpleasantly that
I would genuinely rather have him be one of the torture victims in the
Hostel series. That's not right!

When the three boys get to Fillmore University, the school that they
are visiting, they find that the girls want nothing to do with them
because they are high school students, and the dorm they have been
assigned to stay in is inhabited by a heavyset student who is engaged
in a rousing bout of self abuse (if you don't know what that means,
just think of something crude that a guy could be doing in a room by
himself). Thus, our single-minded "friends" decide to go stay at a frat
house of which Crater's cousin is a legacy. Naturally, the frat members
treat them poorly throughout the rest of the movie, bringing about
retribution and so on, so forth.

The major sub-plot involves the fact that Kevin's girlfriend dumps him
before the visit for not being enough fun, and thus he wants to prove
her wrong. Once at Fillmore, the three boys meet three sorority girls
who for some reason find them attractive, and of course don't know that
they're high school students. The most shocking thing is the attractive
blond girl who is attracted to Carter. Looks aside the kid's a total
jerk, and besides, she could do better. In fact, nothing in this movie
is remotely realistic. I'm in college, and college is not at all like
College.

The gross-out humor in this is excessive and unforgivable. Half the
time instead of laughing you'll be gagging. This would be a great film
to show in a film class to just demonstrate who easy it is to make a
pathetic cliché-fest. My favorite line in the movie is when Kendall,
played by the adorable Haley Bennett, says to Kevin "you're not like
other college guys". This is obviously meant to be dramatic irony, and
thereby funny. It's not. Nothing in this movie really is.
<|_=00=_|>
What you get with 'College' is, a lamely executed farce of a comedy
that relies on idiotic humor that not even idiots would find funny.
Luckily, the film has more boobs in it than any film of recent memory,
and a couple of the female characters are extraordinarily good looking.
That means, of course, that if you're either gay or female, you're
going to want to kill yourself from boredom.

A simplistic plot for a simplistic movie doesn't allow for a lot of
surprises, though the film's ending does get points for departing from
the formulaic 'boy has epiphany and gets girl' ending, and adding a
little more to it. Our three leads are tolerable at best. 'College'
boasts a mostly unknown cast, with the only 'names' in the film being
Drake Bell, Kevin Covais, and Verne Troyer. Andrew Caldwell's
performance as a wannabe partier is basically a teenage version of
Chris Farley's entire career. Except this one doesn't have the laughs.
Bell is alright, but fails to gain the audience's attention as the
leading man so many tween fans already tout him as. Kevin 'Chicken
Little' Covais has a few funny moments, especially whenever he's acting
drunk, but adds little to the film. He's a MUCH better singer than
actor, as evidenced by American Idol. Haley Bennett was my favorite
part of the film as Bell's love interest. Gary Owen is hilarious as
'Bearcat', the typical crazy frat guy.

'College' has heart, and gets credit for trying, but the execution on
the part of the director, casting directors, producers, and to a lesser
extent, the screenwriters is what hurts the film. First, I like that
Drake Bell is trying to shed his Nickelodeon image, but he was the
wrong guy to cast here, mostly because he isn't a big enough name to
draw in the people, and what little fans he does have aren't old enough
to see this film...there lies the problem. Bell's fans can't see the
movie, and I seriously doubt all the people that voted for Covais on
American Idol are fond enough to waste their money on this movie. Next,
the rating of this film, while very much deserved, hurts the film the
most. Had the film been made as a PG-13 film, it might have been just
as 'good' in terms of quality, not to mention it would have made more
money. Third, all the 'f' bombs and nudity were completely unnecessary,
and seem to be there just to secure the R rating. Fourth, having been
to college myself, this film is nothing like the real thing. The
parties are crazy, but this is too much. It is so unrealistic on every
level that it's just astounding. At least Superbad was realistic...in
some regards.

'College' is a painful and sad attempt to recreate college life on the
big screen. If you want something more realistic, try 'Fifty Pills'. Or
just take fifty pills of something. Bell is seriously miscast, and Deb
Hagan's direction, along with her producers' bad choices, drag down
what could have been a mildly entertaining and mildly successful
Superbad ripoff.
