
A lot of these reviews seem to be by either US Americans who have yet
to see this film, and are so insecure about their patriotism they have
to come on to IMDb and slate it, or seemingly by people who made up
their mind before watching it and refuse to change their stance after
doing so.

The point of the film is NOT some perverse fantasy about killing the
current President of the United States of America, George Walker Bush
Jr. People who say otherwise either haven't seen it or are wanting to
purposely misguide you.

It is a drama in the style of a documentary (one that would air on
television rather then a cinema screen) that looks at a possible run up
to an assassination of the president, as well as how the investigation
might be handled afterwards with the involvement of Dick Cheney (who
would take over the Presidency if George Bush was assassinated).

The drama does not dwell or linger on the death of the president at
all, in fact apart from Bush being crammed into his presidential car by
secret service and whizzed away at high speed, that is all the viewer
sees. You then find out about his death from mock news reports. Hardly
a sordid gratification from a 'perverse' director.

The drama is convincing as a documentary by realistic interviews with
decent unknown actors playing their roles just right without hyperbole
as could quite easily be the case.

Without spoiling exact plot points, the drama makes a point in how the
government may be more interested in finding a suspect and making the
evidence fit the profile because it is more politically advantageous
then actually running an investigation to find out exactly what
happened, and draw suspects that way. Considering the current climate
where seemingly the Geneva Convention is open to interpretation, and
restrictions on Habeus Corpus, this suggestion is not far fetched in
the slightest.

It aired on 'More 4' in the UK, a channel from Channel 4 television,
and I'd imagine it would air on an American network at some point, or
maybe a limited screening at cinemas if the US networks lose their
bottle.

So for my US brothers and sisters, consider what I've written, and go
SEE it and decide for yourself. That's what the freedom as a US Citizen
entitles you to do.
<|_=00=_|>
First off, ignore all the hype and crap that been spouted about how
this film is making money out of the idea of seeing George W. Bush
assassinated. Don't watch this if you want a political film pointing
out how much Bush did/did not deserve it. Reading some of the forums
and responses from uptight Americans bitching about people daring to
comment of American politics in a questioning way just saddens me. What
we have here is a well made and thought provoking piece of what might
happen, in today's society and with public feeling the way it is, if
President Bush was assassinated.

In fact, what director Gabriel Range manages to pull off very well, in
my opinion, is actually managing to show as little of the actual
"event" as possible. We get the build up, see the footage of the
shooting in real time, with no irritating slow-motion or multiple
angles, and just move immediately onto the aftermath.

Range questions what political reactions there would be, how the media
would react, how the investigation would move, and each time he shows a
scenario that is both shocking and depressingly believable. He shows
the possibility of Cheney trying to manoeuvre events to allow him to
move on Syria, only to be forced to back due to lack of any real
evidence. He highlights the question of whether the FBI looking for
Middle Eastern suspects before white suspects is racism or common
sense? How the media immediately jumps on any piece of information and
starts presenting it as fact. How any response would be tempered by
anger at what had happened, and rightly so. Shows an Administration
desperate to stick the assassin in the realm of Terrorism to back up
their own policies.

But the backbone of the film is not to point out any one person or
aspect that would effect all of this, but how the current atmosphere
and the point that the world has brought itself would effect responses
to such events. As soon as Bush is declared dead, it seems to have been
far more important to have done something and found someone to blame,
and more particularly to blame Terrorism, than to take time and care to
make sure everything is certain. Zahra Abu Zikri is convicted due to
the fact that people wanted him to be guilty more than the flimsy
evidence put against him. As his lawyer says; "The moment they (the
media) said 'Al Qaeda Assassin' he was guilty" and forensic experts
were forced to work backwards. "We say he's guilty, find evidence to
back us up on this." We're shown a US becoming obsessed that the killer
had to be backed by terrorism, totally refusing to believe that an
American would want to kill their own President.

Yes, you do always have to be careful about portraying the death of any
living person, but this film would not have had the same effect if
Range had used a fictional President, just as much as if he'd make up a
fictional country to replace America. The Bush Administration is a
vital part in this whole story. I understand why people might get
upset, but they shouldn't use that as a reason to shout down political
discussion.

Ultimately this film is what I really wish it had been seen as from the
beginning, an excellent discussion on a "what-if" scenario, and I
happen to believe this style of film is a vital part in discussing
global politics. (See Peter Watkins The War Game for the best example
of this sub-genre) Unfortunately, like Range's past works this film has
been hijacked by calls of 'scare mongering'. Should we ignore problems
if they we are scared by the outcome? Or just if they make us see a
truth we don't want to admit? What you should notice by the end is
however much you agree or disagree with the idea or the subject matter,
the situation at the end of the film is unnervingly believable. That
truth and reason are not the two most important things we look for
anymore.
<|_=00=_|>
"Death of a President" is a truly original and intriguing 'future
documentary' about an event that hasn't happened yet. It is a
reflection on the events surrounding the October 2007 assassination of
George W. Bush in a Chicago hotel.

That future time is portrayed with an escalation of the anti-war fervor
and a growing concern over the dangers posed by North Korea.

The film flips between staged scenes, real footage & documentary style
interviews. It does a fine job of seamlessly blending those pieces to
create a very plausible "precreation".

It is interesting watching this film on October 9th, 2006... a day
which began with news of North Korea's first nuclear test. The first
twenty minutes of the film are dotted with mentions of that scenario.

There are some chilling scenes in this film... especially early on,
when you get a real sense of the protesters being contained and beaten
down by Chicago police in full riot gear.

After a political speech in the hotel, the President is ushered down a
standard meet-and-greet rope-line. It is at this point that the film
lives up to its name. Shots are fired and one of the most frenzied
scenes of any film this year ensues. Bush is thrown into a waiting
limo, which speeds off to the nearest hospital. The crowd at the rope
line is panicked beyond recognition. The FBI launches into gear. The
media machine revs its engines. And the Chicago skyline lights the
night air as an eerie sense of history-in-the-making takes hold.

Later that night, newscasters announce the death of George W. Bush and
the film transposes into an FBI procedural... A virtual whodunit for us
viewers. It feels very much like a David Mamet plot crossed with an
Oliver Stone concept. It truly is a wonderfully imaginative idea played
out with great skill and cinematic artistry.

***

OK - The secondary question in reviewing this film is this... Is it
wrong? Is it morally questionable to have such a premise be the focal
point of a film? Is it in bad taste?

Well, I have always been one to follow Roger Ebert's mandate that, "It
is not always what a film is about, but how it is about it." I try not
to pass judgment on the subject, but on the skill of the film itself.

However, this is a very brazen subject. Even for a Bush-hating liberal
like me, this approaches the line, if indeed it doesn't cross it. It
comes dangerously close to going too far.

That being said, I think it stops short of that line and delivers a
legitimate scenario that merits people's attention. I believe this film
earns the right to touch on this subject. It is a quality film and
should not be thought of as a sensationalistic attempt to shock
audiences.

***

Back to the plot... The film analyzes the hunt for suspects and
forensic evidence. It follows the investigation all the way to a murder
trial. I will not detail the story any further.

What this film does brilliantly is to shade the discussion toward
issues like the Patriot Act, Homeland Security futility, the right to
privacy, the right to a fair trial, and the apathy of the American
public to seek truth and justice. It hints at Governmental
manipulation, a wag the dog mentality. It tells personal stories of
civilians and soldiers and suspects and Presidential aides. This film
has a tremendously broad scope considering the budget.

"Death of a President" meanders patiently toward a conclusion you will
probably not expect. This is a very thoughtful film that wants us to
think carefully about the consequences of future terrorism. It asks us
to contemplate the futility of such a crime and the repercussions it
would have on future generations. In fact, it very much condemns this
scenario as the worst thing that could happen.

I was riveted by this film. It is not just a scream for attention with
a daring title. It has something very important to say and it says it
very eloquently. That it dramatizes the assassination of a sitting
President only adds to the palpable tension and urgency of its message.
I think that "Death of a President" is one of the best and most
important films of 2006. Go out of your way to see it as soon as you
can!

© Written by TC Candler IndependentCritics.com
<|_=00=_|>
Death Of A President is an excellent film and is in no way
anti-American or Anti-George Bush. It has great cinematography, an
interesting and very plausible story line, and exceptional
performances. Whether you're left, right, center, or none of the above,
this is a a very good film for the thinking movie-goer. 

The controversy, of course, stems from the use of the current U.S.
President as the victim of an assassination. The assassination scene
itself flies by and can't be more than 2-3 seconds long, so fast, in
fact, you can be forgiven if you miss it altogether. It's what precedes
and follows that scene that is the meat of the movie. Film footage of
Bush and other real political figures is spliced seamlessly into this
film, and includes footage of Vice-President Cheney and Mayor Daley of
Chicago. None of these real persons are in any way abused or
mis-characterized in the film. And the portrayal of fictional FBI
agents, Chicago Police officers, and White House and Secret Service
officials is, if anything, mostly very complimentary to them. This film
does not do a hatchet job on anyone 

What the use of real characters in a fictitious scenario allows the
film-makers to do is to let the movie-goer realize that real actions
have real consequences. And by putting real persons into a totally
fictitious plot the film-makers can develop an accurate scenario -
something that still can't be done with the Kennedy assassination of
more that 40 years ago. We can't present an accurate portrayal of that
real event even now because of the doubts cast on the whole event by
the actions of our own government. The USG botched the assassination
investigation so badly with its lies of omission and commission, that
we will probably never know that whole truth about what happened that
day in 1963. With the fictional scenario of Death of a President,
though, we know exactly how things play out.

Whether you are a President, an assassin, an FBI agent, or just a
movie-goer, realizing that actions have consequences - often unforeseen
consequences, of course - is something we all need to be reminded of
from time to time.
<|_=00=_|>
This film, Death of a President had been labeled "controversial" long
before the product hit U.S. shores. British director and co-writer,
Gabriel Range first introduced his film on U.K. television, and later
at the Toronto International Film Festival where it won the
International Critic's prize. This film has been given limited release
in U.S. 

This docudrama opens with preparation for a presidential visit and
speech at a Chicago hotel. You get a glimpse of the president's speech
writer and an individual heading the Secret Service as they position
themselves and prepare to protect the Commander in Chief. You get brief
looks at large groups of protesters waiting in the streets to welcome
the President. 

And just like the title says - the President dies. All that happens in
the first 20-minutes. The remaining 70-minutes of this film carefully
details the hunt and investigation to find the killer. The impact on
two minority families who may or may not be associated with the event.
You see how an ethnic group becomes suspect and how hundreds are picked
up for questioning. You get a peek at how the world receives the event
and how the current phrases "terror attack" and "Al-Quida" are tossed
into the mix.

The film is frightening because each and every scene is plausible. It's
tightly written, directed and edited. The actors, who range from a
close assistant to the President and First Lady to a spouse who may
never see their innocent partner again, are all excellently cast.

Contrary to popular belief, Death of a President does not advocate the
killing of a leader; instead it takes a credible look at America and
the possible events following such an occurrence.

Trust me - this one you don't want to miss.
<|_=00=_|>
I am no fan of George W. Bush, but when I heard about this film, I
wondered if its central hypothesis would come across as exploitative
and unnecessary, or if the "assassination" would serve the "narrative"
and illuminate some greater theme. It is quite provocative, obviously,
to make a movie such as this. The question for me walking into the
theatre was, "Is killing Bush in this movie necessary?" I do have to
say that the filmmakers handled this project with sensitivity and an
obviously deep and intelligent understanding of the American political
climate.

The film succeeds on a number of levels - first it gives the audience a
bird's eye view of an event for which the public would normally have
few if any visuals.

Second, Bush is portrayed positively in this - we see him at his most
human and likable when delivering what was a real speech in Chicago.
Bush is clearly not the buffoon many make him out to be, he's an expert
at playing against type. The image of Bush we see before the
assassination is quite positive. Therefore, the murder is indeed
tragic.

The filmmakers wisely sidestep what would be typical (and
uninteresting) coverage of a country in mourning and instead focus on
the criminal investigation. We see how the FBI and other forces would
be under extreme pressure to make an arrest. Their investigation leads
them to an employee of Syrian descent who works in the building beside
the hotel outside which Bush was shot. They delve into this man's past
and find out he spent time in Afghanistan and may have had links to
terrorists - despite the almost complete lack of forensic evidence, the
rush to judgment is complete.

We know that if this scenario were to play out this is exactly how it
would happen. The man would be convicted in the public's eyes - and his
incarceration would serve the U.S. administration's political goals.
When Dick Cheney is sworn in as President, his first response is to
pressure the FBI to find a link between the assassination and Syria's
government. Echoes of Cheney looking to capitalize on another national
tragedy (9/11) in order to fulfil a political and economic goal (depose
Saddam Hussein) are clear.

Without giving too much away, the film brilliantly implies that the
real culprit in the assassination was a Desert Storm veteran who lost a
son in the current Iraq war, driven by hatred to kill the President.

Was it necessary to kill Bush in this film? Perhaps the metaphor of
killing the monster by slicing off its head, only to see it grow back
another even worse is appropriate here. The film seems to be saying
that Bush has created a legacy where a national tragedy can be used to
justify criminal acts and wars with no connection to the original
events - that the truth will always be buried if it doesn't complement
the political and ideological goals of the powers that be.

In the end, while the real assassin's identity is implied, it's never
entirely clear who did it. An appropriate ending as we, the public,
typically are forced to live with confusion and misinformation over the
events that shape our countries and our lives, never knowing for sure
what really happened, only what our governments have told us to
believe.
<|_=00=_|>
That Bush was assassinated in this film isn't really the issue. The
real issue in this film is the sequence of events that the
assassination set in motion. It's about how the current state of
national fear and paranoia could produce the results that the film
depicts in the AFTERMATH of the fictional assassination. It's about how
contradictory evidence is suppressed or ignored, stereotypes are
reinforced, rights are willingly surrendered by a frightened public,
and hatred is stoked. It's about how a mere tidbit of dubious
information (the questionable smudged fingerprint) can be hyped by
politicians with an agenda into international confrontation. The film
was an excellent and insightful commentary on the current state of
political affairs in the United States, and I recommend it highly.
<|_=00=_|>
"Death of a President" was screened last night (20 October 2006) on
Britain's CHANNEL 4, which is seen widely in Ireland also. It is really
quite strange, being entirely like a real documentary but with acted
interviews. The integration of real archive footage of Bush and Cheney
with digitally manipulated images of the pair, to create various
moments in a false present, is eerie. Cheney even gives a funeral
oration for Bush at one point. Overall, the film seemed a bit too long
but, if nothing else, makes one worry about Cheney as president! It
also serves to make one realise how much is possible with digital
manipulation of images. It is realistic. Not a great movie but an
interesting one.

For this particular European, who has visited most of the US States at
one time or another and who has many American friends, the film was
another reminder of how worrying the United States has become. Still a
great nation but hard to think of it as "Leader of the Free World" now
that it allows cruel and degrading treatment of enemy suspects and
indefinite imprisonment without a fair trial. Perhaps US viewers will
find this movie in bad taste, but they should find some of the policies
and actions of their current government a lot more distasteful.
<|_=00=_|>
I was very skeptical before seeing this movie. Title and premise of
"Death of a President" led me, and probably others, to expect either a
shallow Bush-bashing hack-job or some sort of bizarre, "24"-like "we
against the evildoers" hero-epic in a cheap documentary costume.

I'm happy to report: I was wrong. "Death of a President" is a very well
written, performed and directed drama in the style of a modern (and
hardly opinionated) documentary. And most surprisingly, it isn't really
a movie about George W Bush. 

It was a very smart move to make it a "mock" documentary, since it
keeps the viewer on a skeptical distance to all the protagonists, so
the movie doesn't push the audience into immediately placing the
characters into the "good" and "bad" categories like it would be the
case with a drama done in a conventional narrative. That gives room to
examine the characters different motives and actions without having to
rely on pressing the emotion-buttons too much. Of course this approach
relies on convincing performances from all actors involved (mabybe even
more so than with a conventional drama) to keep the illusion alive of
actually watching a documentary.... over-acting could have been a
disaster for this movie, and i'm very glad cast and director avoided
that pitfall. Fine performances all around.

Now, to the obvious elephant in the room (and the reason why this movie
is so controversial): Why did the makers of the movie not just have a
fictional president killed? Shock value? Some kind of perverse joy in
getting rid of the real President? I don't think so.

First of all, having the real President Bush in the movie obviously
makes this theoretical exercise just more authentic and convincing. And
more importantly, the viewer is forced to place himself somewhere among
the characters, to place his sympathy and antipathy bets just based on
preconceived notions, so to speak. I doubt there are many people who
don't have a clear opinion about George W Bush and his administration
(I certainly have mine. And in the interest of full disclosure, I'm no
fan, to say the least). But that opinion (whatever it is) is important
for the movie to get it's point across: it's the setup to play
effectively with the viewers prejudices. 

"Death of a President" manages to make you look beyond the stereotypes
and makes a solid point about the misleading force of preconceived
notions (for the viewer as well as the characters in the movie). The
tag line "Do not rush to judge" is well chosen. The movie in particular
makes a valid point about the worrying tendency in the US (and the
world in general, I cant think of any society that's not to some degree
affected by this "disease") of more and more dumbing everything down to
"us versus them".

Be it the inflation of the word "Terrorist" as a magic opinion maker,
(and drifting away from the movie for a second) be it Republicans
versus Democrats, be it the insane shouting matches that pass as talk
shows these days or be it the bizarre notion of an inevitable "clash of
the civilizations".

The movie isn't perfect though. For example, the character of Bushs
speech writer was a bit over the top in her praise for the man, while
the protesting crowds remained rather stereotypical. Also, some
doctored shots didn't quite live up to the otherwise impressive
technical level of this production.

Yet "Death of a Presindent" offers a bit of much needed perspective on
the Terrorism-issue; it sure does it by rather drastic means but it
doesn't fail to deliver. Of course for me, as a distant observer of the
USA, the fact that the actual President gets "assasinated" in this
movie doesn't have quite the emotional punch as it must have for
Americans. So I can understand the very mixed reactions it gets from
reviewers.

But if you feel up to it, go see it yourself and then make up your
mind, instead of rushing to judgment based on title and plot outline.
<|_=00=_|>
There hasn't been a movie like this before and many will build their
disapproval of the film around this fact. How can it be anything but
controversial when it concerns a speculation about a future crime - and
the crime concerns the person who is likely to be one of most
controversial US presidents this century.

But given the administration and its leader have been quite overt in
courting controversy and have often appeared to care little for opinion
outside their electoral and other power bases in the USA it can count
for little that suddenly some creative team somewhere outside the USA
provokes discomfort in the heartland of that political grouping.

This film can be regarded as both as a straight ahead thriller but also
as a device to explore your own attitudes and those of others to
certain key political issues. Its rather like the BBC1 TV series
'Spooks' which uses some very current-affairs-rich plot lines with
potential to alarm some sensitive groupings and manages to craft mass
entertainment with the power to stimulate and provoke. If stakeholders
in a publicly funded TV channel have the maturity to cope with Spooks,
I don't see why this attitude shouldn't be adopted more widely in the
free world.
