
When I heard Michael Haneke was re-making Funny Games in America I
wondered why: what purpose could it possibly serve? The set-up to both
versions is simple in that a bourgeois family is subjected to a
torturous ordeal by a couple of ever so polite psychopaths. Moreover,
like the original the re-make is a cruel exercise in exposing our
fascination with the violence depicted in the media - the "our"
specifically meaning the middle classes, comfortable in our existences
and oblivious to the horrors of the world. 

However, Haneke is on record as saying that he always considered Funny
Games to be an "American story", as he regarded the use of violence as
a form of entertainment to be a specifically American phenomenon. No
matter that this is a bit of a flawed viewpoint: having the aggressors
seem straight out of the O.C. gives the impact of their sadistic
actions an even more discomfiting air. Michael Pitt (charismatic and
barbarous) and Brady Corbett (seemingly dopey but utterly vicious) are
both excellent, but their performances leave one feeling a bit um "seen
it all before". 

Which takes me back to my first thought: what is the point? Cosmetics
aside this is exactly the same film, right down to the assumption that
the well to do like to listen to classical music and that the audience
may be unsettled by playing them some thrash metal. Haneke even has
Pitt address the camera and manipulate the film, so re-using the trick
about playing with reality and focusing the viewer on what actually
counts as real. It is just that this playing around does not carry the
impact it did 10 years ago. 

In fact, due to the unconventional nature of the film and the vast
disparity it offers with reality it's hard to care much at all. Yes
what happens is horrible, but it does not feel at all real. I'm waiting
for someone to point out that, that is Haneke's point, but frankly, I
don't care. No amount of intellectualising can make this watchable. 

You would think Haneke would know better too. His most recent film
Hidden took a genre film and flipped it about to deliver one of the
most surprising and intellectually challenging thrillers of the decade.
By stringing the audience along and offering some sense of catharsis
and understanding of character motivation he offered a way in. Funny
Games U.S. offers no such intrigue or tension and is ultimately a big
step backward. He may see it as an American story, but it worked better
as a small Austrian film, set in anywheres-ville Europe.
<|_=00=_|>
Watching "Funny Games" is a bit like coming across a major accident on
the highway - you know you should continue driving on past the scene,
but you just can't keep yourself from slowing down and gawking at all
the wreckage.

The premise of the story does not sound very promising at first, as the
idea, or a simple variation of it, has served as the foundation for
countless such films in the past: an innocent family of three is held
hostage in their home by a couple of sadistic killers who
systematically abuse and terrorize their victims for their own twisted
pleasure.

So many horror movies are predictable and formulaic that it's a
pleasant surprise to come across one that actually makes an effort to
break free of its bonds and make its own way in the world. And, indeed,
"Funny Games" busts through the horror movie conventions with an almost
ruthless determination. In this Americanized version of a film he made
in his native Austria in 1997, director Michael Haneke scrupulously
avoids obvious camera setups and editing techniques, bypassing
virtually every storytelling, visual or audio cliché endemic to the
genre. There is no background music, for instance, to cue us into the
scary moments, no screeching cats jumping out of the shadows, and no
point-of-view shots designed to generate easy suspense. Unlike in most
films of this type, the violence here happens in an entirely haphazard
and random manner, making it all the more frightening in its
unpredictability and plausibility. Haneke refuses to cater to the
expectations of his audience, making them face the reality of the
nightmare he's showing them rather than giving them what it is they may
want to see.

Michael Pitt and Brady Corbet are cringe-worthy and terminally creepy
as the smarmy psychopaths who get their jollies out of watching other
people suffer, while Naomi Watts, Tim Roth and Devon Gearhart engage
our full sympathy as the hapless victims who have come up against the
blank wall of two twisted minds they are woefully unequipped to even
understand, let alone wage battle against.

This is one of the most memorable and artful horror films of recent
times, but it is also one of the most unnerving and difficult to watch.
The movie gets into your bones, no matter how much your better angels
may be telling you to keep it out. It's depressing and disturbing and
is certainly not intended for all audiences, but it is a movie that it
is very difficult to shake off once you've given yourself over to it.
<|_=00=_|>
One of the hardest parts about reviewing an 'art house' type movie is
inherent in the genre's name: it's a lot like criticizing art. And if
you've ever tried to criticize modern art, or almost any art, you're
probably familiar with some brutal rebuttals and denials. The same is
true for these 'art house' type movies. It's a lot easier to give the
movie a good review and go, but bad reviews draw a lot more fire. This
is harder for me as well, because I typically love these types of
movies.

But I did not enjoy this movie--and I don't mean in the general 'it
didn't make me happy' sense. I mean it in the 'had little value,
emotionally or artistically' sense. Depending on how you're looking at
it, there were many ways in which the movie could have gained
merit--you could look at the performance of the actors, the
entertainment of the plot itself, the tension or suspense, the message
or theme. It tried very hard, but I don't think that it was able to
live up to any of its expectations.

The most important aspect of this film when judging it is meant to be
unconventional. It breaks film-making conventions and denies the
audience's expectations over and over. For example, it breaks the
fourth wall quite a few times--meant to be a punch in the gut for the
audience as they are acknowledged as participants in the film. It
denies the audience's expectation of gore by making almost all the
violence occur off-screen, leaving only sound effects. Although the
movie fulfills its aims in its unconventionality, what we are left with
when all the conventions are broken is only the shell of a great movie.
The over-the-top experience is gut-wrenching and terrifying, but that
is the only real effect you are left with. The movie sucks one in by
being unconventional, but the movie made a mistake in that it aimed to
be unconventional without having a clear idea of what to do after
convention was broken. The movie just seems to wander around, dragging
a great premise through the dirt.

Another criticism of the movie comes from the intentions of the movie's
plot. This movie--and its director, based on his real-life comments on
his purpose in remaking a film shot-for-shot--is, in a word,
pretentious. Haneke himself states that "It is a reaction to a certain
American Cinema, its violence, its naïveté, the way it toys with human
beings" (The Village Voice). Already there lies pretentiousness in the
idea of remaking your own movie only ten years after the original, with
practically the only change being the language. Already you're assuming
that Americans will actually watch your movie just because it's in
English, and on top of that, you're assuming that the bourgeois
depiction of the 'victims' would be more fitting in American theaters.
Then, you're saying that the violence message is more fitting in
American theaters. I'll go ahead and dissect why all this
pretentiousness bears no redeeming fruit.

First point: American cinema is more focused on and condoning of
violence than other countries' cinema. This point is already rendered
practically untestable by the fact that there is no movie industry in
the world that is quite comparable to Hollywood. Most industries are
much smaller, and even the most comparable industry in terms of size
(Bollywood) is not a fair comparison due to drastically different genre
and stylistic focus. The established industry of film in America has
the negative side effects of allowing low-quality and low-standards
movies to be produced and distributed on a massive scale, as long as it
provides a hook to entice consumers. The amount of violence in
Hollywood is highly overemphasized, and is inevitable in the industry
due to its inevitable hook. Also, these movies do fairly well in other
countries (in terms of box office), suggesting that it's not strictly
an American issue.

Second point: The bourgeois characteristic of the characters is more
appropriate in American theaters. Although there are plenty of yuppies,
brownnosers, and bourgeois in America, I think it's unfair to say the
bourgeois appearances of the characters are more of an American feature
than German, or French, or English, whatever developed country you
like. It's a common human attribute, a longing to move up in life, and
enjoying a higher standard of living--not something I agree with, but
everyone's seen it in action. Both this point, and the previous one,
simply show a narrow-minded judgment on the part of the director.

And the most, MOST important point to why this film did nothing for me:
The film delivers a message about violence, especially in regards to
middle/upper-class culture. This movie said nothing of importance to
me. If you want to find a message like this, look at Clockwork Orange.
There is no denying that Clockwork Orange effectively conveys a message
about violence and morality in the modern world. This movie was looking
and looking to make a point about violence, something about how
watching violence and indulging in violent movies is akin to the
violence itself. It got halfway there in that it drew the audience into
the experience and almost created a sense of guilt. But it was unable
to go much further. It did not even justify a nihilistic view, because
the way in which the movie was made, especially the semi-surrealism of
the actual events and the 'rewind' feature, at least reveals intent in
creating a point. It circles round and round and ends up no where at
all.

I would call this movie avant-garde if it actually made any impact on
me. A film can seek to chase beauty, tell a story, delight viewers,
convey a message, play on a theme, or invoke an emotion, but when a
film does none of these it loses its value as a piece of art. And this
is exactly where Funny Games ends up.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this at the London Film Festival and found it to be exactly what
I expected: an English-language facsimile by Michael Haneke of his 1997
German film of the same title. Not that this is a bad thing. It is a
testament to Haneke's artistic ability to replicate perfectly his
previous film shot-by-shot with equal effect, tension, and intrigue
even as one knows what to expect--although it might also say something
about Haneke's ego that he doesn't feel that he needed to change or add
new material for audiences who've already seen the original. The
performances are overall well-executed, especially by Naomi Watts, an
actress who has proved that she will still take risks despite the fact
that she has made it both in the art-house scene and in mainstream
Hollywood.

Haneke wanted to replicate the original film for American audiences
since he has considered the story closer culturally to American
society. That is a noble effort, but I am not sure if it required him
to remake an exact replica of one of his earlier works, nor am I sure
that it will have quite the impact he wants since the American
audiences he is targeting might avoid it all together (as it might be
seen as too art-house or extreme) or be completely turned off by its
content and artistic approach. Nonetheless, it is interesting to
witness as an exercise in a film artist revisiting his earlier work,
even if he didn't bother changing anything.
<|_=00=_|>
Funny Games US is a motion picture study of two young psychopaths and
the pain, suffering, and ends they inflict. In the end it gives just
one line that justifies what actually took place and that line was
unable to make me not feel like I had wasted 2 hours of my life.

The characters are cardboard. The length of the film is excessive. In
the end you care about no one involved and you are left feeling the
conclusion (though there really is none) is totally unsatisfactory.

The violence contained in the film is never shown though the effects of
the violence and its remnants are displayed prominently.

My belief is that the director was trying to show how passé we now find
violence and even goes an extra step to show bare sexuality (there is
no nudity in the movie) against the back drop of the violence to allow
the audience to judge their own "arousal factors" and how close they
are to violence.

But no matter what the directors intention, the product was without
merit. I would recommend not watching the film. Not even when suffering
from extreme sleeplessness in hopes that this might lull you into a
restful slumber - trust me it won't.

Tim Roth is wasted with very little dialog. Naomi Watts is wasted
though she is able to show a great deal of emotion and is used for her
looks as an arousal tool. And the best showing was the actor who played
their son who showed a great deal of stage like visual emotion. Bravo.

I was being nice when I gave this two stars - Watch at your own peril
and remember you'll never be able to reclaim the two hours of your
life.
<|_=00=_|>
One way to get the most out of Funny Games is to have your expectations
open before watching it. It's not a standard horror film aiming to
fulfill your needs as a viewer. It's about horror films and us, the
audience who gets pleasure from suffering as entertainment. It shows
what real horror might look like in an awful situation, and how it
psychologically debilitates and paralyzes the people involved.

Although this is almost identical and I liked this remake, I prefer the
1997 Austrian original version. It was one of the most disturbing and
effective films I've ever seen. Here the acting is good especially from
one of the best actresses out there Naomi Watts, but somehow the
original works better. Maybe it was Arno Frisch, who played the main
bad guy in the original, an absolutely ice cold character. Arno played
it so well, there was a threatening menace underneath the polite and
clean-cut exterior. Michael Pitt in this U.S. Version doesn't quite
have that, but even so I still think he does well.

One possible flaw that I agree with others is the family seemed too
passive. In the beginning the two bad guys are armed with only a golf
club. Naomi Watt's, who is in amazing shape at 40, looked like she
might have done something more to get out of it. However, an argument
can be made that the family reacted realistically because they were
portrayed as rich, docile people who listened to classical music and
went boating. People who are not violent and erroneously think
everyone, even these two sick guys, have a better nature they can
appeal to by simply saying "why don't you just leave us alone and go?"
They've been sheltered from people who are simply evil and lack empathy
and just don't give a sh*t. Their comfortable existence has been
shattered and they don't know how to react. We're so used to Hollywood
b.s. where everyone is a hero and fights back and we all cheer and go
home. Yeah that's entertaining too but we've seen that a million times
already. Maybe some people would be paralyzed out of fear like this
family. Either way, I was willing to put their passiveness aside
because everything else in the film was done so well.

The original right now has a rating of 7.7 at IMDb and many glowing
reviews, yet this U.S version is a lot lower at 6.4 and many b*tching
and moaning 1 star reviews. Not to sound condescending, but maybe
people who watch subtitled non-English films are more accepting of
weird, offbeat films that don't follow conventional Hollywood style
dialogue, plot and presentation, and they're more open to this movies
style of direction, like the very long takes of people just sitting
there in misery. I'm not stupid enough to say one has to like this
film, I get annoyed at some indie type films and their quirkiness
myself, but some of the 1 star reviewers sound like a bunch of
crybabies.

Funny Games slaps you in the face and taunts you and it rarely gives in
to what you need as a viewer, and that may be frustrating at times but
at least it's something different.
<|_=00=_|>
Ann: "Why don't you just kill us?" Peter: "You shouldn't forget the
importance of entertainment." These two lines are the very base for the
message behind Funny Games, a stark, unrelenting look at America's
infatuation with violence and torture.

This is an English version remake of the 1997 German Funny Games, by
the very same director Michael Haneke. Haneke wanted his original film
to reach a broader audience, especially America since his inspiration
for the film was his fascination with America's desensitized appetite
for gore and violent torture. The premise is very simple: a well-to-do
American family, George (Tim Roth), Ann (Naomi Watts), and Georgie
(Devon Gearhart), arrive at their summer home for a relaxing vacation
and are held hostage in their own home by two deranged young men, Paul
(Michael Pitt) and Peter (Brady Corbet), who play a "game" with the
family that consists of tormenting the family physically and
psychologically.

Normally I would never have seen this film, as I have vowed never to
see any type of slasher/torture-porn. However after reading about the
director's vision of trying to show the audience how sickening the
watching of graphic torture for entertainment really is, I knew I had
to see it.

Unlike the hypocritical Untraceable or The Condemned, this film does
exactly what it intends to do. This film gets in your head by giving
the pretense that you will witness all the horrible acts, and then
turns around on you by not showing anything! Everything is off-screen
so you are left with only the sound effects. It is more disturbing as
your imagination sets to work on the images off screen, and that in
itself is more horrifying.

Haneke crafts a superbly intelligent psychological horror, but almost
too intelligent as it almost falters on expecting you to know the
philosophy behind the film-making and for someone knowing nothing about
the film it might be confusing or frustrating.

I would not recommend this film to everyone as it will disappoint the
Saw/Hostel audience and may confuse newcomers. With that aside, I
greatly welcomed the dissection of violence, and someone who
understands the point of the film and enjoys art house-style
film-making will appreciate it.
<|_=00=_|>
Back in 1997 director Michael Haneke made Funny Games, a 
disturbing and thought-provoking thriller that toys with the viewer's 
place as a voyeur. In 2008, the re-make, also directed by Haneke, 
debuts with an all new cast and this time in English. The problem is 
that it is essentially a shot-for-shot, line-for-line, verbatim 
re-shoot. This makes watching this film pointless if you've seen the 
original, or unnecessary to watch the original if you're planning on 
seeing the 2008 version. And despite those pesky subtitles that often 
upset American audiences, the original's authenticity and casting is 
surprisingly superior.

Anne (Naomi Watts) and George (Tim Roth) arrive at their vacation home 
ready to enjoy some golf and sailing with their son (Devon Gearhart) 
and neighbors. As Anne is unpacking groceries, she is confronted by two 
young men, dressed in golf attire, and wearing white gloves. Thinking 
nothing of their politeness and harmless asking for eggs, explaining 
that the neighbors ran out of cooking materials, Anne immediately helps 
them. But when the two boys begin obviously antagonizing her, she 
realizes that their family is about to be taken hostage for a 
terrifying night of anything but "funny" games.

The same opening overhead shot of a car (this time an SUV) driving down 
a desolate highway while the family inside plays a game of guessing 
opera tunes, opens the film. The same opera pieces are used, the same 
title sequence and the same ear-piercing abstract death metal. The film 
is undoubtedly disturbing, unique and white-knuckle suspenseful, but if 
you've seen the original, there's nothing new. The breed of dog 
changed, along with the style of phone (from mobile to cellular), but 
the house's white gate looks almost completely identical, and the 
kitchen and all of its seemingly random decorations are all a perfect 
match. Georg and Anna have been altered to their American counterparts 
George and Anne, and some of the original translations have been 
reinterpreted (such as fatty to tubby and cheeky to rude).

What makes this remake only slightly more successful than Gus Van 
Sant's famously horrendous turn with Hitchcock's Psycho is that Funny 
Games was never that well known. Taking what many believe to be one of 
the greatest films of all time (Psycho) and re-doing it scene for scene 
is so utterly pointless, it's a wonder the idea was ever even carried 
out. At least with Funny Games the reasons are more coherent. Making a 
German film more accessible for American audiences through the use of 
English speaking actors isn't entirely inane.

Devoid of an omniscient soundtrack and played out to feel like 
real-time, the events of this one freakish night is quite a 
distressingly entertaining ordeal. Regardless of the superiorities that 
are evident in the original, this version isn't without its shock value 
and thought-provoking commentary on voyeurism and violence. But with 
its unexpectedly appalling conclusion, bizarre plot twists and the 
unexplainable interference with the "fourth wall" (a.k.a. having 
characters talk directly to the audience), Funny Games may very well be 
a film that could never have been truly accepted by American audiences 
in the first place.

- The Massie Twins
<|_=00=_|>
The masochist side to my personality saw both versions of Michael
Haneke's "Funny Games" and like them. Well "like" may not be the right
word but let me tell you that I couldn't shake those images out of my
mind for days. It happened the same with Haneke's last film "The White
Ribbon" as well as with "Cache" and in particular with "The Piano
Teacher" I'm fascinated by Michael Haneke but I don't trust him. I'm
aware of his brilliance just as aware as he is. There is a self
consciousness about his work that strips it of any form of innocence.
That's very disturbing. Luis Bunuel felt triumphant when people fainted
or vomited during his films but, in his case, it was clear where he was
coming from. Ingman Bergman's purity couldn't have allow him to do a
film like "Funny Games", Haneke made it, twice. An artist or a con man?
I think both but that in itself is not that unusual, what is unusual is
that the con is so rivetingly perpetrated. The ending of his film may
provoke in you the desire to throw something at the screen and curse,
curse very loudly. But, and here is where the con really works, I found
myself wanting to see his films again. What's wrong with me? I think
the answer is that I love film and Michael Heneke revisits some of my
favorite filmmakers and does to them what the home invaders do to the
family of "Funny Games" Extraordinary in as many ways as it is
appalling. "Funny Games is considered, by some, to be Michael Heneke's
most commercial film, isn't that funny?
<|_=00=_|>
First things first, I have not seen the Michael Haneke's original 1997
Funny Games, however, according to every reviewer, I do not need to
(I'm still going to, though). Apparently this American version of Funny
Games is a shot-for-shot remake of the original, but with different
actors and in English. Also, before seeing this (a year late, as us
Australians get most films later) I had read plenty of articles and
reviews detailing how dark, powerful and disturbing Haneke's film was.
Well, they were damn right. This is a brutal and abrupt film, with no
happy endings in sight throughout the majority of the film.

Beginning with a wealthy family: George (Tim Roth), wife Ann (Naomi
Watts) and Georgie (Devon Gearhart), driving to their holiday home by a
lake. Upon arrival a young boy, Peter (Brady Corbet), knocks on their
door asking for eggs. A simple task turns into something a bit more
complicated, which frustrates Ann and causes her to ask him to leave.
However, Paul (Michael Pitt) also enters the scene. Soon the situation
loses control as the family as held hostage by the two sociopaths and
subjected to cruel and sadistic games.

This seemingly overdone home-invasion scenario is the set-up for
Haneke's hard-hitting social commentary (and the reason he remade the
film for American audiences). Violence is present everywhere in
society, through books, games, films, television and music. Although I
do enjoy violent films and games, it is not hard to see the public are
slowly becoming desensitized to violence. Sometimes we may not even
notice what we are watching or reading is violent (the news, the papers
and even cartoon shows aimed at children). This is the film's target,
and this is why Haneke remade it for the U.S., as he believes that this
is mostly an American culture. Unfortunately, there is a flaw present
in this way of thinking. I believe most people know that when they are
watching something like "Hostel" or "Die Hard 4.0" it is all fake, all
special effects and it is only there as a form of escapism from one's
life. It is interesting to note that this film is not that bloody, with
almost all of the violence occurring off-screen, the camera focusing on
the witnesses reactions instead. Funnily enough, this annoyed a few
reviewers on this site, which kind of proves the director's point. We
are hungry for violence in our films, we want to see it all.

"You shouldn't forget the importance of entertainment." States Peter
when Ann asks them to kill them so the pain can end. The director turns
film conventions on their head, as Paul breaks the fourth wall and
addresses us, asking us questions. (In this way the film is somewhat
pretentious and self-aware, Haneke kind of knows he is making an arty
film and it is slightly annoying). Paul knows almost everyone is
rooting for the family to survive, for some miraculous way out for
them. However, Haneke knows that more often than not, the cavalry never
come and the bad guys usually do win.

Upon pointing out Haneke's fault, the man can direct with incredible
style. The egg scene is an interesting one, as almost nothing happens,
yet he constantly increases the tension every second. And that is just
the beginning. There are numerous tracking shots, which add to the
atmosphere and frustration. In an eight minute scene, we witness Ann
trying to escape her bonds and through this silent scene we feel her
anguish and it works very well. However, the direction is supported by
some of the strongest performances by an entire cast I have seen all
year. Naomi Watts is an incredible actress and her performance as the
polite housewife turned heroine is riveting. She goes through a heap of
crap throughout the movie and she is convincing 100% of the time. Tim
Roth is excellent support, his father (who is crippled at the start of
the games) is a tragic character. Usually the father character is the
macho hero, but here he is a broken man and Roth portrays this with
perfection. Michael Pitt is eerie, charming and sadistic as well-spoken
Paul, he is the 21st century Alex (from Stanely Kubrick's "A Clockwork
Orange"). I am confident he will be a big star in the future. Brady
Corbet is more timid, but equally menacing as Peter, the seemingly
simpler, but more erratic and violent one. He puts forward an
interesting and breakthrough turn and as mentioned before, should be a
star to look out for.

Although I will probably not revisit this again, it is definitely
well-made and challenging film. It is not a pleasing or uplifting film,
and although not gratuitous in its violence, is quite stressing
nonetheless. It raises some socially relevant issues and as far as
remakes go, it is heads and shoulders above the rest.

4/5
