
The original Hoodwinked was a clever movie, giving us a twist on the
Little Red Riding hood fable, making it into a crime caper. It was well
written and very funny. 

The sequel seems uninspired and poorly conceived. Nothing clever here.
A few witty moments strung together into an adventure movie that isn't
nearly as clever. Some characters were just thrown in because they were
liked (the goat) and didn't serve any other purpose, other characters
just seemed odd and uninteresting (the harp), and the main characters,
while true to their original conceptions, were stuck in a weaker, more
convoluted plot. 

At least the first half of the movie had its funny moments. The last
half of the movie seemed tired and uncreative. 

I am not in the movie's primary demographic however (being 45). My
sons, ages 4 and 7, enjoyed the movie very much and laughed quite a
bit. So if you are a parent, take your kids. They'll probably enjoy it.
If you're not a parent and you like computer animated features, don't
set your expectations very high.
<|_=00=_|>
Think back to 2005 when the classic tale of Little Red Riding Hood was
rewritten in a cute format, full of mediocre comedy, ridiculous antics,
lots of loud screaming, an X-Files approach to getting the answers and
a demented bunny that tied everything together. Yes it was none other
than the first Hoodwinked. Today I watched the sequel to this cute spin
of Red Riding Hood and I'm here to report that it has deviated from
this formula. 

Hoodwinked Too begins with a quick, exciting chase scene involving a
witch, two fat kids, a wolf, a coffee induced squirrel, and a couple of
background animals. Granny is still the master daredevil and shows us
the amazing moves shes famous for from the first one, except this time
its on a hog. However after this brief, thrilling, funny scene, the
movie takes a quick turn to Red and her secret training ground. Here we
learn about her attitude problem and how she has to work with a team
instead of being alone. Once these scenes are done, the movie
essentially is laid out for you to predict. You clearly can guess who
the bad guys are, you can guess what is going to happen to the
accomplices, and you pretty much can guess everything that is going to
happen in this movie. As a result, this movie really has no twists to
it. 

So is this movie worth watching? Well in my opinion it depends on what
you want to see. One great thing about this movie is that Twitchy the
squirrel has a lot of screen action and has a lot of hyperactive, funny
movements and skills that will make kids laugh their heads off, and
maybe some adults as well. The squeaky voice may get on some parents
nerves, but I assure you that kids will love this funny colorful
character. A second thing that parents might enjoy a little more, or
adults who like CGI movies is the constant references to James Bond and
the catchy one liners that this movie can throw at you. The wolf in
particular has a couple of shrek like lines that adults will get more
than kids, but it still doesn't match the brilliance that the green
ogre has shown. A third thing I will say is good about this movie is
that its not slow at all. The movie keeps a brisk pace and allows
anybody with a short attention span to be centered on the movie and not
drifting to sleep, which I find as a big positive. Also the woodsmen
yodelers were pretty good as well, but their role in the movie was too
short for me and should have been expanded.

If you're a fan of Granny however, then you may not enjoy this movie as
much as the master spy plays a very low key role in this movie. Aside
from that beginning scene I mentioned, Granny has a few quick flips,
tricks, and kicks that are diluted from her classic role. Some of the
comedy in this movie is also very slap sticky and beat you over the
head, especially gags about disguises and what not, which does get a
little old. The story is weak as well, and really did not impress me as
much as the first one did. Although the first story was not a
masterpiece, it still was a creative look on the red riding hood story.
This one deviated a little too much for my taste and should have tried
to get another story going, without putting in so much secret agent
warfare.

Okay recommended audience for this movie, definitely viewers who have
kids that like squeaky, hyperactive characters, this movie has a lot of
them. Fans of the fairy tale parodies may appreciate this film as well,
though may not be as impressed by this film as others. Overall for this
kind of movie I'll say a 6.5 maybe 7 at the most for a good try at a
fun kids film. However, it just doesn't reach out to a large audience
like Pixar and Disney do in their work. Until next time, this is
rgkarim signing out. Please email me if you have any ideas to improve
my writing at rgkarim@mail.roanoke.edu
<|_=00=_|>
When the studio has trouble releasing a movie that's a sequel to a box
office hit, you know you're in trouble right away. Part one came to us
in 2005. It had a less impressive cast, a smaller budget and it made
more money. We're not talking Avatar dollars here -- but making $51
million domestically on a $15 million dollar endeavor is considered to
be a hit -- and that's not even including the foreign take (which
tacked on an additional $60 million, fyi). So why did this one flop so
hard? $30 million dollar budget and it did $10.1 in the U.S. and it
only managed a meager $6.8 overseas? Simple answer? It was lame. Long
answer... keep on reading...

The sequel starts us off with all of the fairy tale/woodland creatures
working for the HEA agency (Happily Ever After) as they try to stop a
nasty old witch (Cusack) from baking and eating two little children,
Hansel (Hader) and Gretal (Poehler). Nicky Flippers (Stiers) is the
boss behind the scenes, always on walkie-talkie with the key members of
the group. Granny (Close) is the veteran player and she has the tough
task of always trying to keep her partner, Wolf (Warburton) in check.
Wolf likes to do things his own way and even devises his own plan of
attack with his little yes-man, Twitchy (Edwards). Red (Panettiere,
taking over duties from an absent Anne Hathaway) is nowhere to be found
on the latest mission because she's far, far, far, far, far, far, far,
far, far, far away getting trained by the Sisters of the Hood -- an
organization that holds the ancient secret recipe for a super truffle
that, if consumed, will make anyone a force to be reckoned with. When
the Wolf's plans to rescue Hansel and Gretal fail (and nothing can fail
worse than getting even more people kidnapped), Red is asked to come
back post-haste. As it would turn out, someone has also nicked the
recipe for the super truffle. It's up to Red and the Wolf to not only
rescue Hansel and Gretal (and their very own HEA agent) but find out
who's responsible for stealing the truffle recipe and why.

There are a few chuckles to be found in Hoodwinked Too! It's just a
shame that they are far and few between. Most of the jokes miss their
mark and I'm not sure if the filmmakers were trying to make this movie
for the kids who had seen part one (and grew up) or for the new little
wee ones. Way too many times did I see the film referencing older
movies that kids today wouldn't know (the original Star Wars,
Goodfellas, The Silence of the Lambs) -- yes, they're all great movies,
but how many 8-year-olds today that you know who have seen them? Sure,
perhaps they made the jokes for the adults in the audience -- but
then.... why not make them funnier? About the only time I laughed (and
this is coming from someone in their mid-30's, thank you very much) is
when Wolf and Twitchy were on screen.

Panettiere was just plain awful as Red, she has some of the film's
hokiest dialog and she's easily the most uninteresting character. Next
in line would be Glenn Close. So incredibly sappy were the two, I
almost couldn't finish it. I'm not blaming the actors here mind you --
it's more the writing and the storytelling. Sorry for misleading you to
think Panettiere did a bad job, because she didn't. Her character and
dialog were just plain unbearable, not her. All of the other characters
in the story at least kept me entertained enough to leave it on and
finish it.

The animation is nothing to ooh and ahhh over, but it's not horrendous
by any means. If people are telling you that the animation is stiff and
wooden and unimpressive, don't listen to them. They're obviously
animation whores, they only want the very best and nothing excites them
more than Pixar announcing their latest project. Animation doesn't have
to be top-notch for a story to work -- South Park: Bigger, Longer and
Uncut has already proved this. The animation is just fine in this
one... it just doesn't 'pop' or have that interesting of a story to
back up. Had the screenplay been tweaked, the story punched up... no
one would be saying 'boo' about the animation. But because the film has
a weak delivery, moviegoers minds start to wander and they start to
focus on how many cels were used to create the Giant's (Garrett) nose
hairs.

Overall, your kids might like it. You probably won't. It's a chore to
get through but it's not entirely bad. One of the things I found
annoying in the film was it's overuse of the word 'muffins'.
Apparently, 'muffins' is the fairy tale equivalent of saying 'oh s**t'.
Many times we are forced to hear a character in peril utter the phrase,
"Oh, muffins." Funny the first time? Sure. The 15th or 20th time? No.
Remember how I told you the film doesn't know what age group it really
wants to pander to? How about that Starksy and Hutch-inspired ending
(right down to the CB radio in a 1976 Ford Gran Torino)? Oh muffins,
indeed.

Final Grade: C-
<|_=00=_|>
The 1st Hoodwinked movie will always be loved by me. It has good
writing, sound, acting, and story. It is the tale of Little Red Riding
Hood, mixed in with some crime drama, and it worked v....Huh? What's
that? Oh god, the f**king sequel. Wow, what a disappointment. The
problems? The story isn't as good, the writing is crap (expect many
done-wrong references to much better movies), and various other
problems! Let's start with the story. Basically, the HEA(Happily Ever
After)Agency mentioned in the first movie turns out to be like the CIA
of the Hoodwinked world. The heroes from the 1st movie (except Red,
I'll get to that in a minute) are on a mission to save Hansel and
Gretel from an evil witch. But they screw up, and Granny gets captured,
even though, you know, she's capable of preventing that from happening
to herself (yeah, a few of the characters' traits and personalities
were changed for no reason). Now the HEA calls upon the help of Red,
who's currently training in the mountains from Kung Fu Panda with the
Sisters of the Hood. She fails the test given to her, and is given some
bulls**t legend about a magical truffle, which, when eaten, makes the
person unstoppable. It also turns out that the recipe for the truffle
was stolen, and everyone freaks out. Some agents of the HEA come by and
pick up Red to bring her to the HEA. By the way, we never see the
Sisters of the Hood again, so you won't care about them. OK, screw it,
I'm not talking about the story anymore, because I didn't care about
it. I'll just say that the evil witch is not the main villain, but
Hansel and Gretel are. One reviewer on here likes this twist, but she
apparently didn't stop to think about how the hell that would work,
because it doesn't make a lick of sense. Now the writing was "meh" to
say the least, but the references just sucked. Though the worst of all,
has to be the scene where Red finds a table that has the tools and
ingredients needed to make the Magic Truffle. When Red tries to
concentrate, her granny's words come to mind. Then, out of nowhere, we
hear Obi-Wan say "Luke, use the Force." My god, that was painfully
forced. Thankfully, the rest of the references aren't as bad, but they
still suck. There are 3 other things I should mention. First, is that
the billy goat from the 1st movie is here as well, except he's part of
a running joke where he gets hurt by falling or being flattened. Guess
how many times they repeat this joke? FIVE TIMES. That is LAZY. And
it's not even funny. Second, as you watch the movie, you'll probably
notice characters from the 1st movie. The problem? None of the main
characters acknowledge their existence, even though they were important
in the 1st movie. Third, if at all possible, DO NOT see this movie in
3D, because there's nothing remotely 3D in the movie that would make it
worth paying a few extra bucks. Overall, Hoodwinked Too! sucks, though
it's not god-awful (but it got there 10 times too many), as the action
scenes range from decent to good. If you want some Hoodwinked!, go
watch the 1st movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I wasn't interested in seeing the first Hoodwinked, due to the
commercials, which seemed to focus on bad animation and making a wolf
in an afro funny. When I got the DVD for my kids, it quickly became a
family favorite, having quick humor, sly references to other movies,
and (not least) an interesting plot. A police investigation into the
happenings around the story of little red riding hood and resultant
conflicting accounts by each of the major players made for a quite
interesting movie. Hoodwinked 2 seems to have forgotten what made the
first movie enjoyable. It starts off well, but then drifts into a
straightforward, predictable story of Hansel and Gretel trying to
obtain a secret recipe which gives them unlimited power. There are no
overlaps, story twists, or the quick wit that made the first movie fun.
Also, strangely absent is music. The first movie was loaded with catchy
songs (often sung by a scene stealing goat). The only music in this
film are sung by said goat, but only enough to set him up for a
repeated "object falls on him" joke. Familiar characters from the first
movie show up as bystanders, but none of them speak, i.e. the x-games
bears and the cops appear, but are not heard or utilized in the story.
Frankly, I expected more from this movie, but was not totally
surprised. If you haven't seen it, watch the original instead. Skip
this one.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie made me forget what I liked about the first one!!! This
sequel was terrible!!!! The plot was so stupid, from the very beginning
to the end I was thinking, "Why on earth did they make this movie at
all??!!" All the charm of the first film was missing from this one!!! I
think people in the theater laughed maybe twice! The jokes were not
funny at all! Even my young daughter thought it was bad! With such an
all star cast, it was a big let down. There have only been maybe 2
times in my 40 year life that I walked out of the theater feeling I
wasted my money, and this was one of them! Honestly I wouldn't even
waste my $1.00 on this at Redbox!
<|_=00=_|>
Picking up the story where the previous one left off (more or less)
this film continues a fairy tale world where Red Riding Hood is not
quite as helpless as she is in the original tales and where Granny is
something else entirely. The characters are, to an extend, the same as
they were in the first film - but quite sadly that is the end of the
comparability of the two.

Where the original film is a quirky "whodunnit" that attempts to solve
a crime by having the audience sit through several viewpoints on the
events that happened this sequel is a sequence of standard events that
seems to be stolen from several other films - and stolen poorly at
that.

As a comedy it doesn't work - good scenes are few and far apart. As a
twisted fairy tale it doesn't work either - it's not convoluted enough
by far. As an animation film it doesn't work either - it's bland and
many scenes feel overly easy.

All in all, an insult to the first film and I only didn't feel cheated
out of paying because my kid did seem to like it (he's never seen the
original though) 5 out of 10 sequels too many
<|_=00=_|>
I have to admit that I enjoyed the first Hoodwinked, while it was not
perfect, I loved the fun story, the voice cast, the clever dialogue and
catchy soundtrack. Although I hadn't heard many good things about
Hoodwinked Too! I naturally wanted to see if it was at least watchable.
Watching it online, while I was not expecting it to be better than or
as good as the original, I was in all honesty expecting much better
than this.

The only real reason why I don't rate it any lower is the voice cast,
the standouts being David Ogden Stiers, Joan Cusack and Patrick
Warburton, even if the latter's material isn't anywhere near as as
funny or clever here he still does a credible job with the delivery.
Hayden Panettiere also does a spirited job as Red, and Glenn Close
while like Warburton not having standout material does what she can.

On the other hand, I just wasn't engaged with it at all. The story is a
big reason why. I loved the idea, and it started off great, but it very
quickly became very predictable, part of me felt that some of the plot
seemed over-stretched sometimes and the film generally lacked the first
film's snappy pacing. Another problem is the script, I missed the
clever wit and the sly references here. Everything seemed rather
obvious and tired.

Hoodwinked Too! also suffers from the characters not having any
likability or charm. Almost all of them are underused and very bland.
Although Ogden Stiers does do all he can, his character is rather
thankless. In fact for me, only Big Bad Wolf and Cusack's Witch sparked
any interest. What there is of the soundtrack is very forgettable,
nothing's there to make it catchy.

And I didn't like the animation here. I have heard much from those who
didn't like the first film's animation, I personally liked the colours
and backgrounds there, but some of the character designs in that film
took some getting used to. The animation here though is in my opinion
pretty messy. The backgrounds are tolerable if nothing special, but the
colouring is dull and the character designs blocky.

In conclusion, a bland and uninspired sequel to a surprisingly
enjoyable film. 3/10 Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>
I was forced to see this movie because of my sister and her boyfriend.
And I was thinking although this is better than Alvin and the
Chipmunks: The Squeakel, this was only for the kids only. I haven't
seen the first one, so I was going into this with very low
expectations.

The plot was predictable, I knew Hansel and Gretel were evil, and the
whole plot was predictable and unoriginal. But one thing I thought was
funny in the movie was the performances of Cheech and Chong as the two
evil henchpigs. They had some references to their old movies, and that
was the only thing that was funny about the movie.

This movie is only for the kids only, but it is a heck of a lot better
than Alvin and the Chipmunks: The Squeakel.
<|_=00=_|>
I didn't like the first movie very much but I can watch it without
feeling insulted by what it tries to pass as comedy. The same can not
be said for Hoodwinked Too! Now, before I go on, let me just say that I
have not seen the whole movie -- I saw a little over half of it. But
even still, I have rarely witnessed a movie so bad that it made me want
to meet one of the writers in person just so that I could see what kind
of person would actually think this garbage was good. I sat there
watching it, hoping that it would redeem itself somehow mid-way
through. I was willing to give it a chance even though it was hurting
me. My five year old daughter, on the other hand, had seen enough. I
have to admit that I felt relieved when she got up to eject the DVD
that she looked woefully unimpressed with -- she spared me the torment
of sitting through the rest of it with her -- but I was even more
relieved to see that my child could tell the difference between a good
animated movie and an awful one.
