
I was able to catch a screening of 'Superbad' last night in NYC and I
was very pleased with the movie. I'm sure most will compare this to an
'American Pie' like comedy, but it's so much more than that. There were
some "shock value" moments, but very well done to tip the scale more to
funny than to gross.

It is a teen movie, so 'Superbad's plot is obviously basic. It's the
performances of the 3 friends (Seth, Evan, and 'McLovin' Fogell) that
really make it great. I am big Michael Cera fan thanks to the brilliant
TV series "Arrested Development", and other fans will be delighted to
see his equally hilarious performance as Evan. The movie has the
sexually driven banter and gross outs that will appeal to 'American
Pie' viewer and the smart timing and acting that will appeal to the
'Arrested Development' viewer. What was really surprising to me was the
touching (platonic) relationship that Evan and Seth have. Also,
'McLovin' Fogell, is an absolute nerdy delight.

The only negative thing I noticed that it was a bit drawn out toward
the middle, but it really picks up after. Overall it's a great time and
might just be a success at the box office. Bad teen comedies are a dime
a dozen, but 'Superbad' is a shiny golden egg!
<|_=00=_|>
I got to see an advanced screening the other night, complete with an
interview with the cast. I figured this movie could go either way,
especially when you consider "40 year-old Virgin" and "Knocked Up" were
funny and entertaining, but they weren't exactly loved by all.

I am happy to say this movie was wonderful. The jokes are crude, but
dead on, and unlike recent movies with a similar style, like "Clerks
2," the plot moves on without any real downtime (you know, where the
plot slows the progress of humor and you find yourself checking your
watch). Jonah Hill and Michael Cera have that best friend chemistry
that this movie required as well as being dead on with their jokes. The
real star of the movie, however, was newcomer Christopher Mintz-Plasse,
who took the role of Fogell and OWNED it. I got the chance to chat with
the actors and I was not only surprised to hear that both Mintz-Plasse
and Michael Cera are 18 and 19 respectively.

For the type of movie this is and the brilliant script that Seth Brogen
has presented, there is no reason why anyone, young or old, can't
relate to this off-the-wall comedy. See this movie!
<|_=00=_|>
I have been lucky enough to see two advanced screenings of Superbad in
Burbank. It is one of the funniest movies I have seen in a long time.
When I read the summary, I was a bit skeptical. The "high school
comedy" is not exactly my cup of tea. My love for Michael Cera's
performance in Arrested Development drove me to the theater and man was
I glad I went. This is not your typical high school comedy. The writing
is much smarter and funnier and the acting is superb. This movie so far
transcends American Pie and its ilk that it cannot really even be
compared. Go see this movie!!! I have a feeling it is going to go off
the charts once the buzz gets around about how hilarious it is.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay, so today i went to an advanced screening of this movie. It was
really last minute and I didn't know much about it other than it was
from the makers of The 40-Year-Old Virgin and Knocked Up and it looked
pretty funny.

I expected it to be funny, but my expectations were blown out of the
water. It was extremely smart and pretty much believable. Well, some of
the situations are a little ridiculous, but what's a good comedy
without a little nonsense? But the characters were all so awesome.

There were a few parts where i was a little uncomfortable. There are
some pretty explicit drawings in it so you might not want to see it
with younger siblings or parents. But I'm telling you, this movie was
super funny.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, I just got back from the Superbad screening tonight (thanks to
the folks at MySpace) and I must say that this is a very special teen
movie. It has that same element of transporting you back to your high
school days that the original American Pie had. Michael Cera does great
as the awkward teenage kid, basically a reprise of his role as George
Michael on Arrested Development. But it is Jonah Hill who absolutely
rules this movie! He had me laughing from the beginning to the end. His
"silly fat-kid" character is the only one in the history of movies that
shows what it truly feels like to be the funny fat kid in high school.
I should know, I was one! Gosh, I just can't believe how well he
portrayed the unmitigated hell that was P.E.! Emma Stone and Martha
Maclsaac also give very realistic depictions of teenage girls. None of
that fake, over the top nonsense. The most over-the-top character was
"McLovin" himself, Christopher Mintz-Plasse, who did a great job of
having us laugh with him as much as we did at him.

All in all, I think that everyone should be sure to watch this movie
when it comes later this summer.
<|_=00=_|>
Superbad is a teen movie. It also will draw comparisons to American
Pie, in it's "losers try to get laid" themes, and occasional gross-out
comedy. But the comparison is unfair - Superbad is a funnier, more
subversive and more importantly genuine movie than American Pie or any
of it's awful sequels were. The three central characters have a
believable, likable relationship, that the film takes time to
establish. Cera, Hill (who deserves special praise, for turning what
could have been a really unlikeable character into a sweet, if
loud-mouthed and crass, teenager) and Mintz-Plasse bounce of each other
perfectly. The movie creates some funny situations, and more
importantly, hilarious dialogue throughout. Aside from one comedic
misfire - an overly long (and poorly judged) gross out sight gag
involving a pair of trousers and a dance - Superbad had me laughing
constantly. It's sweet, it's funny as hell, and it's established a load
of new talent.
<|_=00=_|>
Superbad was an absolutely hilarious film. There were so many mind
bogglingly hilarious one-liners in the film that I will need to watch
it again to see which ones I missed while I was laughing. This is one
movie that I will definitely watch every time they rerun it on cable in
the future. It had its completely gross-out teen moments, but those
were grounded by its hilariously absurd and witty (also gross)
conversations. Michael Cera was great, and most Arrested Development
fans should find his performance here just as entertaining as his take
on the George Michael character he played on that show. He is
absolutely awkward and downright hilarious. Jonah Hill is the funniest
he has ever been, confidently spouting out uproariously funny lines at
every hot girl in sight.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is one of the funniest of the 21st century. The jokes are
hilarious, and it is spoken by a great cast. Jonah Hill, Michael Cera,
Christopher Mintz-Plasse, Seth Rogen, and others are excellent in their
roles. The characters they play you really latch on to you. They are
extremely likable in many ways. The dialogue is also superb. It's a
fast moving script that gives many great lines by the end of the movie.
Also at the end I sorta felt some happiness. It's one thing to make me
laugh throughout, but to make a vulgar comedy like this actually make
my heart warm is a very big plus. It's a film about friendship, and
that message manages to find its way through all the vulgar stuff.

4 stars out of 4
<|_=00=_|>
I enjoyed "The 40-Year-Old Virgin," but didn't feel it was entirely
worthy of all the enormous acclaim it garnered. And for all the praise
"Knocked Up" received, I thought it was fairly average. So I wasn't
expecting much from "Superbad." However, I'd have to say it's the
smartest and funniest Apatow film yet. I know he didn't direct it, but
his influence is distinct. And in the past I've felt indifferent
towards Apatow's brand of humour, but combined with Rogen's sensitivity
towards the teen condition here, it works really well.

People have compared it to John Hughes' better teen comedies, but I
don't think the approach is entirely similar. "Superbad" is cruder,
ruder, a bit more focused on the sex & alcohol jokes. But it works
really well because it captures that dynamic - better than "American
Pie" because it invests more care into its characters. One of the
strengths of "Pie" over other films in its genre (such as, say,
"Slackers") has always been its characters, and "Superbad" similarly
relies on its characters for support. Plus, it's just really funny.

The performances all around are pretty funny, even if the
Fogell/McLovin pop culture references are ruining a good joke (kind of
like "Yeah, baby!!" ruined Austin Powers when 20-year-old frat boys
around the country thought it would be funny to shout the phrase every
five seconds).

Jonah Hill and Michael Cera have great chemistry and another one of the
strengths of this film is that its teenage characters actually do look
their age (even though Hill is in his early 20s, he still passes as a
senior). But it was Bill Hader and Seth Rogen who stole the show for me
as the clueless cops.

Overall this is just a funny, well-made film with heart. It doesn't
mock its characters or their predicaments but casts a knowing eye on
the high school experience. It captures all this very well and was
certainly, in my opinion, far superior to "Knocked Up."
<|_=00=_|>
Superbad may look like a typical high-school movie on the cover, but
its actually much more. It follows a trio of high-school seniors that
decide to have one last party before leaving for college (and one last
shot at grabbing a girl). The trio consists of Seth, Evan, and Fogell.
They make a likable main cast that is very easy to compare to. Their
acting style is ideal for this type of film. Joining them are several
other intriguing characters. My favorite were the two police officers,
Slater and Michaels. Pretty much every scene with them made me laugh;
from their references to other movies to the spoofs on being an
officer, its classic slapstick comedy.

The plot is definitely a strong point, unlike many comedies today. Most
of the movie follows two distinct plot lines that join up at the end.
Inter-weaved in the plot are countless jokes that kept me laughing
almost the whole time. The plot itself involves booze, partying, and
law enforcement, and somehow works these in to make a very absorbing
story. Also, the particularly close friendship between Seth and Evan is
an element that surpasses the comedy genre. The plot as a whole has
plenty of unrealistic details, but manages to successfully meld comedy
with some deeper meaning.

The comedy aspects are some of the best ever. Some of the jokes were a
little disgusting (mainly the part about Seth's childhood), but I gotta
admit they were hilarious. The beer aspects were pretty cool, and the
sexual jokes did their thing. The law enforcement spoofs and McLovin
gags were probably my favorite.

The movie as a whole is among the better comedies ever. I liked it more
than Knocked Up (7/10). It still suffers from some of the weaknesses
inherent in the comedy genre, but has a lot more value than most movies
nowadays. Highly recommended for people in high school or college, and
also recommended (albeit to a lesser degree) for everyone else.
