
That's right, my girlfriend turned to me in the movie and said, "I
think BarbWire was better than this." Her opinion and mine seemed to
carry through to the whole audience in the advance screening we went to
last night. The audience was laughing at the horrible acting, terrible
script and crap camera work.

Specifics: Lohan works in a strip club where women are topless, yet she
never takes the top off and even in sheer bra has pasties on (or were
the pasties on top of the bra?). I could care less about seeing her
naked, but if you are playing a stripper you might have to at least
imply nudity with well placed hands.

Someone decided to inject humor into the movie into the most awkward
places. The biggest problem was trying to figure out why people were
laughing more during the "serious parts" than the "funny parts".

Characters come in, spout some wisdom and disappear behind a rock like
the Dungeon Master. I have a feeling that they are supposed to be
angels, maybe God himself? 

The twists in the movie are tough to swallow. I will not even come
close to ruining them, they are not even worth ruining. Someone thought
they could write a M. Knight script, but failed.

Overall, this movie would be worth a rental from the dollar kiosk at
the grocery store, as long as everything else is sold out. I am glad I
got in for free. If you do decide to spend money to see this movie,
send me the cash instead, I will then hit you in the groin, you will
enjoy it more.
<|_=00=_|>
Look, I have a strong stomach, but I have no use for Torture Porn in my
entertainment. A few weeks ago, I saw a preview of this film that gave
no indication of it's true nature. This, plus the intriguing poster led
me to believe this was going to be a brooding drama in the Hitchcock
tradition. Instead, I found myself watching the ugliest, most
disgusting film I have ever attended of my own free will. I should have
guessed when the cashier gave me a funny look while getting my ticket.

The first thing I realized was the script was by an amateur. The scenes
and dialog jumping around with no thought or subtlety. Like other
reviewers, I knew who the torturing villain was within the first few
minutes. But, I still had to sit through several scenes of
dismemberment and pain, which made me sick. Sick that I had spent money
to watch this disaster.

I can't imagine why Lindsay Lohan would agree to be in this production.
There are other venues to stretch her acting talents. Neal McDonough
and Julia Ormond's rent must have been due.

The story, such as it is has at it's core an interesting premise. A top
director might have made a respectable film out of it with a total
rewrite, without the gore and more atmosphere.

This movie is an absolute, total disaster. No one involved has anything
to be proud of.
<|_=00=_|>
I went into this movie with a friend thinking it would be a cheesy, fun
horror movie - just a good way to pass the time on a rainy day.

Oh god, was I wrong.

It's as if the director spent the film's entire budget acquiring
Lindsay Lohan and disregarded everything else. EVERYTHING within this
film is bad - the scary parts aren't scary (or even remotely
suspenseful), the dialogue is awful, the acting is questionable at
best, and, I am very sorry to say that Lindsay Lohan's stripping/ sex
scenes were not sexy at all. On top of everything else, the killer was
obvious and the plot didn't even make a whole lot of sense. Even the
quality of film used is inferior to the type normally used (yes, you
can tell).

Some films are so bad they're good. This film was just SO BAD.

Don't wait for the DVD. Just don't watch it.
<|_=00=_|>
My friend won tickets to a pre release showing of this movie in Boston.
I went into the theater with absolutely no idea what it would be about
and with no preconceived notions. I left the theater feeling confused
and thankful that I hadn't actually paid to see it.

This film takes every thriller movie cliché in the book and slathers it
on ad nauseam. I'm not opposed to a good cliché thriller movie, but at
some point it becomes comical. The plot was extremely contrived and had
enough holes to fill the Royal Albert Hall. Perhaps the scenes
explaining the plot ended up on the cutting room floor in favor of some
of the more grotesque and gratuitous gore scenes (of which there were
plenty). The film's twist, one so ludicrous even the most die-hard
Lohan films will giggle, is pulled directly from left field after a
seemingly magical epiphany by the film's main character. The filmmakers
thrown in a plethora of minor characters with undeveloped and
unresolved story lines in an attempt to "throw off" the audience.
Nevertheless, not ten minutes into the film, I, along with the others I
was with, had successfully predicted the antagonist.

The final thirty minutes of the film was a non-stop laugh riot. The
packed theater of varying demographics was rolling in the aisles as
cliché after hackneyed cliché flew off the screen in rapid succession
to hilarious results. I joked to the person beside me that I hadn't
laughed as hard since the first time I saw "Borat".

Stylistically, the movie is a film school student's wet dream rife of
"artsy" shots and recurring motifs. Unfortunately, for the audience,
this does little to redeem from the film's most blaring flaw: it's
entire premise.

It's difficult to fairly critique the film's actors given what they had
to work with. I can say that Lohan's performance seemed rather bland
and stale throughout, as though in the back of her mind she knew the
movie was trite and looked at it more as a paycheck than a serious mark
on her resume.

Aside from the occasional, "I almost died laughing when....", I heard
scarcely a good comment in the lobby after the film. As a horror-comedy
this film might have actually been good, but as a thriller it missed
the mark entirely.
<|_=00=_|>
This film was treacherous. I'm not sure if it was supposed to be taken
seriously or not. I'm not sure if there was supposed to be some sort of
imagery or artfulness in the film with a lot of blue, because it turned
out really obvious and lame. Her car is blue, the rose is blue, the
torture tools are blue, BLUE BLUE BLUE. Lohan's acting is not wonderful
in this film, not to mention the plot is horrendous. Most people
probably take an interest either because of seeing Lohan dance on a
pole or to see Lohan with missing limbs. If that's what you're looking
for this is the movie. Other than that, the plot is laughable and the
film is just a total bust in general. I wouldn't recommend this movie
to anyone, it's awful and a waste of time. 0/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Where do I start with this movie? Everything single aspect of it is
pitiful. The plot, the script, the direction, the acting. The movie
will make you wonder: where has talent in Hollywood gone? In an
absolutely moronic plot, Lindsay Lohan plays a girl who gets kidnapped,
found years later, and wakes up missing an appendage (and a brain
apparently) and thinks she is somebody else. The cliché plot makes no
sense and does nothing for the movie. I can already tell you now: those
who expect to see skin from Lohan in the stripping scenes will be
disappointed.

Who actually wrote this thing anyway? Who actually ever hired him or
her? The WGA made a mistake with this one. The lines were absolutely
terrible. No actress could have done well with this script and this not
what Lindsay Lohan needs in her time of crisis.

All I know is, I want 1 hour and 47 minutes of my life back and would
rather be killed than watch it again!
<|_=00=_|>
This really is a terrible movie. And I like terrible movies. This movie
takes HUGE leaps of logic; I understand that there must be some
suspension of disbelief, but it was too disjunctured. There are still
scenes that I just don't understand, like the listing and showing of
some girl named Fiona with the other missing girls, the difficult to
discern jumps through the timeline, and all the red herring, including
the lawn boy, the "cuts happen" guy, the police psychiatrist, and the
"I keep forgetting to plug it in" leg problem. This movie revolved
around a chance to showcase Lindsay Lohan as a sex symbol without her
nudity (much like The New Guy did with Eliza Dushku, but without the
entertaining plot line). It was respectable writing to make Dakota Moss
so bold, especially with the language, but it just wasn't enough.

Realistically, with as inundated as the television/movie-viewing public
is about forensic evidence, investigation, and biology (the
worm-in-biology-class scene? Come on...), a movie has to at least seem
intelligent.

On a side note, I was desperately hoping that everything would be
pulled nicely together by the guy on the bus being the
boyfriend/brother of "Fiona", which would be the girl Dakota found in
the glass coffin (Dressed to Kill was one of my favorite movies).
Unfortunately, believing in "stigmatic twins" is the final leap over
"Lohan is crazy", which might have turned into a decent ending.
<|_=00=_|>
The writer and director.

I cannot make up my mind which was worse, the writing or the directing.
The torture/mutilation scenes were over the top and needlessly macabre,
leaving nothing to the imagination. Remember Silence of the Lambs
(1991)? That movie had macabre aspects but it was tastefully done (no
pun intended). This movie was tactless and tasteless. What in the world
did they think they were doing when they made this movie?! They wasted
Lindsey Lohan's talents; I think she tried her best to due justice to
the role. Even Julia Ormond's presence could not save this horrid
movie. The director did not know what to do with the fine actors that
he had in the movie. Of the five movies he has down so far, this is the
absolute worst movie that Silvertson has ever directed. It totally
tanked at the box office, it did not break even with a $12M budget and
a $7.2M gross.

If you are looking for something to watch and you are bored to
distraction -- watch something else. And whatever you do, do not waste
your money renting this movie.

Viewers beware!
<|_=00=_|>
Zero Stars (out of 4) By Aaron Dumont

Now, I would give you all a real, labored-over (actually, not really)
review of this compost-bin-rate-Inland Empire, but I cannot due to a)
me not being able to find sinister-sounding enough words that mean
"horrible" within by trusty thesaurus, b) me not being able to pay
attention to the actual plot due to distractions such as shameless
self-promotion and enough tramp-ness to make even the most pitiful of
nighttime-dwelling Hilton-wannabes look like Witherspoon's Tracy Flick,
and c) because no one, not even my time-wasting self, would even
dignify this movie with a full length review. Dedicating more than 10
words to this cinematic equivalent of tear gas is going to a dark
place, losing an important part of your sanitary life. Oh, wait...
<|_=00=_|>
My friend bought me this film because he knows I have a thing for
Lindsay Lohan, so on the day of my birthday we sat down and watched I
know who killed me, after reading the bad reviews i wasn't expecting
much. This is the worst film i have seen in my life, don't watch this
film ever, ever. Im not joking, we sat and laughed through the film and
couldn't believe someone had made this film with the intention to make
money, i honestly felt sick after watching the film, i am not even
going to describe any scenes/plots i didn't like because i would just
give you the film. I cannot believe how many good reviews there were on
here, it makes me physically ill to think any one liked this joke of a
film!!!
