
I don't know what the rest of these reviewers were watching but I took
my 11-year-old to see this at the theater; and she used her hard-earned
money to buy it on DVD as soon as it became available.

It's a feel-good story of a jaded and cynical man who realizes that
it's okay to dream; it's okay to believe in things you can't see and
hope for a better tomorrow. Why on earth is this a bad thing? Sure,
parts of the movie rate an 11 out of 10 on the cheese-o-meter but, once
again, why is this a bad thing? 

No, I don't think that this is a good date movie, or something that a
bunch of adults would find entertaining, but when watching it with a
group of kids, or just one 11-year-old little girl, it's a winner.
<|_=00=_|>
When i first looked at this movie i thought along the same lines as
some of the previous reviews it couldn't mount to anything special,
also wondering why the likes of billy crystal put his name to it. But i
decided that i would test it on my three girls its a great test as one
is three, one seven, and one ten so depending on the movie we tend to
lose them one by one starting with the youngest but to my surprise they
all went the distance and my three year old asked for it again not
twenty mins after it had finished so if you have a mixed age group
wanting to watch it i hope this helps.

The movie itself isn't all that bad it has enough momentum from start
to finish to keep you interested from an adults point of view.!!
<|_=00=_|>
So what are you going to take the kids to see? Legion? This movie was a
delight for kids - we were in a packed theater in San Francisco (well,
actually Daly City), and the room was half-full of very young kids.
Their spontaneous laughter at the slightest nonsense throughout the
film was, in its own way, musical. And these reactions, without any
"potty humor." I had never seen Rock in a movie, and barely knew who he
was. But I do know Julie Andrews and Billy Crystal, and those two are
enough to establish the picture's bona fides as cinema. The movie has
enough site gags and silly talk to keep the kids involved, and enough
in it to let the accompanying adults enjoy the moment too. It was
cartoonish in execution and this without the typical special effects
hammers usually found in fantasy movies. I enjoyed the hockey scenes,
loved that every bad act had a satisfying response.

I do have to laugh at some of the critics who apparently expect Ingmar
Bergman touches in all movies, and frown on any non-political movie
that doesn't need subtitles (at least to English-speakers). Note to the
humorless: this is not high art and was not intended to be. It was a
fun and funny send-up of what happens if you let cynicism govern your
life and the rewards of reform.

Go! Take the kids!
<|_=00=_|>
This is a cute film. I enjoyed it. I think it did what it was supposed
to do, it made me laugh and was easy to watch. One of the few bad
things I have to say about it is that it's formulaic, a little long and
you know what the outcome will be before it gets there. Regardless of
that, Dwayne, Julie, Billy and the English fellow do their part to make
the film worth while, while Ms. Judd and the child actors make the
story come together. There's a fair amount of whimsy and reality which
makes it great for children and adults who are children at heart, the
little cameo by Seth Macfarlane doesn't hurt either. All it in all it's
not the best, but it's not the worst.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a great family film; it would be very easy to point the low
vote finger at this film if i forgot that this is aimed at the Family
market. We watched this film with our three children aged from 9 to 16
and they and us enjoyed it very much, especially our 9 year old as he
is one of the rare kids nowadays of his age that still believe in tooth
fairy's. The Rock (as we know him) is his usual as the troubled sports
professional with no family ties and subsequent struggles to deal with
the associated responsibilities of relationships with children (not
his) from previous marriages, and in the time we live in this situation
is one that many parents and children can relate to.
<|_=00=_|>
Even though it's for kids, this movie turned out much better than I
thought it would. The Rock pulls off the role of the Tooth Fairy quite
well. He plays, Derek Thompson, a hockey player known as the Tooth
Fairy because he knocks a lot of teeth out. He has a girlfriend played
by Ashley Judd, why her I don't know because it is a very minor role,
whom has 2 kids. One night Derek almost slips up and tells the young
daughter there is no tooth fairy. But her mom saves the day. That night
Derek is summoned to fairy land and in a unique way is given things for
fairies to use and trained to fly. I liked this part the best. Billy
Crystal cameos as Jimmy, the fairy whom gives him the shrinking paste,
fairy dust, etc... Amnesia dust is great.

So Derek is sentenced to 2 weeks as a tooth fairy by the head fairy,
Julie Andrews. Of course, he learns valuable lessons over this time.

I also liked the parts where he goes into people's homes in various
ways. It was funny, we all need invisible spray.

FINAL VERDICT: I liked it and recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>
Caught Tooth Fairy with my kid. He liked it but I think I liked it
more. The love interest looked like she put a tad bit of weight on in
her face but she is so adorable just the same. But the Rock, he kills
me, in a good way. Thought he made some nice choices. I mean, I'm a big
guy and when he came out in a tutu outfit I found myself laughing out
loud. #&*#& Hysterical stuff. My son kept on asking me in the theater
why the main kid (the son) was so grumpy the first part of the movie. I
told my son that he was mad because he didn't want anyone replacing his
dad and stealing his mom away from him, so it was his way of expressing
himself. My son's seven, his response was, "He's going to steal her."
It was a good clean movie and everyone was great. That tall English guy
killed me, too. And great move putting Julie Andrews in the movie.
Thought the line when the Rock made the comment about everyone speaking
with an English accent was funny. And can't leave out Billy Crystal,
guy's a pisser.
<|_=00=_|>
Trying to level any serious criticism at director Michael Lembeck's
Tooth Fairy is like four hardened grizzled WW II vets hand-cranking one
of those rotating anti-aircraft guns with four different barrels
pointing at a bunch of screaming Japanese Zeros around so they can
blast an orange kitten out of a tree. Except the kitten is kind of an
asshole and it's 1956 so we're not actually at war with Japan anymore,
so you know... maybe it's not the worst idea in the world.

Dwayne "the Rock" Johnson plays Derek "the Tooth Fairy" Johnson, the
beloved bruising left-winger on the local minor hockey team. He started
as a skill player, a dangler, an offensive prospect that had his dreams
dashed by a shoulder injury, and he's now happy to play a couple of
minutes a night, hammer the opponents' star player, and spend the rest
of the game in his custom recliner in the penalty box. He's a cartoon
pragmatist, dispensing hard truths about the impossibility of dreams
coming true to young hockey players wanting to be just like him.

As a result, he is summoned to Fairyland, and sentenced by head fairy
Lily (Julie Andrews) to two weeks' duty as a Tooth Fairy, a real-deal
winged creeper with a bat-belt full of spy gadgets and a lanky, awkward
case worker with fairy aspirations of his own (Stephen Merchant,
co-creator with Ricky Gervais of The Office). Lessons are learned, a
whole bunch of obvious groaner gags are hatched, and everything,
eventually, from a guitarist kid's fear of failure to a single mom's
love to a future hockey star's cockiness and on and on is resolved in a
Really Pleasant Way.

It's a kids movie, pure and simple, endlessly saccharine and full of
pratfalls, Healthy Moral Lessons and magic fairy dust. It's also
incredibly dull, and a massive waste of what's actually a great cast -
Merchant is consistently funny and Billy Crystal is in vintage form as
Fairyland's gadgetmaster Q equivalent, and Johnson is as charming as
ever. Six year old kids will probably laugh their six year old heads
off, but the dullness of the script, the predictability of the gags and
the moral convenience and simplicity of the story is going to bore
anybody not actually invested in the "ok wait is there actually a tooth
fairy or not, dad" debate.

You want this film to be better, just because it could have been. It's
stuffed full of legitimate talent and it remarkably doesn't feel like a
cynical cash-in, it just feels diluted. It is going to accomplish its
ostensibly stated goal, entertaining children, but outside of a few
laughs here and there it's not going to do much for anyone else. 4/10
<|_=00=_|>
I enjoyed watching "The Rock's" new movie. It is a kids' movie and for
what it strives to be it fully delivers.

Dwayne Johnson plays a veteran hockey player, that was denied his
chance with the pro's due to a shoulder injury. This seems to mark his
life and makes him shatter dreams. This reason brings him to be judged
by faeries and sentenced to tooth fairy duty. The problems and lessons
that occur from now on will make him rethink his way of life and put it
in order.

Great film for the kids, good film to watch if you are an adult.
Recommend it if you want to sit down for a few moments and have a few
good laughs.
<|_=00=_|>
Dwayne Johnson proves once again, that he is more than just muscles.
And his eyebrow of course. He can jump from action into a kids movie
just like that. Something a few stars in the 80s had big problems with
(at least commercially speaking).

And this movie delivers. It never set out to be, the best movie in the
world. It is there to entertain. And entertain it does. The viewing
experience get enhanced if you watch it with teenagers or kids. They
will just love the movie. And so will you, if you watch it with them.

Of course it is very predicable and it has a few other flaws too. But
the charisma of Dwayne, the wit of Merchant and the overall good design
of the movie, might make you forget about that. Just relax, sit back
and enjoy.
