
I'll keep this short and sweet. This was gruesome and twistedly
faithful to the original in spirit and effect. I totally expected to be
the one tortured when watching, well I should have left my preconceived
notions at the door. The acting was sharp, the plot devices made just
enough sense that it never broke my disbelief and I admittedly had to
briefly look away from some scenes.

The setup was stellar and the ending did not disappoint. I give it a 7
but if it was possible I would have given it a 7.5.

Good for the genre and great by comparison of other remakes.

I would definitely suggest it to anyone that enjoys the genre.
<|_=00=_|>
As a fan of the original 1972 version, I wasn't expecting a lot, but at
the same time, with Wes being brought in as a producer, I felt it had
to live up to some expectations.

What I got was a fun yet torturous movie that had the audience with it
the whole time. They were gasping, hollering, sighing, saddened, and
later clapping, laughing and woo'ing. It really takes you for a ride
from the first moment and only lets up briefly, only to take you back
down again.

While the original scores higher for "shock factor," this one still has
plenty of gore and story. I'm not going to give anything away because
I'm sure most of you know the story by the trailers, but overall this
is an intense film that you won't forget anytime soon. If you know what
happens, you'll be happy when the second half of the film picks up. If
you have no idea, try to enjoy the ride as I'm sure you'll leave
satisfied.

A few people in my theater left before it ended, so if you feel sick or
faintful, just keep repeating to yourself: it's only a movie, it's only
a movie, it's only a movie...
<|_=00=_|>
Let's face it, there are a lot of remakes, there are some good one's:
The Thing, The Hills have Eyes, and The Texas Chainsaw Massacre. There
are some average one's: House of Wax, House on Haunted Hill, and War of
the Worlds. Then there are the bad one's: Halloween, The Fog, and
Psycho. Last House on the Left, my parents had absolutely held me from
the original movie, but when I became an adult I rented the movie and
watched it by myself, I was just so curious what they were trying to
hold me back from, I wasn't really shocked with the movie, I could see
how it was gritty and brutal in the day, but after seeing movies like I
spit on your grave, Hostel, Dirty Harry, Casino, etc, it just didn't
really effect me. So I was actually looking forward to a remake of this
just to see what they would do with the story and I have to say that
they not only made it better, it was just a very great horror film that
made me want to take 15 showers afterwards.

Mari and her family are going on vacation. When they arrive at the
house, Mari asks to sleep in the guest house instead of in the main
house. Mari's brother, Ben, had died one year earlier, and the family
are still trying to adjust to his absence. She finds a necklace he gave
her and puts it on. She decides to ride into town to see her friend
Paige. Mari's mother, Emma, is cautious, but her father, John, lets her
go. Mari meets up with Paige at the store where Paige is employed. A
young kid named Justin approaches the counter and asks for a pack of
cigarettes, which Paige does not give to him due to his age. Justin
says that if they join him at his motel room, he will give them
marijuana. Paige agrees and sells him the cigarettes. They drive to
Justin's motel room and Justin and Paige enter. Mari waits in the car
but notices they are taking too long. She enters the room where she
finds Justin and Paige on the bed getting high. She joins them and they
decide to give Justin a makeover. They are interrupted by Krug, Sadie,
and Francis. Krug explains that it is too risky to let Paige and Mari
live. They decide to not only murder but rape the young girls. The gang
goes to Mari's house not knowing that's where she's staying with her
parents, her parents welcome the gang in thinking they got into a car
accident. But Mari somehow survives and comes back home; her parents
discover that the people they've been helping are the same people that
just tried to murder their daughter and now it's time for justice.

This is the movie that you cannot wait to see justice brought to these
sleazebags, they were so disgusting, I was just screaming and cheering
in the theater. Like the tag line said, if bad people hurt someone you
love, how far would you go to hurt them back? If that was my daughter,
you wouldn't wanna know the sick things I would've done to these slimy
people. The thing that made this movie so horrific was how realistic it
was. The rape scene doesn't show much but is one of the most graphic
and disturbing in cinema, even my 25 year old boyfriend had to cover
his eyes, he said he was just incredibly sick from it because he can't
imagine the pain she was going through. The performances are on and the
story is great. I would say this is one of the best remakes in years,
this is not for the faint of heart though, but if you're curious about
the remake, trust me, this was a very respectful movie of the original
horror story of murder and revenge.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
The biggest problem with horror movies today, specifically major
Hollywood productions, is that even more than romantic comedies and the
like, it is treated by studios and directors as an entry level
position. These aren't, after all, the big dramas or 'prestige' movies.
The result is an endless barrage of derivative, uninteresting tripe,
many of them remakes produced by the like of Michael Bay and directed
by those attempting to get started in the industry. Why this is even
more of a problem is because horror films and comedy films depend on
one essential thing: timing. Those which fall in the category of
'suspense thrillers', those which don't really seek to scare as much as
your average slasher, films like "The Last House on the Left", depend
on atmosphere. They depend on the building of suspense and tension and
dread, even when the outcome is insanely predictable. These films
require a director who has talent with timing, with creating
atmosphere, with building suspense, and most of the time, especially
recently (sure, there have always been awful horror films, but there
was a time when studios financed some respectable films at least), the
directors who take on such projects seem either incapable or
uninterested in doing all they can to make the film work.

"The Last House on the Left" is a 're-imagining' of Wes Craven's
accidental classic from 1972. That film displays Craven's potential,
but while certain sequences are compelling it is cheap, clumsy, has a
bizarrely chirpy bluegrass score, some awful acting (and some good
acting), and the movie's biggest flaw: a Benny Hill-like slapstick
subplot. Still, the movie worked. It worked precisely because Craven
managed to create that atmosphere. That feel. The biggest fear I had
going into this 're-imagining' is that the director Dennis Iliadis
would turn out to be another Marcus Nispel, coming off his one previous
film from 2004, "Hardcore", a film about prostitutes I had never heard
about.

I needn't have worried. The film is far from perfect, but Iliadis'
direction is one of the film's strongest points. Along with the
excellent photography the film creates a dark, foreboding, grimy
atmosphere of horror, and wisely cuts out the original film's
slapstick, and also fixes the score: replacing it with gorgeous,
haunting compositions which occasionally give way to guitars, but
thankfully not too often. Iliadis uses hand-held camera as well as
anyone, not over-doing it at all, but filming everything with a stark
sort of clarity, and he finds a surprisingly effective rhythm for the
film which keeps it from ever being mundane. The director is one to
watch out for in the horror and thriller genres. Perhaps his most
impressive achievement in the film is the incredibly tasteful and
brutally disturbing rape scene. The film, like the original, avoids the
pornographic nature of many rape-revenge thrillers, such as "I Spit on
Your Grave" or for a more recent example the 'unofficial' remake of
"The Last House on the Left" from 2005: "Chaos", which was so gleefully
vicious it became sickening, not effectively disturbing.

Michael Phillips said it best: "The way director Iliadis shapes the key
misery-inducing sequence, there's no hype or slickness or attempt to
make the rape palatable or visually "dynamic." For that you have to go
see Watchmen." The performances help. The only weak one is Riki
Lindhome as Sadie, the murderous Krug's girlfriend. She takes her top
off more than once for the movie's unneeded but inevitable nudity, but
does little else. Garret Dillahunt is great as Krug and the rest of the
cast good too, especially Monica Potter as Emma, the raped Mary's
mother.

I won't spoil the changes to the story for you but it does a lot to
separate itself from the original. It's not a straight remake and the
changes work. The film's ultimate triumph is its intimacy. Iliadis
succeeds in putting you in Mary's place and in her parents' place. Not
one who succumbs much to vengeful thinking, I was convinced by the film
that I'd have done the same things were I in the place of Mary's
father, John, played by Tony Goldwyn.

The film's major flaw is the very last scene, a nonsensical moment
belonging more in a Stuart Gordon film than this one. Up to that point,
in spite of some mediocre sequences, the film is a triumph of
atmosphere and style, and is genuinely well-written. If you're looking
for fun or an intellectually stimulating film look elsewhere. For a
shockingly, shockingly good rape-revenge thriller look no further. This
movie works. It doesn't only stand head and shoulders above every other
recent horror remake (and certainly the ones out so far in 2009), but
it is in a whole other league when compared to most of the genre films
Hollywood forces down our throats.
<|_=00=_|>
If you've ever read any of my other reviews you know how I feel
personally about re-makes. Most horror fans feel the same way I do (yet
we still watch these things!) so needless to say I went into this movie
expecting to be disappointed. I was actually pleasantly surprised by
how well this one was. Yes there are the usual cases of character name
changes, scene and dialog changes and complete story line changes for
no apparent reason but the basic premise that made the original film so
creepy was somehow still retained. The major story line change in this
one has been discussed in previous reviews and revolves around main
character Mari (I won't reveal any major changes for the benefit of
those who haven't seen it yet) and yes I was EXTREMELY disappointed
with these changes but as I said I went into the film expecting to be
let down so this helped to soften the blow. This version of "Last House
on the Left" has a considerable amount of added gore sequences as well
but they are not overly done or thrown in for no apparent reason other
than shock value (as was the case in the unofficial 'Last House on the
Left' re-make 'Chaos' directed by David DeFalco). Nowadays there really
is no way to re-create the grainy, almost documentary like filming
style of the original which is one of the main elements that added to
the general feel of the film, but these filmmakers did an exceptional
job of making the viewer curl in disgust at the actions of the villains
and cheer and applaud the violence that befalls them. If you enjoyed
the original you will most likely enjoy this one as well...just make
sure you watch it and avoid the aforementioned "Chaos".
<|_=00=_|>
What I took into Last House 09 was what I knew about the original (by
the way i have the original movie on DVD and it has been sitting there
unwatched for a few years), and I must admit it's definitely a quality
movie, great acting, wrought tension and great scares, i must say there
were times I was hiding behind my hands because it was so suspenseful.

It is also beautifully shot and looks amazing, Dennis Iliadis direction
is superb and he gets every bit of energy and emotion from all of his
cast. The actors are also really well cast, Garett Dillahunt is truly
frightening as the movie's main bad guy, Riki Lindholme portrays Sadie
with true evil and is very very creepy, Monica Potter and Tony Goldwyn
both pull off the typical family putting on a brave face (considering
the back story which i'll not spoil for anyone who hasn't seen the
movie yet), that are put in a position where they have to do what they
can to protect their daughter's life and their own. Sara Paxton and
Martha MacIsaac also show that they are capable of a more dramatic
element than just a comedy and teen movie fare, that we are used to
seeing them in.

The only thing I hated about the movie was the rape scene, the build up
was just so intense that I found myself covering my ears so I couldn't
hear what was going on, but apart from that go see this movie if you
want to see how a remake should be done.

A thought provoking, pulse racing thriller, that will have you on the
edge of your seat until the credits roll.
<|_=00=_|>
Last House on the Left is a revenge flick sure, but it's also study on
pure maternal instinct and revenge. It is also a remake of the 1972
film by Wes Craven, which in turn is a remake of the art film, Virgin
Spring (1960) by Ingmar Bergman.

Two cute girls, teenagers are hanging out, find themselves in the wrong
place at the wrong time when they go to the apartment of a boy named
Justin (Spencer Treat Clark) to smoke some pot and chill out, when his
family comes back who are wanted in the connection with some local
murders. Now they can't let the girls go. From there things get
steadily worse until the girls are left brutalized.

The convicts having driven out to the middle of nowhere find their way
to a small cabin to recuperate, until the happy couple waiting for
their daughter to bring the car home realize these are the men who hurt
their daughter, and they aren't going to take it lying down.

In the feel of Hostel, extreme violence in retribution ensues, and
that's pretty much the entire flick. You might recognize Garret
Dillahunt who plays the lead baddie, Krug from the prime time series
Terminator: The Sarah Connor Chronicles, Michael Bowen ("Lost",
Magnolia, Jackie Brown), Joshua Cox ("Strong Medicine"), Sara Paxton as
the daughter (Summerland), and Riki Lindhome as the friend (My Best
Friend's Girl).

The pacing is strong, and somehow the film works a lot better than say
a movie like Hostel for reason of solid directing, acting, and simple
but effective script.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't think I have to introduce people to the original Last House,
the storyline here is the same. So a remake. They who have seen my
reviews know that I'm not into remakes. Friday the 13th missing
something, My Bloody Valentine had some I Know What You Did over it.
The only remakes that were good so far were The Hills and Halloween.
Well, add this one too. It clocks in over more than 90 minutes just
like MBV, I watched my watch a lot when watching MBV, I never did
watching this gem. This movie doesn't have any CGI, they go for
brutality and straight horror. From the first 5 minutes you know what
you will get. The first part is the humiliation of the two girls, the
second part is the revenge, both coming straight to you, and the score
helps too. The score does work here. All actors are believable. After
having some rough movies from France I guess Hollywood has his lesson,
here they proof that they are capable of making them too (without the
help of French directors like The Hills). I was very surprised with
this remake. Oh yeah, there is nudity but I doesn't distract you from
the storyline as it did with MBV. A must have in your collection.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me start off by saying that I really am not a fan of the original.
It was way to cheesy for me. When I first seen the previews for the
remake, I knew that it would be good. I was 100% right. 

This movie is good because it actually makes you have strong feelings
about the characters. The overall tone of the movie is very depressing,
but thats what makes this movie good. The rape scene is very hard to
watch. Every time I watch this movie, I have to continue to turn away
from this scene. But this scene is done very well. There's no nudity
present in this scene. The emotional level of this scene is very strong
though.

All in all, I think this is the best remake ever made. It was very
intense and raw. The acting and directing was spectacular. No other
movie has ever gotten to me as much as this. But thats what horror
should do. It should make you get depressed and scared. Horror has been
lacking this ability for quite some time now. I don't recommend this
for young viewers though. Although I'm young myself, I still think it
should only be scene by older viewers. 

I give this movie an A+ on every level of horror there is.
<|_=00=_|>
This is my first review on IMDb so be gentle! I was so pleased with the
film I joined to let others know my views. I have seen my fair share of
remakes and have been very disappointed with the majority of them, I am
happy to say I found this to be a very worthy remake, I would go as far
to say that it was actually better than the original in a lot of ways!
I watched the original as a child and found it pretty disturbing but a
very well executed horror, I recently watched it again in anticipation
of the 2009 release and wasn't as impressed, I know that the grainy
dated footage added something to the film, somehow documentary style
and with the budget they had Wes Craven done a very good job, however I
think it was let down a bit by the music which was very inappropriate
and sounded like it could have been in a comedy this and the fact my
girlfriend was giggling at some of the movie didn't help, particularly
the two policemen and their antics, they seemed like a comedy duo which
detracted from the dark story, maybe this was deliberate and was
intended to give us a break from the harsh storyline? However that
aside it is a classic film which I was hoping would be done justice.

Enough about the original on to the 2009 remake, the film sticks very
true to the original, some people are not happy about the small changes
but I think they added to the film, made it more believable, gave us
more information about the characters, made us care more about what was
going to happen, I wont go in to any details, I don't want to ruin it
for anyone but I think the changes made this in to a much more
rewarding film for the viewer. I have read other reviews complaining it
went too far, that they should have left certain scenes out, are you
serious? why did you bother watching it, have you lived under a rock
for the past 30 years, did you not know the original storyline? It had
to have harrowing scenes which made you feel uncomfortable, the film
would not have worked without them! I think this is the best remake I
have seen in many years and give it 10 stars, very good acting,
excellent directing and a great cast, it had a lot to live up to and it
succeeded when so many other films have failed. I highly recommend this
film to fans of the original and newcomers to The Last House On The
Left.
