
Ah, here we see yet another self-assuming, clunky mess of a film. We
should have known, having seen the pretentious dot that has been placed
between the two words of the title for no apparent reason.

The opening is somewhat promising, involving a bored and depressed
Christina Ricci, who gets involved in a budget-effective car crash and
wakes up in a funeral parlour with the grim Liam Neeson looming over
her, explaining that she is in fact, dead. That he tells her her blood
flow has stopped before promptly injecting her with drugs (a rather
pointless endeavour for someone with no circulation) denies the essence
of her film-long confusion. But that doesn't seem to bother anyone at
this point, because we like to give movies the benefit of the doubt,
don't we. Unfortunately, Ricci's sole demonstrable skill in the film
appears to be going from squeaky desperation to grim, monotonous
acceptance and back again in a matter of minutes. This simply serves to
add more confusion to the already bizarre plot, and ultimately makes us
unsympathetic during the final scenes.

The problem with the film is that it has no idea what it is. The
director has clearly been hoping for a cut above the average horror
flick, but there is not enough originality or wisdom to transform it
into anything else. The result is a cheap and excessively melodramatic
B-side horror, which lacks the spooky scares that make its tawdry
counterparts so much more exciting. The fact that the film takes itself
so very seriously throughout makes it all the more infuriating.

One of the film's very few silver linings is Liam Neeson's understated
performance as the unhinged funeral director, convincingly dishing out
a mix of soothing sobriety and chilling psychosis, and managing to drag
some life out of the clumsy and repetitive script. But then, you'd
expect that from a man so undeniably bad-ass that he's even played an
actual lion in a film.

A diluted and overlong episode of The Twilight Zone, for horror
completists and fans of Ricci's feminine form only.

POSSIBLE SPOILERS BELOW

I find the ending worth a mention. Downer endings are all well and good
in the right context. When the film's content is strong, and there is
method and moral to the disappointment, one can still come away from it
feeling rewarded, or at least provoked into contemplation.

Unfortunately, none of this is applicable to After.Life. The film's
plot relies on the prospect of a recovery and reconciliation between
its two leads; the character development is too thin and plot points
too few and far between to allow for anything else. So, after having
sat through an hour and a half of dreary nothingness, we as a now
solidly popcorn-eating audience expect the alleviation of some form of
resolve, to reward us for enduring the rest of the film and to tick one
final box in the series of clichés that it has been following so avidly
throughout. But unfortunately, the film seems to think that a negative
finale is a one-way ticket to critical acclaim. And once upon a time,
it was, but now this is simply not enough. And so, we are left with an
uninspired and underwhelming descent into rigor mortis, with the bad
guy living to strike again, and again, and again. God forbid.
<|_=00=_|>
I understand that this is a film that will divide opinions. Perhaps it
is intelligent. Perhaps it has a most wonderful, original idea for a
movie that made me rent it in the first place. Perhaps Liam Neeson and
Christina Ricci are wonderful actors. But it doesn't change the fact
that the film simply has too many flaws. You can accept a few in an
otherwise good film, but having too many of them simply destroys the
atmosphere. That is precisely what happened in this case, in my
opinion.

Allow me to elaborate. George Lucas once said that a movie doesn't have
to follow the rules of our reality in order to be believable, it just
needs to follow the rules of its own reality. This is exactly where
this movie fails. It creates an unexplained horror world where
something absurd happens every now and then: lights go out every time a
lady walks past them with a big noise until the whole corridor has
turned black (how cliché is THAT?!), plastic bumping head starts
suddenly moving for no apparent reason, following a guy when he is
walking. I wish the movie would have at least allowed me to believe
that it was something the characters imagined in their heads, as in
some other, more respectable scenes. But no, the guy didn't even see
the lifeless bumpy head moving, it just did so for no apparent reason.
What is so "psychologically thrilling" about that? 

These kinds of events go on and on. For example, after the
might-be-dead lady escapes from the man holding her as prisoner, she
suddenly starts bumping into walls (in a straight corridor!) and making
a terrible noise. Possibly we are supposed to assume that she is so
scared she has become hysteric, but then again she didn't seem hysteric
either in the previous or in the following scene, nor is she in any
immediate danger - the guy holding her as prisoner isn't really
threatening in any way.

The words "for no apparent reason" are key words for several events in
this movie. Believibility requires a reason for a cause. This movie
doesn't provide them, just irregular events placed around the plot -
events that more often than not don't affect the plot any way, I might
add.

The most disturbing part for me, however, was the way it dealt with the
questions of life and death. It tries to talk about in-depth questions
- what happens to us when we die, and are we really that alive when we
live our pathetic fear-run lives, and so forth - but ends up stating
clichés such as "we die to make life more meaningful" or something
along those lines. Something we have heard billion times before in
every funeral (or B-class drama movie) we've gone to. The movie is
filled with tons of other clichés as well - along the lines of "you are
more afraid of living than of dying", and a small child telling the
woman "I am you" when she asks who the kid is in her nightmare (or
whatever you call them weird visions all the characters keep getting
every now and then), and so forth. And the worst part is, these clichés
just won't stop! There is hardly any action, just line after line, and
EVERY SINGLE LINE seems to be one I've heard a dozen times before! I
wonder if the screenwriters were on strike when this film was scripted,
because a good idea just falls flat this way.

And finally - what exactly happens to a person when he/she dies? The
question of whether he/she will go on living as a spirit of some sort
is an intriguing question. That is a question that doesn't seem to
concern this movie at all. The question that does concern this movie -
whether the body can go on living, running in the hallways and throwing
stuff around - is not an intriguing one, not to me at least. Sure, one
could respect it in a 50's style zombie-horror-movie. And if this was
one, I might accept it. But this isn't one. This is supposed to be an
intellectual movie raising intellectual questions about life and death.
To assume that we should even consider the possibility that a MATERIAL
BODY jumping around throwing things (and BREATHING, for Christ's sake)
could be DEAD, is underestimating the intelligence of the same audience
for whom the movie is sold to as an "intelligent psychological
thriller".

All of the above is more or less absurd. And I am a person who finds
absurdity amusing. I suppose one could respect a movie for making one
burst out a laughter every few minutes. But if its unintentional, there
seems to be something wrong with either the script or directing
(sometimes acting, too, but not in this case). Seriously, I did laugh
every now and then. Out loud too, not just inside my head. And an
"intelligent psychological thriller" shouldn't make you do that.

Liam Neesom is a wonderful actor - once again. That gives this film two
stars. Third one for a good attempt to create something original - even
though in my eyes the attempt somewhat failed in this case. I would
love to give more stars to an original and a clever idea, but every
time I try to go for the fourth a picture of the moving plastic head
bumps into my head and once again I begin to laugh.
<|_=00=_|>
Driving carelessly in the rain one night, Anna Taylor has a car
accident which kills her. She is DOA, or is she. Anna wakes up in the
basement of the local funeral home, and the funeral director tells her
that she is dead (with a certificate to prove it). He also tells her
that he can talk to the dead. Anna wants out, but he will not let her
leave, claiming that she must accept the truth. Is she really dead or
is he nuts?

After Life has a great set-up, but from there, things get worse. What
keeps the viewer hooked is the promise of an an upcoming climactic
twist, like that in the Sixth Sense (the film which After Life has its
roots in). Unfortunately, with each passing chapter, it becomes more
evident that the outcome we would like is not going to come. 

Yet what is more bothersome about After Life is that frankly it is
dull. I see an idea here, but I don't see a movie. After Life recalls
Awake in that it functions well as an experiment in psychologically
related themes, but it doesn't provide exiting or suspenseful material.
After Life has really nowhere to go, but down. Despite being partial
fantasy, its inability to make sense is aggravating and not acceptable.
After Life could have and should have been way more potent than this.
<|_=00=_|>
What does it mean to be alive? Not a question you're going to find
broached in 10,000 B.C. or 2012. But it is a question first time
director Agnieszka Wojtowicz-Vosloo tackles in After.Life with
surprising depth and skill. Christina Ricci plays Anna, a woman
disconnected from her almost fiancé (Justin Long) and alienated by her
mother, who moves about her days in a mostly apathetic haze. For the
most part Anna's life seems, well, rather lifeless - until she wakes up
on mortician Liam Neeson's slab only to learn that she is in fact dead.
What exactly that means is the mystery.

My favorite way to see a movie is when I know next to nothing about it
(so I won't spoil anything here!), and that's how I went into the AFI
screening of After.Life last night. I knew the basic premise and a
little about the story, but other than that - nada. Which I have to say
is a great way to approach a thriller. The highlight for me was Liam
Neeson (no real surprise there) who brings surprising warmth and
complexity to what could have otherwise easily been a very
two-dimensional character. The other standout was Chandler Canterbury
as Jack, Anna's young student who has a little figuring out of his own
to do. Their performances alone are worth the price of admission. The
director's attention to detail, dream imagery, and color (most notably
a scene where Neeson washes the dye from Ricci's hair as she lies
stretched across an embalming table) reminded me of the stark, Gothic
beauty of Six Feet Under and Dexter. That said, this film isn't cut and
dry, doesn't tie everything up neatly at the end, and asks more
questions than it answers. It's definitely not your typical American
movie - something I consider a positive aspect. If you don't, then I'd
suggest skipping this one an netflixing Twister.
<|_=00=_|>
Did most of these reviewers actually watch the same movie as me. There
will be spoilers in this review so watch out :)

The basic story of the movie concerns a young girl, clearly struggling
with life and her relationships. After a car crash she 'awakens' in a
mortuary only to be told that shes dead. The rest of the movie covers
Liam Neeson (the undertaker)and his attempts to convince her that she
is in fact dead and help prepare her for her funeral. But is she really
dead?

This movie is not about life after death. Its not about what happens
when you die. This movie is about people not really living their lives,
wandering through life like they're dead already. I think its fairly
obvious that the main character is in fact very much alive when taken
to the undertaker. Numerous clues point to this in the movie, breath on
the mirror, the 'muscle relaxant' that shes injected with and the fact
that shes walking around and has to be locked in :)and finally to
confirm that Neeson is lying, in the final scenes he clearly kills the
boyfriend. But the movie has several scenes that seem to ruin this, and
push the film to seeming supernatural grounds. With numerous scenes, or
nightmare scenes like the confrontation with her younger self, and the
old woman's corpse walking and talking. These slightly detract from the
overall focus of the storyline, but keep you guessing if she is alive
or dead.

In the end, this is a good movie, with an interesting story and
direction, only slightly let down by some of the scenes. Well worth a
watch.
<|_=00=_|>
After Life explores the beliefs about the soul and what happens to it
after we die.

The film is about Anna Taylor (Christina Ricci), a school teacher who
supposedly dies in a traffic accident. She wakes up and finds herself
in a mortuary with the undertaker, Elliott Deacon (Liam Neeson),
talking to her, explaining that she is dead.

However, as time goes on, it becomes evident that not everything is
what it seems. Deacon always locks the doors as if afraid that she may
escape and every attempt she has made to communicate with her
boyfriend, Paul Coleman (Justin Long) is disrupted by Deacon. 

Is Anna really dead? Or does the undertaker have a more sinister plan
for keeping her? 

The film keeps you in suspense and guessing until the very end.
<|_=00=_|>
The school teacher Anna Taylor (Christina Ricci) is a troubled woman
that uses many pills along the day and is incapable to love due to the
creation of her dysfunctional mother. When her boyfriend Paul Coleman
(Justin Long) is promoted but needs to move to Chicago, he invites her
to a fancy dinner to propose her. However Anna does not listen to him
and believes he wants to quit their relationship, leaving the
restaurant totally disturbed and upset. She has a car accident and
awakes in a funeral home, where the director Eliot Deacon (Liam Neeson)
is preparing her body for the funeral service. Anna tells him that she
is not dead, but Eliot shows her death certificate and explains that he
has the gift of listening to the dead. Along the days and the nights,
Anna faces her fears and Eliot slowly tries to convince her to accept
her death. But Anna does not believe that she had died and tries to
communicate with Paul. Is she really dead or alive?

"After.Live" is a terrific bleak tale and one of the best horror movies
that I have recently seen. The ambiguous story provided leads to the
viewer to decide whether Anna Taylor is dead or alive but the
conclusion is actually open to interpretation. Liam Neeson and
Christina Ricci totally or partially naked most of the time have
top-notch performances, supported by an intelligent and original
screenplay, tight direction and awesome music score. The atmosphere is
melancholic, and the dark colors are contrasted by the red of blood,
hair dye and dress. My vote is eight.

Title (Brazil): Not Available
<|_=00=_|>
After-Life embraces the mystery/thriller sub-genre of the drama genre's
style and refuses to relent even up to and after its conclusion. The
film relies on the question of whether or not those in the funeral home
are dead or only being led to believe they are dead. Despite having
evidence for both sides of this issue displayed throughout the film,
you will be left to decide for yourself as to which side you believe.
It is possible that both scenarios occur actively in the film. This
film has a "Saw" style of lesson-learning involved in the story. It
seems that the inability to love is the motive in After-Life whereas
the inability to live life is Jigsaw's motive.

While the acting from Justin Long & Christina Ricci is on par with
their other performances in recent history, Liam Neeson offer a
performance that will rival his performance in Taken. Neeson is the
reason this film is so suspenseful because he is able to create a
character that can be viewed as delusional, insane, psychotic, or
"gifted" without forcing the audience to believe only one of these
characteristics.

Entertainment wise this film is not a blockbuster but connects many
good directorial and cinemagraphical elements. The musical score is as
eerie as John Carpenter's Halloween score. There is not much bad that
can be said about this film. The shot choices are sensible and simple
without being overtly creative. This is a film that allows the story to
evolve on its own and the actors to the story its character.
<|_=00=_|>
After a horrific car accident, Anna (Christina Ricci) wakes up to find
the local funeral director Eliot Deacon (Liam Neeson) preparing her
body for her funeral. Confused, terrified and feeling still very much
alive, Anna doesn't believe she's dead, despite the funeral director's
reassurances that she is merely in transition to the afterlife. Eliot
convinces her he has the ability to communicate with the dead and is
the only one who can help her. Trapped inside the funeral home, with
nobody to turn to except Eliot, Anna is forced to face her deepest
fears and accept her own death. But Anna's grief-stricken boyfriend
Paul (Justin Long) still can't shake the nagging suspicion that Eliot
isn't what he appears to be. Paul desperately tries to convince the
local Police Chief (Josh Charles) that Anna's alive. But the more he
investigates her death, the more they question his sanity. As the
funeral nears, Paul gets closer to unlocking the disturbing truth, but
it could be too late; Anna may have already begun to cross over the
other side.

After Life is a clever psychological thriller with a very creepy and
mysterious atmosphere. The concept behind the story is very cool but
the execution is definitely what made the film. Is Anna alive or is she
dead? That is the big question of After Life and the film goes back and
forth delivering several clues, some subtle, some not so much. And even
though the film tries to be ambiguous, by the end, it's pretty clear
what happened. Still, it will drive you crazy, in a good way of course.
The film also poses some interesting questions regarding the nature of
life forcing the viewer to reflect on his own existence.

Liam Neeson did a good job and Christina Ricci was exceptional in her
role. Justin Long however, was largely disappointing. Overall, it's
nothing outstanding but definitely a very entertaining flick and the
director was able to put a different spin on a often used concept.

6.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
A funeral director appears to have the gift of speaking to dead, and
help with their passing to the either side. However, his latest work is
a young female school teacher, but is she really dead or is he
fulfilling a sick fantasy.

Director Agnieszka Wojtowicz-Voslo's After-life is intriguing, thought
provoking and original throughout. The stark style of filming is
reminiscent of Body to Body (2003) aka "Corps à corps". 

While most of film centres around the character of Anna Taylor it is a
wise casting choice by Matthew Lessall as beautiful Christina Ricci
gives an emotional performance as a girl who's is not sure if she is
dead or alive. Although, Ricci is on the mortuary slab and semi-nude
for most part of the film, comparably to Anna Falchi in Dellamorte
Dellamore (1994), to Wojtowicz-Voslo's credit it's never in an explicit
or over sexualized presentation. 

Liam Neeson is convincing as the mortician Eliot Deacon in a subtle
performance where he communicates with the dead. He's creepy and cold,
although not given a back story, his character has many layers. The
tension between Neeson and Ricci is note-worthy and create some great
moments.

Die Hard 4 star Justin Long is average as Ricci's fiancée, as he
doesn't have the convincing weight of the other players. However, Young
Chandler Canterbury as the little boy Jack is memorable. The supporting
cast are a mix of familiar face's including Josh Charles and Shuler
Hensley and the other officers. 

Direction, lighting and music create an eerie atmosphere for this
effective thriller mystery. There's horror too in the way of Anna
Taylor's visions and Deacon working on the deceased prepping their
bodies.

Overall, simmering entertainment with a closing act to ponder over.
