
Film about flamboyantly gay Luke (Jesse Archer) who sleeps around every
chance he gets and doesn't believe in love. Then he meets Stephen
(impossibly handsome Charlie David) and falls for him. But can he stop
sleeping around and have a monogamous relationship? And is Stephen
really as good as he seems? Various other subplots deal with a
black/white gay couple, a woman going crazy over her impending marriage
and a gay man searching for a direction in life.

This film knows it's audience--within the first 10 minutes there are
about 5 full frontal nude men shown. (I'm saying that as a good thing).
Plotwise I hated it at first--Luke was obnoxious, VERY effeminate and
just annoying. However this is needed to see how he changes later on.
The movie is colorful and well-made on a very low budget. There are
some bad puns, groan worthy lines and truly terrible acting but, all in
all, it was a fun and amusing gay comedy. Also it was fairly truthful
on showing gay life realistically and it's refreshing to see a
black/white gay couple. In acting terms Archer and David are very good
and all the guys are handsome and in good shape. Worth seeing.
<|_=00=_|>
The first five minutes of this film had my friend and me squirming in
our seats, convinced we were about to see another tired gay comedy with
stereotypical characters and an all-too-obvious plot line.

But looking back, I think we were purposely, and perhaps masterfully
duped by the director to trigger our own stereotypes and preconceived
ideas about what it means to be young, gay and living in New York. He
flipped the stereotype switch gently, providing everything from drunk
boys in bars, to gratuitous and seemingly premature skin shots. It was
a useful tool that invited us to confirm the unspoken notions of our
gay identities in order to bring about a more genuine deconstruction.

The art of the film lies not in the acting, which sometimes stumbles;
save of course, for Cory Grant who delivers a consistent and unique
authenticity. Instead, the film's soul is truly in the scripted
storyline and in the very digestible way we are taken on one
character's drunken and stumbling path to the first spark of his own
electric and glittery evolution.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this at the Cleveland International Film Festival this week.

Luke is a promiscuous gay male who spends his time cruising bars and
working in a sex toy shop. He is surrounded by a small group of
friends, whose stories we learn more about as the film progresses.
While out one night, Luke stumbles upon Stephen, a "straight acting"
(as the characters define the behavior) hottie who makes a few comments
about just how Luke fits the gay stereotype so well. This bothers Luke
and begins his journey to self discovery, although it's not exactly
rocket science.

I would recommend this to anyone who enjoys the silly gay comedies.
"Another Gay Movie," "Adam and Steve," "Noah's Arc (TV Series)," etc.
etc... If you've seen and enjoyed these mentioned movies and shows, I
have no doubt you will love "A Four Letter Word." The film is a bit
silly and you and your friends may squirm at some of the lines, but
there is a heartfelt message and you will walk away from the film
feeling pretty good about yourself (although you may feel like hitting
the gym right away and puking up that movie theater popcorn after
staring at the gorgeous actors for 90 minutes)
<|_=00=_|>
This is a vast improvement from the director's first film in that he
didn't cast himself in it, since he was not a particularly strong actor
or wasn't able, as a director, to entice a good performance with
self-direction. The production values are also vastly improved,
particularly the sound and picture quality, composition of shots and
the overall acting by the cast. Particularly good was Cory Grant as
Zeke, who gives what is perhaps the best rounded and most complete
performance in the film, and Charlie David as Stephen (with a PH) who
appears to make the most with his part as written and sells his line,
rather than sleepwalking through the role to 'collect a paycheck' (no
matter how small it might have been). The biggest flaws in this movies
are the number of sub-plots and threads, including the lengthy marriage
drama with the character also carried over from the director's first
film, and the performance pieces in the film as well as the alcoholic's
anonymous meetings. 

Otherwise, it acts as a probably decent slice of life representation
for SOME gay men in the 20s to early 30s in New York City, but it's
neither original nor genuinely engaging. The plots, including the
numerous sub-plots, were all fairly predictable and were telegraphed by
the first third of the film (from the hooker with the secrets to the
friends possibly falling in love, etc.). It's nothing you haven't seen
before if you've seen any Rock Hudson/ Doris Day movies, not even the
fact that it's about same sex couples, since that horse has been put
before the cart far too many times to make this new or fresh.

It's probably not a waste of time as a rental but not worth a full
price admission at a theater.
<|_=00=_|>
Jesse Archer co-wrote and stars in this low-budget, low-brow gay
comedy-drama about a New York City queen who works at a sex shop by day
and spends his evenings bed-hopping; a perceptive co-worker informs him
that he may just be a sexual obsessive, which leads the kid to a
therapy group and a smidgen of self-enlightenment. Director Casper
Andreas, who also had a hand in the script, hopes to titillate and
shock his target audience with bitchy, outré dialogue and flashes of
naked behinds; unfortunately, this isn't anything any filmmaker
treading in queer-cinema waters hasn't tried before. The acting is so
wooden, with casting choices apparently made on who had the best pecs,
that one can only scoff at these smarmy returns. This is just the thing
to kill off the gay comedy-drama. It shows no imagination, no
sensitivity, no subtext, no sense of satire or self-parody. When a gay
couple squabbles and breaks up for the night, it's merely for the most
basic and childish reasons. Are all gay New Yorkers this immature and
selfish? And if so, who needs to see it? NO STARS from ****
<|_=00=_|>
A Four Letter Word is not a ground-breaking piece of cinema by any
stretch. But for all its failings, there is enough substance to enjoy.

The plot leans on the weak side and the main character (Luke) extremely
unlikeable. I found myself, at times, feeling very disengaged with his
experiences in the film.

But pushing past this, there are laughs along the way and some of the
minor characters actually steal the limelight.

The problem with this film is that it throws together all the major gay
clichés, and for this reason it stumbles constantly. The director
surely must have had more vision than to peddle worn-out and tired gay
stereotypes.

Successful gay cinema celebrates diversity and breaks free of the
constraints and expectations society imposes on homosexuality.

If anything, A Four Letter Word is a major disappointment in this
regard. I expected a lot more.

It's easy to pick holes in this film but there is enough to keep
watching until the end.

I have given it a solid 5 for a pass and the power of the support cast
saves me from a harsher judgment.
<|_=00=_|>
Many four letter words define A Four Letter Word which rains from life
and love to an old English expletive. This film is a romantic comedy
about the young gay world early 21st century New York. The film mostly
centers two vastly different gay men Jesse Archer and Cory Grant who
has a great name for the cinema.

Both work at a sex shop and between dispensing dildos and candy
flavored negligees talk a lot about how they see the world. Archer
takes life as it comes it's the sex store by day and the man hunt by
night. Grant is all absorbed into the state of gay life and the many
issues to be resolved. Cory has little time for a love life and Jesse
has time for nothing else but sex.

Things might be changing when Archer falls for Charlie David who goes
to school, but doubles as an escort. But folks in that line of work lie
a lot and it becomes second nature after a while, maybe even first
nature. Or he could be just a pathological liar. I knew one like that
myself many years ago. I can sympathize with Archer you never know when
you're being conned.

Secondary plots revolve around another couple J.R. Rolley and Steven M.
Goldsmith who are having their crises. Goldsmith is a compulsive
control freak and Rolley sort of lets everything slide until the big
blow up. There's also Virginia Bryan a straight friend who is having
wedding jitters and then gets kissed by a girl - friend and then starts
questioning her own sexuality and should make the girl, a girlfriend.

Still it's the primary triangle that drives the film. Archer needs to
take life a little more seriously and Grant needs to take himself a
little less seriously.

A Four Lettered Word is a nice view of New York City young urban gay
life circa 2007. You'll recognize many character in your own lives
seeing this film.
