
I admit, I'm usually rough on many horror movies that come out
nowadays, because...well...they suck. "P2," on the other hand, has many
exciting moments and I was engaged the whole way through. The acting is
solid. The actress who plays the lead does a great job at conveying
real terror. I also like that she wasn't the typical big-breasted
female lead who seems ripped from the pages of Maxim magazine. She is
attractive, yes, but not your traditional Hollywood beauty, who's cast
simply so she can have a scene where she's taking a shower and has to
flee from the villain naked, with her gargantuan boobs bouncing in
close-up. I loved Wes Bentley in "American Beauty," and was quite
disappointed to find out that he fell off the radar after delivering
that great performance as Ricky Fits. He would only pop up occasionally
in braindead slasher flicks like "Soul Survivors." In "P2" he was given
a chance to redeem himself, and that he did. He is a perfectly creepy
villain, especially with those dark, piercing eyes. The movie is not
without flaws. It has some of the expected fake scare moments and,
without giving anything away, let's just say that I'm SURE it would
take less than 20 minutes for the cops to show up after you make a
9-1-1 call. The filmmakers do a great job at setting up a creepy tone,
starting off the film by playing "Santa Baby" over the opening credit
sequence. That's ten times creepier than, say, playing a standard
horror movie score. If you're sick and tired of many of the braindead
teen slasher flicks that have been hitting theaters lately, this should
come as a refreshing surprise. I think this film is sadly underrated.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie takes a long time to get going, and I frequently found 
myself throwing in  the flag. There are a lot of events which 
happen that just don't make sense and don't ring true.

Initially Wes Bentley irritated me, but eventually I got to like him 
and his character. He's pretty good at playing a dissociative 
psychopath.

Once the story got going it was easy to forgive the obvious mistakes 
and just have fun with it. The setting, a parking garage, is very cold 
and unforgiving. It's all concrete. That aesthetic helps set a tone 
that Thomas is going to be unforgiving. closed, and cold with people he 
doesn't like.

Angela (Rachel Nichols) doesn't suffer from stupid chick syndrome. She 
makes a few smart moves, and that makes it easy to root for her and 
empathize with her. You want her to kick butt, but Thomas is a pretty 
strong opponent.


<|_=00=_|>
So, P2... it looks like it would be a crap movie. But it's actually
pretty good. I KNOW!!! Coming from an art background and as an avid fan
of suspense and horror films I found this film was pretty smart and
responsible. Rachel Nichols performance was really good, and the
scenario plays out believably while avoiding a plethora of gender
stereotypes, as well as confrontational stereotypes.

The characters are interesting and dynamic is great. From their first
interactions, and the interplay between them it's clear how involved
the process was in trying to capture those moments.

As far as the story goes, it's a pretty standard fair for a suspense
thriller type of film. What makes this one work is the consideration
given to selling the moments truthfully and keeping scenes honest.
Right down to the end of the film. Wes Bently is a really gifted actor,
his performance was candid, truthful and filled with a lot of well
expressed anxiety and isolation. But never really expressed vocally,
but it's always present in his character. Rachel Nichols is straight
aces with her exploration of her characters pensive and diplomatic
displacement in the situation she finds herself in. These two carry the
film. The only problem I had was that one character was never really at
the center, and I really wanted to know more than what I was being
provided. I think some more time with either Bently's or Nichol's
characters could have made a world a difference in really attaching us
to them. I would say more so for Bently's security guard... he has an
implied back-story, but I wanted to see more... how he functions
outside of his job a little.

Something that really divides Seven from all it's other rip-offs and
variations is the focus on the subtle specifics of Mills and Somerset's
world, how definite and impractical their ethics are in the
environments they inhabit. And then, how liberal and apathetic they are
when faced with John Doe's absolute nature. This dynamic is that
missing ingredient from P2. You're not really given an identifiable
attachment to either of the core characters.

But overall, a movie I greatly under-estimated... This film does
deserve a good look, but don't expect it to be something like "The Eye"
or "Skeleton Key". It's a much richer and culturally considerate
tapestry than films of that ilk, but isn't rich enough to be a classic
like "Seven". It's a good film that I am sure didn't fully get it's
dues.
<|_=00=_|>
With the resurgence of the horror/thriller genre in recent years,
writers and directors have started to utilize a number of locations and
situations that have proved unsettling in real life to be the center
point for a film. P2 is one of those films. Who among us hasn't felt a
little uncomfortable in a empty, dark parking garage, with no one in
sight to call out to if there is a problem? P2 proves to be an
effective, if not exactly original, thriller that does a good job of
keeping the audience on the edge of its seat.

Angela (Rachel Nichols) is a workaholic who is trying to get out of the
office on Christmas Eve to reach her sister's home, where the family is
waiting on her. After having to complete a last-minute task, she finds
herself one of the last people to exit the building's parking garage.
However, her car won't start, and she seeks help from the garage's
nighttime security, Thomas (Wes Bently). Although he appears to
initially be helpful, it is quickly obvious that he is a little off.
When Angela determines that the building is locked, she returns to the
parking garage for help, where Thomas subdues her and then chains her
to a chair in his office, dresses her in a revealing outfit, and plans
to spend a pleasant Christmas eve dinner with her. 

Angela quickly realizes that Thomas is determined to prove that he is
the perfect man for her, but his methods are on the homicidal and
creepy side: he threatens her with his dog, causes her to call her
family and tell them she isn't going to make it and threatens her with
physical violence. She eventually escapes his immediate grasp, and a
chase through the garage ensues that takes a number of different turns.

P2 isn't an ambitious film, to be sure. However, it crafts this simple
premise into a generally unsettling experience. P2 is largely driven by
the performance of Wes Bently in the role of Thomas. Bently is at first
glance an amiable guy. He seems awkward and a bit shy, but he
eventually reveals himself to be delusional and lacking much in the way
of conscience. At the same time, he actually manages to make Thomas a
somewhat sympathetic individual, tapping into feelings of loneliness
and alienation. Thomas in the end is certainly a deranged individual,
but Bently manages to make him more than just that.

Rachel Nichols is competent in the role of Angela, providing us with
the appropriate reaction of someone trapped in an ever evolving
nightmare. Angela wavers between anger, false sympathy for Thomas and
fear. It isn't a demanding role, but she delivers as necessary.

P2 doesn't pull many punches in the violence department. There are
several grisly scenes (including one involving a fingernail) that will
put those with a weak constitution on the edge of their seat. Unlike a
recent raft of PG-13 horror films, P2 doesn't pretend to not know what
some percentage of its audience wants to see.

If P2 falls a little bit, it is in the fact that this film is something
of a variation on a theme from other recent thrillers, so once it has
played most of its cards, you can find yourself generally able to
determine where it seems to be heading. There is still plenty of
tension, fulfilling its primary mission, but not without traveling some
paths that have already been well trodden.
<|_=00=_|>
Make no mistake this is an Alexander Aja film. Like his masterpiece
High Tension and his mega disturbing remake of Hills Have Eyes P2 aims
for the throat and never lets go. Although the film is a little absurd
and over the top in places it still makes for a fantastically
entertaining watch. The film is polished ans stylish and features a
powerhouse performance from rachael Nichols. she stars as Angela an
overworked young business woman who becomes the victim of an obsessive
security guard who murders in her name. What starts out as a timidly
intense little thriller eventually turns into an all out splatterfest
with blood galore and tension to boot. Audience members were clapping
and some ran for the doors. P2 is a surprising new addition to an
otherwise old concept. It's energetic and scary and just a lil silly.
<|_=00=_|>
I'll admit that the premise of P2, 'horror-thriller' set in a parking
garage had me interested. Good way of changing things up a little. I
knew what I was going into, so I wasn't expecting very much. What I got
out of it was even less.

The setting for the film was the only thing intriguing. The acting
wasn't very good; the 'psycho' in this is beyond annoying...and a lot
of what he says just doesn't make sense. Yes, he's supposed to be crazy
but come on! The heroine was decent in her performance, attractive I
must say. But the story was just downright silly; the movie could've
been done in a half hour. And if that's the case, its obvious that the
script needs to be tightened up. This is indeed the case; as I couldn't
help but think that the makers were just adding a lot of filler so the
film would last at least 90 minutes. The heroine could've gotten out of
her predicament a few times (the first time almost immediately as she's
FREED from a chain around her leg), but she's too much of a wuss to
really do anything about it. There's the obligatory gore here, most of
it out of taste. I wasn't disgusted, but more disappointed that they
stooped to that level of cartoonish violence. The fingernail scene was
just ridiculous, they had to think that would've been "cool" and just
threw that in there.

P2 is your typical run-of-the-mill horror/thriller that's just not a
very good film at all. Don't waste your money on this one.

3/10
<|_=00=_|>
Woman working late on Christmas eve is trapped by a psycho security
guard in her office parking garage. Better than this has any right to
be, this is actually a good little thriller. Psycho stalker films are
not my cup of tea, but this one is actually pretty good thanks to a
sense of humor, sense of horror, and a sense of place. if you've ever
been in a garage you'll feel right at home at being uneasy. The
director was an actor in the French horror film High Tension a film
that I thought fell apart in the end, Here he's taken what worked in
the earlier film and manages to make it work all the way to the end. If
I have any real complaint is that the film is probably much longer than
it should be, still if you like this sort of thing you're sure to be
pleased.
<|_=00=_|>
A businesswoman (Rachel Nichols) is pursued by a psychopath (Wes
Bentley) after being locked in a parking garage on Christmas Eve.

The film was directed by Franck Khalfoun, written and produced by
Khalfoun, Alexandre Aja and Grégory Levasseur. The trio previously
worked on "The Hills Have Eyes" (2006). Aja has said, "With a strong
plot in the vein of High Tension, P2 gives us a chance to further
explore the survival aspect of the terror movie." This really is a
tense, suspenseful film.

The film is almost disgustingly gory, especially with the office chair
death. Horror fans will eat it up, even if it makes them squirm in
their seats.

Although reviews were mixed or negative, one man surprisingly came to
its defense. Roger Ebert liked the film, giving it 3 out of 4 stars,
and stated in his review that "although the plot may seem like a
formulaic slasher film, P2 is in fact a very well made, atmospheric
thriller with gritty yet realistic characters." Ebert is spot on, and
coming from someone who is not generally kind to horror films, this
praise is well-received.
<|_=00=_|>
P2 was recommended to me by a friend who really loved it. I looked it
up and it seemed interesting enough and right away I was ready to watch
the movie whenever I got the chance. Well, when it started off I was
immediately interested. The film starts off pretty strong as you see
Angela (Rachel Nichols) getting ready to go home for the holidays.
However, the obsessed Thomas (Wes Bentley) has plans of his own as he
"invites" Angela for a "nice little" dinner with him. All in all things
go horribly wrong for Angela as she ends up trying to escape the
maniac's clutches.

This film, for me, had quite a lot of new material, such as, I loved
the way Jim died, for it was a fresh, cunning death. Some other things
I also enjoyed were the dog chase scene which I found really intense,
and I liked how even though Bentley's character became quite moronic at
times, he never actually stopped being intimidating. The film itself
had nice suspense too. However, the movie's cliché level is what really
drags it down a few points; There were just some things I found so
unnecessary and predictable to the point where it wasn't enjoyable at
times. It does get a bit mediocre, and of course it's no masterpiece.

Overall though, P2 was a very entertaining and exciting movie to watch.
I thought both Nichols and Bentley gave pretty good performances, and
while the movie isn't the best of the best, it's worth the watch.
<|_=00=_|>
The ambiguously named P2 attempts to do for parking garages what Psycho
did for showers, and while Hitchcock certainly didn't direct this one,
Franck Khalfoun's debut feature manages to provide plenty of high
tension (in part thanks to the involvement of Alexandre Aja, pun
intended) and gory scares. Well-paced and chillingly violent, there's
nothing like a good Christmas thriller in November.

Workaholic Angela Bridges (Rachel Nichols) gets stuck at the office
late on Christmas Eve, and her night goes from bad to worse to
horrifying when she discovers the awkward parking lot security guard
Thomas (Wes Bentley) has taken her hostage in the underground garage
with a night of devious torture planned. With no help in sight, Angela
must survive his mind games and attempt to escape the labyrinthine
prison of parking level P2 (and P3 and P4).

Setting itself apart from the countless thrillers sporting faceless and
personality-lacking villains, P2 introduces us to an inventively
sadistic psychopath with Security Guard Thomas. Played with delusional
finesse by Wes Bentley, the maniacal antagonist provides an equal
amount of terror and comedy with his off-kilter comments and murderous
tendencies. Recalling killers from Norman Bates to Stuntman Mike, the
deranged kidnapper never seems aware of just how unbalanced he is and
offers heavy irony with his bloodshed. Thomas has a way with insanely
honest words, bringing out the contrariness that he doesn't think he's
doing anything wrong, and therefore unable to comprehend why his
victims retaliate.

Rachel Nichols also lends herself to a seldom seen damsel-in-distress,
one who falls into several cliché circumstances without getting out in
overly predictable ways. She displays a healthy mix of panic and
bravery, commendably shying away from turning into the whining mess
often witnessed in horror heroines. Intermittently helpless and
aggressive, Angela keeps the suspense sincere and also manages to fill
her low-cut white dress more than adequately.

While some of the events could be construed as predictable, the opening
title sequence perfectly illustrates the stupefying violence and
apprehension that the rest of the movie is likely to reveal. With
serene Christmas music being abruptly halted by the screeching of
metal, we are promised no deceptions as to what road the film will
traverse. Some of the elements prove to be rather unfathomable for the
average protagonist, especially when Nichols is a bit too calm after
her initial kidnapping, when she must fight off an enraged dog, and
later when she takes the aggressor role with a fire ax - but P2 does
handle suspense admirably.

Considering the entire film takes place in one building, after everyone
has left, the body count is considerably small, but the violence to
those few is remarkably gratuitous. To break up the senseless savagery
is irony and a sadistic humor, handsomely provided by the spontaneous
Thomas. The contrast of his saying grace at dinner, and attempting to
convince Angela that he's trying to help, adds to his comically twisted
design.

With a vastly creepy setting, plenty of "jump" scares and nail-breaking
suspense, P2 is crafted to appeal to those who like their thrill rides
covered with anxiety and blood. Even with the occasional unlikely event
or predictable moment, P2 stays entertaining all the way through,
making this a decent fright flick, just as long as you don't think
about it too much afterwards.

- The Massie Twins
