
I had the honor of seeing a screening of Red State last night at Laser
Pacific in Hollywood as part of the Red State of the Union film school
program Kevin Smith held.

Prior to going in, I refused to read any of the Sundance screening
reviews of the film because I wanted to avoid spoilers and go in with a
fresh experience. I had high expectations and I was not disappointed.

The film begins with sort of the stereotypical horror movie formula,
teenagers go out looking for sex and find themselves staring death in
the face. However, what happens to them in Red State is a far departure
from your standard Jason or Michael Myers flick. The film is hardly a
stereotypical horror movie. In fact, Kevin Smith deliberately goes out
of his way in this film to keep it far from the typical story arch and
structure of most studio movies. Just when you think you know what is
going to happen next, Smith hits you with another twist and surprise.
This film is completely unpredictable and unforgiving of its
characters.

I must congratulate Mr. Smith on the exceptional camera-work and
editing in this picture. This is by far the best looking Kevin Smith
movie to date. The constant use of hand held cameras and creative
cutting, keeps you on the edge of your seat the entire time. I think a
fair comparison would be Rob Zombie's "The Devil's Rejects" or parts of
the original "Texas Chainsaw Massacre". Also, the film has no musical
underscore. It uses ambiance and sound effects in place which works
beautifully for this film. Most films use music to enhance the mood and
make you feel a certain way. In this film, you can tell Kevin Smith
doesn't care how you feel and wants you to just sit there and take it.

The cast is also spectacular. Michael Parks steals the show. Also John
Goodman delivers the goods and has a lot more screen time than the
teaser trailer suggests.

All in all, I think this film is one of the best films I have seen in
the last few years. With everything being computer generated these
days, it refreshing to see a small practical film like this which still
holds as much power as one of the big boy studio flicks. And for those
of you worrying about the political or religious messages, there aren't
any. This movie does not preach religious views to you nor does it take
any kind of political side. Its plain and simple. This is just a horror
movie about a family of psychos. The fact that they are religious just
adds to the terror.

The movie also features one of the best endings ever.
<|_=00=_|>
OK. So after reading the other reviews and deciding to watch this based
on the positive reports, I feel compelled to offer a more realistic
review.

First of all, this is not the masterpiece it's made out to be. A lot of
Kevin Smith fanboys seem reluctant to give him a bad review.

So here we go, it's a bit of a mess really. It seems to be getting a
lot of praise for switching genres but honestly, it just comes across
as confused. Yes, the performances are pretty good and some of the
camera work is exceptional (the escape/chase scene is noteworthy) but
overall it's almost like three films in one. This might sound like a
good thing but not the way it's presented here.

And as for everybody trying to get clever over the title, the meaning
is pretty clear to me. It refers to both the political and the
government angle that the authorities can lock any suspected terrorist
up for an indefinite time. A la communist/red states.

Overall, some good performances, memorable dialogue and decent
cinematography fail to save this confused mess.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, so as part of Kevin Smith's guerrilla marketing campaign for this
movie, it aired on PPV in the US last night. That means that it was on
the torrentnet this morning, and as a result I got to watch it in
Europe tonight. I'm still reeling from the experience.

I mean, we are talking Kevin Smith, king of the slacker movies, but at
the same time the creator of one of the most intelligent and well-done
movies about religion ever made, "Dogma." I have seen every one of
Kevin Smith's films, some of them multiple times. But as much as I like
the guy, I've never found myself asking, "What would happen if this guy
decided to step away from the slacker comedy and make a serious movie
-- a horror movie about America, as he sees it?" I never saw this movie
coming.

"Red State" is at its heart a horror movie. It starts by playing to
horror movie conventions. Three teenaged guys, off for a night of fun
in a neighboring Southern town, follow an Internet ad promising them a
three-way with a willing older woman, and as a result wander into the
WRONG Southern town. This town is the home of a Chrisschun religious
cult, and they placed the ad. Try to imagine what the gay-hating and
sex-hating Westboro Baptist Church would be like if they decided to
take God's Law into their own hands and start killing the sinners
themselves. Then try to imagine the situation escalating into a
machine-gun-fire standoff with the ATF. What makes this such a good
horror movie is that the horror could actually happen in the US.
Everything about this movie is shocking *because it could actually
happen*.

Kevin Smith is a closet politco. Who knew? This is a very, very, very
powerful movie, about the hell that the United States of America has
descended into post-9/11. It is SO not a comedy, although it contains
very funny moments, and it is SO not for the faint-hearted, or for
those who lean heavily to the right politically, or who believe that
doing so is synonymous with leaning to the Right. God's Right.

With this film, Kevin Smith has risen to the top of my list of People I
Most Want To Share Two Too Many Beers With Just So I Can Talk With
Them.
<|_=00=_|>
If nothing else, Red State is memorable. A trio of horny teenage boys
gets baited and captured by an armed to the teeth fanatical cult. The
attempted escape of two of them precipitates a Waco on steroids violent
showdown between the cult in their compound and ATF agents outside that
have botched the situation and are ordered to take drastic measures to
clean up their mistake. 

As a horror movie, it's pretty decent, but it sort of fizzles out by
the finale, and the ending is something you'll either think is clever
or not as clever as Kevin Smith thought it was. Red State earned enough
goodwill from me during its disturbing first half to carry me through
its trigger-happy, tone-shifted latter half and earn it a slightly
positive rating. Check it out to sate your curiosity, but don't expect
to be blown away. 
<|_=00=_|>
I've never considered myself a Kevin Smith fan. While I liked
"Mallrats", what I've seen of his other works has left me unimpressed.
When I heard he would be tackling a horror film, I wasn't exactly
enthused by the prospect, though horror is easily my favorite genre. In
fact, I had pretty much forgotten about it until I came across a
trailer online. That trailer, combined with the solid cast Smith was
able to line up, changed my tune, so I was excited to see the film
available on pay-per-view. After watching it, I can safely say that
it's Smith's best film to date, which in itself isn't the highest of
praise. However, it's also one of the best films I've seen all year.

Through an online ad, three teenage boys find a woman who is willing to
have sex with all three of them at the same time. They go off to meet
her, but it turns out to be a ploy, and they soon find themselves held
captive in the rural compound of Abin Cooper and his fundamentalist
religious cult. Cooper's group, known as the Five Points Church, is
well-known for protesting at funerals of gays and causing various other
commotions due to their beliefs. However, the true extent of how far
they're willing to go due to the demoralization of America will soon be
known to their three captives.

Smith's films have always been heavy on dialogue, and "Red State" is
certainly no different. The dialogue here, though, is no laughing
matter, particularly as Abin Cooper delivers a lengthy, vitriol-laced
sermon to his flock. Michael Parks ("The Evictors", "From Dusk Til
Dawn") has been around for a long time, but never has he been more on
top of his game than he is here as the Five Points Church matriarch.
You hear hyperbolic terms like "tour de force" thrown around all the
time, but Parks' performance in this film is one that truly deserves to
be described as such. The hateful conviction with which Cooper gives
his sermon and the psychotic glee when he belittles those who don't
share his beliefs are scarily real thanks to the strength of Parks, who
never misses a beat.

The dialogue and film in general are clearly Smith's take on Fred
Phelps and his infamous Westboro Baptist Church, but the film switches
gears midway through and throws in some commentary on the Waco/Branch
Davidian fiasco as well with the introduction of John Goodman as Joseph
Keenan, an ATF agent poised to take out Cooper and his clan. After the
local sheriff gets wind of the church's murderous activities, he
contacts Keenan, who has been watching the group for quite some time.
Keenan leads several ATF agents to the compound for a simple in and
out, but after his second in command is shot dead, his superiors inform
him that no one is to leave the compound alive, hostages and children
included.

From here, the film takes more of an action turn as opposed to the
horror-oriented first half. We bare witness to a thrilling shootout as
Keenan struggles with his conscience and unlikely allies inside the
compound try to find a way to bring the children to safety. Anyone
familiar with the events in Waco or documentaries on the incident, such
as the infuriating "Waco: The Rules of Engagement", will definitely see
the parallels between the real life happenings and what goes on here.
Smith's film is just as much an indictment against the ATF and
government B.S. as it is against those who give religious people a bad
name.

Goodman gives the other great performance of the film as the ATF agent
stuck between a rock and a hard place. While his confliction is evident
even after he relents and follows the orders of his superiors, he
really shines in his final scene where he must explain the events to
two government officials. I've always been a huge fan of Goodman's, and
his monologue in this scene is some of the best acting of his career.
Indeed, belief is a powerful thing. It's what you choose to do with it
that defines you.

Also in the cast are Academy Award winner, Melissa Leo, as Abin's
daughter, Kevin Pollak in a "mind-blowing" cameo and the always quirky
Stephen Root as the troubled sheriff. Smith assembled quite the cast
for this venture. Independently financed, the method of release for
this film has been odd to say the least, but I'm just happy to have
seen it. The tone of the film is sporadic, always shifting and keeping
the viewer off kilter. There is a little humor thrown in too, as is to
be expected with Smith, but this is a pretty serious picture overall.
If I had one qualm with it, it's the whole explanation for the trumpet
bit, which seemed a little out there and overcomplicated. Other than
that, I thoroughly enjoyed what Smith delivered here.

If what I've heard is true, and Kevin Smith is intending to retire from
filmmaking after his next movie, at least he went out with a bang. "Red
State" is a successful change of pace.
<|_=00=_|>
I am extremely surprised, reading through some of the other reviews -
so many people seemed to like this movie, and I just don't see it at
all. It was awful.

None of the characters shown in the first half hour of the movie were
alive for the last fifteen minutes of it. They did a complete cast
rotation, which made so little sense as I watched this train wreck,
that I considered closing up my laptop in frustration.

There were scenes in the movie (like the sermon, and the explanation
for the trumpet soundings at the end) that went on so long that it
became comical. The screenwriters took some serious indulgences during
the crafting of this script, and not artistically either. Just lengthy
monologues which served little purpose besides tying the flimsy plot
together.

In the absence of fractions I give this movie a begrudging 1 out of 10,
though it really doesn't deserve that.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm going to be honest with you: I've never watched a Kevin Smith film
other than this one. Yes, go ahead, have problems with that. But that's
not why we're here. I'm telling you this so you know that I had
absolutely no expectations of this film coming in, other than that a
friend of mine told me it was very thought-provoking. 

And she was right.

I think "Red State" is an unappreciated gem of a film. Coming from the
perspective of being fascinated with the Westboro Baptist Church, I
especially got into it. If you don't know about the Westboro Baptist
Church prior to watching the movie, you need to look them up. Because
much of the film is based around a religious sect that is quite
similar. In fact, Abin Cooper (brilliantly played by Michael Parks)
gives a sermon in the film that essentially quotes the WBC's beliefs
verbatim. It's hard to believe that people can actually believe this
stuff--but they do. And that is what makes this story truly
frightening. My favorite horrors are based enough in reality to be
believable--as a matter of fact, I think something MUST be believable
in order for it to be scary. "Red State" is not scary because it has
monsters or buckets of gore. It is scary because it is probable: there
is nothing more frightening than the terrible things human beings are
capable of doing if they choose to.

In reading other reviews, I have noticed that many people criticized
"Red State" for being all over the place or inconsistent. I didn't see
that at all. Frankly, I appreciated the Coen-brothers-esque comedic
breaks. John Goodman, especially, brought up some fond memories of "The
Big Lebowski"-type humor. But I never felt that these breaks took away
from the film or made it any less compelling. 

Another note, and I mentioned this before with Michael Parks, is that I
thought the acting in "Red State" verged on superb. Parks' performance
as pastor Abin Cooper was spot-on, and the rest of the cast followed
suit. The story was put together well, with a nice but brief intro and
a plot that never felt too forced. I was pleasantly surprised at the
way the story was wrapped up, too, even though it probably wouldn't
count as a typical "happy ending." But stories like this don't
typically have those anyway, do they?

To sum up: I wasn't expecting a lot from this movie. Negative reviews
gave me low expectations. But, as usual, my curiosity got the best of
me and I couldn't help but check it out for myself. "Red State" is a
movie that I can genuinely say pleasantly surprised me. It is a little
off the beaten path, slightly unorthodox, and subtly disturbing. But I
loved it.
<|_=00=_|>
I've never felt the urge to write a review before but... I'm only 3/4
through this film and I had to register with IMDb to let the masses
know that this is not a good film. It might be better if you don't know
who Kevin Smith is, I noticed it had a bad review when I got it but
thought "hey its Kevin Smith how bad could it be" how wrong I was. If
you're the curious type then give it a blast and for any fans of the
director it might be worth 88 minutes of your life too but only to see
how bad things can be. I hear that Samuel L turned down the role of the
main agent, the obvious next choice would be John Goodman!?!?!?WTF,
thought he was going to distend his rectum yelling into the radio at
one point. Loved Roseanne tho.

Peace.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all i'd like to mention from all reviews i read the best one
is from user "dean2804" with whom i agree 100%.

Having said that, yes this movie is a mess. The good or the bad way?
Well basically the mediocre way. Its 3 movies all presented in one:
begins as a typical thriller with religious Christian psychos a-la "God
hates gays so we kill them all", continues as a war/action and
concludes as political.

The GOOD: nice work by the actors, camera, music, direction. Loved them
all. Nice character development, not even one of them is a "random
character just waiting to die" type. Really good job on changing the
film from thriller/action/political without annoying the audience.
Explains pretty much everything in the end, plain and clear.

The BAD: The "echo sound" at the end of the movie was useless & almost
hilarious as an explanation. Simply put, just ignore it. Although liked
the film & kept me till the end, i felt there was something missing. It
was an OK film, but for some reason lacked the "wow" factor.

OVERALL: i'd suggest you to check it. You won't regret it and even if
you don't like the whole film, at least you'll enjoy some of its parts.
<|_=00=_|>
WOW, really bad, and surprising coming from such a big name as Kevin
Smith. Damn he should stick to bad comedies with a crap load of dialog
because horror movies about a Christian extremist sect are not his
strong point. John Goodman, what were you thinking, are you broke? if
so sell stuff on ebay but don't ruin your name, come on really, how
does a dude enter an armory full of weapons, grab one then stand in the
middle of the room waiting to get shot, terrible. The end, i don't want
to spoil it in case someone has an hour and a half to throw away, OMG
is it bad. You would be better off spending the time staring at the sun
with a telescope, way better ending.
