
Have movies become so bad these days that a merely well-executed
totally formulaic film, like "The Avengers," is heralded as an
exceptional film?

Sure, this film hits all the marks and has some good one-liners, but
once we expected films to be refreshing and new. "Star Wars," while
having obvious flaws, provided us a totally new universe with its own
unique political conflicts, worlds, and even its own theology (the
force). Its first twenty-minutes is mostly watching the story of a
robotic English dandy (C3-P0) argue with a chirping rolling trashcan
(R2-D2), but amazingly enough Lucas made that unique and crazy idea
entertaining. The plot of "The Avengers" is just your run-of-the-mill
comic book story-line. Compare its plot to that of "Inception" or "The
Matrix" or even "Back to the Future" or "The Good, the Bad, and the
Ugly." Much of what makes those films so great is that their plots are
highly innovative. You have no idea where they are going. You always
know exactly where "The Avengers" is going. 

Along these same lines, "Psycho," "The Empire Strikes Back," "The
Matrix," etc. provide classic twists--Norman has gone insane and has,
in his mind, become his mother, the film's apparent killer; Darth
Vader, the film's main villain, is revealed to be Luke's father; the
first half of "The Matrix" turns out to have transpired in a totally
false reality. Nobody expected these twists. What unexpected occurs in
"The Avengers"? Even its minor twists have appeared in other recent
films. Its most significant--Loki allowing his own capture--comes
straight from "The Dark Knight."

Gangster films before "The Godfather" were just pulp. "The Godfather"
transcended the genre just as "Unforgiven" did with Westerns. The same
is true about "The Dark Knight." "The Avengers" doesn't transcend; it
regurgitates a done-to-death plot. Unlike "The Avengers," "The Dark
Knight" was more than a comic book film. It was entertaining,
compelling, yet it explored complex moral ideas, and its plot went in
innovative directions. Did anyone know that "The Dark Knight" would end
not with a fistfight but instead with a battle between the Joker and
Batman for Harvey Dent's soul, a scene that leaves it open to
interpretation whether the Joker or Batman really won in the end, a
scene far more compelling than any sequence of destruction could ever
be? And did anyone NOT know that "The Avengers" would end with a huge
battle with the Avengers ultimately triumphant? Uncertainty about how a
plot will be resolved is what once kept the audience hooked, not the
continual spectacle of fights and explosions. In fact, look at the IMDb
Top 250. With how many of these films would you know exactly how they'd
end if you were seeing them for the first time? In fact, apart from the
cartoons, is there a single entry as totally formulaic as "The
Avengers" is? 

And let's not forget, did you ever worry that any of the Avengers would
not survive? If not, then where was the real dramatic tension? One of
the things that made "The Dark Knight" so compelling is that one of its
two heroes not only dies but is also believably turned evil before he
is killed. And did anyone expect what happened to Rachel Dawes, Harvey
Dent's girlfriend? One of the things that made "Psycho" so dramatic is
its main protagonist dies halfway through the film. Great
films--serious or fun--must make the audience feel that there is
something truly at stake. 

And do I even have to go into how voting to give "The Avengers" a 10
places it on par with the all-time great works of film art--"One Flew
Over the Cuckoo's Nest," "Schindler's List," "Taxi Driver," "Apocalypse
Now," "Citizen Kane", "Vertigo," "Crimes and Misdemeanors," "8 1/2,"
"Manhattan," "Cinema Paradiso" etc.? A vote of 10 for a film like this
diminishes the worth of these works of art that explore the deepest
issues concerning the human condition.

Though I've brought up some films that are darker than "The Avengers"
or more serious, that is not my complaint about "The Avengers" at all.
"Star Wars, " "The Empire Strikes Back," "Back to the Future," "The
Good, the Bad, and the Ugly" were fun movies, but they also had plots
that went in unexpected directions, had surprising twists, introduced
us to unique characters. The elements I've listed here are what make a
film exceptional and deserving of an incredibly high rating. Just a
well-done totally formulaic movie like "The Avengers" simply does not
deserve the praise it is getting. Of course this film does not deserve
a 1 out of 10. I would really give it 3 or maybe 3 1/2 out of 5 stars,
which is equivalent to a 6 or 7 out of 10 on the IMDb rating scale.
However, until others don't alter their votes to put "The Avengers"
more in line with where it should be in comparison to other great
entertaining films of history, my vote will remain a 1. 

Go watch "The Avengers" a few more times. Once you've gotten used to
the 3-D, the special effects, the digital surround sound, you'll see
that the film is predictable, the jokes are so-so, and the violence of
the fights and of the long climactic end battle actually gets kind of
boring.

If you're a teenager still reading comics or a lover of comic books
who's always dreamed of watching Hulk fight Thor, Thor fight Iron Man,
then this movie is what you've always been waiting for, but for the
rest of us, "The Avengers" is not the tour de force it's been made out
to be. 

Oh wait a sec. 

I just learned that there's a movie based on "Battleship"--you know,
that dull board game for eight-year-olds. I guess movies really are
that bad. If you compare "The Avengers" only to garbage like that, I
guess it really does seem great.

Never mind...
<|_=00=_|>
I have got to tell anyone who will listen that this is one of THE best
adventure movies I've ever seen. It's almost impossible to convey how
pumped I am now that I've seen it. I purposefully avoid hyping myself
for movies because when expectations are too high, nothing seems to be
able to reach them. I usually avoid the hype train whenever possible.
That said, I was jacked to see this movie and was fully aboard the hype
train. It couldn't be helped. So, I was certainly open to intense
disappointment had this movie not been good. I'm so happy to report
just the opposite has happened.

The only word I can think of to describe this movie is AWESOME. It's
amazing work and everything I had hoped for and more. It's exceptional
entertainment for the uninitiated but it has everything a fanboy could
want to be sure. It has every little nuance of what a fanboy wants to
see. One of the MANY things I loved was the tension and flat out
conflict that arises between team members. It's not a two dimensional
"team wonderful that bands together to fight crime ho ho ho." Most
don't like each other at fist and there is so much texture to be
played. That is great because so many of these characters are larger
than life. They have egos and the big guns aren't used to working with
other people or even playing by the rules. Stark, Thor and Banner all
work "the other side of the fence" so to speak. Then there's the Widow,
Hawkeye and Captain America who are used to following orders and
playing within a command structure. They are all thrown together in a
wonderful and, best of all, believable fashion. Again, more than I ever
dreamed possible.

The entire cast really delivered. You needed more than just action
actors or stunt doubles to play all these parts. The pathos is there
but so are the timing and true deep performances. Look, I was missing
Ed Norton as much as anyone on that hype train I talked about but I'm
so happy to say that Mark Ruffalo won me over. I hope he's locked up
for the long haul because we don't need any more changes. Three was the
lucky number for movie Banners. Every other actor in Avnegers that
we've seen before is BETTER than their previous incarnation (EVERY
single one) with the possible exception of RDJ as Stark. He's great but
it's hard to top his take on the character from the original Iron Man
in an ensemble movie. I also have to fully disclose that I'm insanely
attracted to Scarlett Johansson. I thought her Widow character was
amazing but I'm definitely judging that through rose colored glasses.
The character arcs that run there course during this film will surprise
a lot of general audiences expecting nothing more than a Transformers
type popcorn scarfdown.

I honestly don't want to give away ANY of the movie with this review
because this is one film that needs every scene to be savored. Do
yourself a favor and remain unspoiled. It's how I saw the movie (apart
from what the trailers showed) and even though you're obviously reading
this review, read no others with any kind of spoilers whatsoever.
Experience the awesomeness for yourself. Avengers as a movie and as a
team on screen is an unstoppable force. I'm just going to say, Hulk &
Thor combination equals AWESOME and leave it at that. This movie
defines MUST SEE.
<|_=00=_|>
LA Review of 'The Avengers' (No spoilers)

I was lucky enough to attend the Marvel screening of 'The Avengers' on
Saturday morning in Century City, CA. This was an unusual screening as
movies of this caliber are not screened some three weeks before it's
release date. Just minutes before the movie started, we were all
surprised when writer/director Joss Whedon walked in with Kevin Feige
to introduced their little "Justice League" movie. Not only did we all
laugh, but some booed. lol. If that wasn't enough of a surprise, the
soft spoken Whedon introduced on stage Chris Hemsworth (Thor), Tom
Hiddleston (Loki), Clark Gregg (Agent Coulson) and Cobie Smulders
(Agent Maria Hill). Wow is she stunning in person! The audience gave
them all a standing ovation with deafening cheers! (This explained why
the secret service like security were searching, wanding everyone. No
cameras, cell phones, nothing was allowed in.) What a nice surprise for
an early Saturday morning screening. 

I've never read comic books. This is a comic book movie. It was made
for hardcore fans of comics, and I appreciate the care Joss Whedon
gives to this movie. It was very entertaining to see Tony Stark (Iron
Man), Thor, Dr. Bruce Banner (Hulk), Steve Rogers (Captain America),
Natasha Romanoff (Black Widow), Clint Barton (Hawkeye), Agent Maria
Hill, Agent Phil Coulson and Director Nick Fury all interact with one
another. 

Capt. Steve Rogers was fighting in WWII just yesterday. Having been
recently awoken from his frozen sleep, he struggles to fit in our
modern world with all this technology around us. The God of Thunder,
Thor, is not from this world (realm) and doesn't understand modern
technology on Earth as well. Dr. Bruce Banner has been on the run from
the government, practicing medicine in third world countries. He hasn't
been the Hulk in two years (What's his secret? ;). Tony Stark is still
the same, playing with this high tech toys and inventing new
technology. So how do you get them all to interact and play well
together? Well, Director Joss Whedon is the secret to making it all
work. 

The highlight of the film for me is how Joss Whedon has all these
characters interact. Deep character development was not needed for this
film. (That is what the respective movies are for: Thor, Iron Man, The
Incredible Hulk, Captain America: The First Avenger) He does a great
job of not forcing dialogue, and the interaction of the characters is
much more organic than I would have ever anticipated. That is where
Whedon deserves the most credit. He took what appears to be a very
silly premise, with silly looking characters and made it completely
work. Seeing as the Avengers comics date back to the 1960s, you can
tell he not only did his homework, but he really cares deeply for the
material, and his passion definitely shows on- screen. 

The movie is vastly entertaining. The Action scenes are amazing and
satisfying. Nobody is short changed when it comes to the fighting or
action sequences. I felt as if there was not a single bad performance.
A couple of dialogue lines seemed off, but once you remember who the
character is, and why they talk the way they do (think of where they
come from), it all makes sense. Each respective character is true and
honest to itself. Each of the characters brought their personality
(from their respective movie) to the table. It is by far the best
Marvel movie to date.

So who was my personal favorite character from the movie? Dr. Bruce
Banner (played by Mark Ruffalo) of course! He is by far the BEST Bruce
Banner/Hulk since Bill Bixby. His intelligence (genius) is unparalleled
(greater than Tony Stark's) and his compassion for human lives is what
drives the good side of his character. As a kid growing up, he was my
favorite Marvel super hero. I enjoyed watching Bill Bixby play medical
doctor/physicist Dr. David Banner on television. I'd watch, terrified
with my hands up to my face, as he transformed into the raging green
hulk. Yet i was so fascinated with him being a scientist, helping those
in need. When Mark Ruffalo was first announced to play Bruce Banner, i
didn't know what to think of it. I knew that he's a good actor. All he
needs is the right director to get the needed on-screen character out
of him. I really hope they make an Incredible Hulk movie sequel
starring Mark Ruffalo as Dr. Bruce Banner. Or at least, i vote for him
to reprise his role in any sequel. He was a natural fit for this role. 

Overall, the best thing about these characters is that they are not
silly twenty-something terrible actors who were chosen for on-screen
eye candy. They all do a fine job of bringing these characters to life
and their chemistry together works great. Assembled, they are
unstoppable. When i heard an Avengers movie was rumored to be in the
works, i was ecstatic. The day has finally come. Go see it. Thrice.
10/10 Stars.
<|_=00=_|>
I was lucky enough to be included in the group to see the advanced
screening in Melbourne on the 15th of April, 2012. And, firstly, I need
to say a big thank-you to Disney and Marvel Studios.

Now, the film... how can I even begin to explain how I feel about this
film? It is, as the title of this review says a 'comic book triumph'. I
went into the film with very, very high expectations and I was not
disappointed.

Seeing Joss Whedon's direction and envisioning of the film come to life
on the big screen is perfect. The script is amazingly detailed and
laced with sharp wit a humor. The special effects are literally
mind-blowing and the action scenes are both hard-hitting and
beautifully choreographed.

While all of these things (script, action, special effects and so on
and so forth) are important... it's no good having them spot on if you
don't have a cast that just isn't right. But fortunately, for fans and
for the actors involved, Whedon's cast not only work brilliantly
together but are perfectly comfortable wailing on each other and
threatening each other all day and night.

The actors' performances in "Marvel's The Avengers" are simply
captivating and there are many instances where we get a glimpse further
into their characters pasts and innermost feelings. Robert Downey Jr.
will have you in stitches. Scarlett Johansson will have you staring in
disbelief as she winds her way through sticky situations. And Tom
Hiddleston will have you simply shaking in your seat with fear.

All in all, Marvel's The Avengers is a visual delight and I cannot wait
to see it again, and again, and again. Marvel fans will not be
disappointed, and something tells me that most of you will agree with
me wholeheartedly.

The Avengers, assembled and awe-inspiring. Ten out of ten.
<|_=00=_|>
If you're a fan of epic adventure movies, then this is your dream come
true. This is the type of film you fantasized about growing up! It
really is the ultimate superhero mash-up and it's done perfectly. The
makers of this film certainly understand spectacle but they also get
the intricacies and depth these type of characters can provide. That
right there assures this instant classic will be thought of as the best
as well as the biggest film of 2012. The depth of this movie really did
surprise me. Even though the high quality of the actors involved and
there previous work as these very same characters seemed to indicate
otherwise, I was expecting a wild popcorn movie. I was wrong in
thinking it was too much to convey in one film. I couldn't be more
pleased because they balanced everything masterfully. Sure, there's the
popcorn fun we were all expecting but there's also a definite soul to
the film and a smart plot as well. It's truly a stupendous movie
regardless of genre.

Marvel did it, they pulled off the culmination of a master plan that's
been taking shape for years. They deliver a movie the likes of which
we've never seen before and as good of a film that's ever been made in
its genre.

There's a reason this grand of a movie has never been attempted before
now. How do you fully flesh out, care about and establish this vast
group and still deliver a fun, crisp and coherent story? It's extremely
difficult to navigate that edge-of-your-seat excitement while at the
same time caring about each one of the characters and their struggles.
One of the most impressive aspects of The Avengers is that they managed
to get each hero their time in the spotlight and their own character
arc. Every single main lead steps up and is treated with remarkable
intelligence and given room to shine.

I loved that the stakes in this film are ridiculously high and the
threat so impressive that there really is a need for these diverse
characters to come together. That could have been a stumbling block in
terms of story but it's treated just right. It's also a great idea that
they chose to introduce all the characters to the audience as if you've
never seen them before. Sure, the other films set up and give depth to
each character but even if you missed their solo films, you'll still
know and care about them in this movie.

It's also wonderful that everything is as big as it should be. This
truly is the comic book epic of our lifetime (the fanboy version of
Gone With The Wind circa 1939 if you will) and it all shows up on
screen. Everything looks GREAT and feels epic. The equipment (love that
Helicarrier), the relationships, the stars, the characters themselves
and the battles are all huge and as fully mesmerizing as they should
be. There are scenes that are emotional and there are scenes that are
going to make any audience member scream "BADASS!" and mean it.

I'm serious when I say that the big, explosive moments are as grand as
they should be but it's the smaller character moments in this film that
really take it to another level. At this point, we've all seen how good
some CG action can get but grounding it with a great story and with
meaningful quieter moments is what makes a movie good. That's the ace
up the Avengers sleeve. This is NOT some CGI video game movie. Cut out
the action and I'd still want to see this movie. So, it's safe to say
that they are replicating the comic book experience on the big screen.
Years of depth coupled with spectacle and advanced fiction is a treat
for non-comic book and comic book fans alike. That's is The Avengers
greatest power... the ability to entertain all comers!
<|_=00=_|>
This remarkable movie easily fulfilled and then exceeded all
expectations. I've been waiting for this movie since Sam Jackson's
character uttered those famous words after the first Iron Man film...
Stark now knows he's not the only superhero in his world and it's as
big a treat for our real world as it gets. Seeing the "Avenger
Initiative" in action is as great as I would ever have hoped! Hell, who
am I kidding, I've been waiting to see this movie all my life. Who
would've thought years ago that ALL these characters could fit in to a
film and all of them be done justice? It delivers greatness from scene
one and has to be considered the best this genre has EVER produced.
Truthfully, as good as some of the previous work has been from every
studio, nothing else has come close. That's not hyperbole; I really
think most will agree if they see it with an open mind. I loved this
movie's depth, heart, humor, gravitas, action, performances, emotion
and payoff. I honestly can't wait to see it again with the rest of the
world later. Right now, I'm simply basking in the greatness I just
witnessed!
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw the early screening for San Diego through the top 10 cities
on facebook who got them. And suffice to say I am glad I was privileged
enough to.

First off, this hands down is the best Marvel movie ever. I don't say
that lightly. And in terms of superhero movie with maybe the Nolan
Batman series being tied with this, I thought Whedon did an amazing job
to bring out all these characters in this one movie. I especially like
what was done with Hawkeye and Black Widow just because those two
didn't really have their individual movie with their back story. 

You can tell when a comic book fan writes and directs a comic movie
because it clearly showed in all areas of production for this film.
Going into the film I honestly thought that a lot of the cool mutant
action scenes would be strictly Iron Man and Captain America. But
Whedon does such a great job giving each mutant their 15 mins of fame
and by the end of it you seriously feel like "Wow this guy/chick is a
badass" for every mutant. I will admit i am not a Hulk fan. I like the
inner story for it but was never a fan of the films, show or comic. But
Hulk's role in the movie is so awesome I became a fan just from it. 

If any of you are Whedon fans then you guys/girls will love this movie.
It has his M.O. written all over the humor and story presentation. And
there were definitely parts in the movie where I thought "Wow this
seems like Firefly and Serenity". And story aside, if you read,
watched, or idolized Marvel superheros as a kid, the action alone will
make you cheer just out of sheer nostalgia of imagining The Avengers or
X-Men all together on the screen kicking ass. 

In summation, I don't need to say you NEED to watch this movie because
I think anybody who is anybody already knows they want to see this. All
this review has done was just reaffirm the hype behind this movie. I
don't say this much but job well done Marvel and Disney for hiring a
writer/director who has the audaciousness to keep it honest and true
for those most dedicated comic fans who are the backbone of Marvel
comics being a success. And in this day and age of superhero movies and
movies in general that is very hard to do. Cheers Joss Whedon!
<|_=00=_|>
'Avengers Assemble' ('The Avengers') is a truly enjoyable superhero
film that lives up to its hype and creates a story that allows for four
of the greatest superheroes to connect in this mega-blockbuster
extravaganza. Joss Whedon has created one of the most action-packed
Marvel films to have graced the screen, full of humour, thrills and a
great cast of characters, all of which impel this visual effects-driven
spectacle. Whilst I had the great opportunity to watch this epic in the
cinema in 3D, the film is equally as stunning on an average television
set, with the final battle between the Avengers and Loki's army being
one of the most spectacular scenes in a superhero movie. An impressive
and remarkable fantastical superhero flick from Whedon.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm happy to report that everything established in previous movies pays
dividends in a big way. It's not that anyone needs to see those other
Avenger solo films before seeing this gem but it certainly adds depth
and texture to this amazing product. Not having to intro big main
characters deeply allows the action to flow but also allows for better
development. This also allows them to probe deeper into the character's
personalities. This heightens the tension, so often missing from
comic-book movies, and adds real weight to the story as well as the
action sequences which are thrilling and often mesmerizing. The result
is a film that's just flat out exceptional.

Of course all the phenomenal heroes got to shine and the story
accommodated them all perfectly. What I loved is that Marvel did it
again with their main villain. Loki was just so wonderful and complex
in this amazing movie. Spurned Loki masterfully dances on the fault
lines of villainy and redemption. He always keep people guessing and.
Again, that's just shear perfection coming from the god of mischief. He
has such a mixture of emotional psychological complexity. You have
somebody who's capable of thinking and strategizing at the speed of
light, but underneath that is a deep well of pain that at any moment
threatens to boil over and Tom Hiddleston plays it like the master he
has become. This is Oscar worthy villain performance good.

The performances in this movie are as good as any I've ever seen in an
adventure film. The great actors say that acting akin to playing
tennis. The rally that they play with a new partner is completely
different from one to the other. Each of these GREAT actors have such
specific talents that it's fun to see them play off each other at
different times in this movie. I think Whedon realized this as both
director and writer and shuffled things around on purpose to play to
strengths. It's just another wonderful aspect of this spectacular movie
event.
