
This film has no plot. I wouldn't have an issue with this if instead
they had filled most of the two hours with scenes of Godzilla
destroying things and killing people. However, the monster himself
receives a pathetic amount of screen time, only appearing halfway
through the film after the plot has already focused its attention on
two giant bugs. They are unimaginatively designed, have no basis in
Japanese mythology like the titular monster, and their only purpose
seems to be to diminish the impressiveness of Godzilla. The character
development in this film is non-existent. Every character, from the
wise but ignored token Japanese bloke, to the soldier's wife whose sole
purpose is to wait at home to comfort him, is a dull Hollywood cliché.
Unlike the viewers, the film believes its characters are fascinating
enough to merit the laughably corny near-death and family- reunion
scenes towards the end. Instead, the audience is left laughing in
bemusement at the overly sincere expressions on the protagonist's face
as he threatens a giant monster with a handgun. Whenever Godzilla and
the insects finally begin to fight, before anything happens there's an
instant cut to yet another tedious shot of US soldiers shouting about
nothing in particular. The film's sole purpose is to showcase the might
of America's armed forces and ability to survive under a crisis; and it
doesn't even do that well, given that the navy can't even tell when
Godzilla is swimming directly under their ships. Of course, setting the
story in Godzilla's homeland of Japan would not interest American
viewers, so the monster decides to swim across the Pacific Ocean in
order to wreak havoc. No doubt Godzilla will receive acclaim from
morons due to its high-tech but utterly unimaginative animation
techniques. However, this film's cutting-edge CGI does not justify its
lack of plot, excitement and meaningful characters.
<|_=00=_|>
So, I should start by saying, I went to this move not expecting a lot.
My husband wanted to see it, however, so off we go.. Dear Lord, I think
I'm going to find the sappiest chic flick available (even if its
torturous for me to sit through) just to get payback for him making me
sit through 2 hours of this crap. At least the popcorn was good!!

I liked Godzilla himself.. But, I think out of the entire 123 minutes,
you see him only 20 minutes, maybe? And most of that is just watching
his spiky back in the water as he swims. The rest of this movie is
watching the main actor, who, in my opinion, has about as much acting
depth as Kristen Stewart, look like a total tool. The shining grace, I
thought, was that this movie had Ken Watanabe in it. I like Watanabe
but even he looked like he was suffering from a bad case of the Taco
Bell revenge and couldn't find a bathroom for the entire movie.

I spent the majority of this movie picking out dumb stuff that just
amounts to bad writing. Example: Okay, the two bad monsters (which, in
my opinion resemble a cross between those white strider things that the
muppets ride in "The Dark Crystal" with a bit of "Aliens" thrown in to
make them somewhat scary?) have the ability of creating EMPs, killing
all electronics and causing aircraft to fall out of the sky.. We learn
this early on in the movie, probably in the first 30 minutes. Think the
military learns their lesson?? Nope, lets continuously throw about 600
billion dollars worth of F-35s and Battleships in the mix just so we
can have it continuously plummet into the water. Another example: They
know these muppet hybrids like to eat Radioactive materials and I guess
can smell it. And hey, there's one making its way from Vegas to San
Fransisco. So lets strap a huge bomb on a train and slowly move it from
Vegas to San Fransisco along the same exact path that the critter is
going. What kinda harm could that cause? Its not like the thing would
smell it on the train and come after it, right? And why is it, the
military storms into a radioactive storage facility but has no clue
that an entire half of mountain has just been blasted out by muppet
hybrid #2 (who's much bigger than #1) and this 30 story tall critter is
somehow making its way towards Vegas completely undetected? 

And while we're on the subject of the bomb, what the heck is up with
the "breeding" of the two muppet hybrids anyway?? You got a male, you
got a female (complete with some glowy bulging egg sac thing that they
give us a really good closeup of.. They meet up to reproduce.. which
involves the male giving the female the long, phallic shaped,
radioactive bomb which she then rubs between her legs all over this
glowy egg sac.. WtF?? How the heck did these things breed before
mankind started making huge phallic shaped missiles anyway? 

Oh..Did I mention the acting was bad?? I don't recall liking ANY of the
characters, with exception to the dad (played by Bryan Cranston) and he
dies within the first 20 minutes of the movie. There are characters
that seem to have no purpose whatsoever besides trying to find a way to
fill a 2 hour movie with irrelevant fluff. Lil Asian boy on the
elevated train in Hawaii? Didn't see any point to him.. The main
characters wife and little boy?? Added nothing to the story to be
honest. (And what military wife who knows her husband is in danger
isn't waiting by the phone for news? Nope, phones ringing and she's
doing whatever.. Or tells her co-worker she's unavailable?) The acting
had no depth to it, everyone came off very flat and honestly,
unlikable. There's no emotion whatsoever. Hey, a couple of muppet
hybrids are destroying our city, oh well. A huge Godzilla is barreling
towards our aircraft carrier? Don't panic.. lets stand at the guardrail
and watch it peacefully because any emotion such as fear would be too
much to ask.

Pretty sad when the most exciting thing about this movie is a bird
hitting the bus window.. Although, to be honest, the CGI on the actual
fight between Godzilla and the muppet hybrids was nice, the whole 5
minutes it lasted. Then, Godzilla jumps in the water and the credits
roll. Best part of the whole movie.. Compared to the other 121 minutes
of this movie, the credits are the best 2 minutes overall.
<|_=00=_|>
Scenario 1: If you are going to see this film because you really enjoy
classic Godzilla movies and you hope the music and campy theme of those
films are represented in this one, you absolutely should go see it.
Godzilla here looks much more like the beloved behemoth than it did in
the '98 movie, the music hearkens to the classic Japanese overtures of
the old Gojira film era, and the camera work has the comically silly
nature of Sam Rami's Spiderman series.

Scenario 2: If you are really excited to see a deep, human film with
camera angles and writing that really tell a story that is thematically
transcendent such as "District 9" and the Korean film "The Host," this
is not your film. The script is filled with overtly simplistic rhetoric
and one dimensional characters (intentionally,) the scenes somehow
manage to have very little tension (even for me, the pilot episodes for
most sitcoms seem more tense than Gozilla,) and as stated above, the
camera-work is intentionally hammy. It should also be noted that to add
a human element, the director overuses children to the point that it
ends up feeling very obvious, as though he did it to be intentionally
campy.

Scenario 3: If you are one of those people who really just want a fun
popcorn flick such as Pacific Rim, with some solidly choreographed
action like in the over-the-top bulletfest Battle:LA, I would say
proceed with caution. The fight scenes are less intense and more
majestic, like any classic monster movie, and as such the human aspect
of the combat is relatively insignificant, less so than any other
monster movie I've ever seen. There are no little monsters for anyone
to shoot at, if that's your thing.

Scenario 4: If you are interested in this film because you love the
talented work of Bryan Cranston, Ken Watanabe, and/or Aaron Taylor-
Johnson (three of my favorite actors) and are excited to see what they
bring to the table, you should probably sit this one out. Bryan
Cranston's role in this film garners far less screen time than
advertised, Ken Watanabe spends literally every second walking through
the scenes with the pained expression of someone who just walked in on
their parents, and all three of the actors give off the vibe that they
are very much aware of how cheesy their lines are. Everyone else's
performance was similarly forgettable.

Honestly, I'm a stickler for deep, human storytelling, but I've also
had a softspot for the classic, silly fun of many Godzilla movies,
including my favorite, Godzilla vs. Destroyah. All told, depending on
which camp you fall under, this will be an entirely different movie for
you. As Godzilla movies go, I'd give it a B. As darker, more serious
monster movies go, I'd give it a D+.
<|_=00=_|>
For fans of monster movies, "Godzilla" was surely one of the most
anticipated releases of the year. Therefore, the most surprising thing
about Godzilla is not how empty the story is, but rather how little
there is of the monster in the movie after which it is named.

The plot in "Godzilla" is disposable. It only exists as an excuse to
unleash the film's titular character. However, is it too much to ask
for an original plot with characters we could care about? Here, the
back story is cliché-ridden and the characters simply serve the
function of moving the story forwards. As such, one would expect that
Godzilla is at least given ample screen time. Surprisingly, this is not
the case, and the majority of the film's focus seems to be on the
military attempting to find out how to kill Godzilla and the MUTOs,
which look like giant, angry cockroaches. Ultimately, it is left up to
the score and the Michael Bay-esque dub-step reminiscent sound design
to create tension.

Its almost futile to talk about the performances in the film because
despite the strong cast, the characters are so one-dimensional that
nobody delivers a memorable performance. Bryan Cranston and Juliette
Binoche do their best with the little screen time they are given, and
the couple of Aaron-Taylor Johnson and Elizabeth Olsen are given the
impossible task of creating interesting characters from the uninspired
script. More worrying, however, is how unnecessary Sally Hawkins'
character is and how the script manages to make Ken Watanabe look like
a second-rate actor, as his character rarely changes expression from
the looks of intense thought or surprise. 

Overall, "Godzilla" did not work for me at all. Not only is it a film
without heart, but it a film meant to thrill that ends up just being
tedious. I could have left halfway through the movie. I just didn't
care how things would turn out.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of the most terrible movie I've ever seen. A torture. I
could barely stay still on my sit. I almost left the room 1 hour before
the end. But I stayed, hoping for something good to happen. But
something good never happened and the ending is even worst that my
worst expectations.

The trailer was such a lie. I was expecting something dark, mysterious
and brainy. Something like The Dark Knight. Instead it's only military
crap, dinosaurs fight and worthless American patriotism. Makes me sick.
The movie dies with Bryan Cranston. The only problem is that his part
doesn't last half an hour.

Godzilla wasn't an earthquake. It wasn't a typhoon. It was just sh*t.
<|_=00=_|>
First I need to tell that I am from Central Europe. I am not writing
reviews but I can't be silent. This was terrible. This was 1st time
when after movie everybody was talking how bad it was. And everybody I
mean whole cinema.

First 20-30 minutes were watchable. It was looking to be a solid movie,
but after that everything goes wrong. And I mean everything... Bad
dialog's; good music in very bad moments and several styles of it; main
character immortal; American happy ending style; no logic in this movie
anywhere; many mistakes noticeable for everyone...

If a Uwe Boll have more money, he will make this movie better. When I
was watching Sharknado, I was less shocked by stupidity like in this
movie. It is waste of your time and money and watch it only when you
want to punish yourself.
<|_=00=_|>
Where do I begin? Nothing in this movie works. The 3D effects are the
worst I've ever seen. In almost every major scene featuring the
monsters, they appear completely flat and in the background, with one
or two humans in the foreground in 3D. But the humans are so small (in
a flawed attempt to convey the enormous scale of the monsters) that
they just seem like silhouettes watching the same movie you are, as if
somebody in the audience stood up to block the screen. It's almost as
if the director pre-rendered the movie for Mystery Science Theater
3000... 

There are lots of other monster scenes where some minor object (broken
window pane, windshield wiper, train passenger, etc.) gets in the way
in a botched attempt to create depth. It never works - the monsters
always seem fake and flat.

Nothing about the plot makes any sense. We're to believe the monsters
could completely obliterate a nuclear power plant without being
noticed. Then, when they re-appear after 15 years (couldn't they have
waited a few more years like the cicadas?), they can effortlessly elude
radar tracking, satellite imagery, and a hundred million iPhones and
just sneak around, silently munching on nuclear submarines. We're also
to believe that nobody is really sure whether Godzilla is friend or
foe, so the U.S. Navy will arbitrarily alternate between sailing right
next to him and shooting at him with rockets. 

With all of the nuclear power plants in the country, which are like
catnip to these suckers, somehow a major plot element involves luring
the monsters away from population centers with a single nuclear weapon
on a train.

The score is so loud, intrusive, and overly dramatic it's mind-numbing.

The M.U.T.O.s (Massive Unidentified Terrestrial Organisms) are as
generic and uninspired as you could possibly imagine. Just think of
every mantis-shaped bug you've ever seen in any movie, and that's them.
Throughout the entire movie I was distracted trying to remember where
I'd seen them before - and I just remembered, they're a rip-off from
Starship Troopers.

Every time a monster fight scene starts, it ends abruptly before
anything interesting happens. In this movie, Honolulu, Las Vegas, and
San Francisco supposedly get destroyed, but you can't really tell and
won't really care. I think maybe 60 seconds was spent on the
destruction of Honolulu and about 30 seconds on Las Vegas.

The guy from Kick-Ass (I can't be bothered to look up his name) plays a
giant walking cliché. So do half of the Olsen Twins. So do two - count
'em two - precocious endangered kids.

The scene on the Golden Gate bridge is one of the dumbest I've ever
seen. I'm pretty sure that bridge wasn't designed to hold a bunch of M1
tanks and - even if it was - they probably wouldn't be in a traffic jam
with busloads of kids. I still can't figure out whether the bus driver
was supposed to be a hero or a maniac for trying to mow down every
pedestrian/soldier/policeman on the bridge just to save the walking
cliché's son. And all those ships in the bay! Toy ships dropped in a
bathtub would have a more organized formation.

It doesn't really matter that Godzilla isn't in the movie that much.
You'll just want the movie to be over. It doesn't matter that Bryan
Cranston dies early on in the movie - you'll just want the movie to be
over. It doesn't matter whether Admiral David Strathairn gets his
SitReps from the TV news instead of looking out his window at the
600-foot-tall monster. You'll just want the movie to be over.

It doesn't even matter that military people repeatedly "pronounce out"
A.S.A.P. even though in real life they'd probably just say "AY-sap".
You'll just want the movie to be over A.S.A.F.P.

I think what bothers me the most is the overuse of helicopters. I mean,
I love helicopters. Blue Thunder is one of my favorite movies and
Airwolf was my favorite TV show. I don't watch Westerns because there
aren't enough helicopters in them. But the excessive use of helicopters
in this movie made even me want to scream "Enough with the helicopters,
we get it, you can make them look 3D! Too bad you couldn't do that with
the giant monsters!"

Honestly, this latest installment of Godzilla is just as unwatchable as
the Emmerich brothers' fiasco, and even Godzilla 1985 was more
interesting.

To those positive reviewers who claim that it's not fair to compare
this to Pacific Rim because they're different kinds of movies, I say:
You are correct. Pacific Rim is an enjoyable, well done monster movie
with good effects, and Godzilla is the exact opposite.
<|_=00=_|>
If Jaws was released today, everyone would complain how it took too
long for the shark to turn up. WHAT HAPPENED TO ATTENTION SPANS?!

When I saw it in the cinema people couldn't even get through the
opening credits without being on their phones. These are the same type
of people who complain about how the human characters are dull (Yet the
1998 Godzilla characters were too ridiculous) but tell you off for
saying the same thing about Pacific Rim, saying "But I just want to see
action"

The people who complain about there being too little action also
complain about how Transformers has too much action. The people who
complain about Cranston not being in it enough complain about movies
using popular actors just to get people to watch it. The people who
complain about it being dark and realistic complain about the Marvel
movies being too light and unrealistic.

The people who complain about this movie are whiny, hypocritical and
missed one of the most beautifully choreographed movies, with the most
impressive visuals even when the monsters weren't on screen, a great
soundtrack that inspired terror and a cast that although lacking in the
third act, made up for a great introduction and middle (Cranston and
Watanabe) and some of the most epic-scaled action I have seen in the
last 10 years. Cloverfield was a shaky mess that wasted the monster and
Pacific Rim had sporadic fights that gave no real sense of scale.

I can't wait for the many sequels that will most likely have a lot more
Godzilla now they are confident (given the box office)to use more CGI
and money. He will be fighting some of the most iconic villains from
the Godzilla universe, and hopefully all the idiots who watched and
hated this movie won't watch it and me all the people who cheered
through the first one will get to watch it in peace.
<|_=00=_|>
Being a fan who used to go to the movie theater in the 1960's to watch
all those great (and cheesy) Godzilla movies. This new Godzilla movie
is the Godzilla movie I have been waiting my whole life for. Not that
1998 SonyZilla that was so disappointing. But this movie, I know that
all the long time fan's like myself will watch it over on over again. I
will go back to the movies next week to see it again. Can't wait for
the Blu- ray. I honestly do not see what all the haters of this movie
are thinking. It's a Monster movie. Plain and simple. For 2 hours I was
entertained. I went today to the IMAX with two good friends and their
son's and we all liked the movie. No spoilers here so I will not
discuss what happens in the movie but I was surprised by a few things.
But that is what Gareth Edwards wanted. Why disagree. This movie kept
me on the edge of my seat the whole movie. When GODZILLA shows up I
just have one word. AWESOME! This is the Godzilla, all of us long time
fans have been waiting for. And the MUTO's are really cool too. It must
me sad to go to the movies and come out mad all the time. GO SEE THIS
MOVIE. Any REAL FAN of GODZILLA will enjoy this movie and THE EFFORT IT
TOOK TO MAKE IT. I cannot wait to see it again. LONG LIVE GODZILLA,
KING OF THE MONSTERS!
