
I read some of the comments including the one from the user named
"AlecBaldwin". He left early because of graphics and too many myths.
Another didn't like it because the English was hard to understand.
Another said it was a kids movie and Chan/Li were out for the dollars
only. I'll tell you that I went to the movie theater and sat back and
let the movie go wherever it wanted. I was intending on enjoying it and
I downright did. It is a great graphical movie with fantastic
choreography and editing, and an acting masterpiece, as well as action
packed. If you go into the movie theater and take the negative comments
with you, you will not like it. You need to understand that this is a
rare appearance by two masters who will probably never get together
again. As for the English, don't fret on that. I have a lot of trouble
with these kinds of movies. This was the ONLY one where I could
understand the English. It's simple. Go to the movie with popcorn and
soda in hand and an open mind. Get ready for some fast action and a
good story line. And finally, ENJOY!
<|_=00=_|>
In gong-fu movie lore, it has long been foretold that one day two of
the greatest stars of the genre would come together one day on the
screen. That day has come in "The Forbidden Kingdom," which stars two
of the latest and greatest stars of the martial arts movie genre -
Jackie Chan and Jet Li.

Combined, both men's careers span over 30 years and over 100 movies, in
their native China and here in the United States; that's a lot of
kung-pow kicking and punching. They both decided to make their American
crossovers around the same time during the 1990s - Chan's first hit in
the U.S. was "Rumble in the Bronx" (1995) and became a mega-star due to
the "Rush Hour" movies, while Li made his American debut as the lead
villain in "Lethal Weapon 4" (1998), received his first
English-speaking starring role in "Romeo Must Die" (2000), and earned
critical respectability with "Unleashed" in 2005.

Now, we're at "The Forbidden Kingdom." I like both stars. My friends
and I, like many other martial arts movie fans, have eagerly awaited
this cinematic pairing for some time.

Starting in the present - 2008 - an American teenager named Jason
(Michael Angarano) who has an obsession with gong-fu movies is
magically transported back in time to ancient China by the long-lost
staff of the fabled Monkey King (Li, in one of two roles in the film),
where he learns he has been chosen to return it to him. 500 years
earlier, the mischievous martial arts master Monkey King had been
imprisoned in stone by the Jade Warlord (Collin Chou).

On his journey, Jason comes across the drunken beggar Lu Yan (Chan, in
one of two roles in the film), who teaches him gong-fu so that he will
be able to take on the Jade Army. They are also aided by The Silent
Monk (Li, in his other role) and the orphan assassin Sparrow (Yifei
Liu). There is one particularly funny sequence where Lu Yan and The
Silent Monk fight over how to train Jason to defend himself - with Lu
Yan's unorthodox methods and the Monk's more traditional approach.

"The Forbidden Kingdom" is one fast-paced and entertaining martial arts
flick that keeps you watching just because of the
know-it-all/seen-it-all before charisma of the star talent. With nods
aplenty toward the martial arts movies of yesteryear (chiefly
old-school Shaw Brothers movies, as well as plenty of helpings of
Taoist philosophy and the Jeet Kune Do teachings of Bruce Lee), "The
Forbidden Kingdom" is perhaps what Quentin Tarantino has fantasized
about so much during countless cinema grind-house outings as an
impressionable teenager and later as an adult realized on the screen in
his "Kill Bill" films.

But Tarantino is nowhere in sight. Behind this production, is American
screenwriter John Fusco (who based the script on the epic story
"Journey to the West," which is cited as one of the four great novels
of Chinese literature) and American director Rob Minkoff (of "The Lion
King"). This production, put simply, is probably the best combination
of American-Chinese talent since "Enter the Dragon" way back in 1973.
Choreographing the fights with plenty of wire-work and CGI pizazz is
Woo-ping Yuen, known for his work with both Chan and Li, as well as
"The Matrix" (1999) and "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon" (2000). It's
pretty impressive that although it's fairly obvious that wires are
being used in the fight scenes, it doesn't really take away from the
action like it often tends to in American features, but actually
enhances their intensity here.

I got a lot of enjoyment from watching "The Forbidden Kingdom" and
watching the magnificent grace of Jackie Chan and Jet Li. Despite
occasional script deficiencies, I found this picture working from the
opening credits, which was a sure sign that what was about to come
would surely satisfy the martial arts movie fan inside of me. For many
martial arts movie fans, "The Forbidden Kingdom" may perhaps be the
movie they've been waiting for since the untimely passing of Bruce Lee
35 years ago.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>
Jet Li. Jackie Chan. Jackie Chan and Jet Li! For many people that is
all that is needed to elicit a "wow, I need to see that." Beyond star
power, the film is a riveting success. This is a kung-fu film with a
healthy sense of humor, an epic story and amazing visual imagery. Some
people will object to Michael Angarano's character, they will say, the
film doesn't need a white lead to keep the audience engaged. That is
true, but Angarano plays the role well and the character adds substance
to the story. The cultural conflict from thrusting a boy from Boston
into ancient China reflects the conflict between his kung-fu masters.
His personal growth helps carry the heroes journey through China. This
layering of themes works well.

Did I mention that we get to see Jackie Chan and Jet Li spar!?!

I got to see a preview of this movie and I consider my self very lucky.
I will go see this film again on opening day!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie will be enjoyed by any Jet Li or Jackie Chan fans,
certainly. The cinematography is wonderful, with stunning views,
excellent use of CGI without overdoing it, and decent acting. Jet Li
plays his role marvelously, and the continuity of the various plot
themes is fantastic. There are subtleties to this movie that will
require multiple viewings to catch! Pros include the acting and
scenery, and the way language is dealt with. The only con is that the
viewing I attended was a bit rough around the edges, with a couple of
minor bobbles in editing and film quality. I'm sure this will be
corrected in the final production for the theaters, though! Overall,
this is a good action/fantasy movie. For those who like the "chop suey"
kung fu flicks, this will be a blast from the past. Jackie Chan shows
off his unique style of martial arts, while keeping the laughs rolling.
Jet Li is NOT playing the 'baddie' for a change, and has a surprisingly
entertaining role in this film. There isn't a lot of wire work in this
film, and what is done on wires is done judiciously.

A must-see film for this summer!
<|_=00=_|>
Jet Li + Jackie Chan = 1 Word... IMBA! I'm definitely a kung-fu movie
fan, especially if it's starring Jackie Chan OR Jet Li, but this movie
has them both in! The movie is all about the Chinese epic tale:
"Journey to the West" About Sun Wu Kong, or better known as "Stone
Monkey" it's one of my favorite Chinese stories.

It started out slow and it had me all confused when the main character
was an American boy but it turns out that they had their own version of
the tale. The boy strangely gets ported back inside the story where he
meets the characters whose roles are played by Jet Li and Jackie Chan
and they set out in a quest to return a staff owned by the stone monkey
who was prophesied to end the tyranny of the Jade warlord, an evil
general who is the villain in the movie.

The action scenes were really good, superb even. Jackie chan and Jet Li
still had their kung-fu in them and it was fun and amusing to watch.

The Acting was good, especially by Jackie chan and Jet Li. (I liked Jet
Li's role as stone monkey especially, because he really looked like a
monkey) The storyline though, was quite predictable because, Jackie
chan movies always end in happy endings. but as I always say: "What you
say is just as important as how you say it." Same goes with a movie,
though the storyline is predictable, how the story went and how it was
flavored with humor and drama and action made the movie much, much
better and so worthwhile and entertaining to watch.
<|_=00=_|>
The Forbidden Kingdom starts in a way that is similar to The Karate
Kid, with Jason (Michael Angarano), the boy new to his local high
school who loves kung fu movies, but is helpless to defend himself
against the neighborhood bullies. These same bullies force him to help
them into a pawn shop whose owner is shot but still passes on a
mysterious staff to Jason. The staff turns out to be that of the
legendary Monkey King and Jason is transported into ancient China where
he journeys to use the staff to free the imprisoned Monkey King. In the
end Jason must prove himself as he faces both fantastical and real life
foes.

Once in China Jason acquires several companions; Lu Yan (Jackie Chan) a
wine drinking kung fu master, Golden Sparrow (Yifei Liu) a vengeance
driven young women and later a monk (Jet Li) who protect him and later
train him in the art of kung fu. Together they journey to Five Elements
Mountain to attempt to free the Monkey King and end the reign of the
evil Jade Warlord (Collin Chou) who sends innumerable troops to stop
them.

This movie works on many levels, none too deep, but very satisfying
none the less. First of all it is a great action movie with very well
done kung fu action scenes involving Jackie Chan and Jet Li, two of the
greatest kung fu movie stars in the past couple of decades. In the
midst of all of this is a great deal of fairly well done comedy,
sometimes not perfectly executed, but generally fun, especially during
the kung fu training of Jason. Last but not least this is a classic
coming of age story in which Jason journeys from being a boy who
fantasizes of adventure to a young man who can fight and suffer for
what is right.

This is a fantasy based movie, so expect some magical displays and
references to immortal beings, but this is not too heavily done so the
story is fairly easy to follow. Refreshingly the movie has relatively
little in the way of moral ambiguity, with villains that are really
evil and those who oppose them being flawed humans but still striving
to that which is right.

In regards to the appropriateness of the movie for varied audiences,
the violence in this PG-13 rated movie is never graphic, though
possibly disturbing for young children. There is no sexual content with
the exception of an implied impending assault by the Jade Warlord (we
see nothing actually happening here). I saw the movie in a
pre-screening with mostly college students whose applause and laughs
made it clear they enjoyed it, but I am quite a bit past college and
found it just as enjoyable.

One last comment, while virtually all of the dialogue between main
characters is in English, there is a fair amount of Mandarin Chinese
being spoken during the movie. In the few instances when knowing the
content of this is important there are English subtitles and I did not
find the un-translated portions to be an issue.

Overall this is a movie that is exciting, fun and generally very
satisfying to watch.
<|_=00=_|>
Jackie Chan returns in a Drunken Master (1978) role along with Jet Li
in a more mysterious but delightful twisting role in this fantasy
martial arts film that requires a leap of faith into myths, legends,
and magic. In doing so, this adventure tale is compelling from the very
beginning with a quick, fast martial art scene followed by some amazing
opening credits. The martial art fights are prolonged and exciting and
the storyline is although predictable, entertaining and worthy of an
evening storytale. Not a classic, nor epic, not heavy, and never
managing to enter into serious realm of award-winning, this movie is
nevertheless a summer, adolescent family movie that is worth its
admission price and both Jackie Chan and Jet Li offer up some good
performances in a movie without any real failings. Eight out of Ten
Stars.
<|_=00=_|>
If you're not a 13 year-old boy, Forbidden Kingdom was not really made
for you. I understand the appeal of Jet Li and Jackie Chan, together at
last, and everyone's hopes for a harmonious combination like peanut
butter and chocolate. I shared this hope, but was served something more
like canned cheese with crackers. It's not that this combination is
bad, just that their pairing is framed within a feeble, pointlessly
enthusiastic action film.

Forbidden Kingdom follows the story of Jason (Michael Angarano), a
die-hard kungfu fan and his concussion-induced journey back in time to
a mythical China. Jason must return a golden staff to the Monkey King
(Jet Li), who is imprisoned in stone under the evil gaze of the
immortal Jade Warlord (Collin Chou). Jason meets a silent monk (Jet
Li), drunken master Lu Yan (Jackie Chan), and musical assassin Golden
Sparrow (Yifei Liu) who all have a vested interest in the Monkey King
or the demise of the Jade Warlord. They accompany Jason on his quest
and give him the skills he needs to repel his foes.

The characters are interesting but completely shallow. We're introduced
to them as stock. There's an assumed level of familiarity with martial
arts movies, which they're directly inspired by, but little more is
given than this stereotype. Lu Yan and the Silent Monk profess death
threats, engage in playful antics, and display some unknown kinship,
sometimes all within the same scene. We like Golden Sparrow because
she's beautiful and she's the same age as our protagonist. Beyond an
obvious romantic setup, a briefly uttered revenge quest, and a
catfight, she's completely pointless. It's interesting that Li and Chan
both play secondary characters in this movie, and in roles that are not
their traditional typecast fare. Jackie Chan is terribly sympathetic,
but by his own undeniable Jackie Chan charm, not on any strength of the
movie.

My biggest problem with this movie lies in Jason's story. He's sent to
mythical China with more stereotypes than skills, and through truly
excessive use of montage, becomes a warrior who can help the Monkey
King. I suspend disbelief for fantasy films, but the montages are as
repetitive and annoying as the whiny Jason. Since we're so interested
in Jet Li and Jackie Chan, why make them secondary characters and give
the focus to a coming-of-age quest? My rhetorical question is answered
for you in the first sentence of the review. But I think this also
skirts the issue of trying to give equal screen time and top billing to
the two biggest martial arts stars of our age.

As repugnant as the writing and editing may be, Forbidden Kingdom makes
up for this in a good dose of fight scenes. This has some of the best
story-to-action ratios of any martial arts movie, hearkening back to
the heyday of kung fu, where the story is minimized to make room for
more action. Nothing wrong with that! It's still entertaining as always
to watch Chan and Li fight. There is one very long sparring sequence
and while it's nothing terribly flashy, you do get a sense that the two
are very well matched. Some of the editing is sketchy, relying heavily
on reaction shots rather than allowing us to see maneuvers connect.
Some of the fighting is extremely theatrical and extended, in true
wushu style, and beautiful to see.

The visuals have that nearly animated quality, with emphasis on glow
and gold, that we've seen so often in fantasy movies lately. Combined
with the cutout characters, it gives the impression that you're
watching more of a video game than a movie. I like video games, but
this is not necessarily a boon. I'd like to see something more
original, or maybe something that draws more heavily on Chinese cinema,
since the movie already borrows so liberally from those films.

Forbidden Kingdom has all of the good components of a classic action
film, but together, these elements work against each other in a big
way. The narrative is short, but not short enough. The general tone is
more like a poor comic book movie than a kung fu fantasy. This may
appeal to some, but dressing up in silks doesn't make this tired thing
new again.
<|_=00=_|>
I have been a big fan of Jet Li/ Jackie Chan since I can remember. All
I have to say is that they deserve better. A movie that consists of
both these remarkable actors should be incredible and unforgettable,
but, in my opinion, this movie can only be remembered probably because
it's their first tandem. I don't know what the writers in this movie
are thinking. They should have watched the old movies of these two and
studied it. They should have written a story that will compliment both
their strengths in the screen (not just their martial arts techniques),
and the tone of the movie is well-off. Needless to say, if you want to
see a feel-good, relatively entertaining then this movie is definitely
your cup-of- tea.
<|_=00=_|>
I think this movie is a testament, that all blockbusters should strive
for: having the perfect balance of action, drama, and comedy. From the
awesomely choreographed fight sequences to the laugh-out-loud comedic
moments, it truly has something for everyone.

Like someone else has said, there is nothing bad to say at all about
this movie. It's one of those fun movies that my family and I like to
call "DVD Purchase-worthy," not in the sense of skipping the theater
and just waiting for it to come on DVD to watch, but rather an awesome
movie we watch in the theater that we'd want to see again and again.

Jackie Chan's continued natural ability for humor and Jet Li's
soft-spoken attitude, compliment each other well, like Ying-Yang,
culminating in their first on-screen appearance together, that does not
disappoint! And Michael Angarano continues to have a knack for picking
fun movies to be a part of (first he gets to fly in Sky High and now he
gets to learn Kung Fu..how awesome is that!?!) and I see the dude
becoming one great up and coming actor! 

AWESOME movie! A Friday night well-spent!!
