
There is just no way to explain the plot of this film and not have it
sound rather silly and this film is anything but foolish frivolity. I
found it utterly charming and carefully and delicately directed. There
are moments of belly shaking humor and quiet tears as Ryan Gosling
brilliantly evolves from a reclusive soul with the help of a silicone
woman and a kind hearted community. I want to know these endearing
people. There is a moral point to this film, perhaps more than one.
Don't be put off by the synopsis, or trailer. This is not your standard
Hollywood fare. See it for the humor, or the humanity, either way, you
will be glad you did. I see very, very few films twice- this one is on
my list.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of the most remarkably original films that I have ever
seen, providing a refreshing comment that we can learn and expand our
horizons from each other if we approach everyone's foibles with a
degree of kindness. It is laugh-out-loud funny, but it is also
thought-provoking and moving.

Ryan Gosling provides a spectacular tour-de-force as a dysfunctional
young man in a small town who only begins to blossom when he starts a
"relationship" with an expensive love doll. When he takes the risk of
introducing "Bianca" to the tightly-knit community in which he lives,
the "relationship" is met with an unexpectedly heartwarming response.

Strong support is provided by the always-refreshing Emily Mortimer,
Patricia Clarkson, and by Kelli Garner as the sweet thing who becomes
"Bianca's" rival. But Gosling provides the heart and soul of this
remarkable film that never strikes a false note.

The movie has an incredibly powerful and positive message about the
ability of a community to heal and nurture a troubled soul by treating
it with acceptance and compassion. It should be required viewing by
anyone who feels alone in the world.
<|_=00=_|>
Lo and behold, a film that still believes in simple human kindness.

There's been a severe lack of that on our movie and television screens
lately, which is why I found "Lars and the Real Girl" utterly
irresistible. I imagine this is the kind of movie that's either going
to work for you or it's not. I can guarantee that if you go into it and
pick apart all the ways in which it's not realistic, you're not going
to enjoy it.

Ryan Gosling has rocketed to the top of the list of my favorite
contemporary actors. He's given two of the best performances in the
last two years: here in "Lars" and last year in "Half Nelson." The
success of "Lars and the Real Girl" depends almost entirely on
Gosling's ability to sell this character to the audience, and he does
so flawlessly. Lars is a sweet teddy bear of a man who also happens to
be intensely lonely. He orders a life-size and anatomically correct sex
doll and proceeds to make a companion of her, taking her to parties, to
church, to family dinners. A psychiatrist (a marvelous, as usual,
Patricia Clarkson) tells the family that the best thing they can do for
Lars is to encourage his delusion until he works through whatever is
causing it; they relay that to the townspeople, who take it to heart.
As a result, Lars's "girlfriend" is completely accepted by the town,
and even gets elected to the school board.

Ultimately, "Lars" probably isn't very realistic, but isn't it nice to
think it could be? That a group of people could be this warm, kind and
accepting, simply because they happen to like somebody and want to see
him get better. The film is full of wonderful performances from
everyone. In addition to Gosling and Clarkson, Emily Mortimer shines as
Lars's caring and worried sister-in-law.

It really irritates me that critics were divided on this movie on the
basis of it pushing the boundaries of credibility, when they almost
unanimously praised "Gone Baby Gone," a film so melodramatic and heavy
handed as to be no less implausible, and that goes down as two of the
most unpleasant hours I've spent in a movie theatre for a long time.
Has our culture now decided that a film about good kind people is too
unrealistic to stomach, and that the only movies that ring true are
ones about human depravity? 

So far, "Lars and the Real Girl" is one of my favorite films of the
year.

Grade: A
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. Guilt while laughing is an unusual
experience ... well except while watching Lars and Bianca. This film is
hilarious, touching and insightful. The product of genius writing by
Nancy Oliver (Six Feet Under) and solid direction by Craig Gillespie
("Mr. Woodcock"), this film will force you to step back and think about
how you treat those who might be a little different or struggle with
social interaction.

Ryan Gosling is absolutely amazing as Lars. His character redefines
"being in a shell". Wounded by the pain of losing his parents and
literally frightened by human touch, Gosling exudes the humanity of a
injured child. The real guilty fun starts once Bianca is delivered.
Bianca is the anatomically correct molded doll whom Lars treats as a
real girlfriend. The ride picks up steam when his relatives and then
the entire town elect to play along.

The entire cast is excellent with standout performances by Emily
Mortimer ("Match Point"), Paul Schneider, the great Patricia Clarkson
as the very wise and very human doctor, and Kelli Garner
("Thumbsucker") looking very homely as the co-worker with a crush on
Lars.

Not sure how wide of audience this will find, but I highly recommend to
all adults ... it is not a film for kids. Hopefully the academy takes
notice of the film, the writing and the acting ... all top notch.
<|_=00=_|>
Mislead by some comments here i expected a laugh-out comedy, Ben Stiler
style. Many other people in the cinema expected the same and from the
beginning of the film they laughed at the slightest hint that something
might be funny. Little by little though, the laughs went to silence and
people understood they were watching a drama, not a comedy. Indeed
there were scenes that made you laugh, but the more important scenes
were those that take you by the heart and make you feel and understand.
Thanks to the great acting by Ryan Gosling, Emily Mortimer, Paul
Schneider, Patricia Clarkson, all the supporting cast, you get a feel
of a community of neighbors, friends, family, perhaps too idealized,
but nevertheless, giving hope and warmth.

What totally surprised me was that this is an original American movie
(correct me if i'm wrong). The names of the characters, people's
features and clothes, the weather and location if you like, all made me
think this is an authentic Scandinavian movie, up to the dialog and
plot itself. I could literally see rural Scandinavian types and
imagined the characters speak Norwegian or Swedish. The whole flow of
the movie, the way it never went out of order, kept its steady,
peaceful step, so typical for European movies - all my regards to
director Craig Gillespie for achieving this. Anything else would've
spoiled this sad movie, diminished its message, denied the sacrifices
and human pain of its characters

The story in short is of a man, troubled by his past and afraid of
closeness even with his loving family. He finds an seemingly
undemanding friend in a human-sized doll he buys over the internet.
Soon, with the help of his family and the whole town, who decide to
play his game, he discovers the beauty of human touch, emotion and
contact...

9/10

peace and love
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw this movie last night with friends and I'll admit I'd never
heard of it. I knew it was worth watching when I was told Ryan Gosling
was in it so I was mildly excited to see it. The first thirty minutes
of the film are pretty damn funny and to some, almost hilarious. Very
well done comedic acting that is real, believable, and still amazing to
watch. Part of what makes the first thirty minutes so funny is because
we know about the doll, and we can't wait for the first reactions.
After that the story takes a wonderfully surprising turn to a really
touching light drama. I was very surprised but I really loved it. A lot
of people laughed throughout the film, and I was very much bothered by
that. There is a reason this man is pretending that a "sex" doll is a
real person, and its a very internal serious pain thats hes going
through, which for me, understanding that part of the story, I felt it
was mildly inappropriate for people to laugh, but I understood with
time. Near the end of the film it gets a little predictable for one,
some would say major, plot turn, but not so predictable as to ruin it.
About 5 to 10 minutes before it happens you see it coming, but other
than that it was superbly acted by Ryan Gosling who has nothing but an
incredible career in front of him, and good supporting roles as well.
This is a very enjoyable film, which I recommend to anyone and
everyone. It really seems to have something for everyone, but be
prepared it might make you laugh, cry, or both. Its a very very good
movie, and definitely worth seeing in theaters.
<|_=00=_|>
My wife and I went to see this on by birthday, and I was expecting it
to be sorta quirky and off beat. I was surprised to find that this was
a touching and humorous relationship-driven drama.

As already accounted here, Ryan Gosling gave a performance that many
MANY of the popular actors could only DREAM of. He was brilliant, and
his portrayal of Lars covered so many emotional dynamics.

However, I am going to write about Paul Schneider, who played Lars'
brother, Gus. He was so subtle and funny, so spot on! His side-arc
concerning being the older brother in a troubled family. . . just
genius.

I would recommend this movie to everyone.
<|_=00=_|>
If anyone had told me I would one day be crying during a movie about a
man and his blow-up doll, I would have called them a liar. But, here I
am, going through at least 3 Kleenex even after the movie is over. Lars
and the Real Girl is a touching, quirky film that is a lesson in why
people do the things they do. Anyone that is interested in social work,
counseling, psychology, or ministry should watch this movie.

Lars is a quiet young man (probably 30s) who does not like to be
touched. He works in a cubicle in some random office. Currently, he
lives in the garage of his childhood home. His brother, Gus, and new
wife, Karin, live in the connected house and are expecting a child
soon. Karin puts a great deal of effort into trying to pull Lars out of
his shell. Gus, on the other hand, thinks Lars is happy how he is. It's
his choice to spend time alone, isn't it? The status quo is shaken up,
however, when Lars brings home a new girlfriend. Her name is Bianca,
and she is a blow-up doll. But Lars doesn't realize this, or if he
does, he doesn't acknowledge it. She is, to him, real. He talks to her
as if she is. For everyone who thinks sounds disgusting, take note: his
relationship with Bianca is not sexual by any means. On the contrary,
Bianca used to be a missionary and the two of them insist that Bianca
sleep in the house instead of in bed with Lars in the garage. I say the
two of them insist because Lars actually seems to hear answers when he
asks Bianca's questions.

At first everyone is shaken up. The four of them go to the family
doctor under the guise of needing to make sure Bianca is in good
physical health. Dr. Dagmar suggests to Gus and Karin that Bianca is
here for a reason and they should just ride it out. She asks Lars to
come in once a week to make sure Bianca is all right. While they wait
for the treatments to take effect, Dagmar and Lars get a chance to
talk, and voilà, Lars is in counseling without him even knowing it.

Karin wants to do what is best for Lars. Gus just wants this little
problem to go away. This is making it all too apparent that maybe
things aren't all right with this family. On the positive side, Lars
starts spending more time around other people. People of the town,
including preachers, hairdressers, and hospital workers, all treat
Bianca as if she is real. This seems to give Lars to courage to come
out of his shell, but he isn't the only one who changes.

Bianca helps this community and this family come together in unexpected
ways. The acting is superb. Ryan Gosling as Lars is sure to get an
Oscar nomination. Paul Schneider as Gus is the perfect brother who
would rather bury painful issues than deal with them. Patricia Clarkson
as Dr. Dagmar is a truly compassionate doctor that would put any
counselor to shame.

Lars and the Real Girl has now moved up to my top favorite movies of
all time. Anyone who sees this movie will be pleasantly surprised.
During the movie, I saw one couple get up and leave. I have no idea
what they could have been offended about. There is nothing sexual or
gross about this movie. The blow-up doll merely becomes a physical
embodiment of one man's terrible loneliness in a world where he was
heartlessly abandoned.
<|_=00=_|>
It's always a treat to walk into a theater and leave after viewing
something great - something I didn't expect. 

The independent film 'Lars and the Real Girl' is just that. It's
promoted as a comedy about a guy who's in love with a sex doll, yet the
film is the type everyone should see and you can even consider taking
your kids. (It's rated PG-13)

Lars (Ryan Gosling) is an introvert, who holds an office job and lives
in a northern mid-west town. His pad is a modified garage next to his
deceased parents' home. His brother Gus (Paul Schneider) and pregnant,
caring sister-in-law, Karin (Emily Mortimer) live in the large house on
the property.

One day Lars meets a friend (the doll) on the internet and has her
shipped to his home. Being the gentleman that he is, Lars asks Gus and
Karin if his quest can stay in the main house until they get to know
each other better. This sets off a chain of events that involve the
local doctor, minister, his co-workers and ultimately, the entire town.

It's a story of openness and the importance of allowing what you first
think is unacceptable and different, is actually completely acceptable.
The film draws you in, changes your initial beliefs and provides a
wonderful message at the same time. It's a heartwarming, feel good film
that will stay with you long after you leave the theater. Lars and his
''real girl' taught me more about life and love. It will do the same
for you.
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw a screening in LA and a packed house of SAG members LOVED
this film! Ryan Gosling's performance hearkens back an equally moving
and effective performance from Peter Sellers in Being There, which
Gosling and director Craig Gilespie admitted was about their only
reference point. Gosling's character is sweet, good natured, and
painfully shy and is the heart and soul of this film. His performance
as Lars (along with patient direction and a wonderful script) is the
prime reason that it all works. I laughed HARD throughout, but by the
end I shed real tears over the plot and characters - and I thought
doing so over a talking pig was bad! This is a performance WAY out of
the ordinary for Gosling, and most of today's young actors could not
have pulled it off. Expect an Oscar nomination for Gosling and for the
screenplay.
