
Sealed With a Kiss is a traditional fully-animated film, with seals
doing Shakespeare. I admit that like many others, I wasn't totally sold
on the concept, but then when you get down to it The Lion King was
basically Hamlet with lions, and few seemed to have a problem with
that. Turned out to be quite a fun little movie. 

While the dialogue is modern, the film has a few of the characters
quoting famous Shakespearian lines, but in a way that shouldn't
alienate children. It's more of a comedic thing. The story gets going
straight away, with rivalry between the 2 groups of seals. This is part
about racism, but for the most part, an old-fashioned feud. I was
worried going in that the romance would be forced and sappy. Well maybe
it is a little sappy, but it's sweet, and sincerely handled. As in the
play, it's love at first sight. Two of the songs near the start were, I
thought rather weak, but they at least progressed the story. As the
film gets going, there are fewer songs.

Unlike the play, the film is light in tone and has many comedic
elements. There are a few laugh-out-loud moments but some of Mercutio's
puns are groan inducing(even the characters in the film seem to think
so). As you would expect, liberties are taken (most notably the
ending), and it isn't weighed down like some adaptations. To be honest,
I fully expected it to be Romeo & Juliet in name only, and sure enough
a great many story elements have no relation whatsoever to what
Shakespeare wrote, but I was surprised that the core of what is here is
more or less true to what I remember of the original.

I was particularly interested to see how the animation turned out, as
it has emerged that this film is that rarest of things: a one man
animated film. Phil Nibbelink wrote, directed and animated every frame
of the film over the course of 5 years. Despite this, it is remarkably
well animated. Well drawn fluid cartoony animation. It's not quite of
the level of a top notch Disney animated film, but it comes very close,
indeed far closer than I would have ever dreamed possible for a one-man
effort. A few shortcuts are taken, but there are a surprising number of
scenes animated on ones (which takes twice as many drawings as is
usually necessary). This means the animation can be that extra bit more
fluid. Some shortcuts can be seen in some of the background characters
and effects animation, but this is generally where it matters least.
The important stuff, the character animation, is top notch, what you
would expect from a strong Disney animator (which is what Nibbelink
spent a decade working as). The backgrounds are soft-focus simple and
uncluttered to frame the character animation. In a few cases these are
perhaps a little rushed, but all in all, they set the atmosphere and do
the job.

Even with the lighter tone, it still manages strong dramatic moments.
Despite the villain of the piece being a doofus played mostly for
laughs, he nevertheless adds menace to the proceedings. There's nothing
here that should bother small children, and they should have no trouble
following the storyline. While the film aims at a young audience that
may not yet be ready for this kind of romance, there should be enough
action and comedy to keep them entertained.
<|_=00=_|>
No, it isn't Disney, and it isn't even quite Shakespeare (the almost
too clever but crafty subtitle "Sealed With A Kiss" tells us that), but
as a throwback to one and a light introduction to the other, this very
little (77 minute) film deserves to find an appreciative audience.

The one-man, single cell "flat" animation is smoothly done and
handsome. While the brown and yellow Romeo and Juliet seals (to
distinguish between the Montague and Capulet herds) are closer to the
look of Casper the Ghost and friends than the more detailed "flat"
animation from the corporate giants at Disney, Pixar or Bluth, it is
several steps ahead of the still popular (among the undemanding young)
work associated with Rankin-Bass. The standard Nibbelink maintains is
consistent and impressive. Even the Elephant Seal "Prince" who stands
in for Shakespeare's Duke who threatens any who would disturb the
streets of his Venice does not recall the visual sloppiness of the
broad lines Ursula, the evil witch in Disney's LITTLE MERMAID was
rendered in.

The script might have tried a little harder (it omits more
Shakespearian characters than it had to - where's the nurse? - and
while it feels free to drop in "famous" Shakespearian quotes from other
plays at any convenient turn for the amusement of the adult audience,
it could have used a few more in the actual plot without turning off
the younger set), but it is coherent and even in "smoothing out" the
rough edges of one of Shakespeare's most famous tragedies for overly
sensitive parents, it preserves the essence of most of Shakespeare's
lessons (at least as interpreted these 400 years later).

Charm is the key word here - it is a charming film, and a very nicely
done one, even if it were from a major studio. From a one-man operation
it's close to a miracle that any student of film or animation should
put on their "must-discover" list. Even before the kids are ready for
MONSTERS INC. or SHREK 1, 2 or 3, this ROMEO AND JULIET, Sealed With A
Kiss would be a very good choice for a wise parent.
<|_=00=_|>
When people criticize this film, they probably forget that this is a
children's film. It is just a very sweet children's film based on
"Romeo and Juliet" and the characters are seals (save Friar Lawrence,
who is an otter). Kids will not enjoy films where a great deal of
characters die and they will not enjoy a live action film about lovers. 

Even though I'm not a kid, however, I very much enjoyed this film -
partly because I remembered that this was made for children. I also
enjoyed it because of the way it was made: the plot, the animation and
the characters. The songs are also sweet, but forgettable. The way one
man made this film pretty much all by himself is worth giving credit
for. I imagine that about 95% of the human population could not manage
that. 

You will probably know the story of Romeo and Juliet, there are two
feuding families and a boy and a girl, both from the feuding families,
fall in love with each other. Well, this film is like that, only with
seals.

I recommend this to people who do not mind Shakespeare being very much
adapted on and to every little kid who likes animated films and seals.
Enjoy "Romeo and Juliet: Sealed With a Kiss"! :-)

P.S "The Lion King II" is WAY more adapted from "Romeo and Juliet" and
no-one criticizes that film because of it.

P.P.S Last time I checked (which was when I watched it today), the
whole of this film was available on Youtube, so you can watch it on
there.
<|_=00=_|>
I remember accidentally stumbling on watching this movie with a family
member one night back in later 2006 as a late teen, and I don't
remember it being as bad as the 3.7/10 total user rating currently
shown on the film's page. Which isn't too surprising given that lots of
people today are hypercritical of things or films that aren't "by the
book", as I definitely remember this one being a little unique from the
Shakespeare play this movie is based on.

In terms of an animated movie altogether for all audiences and not just
kids, it's not excellent or probably not very good either, as I
remember some things were too childish to my taste. But nevertheless,
after looking at some clips of it again now, there were a few scenes
that are interesting to say the least. Particularly, the wedding scene
between the young Romeo and Juliet seal couple with the otter Friar, as
the way this entire part was done (including the organ music) is the
one I had remembered the most from this film.
<|_=00=_|>
Given that we have had three awful animated Titanic movies, it only
fits that sooner or later we'd have a bad movie based on Shakespeare.
The thing is, the animation isn't really terrible and neither is the
movie. It's still really bad, though. This movie reenacts "Romeo And
Juliet" only with cartoon seals for really no reason at all. As you
might have guessed, there's a bunch of dumb kid's songs in it. Of
course they wouldn't actually die at the end, it's a kid's movie! If
"The Lion King" could be "Hamlet" with cartoon animals, this could have
been good too.

The worst thing is probably how annoying the characters are. Even the
extras are obnoxious in this particularly with how they won't shut up
about how Romeo and Juliet can't get together. There's also this super
annoying little fish that fights a shark by getting other fish to slap
it or something stupid like that. I guess Romeo and Juliet aren't that
annoying, but everyone else is. There's this elephant seal that
supposed to have bad breath, but he looks more like he's farting out
his mouth. The pacing is terrible and don't expect any faithful scenes
from the play. *1/2
<|_=00=_|>
If you're expecting me to bash this movie into oblivion then you will
be very disappointed because I don't hate this movie. In fact, I don't
even dislike it which is ironic since it has almost everything I'm
against. Here's a full list: Underdeveloped romance, flat characters,
nonsensical plot points, a rap number (yes really,) bringing characters
back from the dead, and rewriting an overdone story. With that in mind,
I should hate this movie but I don't! Why you may ask? One reason is
nostalgia. As a kid, I absolutely adored this movie. I saw it almost
every day until I was like 8! So when I watch this movie I get a bit of
nostalgia for some of those scenes in the movie that sucked me in as a
kid. Another reason is the absolutely gorgeous hand drawn animation.
Yeah the designs are a little off but I like it. Plus, the backgrounds
are very atmospheric. I guess I like young love and even though it's
underdeveloped, seeing 2 cute little seals in love is just adorable to
me. I can see how it could be creepy for other older viewers but I
think it's cute. The ending is also pretty satisfying. While it doesn't
follow the book, it's downright adorable. Speaking of the book, this
movie followed the book as close as it could without killing off our
adorable main leads. They even kept the balcony scene! Overall, this
movie does get a little childish at times (and I do skip those scenes)
but it's overall cute and sweet.
<|_=00=_|>
I love Shakespeare, and was intrigued at how "Romeo and Juliet:Sealed
with a Kiss" would turn out. I did hear from people it was a disgrace
to Shakespeare, but I have been known to disagree with critics and the
IMDb ratings, so I gave this a chance. It wasn't absolutely repulsive,
but it didn't quite click with me. The best asset of the film is the
animation. The backgrounds are fluid and colourful and the characters
with the exception of the Prince were well drawn. Considering the
animation was done by one man, Phil Nibbelink, it was quite impressive
visually. The story pretty much follows the storyline of the play,
except it is about seals, plus some (I think) pointless scenes with
Friar Lawrence and a shark, and the voice acting was on the whole
decent. However, there are a lot of things wrong with it. I personally
didn't care for the music. I love good music in animated films, but
here I found the songs forgettable and bland, and the incidental music
felt misplaced. I will say I liked one or two of the characters, Romeo
and Juliet are appealing enough and the Kissing Fish is really cute.
However, Friar Lawrence is not the wise caring character I associate
him with, and I do not know why the Nurse was omitted when she provides
the most effective source of parental love in the play. In my opinion,
I didn't like the character of the Prince at all, I didn't like how he
was drawn and his voice was too monotonic for my liking. Worst of all
was the script, constant misuse of the Shakespeare language and
Mercutio's jokes went well overboard, and especially in his death scene
they weren't even funny. Overall, this movie was okay but I don't
recommend it. 4/10 Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>
Before I went into watching this film I read a bit about it from other
viewers and based on what they said I had pretty low expectations for
it. But after viewing the whole thing I've come to the realization...
it's not that bad. The animation is really well done and the story is
filled with Shakespeare jokes that any thespian or theater buff will
get a good chuckle out of. Not that there aren't problems with it
though. The voice acting and singing can often range from good,
mediocre, or just plain bad. The characters themselves are all
moderately enjoyable except for one in particular... a fish called
Kissy(you'll know her when you see her and you'll either love or hate
her).

If you're looking for a movie to entertain your kids or to just kill
some time I'd recommend this to you but be forewarned, this is the kind
of movie you'll either hate or like.

I give Romeo & Juliet: Sealed with a Kiss a 6.5/10 leaning towards a 7.
<|_=00=_|>
Romeo and Juliet: Sealed with a Kiss (DO YOU SEE WHAT THEY DID THERE?
IT'S ABOUT SEALS!) is possibly the laziest excuse for a film I've ever
seen. There are maybe 5 surnames in the credits to this film - clearly
the backers of this film called in every family favour they could. One
of the characters, a talking fish, is played by the director's
daughter, for instance. She sounds about 8. She gets to sing a solo of
Twinkle Twinkle Little Star. This should give you some idea of the
sheer skill and respect for the craft that went into this.

First of all, an interpretation of Romeo and Juliet where no-one dies
feels... well, redundant. You can't really take one of the great
tragedies and tack on a happy ending. Doubly so if that happy ending
involves Mercutio surfboarding in taking racist jokes with the
punchlines replaced by the word "Capulet".

Also, there is a dance scene on the Titanic. I don't know why these
awful children's films feel the need to use the deaths of thousands for
cheap laughs, but it's a trend that is apparently spreading.

And when it's all said and done, the Shakespeare content is pretty
weak. The family rivalry is replaced by lazy racism, characters are cut
or merged to the point of nonsense (we want Tybalt!), the ending is
changed, all the scenes describing their courtship are cut and replaced
with badly sung musical numbers, and yet Mercutio feels the need to
constantly quote other Shakespeare plays! And use words like "thou" and
"wherefore" wrongly, which isn't very educational at all.

All in all: hilarious for adults who know Shakespeare and are drunk.
Weak otherwise.
<|_=00=_|>
WARNING NOT SAFE FOR CHILDREN!!!!!!!!! This movie is absolutely
atrocious! The animation is lazy and the characters are poorly crafted
at best. I showed this to my high school students and they were
uncomfortable with some of the innuendo and awkward moments provided by
a demonic floating fish. No one dies, the singing is awful, the prince
is rather rape-y, and the animation is sub-par, especially for 2006! 

Go watch Gnomeo and Juliet if you want a quality adaptation of
Shakespeare's work. This "adaptation" if we are giving it that much
credit is a stretch of the truth. The Mercutio character is in
incredibly poor taste and the thinly veiled racist undertones are
uncalled for and rude. 

As my students said "Let's hop the nope train out of here."
