
The movie had a few things going in its favor. For one, it used
reasonable technology and background, so the story wasn't far-fetched.
Secondly, and most importantly in my eyes, it did NOT go for shock
value. It didn't try to use gore to elicit a reaction from the crowd.
Not to say that some scenes weren't rough on the eyes, but it was far
from a Saw or Hostel. Thirdly, it honestly kept me on the edge of my
seat for a good portion of the movie. And lastly, the ending does not
drag itself out. It ends at the logical point.

That having been said, this movie will not change your life. It's a
little bit of a commentary on society, but moreso, it's just an
entertaining movie to watch.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, I can say one thing about this movie is that is was very
original. Most of the pessimistic losers out there who are fans of
'Gorror' movies will cry, and complain that it was a rip-off of the Saw
series. Yeah, yeah... whatever. In reality... THIS could ACTUALLY
happen. And the saddest part, is that people would log onto the site to
watch THAT happen.

This movie was a little slow... It is not an action movie, does not
have any nudity, no car chases, no monsters, no sex, no love triangle,
no street fighting.. so the average movie-goer will find it lame, slow,
and boring. I like slower movies, lets you think as you watch. Diane
Lane was good, but not super. She has had better, no... much better
roles. Joseph Cross plays a really creepy bad guy, with sick twisted
emotions.

The movie was not great, but is surely was not a bad film. I believe if
you are a real fan of Murder mystery, police detective films, with some
thriller thrown in, you would, or may like this flick. With ONLY 1 Hr.
and 40 Mins. if someone complains about length, they need to get
checked for A.D.D. or they need to stick to teen-age comedies like
Strange Wilderness, or Meet the Spartans.

Check this movie out with an open mind, don't let the pessimists cloud
your idea of this film. It is an innovative film, with a good cast, and
the shots of Portland, Oregon are not bad at all. I will actually give
this film a 6 1/2 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
Entertaining thriller about a crazed young computer geek who becomes
the deranged moderator of his own "Kill With Me" live internet feed
where he displays new victims being slowly tortured to death. The more
hits he gets at his site, the faster the people featured on his webcam
die. This is disturbing in making us realize what depths we've sunk to
in our society, and what morbid curiosities can do. I especially liked
that the 40-something Diane Lane is the star as the police woman who
tries to apprehend the killer, instead of relying on the usual Jessica
Alba or Sarah Michelle Gellar "honeys" of late. 

*** out of ****
<|_=00=_|>
With the internet and cyberspace so common in everyone's life today,
plus with the reported upswing of crimes like identity theft and
pornography on the net in it's own way "Untraceable" is very relevant
and common with today's times. "Untraceable" a crime computer thriller
that's set in Portland, Oregon it involves an investigative computer
unit of the FBI headed up by a single mother Jennifer Marsh(Diane
Lane). Interestlingly the unit comes across a website of a creep who
broadcasts live torture and killings of hostage victims in various
grisly ways live over the internet. The bloody catch is the more the
web surfer logs onto the sick website, the faster and quicker the
victims will die in the various forms of bleed outs, fried by hot
mirrors, or seasoned by sulfuric acid. The drama only gets more
interesting when the computer of Jennifer is hacked into by the sicko
setting up for a dramatic finish and showdown encounter. Lane gives a
fine performance as a serious investigative agent, and yet no matter
how grisly that many scenes are the theme of net crime and hacking
overpowers and gives a strong message of awareness even over the well
liked and popcorn moments of torture and nasty horror. Overall
"Untraceable" is not a bad flick nothing great, yet it's enjoyable and
does hold interest by making us aware of the web crime and hacking
identity problem.
<|_=00=_|>
Diane Lane and a strong supporting cast make up for a "been there-done
that" crime drama. The story contains a few original twists as well as
a few serious implausibilities. Nevertheless, the direction, pace, and
performances, especially Lane's and Bill Burke's, draw you in and by
the abrupt conclusion, you are on the edge of your chair. Burke and
Lane, as rival investigators, develop an interesting chemistry that
builds through the film and is never compromised. Joseph Cross gives a
creepy, effective performance as the deranged techno-killer. The fact
that the story gives him such amazing capability to the point that you
occasionally start rolling your eyes should in no way deter from his
acting.

All in all, nicely packaged if somewhat contrived; The story hinges on
the fact that this "wunderkind" killer can continually crack every
computer in his way, stay one step ahead of the law, and continue to
capture victims for his morbid shows without skipping a beat. All that
IS hard to believe, yet "Untraceable" was still satisfying
entertainment.
<|_=00=_|>
As I have stated before, I love scary movies even though I get
frightened by everything. Untraceable caught my eye the first time I
saw a trailer for it. The plot is very fast paced, and you will find
yourself playing detective while watching. The best part of this movie
is that it doesn't go for cheap scares, such as something jumping out
or ominous music at key points in the film. If you can handle a little
bit of gore, you should be fine. The ending won't blow you away, but
you shouldn't be disappointed either. This is a solid film that isn't
too scary, but it's no Muppet movie. Colin Hanks is solid as usual. The
killer didn't quite meet my expectations on the creepy scale, but he is
serviceable.
<|_=00=_|>
That is the one word I will tell you perfectly sums up and describes my
opinions towards this awesome film and it's bogus reception.
Untraceable was a suspenseful thriller with great action, fun death
strategies, and wonderful acting, that has a ridiculous amount of
unappreciative reviews and hate aimed at it in all the areas that a lot
of people have no problems with in other movies.

Diane Lane was a great actress in this film. As I have said, the
performances are excellent, and she of course gives the best and she
made the movie totally believable and enjoyable. While there were of
course flaws, I found the story line and the movie itself to be great
entertainment. I found myself yelling at the screen and telling the
people in the film what to do, and I am not that interested in a film
unless it manages to get my adrenaline up, which I find as a positive
factor in few cases whilst viewing a movie.

There were things I found predictable, and of course the film gets a
little out of hand at times, which as I said, it's not flawless, but it
wasn't meant to be, and most of the time I was so interested in the
movie that I wasn't making any presumptions or criticizing the faults.
This was a wonderful film, that is under appreciated and if you haven't
seen it, I recommend you do if you are capable of being lenient on
these sorts of films.
<|_=00=_|>
This story of a crazed killer using hits on a website to "assist" him
in his killings is a refreshing high tech twist on the what I call the
"killer-thriller" type of film. Not all the computer gibberish is
comprehensible to those of us--such as myself--who aren't computer
geniuses, but the major or breakthrough plot points--the eye blinks for
one, the early use of what is actually the GM Onstar system in her SUV
for another--are carefully planted and credible.

It's irrelevant to whom Diane Lane is married in real life, or who her
mother in law is....what matters is that her performance here is top
flight. She lets the makeup department avoid glamorizing her, and she
comes across very convincingly as a 40 something woman professional
highly competent in her job. I'm not a huge fan of hers (I recall her
miscast role in the stinker "Must Like Dogs", but now I'm digressing,
sorry) but her performance here is nuanced and top flight. 

Refreshingly, the filmic style is even vaguely evocative of those
wonderful 1940's Film Noirs, with rainy nights and a generally dark
patina. I hear Portland is a cold, rainy city, so setting the story
there was a wise move for atmosphere.

Some other writers have already made the point that is a bit amazing
how the "bad guy" is sooo competent, and even hacks into her Saab's
engine computer....but, hey, maybe its possible and even if it's not it
still gives the film an exciting sequence. 

Not a masterpiece, but very much worth seeing....
<|_=00=_|>
"You want the scent? Smell yourself." Hannibal Lecter 

If you're longing for Lecter, get some good Chianti and watch Silence
of the Lambs for the umpteenth time. The serial killer in the enjoyable
Untraceable is not half as interesting as the cunning Hannibal, but
then again the real interest is cybercrime, the Internet's ability to
draw the world to a site, which if not regulated, can serve snuff as
easily as sex.

The menace of the Portland, Oregon, police and FBI is a cyber-psycho
who tortures his victims on the Web in real time, all of whom die more
quickly with each hit to the site. Although brutality is not as
explicit as in Saw or Se7en, the film effectively suggests our communal
relationship in cyberspace and ultimately our responsibility to
restrict the criminal potential, admittedly an extreme case here.

Diane Lane plays agent Jennifer Marsh, a sometimes cool, too many times
emotional cyber cop, whose initial scene shows her competent in her
job. Yet her antagonist proves almost invulnerable to her and the rest
of the force. Most of the film is a cat and mouse (electronic this
time) game during which the cops almost get him, but not quite.

The denouement is a disappointment after the first third's emphasis on
the electronic drama; it all devolves into some primitive
communication, standard intuition, visual observation, and plain old
luck. Marsh's continually emotional response is neither favorable to
the women's movement nor objective police work. Or maybe I've just been
preconditioned by TV's cool CSI-like investigators.

Director Gregory Hoblit's pacing is much better than his direction of
Ms. Lane; Anastos Michos's cinematography is spot on for a dreary,
menacing Portland. In the absence of Silence of the Lambs and the
presence of so much junk at this time of year, Untraceable has the only
trace of a "B" movie thriller for a while. And don't forget the fava
beans.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie tries to hard to seem technically correct, and in doing that
it kinda alienate a more technically oriented person. I see how the
movie could be somehow entertaining to a person not very familiar with
technology, but from a personal standpoint I found this movie to be
extremely poor.

There are a few things that are really obvious, and make the movie a
really bad experience (warning - spoilers): 1. They could have stopped
the website by contacting the major internet providers or ICANN and
have the domain redirect to a black hole (similar to the Pakistani
incident involving YouTube a few weeks ago). 2. The little girl has
downloaded what seems to be a very obvious Playstation game onto a PC.
You can see the fact it's a Playstation game from the control scheme on
the screen (Circle, Square, X, Triangle). 3. Some of the computers used
at work by the agents use trackballs instead of mice. I realize that
trackballs look better and more techy, but no real "hacker" uses a
trackball. 4. What kind of internet security expert gives full
administrator privileges to their daughter, on the same computer they
keep their work related files (Classified). 5. What kind of servers
were exploited by this guy. I mean they had like 2-3 million hits a
minute, with streaming video. I don't think that the dude infected a
YouTube server farm. There is no way that a single server can handle
all that traffic. And if there were multiple servers, there had to be a
way to balance the traffic, which would be really tough. Exactly how
many computers did he exploit, that blocking traffic from all those IPs
was not an option. 6. There is no way to hack into somebody's car by
remote. It has to be done from the car itself, and there is no way to
program something like a power outage at a certain time. How did he
power the satellite tracking if the entire car had no power ? If the
car had no power, how was she able to stop and steer the car ? It
should be extremely difficult to control a vehicle without power
steering and power brakes.

I am sure there are other tech glitches I do not remember at this time,
but I am sure they were not as obvious.

I did not enjoy this movie at all, because it tried to hard to be
technologically correct. I am sure other people will enjoy the movie (I
thought there was some hope for the movie in the less techy parts). If
you're a geek I strongly don't recommend it, unless you want to see
some tech comedy. Everyone else, give it a try. You might like it.
