
Director Marcus Nispel is undoubtedly the long-lost offspring of trash
master and fellow German, Uwe Boll, as this film is so profoundly awful
on every level that it's hard to think that it wasn't intentionally
made this way.

Remarkably, the movie gets bad immediately and stays that way. One of
its most jarring aspects is that it begins with Morgan Freeman's
narration, which sounds so utterly out of place, with his comforting,
slightly Southern drawl the total opposite of everything bloody and
Cimmerian, that it instantly comes across like self-parody, as if we
were seeing some schticky Mel Brooks interpretation after the fact.
This ham-handed disregard for appropriate tone haunts every frame of
the film.

The story fails to find the real Conan -- who in Robert E. Howard's
stories is a smart, tough, brutal survivor -- and instead seems to
reveal to us the underwhelming idea that Conan's just another hunky
sword dude with a knack for slaughter.

The script inconsistently sticks to any epic poetic flair in the
dialog, so that when such words are delivered, they feel forced and
flat. The noted line "I live, I love, I slay, and I am content," is
meted out with such lack of panache or feeling that I wanted to wash
out Jason Momoa's mouth with soap, right after forcing him to watch
Schwarzenegger -- not a great actor, by any means -- deliver the
unforgettable tagline: "To crush your enemies, drive them before you,
and to hear the lamentation of their women." But then again, John
Milius bothered to direct his actors.

Stephen Lang (Colonel Quaritch of "Avatar") is the half-assed villain
Khalar Zym, who inspires zero awe and no respect on his whatever quest
for some supernatural thingy, which is such an afterthought that you
constantly forget about it. And post plastic-surgery Rose McGowan as
his witchy daughter Marique is so outrageously goth that you half-wish
for a Sisters of Mercy musical cue every time she steps on camera; if
only her performance received the same attention as her over-the-top
costumes. Ron Perlman, as Conan's father, is simply wasted. Weep!

I'm totally sick of the short-attention-span style of storytelling. The
filmmakers are so afraid that if some big action sequence doesn't occur
every ten minutes, that we'll be bored; and of course, this quickly has
the opposite effect, as we instead become bored from so much pointless,
poorly shot and edited action unsupported by character or story. Video
games often have more character development than this film, and yes,
I'm specifically thinking of the comparatively Shakespearean struggles
portrayed in Donkey Kong.

I bestowed two stars on this flick, as the second is for unintentional
hilarity, of which the film has much. Its hyperbolic Hyborian
cartoonishness makes you either wince or chuckle derisively. Hopefully,
as many heads as roll on screen will also roll in Hollywood for this
abortive, dreadful garbage.

Perhaps the noble Conan will someday get his proper due in a modern
film. But not today.
<|_=00=_|>
First, I would like to say I love Howard's stories. I also like the 82
film. So that this deviates from Howard a little (or a lot) isn't
really a bother to me.

Now, before I get to the review I want to say to anyone out there
studying film (like myself) to watch this movie. It will prove to you
that no matter how much action, blood or one liners you squeeze into a
movie, if the story and characterization are missing you don't have a
movie.

Without ANY disrespect, I would urge Mr. Nispel to do a film course, as
he clearly needs to learn story telling at its most basic. This is not
an insult, this is advice, because I believe once he has a better grasp
on it, he will make a fine film maker.

Conan the Barbarian is a summer movie. Sadly this also has become
synonymous with stupid, bad movies. And this film doesn't escape that.
Clearly this film had a lot of trouble, by the looks of it at the
conceptual stage. The fact the Sean Hood had to rewrite on set proves
the material they had to work with was a disaster, and it shows.

Donelley and Oppenheimer (forgive my spelling) did a poor job on the
script, if, what was shown in the final cut was more or less what they
wrote. Mr. Hood's rewrites I heard were quite well received, but I also
hear they cut most of what he wrote out of the cinematic cut...

This film, cursed with a poor script fails at even just an
entertainment level. Sure, there is lots of action and fighting, but
there is no emotion behind it. I was actually bored half way through of
the fighting and wanted some damn character scenes, of which there are
none of note. And that is another problem, after the first act (young
Conan) nobody has any character. They walk around, kill or die and that
is all. Their motivations are given to us in a single line and that is
all.

The cast were good, but they had nothing to work with. The directing
was inconsistent, the mood was all over the place, at times it smelt of
a less fun Scorpion King with Artus and Elan-sha (I know I got those
names wrong) being out of place "comic relief". Stephen Lang, as usual
is good, but again, he has nothing to work with, so he stands and acts
mean a lot.

The one thing that really took me out of the world of the film, is the
dialogue. Which lacks any sort of finesse, culture, period etc. It
sounds like modern speech... which is one thing it shouldn't sound
like. Imagine watching a Western where they all talk in modern American
slang, that is what this dialogue felt like. It was dialogue you write
in your first draft, then go back over and make it good...though it
seems no one did in Conan.

The film looked nice, I'll give it that. Some scenes were too bright
and conflicted with the mood, but again, the mood changed as often as
it would in an angst ridden teenager. The CGI wasn't bad, it wasn't
great but it was serviceable.

The Dweller scene was pathetic. There was no choreography, set up to
it, Momoa literally stood in one spot for most of it and did just
ducked around a lot. Clearly a complete failure in the directing
department for this scene which had no climax.

Costume and wardrobe design was impressive. Lang's armour and get up
were nice, McGowan looked sexy in a freaky kind of way. So visually it
almost always worked.

Overall, I suggest seeing it if you are curious, it isn't the worst
thing to happen to cinema by a long shot. But, with no story, at least
none that is told in a coherent way, no character development or
motivation and no sense of culture or the world the characters
(caricatures) inhabit it not only fails as a Conan movie, it fails as a
movie. It fails as a coherent story told with moving pictures, it
breaks the very foundation of cinema's rules. It cannot engage an
audience, because there is nothing for us to care about. As a video
game, this would kick arse. As a movie, it falls on it.
<|_=00=_|>
I'd seen the original a long time ago.. but I still knew the general
idea of what to expect before going into this reboot.. an R-Rated
warrior action film with slight elements of the supernatural that was
more about entertainment value than high art, suffice it to say,
suffice is probably too complicated a word for the audience this remake
is aimed at. 

I liked Momoa from Game of Thrones, he had the perfect physical quality
to portray a warrior, and despite being a character of few words he
really sold it for me, and as a result I really could see how he was
ideal casting for Conan, he's a more rugged Dwayne Johnson.. but I
still feel Johnson has a lot of untapped potential to be one of the
real action stars of the decade along with Diesel and Statham.. but
it's good to know Momoa is in line to join these guys.

Back to the film... from the very first scene, you are basically told
this movie is going to be over the top in a bad and very lazy way..
apparently Conan is "battle born", in other words his father Ron
Perlman is surrounded by countless merciless foes, of which he takes
down a couple while screaming, and then he tends to his pregnant wife,
akin to a scene from the recent Cowboys & Aliens, we are taught that
during Hollywood battles you are allowed respite from the enemy if you
enter an emotional two shot close up with a loved or cherished one, no
one will dare attack you, it simply wouldn't be fair.. so yes amidst
the carnage Perlman and wife share some tender and distraught words,
she wishes to see her son before she dies, and without even really
looking he takes a nasty looking knife and performs the fastest
C-section known to mankind, and voila.. he brings up a CGI baby.. the
mother looks on, smiles, then dies, Hellboy is highly moved by these
events, so decides to perform a Lion King and holds the child aloft and
screams out loud, the camera pulls in beckoning the film's title to
force itself upon us.. this scene literally lasts 3-4 minutes.. and
none of the attacking savages notices it happening, or pays any
attention to the angry barbarian king screaming and holding a newborn
baby above his head.. As i said i came into this film willing to hold
my disbelief.. but seriously.. could this scene not have taken place in
a hut or some other hidden shelter? Conan would still have been
"battle-born", the first thing he tasted (like every child) would still
have been his mother's blood, yet it would have been ten times more
intimate and moving, and hundred times more believable. I completely
understand this isn't meant to be highbrow, but there's no harm in
adding just a slight bit of realism and genuine emotion to a
fundamental scene, It will only involve the audience more and at little
expense to any of the tone. As a result of this scene, I never cared
for any character for any moment.. the film failed from its very
inception. 

If Lord of The Rings was Peter Jackson making love to the audience,
Conan is him self pleasuring himself in a dirty motel room. From the
Morgan Freeman LOTR rip off introductory montage, the whole film is
dumb and completely forgettable, apart from the occasional cool move in
a fight, every single action moment is a blurry fast motion medium
shot.. the failsafe of every director since Nolan decided to publicly
showcase such laziness in Batman Begins.. it's pure laziness on every
count, move the camera fast, add some crunchy sound design and BOOM,
you have an action scene.. what's the best fight scene of the last
decade? Old Boy and the Hammer, and there isn't a single cut in that,
or any fast camera move, it's just good old fashioned choreography and
stunt acting.. the only good or partly original part in the whole film
is the sand soldier fight.. but even that is ultimately deemed moronic
and pornographic, why doesn't the witch daughter use such powers or
summon up similar creatures at any other point in the film? like you
know.. say during the finale when all magic powers should have been
used, at all times. But obviously the film-makers realised that would
have put Conan at a big disadvantage, and caused too much of a headache
for them to solve.. I know just move the camera around a lot, and make
loads of quick edits and CGI blood splashes, it's the modern day
equivalent of a shiny object for rednecks. 

Even the DBOX programming was dumb and nonsensical. The film even had
an expert thief that could pick a lock with a custom made device,
called a key!! oh i wish i didn't have a limit of 1000 words.. i'd do a
real Conan on this film and rip it to shreds. Yet again a film with
great production value ruined by moronic film-makers that think guilty
pleasure means no need for creativity, and yet another film permitted a
stupid budget simply because the Conan name has brand recognition.
<|_=00=_|>
Conan lacks myth - it truly lacks that sense of myth and wonder that
created a whole new genre, and it lacks cinematic vision, it lacks what
makes film rather than TV, and while entertaining after a decade of
Xena and Game of Thrones we deserve more than this in our big budget
movies.

Casting is fine, plot is a little dull, action is half-way to OK - it's
just that overall there is nothing to really put life into this - where
is the wow! factor, the, yes this is film. Even if you're making a B
movie it doesn't excuse it.

In the right hands and the right team this could be storytelling at its
best, instead we get a film that thrives on the cliché of its genre. It
may have lots of sorcery, but it truly lacks magic.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, before I say anything about the movie I want people to
know a little bit about me. I went into this movie with an open mind
wanting to see it anyway despite the horrid reviews it's been getting
from critics. (I generally tend to ignore the critics especially for
movies that I personally think will be worth seeing in theaters) the
trailer looked pretty cool for this one, so I went in expecting at the
least an awesome super gory action flick. What I got was the total
opposite and a huge disappointment for me. The critics are right. Conan
the Barbarian is overall an absolutely terrible movie.

To be fair, the movie actually starts out with some promise showing us
young Conan and a really brutal kick-ass action scene with young Conan
in the beginning. After the beginning sequence though, the movie starts
to fall apart rapidly. The dialog is extremely weak and uninspired. I
kid you not, Conan probably says a maximum of forty words or less
throughout the entire movie. Whoever wrote the script seemed like they
just stopped trying and gave up after the promising beginning scenes.

Another thing that I found really disappointing was that Conan himself
was just not brutal enough. Only for short moments here and there he
did some barbarian like things but not at all on the level that you'd
expect from a movie titled "Conan The Barbarian" The action scenes
themselves were just not filmed well at all. It was filmed using very
fast paced cuts and it was very confusing to keep up with what was
happening on screen. The camera always seemed to be lagging behind the
action, and just when it finally catches up with Conan to see what he's
doing, the bad guy is already dead. Great. 

The plot was a jumbled mess and the acting pretty much on every level,
was completely horrendous. Personally I am a fan of Jason Momoa. After
his performance as the savage Khal Drago on the hit show "Game of
Thrones" I thought he would be absolutely perfect to portray Conan, but
sadly he is very weak in this role and really adds nothing new or
interesting to the character. One more thing to be mentioned is that
the 3D in this movie is non-existent. (Yes I saw it in 3D and don't
think I am bashing the movie just because the 3D was horrible) The sad
truth is even if I saw the regular 2D film I would still think the same
about it. It is just that bad of a movie. 

I dare to say that even 10,000 BC was better than this movie. (And that
movie was terrible) At least in that movie you could tell what was
happening during the action scenes. I strongly felt the urge to warn
people not to waste their hard earned money on this movie. Trust me you
will thank me for saving you the money. But, if you are dead-set on
seeing it for yourself anyway despite what I have to say DO NOT see it
in 3D it really is just an extra waste of money. Think "Clash of The
Titans" not one thing in the entire film is 3D except for the ending
credits. Avoid this film at all costs. 1/5
<|_=00=_|>
Well, in general I'm not this master for writing reviews or anything
else. But in general, I do agree with 95% of IMDb ratings, besides some
special cases. And this is one of them.

Seriously, if we put away the old Conan the Barbarian Movie with Arnie.
This movie offers You "A grade" quality of picture, "A- grade" quality
of camera angles "B grade" quality of story composition "B grade"
quality of actor performance and "A- grade" of sound/music quality.
It's not that bad as a movie for DVD/BD @ your home, right? And
frankly, many TV movies have much, much higher vote rating as Conan.

For me, I really enjoyed some fights in the movie, I liked how actors
were masked up, also enjoyed Conan as a kid and as an adult. As I say,
these guys didn't put out any blockbuster performance to Your screen
but seriously, it wasn't that bad [5/10] all in all. It really deserves
solid 6/10 from a random viewer and from a fan of medieval times and
fantasy good 7/10.

Though, this is only my opinion and I fully respect the opinions of
whole IMDb community...
<|_=00=_|>
Conan the Barbarian is born in war, a product of blood and steel. Thus
the film should be a visceral, violent portrayal of a warrior set
against the fantasy backdrop of Robert E. Howard's Hyboria. What
emerges on screen is a set of one dimensional characters placed in a
world that feels half heatedly brought to life.

The film has been accused of being like viewing a video game. I would
disagree. The nature of video games, particularly those of the fantasy
and RPG genres, is immersion. There is no immersion here. We flit from
place to place in a lame attempt to show the vastness of the world
through a mediocre CGI backdrop of a castle or slave camp or pirate
city. None are ever fully realised before Conan jaunts off somewhere
else. The violence itself is the most disappointing. Nispel manages to
create fight scenes that lack the kinetic quality of a dance. The
camera is misplaced, the editing focusing on the wrong points. You
never feel the hits, the power of the blows or Conan's qualities as a
warrior. It feels clumsy.

There are more grunts and warcries than lines of dialogue and those
spoken feel like the actors are running them in rehearsal for the first
time. There is no commitment to the lines so again the audience fails
to immerse in their characters. McGowen in contrast overly plays the
sorcerer.

Given this is a reboot, the film does not feel fresh, but instead feels
dated. It's almost as though Nispel wanted it to feel like the 1982
version, but taking only the worst qualities and none of the charm.
Conan reinforces the assertion of refraining from producing reboots
where there is nothing original the writers or director bring to the
table. Conan is a stale rehash that will offer no reward to its
audience.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not going to get into the plot set-up and all that other stuff
which has already been prefaced to this movie's release a thousand
different ways. Just straight to the review ...

The entire introduction sequence at the beginning of this Conan was
great, up until you see the Jason as the adult Conan. The child actor
who played young Conan was broodier, and the sequence where he proves
himself as a warrior was more dynamic and believable than most of the
other action sequences in the movie. I really enjoyed that entire first
portion of the movie, but it went down hill after that.

Jason Mamoa can be a really good Conan. He brought some new flare to
the character, but I have to say that ultimately I'm split between him
and Arnie, with a bit more leaning to Arnie's Conan. The director, and
Jason himself, almost made this Conan rather "sun-shiney" and somewhat
fluffy. They had all the sequences they needed to really get dark with
him, but they kept it fairly light. With the exception of some mild
nudity they really didn't take advantage of the "R" rating. With
exception to that mild nudity much of this movie felt like a
made-for-TV movie more so than something which should be in the
theaters.

Plot ... bleh. It was a weak twist on the original movie's plot.
Nothing special in any way, shape or form. In watching Conan go through
the progression of the plot I felt like I was watching a video game
play out where he was just maneuvering through the different level
bosses of the game to his ultimate goal. To say the plot was formula is
almost an insult to formula plots.

The CGI, especially in the scenics, was entirely too obvious and very
light-hearted comic book-ish. I know there was a lot in this movie
where they were drawing upon the great Frazetta artworks, but they
missed the marks several times. At the end of the movie, as with many
other contemporary special effects movies, I was missing the days of
mechanical special effects and matte paintings as backdrops. CGI has
destroyed a lot of movies over the years and this was another victim of
the over-reliance that's been wrought by the movie industry.

The Studios NEED real people standing over their shoulders DURING
production of what should be great movies, ESPECIALLY when there's
already a fan base for the subject matter. They need people who aren't
afraid to NOT be "Yes Men" and tell them straight up that something is
stupid, or over-done, or under-done or just plain not right and let's
start it over. The Studios don't have the genital fortitude to do this,
so this is the kind of disappointment we have to live through 2 hours
at a time throughout our lives. This movie could have been a
beginning-of-summer blockbuster, but instead it's stuck in the
"could-have-been" file.
<|_=00=_|>
I've always been a fan not only of Robert E. Howard's fantasy stories
but also of the Marvel Comics or the 1982 film "Conan the Barbarian"
with Arnold Schwarzenegger. So when I heard of a new Conan I was most
interested. With today's budget and cgi they really could pull it off.
Oh Man I was wrong.

Where do I start as everything is wrong in this movie Words cannot
adequately describe how terrible this movie is. It's that bad. However
I have come to my senses to provide you with seven reasons why this
film is bad.

Number 1 the plot is "shaky". Here is the plot summary in one sentence:
Conan witness the destruction of his Tribe and the Death of his Father
by an evil Warlord who search the pieces of an ancient mask that is
supposed to resurrect his wife, an evil sorceress that could grant him
the powers of a God OK??? Obviously a Conan film isn't built on a
Tarkovskian scenario but with this Conan we reach an apogee in terms of
bad writing. Writers Thomas Dean Donnelly and Joshua Oppenheimer aren't
fit for writing. The least they could have done was to read Robert E.
Howard's literature and if as I suspect they aren't capable of reading
more than 10 pages, I suggest looking at Marvel Comics who introduced a
relatively lore-faithful version of Conan the Barbarian in 1970 written
by Roy Thomas and illustrated by Barry Windsor-Smith. In fact the total
lack of understanding the character of Conan not only from the writers
but also from Director Marcus Nispel and actor Jason Momoa is the main
problem. I am not a Conan fanatic but if you put the word Conan
somewhere in a movie title I guess as a Director you need to understand
what is the essence of a Conan movie You owe it to your audience; you
owe it to yourself

Number 2, the script is bad and as soon as Conan's Mother opens her
mouth to name his son before she dies we know we are in for a treat of
bad dialogs and overall silly script. What follows is ridicule one
liners deliver with zero conviction from every protagonist.

Number 3, where are the sidekicks? In a Conan film good sidekicks are
mandatory. I remember Subotai (Jerry Lopez) in the 1982 Conan. He was a
cool, loyal, and courageous dude. Every fan of this film remembers the
crucifixion scene when suddenly Subotai appears in the horizon to save
the day. Valeria was also a very likable and an equally strong
character, some sort of Valkyrie that impacted Conan's emotions. In
this 2011 version female characters are filler. The dialog of the main
female character consists in screaming "Conan" every time she is in
danger. Moreover there are no charismatic sidekicks or even interesting
other characters. The black pirate serves as a pretext for a black
character but has the personality of a "playmobil"; the "Arabic" Thief
is so common I don't even remember his name or face.

Number 4, a good villain should have depth Stephen Lang as Khalar Zym
does not do the job. Sure there wasn't much to do with the poor script
he had in hands and screaming "barbarian!!!" every 2 seconds of his
screen time doesn't help. Plus Rose McGowan transformed by either
plastic-surgery or bad cgi (couldn't really tell) as his witchy
daughter Marique is so outrageously goth that you constantly wonder if
you are in a Conan film or in a remake of the Crow. Net net all
protagonists are badly written and played even Ron Perlman, as Conan's
father, is wasted.

Number 5, there isn't any consistency between the scenesWe watch
Conan's Ship being attacked during the night, but the next scene of the
battle for the Ship happens during the day We see the girl go mating
with Conan in a rocky cave of what seems to be a cliff environment. In
the next morning when she attempts to go back to the Ship she gets
kidnapped in what appears to be a Forest. At this stage I kept
wondering if the Director was a little bit "special" or if the film
editor endured a lobotomy half way during the editing session. Now that
I think about it it's probably both.

Number 6, they didn't hire a lead designer and that showsthey should
have. Costumes, armors, or even Architecture (by the way you can
clearly see the use of models) don't fit the Conan universe and there
isn't any vision or unity regarding the design of the film. As a result
you don't have a feel that the story takes place in a possible ancient
time with tangible ancient civilizations. So basically the production
recycled costumes from the last 10 sand & sandals films and the result
is catastrophic.

Number 7, they didn't hire a composer and that shows too. I understand
that not everyone can be Basil Poledouris the composer of the haunting
score from the 1982 Conan but in this 2011 Conan I was forgetting the
music as I was watching the filmthis is a premiere to me.

As a conclusion there is close to nothing that is enjoyable in this
film. There is no sense of adventure that makes a heroic fantasy film
worth it. There is no sense of progression that makes a revenge plot
efficacious. There is no sense of danger that makes an action film
breathtaking. There is no sense of feasibility that makes a film epic.
There is no adequate script that makes characters believable and there
is no musical soundtrack that draws you into the Journey. Give me
45millions dollars (half of the amount spent on this mockery) and some
of the Conan fans from IMDb and we will probably do a better film
<|_=00=_|>
I am struggling to actually review this movie, not because of its weak
story-line or because of its total lack of imagination, or even because
of its gratuitous violence (most of which is hidden), but because the
one thing that was missing was a lighting engineer. Yes folks, this is
an object lesson in how to make a low budget blockbuster movie, though
how much money was actually saved by shooting seventy-five percent of
the film in darkness I don't know. However the other cost saving was
certainly well designed, a few decent cameramen who could actually keep
the shot in focus would have spoiled the whole thing for me. Out of
focus darkness was entertaining for the first ten minutes, after that
it became irritating, the big fight scene in the last ten minutes of
the film is lost completely but then that will have saved on the cost
of giving the monster too much detail, rather than leaving it a a piece
of wet hose pipe. What a waste of time and money, not the production
companies, but mine, I can sit in the dark with some flickering lights
at home for free. There was one decent fight scene in the film about
half way through, but it was certainly not worth the ticket price. One
of the worst and most irritating films I have seen for a long time.
