
If your looking for a good action flick with a decent plot this is the
movie for you. With a 90min runtime I was expecting this movie to feel
"rushed", it felt far from that. The action was great, it did not
disappoint with all the cool vampire abilities you see in the trailer,
especially transforming into a group of bats. Being a Dracula movie
there are things you have to expect, yes he receives his power by
drinking blood, having all the vulnerabilities as every vampire (which
they do very good in this movie) but the way this movie makes you root
for Vlad(Dracula) you actually find yourself engulfed in the movie
wanting him to overcome the darkness and win. However if you are a
history buff and it irks you when movies take real life people and
change their history for a movie, you will not enjoy this because it is
loosely based off Vlad the Impaler. My Review 8/10 Excellent
<|_=00=_|>
For all who says that this movie is bad because it doesn't follow the
Dracula story we all know from the past I say, it's not suppose to.
When I sit down to watch a movie there's one thing that matter in the
end: Did I or Did I not enjoy the movie? And this movie was definitely
enjoyable and fun. 

Manny reviewers say that this is a bad movie because it doesn't follow
the historical time-line and details of the characters in it.
Ultimately I really don't care, it's a fiction movie, not a documentary
about the history of... 

I even read, in a 3/10 star review, a reviewer that says the movie is
bad because of historical falsies. That reviewer wrote in his comment :
"The film might captivate some audiences who are looking for a fun
time, but there is nothing memorable or legendary about it." isn't that
all a movie should be about? Having a fun time is what I came for... 

Dracula Untold isn't related in any aspect to the old Dracula story. It
is a story of its' own and a very good one to. I think that the
directors and the script writers did an excellent job writing a
different side to the Dracula story. 

So, for those who care about the chronicles of Dracula and close their
mind to a different story don't watch this movie. But, if you're
looking for a fun fiction story this is a fantastic movie. 

I gave it 8/10 stars because it could have been better.

Overall this movie is seriously underrated. 

*Sorry for bad English. May contain grammar mistakes.*
<|_=00=_|>
I've watched this movie with an open mind, intending not to look into
the historical facts and just enjoy a good CGI-packed film, that tells
the story of my country's most famous ancestor. But I couldn't, I just
could. They've went on to use actual names for people and places, that
some may think some things are actually true. Absolutely nothing from
this movie has to do with reality!!! 

So, the year is 1442, when the real Vlad the Impaler was 11 years old,
having been born in 1431. He's opposed to the sultan Mehmed II, the
future conqueror of Constatinople (present-day Istanbul), who, at the
time, was only 10 years old. Yet their characters are a bit older than
that, aren't day?

Then the need to connect Vlad "Dracula" the Impaler to Transylvania.
They've made him prince. Uhmm... he wasn't the ruler of Transylvania,
he was the ruler of Wallachia, which is just south of Transylvania. He
merely stayed imprisoned in Transylvania for a good 12 years. He never
ruled Transylvania, as the movie depicts, but I guess they had to stay
with the legend, because who cares about history, right?!

Then there's the Ottoman side. Mehmed II was a child at the time
described in the movie. He did try to come and personally punish the
rebellious Vlad, but that happened in 1462, so 20 years later. And he
did not die by Vlad's hand, although he was almost shot by an arrow of
the Wallachian prince during a night attack.

One last thing. They've totally messed it up with the geography. I
mean, look for yourself for the Tihuta passage and Cozia monastery and
how you can get from Bran castle to the monastery using that passage.
Let's just say that between the buildings and the passage there are
some hundreds of kilometers.

If you're not taking in consideration the historical facts (which
basically don't exist, apart from the resemblance of some names), the
movie is rather thin. The story doesn't hold and some parts are kind of
forced there so the action might have some coherence - which it lacks,
in parts. (I mean, seriously, an army marching miles and miles
blind-folded? OK, I'll buy, for the movies's sake, but gathering an
entire country's people to a single monastery...?!?! What were we? The
Vatican?! Or someone falling for hundreds of meters and not dying
instantly when they hit the ground...) 

I believe the movie would have been a lot better if they didn't use
actual places and figures and they would have kept the persona drafted
only from legends, with no historical ground. But it's Hollywood, so
who cares about history, right?!
<|_=00=_|>
Leaving the cinema last night I found myself arguing with half the
audience about the movie. Half of them said the movie sucked, and the
other half (myself included) loved it. Now, this is a type of movie
that will divide the audience so much that there will not be a middle.
One will either love it or hate it (which seems to be a pattern in
recent Hollywood history). By just watching the trailer it was clear as
day that this will not be a masterpiece or a rebirth of Stocker's
fable. So I ask a very plausible question: What did you expect?

1) The acting. This is a prototype of how a star is born. Luke Evans
was by far the best choice for the lead role. His dark and passionate
portrait of the prince was staggering. He was believable in every scene
from start to finish. The changes of his character were so
sophisticated and cool that only after the movie ends one actually
realizes what a good performance that was. Evans is the only one that
equals the '92 Gary Oldman performance. Cooper on the other hand used
as a great counter performance showing just how bad his acting really
is. That only emphasized Evans' performance. It was noticeable that the
director felt the same way and gave him just a couple of scenes in the
movie. Though, the end fight between the two was interesting, in my
opinion it was more to the character and wardrobe than Cooper's
performance. Two young actors of which one has, and will have a great
career - Evans. Dance had an interesting role, but nothing worth
praising. The rest of the cast I felt just filled the space and did a
decent job. 

2) The story. Unlike the stories so far (unfortunately there have been
a lot) this one takes us far back to the very beginning, to the
origins. It is innovative, and interesting to see how the story reveals
itself. This is what the ones who don't like the movie don't like the
most. Everyone expected a classic Dracula story and bloodsucking and
London and Van Helsing etc. This is something else and accept it as it
is. A good fantasy action movie with great visual effects, good acting
and a decent story. The story has a nice paste, it is a great
combination of slow sequences and action. But, the true problem with
the movie is the length. 93 min is way to short for a movie of this
type. If it were 30 min longer the characters could have been explored
more, the story could have had more drama, and the ending could have
been longer and bloodier. But this length shows that a nice story with
enough drama, suspense, action and a bit gore, can be told in 90 min.
We are, unfortunately spoiled by all the big spectacles lasting over
120 min, so 90 min can seem a bit short.

3) The visual effects. By far the most memorable part (besides Evans).
They are dark, brutal and entertaining. It is a joy to watch and it
always leaves one sitting and waiting to see what Dracula will come up
with next. And yes, the burning on the sun is very believable and quite
gruesome.

I have said a lot about this movie so far and most of it was good. This
movie has its flaws - the length, the story holes, the lack of a good
antagonist... One could really go on for days. But that is not the
point. What matters is that Dracula untold provided exactly what it
said it would - a great ride. It will not be a huge box office hit, it
will not win an Acadamy award. But people will see it, they will have a
good time go home and forget about it. That is exactly what Dracula is
- 90 min of good entertainment. Not everything has to be The Shawshank
Redemption or the Godfather. And most importantly, not every Dracula
story has to be R rated and a pure horror movie. So, go see it, expect
a fun ride, and you will enjoy it.
<|_=00=_|>
To Summarize, for me it is a pretty bad movie. Why? (INCLUDES SPOILERS)

1. Script: They've got it all wrong. Others might find it OK but if
your bad guy is in fact one of the most important characters of the
world history, you just can't go and change his story and the way he
dies. Sultan II. Mehmed, unlike in the movie, died from a regular
disease when he was 50 years old. He did not die in battle, especially
not killed by Dracula or Vlad III. In fact, they never even directly
confronted each other on a battlefield. Not to mention that the
timeline was all wrong Sultan Mehmed was known as Faith (the Conquerer)
and not Mehmed after his victory in Constantinople / Istanbul (1453). 

2. Cast: Bad casting and performance all around. Except for Charles
Dance. AND... Again, if you are doing a flick including a real life
personality from world history, please DO BOTHER to go and check how he
actually looked like. At least google his name and see a couple of
original portraits for yourself OK? 

3. Props and Looks: Ottoman janissary/soldiers never used regular
(straight) swords. They used bent swords like scimitars. The final
fight scene though presents Sultan Mehmed using a 2 handed sword,
strictly used by European Chivalry. Ottoman soldiers never wore that
kind of a heavy, full plate armor as well. 

Bad research and execution on scriptwriters and directors behalf which
might be ignored by many people but if you actually know the history of
these events, there isn't any way to agree, sorry.
<|_=00=_|>
many reviewers complain about the history of the movie not being
accurate or truthful; in case you forget, Dracula, the vampire, is all
fictitious, so why complain about history?? I don't care if the story
is not along the line of the other Dracula stories we know of as long
as the story is well told. such a movie shouldn't be taken so
seriously; see it as purely entertainment; now back to serious review;
to put it simply, I like the movie. Luke Evans is perfectly cast as
Dracula. The movie is 90 minute so you wouldn't have everything
'spelled out'. It's reasonably fast paced; the movie has its flaws but
minor enough that you can reasonably pass it; the only major flaw that
I see and think the movie should work on explaining is how the Sultan
knows about Dracula's weaknesses. Dang, Dracula almost got defeated
because of the Sultan's knowledge and the director thinks it's not
important to dwell on it?? that's why it's only 8 for me.
<|_=00=_|>
First and foremost I know it's appalling that I am giving this a 10 but
because I went to watch this movie knowing fully that I ought to
disregard the true history of it and the classic Dracula novel from
1897 Gothic horror by Irish author Bram Stoker. I kept and open mind
and my mind was blown away. 

Luke Evans is an amazing actor that carried out such a brilliance
performances. I was so moved by the internal struggle he was portraying
as a good hearted prince Vlad to the demon that he was becoming
Dracula. I felt for his character deeply. It may have been a short
movie in comparison to most movie out there but in that short period of
time, I thought it was beautifully told how much he loved his wife and
his son. How much he cares for his country and the length a good prince
would go through to protect what he holds dear to him heart. 

The cinematography was very beautifully artsy. It is not like 300 where
there is unnecessary blood and gore. It's more artistic and tastefully
done. No need for all those gore. This movie isn't about horror or
violence's. It's about how he became Dracula. It's about the person he
was before all the evils. About a men that gave everything to save the
things he love and the ultimate sacrifice he made to protect his
family. 

I know there are a lot of bad criticism out there for this movie
because it's not gore enough or there isn't enough bloody mess and also
some that say that the special effect was a joke but I think it's
definitely worth the watch and I think this movie is worthy of being in
the "good movie " category. The special effects may not be as good as
lord of the ring or 300 but considering the budget wasn't as high as
those other movies, this movie surpassed all of them. 

It's worthy of a movie that is consider a better movie than most out
there. Give it a chance. You will not regret it.
<|_=00=_|>
While this movie pretty much ignores the history, it's still a good
movie, great CGI, good acting and the ending implies a sequel. 

Many have commented that Vlad was not a good guy in real life, hence
the historical figures title of the "impaler". The movie does show this
in a few scenes but in a interesting if somewhat brief way.

Good action scenes, battles and some gory images, but then as it's
Dracula, what do you expect.

If your looking for a movie to just sit back and have fun watching,
Dracula Untold is an enjoyable romp with good actors, Charles Dance is
impeccable as always and Luke Evans is good as the main character.
<|_=00=_|>
I remember the 1992 version of Dracula by Francis Ford Coppola and
thinking that the best part of that version was the anti-heroic Prince
Vlad defending Europe against the Ottoman invasion . I do believe there
is a market for a historical epic featuring the true life story of Vlad
the impaler . This version from 2014 does come close to it in some ways
but let's be honest and say no one is going to watch any movie with
Dracula in the title unless it features a vampire in the title role and
one wonders how many people might have been disappointed by the
marketing if not the title alone ? 

One group of people who will be bitterly disappointed will be Turks .
While the Persians are still recovering from their portrayal in 300 and
its sequel the Muslim Turks might have just been lured in to a sense of
false security after MIDNIGHT EXPRESS but low and behold along comes DU
. The Turks aren't painted in a good light and one wonders if there
might be a rather dubious subtext when the Sultan demands a thousand
boys for his army ? That said at least Vlad himself isn't a noble
traditional type of nationalist hero and the film does show him
struggling against internal dilemmas . It's not really an actors type
of character driven cinema but Luke Evans is suitably brooding while
best performance is Dominic Cooper as Mehmed who doesn't appear on
screen often enough here and is probably the film's trump card 

DU isn't a masterpiece and again it's very important that you go in to
this film with the knowledge it's more of a dark sword and sorcery type
tale rather than a horror movie . It wasn't until after I saw it that I
found out Universal Pictures might be using it to do a reboot of their
monster franchise from the 1930s and 40s which explains the ending that
jars with the rest of the movie . Do we genuinely want another reboot
series ? As it stands this version of Dracula is more than adequate and
maybe we should let Eastern European vampires stay dead
<|_=00=_|>
In 1442, the Prince Vlad, the Impaler (Luke Evans) rules the
Transylvania after serving the Turkish Sultan as a soldier since he was
a child. Vlad is happily married with beloved wife Mirena (Sarah Gadon)
and their son, Ingeras (Art Parkinson), is their pride and joy. When
Vlad and his soldiers find a Turkish helmet in the river, he goes with
two men to a cave in the Broke Tooth Mountain expecting to find Turkish
scouts. However they stumble with a deadly creature (Charles Dance)
that kills the two men, but Vlad succeeds to escape alive from the
cave. He learns that the creature is a vampire.

On the next day, a Turkish group of soldiers come to the Castle Dracula
to collect the taxes but the emissary tells to Vlad that the Turkish
Sultan Mehmed (Dominic Cooper) is demanding one thousand boys to be
trained for the Turkish army. Vlad unsuccessfully tries to negotiate
with Mehmed and when the soldiers come back again to take his son, Vlad
kills all of them. Then he goes to Broke Tooth Mountain and meets the
vampire. He explains that he needs his power to defeat his enemies;
otherwise his people will be slaughtered by the Turkish army. The
vampire offers his blood to Vlad but explains what could happen. Vlad
would temporarily have his power for three days and if he resists to
the thirsty of blood, he would turn back to his human condition. But if
he does not resist, he would turn into a vampire forever. Vlad accepts
the offer and defeats the Turkish soldiers, but soon he understands the
price he has to pay to acquire his power. 

"Dracula Untold" is an underrated action movie with the story of the
origin of Dracula. This movie has a dramatic and full of action story,
disclosed through great screenplay, special effects and music score.
Luke Evans is perfect in the role of a prince capable of an ultimate
sacrifice to save his beloved family and people. It is funny to see the
comment that a vampire action movie does not have historical accuracy.
My vote is eight.

Title (Brazil): "Drácula: A História Nunca Contada" ("Dracula: The
Untold Story")
