
Smart People - Smart People had a 46% on Rotten Tomatoes, but it's far
better than that. Lawrence Wetherhold (Dennie Quaid) is a "holier than
thou" widowed professor you unfortunately meet once in awhile. He's the
sort who's deeply invested in his subject but can neither make it
accessible nor allow the students any time to discuss it. He's a
brilliant asshole essentially. He meets a physician in a hospital after
a head injury and begins to reevaluate his life and his happiness. He
has a dead-beat brother-in-law (Thomas Haden Church who steals every
scene he's in), a daughter (Ellen Page) who is a young Ann Coulter in
the making, and a son (Ashton Holmes) to whom he never talks.

This film is quite funny! Page and Church were definitely the
stand-outs, but I appreciated Dennis Quaid and Sarah Jessica Parker,
two actors who I rarely ever have liked. It deals with a couple
familiar rom-com problems (pregnancy, the "other woman" thing), but the
film never feels overly sentimental or cliché. It's satisfying watching
Quaid's character get some richly deserved socks to the stomach once in
awhile, but you're with him anyway by the end. The humor is a little on
the biting cold side, which goes well with my tastes, maybe not with
some. Smart People overstays it's welcome a bit near the end, but a
good movie overall.

B.
<|_=00=_|>
An indie comedy about a quirky family of self-hating misfits. We've
seen this before, am I right? Well, so what, I say. When it's done
well, I don't care too much whether the concept has been done before.
And Smart People is done quite well. Dennis Quaid stars as a college
professor and widower who hasn't been out with a woman since his wife
died an unspecified (but long) amount of time ago. He lives alone with
his daughter (Ellen Page). He has a son who goes to the same college at
which he teaches and an adopted brother (Thomas Haden Church) who likes
to mooch off of him. After an accident, Church moves in with Quaid and
Page. Quaid also meets a former student (Sarah Jessica Parker), now a
doctor, who had a crush on him. They start to date. The plot isn't
anything special, but the dialogue is witty and the relationships are
well observed. And this is also a case of fine actors who make
something merely serviceable into something special. Quaid has never
been better. My feeling about his work as an actor is that he is very
uneven. He can be excellent, such as in The Right Stuff, but usually
he's adequate, and often, perhaps too often, he's awful. But this is
definitely one of the excellent performances. Church has kind of a
sitcommy role, but that's fitting for an actor who was really good in
sitcoms. He's hilarious here, too. A lot of the time, I was thinking of
the movie as somewhat akin to a sitcom, but a good sitcom. There have
been such things, you know. Page, fresh off her star-making turn as
Juno (though Smart People was filmed earlier), is an actress I've liked
in a couple of movies I disliked (Juno and Hard Candy). Finally, a
movie with her that I actually like! Feels good. And she's great in it.
The character is similar to Juno, but not quite so despicably precious.
I like how the writer and director invite the audience to dislike all
four of the major characters, at least a bit. They are recognizable
people, which is, unfortunately, a rarity in movies. I liked the movie,
and recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>
When I saw "Smart People" the trailer, I have to say that the first
thought that came into my mind is "Sideways: Part 2". It had the same
formula and characters. But I really wasn't as into Sideways as
everyone else was, so I wasn't so excited to see this movie. But today
I just decided to go ahead and give it a chance, I'm more grown up
since I've seen Sideways, so why not just see what the film had to
offer? I have to say while the movie does not excite me, I also see it
doesn't excite too many people here on IMDb, it's a decent enough movie
and worth the watch. The solid performances make the film likable and
the story is interesting to watch, while it's not something that
everyone can relate too, it's a good movie.

Lawerance is a college professor who isn't the most popular guy on
campus, he's pompous, arrogant, and puts himself higher above his
students while ignoring their plea's for extra help on assignments. His
son hates him, his daughter admires him and is quite the over achiever,
and his adopted brother is a scam artist. But when Lawerance has an
accident while jumping fence, he hits his head, and meets former
student, Janet Hartigan. They start to date, his daughter, Vanessa,
goes through her life realizing she's never really had fun, and his
adopted brother, Chuck needs this family just as much as Lawerance
needs it.

Smart People, the major problem is that this was advertised as a
comedy, it has some funny moments, but they're not what you would call
laugh out loud. I'd say this is more of a drama with comedic elements,
kind of like "Dan in Real Life", so Smart People didn't have "Smart
Advertisement", but the movie is worth the watch. I would recommend it,
it's an interesting film, not thrilling, so I would recommend probably
waiting for the rental. But the cast pulls the movie together and makes
it into a good drama.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this at Sundance. It was even better than expected, and I had my
hopes up going into it. The story is smart, funny and more complex than
Juno. Don't get me wrong; I loved Juno. I guess I am saying that Smart
People is on a parallel level of quality with it despite being more
complex in terms of the characters and their relationships. If you
loved Juno, think of Smart People as your next stepping stone upward.
While Ellen Page is one of the stars here, it is important not to
overlook the fact that two of the bona fide actors with solid track
records -- Dennis Quaid and Thomas Haden Church -- are really the main
attractions here. If you look at Quaid's film history, you will see a
wide array of projects, ranging from Breaking Away and The Right Stuff
to Far From Heaven and Traffic. He's not afraid to take risks as an
actor, and his long career shows that he is able to withstand the ebbs
and flows of an industry that is very fickle. He's the reason you
should see this film.
<|_=00=_|>
Smart People and Juno are alike in only in one way. They are both
really good movies. The entire cast give great performances and this
film has plenty of laughs. Thomas Haden Church and Ellen Page give
sensational performances and have yet to disappoint me. The screenplay
by Mark Poirier is very well written and deserves some attention that
he will most likely not get. The film is very directed by newcomer Noam
Nurro and any film he does its in good hands. Yeah I know thats there's
a lot of films that are about ordinary people but its a plot thats
never get old and always have great performances and laughs every time
especially Smart People. Despite this film getting not that much
praise, its a great film to see if you like those ordinary films that
anything but ordinary.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie today, the day after it opened here. And I was simply
delighted. This is a fine story told with non-stop heart-tugging humor
and verve. The movie captured my attention immediately, and held it
from beginning to end.

The scriptwriter, Mark Jude Poirier, adapted his novel for the screen
with extraordinary acumen. The ensemble of characters are just
delightfully appealing. Their story is told here with humor and
poignancy. Dennis Quaid as Laurence Wetherhold, Sarah Jessica Parker as
Janet Hartigan, Thomas Haden Church as Chuck, Ellen Page as Vanessa,
Ashton Holmes as James  all turn in wonderful performances in a
perfectly matched cast.

To me the pace is perfect, and the dialog is crisp, compelling, almost
flawless, with lots of funny lines.

For me, one of the most uplifting features of this movie is the way the
whole ensemble of characters develops together. The strangeness of the
characters as individuals, along with the convincing balance as
(extended) family, reminds me of the ensemble in Running with Scissors.
The quirky dysfunctionality and functionality of this family in
combination are like nothing so much as the family in Running with
Scissors. In any event, these are characters who together gain a
renewed sense of hope  a hope that imbues this wounded band of
characters with a sense of togetherness and vision that is to me very,
very moving.

Another feature of this movie that I myself found especially appealing
is the presence of such exquisitely composed visual scenes. These are
of such delightfully crafted texture that in some ways this movie
reminds me of the carefully composed scenes in Girl with a Pearl
Earring and Atonement. The cinematography and beauty of scene after
scene are just wonderful.

All in all, this is a fun, funny, moving portrait of a delightful band
of characters. I highly recommend this movie to anyone.
<|_=00=_|>
I've just seen this film and read a number of reviews about it. Many
reviewers are referencing 'Little Miss Sunshine', 'The Family Stone',
etc. But I left the theatre thinking of the wonderful, beautifully
balanced and developed, fun film, 'The Accidental Tourist'--another
film about an emotionally deadened, difficult man who is suffering from
the loss of a loved one and is 'redeemed' through love. Talk about
quirky families; the one in 'Tourist' puts most of the rest to shame.
The difference perhaps in the quality of these films (Tourist very
high, Smart People quite low, many others in the 'genre' somewhere
inbetween) lies in that The Accidental Tourist was based on the highly
crafted, moving novel of the same title by the gifted writer Anne
Tyler. What stands out for me again and again as I work up my courage
to attend recent releases is that the quality of screenplay writing in
Hollywood and elsewhere is low, low, low. Rushed, pressured,
unbaked--too many films being made too fast, with scripts that bore and
confuse us with unconvincing plots and thin characters. This film,
Smart People, could have been--with revision and review--a much better,
more engaging, moving picture. The script simply wasn't ready for
production; the story isn't there.
<|_=00=_|>
I would recommend this film to my colleagues or maybe the students as
well.

Being a college faculty member, I did enjoy watching this movie. The
interpretation of academic life is exactly what it looks from an
insider's point of view, except that I have not got a student's crush
yet. 

Unfortunately, the ending is nothing other than Hollywood. The abrupt
character change of Dr. Wetherhold seems sort of unbelievable. I simply
wish it could be a tiny bit smarter. Because of the ending, I gave a 9
out of 10. Remember, I am not a professor who gives an easy A.
<|_=00=_|>
I definitely enjoyed this movie, and i suspected I would when i saw
that the producers of "sideways" did this movie also. Dennis Quaid
played a different type of character in this movie than those you
normally see him play. He did a great job in this role as a very anal
and inapproachable widowed professor. His daughter, who seems to be
following in daddy's footsteps (Ellen Page) did a fantastic job as
well. Rounding out the dysfunctional family is the estranged adopted
brother: Thomas Haden Church. I grew up on wings, which makes it no
surprise that he's my favorite character in the movie. He represents
the antithesis of this father/daughter combo, and completely shakes up
their very private and inaccessible little world.

all in all, i gave this movie 8 stars, not 10. the reasoning behind
that is that Thomas Haden Church's character seems to react in a
completely different manner than one would expect, after half of the
movie has passed. That's a difficult sentence to interpret, i realize.
What i'm trying to say is that his character turns in a direction that
doesn't seem to follow suit from what you've learned of him in the
first half of the movie. Obviously there's an event that triggers this
change, but it still doesn't sit well with me.

Also; I don't really see the need for the brother character, he didn't
bring much of anything to the movie at all...

anyways, worth the expense to see the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Not for your average movie-goer, this one. Although the situation is
teed up nicely for a typical feel-good ensemble gush-fest, it resists
that temptation and takes you to a place where the characters are not,
although they seem to need it, ready for rehab. It has an easy,
rambling style that gradually rather than gratuitously opens their
world to us without (for the most part) overly relying on hackneyed
situations and gimmicks (although Quaid's insistence on keeping his
wifes clothing was not one of them). In fact, the situations portrayed
are so dark and lo- keyed that I wondered if this movie could have been
made without the ready-made typecast qualities of Quaid, Haden-Church
and Parker. ...Gritty Pittsburgh backdrop in a very real academic
surrounding adds to the slice-of-life tone.
