
The movie was well worth my time. I would encourage anyone who is
looking for a good uplifting movie to check this one out. the
characters are easy to relate to and the underlying story is very
heartwarming. If you are having a bad day, or even if you are having a
good day, this would be a great film. I left the movie feeling uplifted
and full of hope!! The spirit of the movie is a bit reminiscent of "Pay
It Forward". One word of warning, although the film does make you laugh
in parts, you will need to bring your own box of tissues. After
watching the film, I found out that the film was shot with only 1
camera. I honestly did not notice while watching the movie. everyone
should be able to find a part of themselves in at least one of the main
characters.
<|_=00=_|>
Facing The Giants is a "feel good" movie. As I type those words, I
can't help but think, "OK, I've just alienated at least half the
readers from seeing the movie". A "feel good" movie doesn't have to
translate to pure sap. Think Rocky more than Steel Magnolias. Although
even that comparison is lacking, because similarities between Giants
and Rocky or Rudy or for that matter any other "come from behind"
sports movies also come up short. One thing is for sure, no one viewing
Giants will miss the Christian content, and that difference alone makes
the film unique. But that's not the only thing that sets this film
apart. The fact that it was made mostly by volunteer amateurs from
Albany, Georgia's Sherwood Baptist Church-for $100,000-is a testimony
to what people can do when they passionately believe in something. That
alone makes this a truly "inspiring" film! The story focuses on Coach
Grant Taylor (played by writer, director, and Sherwood associate pastor
Alex Kendrick), whose Shiloh Christian Academy football team hasn't had
a winning season in six years. After losing a star player to another
team, things are looking down for the Shiloh Eagles, and school board
members begin to consider showing Taylor the door. The coach is having
a bad year for sure. He drives a beat up car, his house smells like
something died, and worst of all-he and wife discover they can't have
children of their own. The Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA)
board that hands out movie ratings says that it was in fact this
pregnancy theme that earned Giants it's PG rating. Don't be concerned
by this "adult" topic-it's handled very appropriately for the whole
family. On the "family" topic: yes you can the kids. My recommendation
would be ages 8 and up, only because younger children may be bored with
the football and "personal crisis" themes. But there is no sexual
content or profanity, and violence is limited to football tackles. By
the way, the football action looks great, thanks to one of the paid
crew members, cinematographer Bob Scott. He's worked with the amazing
NFL films as well as Friday Night Lights and many others. This is a
very good film for the family-I actually think that's what this movie
was made for. I can see families going out to eat after the movie and
discussing some of the themes (trust in God, respecting your parents).
If my son was older, I would be taking him to see it for sure. The
movie could truly have a positive impact on kids-as opposed to the
mindless entertainment they are often subjected to. As the story
unfolds, Taylor reaches a breaking point, and decides that all he can
do is trust the Lord for guidance. He tells his team, "If we win, we
praise him and if we lose we praise him". Most adults won't be too
surprised where the films goes after that-however I think kids in the
audience will be delighted-and maybe inspired-by the turn of events.
Let me go back to the "pure sap" comment for a moment. Some people may
think this film is the definition of "sap" as the story progresses. I
didn't see it that way. As a Christian, I have seen God turn around
impossible situations-so for me, I was thinking "yeah, God can do
that". So does Giants show us that when the chips are down, all we have
to do is pray and things change immediately? Alex Kendrick talks about
this in an interview with Christianity Today: "That's always the first
negative comment we get after our test screenings. I'm not a
name-it-and-claim-it guy; I think God does allow us to struggle."
However I understand where Kendrick is coming from when he goes on to
say, "We ended up with our story for two reasons: Number one, we had
seen it happen around us. And number two, it's a movie and we wanted
people to leave inspired and encouraged." We had seen it happen around
us. Giants is a reflection of that. If you're like me, you will "feel
good" at the end of the movie. That's not a bad thing! Go see this
movie-and take the kids.
<|_=00=_|>
As a youth pastor I heard good things about this movie. Then I watched
it. The acting wasn't the best. That's forgivable. It's the message
that's not: Give Jesus your life and everything will change - you'll
tackle better, make amazing catches, stop fumbling, start making
touchdown passes, and even make the playoffs. All because Jesus
magically turns horrible undersized weaklings into All-American
athletes. I laughed out loud when a coach quoted scripture to explain
to the kicker why he was missing field goals. But wait, that's not all.
You'll get a brand new truck, a $6000 raise, and you and your wife's
struggle with infertility will suddenly end in pregnancy - twice. THEN
you'll win the state championship because God helps a weakling kick the
winning field goal 12 yards further than he's ever kicked before - and
into the wind, no less - all because "God wanted him to make it." Then
you'll win the state championship again the next year. None of this
good stuff would have happened if the team hadn't chosen to follow
Jesus will all their hearts.

Here's what I took away from the movie: God can do anything he wants to
do whenever he wants to do it - and it's all about making our lives
better, easier, and more enjoyable. He chooses his favorite team and
helps them win games. Which bible is this story based on? I'll bet
Saint Stephen wished he'd known the keys to such a safe life before he
was stoned to death. Someone should have made this movie before 10 of
the 11 apostles were killed for following Jesus. It would have saved
them all a lot of trouble.
<|_=00=_|>
I rented this movie because I hoped it would be one the whole family
would enjoy. Although the movie is family friendly, my family did not
enjoy it because it gives a false view of God. If you obey God and
follow Him, you are not guaranteed success. Your football team won't
always win. You won't magically get better grades. Infertility isn't
always cured. You won't always get a raise. Sometimes, you'll be stuck
with the old car.

God does not exist to meet our every whim. Rather, we were created to
glorify Him. Sometimes we glorify Him most when things seem to be going
bad for us. To live is Christ; to die is gain.
<|_=00=_|>
I was invited to preview this movie and took my family with me. Even my
youngest son, who is 4, came home reciting the message of the film. If
a four year old gets it, I am thrilled to think of how many lives could
be changed by going to see it. My children laughed at me because I
cried like a baby. It evoked so many different emotions! It has been a
long time since a movie has touched me like "Facing the Giants" did.
The message was awesome and what was more amazing were the non-paid
"servants" that starred in this film. This movie has the ability to
make an amazing impact in this world. To God be the glory!!! I have
been telling everyone to go see this movie, you will not regret it.
<|_=00=_|>
It was an awesome movie. I laughed. I cried. I clapped. I cheered. I
smiled! At times, I was on the edge of my seat! The message is truly
inspirational. Reminds me a lot of "Remember the Titans" but
faith-based. The movie stays away from the usual Hollywood hype. It's
clean.....no sidetracking on meaningless words, bad language, or other
things that detract from the plot or overall movie. They don't shy away
from talking about God or praying. It has down-home charm and a
feel-good quality. Our family loved it and will go see it again. I
recommend it to anyone who wants to be inspired! My kids are already
saving to buy it!
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this film in youth group, where my otherwise intuitive youth
leader and his wife squeed over it. Then some adult couple at a
church-related Christmas party misled themselves into giving a copy of
this movie to every single family in attendance, and now my household
is stuck with the film (though it thankfully still remains in its
shrinkwrap). I cried bitter tears over these sad events, and here's
why: First off: this film has good intentions, especially if you're a
Christian like me. This movie is trying to show that you should put
your faith in God and that it'll make your life better. Not so bad,
right? Eh. It turns out a be a problem--a big one. This movie was made
by a church, so of course every single issue has to be dealt with as
tastefully for Christians as possible. It is all black-and-white, no
gray areas. God's grace and will in this movie is a predictable thing,
and it comes instantly to all those who do His bidding.

This is not the God I know. This is not the Christian life I am
familiar with. The God I believe in is a powerful and trustworthy God,
but He is not one that grants my every wish. I follow Him as best I
can, though the going is often hard; yet the football team in this
movie finds their humility and self-control a lot easier than anyone
should EVER find it. I cannot relate to cardboard cutouts who flip from
bad-side to good-side in the course of a few structured movie scenes.
And when I DO follow His commandments as laid out in the Bible, I
certainly don't find myself showered in blessing as these characters
do. The largest of my immediate rewards is knowing that I have done the
right thing; everything else comes with long, messy, arduous work.

But take the example this movie sets: Grant Taylor coaches the football
team at Shiloh Christian school, which has had 6 losing seasons in a
row. He may lose his job over it, and he and his wife are low on money
as it is. They want a baby, but the doctor tells him he is sterile. Oh,
and his car doesn't work. And the boys on his football team are
disrespectful to their parents, whiny after their million losses, and
bad at kicking field goals. This is sure one rundown community here.

But wait, Grant Taylor decides he's going to trust in God for
everything! And he passes on his faith to his team. So far, so good.
Not for long. As they begin to obey, blessing literally POUR in on
them. Suddenly the students stop disrespecting their parents; the
school has a big "revival"; the team starts winning EVERY game; they
even win the grand championship against the hardest team in the league!
Coach Taylor's job is reassured; the school gets him a shiny new truck
as a present (which, by the way, is the epitome of shallow,
fair-weather employers); he gets a raise; his wife (get this) even gets
pregnant from his sterile sperm! And that skinny kid manages to kick
his first darn field goal right when it really matters!! Wowzers, woot,
yay, praise the Lord, etcetera, etcetera!!! ...

Yipe. Just YIPE. Nobody in my church has ever experienced Christ in a
such a cut-and-dry manner. Yes, there have been miracles aplenty in my
family, as well as gifts and creature comforts, and I attribute them to
God's grace and lovingkindness. But God isn't some faucet tap that you
turn on and off by being good or bad! He is by and large a mystery; His
gifts come unexpectedly, often when you think you don't need them but
you really do. It's a long, hard slog to the road of fulfillment, and
things NEVER turn out the way you thought they would.

This movie has good intentions. But because of its supreme shallowness
and total escapism, it tanks tremendously to a 1/10. The bad acting and
sports movie clichés seem to be mere pimples next to the leprous
falsehoods that this movie inadvertently pushes.

To all you future churches planning to make a movie: don't be afraid to
show REAL life, even you have to add some inconvenient truths into the
mix. However much the baser populace is wowed by this cotton candy
treat, nobody has learned anything substantial from it. Give us the
meat, the bones, the REAL stuff! True life applies to everyone, not
just Christians, and that's one aspect "Facing the Giants" didn't
manage to grasp.
<|_=00=_|>
It's interesting how 90% of the high-vote reviews are all comprised of
"*random username*" from "United States" (no state pride??) who all say
more or less the exact same thing with the exact same grammatical style
and all with the exact same complete lack of taste in movies. I would
delve further into this suspicious trend, but alas, this is a review of
the movie, and not the reviews themselves.

Let me start by saying that I am both a Christian and a true avid movie
fan. This means I have seen a great many movies, from good to bad, and
can wholeheartedly claim that Facing The Giants is, in fact, NOT a good
movie. It has good intentions, but fails to meet many (if any) basic
standards that I associate with a quality filmgoing experience.

The Acting: Mostly Terrible, Palatable At Best. Hearing that most were
apparently volunteers does not at all surprise me.

The Dialogue: Clumsy, cheesy, the script comes off as a long version of
some cheesy skit you'd see performed in Sunday School or youth group
function. The Rave Review Robots revel in the absence of "meaningless
words", but the cold hard truth is that such words are a part of the
real world, and the complete absence of it is palpable. Let's just say
the mean ol' head coach of a team in a State Championship game would
have a lot more to say than "OH NO!" when things are not going his way.

The Plot: Mind-bogglingly predictable. It has been commented that this
movie is "not a Hollywood cliché", and yet it's like it was pulled
directly from Making An Underdog Sports Movie For Dummies (including
the mandatory quasi-romantic subplot for the ladies) and just had a
Christian-themed coat of paint slapped on it. I'm not lying or bragging
when I say I had almost every major detail in both the plot and subplot
pegged immediately upon their inception. Only someone who has never
seen a decent sports movie in their whole life would be emotionally
stirred by the story presented here.

The Directing/Editing: It, too, was patterned almost exactly after the
generic Underdog Sports Movie template. Still, acting aside, there
weren't many noticeable goofs, so at least Facing The Giants was
technically competent.

The Message: Ask Jesus and He will grant all your wishes. Part of me
hoped that this movie would end in the team's eventual defeat to really
emphasize the whole "If we lose, we praise You" part, because in the
Real World, you WILL fail at one point or another and it's good to be
prepared for that. But in the world of Facing The Giants, if you fail,
clearly someone either screwed up or is cheating. Another interesting
question being, what if the Eagles came across another team that had
gotten religion? Would they be caught in an endless loop of miraculous
plays and last-minute saves, or would the universe simply have
exploded? 

The Bottom Line: For the hardcore conservative Christian Parents crowd
lamenting the evils of Hollywood, Facing The Giants will be another
mediocre-at-best Christian film to hold up on a pedestal as the
preferred model for modern film-making. For everyone else, the effects
will range from boredom to a burning desire to be watching something
else. And a warning: Any attempt to show this to non-Christians will
lead not to conversion, but to derision. I give this two stars, one for
the one scene that did not have me rolling my eyes, and another for
basic technical proficiency on a low budget.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, this movie was a shock to see and to hear. Among the thousands of
mainline films I have watched over many years, this is the first I've
seen with a modern-day story that was unapologetically Christian. It
actually used Jesus and God's name as you would hear in a sermon in
church. Of course, the fact that "Hollywood" didn't make this film is
understandable; it was produced, directed, written, etc., by a Baptist
church in Georgia. 

But - surprise - it's available in good quantities at the video stores
and actually has the production values of a big-budget Hollywood film.
In other words, this looks nice and, for the most part, is adequately
acted even though amateurs do the acting. The only one I thought
sounded wooden, unfortunately, was Alex Kendrick playing the main
character: coach Grant Taylor, the Shiloh Christian High School
football coach. Kendrik directed and wrote this film, so kudos to him
for all that wonderful work....but an actor, he ain't. Real-life
University of Georgia football coach Mark Richt makes a guest
appearance and he sounded very relaxed and convincing, as a
professional actor would sound. They should have given Richt the main
role! 

Yes, the story is hokey, especially at the end at the last football
game, but what Hollywood movie isn't? It's just a little far-fetched to
anyone who knows football. At any rate, the action scenes were
well-done and very realistic looking.

To see a movie with this many inspirational and profound Biblical
statements was a "revelation" and really nice to see (hear). Hokey or
not, there are several moments in this film that should drive most
viewers to tears. If not, check your pulse. 

The main message of the movie: "All things are possible with God," is a
good one and one everyone, including Christians, need to be reminded of
periodically. Secular people who don't want to hear anything positive
about God or the Bible, or who are just plain biased against
Christians, will hate this film and wouldn't last 30 minutes watching
it. I have a very good friend who is in that category and I couldn't
recommend the film to him, because he'd be in the bathroom puking his
guts out after a half hour. However, if you are more tolerant, or are a
follower Of Jesus Christ, then you will find this film inspiring and
emotional and worth your time.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie touched every emotion: joy, sadness, anger, confusion,
peace, humor...but most of all HOPE that is found in Christ alone!
People in the theater interrupted the movie with applause, MUCH
laughter and most cried at some point! An incredible and exhilarating
story of hope! It is incredible to realize that this first-class movie
that is so well-done was birthed and produced by a church in south
Georgia!! If you know someone who is struggling against the giants we
face in life, or a couple who is struggling to make ends meet, or
struggling to have a child, or just someone who needs to be encouraged,
GET THEM TO THIS MOVIE! We need MORE movies like this! Buy some tickets
and give them away...you can affect a life or a family FOREVER!!! My
church has committed to buy 1,000 tickets! We are GIVING FREE tickets
to every varsity football player and coach in our area! I challenge
others to do the same in YOUR area. Spread the word! This film is a
MUST-SEE!
