
So I went to see this with not much expectation at all, the one trailer
I had seen didn't really grab me but I decided to see it anyway and was
pleasantly surprised. Mr. Peabody is this extremely intelligent dog who
can talk and his adopted son Sherman is a 7-year-old boy who is a
sponge for facts but quite slow practically. They go on adventures
through time to learn about history. The movie sets that up in the
first 15 minutes, which by the way it was done it looked like the movie
was going to be some kids documentary about history but when it
actually got into the story it was really fun. The comedy made me
laugh, the visuals are stunning, I wish I could've seen it in 3D, the
story is quite unique but also had similar elements of other movies, I
got a Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure vibe and you get some pretty
generic characters that you've seen in quite a lot of animated movies
but the plot was't boring; I was interested to the end. The voice
acting is pretty average but the way Mr. Peabody says things do add a
certain something to the film. 8 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
After the February smash hit: "The Lego Movie," "Mr. Peabody & Sherman"
certainly does have a tough act to follow. Despite this, "Mr. Peabody &
Sherman" certainly does bring another high-quality piece of family
entertainment to the big screen.

Surprisingly, the film's story is quite strong. Based on the retro
cartoon of the same name, "Mr. Peabody & Sherman" centers on a highly
intelligent dog named Mr. Peabody (excellently voiced by Modern Family
star, Ty Burrell) who adopts a young boy named Sherman (also
excellently voiced by 8-year-old Max Charles). Peabody takes Sherman on
adventures through time with his super advanced time machine known as
the "Way Back". After a series of incidents, the duo must travel to
different time periods and eventually have to fix a potential hole in
the space time continuum. 

Many recent films based on retro cartoons (such as the abysmal "Scooby
Doo" and "Smurfs" films) have failed to provide a good screenplay to
accompany its animated hijinks. This film, however, is packed with
witty dialogue and good morals about unconventional families,
fatherhood, and childhood struggles. Mr. Peabody and Sherman are
surprisingly deep characters. The fact that Sherman has been raised by
a dog does eventually cause a rift between the two. In the beginning of
the movie, Sherman is teased at school and called a "dog" because his
father is one. Also faced with his own maturing, Sherman wishes to do
more things on his own. Peabody, meanwhile is apprehensive of Sherman
doing things on his own, as he fears inside that Sherman will outgrow
him. This is quite a lot of conflict for a "kid's movie."

Luckily, the thematic elements are interspersed with charming humor and
exciting visuals. Each time period is filled with beautifully animated
landscapes and enjoyable characters with top-notch vocal performances.
In 18th century France, Marie Antoinette (voiced by Lauri Fraser) is
portrayed as a bubbly, naive, cake-obsessed aristocrat who is
constantly stuffing her face with dessert. In ancient Egypt, palm
trees, pyramids and towering statues show a clear rose gallery of
effort from the animation team.

It's also worth pointing out that this film has some of the finest
voice acting I have ever heard in an animated feature. Ty Burrell and
Max Charles bring believable emotion and jocularity to Peabody and
Sherman respectively. Burrell gives Peabody a suitably intellectual and
clear sounding voice, giving an extra jolt of likability to the
character. Max Charles shows an excessive amount of talent for an 8-
year-old (probably younger when the dialogue was recorded), making
Sherman a believable young boy with a roller-coaster of emotions
throughout. An all-star supporting cast including Steve Colbert, Ariel
Winter, Stanley Tucci, Patrick Warburton, Dennis Haysbert, Allison
Janney, Leslie Mann and even Mel Brooks are certainly a treasure to
listen to as well.

In regards to its historical accuracy, though this film does certainly
have its share of jarring anachronisms (such as heart-printed underwear
and an actual working flying machine made by Leonardo da Vinci), there
is certainly a decent amount of informative elements in the historical
scenes. Kids may actually be delighted to learn about how Marie
Antoinette helped ignite the French Revolution and how George
Washington didn't really cut down a cherry tree. The film makes the
wise decision of being a colorful family adventure film while still
having some informative elements. LA Times' film critic Betsey Sharkey
recently criticized this movie for being "too smart for its own good,"
saying: "Mr. Peabody's "teaching moments" will sail right over the
heads of kids while requiring adults to pay attention." With all due
respect, Ms. Sharkey, I feel like the "teaching moments" are what make
this movie stand out from other family fare. The fact that the
filmmakers bring some education to the screenplay really shows that
they have faith in a kid's ability to watch a movie.

In all fairness, one common criticism I do somewhat understand is the
film's somewhat convoluted second act. Without giving anything away, I
do have to admit things get pretty hectic. However, after many years of
watching movies with time travel, I've learned to put down my complaint
notebook and enjoy the movie. Let's face it: it's pretty much a
guarantee that a movie involving time travel will have at least a
couple of plot holes. Even excellent time travel films like "Looper"
and "Back to the Future" have plot holes. However, those discussions
are for another day.

At the end of the day, "Mr. Peabody & Sherman" is a beautiful, funny,
and even heartfelt film that families from every background will get a
kick out of. It is enjoyable to watch, and I dare even say it's one of
Dreamworks' best efforts to date.
<|_=00=_|>
I wasn't impressed watching the trailer. Thankfully, I got a chance of
a pre-screening. I'm perplexed by the low ratings because I absolutely
loved this movie! This is coming from someone who hasn't seen Mr.
Peabody before.

Mr. Peabody is a genius dog who adopts a boy and raises him to be a
genius too. Unfortunately things change when the boy goes to school and
gets bullied by a girl. Mr. Peabody, to appease things, invites the
girl and her parents to a dinner at their house, everything goes
haywire from there and we meet some pretty interesting characters from
the past.

What made this movie special is the little details that are revealed
along the way like how Sherman was adopted. The animation is fantastic
and the 3D adorns it. As someone who likes puns, I absolutely loved the
jokes, not just from Mr. Peabody but from other characters in the movie
as well. Agamemnon was hilarious! Not everything is funny though, there
are a few serious and tear jerking moments that make this movie
special.

My only complaint is that some time travel stuff explained in the movie
can be a bit hard to understand for children. Other than that, it's an
absolute treat both for children and adults. Go watch it!
<|_=00=_|>
Mr. Peabody & Sherman is the story of an extremely intelligent dog
named, Mr. Peabody(Ty Burrell) & his adopted human son, Sherman(Max
Charles). Using a time traveling machine called, the WABAC, the duo
travel to the past to experience iconic historic moments & meet
historic people firsthand. However, after Sherman gets into trouble at
school due to Penny Peterson(Ariel Winter), Peabody decides to invite
Penny & her parents, Paul(Stephen Colbert) & Patty Peterson(Leslie
Mann) for dinner to resolve the issue. However, the intelligent dog's
plan horribly backfires when Sherman tells Penny about the WABAC & she
being the obnoxious & inquisitive girl that she is, decides to do some
time traveling of her own. Now, it's up to Mr. Peabody & Sherman to
save Penny & return the space-time continuum to normal before the
Petersons realize their daughter's missing. 

I was laughing throughout the film & had a blast! I loved the fact that
Mr. Peabody, who is a dog, is way more clever than the humans he
interacts with. I loved the father-son relationship between Mr. Peabody
& his human kid, Sherman. Though this scenario could never happen in a
million years, the makers of the movie make their relationship
believable & emotional at the same time. Mr. Peabody gets pretty
emotional & sad seeing how fast Sherman is growing up. I loved the idea
of time travel in an animated film, which kind of makes it a sci-fi
film, as well! The voice acting is the highlight of the movie. Ty
Burrell, best known for portraying Phil Dunphy on the hit sitcom,
Modern Family, is equally hilarious, sarcastic, goofy & endearing as
Mr. Peabody. Max Charles is adorable as the innocent little kid,
Sherman. Ariel Winter, also known for playing Alex Dunphy on Modern
Family, is outstanding as the obnoxious & curious, Penny Peterson.
Allison Janney is spectacular as the main antagonist, Ms. Grunion.
Stephen Colbert is impressive as Paul Peterson. Leslie Mann is amazing
as Patty Peterson. The famous characters of historical importance are
brilliant as well. Special mention should be made of, Stanley Tucci,
Lake Bell & Patrick Warburton for their unforgettable voice overs of
Leonardo da Vinci, Mona Lisa & Agamemnon respectively. I would like to
sign off by saying, Mr. Peabody & Sherman is a must watch for everyone
who enjoys a darn good movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Just watched this with my movie theatre-working friend. It's based on
"Peabody's Improbable History", a cartoon that always aired in the
middle of the "Rocky & Bullwinkle" show and had Mr. Peabody, a smart
dog with glasses, and Sherman, his adopted human son-also with glasses,
going to various important events in history ending with some kind of
pun often said by Peabody to a bemused Sherman. This version takes some
elements from the pilot episode (Peabody adopts Sherman amid some
troubles) and also adds somewhat of a girlfriend from school for the
boy. With that out of the way, I'll just say that I found some
amusement at much of the humor concerning some historical figures and
some modern lingo and I did laugh out loud a few times. There's even
some heart rending scenes I liked. But nothing beats the charm of the
old cartoons even though they weren't the best artistically in
animation. Still, the computer-animation is visually pleasing so on
that note, I recommend Mr. Peabody & Sherman.
<|_=00=_|>
It's hard to imagine somebody trying to pitch the story for Mr. Peabody
& Sherman - "Let's make a movie about a genius dog who goes travelling
in time and space with his adopted human son!" Well, actually, someone
did make that pitch... way back in the 1950s. The two characters first
appeared in Rocky And His Friends, an animated television show that
will ring a bell with American audiences. But those of us who are less
familiar with these characters needn't fret: this new incarnation by
DreamWorks Animation is bright, funny and packed with great gags, a
pleasingly smart treat for kids and adults alike.

Mr. Peabody (voiced by Ty Burrell) is the brainiest dog in all the
land, and a celebrated inventor, athlete and businessman to boot. From
his lonely perch atop the world, he decides to adopt a baby boy.
Everything goes well until the bespectacled Sherman (Max Charles)
starts school. Forced to play nice with Penny (Ariel Winter), a
classmate who ridicules him for having a dog as a father, Sherman shows
her the WABAC: a time machine invented by Mr. Peabody to allow his son
to bear witness to history in the making. Together, Sherman and Penny
embark on a trip across time that could destroy the past, the present
and the future.

Bouncing merrily from the French Revolution to ancient Greece by way of
the Italian Renaissance, Mr. Peabody & Sherman messes mischievously
with history - we're presented with a cake-obsessed Marie Antoinette
(Lauri Fraser), a volatile Mona Lisa (Lake Bell) and a beef-headed
Agamemnon (Patrick Warburton). Most of these references will likely be
lost on younger viewers, but there's still plenty to keep them
entertained. As the film races along in its madcap way, gags and puns
(so bad they're brilliant) are tossed at the audience in such great
amounts that it's rather amazing that most of them work as well as they
do.

The film does suffer a little from its breakneck pace, as it rushes
headlong towards a cataclysmic convergence of the past and the present.
The story gets a little lost in the shuffle of history, with almost too
much to absorb by the time nefarious social services worker Ms. Grunion
(voiced with wicked relish by Allison Janney) turns up - a canine bigot
to the core - and threatens to remove Sherman from Mr. Peabody's
custody.

Nevertheless, director Rob Minkoff manages to pull the whole thing off,
balancing the film's largely irreverent tone with a surprisingly
heartfelt ending. He even crafts a father-son moment near the end of
the film that's both shamelessly sweet and a cheeky nod to cinematic
history. (Think Kirk Douglas and Stanley Kubrick circa 1960.) It's all
quite enough to suggest that there's a bright cinematic future ahead
for this little boy and his dog/dad.
<|_=00=_|>
Based on a 60's short 'Peabody's Improbable History', DreamWorks and
director Rob Minkoff ('The Lion King') bring the original characters
up- to-date in this wonderfully charming and colourful romp.

The story tells of Mr. Peabody, a talking canine (voiced by Modern
Family's Ty Burrell), and his adopted "pet" son Sherman. An incident on
Sherman's first day of school leads to Peabody inviting Penny and her
parents for dinner, hoping the kids will reconcile their differences
and avoiding potential loss of custody over Sherman. In an attempt to
impress Penny, however, Sherman accidentally reveals the WABAC -
Peabody's time travelling machine and ends up rewriting history that
will have dire consequences in the future if not set right.

I hadn't seen the original cartoon until I saw the film, but I caught
the introduction episode on YouTube after and there were several
scenes/dialogue that's been re-used in the movie. Even though it holds
no nostalgia for me, it's a great little touch.

The vocal talent is also great. There's the aforementioned Burrell, but
also some other well-known names including, but not limited to, Stanley
Tucci, Patrick Warburton (Kronk from 'The Emperor's New Groove'), Mel
Brooks and Stephen Toblowsky. Their indistinguishable voices really
liven up their respectable characters. And, while, Robert Downey Jr.
was originally cast as Peabody, Burrell does a commendable job here.

After being less than impressed with prior DreamWorks entries 'The
Croods' and, more recently, 'Turbo', I ended up enjoying this a lot
more than I initially thought I would. The humour is very
child-friendly and it's still a step down from what I like to call the
"old" DreamWorks ('Shrek', etc.), but it is great family entertainment.

The story is on the predictable side, but has a great message and will
keep parents and older siblings entertained, while the zany energy and
characters will keep the kids amused. They might even pick up a thing
or two about history.

7/10.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw the trailers and I expected it to be more concentrated on time
travel and not have much of a story line. Well there is. A fantastic
one at that! "Mr. Peabody and Sherman" is a wonderful story about a dog
who adopts a boy. 

The film also has lots of animated things to love - like history,
comedy, romance, suspense and so much more. To make it even better 
characters come to live thanks to the brilliant voice-over actors such
as Ty Burrel and Max Charles.

The film starts when a young puppy is growing up in different shelters.
From a very early age he shows everyone how very special he is. He is
intelligent, athletic and smooth. He wins many prizes, but his greatest
adventure happens when he adopts a boy. Together they go through
multiple adventures and troubles but able to stay together.

I love so much about this film. The film itself is fantastic! I love
how they take twenty five-minute shows that had old, colored 2-D
animation and turn it into modern 3D animation with the use of modern
technology. 

My favorite scene is when they show the story of how Mr. Peabody adopts
Sherman. They show points throughout Sherman's little life of great
moments, like his first step in 1709. Then it shows how he finds
Sherman. That is definitely a sweet and loving part! 

This movie has a bit of violence in it, therefore I recommend it to
ages 5-18. I also believe that adults who admired this cartoon kids,
will love this new version of these beloved characters. I give it 5 out
of 5 stars. 

Reviewed by Gerry O, KIDS FIRST Film Critic. For more reviews, go to
kidsfirst dot org.
<|_=00=_|>
It's quite noticeable that Dreamworks Animation is trying to break
visual grounds in their most recent movies, but Mr. Peabody and Sherman
gives a little reminder on their original magic. The first half shows
how charming the worlds they can bring even without shoving too much
spectacles, the characters bursting out absurd personality that may
sometimes be senseless yet terribly affable. But of course, it's an
adventure traveling through historical events, but it kind of falls
short on the concept and rather places those things into a bumpy ride
with a dramatic center. Those things could have worked if it was more
sincere, but the real enjoyment lies on the basics where you let the
mockeries and the humor speak.

There is a nice additional depth behind the quirky and interesting
relationship of the two, it makes their reintroduction on screen feel a
lot fresh. The growth of their connection kicks in the plot, and that
is when it starts becoming a bit forced. It doesn't seem comfortable
with heightening the material. Turning things big and emotional is more
like a must for the film to have because apparently that is what most
animation today usually strive for. None of it actually plummets things
down, but the story is probably better off smaller. People should
remember the studio is more than trippy visuals and celebrity voices,
in the end it's the simple witty humor that provides the genuine color
in their movies.

The plot here should have focused more on the intersection between
education and parody within the historical settings than building epic
proportions in its little plot. The typical elements are still fun. Ty
Burrell is dashing as Mr. Peabody even with the seriousness that
embodies the character do too sparks a sense of heart. The entire cast
delivers the comedy admirably and it really leaves the viewers hungry
for more. The zany effects kind of interrupts most of that, but the
animation is still great overall. The designs are wonderfully loyal to
its cartoony essence which is one of the striking things to pay close
attention to.

Mr. Peabody and Sherman is completely fun when it doesn't try following
the modern roots of the genre. It's a lot brilliant when it's just
traveling time, meeting a caricatured version of a particular
historical figure, stopping candles, and let the personalities of the
characters develop on their own without being too didactic. The
relationship of Peabody and Sherman is already compelling at the start,
but they could have think of better choices to justify its center.
There are still plenty of strong stuff worth seeing around, it just
needs to be cleverer.
<|_=00=_|>
What a great animation!! Really engaging and fun! Imagine taking
elements from Back to the Future, make Doc Brown look similar to Brian
Griffin and give the character some Brain, from Pink and the Brain,
characteristics.

I don't know the show it's based on or the characters from it, it's a
1959 animated show that had a short run, I'll check it eventually, so
this is a reinterpretation from a probably obscure show from the past,
but I dare to say that I really enjoyed and got myself hooked with
those characters!

I even dare to say that I think we should have one of these films every
year! It was awesome! Kids learn and get curious about things, there
are interesting morals, dads also can have fun with all the pop culture
references, it's really a great animation! Go check this out and take
your kids with you, you'll have fun beyond imagination!
