
I didn't have any expectations for this film,and it completely blew me
away!Visuals were stunning,acting really surprised me,action was
incredible.I really can't wait for the sequel cause the ending set it
up really well.Magic was also pretty damn cool.Orgrim was a ferocious
bad ass.It was a damn fine film,best of the 2016 dare i say.Bring on
more,and it finally broke the video game movie curse!Go see it,you
won't regret it!10 out of 10 for me!I think that it will have a good
reception from audiences and critics.Warcraft fans will love
it.Direction was amazing,one of the best motion capture for a film i've
seen,i really hope it does well in the box office and review department
cause it was really amazing!
<|_=00=_|>
...but oh was I thankful for it!!! All through the movie I kept on
having this big large smile sculpted into my face. For the record, I'm
25 years old, and I've played warcraft and wow for many years since
when I was 13 or 14 years old. Ever since then, I haven't stopped
playing. Therefore you can count me as a fan. Now onto the movie...
Gosh, I saw it at a pre-screening, and I kept wanting more of it. It
just never gets boring! I really enjoyed the little stuff that is found
throughout the movie for the fans. I also incredibly enjoyed the intro
sequence.

Those who argue the movie cuts too many parts or that it changes the
story too much are totally wrong. This movie could not have shown the
whole first time in its entirety - keep in mind that the lore lasts
well over ten hours, making a movie this long would, well, make it way
too long and besides, how would you financially sustain such a project? 

OK, so there are changes in the movie - well, this is Duncan's vision
of it. All of us have our own visions of the lore and books which may
or may not be compatible with that of Duncan's, but I can safely assume
that nobody can say they have a hundred percent the same vision of the
story as Chris Metzen; that's the thing with story: each player /
reader has a different vision of it. As for me, I was blown away. Never
before have I felt so much at home in a movie, it is as if I had taken
a walk in the town where I grew up, Stormwind, Goldshire, Ironforge,
everything felt so much like home, I was moved. I cannot tell of
another movie that had me shed tears just by seeing a landscape on
screen.

As for the changes, well, I found good reasons behind all of them, and
let me tell you right away, yes, maybe coming from a fan it will look
like absolute heresy, but I enjoyed the story a lot. The actors were
great, they were a lot into their characters, and for the first time, I
had never seen orcs in such detail before, hulky, robust, terrifyingly
but also relative.

Quite frankly, I can't wait for the next movie... In the meantime, I'll
watch this one over and over again when I can. This movie has
everything that a good movie needs to have, and more. Plus, it just
might bring more people to actually play WoW. Parents, maybe some
scenes will frighten your kids, but this movie has almost NO blood
(even though it has a good share of battle) and the foes are undeniably
evil, plus it has good values in it - friendship, courage,
responsibility, sacrifice for a good cause, and the belief that anyone
can help to change things. That will go down in history as being one of
the best ever, for sure.
<|_=00=_|>
I actually thought this film would be bad. Like most other video game
movies I thought this was going to be a massive flop and just suck.
This movie broke the video game movie curse with style. WarCraft
surprised me even though I am a WarCraft fan.

If there are sequels WarCraft could easily be this generations
equivalent of The Lord of the Rings. The acting was great, the effects
were spot on and the action was epic. I was really impressed with the
motion capture on the orcs, they looked amazing. Travis Fimmel as
Anduin Lothar was a good choice. He did a really good job of portraying
the lion of Stormwind. WarCraft has a lot of lore that could easily be
made into a film series and I think this film did a good job of
establishing the world of WarCraft for future sequels. Do I recommend
watching WarCraft? Yes, WarCraft is a movie everyone can enjoy,
although it may be too intense and violent for younger children. If you
were a fan of the games there are Easter eggs for you. If you have
never heard of WarCraft you will be amazed by the world and want more.
<|_=00=_|>
Hello. 

First of all i have to tell you, i am a Warcraft fan and i had no
expectations from this movie at all. I am NOT a Blizzard fan boy and i
know when they do something poor and when they do something good.

If you like the cinematics that they make and if you like LOTR like me
and fantasy, you will absolutely love this movie. 

I was really scared about this movie being another video game movie
chaos. Not by a landslide.

Warcraft is astonishing. The visuals are ground breaking, the acting is
very strong and the emotional involvement between the viewer and the
movie is breath taking. The familiar zones from Warcraft universe are
all and are built exactly how they are suppose to be built, every
Warcraft fan will feel like home and on the brink of shedding tears. I
will watch this movie again in 10 June and gather all my friends that
were not lucky enough to see it yet and go again, maybe twice. I need
more, there has to be more Warcraft movies. Dunca Jones working
alongside with Blizzard was a genius move and it shows throughout the
movie. Almost 2 hours of pure awesomeness. 10/10 from me. GO SEE THIS
MOVIE, you will not regret it !
<|_=00=_|>
First off, i would like to point out Duncan Jones has made another
fantastic flick. Better than source code, but me personally i loved
moon so.... Warcraft isn't good enough to beat it lol. So Everything
about this movie felt right. And i would like to point out this movie
is about the warcraft storyline (First game) Not World Of Warcraft. The
acting was good, the pacing was great. The CGI was amazing! Gul'dan was
an awesome villain. Never heard of Daniel Wu But i feel like he will be
voice acting more characters soon. I love how they wear that ridiculous
armor that a normal person can't stand up in. Lothar was an amazing
main character, and I only know Travis Fimmel because he's in the show
vikings but i feel like if the rest of the critics like this movie this
could be his breakthrough movie. If there is a sequel then i would
definitely go and see it. And lads, The Video game curse is broken!
Hopefully Assassins Creed will live up to the hype! Fans will love it,
people who like lord of the rings or the hobbit will love it, just
regular people who has never played WoW will love it! All in all, i
think that the hype was well worth it and it is definitely going to be
a recommend for me! After you have seen Captain America go see
Warcraft, you wont regret it.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't want to give away anything, but my god was this movie amazing!
The motion capture was superb, the acting superb, and the plot itself
was great. For the Warcraft fans you will see plenty of easter eggs
that will make you grin or laugh. Over all it's what of my favorite
movies I have seen this year.

I went to an early screening with my girlfriend and a friend of mine
and even though they know nothing of the storyline or world of Azeroth,
they absolutely enjoyed it. The characters were awesome (Duncan Jones
did amazing) and so were the actors. From what I could gather, the
entire crowd who went to see it enjoyed it.
<|_=00=_|>
Just seen it with a bunch of friends and it was amazing. My friends who
came with me aren't even Warcraft fans and they even said they can't
wait for a sequel, they said it was nothing like they expected, which
is another shitty fantasy movie. They were on the edge of their seats
the whole time and wanting more! Whenever they'd show Easter eggs in
the background i'd go nuts and they had no clue why but they were too
busy being into the movie to care to ask. I CANNOT WAIT to see another
one of these movies!!! I even noticed a lot of people outside the
theater who have never played the games or know anything about it,
loved it. I even talked with an older couple for a good 10 minutes who
loved it but didn't understand a few things and i cleared it up for
them, they were very thankful. They were excited for another movie too!
<|_=00=_|>
Watched this movie in a IMAX 3D theater. The sound makes it well worth
seeing in a theater with a state of the art sound system. The Orcs are
believable from the start. Well rounded characters with great
motivation. The motion capture work by the actors was a work of
passion.

Ben Foster and Ben Schnetzer did a wonderful job playing the magic
wielding Mages. Perfect depth, effort and really showing the strain
magic has on the human body.

Paula Patton did a fantastic job with Garona. Duncan Jones made a
compelling ass kicking female character. 

But more important for the fanboys, feel comfortable bring non-WoW
playing friends and families to the movie. All non-WoW movie goers seem
to enjoy the movie and really liked the CGI.
<|_=00=_|>
*** This review may contain spoilers ***

I was lucky enough to get an invite to watch the movie in LA 2 weeks
ago, in a screening about press.I was the only one foreign guy
there(Cyprus but got invited since i am making my after-master practise
here).

I have to note to everyone here that i am aware of World of Warcraft
and the Warcraft games as IPs but i've never played any of them.

I am a huge Fantasy genre lover and this movie exceeded my
expectations. My biggest concern minutes before movie aired was the
quality of the CGI.I Knew this movie uses a lot of CGI.Well the CGI is
breathtaking easily equal or better to AVatar and Dawn of the Apes,
equally to JUngle book(what a great movie!) BUT with the difference
that it is used in massive scale, which makes it even more impressive.
Watching Hundreads of Orcs with unique characteristics and facials is
mind boggling(with the positive way of meaning).

Orcs are beautifully beautifully made, main character Durotan is just
awesome he is my favourite character, HUmans are OK at start i had an
issue with how armors looked but people told me it is exactly how
in-game is.IN terms of acting Ben Foster is hands down the best
performer also Paula Patton and Travis Fimmel are nice, rest of the
cast its slightly above average not great, but serviceable. Orcs
overall are better portrayed than Humans, BUT thats the important thing
if CGI was bad in this movie i would be really turned off, but the CGI
is perfect so i can easily bypass the fact that 2-3 human chars weren't
the best.

I Loved the plot, it is so rich and u can easily understand why some
people said that this movie isn't even the 15% of the whole Warcraft
Lore.Duncan Jones has done a great job for non-fans like me to easily
udnerstand the movie, even though there are a few times that let u
hanging which proposes hinds for a sequel.

Visuals are stunning and we can see probably the best implementation of
magic that has been made in a movie.

Summing up this is a MUST watch for every person that loves Fantasy
genre, easily the best fantasy movie after the last LoTR release(IT
would be at LOtr level with 2-3 more decent actors). ANd easily the
best video-game adaptation that has been made. 1-- Breathtaking CGI 2--
It feels more like a movie(rather than a video game movie) 3--
Incredible and rich lore/plot, Warcraft universe is HUge and after this
movie i really want to explore it.

Give this movie a chance i know many are sceptical to any video-game
adaptation, but this one it wont disappoint u.
<|_=00=_|>
(I labelled this 'Contains Spoilers' but I am not mentioning anything
in particular. Someone might disagree so I figured safety first.) I
grew up playing Warcraft II and III extensively. When I heard a
Warcraft film was in the making I thought this to be a good thing.
There was so much material to draw from. So I went to see it at my
local Cineworld on the opening day (30 May here in the UK).

Sadly the film does not deliver. With so many characters to keep track
of and so little time for them all, I found that I didn't really care
about the fates of any of them. It didn't help that two characters
looked very similar and it was hard to tell them apart.

Then there was the acting. Ye Gods. I imagine this might pick up a few
Razzie nominations. One particular line was so woodenly delivered I
thought I was watching the Phantom Menace.

The plot was simple enough but because they were leapfrogging from
character to character it didn't really have a chance to truly get
interesting. For this film to do its characters justice it would need
to have been six hours long.

They should have stripped away maybe eight or nine of the 12 main
characters and focused on them. Plot is character. Character is plot.
This was drummed into me in university. If you want us to care about
the characters then give us time to see them fail, win, live, love.
With one a few to focus on you can then develop the plot. Throw some
emotion in there. They want to go the serious route? Fine. Make it
serious then. But give us things to care about. Show us some character
depth. Don't just throw a bunch of characters and names at us,
expecting us to be so 'wowed' (no pun intended) that we forget that
we're really just watching a mediocre advert for World of Warcraft.
Because that's what it felt like.

Why am I being so critical of a film about orcs and humans? Why can't I
just give it a 10 because I loved playing the games? Because I loved
playing the games. See, when you really like something you want it to
be as good as it can be when they do a film based on it later. Also,
despite a few mediocre jokes the film wanted to go the 'serious' route.
So I have to treat it seriously. And not go into 'fanboy mode' and give
it a 10/10. Because this is not a 10/10 film.

Maybe it's all the Marvel films' fault, going in with a huge amount of
characters. Somehow they pull it off, though. Warcraft didn't. They say
'go big or go home' but in this case they should've started off with
something smaller. There are enough fans for this to make a profit. I
don't know if they should make a second one, though. Because if this
first one is so bad but makes money, I don't think they'll learn from
this mistake. They don't care about making a good Warcraft film. But
that's the industry's problem in general and a debate for another day.
