
I don't give out 10 stars easily unless it's a film that can keep me
guessing. A film that will make me want to see it through to the end,
not because I paid hard earned cash, but because I truly care about the
characters and where they're going to end up. If you like me, then
you're going to want to see this one.

Will Smith has always been an interesting actor for me. I watch
everything he does because I'm a huge fan. I must admit that the idea
of him playing another heartbroken, distanced from the world individual
(Hancock, I am Legend) made me a little annoyed, but this one was a
home run. The character Ben Thomas is such a mystery that you want to
know what he plans to do; for others, for himself, etc. As the story
unfolds, so does his intentions and not in a really simplistic way.
He's a complex person, but not so much that he aggravates me. He's
intriguing.

The connection between Will Smith and Rosario Dawson is so well done
and so believable. This is how it's supposed to be done. There's a
chemistry in their acting that I haven't seen in about 10 years or so.
I'm not exaggerating. I haven't seen too many films where the chemistry
is genuine; kudos to the both of them.

It is very touching and sad, yet heartwarming. Geez, did I say that? I
walked away from this one feeling good. That's what it is in the end. A
feel good movie.
<|_=00=_|>
This is the first time I have ever posted. I saw this movie and it made
me want to post. IT seems Seven Pounds is getting a lot of negative
press and I felt like I need to do my part to let some people know that
this movie is SIMPLY BEAUTIFUL! For me, this was a rare movie that
stays with you. I found everything about this movie beautiful..the
acting, the music, the directing and especially the beautiful story. A
story of giving..sacrifice with purpose. I am not the biggest Will
Smith fan, but I must say that his performance for me was ASTOUNDING. I
felt his pain and was moved by what his character was doing. This is
not a easy story to tell in 2hrs and I think they did a really
fantastic job. This movie will not be for everyone...it moves slowly
and may be confusing..until you figure it out...then the reality of his
purpose will crush you emotionally and at the same time it is so
beautiful....SWEET PAIN (it did for me anyway)....Seven Pounds is a
wonderful movie that will stay with you long into the night and next
day.....Thanks
<|_=00=_|>
Let me start by saying I didn't care much to see this movie. Although
the trailer left much to the imagination it looked quite boring.

The majority of the movie is mysterious, slightly confusing and will
have you guessing a lot. It's almost hard to believe so many loose ends
could be tied up as it nears its ending, but it does, and it does so
beautifully. Everything culminates in this magnificent ending that will
make you want to tell everyone you meet to go see this movie now.

Also, I'm the kind of person that is not easily moved. As a matter of
fact I can't even remember the last time a movie made me feel something
the way this one did.

I rank this as one of the top movies of 2008, along with TDK and
Slumdog Millionaire. And definitely somewhere on my all time top five.
<|_=00=_|>
If this film doesn't get nominated for an Academy Award, there is no
justice. It was an astonishingly good film. The storyline unfolds piece
by piece and keeps you guessing until the end, trying to figure out who
this character is and what he's up to. The juxtaposition of such a
dynamically humanitarian man being an IRS auditor is the first thing
that piques your interest and the mystery grows from there. In order to
be an excellent film, you need a good story, good screenplay, and good
acting. Seven pounds has all that and more. The story was upheld by
outstanding performances by Will Smith, Rosario Dawson and Barry
Pepper. It's more than a touching film. It's one of those rare films
that actually makes you take stock of your life and reexamine your
priorities. Kudo's to all involved.
<|_=00=_|>
Seven Pounds follows the story of Ben Thomas, an IRS agent on a mission
to redeem himself from a haunting secret. We follow him on his mission
to seek out seven strangers in desperate need of help. Ben's plans are
complicated when he meets and falls in love with Emily (Rosario
Dawson), a young woman with a terminal heart condition. Italian
director Gabriele Muccino brilliantly pieces together a tragic modern
day Shakespearian love story, weaving between the present day and
glimpses into the dark past. Seven Pounds is not a kick back and zone
out film, you have to work as an audience member to put all the pieces
together. The more you allow your mind to work in this film, the more
you will get out of it.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie... is amazing. Not even watching "The green mile" and
"Million dollar baby" did i get the same feeling i do off this. This is
truly a masterpiece.

I wont go in to detail about the movie, since there is already a lot of
comments here to get that information. No, i wright this comment ( my
first ever) because i wanted to express myself. This is my new favorite
movie, and if you don't go see it, you misses out one a truly amazing
experience. I think i cried to 1 movie before, not a lot of crying, but
still and that was green mile. But this.. this movie got me crying for
real. The sacrifice Ben (will smith) makes in this movie is truly a
gift for the people he does it too. I don't think i said to much to
spoil anything, i hope not, cause that will be me taken the joy out of
what is a amazing movie.

Now, after you read this, you should go buy this movie (when it comes
on DVD), and watch it. And treasure it, and maybe it will bring
something to your life, as it has to mine.

Love Tais.
<|_=00=_|>
This film blew me away. The acting was superb, the story was heart
wrenching and I truly believed in the characters. Some of you may say
that this film is just another in a list of movies such as Pay It
Forward.

This is a fallacy. This film here grabbed me from the start and will
stay with me for weeks. It's a very powerful film and Will Smith and
the rest of the cast deserve our applause and respect for playing their
roles so well. Credit to the scriptwriters and director for also
allowing this film to exist, it was amazing.

A definite must see film and one worthy of nomination for awards.

9/10
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is one of the best films i have ever watched by far. The
direction of the film along with the acting was simply world class.
It's an emotional roller-coaster. Yes it is slow, yes it gets a little
boring, but whilst your watching the movie your always taking in the
story line and my does the movie make up for it in the last 30 minutes
when the jigsaw is put together and the full plot is revealed. I think
this movie is actually better than The Pursuit Of Happiness which most
will know was also a very good film. Will Smith, Rosario Dawson, Woody
Harrelson, Michael Ealy and Barry Pepper all deserve awards with there
10 out of 10 performances. This movie for me is a must see, i am still
actually getting over the film as it quite simply blew me away.

10/10 easy
<|_=00=_|>
Great frigging film.

Let me put that more eloquently.....frigging fantastic.

I was really moved by this work.

It was touching on so many levels.

and the acting and performances were nuanced, layered and authentic.

from all players.

really, really great work that brought tears to my eyes...more than
once.

I won't go into the plot of the film. Just see it. The less you know
the better.

Will Smith's best work to date. The man has so truly grown and
CONTINUES to grow as an artist (and human being) - that's the part that
really amazes me.

Excellent work by Mr. Will Smith. (and Rosario and Woody Harrelson and
Barry Pepper, et al...)
