
There was an attempt to follow up That 70s Show with a disastrous and
thankfully short lived That 80s Show. This should have been it. 

Fast Times at Ridgemont High is the first name that comes to mind when
one thinks of the 80s movies about kids in high school/college. Take Me
Home Tonight takes it a step forward going for 'what next?'. And it
succeeds, while not going too serious and keeping it feel-good in the
lines of the aforesaid movies. Topher Grace, one of the co-writers of
the story, naturally fits into the character drawing from the
perfection with which he fitted Eric Foreman of That 70s Show. You
can't help feel this i exactly Eric in the 80s (apart from the fact
that the character's apparently an MIT grad). One can't help notice the
resemblance of Teressa Palmer to Kristen Stewart, but thankfully, she
can act a bit. Rest of the cast fit their roles perfectly, with a huge
cry to Chris Pratt and Dan Fogler. 

Saw this movie at a free screening (woot!) followed by a Q&A session
with Topher and Teressa where Topher said the first thing they did was
make a mix-tape of 80s classics and then set on doing the story and
henceforth. You totally get that, with some pretty rad soundtrack which
brings a smile to all 80s fans. 

All in all, went in expecting a no-brainer to get a good relief from
the lab-work, got out pretty satisfied and rejuvenated. Sure it still
is a no-brainer, but seeing it once in a while will bring a smile to
the face. And I'm always up for reruns on headcramped days.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this at a screening today and I enjoyed the movie. 

I thought that all the leads did a good job, especially Topher Grace
and Teresa Palmer. 

They had some good chemistry, and Topher does a good job of playing an
uncomfortable guy at times in the movie... Its fun and engaging, so you
don't notice the time passing. 

Also, it has an excellent 80s soundtrack, and even a message, which I
won't give away so nothing is spoiled. 

All in all, a good time will be had by all who go who like these kinds
of movies!
<|_=00=_|>
Take Me Home Tonight was much better then I thought it was going to be,
now don't get me wrong, from seeing the trailers I wanted to see this
film and was excited to. The film itself has much the same feel as
Superbad, two friends on an epic one night quest and one focusing on
"the girl". The film has a great, tight script that stays focused
throughout. Topher Grace gives an awesome performance, I really enjoy
him as an actor and think he's kind of overlooked. Dan Fogler also
gives an awesome performance as the crazy friend. This also has a good
amount of heart, especially right when it needs, Anna Faris and Topher
Grace give great performances as twins, and the ending won't
disappoint, it leaves a very John Hughes feeling at the end, which I
think is what they were going for. Now the reason I gave the film an 8
is because it's not an instant classic, for instance American Gangster
or The Departed gets a 10/10 for me. Also you might think from the
commercials that this is going to be a parody of the 80's. Yeah,
everyone wears their crazy 80's clothes and there's ton's of 80's
references and a kick ass soundtrack, however if 5 years from now
someone were to sit down and not know when the film was released and
not recognize any of the actors as being from the late 90's/00's they
would definitely think that this was made in the 80's. If they had
tried to make this a parody of the 80's it would have been terrible, it
would have had more of Wedding Singer feel to it, and I'm glad that
that's not what they went for. The fact that it's set in the 80's and
everyone is wearing the cloths and their hair like that, it's almost
more like a they're saying "this is how people dressed", not "THIS, is
how people dressed", that said this was a pretty good movie, if you
enjoyed any 80's movie made by John Hughes and more recent films like
Superbad, you'll really enjoy "Take Me Home Tonight"
<|_=00=_|>
This movie started out slowly, but about 20 minutes in really started
to kick off.

To start, the plot was way better than what the commercials revealed,
and it was just a feel good fun movie.

Although it wasn't non stop laughter through the whole movie, it was
great humor and the right times. 

We've been spoiled by some comedies lately that have you laughing when
you enter til you leave, and the newest movies that are coming out are
trying to replicate that and usually fail by going way over the top.
For example, the other guys, get him to the Greek. 

Take Me Home Tonight went back to just being a simple good comedy that
NEVER went over the top. Topher Grace does an awesome job, and Dan
Fogler is absolutely hilarious in it. It only gets an 8 because nothing
ever gets a 10 and 9's are impossible. I would give it an 8.5 if I
could though. Very pleased. Go see it!
<|_=00=_|>
'TAKE ME HOME TONIGHT': Three and a Half Stars (Out of Five)

This 80's movie homage actually is just that: a tribute to the youth
films of the 80's and it does a pretty good job. It actually feels like
a film from that decade (like something John Hughes might have
produced) and not just a send-up or satire of it (like the
advertisements sort of implied). Topher Grace stars in the film as well
as executive produced and co-wrote it (with Gordon Kaywin and Jackie
and Jeff Filgo). Michael Dowse (who also directed the popular
'headbanger' film 'FUBAR' and it's sequel) directed. Teresa Palmer, Dan
Fogler, Anna Faris, Chris Pratt and Michael Biehn (one of my all time
favorite actors) co-star in the flick.

The film is set in the summer of 1988 after Matt Franklin (Grace) just
graduated from MIT. Instead of pursuing a high paying career like his
education entitles him to he takes a part time job as a video store
clerk at the local Suncoast Video store in the mall, much to the
disappointment of his father Bill (Biehn) who's also a local police
officer. Matt is scared and completely unsure of what he wants to do
with his life, all until his old high school crush, Tori Fredreking
(Palmer), comes back into town and into the store where he works. Matt
lies to Tori and tells her he works for Goldman Sachs. Tori is
impressed and invites him to a Labor Day party hosted by his twin
sister Wendy's (Faris) boyfriend Kyle Masterson (Pratt). Matt goes to
the party with Wendy and his best friend Barry (Fogler) and all hell
breaks loose when Barry steals a car from the dealership he was fired
from the same day. 

The movie really does have a classic 80's nostalgic feel to it and like
I said it feels like a movie out of that time period rather than just a
comedic reference to it. The script is somewhat smart and emotional and
the characters are really well developed. Topher Grace is very fitting
as the film's lead, Palmer looks beautiful and is equally fitting and
Fogler is actually good for a change (he's still not really that funny
but he gives a decent performance). Faris isn't bad as well and Pratt
and Biehn (who's the perfect 80's icon touch, with nerds) give nice
supporting performances. The soundtrack adds a nice touch as well. The
film does a good job of pulling off a classic 80's throwback feel and
definitely accomplishes what it set out to do. If it had actually came
out in that decade though it probably wouldn't have been much of a
standout but it could have been a mildly loved looked over gem (much
like it is now).

Watch our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK' at:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qVg96qKy2R0
<|_=00=_|>
A classic tale of unrequited love and a second shot at that love ala
John Hughes complete with a hero that lies to get his foot in the door
then has to make a complete jackass of himself after being honest blows
up in his face, a goofy misguided sidekick, and a fantastic 80's
soundtrack. Like I said, the format is not original but the content was
well done. The painful awkward moments were very painful and awkward,
the funny bits were very funny, you felt there was a connection there
(albeit a one way connection at first since it's that kind of a movie),
and it didn't seem forced (even the over the top redemption seemed to
fit well). People that don't enjoy slightly grown up teen comedies may
not enjoy this film but I for one had a blast.
<|_=00=_|>
If you didn't know any better, you'd actually think you were watching
an 80s movie with Take Me Home Tonight. While not delivering the strong
emotional depth of a John Hughes film, it still possesses the same
qualities in its zany humor, incredible retro soundtrack and at its
heart as Matt Franklin (Topher Grace) leaves his position at a lab and
much to his father's disapproval begins working at a video store where
Matt's young life crisis takes a bigger turn when his twin sister (Anna
Faris) gets engaged, his best friend (Dan Fogler) gets fired from his
job and Matt's high school crush, Tori Frederking (Teresa Palmer),
comes back into his life. In true, hilarious 80s fashion, the ensemble
is thrust into a crazy night of partying, mischief and self-discovery.
It is a simple, unoriginal story that seems almost contained, but yet
is this great adventure with characters you feel a connection to. With
what seems like the perfect cast, it is only a movie of this styling (a
homage to the great films of the 80s) that can have absolutely no point
and still be enjoyable. From the awkward moments to those that are more
sentimental, this film is just a fun time that is more or less
forgettable but you have a great time with it!
<|_=00=_|>
I really enjoyed this movie.

First Im a huge fan of Topher Grace since That 70s Show and In Good
Company. (BTW In Good Company). He gives an excellent performance and
along with the rest of the quality cast, the acting is just incredible.

Also Im not going to get into the movie itself but its your classic
feel good movie similarly to Breakfast Club, 16 Candles etc.

If I had to describe it its Superbad but a lot more mature and tactful.
It deals with a situation all of us have had. We all get to a point and
go wtf am I going to do with my life. At the end of the day, it doesn't
matter. Just focus on good friends, good family and the sheer enjoyment
of life.

Enjoy the watch.
<|_=00=_|>
3 grads from 1984. The best friend, Barry Nathan (Dan Fogler) is a car
salesman straight out of high school. The twins, Matt Franklin (Topher
Grace) and Wendy Franklin (Anna Faris). Matt is a graduate from MIT and
the best employee at Suncoast Video. Wendy wanted to go to Cambridge
only to get stuck to her High School boyfriend Kyle (Chris Pratt). The
three, met by Matt's high school crush Tori Frederking (Teresa Palmer),
who by the way hates her job and her boss wants to get a look at her
goods. After graduation things didn't go the way they planned but
tonight is Kyle's party and the crossroads for all of them to remember
this night forever. It's 1988 a night where everything is the way it
should be. A Journey back to old friends and 80's music. Well worth the
watch. Some of you will say its corny of a movie but hey it's the 80's
it was a corny era. Wait till they do a movie about the 90's. :(( 4 out
of 5 stars.
<|_=00=_|>
In the 80's, in Los Angeles, the video store clerk Matt Franklin
(Topher Grace) is graduated in MIT but is kind of lost and does not
know what he wants to be for the great deception of his father, the
police officer Bill Franklin (Michael Biehn), who has invested one
quarter of his savings to pay the MIT. Matt has a crush on the gorgeous
Tori Frederking (Teresa Palmer) since the elementary school but he has
never invited her to date and she moved to Europe. His twin sister
Wendy Franklin (Anna Faris) has made an application to the master's
degree in Cambridge but she is engaged of the brainless Kyle Masterson
(Chris Pratt) and afraid to open the Cambridge's letter with the
answer. Matt's best friend is the salesman Barry Nathan (Dan Fogler)
has just been fired from his job at a car dealer. Out of the blue, Tori
comes to the mall and stops at the video store to rent a video and Matt
poses of banker to impress her. Tori invites him to go to a party in
Kyle's house and Matt, who does not have a good relationship with
Wendy's boyfriend, decides to go with Barry. However, he is decided to
impress Tori and they rob a Mercedes Benz from Barry's former firm, in
the beginning of a very crazy night.

"Take Me Home Tonight" is an entertaining feel good comedy that works
mainly because of the chemistry between Topher Grace and Teresa Palmer.
There are funny, but also silly situations and the surprising
conclusion when Tori gives her phone number in her business card makes
the viewer think whether it was normal, for this generation in the USA,
pretend to be more than they really are or it is just a story. The
talented Teresa Palmer is very gorgeous and Anna Faris is more
restrained than usual. My vote is six.

Title (Brazil): "Uma Noite Mais Que Louca" ("One More than Crazy
Night")
