
I really don't know what everybody was expecting when they went to see
this movie. I expected a good date movie and a fun watch. Instead I got
a light hearted movie about a woman who is like the rest of us, normal
in our own world but crazy to everybody else.

I really enjoyed this movie, I thought the acting was good and the plot
was decent. It is a very enjoyable watch and if it is one I would
advise you to see it. It has a very good core value to it. That one
person kinda different or not can make a change in one persons life. I
have a friend who is like this and it makes me only appreciate her
personality even more, I like her the way she is..

Don't listen to everybody else, see this movie yourself, and give it a
chance. You might like it.
<|_=00=_|>
This review DOES contain spoilers, so if you haven't seen this movie
yet, and finding out about it beforehand will upset your enjoyment, go
see it and then come back. Or don't see it. A lot of people are unhappy
with this flick and I believe I understand why.

One of the reasons this movie has been getting bad reviews is that it
is being advertised as a romantic comedy, and it isn't one. You have
Sandra Bullock, who has been in some very good romcoms, and two
good-looking guys (including Thomas Haden Church who is always willing
to mock his immobile good looks and deadpan delivery); the advertising
campaign looks like a romantic comedy. What else can it be? Answer,
it's a pure clown comedy, with a lead who starts out unlikeable, but
goes on an inadvertent voyage of self-discovery. Its antecedents are
not the romcoms you grew up on, but classic, flat out farces like
Keaton's THE NAVIGATOR and Harold Lloyd's WHY WORRY? in which we start
out disliking the hero heartily. In these movies, we wait for the comic
to get kicked in the pants, because we don't like him..... but by the
end of the movie, he has grown in wisdom and self-reliance, and we wish
him well. Or, in this movie, her. It's a difficult balancing act and
some people think Miss Bullock has fallen off the wire. Since she
starts out as an unbearably smart motormouth to whom people are an
utter mystery who winds up stalking Bradley Cooper, it's easy to write
her off as insane and give up.

But I didn't and it took me about half the movie to realize what the
film makers were doing. It's not something done often since movies
learned to speak, and among female leads, I can only think of Katherine
Hepburn in BRINGING UP BABY and, of course, Goldie Hawn's movies in
which her characters break out of their molds and walk away as good
people; although her most financially successful outing was probably
PRIVATE BENJAMIN, she did something even more extreme than the
transformation that Miss Bullock undergoes here in OVERBOARD. One of
the problems that people may have with this movie is that this is so
rarely done, and Miss Bullock has the courage needed to bring off a
comedy: she isn't afraid to look stupid or foolish or dress in outfits
that don't suit her or fall into a hole in the ground. So many actors
are.

Miss Bullock doesn't change much here. She does become more self-aware
as she talks endlessly about crossword puzzles, cicadas, hurricanes in
Galveston and so on. The people she picks up on her voyage of self
discovery are nerdy, not too bright, but quite willing to put up with
her peculiarities because she will do as much for them; meanwhile
Steve, Hartman and Angus, whom she pursues, make up a news team, and
are busy worrying about how to get air time, usually by inserting
themselves into news events as reporters, making themselves of interest
when they have nothing much to offer. The actors do a good job, even
when the roles are not well written or some key piece of celluloid
seems to have wound up on the cutting room floor.

This is, by no means, a great movie, but it does have enough grace
notes scattered throughout to have kept up my interest. If you sat down
to watch it, I hope you will agree. If you read this despite the
spoiler warning, perhaps you will give it a chance. I don't guarantee
you will not be disappointed: Miss Bullock's character may strain your
patience beyond recovery before the story turns around, but then again,
you may have a very good time, as did I.
<|_=00=_|>
I went in to the theater for the eye candy (Sandra Bullock), and came
out laughing at the great job of parody they did on my former area of
employment (TV News). And they do a nice revision of the main plot of
"The Big Carnival" by Kirk Douglas - not a comedy - about an
unscrupulous journalist (is there any other kind...) who tries to milk
every drop from a man-trapped-in-cave story to jump-start his career.
Sandra does a fine job of portraying her character realistically, as
much realism as you can expect in a comedy/satire. This is what they
used to call "screwball comedies" back in the black-and-white film era,
except that the male actor always had talent. I haven't seen any
evidence yet that Bradley Cooper gets work for any reason except being
cute; no problem, talent will not be required from him for another ten
to fifteen years. Thomas Hayden Church, as usual, nails the
self-absorbed pompous airhead character they always have him play.
That's OK, if you're good at only one thing and can make a career of
it, at least he's a step ahead of Bradley. My main disappointment was
that the apple-head sculpture website they mention for one character
doesn't exist. You type in the domain name, and it takes you to the
movie website. I wanted apple-heads, doggonnit! Oh, and they didn't put
Katie Mixon to nearly enough use, what a waste of......TALENT! This one
is a keeper on my Sandra Bullock DVD shelf.
<|_=00=_|>
I've read many negative review's about this film, and certainly, they
only could be written by people with preconceptions. If you expect a
fixed behaviour of "stars" which must do again and again the same roles
-like in the old bad Hollywood times- then... this movie is not for
you.

This is a very nice comedy, about an unconventional, passionate,
creative, intelligent and naive woman, who has problems to get
"adapted" to society. She struggles to be normal, but meanwhile finds
that what's important is to be herself.

It's been really good acted -especially Bullock and Thomas Haden
Church-, has a good rhythm, and a clever script.

It's the kind of movie you will enjoy... when you enjoy what you see,
and not what you're supposed to see.
<|_=00=_|>
I watch a lot of movies, though not when first run at theaters --
generally I'll wait until the DVD price falls. This is why I only now
getting around to viewing this film that "won" Sandra Bullock her
Razzie.

And I believe that the Razzie voters were mistaken. I feel that Bullock
did a nice job of playing a quirky, annoying person. Surely there were
plenty of performances far more deserving of this award.

Although the character could be annoying, she still seemed like someone
that would also be good to have as a friend, particularly as she
evolved by the end of the movie. I think that it would not be a stretch
to compare Mary to PeeWee Herman in "PeeWee's Big Adventure." 

It was a nice cast and I felt that all of the actors really did fine
work in this fun little comedy and will be viewing it again.
<|_=00=_|>
Mary Horowitz (Sandra Bullock) is the crossword puzzle writer for the
Sacramento newspaper. Brainy but reclusive, she is so driven to create
good work that her life is consumed with writing and research. Not only
that, she is now bunking with her parents, for her old apartment has to
be "fumigated". Naturally, her parents want Mary to experience love,
marriage, and children so they keep trying to get her out of the house.
Setting her up with the son of close friends, Mary reluctantly agrees
to go out with Steve (Bradley Cooper). But, oh joy! Steve is a looker
and has an intriguing job as the cameraman for a cable news reporter,
Hartman (Thomas Haden Church). Mary likes, likes, likes what she sees.
But, since the puzzle-writer won't stop talking and makes heavy
romantic advances, Steve gets spooked only minutes into their first
date and he bolts, citing his need to get to a new work assignment.
But, Mary is dizzy in love. She bumbles her next crossword duties, gets
fired and, suddenly, decides to follow Steve to his current location,
and the next one, too. Steve is horrified and tries to get rid of her
but Hartman tells Mary, privately, that Steve is secretly happy she is
there and that she should not get discouraged in her pursuit of love.
Its a puzzlement! Will Mary get her heart's desire? In the world of
romantic comedies, this one is an odd duck. It is interesting and has
many good elements but doesn't achieve overall success. However, its
weaknesses do not include the cast, for Bullock, Cooper, and especially
Haden Church, are great. All of the supporting cast members are very
fine, too. In fact, its the actors' skills that elevate the film beyond
its script and tentative direction. Yes, it tries to make some good
statements about individuality, media hype, and the like. But, it never
totally succeeds in getting its points across with aplomb. On a lesser
note, the costumes and sets are quite nice indeed. In short, if you
love Bullock, Cooper, Haden Church or quirky movies, you might give
this one a whirl. Sometimes an interesting "failure" is more fun than a
slick but pointless flick.
<|_=00=_|>
My wife and I enjoy Sandra Bullock, and I left the movie, "All About
Steve" impressed with the growth of her as an artist. I understood the
character that she played, Mary Horowitz, who is socially inept, yet
brilliant with words and information. In one sense her character
reminded me of Temperance "Bones" Brennan of the TV show, "Bones," who
is clueless about how people think of her.

So for the character, Mary, to jump Steve (Bradley Cooper) on their
first date, and to stalk him with the misguided idea that he wants her
to follow her, was believable to me since I have met people like that.
Sandra Bullock took on a character that was innocent in her social
stupidity, yet made her almost believable in her irritating behavior. I
say, "almost," because she is still quite beautiful and likable. But
she is no Johnny Depp yet when it comes to character acting.

We found the movie funny and quirky. I felt that they had a good
ensemble cast, even though, Sandra Bullock was the center of the story.
I don't believe it will ever be hugely popular though. It had the same
unusual character as Will Ferrall and Emma Thompson in "Stranger Than
Fiction," although no where as sophisticated as that little
masterpiece.

If you like quirky comedy, this is a good movie to watch.
<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers Comedy is the unexpected and there was no way to expect the
sudden twists and turns of this movie. Some of these unexpected things
can put off the viewer, however. The first time Mary (Sandra Bullock)
meets Steve (Bradley Cooper) she has such a need to sleep with him, she
jumps right on him. Then many more unexpected things happen. The most
unexpected thing is when all of the character suddenly move to a happy
ending at the end. For example, Steve has a total turnaround regarding
Mary, that comes out of nowhere. At the same time Mary has an epiphany
regarding herself, which turns her around. She also has an epiphany
regarding Steve, that causes the movie to move away from the standard
Rom-Com ending into a more realistic ending.

But we hear loud and almost endless cheering for Mary and everyone
winds up happy at the end.

This movie is worth a view just for the things that I did not mention
that will come out if nowhere during the movie and probably make you
laugh.

However, the message of the movie that - all people, no matter how they
act, have worth - could get lost in the comedy and cheering.
<|_=00=_|>
Written In True Mary Horowitz Style:

Did you ever wonder HOW a Real person with a completely separate
"Public" identity feels - say Charles Lindbergh whose child was stolen
or Martin Luther King, Jr. whose front porch was bombed? There are
Crazy people in this world - UTTERLY out of their mind crazy, mean and
destructive...

- then there people like Mary: Kind, Gentle, Dorky and always trying to
figure things out - yet still trying to find real love - just like
everyone else. I thought Ms. Bullock's film was very compassionate,
considerate and caring - An Excellent Comedy with Heart!

The scene where the two friends show how many people Mary touched in a
positive way, compared to how many the newscaster touched in a negative
way was priceless and showed Mary's true nature and thus her true
value. Something that Mary had to learn for herself and DOES. 

Learning to value yourself is a hard lesson and some people like,
Marilyn Monroe, never quite get it and give up (but are so vain they
take pictures before they do) and other's like the self-abdicated King
of England get it right the first time - when true love hits them
between the eye - yet still late in life (age 42):

"But you must believe me when I tell you that I have found it
impossible to carry the heavy burden of responsibility and to discharge
my duties as King (of England) as I would wish to do without the help
and support of the woman I love." - Edward the VIII

The sad fact is that many of us are late bloomers and in this world ...
Thank you Ms. Bullock for always having a Heart of Gold. I'd rather
live in the same category as Edward the 8th any day. Truly, "Thank
You."

In addition, thank you Cast for making it funnier than heck - the "dead
horse" getting up was PRICELESS so was the newscaster's spin doctoring
- I almost split my side!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
First let preface that this movie was not my first choice to see
tonight, but after The Hangover and The Proposal, I was cautiously
optimistic Sandra Bullock and Bradley Coooper would carry this movie
even if it was a lightweight premise. How wrong I was! 

The movie goes wrong the second these two meet for their blind date and
never looks back. The main reason I think I had such a disconnect with
this movie is because the characters do not act like any living person
on this planet. Furthermore, Sandra Bullock does not have a clear role
to play: she's vacillates between being sophisticated and clueless, at
all times when it's convenient for the plot. I don't know if I was
supposed to sympathize with her or not, but the eventual effect was
annoyance! It's not a good sign when you're hoping that they just leave
her at the bottom of that well. Bradley Cooper basically just smiles
throughout the movie.

The movie also can't decide what genre it wants to belong to. It tries
to be a comedy, a drama of self discovery, a satire of cable news, and
a natural disaster movie (whether it be tornado or abandoned well) and
fails at all attempts. Let it be said that the tornado looks good and
that's about the best thing I can say about this movie.

I think I laughed twice during the film, but I can't remember if it was
related to what was on screen or my on disbelief that I was in this
theater. Sadly, I would be willing to bet that a conversation with a
real crossword puzzle designer for ninety minutes would be more fun
than sitting through this mess!
