
First off, while I'm not a fan of everything Solondz has done, I
consider Happiness one of my all-time favorite films. Thus, I was
really looking forward to Life During Wartime, but after the film was
over, I ended up wishing that Solondz had just left Happiness alone. It
feels like a direct-to-video exploitation release, or maybe even an
especially polished but ultimately off-model fanfic selection in an
alternate universe where Happiness somehow holds the stature of Harry
Potter.

I am OK with the decision (probably forced, given the current stature
of folks like Philip Seymour Hoffman) to recast everyone involved. But
given that this is effectively billed as a spiritual sequel, it's hard
to get past some of the resulting serious discrepancies in performance
and character. Ally Sheedy, Allison Janney, Claran Hines and Michael K.
Williams all turn in otherwise-good performances that unfortunately
have very little in common with their characters' original
personalities, making believable continuation impossible. Dylan
Snyder's Timmy represents a new character that effectively replaces the
role of Billy in Happiness, but he's nowhere near as believable or
likable as that character was.

Shirley Henderson, in particular, totally misses the tone and purpose
of Jane Adams in the role of Joy, who was perhaps the only
"sympathetic" character in the original (other than Billy). We no
longer experience Joy as a sweet, lovable granola-crunchy dreamer and
world-worn lifelong loser. Instead, Henderson comes off as some kind of
generally-emotionless whispering wee faerie with none of Adams' warmth
or ability to generate pathos. I do, however, greatly enjoy Paul
Reubens' spot-on performance in the place of Jon Lovitz's original
Andy-- although Andy's role in this movie is now inexplicably central,
given how little he really mattered to Joy past the first half-hour in
Happiness.

It's hard for a Happiness fan to get past the labored and extremely
drawn-out exposition that results from all these character
discrepancies. You get the feeling that Solondz is having to take
unusual pains to catch us up on the story, and to get us to buy New
Actor Y in the role of Old Actor X. The movie starts to finally lift up
out of these dregs in the last half hour or so, just in time to make us
wonder what the point was, and/or why he didn't just create an entirely
new universe with his entirely new cast to save himself (and us) all
the trouble. I can't imagine a viewer who has never seen Happiness
would find its first two-thirds any more satisfying for all the effort.

Most troublingly for those who can't help but compare (and
appropriately so, given the "spiritual sequel" billing), Happiness is a
darkly hilarious movie, with most of the humor coming from the unspoken
sadness and/or maliciousness of its desperate characters' interactions.
Life During Wartime simply isn't funny, and isn't similarly "subtle."
It's melodramatic, almost soap-opera-like in tone, with few of the
wonderfully dissonant, squirm-in-your-chair moments that made Solondz'
'90s works so entertaining (and so fun to show to the uninitiated). It
often feels like we're being hit over the head with the "purpose" of
each character in Wartime, rather than letting their actions / words
simply speak for themselves as it was in Happiness.

This might have been a somewhat OK movie if it had been a fresh start
with no baggage from Solondz' masterwork. Obviously, it's hard for any
director / producer / screenwriter to escape from their widely-beloved
past works if they choose to do something different. But in this case,
Solondz actually *chose* to bring that baggage along, and dares fans of
the original to make comparisons (as is immediately evident from even
the opening scene and credits to anyone who remembers Happiness). I'm
not sure if this was a cynical effort on the part of Solondz-- who has
had documented troubles getting funding for his 00s movies-- to cash in
on the relatively small Happiness fanbase, giving them a movie that
they "have to see," even though these two films ultimately have very
little in common.

Solondz' more recent work in general has been disappointing to me, but
his misguided effort to "continue" Happiness has been by far the
biggest and most bitter disappointment yet, failing to add anything
new, interesting or even tone-appropriate to the universe he wants us
to revisit. I desperately hope he's done making "spiritual sequels"
now, and will have something really new to say (hopefully as funny as
his old stuff) when his next project rolls around.
<|_=00=_|>
Todd Solondz is unique and so are his films. He forces you to look
through an angle that we systematically ignore. There is an element of
tenderness that permeates the darkest of corners and compassion
emerges, limpid, clear even rational. This is, if possible, a sequel to
his masterful "Happiness" The pain is still palpable but there is a
hint of hope, China or not China. "I don't care about freedom or
democracy, I care about my dad" Yes, I hear you kid. In the midst of it
all, I hear you. Added bonuses: Cieran Hids as a scary, powerful
presence. Allison Janney, one of the best American actresses working
today. Charlotte Rampling makes an appearance as a sort of escapee from
an erotic nightmare and don't you dare ignore or let this film pass you
by. Todd Solondz is a great, startling American poet.
<|_=00=_|>
Not being acquainted with Todd Solondz before now, I found myself
comparing "Life During Wartime" at an advance screening tonight to the
Cohen brothers, "A Serious Man"-- a film I really enjoyed. It felt like
it was hitting a lot of the same notes at the front end of the film,
with its humour and the Jewish family life. This was considerably
darker--don't worry, I noticed.

I found the Ciaran Hinds story and acting strong, though it made me
wary I was being set up to think, "Oh, not such a bad guy, after all."
I was relieved this never went further than to suggest, "only human,
after all." I'd be interested to hear what some of my social worker
friends think of how the film treats this family's big secret,
especially in light of the forgiveness theme.

Joy's thread in this film, quirky and fun as it was at times, felt the
weakest. There was something about the character's little girl voice
and the vacillation and mood swings that started to annoy and distract
me, after a time. Maybe the director was just playing with another
cliché, there, about long-suffering women, but, well, see for yourself.
<|_=00=_|>
Caught this film at the Toronto International Film Festival. Life
During Wartime is a depressing and envelop pushing film that crosses
boundaries, but never feels gross or shocking for the sake of it. For
those familiar with Todd Solondz previous films Welcome To The
Dollhouse and Happiness, you know what type of material is in his
films. This one is no exception.

Telling the story of a dysfunctional family, we follow 3 separate
stories. The father, who was just released from prison after some cruel
and disgusting charges tries to find his son, to make sure he doesn't
turn out like him. The son is in college, he has two siblings, a
younger brother who is turning 13 and becoming a man with a bar mitzvah
and a younger sister who is a karaoke singer. The wife/mother is
looking for a new lover in her life and finds this other man who makes
her, in her own words to her 12 year old son, wet. Finally the sister
of the mother who mixes romance and her work. The problem is that death
follows her wherever she goes and it has kind of driven her crazy.

Get all that? This is my first Todd Solondz film, but I know of his
previous films and what they dealt with and I can say that Happiness is
darker. Life During Wartime isn't with it's fair share of uncomfortable
scenes. Specifically the son asking about his father and why he is in
prison. The father is played by Ciarán Hinds, who has little dialogue,
but the scenes in which he confronts his son is powerful and stands as
the most memorable. Paul Reubens plays an interesting character who's
only two scenes, but those two scenes are stand outs.

Everything about the film is awkward, straight from the beginning.
There are moments that you laugh at, that make you feel dirty. Janey as
the mother is comical and if you're a fan of Happiness look out for
some recurring characters, just played by different actors.

The film is well shot and acted, it doesn't really drag, but it is
slow. It's mostly scene after scene of conversations. It's not a laugh
riot and there are no laugh out loud scenes. The comedy is dark and
subtle at times. It's more dramatic and depressing than comedic. It
feels short and the ending leaves a lot to be desired. It was abrupt
and left a lot of questions unanswered.

It explores how well one can forgive someone and mirrors reality. It
will divide the audience and fans of his earlier work will most likely
be satisfied. I enjoyed it, but it's not a film I would want to see
again. I give it credit for being a well done film and it's thought
provoking in some scenes, as a whole the film is good. It just has a
certain audience and you'll know if you're one of them or not.
<|_=00=_|>
Life During Wartime is Todd Solondz's highly polished but lackluster
sequel to Happiness. 

Now separated from her imprisoned, child molesting husband (Claran
Hinds), Trish (Allison Janney) falls in love with the very normal
Harvey Wiener (Michael Lerner) whom she plans on marrying so that her
life can get back on track now that she's left New Jersey and began a
fresh start in Miami. Meanwhile her sister Joy (Shirley Henderson)
tries to escape her string of failed relationships by seeking refuge in
Miami only to be haunted by ghosts of her past. Terrified she will end
up like her sister and mother, Joy jets to Los Angeles to visit with
her self absorbed, successful sister, Helen (Alley Sheedy), who offers
her little hope of guidance because she is suffering from the crushing
weight of her own success. Trish's husband is released from jail and
sets out to reunite himself with his sons only to run into Charlotte
Rampling in a bar one night for probably the most riveting and highly
charged scene in which she quickly cuts to the chase and seduces him
into a one night stand. In the end happiness is never achieved. Trish
doesn't marry Harvey because Timmy misconstrues his affection for child
molestation in what has to be the most unbelievable of the final acts. 

Ultimately, Life During Wartime explores the themes of betrayal and
forgiveness. Can Timmy forgive his father for being a pedophile as he
forgave his mother for lying to him when she told him his father was
dead? Timmy's quest for answers come as his Bar Mitzvah approaches. He
asks his mother, are pedophiles terrorists? In response she asks, are
you saying you would forgive the 911 terrorists? His answer, well, not
those terrorists because they're dead.

Solondz is known for his quirky characters on the verge of an emotional
breakdown however remaining completely detached from each other.
Happiness remains the superior of the two films, although Life is more
polished in its production. Perhaps that is what is missing. Happiness
and Palindromes captured the rawness of movies made famous in the
1970's with similar musical overtones. In Life, Solondz feels more
Hollywood, less Indie. Even the performances, although all are
exceptional, miss the mark of their original actors, particularly
Sheedy's, Helen and Henderson's, Joy.

I don't understand why Solondz made the sequel. New characters were
created for no apparent reason and most are left to fade away off
camera like some bad Greek tragedy. Missing is the dark humor he so
brightly captured in the desperate interactions and inherent depression
of its characters. The situations are not funny but drawn out and
tedious, particularly the scene with Bill and his son in his college
dorm. 

I do commend Solondz for taking the chance with a new cast.
Unfortunately, it is the material that pales the most in comparison.
<|_=00=_|>
Life During Wartime is of sorts a sequel to Happiness, but Todd Solondz
chose a different cast for his latest film to play the same characters.
I have seen Happiness, but don't remember it well enough and going into
Wartime was actually unaware it was a continuation of events.

Three sisters, Joy, Helen and Trish are utterly different souls leading
utterly different lives. Joy is a little scattered and has just
separated from her husband and is visited by the ghost of a former co
worker. Trish lives with her two younger kids, one of whom Timmy is
preparing for his bar mitzvah. She has started dating again after her
husband was jailed for molesting children, but she is unaware he has
been released. Trish is a successful screenwriter in Hollywood, but is
old and distant towards the rest of her family.

The sisters lives intertwine together and with characters from each
others past and all three try and long to find love and happiness and
is for the most part very enjoyable. I recall, perhaps vaguely that
Solondz' other films are a little hard going and often harsh, yet
Wartime feels a little brighter. However there are some uncomfortable
moments in it, such as where Trish explains her feelings towards to her
new man to her son or Timmy's inquisitive questioning about 'faggots',
but moments are few.

Acting across the cast is excellent with a fine performance from Alison
Janney as Trish and whilst squeaky voiced Shirley Henderson can often
be annoying in this she is almost endearing. It is a dark film and
while it never shocks out right, it does venture to the borderline. And
while it's not laugh out loud there are some funny moments in it. You
don't have to be familiar with Happiness to enjoy this film, even if
it's a typical audience divider film, it works well on it's on. Nor do
you have to be a Solondz fan to enjoy this, though those that are will
relish the film even more.

More of my reviews at iheartfilms.weebly.com
<|_=00=_|>
I haven't reviewed a movie before, but after seeing this tonight, and
seeing the reviews posted here, I felt it was necessary. I haven't seen
the other movies referred to here (Welcome to the Dollhouse and
Happiness), so take that into account.

This post may contain spoilers, as I think it's important to discuss
the themes of the movie in context of its effectiveness, but I haven't,
in my mind, given away important information that would spoil the
ending or reveal a twist, as the guidelines suggest. 

Positives: I thought the movie was visually engaging and there were
interesting camera angles that added to the content of the scene. It
seemed very thoughtfully directed and kept the viewers attention
through lots of dialog and very little actual movement.

Negatives: This movie seemed overtly saturated and fixated on
pedophilia and subtle shockery. Like an 8 year old cussing out grandma
at Thanksgiving, once you step out of the moment you realize that there
is some truly bizarre stuff in here. A mom telling her 12 year old son
about getting "wet" on a date with a "real" man. There are tons of
places where the line gets crossed between mother/son, and implied
between father/son. Overtly sexual, pedophilic, and implicitly
incestuous, there aren't many redeeming qualities to the themes of this
movie. I've enjoyed dark movies, but I do not see the point of this
one. It's as conflicted as it is shocking and, subtle as it is
disturbing.

The movie is thought provoking along the lines of forgiveness and has
some merit there. It provides ironic wit by adding lines like "an eye
for an eye" (Jewish family). But overall this theme is dirtied, grimed,
rusted and nearly lost in the overtness of it's otherwise perverse
obsessions.

There is not a whole lot of depth to the characters. In some parts the
dialog was excessively cheesy. Overall the characters seemed
convincing, but utterly lost and dim in the light of changed
perspective or growth (partly due to a very abrupt ending). Awkward is
a very nice way to describe a lot of the interactions here--it is that
at best. Hugely uncomfortable (mother-in-law sitting right next to me)
with age- inappropriate interactions happening left and right. I did,
however, find excellent ironic humor including Paul Reubens (Pee Wee
Herman) in a role as a ghost and ex-lover of a relationally confused
character. There were other dark ironies that did make me kind of
chuckle, but mixed between moments of shock and queasiness.

I'd argue that the dilemma of forgiveness developed in this movie could
be much more easily related in an Aesop's fable, or from somewhere in
the Torah, but if you prefer to wade through sexually perverse,
disturbingly inappropriate movies to get your 'moral of the story' then
this movie may be for you, otherwise I'm not sure what you'd get from
it.
<|_=00=_|>
As a big fan of foremost Happiness and Storytelling, I'm very
disillusioned about the fact that Todd Solondz may never make great
films like those again. This was a disappointment, but not exactly a
shock after the gloom of Palindromes.

I'm not sure if this is really supposed to be a sequel to Happiness in
the normal sense, but yes, a lot of the characters from that one are
back. Sadly Solondz has turned Joy from a half dysfunctional "loser" to
a freak, and every scene with her is pretty unbearable. The dad from
the first film has also changed a lot, but that makes sense seeing how
he's been in prison for years when the film starts.

Palindromes sort of drowned in gloom and repulsion. LDW isn't quite the
same but it's still bleak, and often creepy. At times it borders to
psychological thriller.

I have to respect Solondz for making a philosophical effort, but if
there was a specific point with the story, I didn't quite get it.
There's the subject of fear and hysteria in the U.S all over, but other
than that, I didn't get that much out of it. All in all it was like a
(expectedly) weirdish film with a lot of darkness and absurdity.
Happiness and Storytelling were dark but also very funny and balanced
with a sort of pleasantness that I just can't see here. It's like a
long nightmare.

Before Palindromes Solondz was to me possibly the greatest living
director. I REALLY hope he either gets back to his old form or tries
out something new that works better.
<|_=00=_|>
"Happiness" was a funny yet very disturbing film. It's a very good film
but one I can't see too often since some scenes are too weird. I wanted
to see the follow up to that film, hoping it would be as funny, sad and
chilling. "Life during Wartime" is quite weak. Having Charlotte
Rampling in a small part did not help. The story took a long time to
get going and then it was over too soon without creating any interest
in the characters nor the storyline. 

All the actors in the new film were much paler than the ones playing
the same parts in "Happiness". The only appealing one was Shirley
Henderson playing Joy (even if I missed Jane Adams dearly). The one
playing Trish was nowhere near as good as the original actress, but the
part was not as funny either. 

Why make a follow up movie without the original cast? It would have
been great to see them having aged like their characters. I suppose the
actors from Happiness didn't like the script for "Life during Wartime"!
<|_=00=_|>
It's a sorta sequel to director Todd Solondz's 1998 film Happiness and
the Jordan sisters. The characters are recast. Joy Jordan (Shirley
Henderson) marries Allen Mellencamp (Michael K. Williams) who makes
obscene calls and she is haunted by Andy (Paul Reubens). Bill Maplewood
(Ciarán Hinds) is let out of prison serving for child molestation. His
ex-wife Trish Jordan (Allison Janney) has to deal with her son Timmy
finding out about Bill's crime. Bill starts dating Jacqueline
(Charlotte Rampling). Trish is set to marry 'normal' Harvey Wiener
(Michael Lerner). Helen Jordan (Ally Sheedy) is a successful
screenwriter in California.

Recasting everybody has the weird sense of an alternate universe. It
makes this a weirdly unreal movie. I can't say that the actors are
inferior but they are different. I'm not a big fan of Happiness and
this doesn't change that. I can't find any rooting interest in any of
these characters. Some are downright kill worthy. The discussion
between Trish and Timmy is so pathetic that it's almost funny. At
least, it was memorable.
