
I went to see the sneak preview of this movie last night, walking in
with low expectations. I'm not a huge fan of Jennifer Anniston, and the
concept sounded a bit low brow...so I went in pretty cynical. I was
pleasantly surprised! It not only "didn't suck" but was actually pretty
great. I thought the subject could have easily made this very cringe
worthy and hard to believe - and yet it was handled in such a way that
it didn't seem THAT far-fetched (as Hollywood movies go)and the
characters remained believable and even sympathetic at times.

I LOVED Jason Bateman's character. He is negative, neurotic, funny and
cute all at the same time. Aniston played her role very classy, and did
not try to be cutesy or overly dramatic.

I rarely believe cute little kids in movies, yet the show stealer for
me was Sebastian, the son. This kid is going to be a super star one day
if he keeps it up! He is just the right amount of adorable/quirky while
never overdoing it. His big brown eyes well up with tears in just the
right way (choked me up a couple of times), and yet could deliver
'quirk' with complete deadpan expression. Brilliant! All in all, I
laughed, teared up, and managed to enjoy every minute of the
experience. Is it Citizen Kane? No. But it's darn good entertainment.
<|_=00=_|>
So I saw The Switch over this weekend and I must say I expected this to
be a complete failure and it surprised me to not be that. Matter of
fact, the movie stands out pretty well through Aniston's filmography.
The story is not complicated, runs smooth and gets your attention. The
story revolves around Wally Mars (Jason Bateman) a middle-age single
guy who has a hard-time finding his match and Kassie Larson (Jennifer
Aniston), his best-friend. At Kassie's semen-party, Wally gets drunk
and switches the donator's sperm with his own without realizing and
forgetting completely about what happened to next day. After seven
years of being separated by distance Kassie movies back to her town and
of course, she starts to talk again to her "best-friend". Problems
appear only when Wally sees that Kassie's kid is acting pretty much
similar like him so he remembers what he did and decides to tell Kassie
the truth. Of course, this story has it's clichés and I'm the most
bored person on the earth by clichés but this movie is a little bit
different. It's not that funny, it has it's funny moments which were
handled well but the movie it-self is more of a romance than a comedy
so I enjoyed it more than others who expected a million laughs from it.

As far as the acting, this is definitely Aniston's best movie this year
and I liked her attitude in this even though she portrays almost the
same character but it's such an improvement from The Bounty Hunter.
Jason Bateman was very good, hilarious at points as usual and actually
approached a more serious tone for this role. The rest was good and I
really was not bothered by anything at all. The characters were lovely
and I was surprised for them to not look over-acted and exaggerated.

The cinematography, editing were pretty much normal, nothing to be
mentioned and the score was as usual, typical for a romantic movie.
With all these I want to say that this movie is not BAD and I don't
understand people who love to bash this movie just for it's clichés and
stuff like that. This movie is a simple good time for a boring
afternoon. It's far from being great but it's such a better choice than
most of the wack stuff that studios put out.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Switch" is like a romantic comedy, except better because it gives
you everything you want: romance and comedy with a story and
characters. They buck the trend to make the romantic elements absurd
and instead shower us with comedy and very little sap.

Jennifer Aniston is just a cute girl that the audience can accept as a
character, but Jason Bateman is everything you want in a leading man.
Very good looking but not in a typical way, plays up neurotic with
aplomb, and is hilarious all the way through. We easily fall in love
with him from beginning to end.

"The Switch" actually gives us a story, one where our hero has to
evolve and mature as he realizes and understands the value that Aniston
and her son bring to his life. Again, Jason Bateman is the kind of man
that we have been waiting for in romantic comedies, because he actually
has the talent to portray all of that, and do it with comedy. A
romantic comedy that is cute, funny, romantic, mature and where you
actually welcome the story line - what more could you ask for?
<|_=00=_|>
Unmarried Cassie (Aniston) wants to have a baby and has a Sperm Party
with donor Roland (Wilson) in tow. The deed gets done, but the
specified cup gets switched by Wally (Bateman), who gets so drunk he
doesn't remember doing it. Neurotic Wally has a thing for Cassie, but
does nothing about it. Seven years later when he meets Cassie's son,
Sebastian (Robinson), Wally sees many of his mannerisms in the kid.
This should be interesting. Funny too. 

First of all, there is nothing uncomfortable in here. But, it is
Sebastian who will get to you. The banter between Cassie and Wally is
good, but when Sebastian comes on the scene, you know you have to see
this through. Believe me, the kid will get to you. The lines (and not
entirely easy ones) that Thomas Robinson has to say as Sebastian are
unbelievable in that they are flawless and to the point. Amazing for a
6-yr old going on 30. 

There is comedy but it comes between Wally and Sebastian and it's quite
enjoyable. You find yourself wishing there were more scenes with Wally
and Sebastian. These scenes are the hooks and why you stay. There is
some adult humor too, but it's old hat and kind of expected. 

Nice to see Jason Bateman getting a lead and this should be a stepping
stone to other leads. The chemistry between Bateman and Aniston was
good for the characters they portrayed. Aniston is still Rachel
(character from the Friends TV show) and seems most comfortable with
that role so there is nothing new with her in here. Hey, we like
Rachel. What's not to like? She had a chance to branch out when she did
DERAILED, a good drama with with Clive Owen, but that was just a
one-time thing apparently. Too bad, as she was good in that one. Jeff
Goldblum performed well, as always, but still has that Gary Shandling
look on his face like he is going to burst out laughing hysterically at
any moment. All the cast performed to expectations and that was very
good. 

This does play out like a made-for-TV movie, but the chemistry between
Bateman and Robinson makes it all worthwhile. This was their show. 

Violence: No. Sex: No. Nudity: No. Language: No.
<|_=00=_|>
I think critics have been conditioned to think that any movie with
Jennifer Aniston in it these days has to suck. I happily declare that
this one doesn't. It has a likable romance. The dialogue is actually
funny (especially anything that comes out of Jeff Goldblum's mouth).
Based on the premise - which comes off much less implausible than it
probably should - I was expecting a lot more lowbrow comedy and was
pleasantly surprised. And Jason Bateman is a wonderful and underrated
leading man. The voice-overs are perhaps a bit insipid and probably
could have been skipped entirely, but that's a minor complaint. I
enjoyed the film. 7 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
If the Hollywood studios still made the type of urban comedies they
made back in the early 1970's starring George Segal (usually) as a
neurotic nebbish, then Jason Bateman's big-screen career would
certainly be secure. As he displayed consistently on "Arrested
Development", the actor's dry delivery and slyly observant manner are a
perfect match for Wally Mars, the comically cynical equities analyst he
plays in this sadly overlooked 2010 romantic comedy co-directed by Will
Speck and Josh Gordon (who much to my surprise, helmed the Will Ferrell
figure-skating comedy, "Blades of Glory"). Although he is the true
protagonist of the story, the movie was marketed as a Jennifer Aniston
vehicle. She plays rising TV producer Kassie Larson, his long-ago
girlfriend who has relegated him to the "friend zone" even though he
obviously hasn't gotten over her.

Written with verve by Allen Loeb (who also co-wrote Aniston's recent
2011 movie, the Adam Sandler starrer, "Just Go With It"), the story
revolves around Kassie's ticking biological clock. In a
seven-years-back flashback, she is seen deliberately bypassing Wally as
a possible sperm donor in favor of a more predictable candidate,
Roland, a struggling associate professor at Columbia, who happens to be
married and drop-dead handsome. At an "insemination" party, Wally gets
wasted and drops the carelessly placed vial of Roland's semen down the
bathroom sink. This leaves Wally no choice but to replace the sample
himself. Kassie eventually becomes pregnant and moves back home to
Minnesota. Flash forward to the present, and Kassie returns to
Manhattan with her six-year-old son Sebastian in tow. The fact that
Sebastian acts like a miniature version of Wally gets completely past
Kassie but not Wally who slowly realizes that out of his stupor years
ago, his son was conceived.

Although this indiscretion would seem like the perfect excuse for Wally
to reveal his true feelings for Kassie, complications ensue when she
starts a relationship with Roland, now desperately on the rebound from
a bitter divorce. At the same time, Wally forms a close bond with
Sebastian who naturally gravitates toward him because of their mutual
idiosyncrasies. Bateman handles Wally's evolution from self-absorbed
fatalist to paternal protector with aplomb and surprising depth.
Aniston is better served here than in most of her standard-issue
romantic comedies, and the sharp interplay between these two actors,
especially in the beginning scenes, is refreshingly rapid-fire like a
modern-day "His Girl Friday". With his constantly forlorn expression
interrupted by moments of genuine happiness, Thomas Robinson is
terrifically understated as Sebastian, and his unforced scenes with
Bateman represent the true high points of the film.

A crack supporting cast has been assembled. As Wally's best friend and
manager, the sarcastic ladies' man Leonard, Jeff Goldblum takes a
predictable role and gives it his special, off-kilter twist. The result
is his funniest turn in years, for example, his use of the term
"ill-advised" during the moment of revelation is hilariously
unexpected. The same can also be said for Juliette Lewis, who plays
Kassie's constantly inappropriate best friend Debbie with her spacey
delivery intact as she slings clever putdowns at Wally. Even Patrick
Wilson, saddled with the no-win role of the golden boy Roland, who has
no capacity for honest introspection, is funny in a role that gets
diabolically transparent as the proceedings get complicated. The 2011
DVD/Blu-Ray offers a standard set of extras - a fifteen-minute
making-of featurette ("The Switch Conceived"); about ten deleted and
alternate scenes running for nearly half an hour in total, one a more
purposeful variation on the central scene; and a brief blooper reel.
Give it a try.
<|_=00=_|>
well, I rented this film only because it was the only one that I hadn't
see from redbox. I usually do not like Jennifer Aniston in anything but
the TV show Friends, and quite honestly she wasn't great but she
certainly did not 'sneeze on the buffet'. It was Jason Bateman that
really carried this film. He's a very under-rated actor. The film is
about friend of the opposite sex, with one, the male of course, having
more feelings than the other. When he finds out that she wants to have
a baby and is looking for the perfect man for his sperm, he's hurt
cause she didn't pick him. The film really explores parenthood in the
modern age and also dynamics of friends, and even fatherhood. It's a
comedy, but it has many dramatic and poignant elements to it. I'd
recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>
To those of you who disliked this movie or "thought it sucked" - as do
you...it was a typical romantic comedy..they're meant to be cheesy...i
laughed, i cried...honestly i have to say i liked it a lot...almost a
love..have an open mind people..you can only do the same movie so many
times before people get sick of it...this was NOT one of those same ol'
romantic comedies...jen aniston was perfect as was bateman...gotta love
the kid hes too cute for words...all of them were perfect for the role
they played, the boy especially..thomas robinson may be one of the
cutest and most well spoken child actors i have ever seen in a movie or
on TV in my life...
<|_=00=_|>
THE SWITCH is another story about artificial insemination and the
impact it has on the participants. Yes, it has been done many times
with varying results, but what makes this version of the story
different and worthy of merit and attention is the sparkling screenplay
by Allan Loeb adapted from the short story 'Baster' by gifted author
Jeffrey Eugenides ('Middlesex', 'The Virgin Suicides', 'My Mistress's
Sparrow is Dead', and short stories 'The Speed of Sperm', 'Air Mail',
'Ancient Myths', etc). It is a film that gives us the opportunity to
remember the fine comic time of Jeff Goldblum, Jennifer Aniston, Jason
Bateman, and Juliet Lewis, courtesy of the fine direction by Josh
Gordon and Will Speck.. 

Wally Mars (Jason Bateman) is an oddly neurotic character who has a
very difficult time connecting to people, especially in the dating
department. His best friend is Kassie Larson (Jennifer Aniston) a
successful woman who abruptly decides her biologic clock is ticking
down and decides to have a baby by paying a sperm donor. Wally is
shocked, but Kassie's other best friend Debbie (Juliette Lewis,
bubbling brilliantly) supports her conviction to take charge of her
life and plans a party to celebrate Kassie's incipient 'donation'.
Kassie selects a potential donor in Roland (Patrick Wilson) who is a
square and married teacher but 'needs the money'. At the party when the
'donation' is to be deposited, Wally gets drunk and accidentally spills
Roland's 'contribution', and in drunken desperation replaces it with
his own - a secret he doesn't even share with Leonard (Jeff Goldblum)
with whom he works and has a strong friendship. The inseminated Kassie
moves back home, returning seven years later with her six-year old son
Sebastian (Thomas Robinson, a very fine child actor). Kassie courts the
now divorced Roland, a blow to Wally who in his 'babysitting' chores
grows close to Sebastian who is very much like Wally. How the story
ends is predictable but heartwarmingly humorous, especially watching
the relationship between Wally and Sebastian develop. 

In addition to the strong cast of leading actors there are cameos by
Kelli Barrett and especially the significantly impressive Scott Elrod
(watch this young actor's career blossom!). Largely due to the smart
dialogue delivered by specialists in comedy, this film works well. 

Grady Harp
<|_=00=_|>
A truly cold and horrible film. This is billed as a romantic comedy,
and certainly plays up to the cutesy charm. Then why is it that this
film has so many sinister things going on? I would have loved for this
to have been a serious drama. Bateman plays the best friend that is
clearly in love with Aniston. Not THAT clearly, but we assume
(correctly) so because this film isn't going to surprise us. She
decides to have a baby with sperm donor Patrick Wilson (once again
wasted). Bateman, drunkenly, spills the sperm and replaces it with his
own. This isn't really the kind of plot I look for in my comedies,
unless they are gross out or dark. This film revolves around this being
some kind of charming act. 7 years later he realizes what he has done,
but just telling Aniston would be too clever for this film. Instead he
bottles it up and lets it all out at the most inappropriate time. There
is nothing to like about this character. He sneakily sends guys away
from Aniston, gets drunk to suppress his feelings, unknowingly fathers
her child, lies, and ruins lives. He is a foul waste of space, but this
film shows him to be the charming hero. Wilson, meanwhile, is
recovering from a divorce and is looking forward to getting involved in
his (supposed) child's life. He is cruelly sidelined. He is much more
likable than the leads. Though I respect the decision to not make him
out to be a typical villain, they could have least explored him. Here
we have a guy trying to overcome a difficult time, and takes
responsibility even though he needn't. Who the hell wrote this? Had
Bateman raped Aniston, or swapped her baby, we'd be in horror
territory. This really has me questioning humanity, but I suppose the
fact it inspires forgiveness is something.
