
The wonderful thing about the Road is that it will more than likely
please the two camps: the one that has not read Cormac McCarthy's
Pulitzer prize-winning book, and the one that has. There's the nervous
feeling one gets when watching the theatrical trailer, though - will it
be this super action-packed spectacle, will those images that open the
trailer with "THE END OF THE WORLD IS NEAR!" stick around, and will
Charlize Theron actually be in the movie that much? As it turns out, if
you liked the book very much and worried about how its uber-bleak and
incredibly dark and (especially) gray landscapes would appear, it
provides that perfectly. And if you haven't read the book... it still
works as a movie, as a simple-but-not story of a father and son
survival drama- and clinging on to their humanity- first, and then a
post-apocalypse thriller far second.

To describe the plot is not impossible but sort of unnecessary. All you
need to know going in (if you're part of not-read-book camp) is that a
father and son, after becoming on their own after the mother of the
house exits, are traveling together across a true post-apocalypse
landscape to a coast. We never are given a fully clear explanation as
to why or how the apocalypse happened. This is more than fine; because
John Hillcoat's film centers on the father and son (called in the
credits simply Father and Son, played by Viggo Mortensen and Kodi
Smit-McPhee), there doesn't need to be anything really specific. At
least this will be fine for most people who may be by now tired of the
usual viral or religious or (damn) 2012-type explanations. We're given
hints though, to be sure, that there may have been mutations or some
kind of earth-bound phenomenon (earthquakes happen a couple of times),
and past this we, like the travelers, are left to our own devices.

How it happened isn't as fascinating and visually compelling, anyway,
than how it looks. The Road provides us many scenes and vistas that are
precisely grim and desolate and terrible. Some of these are full of
visual details like big city-scape shots, and others, like when the
Father and Son are on the ramp of a highway, is intimate and hard (this
setting also provides one of the most touching moments as Mortensen's
character finally 'lets go' of two important details from the deceased
mother of his son). And other times Hillcoat lets us just take in the
gray-ness of everything, just as one could take in the sight of masses
of flies in his film the Proposition. It's against this backdrop of
rain and sludge and grime and decay that imbues this intense bond
between the father and son so greatly, and the complexity that comes
with not just staying alive but retaining humanity and dignity and
doing right and wrong by the people they encounter.

This may not be news to people who read the book. I still, having read
it two years ago (which sadly seems like long ago in usually
remembering specific images of a book), can't get the descriptions of
scenes out of my head, or the stark manner of how characters talked and
dread and existential horror was relayed. But, again, the film not only
respects this but gives it further life. Dialog scenes in the movie-
save for a couple of the flashback scenes with Charlize Theron's Mother
character- are never obtrusive to the storytelling, which is a rightful
concern to have with an adaptation of the book. And, more importantly,
the acting and chemistry between the two leads is incredible. Mortensen
is a given to be an actor embedded in his character, so much so that
when he takes off his shirt we see his bony torso as being really that,
and watching him is magnetic. Yet it's also crucial to see how good the
kid Smit-McPhee is too, especially when it comes time for scenes where
the boy has to deal with his father's growing desperation or the
electrifying showdown with a thief.

To be sure, a couple of walk-on roles by Guy Pearce as another fellow
traveler and especially Robert Duvall as a "90 year old man" as his
character says provide some needed space, and Hillcoat has a couple of
very wise flashback/dream bits with The Man and his wife (namely a very
small, brilliant moment at a piano), but it's the all on the two main
character to lead the film, and it's on them that it delivers so
strongly. As long as you know that this is a film centered not on big
action sequences (though there are a couple), and not on big special
effects (though there's that too), and it's more akin to a
life-or-death-and-what-else story not unlike Grave of the Fireflies,
you'll know what you're getting with the Road. 

It is very depressing on the whole, and not exactly what I would
recommend as a 'first-date' movie - unless you're so hot for Mortensen
and/or Cormac McCarthy you don't care either way. However, it's *good*
depressing, and equally the best adaptation of the book possible while
a tremendous, original vision for the casual movie-goer.
<|_=00=_|>
While watching this movie I thought to myself that it was good I had
already read the book. This was because the movie is agonizingly
desperate and sad--often times it was just too much to absorb or handle
in such a large dose. You can't put this movie down like you can with
the book. Unlike the book being beautifully written, in an almost
poetic prose, which distracted the reader from the subject, the movie
is not beautifully shot. In your face is desperation, agony, and death.

I can understand why this movie was shelved for a year. Do not go into
it looking to be entertained, at best look to be intellectually
stimulated. This is no popcorn movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Just got back from seeing THE ROAD.

I had been very impressed by the novel and was concerned about how it
would be adapted. The tone of the novel is almost unremittingly bleak
and a 100% faithful adaptation would be very difficult to watch.

I'm happy to report that the film is very good indeed. It solves the
problem of being unendurably depressing by concentrating on the
emotional impact of the unspecified Armageddon, rather than the day to
day fight for food, shelter and so on. So while at times it remains
very upsetting it is shot through with hope rather than despair. I
always felt the end of the novel was somewhat out of kilter with the
rest of it but in the film it seems quite appropriate.

I think the film is more about the collapse of civility rather than
civilization: for a film that shows the last remnants of mankind
struggling to eke out an existence it is remarkably concerned with
relationships. That's probably why the exact cause of the catastrophe
is left blank: the film isn't really about the end of the world so much
as the end of society. It's an interesting companion piece to NO
COUNTRY FOR OLD MEN in which an ageing man sees nothing but horror in
the modern world. In THE ROAD a man convinces himself, for the sake of
his son, that humanity will abide even in the face of appalling
conditions.
<|_=00=_|>
With a surplus of post-apocalyptic/disaster flicks present in today's
film circle, the Road does what very few films in any genre seem
capable of doing. Here is a picture that in it's own discreteness
captures the realism of a holocaust horror, combining the absolute
worst possible future with the most profoundly beautiful human
characteristics that keep the main characters persevering. Not only
does the story accurately exhibit the polar opposite aspects of a post
apocalyptic existence, but the cinematography used during the
flashbacks of a life full of color and hope many take for granted, is
excellently positioned with the dark, dismal, and often terrifying
reality that is the Road. The score was also fantastic and perfectly
appropriate for the film.

The only two, minor issues I had were the sound editing, (MINOR!) and
the ending which was NOT at all a disappointment, but I felt it was
quite open, without giving anything away. This is, again, a minor
issue, for the story in itself was a journey, and we see only a small
portion of the great, tragic, and ultimately fulfilling struggle.

And, though I'm sure no more attention is necessary, the acting as a
whole was phenomenal. Each film since LOTR Viggo has greatly improved
and I'd like to think of this as the beginning of his finest hour. Very
few performances touch me emotionally, and his was certainly one of
them, in three scenes in particular which were, being discrete, (the
parting flashback, the dinner, and the climax.) Well done, the Road,
thank you Mr. Mortenson.
<|_=00=_|>
When my husband and I went to see this movie, we chose it purely
because a) it wasn't one of the ridiculous movies already out, and b)
it got a good rating on Rotten Tomatoes. At the snack counter, a poster
proclaimed, "One of the most uplifting and optimistic movies of the
year!"

After watching that movie, we concluded that the poster reviewer either
was completely high, wandered into the wrong theater by mistake, or
thinks that Schindler's List was a wacky comedy. The Road has to be one
of the most depressing, pointless, excruciating movies you could ever
see. It will make you want to go home and stick your head in the oven.

The first 7 hours of the movie contain an endless slog through a
desolate landscape bereft of plant and animal life. Only bugs and
humans remain, somehow. Everything else on Earth has been burnt or
smashed by some unacknowledged Doomsday Event. The director leaves it
up to the audience to somehow figure out what kind of reasonable
scientific explanation could account for anyone surviving for any
amount of time after all the oxygen-producing plant life plus
everything else in the food chain between bugs and people bit the dust.
Apparently it happens through the magic of Dole Pineapple Chunks, the
search for which takes up another 4 hours of movie.

Once you get inured to this laugh riot, you eventually start to
disassociate from the main characters. The Boy in the book is supposed
to be 6 or 7. In the movie, though, he looks to be about 10 or 11, but
seems to still act 6 or 7. He comes across as a total feeb and you
start to wonder how a kid born on the cusp of a complete apocalypse
manages to have such poor coping skills. The Kid was supposed to have
been running into dead bodies and cannibals practically every day of
his life so you'd think he'd be over it after 9-10 years, but no, he
manages to seem traumatized at every instance.

Dad doesn't help things out much as he spends his days talking to the
kid like he's three and tucking him in and carrying him around every
chance he gets. I'm sure that'll help grow hair on his chest, Dad! It's
nice to see that no matter how shitty the world gets, there's always a
parent willing to overshelter their kid from the reality of their
situation.

Dad also seems to make poor survival decisions. The poorest decision
comes when the two find a friggin' BOMB SHELTER FILLED WITH FOOD AND
WARM BEDS, but after a couple days they need to abandon it because they
heard somebody walking around up top. Apparently this is the only bomb
shelter in existence that didn't come with a lock on the hatch, and
everyone knows how easy it is for a starving bum to breach a cement
bunker with a steel trap door on it. It's much easier to pile a bunch
of crap in an old push wagon and hit the road again to defend it in the
open air against every marauder and sneak thief that walks by, while
you slowly die from exposure.

But one can't point fingers at such glaring plot holes, because This Is
Such A Serious, Award-Winning Oscar Contender! You can tell this movie
is an Oscar contender because the kid cries real tears and there are at
least a couple scenes where the audience gets treated to a rear view of
Viggo's naked ass and nutsack. Everyone knows that if Viggo is letting
you see his junk, he's very much into his role and you should respect
his process by taking his nuts very seriously like he does.

There's a scene somewhere in the middle where The Mom (Charlize Theron)
decides to end it by walking out into the freezing winter in her sleep
shirt to die in the woods, because she can't take it anymore. By the
end of the movie, you'll be wishing you'd walked out in the middle too.

There was one very uplifting part to our experience, though: After
leaving the theater, my husband found a five dollar bill on the ground.
That cheered us up immensely. There is life after this movie!
<|_=00=_|>
I just got home from seeing "The Road" and my stomach is still in a
knot. I never read the book and therefore won't be making any
comparisons. I'll simply comment on the film. 

I can't imagine the performances being any better from any of the
actors, starting at Viggo and working my way down to the smallest
roles. I can't imagine the bleak post-apocalyptic world being portrayed
any more realistically. I can't imagine the general feeling of sadness,
desperation, hopelessness, terror and pain being captured more
accurately. If that was the goal, the people involved in the making of
this movie did their job magnificently. 

Having said that, it isn't for everyone. I saw this movie alone because
I had a feeling my wife wouldn't be into it. It's tough to watch.
However, in the midst of this recession brought on by greed and
materialism, I think it's a movie that everyone of age SHOULD see in
order to put things back into perspective, if only for a day. 

I had a lump in my throat through most of the movie and was desperate
to get home and hug my two boys through most of it as well. I also felt
like downsizing our entire life in terms of the unnecessary "stuff" we
have. I imagined how many homeless people wander the streets right now
with that feeling of hopelessness and desperation. What more could I
ask from a Saturday afternoon at the theater? It's this kind of movie
that helps maintain a degree of integrity in the film industry among
the inaneness that surrounds it.
<|_=00=_|>
I read Cormac McCarthy's novel a few years ago & figured it would be
made into a movie (this was when "No Country for Old Men" was playing)
but I wondered how they could make this extremely grim tale into
something that people would want to see.

This film was every bit as grim as the novel and it seemed to be a
faithful adaptation of it. The characters seemed more believable in the
film than in the novel. This is probably due to the medium but Viggio
Mortenson did a fabulous job as the Protagonist (the unnamed father)
and his son was also great. They both were tremendous and brought a lot
of character development and engagement to an otherwise totally bleak
story.

I loved Robert Duvall's turn as the grizzled survivor. It was a
supporting role sure to win an Oscar nomination. I think this will win
more than its share of Oscar nominations, for Viggio at the very least.

Great film, go check it out.
<|_=00=_|>
I really have got to get used to reviewing adaptations of books,
because they come out all the time. But reviewing them is so much
different it almost doesn't seem fair. A movie like Watchmen would have
seemed completely different had I not read the book. It just changes
the playing field completely and usually not in a good way. However,
it's not going away anytime soon.

Let me start by saying how I came across the book "The Road", by Cormac
McCarthy. It was about two years ago this time, and I was talking to my
dorm parent about Children of Men, a movie that was so clearly well
made and excellent, but I was left frustrated with it. Without giving
too much away, Children of Men left me with no closure because the
entire purpose of the movie seemed to be finding the cure, and the
movie ends before they find it. In other words, it left too much
unsaid, and for that, storyline alone, I gave it a 4/10. My dorm parent
mentioned that if I didn't like Children of Men I probably wouldn't
like The Road, because it gives you absolutely no information about
what happened, it just tells you a story of a father and a son
traveling in a post-apocalyptic world. Intrigued, and being a fan of
Cormac McCarthy, I bought the book at the airport and on my way home
for Thanksgiving, read the entire book. I really couldn't have imagined
reading it any other way. Because the book has no chapters, and because
it is so engaging, you have to read it in one sitting.

A movie was inevitable from such a great story, especially hot off of
No Country For Old Men's success. And the road (haha) to this movie's
release has been long and slow. It got delayed a whole year, which made
me apprehensive as to how good a film it was. So as I entered the movie
theater last night, almost two years to the date since I read the book,
I was nervous. Would this be another I Am Legend? Or would this capture
the greatness of the book?

The plot of the film and the movie are the same: a father and a son are
some of the last remaining people on earth after an unexplained tragedy
has happened. The two are just trying to survive, by heading south.
Along the way they encounter many problems, but the heart of the story
is in the relationship between the two characters, and the plot is
minimal.

Director John Hillcoat's last film, The Proposition, was an attempt to
revive the dead genre of the Western. And it was brilliant in so many
ways, but I especially liked how the setting was displayed in the film.
You can taste the nasty feeling of 1850 Australia in The Proposition.
And that's why he's a great fit for The Road, because he brings us into
a setting very well. And in The Road he does this again, maybe not as
well, but considering he has no source material other than the novel,
he does a very good job at conveying this dead world. I enjoyed seeing
all of the eclectic images of destruction he brought to this film.
Images from the Yellowstone fire, Mount Saint Helens, and Hurricane
Katrina were compiled together to create this world, as well as some
decent special effects. My favorite image from the film is when the go
on an overpass. The overpass stuck with me.

The acting of the two leads is superb. Viggo Mortensen continues to
impress me as a fantastic actor. When I was reading the book I imagined
him as Djimon Hounsou, but Mortensen encompasses the character
extremely well. Newcomer Kodi Smit-McPhee is just as good, and together
they carry the entire film on their shoulders, and they do it
effortlessly. My only complaint with the film is that because there is
no driving plot, my guess is it could become tedious and hard to follow
if you didn't read the book. Overall the fear and the relationship
moved the story enough to keep me interested, but I can see how a lack
of structure could be tedious to some. 

The tone and art direction are spot on, the acting is excellent, the
story is a perfect adaptation of the book, but it isn't a
groundbreaking film. The Road is as good as adaptations get, one of the
best I have ever seen. It wasn't a white-knuckle film the way No
Country was, nor was it nearly as well directed. But, it's a riveting
and engaging film, and it's a fantastic story of two characters. In the
end, that's enough of a reason for it to be a great movie. As for my
expectations: it blew me away. Despite a delay and a bad trailer, The
Road is an impressive film. My Rating: 9/10
<|_=00=_|>
"It's not as good as the book." seems to be one of the most common
sentences in discussions about movies. I have certainly uttered it many
times. I try to judge a film on it's own merits as a separate art form,
but cannot help the comparison, especially when elements that I love in
a book are sacrificed in the translation to the screen (especially if I
felt the changes were made in service of some 2 hour "time limit"). I
can only remember one time that I thought a movie improved on a book
(The Godfather and the Godfather Part 2.) There are certainly many
times I felt that a mediocre book served as the basis for a mediocre
movie (The DaVinci Code). Cormac McCarthy's works have generally
translated well to the screen, especially No Country for Old Men. The
Road was one of the most wonderful books that I can remember - to
create a sense of hope against an overwhelmingly dismal
post-apocalyptic backdrop is no small feat. As I read it I found myself
sympathizing with the fears and frustrations for the man and, at the
same time, completely drawn into the innocence and wisdom of the boy. I
could not put the book down - I had to know the ending of this story.

As I sat watching the movie, I was right back in the book. John
Hillcoat and Joe Penhall's collaboration made for a marvelous
adaptation of this compelling story. Viggo Mortensen and Kodi
Smit-McPhee were outstanding. The film editing and art direction in
this picture really contribute to the overall post-apocalyptic feel.
The use of color in the otherwise gray backdrop was pure film-making
genius. I was dragged to the height and depths of emotions and felt
every anguish and small triumph experienced by the on-screen duo. In
the end, I experienced both the triumph and the uncertainty of the
human condition. And felt that I had seen a movie that was as good as
the book.
<|_=00=_|>
By Zach Copeland "The Road" Takes Fresh Approach to Post-Apocalyptic
Genre Ever since God flooded out the entire human race in the early
pages of Genesis, literature has abounded with stories of the
apocalypse. For generation after generation, from The Book of
Revelations to The Stand, we have obsessed over the end of the world,
how it will come to pass, and what, if anything, we can do to stop it.
Now that humankind has reached a point where the End could conceivably
happen in an afternoon, our glimpses into this theoretical future are
all the more intriguing. And they've never been more important.

The Road, directed by John Hillcoat (The Proposition) and based on the
novel by Cormac McCarthy (No Country For Old Men), is a dark, poignant
story of a father and son journeying through a post-apocalyptic
wasteland, withstanding harsh weather, malnutrition, and under the
constant threat of marauders, thieves and cannibals. Their goal is
simple: to carry on.

Those looking to sink their teeth into mindless disaster-porn (not that
there's anything wrong with that) can get their fix elsewhere. The Road
is a smaller, more penetrating film that draws strength from its
intimacy and its ability to do so much with so little.

Viggo Mortensen gives an emotional tour de force as the embattled
father; look for him on the red carpet come March. Watching children
act is oftentimes painful for me, but I thought Kodi Smit-McPhee was
impressive and genuine as the son, and takes on the task of being in
literally every scene with rare fearlessness. Charlize Theron, Robert
Duvall, and Guy Pearce give small but highly memorable performances,
Duvall in particular, whose portrayal of a withered old man journeying
all alone will haunt you.

The desolate environment in which the story takes place is itself a
character, foreign yet eerily familiar, and so perfectly conceptualized
that it matches  heck, surpasses the standard of realism set by films
such as 28 Days Later and Children of Men. Shot throughout four states,
including at the site of the Mount St. Helens eruption, Hillcoat and
cinematographer Javier Aguirresarobe (The Others, The Sea Inside) paint
a backdrop that is altogether beautiful and devastating.

They say that every generation since the dawn of man has feared the
End, and while this may be true, not every generation has seen what our
modern technology is capable of. The Road is a dark looking glass into
our future, and what it is likely to become if our primal nature is
left unchecked.

Early in the film, the son looks at his father and asks him, "We're the
good guys, right?" The father's response is in the affirmative, but as
their situation become increasingly desperate, that sense of morality
we think to be ingrained is put to the test. Hillcoat does a masterful
job of portraying human beings as what we are and always have been. He
holds up a mirror to the world and hypnotizes you with it.

As far as post-apocalyptic movies go, The Road is hands-down one of the
best ever made. Despite its raw, gritty facade, which will
understandably be a turn-off for many theatergoers, the story
underneath has a sense of serenity that everyone can relate to.

The Road opens everywhere on November 25. Need I say more? *The Film
Crusade* www.filmcrusade.com/survive-and-advance/
