
Let me just say that I'm 19, a guy, and straight, and DAMN was I having
a great time watching The House Bunny. To sum it up, THB is basically
an Adam Sandler movie for girls, with Anna Faris breathing life into an
otherwise flat movie with her uncanny comic ability and unbeatable
charm. In short, she makes the movie watchable, and in some moments,
likable and entertaining.

I see this film as one that most will easily dismiss without a second
look, and I really discourage you from doing that. Anna Faris alone
deserves your attention in this movie, as she is brilliant. I even
heard a few people in my theater say that she could get a Golden Globe
nomination for Best Actress in a Comedy. I honestly wouldn't be
surprised. She's lovable, adorable, intelligently stupid, and of
course, roll on the floor hilarious. She's the reason the Scary Movie
series is so much 'better' than the other movies in that series (Date,
Superhero, Epic Movies), and her charm and charisma carries over here.

In addition to Faris, the strength of the film is the supporting cast
(except Hugh Hefner, who gets a pass for simply being Hugh Hefner). The
funny thing is, most of the performers aren't even actors. I'm not
going to lie and say Rumer Willis is brilliant, because she's not, but
she's funny and is good looking enough to surprise us. Katharine McPhee
doesn't get enough screen time, but she does do a great job with what
she's given. The last of the 'non-actors' is the frontman for The All
American Rejects, Tyson Ritter, who is tolerable in a bit part.

Now, unsurprisingly, the best supporters are Kat Dennings and the
WONDERFUL Emma Stone (Jules from Superbad). Stone is so likable and
adorable that she's the best character in the movie after Faris. Colin
Hanks is...well, I for one was surprised that he did this movie, but he
was an asset nonetheless.

I'll go ahead and get my complaints out now. First and foremost,
whoever edited this movie is absolutely terrible. Whether it be
changing hairstyles, continuity errors, or bad cuts, the editing is
noticeably bad, especially towards the end. I also didn't like the
direction the script took in the end, as it turned the film into a
parody of itself (which was weird considering the entire film was a
parody of stupid girls and stupid men), and displayed several out of
character moments. The jokes were a tad lame and predictable outside of
Faris's character (there was NOTHING bad about her), but it was okay.
There were some smart jokes that actually took some time to get.

The final plus for this movie is that it is LOADED with cameos. Since
you know who the production company is, you already know the group that
will be appearing, plus a surprise appearance from 2 NFL quarterbacks
(one retired QB, and one current) in the beginning. All in all, The
House Bunny is surprisingly funny, all because of Anna Faris and Emma
Stone, both of whom have very bright futures ahead of them. Faris is
definitely one of the funniest ladies alive.
<|_=00=_|>
Anna Faris makes this paper thin attempt at comedy overwhelmingly
worthwhile. She is an original that reminded me of some other glories,
from Carole Lombard to Goldie Hawn. Her innocence is so believable that
we go with her wherever she decides to go. I wish the producers and
responsible for this movie getting made had gone all the way and
provided this extraordinary comic talent with a more substantial script
and direction giving her the opportunity to shine even more than she
shines here and here shine she does, big time. Just look at her
listening, trying to make sense of what's happening around her. Deeply
moving, very funny, kind of unique. I hope she soon finds her Garson
Kanin and her George Cukor. I have the feeling we ain't seen nothing
yet
<|_=00=_|>
Shelley (Anna Faris) was abandoned as a baby on someone's doorstep long
ago. As she relates, no one was interested in getting her back although
they did request that the basket be returned! Shuttled from one
orphanage to another, Shelley eventually found a "family" when her
womanish figure came into fruition. That's right, Shelley resided in
the Playboy mansion and found happiness with Hef and the other gal pal
housemates. However, one day Shelley receives word that Hef has given
her two hours to move out of the mansion. A fellow worker at the
residence suggests that, perhaps, she is getting too old to be a bunny.
After all, didn't she just turn 27? And, isn't that like 59 in "bunny
years"? So, off Shelley goes, hurt and scared. After a day on her own,
she stumbles onto a nearby college campus and learns that she could
possibly find a job, a home, and a salary by becoming a sorority
"mother" to a group of misfit sisters. These gals, the Zetas, have seen
their numbers shrink, mostly because they are all shy and a bit
unconventional (among them, Katharine McPhee and Rumer Willis). The
college has already told them that if they don't find new members, the
Zeta house will be shut down. It is going to be Shelley's biggest
challenge to turn the sorority into an attractive place for the new
students. Can she do it? Perhaps, Shelly could ask for the help and
advice of a nursing home director, Oliver (Colin Hanks), a nice man she
met in a park? After a brief, blase beginning, this film packs a good
punch of light comedy and romance. Part of the credit should go to the
very nice cast. Faris is wonderful in her role as the dimwitted bunny
who has more than enough smarts to learn a few new tricks and Hanks, in
a smaller role, is quite nice as the love interest. The Zeta girls
themselves, especially Rumer Willis and Emma Stone, are a delightful
bunch of offbeat creatures that learn some lessons themselves. The rest
of the cast, including Christopher McDonald and Beverly D'Angelo, is
good, also. The costumes, naturally, are very fine, as this is a
gal-dominated movie and clothes are especially important. But, the
sunny sets, cinematography, screenplay, and direction are up to snuff
as well. No, it's not Willie Shakespeare but the flick is definitely a
good diversion from the everyday blues. It's a likely bet that you will
find this "Bunny" to be quite funny indeed.
<|_=00=_|>
"The House Bunny" has a funny concept and what looks like a "Legally
Blonde" form of execution. If Anna Faris, most commonly known as the
one portraying/making fun of the Neve Campbell "Scream" role in the
"Scary Movies" was ever going to become the next big female comedienne
the time would be now. She showed she was willing to make fun of
herself in those movies but I still wonder if she can play a sincere,
actual human being rather than a character meant to be the punch line
most of the time. "Bunny" was written by "Blonde" screenwriters Karen
McCullah Lutz and Kirsten Smith so that could be good news but a lot of
the weight of this movie is going to rest on the shoulders of it star.
Reese Witherspoon made that movie what it was and the big question here
is, can Faris do the same? 

She plays Shelley, a ditzy playboy bunny with big dreams of becoming
the next centerfold who instead is tossed out on her ass by Hugh after
her 27th birthday. Shelley went from the orphanage to the mansion so
she never quite got the fill gist of the outside world. Now homeless
and with very few survival skills, she has no idea what to do next.
Just through happenstance, she encounters something that looks like a
mini Playboy mansion but is in fact the best college sorority on
campus. They decline her for house mother but she finds a home with the
Zeta sorority, a group of misfit girls, led by Natalie (Emma Stone),
who seriously need to improve their image and attract new members in
order to stop the college from closing their house. Enter Shelley to
give the girls make-overs.

This movie made me laugh out loud twice. One involved the manhole cover
joke in the trailer, and the other was a really good jab at Bob Saget.
The rest of the movie is likable and has a nice message but really
can't seem to wring that many laughs out of a good premise. It's a
parody against the bimbo ideology, first having Shelley turn the girls
into mindless, skimpy-looking prostitutes only to realize later that
you also have to have substance too. Sometimes it gets a few chuckles
and other times it comes off looking embarrassingly sitcom-ish, like
when Shelley tries to look brainy to impress a guy by wearing very
thick glasses that make her dizzy, but overall the script isn't as
smart or funny as "Legally Blonde" and that hurts its chances. The
movie also treats some of the secondary characters in really bad taste,
like a girl whose such a misfit she actually talks like Frankenstein
and walks like Igor, and I was confused by some others, like a girl who
supposedly is bad with boys and yet is pregnant.

I was also confused by the mental abilities of the main character. At
times she seems dumber than dirt and at other times she seems almost
profound. That she works regardless of this has less to do with the
script and more to do with Anna Faris. I don't think this will be the
star-making role I thought it would be for her but she gives Shelley a
very sweet, genial nature and she is willing to throw herself into
silly situations with an innocent and goofy charm. Emma Stone is also
pretty funny in this movie, dialing up the dorky meter to about an 8. I
feel bad for Colin Hanks though. This kid just doesn't seem to be
getting many chances to shine, and here he's wasted as the romantic
lead in a movie that's pretty low on the romance.

"The House Bunny" begins, middles, and ends like most college movies
do, just unfortunately its not funny or clever enough to distract from
the generic plotting. Most of the secondary characters are also wasted
as well but maybe, it will put Anna Faris on some people's radars. She
is a very funny comic actress and with the right script, its possible
she could be the next big thing.
<|_=00=_|>
I went with my mother and my nine-year-old niece to see "The House
Bunny" in the early morning in a relatively empty theater where there
were only women. Of course it won't be the most memorable movie I've
seen, but for late August, it's not all that bad.

Comedienne Anna Faris is perfectly cast as a carefree, big-haired and
hare-brained Playboy bunny who after celebrating her 27th birthday
(that's 59 in bunny years) at the Playboy Mansion, where she has lived
much of her life, gets kicked out of there by yours truly, Hugh Hefner.
With nowhere to turn, she looks at a sorority house that seems to
resemble her previous house, only not as big. There, she accepts the
job of a house mother to seven social misfits who make up the sorority
Zeta Alpha Zeta. They need 23 more pledges before they are totally
ousted as a campus sorority by the beautiful but snooty Pi Alphu Mu
sorority.

Do the clichés sound familiar? Yes, they do. It seems like the creators
of this movie grew up on "Revenge of the Nerds," one of my all-time
favorite movies and the granddaddy of all jocks vs. nerds and losers
who become winner comedies. So they decided to make a "Nerds" comedy a
generation later with a feminist perspective. Faris's character,
appropriately named Shelly Darlingson, first takes on all the
wallflowers and makes them like her with flashy clothes, heavy makeup,
costume jewelry, and platform shoes. At first, it is successful and
boys fall for them. Soon enough, they see Shelly as frivolous and teach
her to have brains as well as beauty. This leads Shelly to a forced,
clumsy conversation with the man of her dreams (Colin Hanks, son of Tom
Hanks). At the end of the movie, everyone wins except for the Pi Alpha
Mu sorority.

There is a fine cast. Anna Faris perks everything up in what could have
been a total lamebrainer. Her appearance and high voice get laughs, but
when she does a dead-on "Exorcist" voice by saying everyone's names in
order to remember them, that is the real deal. Colin Hanks and fellow
Hollywood Offspring Rumer Willis, daughter of Demi Moore (and looks a
lot like her) and Bruce Willis, provide able support. Katharine McPhee,
the American Idol Runner Up of 2006, is made first ugly, then
beautiful, as one of the sorority members. Listen for an "Idol"
reference in which Faris tells Hanks she listens to Paula and Randy and
that Simon is mean. The rest of the cast is amiable as well. We tend to
know more about Shelly and the misfit sorority than the snobby girls or
the hunky boys. Small parts by Beverly D'Angelo as a snide veteran
house mother and Christoper McDonald as the prissy dean are provided
nicely as well.

Now I would not put this on a must see list, but it is okay for a lazy
day. As they dump out leftover movies for the summer, I would rather
see this than a truly terrible one I was made to see with a friend -
"Stepbrothers," where Will Ferrell and John C. Reilly did nothing but
scream their heads off and I was so exhausted the night before that I
fell asleep and could barely stay awake. For "The House Bunny," I was
awake the whole time through.
<|_=00=_|>
If you want to see a cute, feel-good movie that doesn't require a lot
of thought and will leave you with a smile on your face, this is the
movie to see. You'll laugh out loud at much of the humor, and you'll
fall in love with Anna Faris. It's just silly fun. Anna Farris plays a
ditsy blond who gets kicked out of the Playboy Mansion (Hugh Hefner is
a good sport in this movie!), ends up homeless, and ends up as a house
mother for a sorority of "loser" girls (smart girls who don't know how
to attract boys). The sorority is about to lose its charter because
they can't get enough pledges, and of course Faris saves the day for
the sorority by teaching the girls how to be popular, and, along the
way, she learns a few lessons herself. You'll enjoy knowing that her
love interest is played by Colin Hanks, son of Tom Hanks, and that some
of the people in the Playboy mansion and at the party at the mansion
are played by themselves. Also, Rumer Willis, daughter of Bruce Willis
and Demi Moore and Katherine McPhee from American Idol are girls in the
sorority. I thoroughly enjoyed this light movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Brains do not need to be engaged for this movie. But it does produce a
few wonderful - and hilarious - surprises that make it a very enjoyable
90 minutes.

One is Anna Farris, who does a great twist on the archetypal dizzy
blonde beloved of Hollywood since time immemorial.

But the real kickers are the jarring one-liners that pepper an
otherwise sweet and predictable film. Several reduced this viewer to
paroxysms of laughter, tears rolling down cheeks, beverage spurting
across the room.

These moments, when they arrive, are so unexpected that the effect is
one of firmly-flicked kipper on unprotected jowl. And none are in the
"gross-out" style that one might have expected in a film of this genre.

Very bunny indeed.
<|_=00=_|>
Shelley lives at the playboy mansion, and dreams of being a Playboy
centerfold. The day after her birthday, she receives a letter telling
her she has to move out. Ending up at the Zeta sorority house, a house
in desperate need of pledges and money to stay open, she helps the
girls, all outcasts at college to become sexier to get what they need,
while they help her with a guy she has a crush on.....

The House Bunny shouldn't work. It's got a mixed message, suggesting
that girls need to use their sexiness to get what they need, while at
the same time saying being yourself, with some confidence, and you can
get the same. So in that sense I don't think it completely works.

However, it is very funny in places. Anna Faris is showing herself to
be a very funny actress, and keeps the humour coming through-out. Hers
is the best performance here. The actress's who play the girls in the
house are all different, but give good performances too, with the
possible exception of Emma Stone as Natalie, the girl in charge of the
house. It's not that she's a bad actress. I saw her recently in The
Rocker and she was very good there. It's just that here, she seems to
be trying too hard to portray the 'nerd' side of her character. It's
not a bad performance, just a little uneven.

The script has some good one-liners in it, and director Fred Wolf keeps
things moving at a brisk pace. It's not the funniest teen comedy I've
seen, but it has enough moments to keep you smiling, and for it's
running time is an enjoyable movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Ever since I saw the trailer for The House Bunny back in May, I was
looking forward to seeing it, this looked like a fun comedy and we all
love Anna Faris, this girl is just adorable, and she makes comedies a
lot of fun. So I saw The House Bunny yesterday and I did enjoy myself,
but we've done this before, the dumb blonde story, not that we can't do
it again, I'm just looking for something a little fresh. But Anna Faris
holds herself so well with comedies, The House Bunny, she doesn't seem
to enjoy herself as much in this role. A lot of the moments where she
acts stupid, she looks a little uncomfortable at times, I think that's
why this movie didn't stand out as well as other dumb blonde comedies.
But it's mindless entertainment, the message, it worries me a little,
I'll explain why in a little bit, but I'd say if you're a grown up and
you know better, than this is a fun little movie.

Shelley is a hot playboy bunny whose life is just grand, she's a
sweetheart, a little on the slow side, but always has good intentions,
and when it appears that Hugh Hefner wants her out of the house due to
her age of 27, she must pack up her things and take off. She's
homeless, but finds a local sorority that needs a house mother and a
clue into a social life. She becomes their house mother and teaches
them how to attract people, but she learns a little something too when
she meets a sweet, smart, and sensitive guy, Oliver. Now things become
a success with the sorority, but they become a little too shallow and
Oliver wants more than a playboy bunny, he wants a girl to talk too,
and to top that off the other sororities are upset to learn that the
former losers are now hotties that everyone loves.

My one problem with this movie, even though it is enjoyable, the
message isn't appropriate for young girls. I know it's just a movie, I
don't want to nit pick, believe me, I know when a movie is harmless,
but it's teaching young girls that you have to play yourself down to
get a guy and that looks will get you everywhere at any time, also we
are rooting for a person who just always has good intentions, why?
That's all Shelley is, just a nice person, but she doesn't have many
likable qualities. I liked the movie over all, I just think the script
needed more work, nothing about this movie stood out, it's a
disappointment to me. I would recommend it for silly fun, but
otherwise, just wait for the rental.

6/10
<|_=00=_|>
Having also seen the ultra-violent Death Race in the same week as The
House Bunny I realized one big thing; clichéd violence doesn't offer
any kind of real reaction whereas clichéd humor can still manage to
make you laugh as long as the delivery is entertaining and fresh. Sure,
the dumb blond jokes in The House Bunny are old and played out, but
Anna Faris gives you continuing reason to laugh in a film that is far
funnier than it really deserves to be. The House Bunny plays on the
sexy-but-dumb stereotype to the fullest extent and Faris has proved in
the past, as a regular in the otherwise awful Scary Movie films, she
can pull this off. On top of looking amazing, Faris gives this film
every reason to exist. Co-stars Emma Stone, Kat Dennings and the
increasingly emaciated Rumer Willis offer up a couple of additional
laughs, but it is Faris that leads the charge. She plays right up to
the edge of the dumb blond stereotype and only occasionally tosses in
one too many clichéd jokes. Nevertheless, you forgive her thanks to a
consistent number of chuckles throughout the film. 

This isn't to say this is a classic comedy by any means, but anyone
that goes to see House Bunny should walk away with a smile. This isn't
a film to hate, it offers up exactly what the trailers promise and it
delivers a little extra with an unexpected f-bomb dropped in the mix
and a peek at Faris's little bum to keep the men paying attention. 

Perhaps the one major shock would be Colin Hanks; it seems those Tom
Hanks genes aren't quite paying off just yet. After a decent sized role
in Peter Jackson's King Kong, Hanks has only managed to worm his way
into mediocre films at best. Then again, he hasn't shown anyone any
reason to give him anything with more meat on it so I guess I shouldn't
be too surprised. Katherine McPhee of "American Idol" fame plays a
small role in the feature as does Beverly D'Angelo, but both are
relatively inconsequential. 

The ladies in the audience are more likely to get a kick out of The
House Bunny and the fellas dragged to the theater with them should be
able to enjoy themselves as well despite the estrogen oozing of the
screen. It isn't like this is a film you should rush out to the theater
to see, but you could definitely do worse in your selection.
