
The Duchess is a superior slice of costume drama which manages to craft
interesting, multi dimensional characters and an involving storyline
from the well worn confines of the genre.

Keira Knightley plays a very similar role to the one she played in
Pride and Prejudice, a feisty, modern woman trapped in a male dominated
society. However, whereas Lizzie Bennett's heart and character inspires
affection, the Duchess of Devonshire's fosters only reproach and
punishment from her traditional and patriarchal husband. Her
performance is a standout and demonstrates why she is so highly rated
in the face of many disappointing roles in other films. She brings both
strength and weakness to the character. Able to deliver withering put
downs at her husband and others, whilst showing the pain of her
loveless marriage etched into her face.

If Knightley is the lynchpin of the piece then it is Ralph Fiennes that
elevates it above a crowded genre. Resisting the temptation to play his
character as evil, instead he simply plays him as a man of his times.
In Fiennes' hands the Duke feels no need to win any bouts of verbal
jousting with his wife as he is secure in the knowledge that, as a
husband, he is in complete control of the relationship. The Duke also
clearly sees very little wrong in his treatment of his wife and acts,
as he sees it, in a logic manner making the whole film feel more
believable and, as a result, tragic.

In terms of the cast the only misstep is Dominic Cooper as Charles
Grey, who lends the wide eyes of a political dreamer but doesn't have
convincing chemistry with Knightley and plays one of the more one
dimensional characters in the piece. However Hayley Atwell impresses by
playing her character so well it is possible to describe her as
scheming, and manipulative as well as sympathetic and loyal without it
seeming a contradiction.

The film is deliberately paced so as to give characters and events time
to breathe, encouraging the mood that the marriage is a car crash in
slow motion, inextricably drawing all the characters further into the
muddled mess of their relationships. Overall it's a fully recommended
slice of real life costume drama that draws a multi layered drama full
of compellingly deep characters from what could easily have been a one
note story.
<|_=00=_|>
After reading copious amounts of mediocre reviews for "The duchess", I
wasn't expecting much from this film. However, from the first scene I
was utterly absorbed.

The film isn't "just another period drama", it is an absolutely
beautiful and heart-rendering tale of the tribulations faced by
Georgian woman. Georgiana, Duchess of Devonshire, who although is the
key character in the film (as you can probably infer from the title),
represents the situation of all woman belonging to a patriarchal
society, not just the aristocracy.

Keira knightly is exemplary in this role. Her facial expression tells
more than a script ever could. I enjoyed her performance in "atonement"
but this was in a whole new league. Ralph Fiennes was also excellent.
My best advice is to ignore the critics and come to your own
conclusion. My only negative criticism was the rapidity with which
Georgiana bonded so intimately with Bess. However, I don't know enough
about the social context of the time to really make a judgement.

All in all, a deeply moving tale that shouldn't be neglected.
<|_=00=_|>
The career of Keira Knightley has been somewhat of a mixed bag. She has
had strong moments, invariably under the direction of Joe Wright, and
she has had her less brilliant moments, mainly in the later "Pirates of
the Caribbean" films. But, in "The Duchess", an entertaining and moving
portrait of Georgiana, the Duchess of Devonshire, she truly shows signs
that she is coming of age with a performance of subtlety and nuance.

The film has been marketed with not so subtle emphases on Georgiana's
relative, Diana, Princess of Wales. The tagline for the film, "There
were three people in her marriage", is not only, by my count, a
miscalculation (a serious miscalculation if you count the dogs) but
also guilty of creating a subtext which simply isn't in the film.
Anybody looking for a film about Diana will be disappointed. Anyone
looking for an entertaining film won't be.

The film is a moving portrait of a very tragic figure, brought to life
by a career best performance from Keira Knightely. Her abilities have
grown over recent years, with "Atonement" being her previous best, but
here she shows great potential. She is ably supported by Ralph Fiennes,
who is on fine form. His performance never descends into caricature or
cartoonish villainy, but maintains a sense of humanity, no matter how
selfish it is, underneath his characters various inexcusable actions.
There is also a fine performance from Charlotte Rampling, though there
is a weak link in the person of Dominic Cooper, who is too young for
his part and struggles with it.

The witty and emotive script has a lot to recommend it and its
characters are put into an engrossing and lavish world, successfully
created by the director Saul Dibb. Extraordinary costumes fill the
extraordinary locations, and there is a beautiful score by Rachael
Portman to accompany it. The result is a fairly stylish affair.

The film's exploration of unfortunate innocence and the loss of freedom
is at times poignant and adds to what is an extremely satisfying
experience at the cinema and provides a great deal of promise for the
future from its director and its star.
<|_=00=_|>
I came away from the cinema after seeing The Duchess feeling I had had
my consciousness of what life must have been like for the aristocracy
of 18th century England dramatically raised (both literally and
metaphorically). The story of Georgiana's marriage unfolds by subtle
degrees amidst the most sumptuous of interiors and landscaped gardens -
all beautifully filmed and realistically recreated. Apart from the main
characters, there appear a rich selection of characters from
neighbouring strata of society - aristocrats, political activists,
servants and children (as babies and older) both legitimate and
illegitimate - all of whom contribute to weaving the screenplay into an
immensely fascinating narrative. I was already a fan of both Keira
Knightly and Ralph Fiennes before seeing The Duchess, so I was pleased
to find that their performances were well up to - and in the case of Ms
Knightly even surpassing - my expectations. Even those who aren't
normally 'into' period dramas (like me) should, I feel sure, find much
to appreciate in this excellent film.
<|_=00=_|>
This film really, really surprised me.

Yes, it's from the director of Bullet Boy - but I'd only ever seen Saul
Dibb's Line Of Beauty so I was expecting a pretty standard period piece
with Keira Knightely - who I have never rated much as a credible acting
talent.

Boy does she impress here - she is fantastic. The Duchess of Devonshire
is the perfect character for her to play, and it's obvious Keira
immersed herself in the role, and completely understood every single
motivation of her character.

I recommend everyone to go and see this film!
<|_=00=_|>
What rather wonderful about this story is that Georgiana Spencer (Keira
Knightley) discovers a way to exult in victory over things and to get
back some kind of power in a time where, really, women had very little
Being someone of great vitality and liveliness, she was very much a
dreamer and an idealist, a woman who loved being the center of
attention, who loved the fact at some point that her picture was in the
paper, that the clothes were always talked of, that her every move was
commented on 

We are immediately impressed by her presence, by her personality She
wasn't behaving quite in accordance with the way in which other 18th
century women were expected to behave 

But there was something incredibly sad about this self-conscious lady
She was a victim of herself A victim of her own innocence A victim of
people using her for their own profit Even though she seemed to have
everything, we realize that it was not that simple And with all of her
privilege came a lot of moral obligation and things were never what
they really appeared to be 

The Duke (Ralph Fiennes) was a misanthropic man, rather cold,
unemotional and quite cruel He seems to like better his hunting dogs
to his young wife Of course with certain values, that he believes were
absolutely right and that he strictly held to 

This sumptuous period piece also presents the Duchess of Devonshire as
a political hostess Saul Dibb's film shows us her dinner parties, her
evening events, her fame and its extraordinary effect on her It made
her both desperate to please, terrified of doing anything wrong and
shocked at her own celebrity and unable to figure out in her own mind
why she was quite so famous And we see the crippling effect it has on
her sense of self
<|_=00=_|>
The Duchess - Set at the end of the eighteenth century, The Duchess is
based on the life of Georgiana Cavendish (Kiera Knightley), Duchess of
Devonshire. The film delves into Georgiana's passionate and doomed
affair with Earl Grey, the future Prime Minister, and the complex love
triangle with her husband (Ralph Fiennes) and Georgiana's best friend,
Lady Bess Foster (Hayley Atwell).

Kiera Knightley again does a period piece and again looks mostly out of
place. She's British alright, but a few stone away from looking like
she belongs in 1770's Britain. It's augmented by the fact that her
character, based on a real woman, was supposed to have gone through
about 6 pregnancies, 4 of them successful. Knightley's emaciated form
is just wrong. What is right though, is her performance. As a mother,
as a chasismatic political presence and a woman desperate for a happy
life she nails it absolutely.

I could have seen a little less focus on the love triangle and a little
more on the "hows" and "whys" of this woman becoming such an important
and popular cultural icon in British society. The film glosses over how
this came to be, and asks us to take it as a fact after one brief scene
showing the Duchess's political shrewdness. It's another case of
Hollywood ignoring what's different about a film, preferring the safety
of delivering what people have seen before.

Fiennes gives such a quiet performance right from the start but it
grows and fills the area. It's often a mesmerizing performance because
of his rigid adherence to societies expectations and rules at the cost
of all else. Fiennes occupies the screen whenever he's in a scene. When
he and the Duchess argue, she's like water smashing up against the
unyielding cliff. Ralph Fiennes is aw-inspiringly scary in one scene
without seeming in anyway over the top or demonizing of what his
character represents. Ultimately his character is human and believable;
purely a man of his times. His character is so down to earth and in the
end simple. All he wanted from his marriage was a son and to be left
alone to play with his dogs.

A mesmerizing turn from Fiennes in a likable, if familiar film, The
Duchess gets a B+
<|_=00=_|>
The latest slice of period drama to grace our screens is this biopic on
Georgiana, Duchess of Devonshire, who during the 1770s was patroness of
the Whig party and prisoner of a marriage which made her, among other
things, suffer the indignity of having her husband's mistress living
under the same roof. These heritage dramas are an industry all by
themselves; the armies of prop hirers, wig and costume makers,
researchers, production designers, location scouts and (mostly) British
actors who go to make them must find themselves in almost permanent
employ. The BBC does them, the Americans have a go at them, and the
public can't seem to get enough of them. The Duchess is a superior
example of the genre, though nowhere in the league of Kubrick's Barry
Lyndon, and combines the spectacle of Keira Knightley looking glamorous
in a range of frocks and wigs, while at the same time honing her acting
talents (no more those rictus grins), with the guilty pleasure of
following the uncomfortable parallels between the fortunes and
indiscretions of the ancestress of Lady Diana Spencer with those of the
Princess of Wales herself. Lowering over the whole proceedings is the
truly superb presence of Ralph Fiennes's Duke of Devonshire, Fiennes an
actor who can convey polite discomfiture or threatening ire with
slightest twitch of the mouth. In his hands the Duke becomes far less a
melodramatic villain than a product of his time, and you almost feel
sorry for him. Go and see The Duchess; only those who have had children
will balk at the liberties taken with childbirth and breastfeeding. But
not even that will spoil the fun.
<|_=00=_|>
The costumes are wonderful, the country houses are spectacular, but the
story is rather a one note affair. This is indeed a shame, as the book
on which the film is based, is a rich and interesting biography.

The supporting cast are very good, but there is little for them to do,
as all the action is centered on Keira Knightly. She does not shine
here. Having recently watched her in Atonement (where she was very
good)I was disappointed by her performance in this film. I felt as if I
knew what she is going to do where - a real shame, as I believe that
she will be one of our most interesting actors, but not if judged on
this outing.

Where are the examples of Georgiana's wit, her clever mind? And why are
historical characters so often played with modern sensibilities -
Georgiana would have known just what the Duke expected of her, as she
was his property - the law in those days, not my opinion - so to
suggest otherwise is just nonsense. She really was much more
fascinating than depicted in the film.
<|_=00=_|>
I couldn't wait for The Duchess, I am just a huge fan of period pieces
and Kiera Knightly is becoming a fantastic actress in this genre. I was
looking forward to this film mainly because I studied Georgina a little
bit in college for my history class and I always thought she was such
an elegant and strong woman that stood out from the others. She was
like the Madonna of her day, she had a great sense of style, self, and
strength. While the movie is not completely accurate, it still was a
fine movie to watch. Kiera truly held her own as Georgina and was
absolutely stunning. One of the underlining stories that I appreciate
in this film is the battle of the sexes. Ralph Fiennes who plays the
Duke of Devonshire does a fantastic job as well and he plays this
anti-villain, shows the true side of the pain and pressure men felt but
how they looked at women as nothing but property. This story truly
touches you and makes you grateful for our present day.

Georgina is born into a high class family of royalty who is about to be
married off to the Duke of Devonshire and everything seems great, G is
going to live the high life of class, culture, and being a lady of the
people. She comes across the price though: her husband's affairs that
are practically rubbed in her face, her life is constantly watched and
judged by people, she must be perfect at all times to keep up her
reputation as a joyful lady, she is forced to be the mother of the
duke's child from an affair he had, as well as she cannot birth a son
for the Duke and he will find every opportunity to rub it in her face.
All this and Georgina has found another love who she cannot give her
heart to fully for the love of her children and people.

The Duchess is a fine film that I truly enjoyed. I wouldn't be
surprised if Kiera was nominated for best actress during the academy
season. I would highly recommend this movie, especially for the period
piece lovers. Like I said, this film makes you appreciate what we have
today in our modern society and truly makes you feel for the pressures
both men and women had to face in that day. Georgina is a figure that I
think is very looked over in history when she is one of the strongest
presences in England's history. The Duchess, even though not entirely
accurate, does a very good job of telling her story and was a pleasure
to watch.

8/10
