
The story of how World War Z was made is a lot more harrowing and
suspenseful than the film itself. After going way over-budget and
enduing a complete revision and reshoot of the final act, WWZ wasn't
exactly set up for success. Ultimately the movie is completely
forgettable and uneven, but not offensively bad or objectively terrible
in any sense. What struck me about it was how much of a wasted
opportunity it was, given how interesting and entertaining the source
material is.

Having read the book World War Z, I could tell from the trailers for
this movie that it wouldn't exactly be a faithful adaptation. I thought
that the most interesting aspects of the book were its exploration of
how the Zombie plague affected social and political structures across
the world. Anything like that is completely ignored in the film, but I
can at least understand how the filmmakers thought that those aspects
wouldn't work in a single feature length movie. What I can't understand
is how the filmmakers seemingly ignored the book's most obviously
cinematic content. The book features a lot of setpiece action scenes,
and to be fair, many of these involve world cities falling to zombie
infestation and the movie does do enough to cover this. However, the
book's immense battle scenes - the meat of the titular Zombie War, such
as the Battle of Yonkers, nuclear war between Pakistan and Iran,
Chinese civil war and massive formation combat against zombies - are
completely absent. I was very surprised that they did not cover these,
especially the Yonkers scene, because they would obviously fit so well
into a film and the script, even as it is now, could easily be tweaked
to include or at least mention them. The action that did make it into
this film is very unsatisfying and obscure thanks to the restrictions
of the PG-13 rating, and the narrative around is not engaging enough to
really get me invested in it.

I was also surprised at how cheap this movie looked. This film cost
hundreds of millions of dollars to make, but it's hard to see where it
all went on the screen. Swarms of zombies look very fake and
nonthreatening, and in some cases individual zombies are computer
animated, which gave me bad flashbacks to I Am Legend's awful CGI
overload. Aside from the opening scenes in Philadelphia and the middle
act in Jerusalem, there are no big outdoor sets. A South Korean airbase
is portrayed as a series of dark rooms; too much of the movie takes
place in an airline seat; there is a lot of sitting around inside of
the aircraft carrier, etc. The sense of scale is very inconsistent, and
this is accentuated in the bizarre final act, which was obviously the
focus of the infamous reshoots as it feels like a completely separate
movie. I consider myself a patient viewer, but this very long and dull
scene started to bring me down after a while, and my less patient
viewing audience eventually fell completely out of sync with the film
and began to make fun of it at every opportunity - not really a fair
criticism of the film, but it's a real issue when it can't hold an
audience's attention. The final act does actually have an interesting
idea at its heart, albeit one that completely doesn't connect with
anything in the book, but I just didn't think it was a well executed
concept. The very different style and tone of these scenes makes it
feel like a completely different movie.

Again, while there was nothing all that terrible about WWZ, I didn't
think it was anything to get excited about. In other words, a perfect
5/10 movie. I wish they were more aware of the source material's
potential because without the best and most cinematic aspects of the
book, WWZ (the film)and WWZ (the book) only share a title and the
central premise of a zombie plague, which is not an original idea in
itself.
<|_=00=_|>
Oh, Hollywood. You saw the zombie apocalypse coming didn't you? Not a
literal apocalypse of course, just 16 dozen different zombie books,
graphic novels, games and TV shows taking over the world like the
plague, and you just had to have your piece of the pie, didn't you?

World War Z is based on the 2006 novel by Max Brooks. The novel
garnered some quite positive reviews, praised for its international and
political scope. It also caught the eye of producer and star Brad Pitt,
who after a long struggle with studios, directors, producers and other
Hollywood zombies, managed to put together a half decent movie with
director Marc Forster.

Half decent? Well, WWZ certainly isn't a bad movie. You've got the
long-time Oscar-deserving Pitt playing Gerry Lane, a likable,
good-looking family man who retired as a UN investigator to spend more
time around his wife and daughters. This is all about to change
obviously, because after the now seemingly mandatory
news-footage-montage introduction, Gerry is called back by the UN in
exchange for his family's safety on their big boat.

It sounds good enough, but the problem is that WWZ's
political/international context is nowhere to be found so we're left
pretty much to 28 Days Later with blockbuster pretentiousness. Sure,
Gerry travels around the world and makes a few long distance phone
calls, but there's never anything remotely compelling enough to warrant
his travels and whenever the plot does manage to come close to
something it quickly sets it aside in the interest of keeping this
summer blockbuster light, family friendly and internationally
marketable.

After Quantum of Solace there was much uncertainty about Forster's
ability to direct action and after WWZ, guess what? There still is.
Granted, it's never boring, but when the other elements that should've
made the film aren't there it should be more than "never boring".
Paramount's marketing certainly didn't help; if you've seen the
trailers then you've seen the whole plot and LITERALLY every single
action set piece, in chronological order too. You know when you see a
trailer and think "they put all the good parts in"? Well, this time
they put the whole movie in. The more hardcore genre fans might also
want to look elsewhere if they're seeking gory zombie kills; there
isn't much of that either as its PG-13 rating might suggest.

Brad Pitt is really the film's only strength. Much like Tom Cruise,
Brad's got enough talent to singlehandedly pull you through a
not-so-great movie without you hating him for it. And at almost age 50
you can't really blame him for wanting to star in his own big
blockbuster franchise for the first time in his career when he could've
played any superhero he wanted years ago. "Franchise" of course, if
permitted by the audience, because this is one movie that desperately
wants to have sequels.
<|_=00=_|>
The special effects were impressive, I will give you that. However, the
rest wasn't. The 2 hour experience felt like watching titanic sink, in
real time. Here is a list of the things that went wrong:

1. PG13 rating: The director and producers wanted to make this movie
family friendly, so they took away all the gore, death and decay that
makes the zombie genre what it is. This made the zombies totally not
scary and even on occasions towards the end, just plain laughable.

2. Senseless plot: The UN sends a small team to investigate the
beginning of the outbreak. They have a neurologist on the team, who
incidentally cant stop using cheesy metaphors about mother nature. Why
can't they send multiple teams, with more than one expert on each?
After all it is clearly a high risk mission, casualties must be
expected. After the neurologist dies right after his pretentious
speech, it is clear that the whole thing was an excuse to put Brad Pitt
in a dangerous situation so that we will feel tension. We still didn't
because, see 3.

3. Bad character development: None of the characters in the movie had
any depth. As a result we didn't care if they lived or died. Pitt's
family was just the detestable suburban family, who apparently does
nothing but turn money into feces. Their marriage and children felt so
plastic and ready-made that I personally would not have felt a thing if
Pitt was torn apart by zombies in front of his family. Well, actually
that might have improved this movie, alas it couldn't have happened
because of 1.

4. The ending sequence: Just as we think that the plot cannot get worse
and we make peace with the idea of enjoying the special effects, the
movie takes another down turn in the last 40 minutes or so. The special
effects disappear and we find Pitt and his sidekick in a W.H.O.
research facility playing hide and seek with zombies. There is no
suspense because the ending is announced basically in the first 5
minutes of this sequence, Pitt will go into the zombie infested part of
the building, get some disease samples and bring them back. They will
use one of the samples to infect themselves and see if zombies will
lose their appetite. They do, and we win, with another pretentious
speech about how it is not the end but just the beginning. Yawn.

5. Plot holes: 

a) Zombies can diagnose a terminal illness just by looking at someone
and for some reason, they avoid that person. This doesn't make any
sense at any level. First, even a doctor with years of medical training
can't do that without extensive testing. How can a mindless zombie, who
cant figure out how to unbuckle her seat belt, do it just after a
glance by the corner of her eye? Second, why the hell would zombies
avoid a sick person? There is no reason. After all, the virus, or
whatever that is causing the outbreak is not harmed by any other
disease. The W.H.O. scientists said so themselves.

b) The W.H.O. facility is in Wales, Britain. Among the weapons they
have in their arsenal is a baseball bat. Does the director even know
where Wales is? Does anyone, one soul in Wales, own a baseball bat? Was
that so difficult to make it a cricket bat? Come on now, I think that
the director is a bit of a thickie but I can't believe that no one who
looked at this movie pre-release had seen Shaun of the Dead. And to add
insult to injury, the soldier girl with one hand picks the baseball
bat. This scene alone is enough to prove that the director of the movie
is blind from birth, because anyone who had at least one functioning
eye at any point in his life and used it to glance at a baseball bat
would have immediately realized that it is a two-handed weapon. How
could a special forces soldier could not recognize it as such and not
pick the crowbar?

c) The cellphone battery: In one scene, the cellphone's battery is
declared dead. In a later scene, it is working again. Really?

d) When they decide to recover the disease samples, they give Pitt no
briefing about which containers contain what. But apparently, at least
one container is full of deadly stuff, which would kill him
immediately. Why? Why? OMG, why? The security cameras show the room
clearly. All they need to do is to seat Pitt and the soldier girl in
front of one of the displays and show them where the goodies are before
sending them in.

e) Pitt has no special combat, first aid or survival training. He
apparently learned all that stuff on the field, and he is not a
scientist either. Finally, he doesn't have experience as a commanding
officer. So, why would he, instead of literally thousands of military
people who were purpose-trained for such a mission, is chosen to lead
the mission? It doesn't make any sense. It would have made a lot of
sense if his UN friend said something like "Look, I convinced these
people that you are the best man to lead this mission though we both
know that you aren't. You are just a guy who spent ten years handing
out blankets to African countries. But I had to do it to save your
family, alright? They would have never let you on the ship otherwise
and you would have died in Philly." That would have not only sealed
this plot hole, but also would have given Pitt's character a tragic and
desperate quality, which would have helped us care about him. But the
mindless zombies who made this movie missed this chance too.
<|_=00=_|>
SPOILER ALERT. SPOILER ALERT! You have been warned.

The Premiere -

I was at the London World Premiere last week, and Interestingly there
was clearly tension between Mark (Director) and Brad Pitt. I would have
thought a director of this size movie would be able to make a speech.
But no. Reading from cards he fumbled over his words, got his actors
names seriously wrong in front of 1000 people and was clearly very very
nervous. Which is odd because any director should be excited or proud
to be presenting their work to the world!

Brad Pitt in interview said they chose Mark as he was really good at
the little emotional moments between characters. Well they mush have
cut those bits out.

The movie -

A zombie film with no blood? I've no idea what the zombies were doing
as we never see them kill anyone! They just run around a lot, far too
fast for a 'human being'. No decapitated zombies, and a incredibly poor
script that could have been knocked together in an evening. 

Speaking to actors who worked on the film they told me a lot of the
dialogue was improvised. And it shows. Good dialogue is written. It is
very hard for an actor to come up with great dialogue on set with crew
around, lights, explosions, gun fire and a budget and schedule pressing
down on you - that is what rehearsals and, dare I say, a screenwriter
are for.

I just don't think Mark Forster (Quantum of Bollox) knows how to
direct. No emotional connection to any of the characters. No big climax
at the end and the least threatening Zombie in the history of movies.
Click click click. 

A tedious V/O from Brad at the end, about "only just the beginning, of
the war, YAWN..." We have heard this a hundred times.

There was some truly awful acting, characters that appear and go in a
scene, that do nothing, and flimsy science that is just insulting to
anyone who can actually think.

The only good bit was the Zombie as Ants scene, but it would have been
hugely improved if a zombie with a giant leaf walked past in the
background.

The audience laughed at several moment, that I don't believe the
director even realised were gags! 

Brad doesn't even really do any acting. He does a bit of running around
and a fight or two. No great lines, and I don't really believe that he
loves his kids and wife so terribly much.

Best thing in it was - Daniella Kertesz, but her scenes are clearly cut
to bits, unlike her hand, which just seems to be fine after a couple of
gin and tonics. I'll have what she's having!

And leaning suitcases against a curtain? Seriously. That was really
bad.

The film could have been saved in the Edit - with some clever
re-positioning of the major scenes, to get the structure right, but
having seen Brad and Mark together, they had clearly fallen out of love
with the movie.

Nothing here we haven't seen in 28 Days Later, or any other zombie
film, or even The War of the World that was written 100 years ago.

At the end the applause was half hearted and everyone got up and left
super fast.

The aftermath -

Please GOD can we stop giving bad directors a second, and in this case
10th chance. This film made me angry that a studio can waste so much
money on what was a mediocre idea even at the beginning, and gave it to
a director who has a proved track record of not being able to fix a bad
script, or direct action.

The budget on this would keep an independent film maker in business for
the next 400 years - or if we put that in a real time scale - all the
way back to Elizabeth the 1st.

Frustrating.

Nothing to see here ladies and gentlemen, move on.
<|_=00=_|>
I was dubious! The rating, the early reviews, my love of gory George
Romero movies had all led me to deciding not to see this. But, my wife
wanted to go... Well, two breathless hours later I turned to her, big
grin on my face and had to state "That was awesome!" Yes, I can see why
people don't like it. It is very different to the traditional zombie
movie, and very different to the book. But you know what, who cares -
it's not a traditional zombie movie, or the book - it's different. So
suck it it up whiners and enjoy this for what it is! (And I'm a huge
fan of all Max Brooks zombie books.) The movie begins with a short
intro to the main character and his family (it was enough, it told me
all I needed to know) before launching into a fantastic, break neck
sequence that establishes the pace for most of the rest of the movie.
It's violent, visceral and shocking without any reliance in gore. The
tension is racked up (especially in the escape from the apartment block
sequence) with a series of spectacular set pieces (the walls of
Jerusalem scene is brilliant) and things get better and bigger until
the film slows the pace for the final reel with a slow burning, smaller
scale sequence set in a WHO research lab in the UK. It's an unusual
choice to end a movie with the smallest set piece, but it worked well
for me as it was in line with Gerry's quest and the (stated in the
movie) fact that the answer is often so small it gets overlooked. The
gravity of the decisions Gerry has to make here are greater than any
previously in the movie (where mostly he just has to run like hell!)
and it's that that makes this such a powerful set piece to end the
movie. I learnt several things from this movie 1) to let go of my
preconceptions about what a zombie film should be, 2) that a low rating
doesn't mean its for kids - I have two sons and despite the lack of
gore I certainly wouldn't let then see this. Its very intense and that
(not the gore) is what would scare them. 3) to go with the flow - I did
here and was swept along for a rapid fire 2 hour thrill ride that was a
hell of a lot of fun. I for one will be getting this on blu ray and
I'll be first in line for any sequel. But I will admit, an undated
version would be very welcome!
<|_=00=_|>
If a film is sold by a trailer it's this one . I've never read the
source novel but do know it is structured as reportage where the world
has been changed by a zombie infestation leading to a new geo-political
shape for the world so in many ways this is more of a prequel than an
adaptation . I did like Danny Boyle's genre shattering 28 DAYS LATER
and loved the sequel and unfortunately it looks like that franchise has
ended so in some ways this could be a surrogate 28 MONTHS LATER . Add
to this the trailers where the waves of infected storm barriers against
heavily armed soldiers and we've got a Zombie classic in the making
don't we ?No we don't because this is a film that gives the impression
that it was written and made by zombies 

From the outset we get something incomprehensible - the outbreak itself
. WWZ keeps the origins of the virus an enigma and right away this
damages the premise . At least in 28 DL the audience are afforded an
opening scene of the rage virus escaping and you're very quickly able
to buy in to this scenario . WWZ doesn't do this but an opening scene
alludes to a virus breaking out across the world via news reports . Cut
to scientist Brad Pitt driving his family in Philadelphia and finds
himself in a traffic jam . Within seconds people run screaming from
their cars as rabid zombies run everywhere 

This scene is mildly effective but there's a spanner in the works . Two
spanners actually . One is that's very clear that the incubation period
of this virus is a few seconds almost identical to that established in
28 DL . In reality such a violent virus would spread like wild fire but
the thing is it wouldn't be able to cross continents which renders the
later parts of the film as incomprehensible from a logic point of view
. Secondly you will find it impossible to buy in to this scenario . I
know I didn't but please feel free to ask questions 

As the film progresses Brad Pitt's scientist - and I won't call him by
his character name because he doesn't have a character - jumps on a
plane to South Korea then off to Israel where the Israelis have managed
to block out the infected by building a massive big wall 

" Wow that was quick Theo . The Israelis must be very good bricklayers
to build a wall when the infection has only existed for a couple of
days " 

Oh no because the Mossad chief got word from India a few week earlier
that the Indian army were fighting zombies . Before you ask it's never
revealed why the news media never got hold of this potential headline ,
nor is it revealed why when the rest of the world is battling Zombies
this unknown virus never got in to Israel 

The action scenes in Jerusalem are impressive from a spectacle point of
view but again lack internal continuity . Safe behind their wall the
Israelis let in refugees - while armies of Zombies swarm around outside
. Narrowly escaping the carnage Brad stops to amputate the hand of a
female IDF soldier whose just been bitten which defies credibility 

" But Theo you know these Israelis are tough nuts and women have to
endure pain and blood every month "

Not in the same league as amputation though is it ? Then Brad phones
the UN who tell him that he must make his way to WHO research lab in
Wales . Don't ask why there's no nearer research centres between
Cardiff and Jerusalem . while on the aeroplane a Zombie that just
happened to be hiding in the cupboard jumps out and spreads the
infection leading to IDF girl to throw a grenade that causes the plane
to crash in Wales . So they have a short walk to the WHO research
centre 

" Wouldn't blood loss caused by getting your hand amputated make you
too weak to go for a short walk ? And wouldn't Britain being an island
make quarantine against the virus much easier ? I mean if the Israelis
managed it ? " 

Look sit down and shut up . I know this was a major plot point that the
rage virus couldn't escape from Britain in 28DL but if you think you
can write a better Hollywood screenplay join the 7 billion people
heading towards Hollywood right now . The last half hour involves more
idiotic plotting that rely on coincidence , good fortune and after
spending nearly every scene pointing out that the Zombies are attracted
to noise someone just has to shoot a gun . The film ends with a
solution to the problem which doesn't make the slightest bit of sense
but means the human race can now concentrate on wiping out the Zombies 

" But Theo won't the Zombies die of thirst ? " 

I said shut up . If anything about this film made any sense it have
been more than a loud dumb Summer blockbuster . You do notice that
everything about it seems to have commercial consideration . Brad Pitt
jumping all over the world meeting so many different nationalities does
seem a cynical attempt at audience identification . Likewise the very
obvious lack of blood and gore might supposedly attract people who fear
the post apocalypse / Zombie genre ( Hello Bob The Moo ) but they'll
notice the lack of intelligent plotting which severely damages the film
and gore hounds who enjoy blood and guts will be disappointed by the
extremely inoffensive nature of WWZ . Danny Boyle you're needed
<|_=00=_|>
Let me start by giving a summary of the book: A journalist travels the
world AFTER the zombie outbreak to interview different people from
different countries to see how they handled this massive infestation.
It gives points of view from different characters on how they handled
themselves and uses real-world scenarios to show realistically how such
a thing would be combated. 

On to the movie: Where did ANY of this go? First of all, instead of
showing how DIFFERENT people handle this situation, it shows how ONE
MAN handles it. Brad Pitt. For a movie that seems to want to be taken
seriously as true-to-life, it sure does fail when it introduces the
premise that somehow a RETIRED UN investigator is the most important
man in the world and the only one who can save it. If such were the
case, why send him out with ONLY a handful of soldiers instead of a
small army of Special Forces? Also, why introduce this young, brilliant
doctor as the possible hope for humanity if he is only going to
idiotically shoot himself in the first thirty minutes of the movie? To
me it seemed like Brad Pitt said: "Woah, wait a minute. You can't let a
dorky doctor save the world. I'm the hero! Kill him off!", stamped his
foot, and went to pout in a corner. I had heard that Pitt (the
producer) and Forster (the director) were at odds through the entire
filming, so the script had to be re-written several times to
accommodate Pitt's hissy fits, so I'm slow to blame Forster for this
awful "adaptation".

The zombies: LOL! These zombies are everything you'd expect if Disney
decided to do a Pixar zombie film. Most of them are done using CGI, and
the ones who are actual actors are completely non-scary and laughable.
Gnashing their teeth like poorly acted Cenobytes from the Hellraiser
series. In order to sell more tickets, they opted for a PG-13 rating,
so there is no blood and I don't remember seeing a zombie kill a single
person. How do you make a zombie movie when the antagonist which is
supposed to strike fear into our hearts just seems like a football game
gone horribly wrong? Super fast running and lots of flying tackles does
not for a zombie apocalypse make.

The plot: I know this movie was trying for something different, and
failed horribly. They should have just called it "28 Months Later". The
supposed plot twist at the end, which was re-written 4 or 5 times,
seemed put together at the last minute, and as if the writers just
said: "eh, screw it. Just do this and release the movie so we can get a
paycheck." Anyone who thinks that making it a metaphor for the current
state of events and painting the UN into the saviors of humanity is
something new has obviously not seen the FAR superior District 9. I
will not get into all the other plot holes so monstrous you could drive
a bus through them.

The acting: Who are these people? Why should we care about them? Their
performances are wooden. They have such small roles because Brad Pitt
seems to want to hog all the screen time, and even then his own
performance is stilted and lackluster. He lacks any sort of emotion and
I never once felt that I could connect to his character at all. The
filmmakers would have done a much better job if he'd been introduced as
an average joe.

Summary: I see a lot of people praising the action in this movie, but I
found it extremely boring. Any action presented was the same: "Brad
Pitt goes to new country, Brad Pitt gets attacked, Brad Pitt saves a
handful of people, Brad Pitt runs to new country". For the overbloated
budget, this movie offered nothing new or refreshing. On top of that,
it could not even succeed as a good zombie film. Movies like 28 Days
Later, The Horde, and hell, even Cockneys vs. Zombies show that a great
zombie film does not need a huge budget to make it great. This was
simply Pitt's and Hollywood's attempt at taking something people love
(zombies) and cashing in on it. The 7.4 rating I see this movie had
must have been paid for, because 9/10ths of the user reviews I see for
this film are just BAD! Same as the film itself. The good reviews I see
praise it as "The Best Zombie Movie I've Seen"  which leads me to
believe they haven't seen ANY zombie movies before, and that the movie
is "Intelligent and Realistic", which if you see my above points, just
isn't the case. Usually I am very forgiving in terms of movies lacking
realism, but this one was trying to sell itself on that very premise.
Also, I am not harsh on films for not being perfect adaptations of a
book, but this is different, because it has absolutely NOTHING to do
with the book at all aside from the wall in Israel and the title
itself.

4/10 simply because some parts of it did look nice, and I'm even being
in a giving mood with that.
<|_=00=_|>
At the end of World War Z, just as the credits began rolling, a
gentleman, scratch that, an idiot spoke up from the back of the theatre
exclaiming, "What? That sucked! The book was nothing like that! Booo!"
I'm sure he scurried away back home, logged online, and began tweeting,
posting, and blogging, furthering his rant. Much like my response to
him at the theatre, I hope he receives silence in return.

It's true, World War Z is nothing like the book. The book is told from
the point of view AFTER the war. It's a "historical," account of what
happened during the war. Rather than make a mockumentary with
flashbacks, which would have been the wrong decision in my opinion, the
filmmakers decided to put us right in the middle of the action.

When adapting a piece of literature it is impossible to bring every
page, every paragraph, every nuance onto the screen. Some have come
close depending on the material, but for the most part, they all have
to take their own creative licenses. After all, it's called an
"adaptation," for a reason, otherwise they would call it a copy or
mimic.

Where World War Z works (that's a mouthful) and where so many others
fail is that just because the world slips into total and utter chaos,
doesn't mean that governments, military, and law enforcement agencies
go away. Quite the opposite. If anything, these scenarios bring out the
best of all of them. We see generals, UN delegates, and scientists
trying to solve complex issues that they don't know anything about.
Rather than going into hiding, they act. Society doesn't crumble. Bands
of cannibals and leather strapped gangs don't patrol the streets with
necklaces made of teeth. People do what they can to survive, and the
higher ups try their best to find a fast and effective solution.

At first, I thought the movie started too fast. How could something
this violent and concentrated go undetected, but after a while I got
it. The opening montage of news reports said it all. How many of us
listen to everything we hear on the news? Exactly. So much goes
undetected while we focus on issues that effect us immediately. It's
too late when the virus touches US soil. Not even social media can keep
up with it.

As far as zombie movies go this one is pretty great. Though I think 28
Days Later takes the cake in terms of realism, in-camera effects, and
sheer terror, this one holds its own. Brad Pitt plays a former UN
investigator who is traveling with his family just as the zombie attack
on Philadelphia unfolds. The film goes from 0-60 before you take a sip
of your Coke. This is a fast paced, edge of your seat thrill ride led
by one of the finest actors of this generation (Pitt's acting ability
is far too underrated and lost in the kerfuffle of tabloid news).

For those of you who stare at the ticket window debating whether or not
to see a film in 3D or standard, you might want to spend the extra few
dollars to see this one in 3D (I know it's asking a lot, but maybe you
can sneak some candy or a bottle of water to offset the concession
stand price - deal with it). I tend to air on the side of "screw it, I
want to see it in 3D." Now not every movie NEEDS to be seen in 3D, hell
there are really only a couple that absolutely have to be seen in all
three dimensions (Avatar and maybe Life of Pi), but this one really
surprised me. 3D is not about things jumping out at you, but it's about
layers. Luckily this film has both. Big chase scenes in Philly,
particles floating about in South Korea, and tracking shots in
Jerusalem make this one of the 3D events of the year. No exaggeration.

Like so many other summer blockbusters before it, civilization is on
the brink of extinction and only a handful of experts can save us. What
World War Z does that so many have failed is give us hope. Hope that
humanity won't dissolve into nothingness. In the face of sheer danger
these fighters stand tall, take a deep breath, look the enemy in the
eye, and say, "No."
<|_=00=_|>
I haven't read the book so I'm not coming from viewing this as an
adaptation but rather a stand-alone film. (From what I've heard it's
pretty far from the original source anyway.) First off, a zombie film
watered-down and free from blood and gore? That idea alone would lose a
big slice (pun-intended) of hardcore fans in the audience. How does it
hold your attention then? By stringing you along on the edge with
tension and suspense from beginning to end. It does a pretty good job
of maintaining this grip even without the standard horror elements of
slasher flicks.

Brad Pitt easily slips into the role of a family man desperate to keep
his family safe. It's not difficult to root for him and share in his
urgency. His charm certainly makes up for and saves the movie from its
flaws (and there are many!) not the least of which are its gaping plot
holes and loose direction.

The audience in the theater seemed to have fun screaming along and
allowing themselves to be entertained and toyed with. There are a
handful of funny scenes (whether intentional or not). If you're willing
to quit analyzing the movie like a critic, you'll probably start
enjoying it.

After all, when did a zombie movie ever have to be "BELIEVABLE"?
<|_=00=_|>
It seems unfair to criticise the film for not being like its source
material given that it obviously didn't try to be but I'm going to
start by bringing that up anyway. The book had so many sequences that
could have been turned into amazing set-pieces in a film and yet not
one of them were used. The book also had some neat ideas about how a
global outbreak and response play out. What might work? What would
catastrophically fail? What would the cost be? Not one of these ideas
were explored or even alluded to and there seems absolutely no reason
why this was the case.

It might have been okay to abandon these ideas if the film had some
ideas of its own to explore or at least play out but it doesn't.
Instead we follow Brad Pitt and Brad Pitt's baggage through a few
set-pieces as he first escapes from and then looks into an outbreak of
zombies. There's little else to say about it than that.

The first major problem came down to the zombies themselves. For a
zombie film to get that right is critical and World War Z stumbled
pretty badly here. The physical appearance of the zombies is a clear
problem. Given the film's penchant for shying away from blood and gore
to keep its rating audience-friendly, the only things that separates
these zombies from regular people are milky eyes, grey skin, and a
tendency to bare and snap their teeth. They're not the bloodthirsty
creatures at various stages of decay and ruin that feature in most
zombie films. This is generally fine in close-ups but at a distance
it's impossible to tell the zombies apart from regular people. And when
most of your action scenes involve panicking people running away from
what are allegedly zombies, having them pretty much indistinct from
each other means you never get much of an inclination about the level
of the threat or even what's going on.

A possible solution would have been for the film to opt for the
shambling moaning Romero-esque zombies of the book. Instead of running
and tackling, having a slowly ever-advancing tide of danger would have
turned the zombies into something to be feared rather than something to
try and spot in a crowd.

But even later when the film displays zombies in their 'docile' state
its shown how little the film-makers understand how zombies are
supposed to work. The jerking around and screeches were meant to be
threatening and they are anything but. They are borderline slapstick
and certainly comical judging by the outbreaks of laughter in the
audience at my screening. They clicked their teeth together as if they
enjoyed the sound. They repeatedly hit their heads against the wall in
a way that was meant to seem deranged but just came across as silly.
They spun and jerked around leading to a hilarious sequence of Pitt and
two others essentially playing "Red Light/Green Light" with a snarling
zombie. Nothing about these zombies seemed to work as intended.

The second major problem came down to the complete lack of weight or
tension. Brad Pitt isn't the type of actor anyone expects to be in
danger, at least not when he's in an action film, so already there's
the knowledge that he's fairly safe. But added to that, his character
is a practically invulnerable bad-ass UN investigator whose field
knowledge and ingenuity makes him able to adapt to any situation. His
'baggage', as I referred to them earlier, is played at first by his
wife and two daughters as well as an orphan boy - far too cute to ever
come into real harm in a film like this. The baggage is then played by
a doctor and a team of soldiers who are so bereft of personality and
character that there is no reason to care about them. He then teams up
with a young Israeli soldier who is the closest person aside from Pitt
to qualify to be called a character but unfortunately she doesn't seem
to serve any purpose. His final baggage comes in the form of a team of
WHO doctors. I won't say anything about them aside from pointing out
that all four are named in the credits as "W.H.O. Doctor" despite being
a key part of around a quarter of the film. 

Though I wouldn't recommend the film, to its credit it managed to
attain a level of being entertaining and it never embarrassed itself,
(despite a squeamish bit of product placement.) It was clearly let down
by a few core problems and while certainly not a good film I'd feel a
bit mean if I were to label it 'bad'. I'm disappointed that it painted
itself as a zombie film for zombie fans while clearly being a toothless
blockbuster to appeal to a broader audience, (however understandable
that move may be from a film studio's perspective given the production
problems and cost blow-out.) For this reason maybe the film tripped up
and fell flat on its face but as it dragged itself to the finish line
I'm willing to applaud it for that at least. 

I suppose all I can do it sit here and try to imagine what might have
been...
