
When this movie first arrived in trailers, I like so many adults, who
have become fans through our children was excited. We could overlook
Pierce Brosnan playing Chiron which gets both the age and nature of the
character wrong. We could overlook the character of Percy obviously
being older than the books stated age of twelve, however almost
everything else was so far removed from the books that have become so
popular including storyline, that this movie should not even be allowed
to carry the "based on the books" tag. The characters were completely
miscast, the storyline was a weak abominational blend of books one and
two..... kind of..!

He (Chris Columbus) invented places for the movie to go that have
nothing to do with the story in its origination, he omitted too many
details that are so pertinent to the actual storyline that it may be
impossible for any new director (and I believe if future films are to
take place a new Director IS NECESSARY) to repair the damage that has
been done.

For a story that has millions of fans who will be buying tickets to
movies for a very long time, this does heavy damage to Chris Columbus's
reputation as evidenced by post movie chatter in which most if not all
was incredibly negative. Negative both to the movie as a whole and to
Chris Columbus personally. Many there seem to believe he did the same
to the Potter movies he has been involved with and feel at this point
anyway that they will think twice before seeing another movie with his
name attached to it. Lets' face it, as one young fan said, "not
sticking completely to a Potter book...understandable, they are 1,000
pages each...Not coming close on a book 350 pages long...not
forgivable." 

So, if you are going to see this movie because of the wonderful scenes
in St. Louis, Denver, The Santa Monica pier, or to see his step father
get his, etc etc etc etc save your money, they are not in there.
Neither is Clarissa, Lukes scar, Mr. D, Aries, Kronos, and so on. If
you would like to see a movie that completely rewrites the creation of
Rick Riordan, then by all means, spend your money on a mildly
entertaining theft of a wonderful idea.
<|_=00=_|>
The first question I must ask myself is if Chris Columbus can even
read... Because obviously he never read the books. Well maybe he read
the back cover summary, its the only reference to the book in the
movie. 

As for the book, Rick Riordan should be ashamed for letting anyone
slaughter, I take that back, Massacre, his artwork in such a way. Not
only were critical details left out of this story but the entire story
was altered in such a way that a remake and an refund should be in
place for all readers. 

The story line itself may have needed a little touching up for the big-
screen but leaving out Kronos, Mr. D, Clarisse, The Oracle, blaming
Hades, and everything else (I can go on for 375 pages) is unforgivable.
If the plan was to make one lone movie and never touch Percy Jackson
again, they were successful. I will never again be able to attend a
Chris Columbus movie. Not even a free one.

In their defense, if you had never read the books the cast did a good
job on a kids movie. The amount of money spent to screw up a story this
awesome is mind boggling. Please do not support the future career of
the screen writer and director by spending your money. They should both
be banished to Tartarus for such a crime!

Long story short It is difficult to even write a review as it makes my
blood pressure skyrocket to unhealthy levels.

Signed,

Devoted, Story loving readers of Rick Riordan
<|_=00=_|>
Last night I took my 2 daughters and a friends to see the movie. All of
the girls had read all the books in the series (including me) and had
been anticipating the release of the movie for over a year. The book is
fabulous!! I taught 4th grade for 4 years and read it to all my
Language Arts classes every year. I never had a student not like the
book. It contains humor, action, friendship themes, and characters that
contain quite a bit of depth and growth throughout the 5 books in the
series.

The movie was nothing like the book. The characters in the book are 12
years old. How are the next books to be made into movies if the
culminating event of the series happens when Percy turns 16? The plot
was totally changed. In the book the quest that Percy, Annabeth, and
Grover embark on IS NOT to find 3 pearls so they can escape from the
underworld after rescuing Percy's mom. In the book, he doesn't even
know that she is alive. It is understandable that not all the
adventures on the way to the underworld could be put in a 2 or even 3
hour movie, but don't make up new adventures that aren't even in the
book.

The true villain in the book is not even mentioned in the movie and
several main characters vital to the plot and character development of
Percy and Annabeth are missing. My 13 year old daughter-who waited in
line for hours to get Rick Riordan to sign her book- wanted to leave in
the middle of the movie because she though it was the worst movie she
had ever seen. If the director had stuck to the book, it could have
been an amazing movie and people would not be comparing it to Harry
Potter want-to-be.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, so where to start? I had like the biggest expectations for Percy
Jackson's first movie,I for one loved the book, and thought that it
would be a great movie based on the trailers but WOW was I gonna get a
surprise.

First of all let me all say to you guys who have read the books that I
actually didn't mind the fact that the actors were way older than the
characters in the book, because I think this way it was a little bit
more real due to the journey they had to go in their cross country trip
from NY to LA, but here are my biggest disappointments in the movie:

1.- Who the hell decided to take Ares & Kronos Out Of The
Movie!!!!!!!!!! They should get fired, not to mention getting Annabeth
in The role of Clarisse when introducing here in the movie.

2.- A quest for the pearls wasn't such a bad idea in order to justify
their cross country trip but, changing events and avoiding facts like
the bus explosion and the attack of the Furys, and changing stuff like
the arch of Sant Louis for the Parthenon in Nashville... for real???
Nashville???? And The Chihuahua Turned Chimera changed for the Hydra
(In Book 2)??????

3.- Hades dressed like Ares was supposed to, and becoming a bad guy
when he actually wasn't bad at all????

4.- Dropping The storyline of Hades invisibility Helmet and just making
him want the lighting bolt???

5.- OK And lets just make Luke an almighty bad guy who can fool the
gods all by himself.

6.- Not To mention that Grover is now a senior keeper he is not a
searcher so he ain't supposed to be anywhere else but in half blood
camp in the second movie (which I doubt will get made)

7.- Really his mom just kicked her husband out??? what about Medusa's
head????

I've had no problems in the past in movies like harry potter where they
keep the main storyline and drop some other less important story lines
but changing the hall background of the movie and the depth of their
problems in general I think It's I huge mistake.

If you have not read any books, U'll probably like it, but otherwise...
AVOID THE MOVIE.
<|_=00=_|>
I have read the book "Percy Jackson: The Lightning Thief" and it is one
of my favorite books. The movie just plain sucked. For one, it didn't
follow the book and two, the acting was terrible. Pierce Brosnan, Uma
Thurman, and Logan Lerman all did terrible jobs. Grover and Annabeth
were both badly cast and the whole altering of the plot from the book
was a terrible decision. Annabeth looked like she was twenty years old
and Grover was like Fresh Prince of Bel Air Part Two. If I hadnt been
with friends, I wouldve asked for my money back. We were all making fun
of it the entire time.

If you've read this book, or if you haven't, don't see this movie!
Absolutely awful!
<|_=00=_|>
It rarely happens that i go at the cinema and see a movie that i hoped
to be good and entertaining and leave not only with disappointment but
actually furious that i was tricked by this movie's trailer to waste my
money on the ticket and 2 hours of my time.

Its full of cliché , predictable , boring and dumbing , after 30 min in
the film the kid finds out why his mother had to put with his
step-father " The only thing that kept the wrath of the gods from
finding you was his great stench that kept you hidden " , this is the
moment i should have walked out of the theater , i was foolish and
stayed until the end, and i am writing this review now in the hopes
that people don't go and waste they're time on this movie the way i did
. Pierce Brosnan expression when he has to tell his ridiculous lines is
evidence enough how completely stupid this movie is .

The actors are not bad , the action scenes are OK made and the special
effects are nicely done , but i would like to present the script
writers of this movie with a new edition of the Spanish Inquisition for
what they've done here. Tell your children to read the book , this
movie is insulting to human intelligence the way it was written.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm speechless. Truly speechless. If there is a bottom in modern day
movies, it lies within the abominable pile of feces that is Percy
Jackson the lightning thief. Enter America through the coughed up hair
ball that is Percy Jackson (aka. Zac Efron #2), as his immoral
adventures lead us through every known America-promoting scene, cliché
and famous American destination (need I remind that we are dealing with
Greek mythology). I didn't know Olympus resided on the top of the
empire state building, or that the underworld was accessible through
under the widely known landmark that is the Hollywood sign... This
movie has as many flaws as acting careers it will namely destroy. This
is what happens when you throw too much money at a dog with rabies and
expect it to direct a movie. The leftover money that was thrown at this
movie could surely feed the entire world for a century. I'm not sure if
I should blame the book, or the movie, for it's inconsistent and
illogical storyline. The acting is bad. The characters are shallow and
predictable. The editing is horrible, just an example of a scene where
Percy's mother is about to tell the truth to Percy about his father,
outside being dusk, and then the scene cutting to night time, where she
begins the actual explaining. The editors have clearly not watched the
movie a second time to bother with flaws, who can blame them, I
wouldn't. If you want to have a good laugh with your friends about the
movies anus of a presentation, I recommend it. If you want to watch an
interesting fantasy adventure about Greek mythology combined with
present day, go read a history book and make movie about it with your
cellphone cam and toilet paper as a script, and I guarantee you will
gain more satisfaction than you would receive from this diarrhea of a
movie.

Yours sincerely, Orankimanki.
<|_=00=_|>
The premise of this movie - that Greek gods were real and have
offspring in the modern world - is interesting. But the execution of
this idea felt very rushed in this movie. I haven't read the book, so
can't judge where the blame lies for this.

The movie is an enjoyable way to kill a couple of hours, but isn't as
engrossing as other movies of this genre. 

Several big stars feature in cameo roles and for anyone who knows a
fair bit about who celebrities are, this tends to distract from the
movie. Uma Thurman, Brosnan, etc., aren't really given the screen time
to build a strong character for themselves. Perhaps the best of these
is Steve Coogan playing Hades, but even here you send most of his
screen time thinking "oh look, it's Steve Coogan" rather than being
drawn into the movie. It could have benefited from having the minor
roles played by less known actors - as it is, their appearances tend to
detract from the main characters who actually do a good job with the
material they have been given.

But these are minor concerns - the biggest problem with this movie is
that Percy finds out he's a demigod and suddenly seems to develop gifts
with no effort or training, just by virtue of knowing his past. At the
start of the movie, he already demonstrated an exceptional ability to
remain underwater for long periods of time. But after finding out he's
a demigod, he develops strong sword fighting skills with no training or
effort (the start of the fight between the red helmets and the blue
helmets, before the water "thing"), and later is capable of
manipulating water in a couple of scenes without being taught this
skill or having any difficulty or doubts about his ability to do it.
This is just preposterous. The mythical/other worldly framework is
generally used to provide a context to display human failings,
struggles, and virtues. Instead, in Percy Jackson, this framework is
used to simply give the lead character a loose justification for
overcoming other mythical creatures. He doesn't have to question how to
use his powers, nor does he have to put any effort into developing
these powers. 

Like I say, the movie isn't so bad as to make it unwatchable, but they
really missed a chance to make this movie have a strong impact by
failing to give it any depth. It is all just the bells and whistles of
CGI and having mythological creatures just to have some interesting
looking battles and a trip to the underworld. It could have been so
much more. Whether this is a failing of the movie, the books, or both,
is up to those who have read the books to decide. But the movie reeks
of jumping on the Harry Potter bandwagon in an attempt to get box-
office success, while ignoring the fact that those movies were built on
books that had some depth to them. That is what gave them their
cultural poignancy. This movie lacks it completely.
<|_=00=_|>
I've never been a big fan of Greek mythology, so based upon that
criteria I've never been a big fan of movies about the subject. Though
I have grown to be pretty fond of the book series, Percy Jackson and
the Olympians. I was astounded at how well Greek mythology was
interwoven into the modern day culture as author Rick Riordan told a
rip-roaring adventure tale, filled with humor, mystery, and tons of
action. Like all things successful, Hollywood likes to get in the game,
so it's no surprise that a film has been made of the first of the Percy
Jackson books, The Lightning Thief. The film, Percy Jackson and the
Olympians - The Lightning Thief, seems to have lost something in the
translation, winding up as a film that really only shares the name of
the book and nothing else.

The story of the film follows teen Percy Jackson, who has absent father
syndrome. He has never known his biological father and harnesses deep
bitterness toward the man who forced him and his mom to live with his
demeaning stepfather, Gabe. Then, one day Percy's substitute teacher,
Ms. Dodds, transforms into a gigantic winged beast and attacks him
whilst on a field trip, to be saved by his best friend and silent
guardian, Grover (who turns out to be half human-half goat), and his
teacher, Mr. Brunner (who is really hero trainer and centaur, Chiron
from Greek mythology). Percy learns that he is a demigod (half
human-half God), and that his father is Poseidon, God of the Sea. But
trouble is afoot for Percy, because Zeus's lightning bolt has been
stolen and Percy is the prime suspect in the midst of a feud between
brothers existing long before he was born. Now Percy must prove his
innocence if he wishes to keep the world from being engulfed in an all
out war between the Gods.

This film just seemed to lack any of the charm that can be found within
the book. Screenwriter Craig Titley, did not have a very good handle on
these characters. Percy was the smartest of his ring of friends, and
not his super smart friend, Annabeth (who happens to be daughter of
Athena, God of Wisdom, is there anything wrong with her being portrayed
as witless and stupid?). Now, I never consider myself a book purist, I
understand things must be amended in order for the book to work as a
film, but this adaptation was just all over the place. They changed and
cut things that should have been left in, I mean, they cut out the main
villain of the entire series in this film, Kronos. Without Kronos in
this first film, how can they possibly hope to make any sequels and
have them make even a lick of sense? 

Director Chris Columbus was the man who brought the first two Harry
Potter films to the screen, he knows how to create pure movie magic,
but something just wasn't clicking with this film. The film flew at a
breakneck pace, never taking any time to breath and let you drink in
this fantastic world. Like when Percy believes that his mother has
died, he's told his mother's dead, then two seconds later he's up on
his feet with a smile on his face. Not to mention, the film dispersed
major plot points as if they were just reading statistics off of a
teleprompter, making me wonder if someone who hasn't read the book will
even be able to follow this movie, or if they will even care when it's
all said and done.

As it is, I will not lie and say I didn't enjoy it when Percy and his
friends battled the Hydra, or when they got trapped in this hotel &
casino in Las Vegas that drugs you with sweet Lotus flowers to where
you never want to leave, but these few moments were not enough to
redeem this film. Percy Jackson and the Olympians - The Lightning
Thief, is a mind-numbingly raw experience from start to finish.

I give Percy Jackson and the Olympians - The Lightning Thief a 4 out of
10!
<|_=00=_|>
OK when I went to see this movie I knew it wouldn't be exactly like the
books... However, what I saw was horrendous. This movie was so awful
and it's worse because they deliberately just changed all things that
would make this movie at least similar to the book. First... I do not
agree with ANY of the casting. Did anyone else notice they left out
Ares and Clarrise out? So how are they going to explain her mission if
they get so far as that movie? They also left out Dionysus... Why? They
left out Thalia's tree.. So in the next movie when Grover leaves and
her tree is poisoned how will it be explained? This is the problem that
Harry Potter has... Leaving out important things to add fluff and
special effects let's face it the last HP movie sucked. They also
changed unnecessary things. Like Chiron being a white centaur. Or Mrs.
Dodds being a MATH teacher. Changing the layout of the camp. Even
changing the story of how Luke got the shoes. Fail as a movie. Last I
have more to complain about bit why cut out Kronos since it all ends
with him? Idk this just sucked! Horribly!
