
I don't usually feel the need to leave comments, but this movie was
just to well done not to. I went in expecting more football, more hits
& highlights & as a huge football fan that was one of the main draws of
the movie. The football actually takes a back seat to a wonderful story
that is well executed by everyone involved. I've always thought Sandra
Bulluck has been over-rated, but she nails this role & deserves some
recognition down the road. The movie is so fantastic that anyone and
everyone can relate and feel connected to the characters. The ideal
target audience for this movie is children and adults alike. This movie
should be an Oscar contender but I know these types of movies rarely
ever win. Definitely deserves my vote!
<|_=00=_|>
I've been reading lot of horrible comments that are based solely on the
issues surrounding the movie rather than the movie itself. I wasn't
excited to see this movie, I'm not interested in sports at all. The
movie kept my attention though and well. It moved along quickly and
pulled me into the story and left me feeling inspired. I wasn't excited
to see a blonde sandy bullock in a sports movie, I think that's what
might have turned me off the most, but she did really good job! It's
rare to see a movie where there's a really strong lead female
character. Whether you like Leigh Anne Touhy or not in the end, she is
certainly entertaining and Sandra Bullock does a great job of bringing
her onto the screen. The youngest son did an amazing job! So much
talent in him. The character of Mike I think could have used a few more
lines, even if he's supposed to be shy and reserved. All the actors
really did a great job though for the most part. No it's not an epic
Oscar winning film, although I wouldn't be surprised if Bullock got
nominated for something for her acting. It is NOT loaded with
propaganda as the other reviews might suggest. It's a light
entertaining pick me up film that would be an excellent choice to bring
the family to, most likely the reason why they released it over the
Holidays.
<|_=00=_|>
I have just returned from seeing the blind side. I was pleasantly
surprised by the movie, particularly it's more poignant moments. Yes,
this is a sports story, yes this is a biopic, but it is also in large
part an interpersonal drama. It is rare to see a movie these days that
relies on drama to carry it-not special effects, lush historically
accurate wardrobe, or astounding make up- just a story that resonates
with the viewer. That this story is based on contemporary facts makes
it all the more resonant. Events that might have been handled
superficially, predictably or exploited for dramatic purposes were
instead presented in a nuanced and profound manner. Michael's
biological mother was portrayed with dignity and compassion. In short,
the aspects of Michael's story that make it moving and inspiring were
captured with skill and integrity. As for the negative feedback
regarding this movie that began when the only the trailers were
available - I think the comments might be more a reflection of the
world view of the authors rather than a reflection of the quality of
the movie or the reality of Michael's story. Some people think the
movie "To Kill a Mockingbird" was a story about racism in the south, or
that "The Crying Game" was a movie about the IRA - to me those were the
settings for the drama, and not the drama itself. John Lee Hancock
really bit off a lot when he took on this project-but as it turned out,
it was not more than he could chew. Remember when Attorney General Eric
Holder commented on how we were a nation of cowards when it came to
openly discussing race? With this movie, Hancock has demonstrated he is
not one of those cowards. He did not ignore the racial or class
differences of the characters in this movie, and he avoided using the
movie to make a social statement with the movie. He allowed these
character attributes to be what they were in reality, and told the
human drama in an effective and sensitive manner.
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw The Blind Side last night. As I have read even if you are
not a football fan you'll like this movie. I am not a football fan
(baseball is my sport) but I loved it!!! So many great performances by
the actors. A charming story with laughs and tears. How nice to have a
positive movie this time of the year especially. Everybody MUST see
this movie. Quinton Aaron does a fantastic job of playing Michael Oher.
In the early scenes he has no dialog, but expresses so much just with
is eyes and facial expressions. Jae Head is charming as the young
"brother" S.J. Camped up I am sure, but I go to the movies to
entertained which the movie does in spades! Sandra Bullock as I have
never seen her before, does a wonderful job, so different that the
other roles she has had in the past. And Ray McKinnon as the coach has
some expressions that John Lee Hancock should be awarded for his
direction.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm a sports snob. I strongly believe there's only a handful of truly
great sports movies. It's just too difficult for filmmakers to recreate
the drama that takes place on the field. So when the Creative Loafers
at sportschump.net asked me to review The Blind Side, a sports movie I
would never see,starring an actress I really don't like, I was
skeptical. But they promised me Jujubees, so I agreed to attend the
premiere.

I fell into my comfy leather chair at the Cobb Theater Cinebistro in
Wesley Chapel, fully expecting to pan everything about the movie. Then
a strange thing happened. The film turned out to be pretty good.

Blind Side is adapted from Michael Lewis' novel of the same name. Just
like the book, the film begins with a narrative of the game in which
Lawrence Taylor broke Joe Theismann's leg. According to Lewis, that hit
more than any other moment in football history, heightened the need for
a strong, left tackle to protect the quarterback's blind side.

Enter the Michael Oher story.

Oher (Quinton Aaron) is an over-sized, high school kid from Memphis'
inner city with no academic records and a crack addict for a mother. He
is accepted into a local Christian high school when the football coach
recognizes his potential.

Early scenes at Wingate Christian High School depict Oher as
uncomfortable and intimidated in his new, mostly white surroundings.
One teacher describes him as 'a fly in the milk.' Oher never says much,
most of his expressions portrayed through mopey, facial gestures.
Aaron's performance isn't groundbreaking, unless of course Oher didn't
say much in real life. If that's the case, his performance is dead on.

After their youngest son (Jae Head) befriends Oher, Leigh Anne and Sean
Tuohy (Sandra Bullock and Tim McGraw), stumble upon Oher one afternoon
roaming the streets, avoiding return to his crime-ridden projects. They
welcome him into their home to sleep on their sofa for a night, which
becomes a week, which ultimately becomes a legal adoption.

Despite Oher's poor grades, school administrators find that he excels
in one capacity. He scores a 98% in protective instincts on a high
school aptitude test.

The Tuohy's, a well-to-do, Southern Republican family with a strong
allegiance to Ole Miss, hire a private tutor (Kathy Bates) to help Oher
with his academic troubles. Once getting good enough grades to make the
football team, Oher has trouble adjusting to the brutality of the
sport. It's not until Bullock compares protecting his quarterback to
the affection he feels for his new family that Oher finally understands
his purpose on the field.

The word gets out about Oher eventually when a top scout is sent a DVD
of his skills. Suddenly, major college coaches flock to recruit him.
Sports fans will enjoy cameos from Nick Saban, Tommy Tuberville,
Phillip Fulmer, Lou Holtz and Houston Nutt, although LSU fans will
cringe seeing Saban wearing purple once again.

The only problem is Oher is failing English, which makes him
academically ineligible to receive a football scholarship. It's not
until McGraw recites "The Charge of the Light Brigade" that Oher learns
about courage, honor and ultimately passes another difficult test: his
final English essay.

Oher decides to enroll at Ole Miss, which draws an NCAA investigation
to ensure the Tuohy family did not tamper with his decision. Oher buys
into it, then lashes out at Bullock, accusing her of taking him in just
to get him to go to their alma mater. A resentful and confused Oher
returns to the projects in search of his real mom, then busts up the
local gangster's home, a scene which probably warrants the film's PG-13
rating.

Little by little, the audience is allowed a peek into Oher's
upbringing, not a pretty picture, probably less so in real life. The
film features several touching moments such as when the Tuohy's drop
Oher off at college or when Bullock confronts Oher's real mother, who
can barely remember which man was his biological father.

The film has its share of trite, Hollywood moments including McGraw and
Bullock's designer marriage in which they never argue, Bullock telling
off her country club friends in a moment of racial enlightenment,
phoning the football coach from the sidelines to call in plays and Oher
getting flagged in his opening game for 'excessive blocking.' Blind
Side also glosses over several racial and class stereotypes, careful to
equally bash Democrats, rednecks and Southerners. The film also
provides several moments of comic relief in the form of McGraw's
occasional one-liners that help to break up the film's drama.

Without reading Lewis' book or knowing the complete Oher history, one
might think the film is overdramatized, until the closing credits which
show a sequence of real pictures of Oher being raised by Tuohy family.
They remind us that Blind Side is not only based on a true story, it is
a true story.

Blind Side won't go down in the annals as the greatest sports movie
ever made but it does have its moments. It's a touching depiction of
what can result when some, give others, a fighting chance.

Mo
<|_=00=_|>
I don't think I've seen a Bullock movie since "Speed" that didn't leave
me watching my cell phone for the time. Her movies have been pretty
awful and worth skipping. Not this one. The story received a lot of
press and one has to give her much credit for snapping up the rights to
it. She also did a fabulous job as the heroine. I was simply amazed. It
was really one of the most amazing career rehabilitations since
Travolta in "Pulp Fiction".

I loved the story. It is a genuinely heartwarming tale of an abandoned
teenager adopted by a wealthy family and guided to success. And it's
all true. This is what make me love movies. What a great film! Go see
this movie. I loved it and so will you.
<|_=00=_|>
Nice to see Sandra Bullock come back after the cinematic travesty,
called All About Steve(2009). This was a well made film, perfectly
filmed,and great performances by everybody.

Leigh Ann Tuohy(Sandra Bullock), seems to have the life most women
would envy, a wonderful supporting husband(Tim Mcgraw), and two great
kids(Lily Collins and Jae Head). But one day while driving home, she
sees, a larger then life teenager which everybody calls Big
Mike(Quinton Aaron), when she tries to talk to him, he comes across as
a little withdrawn, and is nearly homeless, she decides to take him in,
with her supporting family behind her. Leigh finds out his name is
Michael Oher, and tries to dig up things about his past, in hopes of
helping him, but the question is will she? 

I really liked this film, it manages to balance humor and drama
perfectly. Sandra Bullock gave quite a strong performance, so Quinton
Aaron, Lyn Collin, but Jae Head is quite the scene stealer. It also has
a good football scene as well. And Kathy Bates is good in her
supporting role also. I say see The Blind Side.
<|_=00=_|>
In the fact-based film The Blind Side, a burly homeless black teenager
Michael Oher (Quinton Aaron) is taken in by the family of Leigh Anne
Tuohy (Sandra Bullock), a spunky white Christian mother of two and
assisted through school until he achieves success as a football player
in high school and college, eventually being drafted in the first round
by the professional Baltimore Ravens. The film, written and directed by
John Lee Hancock and adapted from a book by Michael Lewis, is
undemanding entertainment that lacks a great deal of subtlety but is
continuously entertaining and emotionally involving and redefines the
true meaning of family values.

Michael who is known initially as "Big Mike" has been abandoned by his
drug-addicted mother and survives in the slums of Memphis, Tennessee
only by his wits. He sleeps where he can find a warm place -- a
friend's couch, a Laundromat, a school gym -- when a family friend
intervenes and helps him enroll in a private Christian high school.
Sensing the boys' potential, football coach Cotton (Ray McKinnon)
convinces the administrators of the school to admit him although he
knows that he will not be eligible to play football unless he can keep
up his grades. Seeing Michael alone wandering the streets, he is given
a lift and taken home and made a member of the family by Leigh Anne, an
interior designer who lives with her husband Sean (Tim McGraw), teenage
daughter Collins (Lily Collins), and SJ (Jae Head) an expressive little
boy who provides most of the film's comic moments.

Living with the Tuohy family allows Michael to learn to trust and to
begin to express some of his feelings from a life of poverty and
neglect. Michael who is so big that Leigh Anne can hardly find any
clothes to buy for him is also gentle and lacks the killer instinct
required of a football tackle. Tutored by the adorable SJ and counseled
by Leigh Anne to view the team as a family he has to protect, Michael
begins to develop his aggressiveness as a left tackle and develops his
skills, eventually turning the team into winners. To raise his grades
to be eligible for a college scholarship, the Tuohys hire Miss Sue,
remarkably performed by Kathy Bates, who admits to the Republican
family that she is a Democrat, prompting Sean to remark that he "never
thought they would have a black son before they met a Democrat."
Besides his grades, however, Michael must overcome several more
obstacles that stand in his way before he can enter college.

The Blind Side shows Michael Oher achieving a transformation in his
life based on his relationship with the family who took him and
nurtured him to independence and self-respect. Sandra Bullock delivers
an emotionally resonant performance as a woman whose life is enriched
by her simple act of kindness and courage to act from her values. While
the film breaks no new ground stylistically, it also resists genre
clichés, has no movie villains, avoids cheap sentiment, and, in spite
of patronizing images in its trailers and advertising posters, is a
humorous, heartwarming, and satisfying experience. Ultimately, The
Blind Side is not a film about sports but about the rewards of showing
love and support when it is not always accepted or understood by the
community.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this last night at a screening and found it to be a very
inspiring movie. I love sports movies as well as movies based on true
stories, so this film hit multiple buttons for me personally, but
reactions of others leaving the theater seemed equally positive.

As with any sports movie, you must have an underdog to cheer for, and
Michael Oher is that underdog. Having been removed by CPS from his
crack-addicted mother's home as a child and bounced from foster home to
foster home, Oher has been staying on a friend's couch. He is
reluctantly accepted to a private school when the football coach sees
potential in him and pressures the school's admissions board to give
him a chance.

Unfortunately, being an undereducated black youth in a predominantly
white private school doesn't magically turn his life around, and in
addition to struggling to understand his classes, he finds himself
sleeping in an all night laundromat after the stay at the friend's
house ends. While walking on a cold, rainy night , Oher is offered a
ride and then a place to sleep for the night by the Leigh Anne Tuohy,
whose children attend the same school Michael does. It's this single
act of kindness that begins a chain of events that will change this
underdog's life, eventually resulting in his being a top 2009 NFL draft
pick and signing with the Baltimore Ravens.

The actors brought plenty of life to the characters they were playing.
It was a pleasure to watch Tim McGraw as Sean Tuohy, making a somewhat
minor character in the film memorable. Sandra Bullock's portrayal of
Leigh Anne Tuohy was fascinating--I'd really love to meet Mrs. Tuohy in
person. Jae Head as SJ became my favorite character in the movie,
practically stealing the show as it were. Quinton Aaron's portrayal of
Oher leans heavily to the strong, silent type, but there is a quiet
grace and gentleness that comes through.

Obviously, nothing is quite as slick and clean as Hollywood plays it in
movies like this, and there were issues and controversies surrounding
the Tuohy family and the assistance they offered Michael Oher. Some of
it is depicted in the movie, though not all, and there are many who
will decry this film for that. It's a given that there is more to a
story than what you see on the screen...condensing years into a two
hour presentation requires some compromise...and it is meant to be
entertainment after all.

I only had a couple criticisms. One, at 126 minutes, the movie was a
little too long. I think 8-10 minutes of editing would have really
tightened it up and eliminated a couple slower moments. Second, Sandra
Bullock's accent seemed a little too forced at times. And finally, what
happened to Steve Hamilton, the boy whose family Michael was staying
with when he started attending Briarwood? Once introduced as his father
pressures the coach for scholarships for Steve and Michael, he
disappears from the movie. Minor issues that didn't keep this from
being an extremely enjoyable movie, but did help keep it from being a
perfect 10.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was amazing and it gives you so much. Sandra bullock's
performance was great, I would actually go so far as saying it was her
best ever. I really think she might get an Oscar for it this year. The
real Leigh Anne was born just so that Sandra Bullock could play her in
this movie. She was dead on throughout the whole movie. If you haven't
seen it you have to. I usually get really bored watching true life
stories but this one kept me interested thru out the whole movie. If
there was such a thing as a perfect movie, this would be it. Great
plot, Amazing actors, Talented directors, etc. Go and see it. And I
really think both men and women will like this one. It has a very
sensitive touch but still it has a lot of funny moments and it has
football in it. 10 out of 10.
