
Whoa, dude, it like, totally doesn't exist.

This has got to be the slowest and most shallow film I've ever seen.
The plot is so thin it's nearly invisible. Once the conflict is set up
it's mostly abandoned, and when the resolution comes, it's abrupt and
shamelessly contrived. The story is resolved within a span of 5 minutes
at the end, and nothing that comes before has any bearing on it. 

Also, despite the claimed genre of "comedy", this only barely
qualifies. Aside from a few funny lines here and there, this is really
not a funny movie. It doesn't even seem to be intended as such. Perhaps
it was supposed to be a "surfing movie" instead, which it might have
accomplished, if not for the remarkable lack of actual scenes involving
people surfing.

This is more like a long stoner fantasy. Really, it's like seeing the
dream of a passed-out stoner. You can just see one waking up and going,
"Dude, I just had this dream, where I was Matthew McConaughey, only I
was like, this famous surfer, and then these corporate dudes were
trying to bring me down, but I didn't care and decided to sit on the
beach for a couple months." 

Or to draw another comparison, it's like listening to an hour and a
half of psychedelic music, in that the sober people in the room will be
bored, but the stoned people will see all kinds of depth and colors.

This seems to have been made by stoners, for stoners. The only reason I
can come up with for this getting made is that it was written,
greenlit, directed, and in the end only appreciated by people whose
minds have been burned out by too much sun and too many drugs. It's so
slow and uneventful that you could watch it and follow the story
accurately while simultaneously doing your taxes.

But hey, maybe I just don't have enough laid-back beach bum in me to
appreciate something like this. It was after all a good-looking
production, with good acting, lots of hot women in bikinis (and a
couple without), and pretty beach scenery. Though again, if, like me,
you insist on things like an actual story and interesting events
occurring in your movies, you're probably best off skipping this.
<|_=00=_|>
Here is this movie and here I am, someone who liked it. A movie which
got huge slaps in the face by critics pointing that this isn't more
than something stoners would make for other stoners; and myself who
never touched weed or any drugs.

Even so, I liked Surfer, Dude. Better to say: I loved it. Because it
helped me rethink what is important in life and what isn't.

The main character (Addington) represents everything that people living
in the cage of the consumer / mass society can only dream about, or
should be dreaming about.

He is the free man, part of and living with nature. Not a 9 to 5 office
worker like the most of us, not someone having only twenty-some days
off a year. Not working for the profit (which actually goes to other
one's pocket), he is living for living, enjoying life, experiencing the
mystery or magic of nature.

There is a big contrast in the movie. The artificial vs the real. The
video game and reality show versus the real surfing and life under the
sun. Inside and outside.

Addington is like a creature from another world, but at the end of the
film it feels like he is the one from planet Earth (with the goat
shepherd and the fisherman) and on the other hand we who made the
fields chessboard looking, made the trees stand in order and in the
exact same distance from each other in the forest, we are the aliens,
or robots. He is the relaxed one we are the frustrated ones. He does
only the positive things, and none of the negative ones, not even for
money. "Not feelin' it. Not into it". This thing is double stated with
the soul/Seoul people scene after the cast, at the very end of the
movie.

Actually I recommend Surfer, Dude for those, who feel frustrated after
work or feel like there is more to life than doing overtime for surplus
production.

Yes the plot is simple, but has important questions. I accept the
statement that the flow of the story is very slow, too. And overall, it
could be a little bit better, like everything else.

But the stills are beautiful. And in its slow way it gives me a long
smile instead of periodic laughter.

Chill out with the movie, dude. And think about your life for a minute.
<|_=00=_|>
I recently had the chance to see this movie, and I don't understand why
so many people hate it. I don't think that this film was intended to be
a deep think-piece. The people who have come on here complaining about
the film seem to have missed the message, which is a shame, because
they are the ones who could have benefited from the films laid back
messages the most. Addington lives a perfect, untainted existence. He
is free of all of the stress and flakiness (for lack of a better word)
that permeates modern American life and culture. This movie helped me
realize that relaxing and enjoying the things that bring joy to my life
are equally, if not more important, than participating in the gigantic
rat race that has come to dominate all aspects of modern day life. I
admire this movie and its simplistic message, and to those who felt
this movie was a waste of time, I would recommend relaxing and
appreciating the stress free atmosphere that is present throughout the
film.
<|_=00=_|>
This is an awesome surfer movie...blue crush, North Shore, point break,
and all the rest are good but this hits the top.

This is the story of one surfer trying to live life with the least
amount of anything but surfing. His agency wants him to be something
else, a living movie advertisement, but he refuses to do so. This story
doesn't need any epic plot, no epic love/drama, no fights or
controversy. the reason this movie doesn't appeal to most is because
they wanted the complicating story line but that's not what this movie
is about. It's about surfing and smoking weed and just living life
'j.k. livin' means just keep livin. I recommend this movie to all
people that just want to chill for an hour and a half.

I love this movie, I wanted to just jump into the movie and exist in
it, cause there wasn't any major thing going on it was just life
without the complexity.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is about simplicity of life being threatened by too much
greed. Our American life has decayed so far out of simplicity that
there's now a whole generation that has no idea what a simple life is
like. No wonder so many people don't get this movie! 

I surf and have for 20 years. I know a lot more surfers who are like
these guys than aren't! All these guys whining about this not "being
real" in regards to surfing need to lighten up a bit. Surfing used to
be a lot of fun until it became mainstream and overcrowded. That's why
I usually paddle over to the next peak to get away from the crowds even
if it's not as good. 

This movie is more about a guy who loves his lifestyle and having it
threatened by extinction than anything else. 

Take example from Tyler Durdin and "just let go". Let go of
expectations and you might just find a gem right under your nose.
<|_=00=_|>
There are a lot of mixed reviews about this movie. Some surfers rate it
negatively because they think the movie is about surfing, and feel it
does not portray the majority of surfers well, or feel offended by it.

The movie is about ONE surfer, and the way he looks at life, not
wanting to be part of the capitalist system others try to include him
in.

The plot is that. People trying to get the main character to do what
they want, and him refusing to cooperate, brining upon him the
hardships people with money can give you if you go against
them.Nonetheless, the surfer in the movie stays true to his principles
and doesn't give in.

This is not a movie about surfing, or surfers, but about how the main
character thinks surfing is all there is to life, and how he doesn't
want to get involved into anyone's game, or be anyone's monkey.

The film contains very nice shots, and a very nice soundtrack too, as
well as some very funny moments. This is a movie to sit back and relax,
and it might help you trivialize some things, like the state of your
bank account.
<|_=00=_|>
There are a couple main plot points here: some business type money
hungry former surfing bastard is trying to harsh his mellow and get
Surfer dude to sell out and it's been weeks and then months without
surf in California and thus pushing Surfer dude to do things he doesn't
want to do.

I didn't expect much from this movie but I got a lot out of it. I
really loved it. Maybe it's because I was trapped on a plane and this
was sort of an escape. There is a little bit of deep meaning in this
movie if you think about it.

If you are looking for one of those modern dumb comedies with hilarious
laughs this is probably not it.

If you like the stoned out surf culture and can laugh at it but still
can see the heart in surfing and the deepness in it and in not selling
out, you will like this movie a lot.
<|_=00=_|>
I watch quite a few movie and from my review record I can pretty much
watch any movie. My first and foremost priority is; does the movie
entertain me? For this movie, check! Then my second priority is this
movie original? For this movie half a check. And finally my third
priority is, does this movie challenge my mind? For this movie, no not
even close.

This movie is pure entertainment. Though I have to say that Matthew
McConaughey did a really good job. While people may say, "oh look he is
playing a stoner and laid back person. That is a no-brainer." Actually
not really, since a laid back person does not get uptight about
anything, nothing gets them going.

What surprised me in the movie is how well Matthew played the
character. You saw it when he was challenged to a fight, and refused,
or when he was insulted, or his words twisted. He played his character
and I was surprised at how well he did it.

So while it is not that original, though there are hints, it is very
very entertaining. I found much of the critique of this movie
completely misplaced...
<|_=00=_|>
What can you say about a movie that features Matthew McConaughey
playing a surfer/stoner, with Woody Harrelson as his sidekick, that's
barely able to muster a single laugh in 90 minutes? About all you can
say is that someone dropped the ball and that someone would have to be
first time feature filmmaker S.R. Bindler. Instead of clever dialogue
and an engaging plot, we are treated to lots of "stoner lingo," tight
shots of girls' asses, and plenty of topless scenes thrown in for good
measure. In other words, the sort of movie a 17-year-old kid would make
with his camcorder and a couple of buddies. Remember those Burt
Reynolds movies in the 70's that basically had no plot but gave Burt an
excuse to make a film with his pals? This is Matthew McConaughey's
homage to those. We're even treated to a cameo by Willie Nelson in a
role that serves no purpose other than as an excuse to have him in the
movie. On a positive note, "Surfer, Dude" makes "Sahara" look like
Oscar material.
<|_=00=_|>
What is good about this film? Well if you are one of those people that
got sick with overblown action movies or vampire teenage dramas,
"Surfer, dude" is going to provide you a break. Like the waves though,
it is good not to force this movie. It will come to you some day, in
the TV, when you are back from work, tired and in need of something
laid back. You don't have to spend a penny to see this movie. This is
its central message: good things are for free. Well almost, you have to
have a TV. Another good think is the view from the almighty ocean. Yes
the shots of the sea and the waves will always have a calming effect on
us, it is scientifically explained. The long beaches, the sand, the
sun, Willie Reed are natural elements that relax us. The good parts of
our world. The lead is in most natural, meaning always stoned. I never
seen a more stereo typical view of a pot head but with a hint of
control in the weed consumption. He smokes it, not the weed him. 

What is bad about the movie? Well it is not a serious, provocative film
for cinema lovers. Surfer, dude is like the guy in school that you know
you'll never have something in common but respect his different way of
seeing things. The plot is not multi-layered or anything and the ideas
are not explained in detail or in depth. Theories and ideas and
intentions of the characters are just what it is. "What is good about
surf? What is good about the wind..." The lines are poor, and the
actors are just there, except of course Woody who is always a pleasure
watch.

If you want meaning, you can find it anywhere. Many say there is no
meaning in this movie. Well i say you can find meaning in rock standing
still, if you want to. There are simple meanings about capitalism and
retrieval to nature and stuff like that. The only meaning is not to
over analyze this movie. After all it is one more movie, that talks
about not selling out to video games for money and still the movie
product is out in the cinemas trying to make some money! In its
defense, it doesn't try so much to sell itself with big explosions and
romance but it is happy just to be out there. After all it was a bust,
selling only a handful of tickets. 

I watched Surfer, dude last night in the TV and i enjoyed it for what
it is. A movie that doesn't expect anything from you and you should do
the same for Surfer, dude. Let it be and you never know when it will
come to you...
