
For many the plot of this movie feels formulaic and revisited. Jane
(Katherine Heigl) is the people-pleaser of the century. A somewhat
spineless nice girl who can't say no to anyone, she has been a
bridesmaid 27 times, often exceeding her duties in every wedding. For
all her romantic yearnings, she can't seem to hook her boss, George (Ed
Burns) whom she has been in love with for years. When her self-centered
little sister Tess (Malin Akerman) comes in and manages to snag George,
Jane once again capitulates to everyone's needs but her own. In comes
Kevin (James Marsden), a newspaper columnist stuck covering weddings
who yearns to break out and write about more important things. Under
the pretense of covering George and Tess's wedding, he really is
writing about Jane and her perpetual bridesmaid stints. Complications
ensue etc. etc.

For me, what really made this movie was the performances. Katherine
Heigl did an absolutely fantastic job playing the woman that I'm sure
everyone has felt like at one time. She brought a lot of spice to what
could have been a one-note role. James Marsden is also pitch-perfect as
the cynical reporter, a foil to Jane. It helps that they have good
fight-and-kiss chemistry.

Also, for me the story line was not as tired and recycled as people
made it out to be. It had some fresh spin and I really enjoyed it. I
also preferred the ending to this movie to many chick-flick comedies
which leave things open-ended and almost unrealistic. 27 Dresses wraps
up all the plot lines in one neat sequence that is a truly worthy
finale.

All in all, as far as romances and rom-coms go, this one shot to the
top of my list.
<|_=00=_|>
Romantic comedies are almost always predictable and follow similar
story lines. I wasn't very keen on watching '27 Dresses'. Let's just
say it's not my kind of film. But it turned out to be not too bad.
While it does not exactly rank among the best of its genre, it has its
own charm and that's one of the few things that make a romantic comedy
likable. While the story isn't new, McKeena's writing offers some new
devices and the dialogues are quite funny. Fletcher's storytelling is
quite impressive too as he introduces the characters and then lets the
events unfold. The layered characters Jane and Kevin are very real. I
also like it when the leads are played by good actors who have hardly
attempted to do films romantic comedies in the past and they manage to
pull it off. Heigl and Marsden have the required chemistry. Both actors
do a fine job. Katherine Heigl brings out the depth of her character
with ease, while James Marsden is funny without going over-the-top. The
sizzling Malin Akerman does well as the obnoxious Tess. Edward Burns's
role doesn't require much but he's okay. Judy Greer is brilliant and
she owns all her scenes. So what makes '27 Dresses' watchable is the
chemistry between the actors, the funny lines, the presentation of the
story, a nice soundtrack and its unique charm and sense of humour and
the fact that it didn't bore me.
<|_=00=_|>
Pretty cute movie, pretty standard romcom premise, and Judy Greer is
worth a watch any time. Katherine Heigel is likable, Judy Greer smart
and funny, and James Marsden is charming, and everyone else
serviceable. But the sloppy story-telling and needless gimmickry took
away a lot of the fun. The story of the dresses was pretty amusing.

But....c'mon - Heigel as the sort of ugly duckling sister in love with
a fantastic guy who is oblivious to her as anything other than his
assistant? Hard to believe her in that role. And this 'great guy' of a
boss of hers who has every wonderful quality a man can posses and then
falls for the hot blonde chic (who happens to be his assistant's
sister) as soon as he sees her? The plot did not follow the characters
much. Also hard to see much chemistry between Heigel & Marsden - just
no sparks that I could see.

And the ridiculous scene when Heigel realizes she loves Marsden and
follows him onto a boat super-hero style and publicly declares her
love? So pointless. He wasn't leaving the country...she could have just
met him for dinner and talked with him. This over-the-top scene ruined
any chance I had of any cinematic believability.

If you like cute, mostly mindless romcoms, this will not disappoint.
<|_=00=_|>
On Thursday, December 27, my friends and I went to the sneak preview of
"27 Dresses". At first, I wasn't excited to see it because I thought it
would be just another cheesy romantic comedy, "chick-flick" if you
will. I was wrong. "27 Dresses" was a romantic comedy everyone could
enjoy. That's right! I said EVERYONE (including guys).

Katherine Heigl is great in the film as Jane, the optimistic bridesmaid
who wants a shot of love for herself someday and feels the the 27
bridesmaid dresses she keeps in her closet is a calling that its time
for her to get a dress of a different kind.

Judy Greer, who's always "the best friend" in the movies, is very
comical and sassy as Katherine's friend Casey. At least she knows what
she wants, but she's very compassionate and supportive to Jane
throughout the film.

One person, though, that I think stood out in this film, was James
Marsden. I've always seen him in action movies ("X-Men" series and
"Superman Returns) as a minor or supporting character, but I think that
he made the male lead of Kevin his own. Although he gets on Jane's
nerves half the time, he always tends to put on a smile on her face
because she knows that he's trying to get her to let go of the past and
move on to a possible future where her big day might come. Kevin's the
guy you would want to confide in if something's troubling you or if you
need to dance to an Elton John song to get your groove back.

If you should see any movie this new year, make a date with "27
Dresses". You'll be happy that you did.
<|_=00=_|>
When I saw the trailer for 27 Dresses, I was like "Oh, my God, not
again", typical plot, chick flick written all over it with over cheesy
dialog and unrealistic situations that sadly I can completely predict.
But thanks to the wonderful users of IMDb who gave this movie great
reviews. My friend begged me to go see this with her, so I figured
since she was treating and it was getting good reviews, it might be
worth a look, so we saw it today, and I think my friend hates me,
because I told her what would happen in the next scene and it would
happen. This romantic comedy genre, doesn't anyone realize that these
stupid plots are just recycled from one romantic comedy to the next?!
The only thing they do is a "twist", a wedding planner, a hotel maid, a
treasure hunter, blah, blah, blah. The actors couldn't even save this
film.

Jane is a girl who has been in 27 weddings, she's so used to always
putting others before herself. Her little sister, Tess, even steals her
crush, George, and lies her way into making him love her. They get
engaged and now Jane is once again the maid of honor, torture, huh? But
guess what? There is a guy who surprisingly drives her insane, Kevin, a
journalist who is writing an article on Tess and George and also
secretly Jane's randevu's with her passion for "always a bride's maid,
never a bride" routine. But of course they somehow fall for each other
and break up when she finds out about the article, please tell me you
get it from this point? Because you should if you've seen any other
romantic comedy.

27 Dresses is a joke, I'm sorry, I know that's harsh, but these
romantic comedies are very evil and manipulative in leading young girls
onto what they think love is going to be or should be, or whatever.
Sounds bitter, but do you honestly think that these movies are
realistic or funny? It's so incredibly rare that we get a funny
romantic comedy that is original and funny. Katherine Heigl is coming
strong with her career, true, but I'm not impressed with her character
choice. Jane's act on her little sister was a little too immature at
the engagement party and she sunk to her sister's level, not to
mention, why couldn't we have had just a regular, smart sister instead
of a slut? It's just too common and predictable, seriously. The dialog
"I get to have hot sex with random strangers and feel so much better"?
Seriously, I'm just sick of romantic comedies, why aren't you? Trust
me, this is not worth the look unless you fall for it each time.

2/10
<|_=00=_|>
I wasn't expecting much from this movie. I went to see it with a bunch
of girlfriends not really thinking it would be anymore then your usual
rom-com but I was very pleasantly surprised! Right from the start I
could tell it would be something more than I had thought because the
opening scenes had me laughing so hard -and thats saying something,
because it takes a lot to make me laugh. The script was clever and
witty and although sometimes certain aspects were predictable, you were
always very engaged in the story and the characters. The acting was
solid the entire film, I was already a huge fan of Katherine Heigl but
after watching this and 'Enchanted' I am now also in love with James
Marsden! The atmosphere in the cinema when i saw this movie was great,
you could tell everyone was enjoying themselves. I enjoyed myself so
much in fact, that I am going to watch the movie again tomorrow with my
sister!
<|_=00=_|>
This film is about a woman who is madly in love with her boss, and
wants to get married. She has attended 27 weddings, but sadly none of
which her own.

"27 Dresses" is more pleasant than I thought it would be. I was worried
that I would have to see 27 weddings in the film, but fortunately I did
not. Normally, in a romantic comedy it does not require much acting,
but Katherine Heigl manages to put in good acting to portray her
jealousy towards her sister. Katherine Heigl is sweet and adorable, and
she has a quality that makes the viewers connect to her.

Though the romance subplot is predictable, it story is saved by the
rivalry and jealousy between sisters. This subplot is told in a tabloid
way, which is fun and entertaining. The ending, which features a lot of
dresses, is sweet and symbolically complete. "27 Dresses" provides
adequate brain off entertainment for the family.
<|_=00=_|>
I didn't expect this movie to be thus thoroughly lacking in intellect.
Katherine Heigl's character, Jane was meant to be portrayed as a witty
and smart, warm-hearted girl-next-door type as opposed to her sister
Tess, the hot but dumb blond. Sadly, both of them came across to me as
just plain dumb, completely lacking the ability to construct a good
sentence. The relationship between the sisters I thought mostly seemed
to be ripped off(and not very well might I add) from the Rose(Toni
Collette)-Maggie(Cameron Diaz) relationship in 'In Her Shoes'. Edward
Burns's character, perhaps deliberately was so passive it made me
wonder why anybody would fall for him. Heigl's acting is mostly good
barring a few scenes in which she has the look of a person just
recovered from a coma and her expressions are left to the audience's
imagination. The dialog is ridiculous in parts but a few well written
witticisms save the day(well, almost). Highly unrealistic at times, the
writers have also contradicted themselves several times with displays
of absurd anomalies in the behavior of some of the characters. And may
I also say, that the word "cynical" has been used far more than
necessary and quite often in the wrong context even. The only
redemption factor in the movie is probably James Marsden. His acting is
pretty good if not great and his character seems to be the only smart
one in the entire movie, other than Jane's best friend Casie(played by
Judy Greer) who was personally my favorite character and the only one
with any substance. The story in itself is highly clichéd, the typical
naive pushover falls in love with the incidentally highly handsome
young lad who helps her through the struggle of learning to put her
foot down. Too predictable. I'd have liked to watch a romantic comedy
that isn't mindless and whose numerous shortcomings I'm not supposed to
overlook just so i can enjoy that oh-so-heart-warming moment. Romance
shouldn't need to be brainless, and its audience shouldn't be thus
underestimated. Overall, I'd give the movie a 2 on 10.
<|_=00=_|>
Although this movie is a bit typical, it's still a breezy, light
hearted romp, which is all it appears to be trying to do. It's got
formulaic construction familiar in romantic comedies, yet it knows it's
just harmless fluff and doesn't try to be anything more.

Kathryn Heigl is certainly the strength of the film, with an exuberant
approach to her "hopeless romantic" always the bridesmaid character who
longs for that special day of her own. The performance is playful and
silly when needed, and sweetly honest in the more serious moments. The
rest of the cast are all good, too; the personality collisions of
various characters are usually well done. The sight gags involving the
dresses are clever, and the story runs its course effectively.

There are weaknesses, such as the ugly, mean spirited, and out-of-place
slide show sequence. The script could have accomplished the point which
is made there in some better way.

Light popcorn fun. Like fast food, it probably won't stick with you for
long, but it's good for some entertaining silliness. One thing I'm
still wondering: how much would scuba-gear set back the wedding party
members?
<|_=00=_|>
So I was unlucky enough to catch this mess while on a 13-hour flight
from Shanghai to Chicago, along with Fool's Gold and Jumper. Remind me
never to fly United again. After the first hour I was ready to throw
myself out of the plane somewhere over the Arctic circle. I'm not sure
where exactly we were at that moment, but I looked out the window and
the ocean below was frozen, and landing on top of the ice after a
35,000-foot freefall sounded more appealing than another 45 minutes of
this tripe.

It's yet another bonehead romantic comedy about weddings, where the
protagonist is always a bridesmaid but never a bride, etc etc etc.
She's great at doing things for other people but not so great at going
after what she really wants or needs for herself. She has a collection
of bridesmaids dresses filling one closet in her apartment to capacity
(no points for guessing how many she has), until one day her collection
is witnessed by columnist Kevin Doyle, who sees this story about a
wedding addict as his key to upward movement at his magazine. 

Charged with coming up with something fresh and interesting, he shocks
his editor (but not the audience) when he gets too involved in the
story and realizes that maybe there's something more to it, since she,
his editor, feels that it's probably just some throwaway garbage that
no one is really going to pay much attention to anyway. Sadly, the
people who made the movie never realized that that is true of the movie
as well. 

Anyway, Katherine Heigl stars as Jane Nichols, who attracted the
attention of Kevin Doyle on a night when she was on a wedding marathon,
shuttling between weddings at such at rate as to win the attention of
the media. A lot of people complain about her performance, but I had no
problem with her acting, or with James Marsden's, or really with anyone
else in the cast. The problem is that the movie feels like a child's
coloring book where someone just filled in the blanks and gave it a
title and sent it to theaters. The formula here is so obvious that the
laughs generated by its presence are the most effective part of the
movie. 

James Marsden plays the part of Kevin Doyle. This is a remarkably
versatile actor. He is still best known, I should think, as Cyclops
from the X-Men films, but has also turned in effective performances in
romantic comedies, including his satisfactory performance as a Mr.
Right in this idiot movie, as well as his role as Mr. Wrong in the
indescribably superior film The Notebook. Kevin is a young professional
with movie-star good looks and is impossibly charming, while Jane,
unfortunately, doesn't notice or appreciate his charm because she is
too deeply in love with her dirtbag of a boss George, played with
effective repulsiveness by Edward Burns.

Later, Jane's little sister shows up, a bouncy, Barbie-ish blonde
without a thought in her head who comes along and charms George off his
feet, and we are asked to care when this jerk and this bimbo fall in
love and ask Jane to plan their wedding. 

Oh, that really pulls the heartstrings, doesn't it? These two shallow,
superficial people getting together, leaving poor Jane with nothing but
this stunningly handsome man with a good job and bright future
constantly professing his true love to her. It is safe to say you can
leave the tissue at home for this one.

I suppose I don't have to explain how obvious the conclusion of the
movie is. Probably the most difficult thing that a good romantic comedy
has to overcome is that they are all so predictable, except for the
really good ones (The Notebook, as an example). In 27 Dresses, it is
blatantly obvious from the first frame how the movie is going to turn
out, except for the instant transformations that George and Tess,
Jane's little sister, make in the last few minutes of the movie for the
sake of the Hollywood ending. 

Everyone involved in the movie has done much, much better than this. If
you want to see James Marsden in something worth seeing, please check
out The Notebook. Edward Burns has an extensive list of credits and has
had some hits and misses (if, for example, you ever get a chance to see
him in a movie called A Sound of Thunder, don't), and as for Katherine
Heigl, she has done nothing but better films than this. Under Siege 2
is better than this, and that should really be all you need to know
