
This is one of the movies, which deal with emotions more than actions.
Yes, it is difficult to understand it, if you had never had spent
summer vacation time in such a "wild" environment, being absolutely on
your own - from the very beginning to the very end. Humans nature has
many different sides and very often people must play their roles
throughout the whole year, doing what they are supposed to do,
according the rules, dictated by their positions and surroundings. And
only during times of vacations they may remind themselves about being
young and meet the old friends, forget about duties, accept the
nicknames and enjoy this short summer period to get their batteries
charged for the rest of the year. The feelings I've got after watching
this movie are absolutely true. I always feel the same through the
summer - high expectations at the beginning and nostalgic feelings that
it is over at the end.
<|_=00=_|>
Brilliant snapshot of three generations of Russian/ex Soviet sexually
active people on holidays in Crimea (now days part of Ukraine). Very
thoughtful and lyrical movie in great traditions of Russian literature
and modern day folklore. I am afraid it will lose a lot in translation.
5 out of 4 native Russian speakers will enjoy it. A must to see for
foreigners learning Russian and trying to understand what is going on
in this country. It is remarkable that the movie with so many nudity
and sex stands clean from any accusation of being a porno. This is a
distinction of true art. Great, recommended to over 16. It has
references to many Soviet/Russian cult movies. One of the most obvious
reference is to Three plus Two, which influenced Soviet "popculture" .
<|_=00=_|>
First I thought it wasn't good, but when I paid attention it became one
of my favorites. it's very funny. But um I thought his name was Gosha
Kutsenka and not Yuri Kutsenka, but it could just be me.... This film
gives a hilarious view of a "Russian" lazy summer on the Black Sea. It
involves all the classic elements to keep the attention of today's
people except unnecessary violence. It has foul language, nudity, and
sex. Violence is only teased at on the volley ball court and earlier
when 3 guys come to collect their girls from Aj-Yaj's camp area.
Chernij is a funny character who is constantly cussing about something,
and usually to himself. In short, it's worth it :)
<|_=00=_|>
The Movie 'Dikari' is about tourists who come to Black Sea region to
have a holiday in tents... The aim of the Dikari(Wild) tourists is to
find good tent place, get enough booze and find a partner for the
night..The main characters are guys who visit the region regularly
every year. So,they have enough acquaintances to make their holiday
without any unexpected problems..Shortly, film tells about an ordinary
summer season in the tourist region.The plot of the film is not very
interesting,though the cast is not bad. Marat Basharov, Gosha Kutsenko
(from 'Dozor's) have a good performance as main Dikari.As a result, Not
good enough to give money for it...
