
Many reviewers here have stated that this movie isn't realistic because
'Salt doesn't get bruised enough' or 'no one her size could...' Have
these people ever been to an action movie before? NO ACTION MOVIE IS
REALISTIC. They are all written to be over-the-top because that's what
makes them entertaining. We suspend disbelief to enter the world of the
action-hero (or heroine) and we go along for the thrilling ride that is
sometimes so over-the-top it's ridiculous! But that's what makes it
fun. If action movies were realistic, they would be slow and boring.
This movie does not cross the line anymore than any other action movie.

Salt delivers exactly what is promised -- a solid 100 minutes of
action. It keeps you watching, it keeps you guessing (even when it
turns out you were right in some cases), and it entertains from start
to finish. If you like the action movie genre, chances are you will
enjoy this movie.

As for the reviewers who criticized the way Russians are portrayed, the
action genre plays to comic book-like caricatures. The villains are no
more realistic than the heroine! This isn't a documentary! 

If you like action movies, give Salt a go. Angelina won't disappoint.
<|_=00=_|>
Was it realistic? No. Did all the dots get connected? Not all. Was it
fun to watch? Yes. Was it predictable? Not entirely. Lots of twists &
turns. If you don't mind people sliding down a banister with
six-shooters out shooting 5 hit men with Uzi's, then you'll probably
like it. (This didn't really happen, and I don't really know guns but
you get the message.) I thought I had it all figured out but I was oh
so wrong. I would like to see it again, knowing what I know now. There
wasn't a lot of cursing and relatively little blood & guts considering
this type of movie. I must say, sitting next to some women who liked
shouting at the screen and throwing their own punches heightened the
excitement for the audience.
<|_=00=_|>
I wonder is there any more stupid image of Russia in the history of
American movies? Where did you get these surnames? Ask any Russian on
the net for a huge bunch of real Russian surnames. Where did you get
this ring kissing ritual? Stupid.

An image of Russian super-spies drinking vodka on the stinking rotten
ship, which somehow serves them as a base is also unrealistic. Just as
50Kg woman which can be thrown against the wall and have no even single
bruise after.

I wonder, do all Americans still know Russia as it is shown in this
film? Or it is just comfortable to utilize 30 year old image because
developing new one and showing it can reduce cash flow? But the action
itself (if you switch off your brain for 1h30min) is good. It is the
only thing we can enjoy in this movie together with a good actor play.
<|_=00=_|>
Seriously you guys? At one point of the film the Russians kill a guy
and celebrate that in the following way: everybody just pulls out a
shot of vodka. They are all carrying guns, machine guns etc. and in the
next moment they just pull out glasses FILLED with vodka! WTF?!
Seriously? The whole movie is kinda ridiculous - special agent "Salt"
does not kill a single American (just injures a few, but never
fatally), however when she's got the chance she murders at least a
dozen Russians without a blink of her eye. And we are supposed to be
wondering if she's a Russian or American spy. REEEAAAALLY? This movie
is just awful. 

Also, not sure why, but before watching it Angelina was still "hot
chick" for me. She's "aunt Angie" from now on.
<|_=00=_|>
While I was expecting a little more sophistication in the plot
department I realized that such a thing couldn't happen when US versus
Russia is at play. (To my knowledge the Cold War is over and the spy
business has become more complicated than ever. This oversimplification
of old enemies and their wars is too much.) The plot is all over the
place and realism is thrown out of the door. There are too many things
happening in the movie that are too convenient and even impossible.
Still it didn't keep me from enjoying this movie. It even managed to
thrill me at occasions even if I was aware that most of the plot was
nonsense. Jolie does an excellent job as the action heroine. The action
is that makes this movie tick and that is almost the only thing that
should count in a movie like this.Ignore the bashing and trashing of
Jolie. This is pure entertainment!
<|_=00=_|>
I went into this thinking Angelina Jolie looks hot and it will be
exciting. Instead it's an overblown mess with jerky camera angles and a
plot so convoluted that you could drive a car through the plot holes.
Ms Jolie plays a spy for the CIA who turns out to be a Russian sleeper
cell spy as well. So she runs and runs and runs and sports a black wig
and expensive sunglasses like a character from the Matrix. And they do
what I always hate in movies , they zoom in during the fight scenes
which makes it all blurry and jerky ,what's the point.By the end of the
movie I was so put out especially with the shameless setup for a
sequel, Jolie running off into the woods,fade to black.I left the movie
theater thinking I'll bet critics like that windbag Ebert will like
this movie yet trash another movie that is way better. 

3/10 and that's generous.
<|_=00=_|>
It almost seems as if it were scheduled to make up for the headiness of
Chris Nolan's Inception (yeah, I know, it wasn't THAT smart, but
compared to the vast majority of American blockbusters...). It's pretty
much a Bourne rip-off. It stars Angelina Jolie as a CIA agent who is
exposed as a Russian sleeper agent by a Russian defector. Whether she
is one or not, her bosses (Chiwetel Ejiofor and Liev Schreiber) decide
to keep her under wraps. She'll have none of that, though, as she fears
for the safety of her spider expert husband. So basically, like Bourne,
it's about a defecting agent running from her employers while
simultaneously trying to foil the bad guys. The film does have a couple
of semi-clever twists, but it also contains a metric ton of stupidity.
There's no real set-up for Jolie being some kind of Bourne-like
superwoman, yet as soon as the action sequences start she's either
MacGuiver or Jackie Chan. Weighing in at about 95 pounds (seriously,
Angie, eat a burger) she's able to beat the everloving crap out of
every trained CIA, FBI or Secret Service agent who gets in her way. The
filmmaking is reminiscent of Bourne, but, unlike Bourne, the
choreography is confusing and implausible. Very little of the plot
makes any sense, from the reason for the initial exposure to Jolie's
motivations to the final sequence. Any moderate examination reveals the
film to make no sense whatsoever.
<|_=00=_|>
The people who wrote this film apparently don't think the audience is
very smart. They want us to believe that Angelina Jolie who is about
five foot four in her bare feet and 100 pounds wringing wet is capable
of beating up and shooting about sixty people, crawling around a ten
story building on a narrow ledge, jumping from tractor trailer to
tractor trailer and climbing down a ten story elevator shaft! Boy she
is one tough, ass kicking mama! Some people have said this movie is
merely a clone of the Jason Bourne movies (one reviewer waggishly
called Salt Jason Bourne with a vagina). However, Jolie makes her role
distinctly unique. She holds this movie together with cool intensity
that would rival any actor. The plot is convoluted and hard to follow
but there is enough action for five movies, so just sit back and enjoy
the ride. By the way, for you history lovers, there really was a theory
that Lee Harvey Oswald had a Soviet lookalike who was the real killer
of JFK and there really is an underground bunker below the White House.
<|_=00=_|>
I thought that this film would be an exciting mix of action, thriller,
espionage and drama. Instead it's an overblown farce and a plot
resembling blancmange. Angelina Jolie plays a spy for the CIA who turns
out to be a Russian spy as well. So she gets exposed and runs away (but
somehow doesn't look anything the action figure of Lara Croft but quite
ungainly and pathetic) and uses a black wig and sunglasses like a
Matrix character which doesn't hide her at all. In fact, at one point
when trying to allude the CIA she disguises herself in a Russian fur
hat and fur coat. Hilarious! In another scene she randomly picks some
dry cleaning off a rail in a hotel and surprise surprise the suit fits
like it's tailored. Her disguise to go into the White House is just so
ridiculous that you actually feel shame for the director and make up
artist. Interestingly throughout the film special agent "Salt" does not
kill a single American, however she kills every Russian she can. And we
are supposed to be wondering if she's a Russian spy? This film is so
bad and panders so shamefully to the uneducated ill informed American
conception of an evil enemy that really the only thing missing is the
idea of an Arab funding it all from a cave in Afghanistan.

The film ends, thankfully, but unthankfully with Jolie running off into
the woods,fade to black and you can just here the film studio setting
up storyboards for a sequel. Oh please NO.

Total rubbish. 1/10
<|_=00=_|>
The movie is utterly outrageous. Nothing in it is barely logical. From
start to finish what you see is Angelina Jolie as an indestructible war
machine with no plausible or understandable aim. A really bad movie...
unless you care only about fighting scenes and impossible action. Like
don't getting a bruise jumping from car to car, climbing barehanded the
wall of a fifteen storeys building, jumping in a winter lake from a
helicopter, or swooping down an elevator shaft. One of the worst movies
ever. The people dubbing in Russian are even not that bad, but the
overall impression is quite sad. BTW, have you seen the handcuffs? With
a half-meter chain between them, you can really hurt somebody... Did
you notice that she has a blood stain on her back when she got shot,
even if she is wearing a bullet-proof jacket?
