
Who says popular films are not and cannot be art? If anything is proof
that popular films can be of a stunningly high quality, the beauty of
the animation, writing, music, and sound design in "WALL·E" is it.
"WALL·E" eclipses even Andrew Stanton's "Toy Story" and "Toy Story 2"
in the Pixar pantheon, is perhaps Pixar's best film to date and, call
me crazy as I've just seen it, a contender for the title of best
animated film, period.

"WALL·E" is everything we've come to expect from Pixar and more-
colorful, vibrant, imaginative, exciting, involving, beautiful, and
most importantly a film with interesting, involving characters. Sure,
WALL·E is adorable, and as much credit as the animators get for that,
this film would be nothing without Stanton's screenplay, which features
very little dialogue but is still notably intelligent and surprisingly
subtle, making a refreshing change from the 'go green' campaigns we're
all so used to. Does "WALL·E" have a message? Sure, but it's an
important message and it is delivered subtly and beautifully.

"WALL·E" operates on two levels (and works spectacularly well on both).
It is a majestic science fiction epic like we haven't seen in a couple
of decades and it is a genuinely touching and never cheap romance.
"WALL·E" will never get points for originality but it doesn't exactly
need them because the homages to great films and figures of the past-
Chaplin, Keaton, Tati, the Marx Brothers, "2001: A Space Odyssey" (this
one is particularly spectacular), "Close Encounters of the Third Kind"
are actually homages and not ripoffs. "WALL·E" is a wonderful tribute
to a bygone cinematic tradition (well, two or three of them actually). 

The social commentary in "WALL·E" is sobering because it's never
overbearing and most importantly because we see the world through
machines, machines who feel more about Earth and life than the humans
do. The depiction of humans on the ship could have been incredibly
offensive, cheap, and tasteless in concept but the execution here is
absolutely perfect.

What is most surprising about "WALL·E" is how sad it is. Not even in
the 'how will they get out of this, oh I feel so sorry for them' way
"Finding Nemo", a previous Stanton effort, is, but in a truly
melancholy sense. The early portion of the film maintains all the
playfulness of a Jacques Tati film but also evokes a striking and
powerful feeling of loneliness. It's a brilliant introduction to
WALL·E, given that the rest of the film is too wacky to bother with
long scenes focused entirely on character, and works beautifully with
the ugly yet beautifully-rendered future Earth, a barren wasteland
filled with nothing but garbage, a seriously resilient cockroach being
WALL·E's only companion before EVE shows up, but I won't go into the
story- it's best you see it unfold for yourself.

From the entertaining shorts shown before the film to the memorable
characters, locations, and animation we have come to expect, Pixar
films are now event cinema, and they have outdone themselves with
"WALL·E". This film is spectacular, majestic, touching, involving, and
achingly beautiful. Most importantly, however, it is perfect
entertainment. I may be saying this too soon, but I don't think I have
ever seen an animated film that has satisfied me more than "WALL·E",
and 2008 is going to have to work hard to keep this from being the top
film of the year, which it most certainly is at the moment.

9.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
I just returned from an advanced benefit screening of WALL*E, and I
want to be careful not to spill too much regarding the movie. I had the
added privilege of watching the film at Pixar, which in and of itself,
was amazing.

This picture is not a cartoon; it is a film. In fact, it even has the
LOOK of film. One of my complaints of more recent 3-D/CG animated films
(not from Pixar) is that they all seem to look the same... clean lines,
crisp colors, and very "virtual", for lack of a better term. WALL*E
transcends the typical look of CG animation, and has a true to life
"grit." The creators at Pixar are true artists, and are indeed masters
of their craft. Not only are they masters of the technology, they are
masters of telling a story. WALL*E is no exception.

The best way to describe the film is as a science fiction, comedy,
dramatic love story. WALL*E, as a character, has dimension,
personality, and heart... pretty impressive given that he is
essentially a trash compactor. It is true that there is little dialogue
in this feature, but I personally did not feel it detracted from the
story at all.

WALL*E is very much a different Pixar film from it's previous features.
I will be curious to see how it is received by others, but in my
opinion, I think Pixar has stayed true to itself, demonstrating a
commitment to telling great stories and pushing the edge of technology
to leave your jaw dropping! My most sincere compliments to Andrew
Stanton, Jim Morris, John Lasseter, Ben Burtt, and all the creative
forces at Pixar. Can't wait to see what the future brings...
<|_=00=_|>
We went to the San Francisco Film Institute's first public screening at
their campus in Emeryville. Everyone's sworn to secrecy, but for a film
with little dialog, it carries more of an emotional punch and has a
richer story than any live-action movie this year. The tone and style
of the film is completely different for Pixar, and Disney haven't tried
to override the darker thematic elements at all, making the story
surprisingly three-dimensional.

This will end up being the animated film of the year and I had the same
'wow' feeling as after seeing Ratatouille. Considering that animated
films have always played second-fiddle to live-action, and have been
aimed at kids, it's ironic that once again Pixar produces a film that
rivals any live action on every level. Bravo!
<|_=00=_|>
I can't say enough about how good this movie, that you probably haven't
read, so I'm going to keep this short.

This is the best thing out there in theater's right now, and might just
be the best animated film of all time, whether you believe that or not,
is your own opinion, but what Pixar has done here, can put companies
like Dreamworks, Sony, and Blue sky to shame.

Wall E also may go down as the most lovable character ever to grace the
movie screen, I praise Ben Burtt and Andrew Stanton, and the people at
Pixar for what they did, and will continue to do.

This is why Pixar is the top studio in the world.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>
Wall-E is the movie experience I've been looking for. I haven't seen a
new film this richly entertaining, thrilling, touching and satisfying
since Spider-Man 2. It is truly the finest Pixar or animated CGI film
to date. I can discuss it without spoilers easily because it's one of
those films, like 2001: A Space Odyssey, that exists more as a pure
experience of the heart and the senses than as a collection of events
that we're supposed to keep track of intellectually. Wall-E rises above
that kind of unnecessary complication into the same kind of space
occupied by dreams and the imagination.

This film is beautifully animated, of course, to that magical Pixar
point where even piles of what should be disgusting trash somehow look
breathtakingly gorgeous and even fairly realistic-looking roaches look
cute. But much more importantly, the heart, the emotion in this movie
is unlike anything I've experienced at the cinema since Forrest Gump.
Certainly my tear ducts have not welled up while watching a movie this
much since then. I fell in like with the character of Wall-E when I saw
the trailer. Watching the movie, I fell in love with him within about 2
minutes. Shortly after that, I fell in love with the idea of Wall-E
falling in love.

My previous favorite movie romance is Superman and Lois Lane in the
original Superman films. The love story, or the love experience of
Wall-E and Eve is perhaps the first I've seen since then that operates
at and succeeds on that same level. These couples create an
uncomplicated, innocent, simple, yet deep and powerful bond. They
capture the experience of love at first sight, writ large. They possess
an instant chemistry that tells you they belong together from the first
time they see one another and makes you root for their relationship
throughout the film. Wall-E and Eve share moments together of real
cinematic beauty, true hilarity, frightening sadness, frustrating
difficulty and delightful satisfaction. It's a testament to the level
of genius at which the Pixar storytellers are operating that we feel
every beat of this relationship resonate every step of the way despite
the fact that the characters are robots that are not modeled off of
humans and speak no more than a handful of words throughout the movie
(this animated movie is refreshingly free of obvious "guest star"
voices or any over-the-top stand-up comedians trying to upstage the
movie).

Just like in the first Superman films, once you care about the
characters as individuals and care about their relationship, it's
almost impossible for the rest of the movie not to work. You're hooked
at hello. Wall-E adds all the expected complications to keep the
would-be lovers from getting together most of the time. There is a
truly great "McGuffin" that keeps the heroes and villains busy for
quite a while (the item in question is something outwardly simple that
ends up holding the key to something more important than anything in
the world). The pacing during most of these adventures is as breakneck
as anything out of the Star Wars films and the action is always staged
with crystal clarity. There are several scenes of peril for Wall-E that
are reminiscent of that oddly powerful sequence in Short Circuit 2 when
Johnny 5 is almost killed. The filmmakers pull absolutely no punches
when it comes to running your heart through the ringer over characters
you care about. It probably helps that you can do a lot more physical
damage to a robot character than you can to a human character while
keeping a G rating and still getting the audience dramatically worried
about their survival.

Even on top of the action, the emotion, the visuals and the humor,
Wall-E goes the extra mile into thought-provoking thematic territory.
The film never hits you over the head with anything preachy and doesn't
really even outright tell you what its opinions on the subjects it
raises are. It also doesn't explicitly lay out explanations for
everything that exists in Wall-E's world (there are no "talking killer"
scenes and very little verbal exposition). I think the bits of
ambiguity work here because they add to the sense of mystery,
helplessness and alienation that most of the characters in the movie
feel to some degree.

There are human characters in this movie too, quite a few. I think
that's necessary because if humans aren't shown in a robot world, you
have to wonder what purpose were the robots designed to serve? That was
a curiosity of the earlier CGI movie, Robots. Most of the humans in
Wall-E aren't as developed as the robots, but I think that's because
they exist more to represent the whole of humanity rather than
particular individuals. We're asked to ponder the consequences of the
choices they make as though the whole society was moving in that
direction, not just one person. Wall-E and Eve are the heart of this
movie but the humans are used to add some intellectual gravity for the
audience to chew on.

Other choices made in the movie might also leave room for debate, such
as the integration of some live-action footage into the film. But
because the movie as a whole is so audaciously stimulating and
brilliantly satisfying, it's a plus that they left us with a few
unresolved or unusual things to think about and question after getting
off of the great emotional and visual roller-coaster experience. Wall-E
truly serves up everything that I think an audience could want in a
movie experience. It will be very easy for me to watch this one over
and over again. It is a modern-day classic that I believe should earn a
place in cinema history as the "2001" of CGI animated films, both of
them movies of indisputable brilliance, unyielding imagination and
unending entertainment.

Footnote: The pre-movie short is an awesome, violent Looney Tunes/Roger
Rabbit-esquire toon. It wants only to entertain and does.
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw the screener in the theater and was amazed. I am the kind of
person that has never liked science fiction movies. I have tried all
the famous movies in this genre, like Star Wars, The Matrix and A Space
Odyssey and hated all of them. Next to me in the theater were a couple
of Sci-fi-lovers and they loved Wall-E beyond belief. I did too,
however. Wall-E is: A) A great story B) Packed with fun and humor C)
Built up with memorable characters D) Fun for all ages E) Revolutionary
in animation techniques 

The world Pixar creates is so credible, you forget it is animation.
Thumbs up for Wall-E as well, he is such a cute and adorable character,
you will fall in love with him immediately. I loved EVE as well.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm starting to wonder if there is bad Disney/Pixar film, I mean,
normally when we think of the combo, it does equal gold, we
automatically know that everyone is going to love this movie, it's just
a matter of comparison to the other animation films. I'm not just
saying this because I had a good time when I was watching this, I'm
very serious, this is my favorite Disney/Pixar film. It's completely
worth the ticket price, this couldn't have been a more perfect film.
Everything about WALL·E is just beyond great: the characters, the
story, and the incredible animation. But the thing that I loved about
WALL·E is it's message, I know that it does go a little over board with
the "jog or get fat", "throw your garbage away", and the "we've become
too dependent on machines" message, but I felt this was the most
charming way to present it to the children who have to grow up in a
world where they're going to have to worry about global warming, this
may open their eyes a little.

WALL·E is a robot that is left all alone on Planet Earth, Earth is now
covered with garbage. The humans have left onto a corporate ship and
are living their lives care free and well, thought free. WALL·E has
been collecting little human pieces here and there and making them into
his treasures, but the one thing he really wants is a friend. One day a
ship lands with a female robot, Eve, who WALL·E just adores, but Eve is
on a mission to find a plant to bring back onto the human ship to show
that Earth is safe. But when the ship grabs Eve, WALL·E follows her and
discovers the mutiny that is afoot on the ship. Everyone is overweight,
can't walk, can't think for themselves, and let's all the robots do all
the work for them. But WALL·E and Eve are on the mission to get them
back to Earth and give it a little love.

WALL·E is seriously the best movie I have seen this summer, I just
adored this movie, it has great laughs, cute jokes and is entertaining
for the whole family. Like I said before, when it's Disney/Pixar you
just can't go wrong. WALL·E is one of their most lovable characters
ever and was like the robot version of Charlie Chaplin, he brought
great slap stick to the story. This movie delivers everything you can
imagine and much more, not to mention a great message. I highly
recommend this movie for everyone, it's just a very wonderful movie
that anyone can enjoy. The animation, I can't believe how far we've
come, but this was a beautifully made movie and couldn't have been
better. I loved WALL·E, this is a movie that will bring you plenty of
laughs for your summer.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>
Just got back from a special sneak peek/advance screening of this
movie, and I must say, Pixar continues to amaze. They just can't seem
to make a bad move. Heck, they can't even make a mediocre movie. Now, I
will admit, there have been a couple that I would classify as my "least
favorite" of theirs, but even they were actually very, very good. This
one, though...it just may take the cake. Ranks up there with the
absolute best they have produced. Hysterical, emotional, meaningful --
this movie succeeds on every front! I am not going to get into spoilers
or specific plot aspects, but I will say that I am almost definitely
going to see this one again in the theater..and it will be worth every
dime. Come Friday, be in line to see Wall-E. You don't want to miss it!
<|_=00=_|>
Not only it's Pixar's best film of all-time but it's the best movie of
this year and one of the greatest imaginative, visually, moving &
excellent animated films in years and surprisingly, one of the best
sci-fi movies since E.T.!! Coming with high expectations, it definitely
succeeded mines. It's so beautiful, moving, hilarious & sad at the same
time. And for those who has been anticipating Thomas Newman's score for
WALL-E, it's certainly one of his best right behind Finding Nemo in
which I thought was his best score to date! Like I said it's Pixar best
film so far, WALL-E knocked off Ratatouille of the top spot in which I
thought it was their best film to date and officially, WALL-E is the
best Pixar film i've ever seen with Ratatouille right behind and
Finding Nemo, third. Pixar fan or non-Pixar fan, you'll definitely
enjoy this one. WALL-E will forever be remembered as one of the most
lovable characters ever created on film!!!
<|_=00=_|>
This truly is one beautiful, touching animated sci-fi film....I cannot
stress this enough. It's a unique cinema experience that you must enjoy
firsthand.

The tale is set in the 22th century , Earth has become a lifeless
wasteland full of garbage, that the human race evacuated nearly a
millennium ago....Lifeless, that is with the two exceptions being the
"artifical" life form "WALL-E" & his pet cockroach.

WALL-E is a squat humble trash-compacting robot who while continuing to
fulfill the duties he was programmed for ( even though it's pointless
considering there are no more humans on the planet ) collects certain
leftover nicknacks, novelty items and even old films that he can still
play. He mentally stimulates himself and enjoys fragments of the
culture that is now gone ( that of the human race ). Though, WALL-E has
imprinted on his little cockroach & vice versa, the little robot longs
for more companionship.

He receives it in the form of a beautiful, sleek, defensive "fembot
fatale" "EVE "....In their own little forms of robotic communication (
repeating each other's names in various connotations depending on moods
; "WAAAALLL-E," "EEEEEEEE-VAH!" ) and WALL-E's Chaplin-esquire
clumsiness that amuses EVE, the pair imprint on each other and enjoy
each other's company.

Sadly, EVE has located a small plant and must return it to her mother
ship and leave WALL-E forever...But WALLL-E hops aboard the ship in
pursuit of his darling "EEEEEE-VAH".

And yes this film has very little dialog, but guess what, IT DON'T NEED
NO STINKIN' DIALIOUGUE!....The brilliance and beauty of the film is in
the interactions and responses of the little robots : a great
representation of what "artificial intelligence" really is and what it
may actually be one day! 

And how ironic it is that in this film the organic HUMAN RACE has
become soulless, mirthless, artless, jaded, self-centered cogs in a
machine of blind consumerism, yet the mechanical artificial beings
still respond to their surroundings like a toddler or pet : with
curiosity, wonder, and delight in communication & learning.

And yes there is plenty of comic relief ( albeit sans dialouge ) so no
this movie is NOT BORING....It's beautiful, it even made me a little
bit misty-eyed.

So yeah if you're an a fan of animated films, sci-fi films, and romance
you should definitely check out this movie.

Obviously, it is going to win a very well-deserved Oscar for "Best
Animated Film".
