
"Doubt can be a bond as strong as fear." If ever there was a time in
our country's recent history where that line carried the force of
relevance, it's now.

And though it's set in the early 1960s (roughly a year after the
Kennedy assassination), there's no doubt that John Patrick Shanley's
adaptation of his own Pulitzer-Prize winning stage play is a response
to these dark times, when the only thing that seems to be uniting
Americans is their collective insecurity and ever-weakening belief that
things are going to get better.

At the center of "Doubt" is the mystery of whether or not a priest
(played by Philip Seymour Hoffman) is guilty of taking advantage of an
altar boy. The priest's primary (and really sole) prosecutor is Sister
Aloysius, the uber-stern and terrifying principal of the Catholic
school that provides "Doubt" its setting. Watching Hoffman and Streep
spar is like watching two professional tennis players at their best,
and fans of expert movie acting should waste no time in seeing the
sparks fly between these two. The movie purposely never clarifies the
ambiguity of the charges -- is Hoffman's priest truly guilty of
something, or is Sister Aloysius simply on a mad witch hunt? Streep's
character is the most fascinating. From one perspective, she's a nearly
maniacal harpie, intent on ruining a man's life and career for no clear
reason. However, if her accusations are legitimate, she's a sort of
hero, demanding justice from a male-dominated world that's willing to
look the other way. Streep's performance is something fascinating to
behold -- she can convey more with an arched eyebrow than another actor
can with his entire face.

Amy Adams gets the pivotal role of a young, innocent nun who first
brings her suspicions about the priest to her superior, and then sees
them become Frankenstein's monster. In many ways, Adams' character is
us, the audience, placed in the position of having to come to a
conclusion on our own when empirical evidence is lacking. Adams' role
is the least showy, but she does much with it.

And then there's Viola Davis, who, in five minutes of screen time,
decimates the audience with some shocking conclusions of her own as the
altar boy's mother. The insulated, hushed world of the Catholic Church
is blown wide open by this struggling mother, who's seen more of the
world than any of the priests and nuns sheltered behind the church's
walls, and who puts the film's running themes of racial and gender
inequality into harsh perspective.

The central conflict in "Doubt" in many ways comes down to each
individual's view of the world and his or her ability to accept the
ambiguity of day to day living. There's a lot about the world we will
never know and much about our futures we'll never be able to control.
So what's better -- anticipating the worst and therefore being prepared
when it comes; or believing in the best and running the risk of being
disappointed when it fails to arise? The movie just poses this question
-- it doesn't try to answer it. 

"Doubt" is not a fancy movie and will win no awards for its cinematic
audacity. But in looking back at the movies of 2008, I imagine it will
stand as one of the best-acted films of the year.

Grade: A
<|_=00=_|>
There are no better actors working in American film today than Meryl
Streep and Phillip Seymour Hoffman. Streep has been on top for some
time now and Hoffman has an unmatched resume of fine performances over
the past five years. Pairing off as adversaries in John Patrick
Shanley's stage play brought to screen they parry and prod throughout
with each landing hay makers along the way.

Change is in the wind in 1964 for both the world and the Catholic
Church (Second Vatican Council) as the country moves from conservatism
to liberal thought. Sister Aloysius (Streep)is the principal of an
inner city Catholic school who rules with an iron fist. Lamenting the
loss of tradition (she thinks Frosty the Snowman is a song about
worshiping false idols) she crosses swords with the popular and laid
back Father Flynn who takes a more liberal view seeing the need to keep
up with the times. His progressive ways gnaw at Sister Aloysius and she
is soon suspecting Father Flynn of inappropriate relationship with
altar boys even though she is without concrete proof.

The scenes between Streep and Hoffman are riveting from start to
finish. Both attempt at first to be civil with each other but
eventually they end up at each others throat bullying and threatening.
It is a titanic emotional struggle that makes for a gripping drama
flawlessly acted. I'm no big fan of Streep, finding the adopted accents
she employs in some of her films false and hollow, but as the self
righteous Nunzilla her pugnacious style and inflection rates with her
Sophie's Choice performance. Hoffman has his work cut out for him to
keep up with the formidable legend but he holds his own with equal
footing.

In supporting roles Amy Adams is very effective as the unintended go
between Sister James. Seized with doubt she like the audience mirrors
our own misgivings as conflicted objective observers. Viola Davis as a
troubled boy's mother has one lengthy powerful and painful scene that
begins to tie loose ends together but offers no easy solution.

Writer director John Patrick Shanley does an admirable job in keeping
the plot nebulous with ambivalent scenes and peripheral characters that
purposefully enhance the suspense. Scenes are tightly edited with
sparse but effective dialog giving the film its steady pace. Other than
some jarring oblique angle shots the camera compositions and set design
provide a somber ambiance for the drama and an arena for the perfectly
measured performances by two masters of the craft in this fight to the
finish that remains absorbing from beginning to end.
<|_=00=_|>
Normally we give too much credit to actors. They often work for short
periods and force myriad takes. Directors manipulate and cajole them.
Then the filmmakers spend months choosing the best shots, carving them
and stringing them together to make the story (and the long-gone
actors) look good.

"Doubt" is an exception, only in that the actors are especially
marvelous. The many close-ups and the length of the shots attest to the
trust John Patrick Shanley puts in them. Streep and Hoffman are superb.
Adams and Davis are remarkable as well.

Still the most credit for this phenomenal effort must go to Shanley.

What a fascinating story, with layers and springbacks that will leave
you thinking and rethinking.

Thank you very much to all involved with this fine film.
<|_=00=_|>
According to a report commissioned by the U.S. Conference of Catholic
Bishops, over four thousand clerics were accused of sexual abuse during
the past fifty years. Although approximately thirty percent of these
accusations were not investigated because they were unsubstantiated,
given the proclivity of the bishops to cover up these incidents, the
figures are widely suspected to be underestimated. What may be lost in
the discussion of statistics about sexual abuse in the Catholic Church,
however, is an understanding of the humanity of the people involved or
the complexities of the circumstances.

This factor is brought to light in Doubt, John Patrick Shanley's filmed
version of his Tony Award and Pulitzer Prize winning stage play. Based
on Shanley's personal experiences at Catholic School, the film explores
not only the issue of possible sexual abuse but conservative versus
progressive religious values and how far one can rely on suspicion in
the absence of proof. Set in 1964, one year after the Kennedy
assassination, Sister Aloysius Beauvier (Meryl Streep) is the dragon
lady of St. Nicholas school in the Bronx. A strict taskmaster, she
relishes her role as the upholder of tradition, rejecting such modern
devices as ballpoint pens and the singing of secular songs at Christmas
like Frosty the Snowman which she equates with pagan magic.

Under Aloysius is the sweet and innocent Sister James (Amy Adams) whose
easy going manner and charming personality is a welcome antidote to her
authoritarian superior. The priest at St. Nicholas is Father Flynn
(Philip Seymour Hoffman) who is the closest thing to a progressive at
the school. He is open to new ideas and the changes initiated by Pope
John XXIII, being much more open and relaxed with the children and
engaging them in sports and conversation. In his sermons he brings the
language of religion into the twentieth century, talking about the
positive aspects of doubt and the injurious effects of gossip. "Doubt",
he says, "can be a bond as powerful and sustaining as certainty. When
you are lost, you are not alone." Resentful of the role of women in the
Catholic Church and suspicious of Father Flynn, Sister Aloysius assigns
Sister James to keep an eye peeled for anything unusual in his conduct.
Her fears appear justified when Sister James reports that Father Flynn
asked Donald Miller (Joseph Foster II), the school's only
African-American student, to a private conference in the rectory and
was seen hanging up the boys undershirt in his locker. Sister James
also informs her that there was alcohol on the boy's breath and that
the boy seemed upset when returning to his desk.

Although no inappropriate behavior was witnessed, Sister Aloysius
suspects wrongdoing and summons the priest to her office on the pretext
of discussing the Christmas pageant. She accuses the priest of
misconduct with the altar boy who denies that he gave altar wine to the
boy or that anything unusual happened. The drama takes more twists and
turns, especially when Donald's mother (Viola Davis) raises Aloysius'
eyebrows by suggesting that, in spite of the allegations, the boy, who
is due to enter high school in a few months, may be better off in the
hands of the priest than having to face his intolerant and abusive
father.

Doubt avoids easy answers and challenges us to view inflammatory issues
from a broader perspective, embracing the essential mystery of human
behavior. The acting in the film is uniformly brilliant. Streep is
mesmerizing, even if at times more theatrical than may be necessary for
the character. Philip Seymour Hoffman's performance is more restrained
and draws our sympathy with his broader view of church doctrine and
display of love and compassion, although his demeanor at the end
tantalizingly suggests remorse.

What may be the most noteworthy performance, however, is that of Viola
Davis whose dialogue with Aloysius is one of the dramatic high points
of the film. The issue of whether Father Flynn acted as a friend and
mentor to the boy or a sexual partner is ultimately left to the viewer
to resolve, though what is beyond doubt is that absolute certainty
without considering other points of view is a dead end for all
involved.
<|_=00=_|>
Strong performances are the saving grace of "Doubt," an otherwise
uneven, overly glib tale of possible sexual abuse in one New York City
parish circa 1964.

Sister Aloysius is a tradition-bound nun who goes through life utterly
untroubled by uncertainty or doubt, running her convent and grade
school with unyielding self-righteousness and the iron fist of
unchallenged authority. Sister Aloysius doesn't take any more kindly to
the accoutrements of the modern world - she has banned all ballpoint
pens from the premises and decries "Frosty the Snowman" as a
celebration of pagan magic - than she does to the "liberalizing" effect
Vatican II has had on the Church she views as the last bastion of
morality in an increasingly permissive and immoral world. This puts her
in direct conflict with Father Flynn, a reform-minded,
man-of-the-people priest who is more concerned with his parishioners'
needs than with church ritual per se - yet whom Sister Aloysius has
reason to suspect might be a pedophile. Or is she simply targeting the
man and seeing what she wants to see because his view of the Church is
so at odds with her own? The third main character, Sister James, is a
perpetually upbeat but generally naïve novice who becomes more than a
disinterested bystander in the war-of-wills that erupts between her two
equally hardnosed superiors.

In adapting his play to the screen, writer/director John Patrick
Shanley hits on some intriguing themes revolving around certainty vs.
doubt and traditionalism vs. progressivism, but the movie isn't always
as intellectually honest and convincing as one might wish it to be,
especially when Shanley indulges in such hokey effects as the winter
wind batting against the windows or well-orchestrated thunder bolts
crashing overhead at "meaningful" moments in the picture. Similarly,
the reactions the characters have to one another and the situation
they're involved in don't always ring true given the less enlightened
time period in which the story takes place. And the final
"transformative" moment comes upon us with such abruptness and with so
little preparation that it quite literally rings down the curtain on
the entire enterprise.

Yet, despite all these flaws, "Doubt" periodically rises to the
occasion and does justice to the complexity of its subject matter. This
is particularly the case in a searing scene between Sister Aloysius and
the mother of one of the boys who may have fallen victim to Father
Flynn's inappropriate conduct, a scene that catches us completely
off-guard with its sheer unexpectedness and its paradigm-shifting
effect on the story.

Moreover, the performances are uniformly excellent, starting with Meryl
Streep who brings a surprising amount of humor and even warmth to a
character who is, for all intents and purposes, cut off from her
emotions by her dogmatically rigid nature. Phillip Seymour Hoffman
effectively keeps us guessing as to the truth about his character,
never tipping his hand one way or the other as to what is taking place
in the depths of his soul. Amy Adams makes a compelling stand-in for
those of us in the audience who are trying to reserve judgment on these
two characters before all the facts are revealed. Special note must
also be taken of Viola Davis, superb in her brief but unforgettable
appearance as the mother who delivers an unsettling response to news
that her son may have been the victim of a sexual predator.

The movie seems to suggest that one can never have one hundred percent
certitude about anything in this life and that actions must often be
taken even when all the "facts" in a particular case can never be fully
known. Yet, what happens when such an action could result in the
destruction of another person's livelihood and reputation? It's an
interesting theme that is only sporadically well addressed by "Doubt,"
but the food-for-thought that the movie provides makes it worth
checking out anyway.
<|_=00=_|>
Wow! Incredible performances from Meryl Streep and Philip Seymore
Hoffman. Mesmerizing intensity from Streep as the nun seeking to find
Hoffman guilty of a sin he may or may not have committed. Amy Adams
gives a sincere performance as the nun who sets the ball rolling with
her suspicions that Hoffman may have molested a black student. The
scenes between Streep and Hoffman crackle with intelligence and
frightening intensity. Streep, as the unrelenting figure of justice,
determined at any cost to destroy Hoffman, is terrifying and
unrelenting. Hoffman gives a performance less restrained and mannered
than the one he gave in Capote (and won the Oscar for) and boy, does he
ever deserve to have won a second one for this outing. An absolute
knockout, nuanced and convincing in every way. What a masterful
performance! John Patrick Shanley's script is riveting from start to
finish. If anyone has any doubts about watching this movie due to the
theme then put those doubts aside as the writing and acting are without
doubt amongst the finest ever committed to film. A superb piece of
work.
<|_=00=_|>
'Doubt' has turned out to be quite a fascinating puzzle. The story is
pretty much told through dialogue rather than portrayal of events.
Shanley's overwhelming screenplay is so effective and the element of
mystery is carried out so strongly that even the viewer is left
doubting the actions of the priest and the motives of the head nun
(were her accusations legitimate or was it all an intent to ruin the
priest). His incredible direction takes us through the psyche of the
four principle characters.

Needless to say, the outstanding performances are just the necessary
requirements that Shanley has successfully met. After all, who could
ask for a better cast than Meryl Streep, Philip Seymour Hoffman, Amy
Adams and Viola Davis? All these actors display some of the best acting
of their career. It is both the dialogue delivery and the non-verbal
gestures that strengthens the doubts in the viewers mind and makes the
characters nonetheless more convincing.

The slightly washed-out colours give the look of the 60s but also adds
to the mysterious atmosphere. 'Doubt' is a very thought-provoking film.
It has one questioning. Should the nun have reacted or should she have
waited for evidence? But what if it was already too late for evidence?
What has doubt done to them? It has them questioning themselves
constantly. It has stolen their sleep. We accept that it is human to
doubt but what does doubt do to us? What kind of power does it hold
above us? How do we react on it? When should we react on it? The
director beautifully manages to convey and provoke this without
appearing pretentious or preachy.
<|_=00=_|>
Doubt {dir. John Patrick Shanley} (****/****)

Although it includes some heavy themes, Doubt, is one of the most
entertaining and involving films to come along in quite sometime.
Rarely have my heart and mind been so engaged in a film simultaneously.
At its heart, Doubt remains the stage play upon which it is based,
about a priest who is accused of having an inappropriate relationship
with a young boy. The priest is played by Phillip Seymour Hoffman, and
the nun investigating (Sister Aloysius, great name) the situation is
played by Meryl Streep, the best living actress and the best actress of
the year. The language used in the film treats the situation very
carefully and the confrontations between the characters crackle with
well- written intensity. The film's central theme is indeed the title:
Doubt. As an audience, we are left to our own devices in judging Father
Flynn's relationship to the young boy. This uncertainty is a rare and
valuable thing in film today. Great performances, wonderful writing and
tough themes.
<|_=00=_|>
I think there are two distinct cases to discuss: the case in the movie;
the case about the movie.

The case in the movie: it is 1964 and in a Catholic school in Bronx a
conflict erupts between the principal (Meryl Streep) and the priest
(Philip Seymour Hoffman). The principal is Sister Aloysius, a nun very
strict about the discipline. The priest, Father Flynn, is just the
opposite, a very natural guy, open to people and to the world. The nun
suspects him of pedophilia. The suspicion will never be confirmed,
never thrown away. Eventually it's up to us to decide, and our role of
spectators is played in the movie by Sister James (Amy Adams), a
younger nun who is trying to understand what really is, oscillating
between the two. By the way, genial idea of using male names for the
Catholic nuns, to stress out the strictness of their rules.

The case about the movie: the epoch Doubt was made and the epoch the
picture takes place are very different. The sixties were the years of
Vatican II; the Catholic Church was opening largely its windows. It was
the conflict (often brutal) between new and tradition, between
progressives and conservatives. This was then. Today the Church is
facing the scandals of pedophilia (and the way they are handled by the
Catholic hierarchy).

So, if we take the epoch of the sixties, we take the side of Father
Flynn, a man open to modernity, empathizing with the youth, with their
questions and their way of seeing the world, speaking the language of
his epoch, a wonderful man suspected by a retrograde nun.

Only the movie is made today, for today's viewers, and we are focused
on today's issues. So here is the question: once the nun had suspicions
that the priest was a pedophile, what was the right way to take? To not
follow a case without positive evidence? Or, by the contrary, to follow
the case, to force him to come with proofs of his innocence? What was
more important: his right to privacy or the safety of the boys? We can
say that the movie leaves the case open. Nothing demonstrates
positively that the priest is a pedophile; nothing demonstrates that he
isn't.

Well, the movie brings something more: what if? What if the boy is born
with another orientation and the priest is just understanding and
protecting him? Maybe just because the priest has the same orientation?
There is a key scene in the movie, the discussion between Sister
Aloysius and the boy's mother (wonderfully played by Viola Davis),
leading to an unexpected outcome.

And I think here is the doubt the movie is putting forward: more than
the doubt of Sister James (is Father Flynn an abominable pedophile,
beyond his openness?), more even than the doubt of Sister Aloysius (was
she right in following a man without positive proofs?), there is the
doubt of humanity. Human behavior is complex, each human case is unique
and cannot be assimilated to a general pattern. Things aren't every
time what they look like, we should always consider this question, what
if?
<|_=00=_|>
"Doubt" dares to explore one of the most compelling issues of recent
years, and to do so with a completely unmanipulative perspective with
no sermonizing.

The linear narrative style is refreshing, with no flashbacks and flash
forwards, and no contamination of the story (set in the early 1960s)
with the hindsight of recent events. It is relentless. We see the
events of those days without any cinematic deus ex machina. We are not
privileged to any all-showing exposition of critical events. We have
only the souls of the principles as expressed in their dialog and in
their faces.

With the mighty acting duo of Philip Seymour Hoffman and Meryl Streep,
and a more than able supporting cast and superb direction, "Doubt" has
dramatic fireworks without cheap gimmicks.

The final 30 seconds puts a fitting cap on the message. The effect is
devastating.
