
I have to agree with the previous reviewer. This is the best thriller
I've seen in years. 

Definitely kept me on the edge of my seat.

The writing is outstanding. All four principal actors do well and
Gyllenhaal, especially, carries the plot forward extremely well.

At the start, I feared a stock, predictable Hollywood thriller. But
soon I found myself en wrapped in Gyllenhaal's puzzle-within-a puzzle.

At the end, the Industry audience for this screening erupted in
spontaneous applause.

Duncan Jones is definitely a young director to watch.

If you like thrillers, go see this film!
<|_=00=_|>
I was very fortunate to be at the World Premiere at SXSW in Austin and
attended the Q&A after with James Duncan, Vera Farmiga, Michelle
Monaghan, Jake Gyllenhaal and Ben Ripley. The story line keeps you on
the edge of your seat and adds in enough humor to make it a thoroughly
enjoyable experience. There is amazing, subtle chemistry between Jake
and Michelle which really is the star of the film, performances by all
the actors are excellent. Beautiful cinematography that will make
Chicago proud. The ending brings up more questions than answers, but it
feels right, so that's OK with me. I am not a big sci-fi fan, but this
film delivers on romance, suspense, mystery and thrills. Highly
recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
My first glance, I thought it's gonna be an ordinary action movie. The
guy will look for the bomber, He'll find the bomber, he wants to save
the girl, Eventually he saves the girl. But the movie isn't like that.
The movie ends up having mysteries with unpredictably smart
revelations. It's not an action blockbuster cookie cutter. It's a
unique kind of movie that intrigues the whole cinema and let us enjoy
the ride in a new way.

"Source Code" is not a clichéd mediocre action blockbuster. The movie
avoids being predictable and wants to be smart and mind-bending. Duncan
Jones isn't the kind of director who cares about the action. By the way
this is his first action movie but he's smart for not making super cool
unrealistic action scenes. He cares about the story. The movie have
many intriguing subplots that is not easy to figure out. The movie
wanted to be as smart as possible.

The performances were great. Jake Gyllenhaal made the whole game
exciting. Michelle Monaghan shows her role's innocence. Vera Farmiga is
obviously good in here. Jeffery Wright is the best among the four. The
rest of the filmmaking, Chris Bacon's music score sounds old fashion
and I liked it. The effects isn't really that great but it doesn't
matter. The script is indeed smart. The movie also has a heart.

"Source Code" is as good as "Limitless". Both of them had the same
reason why is it good. It's smart, intriguing(I've said this word many
times in this review), and indeed original. Most action movies these
days wanted to be super cool and super loud. "Source Code" doesn't
really have a big action but it's more fun, made more sense and it's
super smart.
<|_=00=_|>
What a movie. The price is worth paying. This movie gets straight to
the point. You know you see a lot of movies that waste so much time
getting into a story. Not this film, virtually from the off, we are
there, in the film. It's like there is no beginning, but a middle and
an end. Obviously you guys know the storyline so I'll not waste time
telling you what it is about, just go and see it. It is a film that
keeps you looking, you actually feel like you are 'in the source code'
which is fantastic. The only downside to this film is that it feels
short, it was 93 minutes but it simply flies by. Maybe that is a good
thing? Shows how good this film was!

GO CHECK IT OUT!
<|_=00=_|>
The future of movies doesn't seem too bright since all we're getting
are remakes, adaptations and unnecessary prequels/sequels and that's
why original stuff like SOURCE CODE can really make my day.

Honestly, the trailers and initial premise didn't seem promising; some
soldier can travel back in time and has to stop an some evil terrorist
from bombing America. At first glance it looked more like some
patriotic Steven Segal movie written by Tom Clancy with a higher budget
and better actors. And then you watch it.

Like INCEPTION, this is one of the few movies that you can't spoil
since even the smallest detail could accidentally reveal a twist or
two. The story itself is a very original blend of thriller, sci-fi and
drama and it works. Full of unseen twists and with a high octane
pacing, SOURCE CODE will keep you wanting for more as each answer is
slowly revealed. The script helps too but its the actors, who deliver
the lines well, who drive the movie into emotional levels. My only
problem with the film is some weak foreshadowing but it thankfully
doesn't affect the movie in a bad way and to give any more details
would spoil the film. 

To keep it short and to avoid accidentally spoiling a plot detail or
two, SOURCE CODE is a must watch. It's one of the few original films
out there in a market full of crap and it's definitely worth your
money. It's just a pity that Hollywood doesn't seem to be supporting
these kinds of films.
<|_=00=_|>
I've been waiting for this movie for 2 years. I loved Duncan Jones'
last film/debut Moon.

It was worth it.

Source Code is the best movie that I've seen so far this year. Source
Code stars Jake Gyllenhaal as Captain Colter Stevens, a helicopter
pilot for the U.S. Military. He wakes up on a train in the body of a
man named Sean Fentress. Across from him is a woman named Christina
played by the always wonderful Michelle Monaghan. After a few minutes
of being confused as hell BOOM! We start out with a big CG building and
it's like AUGGH! Then Helicopters burst into flames and they're like
AUGH! BOOM! AUGH! Then motorcycles burst into flames while they jump
over these helicopters. An 18 wheeler spins out of control and its all
like BROSH! And this huge tanker full of dynamite is like BRAH! BRAHH!

In other words the train blew up.

Turns out that Colter Stevens is in a computer program called the
Source Code which allows him to enter somebody's body for the last 8
minutes of his life. Vera Farmiga and Jeffrey Wright play the people in
charge of the Source Code. They are very good in their supporting
roles. Stevens' job is quite simple: Find the bomber so the next attack
can be prevented.

So some might argue that this movie isn't original, but they'd actually
be kinda wrong. Yes, this movie features Groundhog's day formula and
it's about terrorism. It's been compared to a crapload of movies
including

■Groundhog Day ■Inception ■Déjà vu ■12 Monkeys ■Quantum Leap ■The
Butterfly Effect ■Memento ■Avatar ■Assasin's Creed ■Vantage Point
■Unstoppable ■Prince of Persia: The sands of time ■Final Destination

I haven't seen all of these, but I've seen most of them. Let me say
right now that Source Code is not that similar to any of those films.
Source Code is great, intelligent, entertaining science fiction. There
are many great things to say. First off, the acting is fantastic by
everybody. Gyllenhaal is in this movie for nearly every frame and he's
great in every scene. This is one of his best performances to date and
he's had a lot of good performances. Michelle Monaghan has this
innocent charm with her character. Vera Farmiga and the very underrated
Jeffrey Wright give very interesting and complex performances as well.
This film is a whodunit, and lately a lot of those have had rather
obvious answers to who did it. The guilty person and/or persons in this
movie is NOT obvious. Not at all. At least not to me. A film like this
could have suffered from being repetitive since Gyllenhaal repeats the
same 8 minutes over and over again, but each time is significantly
different from the last so the film feels fresh throughout. The best
thing about the movie though is the human story in it. It's really
emotionally connecting especially around the end. Stevens was a very,
very likable character who I wanted to succeed. The message is moving.
The ending is fascinating. I think too many people are calling it off
as a plot hole. Its clearly meant to be open to interpretation, kind of
like Inception. Lots of people think that it should have ended 10
minutes earlier, but I thought it had a very strong ending. The movie
clocks in at a mere 93 minutes, but every second is great.

Sure, a real life Source Code isn't a computer program, but I don't get
why so many damn people are complaining about that. Another note is
that the trailer is a tiny bit misleading. It makes it seem like the
whole movie is about Gyllenhaal trying save Michelle Monaghan in a
typical "save the girl" formula. It's not. The movie is about
Gyllenhaal looking for the bomber and it's entertaining all the way
through.

Sadly Source Code hasn't done good at the box office. It's too bad,
because it deserves a LOT of money.

Source Code may not be quite as good as Moon, but it's damn close.
<|_=00=_|>
I happen to see this picture yesterday, with a friend of mine, and
liked it quite a bit. But it illustrates an increasing problem with big
budgeted movies. Spoilers follow.

The movie opens with the hero, an Army helicopter pilot, coming to
consciousness on a Chicago commuter train. He's being addressed by a
pretty girl as her boyfriend. He has various interactions with other
passengers. He has no idea of what's going on. As he's trying to figure
out who and where he is, a bomb detonates, killing everyone.

He finds himself back in a cell, something like a space capsule. He's
informed that he's just been a part of a computer simulation, that the
train was blown up that morning, that he's been cybernetically linked
with the remnants of one of the victims (let it go, this is science
fiction), and that his mission is to ID the bomber and prevent him or
her from doing more damage. The simulation repeats and he's off again,
a bit wiser, and wiser with every iteration.

Now, you don't have to be an experienced science fiction reader (which
I am) to figure out that the Army pilot is dead, that these computer
people are hooking up his brain to the simulation. Live people don't
end up inside computer programs. But this does come as a big surprise
to the captain, and to the more naive members of the audience. And it
does set up what should have been a really original ending.

The hero finally completes the mission, having fallen for the girl
along the way. He knows he's dead, and so is she, and all this is
virtual reality. He pleads with the sympathetic operator to let him
redo the simulation one last time, then let him die - completely.
Touched, she agrees, even though the ogre chief of the project wants to
'wipe his memory' and use him again. 

And what happens in the last iteration is what should have made the
movie memorable. Knowing this is his last remnant of consciousness,
what he does the last time is make everyone in the train car happy.
He's learned a great deal about them the other times through. He bets a
comedian (whom he has recognized from television) all the money he has
that he can't make everyone on the car laugh. The man takes the bet and
proceeds to do just that. As the seconds tick down to the inevitable
end, when they'll all be incinerated, he takes the girl in his arms,
tells her he loves her, and wants to be with her forever. The frame
freezes and pans the whole length of the car, revealing every passenger
laughing or in various states of bliss. This is the instant that will
see the hero into eternity.

Not bad, completely unexpected, and, like the best twists, revealing
that the theme of the drama was something completely different than the
detective story it seemed to be. It's always nice to be surprised like
that. I will confess to having to deal with moist eyes constantly at
movies, and this was another occasion. A perfect ending. I reached for
my hat, expecting the credits to roll up, and . . . . .

. . . it wasn't over. It went on for another 15 minutes, into the most
God-awful coda you ever saw, completely obliterating the premises of
the story, so bad I am not going to describe it.

What goes on? My guess is that when they previewed the movie, they
found that the some members of the audience were dismayed that people
as cute and likable as Jake Gyllenhall and Michelle Monaghan have to
suffer the fate they do. A happy ending required. I think that's what
happens, given production costs and promotion costs in the tens of
millions. Trusting the better sense of the audience is a thing of the
past. Too much sunk cost.
<|_=00=_|>
Source code is one of those few action/sci-Fi movies that work
effectively without exaggeration or embellishment. When we see Source
Code we see the certain resemblance it has with ''Déjà Vu'' with Denzel
Washington but Duncan Jones, with his own talent his own style prevent
that from happening. Source Code has is own method and approach, which
is quite entertaining and enjoyable. This movie is certainly
recommended for all the action-junkies because this has all to be a
''Summer Hit'' which confuses me, why hasn't this opened in June or
July, it had the potential and the content of an ''Summer''
blockbuster. Jake Gyllenhaal is not your typical action hero, since but
he really pulls everything off really well. Michelle Monaghan and Vera
Farmiga are both absolutely gorgeous women with talent. On the whole
Source Code is pure entertainment at its best.
<|_=00=_|>
I was looking forward to seeing " Source Code " ever since I saw the
1st trailer, and I was lucky enough to catch it in an advance
screening, before it officially released here, and it just exceeded my
expectations. this is the type of movies that will keep you interested
till the very ending . it's probably the best sci-fi/thriller since
Inception ! no big action scenes, no big explosions, no usage of
unnecessary CGI, well-written story, solid performance from Mr.
Gyllenhaal ( who is now officially one of my favorite actors ) and
another hit from my newest favorite filmmaker Duncan Jones. don't miss
it !
<|_=00=_|>
When i saw this at a preview screening, i was not surprised to find
another great film from one of the best sci-fi directors of our time;
Duncan Jones, who brought us the instant classic, Moon. Source Code is
in part an original movie but bears brief resemblance to Tony Scott's
Action/Thriller Deja Vu. Source Code centers itself around Colter
Stevens, an AFO soldier who wakes upon a train, not knowing how he got
there or why and how people are addressing him as someone else, and
soon enough the train explodes, supposedly killing everyone. But
Stevens awakes to find himself in a kind of "machine" called the Source
Code.

The whole story is fantastic, with a man (Stevens) having to go back in
time and trying to find out who is behind the bombing. With even more
praise is the directing, script, and the choice of actors for the
roles. Jake Gyllenhaal was perfect in the role of Stevens as Jeffery
Wright was for his role as Dr. Rutledge who believes everything has to
go his way or the "mission" will be ruined. Overall, this is a thriller
that is not to be missed. But for those who have seen this as well, i
agree that if the ending was different and more powerful, the movie
would be an INSTANT science fiction classic, but it falls just short of
that. Still one that will be remembered for all time, in my opinion.

9/10 Stars***
