
I have watched this film in 3d at a preview screening in London.

First of all, I do not recommend anyone watching this in 3d. It is too
dark and the action is just a motion blur. It's dreadful.

As for the film, there is much to enjoy with excellent visual effects,
action set pieces (though ruined for me by the 3D) and a couple of
stand out characters. But unfortunately there is also much to cringe at
in some bouts of terrible dialogue.

The characters of Reepicheep (the kick-ass warrior mouse) and Eustace,
(the obnoxious brat cousin) were the most fun with the actor playing
Eustace demonstrating excellent comic timing. The relationship between
them was funny and touching. And they even brought much needed zest to
the action.

But alarmingly, Edmund and Lucy seem to have deteriorated as actors.
Some of their emotions are too forced which is a pity. Not sure why, as
I would expect them to improve with each film as did the young cast of
the Harry Potter movies.

Overall, the story has surprisingly been well adapted considering not a
great deal actually happens in the book. But the pacing is good, even
though a little episodic. There are much more Christian analogies once
again which would please many and irritate others. But I rather like
all of the analogies.

I do feel however, that amongst adults, mostly those who enjoyed the
Narnia books will enjoy this more than non readers of the books because
the story is too bizarre even for a fantasy! But I think most children
will enjoy this immensely, regardless if they read the books or not.

With better written dialogue and better handling of the child
performances (namely Lucy and Edmund), this could have been a much
better film but as its stands its an enjoyable enough entry in this
series.

Oh and I will say it again, do not watch this in 3d.
<|_=00=_|>
I was SO looking forward to the Voyage of the Dawn Treader, and was
sorely disappointed. 

The film felt like they took the original story, chopped it up, then
threw it in a blender with seven magical swords and some ridiculous
green mist! 

While the film stayed true to main themes of the story, much of the
character development and purpose to each of the minor island stories
was lost. Unfortunately this meant that most of the magic of the story
was lost as well.

I gave the film 6 stars due to the redeeming qualities that were the
stunning visuals, some excellent acting (notably by Will Poulter as
Eustace), and a beautifully executed final scene.

If you haven't read the book, then you may enjoy this film immensely,
but if you are a true Narnia fan, don't go in with very high
expectations.
<|_=00=_|>
An adaptation of a book can't be completely faithful. We all understand
this and accept it: There just isn't space even in a two hour movie to
include everything which happens in an entire novel.

But this travesty wanders so far away from the source material,
introducing an unneeded quest for magical swords and a pointless "big
bad" invented from whole cloth which adds nothing to the story but
merely takes time away from the relevant.

Add in the mysterious change of Reepicheep's voice - what happened? Was
Eddie Izzard unavailable for this one? - and the lamentable shift from
intelligence to brute force as a solution to, for example, the Lone
Islands slavery problem and what we have here is a dreadful movie which
completely misses the point of the book.
<|_=00=_|>
I felt really disappointed when I saw this film. Sure Ben Barnes was
great eye candy in this movie but other than that there wasn't anything
to enjoy.

The book was this adventure story showing the change of Eustace, a
self-centered, no-nonsense boy who didn't believe in anything. The
movie was a flash from one island to another showing some made up
villain in green smoke which was half-fast and not even slightly
thought out.

I guess the script writers weren't able to grasp what the story was
really about and they thought there had to be some visible villain to
fight. The whole book was about Man Vs. Self but by throwing in this
green smoke that makes you see what you fear it seemed to take away the
realness of how horrible even good people are inside. They really
managed to destroy their own movie by making that the center of their
story rather than having it be the growing up book it really was.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is about the Pevensies and their cousin entering Narnia
again, in order to help Prince Caspian gather all seven swords of the
lords to fight against dark forces.

"The Chronicles of Narnia: The Voyage of the Dawn Treader" is a good
film. It has elements for everyone to enjoy, such as clean humour,
excitement, dangers and also psychological elements. The plot is
straightforward and easy to understand. It is also filled with
excitement, especially the battle with the dragon is quite
breathtaking. The plot and the characters engage me a lot. This time,
the Pevensies have matured, and hence are a lot less annoying. They
even become interesting characters as they battle to overcome their own
inadequacies. This subplot is aimed at adults, but it still can be
understood by children at face value.

The 3D though, is a lot less thrilling than the film. Most scenes do
not have noticeable 3D effects. The scenes that do have 3D are quite
underwhelming. There are little scenes in the film that makes use of
the 3D technology. I can safely say that watching the 2D version would
be just as enjoyable than the 3D version, and you can save a few
dollars by doing so.
<|_=00=_|>
Chronicles of Narnia: Voyage of the Dawn Treader

It has been a few years now and a studio, director, and production team
change since we last had a Narnia film but finally the third film in
the series, The Voyage of the Dawn Treader, has finally come to screen
and what can I say? It is well worth your money for you and your entire
family to see it. The film is made by 20th Century Fox and Walden
Media, directed by Michael Apted, still with actors Ben Barnes as
Prince Caspian, Liam Neesan as the voice of Aslan the Lion, Skander
Keynes again as Edmund, Georgie Henley as Lucy, with Will Poulter (Son
of Rambow) as their cousin Eustace.

The story centers around Edmund and Lucy returning to Narnia this time
with their whiny cousin Eustace where they meet up with Prince Caspian,
now King Caspian, onboard the Narnia ship the Dawn Treader. With years
of peace enjoyed in Narnia, they are unsure why they are there but soon
find themselves on an adventure to battle a mysterious force that
threatened Narnia where they face slavers, dragons, temptation,
serpents, and learn to become greater than they ever thought they could
be. The film follows the plot of the book very well expanding in order
to make it flow as a proper story. The additions are perfectly
plausible and make the story more cohesive and unlike the changes in
Prince Caspian, improve the story. Flowing along quickly, this is by
far the shortest in runtime of the series yet also the most powerful
and magical, it starts well and ends on a such a high emotional note
there are few that will escape unaffected from any screening.

Special effects stand out, with the absence of WETA in the production
and special effects I was anxious to see if the new team, actually a
fairly large group of small companies, could match what WETA was able
to create I am here to tell you YES and in some ways they have
surprassed their creations. The dragon and a sea serpent in the film
alone are well worth admission, both created with much care and love
and really the magic of a fantasy world involved. Other characters from
Reepicheep the mouse, a Minotaur, and other creatures are beautiful to
behold. The only one that seemed a little down was Aslan who though
looking good seems a step down from what WETA created in Lion the Witch
and the Wardrobe and Prince Caspian but the rest is so vivid with color
and imagination there is little doubt that it will not just capture the
imagination of the young but the entire family and keep them from first
shot to last frame.

Music is another powerful entry, the strong Narnia theme running
through this film giving it wonder and magic that belongs in this type
of film. The strongest song though involves the arrival of a dragon, a
piece with great power and a pulse that gives one of the most powerful
scenes in the film even greater amazement and magic. Do you want to
capture the imagination of a child and your childhood, an escapist film
that will be great entertainment for the entire family? THIS IS THAT
FILM!

Acting has been hit but this one features better acting and character
moments than the other films. With fewer characters than the other two
films this one can focus more on the characters and each of the main
characters get multiple character building moments that give us greater
love and really infuses the film with such emotional power that its
hard not to be moved, especially by the climax. Everyone from Edmund to
Lucy, to Caspian, to Reepicheep, to Eustace, get powerful scenes that
culimate in the strongest ending to a Narnia films and one of the most
poignant scenes I have seen in a film in a very long time.

Christians out there, do you fear that the Christian themes are
stripped out of this movie? Do not fear, this film is as powerfully
religious as it is in magic. All of the religious undertones are not
covered but are out in the open for all to see. There is no fear, like
what Disney had, when it comes to hitting these themes and the director
displays them in all their glory with as much power as C.S. Lewis wrote
them to be.

The 3D of the film was fine, it does not detract now does it really
add. I believe one would be fine seeing it or not seeing it in 3D,
whatever you prefer.

Overall, Voyage of the Dawn Treader is a powerful entry in the fantasy
genre, a great film for the entire family, and the type of film that
belongs in December and should be watched time and time again by young
and old alike! I give this film an 8.5/10.
<|_=00=_|>
I really hope people read this and wait to watch this movie until they
can rent it for $1 at redbox. It was awful. Many people have already
discussed the primary problems with the film via their *spoiler*
reviews... but I have to add my vote in a negative direction.

They took the islands out of order. Eustace didn't even try to remove
his own dragon skin. They ruined several of the lords. They MADE UP
crap about a sword and "dark mist". Ramandu wasn't even on his island
(thus missing my second favorite part of the book about him growing
younger). Lucy just pulled Eustaces bracelet off when it's not supposed
to come off easily. The dufflepuds didn't learn how to paddle on their
foot... and so many more disappointments.

Failure on the part of the producers. Eustace and Reepicheep were the
best parts of the movie (really it's only redeeming quality). I
honestly almost left after staying up until midnight and paying $14 to
see it in 3d.

If they make the next movie... please let them consult a Lewis expert.
These books are classics and favorites for a reason. It is so vain to
think they can "fix" them. Grrr.
<|_=00=_|>
The first several minutes of the Film, I thought that would be a
wonderful addition to the Movie Versions of Narnia. It had a good
opening scene and a smooth transition from Prince Caspian to The Dawn
Treader. Three scenes later, I was wondering if I had perhaps stepped
into the wrong cinema, and if not, when the Chronicles of Narnia turned
into a crossover with Deathly Hallows, (Find the seven horcrux - I
mean, swords) and what the director and screenwriters were smoking when
they filmed this. I spent most of the film staring in horror as the
book I loved since childhood was utterly mutilated in the worst
book-to-movie adaption since 'Ella Enchanted'. Honestly, the Lone
Islands did have a problem with slavery, but there were no human
sacrifices, and Lord Bern was a well-off man living happily, if against
slave-traders, not some half-mad loon sitting in a dungeon. The Quest
was to find the Seven Banished Lords, not to hunt down seven swords,
and while I can understand Jadis still lurking among Edmund's fears,
the sea serpent was entirely un-necessary. They found Lord Rhoop on the
Island of Dreams (BEFORE Ramandu's Island), but he was desperate to get
out, not waving his sword around and attacking people. And what orifice
did they pull the Evil Mist (TM) out of, anyway? I understood that
while Gold/Deathwater Island and Dragon Island were two different
places, placing them together was necessary, and carried well, given
that both islands brought similar lessons, and the encounter with the
Dufflepudds and the Magicitan were pulled off nicely. I found myself
praising the Emperor Over The Sea that they got Ramandu's Island and
the End of The World/Aslan's Country right. By that point, I was
starting to wonder if Miraz was going to come back from the dead and
prove to be the 'Great Evil', considering the path the movie was
taking. On the positive side, I enjoyed the way that Lucy's insecurity
and jealousy of Susan was portrayed, as well as her discovery that she
needed to be herself. I also liked the bond between Caspian and the
children from our world, and the settings were beautiful.

People who have never read the books will probably enjoy it, but those
who have will be either foaming at the mouth, or refusing to waste good
money seeing it again, if they didn't walk out half-way through.
<|_=00=_|>
Today I saw the movie in 3-D and I TOTALLY agree with the minority of
people here. I have read all the books of Chronicles of Narnia several
times and I really like them. I also have audio books from Focus on the
Family's Radio theater. And I like that really too. I almost know some
scenes by heart and I was expecting to see those scenes in this movie
too. But as I continued watching the movie I realized that all things
were ABSOLUTELY screwed up. I thought that I am watching some other
movie, not Narnia, that the whole thing was some silly mistake. I was
really disappointed and don't know what to think of it at all.

I am just hoping that someone will make a remake of the movies in the
way that corresponds with the plot of those awesome books and forget
what I saw today in the cinema even if I'd have to wait for decades.
<|_=00=_|>
It's been five years from "The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe"
debuted on theaters. The Pevensies have grown up. The first movie would
see a very young Lucy still with a cute face like a first-grader. In
this movie, she looks like she's in seventh grade or eight grade. Seems
like time flows like Narnian time here. 

"Voyage of the Dawn Treader" marks the third film in the Narnia
franchise. It follows King Caspian in a journey to find the seven lost
lords of Narnia whom King Miraz banished during his reign in the
previous film with his ship, the Dawn Treader. On the way, he met
Edmund, Lucy and their pathetic cousin, Eustace Scrubb who turned out
to have a change in the movie. However, there's this horrifying green
mist that can tempt you to do things that can lead up to bad things and
the whereabouts of these lost lords are unknown. So, these people take
on a journey that passes the beyond the Silver Sea (which must be
really somewhere very east) and to the "End of the World". END of the
world not those doomsday things.

"Voyage" is actually a very enjoyable film for both kids and adults
alike. The adventures were really great and breathtaking and should be
a good way to take people's spare time. Its story is understandable for
young kids and its characters are enjoyable and fun to befriend with
especially the mouse, Reepicheep. 

"Voyage" will actually give good laughs to its audience with its jokes
especially with the appearance of the Pevensies' coward, pathetic
Eustace Scrubb who actually changed ever since he visited Narnia. His
actions are the main source of laughs here. His acting also maximized
the laughs in this film and I think comedy is what strengthens this
movie. 

"Voyage" is also powerful in exciting action scenes. This is what seems
to be lacking in the previous films even in the climax where it doesn't
seem that exciting. "Voyage's" climax is very exciting and deserves to
be called a climax. The setting of the scene was well-suited and the
scene was shot beautifully. Definitely awesome. But, this movie is
quite dark for very young children especially in the climax part. It
has grown quite scarier than the previous ones.

"Voyage" also has a new director allowing the series to turn into a
quite different style of film. While the previous ones were really too
childish, this third one puts on several scenes to attract an older
audience. Michael Apted replacing Andrew Adamson is definitely an
advance in the Narnia film series.

However, Narnian fans will miss Peter and Susan Pevensie as they would
not return as main characters but rather just as cameos. The reason in
the story why they didn't return is that they're now too old to return
to Narnia. This movie will only see two Pevensies plus their cousin,
Eustace Scrubb. What a pity.

The 3D effects of the film were actually acceptable. They are actually
quite conspicuous and are good. 3D or 2D would be OK in watching this
movie.

You might notice that the Pevensies have grown a lot over the five
years gap between the first film and this third film. Compared to the
Harry Potter series which had a 3-year gap between the first and third
film, Narnia had a longer gap. As it is also a seven-book series, I'm
quite worried how it will end up in the final film(even though some of
the installments don't include the Pevensies). Let's just hope they
have no problem encountering this situation. 

About its loyalty to the book, the movie did have some changes and some
of them are quite major, QUITE not REALLY (be careful). The arrangement
of scenes were also ordered in a new way. In the middle of the book
starting to the end, that's where the movie's change was big. But, for
me, it was acceptable and let's hope that it's acceptable for other
fans of the book.

"The Chronicles of Narnia: The Voyage of the Dawn Treader" (what a long
title it is) is absolutely a must-watch film for this holiday season
and is very suitable for Christmas. Rather than watching some bloody
films people, merry up and rather watch something appropriate for
Christmas and in 3D if you prefer. It's definitely great and perfect
for families to watch. 

Prince AJB's Score: 9/10 (90%)

Thanks for reading my review and hope it's useful.
