
Following on from his first two audacious features in the niche of
queer cinema, John Cameron Mitchell now enters relatively mainstream
waters to bring us Rabbit Hole, adapted by David Lindsay-Abaire from
his own Pulitzer Prize-winning play. It's a quiet, contemplative film,
brimming with sadness and humor, and lead by a wonderful central
performance.

Nicole Kidman returns to the theme that first brought her to
international attention - that of a mother grieving the loss of a
child, and the emotional aftermath that such a trauma entails. Of
course in the two decades since Dead Calm was released, Kidman has
explored of multitude roles and worked with some of the finest
directors in the industry. She has gained such an authority on screen -
yet somehow, here, she manages to strip away all of our preconceptions
so that we are left with something as raw and natural as she was
opposite Sam Neil at the age of 21. This is her most fully-rounded
character and detailed performance in years - nimble, layered and
completely magnetic.

Becca's journey with her husband Howie (Aaron Eckhart), eight months
after the tragic accident that killed their son, is beautifully
captured by Cameron Mitchell's lens. Despite the film's stage origins,
the story never feels too talky or confined, shots are simple yet
beautifully composed, the editing and pace have a fluid rhythm. The
couple's facade of normalcy - making dinners, attending pious
bereavement groups and keeping up appearances with friends and
neighbors, begins to crack as the mementos of their son's life
disappear. Becca gives his clothes to goodwill and takes his paintings
off the fridge, she accidentally deletes a video of him playing on a
swing - causing a distraught reaction in Howie. The difference in the
way this couple deals with the loss is compelling, and the friction
between them palpable outside of the few explosive scenes.

Their disconnect becomes more and more apparent, and Eckhart plays it
with a wounded humanity that's really effective. Howie wishes they
could "get back on track" and perhaps try for another baby, something
which Becca is not prepared to do. Instead he starts hanging out with
Gabby, a woman from their bereavement group, played by the always
reliable Sandra Oh. Meanwhile prickly moments between Becca and her
irresponsible sister Izzy (Tammy Blanchard) are very well played and
Dianne Wiest provides a lot of warmth and wisdom as Becca's mother, but
doesn't really get a defining moment. Becca both yearns to escape the
reminders of her grief and seeks closure and solace in her pursuit of
Jason, the young man who accidentally ran over her son. This strand of
the story, exploring the idea of parallel universes and fate, gives the
story a unique edge and Miles Teller is easily the stand out of the
supporting cast.

Ultimately what gives this film its power is that Mitchell's focus is
always fiercely rooted in the reality of the situation, side-stepping
the potential sentimentality of the subject - biting humor undercuts
the sorrow and there certain moments of confrontation between Becca,
Howie and Jason that strike quite a visceral chord. The scenes on the
bench between Kidman and Teller contain moments of such purity and
depth as to be heartbreaking - and to me, the final montage is one of
the most sublime and emotionally resonant endings of the past decade. I
can't recommend the film enough, and if there's any justice in the
world Kidman will finally be recognized again by the Academy.
<|_=00=_|>
A subject like this requires attention and scrupulousness and it
definitely had plenty of both. Based on the book "Rabbit Hole" written
by David-Lindsay Abaire, the movie is riveting as far as execution and
concept. It's very well organized, it's narrative structure is
impressive and it definitely catches you emotionally. The story is
about a family, husband (Aaron Eckhart) and wife (Nicole Kidman), that
have to deal with the emotional consequences of losing their 4 years
old child. In order to free themselves they have to accept the past and
move on and also to regain their trust in themselves and recommit to
their marriage. The movie is getting real honest approaching the
human's allowance to forgiveness when the confrontation between the
"broken" family and the one responsible for that finally has place. It
might appear to be a simple story but it's not thanks to the patience
and passion the director, John Cameron Mitchell, invested in it.
Dazzling visually and very inspiring, this movie succeeds to entertain,
amaze and replenish it's audience with hope in totality.

Carried not only by it's execution but also by it's memorable
Oscar-worthy performances, Rabbit Hole finds himself to be one of the
best movies of 2010. Nicole Kidman as the simple Becca, offers one of
her best performances in a long time. It's a simply astounding, honest
and passionate performance of this weakened but reasonable and powerful
woman that must be rewarded by the Academy with at least a nomination
if not the award itself. Aaron Eckart does not get over-shadowed by
Kidman's performance and proves once again that by portraying Becca's
husband, Howie, his acting capabilities exceed our expectations. There
are also notable performances by Dianne Wiest as Becca's mother and
Miles Teller as the one responsible for the suffered loss.

Visually the movie finds it's own identity in the beautiful palette of
colors. The cinematography it's the most you could ask for this kind of
movie. There's no need for any other requirements. The most beautiful
thing though it's the soundtrack which as simple as it might be... it
fits the atmosphere and the story perfectly. Those violin and guitar
chords, the little piano rolling in the background create a unique
peaceful mood.

What I do want at the end of my review is to recommend this movie to
anyone because it's simple but stunning, it's usual but complex,
carried by three overwhelming performances. This is without a doubt one
of the best movies released this year.
<|_=00=_|>
Rabbit Hole is a tragic tale that won't sadden viewers. That is simply
not the purpose despite what the plot and trailer may show. Rabbit Hole
is a story of how two previously happy couple cope with the loss of
their four-year-old son. The what/who/where/why/how is what makes
Rabbit Hole one of 2010's finest films.

Right off the bat you will notice what surrounds this couple; a world
filled with joy and life at the worst moment in their lives. This
feeling does not lend itself to that Oscar-feeling feel it may have
wanted but it certainly works. 

These actors give highly realistic performances that fit perfectly with
this demanding plot. Nicole Kidman steals the show with her best
performance (and movie) since 'Eyes Wide Shut'. Aaron Eckhart also
gives a terrific performance as the grieving husband and father and,
after 'Love Happens', shows that he is back to serious acting as he was
in 'The Dark Knight'.

The best aspect of Rabbit Hole is how you begin by knowing very little
about these characters but end up knowing them as if they were your own
neighbors. You progressively learn what happened to their son and other
details within their past that fit perfectly together without feeling
as they are giving the audience answers. The dialogue also lends itself
to this method and, surprisingly, never feels directed to the audience.

What I found unique is how with such a depressing feel to the film, it
never actually makes the viewer sad, but interested. It is a film that
will make you laugh more than cry and I found that impressive. It isn't
your normal tear-jerker; you are watching this couple live their lives
and deal with this death in an interesting way. Rabbit Hole never has a
dull moment; my eyes were glued to the screen from the start.

Rabbit Hole is simply one of the finest films of 2010. Its execution is
sometimes brilliant and the feeling of self-awareness and thought it
lends to the viewer is unlike anything you may have ever seen. It's not
your run-of-the-mill Oscar contender. Rabbit Hole is a beautiful tale
of life. And death.
<|_=00=_|>
Nicole Kidman has an outstanding resume collected in the past 25 years.
The Hours, Moulin Rouge!, Eyes Wide Shut, The Interpreter, Margot at
the Wedding, The Others, Birth, Dogville, Nine, Cold Mountain, the list
goes on. She's proved herself to be the best working actress out there,
today, but has had a bit of a rough patch since her Oscar win with many
films flopping critically and or financially. "Rabbit Hole" reiterates
the fact she's the best there is. 

Kidman plays Becca with intense, explosive motivation. She really gets
under your skin; you see Becca, not Nicole Kidman. It really is a
landmark in her career. She's bound to get a well- earned Oscar
nomination and will go head-to-head with Natalie Portman for the win
(Don't you wish there were more ties?) She transforms into the role and
drenches it in realism. sorrow. It's beyond words can describe and
mothers who've gone through such a horrible loss will thank Kidman left
and right. 

The script plays a character itself. Its dark subject matter was a
risky one, but it unflinchingly succeeds at all costs. It displays
accurately the process of grief and does justice to the sorrowful
topic. The much needed comic relief moments are in there as well, which
lightens up the mood. Some dialogue will stick with you as you leave
this film and will haunt you. You'll find yourself repeating what's
said in the film. The direction goes hand-in-hand with the script. The
delicate approach is perfectly matched. With a film like this, it could
be over- the-top and obnoxious, or flat and lifeless, but the director
finds just the right note and strikes it right for 90 minutes. 

Aaron Eckhart plays opposite Kidman as the husband, Howie. He is
dignifying in his depiction of a grieving father in need of conquer
this tragedy. Diane Weist is also a wonderful standout as Becca's
mother who has also lost a child. She has her dramatic moments which
are the weight of her performance, but has so much warmth to her
character which really makes you care for her. 

Rabbit Hole isn't to be missed. It's a fascinating, deep, and moving
film that will knock you on your feet. Kidman is terrific, but not
without the support of Eckhart and Weist. The score is also brilliant
and beautiful. At a nice, short running-time, Rabbit Hole will have an
impact on your day.
<|_=00=_|>
'RABBIT HOLE': Four Stars (Out of Five) 

David Lindsay-Abaire adapts his tragic play about a couple who lose
their young son in a car accident. The film is directed by actor turned
director Cameron Mitchell (who also directed 'SHORTBUS' and 'HEDWIG AND
THE ANGRY INCH', in which he also played the title character). It stars
Golden Globe nominee Nicole Kidman (who also produced the film) and
Aaron Eckhart (who's equally impressive). The film is full of tough
hard to watch drama and strikes a very realistic and believable tone.
Depressing but worth the watch.

The film focuses on how each spouse copes differently with their
tragedy. Becca (Kidman) wants to get rid of everything that reminds her
of her son, including the dog he chased into the street the day he was
struck by a car. Howie (Eckhart) wants to hold on to all the things
that bring him cherished memories of his son, including videos he
constantly watches and the dog (which he brings back into the home
after getting into a heated argument with his wife over it). The
couple's marriage nearly falls apart as each looks for comfort in
different ways. Becca finds peace in an odd relationship with the
teenage driver (Miles Teller) who struck their son and Howie finds
happiness with others outside the home as well including a mutual
friend of he and Becca's (Sandra Oh) they know from a counseling group.
Dianne Wiest plays Becca's mother who also lost a son but, as Becca
points out, an adult son to drugs.

The film has some dark comedic moments to lift the tension but for the
most part it's a pretty hard hitting drama. The acting is all
outstanding, especially the two leads, and the film is smartly written
as well as nicely directed. Some might be afraid to watch it because of
it's dark depressing subject matter but it does manage to find a little
small ray of hope in the darkness. Of course there's no happy endings
here but it has some nice commentary to deliver on life and coping with
tragedy.

Watch our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK' at:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6xzh1FLmMq4
<|_=00=_|>
Rabbit Hole is a wonderful drama. I thought it might be good. I
honestly didn't think that it could be that good. It's sad tale. The
movie is more suitable to people who are more mature. People who have
kids or who have lost someone really dear might find this one a real
pleasure. Younger viewers who enjoy mostly American-pie-style movies
don't find it much interesting. Everybody, who likes good dramas which
are based on a tragic stories and concentrates on the relationships
between characters, will fancy this film very much.

Aaron Eckhart and Nicole Kidman are a great couple here. I clearly see
why Kidman personally chose Eckhart to play his husband. They are so
natural. It was pleasing to see those two together. A definite match.

I must admit, the story is quite somber, but I found myself happy after
seeing it. That's probably because I was fascinated by the great
performances of both lead actors. It may work for you too.
<|_=00=_|>
John Cameron Mitchell's piece is the most simple film of the year, yet
one of the best. Please do not confuse simple with simplistic. It's a
rather complex turmoil of emotions that come together to provide an
intense account of a couple coping with their son's death. However it
is done in such a clean and polished manner that one might wonder if
the secret of success lies on the "simple" process of feeling the
imagery and capturing the visual style. It's extremely effective and
gives room to the actors do what they do best. Rabbit Hole is not about
the loss, but how to cope with it and how hard and emotionally heavy it
can be. Through day-to-day actions people try to forget, believing that
the solution lies on the non-existence, but the truth is that facing
reality is much more efficient. Nicole Kidman and Aaron Eckhart prove
that point by engaging the audiences in the dimension of their loss
through significant and remarkable character development. This is to
say that their performances are astounding, but much more important
than that they don't feel like performances: they feel real. Though it
may be hard to avoid getting into the field of sentimentalism, both
actors manage to escape the melodrama and focus on what is real: going
to work every day, cleaning the house, going to group therapy, baking,
playing squash, reading In the process there is an intrinsic desire to
confront the situation, but it's too hard. It becomes physically
painful and intellectually devastating. Men and women are different to
the extent of physical appearance since when it boils down to the bare
essential, the human being just wants one thing: to cope with their
existence. It's not about sex, procreating, loving it's accepting that
people die.

Through a rather simple and undesirable situation, John Cameron
Mitchell (who also suffered a loss that would become a part of his
childhood) manages to express himself visually in such a liberating way
that makes the dark humor all the more interesting. It is not by chance
that the viewers are forced to face nature so many times. The
characters are small compared to their environment; they wonder
everyday what it's like to be a part of that almost intangible world of
the absence of thought, just living. In fact, nature provides the
perfect antagonist to our characters. They don't blame the kid that
killed their son, but the circumstances, circumstances bigger than God,
than the dimension of nature and the peacefulness that surrounds it.
Rabbit Hole gains strength through the little pieces, the little
moments of bondage and the little moments when people actually try to
understand, when they stop to feel and let go of their anger and
frustration. It's not easy to write a movie like this and it certainly
isn't easy to direct it or act in it. But all the pieces come together
to offer an amazing film. It's incredibly rewarding to see the fight
against irony and the fight against the self while the cycle is
reaching its final steps. Haunting!
<|_=00=_|>
Actor John Cameron Mitchell directs a wonderful film version of
Pulitzer Prize winning author David Lindsay-Abaire's play which the
play write adapted himself. Nicole Kidman (Becca) and her husband
(Howie) have just lost their son and are trying to pick up the pieces
of their lives. Slowly, the events of that terrible day are revealed
and we see a family in distress. Nothing is working for Becca as she
tries to come to terms with her loss. Howie remains in grief therapy
after Becca bails, but neither can communicate with each other anymore.
Becca finds little solace from her family and seeks out a young adult
named Jason (Miles Teller) who was involved in the events that ended
her sons life. Howie becomes involved with Gaby (Sandra Oh) a woman
from his grief group. Both are reaching out to others due to the wall
that their son's death has placed between them. In the end they are
able to work through the wall and provide that healing touch that can
only exist in their own relationship.

This is certainly a Kidman tour-de-force, she produces and acts here
for the first time in tandem. She hand picked Eckhart for his role, and
from the dynamics of the two actors working together; made an inspired
choice. Dianne Wiest as Becca's mother "Nat" was convincing as the,
perhaps, not intellectual, but worldly sage who guides the hero (Becca)
toward finding the answers she needs to heal both her life and her
family. Sandra Oh delivers her usual spot on performance and new comer
Teller is competent, but perhaps a bit lost in such a stellar cast as
this. Nevertheless, this is a fine production and a deep film. The
subject matter is far too deep for teenage date night, and perhaps too
frightening for young couples. Individuals, like myself, who have lost
a child of their own will appreciate it; as will others who know the
healing process is complicated but can be achieved with hope and
patience. Excellent film...
<|_=00=_|>
I found out about this movie only when Nicole Kidman received awards
nominations for her performance. When I found out that its sad story is
about a mother who lost her son, I felt I did not want to watch another
one of these somber family dramas. However, today I had a little window
of time, and this film was only an hour and a half long, so I finally
relented and gave it a chance.

"Rabbit Hole" tells about how a modern young couple, Becca and Howie,
was dealing with the death of their very young son, about eight months
after the boy got accidentally run over by a car. The drama intensifies
as Becca's immature younger sister gets pregnant and healing wounds are
disturbed again. What's more, Becca strikes an awkward "friendship"
with the teenager who drove the car that killed her son.

Nicole Kidman is getting all the acting notices as Becca. Not meaning
to put her down, Nicole was very good, but I felt that this performance
was already very familiar. I felt that Aaron Eckhart did even better to
essay his role as the bereaved father Howie. I think there is a bigger
challenge for a male to connect and project the proper emotion in
stories like this, and Eckhart delivers. I do not know how she does it,
but Ms. Dianne Wiest never fails to exude warmth in her roles. Here she
plays Becca's mom who also lost a son, albeit already 30 year old. She
is luminescent in her few scenes, best of which was the one in the
bowling alley and another one in the basement.

To its credit, the screenplay was compelling despite the subject
matter. The gamut of emotions as could be expected from a situation
like this were all there, from grief and anger, to frustration and
cynicism. There were some moments of humor in it as well to lighten the
mood a bit, especially scenes with Sandra Oh as a woman already eight
years in group therapy. Contrary to my initial impressions, it did not
feel boring at all. But again, the sad depressing topic may not really
make it so popular for the general public.
<|_=00=_|>
Nicole Kidman back in form with this funny and deeply moving tale about
grief. The unusual side of the story is the palpable love between the
married couple facing a devastating loss. They may live it in different
ways but the love is the anchor and that in itself puts the film in a
category all its own. Kidman and Eckhart are superb an so is the
supporting cast, specially Dianne Weist, Tammy Blanchard and Miles
Teller as the sort of character that we've never seen before on the
screen. Not quite like this anyway. Their first meeting - Kidman and
Teller - is one of my favorite film moments of the year. Cameron
Mitchell, the director leaps into the main stream after "Hedwig" and
"Shortbus" keeping an enthralling sense of integrity. Bravo!
