
One of the major events that President George W. Bush will undoubtedly
be remembered for in history will be his decision to declare war on
Iraq in 2003. If we recall back to early 2003 when the administration
was laying out its reasons for invading Iraq, the one most marketed to
the American public was the idea that Saddam Hussein was in the process
of creating chemical or nuclear weapons, which he would then give to
terrorists who could then use them to attack American cities. Of
course, soon after the war began it was discovered that these weapons
either never existed or no longer existed, and to this day no one in
the CIA or federal government has been able to explain how the
intelligence community could have gotten it so wrong.

"Fair Game" places itself right in the middle of these controversial
events between 2002 and 2004, and is told through the eyes of CIA Agent
Valerie Plame (played very convincingly by Naomi Watts) and her
husband, United Nations Ambassador Joe Wilson (played fiercely by the
always great Sean Penn). The film's story follows how Plame goes from
patriotic CIA agent diligently doing her job overseas to suddenly
having her identity made public after her husband uncovered false
information about a nuclear development sale between Iraq and Niger.
This false information about a uranium sale between these two countries
is important because it was implied as factual when Bush was listing
information about Iraq during his State of The Union Speech in early
2003.

As the film starts, Plame and Wilson appear to be a very loving couple
with a very strong marriage - they even have 2 small children who live
with them in the D.C. area. Plame is busy traveling covertly to
countries in The Middle East to shake her fist at people whom might
have ties to terrorists, while Wilson is back at home, often finding
himself in heated arguments with friends at the dinner table whom hold
a different opinions from his own. Both Plame and Wilson appear to be
relatively non-political civilians working peacefully and dutifully for
the federal government - until the Bush administration decides that the
country should invade Iraq. After Wilson criticizes the
administration's faulty information publicly, Plame is then fired from
her job, and much of the rest of the film focuses on how the couple's
marriage is stressed because of what is transpiring all over the media.
People harass them often when they go out, as Wilson makes rounds on
the media circuit to try to restore his name. The film has a little bit
of a soap-operish feel to it during the 2nd half in that it is mostly
focused on the couple's relationship, but the acting performances by
Watts and Penn are just so sharp that they make up for some of the
film's small flaws when it comes to storytelling. There is also a small
subplot involving a family in Iraq connected with Plame's
counter-proliferation efforts that should have been either developed
more or left out entirely, as that is the weakest part of the film -
but fortunately those scenes are relatively few in the entire film.

Aside from the acting, another of the film's strengths is how it never
gets too preachy towards the Bush administration, but rather focuses on
the facts of what unfairly happened to Plame and Wilson from their own
points of view. In fact, no actor plays Bush or Cheney in the film - we
only see a few clips of the real Bush and Cheneys giving speeches on TV
screens for a matter of seconds. Scooter Libby (portrayed a bit
villainously by David Andrews) is seen in a few short scenes as a
swindler who tries to convince CIA employees into manipulating the
intelligence the way he sees it, but his characterization is very
subtle, rather than as an in your face bad guy. Doug Liman's direction
is also fairly fast-paced to make sure the film never gets too bogged
down in pointless scenes. Even though it is very talky and
dialogue-driven, the narrative keeps moving forward at a crisp pace -
at least if audience members are adults without ADD (and I think it's
pretty fair to say that this movie isn't marketed for the Transformers
or Twilight crowd...) The film generally works very well both as an
entertaining drama, spy thriller, and an educational lesson. Moreover,
it's an intelligent reminder to the public of how people in positions
in power in government will often stop at nothing to achieve their
desired goals, even if that means illegally abusing their power through
misinformation, manipulation, and character assassination. As citizens
we should constantly be questioning our leaders and their motives, as
well as keeping them honest and holding them accountable whenever they
they violate our trust.

On a final note, I have to say that I find it very refreshing to see a
film like this that has a woman in a very intelligent leading role,
rather than how Hollywood films usually stereotype females in formulaic
romantic comedies. It seems like women in major roles usually have
their sappy characters obsessing about trying to find a man and buying
shoes, with some slapstick and comedy at the dinner table with their
parents thrown in as well (a.k.a. chick flicks). It's either that or
the female characters get almost zero screen time, where they are
relegated to simply being the cute girlfriend sidekick. It's nice to
see movies like this allow womens' dramatic acting talents to shine and
allow us to see them as complex, real characters.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all: I'm not an American, so I have no interest in any of the
left wing vs right wing political immaturity that goes on there. And
since I'm being honest: if this film was a work of fiction - it
wouldn't have been that great, maybe a 6/10 IMDb rating.

What makes this film absolutely mind blowing is that this stuff
actually happened. Wow! You can argue the little details if you wish,
but the bulk of this is public record and you're not kidding anyone.
This gets an 8/10 on IMDb from me because it's non-fiction and it's a
very very important story.

The war in Iraq was a crime and the guilty should be required to watch
this movie, a few times. How many thousands of lives could have been
saved? Feel shame and learn from your mistakes. Get mad! Don't ever be
fooled like this again!!!

Frankly this movie should be shown in schools for the next 100 years -
it should be considered required viewing in History classes. I think
it's important that this little piece of the past is not swept under
the rug anytime soon. I praise the makers of this film, I praise Joe
Wilson and Valerie Plame. 

Those who forget history are doomed to repeat it - so cherish this 108
minute reminder of America's greatest mistake.
<|_=00=_|>
Fair Game follows in the tradition of All The President's Men as
presenting a probing look into an important political issue in the form
of a crackling thriller. Director Doug Liman uses his Bourne
Identity/Mr & Mrs Smith skills to move the true story of exposure of
Valerie Plame (Naomi Watts), the wife of US senator Joe Wilson (Sean
Penn), as a CIA undercover agent by the Bush Administration at
breakneck speed. Plame's research based on her contacts in Iraq had put
serious doubts on the existence of WMD in Iraq, which was not in line
with White House's view point. They thus considered her "fair game" for
discrediting and public exposure. Fair Game is fascinating for all
those interested in the mechanism of power and use/abuse of it; and is
also a riveting piece of film making. In my view it's Liman's best film
to date.
<|_=00=_|>
This is an amazingly well put together movie. The screenplay is totally
understandable. One of the best films about the process of going in to
the Iraq War and the use of information at the time. I was
superficially familiar with Plame's story but did not realize how vital
her and her husband's work was in relation to the Iraq war.

Naomi Watts does a very good job. She doesn't overact but you can see
her vulnerability and passion. She blends into the role so well that
unlike Nicole Kidman you don't think of a movie star acting but you
focus on the story. Virginia Madsen looks more like Valerie Plame but
unfortunately is now too old. Sean Penn is a bit too unattractive for
the role but his acting ability makes up for it.

The production is top notch with an authentic on location feel to it.

Valerie Plame's story has to be told in this movie form so everyone can
learn about what happened to her. It is a great story about the life of
a CIA operative and it's toll on family life. It also is a great story
about how the most patriotic acts can be so difficult to carry out in
the face of unjust opposition. 

The movie really deserves some big award nominations.
<|_=00=_|>
Those were the words of Valerie Plame's superior right before he fired
her. It doesn't matter who you are or what you do. If you cross paths
with the most powerful people in the world: you get broken in half.
It's that simple. Fair Game is my kind of movie: real characters, real
people, real events. This movie confirms everything I already knew or
suspected, but this is powerful stuff. If you ever felt overwhelmed or
helpless: try these guy's shoes for a week in that awful period between
2003 and 2005.

Hollywood is getting out of it's shell after the 2000-2008 period in
which the Hawk's reintroduced a period of McCarthyism. Hollywood became
a propaganda machine for Bush: 'Support the troops, don't you love
America?' I still see the images of the speech at the Oscars Michael
Moore gave: "Shame on you Mr. President". The room booed and cheered at
the same time, but the front row with every A-list actor you can think
of, sat quiet and didn't move. They said nothing. Joseph Wilson and
Valerie Plame did not stay quiet. It's hard to comprehend that these
events didn't happen 50 years ago. They happened less than 10 years
ago. The White House created a smokescreen that very few people could
see through. Those who did were outnumbered and slaughtered. Thank God
for the educational purposes of cinema.

The Green Zone, Body of Lies and such are movies which tried to point
out the errors in foreign policies, but Fair Game says it out loud:
they wanted a war and the would stop at nothing to get it. Destroy
anything or anyone who gets in the way. Most members of that White
House got a slap on the wrist and are now giving $100.000 lectures.

Doug Liman has made his best movie yet. He has now made my list of
accomplished directors. It's topnotch on a technical level and at a
dramatic level. Liman leaves out any information the viewer knows or
should be able to piece together for themselves. The script got me from
start to finish. So did the actors.

No, there not much wrong with this movie. That's why it pains me that
it bombed at the box-office. These kinda movies should be celebrated
for their courage. But no, movies like Inception get all the attention.
And nobody cares over hundreds of thousands civilians died because of
the Iraq-war.
<|_=00=_|>
"Fair Game" is a film directed by Doug Liman ("The Bourne Identity,"
"Mr. and Mrs. Smith") based on the memoir "Fair Game: My Life as a Spy,
My Betrayal by the White House" by Valerie Plame. Sean Penn is back
after taking a two-year acting break since his second Best Acting Oscar
for "Milk" in 2008. He plays the character of Politician Joe Wilson
alongside Naomi Watts' portrayal of CIA agent Valerie Plame. Together
these two tell the true story behind the weapons of mass destruction
scare in 2002 and 2003 in Iraq that ultimately lead the United States
to war. Valerie Plame is in the middle of the investigation of WMDs in
Iraq. In order to learn more about the possible WMDs the government has
Valerie's husband Joe travel as an ambassador to Niger in order to get
information about the sale of uranium from Niger to Iraq. Joe learns
that there is not going to be a sale but the government twists the
story. After viewing the State of the Union Address Joe Wilson decides
to write an article in the New York Times stating the truth behind what
he found in Niger challenging the White House directly. In response,
the government declassifies Valerie's status as a CIA agent making her
"Fair Game" and putting her directly in the public eye in order to
bring shame to her husband and her family. This sparks a fire within
Joe to fight the White House, but also begins to tear him and his wife
apart. 

"Fair Game" allows Naomi Watts and Sean Penn to let loose and take over
the screen with their acting talents. Watts doe a very good job with
her role portrayal of hard shelled Valerie Plame. She is able to create
the stubborn exterior of Plame while showing her emotional side deep
within. Congratulations is in order for her being able to stand out
while on screen with Hollywood superstar and Academy favorite Sean
Penn. All of the talk about the film has been directed towards Watts as
Oscar season approaches, but it would be no surprise if Penn receives
an Oscar birth as well. He is phenomenal in the film creating a very
unique character breaking through the clichés that could have been.
Both of these actors are able to give the film heart and show the
strength that the couple had in order to fight the corrupt government
sector leading to the fall of Scooter Libby.

The film is slow to start as the back story is built however, while the
characters of Valerie Plame and Joe Wilson are developed completely all
of the other characters seem to be left behind. They come off as just
walking through the motions making it very hard to connect and
differentiate between them. This can be attributed to one of two
things. Either the acting is less than adequate, or there are so many
characters that Watts interacts with at the CIA it are hard to put a
name with any of the faces. 

"Fair Game" is a political thriller that needed to be made. However, it
is your job as the audience to reach out and see it because of its
limited film release. Go see it now in order to learn about the story
and note that a Best Picture Oscar nomination may be waiting for this
dark horse of this year's award season.
<|_=00=_|>
In retrospect, the George "Dubyah" Bush administration seems to have
been more incompetent than evil, but this movie holds the Bushies to
account for what was a completely malicious and unjustified act, the
outing of the covert CIA operative Valerie Plame, which put numerous
undercover operations and informants at risk, solely because her
husband former Ambassador Joe Wilson IV had the temerity to dissent
publicly from the White House line that the Iraqi dictator Saddam
Hussein had tried to buy uranium from Niger for bomb-making purposes.
It is also evident that the CIA's soundly based advice that Saddam's
bomb-making activities had ceased after the first Gulf War in 1991 was
studiously ignored by the White House in the run-up to the invasion of
Iraq in 2003.

The actual leaker, Deputy Secretary of State Richard Armitage got away
scot-free, a crucial matter not discussed in the film , but "Scooter"
Libby, Vice President Chaney's chief of staff carried the can and
nearly spent 30 months inside for lying to investigators before being
pardoned by the President. The film focuses on Libby and implies he was
the leaker, acting with the knowledge of Karl Rove, the man who
described Valerie Plame as "fair game", and Vice President Cheney.

Director Doug Liman is best known as a producer of thrillers ("Bourne
Ultimation" etc) but here he and the Butterworths (Jez and John Henry)
as scriptwriters have focused not only on the political intrigue but
also the effect the Bushies' bastardry had on Joe and Valerie's
personal lives. This gives some great acting possibilities to Sean Penn
as Joe and our very own Naomi Watts as Valerie, and they both rise to
the occasion, although Sean Penn might be a little self-righteous for
some tastes. The personal impact aside, what the leakers did was a good
deal worse than anything Julian Assange has done, and it is ironic that
some of the conservative commentators who tried to discredit Joe and
Valerie are now in the front line of those attacking the Wikileaks
founder.

Regardless of the politics, this movie is entertaining enough to pass
the watch test despite some dodgy hand-held photography. Near the end
Valerie has a meeting with a very senior CIA officer glimpsed earlier,
on a park bench in front of the White House. This man, played by Bruce
McGill, bears a remarkable physical resemblance to the then director of
the CIA, George Tenet. He warns her that she and Joe are up against the
most powerful men in the world and asks her to stay silent for the sake
of the agency. Valerie points out the agency won't even give her family
any protection against death threats, to which Tenet, if that's who
it's meant to be, merely shrugs his shoulders. What are the film makers
trying to say here - that the agency doesn't look after its own? 

Both Joe Wilson and Valerie Plame were patriots and, I believe, from
Republican backgrounds. This did not bother the leakers who clearly
couldn't care less who they hurt in the propaganda battle over the
Iraqi invasion they were determined to launch. This film is based on
two books by Joe and Valerie so I suppose it is a somewhat partisan
account. Nevertheless it is hard to imagine a film treatment justifying
what was done to them. George Bush in his memoirs mentions the Libby
pardon issue but is otherwise silent on who did what. Never mind, his
place in history as one of the lesser presidents is assured.
<|_=00=_|>
From the opening scene in Malaysia to the mines of Niger and then to
the streets of Baghdad, "Fair Game" begins as an espionage thriller, a
"Bourne" film without the obligatory car chases, shootouts and fights,
but rather, with a woman who uses her brains and intellect.

Once the film shifts its focus back in the United States of America,
the film takes a slight turn to the dramatic route and thus may seem
melodramatic with this married people's lives being tinkered with and
with no one but each other to help them. Having said that, "Fair Game"
(no, not that dreadful Cindy Crawford/William Baldwin cheeseball) is a
remarkably well-crafted political thriller that is driven home with
outstanding, terrific performances by both Naomi Watts and especially
Sean Penn.

Whether you believe the many questions posed in the film are truth or
merely lies (whether the agency really did take that drastic measure to
cover up what the government did not want to hear to prevent the war...
or is this all propaganda from the start?), I really can't say, because
this happened in another country far away from my home, so I have no
right to say whose side I'm on.

Watts plays CIA agent Valerie Plame whose cover gets blown and who gets
blamed for the leak of wrong information to the White House, who uses
said information to invade Iraq. Is this all true? Suppose it is, given
that the news footage of both at-the-time President Bush and Vice
President Cheney look strikingly foreshadowing when compared to the
events in the movie - this is meant to provoke outrage at the
government's so-called "ignorance and stupidity" so they say, so what?
I'm not saying anything to make myself sound like I'm on the wrong
line, nor am I saying anything to disprove the film's "facts" either.
I'm just stating that this is a great drama, no matter what you
believe.

See, the thing with drama is that fact can and will be fictionalized so
that it may be accepted easily by the ever-interested audience. "Fair
Game" may be slow-paced and devoid of action sequences ala Doug Liman's
previous blockbuster efforts, but here not a moment lost my interest,
even the dramatic ones between Watts and Penn, as they ignite the
screen with fiery performances, as this political scandal isn't only
affecting their jobs and their reputations, it's also affecting their
love life. And it's crumbling as things go from bad to worse in this
film.

Watts is superb in this film. In the beginning she acts very
convincingly as a strong, determined, iron-willed woman, mother, and
wife who is very confident about herself and not willing to push into
any demand that comes at her way. Later after the scandal is spread she
slowly but surely devolves into a woman that is filling with
desperation and fear, until she nearly loses control of her downward
spiral. Ditto with Sean Penn here. He is absolutely mesmerizing, as
always, as Plame's husband Ambassador Joe Wilson. Soft spoken and
charming when he needs to, but when he's angry he makes everyone feel
the rage without becoming too overdone. Wilson as portrayed by Penn is
a character who's not about to let this scandal get in the way of his
family, so he decides to clear his and his wife's name by using the
media and criticizing the government. Of course, his wife isn't happy
about this and it causes more tension between them. Penn and Watts show
terrific chemistry together that hasn't been lost since "21 Grams" and
both of them vividly portray not politicians trying to get the truth,
but rather more of a family trying to pull themselves together. So it's
not entirely an espionage thriller like this film was sadly marketed
as. The supporting actors are also great in their own right.

This film does pose a lot of questions that make one think during the
movie about the purpose and cause of the Iraq war, the invasion and
more importantly, the power and impact the US government has on their
own people and the various ways they can abuse it on them to get
whatever they want. And this is proved with the decaying lives of Plame
and Wilson from American citizens to branded traitors. You can't
imagine how they really felt, but Penn and Watts come really, REALLY
close to it.

The film has it's flaws, though. The pacing could be a little bit
tighter and the dialog in Iraq doesn't sound genuinely Iraqi. However,
Doug Liman's direction is enough to keep the tension gripping and the
film focused on the characters and not just glimpses of the war and
scandal themselves. John Powell's music score is refreshingly low-key
and it suits the dramatic mood of the film even better. Liman's
cinematography (pulling a double duty here) is nicely framed without
excessive style to it, making it simple, easy to watch, and gripping.
Editing is fluid and the screenplay is written very well with equal
amounts of intelligence and emotions.

In short, this is a superbly fine drama of the lives of the people in
the limelight of this political scandal, with terrific performances and
strong direction worthy of a theater ticket. Go see this movie and
savor the performances and the question of the US government on its own
people.

I find it strangely coincidental that the filmmakers from the "Jason
Bourne" series both released movies this year that criticize the Bush
administration. Doug Liman made this film, while Paul Greengrass made
the slightly superior "Green Zone" and even managed to bring star Matt
Damon with him. Composer John Powell scored both films. You can think
of this movie as a companion piece to "Green Zone", hell, you can
imagine the events in both movies happening at the same time. Now THAT
would be a wicked idea.

Overall rating: 80/100
<|_=00=_|>
War. Media. Spin. Economics. 

We must be reminded that the media is a scathing dog, a venomous
snarler that can be fighting for you or against you. The witnesses to
this battle of info-rage get brainwashed, we get brainwashed, and
become the court of public opinion. 

While the movie does not address the reasons the war was started, it
brilliantly displays how official bullshit can be thrown over us like a
comforting shroud, and that shroud can stimulate our anger as well as
justify our anger. 

Brilliantly performed by Sean Penn and the beautiful Naomi Watts. I am
humbled by their talent and dedication. I am humored by the desperate
IMDb rants of those whom still think the war was a 'good' thing - I say
to you ranters, wake up for your own good :)

Governments lie, don't forget it.
<|_=00=_|>
One of the key ingredients in President George W. Bush's campaign to
convince the American people of the necessity of invading Iraq and
removing Saddam Hussein from power was the sixteen lines in his January
28, 2003 State of the Union address in which he claimed that "the
British government has learned that Saddam Hussein recently sought
significant quantities of uranium from Africa," presumably to build a
nuclear bomb. Though the CIA and the State Department told the White
House that this was not good intelligence, by repeating this false
statement, Bush was able to push through a vote in Congress to
authorize the war in Iraq, warning of "mushroom clouds" over American
cities.

Directed by Doug Liman (The Bourne Identity) and based on books written
by covert CIA operative Valerie Plame (Naomi Watts) and her husband,
former diplomat Joseph Wilson (Sean Penn), Fair Game is a hard hitting
political thriller about events leading up to the Iraq War of 2003 that
dramatizes the Bush Administration's eagerness to convince Americans
that Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction that were a threat
to our national security. Though partly fictionalized, the film points
to many real events and uses the actual names of the participants
involved with the exception of the invented exiled Iraqi doctor (Liraz
Charhi) Valerie recruits and her brother (Khaled Nabawy), a scientist
living in Baghdad.

Fair Game survives a confusing opening hour that shows events around
the globe from Kuaka Lumpur, to Amman, Jordan, to Cairo, Egypt and
Cleveland, Ohio in its effort to establish that Plame, a hardened CIA
spy for 18 years, worked in secret on a mission to combat the
proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Though Plame did work in
that capacity, depiction of events that take place abroad in the film's
first hour are imagined since Plame's real work in the CIA is
classified, though Liman claims that credible scenarios were pieced
together from interviews with other sources.

Plame hides her secret life by telling friends that she is working as a
venture capitalist, and even her husband knows little of her
whereabouts and what exactly she is working on. Liman describes the
Wilson's home life including their relationship with their two small
children and reminds us how difficult it was for both spouses.
According to the script by Jez Butterworth and his brother John-Henry,
Plame is soon asked to lead a special Task Force to ascertain the
legitimacy of reports that Niger has sold 50 tons of "yellowcake"
uranium ore to Saddam Hussein. Consequently, her husband, Joe Wilson, a
former US diplomat in both Niger and Iraq and knowledgeable about
Niger, was dispatched with Valerie's approval to Africa to investigate.

Wilson, in reporting back to the CIA on his mission, established to his
and the agency's satisfaction that not only were these reports false,
but it would have been impossible for Niger to make such a uranium
sale. The White House was informed by the CIA of this fact in March
2002, 10 months before the president's speech. In a July 6 opinion
piece for the New York Times, Wilson wrote: "Based on my experience
with the administration in the months leading up to the war, I have
little choice but to conclude that some of the intelligence related to
Iraq's nuclear weapons program was twisted to exaggerate the Iraqi
threat." He added that, given the administration's rejection of his and
the CIA's analysis "because it did not fit certain preconceptions about
Iraq, then a legitimate argument can be made that we went to war under
false pretenses." Shortly thereafter, Wilson's wife Valerie Plame's
identity as a CIA spy was exposed in a column written by Richard Novak,
a reporter friendly to the White House. Though the reason behind the
exposure is not known with certainty, Wilson claimed that Karl Rove
told reporters that outing Plame in the newspaper was "fair game", and
the former diplomat calls his wife's exposure an act of political
reprisal for the piece critical of the White House. Whatever the
motive, it was a violation of the Intelligence Identities Protection
Act and led to the appointment of a special prosecutor and the
indictment and sentencing of Cheney's Chief of Staff Scooter Libby, a
sentence commuted by President Bush.

With Valerie's cover blown, she is dismissed by the C.I.A. called a
traitor by sycophants in the media, threatened with death by phone
calls to her Washington, D.C. home, and rejected by her friends who ask
her if she carries a gun and has she ever killed anyone? Plame is
reluctant to go public but her husband willingly talks on TV shows to
clear their names and bring to light the administration's chicanery.
This public display, however, threatens the stability of their marriage
as Wilson attempts to convince his wife to speak out but is met with
strong resistance.

The turning point, according to the film, is Valerie's visit to her
parents, especially when her father (Sam Shepard), a retired Air Force
officer, convinces her that loyalty to one's country can work both
ways. Labeled as "inspired by real events" and told from the viewpoint
of Plame and Wilson with events in the White House taken from actual
court transcripts, Fair Game is a timely reminder of the abuse of
governmental power and the lives of innocent people that are caught in
the crosswinds. Though the film's second half feels strangely rushed
and incomplete, Fair Game is a powerful film that forces us to relive
the outrage of those days when government deception was an everyday
occurrence.
