
Up until now, I was convinced that from the 4th book onwards, Harry
Potter-books had become too complex to make into film: Goblet of Fire
was a sore disappointment. Order of the Phoenix left many Potterheads
wanting more, even if it wasn't a bad film per se (personally I
thoroughly enjoyed it, even though I felt they left out too much).
Half-blood Prince -while visually stunning- did not capture the
brilliance of the book. With "Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows", I
think the makers have finally succeeded in crafting a movie that was
both fun to watch for casual viewers while also catering to the needs
of the hard-core fans who know the books by heart. The decision to
split the movie into two parts may be judged as a financial one by
some, but I'm convinced it was the only possible way to make this work.
The movie was cut off at the perfect time as well, having the viewers
yearn for more without being too abrupt.

I don't want to give away anything, so I'll just say this: Hats of to
you, David Yates. One can only hope the second installment will
continue in the same vein...
<|_=00=_|>
It should be wise for people to at least watch the first six films in
order before watching this one, if they haven't read the books already.

With this film, we are slowly but surely bidding farewell to one of
cinema's most successful and imaginative franchises. The franchise,
like Harry Potter himself, has grown and matured as the years (and
films) progress. Part I of the "Deathly Hallows" is ultimately a strong
build- up to what will be a triumphant, bittersweet finale for
everybody.

I won't waste time trying to talk about the performances, because they
are all great and powerful in their own way. Never mind that many of
the cast members are very talented veteran British actors (try getting
John Hurt, Alan Rickman, Ralph Fiennes, Brendan Gleeson, David Thewlis,
Michael Gambon, Helena Bonham Carter, Imelda Staunton, Jason Isaacs and
Bill Nighy in the same film again) - the three young actors who we have
come to love and care for following the first film a decade ago,
basically carry the franchise on their shoulders, and this film is no
exception. Radcliffe looks handsome, Grint looks gruff, and Watson
looks gorgeous. They've grown into fine young people.

Screenwriter Steve Kloves doesn't forget to add the mood and gloom to
the story as it slowly unfolds, but then again he adds some light humor
to the film when it needs it. Bonus points for making this not only a
visual spectacle, but also a character-driven ensemble; there's some
complex characterization here. Also there's some action which aren't
seen on screen, but mentioned by the characters. It's OK, because it's
necessary for the brisk pacing, and it's not really that important
anyways. Besides, the human mind can imagine these images far more
powerfully.

There are many themes in this film. Sacrifice, determination,
(obviously) friendship, and above all - acceptance. As the films
progressed the films started to gain an increasingly dark momentum -
signaling that all hope may be lost. But in the end, will good triumph
over evil? Like the film, real life isn't so sure. Also, the fact that
the actors and crew are moving on after a decade of making these films
- it's also another way of acceptance - the films have ended, they're
moving on for the better of their lives/careers. It's real life, and I
wish all these promising young actors brilliant lives and careers ahead
of them.

"Hallows: Part I" is many parts thrilling, as there are quite a number
of intense action sequences. Many of them, of course, are done with
well-rendered visual effects, and in this one they just blend in at a
natural level without being too jarring. However, the action sequences
are perfectly blended in with the gripping, dramatic moments. They
don't feel heavy handed and it's beautiful to look at. The animated
sequence about the origins of the Deathly Hallows is an absolute
masterclass and jaw-droppingly beautiful to both watch and listen. If
separated by itself it can win an Oscar for best animated short. 

The crew also get their due here. David Yates has gotten a firm grip on
the film's direction since directing the fifth and sixth films years
ago. The cinematography is stunning and exquisite, and it gives off a
certain moody hue to the film. The editing is also crisp, it's not
choppy when it doesn't need to be. Alexandre Desplat's score really
makes a difference, it literally puts you into the world with its
beautiful, harmonious, and emotional tones.

In short, I would have to say that this film is the best "Harry Potter:
film yet in all honesty. I grew up with the series, and as per the
actors, it will be an emotional goodbye. But rest assured, the finale
will be grand.

One more thing. This interpretation of the novel is the best one yet.
The novel is done justice, something not seen since the first three
films. It's something for both the fans and novel-readers alike, as
there are some pieces only book readers can discover while watching the
film. It's definitely a huge improvement over "Half-Blood Prince"'s
adaptation, which for me is the worst Potter film.

Harry Potter is a phenomenon. But, like all things, it most come to an
end eventually. This is the beginning of the end, and I wouldn't have
it any other way.

Overall rating: 75/100

P.S.:Eat your hearts out, Twi-hards.
<|_=00=_|>
A sullen Minister of Magic Rufus Scrimgeour (Bill Nighy) sets the mood
for this seventh and penultimate instalment of Harry Potter. "These are
dark times, there's no denying," he intones gravely, pointing out the
grim state of affairs facing the nation- murders, disappearances and
raids- but reassuring the public, as any politician would, that his
Ministry has it all under control. Of course, he is only bluffing, and
it doesn't take long before the palpable sense of doom and despair
convinces you otherwise. 

Welcome back to the magical world of Harry Potter, one that began with
wonder and joy, but has since become shrouded in death and darkness.
Still visibly distraught from the death of his mentor Professor Albus
Dumbledore, Harry is now tasked to continue with the mission of the
late Dumbledore- to find and destroy the remaining Horcruxes (accursed
objects containing fragments of Voldemort's soul). It doesn't get any
easier, since Voldemort is nearing the height of his powers, and his
bidders have infiltrated the bureaucracy to paint Harry as a wanted
criminal. 

There are fewer and fewer allies around- even those within the Order of
the Phoenix may have since betrayed their ranks- and the first half
hour quickly establishes the danger and urgency of the situation at
hand. Members of the Order, including Mad-Eye Moody (Brendan Gleeson)
and Hagrid (Robbie Coltrane), attempt to escort Harry to safety- but
even that mission is met with an attack from the Death Eaters,
culminating in a dizzyingly exciting high-speed flying-bike chase that
shouldn't disappoint fans looking for some action sorely missed in the
last movie. 

Indeed, naysayers who think David Yates doesn't know how to stage
thrilling action sequences should think again, as he demonstrates amply
that he is just as capable when it comes to staging them. He also
displays an uncanny knack for milking suspense out of scenes- in
particular, Harry, Hermoine and Ron's daring raid on the Ministry of
Magic and their subsequent visit to Godric's Hollow, Harry's birthplace
and home to Bathilda Bagshot, a magician and dear friend to Dumbledore.
These brim with nail-biting tension, and Yates plays them out nicely to
set your pulse racing at the end. 

The crux of this film however lies in the relationships between Harry,
Hermoine and Ron as they set off in the middle of the film across the
bleak English countryside on their quest to discover the means to
destroy the Horcruxes. On the run from Voldemort, the trio find the
immensity of their journey taking a toll on them. Harry and Ron's
friendship begins to fray as Ron grows suspect of Hermoine's affections
for Harry. Meanwhile, Harry can barely conceal his frustration with
getting no headway and starts losing his temper at Ron. 

Infused with a profound sense of isolation and loss, this middle
stretch in the film may be tedious for some impatient viewers, but fans
will be rewarded with probably the richest depiction of the
relationships between the characters since the first two movies. One
scene where Harry and Hermoine suddenly decide to dance together to the
tune of Nick Cave's The Children playing on the radio is lyrical in its
depiction of their desperate attempt to find levity in a world that
affords none. Yes, their friendship strong and deep since the beginning
will be tested, and Yates delivers an emotional payoff towards the end
of the film that is truly poignant. 

Thanks to the decision to split the final book into two films, Yates
doesn't hurry through these scenes. Instead, he allows the audience to
experience the frustration, jealousy and uncertainty of his characters,
and allows for Radcliffe, Watson and Grint to display some fine acting
with the minimalest distraction from any visual effects. The additional
time also turns out to be a blessing for fans and audiences, allowing
them the opportunity to see their favourite supporting characters back
on screen- most prominently of course Dobby the elf who returns to give
the movie a touching finale. 

Amidst the gloom, screenwriter Steve Kloves again provides for rare
welcome moments of levity. Harry's escort mission is aided by magical
decoys of Harry, one of them wearing a bra. To get to the Ministry of
Magic, one needs to flush oneself down a toilet bowl. These occasional
sparks of humour enliven a film that is otherwise ominous and menacing.
Kloves however fumbles slightly with the lengthy expository, and those
who have not read the book will find themselves struggling to catch up
with the significance of certain characters (e.g. Sirius' brother,
Regulus Arcturus Black) and certain events (e.g. Bathilda turning into
a slithering serpent). 

Still Kloves never had an enviable task to begin with, and Yates- at
his most confident here- guides the proceedings along admirably,
unfolding them briskly at the start, then settling in for a
deliberately measured pace and finally picking up speed for as much as
a climax as this first- parter can have. His assuredness also shows in
his artistic choices, especially a wayang-kulit-like animated sequence
telling the story of the Deathly Hallows. 

Though we know better than to expect the grand showdown between Harry
and Voldemort by the end of the film, there is still a distinct sense
that what we have seen so far is only a build-up for something bigger
and far more astounding. But even as a prelude, this seventh film is
notable in its own right, a tense and thrilling experience darker,
scarier and more mature than any of its predecessors
<|_=00=_|>
After having seen HP6, I honestly didn't have great expectations in
this one. I guessed it would be darker and scarier, as every HP movie
has been darker and scarier than its predecessor. But HP6 was such a
patchwork of scenes that didn't give you the feeling of a coherent work
- I was afraid the even more complex story line of HP7 would make an
even less coherent movie. However, I must say it was definitely a wise
decision to split the 7th book into 2 movies. HP7 can take time to
explain and introduce all the characters that are necessary to the
plot.

I love the way Voldemort and the Death Eaters are portrayed in this
movie. They are no longer just anonymous caped figures. You can see
them interacting with each other, discussing and well... being human.
Well, I'm always a big fan of the blurring of these clearcut good/evil
categories in Fantasy.

As the book is split into 2 parts, all of a sudden, there's also time
for little embellishments I hadn't realized I had missed in the earlier
movies! For example, I loved the scene so much where the feather
floated through the air when the fairy tale of the Three Brothers was
being told. Also the drawing style that was used during the story was
really amazing. This HP movie was the first of all that finally gave me
the same feeling as Lord of the Rings did: Boy, this is not just some
guys slavishly adapting a book into a movie, but they're actually
autonomous artists and they have ideas of their own! And I don't mean
they changed the whole plot (I wouldn't like that)! But (mostly
visually) they did more than just bring across what's in the book.

This also expresses itself in the decision not to include the childish
Harry Potter musical theme (at least I didn't hear it, correct me if
I'm wrong) from the first movie that sounds like "Wow, everything's so
magical here!" That tune was fine for the first movie, but as Harry got
older and the movies got darker, it kind of felt like they had to force
this theme into every movie several times even though it didn't really
fit any more. Now the soundtrack, too, has finally grown up. And I
loved it! Last but not least, the acting was brilliant! The tense
atmosphere between Harry, Ron and Hermione really came across. Also
with all the doppelgänger scenes, you always still saw from their
movements and behaviour which character was which though they were in
disguise in a different body.

All in all, as the title says, this is a excellent grown-up movie and I
can recommend it to everyone - except kids! If you have little kids,
please don't take them. This movie has far too many scary scenes and
little comic relief! Plus, the plot is quit complex including lots and
lots of minor characters. It's really no longer a movie targeted at
kids, even though it's still labelled "Harry Potter".
<|_=00=_|>
*complete spoilers*

The first scenes went something like this: Everyone drinks a nasty
potion that makes them look like Harry and they get undressed on camera
spouting anti-climatic, fast-paced jokes. Then in what *should* have
been an exciting chase-scene, Hedwig plummets to her death. Harry is
traumatized. Later he learns Mad-Eyes also died and, not giving him
much thought, 'zips Ginny up' in and abrupt oh-so-passionate-scene with
as much charisma and heart as a toaster.

Harry then meets a witch who tells him bad things about Dumbledore
which he instantly believes even though he's known her for all of,
what, ten seconds, and Harry falls into a depression. Kinsgley warns
the wedding party (oops, I forget to mention. Ron's brother Bill is
getting married. y'know, Bill? That one Weasley child no one ever
mentioned or casted? Him.) So, anyways, Voldemort took over the
ministry (how exactly we'll never know) and is coming to kill everyone
harry cares about (like Ginny. he does care about her y'know. they had
their first love scene which lasted five seconds and was witness by
George, who had a toothbrush in his ear.) 

So Harry, Hermione, and Ron run away because Hermione is a flipping
genius who always saves their butts with advanced magic and bottomless
purses.

Okay. The action stops here.

Now we are privileged to enjoy stunning landscapes and breathtaking
landscapes of famous places all around the UK where the dynamic trio
(make that duo: Ron leaves) set up camp. The audience is delighted to
be separated from the rest of the plot and action-packed, intense
moments happening in the outside world, and instead can focus their
attention on the beauty of a certain tree that harry and Hermione are
sitting under and discussing the evils of Dumbledore, the man who
ruined everything.

Hermione finds a doodle in a book and Harry and Hermione determine it
MUST be a hint in a Blue's-Clues like moment of epiphany. Ignoring
their new sense of purpose (besides finding lovely lakes to vacation
by) Harry risks it all to return to Godric's Hollw and is there
(unwittingly) attacked by a snake...lady...thing. They escape
(Hermione, cough, cough) and return to their picturesque campsite.

In the middle of the night Harry sees a patronus and, since of course
NO ONE wants to kill him, deceive him, maul him, etc. He follows it
like a complete nitwit. Luckily his hunch is correct and he arrives at
a frozen lake, undresses, and takes a dip. A dark locket proceeds to
choke him (why it couldn't choke him above-water, I haven't the
faintest idea) but Harry is saved by Ron, who also manages to get his
shirt off. With the sword of Godric, the two (still wet) decide to
destroy the locket that so fiendishly attempted to strangle Harry
(naughty object of darkness and evil).

And then...Ron bears witness to a porn scene between Harry and Hermione
who are inexplicably making out naked. (It is a very emotional scene.)
Ron, fighting past the ridiculous apparition, smashes the locket to a
million pieces and Harry and Ron return to Hermione and Ron spews some
nonsense about a bubble of light in his heart.

The three reunited, they reluctantly leave their gorgeous campgrounds
to track down a madman in hopes of finding out the mysterious meaning
of Dumbledore's Doodle. The madman is only too happy to oblige and
tells them it is a very important symbol of a fairy tale, so now that
they have this info their problems are over. Next the audience is
treated to a Tim-Burton-like animated retelling of said fairy tale that
TOTALLY goes with the movie (not). The madman then attempts to capture
them but they escape (Hermione COUGH COUGH) but are captured by icky
"men" who seem more interested in Hermione than in getting a reward for
Harry Potter. The Icky "Men" take the trio to where Voldemort lives but
Voldemort is away for the time being and will return momentarily, in
the mean time won't you have a seat in this lovely damp prison cell
while Bellatrix attempts to torture Hermione by biting her neck or
whatever it is that she's doing?

Voldemort doesn't show up (it's a *very* long holiday he's taking and
he can't be disturbed) but Dobby does. Dobby's voice has undergone
reverse-puberty, but that doesn't matter because Dobby has come to save
Harry Potter because Dobby can materialize in and out of places, even
the dark Lord's secret hideout.

So Dobby rescues them (Luna and a Goblin in addition to the trio. Her
dad was the madman I'm afraid. Yes, sad really how family units are
organized.) Anyhow, Bellatrix stands there watching them escape and at
the last moment throws a good-old-fashioned dagger into the air where
they're disappearing and when they come out the other end Dobby says
some lame last words in a girly voice and perishes, with Harry crying
unconvincingly. Fade to black and Voldemort pops up (who's taken the
failed capture of his worst enemy rather well, given the circumstances)
and desecrates Dumbledore's tomb (and Dumbledore is amazingly fresh and
un-decomposed) and takes Dumbledore's wand. He shoots a random red
flare into the sky that serves no purpose whatsoever and the credits
roll. Finally.

Part 2. How exciting!
<|_=00=_|>
This is not a Harry Potter movie. It is a movie that has characters
with the same names and faces but they are in an alternative universe,
one created by David Yates starting in movie 5. In that universe, all
the themes and ideas developed in the book-based Harry Potter mythology
are gone. In its place is a story about an individual boy wizard and
his teen friends. What happened to the great choices Harry has to make,
like does he go after the Horcruxes as Dumbledore instructed or does he
get sidetracked looking for the Deathly Hallows? Horcruxes are thrown
in as a McGuffin, an excuse to take a group camping trip rather than as
the key to the whole mystery: how do you destroy evil without
destroying yourself. The Hallows are the great temptation that the
animation in this movie beautifully suggests but then they are
completely ignored for the rest of the movies. Remember that Dumbledore
and Gregorovich once had a notion of "The Greater Good" and that idea
did not die with the end of their friendship. Dumbledore tried to teach
Harry that what he was doing was not for himself, it was for the
greater good of all beings, not just pure-bloods, and certainly not
just for teenagers. Okay, did you get any of this from this movie? NO,
because it has all been washed out of the story and replaced with silly
teen anxieties and individual relationships. How very sad.
<|_=00=_|>
"Deathly Hallows Part 1" follows the book closely, but misses out on a
few interesting scenes, and then makes up a few additional scenes that
are poignant and incredibly welcome. 

In the beginning, it seems like the film's skipping through the book's
content very quickly, but it makes sense, when you realise how much is
going on. At the end, the beginning is far away, although the journey
there doesn't make it seem like a long while. 

General opinion seems to be that it drags in the middle, but, let's
face it, so did the book. There's no real reason to complain about
Endless Camping Trips at all, because the film moves from plot point to
set piece to plot point all the time. There's some clever ways the film
handles its exposition, although it is not without its faults. 

The trio's acting is the second best thing in this film. Emma has
improved loads over the past few years, and she seems to be at the top
of her game in this film. Her acting is stellar. As usual, Grint gets
saddled with the role of comic relief, but he also gets his chance to
shine in an array of emotional scenes. Daniel manages to carry the
story as the main character. The three manage to stand their own very
well without the presence of the adult actors.

Speaking of adult actors, Nick Morran's Scabior is a delightful
character - he's slightly perverted and he has a bit of a Jack Sparrow
vibe going on. Peter Mullan's Yaxley was impressive and managed to be
quite threatening. It is a shame that we see so little of Bill Nighy's
character, the new Minister for Magic, Rufus Scrimgeour. The character
was regrettably cut from the previous film, and I wish they hadn't, if
only to see more of Nighy's impressive performance. Old-time familiar
faces are great, as usual. Fiona Shaw gets but one shot of screen time,
but the look in her eyes says so much about her character. Jasoon
Isaacs is terrific as a broken and devastated Lucius Malfoy. The lack
of Rickman is a shame, but the presence of Bonham Carter makes up for
it. Big baddie Ralph Fiennes manages to finally be a menacing, scary
Voldemort in the film's first scenes, but as the story progresses and
he gets appearances in a few messy, rushed and disappointing visions,
Voldemort's actions just don't continue being an ominous cloud of
danger, as they should be. 

The film's greatest achievement, however, is the animated sequence
detailing the "Tale of the Three Brothers", an interesting wizard
fairytale. It is a daring move from the filmmakers, one that will
pleasantly surprise the audience.

The biggest letdown is how the film doesn't just keep going. After
two-and-a-half hours, it doesn't feel like the story's finished. A few
scenes were added to make the climax more exciting, but it's just a
downright shame that the movie doesn't just continue for another hour
or two.
<|_=00=_|>
I just got home from watching Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows. I
will try not to give any spoilers, but I thought it was one of the best
movies yet. I thought moreover that it was fairly loyal to the book for
once, as far as it was possible. I thought the tension build up was
very good throughout the movie, I liked seeing the characters being
slightly more matured. There are some new kind of 'special effects' in
the movie, which was kind of weird to me at first, but I guess it
fitted the story. I can't wait to see part two , even though I know
what will happen.

I will not tell you anymore, but it is definitely worthy to see it in
the cinema:)
<|_=00=_|>
This is not a run of the mill series, but something which has been
intricately planned for from almost the very beginning. With the last
few films crafting the level of suspense into a crescendo, where each
film augments the impending doom and gloom culminating in the finale
seen in The Half Blood Prince, things get a lot worst here from the
start, where The Deathly Hallows begins with a grim reminder from the
Minister of Magic, before we see Voldemort (Ralph Fiennes) and his
ghastly lieutenants plot to take over both realms Muggle or not in
quite Fascist terms.

Yes you read that right, and what I thought was quite the brilliant
stroke of genius to transmit that level of fear and dread into the
Potter world through something quite familiar in our world, where
there's a takeover of ministries and the installation of past villains
who are puppets of the regime, the continued discrimination and
probable extermination of the ordinary, non magical Muggles and even
the half-breeds against those who are of pure magical blood, and a
curious scene where a disguised Potter head inside the undergrounds of
the Ministry only to see propaganda being created by the masses in
creepy, clockwork like fashion.

Everything is doom and gloom with copious amounts of shades, shadows,
black and grey (save for Hermione's red dress in one scene), where our
heroic trio are quite clueless without their guardian headmaster
Dumbledore (Michael Gambon) always ready to pull some strings from
behind the scenes. His absence is largely felt, and they are left
mostly to their own devices and smarts to try and figure out a way to
get to the remaining Horcruxes and to destroy them. They become the
hunted with little allies to rely on, where betrayal seem the norm,
almost from within their own circle of trust as well where a major
subplot continues to dwell on the suggested romantic/platonic dynamics
between Hermione with Harry and Ron, the former sharing a curious dance
sequence while on the run, and the latter, well having his worst fear
confront his lack of courage to tell Hermione just how he feels for
her, well, from how many films ago.

So the verdict is whether The Deathly Hallows warranted two films. My
answer is a resounding, definite yes, because there's so much going on
in the story, of the relationships and friendships forged over the
years, of the closure both good and bad that has to come to the myriad
of characters introduced (J.K. Rowling doesn't show a lot of mercy by
the way), and not to mention the inherent quest that Harry, Ron and
Hermione chose to embark on that has gone beyond just the survival of
Harry Potter, and what's more, introduces to us what those Deathly
Hallows actually are, which goes just beyond the destruction of the
Horcuxes. Danger lurks at every corner and the narrative spins at
breakneck speed, harrowing most times with the frequent close shaves
the rookies encounter against their enemies who are growing more
powerful by the minute.

While the previous films have boasted special effects extravaganzas be
it little things to pepper the scene or large battles between wizards
and witches, this is kept surprisingly muted in the film since it's
swaying on one end of the spectrum with Evil gaining an upper hand, and
most of the effects not already something seen before in the earlier
Potter films. But what ultimately leads this film into being the more
powerful one, is the strength of the story and how it leads you along
the way, building anticipation as we root for positive outcomes as much
as possible, with slight comedy punctuating appropriate moments to lift
the spirits.

Daniel Radcliffe, Rupert Grint and Emma Watson all share that perfect
camaraderie that's been built over the years, it's no wonder that they
add that convincing depth and natural realism to their friendship, with
an audience that has largely grew up with them as well. There's no
ensemble cast like the one assembled for the Potter franchise, though
most of them - Ralph Fiennes, Alan Rickman, Helena Bonham Carter, Bill
Nighy, Tom Felton and a long list more - come and go too frequent and
too soon, but one hopes the evil Death Eaters do get their spotlight by
the time the second installment rolls over.

Chris Columbus may have begun the film franchise and made it a large
welcome for the young (especially) and old to embrace J.K Rowling's
magical world, but I am of the opinion that David Yates inherited the
franchise at the right point from The Order of the Phoenix where things
required a consistent hand rather than a rotating director's chair, and
developed the franchise into what it is today in quite unassuming
terms. Credit also has to go to Steve Kloves who has adapted from
Rowling's books (save for the point where Yates came onboard), knowing
what best to adapt into the film, and what to leave behind, steering
clear of the more cutesy tales and plunging us headlong into
Voldemort's return and ascension to power.

You know that this will end in a cliffhanger, and what a cliffhanger it
is, whetting your appetite to devour Part 2 as soon as it's released,
just so to witness how the film franchise of our generation will
fittingly conclude. I can't wait, and I'm sure the hundreds of
thousands of fans around the world cannot wait for the next too.
<|_=00=_|>
In my mind, the Deathly Hallows Part 1 captured the feeling of exactly
what the Harry Potter movies should have been all along: gritty,
emotional, and cinematic. I haven't been a huge fan of any of the HP
movies to date, but I was pleased with the Deathly Hallows because it
took a big step up in maturity from the "children's fantasy" genre and
focused on themes very central to the seventh book: hopelessness and
desperation. 

After the death of Hogwarts headmaster Albus Dumbledore, the magical
world falls into disarray as Voldemort gains power over the Ministry of
Magic and hunts tirelessly after his mortal enemy and our continuing
protagonist, Harry Potter. While keeping a low cover, Harry, Ron, and
Hermoine decide to track down and destroy Voldemort's soul contained in
hidden "horcruxes" but have difficulties deciding what to do and where
to start.

The Deathly Hallows very successfully portrays the despair-filled
journey of the wizarding trio. With dark undertones running through the
cinematography, Part 1 of the Harry Potter finale is the film that
deals more with the emotional stagnation of the characters and spends
less time with action scenes and major plot points. Since Rowling's
seventh book is separated into two movies, Part 1 boasts a much slower
pace than earlier HP films and is not so focused on cramming as many
subplots and side-stories from the book as possible into the movie's
runtime, which tends to clutter up the storyline and make the whole
thing feel rushed. 

But where the slow pacing makes this film stand out in the series, it
also may be its downfall. The Deathly Hallows continually feeds us a
feeling of desolation as Harry, Ron and Hermoine fail to discover a way
to destroy the horcruxes; they seem to be making no progress towards
defeating the Dark Lord, but as an effect the movie seems to be making
no progress towards an ending. Storyline lags intensely towards the
middle of the film and is dragged out until the conclusion (which ends
abruptly). You'll be left in your seats feeling like this is going
nowhere- but that's the point: Harry, Ron, and Hermoine are getting
nowhere. So I liked this movie because the pace was slow, but I also
didn't like this movie because the pace was slow. See what I'm getting
at? Aside from that, I can't complain much. Performances were fine,
effects were impressive, and best of all, nothing dastardly was done to
J.K. Rowling's story.

The Deathly Hallows: Part 1 is a nice improvement and a fine addition
to the Harry Potter series and should serve as a solid emotional base
for Part 2 to take off with next year. If you've enjoyed the HP movies
so far, this should be a satisfying experience at least. If not, let
the Deathly Hallows: Part 1 redeem your faith in the series. 7/10

P.S. Keep on the lookout for the scene about the deathly hallows story.
It has some of the most beautiful and artistic animation I have ever
seen in a movie.
