
"What if the stories you told came to life?" Bedtime Stories Promo

Having suffered through Adam Sandler's You Don't Mess with the Zohan
(2008), I was prepared to suffer through Bedtime Stories, his offering
in the 2008 Christmas glut of fine movies that have few for kids.
Sandler rules: This is one of the best children/adult stories this
year, an ironic twist on romantic and heroic tales told from children's
point of view through the masterful child/adult lens of an
underplaying, child-friendly master.

Sandler's Skeeter Bronson takes care of his niece and nephew for a
week. Of course he hasn't a clue because he hasn't seen them in four
years and his job as super-maintenance man at the Sunny Vista Hotel in
Las Vegas consumes most of his time and energy. He's the usual Sandler
sweet-hearted semi-loser with reserves of child-like sympathies ready
to be released.

The conceit is that after telling the humorous tales with the kids'
ample and creative input at bedtime, the story elements become real in
real life, altered to fit the modern context (e.g., a rain of gumballs
actually happens the next day, explainable by a candy truck spilling
its contents over a bridge onto Sandler). In this ingenious way, the
film recalls the Wizard-of-Oz trick of making real in Kansas what
Dorothy had experienced in the Emerald City.

There is nothing deep about this delight, just a small satire of a
society that may be losing its sense of wonder and fun in order to bow
at the altars of nutrition and commercialism. Not bad for a film I
thought would be another Sander nodder. It woke me up to the joys of
imagination and love.

Happy holidays.
<|_=00=_|>
We went to this movie with my two kids (ages 7 and 10, both girls), my
Brother-in-law and his wife and their two kids (ages six and nine, both
boys.) We were a bit apprehensive about this due to the poor critics
ratings on Rotten Tomatoes. (Frankly, the critics gave it abysmal
ratings and I almost avoided this entirely because of those ratings.)
And perhaps they were right. But I know that despite the critics we all
enjoyed it greatly. Maybe it was just the mood we were all in or the
good meal we just had before the movie but we laughed throughout.
Obviously there is no high-brow humor here or social commentary to be
made. It's just a movie who's sole purpose is simply to have fun. 

Cookie cutter? Perhaps. In fact, in retrospect I'm sure it was. But it
was still enjoyable.

So if your looking for something more than what you see in the
previews, forget it. It isn't happening. This movie makes no pretenses
about what it is exactly about: good fun. If your looking for anything
other than that, you're going to be disappointed.

On the down side, some of the best moments were captured in the
previews. While this certainly isn't the first movie to this (not the
last I'm sure), it always seems to take something away from the
experience of watching the movie. But there were plenty of other twists
and turns in this movie that helped minimize the effect this had on the
overall viewing experience.

Overall this movie was a delight for kids both big and small in our
group. You'll enjoy it if you watch it with a child's eye...and not
those big ones Bugsy has!!!
<|_=00=_|>
The thing about Bedtime Stories is that it is light, funny, easy to
digest and all around great for the whole family.

It's just like any other Sandler's movies except this one doesn't
contain any only-for-adults jokes.

It might not be the movie I'd recommend to someone who is in for
something serious or something that is seriously funny, but this movie
has got it all. There's comedy, slight drama and a lot of action; from
cowboys to the outer space.

Great writing and great acting.

Really, there's nothing to complain. It's just a very entertaining
family movie, which we don't get a lot these days.

I recommend Bedtime Stories to any Disney fans and also to anyone who'd
enjoy Adam Sandler's movies, minus the sexual and dirty jokes.
<|_=00=_|>
I was expecting another tacky platitude, similar to the unwatchable
"Mr. Magorium's Wonder Emporium", the unacceptable "Night at the
Museum", the sugary "Charlotte's Web", and sundry other brainless and
uninspired productions of the recent years which seem to bank on the
medieval idea that children would be some gullible half-morons willing
to swallow even the most awkward smoke-and-shadows games... Well, NO!
"Bedtime Stories" is NO bedtime story - it's not meant to put anyone to
stuporous sleep, being instead witty, energizing and fully enjoyable!
The script is intelligent, with a solid structure and flexible
articulations, and the directing, more than adequate: precise to a
point, expressive, spirited and brilliant. In many senses, it reminded
me the well-being that I've always been owing to the Zemeckis' "Back to
the Future" trilogy: a movie that simply makes you feel full of
buoyancy! I hate such politically correct (read: efficiently
brainwashing) labels as "family movies", so I state it clearly: it's a
good movie for children of all ages - from 3 to 83!
<|_=00=_|>
Despite being a much milder and family-friendly flick, Bedtime Stories
will not disappoint Adam Sandler fans provided they accept that they
have to share him with a much younger audience as well.

Bedtime Stories is a PG-rated comedy about hotel maintenance guy
Skeeter Bronson (Adam Sandler), who babysits his impossibly cute niece
Bobbi (Laura Ann Kesling) and nephew Patrick (Jonathan Morgan Heit) for
his uptight sister Wendy (Courteney Cox). He shares his duties with
Wendy's co-teacher/friend Jill (Keri Russell), taking on the night
shift, which is when he discovers that the stories he tells them come
true the next day. Skeeter uses his new discovery to his advantage when
he decides to create a happier ending for his own life, which is made
miserable daily by his hotel nemeses Kendall (Guy Pearce) and Aspen
(Lucy Lawless).

Sure, the scenarios are pretty ridiculous sometimes, but indulging in
children's fantasies is a longlost pleasure that this famcom creates
for his adult audience, while wisely introducing Sandler to his future
audiences by appearing in a diluted version of himself. If you're not
into warm-and-fuzzies (why fight it?!?), you might find this too
saccharine for your moldy taste buds.
<|_=00=_|>
I have never been an Adam Sandler fan as he seemed to be an actor for
humor geared towards teens...but I really enjoyed this movie. I took my
4 year old to see it and didn't expect to like it as much as I did.
This is THE perfect family movie that is funny and magical and a bit
silly. It actually can be enjoyed by all ages in the family...even the
teenagers. Sometimes we all need to relax and laugh and imagine.
Bedtime Stories does that. I left the theater feeling like I had spent
my money well on this movie. I recommended the movie to my teens and
other families. Unless you are the over-serious type, you won't be
disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is super entertaining. I honestly don't understand why some
people don't like it. Adam Sandler and everyone else in this movie were
great. Adam Sandler can definitely act in any kind of movie he chooses
to, he's a great actor. I recommend everyone who is a fan of comedies
and/or children movies to give this a try. I didn't expect this movie
to be this good but I was very very surprised! Disney has done it
again, they almost never disappoint. Go out and see this movie with the
whole family! But, if its out of theaters make sure to rent it when its
available because this is a great modern family film the whole family
will enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>
My granddaughter, 11, picked the movie as I am generally a ScFi guy. I
have to say that I enjoyed and laughed as much as she did. I didn't see
anything hackneyed or clichéd moments lend itself to funny cookie
cutter movies, except the role reversal with the waiter thing, but
oddly enough, that can happen in real life...the movie moves at a nice
brisk pace, making you want a little more depth at certain points such
as sibling interaction, but it is about that phase between is Santa
real and the real world. And yes Santa is real..No its not a Santa
movie..take the kids to it and find out, enjoy, or vice versa, I
recommend it highly. You will not feel leaving the movie ripped off by
any means, which not surprisingly happens more often than not. May you
all enjoy it as we did.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw Bedtime Stories a while back but this was a film I couldn't
believe how much I didn't like this film, it was absolutely ridicules
and I'm sorry but it insults even the children's intelligence. Adam
Sandler, I'm going to tell a story: Once upon a time, a man named Adam
Sandler made over a million dollars doing baby voices, he also released
several movies. Some being hits(i.e. The Wedding Singer) and some being
huge misses(i.e. You Don't Mess With The Zohan). He was a funny man but
for some odd reason decided to choose to make some really lousy choices
in film. Bedtime Stories is one of them, it's extremely predictable and
beyond stupid. I couldn't believe all the cliché's in this film not to
mention, I love how in every Disney film they have to have an
"adorable" animal steal the screen, which this one wasn't even
adorable, it was down right disturbing. I don't even know if I should
sum up the story since it's predictable, but if you wanna know.

Skeeter Bronson is a hotel leader who is promised as a child by his
father Marty to be the manager of the family hotel, but later it is
bought by chain Nottingham Hotels. 25 years later, the new manager Mr.
Nottingham plans to build a new hotel and appoints another man, the
snotty Kendall to become the manager, because he is dating his
daughter. Skeeter's sister asks him to watch her kids, because the
school at which she is the principal is being closed and she is looking
for a job in Arizona. The first night, Skeeter tells a bedtime story
taking place in medieval times, with some additions from her kids. It
comes true. Mr. Nottingham gives Skeeter a shot at the manager position
when he says his new hotel theme was taken by Hard Rock Hotel and on
his way home it rains gumballs, all from the story. The next night, at
the hotel, he tells another story set in the Old West, and when he
waits for it to come true, a man steals his wallet. He saves Mr.
Nottingham's daughter, Violet , from the paparazzi and gets kicked by a
dwarf. The night after that, out on a campfire, he tells them about a
Greek stunt man, and he ends up falling for his sister's friend and
fellow colleague Jill. The last night, he tells them about a space
fight, and unfortunately makes the discovery, and they change the
ending to him being hit by a gigantic ball of fire.

Bedtime Stories has it's occasional laughs, but it seems like this was
more made for a 4 year old. The characters are not developed or really
likable. Adam Sandler has made a career on making stupid baby voices, I
mean, how is it that this man gets several million dollars on doing
that? But if that's what people like to see, I'm just glad that I got
to see this for free. It wasted my time, it wasn't cute, the cast was
out of place and the kids were annoying as heck. I wouldn't really
recommend watching this movie, it's not even a good family movie. I'm
sorry, but a 6.2 rating is beyond too generous for this stupid movie.

2/10
<|_=00=_|>
Normally when Adam Sandler is in more PG-13 or R rated movies you find
him hilarious, because the film has extra content that makes you more
prone to laugh. My first initial thought was that I would hate this
movie because of the PG rating, but I will admit that this movie made
me laugh a lot more than I expected. This actually might seem a little
childish or kid friendly, but sometimes you have to forget about that
and enjoy the movie for what it is. Also the cast co-stars Russell
Brand from Forgetting Sarah Marshall's fame, who also delivers several
laughs just like his previous performance. All in all it isn't as bad
as you would first think. In fact it is really worth a try.
