
Okay so you know the premise with these types of films, you've got your
father in-law and your son in-law arguing while the rest of their
family watch them get into zany situations. Being such a used formula,
you can guess what's going to happen, this isn't a problem with
comedies as their jokes are what hold them up, right?

My main problem with the film is that there were no jokes, the entire
audience was silent, the only laughter I heard was from some teenage
girls laughing at a scene involving a needle and someone's penis. I
wouldn't have minded puns, or cheesy jokes, or embarrassing situations,
but the film was just like a drama that wasn't very dramatic.

I felt like the film didn't know what it wanted to be, the title
"Little Fockers" implies that the children are the main focus, but the
two children are barely in the film and when they were, they were just
a bit annoying. The film is definitely not a family film, it's heavily
sexually based, I wouldn't advise taking your children to see this, but
then adults won't find the humour very funny.

The acting wasn't bad to be perfectly honest, the line up is good and I
felt that the characters were believable. As for messages? The film
carries some messages about family loyalties and priorities, but
doesn't every film like this carry that message?

I don't like sounding too negative, but the bottom line is that I
didn't enjoy this film, simple as that. If you like these kinds of
films then I would suggest renting it some time, it's not as bad as I
may have made it sound, but it's still pretty bad in my opinion. I hope
this review helped you, and maybe saved you some money.
<|_=00=_|>
Quality comedies -- if they go beyond one sequel -- never come in 
threes. In the case of "Little Fockers," three's a Focking mess. But we 
asked for it; "Meet the Fockers" ranks as the highest-grossing 
live-action comedy in the U.S., so regardless of quality, we were going 
to get whatever studios served us. And sure enough, "Little Fockers" 
cooks up tired modern gags, basically forgetting that the last decade 
of comedy (including its two predecessors) ever existed and that we 
could be won over by open mentions of sex (ooh!) and recycled dick drug 
gags.

It's several years later and Greg and Pam Focker (Ben Stiller and Teri 
Polo) live in Chicago with their twins, Henry and Samantha. Grandpa 
Jack Byrnes (De Niro) has grown concerned over the Byrnes family legacy 
as he's been having some heart issues lately and his first son-in- law, 
Dr. Bob, has failed him after having an affair and getting a divorce. 
As such, before he and wife Dina (Blythe Danner) arrive for the twins' 
birthday, he tells Greg that he's ready to pass the torch to Greg, 
who's eager but still scared about winning Jack's full approval and 
becoming "The Godfocker."

The film focuses on Jack and Greg again, as expected, so among other 
faults, the title "Little Fockers" is misleading. The kids are hardly 
in the picture expect for cheap jokes and they're neither cute nor 
talented. In a family dinner scene where Greg (with "Godfather" music 
in the background) commands that Henry eat his lasagna, Henry succumbs 
but then spews vomit all over his father. Whenever the film seems to 
breeze about with a bit more of a sense of humor, a tasteless joke 
shoots in that prompts us to do the same. 

Contrivances and predictable story lines litter "Fockers" and damper 
the occasional moments of humor. The familiarity we have with Greg and 
Jack helps create that humor and some clever jokes actually do exist, 
but the script leans on typical "misunderstanding" plot devices, most 
of which were ironically used most effectively in "Meet the Parents" 
and "Meet the Fockers." The whole idea of "if they worked once they'll 
work again" does not apply. The "twists" of this film are set up so 
conspicuously that as they unfold, it's like you know what happens 
because you've seen it before. And you likely have, because there was 
probably something similar in it from a previous "Focker" film.

Outside of Jack spying on Greg, who tries to keep it a secret that he's 
trying to make extra cash by pushing a new erectile dysfunction drug 
for a gorgeous drug rep (Jessica Alba), all the side characters and 
plots are garbage. Owen Wilson returns as Kevin and the running joke 
other than him being some rich worldly hippie is that he's in love with 
Pam, which never amounts to anything. Alba over-ditzifies her part, 
which should have been played by a nameless attractive woman, proving 
she has no idea how to shake her type.

Even Bernie and Roz Focker (Hoffman and Streisand) are out of place, 
squeezed in to appease the audience who expects them to show up. It's 
actually unfortunate, because neither of them totally overdo their part 
or annoy us with the fact that despite the same thing happening for the 
third film in a row now, no one's learned their lesson. Greg actually 
catches Jack spying on him on the train and after eight years of 
knowing each other, Greg doesn't confront him. Sure this was for the 
sake of keeping the tension up, but at some point you can't keep 
milking the same goat, or cow, or cat. Yes, Jinxie returns, also with a 
convenient line of dialogue from Wilson who says "I had her brought in 
town for you when I heard about your heart," just to set up another pet 
mischief joke that's completely out of place at the end of the film.

Basically, we're Focking tired. "Little Fockers" is simply another 
example of a movie concept that's run its course and should have never 
gone beyond two films and only did because of the money. In a sense, 
there should be no surprises here. Then again, attempted jokes such as 
young Henry randomly asking if girls poop from their vaginas at the 
dinner table, could have been replaced with something more thoughtful 
-- and tasteful.

~Steven C


<|_=00=_|>
So the third film in the hugely successful franchise as been thrust
upon on us, but it is far from a welcome addition to the family.

The main reason is it's just devoid of any originality whatsoever and
is just complete recycling job of excellent first two outings and one
where you can only use the father-son-in-law 'interrogation' theme for
so long before it wears incredibly thin. Even the title 'Little
Fockers' would have been a good indicator that the main objective and
jokes would have centred around the kids but the truth is they have
very little screen time in the film.

When screen legends of Robert DeNiro, Harvey Keitel and Dustin Hoffman
received the script they must have been thinking "not much to do here,
except just pickup an easy pay cheque".

The film also introduces a new character in the way of Andi Garcia
(Jessica Alba) all I can say it's the most annoying character forced
upon us since Jar Jar Binks in the 'Phantom Menace'

The only plus point to come out of the film is during it' end credits
where there is a hilarious re-mix video. Apologies if this review
sounds over the top but this film really is that bad and is the reason
why I am giving my first ever 1* rating
<|_=00=_|>
This was one of the movies that I was most looking forward to seeing
this year and it turned out to be the WORST movie I have seen all year!
What were DeNiro and Stiller thinking? Let me rephrase, what was ANYONE
thinking who had anything to do with the making of this wretched bag of
dreck posing as movie. Back in 2000, Meet The Parents was looked upon
as one of the funniest movies ever. I remember that the editorial page
of my hometown newspaper even praised it. Here, they have just
disgraced themselves. Apparently the movie makers thought it cute to
show a little child being injured and someone slashing themselves
cutting the turkey. Oh and also, the scene where DeNiro takes that
Viagra drug and it shows him with a huge bulge in his....oh never mind.
I want to tell the screenwriters that bad taste does not equal funny.
DeNiro has earned his place as one of our greatest actors and he should
have known better agreeing to this. He merely embarrasses himself as
everyone else who made the film did. They should hang their heads in
shame.
<|_=00=_|>
If it was a movie with intentions of being forever remembered and
awarded with Oscars I would rate it 2/10 of course, but knowing it has
been made for laughing, then it's a 7. I did laugh quite a bit, but
it's not an 8 or 9 because some jokes are not my kind of humor or it's
the same jokes as the previous movies in the series (with the last name
and so on). Also, the plot is dull, like always, things don't work out
for Greg and blah blah.

The positive: Some fresh jokes, Good acting, Laughs are guaranteed.

The negative: DeNiro while showing great character adaptation, I miss
him in more serious movies. Some jokes are old, Same formula.

So, to sum it up: Just go see it if you want to laugh, don't expect to
be a great movie. 

PS. Jessica Alba looks great in the movie, but the character is
tedious.
<|_=00=_|>
Because there are no big issues at the Little Fockers house, little
issues drown it in nonsense so that humor can barely breathe. Patriarch
Jack Byrnes (Robert De Niro) thinks his problematic son-in-law, Greg
(Ben Stiller), should be his heir to the "godfocker" role. Greg
(previously in life named "Gay' for Gaylord) accepts and spends the
rest of the film showing he is not qualified for the responsibility.

Thence come the pratfalls and pranks that comedies rely on for laughs
when they lack the wit to laugh by lines. The most exciting but
humorless action comes in the delicious form of Jessica Alba, a
pharmaceutical rep bent on seducing Greg, a male nurse who could help
her company promote a new erectile enhancing drug. Sadly already this
year Love and Other drugs with Jake Gyllenhaal as the rep for a Viagra
pill covered the erection action with a bit more verve.

When even Owen Wilson as flaky Kevin Rawley, admirer of Greg's wife,
Pamela (Teri Polo), doesn't get as much as a smirk from me, then I know
I am in an underachieving comedy. At least the dog in this movie does
not masturbate (see Due Date); it just swallows a gecko. Not much
funnier than one of the Focker kids puking at the dinner table. I need
say no more.

The Focker franchise is lucrative, and Stiller, De Niro, and company
are a talented bunch, so I am an optimist that their next reunion may
hold an amusing concept with lithe lines. Not.
<|_=00=_|>
What a jolly jape making another movie with Focker in the title
because, hilarity upon hilarity, Focker sounds like something rude so
we must laugh. Except we don't really as this series of films has
dredged the barrel bottom clean for a second unfunny sequel to
complement something that was not that funny first time round. The
gangs all here again to perform a series of unfunny sketches unfunnily
and leave the audience paralysed with laughter. Well paralysed at least
if they don't get up and do something more interesting like repoint
their sewage system. Robert DeNiro used to be one of the finest actors
ever to hit the screen and that's all you need to know about this pile
of putrid puss. As long as people troop in and titter at the Benny Hill
style double entendre of people called Focker then there will be no
doubt be a fourth probably called 'something something mother Focker
something' which will send us apoplectic with mirth.......or not most
likely. The silliest Fockers of all have to be the audience for this
tripe. Luckily I saw it for free and I thought I was robbed. They may
not make films like they used to but they still churn out utter garbage
like this year in year out so prepare for more Focking Fockers in the
near future. Makes you Focking weep!
<|_=00=_|>
This film is terrible. I finally became a member on IMDb so I can say
just how bad this film is. If you're thinking about going to see
it..don't.

It is not funny, it lacks direction and most of all it is pointless. It
is an insult to the two earlier Meet the Parent films. Why it is called
'Meet the Little Fockers' is beyond me, the children really are not
that involved in the film. The title is probably the funniest joke in
the whole film.

I could explain for longer why this film is so bad, but that would take
far too long.

In summary, the film is bad; go see Narnia, Tron or anything else.
<|_=00=_|>
I would love to become a film writer/director, but I often suffer
self-doubts on whether I can write anything good or come up with a good
idea. Weirdly Little Fockers gives me hope because I know that least I
try hard with an idea and do not settle for less like the writers of
Little Fockers.

Little Fockers is set five years after the events of Meet the Fockers.
Greg (Ben Stiller) and Pam (Teri Polo) are happily married and have
five year old twins, Sam (Daisy Tahan) and Henry (Colin Baiocchi). But
after Jack (Robert De Niro) has a heart attack, he decides that that
Byrnes family needs a new patriarch: Greg is the only man available for
the job. Jack makes Greg perform tasks to prove him, by getting his
kids into a good school and make himself financially secure. To do that
Greg moonlights to promote a new Viagra drug for heart patients after
being recruited by sexy pharmaceutical representative Andi Garcia
(Jessica Alba). But there is distrust because of her good looks.

Now I confess that I am not a big fan of the 'Meet the Parents' series
and the only reason I went to see it with people was because there were
no good screening times for Tron Legacy or The Way Back. I had low
exceptions and Little Fockers met them. Little Fockers follows the same
formula of accidents and misunderstandings, with Greg and Jack
constantly fighting and mistrust: surely wouldn't men have learn by
now, they are meant to smart. Most of the humour is juvenile, mostly
farting related. Fine for young kids, but at the same time there are a
lot of sex jokes which takes away the family audience. This type of
comedy and this series is stale: it is another example of a film
franchise becoming too successful for its own good.

Little Fockers was directed by Paul Weitz, the less talented brother of
Chris Weitz (the director of The Golden Compass and New Moon). It was
obviously with his workman like direction and a lack of care in about
the script and the performances that he made this film just for the
money: well there is a recession. There was nothing inventive about
this film.

Performance wise there isn't much to say, all the regular actors do
their usual routine. This is one of Stiller's worst film, he needs to
make more films like Tropic Thunder and I do wonder if Robert De Niro
made a deal with the devil, he could star in films like the Godfather
Part 2 and Raging Bull, but in the later had to make this rubbish. I
hope Martin Scorsese comes in and saves his career. Owen Wilson was on
auto-pilot and Jessica Alba was in the film just because of her looks.
Surely Alba should get a better agent because all she does is strip off
in her films (as a man I enjoy it, but as an enlightened person there
has got to be more to her then her body).

Basically the only highlight of the film was the use of a smart child
for some of the comedy: smart children are often more funny then dumb
children in films.
<|_=00=_|>
For a start the director of American PIE should not have been put in
charge of this so far so good franchise. Meet the Parents has just
finished with this installment. Ben Stiller is back with his ongoing
shenanigans with father in-law DeNiro, but all to no avail You will see
many Godfather references and Jaws references to name a few. Just
terrible and all in all rude, obscure and down right awful humour. If
you see this because your a Jessica Alba fan, your forgiven, but if you
expect to see legends Harvey Keitel, Barbara Streisand or Dustin
Hoffman on screen for more than about 15 minutes, forget it. Leave your
brain at the door, this stupid movie may get more laughs when vacant.
