
As we've seen many movies like this before: Big, 13 Going on 30, and
Freaky Friday, we always love to see the retelling of the old classic
story of the switching age. Since the story has been used so much, a
director can only do so much to just do the best they can with, Burr
Steers pulls 17 Again out with great laughs and good fun. I'm going to
get this out, I am one of the rare girls that just doesn't get the
whole Zac Efron heart throb thing, I agree that he's cute, but with
mainly High School Musical only being his claim to fame other than
Hairspray, he is adorable, but can he act? Surprisingly he can. I
can't believe I'm saying this, he was actually a good strong lead role
and a perfect fit, he has charisma, he's funny, charming and makes this
story worth your time and money.

In 1989, Michael O'Donnell was a star athlete with a full college
scholarship imminent. He seemingly had it all, when, right before the
championship game, his girlfriend Scarlett informed him she was
pregnant. In that moment, he made the decision to throw everything away
and proposed to her. Twenty years later, Mike's life isn't exactly what
he expected it to be. Scarlett wants a divorce from him, forcing him to
move in with his geeky millionaire best friend Ned, his job is going
nowhere, and his kids Maggie and Alex want nothing to do with him.
While paying a visit to Hayden High School to reminisce about the life
he threw away, he encounters a strange beardy janitor, who I still
swear is Bob Haskins. On the way home, is magically transformed back
into his 17-year old self. With Ned posing as his father, he re-enrolls
in high school, believing he has been given the chance to have his life
over again, "but to do it right". However, he then discovers that his
daughter is dating the basketball captain Stan, who is bullying his
son. He realizes that his real mission is to help his children as well
as finding out that maybe his decision wasn't the worst he ever made in
his life.

We go a little Back to the Future-esquire when we get on the creepy
level of Michelle Trachtenberg having a crush on Zac Efron who is her
father, just that she can't recognize him, it's understanding, but
still makes you squirm, but the director and actors pulled the scene
off pretty well with getting out of that yucky situation. There is one
continuity error: if Mike and his girl got pregnant at the age of 17...
20 years later, yet both their kids are still in high school, the
oldest child would only be a maximum of 18. A plot hole: seriously,
besides the wife, no one at all recognizes Mike? But I'm over thinking
the movie too much at this point, it's just a fun movie with decent
performances, I just need to let go of silly mistakes. So I would
recommend this movie if you get the chance to see it, but I'd say more
of a matinée vs. a full price ticket, it has some good laughs and was a
great update of the "What if you could go back?" story.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see this with film with my teenage daughter and really wasn't
expecting to enjoy it. I settled down in my seat for the duration and
the first few scenes showing Efron as a high school basketball player
had me groaning inwardly as I assumed that this was going to be another
predictable high school/age swap film of the type that has been done so
many times before - and really isn't the sort of film I would choose to
see anyway. Not a promising start. However, I was pleasantly surprised
by 17 Again. It was witty and well acted and made me laugh out loud -
not something I often do even when I appreciate the humour in a film.

This film's appeal is also strengthened by the acting of the supporting
characters as well as the main ones - Thomas Lennon's character was
particularly well delivered. I found no fault with Zac Efron's acting
in this and I enjoyed his performance in Hairspray but it would be
interesting to see him in a serious grown up dramatic role.
<|_=00=_|>
I've just returned from the cinema after watching this film and I have
to say, my friends and I laughed like a bunch of hyenas (probably to
the annoyance of anyone behind us) all the way through it. The story of
course is nothing original, but you knew that going in, and yes, there
are some seemingly ridiculous or stereotypical character setups, again
acknowledged beforehand, but the direction and the acting, more than
makes up for this. Most of the actors, especially Efron, who proves
he's definitely not just a wanna-be pretty boy and actually stores away
some talent, play their parts well. Matthew Perry seemed slightly
misplaced, even if he was the reason I went to see the film in the
first place. Not to mention the director being Burr Steers who directed
one of my favourite films. I could kind of tell how in the wrong hands
this movie could have been embarrassingly bad, but Steers manages to
balance the right amount of comedy with drama and turn it into
something really worth seeing. Efron blew me away. I have to say, I
didn't see it coming, and I never thought I'd say such a sentence, but
this boy can do better than TV Disney movies. I'm kind of glad he has
turned down re-make, Footloose, not only because it's a 're-make of
footloose'.

On the negative side of things the writing lacked in terms of Mark's
relationship with his daughter. The daughter didn't really seem to have
a personality, now I'm not totally sure if this is down to
Trachtenbergs terrible acting (one of very little who deliver poor
performances actually) or poor character development but something was
wrong there.

I don't really rate the cinematography, but I don't think it's
something to be taken quite seriously in teen films. It's all about the
characters and the comedy - but what was up with that image of Zac
right before 'Mark' falls into the water? Some interesting choices of
music. One of the funniest movies I've seen in a while. Quite moving
and Mark is a much more 3 dimensional, well developed character than
most PG-13 rated movies you see. I genuinely cared about him, where as,
even in Mean Girls, (which is particularly hilarious and legendary as
far as contemporary teen films go) I didn't care too much for any of
the characters. It's probably because this film went that little bit
further than most and took itself seriously, if only for parts of the
movie. It makes a big difference.

So, yeah, '17 Again', fairly well written, hilarious, well and
sometimes greatly acted and awesome direction for the most part, and a
genuinely good, enjoyable and moving film. Take a look and you'll
probably be surprised... but don't go in hoping for anything Oscar
worthy. I get the impression there is only so much a director can do
with a film like '17 Again' and he did it alright.

Trustworthy director and impressive lead, I'd say. Can make all the
difference.

p.s. I'd also watch out for that Sterling Knight actor - he plays Marks
awkward son. He gave a genuinely good performance also.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not a big fan of Zac Efron but this film was actually good. Its was
entertaining it was sweet and it was very funny. It's a little
confusing figuring out who was who when he went back to being 17 again.
There are a few funny parts and a few sad parts. I caught myself
rolling my eyes at the silly high school girls, they are quite
pathetic. The story was entertaining and original, along with the
characters ( except the high school girl) But however i felt a feeling
of Deja Vu , yes i'm talking about 13 going to 30 it wasn't the same
type of story but the concept is the same. I would have liked to see
more of Matthew Perry though. But frankly i wasn't expecting that much.
I was pleasantly surprised and would definitively recommend this very
funny movie. It's entertaining and worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
17 Again was nothing I expected. The trigger that made me actually go
and watch it in the Cinema was the fact that the jokes shown on the
trailers were hilarious. The film was better.

I was laughing so much, that I missed in between dialogue by some of
the characters and it was the perfect film to help you unwind after
doing a days worth of work or revision.

When the opening scene started, I was so worried that the whole film
was going to turn out as some kind of adaptation of high school musical
and there'd be a song every 15 minutes. But it wasn't the case.

This Movie really proved that Efron is not an Amateur who just dances
and sings a lot. It proved he is a skilled Actor and his acting brought
back memories of Chandler in Friends. In some places, he seemed so much
like Matthew Perry which is difficult to pull off for most Amateur
actors.

The only reason I didn't give this movie a 10 out of 10 is because some
people I watched this movie with believed it had an 'abrupt ending' but
I thought you can't have too much of a good thing.
<|_=00=_|>
Every teen generation needs a good body swap/turn the clock back type
of story and 17 again is one of those stories, Mike O'Donnell had it
all. He was the star of his high schools basket ball team. He had
Scarlet the most beautiful girl in the school as his girlfriend. Right
before the game that could make him into a star, Scarlet tells Mike
she's pregnant, Mike makes a drastic and life altering decision and
runs out of the game to be with her giving up his chances of becoming a
basket ball star, now 20 years later Mike's regretting it all and
wishes he could do it all over again, and by some miraculous way he
does.

17 again is a cool and stylish what if movie, it brings to light the
question of what if you could change your life, if you could live it
all over again.What would you do different? That's the question this
movie propose and tells with a grand lush style that resonates with the
teen population and even with the adults too, 17 again is not just some
teen movie, it's a movie that even adults between the ages of 30-50
would enjoy it, my dad sure did. But this film has it's flaws and some
very minor bad dialogue from Zack Efron but nothing that would hamper
this films style or production, but in my honest opinion this film was
very good, this movie is not Oscar worthy but it's definitely worth the
price of admission.
<|_=00=_|>
The storyline was very well done and enjoyable. I was pleasantly
surprised at this movie. Keep an open mind and you will enjoy the
movie.

Zac Efron did a really decent acting job. I honestly thought it would
be High School Musical-like but it turned out to be a nice movie to
watch. If he keeps up the good work and takes it to the next level, he
can really be an A level quality star. Zac is no Matthew Macfadden yet
but there is potential.

There are two recasts I would have done. Matthew Perry wasn't fully
right for this role. He has a comedic bent but it wasn't used at all in
this movie - hence a total waste and was a mismatch from a character
perspective. I think John Stamos would have been better. Also Michelle
Trachtenberg playing the teenager was a bit much. Trachtenberg is a
solid actress but for a teenager, a different actress would have been
better.

It is a very nice movie and I usually rate a movie on whether it's
worth paying full price, matinée, video store, Netflix or don't bother.
The movie was worth paying full price.
<|_=00=_|>
So I saw an advanced screening. I didn't expect much, but it was
actually pretty good! It might be a plot line that has been seen a lot,
but this one is actually entertaining. People have compared it to "13
going to 30" but trust me, this one is much better. It has comedy and
drama, my sister teared up in one part. Thomas Lennon is pretty funny,
Leslie Man always the scene stealer and of course Zac Efron. HE CAN
ACT. If you didn't think he was hot before wait until you watch the
movie and acts like a real person, not a goody goody fake teenager from
"High School Musical" though he was the best performer in that movie
(I'm not hating on High School Musical I found it entertaining.) I
recommend "17 Again" for adults and mature children.
<|_=00=_|>
This is another movie I watched with my friend who works at a movie
theatre. With elements of Big and 13 Going on 30, not to mention It's a
Wonderful Life and Back to the Future, 17 Again is a pretty enjoyable
meshing of those movies considering the cast which has Zac Efron,
Michelle Trachtenberg, Leslie Mann, Margaret Cho, Thomas Lennon, and
Melora Hardin. I also recognized Matthew Perry and Nicole Sullivan. I
did not realize until the cast credits that the bearded janitor at the
high school was Brian Doyle-Murray, Bill's brother. Now, parts of the
plot and characterizations were a little uneven but despite that there
were plenty of scenes that were hilarious especially those between
Lennon and Hardin. With them, I also saw a little "Big Bang Theory"
vibe. Oh, and there's a little touching pro-abstinence speech here as
well (though it still is acknowledged that not all teens will feel that
way). All in all, despite some adult humor, 17 Again was an enjoyable
comedy that should be enjoyable enough for parents and offspring alike.
Oh, and one more thing: I thought the Vanilla Ice reference in the 1989
sequence didn't fit since I remember him not even emerging until the
following year...
<|_=00=_|>
CHUGA CHUGA CHUGA - The Hollywood movie machine cranks out another gem,
haven't I seen this same script about 34 times? I'll start with this,
why does no one recognize the 17 yr old version of Mike, not his
daughter or son, best friend from HS or ex coach? Zac is a good looking
guy with a memorable face, seriously, hasn't everyone seen pictures of
their parents when they were teens? Wouldn't you recognize them? And
his wife of 20 years does not hear a difference in his voice on the
phone even though we all do? Then he introduces himself to his own son
as the son of his uncle, this must not be a very close family.

In what world does a bigger guy and captain of the basketball team
stand around to listen to a soliloquy tearing him down. In my high
school big guy would have pummeled little Zack into a pulp.

Why is older Mike 6 inches taller than younger Mike? In the movie's
beginning he's about 7 inches taller then his wife to-be in high school
but as an adult she is the same height as 17 yr old Mike, wow! I guess
we're supposed to believe that after age 17 not only did Mike grow 6
inches but his petite girlfriend grew 7, that's some growth spurt so
late in life, do they live next door to a nuclear power plant? 

Mike keeps on stopping by their house but the irresponsible Mother
never calls the uncle to see where he lives or how he suddenly found
his 17 yr old long lost son? Young Mike has an issue with his wife
going out on a date but doesn't find it creepy that she is flirting
with (even though it's really him) her 17 yr old nephew. 

And seriously, all the guys out there, if you suddenly found yourself
looking like you did at 17 with the mind of a 37 yr old wouldn't one of
the first things you'd do include going after young women???? But he
completely ignores them. Also why is he in the same class as his
daughter who would be two years older than him if he had her at 18 and
he is 37 when he changes.

How does the mother know where the party is, and she comes to get her
son to what, embarrass him? Then the principal and her husbands best
friend show up, but then who is the uncle we've never seen because
that's not him but then, but.....man am I confused.

Bottom line - Why do all modern high school age flicks all require you
to suspend all disbelief in reality? Poor script, OK acting, if it
could have made sense it might have been OK, but no big loss, they will
pump out more of the same drivel in a couple months.
