
I was nearly put off going to see this after reading a few sneering
reviews, which in retrospect appear to have been more an attempt by the
critic to show off about their having read the novel than having
actually anything to do with what's on screen.

Yes, the narration is a little heavy handed at times but ultimately
necessary and the incongruous "When it comes to war you really find out
what people are really like" early on felt like it was being trowelled
out so we didn't miss it. Sure, it's not perfect but these are minor
niggles not major flaws.

Thankfully, it isn't a boy invades village; girl falls in love; boy
isn't as beastly as first thought kind of story. Life's more
complicated than that. Where the film excels is that what you think of
a character changes as the film progresses. There is no good German.
There is no black and white collaboration. There are just people
confronted with circumstances and how they react to them.

Michelle Williams brilliantly underplays her role which counteracts the
clumsiness of the script in places, Matthias Schoenaerts is superb as
the sensitive and conflicted man of war and the supporting cast
excellent.

It's a little gem.
<|_=00=_|>
Suite Française sounds like an overused plot that one can predict from
a mile away but it's not. The story's not another version of Romeo and
Juliet's impossible love. It's subtle, sweet, and smart because it
makes you think - just a little bit don't worry - about morals, values,
and ideologies our own and that of the ones we love. The film is about
a blooming love story but a complicated one. 

Lucile & Bruno's longing and desire for each other doesn't get
frustrating or outrageously déjà vu, it only adds another flavor, to
the many, in the film. It contrasts well with Celine's (Margot Robbie)
lack of restraint on her urges. It begs the question on ideologies and
desire, when do they impede each other? No one is just one dimensional
in this film, you see the good, the bad, and questionable in every one.
Ambivalence is the key word in this film, conflicting emotions and
ideologies is in the center of this story.

The storytelling is just amazing, layered with subtlety and beauty, it
carries you through every step of the way like musical notes played on
the piano. The ensemble cast is great, all of the characters have some
kind of layers to them, each of them memorable in their own way,
without ever making the film crowded or hard to follow. Kristin Scott
Thomas embodies the devotion her character has, Michelle Williams fits
the role perfectly she has this quite strength that Lucile needs, and
Matthias Schoenaerts really is the prince in the big bad wolf suit or
vice versa.

Suite Française is a captivating and poignant story that has an equally
emotive roots, the film surprised me. @wornoutspines
<|_=00=_|>
18 March 2015 Film of Choice at The Plaza Dorchester Tonight - Suite
Française. Based on an unfinished series of books by Irène Némirovsky,
a Ukranian Jew who died in Auschwitz, they were discovered and held by
her children, but not read until 1998. They were eventually published
as a single volume in 2004 and this film is the adaptation of that
printed story. It's a tale of life in the war, a tale of love,
betrayal, a tale of deceit and survival. Lucile is a young girl forced
to live with her severe and controlling Mother-in-Law, played
exceptionally well by Kristin Scott Thomas. When their village is
occupied by the Germans they are forced to play host to a German
Officer, but he is unlike the others. Lucile is a timid put upon girl
who appears to meekly abide by what her Mother-in-Law decrees, but as
the film gains momentum we see her true character assert itself. This
is a tale of everyday people, trying to survive as the horror of war is
raging around them. Very beautifully shot with a delicate soundtrack
revolving around the piece of music written by the young German
Officer. Once again you leave the cinema with the feeling of futility,
and waste which come from watching stories about the war, but also in a
peculiar way, I had the sense of having watched something very
beautiful.
<|_=00=_|>
What a strange feeling it must be to wake up one morning in familiar
surroundings where nothing is familiar anymore This film captures what
it was like to live under occupation in France during the early months
of the war. It is a captivating story about Lucille, a soft- hearted
woman played by Michelle Phillips, whose husband is a prisoner of war.
She lives with her severe, controlling mother-in-law, played by Kristin
Scott Thomas. The two of them are in the middle of collecting rents
from their tenants when the war suddenly comes to town. Over the next
few months everything these people thought they knew about themselves
and each other changes. German officers are billeted out to homes of
villagers, some of whom vindictively write letters denouncing
neighbours or accuse sympathizers of liaising with Germans. While
Lucille discovers the truth about her husband she begins to fall in
love with the sensitive German officer who lives under their roof,
until the self-centred mayor's wife sets in motion a series of events
that rips the town apart.

At the end of the film a synopsis about the author is given that is
difficult to read -- this film is based on an unfinished manuscript by
Irène Némirovsky, a Ukranian Jew who died in Auschwitz. The hand
written pages were rediscovered by her daughter in the bottom of a
suitcase and published in 2004. 

This is a tale of everyday people trying to cope in their
unrecognizable world. It is both heart wrenching and beautiful to
watch. It is also one of the most authentic films I have ever seen of
this era. Every aspect of this film's art direction, from costumes and
hairstyles to sets and streetscapes captures occupied France in the
summer of 1940 better than any film I have ever seen.
<|_=00=_|>
Perhaps the best thing about 'Suite Française' is that the love story
is intriguing. This is a rare thing nowadays and brings to mind the
great heyday of romance in the Seventies. 'Suite Française' is set in
Nazi occupied France during the start of World War II. You will
therefore be crying with powerful and furious emotion. Michelle
Williams is at the fore front of this film; gladly she does not fail or
let the production team down in any respect. She plays a French
Villager (I think) called Lucile Angellier. I say this statement with
doubt as last time I checked French people did not speak English as
their first language. Her overbearing mother is played with severity by
Kristin Scott Thomas. She outright leads her daughter's life for her
and plays a prominent role in all of her decisions, whether they be
little or large. Their village becomes ruled and dictated by German
soldiers, some much more brutal than others. There are different
personalities and beliefs to each of them. This is great to see,
because it paints a broader and larger painting. It shows us that not
everyone can be placed definitively into a category.

Lucile is eventually watched over by a lieutenant by the name of Bruno
Von Falk. Yes they do fall in love. But it is not as clichéd as I had
suspected even if it does fall prone to a few nearly unavoidable
clichés. It is the small subtleties that shape their romance. Lucille
grows tired of her mother being in charge of her own life and this
relationship allows her to become more independent and free minded.
This provides the audience with depth, as it is not just a forbidden
romance, but a necessary one as well. The lieutenant is acted
sufficiently by Matthias Schoenaerts, who proves that he is not just a
pretty face off of Hollywood's conveyor belt of seemingly endless
blank, bland and boring male actors.

The horrors of war are slightly forgotten about as the film enters its
later stages of the romance. But I cannot become too angry at the film,
as it is a romance and not a war film. The film maintains good pacing,
so that nothing is sudden and unexpected. This is an absolute necessity
as we must become invested in the romance as time progresses. This is
something that the Director should be proud of. That we maintain a
surging like towards the two leads and always care about the
characters. For the impatient they may find the whole affair too
plodding, as there is only one action set piece located at the start of
the film and even that is as brief as they come. But ask yourself, do
we really need more action; for this type of film, no, absolutely not.
In the last act of it, it becomes a sad if predictable experience,
which therefore means that the smallest trace of a tear is kept at bay.
The film in its final moments is everything that it promised us it
would not be; clichéd and predictable.

Although far too predictable in its final act 'Suite Française'
represents one of the more plausible romances in recent memory. The
acting is enthusiastic by Michelle Williams and the male lead gets the
job done. 'Suite Française' may be too drama heavy, but if the romance
is this engaging; then frankly my dear I don't give a damn.
<|_=00=_|>
Suite Francaise is, for me, a rather sophisticated commentary on
inequality and dispossession. 

The characters in Suite Francaise are never to any measurable degree in
control of their own fate. They are each controlled and constrained by
social, economic and political prohibitions. In their own way each
suffers a form of inequality of treatment, which leads to some form or
other of dispossession. 

For the lead characters, the young French wife and the German officer
she comes to love, the most obvious inequality is their inability to
form and sustain a loving relationship.They are constrained by
political differences and social prejudices. Other characters
experience dispossession as a result of a variety of factors such as
class bias and racial discrimination. The loss in these cases, ranges
from dispossession from property, through to deportation and death. 

What is clear is the authors frustration and fury at the insanity of
the world we live in. How so called civilizations and on a more local
level individuals, demonstrate spitefulness and pettiness,
(demonstrated by neighbours writing incriminating letters to the
occupying German forces about one another) that prevent us all from
leading free and happy lives. 

This message is driven home all the more painfully and forcefully when
you consider the tragic fate of the Jewish author, whose work this film
is based upon. Sent to her death at a Nazi concentration camp simply
for being Jewish. 

The film adaption, derived from her incomplete series of books, is
perhaps, a little stilted at times. This may in part be due to the fact
the books were incomplete but possibly also due to the subtly of the
message, which is not easily communicated in a ninety minute or so
film. 

In summary, Suite Francaise, is a thoughtful film. The compelling and
heartfelt message which asks us all to practice kindness, understanding
and tolerance when faced with its antithesis is as relevant in today's
troubled times as ever it was. Eight out of ten from me.
<|_=00=_|>
I am a 63 year old female so my tastes differ from those of the younger
demographic. I enjoyed this movie, I think it follows the book fairly
closely. Read the book a while ago, so I don't remember exactly.
Michelle Williams was good considering she mostly had to stand around
looking scared, great English accent. Kristin Scott was icy and
imperious. Maybe a bit over the top.

Very authentic. Good costumes, sets, location. 

Yes this movie had a soap opera feel, that was the type of story it
told.

The tragic thing is that the author Irene Nemirovsky was betrayed by
her countrymen to the Nazis and died in a German concentration camp.
Her daughter found the manuscript in her belongings many decades later.
So the novel was written during the time of the Second World War, it's
more authentic than novels written decades after.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved this movie! I generally love most World War II movies simply
because I enjoy the culture during that time in history. However, this
movie really did take me by surprise. I thought just by viewing the
thumbnail and the quick Bio that it could have potential, so I decided
to watch it. Not only did it meet the potential that I thought it had,
it surpassed it! 

I don't want to give any spoilers away, but there was something that
happened during the movie that I simply didn't agree with, thus giving
it only 9 out of 10 stars.

But I still highly recommend this movie!
<|_=00=_|>
SUITE FRANCAISE comes with a 'genesis' story, of which we are reminded
in the end credits. The Jewish author died in Auschwitz, having written
the first two novels of a planned quintet in notebooks which were only
rediscovered in 1998 and republished in 2004. This Anne Frank back
story is more poignant than the romance in the book and the movie.

Matthias Schoenaerts is very believable as the Nazi with a soft centre,
and Kristin Scott Thomas is splendid as the flinty mother-in-law,
although her role somewhat runs out of steam. Michelle Williams' lead
performance is a bit under-powered: maybe it needed an actress of Cate
Blanchett's intensity to bring the character to life. Director Saul
Dibb appears to be aiming for a Thomas Hardy tragic 'pastorale', but
the end result has more the tone of a Mills & Boon novelette. And, at
my local Odeon, it was a very grainy print.

I ended up feeling that I'd seen a heterosexual version of E.M.
Forster's MAURICE: a bitter-sweet love-story with lots of period charm
but not enough guts.
<|_=00=_|>
Full feeling of the movie: It's a good movie if you are in complicated
Romance movies. it properly shows how people find feelings in war even
if those people are an opposing force. That said there is a movie which
I feel shares similar points although being different in many ways
including country of setting, people and their relations. As this is my
first review I do not know if this is allowed but will give it a shot.
I feel this movie is very close related to Captain Corelli's Mandolin
with Nicholas Cage and Penelope Cruz. But there are still many
differences in the movie. And the similarities are only in the few
settings of the movie. It is worth the watch. About the reaction of the
story: I drawn to the story from the first 10 minutes. Although I felt
the male protagonist had a bit of a unimpressive introduction. as I
entered the final scene of the film I looked at running time and saw it
was almost done. The story is put well together and interesting that
you will want for more. 

Final sentence: Its very well worth your time to watch this movie
