
When I first saw the previews, I was expecting a bourne supremacy/bond
film with whoooohoooooo action that makes you say "kill, kill, kill"
and gets you all worked up. But this film is more drama/realistic and
made me actually think about life instead of tuning it out. The action
parts are very satisfying. Don Cheadle was great. If you are expecting
something along the lines of The Marine, you will probably be
disappointed. It is a little more mature than that. The movie surprised
me in its creativity/originality with certain scenes. overall, it is a
drama/thriller/action/spy that I found very satisfying. some people on
IMDb were complaining that it was slow, which it was, but don't take
that to mean that the film is bad. the movie is just more of a drama
film than action at times. Go see it!!!
<|_=00=_|>
A few years ago, Don Cheadle rose to the top of the acting world with
dynamite performances in Hotel Rwanda, the Ocean's series, Crash, and
Traffic. He even got to fight in Rush Hour 2! So it should come as no
surprise that Cheadle is electrifying and deep in this film, and it is
his performance that makes the film what it is: a deeply engrossing
political thriller that will definitely make the audience think about
the movie, and of course, the current state of affairs in our world.

Traitor did a very good job of stepping on the audience's toes with
some lines that could've been considered prejudiced, and then catching
themselves with actual truths about the war in the Middle East, in
addition to religions themselves. This obviously takes place in the
dialog of the characters, particularly those of Cheadle and Guy Pearce.
The film's dialog is well written, making up for the sometimes slow
pacing scenes that take awhile to transpire.

I've already heaped my praise on Don Cheadle, but I'll do it a little
bit more. One of the crucial plot points is the true allegiance of his
character, and it is the subtlety of his performance that will keep you
guessing what side he is fighting for, though when the answer is
finally revealed, you'll think you knew all along. Some call this
'predictable'. I call it great acting. Guy Pearce delivers a winner of
a show as well as the straight edge FBI agent chasing after Cheadle,
though his character has been done to death, to be honest. Neal
McDonough is somewhat annoying in a supporting role as Pearce's partner
(though I think Neal is annoying anyway...), while Jeff Daniels is a
nice addition to the team. I thought another great performance came
from Said Taghmaoui, as Cheadle's terrorist partner. After one of the
better villainous performances of the year in Vantage Point, Taghmaoui
delivers a performance just as deep and riveting as Cheadle's. This guy
is one of the more underrated performers around, and he should get more
work outside of being a terrorist.

I like the character development within the script, but I have some
issues with the pacing of the film, which I'll take up with our
director. The film seemed slow at times, as I was constantly waiting
for a particular moment to happen, while 5 pacing scenes would come in
the way like a roadblock and just aggravate me a bit. It's nitpicking,
but some of the action was a little nauseating because of the camera.
STAND STILL, YO! A decent plot twist within the ending of the film
doesn't hurt at all, and adds a great element of surprise and depth to
some characters.

All in all, Traitor is definitely worth a watch if you're looking to
see something different to escape what is usually the graveyard for
films...August. Cheadle's performance alone is worth the ticket.
Taghmaoui's as well.
<|_=00=_|>
I was offered a ticket to a screener last Wednesday, and when I heard
Don Cheatle was in it, couldn't pass it by. I am not a huge fan of
action/suspense/spy movies, but this one was a cut above the normal. It
was more intelligent, and delved a bit into motivations, beliefs, etc.
of terrorists. I went into the movie cold, with no idea of the plot,
and I recommend that. Most write ups I have read give away too much of
the twists in the plot, which I was glad I didn't know beforehand. Don
Cheatle was excellent, and so was Saïd Taghmaoui. It was also
refreshing to see Hollywood recognizing the breadth of Muslim
philosophy for once!
<|_=00=_|>
i was lucky enough to be part of the "first audience" to catch this at
a pre-screening, and i have to say that i really enjoyed this film. i
don't know anything else i could really say. it was suspenseful, had
great twists, the acting was superb, and was a great story. Don Cheatle
was amazing as ever, but i don't want to give away any spoilers at all
so i wont say anything about the characters. what i will say is that
Jeff Daniels for sure needed more character development. of course Guy
Pierce was great, and what came as a semi-surprise was Saïd Taghmaoui's
performance. very well-done by the cast and if Steve Martin is really
the man who came up with the idea, he needs to keep churning 'em out.
Traitor was a fit name for the film, and i would recommend it to all of
you reading this.

9 1/2 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
I usually go to Malco's reviewers and then Rotten Tomatoes, to see what
the consensus on a movie is. Well after going to see this movie with
some very hardcore friends/critics, we all agree, the professionals are
getting paid off! If it wasn't for the good amateur Malco reviewers, I
would have missed a very good thought provoking movies. I disagree that
this movie stereotypes its characters, they are anything but. The
acting is rich, the character's are memorable, very great acting on all
levels, especially the main characters, and respect is paid to
traditional Islam as opposed to its radical splinter. About Cheadle's
character, you may have heard his performance is wooden, that is
untrue, he delivers a moving portrait of a tortured soul subjected to a
traumatic past and exposed to soul rending choices. If you follow it,
Traitor will offer an excellent, thoughtful, journey into the heart of
a complex issue.
<|_=00=_|>
This was an excellent movie, a very intriguing and topical story
involving terrorism with the basic message that there are good and bad
people everywhere, of all races, religions, sects, whatever. The
question in this film, for at least half of the movie, is: "Is Samir
(Don Cheadle) a good guy or a bad guy?" 

I don't want to say too much in fear of spoiling anything because that
could easily be done while discussing this film. Suffice to say that
this will keep your interest for the full running time and is a
thinking person's movie more than most.

Cheadle, Guy Pearce, Neal McDonough, Said Taghmaoui and Alyy Kahn are
all fantastic in the lead roles. The direction and photography also is
top-notch. Those who pick apart this movie are nit-picking because it's
a very entertaining film while not overdoing the action or the
stereotypical characters.

One thing that's odd about this film: it has very strong statements
which will please both liberals and conservatives, both devoutly
religious folks and atheists. It pretty much covers the field.
<|_=00=_|>
Don Cheadle selected another excellent role for himself in a movie that
tells the tail of Jihad from the Western and Muslim perspective. If you
are expecting an action flick, this is the wrong movie for you. Traitor
focuses more on personal relationships than high-tech weapons. The
movie makes good use of the actuals tactics and methodology of present
day jihadists. But some of the terms, such as the halawas, could be
better defined. The way the movie portrays interaction between American
security agencies is interesting, but better represents the Cold War
era than modern day. The limited information presented about Cheadle's
past also leaves just enough for the imagination to wonder. The one
negative is that Archie Panjabi's character was not developed enough.
She did a solid job with the few lines she was given. However, a more
developed Panjabi character would have added more depth to Cheadle.
Overall, very good movie that makes you think.
<|_=00=_|>
This is an excellent movie. This was evident by the fact that while the
movie was playing the audience stayed absolutely quiet. Usually when a
movie is a clunker the audience starts fidgeting and becomes restless.
This movie kept the audience's attention. The star of this movie was
Guy Pearce who gives a compelling performance as a government
operative. Of course, Don Cheadle gives another excellent performance,
this time playing a character whose loyalty is put to the test under
the strangest circumstances. The story immediately grabs the audience's
attention and dramatizes the dynamics and issues relating to the
government's response to terrorism and provides an interesting take on
the challenges associated with police work and undercover infiltration.
<|_=00=_|>
Thrilling and exciting movie about terrorism , spies and geopolitical
issues . A firm believer in the Holy Quran, Samir Horn ( Don Cheadle ),
American citizen and former soldier in Afghanistan, lives a
middle-classed lifestyle along with his love interest , Chandra Dawkin
(Archie Panjabi). He is actively involved in selling explosives to
Jihadis. However he is trapped and meantime in a Yemeni prison, Samir
is hit , and another inmate, Omar ( Said ), comes to his support . Both
men become close friends, subsequently getaway from prison, re-locate
to Marsielle, executing a massacre , and elude authorities for some
time . Later on they re-enter the U.S., meet with other important
terrorists , and together they scheme to place bombs in 50 Greyhound
buses ,one for each State. Using internet and mail they recruit 50
volunteers to carry out this gruesome aim . Meanwhile, the
super-powerful CIA uses technological-gizmo-surveillance satellites ,
super-computers for people spying and hound terrorists relentlessly.
The CIA agents ( Guy Pearce , Neal McDonough ) scheme a plot to chase
the mastermind terrorist . They form a shaky alliance with Carter (
Jeff Daniels ),the boss of Intelligence to break the terrorist ring
whose objective is the bombing civilian targets . They try to stop
cruel group who plans terrorist bombings by means an uncanny masquerade
.

Story's core is interesting and script is dense with information and
drama . The ultra-brisk editing and rapid scenes movement leaves little
time to consider some inadequacies. The picture takes parts from ¨ The
Siege¨ (98, by Edward Zwick with Denzel Washington,Tony Shalhoub) about
the dangerous terrorism Arab in US ; ¨ Spy game ¨(2001, by Tony Scott
with Brad Pitt and Robert Redford ) concerning the spy-world and ¨Body
of lies ¨ (2008 by Ridly Scott with Leonardo DiCaprio and Russell Crowe
) about sophisticated methods of the international terrorism . Don
Cheadle , also producer , is the main attraction , he sustains interest
in this tale of treason and terrorism . Guy Pearce and Neal McDonough
are good as intelligent super-agents and Jeff Daniels's cool displaying
a brief performance. The use of interesting messages to add weight to a
romantic subplot between the terrorist and the Arab woman , though
feels a little forced . The film packs adequate,evocative
cinematography by Michael Muro and agreeable musical score by Mark
Kilian with Arabs overtones. The motion picture is well written and
realized by Jeffrey Nachmanoff . Rating : Above average, well worth
watching.
<|_=00=_|>
"Traitor" is an attempt to take us inside a modern-day Islamic
terrorist group by telling the story of Samir Horn (played by Don
Cheadle). The movie leaves us guessing as to Samir's true loyalties as
he gets involved in planning a major terror attack on the US, while FBI
agent Roy Clayton (played by Guy Pearce) leads the government effort to
thwart the plot.

On the positive side, the acting in "Traitor" is uniformly great,
without standout performances from Don Cheadle and Guy Pearce as the
lead characters. The direction and cinematography are at a high level
as well.

So what's the problem with "Traitor" then? The problem is that
"Traitor" can't decide what kind of movie it wants to be: a silly
action movie, or an intelligent thriller. "Traitor" starts out as a
slow-paced, intelligent, story-based thriller, but at the halfway
point, it turns into a silly Hollywood action movie that unfortunately,
doesn't have a lot of action.

A more consistent story would have made "Traitor" a better film. The
first half of "Traitor" is quite compelling and effective as it
establishes the characters and sets the story in motion. But as the
movie enters silly action-thriller territory, all the tension and mood
built up in the first half of the film is lost. And as mentioned
earlier, there's simply not enough action sequences to make up for the
foolish story.

It's a real shame that the movie makers didn't end "Traitor" with the
same focus and determination with which they started it because the
movie had a lot of potential.
