
Not having read anything about the film (or book) beforehand, I went
into the cinema with no expectations, (though I was worried it might be
a soppy, pull-at-the-heartstrings epic like The Notebook).

This wasn't the case. There were so many times when I thought 'Oh, I
hope this doesn't happen', or 'I hope they don't do what I think
they're going to do', and they didn't. There are moments of sadness,
but some of them could have been made a lot worse.

The story isn't unique, (neither is The Notebook) but it is executed in
a way that makes you feel as though you're watching something new.
Channing Tatum is the lovable beefcake reminiscent of Marky Mark, and
Amanda Seyfried is cute, delivering well executed dialogue. And I did
actually think they had good chemistry, despite what other reviewers
have said. Channing's John is an army boy who had a lot of issues
growing up, so you can't expect him to be overly forthcoming with his
emotions.

Richard Jenkins gives a great performance as the father, and even Henry
Thomas is likable as the neighbour (I must be the only person in the
world who hasn't seen E.T. so I didn't recognize the name at first).

To me, this was acted out a lot better (and even structured better)
than Twilight: New Moon, which I assume is meant to appeal to the same
audience. I know to some that isn't saying much, but perhaps our
expectations are a bit high these days. If you want to see a sweet love
story with likable characters, then you might just enjoy this film.
<|_=00=_|>
I'll try to make this short and sweet, like the two weeks the two
characters spent together before all hell broke loose:

If you read the book, lower your expectations. If you haven't read the
book,...well, you can raise your expectations just a bit higher.

I was one of those girls who squealed every time they saw a TV spot, or
watched the trailer on YouTube a million times. I bawled my eyes out
when I read the book- both times I read it. Last night, I went to see
the movie knowing full well that it wasn't going to live up to the
book. Unfortunately, I was right.

What made 'Dear John' different from all the other love stories we've
read and seen was taken away in the movie. I don't know how I would
have understood what was going on in the movie if I hadn't read the
book. Scenes were rushed (especially the two weeks where the two main
characters fall in love), and characters weren't well developed at all.
Heck, one of the main characters barely resembles (both appearance- and
personality-wise) the character in the book. *cough*Savannah Lynn
Curtis*cough*. 

That said, there were a couple of scenes where the dialogue was sweet
and funny. I also enjoyed the music, but that may be because I'm a huge
fan of acoustic. Also, the scenery was absolutely beautiful. Not to
mention Channing Tatum's body (pretty much the only thing worth my
money). 

As far as acting goes, Channing Tatum was the stronger one in this
film. While I'm still personally neutral about my opinion on Amanda
Seyfried, I found she's done better. She may be better off with comedy
or musicals. And Richard Jenkins was lovable, as always. 

If you've read the book, don't expect anything similar to it. I can't
point out a single scene that even resembled that of the book. Part II
of the book, especially, was almost non-existent. You will definitely
be able to pick out the noticeable differences between the book and the
film. Hopefully, you won't be TOO disappointed.

But like I said, you're more likely to enjoy the film if you haven't
read the book.
<|_=00=_|>
I was really looking forward to watching this movie - although, my
expectations were not very high - but it turned out to be worse than I
expected. I knew Channing Tatum was not the greatest actor - although,
he is gorgeous - so I wasn't expecting very good acting. It was decent
but I just didn't feel the chemistry between the two actors. The
"twist" which I won't mention was where I thought the movie went
completely downhill. It was very poorly executed and if you've seen the
movie, you'll probably agree. Throughout, the movie was very slow-
moving and not very exciting but there were a couple emotional parts!
So far, the only people I've asked that did like the movie, seem to be
the younger ones (12-15). 

This movie is definitely NOT comparable to "The Notebook" like some
people have been saying. It was nothing special, so I wouldn't watch it
again, but I'd say it's good for a chick flick night. Another one of
those movies like that looked SO much better on the commercials.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw "Dear John" at a special screening and I wasn't expecting much. I
thought it was going to be a decent romance film. I hoped this movie
came halfway as good as "The Notebook". My very low expectations of
this film were pretty cynical. But I said Hey, what could happen? And
when the movie finished, I was fulfilled. I didn't think it was going
to be one of the best romance movies ever and it definitely wasn't.
This movie is definitely for couples. The girls will like it cause they
can connect with it.I recommend for everyone to see this film. It is
touching, okay acting, and it does stick to the book. This film doesn't
come close to the "Notebook", but people will like it no matter what.
So if you want to buy a sad, romantic film. Then I'd recommend this
film.

7/10 A Pearl
<|_=00=_|>
In the spring of 2001, the Sergeant of the Special Forces John Tyree
(Channing Tatum) meets the medical student Savannah Curtis (Amanda
Seyfried) while surfing in Charleston during his leave and they
immediately fall in love for each other. They spend a couple of weeks
together and Savannah meets John's autistic father Mr. Tyree (Richard
Jenkins) and John befriends her friend Tim Wheddon (Henry Thomas). When
the enlistment period of John and his platoon ends, there are the
attacks on the World Trade Center and John and the other soldiers
decide to reenlist for two more years. John corresponds with Savannah
until she stops writing and two months later, Savannah tells that she
will get married. 

I had great expectations with "Dear John", based on the previous works
of the Swedish director Lasse Hallström. The beginning is nice, with
Amanda Seyfried and Channing Tatum showing great chemistry in a
pleasant romance. The reenlistment of John Tyree is acceptable based on
a troubled moment of his country. However, the attitude of Savannah
getting married with an older guy without any motive is inconsistent
with her conservative profile and incoherent with the whole plot, and
destroys the so far good romance, turning into a silly and
disappointing soap opera. The terrible commercial last scene is corny
and awful. My vote is three.

Title (Brazil):"Querido John" ("Dear John")
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not much of a critic but this film makes me dislike it so much with
a passion. Not only was it not all that exciting and entertaining in
the beginning and after in the first place, but when John finally got
the letter from Savannah after waiting months (which was when I thought
things were finally getting good) it turns out from then on ..nor John
or Savannah try to get back in touch with each other after that. It
turns out later on when he visits home to see his sick father on his
death bed that she did go through with the marriage after all the
feelings that were "supposedly" floating in the air and all around
them. She didn't come to see his father while he was deathly ill, nor
to comfort John for all the pain and mental suffering he's been going
through with the war and now the only person that he really had all
along is dying. And even after his father dies she didn't show up to
the funeral. I mean my god.... it seemed where they lived was in a
small area how COULD THINGS NOT SPREAD AROUND such things like someone
dying? So that didn't even make sense. And then after all the
bullshitting around they did when they finally spoke to each other
after so long, she gives him a bullshit excuse as to why she dumped him
in the first place, and even that didn't make much sense. She said she
left him because Tim needed her, and so did his son...and she was
lonely and not thinking... lol I'm sorry but if you really care and
love someone and think about them every single freaking day then no way
in hell can you go through that much torture successfully, unless
you're emotionally messed up. She was being selfish and didn't know
what she wanted, so let's just put it at that. So then, John takes his
father's coin collection and sells it (ok ..good for him) but only to
spend the money on Tim's expenses so he can have more time with
Savannah lol ...that's about it as far the story itself goes ...we
don't really know what happens between John and Savannah after that
because the film was done poorly. I have never read the book and I'm
sure as **** glad I didn't see Dear John in theatre's because I would
of wasted my money.
<|_=00=_|>
Wow...I was expecting this movie to be awful after all of the bad
reviews I've read. Nothing is wrong with this movie! Nothing is wrong
with the acting. It's actually a pretty good movie. I am not usually
one for romantic movies...usually because I find them to be lame. There
are definitely moments in this one that tug at your heart and get you
teary eyed.

I really felt for John in this movie. His character had a tough life...
and the relationship between him and his father...It made me really
sad! That Nicholas Sparks! He knows how to stir up emotions...

I have not read the book, so I can't compare the two but I say the
movie is worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
I have to admit I wasn't expecting to like this film. I don't hate this
type of film, but I had heard mixed feelings on Dear John, there were
those who said it was touching and others who said it was too clichéd.
Well after been blown away by The Notebook(book and movie), I saw Dear
John. After seeing it, I don't think it is as good as The Notebook, but
it was surprisingly good in my opinion. The characters are clichéd, and
the beginning was a tad too fluffy for my liking, while there are some
pacing issues. But while the book is better, having more depth and
emotional punch, I was surprised at how touching Dear John actually
was. The story is nice and believable enough, and there is some decent
scripting. The direction is good too, while the cinematography and
scenery are breathtaking and the score beautiful. Channing Tatum(my
sister kept raving at how hot he was) and Amanda Seyfried are great and
are believable together, while Richard Jenkins is heart breaking as
Tatum's autistic father(I immediately sympathised with him as I have
real problems with communicating with people and feeling comfortable
around people and places I am not familiar with). I also liked the
ending, it was ambiguous but also clever and subtle, and I think an
improvement over the ending of the book(the book's only weak link). In
conclusion, touching and well made, definitely worth a peek. 7/10
Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>
(Synopsis) Special Forces Army Sergeant John Tyree (Channing Tatum) is
home on a two-week leave from Germany. He meets Savannah (Amanda
Seyfried) after he dives into the ocean to retrieve Savannah's purse
that had fallen off the pier. John is smitten by Savannah and falls in
love at first sight. Savannah is a college student at the University of
North Carolina at Chapel Hill. She is on spring break and is helping
build a house for Habitat for Humanity. John joins in with Savannah to
help build the house. Along the way a budding romance occurs, and
Savannah falls deeply in love with John. As she is about to go back to
college, she promises to write John overseas during the next 12-months
until he returns to her after completing his enlistment. Their love is
put to the test when John reenlists after the 9/11 attack.

(My Comment) "Dear John" tells the story of what happens to young
lovers when time and distance from each other begins to test their true
love. Over the next several years, they write love letters to each
other telling everything about themselves. As time goes by, Savannah
finds another who needs her more than John, even though she still loves
him. She writes John a final letter saying good-bye. This is one story
that happened many times during WWII and is still happening to our
current soldiers today. Our brave soldiers are sacrificing their lives
and some of them come home to heartbreaking consequences as a result of
the war. That is why this story seems so real to the audience. The
movie will make you laugh, cry, smile, and relate to the characters.
Women will like the movie, because they can stand in Savannah's shoes.
Men will like it, because they know that it is better to have loved and
lost then never to have loved at all. The story is truly touching with
all of life's ups and downs. Channing Tatum and Amanda Seyfried are
very good in their roles, along with Richard Jenkins as John's father.
(Screen Gems, Run Time 1:45, Rated PG-13) (6/10)
<|_=00=_|>
For starters, i'm not a big critic of movies. And sure, this one wasn't
very complex, the characters weren't surprising and there was no big
twist at the end--but i thought it was compelling. I had just seen
Amanda Seyfried star in letters to Juliet, and was surprised at the
contrast in her two characters..so that has to say at least SOMETHING
positive about her. plus i just think she's cute and likable.

and who knows, maybe i'm just a sap, or i watched it at the wrong time
of day, but i did cry. It's the classic tragic love story. the
relationship that everyone wants but no one really ever gets. and
things just keep falling apart. Everyone knew the dad was gonna die and
Savannah was gonna move on from John while he was gone..but something
about seeing channing tatum cry broke my heart and i sniffled the rest
of the movie through.

i certainly don't think you should buy it. i probably wouldn't watch it
again. ( i rented it on 99 cent Monday at my local movie store) but my
time wasn't wasted at all. you just have to be a girl in the right mood
:)
