
This ensemble multi-ethnic cast turns in solid performances in this
formulaic treatment of the everyday dramas faced by the hard working
folks at Immigration and Customs Enforcement. Mexican, Chinese,
Palestinian, Australian and Persian plots carom off each other like
Olympic Billiards as Harrison Ford, (whose obviously impending
retirement is thankfully never mentioned), his heart bleeding from
frame one to the credits, leads a solitary existence in an apartment at
what has to be the Alimony Arms Hotel. There is no attempt to patch
over the Crash/Babel formula; the film embraces it and comes up with
some fine set pieces like a gripping intervention (Cliff Curtis and
Justin Chon) during a convenience store robbery/shootout. The aerial
views of L.A. will make natives want to freeze-frame future DVDs to ID
where we are. The climax (NO SPOILER) is played against an attenuated
rendering of the National Anthem and packs a punch. Unfortunately,
there has to be another five minutes of Tying Up Loose Ends. Does it
sound like I didn't like this much? On the contrary, it was 113 minutes
well spent and shouldn't have been relegated to the Purgatory of
February. April, maybe?
<|_=00=_|>
Like Crash, Fast Food Nation and Babel before it, Crossing Over
consists of multiple story lines bound together by a common theme
examined, sometimes with just a few characters straddling across the
narrative threads to link them up explicitly. Writer-director Wayne
Kramer examines the issues behind the illegal immigrant problem in USA
who are either trying to lay low in avoiding the law, or trying their
best to gain legal residency with each experiencing different
challenges that lie ahead in their quest.

And it's quite ambitious for Kramer to try and pull off no less than
seven parallel threads in the film, which to a certain extent I felt
was largely successful, despite some being almost peripheral if not for
the presence of a recognized star. Anchored by Harrison Ford as Max
Brogan, an Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agent, the film
weaves in and out of the different threads without feeling too forced,
or the need for some compulsory and carefully designed moments to link
the stories up intricately. Sometimes like the six degrees of
separation, the film captures the fact that we don't have full details
of that web of links, and it will feel very artificial if everyone knew
everyone else, or if one event would impact severely on another.

In any case, each of the story lines were engaging enough, some
employing deep emotions to argue their case, while others even had to
build to a crescendo of all out action, such as a supermarket shootout
(one of the nicely executed ones I've seen). There's an illegal Mexican
woman (a very short role by Alice Braga) who begs Ford's Max to look
after her young son in the care of unfriendly relatives, a Jewish
musician (Jim Sturgess) who's waiting to qualify for residency and
willing to do just anything to get there, his Australian girlfriend
(Alice Eve) and Hollywood actress wannabe who had granted 2 months
worth of on-demand sexual favours to an Immigration official (Ray
Liotta) in exchange for a green card, whose wife (Ashley Judd) wants to
adopt a child placed in a detention centre, who meets an Iranian girl
(Summer Bishil whose essay failed to condemn the terrorists of 9/11 and
gotten her and her family into hot soup. Then there's a Korean family
who is waiting to be naturalized whose eldest son got involved with
thugs (ala Gran Torino rites of passage style), and another ICE agent
(Cliff Curtis) whose family cannot stand their estranged sister whom
they feel is a disgrace of their values, tradition and custom by
adopting the lifestyle of Americans, yet strangely ironic as they too
pursue to be American citizens.

Phew, and all this with a little murder mystery thrown into the mix as
well. It's about how one aspires to live in a country, yet
uncompromising in one's position to adopt and adapt to the new
environment. Which brings about some xenophobia, especially if one's
too different from the rest, and things are made worst with the
citizens unwilling to understand and lend assistance in assimilation to
a new country and its idiosyncrasies.

But what seemed to be a common theme here, is how power can be either
used to do what's probably morally right, versus abusing it for
personal gain. Given three of the lead characters here are law
enforcement or in responsible positions in government agencies, it's
easy to abuse privilege, and it's nothing new too, even in local
context, where sexual favours get traded for leniency or the closing of
an eye pertaining to illegal workers, or those here without the proper
papers. And since the law is fixed (and sometimes perverse by those who
interpret it), and justice blind, I suppose there are times we may be
compelled to lend a hand to a stranger out of nothing but on
humanitarian grounds, in doing what's right and decent for a fellow
human being.

Crossing Over presents many of such situations and while it may be a
mixed bag in its narrative, it certainly pushes the right buttons with
its star-studded ensemble cast in making the audience think about,
empathize with, and examine if the issues presented could have existed
in the local context, with similar challenges in the treatment of those
who are illegal immigrants.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie makes crash seem like over-dramatized sensationalism.
Crossing Over has a powerhouse cast portraying a far more realistic
depiction of attitudes and perspectives in contemporary America. The
only reason I didn't give it a 10 is because towards the end one plot
stream takes a Hollywood twist, which while not especially relevant,
detracts from the gritty realism of the movie.

A lot of people have trouble with portrayals of perspectives which
challenge the psychological defense mechanisms we put in place to allow
us to filter reality into something easier for us to live with. If we
really look at things for what they are, the world is a very scary
place. This is why you will notice that people get disproportionately
agitated when you challenge these mental constructs, leading to loud
and/or ignorant opinions. <--also well portrayed at times in the film. 

I thought about using smaller words for those weak minded loud mouths,
but they probably didn't read this far and I've learned, to my dismay,
that all I can do is dismiss their stupidity/cowardice anyways.

If you can see past what mass media shoves down your throat, you will
thoroughly appreciate this movie, I guarantee it :)
<|_=00=_|>
Apart from the usual movie-movie technology of enhancing a license 
plate from grainy dots to sharp numbers, I had nothing against this 
movie. I strongly disagree with the apparent consensus and the low 
tomatometer rating. Crossing Over is an emotional film, and makes 
points that will be unpopular. The film creates empathy for someone we 
at first shrink from, namely the 15 year old Bangali girl who inflames 
her classmates on the topic of 9/11. She had forgotten what happened to 
Bill Maher. Meanwhile Harrison Ford's character Max Brogan gets razzed 
for any show of empathy or concern for the people is team have to 
process through immigration. He puts a weathered human face on a job 
that must be unpleasant. We understand when that climate - peer 
pressure - causes him to stop short of helping someone in a timely 
fashion, and Ford is very watchable doing the most mundane things as he 
confronts the consequences of compromise. I don't feel connections 
between the characters are implausible. It gives unity to the overall 
comment on community and who should be included and who should not.
<|_=00=_|>
Unlike Crash, another recent
disparate-people-dealing-with-a-sociological-issue movie, Crossing Over
is poignant, stirring, and rousing, capturing what must be the
wrenching experience of being an immigrant, legal or otherwise, in the
United States. Led by Harrison Ford, the ensemble cast touches all the
bases. Although the movie can be very difficult to watch at times,
owing to its subject matter, it's a tough-minded look at the
often-tragic issue of immigration.

Ford plays Max Brogan, an INS agent stationed in Los Angeles, who
decides to help an illegal textile worker (Alice Braga) by making sure
that the woman's son is taken to his grandmother (the woman's mother)
in Mexico when the woman is detained. Meanwhile, Max's partner Hamid
Baraheri (Cliff Curtis), struggles to reconcile his job with the
culture of his family (Iranian) and the reckless behavior of his
younger sister. Ray Liotta plays Cole Frankel, an adjudicator who
determines the status of immigrants and their green cards; Alice Eve is
an aspiring Australian actress who has to degrade herself to lengthen
her stay in the country; Ashley Judd plays Liotta's wife, who defends
immigrants in status cases. In a parallel storyline, a young Korean
youth, days before his family's naturalization ceremony, makes a
decision that could have terrible consequences.

All of these story lines are intricately intertwined, but here's where
the movie differs from Crash: the interactions of the various
characters never feel forced or insincere, and the characters
themselves are not simple good people doing bad things or bad people
doing good things.

The acting is uniformly grand. Ford, who rarely plays nonhero roles let
alone supporting roles, is excellent as the crusty, world-weary agent,
trying desperately to solve a serious crime that may hit close to home
while also doing the right thing by the young textile-worker mother.
Also shining is Judd (and, to a lesser extent, Liotta, although he
plays the same character in many of his movies now - a slimeball), but
really sealing the deal is Curtis (10,000 BC, Sunshine) as the
conflicted agent of Iranian descent.

Like the issue of immigration itself, the movie is complicated, almost
detrimentally so, but the conflict should certainly resonate with its
audience, even if one is not an immigrant or part of a family that has
recently immigrated. Certain scenes are almost deadly with their
pathos, figuratively rending your heart as they play out. Emotionally
gripping scenes such as these (particularly near the end of the film)
exemplify precisely the kind of psychological gymnastics that a
director must undertake for a film like this to have any sort of
positive effect on its audience. That is, the entire issue of
immigration is fraught with anger, deceit, terror, and sadness, and it
can be tricky to walk the line between one feeling or another, lest one
be accused of bias.

Crossing Over falls into none of the traps that Crash fell into. Its
character-driven storyline is brimming with plausible conflict that
eclipses the usual cops-and-illegals pastiche, choosing instead to deal
with problems on a more individual level. The result is an honest,
illuminating look at a sometimes-vexing subject, although it is clearly
not for all tastes.
<|_=00=_|>
CROSSING OVER is probably one of the most powerful, heart wrenching
immigrant stories out there. Some have accused this of taking the
concept of Crash and just injecting it with immigrant issues. Be that
as it may, even the concept of Crash wasn't completely all that
original but both movies are well-crafted and well-executed. The
interconnected characters and plots will leave you to ask questions
about the meaning of liberty and what America used to stand for.

The movie depends on its all stellar cast led by Harrison Ford in his
most unusual role ever, none of his typical saving-his-family from
terrorists, in fact, his character in CROSSING OVER is a loner who
wonders whether his job as ICE agent is the right thing to do, he's
haunted by the implications and the impact of what he does for a living
on those who just want to come here for a better life and angered by
those who take advantage of the freedom bestowed upon them. After 9/11
happened, the rules of the game have changed and Ford, in a way, is
like that aching voice bugging us to rethink whether enforcing homeland
security at the expense of a few good immigrants can be justified.

All the rest of the supporting actors are outstanding in their
performances, Jim Sturgess plays a guy who sticks to his principles to
get a green card while his girlfriend is willing to sell her body for
it. Ray Liotta and Ashley Judd play a married couple and yet they're on
two different teams, one takes advantage of the newcomers while the
other tries to save them. But the most controversial is probably the
issue of freedom of speech presented by writer/director Wayne Kramer in
this movie. Once again, it's the question of homeland security at the
expense of freedom can be justified or not, it's a bit of a criticism
against Patriot Act. But isn't freedom of speech comes with limits?
Because if it's without boundaries, then anarchy and division are what
would happen.

Wayne Kramer does a good job in making sure not only each plot would
flow well with each other as they overlap within a decent running time
but he also tackles only the most imperative complexities without
wasting time in taking unnecessary shots or moments. I love the story
because it punishes those who take freedom for granted and rewards
those who cherish it. In the case of that schoolgirl, played by Summer
Bishil, it's still arguable.. is she an example of someone who abuses
freedom of speech or is she a victim of persecution?

I wasn't a big fan of Wayne Kramer's previous works which include
Running Scared and Mindhunters, but CROSSING OVER is a whole nother
result, he finally understands what he needs to do to come up with a
good story, not simply trying to confuse or depress you. One last note,
actor Cliff Curtis gives an Oscar worthy performance as Harrison Ford's
partner in this movie, too bad Curtis will be overlooked and this movie
will remain as one of this year's under-appreciated. Has America
forgotten that it was once a land of immigrants?

--Rama's SCREEN--
<|_=00=_|>
I am an immigration lawyer, albeit an English one. I started my career
dealing with asylum cases, family reunions and illegal immigrants. Over
the years I have gone on to act for students, entertainers, high net
worth individuals and corporate clients. There is little in this field
I have not witnessed, from bigotry, to desperation, to the rich trying
to take advantage, from immigration officials acting to corruption in
my very own profession.

I have to say that this movie explores the issues surrounding
immigration extremely well. Forced removal, failed attempts to cheat
the system, the motivations for naturalisation (which, as the movie
suggests, are not always for the joy of becoming a new citizen) and the
general drive of some people to find a better life for their family. I
also used to be engaged to an Iranian so I was quite impressed with the
portrayal of the Iranian family. I do not mean honour killings, that is
not a common thing in wealthy Iranian families, but what often can be
is the concept of how one appears to others in the culture and the
effect of negative gossip on the reputation of the senior members of
the family.

Also, a lot has been made about the 9/11 "sympathiser" storyline.
Indeed, there is one reviewer on here who refers to it as disgusting.
How laughable. It is perhaps a shame that audiences, particularly
American ones it seems, do not actually listening to the dialog. What
the character of Taslima says is that she does not agree what they did
but she understood the motivation. The movie then cleverly goes on to
show the conclusion jumping nature of some Americans, in this instance
the immigration official. At the end of the day Taslima's possible
terrorist sympathies are left ambiguous, neither confirmed or
disproved, and that is why I think a lot of less intelligent viewers
jump to the same conclusion that the fictional official does by filling
in the blanks that they desire to see because they do not wish to have
a dialog about a difficult subject.

The only disappointing part of the movie for me was the Harrison Ford
storyline. I didn't feel that any part of it explored any particular
immigration related issue until the penultimate scene and I couldn't
understand the motivation behind Ford's character. However, that aside
I couldn't fault this picture, either in it's script, it's acting or
it's direction.
<|_=00=_|>
Upon looking at the cover of the DVD case, I was quite skeptical about
how good this movie really is. It seemed like it would be sub-par
because of the fact that Blockbuster sponsored its release to DVD.
Also, the fact that Crossing Over is a lame and cliché title for a
immigration movie added more reasons to my skepticism.

Anyways, I popped the DVD in. Harrison Ford playing his usual role, a
law enforcement/cop/detective actually gave a good performance. I am a
big fan of the character of Amid in this film. His emotions were real
and his performance during the hold-up scene in the Korean Convenience
store was suspenseful and emotional.

I felt some connections to Crash; with all the interconnectedness
between the characters. Despite the cool and intriguing effect of the
relationships between the characters, it still wasn't amazing as
Crash's.

If I had to pick a scene, no doubt would I choose the Koreantown
convenient store scene. One of the best I have seen.

I am shocked that this movie was on limited release. If you want to
explore a new topic in illegal immigration, with good performances and
recognizable actors then this movie is definitely worth the rent. The
overall message of this movie is pro-immigration, but it is an
interesting and emotional ride to catch a glimpse of the hard and
sacrificial life of an immigrant.
<|_=00=_|>
Though there have been many films about the horrors faced by illegal 
immigrants attempting to get into or stay in the US, few films have 
addressed the issues on both sides of the table as well as CROSSING 
OVER. This film probably did not do very well in theatrical release 
because of the very difficult subject matter with which it confronts 
the audience: few people who go to the movies to escape the realities 
of life outside elect to be disturbed. CROSSING OVER, as written and 
directed by Wayne Kramer, forces us to learn just how treacherous the 
matter of immigration is on every level - from the border incidents, to 
document fraud, to worksite enforcement/raiding, to the concept of 
asylum, to naturalization, the green card process, the problematic 
office of counter terrorism, and finally to the basic cultural clashes 
that pit compassionate law officers against red neck raider type 
officers. 

To absorb the intricately woven aspects of the script, a script that 
addresses immigration issues dealing with Koreans, Africans, Iranians, 
Australians, Mexicans, and Jewish/atheist Britishers, the audience must 
pay close attention lest the subtleties are lost in the swirling 
nonstop drama. Harrison Ford as the compassionate, burned out 
immigration officer Max Brogan holds the film together as he attempts 
to make sense of the various irregularities in every aspect of the 
immigration process. His partner is Iranian American Hamid (a 
particularly fine performance by Cliff Curtis) who faces family 
problems with his American born sister and his father who is on the 
brink of naturalization - one of the many subplots that involves 'honor 
killing'. Another man Cole Frankel (Ray Liotta is a smarmy role) 
reveals another view of a 'bad agent' while his wife Denise (Ashley 
Judd) fights for the rights of an African orphan held for 23 months 
awaiting sponsorship. A brave Iranian girl Taslima (Summer Bishil) 
speaks out for the rights of Muslims to be heard and plunges her family 
into deportation problems. Among the other subplots are stories about a 
Korean family whose one son (Justin Chon) is forced into gang warfare, 
an Australian actress (Alice Eve) who must secure her green card 
through sexual favors with Cole Frankel, a Mexican mother Mireya (Alice 
Braga) who is captured during a raid at a workplace and befriended by 
Max Brogan, and young British musician (Jim Sturgess) who must convince 
authorities of his 'Jewishness' in order to maintain a job that will 
result in a green card. 

Each of these stories represents an aspect of our current dysfunctional 
system management of immigration. The film does not take sides: it 
merely presents a smattering of the atrocities and imperfectly managed 
departments of government that together form a system that is chaotic. 
Of interest, Sean Penn (listed as being in the cast on this page of 
Amazon.com) requested his small role be cut because of the objections 
of Iranian-American groups over the use of the 'honor killing' subplot. 
That may indicate how many people may view this film: the story will 
either anger or disgust some viewers. But what this very well acted and 
produced and directed film does is provide windows through which we may 
more closely examine the tragedies of our current immigration system. 
Perhaps change will occur once people are informed of the injustices. 
Grady Harp
<|_=00=_|>
This film looks at the experiences of five individuals, who crosses
path with an Immigration officer.

"Crossing Over" is more than I expected. It tells so many forgotten
stories that are worthy of mention, because of their desire to strive
for a better life. This type of film is always in danger of
stereotyping or misrepresenting minority groups in a negative way, but
in "Crossing Over" there is no such problems as the characters are
skilfully presented. I particularly like the imagery of motorway
junctions shown several times in this film. It parallels the characters
in the film, making decisions to turn one way or another, and the
amount of traffic that passes through borders.

It also brings out many points for discussion. What would you sacrifice
to become an American citizen? What choices would you make, no matter
how hard and painful they are, to make a dream come true?
