
Ah, chick flicks, gotta love them, their non-clever formula's and
clichés are always a joy to watch. OK, I'm being a little mean, it's
all good, we do have some good chick flicks and from the moment I saw
Bride Wars, I thought it looked promising. Sure, there are a lot of
great conclusions that you come to when you see what the movie is
about, two best friends who are scheduled to marry the same day, from:
they're best friends who can't compromise? They could technically sue
the company that mixed their dates up or even get it fixed if that
company wanted to stay in business. But I just kept thinking, this is a
movie, it could be a funny one if I let go. We do need movies like that
that just escape reality, so I rented it the other day and I really
couldn't escape how silly and over the top this movie was.

Emma and Liv are best friends who have planned every detail of their
weddings since they first witnessed a wedding at the Plaza Hotel. The
two women get engaged. They then schedule their weddings with New
York's most famous wedding planner, but due to a clerical error they're
scheduled to have a wedding on the same day. A week of passive
aggressive hostility passes before the two women make it clear that
neither will compromise, especially after Liv tries to take advantage
of Emma's passive nature and outrages Emma in the process. The women
both attempt to sabotage the other's wedding, including Liv making
Emma's tan turn bright orange, Emma tampering with Liv's hair dye to
make it turn Liv's hair blue-white, Emma showing up to Liv's
bachelorette party to out-dance her, and Emma secretly sending Liv
chocolate and lollies to make her not fit into her dress. Oh when will
the madness end? Gotta love women.

Now the movie does have some good laughs here and there, but they're
mostly shown in the trailer. I think one of the reasons this movie
disturbed me though was due to the fact that there are women like this,
one's that are so beyond obsessed with their wedding they don't even
realize they're getting married. Women are competitive creatures
unfortunately, I'm a woman, so I know, and we go to great lengths to
prove we're prettier, smarter, kinder, etc., etc., etc. I wish that
women would take a step forward where this movie is just proving time
and time again that we are stupid. Two best friends who should love and
support each other are trying to destroy each other's weddings, I was
wrong in trying to give this movie a fair chance, it's just wrong on so
many levels, wither it's the morals or just the clichéd characters, I
wouldn't recommend Bride Wars.

2/10
<|_=00=_|>
If you're looking for a comedy with weird plot twists and a sprinkling
of humor, then you'll still be searching - Bride Wars excels at the
former and sadly fails at the latter. It's not entirely silly sabotage
and witless laughs as a few scenes and characters do stand out of the
cliché wedding comedy crowd, but ultimately the tragic outcomes and
easy clean-up of a far too messy situation will leave viewers wishing
for a more comfortably predictable plot line.

Liv (Kate Hudson) and Emma (Anne Hathaway) have been best friends since
childhood and both have always dreamed of a gorgeous June wedding at
the luxurious Plaza Hotel. When both girls' boyfriends ask for their
hands in marriage, Liv and Emma enlist the highly reputable wedding
planner Marion St. Claire (Candice Bergen) to acquire their dream
locale. Unfortunately a clerical error has their weddings set on the
same day and thus begins a rivalry of increasingly ruthless sabotage as
both girls refuse to reschedule their most important day.

No experimentation or originality can be seen in Bride Wars. Everything
is terribly formulaic, from the music-narrated montages to the
carefully patterned dialogue to the high points and low points for each
of the heroines. When a half-expected love triangle forms, it is
completely unnecessary and sorely mislaid - this is the kind of film
where each event is better off contributing solely to comedy and every
sad moment is best coated with ridiculous gags and off-the-wall
mood-shifting resolutions. Touches of seriousness have no place in
Bride Wars, which struggles so greatly with its adult dilemmas that the
moments of humor feel forced - shoved into the cracks to even out the
heartbreak most won't be feeling for these cookie-cutter characters.

If it wasn't bad enough that no individuality finds its way through all
the girl-oriented giggling, hormonal wedding craze and subdued
cat-fighting, the humor itself is oftentimes indecipherable from the
drama. Sometimes it's funny to see these girls bitterly attack one
another even if we're meant to sympathize, and other times it's
disheartening when we're supposed to be laughing. Either way, so little
of the film sparks interest or concern over two hopelessly contrived,
generic best friends that it would be as wasteful to debate over them
as it was to spoil two hours of valuable time watching the film.
Hopefully even the target audience will realize the recycled,
uninspired nature of Bride Wars.

- The Massie Twins
<|_=00=_|>
Liv (Kate Hudson) and Emma (Anne Hathaway) are two life-long best
friends who've dreamed of a June wedding at the Plaza since they were
kids. Well, it looks like their dream is finally coming true as their
boyfriends have popped the question and now all that's left to do is
book the venue. But, unfortunately, due to a mistake the venue made,
they've booked their weddings on the same day and the next opening
isn't until June 15th... 3 years from now. When they both refuse to
move their wedding, it turns to "war".

But, that's just it, the only "war" was in the trailer (the bronze tan,
the blue hair, etc.) and the movie overall was rather average. I went
in with an open mind and low expectations and still came out
disappointed. The first hour is OK, but the last half takes a
completely different turn. The jokes stop and it becomes more serious;
focusing on the two girls' relationship more than anything else.

The movie appeals mostly to teen girls, so if you're anyone else, this
isn't really worth the admission price. And if you still want to see
it, it's a rental at best. The trailer showed mostly everything anyway
and it's pretty easy to guess how it ends.
<|_=00=_|>
I believe this is what truly defines a 'girly' movie... It obviously
about brides and whatever stuff they love and need, and from what I can
figure most of the women (including the 4 women that dragged me there)
in the theater enjoyed it.

I do agree it is an original idea and does give esp the males out there
the sheer intensity of how important this occasion is for women, and
also to a certain extent why women may make good friends but the worst
of enemies.

Overall I give it a 6 on 10 due to a lot of predictability and clichés
but I did like the chemistry of the 2 leads stars, the others
characters seemed rather bland in fact entirely devoid of personality.

Perhaps the only scene for men to enjoy is the bachelorette party - you
'll see - ;) Hathaway looks smokin' hot.
<|_=00=_|>
Martin Scorsese once famously said he does one movie for the studio and
one for himself, and so do many other directors or actors (George
Clooney admits he did Ocean's Thirteen because that way he could do
Michael Clayton next). Although Anne Hathaway hasn't explicitly said
she does that, one can assume it's the only rational explanation for a
piece of anti-cinematic trash like Bride Wars. Shooting The Devil Wears
Prada after Brokeback Mountain is one thing, tainting your
Oscar-nominated legacy with this bunch of nonsense is another.

And yet it sounded like it could be a lot of fun, at least judging by
the premise, which reverses the classic wedding stereotype: women are
in it for the romance, guys are game because it's fun (that's what they
make it look like in American comedies, anyway). This time around, the
dudes are in it for the love, and the girls want to get married just to
make a childhood dream come true. Apparently, if you're a woman and
live in Manhattan, the ultimate dream of your life is to get married at
the Plaza in June, so when best friends Liv (Kate Hudson with a Paris
Hilton/Britney Spears haircut) and Emma (Hathaway) get asked the
fundamental question by their beaus, they immediately try to book the
right place and date. A mix-up occurs, and so they're both stuck with
the same date, June 6th. Neither wants to postpone what's supposed to
be the happiest day of their lives, therefore a full-on war is declared
on both parts.

At this point, the real silliness kicks in: diet sabotage, tans gone
awry and the occasional witty remark, like "Your wedding's gonna be
huge, just like your ass at prom". What started as a potentially
entertaining critique of materialism and shallowness is revealed to be
a poorly executed farce, with a succession of lame jokes instead of a
plot (then again, one of the screenwriters is best known for performing
on Saturday Night Live, where the skits have no connection whatsoever,
so that may be an explanation) and two atrocious caricatures instead of
leading ladies.

In fairness, no one ever expected any true brilliance from Hudson,
given the last really good movie she appeared in was Cameron Crowe's
Almost Famous in 2000, but surely someone could have told Hathaway you
just don't choose something this bland after working with Jonathan
Demme (or Ang Lee, for that matter). Maybe she wanted to return to her
comedic roots, but sadly there's nothing even remotely funny in Bride
Wars, save for a few brief scenes featuring the reliable Candice
Bergen. Everything else is just like Liv and Emma: obsessed with
getting everything right, but ultimately too self-centered to get any
sympathy from others.
<|_=00=_|>
Two best friends. Both living with their boyfriends, both waiting for
them to pop -the- question they live their daily life. When one day
they both end up proposed to the planning starts for two perfect
weddings. Little do they know that human frailty is against them - and
what starts as the perfect adventure soon turns into the most horrible
nightmare imaginable. From there what once was the best possible
friendship slowly turns into a terrible war.

A meager story at best, the above is the backing line of this film. It
could have been enough if it had been worked out some better, but quite
sadly this comedy fails to be funny and that is IMO one of the prime
requisites of a comedy - making the audience laugh out loud a good
number of times and keep them amused until after the ending credits.

This film fails to be funny. The two main characters and their actions
are not entirely badly chosen - but the way they are acted out are just
too much of a cliché or too clearly acted. There's also too little
moments that could have worked out - there's far too many soft spots
where the film just rolls on without anything happening.

The most positive effect of the film was the side role played by
Kristen Johnson who turns every scene she appears in into a short
lasting hilarious feast. It isn't enough to save the film though - it's
still a piece of rubbish.

2 out of 10 bridal tragedies wasted
<|_=00=_|>
The romantic comedy is a type of film that relies on two obvious
traits; the ability to make its audience laugh, and the ability to make
that very same audience tear-up or at least feel some degree of warmth
towards the central characters' love story. Bride Wars, which
ostensibly at least, takes the form of your typical rom-com is an
example of such that constantly tries to do the former -while
constantly failing-, and only hints at the latter only in the
background in order to advance plot. The result from this is a middling
and sluggishly mundane feature that neither offers memorable characters
or even a few cheap laughs. To be fair, there has to be something said
for the fact that I am not exactly within the movie's target
demographic. Yet judging by the reactions of those around me, I got the
feeling that what I was experiencing wasn't exactly gender exclusive.

The story here, which revolves around two best gal-pals Liv (Kate
Hudson) and Emma (Anne Hathaway) as they try to cope with their
simultaneous weddings, is one that is likely to get a few chuckles from
females, but less so with their male counterparts. Yes, this is
somewhat expectant of a movie titled Bride Wars, but then again, if
half of your audience are neglected to the sidelines then you're
needlessly cutting yourself short. This stunted, polarising depiction
of "every girl's biggest day" feels fitting to its source material, so
women will enjoy this moreso than men, but not by much. You see, aside
from the fact that Bride Wars wants nothing more than to cater to cheap
gags and sappy melodrama fit to please the Legally Blonde crowd, there
also remains blatant problems in just about everything else that fills
the movie's first two acts. With little romance to back up the meagre
plot, dull, dry characterisation coupled with non-existent chemistry
between either the friends and their partners, or even themselves, the
vast majority of Bride Wars turns ugly, rather quickly; the movie
pushes that this cat fight between Hudson and Hathaway is meant to be
fun and airy with plenty of laughs, but it's too transparent and
formulated to even move beyond dry caricature.

It doesn't help at all that the majority of the performances from the
main cast are border line negligible. Hudson and Hathaway, who are
supposed to playing long-time best buddies who suddenly fall out over a
petty dispute, are strangely forgettable, if not repelling. In all
fairness, both hit the proverbial hammer on the head with their
portrayals as stock-pile, cardboard cut-out typecasts befitting of the
genre and only the genre, but this isn't exactly saying much. The
remainder of the cast, who each have around ten minutes tops of total
screen time are just as unremarkable, with Kristen Johnston giving the
movie its only real favour and edge. So, what's worse than a romantic
comedy with next to no compelling or memorable performances? Not much.

To be fair however, Bride Wars isn't really a romance at all. At least,
that's what I hope director Gary Winick was trying to put across
(somehow I get the feeling that I'm giving too much benefit of the
doubt). If anything, the movie exists more as a mildly poignant example
of companionship in the form of friends rather than romance. This
tangent, which takes full form in the third act, for the most part
surpasses the drudgery that comes beforehand, and establishes a
touching, if slightly overly done sentimental climax. By all means,
it's far too little, all too late, but I at least found myself moved by
the movie's final statement, even if it was by means of extreme
contrast. Yet had Winick went with this theme for the majority of his
film, rather than save it for after all the silly, perfunctory cat
fight scenes that in turn just about destroy all human shades within
his characters, Bride Wars could have been a much more flowing, and
relevant feature. Instead it exists simply as throwaway popcorn fodder
for girls on a night out who have nothing better to do than to revisit
the same old characters, wacky situations and sit-com dialogue typical
of your average Will & Grace episode.

- A review by Jamie Robert Ward (http://www.invocus.net)
<|_=00=_|>
This is easily in the bottom 20 movies of all time for me. I was a
captive audience member and would not have chosen it myself. I expected
a lighthearted romantic comedy, which I can tolerate although that's
not my favorite genre.

For starters, who in the world is the target demographic for this
disaster? I would guess it's tweener girls, but I wouldn't want my
daughters to see women acting petty and selfish. The two lead
characters are awful people acting in cruel ways. I sort of like dark
comedies, but this didn't play as a dark comedy, either.

The premise is horrible. The writing doesn't take it anywhere. The
acting even wasn't all that great. There was nothing special about the
direction.

This is a real dog. As I yelled to the groom in the movie, "Run away.
Just run away!"
<|_=00=_|>
The movie tells a story of two childhood friends who had a dream of a
perfect wedding ceremony in a Plaza Hotel. When the girls are already
young and beautiful women and the day comes that they are both engaged,
they start to plan their perfect wedding in Plaza. Thereby the are
confronted with different problems and even try to ruin each others
wedding.

"Bride Wars" doesn't really stand for movies I usually watch. Although
I wanted to watch it, mainly because of Anne Hathaway. I was told she
is a good actress and is playing quite good in that movie. Well I can
partly agree with that. Her performance in "Bride Wars" was surely
satisfactory, however I believe her role was not really challenging.
For the rest, I have to confess that the story of the movie is quite
poor. It is obvious that the idea of the movie is to show us how two
childhood friends deal with their friendship when their most desired
dream seems to come true. However this appears unrealistic in the
movie. Two best friends who know each other for over twenty years
wouldn't try to spoil each others lives. "Bride Wars" appears also not
that funny as it probably should be. The jokes are even a bit dumb and
absolutely not funny.

Summing up I think that "Bride Wars" is a motion picture made more for
girls who also have bright thoughts about their wedding.
<|_=00=_|>
Honestly, how many angry bride movies can Hollywood come out with? I
thought 27 Dresses had a pretty good plot, even though it was way way
way predictable, the characters were likable and different. There were
no strip club bachelor/bachelorette parties, no fights that left you
hating both of the women in the movie, and some pretty good acting.
However,in Bride Wars, Kate Hudson and Anne Hathaway have reached a low
point in their career, dreadfully overacting and dramatizing every
little detail to the point of me losing interest. The three male leads
were decent, but for the most part, left a lot to be desired. Their
characters were somewhat shallow, possibly due to a predictable and
weak screenplay and script. This reminded me too much of all the bride
movies and over-hyped chick flicks of the past. When will Hollywood
come out with another Notebook romance?
