
Why this film is rated at 3.2 is beyond me. I truly have to believe
that it is racism. Tyler Perry is not my favorite but he is not
untalented either. Instead of showing African Americans as either crack
heads or criminals he is trying to show that African American people
hold important jobs, are educated and struggle with issues just like
white people do. This movie was well written and entertaining, no doubt
about it. It was funny and insightful, showing the ups and downs of
marriage and also showing unconditional Love that has to come with a
successful marriage.I think Tyler Perry is a wonderful example for
African Americans,Strong and spiritual and not afraid to show his Faith
in God in his movies and that is to be applauded. Why is it that you
can't show movies of Faith now days but can show sex, violence and
cursing in Movies with no problem at all? What is this society coming
to? I would really like to know.
<|_=00=_|>
I have absolutely no idea why this film has such a low rating here on
IMDb, i'm curious as to how many of the people who rated this movie so
low actually WATCHED the movie. Anyhow, this movie was recommended to
be my numerous friends of mine and I'm glad I took them up on the
recommendation.

Being very, VERY wary of the 'Waiting To Exhale' effect I expected
here, I was very hesitant about watching this movie, but I was assured
pretty quickly. I'm not a very big fan of Tyler Perry; he is talented
enough that I can tolerate most of his material. With that being said,
he really came through here with this film. While not at all perfect,
it gets its point across very effectively and you can't help but have a
good time watching. One cannot help but look into their own lives and
re-evaluate it in some way. If you're married/involved with someone,
you're the ideal audience. If you're single, you can't help but take
things away from this film to help make your ideals and beliefs of
companionship and marriage that much stronger for when you do finally
decide to take that step.

I had a couple of issues with the film: 

1. Sheila's husband, Mike's character was way overboard in my opinion.
Besides the fact that Jill Scott is a beautiful, absolutely GORGEOUS
woman...the way he acted towards her was damn near unbelievable (as in
not possible). In a way I couldn't help but wait for him to say that
the joke was on her and he was just playing around. As silly as that
sounds, his whole character was complete overkill; he was too much of
an a--hole. And we never got an explanation as to WHY he was acting the
way he was.

2. The film ended a little too quickly. I felt that the last 30 minutes
was a cop-out. It was like Perry & Co. said, 'ok time for everybody to
make up' and, with one fail swoop everyone's happy again. The intensity
of the issues raised at the dinner table that night was HUGE, and with
everything being exposed so quickly at one time made it that much more
intense. There was just not enough time given to FULLY resolve
everything that was raised between the 4 couples. The Janet
Jackson/Malik Yoba couple was the best as far as seeing the two people
truly get to the core of their issue and coming to some sort of
resolution. As much as Jai White/Tasha Smith argued and were about to
kill each other (at one point, literally), a simple 'I'm sorry' between
them and the sudden 'ok honey, whatever you say' attitude of Smith in
that scene was a little cheap. The same goes for Perry/Leal; she's in a
car trying to come up with the list, gives up and just says 'I'm
sorry', and all is well again?? What happened to the tubes being tied?
That is VERY serious, and her deception about the whole thing made it
that much worse. I doubt that would've been so easily forgiven so
quickly by Perry. Jill Scott's situation was fleshed out a little more,
naturally because of everything she went through as well as the
eventual transition to someone else. I don't know how long the ceremony
was after the Colorado trip, but the ring on Jill Scott's finger seemed
a little premature. 'We're getting married' would've been a little more
realistic in my opinion, but hey it's not my story. 

As far as the acting goes, Jill Scott was magnificent. It was great to
see Jai White in this kind of role, and he played it flawlessly. His
'showdown' between the two women outside was wonderful. I'm glad to see
him out there; he's a talented actor who definitely needs more shine. I
really hopes this does it for him. Yoba was good, Jackson had her
moments, she was tolerable, but very bland. Perry was good as well,
very grounded and balanced....I liked his character as well. Tasha
Smith was a riot, she nailed it on the head and was very entertaining. 

Overall, I must say that this movie is a must-see. Not at all perfect,
but it gets its point across very effectively and engages the audience
in issues that it can't help but relate to. The writing was good, the
religious overtones were pretty abundant (as usual in Perry's material)
but I didn't feel bombarded. All of the characters and their issues
were BALANCED!!, which was essential in order for a movie like this to
have credibility....unlike 'Waiting To Exhale'. When you can watch a
movie and walk away from it with something to really think about, it's
done it's job. Why Did I Get Married does that, and does it well.

8/10 

P.S. Please go out and see the film for yourself, it's definitely
better than a 3.2 rating.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie surprised me, because I had seen all the other Tyler Perry
productions and was not impressed. I just saw this new film four hours
ago, and frankly, I was blown away. The comedic, yet dramatic,
performances by the actors was quite impressive. Not only was the
acting good, but the editing and plot of the film were well thought
out, unlike most of the films this year were. The film wasn't too
heavy, and it wasn't too light - a problem that most Tyler Perry's
films have.

This film reminds me of when one shoots for the stars and then lands on
clouds. While other films this year shot for the clouds and landed much
lower. This movie was a millimeter under flawless, and I presume that
it will be getting many awards this year.

I encourage others to go and watch this film; you won't regret it. Your
stereotypes of films will almost cease to exist as soon as you watch
this film.
<|_=00=_|>
Like other reviewers of this movie, I can't believe the low ratings
that some people gave it. I rented this movie as a lark. Other than
hearing his name, I was not really familiar with Tyler Perry nor had
seen any of his other productions. My Hubby (of 30+ years) is
out-of-town, and because we have only sons, I get out-voted a lot and
thus don't get to see many "chick flicks." I discovered that this film
is neither a "chick flick" nor a "black flick." It is a comedy-drama
HUMAN interest film about four married couples who vacation together
once a year to reaffirm their marriages. The situations that these
couples face are those that anyone who's been married any length of
time might relate to. I loved it! It made me laugh and cry and think.
What more can you ask of a film?! It was beautifully filmed and the
acting was top-notch. Sure there were a few weak spots here and there,
but all-in-all, well-crafted.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all I must say that I don't understand the low ranking, it is
truly an underestimation of this film. I must admit that while I am a
Tyler Perry fan I have been underwhelmed by his previous box office
offerings. This film for me was a welcomed departure from his other
films, it just seemed more professional, well directed, and the casting
was phenomenal. Evan though it was rather preachy it seemed much less
"after-school-specialish" than his initial movies. Jill Scott was
amazing, Tasha Smith was Hilarious, and Janet Jackson wasn't as boring
as she usually is. I hope this film is a precursor of more to come from
Tyler Perry.
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw this movie and I think it was a very decent film. It is a
comedy with a soap opera feel to it. Basically...when I went in I
wasn't expecting it to be as good as it was. There was a lot of "laugh
out loud" moments and a lot of the dialogue was funny. A lot of scenes
had the entire theatre laughing including me (The theatre was full) and
people were making comments to all the situations really getting into
it like "oh hell nah" and "uh uh girl" and "you know it" etc. So its
definitely a movie that people can relate to. All in all its a good
movie. If you actually go and see it without judging it too fast then
chances are you will enjoy it.

And of course just like all of the Tyler Perry movies it has a message
at the end that ties the movie all together.
<|_=00=_|>
I liked the movie for its entertainment value. I am a fan of Tyler
Perry's plays. The film is not Oscar worthy but it has good comedy and
a message. This is Tyler Perry's style and many people have come to
love his plays and films. The acting was mediocre. I wasn't completely
drawn into the characters and their dilemmas. The cinematography was
low budget. Having said that, the IMDb 3 rating is way too low for this
film. In general, I rate Tyler Perry's films between 5 to 6 stars. To
me this rating means a film worth renting but not worth spending the
money to see it in the movies. I would purchase it on DVD if available
for half the price of a new release.

This review is targeted for people who are not familiar with Tyler
Perry's work. As for his fans, I already know you are going to see this
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I laughed, I cried, I yelled at the screen. My husband did the same.
This movie was spectacular. It's Tyler's best yet.

I was especially impressed with two particular actresses: Tasha Smith
and Jill Scott. 

I SO enjoyed Tasha's character because she was straight-forward,
unafraid, brash and protective of and loyal to her friends. Tasha
played this to the hilt. She worked it and I don't think anyone could
have played this role better.

Jill Scott, whose career I've followed for many years, turns out to be
a phenomenal actress, too! You go, Girl! She laid it down. She owned
this role-- the pain, the disrespect, the long-suffering, the faith and
hope, and ultimately, the joy and strength that comes partly from
having a heart for God and a healthy and humble love of self and that
of a good man. She floored me. I knew she was deep, but I didn't know
she could take it there!!!! Tyler has outdone himself. This movie
didn't need Madea, although I look forward to seeing her on screen
again. 

This movie was just beautiful from beginning to end. I especially like
the way Tyler doesn't hold back the harshness of unpleasantness that is
sometimes ever present in marriages in need of some revamping (i.e.-
counseling, communication, and yes, even divorce). LOL. 

My husband and I kept looking at each other laughing because some of
those couples reminded us of ourselves and how quirky and sometimes
ridiculous we are. 

Keep it coming, Tyler. You've earned a fan for life.
<|_=00=_|>
Last night I went to the threatre not knowing what I was going to see.
Literally. I had no notion of what films were playing. I wanted to see
"The Lost Legion" because I was in the mood for a swords and sandal
epic, but it wasn't playing anywhere nearby. Would I not be able to see
Roman legions clashing with native armies in Briton? Answer; no. So, I
looked up at the list of films, saw "Why did I Get Married", and made a
blind ticket purchase for a film I had never heard of, nor had any
notion of what it was about.

I've never seen the stage-play upon which this film is based, but,
having seen many a stage play adaptation to the big screen, and having
been thoroughly disappointed with every one of them, I can say that
this one did a fairly good job.

The revolves around several couples whose marriages are teetering in
varying degrees of distress. Secrets that have been held tight by
husband and wife are eventually thrust into the open, testing the
couples' fortitude.

Visually the film is warm and intimate, and keeps a good amount of zest
by way of fine emoting. There are some ever so brief lulls, but the
story content and delivery by the actors keeps the viewer's attention.

The one "antagonist" in the film (if he can be called that) was almost
a little too obvious. The boorish husband character was barely
disguised as to his true intentions. So much so that I was wondering if
the character wasn't supposed to be putting on some kind of act. But
alas, that wasn't the case. It was a shortcoming of the creative team.

Most of the film is light, but there is one segment that came out of
left field to break up wit bound dialog. The more dramatic scenes were
respectable, but weren't always given the same amount of care to the
lighter scenes.

My one real complaint about the story is that I felt somewhat lost as
to who was suffering from what history. There's a lot implied, and the
more relationship-savvy viewer can probably puzzle out the nuances and
idiosyncrasies of marital secrets and scandal. But I have to admit that
I just didn't get a lot of the situations until they were spelled out
for me. Ah well :-) Some light entertainment that delivers an abridged
version of a play with fairly good aplomb. It is a film marketed for an
African American audience, but marital situations are universal to all,
and as such this film can be enjoyed by all audiences (though your
theatre's audience may vary). Definitely a good rent when it comes out
on DVD.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was by far the BEST feel-good movie I have seen in a L-O-N-G
time! You have four couples who travel together once a year - each year
a different place - and it's basically a story of how they manage to
stay together thru all the circumstances they go thru.

Patty & Gavin - Patty wrote the book Why Did I Get Married? based on
her friends' stories. She arranges for them to go to Colorado for this
year's couples trip. Gavin is still grieving the son they lost in a car
accident that she doesn't know he blames her for but is willing to do
what it takes to keep their marriage together.

Angela & Marcus - Angela owns a hair salon and has a drinking problem.
Marcus is an ex-pro football player and has a problem keeping it in his
pants. He has two children with Keisha who is trying to break the two
of them up so she can be # 1 in his life. Angela & Keisha are
constantly at each others' throats and Marcus has to decide which woman
he wants to be in the long haul with.

Diane & Terry - Diane is a workaholic lawyer who just made partner and
because she is working on a huge case, cannot seem to put down her
blackberry and her assistant has been calling dozens of times a day.
Terry is a pediatrician who has been trying to start a family with his
wife for a long time now. He is hoping that this vacation will rekindle
the flame and create the baby he wants. But he has to get her focus off
work long enough for that to happen. Then he finds out that she doesn't
want to get pregnant, so does he stay with the woman he loves or has
she hurt him so deeply that he leaves her.

Sheila & Mike (and Trina) - Sheila is a big girl and is told that
someone her size is required to pay for two airplane seats. Mike says
he's not paying for another seat for her and scoffs at her saying it's
her own fault for not losing the weight he has been telling her to lose
all along, so she needs to drive while he and Trina stay on the plane.
Sheila invited her friend Trina to come with them because there was an
extra room at the cabin. You see the looks between Trina and Mike and
you immediately know there's something going on, but Sheila doesn't see
it.

Troy - Sheriff Troy keeps Sheila company when she finds out that due to
the storm, she can't get her car up the hill to get to the cabin where
her husband and friends are. Troy gives Sheila the kindness that Mike
never gives her and you're rooting for the two of them to get together,
but Sheila is determined to save her marriage (unaware that her best
friend has been screwing her over by screwing her husband - even though
all of her friends notice right away.) Once all of them finally get
together, things are said, secrets are spilled, and many MANY
laugh-worthy moments are witnessed. As you're watching the movie, you
kinda become like part of the family. You're laughing when they're
laughing, you're crying when they're crying and you're wanting to smack
the crap out of certain characters after certain things are said -
whether or not the character on the screen actually does it or not.

I thought one of the best lines was regarding the whole 80/20 rule.
When you get married, the most you can expect to get out of it is 80%
of everything you want. When someone comes along and offers you that
20%, it looks really good to you because when you haven't been getting
any, it looks like everything. But if you leave that 80% for the 20%,
then all you're left with is the 20%...

A dialog movie with an EXCELLENT script of half drama, half comedy. It
really delivers with both the heartaches and the joys and even though
it's a 2 hour movie and it had a pretty satisfying ending, you want to
keep following their stories because all of the characters have now
become a part of you.

When I saw this movie, the theater was packed and it was a very
interactive group. Normally, this would be very distracting for me, but
I was right in there with the rest of them saying "slug him!" during
some of the Sheila & Mike scenes.

I rank this up there with ...When Harry Met Sally where you can watch
it over and over and over again and be entertained each time.
