
Seldom has there been a film where the critic's opinions and its true
quality diverge so seriously. "Boyhood" is empty because it lacks
content and form. It celebrates the ordinary and mediocrity instead of
aiming at something extraordinary. As a result, it embraces nothingness
and is in that sense deeply nihilistic and even depressing. Anybody
with the same camera and some actors could have made this movie or
(more likely) a better one.

Those who praise the film always point out the same circumstance (the
only thing they can say) which is: This film is like "real life". I
have to say: This is true (on the most superficial level imaginable).
But I may ask: Is that a good thing? Is this, if film history has
taught us anything, what a film should be? "Real life", according to
Linklater, means a lifespan during which nothing happens. The
Boyhood-experience is the equivalent of your experience waiting in line
at the supermarket. Yes, this is the "real life" Linklater presents us.
NOTHING HAPPENS IN THIS MOVIE! Nothing, no story, no interesting
characters, just ordinary situations from "real life". Of course, there
are films in which nothing or very little happens and they can be great
(Tarkovsky's "Mirror", Antonioni's "L'avventura" or Tarr's "The Turin
Horse" come to my mind), but you need ideas (you got that, Linklater?),
you need a style or form which cannot be separated from the content,
you need a capable director that can create a form of visual
communication. Boyhood offers none of those things. The film gets
praised especially by those who have never seen an art-house movie and
mistake it for an art film. People are misled so easily. Boyhood is
pure blankness, shallowness, superficiality, nothingness.

To praise Boyhood as a masterpiece is actually a slap in the face of
all those directors who put a real effort into creating works of art
that have real value.

Boyhood is in fact an anti-film in the sense that it stands against
everything film should be - be it an artistic masterpiece or just an
entertaining, fun movie. The film is neither a work of art nor
entertaining. In that regard it can be called a non-film. It celebrates
its own non-existence and drowns in its nihilism. I doubt this was
Linklater's intention but it certainly is the result of what he
created.

Be warned: This is NOT a drama. The movie is the opposite of a
carefully constructed work of art. It's nothing but a re-enactment of
memories, a collection of unmeaning scenes we may or may not know from
our own lives (bowling, playing video games, reading Harry Potter
etc.). I think it is only fair to ask: What is the point? I went to see
this film having high hopes and (having read all the raving reviews)
expecting a masterpiece from Richard Linklater, the director of the
great "Waking Life". I liked the trailer which makes the movie look
much more interesting than it actually is (actually, everything that
"happens" in the movie is already in the trailer!). The basic idea of
filming a boy growing into a young man during twelve years is
interesting, yes, but sadly the film offers nothing more than that.
This is not enough! Sadly, many critics seem to have liked the basic
idea so much that to them it didn't even matter if the director would
be able to make it interesting or not.

The film which is much too long follows an unstable family and focuses
on the life of Mason, a character that has absolutely no interesting
characteristics whatsoever. The intelligent viewer will be unable to
connect with such a person. Mason walks through this film as if he was
in a coma or half asleep; he has no ambitions. At some point he gets
his first kiss, gets interested in photography (the ultimate art form
for unimaginative lazy people) during high school (haven't we seen that
already too many times?), goes to college at which point the film ends.
I kid you not, this is the whole movie. The mother becomes a teacher at
a local college and always seems to attract the wrong guys. The father
is an unemployed loser who only talks about pop music and ends up being
a square. Mason's sister (the director's daughter) grows up too and
that's pretty much all you can say about her.

It is actually impossible to spoil this film because nothing happens
(unless you consider the fact that Mason finishes high school a
spoiler). Linklater completely fails to dramatize his ideas. As a
result, following this movie feels like watching family home videos of
a family you do not care about - just with better picture quality.

Instead of using form (or content/drama) to make the film interesting,
"Boyhood" refuses to do just that and therefore remains superficial.

You don't get to the essence of "real life" by only showing the surface
of things. Everybody could do that!

It is really hard talking about this film because there isn't a single
interesting character or scene in it. You just follow ordinary events
in the lives of these people. Stay away from this movie!

Yes, this review will get negative votes, just because I didn't like
the film, unlike the critic's union. Well, none of those "critics" were
able to offer a single insightful argument that would speak for this
non-movie. In fact, many even admitted the film lacked interesting
characters or style! But because of the 12-year-gimmik, they call it a
"masterpiece". Give me a break. I would be willing to debate any of
these pseudo-intelligent "critics" and tear them into pieces. Over and
out.
<|_=00=_|>
BOYHOOD...What a great movie! I simply believe in America again! They
are also humans, guys, trust me:) Its obviously doesn't matter if you
are an American, German or Russian. There are the same problems, the
same ways, the same love inside us. As a Russian I must say I
understand American people and also myself much much better with this
movie. It was like... about me... I just COULD NOT imagine how much we
are all the same.. Just love it!﻿ If I look at my childhood in the
former USSR I see not much difference, the cars and houses are
different, we spoke Russian, but that feeling, that pulse of life, that
sometimes "lost" fathers and mothers to solve every day problems,
fighting for the existence and good life for the children are so
familiar to me.. That long hair and piercing.. Oh boy, its all so much
alike. And those "Paul was greater than the others...". The movie is
just breathing, its a three hours of fresh air!

I do not want to say much about the qualities of the movie.. It is
overall brilliant. I do believe, this will be a classical film, and
students all over thew world will study it in future at their film
schools. P.S. Sorry for my poor English.
<|_=00=_|>
This is the Emperor's New Clothes all over again. The movie runs two
hours and 45 minutes to cover 12 years, and believe me, it seems like
12 years. There is nothing of interest in the film. It is about
nothing. Nothing happens, except children grow up, parents grow up,
children make friends, parents marry again and again. No drama, no
humor, no sadness, no happiness.

Just boring people leading boring lives, and the gimmick of using real
children and filming them at yearly intervals to show how they grow, is
just that, a gimmick. The boy of the title is a slacker, seeking
meaning by doing nothing. Save your money, and more important, save
your three hours and see another movie, any other movie.
<|_=00=_|>
One of the more overrated films lately.

The good: production, shooting, editing, sound -- were all good.

The great: the idea of following the same boy and others for 11 years.
Transitions from age to age were beautiful.

The tiresome: the acting. It was OK, but nothing that grabs you. Ellar
Coltrane was at his acting best when he was young, but gradually got
more stilted. This could have been due to the director more than to
him.

The ugly: The script. Existential drivel, over and over. Every
character was written in a way that remained two-dimensional,
especially his sister and mother. Ethan Hawke as his father did the
best job of any of them in bringing some depth of life to his role.
<|_=00=_|>
Pretty much all movies, which I ever liked, are highly rated on IMDb.
Although not all highly rated movies on IMDb are movies which I like.
And this is one of them.

The movie was shot over many years and this is its main selling point.
Cool. That's it. Nothing else.

It was a cliché scene after cliché scene for almost three hours. Three
hours which I'll never get back :) I'd rate it with negative 3, but
there's no rating lower than 1.

Sometimes, a movie starts bad. It goes on for a while, but then, at the
end, something new and unique happens and you think: "Oh! I totally did
not expect that. So it was worth seeing it". Well. Not now. Bad start,
middle, and end. Oh, he met another girl. Really. They like each other?
Is this how people who like each other act?

The acting was so poor and just about every line said, was said in so
unnatural way. Real people in real situations, simply do not look like
or act like that. I felt no attachment of any kind to any of the
characters. None of them seemed to have any social skills.

None of the characters has done anything worth mentioning in all their
lives. They had some failed attempts for deep and meaningful
conversations. The plot for such conversations goes like: "blah blah
life blah blah meaning blah blah now be impressed with how much we said
blah blah".
<|_=00=_|>
This film blew me away and it is hard to describe why. Seeing it
together with 1,500+ captivated and enthusiastic people at one of the
Berlinale Friedrichstadt-Palast screenings surly helped. Yet, what
makes this film so unique and touching is its deep humanity. Although
it is a fictional piece, you can't help not to relate to the actors as
if it would be a documentary. Every scene feels like real life. I know
that this is not necessarily a good thing to say about a movie but it
is meant as a compliment.

The actors deliver an outstanding performance. While much has already
been said about the main characters, I was also deeply impressed by the
performance of the side characters as well. As an example, the actor of
the second husband of Olivia excels in one of the most emotionally
straining scenes of the movie. The dialogs are touching and feel just
natural. There are so many scenes and details in the movie where you
feel unbelievable close to the actors. When Patricia Arquette says as
mother Olivia "I thought there would be more" you instantly think about
your own (family) life and its constant flux.

I surely hope that this movie will make it to as many screens as
possible. Also, I hope that no distributor will force additional
editing on it. It is perfect as it is and worth any minute. If you like
people in general and families in particular, you will love this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
So the only selling point of this movie is that it was filmed over 12
years. Wow, yeah, crazy. You know what else happened over a period of
12 years? Lots of nothing to lots of other people, just like in this
movie, in which nothing freaking happens.

12 years and this is what they came up with? For crying out loud. This
movie is less interesting than watching paint dry in the middle of an
Arkansas corn field for 12 years. Maybe my life's so much more
interesting than everyone else's who gave this movie rave reviews. Are
people so boring that it's now cool to pay to watch nothing happen on a
screen? And the guy is gay! Didn't anyone else notice that? I've
nothing against gay people but we're supposed to believe he's straight.
Come on. If that'd been acknowledged at least there might have been
something interesting there: look, he's finally coming out of the
closet. Shocker! 

And what did these people have against hair brushes? Maybe it's too
much excitement to brush your hair and it might have given the movie an
air of something actually happening, a hint of not so
awfully-boring-why-God-did-I-agree-to-watch-this-?! I want a refund.
<|_=00=_|>
It's true: Linklater took 12 years to develop his family of characters.
While I was intimidated by the 3 hour run time, I have to admit, there
was not a moment of this film I could have done without.

This is more than a coming of age story; the title "Family" or
"Motherhood" would be just as appropriate. Set in Texas, the screenplay
is natural and reminiscent of plenty of Linklater's other work: a film
that begins with dialog unlike any other Linklater films evolves into
thoughtful, poignant discourse not unlike that from the "Before"
series. One character in a late-night nacho scene was perhaps a
callback to the heady "Waking Life." With that said, this absolutely is
not a mere think piece. What makes this film truly fantastic is how
accessible the material is, given its scope. Without giving any
narrative away, I'll say that the story itself is absolutely engaging
and not without surprises. I watched many films at Sundance 2014
(including comedies), and this was the first that had the audience
reacting throughout: we laughed, gasped, covered our eyes, and I am
sure more than a few of us wept.

The characters are well developed. Don't be fooled by the title --- the
spirit of Boyhood is alive here, but the female characters are
thoroughly developed, distinct, and alive. Unfortunately, though it's
2014, this is a rarity in cinema.

Like in "Waking Life" and "A Scanner Darkly", Linklater has again
delivered true visual innovation. This time, however, his set-up is
simple: shooting on film, Linklater replaced rotoscoping with time
lapse. Has a single film ever intentionally traced a character over
such a span of time? Linklater wisely chose to reveal the main
character to us subtly. Despite this, the effect is riveting.

I am not exaggerating when I say that after I watched this film I sold
all of my other tickets to Sundance films. Viewing Boyhood for the
first time was such a joyful experience that I didn't want to tarnish
the experience by any comparison. Everyone in the Eccles theater shared
a special few hours together. Though this only premiered a few days
ago, I am confident that this will go down as one of the most ambitious
and rewarding film projects of our time.
<|_=00=_|>
The idea of the film is great, they are exploring a side of cinema
never before explored, however I feel that taking on this task should
have demanded more creativity and flare from the numb nuts who put this
collage of rubbish together. Forgive me if I've missed anything, but I
feel that I spent the best part of 3 hours watching a rude,
ill-mannered brat grow up with a disappointingly boring life. I spent
the entire film looking for the "beauty" or "the message" in this
"masterpiece" and left with a distinct feeling that the people who
produced this hideous montage got carried away with how good they
thought the idea was and refused to admit that they messed up, nothing
bloody happened.

My definition of a good film is one which makes you feel something,
which gives you a sense of excitement or admiration, something which
makes you think about an interesting topic. I was present for my
growing up and it was infinitely more interesting and personal than
this fake Hollywood crap. Also it would have been nice for it to have
had an ending, or some sort of redeeming quality, like an announcement
that we had actually been sitting through a practical joke and this
film wasn't genuinely being considered great (IMDB rating 9.0?!, maybe
that's a joke too and this is all one big joke and everyone in
Hollywood is laughing at us.)

Unfortunately the minimum rating is 1/10 whereas I believe negative
possibilities would have been appropriate. In ancient Rome they had no
concept of negative numbers, I feel that seeing this film would have
progressed their discovery of this side of 0. 

Don't see this film please, and for goodness sake don't let it win any
Oscars, I don't want the industry to be polluted with films like this.
<|_=00=_|>
I always look for the gem amongst the summer blockbusters that makes
you think. After all the critical hype I was salivating at the prospect
of seeing this film. What a crashing disappointment !!

Take away the gimmick of filming it over 12 years and you have a film
that frequently references "American Pie". So many cliché characters -
single mom coping with bad mating choices and struggling to bring up
two lively children;the characters of the said lively children; the
hippy dad who turns into the antithesis of everything he talks about at
the start of the movie; one alcoholic, abusive husband from the
educational establishment; one alcoholic, abusive husband from the
prison service;a grandparent couple who give bibles and shotguns as
"coming of age" birthday presents; geeky teenager who scores with not
one but two stunning girlfriends - the list goes on. At the end of the
movie the thought that hit me was "Is that it?". I had hoped that
Linklater might be another chronicler of current America as it still is
a puzzle for us in the rest of the world but in this film there is
nothing new being said. For that there is still only John Sayles.
