
This might get me into trouble with the film elite, but I found this
film so much more real and absorbing than David Gordon Green's "All The
Real Girls." They both deal with young men coming of age thanks to
first love, but this film has such superior performances and writing.
Expertly directed and stacked with some of the best hip hop of the
nineties, it's a film that is hilarious, sad and moving, populated with
great characters you'll enjoy spending a couple of hours with.

I really wish a film like this had found me in my teenage years,
because it's so refreshing and honest. It's nice to watch a movie that
celebrates the time honored art of owning and embracing the pain that
makes you who you are.

People whine and bitch about the glut of hollow Hollywood formula
flooding the marketplace, but a great little film like The Wackness
with a strong voice is not getting the support it deserves.

The entire theater loved it, as did my friends I brought along who knew
nothing about it.

Do yourself a favor and go see The Wackness. You won't be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Wackness," director Jonathan Levine's eagerly-awaited followup
feature to "All the Boys Love Mandy Lane," premiered at the 2008
Sundance Film Festival and was immediately acquired by Sony Pictures
Classics. I wasn't able to catch it at the time. Fortunately, "The
Wackness" was presented in a special midnight screening not on the
official SXSW Film Festival schedule. It was a special treat and quite
an unexpected surprise.

"The Wackness" is basically a two-man show, with Ben Kingsley and Josh
Peck as psychiatrist Dr. Squires and his patient Luke Shapiro. The
twist? One deals drugs and the other takes them. But guess who buys and
who sells? And did I mention that Luke not only doles out weed to his
doctor but also dates his daughter? Ahh yes...the plot thickens. Yet
Squires and Shapiro forge an unlikely friendship not unlike two college
buddies -- the boy is just a bit too mature for his age and the man a
bit too immature, and they meet at about the same intellectual level.

Penned by director Levine, it's a complex storyline but "The Wackness"
is ultimately a character-driven piece. Kingsley's performance is a
tour de farce in a daring and risky role unlike anything we've seen --
this ain't your father's Gandhi. Josh Peck, best known as television's
Josh of "Josh & Drake" and to indie lovers as George, the tormented
victim in "Mean Creek," is the biggest surprise here. He carries this
film on his shoulders like a veteran. Olivia Thirlby ("Snow Angels,"
"Juno") is delightful as the object of Luke's affection.

Production values belie the film's modest budget, especially given the
cost of a location period piece -- "The Wackness" is set in New York
City 1994. Music of the era naturally provides the backdrop for the
duo's drug-dealing days and party nights. Drugs (selling and taking)
seem to be ubiquitous in the films I've seen here at SXSW and "The
Wackness'" overindulgence can be hard to watch at times. But what could
have strayed into a silly variation on "Dazed & Confused" (or the
recent "Charlie Bartlett") is, instead, a touching coming-of-age story
as relevant today as ever. The fact that the film remains grounded in
semi-reality is a tribute to the talents of Kingsley and Peck in the
hands of director Jonathan Levine. This director is a force to be
reckoned with now that he has "All the Boys Love Mandy Lane" and "The
Wackness" under his belt.
<|_=00=_|>
From Luke's opening monologue set to the strains of old school hip-hop
through to a beautifully crafted story that is both poignant and funny
and Ben Kingsley's wonderful turn as psychiatrist Dr. Squires this film
is a winner. Set in New York in 1994 the story follows Luke Shapiro as
he graduates school and becomes a dope dealer full time. It's a coming
of age drama of sorts but equally as he is struggling to come to terms
with embarking on life after school, parents, peer pressure and girls
his psychiatrist Dr. Squires, who he deals to in exchange for
counselling, is also coming to terms with growing old, a failing
marriage and drug dependency. The two form an unlikely bond, Luke is in
love with Dr. Squires step daughter and Dr .Squires wants to recapture
his lost youth which opens the way for some charming and damn funny
moments. Kingsley plays the good doctor like a cross between 'The Big
Lebowski's' the dude and a drug addled Terry Nutkins, it's a great role
and another that shows just how versatile he is as an actor. Luke is
played by local boy Josh Peck and as well as being a perfect foil for
Kingsley he is also great in his own right, very reminiscent of the
lead from Thumbsucker all floppy haired and wide eyed. The music mostly
nineties hip-hop, like A Tribe Called Quest and Notorious B.i.g to name
but a few is balanced with classic rock as the two now friends swap mix
tapes. Well paced and effortless in its execution this should be as big
as say 'Juno' but due to its content and drug references it probably
won't be, but don't let that put you off seeing this great little film.
<|_=00=_|>
This film was everything a movie should be. Great direction, acting,
writing, and everything else! The acting was superb. Josh Peck really
showed that not only is he a wonderful comical actor, but he is an
incredible dramatic actor, as well. He was just perfect in this role,
and he was able to carry the film with ease. Hopefully we will be
seeing a whole lot more of this actor, for he has given the
breakthrough performance of the year. Ben Kingsly was, as usual, great.
He provides a comical character and creates a character so
entertaining, you can't help but smile once he appears on screen.
Olivia Thirlby worked very well as Peck's love interest, and Mary-Kate
Olsen showed that she has the potential to break away from her child
star mold and start a promising film career.

And while some reviews expressed that the use of 1994 (the year the
film takes place in) and all the references to that time were annoying,
I found them quite funny and enjoyed such references as mentions of a
90210 episode that I recently watched! 

The story of a drug-dealing teen's relationship with his shrink/client
and his relationship with the shrink's daughter is a truly enthralling
one. It felt much shorter than is was and I hope to see it again soon!
I loved everything about this film and hope that it becomes the
independent film that makes it big this year, just as Juno did last
year! It definitely deserves high praise!
<|_=00=_|>
I walked into this film with 0 expectations having received
pre-screener passes from a local record store. This is a beautifully
filmed true to life story which I felt held very deep meaning about the
beauty that is the start and end of relationships. We follow the summer
of two very different men in who are in very similar mindsets dealing
with the personal crises, quiet pleasures, new experiences, and endless
repetition that is life. This is a realistic and philosophical film
that the label "comedy" does not do justice, but there are steady
laughs throughout the film, especially for those of us who grew up in
the 1990s. Only let-down was Mary-Kate Olsen, who I simply couldn't buy
in her role, fortunately, it's a very small part.
<|_=00=_|>
The Wackness is one of those rare movies that I go into the cinema not
knowing next to anything about. Apart from a relatively unimpressive TV
Spot I had seen I really didn't know what to expect. In fact it wasn't
until the day before I was going to see it that I actually had any
interest in seeing it. So I entered the cinema knowing Josh Peck (from
that dreadful Drake and Josh show) and Ben Kingsley were starring. That
was the extent of my knowledge. Two hours later I left the cinema
feeling extraordinarily happy, in fact this movie made me smile more
than most other movies have made me this year. While it isn't the
funniest movie ever the movie does make you feel good about life.
Perhaps the negative things that happen to the characters and how they
overcome them that made me feel so good, or maybe it was the brilliant
direction and script, or maybe, just maybe this is one of those rare
movies that can be classed as a masterpiece. Anyway the fact is at the
moment that this is my current second favourite movie of the year,
behind The Dark Knight of course. The performances here are extremely
top notch, I have no idea why I ever doubted Josh Peck in the role. I
suppose Drake and Josh had destroyed all my images of him ever being a
serious actor, which is stupid because I remember how brilliant he was
in the highly under-watched Mean Creek. But this movie belongs to Sir
Ben Kingsley as Peck's psychiatrist/friend/man he sells dope to.
Kingsley is hilarious yet also oddly touching in a role not many actors
could pull off. His story arc is played through extremely well, and
whenever he is on screen the movie is a true revelation. But extra
credit must go to the director, who has made an unoriginal tale seem so
vivid and original its extraordinary.

Anyway as I said Josh Peck was an extremely pleasant surprise as Luke.
Peck really proves himself as an actor in this movie, in fact to the
extent that I believe he could potentially gain an Oscar nomination in
future years, not for this movie though, he's good not that good. Peck
delivers some pretty amusing lines pretty easily, but where he really
shines through is the more dramatic sequences. A scene at the beach
towards the end sees him deliver a killer of a performance. It also
helps that he has considerable chemistry with Sir Ben Kingsley.
Seriously I would love to see them in a movie together after this
performance. Anyway Sir Ben Kingsley. I admit to not being much of a
fan of him. Despite him delivering a good performance in Gandhi, which
I have always regarded as overlong, tedious and way overrated, nothing
else really stood out in my eyes. It also doesn't help his performance
in Thunderbirds still haunts me to this day. However I honestly want
him to get an Oscar nomination for his performance here. He is
brilliant. This is the only movie you will probably see him kissing an
Olsen, using a bong, and getting high a lot. His storyline is the best
thing in the movie, and whenever he is on screen the movie goes from
very good, to incredible. Olivia Thirlby delivers almost an equally as
impressive performance as Peck. She makes a potential two dimensional
character quite possibly more than three dimensional! Her character is
never dull, not a stereotype, and her very final scene with Peck really
is one of the films many highlights. Famek Janssen seems to have drawn
the short straw in this movie, unfortunately she gets barely any screen
time. A shame since her character does actually get very interesting in
the middle of the movie, yet she seems a bit wasted, despite an above
average performance.

The true power of The Wackness however comes from the way it is
written, and also the direction. I was four in 1994, so am probably not
the best person to talk about the time the movie is set, at this time I
was still running around in my Power Rangers pyjamas! Anyway the music
and the way people talk in the movie seem pretty accurate by my
accounts, and also there are moments the feel of the movie seems pretty
right. Anyway enough about that, the script here is the key. As I have
said before the storyline isn't exactly original, in fact when it all
boils down to it the movie is a simple coming of age tale. Still the
script here makes the storyline seem refreshing. Peck is made to be
extremely sympathetic, even when he is at his mopiest. Kingsley's
character gets all the best lines of course, but his more dramatic
moments once again show the level of thought gone into the character.
The movie doesn't start off in the best way though, the first ten
minutes are admittedly not what I really expected and left me a bit
dumbstruck. Most namely a dance on the subway, which the more I think
about the more I like. Anyway by the end you do feel genuinely happy
and also impressed. There were seven people in my cinema screen, only
me and my friend really laughed in it, but this is still a movie I urge
people to see.

The Wackness is probably the biggest surprise for me of the year and
one I cannot wait to buy on DVD. It won't make mega bucks at the
cinema, but this really deserves to be watched more than it has been so
far.
<|_=00=_|>
The Wackness is an extremely difficult movie to figure out. On one
hand, writer/director Jon Levine paints a captivating story around the
friendship of two identifiable protagonists in depressed teenage drug
dealer Luke Shapiro, played by an up-to-the-task Josh Peck, and
eccentric shrink, Dr. Squires, played by a barely up to the task Ben
Kingsley. On the other hand, the script itself struggles to find a tone
largely fumbling the 1994 NYC setting and ultimately dabbling with dark
comedy, philosophy 101, and drug/party filled 90s teenage musings
without really nailing down any thematic voice. The movie does succeed
in escaping its hazy plot lines and sophomoric personalities with
several great one-liners, some decent character development, and a
conclusion that left me satisfied but nevertheless a bit sad --which is
not a bad thing. Of the 80% filled NYC theater I saw it in, 10 people
walked out, the rest applauded at the end. Its that kind of movie. 

One of the biggest problems with the movie is its failure to use the
1994 New York City setting to its fullest. As a product of this time
and place I felt cheated because Mr. Levine chooses to exploit tid-bits
of the culture without ever really showing any substance. We hear
references to Kurt Cobain and Phish, we see Luke playing Nintendo NES,
we hear a good selection of Biggie, Wu-Tang Clan, and Tribe Called
Quest and several references to the Guliani gestapo police, but Levine
failed to create a teenage period piece to rival Dazed and Confused,
Kids, or Mallrats to name a few more recent ones. The cinematography is
good, and adds a vintage type feel to the NYC background, but as a
cultural snapshot of a time in NYC history, this movie falls flat. 

However, Levine was perhaps preoccupied with a greater goal than a
period piece. Shapiro and Dr. Squires are not easy characters to
support. Shapiro is a bulk sales weed dealer, with no friends, and a
stunted sex life. I think many people will be able to relate to him
either directly or indirectly and will enjoy following his teenage
"coming of age" tribulations as I did. Kingsley, as Squires, has a
tough role and at times plays the stoner shrink as though he has early
onset Alzheimer's disease. Its not an easy role, his character is a
walking contradiction who mixes decent psychological advice with
occasional moments of idiocy. At times he nails it down, at others he
comes across as the drunk uncle at Thanksgiving dinner that we are all
a bit embarrassed for, but this was probably Levine's intention. Amidst
writing that ebbed and flowed at a mediocre level, the dialog between
Shapiro and Squires had some knock outs and worked its way up to a
satisfying conclusion. The peripheral characters perform admirably when
asked, except for Famke Jannsen who failed to show up for her role as
Squires' numb to life wife. 

If you have ever turned to the recreational consumption of drugs or any
other vice as an escape from life or to just 'deal' with life, you will
find both Shapiro and Squires much much much more sympathetic and in
some ways touching characters. The story of the young Shapiro and old
Squires blends the themes of 'soothing your growing pains through drugs
(mostly marijuana)' versus the 'trying to go back to your youth and
escape your adulthood' through drugs. People who can appreciate or
relate to such plot lines will find this movie much more touching than
those who cant.
<|_=00=_|>
The coming-of-age genre has been a welcome staple in cinema from the
classic monolith "Rebel Without A Cause" to the recent uber-smash
"Juno", whose young protagonists are fraught with having old souls
while trying to make a place in the world, despite pressure and apathy
from their peers and parents.

One newcomer is high school grad Luke Shapiro, played with urban wisdom
and smooth shyness by NYC native Josh Peck, in Jonathan Levine's funky
yet poignant film, "The Wackness". In New York City, during the summer
of 1994, then-mayor Rudolph Giuliani (before his shameless,
self-adoration after the Sept 11 attacks; the WTC towers make a
haunting CGI appearance here) waged a no-nonsense war against quality
of life crimes so tourists wouldn't gag while seeing homelessness,
public inebriation, prostitution or drug trafficking. Phoniness: a
religion of the moron.

His parents strapped for cash (due to his dad's badly thought-out, "get
rich quick" schemes), Shapiro slyly flips the bird at the system by
selling marijuana out of a beaten up ice cream cart, with a boom box
(that's an over-sized radio/cassette player to you tadpoles) attached
to it, playing the likes of rap acts like A Tribe Called Quest, Biggie
Smalls and DJ Jazzy Jeff and Will "The Fresh Prince" Smith. Great idea,
but since when did drug dealers, aside from Frank Lucas from "American
Gangster", ever had great ideas? Ergo, Luke's a lone wolf, ever since
school. A subtle, near-silent applause is given when he gets his
diploma. He sits over an awning, looking down at the partiers at a
post-graduation soiree he wasn't invited to, but asked to supply the
weed. If you know how he feels, don't be ashamed to cry. I know I did.

Fortunately, Luke's best client is his shrink, Jeff Squires (a madcap,
mercurial Sir Ben Kingsley, who should get Oscar nominated for Best
Supporting Actor), who gives him dubious advice ("Get laid") while
taking a quarter of grass as payment. However, Squires doesn't take
well to Luke's infatuation with his step-daughter, the high class
Stephanie ("Juno's" Olivia Thirlby, also a NYC native). Sometimes,
first loves aren't the best ones.

If you think the film's about a Jewish kid immersing himself in hip-hop
culture, you're so wrong. An audience award winner at both the Sundance
and Los Angeles film festivals, "The Wackness", an earnest attempt to
adapt "Catcher in the Rye" by J.D. Salinger, is the first coming of age
piece that reminiscently focuses on the 1990s, making refs to "Beverly
Hills 90210", the late rocker Kurt Cobain, the pulsating (and better)
rap music and Giuliani's near-fascistic and racist mayoral reign (like
me, a NYC resident, Squires sees it as a basic and pathetic hiding of
the symptoms of society's ills). Graffiti font is made as opening
credits, respected by Levine, whose script is alive (also should get
nominated) and direction is competent cool and quick in a drug-like
haze. 

His actors are reliable, like Mary-Kate Olsen as a squirrel-brain,
hippie chick, rapper Method Man as Luke's Caribbean-accented boss,
Famke Janseen (the X-Men trilogy) as Squires's frigid trophy wife and
David Wohl and Talia Balsam as Luke's bickering parents. Even Jane
Adams is pretty cool as a one-hit musician-cum-stoner. Personally, the
film's narrative is an attractive, alternative version of my own of
trial by fire.

That comes down to Peck, a grad from the tween sitcom "Drake and Josh",
who perfectly echoes Robert DeNiro and John Cusack from their lead
roles in "Taxi Driver" (Mr. Levine was the assistant of the film's
writer Paul Schrader) and "Say Anything". Sure, Luke's cool beyond
cool, but he's an old man in a young man's body, a mirror image to
Kingsley's Squires, who has trouble in his marriage. Thirbly, as
Stephanie, nicely reps fear behind careless hedonism: When Luke's
honest about his feelings for her, during a rendezvous on Fire Island,
she finds it holographic, not noticing she's talking about herself
while being with "God's lonely boy." 

With its' drug use, urban vibe and stark individualism, I don't know if
"The Wackness" will be 2008's "Juno" (IT COULD!!!), but I do know it's
a honest film.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't normally write reviews, but this film was such a case of wasted
potential I can't help myself. In 1994, I was Shapiro's age, 'knew'
delivery guys and was in NYC (village area).

The film has a few good moments and some nice visuals and editing, but
there are too many unbelievable and aggravating elements that ruined it
for me. It could have been an interesting study of pot delivery guys,
wiggers, slumming, and class differences. Instead we get Sundance
styrofoam.

In brief: 1) There is NO WAY, repeat NO WAY a weed delivery guy would
stroll around the city with an ice cream bin full of BRICKS OF WEED. It
wouldn't and didn't happen. Even a stoner dealer isn't that dumb. They
had backpacks and rode bikes, had a car, or went on foot. Which leads
me to my next comment...

2) WHERE ARE THE WEED FRONTS? The film is supposedly 'representin' '94
or whatever. Well, in '94 the East Village was loaded with 'fronts',
fake stores that sold pot. That the film left out this detail (which
would have been a cool scene) kills it instantly.

3) Awful opening narration. Should have cut it.

4) Film is too long. They should have cut the lame sex scenes and pared
off 10-15 minutes.

5) Lose the hip-hop references in the dialog. Just play the soundtrack
(which was rather boring btw), we get that Shapiro is a wigger. And
speaking of wiggers...

6) The film makes no attempt to 'deal' with Shapiro being a wigger (and
a goon, for that matter). It just accepts how he is without any
critical viewpoint or anything. This isn't totally a problem, but it
would have made the film better.

7) Kingsley's character does too many dangerous and unbelievable things
for a rich shrink. NO WAY would he talk back to a drug dealer who is
armed, run from cops after being caught tagging, etc. Ridiculous.

8) NO WAY would a dealer like Shapiro have trouble getting laid. The
dealers and wiggers I knew all had game. You expect me to believe that
Shapiro isn't afraid to deal w/ gun toting drug kingpins, but can't
talk to girls? Come on now.

9) Is it a comedy? A drama? A dramedy? I don't know. What irked me was
that Kingsley's character is supposed to be moved and changed by
Shapiro's mixtape, but in fact that whole plot development comes off as
totally phony. This is most revealing at the end when Kingsley says
'Peace out' and it rings hollow, even though the character means it to
be sincere. Did the director intend for it to sound hollow? Who knows? 

Eh, there's more, but it's time for the old folks to go to bed...peace
out!
