
****SPOILER ALERT******

Several reviewers have commented on physics representing logical
certainty. In this movie, the opposite is true, and I believe that is
the fulcrum upon which this modern story of Job rests. Modern physics
strikes at the very heart of faith, mystery and law

The dybbuk! The husband is caught in the world of the material and
cannot believe that the rabbi before him is a spirit, but his
wife...she is not fooled! She believes that the world is filled with
mysteries, and her faith in this leads to decisive action--saving
them??

"Schroedinger's Cat" is a modern mystery, and it is the single subject
that Larry is teaching in his physics class. "Bracket k bracket and it
is equal," he says with finality, thinking that he has demonstrated the
order of the world neatly. But "Schroedinger's Cat" is the ultimate
expression of the rules of order, or G-d's work, leading off the cliff
into the abyss of mystery.

In the example Schroedinger published in 1935, a cat is in a box with a
"diabolical apparatus" which kills the cat if a random subatomic
particle decays. Modern physics, being invented at the time, made the
absurd prediction that until you opened the lid to check, the cat was
in some sort of blurred probability space of being alive/dead, and it
only became actually dead (or alive) when you opened the lid to check.
Observation changed reality. The cat is in a mysterious state, beyond
our comprehension or belief until we look. Do we have faith? Einstein
didn't. He countered stating that "G-d doesn't play dice with the
universe!" Schroedinger was doubtful, but insisted that the mystery was
simply inescapable. This is the foundation for a rich allegory, indeed.

"I don't understand the mathematics, but I understand the stories,"
Larry's Korean student insists. "No, if you don't understand the math,
you don't understand the physics. Even I sometimes don't understand the
stories," Larry shoots back.

And in this lies the nub of the tale. Larry understands the rules--and
follows them. His life is dreary and takes a seeming nose dive. Plague
after plague arise and he is perplexed. One rabbi says "We all question
the existence of hashem ("his name" = G-d) and then we see the wonder
in...the parking lot." HE GETS IT!! For him it is faith. Even the
friggin' parking lot is a divine miracle! The next rabbi weaves a
deeply mystical tale with a banal ending. Larry is outraged. "What does
it mean?" "How do I know. G-d does't owe us an explanation. The
responsibility is the other way around," the rabbi responds. They each
have their own understanding and advise. The young rabbi is not yet
wise and advises faith. The next rabbi acknowledges mystery, but says
it is beyond us to understand, so be a good person, "or a better
person." "God doesn't owe us an explanation. The responsibility runs
the other way."

It soon becomes clear that the Korean student and his father have a
razor-sharp understanding of the "Schroedinger's Cat" story and thrust
the paradox into Larry's life with a vengeance. If only Larry
understood the paradox.

But he understands logic and rules. His faith is shaky, but he follows
the rules. Sy doesn't believe a G-d is watching him, steals his friends
wife, and G-d strikes him down in his path.

Even Larry's brother, believes in a crazy half-physics, half-Kaballah
mystery and he actually wins card games with it, but he breaks the
rules and is a pariah. 

The last rabbi will not even talk to him. The most direct response of
G- d being questioned by a doubting subject.

At the end, Larry feels he is through his trial and "opens the box" to
check to see if there is a G-d there. Surprise! There is! He opened the
box by breaking the rules. The cat is dead. All his plagues had only
been in some sort of blurred probability space of having happened/not
happened; his marriage, his tenure the whole chain of events. It was
not until he tested G-d by breaking a rule that the very real G-d of
the bible smote him and his eldest son down. 

The original Job had actual punishments and kept his faith. Our modern
Job has existential punishments and ends with a lack of faith. We must
have faith, recognize the mysteries or obey the law according to our
capacity, but to do none of these is an abomination.
<|_=00=_|>
My wife and I saw the film last Friday. We talked about it for an hour
over dinner and again in the evening. The more we discussed it the
better we liked it.

It helps to be familiar with the paradox of Schrodinger's cat, a staple
of quantum physics, which can be found on Wikipedia, before you go see
this film. You might also want to understand the quantum concept of
duality.

The entire movie examines Gopnick and his world==and to a lesser extent
that of his teenage son--in light of these aspects of quantum
mechanics. I could not find a single scene that did not address
uncertainty and/or duality. The attempt to discern traditional
religious meaning in this world is humorous in itself. The opening
presents the paradox and is crucial to the rest of the film.

Unlike the local review for the film which described this as a "typical
Coen Brothers film" and "weird" and "no closure at the end", I found
this film to be quite literal and true to the principles of uncertainty
and duality. The two major characters both find closure, and in
retrospect, there is clearly a beginning, middle and end to the story
the brothers wanted to tell.

But the movie continues after the closure, just as life continues on a
daily basis, setting up another expectation of continual uncertainty.

Not being Jewish, I no doubt missed some of the double entendre and
humor in the tradition. I would have liked to understand the Hebrew
passage of the bar mitzvah ceremony, for example, and how it relates to
the core theme of the film. But the movie is universal in its appeal,
if you understand the basic concept of quantum mechanics upon which the
film is based.

I rate this as one of their best films due to its intellectual
foundation. Much more important to me than No Country.
<|_=00=_|>
You may have to be a believer (Jewish or Christian) to like this film,
although some secular (at least middle-aged midwestern) Jews and others
may find it worthwhile for the period details. It is a modern version
of the book of Job, which--of course you remember--contains a prologue
in which God and Satan bet on whether Job will remain faithful and
Satan then strikes down Job's flocks, children, and health; a series of
speeches by three comforters with Job's responses; a speech by Elihu
who is unhappy with the advice of the three comforters; the Lord
himself answering Job directly out of the whirlwind ('who is this who
darkens counsel by words without knowledge?'); a final submissive
speech by Job ('I have heard of thee by the hearing of the ear, but now
mine eye see thee, wherefore I abhor myself, and repent in dust and
ashes'); and an epilogue in which Job receives more flocks and children
(...) than he had before.

The book and the film address what (Christian, at least) theologians
call theodicy, or how bad things can happen in the world when God, who
supposedly controls everything, is supposedly good. For nonbelievers
(if you have any interest in the subject), the best way to think of
this is perhaps to ask yourself whether the universe (the Creation) is
on balance a good thing ('and God saw that it was good'). If so, then
perhaps we somehow have an obligation to live moral lives and (as Jews
and Christians think of it) to follow God's law. If not, then perhaps
it's every man for himself and the Devil take the hindmost.

The Coens' answer, if I understand it correctly, comes out of the
whirlwind at the end in the voice of Grace Slick. I personally prefer
God's original response with its paean to astrophysics and evolutionary
biology--'Where were you when I laid the foundations of the earth? ...
When the morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted
for joy? ... Gave you wings and feathers unto the ostrich? Who leaves
her eggs in the earth, and warms them in the dust, and forgets that the
foot may crust them or that the wild best may break them...; because
God has deprived her of wisdom, neither has he imparted to her
understanding'--which essentially asserts that Creation is wonderful
and a package deal. But the Coens' very different answer, while oddly
Christian in emphasis, is fully consistent with both the 1960s
zeitgeist and with the midwestern Jewish community that they have so
meticulously recreated.

If you like this film, you really need to see it twice. But without
giving anything away, if you see it once, be careful to pay attention
to (i) the bribe that, like Schroedinger's cat, is alive and dead at
the same time and (ii) the whirlwind at the end. This is a great film.
<|_=00=_|>
The Coen brothers have developed critical acclaim for making black
comedies/awkward tragedies that depict small-time people getting in way
over their heads, who for one reason or another are motivated to do
things out of the ordinary because the natural order of the world and
society has wronged them in some way. 

"A Serious Man," however, is about a man who doesn't do anything, to
whom bad/annoying things happen. This story of a confused suburban
Jewish man in the '60s wrestling with life's meaning is therefore an
important step in the evolution of the Coens' theme-driven film-making.
Borrowing on an autobiographical context (Minnesota, Judaism, etc.) for
the brothers, it moves on to greater cosmic questions but with the same
quirky and ironic spirit that have garnered the Coens all their
deserved attention over the last 20 years.

Larry Gopnik (Michael Stuhlbarg) is that one Coen brothers character in
every movie -- you know, the innocent one who manages to suffer a
seemingly unfair fate (think Steve Buscemi in "The Big Lebowski" or
most recently Richard Jenkins' character in "Burn After Reading") --
only he gets to pilot this film. In that spirit, an unknown Stuhlbarg
is cast in the lead (although he was clearly up for the challenge).
Larry is a mild-mannered math professor with a family in an ideal
suburban home only his wife wants a divorce and his kids are
nightmarish. Little by little the annoyances of his life pile up from
the foreign student trying to bribe him for a passing grade while
simultaneously suing him for defamation to his socially immature
brother (Richard Kind) who won't leave his house.

Larry seeks answers from the rabbis in his community to understand the
mess his life has suddenly become. One rabbi tells him he needs a
change of perspective, another tells him the story of "The Goy's
Teeth," a hilarious bit about a dentist who tries desperately to make
meaning of a Hebrew message engraved in a patient's teeth only to find
he was better off not worrying about it. None of their advice seems to
help at the time -- but it's dead on. The Goy's Teeth scene in
particular is one of the brilliant moments where the Coen brothers let
you know pretty clearly what their intentions are with the film while
giving you something to laugh about. That's their strength and it's all
over "Serious Man."

Much like "Burn After Reading," this film is one that makes a thematic
point out of the audience's attempt to squeeze meaning out of
everything. By turning Larry into a Job-like figure to whom
inexplicable misfortune happens, we're forced to put everything into
perspective. When Kind's character, Arthur, has a tantrum in the middle
of the night wondering why God has given him nothing and he points out
that Larry has kids and a job, suddenly our perspective changes.
Suddenly everything we thought mattered in this film and was of
critical importance is really not such a big deal. Our desperate search
for answers in both our lives and in this film, our tendency to
over-analyze and derive reason from everything comes to a halt; the
Coen bros. have worked their magic again.

"Serious Man" is one of their best in recent memory because it not only
feels rooted and personal for them, but it moves toward a greater
discussion of previously treaded upon themes and plots from their
previous work. It is a challenging film and those who have struggled
with the Coen brothers before will struggle again, but for the cerebral
and intellectual moviegoer it's outstanding. 

The truth is, we don't have all the answers to make sense of life's
events (or a story's plot points) and neither do the Coen brothers. One
insignificant character in the film who appears to have an answer to
just one of Larry's myriad of minor problems dies instantly with
hysterical irony. Don't go into "A Serious Man" looking for answers, go
into it looking for a change of perspective. ~Steven C Visit my site at
http://moviemusereviews.blogspot.com
<|_=00=_|>
The only thing fairly remarkable or remotely intriguing about this film
is the opening wherein a Yiddish-speaking Jew of the 19th century
invites (accidentally) a dybbuk (evil spirit in the shape of a man)
into his family home. The ominous turn of events and the wife's
sensible solution to the situation is comical and you would think the
film would build on such an interesting prologue.

Alas, like reading the Book of Job without the good parts (namely the
philosophical arguments and the poetry, let alone a resolution), A
Serious Man feels like an exercise in viewing torture. (What is it
about 2009? The Road and A Serious Man both belong in the category of
'agonizing to watch...).

Maybe the brilliance of this film lies in that you think at any minute
this honest, good, hard-working Jewish man will crack and finally take
on the world that is besetting him as opposed to questioning G-d. But
for much of the film, our lead character, Larry Gopnik, a professor,
husband, father of two, brother of socially-inept Adam, there is little
here that happens, let alone satisfies a viewing audience.

It has been awhile before I watched a film wherein I continually
battled with myself over whether I should continue or simply walk away.
I wanted to walk away...

What made this film the most unbearable is how each periphery character
rarely ever showed their humanity - Larry's Son and Daughter are simply
cretins, the former a typical high school student with bully problems
and marijuana indulgence (also he orders records of the month and
leaves the bill for his father) while his daughter's only needs in life
seem to be her hair and going out. There is no dimension to either of
them while their mother, Larry's wife is a loveless shrew that
remarkably makes Larry pay for his rival's funeral, an arrogant friend
of the family named Sy. Throughout the first half of the film, Sy and
Larry's wife are in love, working on Larry to get a kosher divorce.

After awhile, I lost sympathy for the lead, not because of his wife and
family, but because he had wandered into a cinematic world lacking
humanity, let alone real people. The Coens have not crafted a movie,
let alone a film but an alternate universe, a torture chamber of bland
direction and characterization. It has been awhile since I watched a
film where I felt I despised so many characters. Ideally, supporting
characters are there to create relationships, to reveal the complexity
of human life. It seems everyone here is just another means to stab the
lead and bludgeon him with their inane presence. Even the rabbi who
refuses to talk to him feels less like a person as opposed to a forced
story development.

If you were the kid in school who didn't torture earth worms or pull
butterfly wings off Monarchs, then you might not like this debacle,
another pseudo-film from the Coen Brothers.
<|_=00=_|>
I suppose the first thing that needs to be said is that I'm not Jewish
and, as such, a lot of what was obviously a deeply personal movie went
over my head, and I was left feeling like an outsider, almost a voyeur.

However, perhaps as a result of this I'm able to view the film more
objectively. Visually, it is beautiful. There are so many perfectly
framed scenes that even when the story seems to drag it keeps you
captivated.

Having said that, for me, it did drag. The central figure was a
neurotic, cerebral, awkward, middle aged Jewish man. Not entirely a
cinematic first. Add to this the fact that he was possibly the most
passive character in cinematic history - he literally made no decisions
in the entire movie until the final scene. Instead he was drawn from
one catastrophe to another, on the basis that he was a good, upstanding
man surrounded by stronger people.

Normally in this situation we would see the character challenged and
grow, but this is the Coen brothers, so it's not going to be that
simple. Instead,,we are left to squirm at the relentless nature of the
man's incessant failings - a frustrating experience, particularly if
you're not privy to the Jewish humour that pervades this intimate film.

It seemed to me almost as if the Coen Brothers were seeing how far they
can stretch their high profile. With No Country For Old Men they robbed
us of the pivotal, climactic scene and I for one left feeling cheated.
Here they simply don't introduce it at all. They break every story
paradigm there is, as if to suggest that they are now so great they can
present a piece that has no development, no conclusion, a prologue that
seems to have no relevance to the main body of the work, and no
redemptive quality to extract from any of the characters. A bit like
real life I suppose. But who wants to see that on a forty foot screen?

I need to lay down.
<|_=00=_|>
I can see why many people would dismiss this. Like the reviewer who
watched "52 minutes" and turned it off because none of the characters
were likable so it would be a waste of time to continue.

Those who expect life to be a series of plausible outcomes, logically
following some kind of cause and effect order are always disappointed
by honest works of art, not to mention life itself. One of the very
themes of this film are those kinds of people and their need to cling
to some sort of tradition, structure, and belief in order to deny their
fear.

Another theme was perspective and perception. That what may seem
mundane and meaningless may be filled with the most profound meaning
and that which we place so much value in may be worth absolutely
nothing.

"Receive with simplicity everything that happens to you."

If you can enjoy a movie that leaves you with questions as much as one
that attempts to provide answers then I highly recommend a viewing.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie at TIFF on Saturday. The Coens quietly (and I mean
quietly - no-one could hear even their amplified voices) introduced the
movie with reference to the actors present but not the movie, letting
it speak for itself. And it did. In its own way. It is an off-beat
(what else?) and serious work that radiates bleak despair while
searching for a funny bone. In the process, the movie makes other black
comedies look positively light and airy. The movie evokes laughs from a
different place than most  from a profound discomfort watching people
twist themselves this way and that to fit in and be regarded seriously,
whether situationally, socially or religiously. A great piece of work
that will have you thinking long afterwards, especially considering the
odd and difficult-to-contextualize prologue and, um different, ending
which bookend a remarkable work.
<|_=00=_|>
A Serious Man (2009)

Such a vivid recreation of late 1960s suburban America is a remarkable
enough basis for a movie, making the real meat of the thing almost
transcendent. A joy! I recognized everything here from my own
childhood--everything except everything Jewish.

And that's the point, taken well. And made well, brilliant from start
to finish. Very Coen Brothers--moving, sometimes disturbing, and
sometimes very hilarious.

For insiders--American Jews--the references and send-ups will be moving
and funny and familiar. For outsiders--goys--A Serious Man is an
indoctrination, a can opener to an ethnic world with deep roots
(Eastern European in this case), great integrity, and many internal
(modern) conflicts. 

The surrealism sprinkled throughout is just smart movie-making, keeping
it from becoming a deep, ironic, and serious movie. It's a comedy with
deeply serious undertones, not the other way around. Some of the acting
is amazing, Michael Stuhlbarg playing the line between tragedy and
farce in every scene, and the filming is expert without ever drawing
attention to itself. The ending will leave many people talking and it
isn't appropriate to do that here, except to say that in some ways it
leaves you thinking so hard you may read more into the events than is
really there.

Or not. Certainly the first scene, if it is some metaphor for all the
follows, is both trenchant and disturbing, more Babel than Singer, but
perhaps (perhaps) frightening in its misogyny. In fact, the whole movie
has men who are wise, who laugh at their fate, who do good things, and
women who, one way or another, stick the knife in you.

And who (or what) is the dybbuk here? Is this about the survival of
some kind of Judaic history in contemporary America? Or is it larger,
about the meaning of Judaism period, on a worldly level? Or larger
still, is it simply a movie, like Do the Right Thing or My Big Fat
Greek Wedding or any of thousands of others, about life, and love, and
the struggling of one person against the woes of the world as he or she
faces them, in their own context?

Or is it a comedy, a really funny comedy, making fun, having fun, and
rising above the tawdry enough to remind everyone, Jewish or not, of
the need we all have for community and connection and continuity.
<|_=00=_|>
The Coen Brothers give to its frazzled protagonist Larry Gopnick a line
a few times during the course of A Serious Man, "I didn't do anything!"
that is more than just an homage to Franz Kafka - it's ripping him off
basically. This is not to say Larry is quite in the same predicament of
Joseph K. Then again, I wonder if Larry would prefer no explanation to
the if-it-wasn't-for-bad-luck-I-would-have-no-luck status over the
kinds he gets to his troubles. He has a divorce pending and his wife
leaving with Sy Ableman (seriously, Sy Ableman!), he has a South Korean
student who may be simultaneously bribing him and suing him for
defamation, he has a brother who has a cyst/no job/gambling troubles,
two kids who more or less are just typically dysfunctional teens (the
boy on his way to be Bar Mitzvah and smoking enough dope to acknowledge
more than once that it's 1967), and his sexual repression is
practically taunted by the foxy Jewish woman next door who sunbathes
nude. And what does God have to say about this? Oh, don't get him
started on trips to the Rabbi - frankly, he'd have better luck with
Anton Chigurh.

A Serious Man is a movie to take seriously as art, but at the same time
the Coens aren't above pulling out their usual all-stops to make this a
hilariously weird and awkward movie. Perhaps a better way to compare is
that it's like if Curb Your Enthusiasm starred an average shmo who
doesn't have quite the sense of humor of Larry David (and, perhaps, is
even cursed by his bloodline via the opening scene in the movie... or
maybe not, I'll get to that in a moment), and who keeps getting s*** on
from all directions (not coincidentally perhaps Richard Kind appears in
both show and movie). It's such a funny movie that I have to think back
to Big Lebowski and O'Brother Where Art Thou to remember when I laughed
so hard. Maybe its the predilection for Jewish jokes that sting so, or
maybe its the originality with the storytelling. As far as a
black-as-Jewish-death comedy, it works completely.

As for being a masterpiece of a film... I'm still not completely sure.
Sometimes the Coens' movies are instant classics (No Country for Old
Men, Blood Simple), and others take a little while to grow on a viewer
(i.e. Miller's Crossing, even Big Lebowski was a grower and not a
shower for me). A Serious Man may fall in the latter category; it's
such a personal film, maybe more than anyone done before if only for
the time and place and particulars of the characters in a Jewish-suburb
of Minnesota, and its such an oddity in their catalog of work. Watching
Larry on this existential odyssey of "WTF" nears Bergman proportions -
there's even a scene where a character's death affects a woman in much
the same way as the father Ekdahl's death in Fanny & Alexander - where
religion is tested to the fullest and most harrowing of emotional
schemes. Where is God when Larry needs him? Everywhere? Nowhere? Screw
Larry, he didn't pay his (son's) Columbia Records account! 

But for all that succeeds in A Serious Man, such as a completely
masterful sequence (a contender for my single favorite sequence of any
movie this year) where a Rabbi describes a harrowing and pointless and
uproarious story of a dentist and a Goy's teeth, or when Larry's son is
stoned out of his mind when reading the Torah at his Bar Mitzvah (a
first in cinema history, combining marijuana, Roger Deakins' use of a
lens-baby, and Hebrew), and its creative characterizations and shocking
nightmare scenes, it's an unsettling film, and not always in the best
ways. It's a film that, as one could argue in their past films, is at
war with if not the audience directly then with audience expectations.
We might expect A Serious Man to just be about this man's downward
spiral in his life, but what then to make of that (cool) opening scene
all in Yiddish and (admitted by Joel Coen) to not really have a whole
lot to do directly with the rest of the movie, or, for that matter, the
end of the movie which just... ends.

As far as 'f***-you's' to audiences go, it certainly is funny and
startling in comparison with No Country for Old Men (almost like the
Coens are saying 'yeah, knock this one this time, we *dare* you!), and
if I get an f-you from filmmakers I'm glad it comes from them. But...
you will either need more than a viewing for it to sink in, or you'll
curse the day you decided to walk in the theater or rent it. Not much
of a middle ground. Then again, I wouldn't want it any other way in
this case. And hey, it's got Jefferson Airplane quoted by a Yoda-Rabbi,
that scores points right there! 9.5/10
