
My daughter and I really enjoyed this film. We weren't expecting much,
but were pleasantly surprised by the humorous take on Minnesota life.
Yes, the accents are overdone and no, it isn't really 10 degrees below
zero from November thru April here in Minnesota, but those
exaggerations aside, it did hit on many "traditions" like meatloaf,
polka music, hunting, blizzards, and ice fishing. If you are from
Minnesota, Wisconsin or North Dakota, you will most likely understand
all of the one-liners and euphemisms. If you haven't experienced life
in the frozen tundra of the upper Midwest, this movie will probably not
make sense to you. Also, the actors in this film seemed to be genuinely
enjoying themselves. I can't recall ever noticing that in any other
movie I've seen. It just seemed very genuine and sincere to me.
<|_=00=_|>
Though its payoff scenes are as predictable as could be, this
entertaining romantic comedy is an effective vehicle sure to please
Renee Zelweger fans. Well-timed to a winter release (the film's
heartwarming Xmas scene occurs early in the story as an intended
anticlimax preceding the plot complications to come), this modern fable
set in a small town in frozen Minnesota is well-photographed on
atmospheric Manitoba locations. Zellweger top lines as the fish out of
water, volunteering in her high-profile Miami based conglomerate to
head north to makeover a tiny food plant, cut its workforce by half and
retool for an automated new product launch. She's the typical
jargon-laden, fast-track advancement type, dreaming of CEO-hood and
sorely lacking in empathy or any recognizable people-to-people skills.
Strutting around in inappropriate high heels (closeups of which are a
bit overdone by Danish director Jonas Elmer making his Hollywood
debut), she quickly alienates every Minnesotan in sight and looks to be
headed for disaster in a hopeless hatchet-woman assignment. Led by a
warm & funny supporting turn by Siobhan Fallon Hogan (who channels the
local persona even better than Frances McDormand's Oscar-winning stint
in Fargo), as her local assistant, a tapioca pudding whiz who spends
equal time on scrapping (making scrapbooks) and religiosity, the very
cute cast of hayseeds play off hard-bitten Zellweger quite well in a
time-honored clash of city smarts vs. folksy wisdom. Sure it's very,
very corny, but fun all the same. Harry Connick Jr. plays the area
union chief who is always in view as Renee's romantic interest, and
there is also a dynamite turn by J.K. Simmons (fresh from his triumph
in Juno) as the plant foreman who runs afoul of Renee's plans. New in
Town is not in the league of the great old movies of Riskin and Capra,
but is genuinely amusing and a fine platform for Zellweger to display
both physical & romantic comedy skills. The spectre of layoffs and
disappearing companies we are currently living through was probably not
in mind when this light feature was scripted and shot, but it resonates
as a timely, escapist treatment of all-too-painful realities.
<|_=00=_|>
Although a personal Zellweger fan myself, I did not feel that this was
one of her shining moments.

The movie was predictable-one of many romantic comedy plots that have
graced the screens of theatres. The characters were rather stale and
unoriginal, and the jokes were old enough to have multiple colonies of
mould growing on them.

Haivng said that, there were some bright spots in the film (though
admittedly not enough to power a small light bulb), they did save the
film from making my "Worst Movies of 2009" list. The jokes and quips
were cute, and the exaggerations on small town life were amusing.

Both Harry Connick Jr. and Renee Zellweger were just about average in
this film; not bad enough to avoid like the plague for the rest of
their movie careers, yet not good enough to stand out from a crowd of
actors.

Special mention, however, must be given to Siobhan Fallen, who happened
to be one of the "bright spots". Her accent and mannerisms were
hilarious; one of the few things that saved this movie.

My suggestion? Don't waste your money watching it in theatres when you
can do so in the comfort of your own home.
<|_=00=_|>
The IMDb ratings were low (5.2) and I was expecting to regret my
decision to go to the movies. Renee Zellweger and Harry Connick, Jr.,
were certainly a draw but it was the low matinée price and the fact
that I had plenty of time and nothing better to do that got me in the
door. Sometimes preconceptions can spoil a good movie, but not in this
case. For me the movie greatly exceeded the rating.

I enjoyed the movie and while it was fairly predictive and was what
another commenter described as a sweet story, I don't think you will
find a better movie for this 2009 winter of dismal news. Predictive, in
these times, is a much desired thing and a little sweetness certainly
doesn't hurt. I was not disappointed by Zellweger or Connick; I enjoyed
their performances (but I always do). The supporting cast is strong.
The rural Minnesota accents may have been a little strong, but if so,
at least for me, the accent treatment added to the enjoyment of the
movie. Just so you know, I can be critical, but I don't look for things
to criticize. I really liked the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is about a business woman from a big city who got transferred
to a small town. She encounters much trouble adjusting to the small
town life.

"New In Town" is another romantic comedy with Renee Zellweger as a
person who achieves despite her mischievousness. She is already heavily
typecast, but then she really is adorable and likable so it is OK. The
plot is very predictable, but is enjoyable mainly due to the small town
warmth. Seeing acquaintances and colleagues help each other out, and
giving hand made gifts is refreshing. It enhances the positive spirit
of the film, and makes the characters more engaging.

"New In Town" is a heartwarming comedy, I enjoyed watching it.
<|_=00=_|>
I have no clue why some of these unfair and off balance reviews. I was
expecting this movie to be very simple and average, I was pleasantly
surprised and found it very funny and to have a great story line and
heart warming lesson or two. Perhaps some of the stereotyping offended
some? I thought it was dead on and rather funny. The campy, just rolled
outta bed, let's make some home made crafts and pudding Minnesota
characters were dead on accurate from my experiences visiting
Minnesota. Whoever did the research and background on Minnesota
obviously spent some time there and put it all together in a nutshell
just perfectly for what is a very funny and heart warming story. Where
is your sense of humor people? The story itself for that matter was one
of believing in the common good as we see the educated and professional
city girl played by Rene Z learn a few good lessons about more every
day people. She takes a bad situation and turns it into something very
good, great in fact. By the end if you follow the story you are left
with a tear in your eye. I loved her character, loved her, Harry
Connick was great too and so for Rene and the people who worked hard on
this movie, it was well worth the rental and I will watch it again
today before I return it in fact. Don't listen to these snooty know it
all critics here, especially if you are a Rene Z or Harry Connick Jr
fan, you will love this movie and story, I promise.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is hilarious! I usually go by IMDb's rating and so the 5.3
average got me entering the movie theater reluctantly. Boy, was I
surprised.

OK, I'm sure Minnesotans feel they're being made fun of. Even to my
Dutch ears the Minnesotan accent sounds more French than anything. But
movies never get a Dutch or German accent perfect either so I just
accept it and don't let it spoil the fun.

Sure, the story is predictable, but it is a comedy. It has been ages
since I laughed so hard in a movie theater (and I go almost weekly)
during the scene where Renee's character has to pee in the woods.

If you want to have a good laugh, go see this movie!
<|_=00=_|>
If Renee Zelweger were any cuter, I think world peace might be possible
after all. But it's her character in this romantic comedy that will
get you hooked. NEW IN TOWN is surprisingly funny story of adjusting
and falling in love with more than just a person. Anybody who's ever
lived in small towns would find it nostalgic and dead on.

I like the story. Granted it's not Oscar worthy material but be that as
it may, I didn't expect it to be so engaging and easy to relate to. It
doesn't have any of those cheesy over the top jokes that only the
filmmaker and the crew would enjoy but instead, it carries simple sense
of humor that will get you at least to chuckle, funny things at the
cost of the winter cold for example, or at the cost of getting lost in
the accent, or the huge difference in ways of thinking and doing things
between a city girl and a country girl.

Renee Zelweeger is radiant, full of energy, even when her character
seems to get beat down, she manages to capture our attention only
because she has the charm of a leading lady. She has excellent comedic
timing which is not anything new, keeping in mind that she's tackled
drama-comedy successfully in the past. Anytime that she tries to
attempt something out of her comfort zone, that's when you can expect
hilarity to show up. It's clear to see that everybody involved in this
project did not have the desire to try too hard to make this movie more
than what it is. The plot line tells Reneez's character dealing with
the new place within the one year that she was there and I appreciate
it's not done in a way that Sex and the City Movie had its one year
story which felt a bit slow. Actor J.K. Simmons is under-appreciated,
his performance as the wise-cracking Stu is proof that it's only a
matter of time before this man gets nominated in the near future. NEW
IN TOWN will arouse your curiosity to get out of your comfort zone and
try new places, setting, and habits.

--Rama's SCREEN--
<|_=00=_|>
Guess what is not new in town at your local movie theatre? Another
formulaic romantic comedy. This one is called "New in Town" but old in
design. Not new= a female protagonist trying to prove that she can
tackle any challenge. In this case, a once again mediocre Renee
Zellweger plays Lucy Hill; an executive living in sunny Miami who is
ordered to reside in cold Minnesota for a few months to play efficiency
expert at a company plant. Not new= independent girl bickers with
hometown boy and eventually fall in love. In this case, a once again
mediocre Harry Connick Jr. plays Ted Mitchell; a Minnesota labor union
rep who fights with Lucy and then  well, do I have to repeat myself?
Not new= Female protagonist is seen by small town residents as an
unruly big city tyrant and then eventually changes her ways because of
unforeseen circumstances. In this case, Lucy is seen as the "mad slicer
of jobs" by the plant workers until .. well, do I have to repeat
myself again? To say the least, Director Jonas Elmer fuddles and
struggles to provide creativity in "New in Town" and does not give
Minnesotans justice by copycatting the "Fargo" character playbook.
Jonas my brother, sorry to share! Screenwriters Ken Rance and C. Jay
Cox did not interject any verbose ingenuity in "New in Town"; in fact,
everything sounded kind of old. Now there is something that kind of
salvaged the film from the boring cold! That came in the form of
another spectacular (also not new, but we like this one) acting
performance by the underrated J.K. Simmons as a Plant Foreman. "New in
Town" should not be deported from your movie wish list, thanks to
Simmons, but then again it is far from being the best new movie in
town. *** Average
<|_=00=_|>
(Synopsis) Lucy Hill (Renee Zellweger) is a high achiever shooting to
become a Vice President. To show the President that she has the
ability, she takes an assignment to restructure one of their small
manufacturing plants in Minnesota. From the high life in Miami to the
bitter cold, snow, and icy roads, Lucy must endure these hardships to
succeed. Lucy is treated as an outsider when she arrives, and the
locals give her a week before she leaves. Lucy is a fighter and wants
to win. She meets Ted Mitchell (Harry Connick, Jr.) who is the union
representative. At first, she has some conflicts with the workers, but
soon they begin to accept her. The new product line is a bust, and she
is ordered to close the plant and fire everyone. However, she has a
better idea of making money for the company and saving everybody's job.

(My Comment) This is your typical chick flick, girl meets boy, she
thinks he is a loser, and he thinks she is too. After a few disaster
type dates which should have ended the whole thing, you guessed it,
they get involved. Along the way, they save the company, and both
become heroes. Renee Zellweger did a fine job of being the outsider in
the small Minnesota town and getting them to accept her. What do you
think, who wouldn't accept Renee Zellweger. I know the women will like
Harry's performance as well. Even though you know how the story will
end, you will still enjoy the movie. You will love listening to the
Minnesota accents that were used, and seeing some of their customs.
(Lionsgate, Run Time 1:36, Rated PG-13)(5/10)
