
I'm sorry, but I've to say that people's taste in movies is getting
worse by the year. They seem to give high ratings to mindless movies
and fail to appreciate the good ones.

The Big Year is a beautiful drama-comedy picture, starring 4 of my
favorite comedians - Steve Martin, Jack Black, Owen Wilson and Jim
Parsons. 

It is a touching and heart warming story, which has it's comic points
and showcases most valuable life lessons - family coming first, the
price people pay for being the greatest in any field, choosing between
priorities etc.

It's a wonderful effort and it deserves a watch, and the a minimum 8
star rating.
<|_=00=_|>
In the Big Year, bird-watching ("birding" for those serious about the
activity) takes a beautiful backdrop to the story of three men in
different stages of life that are all struggling with priorities and
what is important in life. Steve Martin, Jack Black, and Owen Wilson
all do a great job as lead actors and come across as real bird lovers.

The settings are incredible - taking viewers from Attu Island in the
Aleutians to Brownsville, Texas, and everywhere in between. The race to
find birds results in many humorous moments between the three
competitors as they scour North America in search of rare bird
sightings and compete to be the world's best birder.

Steve Martin does a wonderful job as a man on the verge of retirement,
who is struggling to let go of his career. His long-time dream to spend
a year birding helps him understand what is important in life. Steve's
character develops a father-like relationship with Jack Black's aimless
computer programmer whose passion is birds. Steve's character provides
fatherly guidance and support that helps Jack Black's character move
forward with his life and relationships.

Owen Wilson is great as the obsessed world's greatest birder, who does
everything that he can to stop his challengers - Steve Martin & Jack
Black. The obsession and drive of Owen's character draws anger,
jealousy, and respect from his competitors and other birders. Several
supporting actors providing some funny moments with their hatred of
Owen.

Overall, Big Year is a funny and heart-warming movie that will make you
think about your own priorities and dreams...and maybe grab some
binoculars and search out some birds.
<|_=00=_|>
I enjoyed this film. Jack Black can actually act. Who knew? And Steve
Martin hasn't done anything this appealing since "Shopgirl." It's got
some funny moments, and at least two laugh-out-loud moments, but mostly
it's a movie with heart. And Black's character will tug at yours a
little. Beautifully shot and sharply edited. Lovely scenery and
wonderful music. I hope this is still in theaters at Thanksgiving,
because it would be the perfect family outing (after devouring the
Butterball species). The audience in my theater enjoyed it and some
even applauded at the end. Eight is an honest vote, though I was
tempted to give it a nine.
<|_=00=_|>
Having read the book by Mark Obmascik and being a birder, I looked
forward to 20th Century Fox's film when it was announced over a year
ago. I began to get concerned when I saw the trailer which didn't look
like book, didn't feature birds and wasn't all that funny. Those
unfamiliar with the book or the movie's plot line, a "big year" refers
to an informal competition in which birders try to see the most bird
species they can within North America (North of Mexico) in one year.

My concerns were put to rest within the first 5 minutes. I found "The
Big Year" humorous and thoughtful. The writing avoided the caricatures
often associated with birding. I was in shock to see only one bird poop
reference and surprisingly no toilet humor (which I would have expected
based on the cast). Direction by David Frankel (Marley and Me, Devil
wears Prada) was well-paced. 

The story centers upon 3 men each going through their own version of a
mid-life crisis and hitting the road in search of finding themselves
and birds. Owen Wilson plays the record holder for the "Big Year" who
is in constant fear that someone is going to top his record. He must
decide between his obsession and his wife. Steve Martin plays a
successful but retiring businessman who decides to start doing all the
things he put on hold over the years. Jack Black, the poorest and
youngest of the three, sets out to make a mark and in turn, finds
himself. All three actors showed they do have considerable range beyond
their usual comedy shtick. 

While this story could have generically fit any obsession, the beauty,
magic and mystery of birds clearly rings through. Highly Recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
With the lead cast consisting of Owen Wilson, Steve Martin and Jack
Black, you would think The Big Year will be just another slapstick
comedy with little to no story and cheap laughs. You would be wrong.

The Big Year is beautiful. Three men of different ages cross paths in
their interest for birding; spotting as many birds as one can in one
year.

But the film isn't really about "birding", it shows us life through
three different views and the challenges life can bring and the choices
that everyone has to make.

The Big Year is not a movie you will sit through laughing out loud, but
you will be smiling for the better part of the 100 minutes.

One of the most underrated movies of 2011, The Big Year suffered from
lack of promotion and a misleading poster and trailer.

Do yourself a favor, and watch this, you will not regret it!
<|_=00=_|>
This i a highly underrated movie, about human interaction. I can't
believe that people don't get it. 

I've always admired people who where passionate about things in life.
Be it model trains, woodworking, stamps or traveling. This movie serves
as inspiration to get out and do something and is a celebration of the
people who do.

I've seen this movie 3 times, and each time it leaves me with a sense
of community with the characters, and i wan't to spend more time with
then.

Ignore the critics, and just enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>
The Big Year's low IMDb rating and box-office take had me worried that
this film would be a "lame-duck." Turns out, this movie is really good.

I am not a "birder" and know very little about birds other than what I
find on a typical restaurant menu. The beginning of The Big Year made
me think I would learn a little bit more about birds, but was
pleasantly surprised to learn that the film is not about birds at all;
it is about people, how we relate to one another, and the things that
drive us to do the things we do. 

The characters were more three-dimensional than those of any other
movie I have seen in a long time. I think a lot of people are thrown
off because we often don't know who to "root for" in this film. The
characters seem like real people, albeit participating in a sport most
of us do not understand and have never even thought about trying. I
hesitate to even call birding a sport because there are no spectators,
trophies or prizes involved.

Jack Black gives his finest performance ever imo, playing an average
working-class guy named Brad who has a crazy obsession with birds. His
dream of spending an entire "Big Year" spotting and photographing as
many birds as possible seems odd to us (and Brad's family), but we soon
learn that he is not alone with this obsession. All throughout the
film, Brad offers glimpses of how birds and humans are more alike than
different. Jack Black nails the dialog which manages to be insightful
while avoiding any semblance of pretentiousness. 

Owen Wilson plays a married contractor named Kenny who takes more pride
in his world record "Big Year" than anything else in the world
including his trying-to-conceive wife. He gives a believable, nuanced
performance as someone who will go to any length to protect his record,
yet he is far from an average scumbag villain. He reminds me more of a
prescription drug addict that I might feel sorry for. Kenny is so
blinded by his addiction to "birding" that he cannot see the proverbial
forest for the trees.

Steve Martin gives a beautifully balanced performance as an aging
business owner who has always dreamed of trying for the Big Year
birding record. Martin is known mostly as an on screen "wild and crazy
guy" but in The Big Year, he remains subdued as he has in previous
films such as Grand Canyon and Parenthood. If you liked him in those
movies, you will like him in The Big Year as well.

The Big Year was not meant to be a gut-busting comedy, but there are
several humorous moments. This movie also manages to be quite touching,
thought-provoking, sometimes uplifting, occasionally heart-rending, and
beautiful throughout. A lot like life except with better direction,
better actors, great dialog, and fantastic cinematography.
<|_=00=_|>
I confess that I cannot represent the following as an entirely
objective, nor representative assessment of the quality of "The Big
Year". How often does one of the early scenes in a film almost
identically replicate an incident in the viewer's life? My introduction
to the peculiar world of birding was in the late 1990s at Patagonia
State Park in Southern Arizona. We had unsuspectingly selected a
camping location that was noted for hosting an enormous variety of
birds, and were awakened one morning by a small army of odd looking
characters hell-bent on confirming the first reported sighting of the
Nutting flycatcher in the United States in several decades. Out of
curiosity we joined the chase, and the rest is family history, eerily
duplicated by the makers of this film. What followed were many years of
exercise, pleasure and reward for one of life's most interesting
avocations.

So... how could I not enjoy this fine effort at mixing the allure of
this strange "sport" with a thoughtful exploration of human motivation
and conflicted choices. I can understand why the faithful fans of
Black, Martin and Wilson might be disappointed with this production.
But I, for one, have grown infinitely weary of too many superficial,
sophomoric attempts at humor through these three capable actors. I was
encouraged to see the restraint and depth that they could bring to
these characters which provided the necessary credibility for this
otherwise improbable tale. The film maintains a near perfect balance of
humor, drama, and suspense in a well paced, engaging and uplifting
plot. The spectacular photography of an abundance of aesthetically
appealing locations is an added bonus.

I count it a big plus when I can walk out of the movie with that "feel
good" elation that comes from a pleasant and interesting evening's
entertainment. My heart said give it an eight or nine, but my
never-ending quest for realistic objectivity resulted in the
understated seven. Unless you are of the set that requires demolition
derbies and frat humor for your entertainment, go see it. You'll have a
good time.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a much better movie than many reviews and the rating here would
suggest. I believe the main reason for the low average score is that
some people expected a typical Jack Black and/or Steve Martin comedy.
In fact, I'd go so far as to say the movie is in the wrong category
here on IMDb, it should be classified as Drama. So it's not the silly
laugh-fest you might be expecting.

What this is, however, is a quiet but very atmospheric movie about
friendship, life and priorities. Without getting too deep it asks
questions about what's important and what isn't, about where to draw
the line between love and obsession, and about choosing a life that
makes you happy over one that is expected of you. It's a feel-good
movie with some funny moments and a lot of warm-hearted ones.

If you are looking for yet another brain-dead Hollywood slapstick
comedy then this isn't it, but it is an excellent movie about three
people who share a common interest but little else. It will leave you
with a warm fuzzy feeling in your heart.
<|_=00=_|>
What's that expression? ... "All that's necessary for evil to prevail,
is for good men to do nothing"... or something like that.

Well I agree with prashanta_guha: "people's taste in movies is getting
worse by the year. They seem to give high ratings to mindless movies
and fail to appreciate the good ones."

But maybe it's just that it's mainly idiots writing these reviews, and
not enough good men? So this film made me sign up and write; this is my
first review.

I absolutely loved this film. It's charming, warm and funny.

There are reviews on here about it not being funny enough or no real
love story etc, but therein lies its beauty.

There's no over-the-top Hollywood slapstick comedy, no over-the-top
romantic storyline, it's a little birdie but not too birdie. And so
you're left with a subtle, very real, quality film.

I would say that whoever made the trailer should be fired as it has no
reflection on the film, creates no desire to see the film and no doubt
was the cause of the complete flop in theatre ticket sales. The film is
not about mid-life crises. It's a simple film about hobbies and how
they can affect your life, as well as being what all films essentially
are; a story to entertain you for an hour and a half.

On top of that, I was delighted and amused to learn that this film is
not too far off a true story. Take a look on Wikipedia, a big year is
real thing in the ornithology world, and there is a world record holder
with 745!

So if you like this film, write a review and let's get the rating up
closer to what it truly deserves.
