
Honestly, I can't help but notice all the people who once again are
rating this movie without seeing it and just because they suspect the
movie is going to be bad, they rate it anyways as a one. Well, I'm
going to once again give you an honest review, I saw this movie last
Saturday and honestly enjoyed it. I know I'm going to receive a lot of
bashing, but I always look at movies as what they are supposed to be,
this was meant to be a children's movie, it's meant for fun. Remember
how we all had those cheesy animal movies when we were kids as well?
Well Beverly Hills Chihuahua is no different, it's just updated with
today's world. I thought it was a good idea, we see all these rich
people now-a-days with the way they just lavish their dogs with jewels
that cost more than people's houses, it takes a little joke at it. The
story is recycled, but it's still a lot fun to watch and has some
really fun scenes.

Chloe is a Beverly Hills Chihuahua who is just so pampered, with
clothes, jewelery, and a life style anyone would die to have. Her
owner, Vivian, has to go away on a business trip and leaves her party
girl niece, Rachel, to watch Chloe. When they go to Mexico, Chloe is
kidnapped and put into a dog fight... she is then saved by another dog,
Delgado, who is going to help her get back to Beverly Hills. But when
the man who runs the dog fights finds out that Chloe is worth
something, he sends his Doberman dog, Diablo, after her. Rachel, the
land scaper, Sam, and his dog, Pepi who is also in love with Chloe, are
on the hunt to find her and get her home safe and sound.

Beverly Hills Chihuahua is a fun movie if you give it a decent chance,
I thought it was a nice chance from the constant CGI we always have
with these animal stories. I was also impressed that the talking didn't
look so fake with the dogs. I tell you though I'm convinced that the
dog that played Delgado is the same dog from I Am Legend, that dog just
deserves an Oscar, lol, come on, you gotta agree. Well, Beverly Hills
Chihuahua is a great family film, as for seeing it on your own or with
a friend, I would say that it's worth the rental more so. It's a silly
movie I admit, but I had a fun time watching it and I wish IMDb users
would give this movie the fair chance it deserves.

6/10
<|_=00=_|>
I agree with some of the previous reviewers - how can you rate a movie
without even seeing it?!? Well, guess that gives us the right to rate
THEM without even knowing them! I give those people a 1.5.

This is a KID'S movie and to rate it a 2 is ridiculous. It's not the
best movie but it sure is much better than A LOT of recent
kid's/animated films. My kids, 4 & 5, loved this movie and that's
really my biggest requirement. There are many others where they were
bored and wanted to leave in less than 30 minutes.

To the people voting it so low (especially ones who vote without
viewing) - GET A LIFE!
<|_=00=_|>
Homeward Bound: The Incredible Journey was probably one of the best
animal movie around, and everything that that movie was, this movie
isn't. It isn't spectacular, it isn't breathtaking, it isn't
adventurous, it isn't funny, it just goes to show how low Disney will
sink to earn money from your children. Take it from me, I'm only 15
years old, and even I was holding my forehead with my hand and shaking
my head, wondering: "Why??... WHY?!" It might be good for preschoolers
who laugh at stupid jokes, but my goodness, I'd be surprised if this
even makes 2 stars on the official ratings list. To put it all
together, I not only want my money back, but I am going to torch this
ticket in my fireplace tonight and forget all about it. @_@
<|_=00=_|>
I have been using IMDb to obtain feedback on movies for several years
now, and what I find is that people here tend to be a little too bias
toward A-list, blockbuster movies. Chihuahua does not fall into that
category by any means, but that does not warrant dismissing it
outright. It is true that the film's cast could have been put to better
use, but given the parameters set by the Disney-style writing, they did
what they could and it was enough to let me enjoy their performances. I
read a review on here that commented on the inaccuracy of geographical
information. I agree that if Disney is going to make a film like this,
it is unfortunate that they do not take the time to educate their young
audiences a little. We wouldn't be talking doctorate level research
here, just basic fact-checking.

The plot of this movie was not deep, but not many Disney movies NEED to
be in order to cater to their young audience and family demographic. I
am a twenty-something and I am able to tolerate Disney's material,
because I accept it for what it is: shallow, vapid entertainment
designed to convey squeaky-clean ideals to impressionable youth.
Sometimes, they take that squeaky-cleanliness too far, like making
light of the dog fights, but overall, it is all rooted in the same
objective: to maintain their target demographic and intake revenue.

To the people who reference the different caliber of Disney's
entertainment ten or more years ago, I concur with you. It would be
good for Disney to trace its roots a bit and return to basics, but it
would take a lot of cutting through green to accomplish that.

I enjoyed this movie. There was a comment on the discussion board
mentioning that the trailer distorted people's initial impression. I am
one of those people. Once I got into the movie though, I applied my
usual preconditions for judging Disney films and had a good time. It
was cute and in Disney's typical fashion, it contained half-baked
attempts to teach the kids a thing or two (inaccurate or vague as they
were).

Go into it knowing it's Disney and will thus inherit the
characteristics of all their work, and you'll be fine.
<|_=00=_|>
My wife is a dog-lover (I am not). We raised pugs for many years and
they are all gone to doggy heaven now. When I saw a film preview that
included a pug, I just had to get my wife to this movie. (She will
rarely go to a movie - many are just plain bad). We had a GREAT time.
It is a comedy, so let's not worry about the misplaced geography which
I did not notice until reading some of the negative views here. I am a
great admirer of the film-making art. The freight train episode is an
amazing piece of film work. The attack of the mountain lions is quite
convincing. Both of the latter we found quite convincing. Every pooch
in this film deserves an Oscar as do the humans and the writers. This
is a fine family movie, for both children and adults. Don't take it
seriously. It is a comedy. It is an entertainment, and we just felt we
needed something like this to get away from the depressing news -
economic disaster in America, fires in California to the North and
South of us. This film is just what the doctor ordered for an evening.
<|_=00=_|>
Alright, so tons of people are bashing this movie even though they
didn't see it. I thought it would be dumb too... until my friend
practically dragged me to see it with her. It sounds like this movie
would be about chihuahuas in Beverly Hills and their luxurious lives
and basically a 'Clueless' with doggies instead. And it is, for the
first 10 minutes or so.

But then, it transitions into something completely different than where
I thought it was going. I liked how it eventually talked about cultural
identity and not forgetting where you're from, which was a good
direction for the movie. With that, it was good how the human girl and
the girl chihuahua both become less ignorant as the film progresses.
And, come on, it was adorable how this was basically a chick flick with
little doggies instead! It was pretty hilarious in some parts (George
Lopez as Papi!) especially with some interesting song choices, lol. My
only quibbles were the slight sappiness with the whole Disney
has-to-have-a-moral dialogue and that Drew Barrymore's voice was
annoying after a while as the lead chihuahua with her whining... Still,
it was pretty great and it got the whole theater laughing at several
points.

It's nice to have a movie that doesn't take itself that seriously once
in a while :] So basically, go see this before you condemn it to a
rating worse than "Gigli"'s!
<|_=00=_|>
Me, my husband and our two children ages 4 and 7 went to see this movie
and we all had a great time! It kept everyone's attention for the
entire length of the movie. It was hilarious, fast paced and
heartwarming. I'm not sure why the movie got such bad ratings on here.
I think people are being way too critical. The theater was full of
couples without children, which was surprising to me, but it seemed
like everyone enjoyed the movie and no one walked out!!! Before seeing
the movie, I read the comments here and went into it with little
expectations. I was happily surprised, enough so to take the time to
register here at IMDb and state my opinion. 'Nough said!!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie has a lower rating than "Superhero movie". And that was
absolutely crap. I am not a child and not a dog lover. Still i found
myself liking this movie.And no I am not suffering from any mental
illness or something like that. Honestly the nerve of people to say
something like that. I wonder if most of the reviewers actually have
seen the movie. If so what did these people expect from a movie like
this. A talking Chihuahua reciting a poem from Shakespeare or just a
cute dog mixed up in some little adventure. Compared to previous Disney
movies about animals it is on the same level. So what if it isn't
original. What movie is these days. This movie hasn't got one dull
moment. I sat through the movie without ever looking at the clock. And
I can tell you that a lot of the big titles that came out this year
wished they had the same effect on me.Most of the box office titles
made this year have disappointed me much more because I had high
expectations. For "Beverly Hills Chihuahua" i had no expectations
whatsoever and got rewarded with fun.
<|_=00=_|>
I took my toddler to see this because he loves dogs, and I thought it
would be a great chance or him to see his first film. I was not
expecting to enjoy the film, but was truly amazed by how well done it
was. Sure the dogs were cute & it definitely has appeal to children.
But I found the messages (about finding your inner strength, being a
good friend, not being stuck up, and about the importance of adopting
stray animals & caring for those that are lost or abandoned) very
well-executed, they were clear without bludgeoning the viewer on the
head repeatedly as so many children's films do.

I have to say the fact that the "coyote" who was meant to smuggle Chloe
across the border was actually a Coyote, and the line about "say hello
to my little friends" made me laugh long after I had left the theater.

I plan to buy this film on DVD when it comes out & enjoy it with my
family for years to come.
<|_=00=_|>
Upon seeing the rating on IMDb, I went into this movie thinking it was
going to be terrible. However, it is a very entertaining film from
start to finish...similar to the Benji movies from the 70s for those
old enough to remember. Chloe, the main character, is a spoiled little
chihuahua from Beverly Hills who ends up lost in Mexico and enlists the
help of some canine friends in an effort to find her way home. She
learns some good life lessons along the way. My kids and I were glued
to the screen. Plenty of action, laughs, and occasional tears. Every
child leaving the theater with us was singing the "Chihuahua" theme
song and seemed to have loved it. I don't know what those who gave this
a bad rating were expecting, but I give it a wholehearted thumbs up.
8/10
