
I was excited when I first saw the previews of this movie. I am a HUGE
Gerard Butler fan and I don't believe he's ever done a movie with Ms
Anniston. The concept was fair enough...a romantic comedy with a little
suspense thrown in. I left the theater feeling..."that's it?" Sure
there were a couple cute things here and there, maybe a little
suspense, but definitely not enough to carry a movie! The pace was much
too slow for me, although I'm sure the actors did what they could with
the script they were given. I loved seeing Gerard in Law Abiding
Citizen, but this was truly disappointing! I am a big movie fan, but I
wouldn't recommend seeing this to any of my friends :(
<|_=00=_|>
Just got back from the theater--walked in the door and turned on the
computer--and am in agony! I was really excited about this movie and
looking forward to seeing it ever since the previews came out. But,
boy!, was I disappointed. All of the cute stuff (and pretty much the
only cute stuff) was contained in those previews.

There is nothing original, and nothing funny enough or well-acted
enough to make its unoriginality interesting. Jennifer Aniston did a
decent job, given what she had to work with (though she does act like
she does in most of her other movies). But the writing wasn't good, and
the plot was weak and all over the place. Most everything you see,
you've seen before--just done better somewhere else--and all of it
combined into something very hodgepodge. It's like the storywriters
just took a "pinch of this" and a "dash of that" from various comedies,
romances, and action adventures, and tried to make a soup out of them.

The music was so bad I'm even giving it its own paragraph. I had no
idea the music would make such a difference, normally I don't notice
it's even there. Not so on this one! It was often agonizingly out of
place, where you had to wonder what the score writers were thinking, or
why they picked the song they did.

I left twice for the concession stand, and didn't even care to ask what
had happened while I was gone. There were times I found that I was even
having to remind myself to pay attention to the dialogue. As I don't go
to the theater often, it's usually a treat to me, and most of the time
I enjoy whatever I'm watching simply because it's relaxing and a chance
to be out. But for once I was actually bored. It was about the quality
of a TV show, but unfortunately lasted the length of a full movie.

The romantic/action with husband and wife
fighting-yet-finding-they-might-still-love-each-other plot has been
done before much better. "Mr and Mrs Smith" was GOOD. "Fool's Gold" was
decent. "Bounty Hunter" was just downright poor. So disappointing!
<|_=00=_|>
Comedies are one of the luckiest genres in cinema. They can be wacky,
ridiculous, absurd and totally unbelievable, and it won't matter as
long as they make you laugh. Because of this loophole, comedies get
away with almost anything as long as they keep the audience stocked up
with belly laughs. 

'The Bounty Hunter' commits the cardinal sin of comedies - it's
completely ridiculous, at the same time as just not being funny. It's
certainly ambitious; it weaves the story of Aniston & Butler together
with a murder conspiracy, and a pretty big gambling debt collection.
But ultimately I felt that it was trying desperately to keep you
distracted from the fact that you're not laughing. 

So, this comedy doesn't find the fabled comedy loophole - it's too
absurd to take seriously, and not funny enough to get a free ride.
<|_=00=_|>
Andy Tennant's movies have been hit and miss. He directed Anna and the
King and Hitch, but also Fool's Gold and this. He should have a better
hand at choosing his scripts by now cause this one is a mess.

It's a hybrid of romantic comedy and action movie. It fails in both
categories. The characters are one dimensional and under developed. If
it weren't for Butler's natural charm I would've ended up hating his
character, a drunken gambler who got thrown out of the police force.
The action is cliché for the small amount of time it graces us with its
presence, and most of the humor falls flat, maybe because you've
already seen/heard the jokes before, from other, better movies.

For all their likability, both Gerard Butler and Jennifer Aniston seem
to be on auto pilot. Gerard is his own charming persona and Aniston is,
well, Rachel from Friends, though they exhibit some chemistry. Neither
will benefit from starring in this movie. Side note: Christine Baranski
is wasted in a role far beneath her talent.

That's not to say this is a bad movie. It has some fun moments, though
familiar, and it will not seem a total waste of time. On the other hand
it isn't a particularly good movie and you will forget about it as soon
as it is over.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is a romantic comedy - this is very clear from the poster
and trailer - and a thriller. Except it's not very funny, not that
romantic, and not very thrilling.

For all that, there's something likable about it, and that's probably
Jennifer Aniston, even if she's delivering the same thing she's
delivered in every other film she's ever been in. Gerard Butler's
character is crass, has been thrown off the police force, has a severe
gambling problem, is a smug git, and a bit of a bully. It's no surprise
why the marriage between these two broke down, and it's a real surprise
why she would ever consider getting back together with him.

There's a bit of excitement here and there, and the occasional sense of
jeopardy. A reasonable quantity of story runs through it, but it isn't
very believable.

On consideration, I'm surprised I enjoyed it as much as I did.
<|_=00=_|>
I really don't understand the harsh reviews here. Many are just not
credible when they're overstating their dislike of the movie. What did
they want? nudity, swearing, bathroom jokes? Jeez, not enough of that
in Hollywood! This movie was exactly what I was expecting, so I liked
it. This is not a Jim Carey movie so don't expect a silly, slapstick
film. The script here is better than many movies I've seen lately that
did better at the box office, so the only thing I can assume is that
people went in with an expectation of a different type of film. If you
don't go in with expectations of big laughs, but rather a nice movie
about an ex in trouble and her slightly vindictive ex-husband taking
pleasure in hauling her back for cash, you'll like this movie. That is,
unless your more into just thinking what critics tell you to think. I'd
like to see Butler do more of these movies.
<|_=00=_|>
If there's a bounty hunter to haul in "criminal" comedies, then The
Bounty Hunter" should receive capital punishment for murdering the
romantic comedy genre. So far this year When in Rome looks even better
now by contrast, and, well, She's Out of My League looks even cute.

But this one is a killer. Milo Boyd (Gerard Butler) is the titular cop
who tries to take his ex-wife Nicole Hurley (Jenifer Aniston) to jail
because she's jumped bail. Everyone associated with this film except
the talented Christine Baranski as Nicole's cabaret-singing, swinging
mother should be locked up. I laughed not even once given that the film
is paint by numbers plot about exes who still love each other and fight
almost to the end to disprove that situation.

Aniston's only observable talent here is to display a well-tended body
in tight short skirt (even though she plays a reporter, most of whom
could not go the News Awards looking half as good), and Butler shows he
still has his 300 abs, muscular arms, and seductive lisp. After those
attributes, the stars are on their own with lines to blush over and set
ups trite as could ever be conjured.

A bounty hunter is not a real cop, and The Bounty Hunter is not a real
comedy. Both want to be much more than they are but will never be.
"Book 'em, Danno!"
<|_=00=_|>
It is a well known fact that American comedies generally suffer from
lackluster scripts, usually employed as vehicles for rising or
established stars. The Bounty Hunter is no exception, as its charm lies
solely in the joint presence of Gerard Butler and Jennifer Aniston,
rather than in the fact that Andy Tennant (Hitch) is directing. Of
course, even two fine actors such as those in this film are no good if
the material is beneath their talent.

The story goes like this: Butler is an ex-cop who currently works as a
bounty hunter. One day, he is given the opportunity to bring in his
ex-wife (Aniston), who is wanted by the police after jumping bail. As
he tracks her down and embarks on a hellish journey to take her back
home, the two find themselves in the middle of a murky murder case, not
to mention a series of situations that put their hatred for each other
to the test.

On paper, there's plenty of potential for a moderately entertaining
action comedy: think Midnight Run with a rom-com twist. Unfortunately,
the film is an uneven mess, jumping from cringe-worthy "romantic"
moments to OTT action scenes, complete with clichéd hotel room/strip
club bits that have been out of fashion for quite some time. The tonal
inconsistencies are reflected in the acting, as well: supporting
performances range from passably straight (Jeff Garlin) to borderline
ridiculous (Christine Baranski), whereas the leading duo does generally
fine when they're together, less so separately, with Aniston being
clearly more at ease with the less physically demanding stuff, while
the opposite is true for Butler.

In short, The Bounty Hunter is an inconsistent picture that doesn't
have enough laughs for a comedy, nor the appropriate direction for an
action flick. The best option would be to ignore it altogether.
<|_=00=_|>
Normally I enjoy Aniston in romantic comedies, but this is highly
disappointing. The dialogue and the storyline read like something from
a children's cartoon. It's far too elementary and simple-minded to be
taken seriously, even on an un-serious comedy level.

Jennifer Aniston plays an investigative reporter who has skipped her
court date one too many times and finally gets a bench warrant under
her name for failing to appear before the judge. Conveniently her
estranged husband (Gerard Butler), is a bounty hunter who somehow finds
out that she's skipped bail so naturally he will be the one to retrieve
her. If you think you know where this story is going to go, you're
absolutely right. Nothing in the film comes as a surprise. In fact, I
kept thinking it couldn't get anymore predictable or cliché'd but it
did to no avail.

Did either of these two actually read the script? I'm not exaggerating
when I say I could write a better story right this minute with
absolutely no cred to my name as a screenwriter. For two such likable
actors, this film is hard to swallow. Total lack of creativity, shallow
characters, and the unforgivable faux pas of giving a measly reporter a
New York apartment that looks like it jumped straight from the pages of
Good Housekeeping. No way she could ever afford that on her salary. And
this is just one of many, many missteps in this film to make it nearly
two-hours of unbelievable, cheesy fluff.

Do yourself a favor and skip it. You can thank me later.
<|_=00=_|>
Remember when Hollywood couples who were actually together in real life
made decent films (i.e. Spencer Tracy and Katherine Hepburn, Laurence
Olivier and Vivian Leigh, Humphrey Bogart and Lauren Bacall, Ronald
Reagan and Nancy Davis - whoops, omit that last one)? 

Now we get couples who are together for a few months but manage to get
a movie in, most of which last longer than the relationship (i.e. Ben
Affleck and Jennifer Lopez, Ben Affleck and Gwyneth Paltrow, Ben
Affleck and Jennifer Gardner, Jennifer Aniston and Vince Vaughn, etc.,
etc., etc.). 

And currently, we get Jennifer Aniston with her latest, Gerard Butler
("Phantom of the Opera," "Nim's Island," "300"), in what is basically
nothing more than a remake of a bad episode (okay, EVERY episode) of
"Dog, The Bounty Hunter" mixed with "Mr. and Mrs. Smith (starring
another real-life couple) and "Midnight Run," the classic comedy from
1988 with Charles Grodin and Robert DeNiro.

If this film were a) slightly interesting, b) somewhat novel and/or c)
remotely funny, then I might have enjoyed it - a tad. Since it did not
fulfill even one of the above specifications, however, I have to trudge
into my office and write yet another negative review for a Jennifer
Aniston picture - it isn't something I necessarily enjoy, either.

And, if these two are really romantically linked, then judging by their
chemistry on screen, I'd get into counseling posthaste.

Here, Aniston plays reporter Nicole Hurley (not for one second did I
believe she came anywhere NEAR that profession, by the way), who is
working a story about murder, crooked cops and stolen drugs. She fails
to appear in court as ordered. She's arrested for assault on a New York
City police officer, but skips bail, causing a plot convenience device
the size of the planet Pluto to be put into action.

That device is having her down-on-his-luck ex husband (a former cop,
now a bounty hunter, hence the title), Milo Boyd (Butler), go after
her. He tracks her down and while on his way to deliver her (he's a
gambler, so he takes the scenic route back to NYC, through Atlantic
City), goons try to kill both of them. 

Now on the lam, the couple bickers, fights, argues and comes as close
to sexual tension as Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt might have at one
time in history.

They escape, but both are marked by various hoods for death. This
frightful prospect does not keep the two from engaging in silly sexual
high-jinx and stilted wordplay that would embarrass a 14-year-old on
his first date. Every situation in this movie has been tried (and
usually fallen flat) dozens of times.

I always try to find a few good things to say about any production
(only because I know a little bit about the blood, sweat and tears it
takes to bring something - ANYTHING - to the screen) and, except for a
few minor characters who appear and then quickly exit, there is
absolutely nothing noteworthy about "The Bounty Hunter." 

I even tried to give some kudos to director Andy Tennant, who was
responsible for the quirky "Ever After" and the semi-sweet "Hitch."
But, then again, I realized he also directed "Sweet Home Alabama,"
"Fool's Gold" and now this. I therefore can no longer come up with
anything positive to write about Mr. Tennant.

Plus, if 2009 set the lofty standard as the single worst year for
comedies in motion picture history, then 2010, already featuring "Our
Family Wedding," "Cop Out" and this bowl of slop, may just - as
unbelievable as it may seem - lower that bar even further. This wasn't
a movie where the trailer exhibited ALL of the good lines, this was a
film where the trailer itself exhibited NO good lines.

The only reason I even saw this turkey was because I HAD to. Those
readers who have NO such obligation, please - for the love of all that
is holy - avoid this like the plague, or at least like "Love Happens."
