
I had high hopes for this film ever since I saw the teaser trailer of
Gekko getting released from prison. It has everything you need for
success. Iconic characters, interesting subject, good acting and great
cinematography. Unfortunately I was greatly disappointed by snooze fest
with a meandering story with no focus and some strange "green" message.

The movie starts off trying to set up LeBeouf's characters motivation.
But even that is never clear. Is he financially or morally invested in
some fusion project or both? Does he want to get his girlfriend and her
father back together for her or because he wants a new mentor? Is he a
greedy Wall Street guy with great ideas or is he some Eco-warrior
trying to change the world? And then there's some half assed revenge
plot against some financial tycoon who ends up embodying the entire
financial meltdown.

Through out the film the audience is drug along as these plots come and
go. At one point the most important thing to the main character is
getting revenge against Brolin's character and ends up working for him.
But instead of getting revenge, he try's to get an investor in green
technology. When his boss, who's he trying to take down, doesn't invest
in the green technology LeBeouf's character breaks down and quits. So
he forgets revenge and returns to getting his girlfriend back together
with her father Gordon Gekko. At some point Gekko mentions he left his
daughter $100 million which, strangely enough, is the exact amount that
he wanted his last boss to invest in the green company. So he starts
tricking his girlfriend into signing all the money over to her father
who has promised to give it to the green company. LeBeouf's character
is the only person on Earth who doesn't know that a guy who went to
prison for insider trading might not be trust worthy. So surprise,
surprise Gekko runs off with the money and we are treated to a ripoff
of The Usual Suspects as LeBeouf thinks back to all the situations that
showed Gekko is lying. So he goes back to revenge.

So all of that along with more uncomfortable close ups of a girl crying
then I can count, a number of strange transitions and the worst cameo
I've ever seen with Charlie Sheen showing up as Bud Fox. He appears out
of nowhere for no reason with two girls on his arm acting more like
Charlie from Two and a Half Men than Bud Fox.

All of this happens at a snails pace and makes you wonder if Stone has
seen the first film in 20 years. I'm waiting for the sequel to Platoon
where we skip the battle scenes and focus on a girl crying and some
general who makes weird bird noises after every line.
<|_=00=_|>
Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps isn't the sharp, critical film that its
makers want you to think of it as. The sequel to the supremely
influential, endlessly quotable original from the 80's is a dull
whimper about what triggered the present financial meltdown and though
it's cut from the same cloth as the original, it possess all of the
bark yet, sadly, none of the bite.

Gordon Gekko is a name that defined an era. Played by Michael Douglas
twenty three years ago, he reverberated in the minds of viewers as a
ruthless, amoral investor without a soul. Years later, the sequel finds
him released after serving his prison sentence. Cut to seven years
after his release, and its 2008, the dawn of the financial crisis.
Gekko is now known as a speaker publicly vilifying the notion of greed
in corporate America while simultaneously, and some would reckon quite
ironically, publicizing his book inspiringly titled "Is Greed Good". A
loner who travels in subways, he is estranged from his daughter Winnie
(Carey Mulligan, androgynously unglamorous) who is engaged to a young
trader named Jake Moore (Shia LaBeouf). Jake bumps into Gekko at one of
his speeches (the films finest scene) and the two form a mentor-protégé
relationship that irks Winnie but allows Jake to benefit by plotting
revenge from Bretton James (Josh Brolin, the films principle villain),
suspected of being responsible for the suicide of Louis Zabel, a close
friend and confidant of Jake.

If the film sounds like a mess of relationships, then it is. As muddled
as Stone's own political activism it has no clarity on what its trying
to say. From trying to rationalize the reasons behind the market crash
to the impulsive nature of human behaviour, it doesn't get either
right. Not helping are the actors that Stone assembles. It's a mystery
to me why Shia LaBeouf is constantly being thrust down viewer throats
in film after film by studios convinced he is the next best thing. He
is not, and despite being dressed up in expensive designer garb, cannot
pass off as being anything more convincing than a working intern. His
relationship with Gekko has none of the enticing quality that Charlie
Sheen's Bud Fox did and a cameo appearance by Sheen only underscores
this disparity. Douglas himself has none of the limelight. He has some
powerful lines, but feels largely sidelined by the
revenge/relationship/murder subplots and behaves uncharacteristically,
especially in the very last scene (these were probably added as an
afterthought). After showing some promise of returning to his
incendiary, often infuriating filmmaking style and point of view with
his previous film W, director Stone seems to have gone back to being
comfortable working with drab studio approved material.

Not only was the original Wall Street a tremendously entertaining film,
but one that was blessed with the critical foresight of its maker. The
sequel partially entertains but does not have a new perspective. It is
neither critical nor insightful and could have, with the same script
and actors, been the work of a lesser director than Stone. The films
themes are also impersonal - none of the characters suffer directly
from the financial crisis the way they did in the original, they suffer
from their own incompetent decision making, a sharp departure from how
the original handled and fused stock trading with personal loss and
gain.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved this movie until its final thirty minutes or so. During those
thirty minutes you realize that Stone and his team of writers were
searching desperately for a way to end the movie on a positive, hopeful
note. We are left to plod along with them on this implausible track.
Also, during the ending Gekko's daughter's character consistency is
shot to hell and she appears as venal as the characters against whom
she rails.

Those moments are especially disappointing because I believed that this
movie had the potential to be Stone's best film ever. Carey Mulligan
and Michael Douglas in particular delivered great performances. Shia
Lebeouf is "good enough." The writing is fairly unpredictable then
everything seems to be tied into a nice bundle near the end. The
problem was that Stone couldn't quite bring himself to put the bow on
that bundle. He wanted to add a bit of glitter to it, which seemed
gaudy and completely out of place.

Bottom line: if this movie had ended on a somewhat dark note it would
have reflected the reality of modern day Wall Street, and it would have
made for a tighter, better movie.

It's worth watching, and if you liked the first Wall Street it probably
won't disappoint you. You might want to leave during its third act,
though :)
<|_=00=_|>
The first twenty minutes were very promising. Then it got boring.
Extremely boring. There just isn't any plot. Gekko (Michael Douglas)
getting together with his daughter maybe was touching for a moment. But
the girl crying all the time got on my nerves. She is supposed to be an
adult. In stead she is acting like a little child. I like Shia, but
what on earth was he representing. At least Charlie Sheen as Bud Fox
had a clear objective. (Speaking of which, his cameo as the guy we know
from Two and a half men is so in contrast of the character Bud Fox that
completely diminishes the first movie. I could not believe that they
would make a parody of his role). Shia's character was a guy who was
ambitious but stuck with his green energy project. While any men or
woman with common sense would bail on it. No, it is the right thing do.
Oh, please. Now, this isn't Shia's fault. But I blame Oliver Stone for
this, what happened to you. He used to be brilliant. This movie is not
even a good depiction of the economic crisis the world is in right now,
so it is not even enlightening. If there was one thing you could count
on it was how meticulous Oliver Stone was when it comes to history and
actual topics. In this film that is completely absent.

I can't recommend this at all. In the first place there should have
never been a sequel to Wall Street. That tale was ended. Secondly how
is it possible that a sequel directed by Oliver Stone ruins the the
spirit of the original one in every way it can. This is an incredible
waste of time and celluloid. Don't bother.
<|_=00=_|>
The Wall Street Money Never Sleep had a great premise at the beginning
- return of great characters from the original and very interesting
subject matter (worst financial and economical crisis since the World
War II). While the movie succeeds in taking us through the financial
crisis as it gradually unfolded, it is constantly dragged down by way
too many plot points, but mainly the hardly believable revenge and very
slow paced love story subplots.

Let's get one thing clear at the beginning first. It is an immensely
difficult task for the writers to portray the financial crisis into a
movie for general masses, while explaining the workings of the crisis,
not bogging down the viewers with too much financial jargon and at the
same time keep the movie entertaining. This is the part that you can
see the makers have made their homework and is something to be
appreciated about the movie, such as the Bear Sterns inspired collapse
of Keller Zabel.

My biggest problem with the movie is that the character with the most
screen time, Jacob Moore, is not a believable character. It might be
due to casting Shia LeBouf, who for one looks too young and too soft to
be earning $1.5m bonuses and living in a $6m apartment. Second, he is a
"prop trader," which means that his job is to constantly trade stocks
on his company's account. Yet, we see him trying to raise $100m for a
renewable energy source, which isn't the job of prop traders. Even he
is pitching the idea to Chinese investors, which is nonsense, since he
would have had nothing to say about the company unless he was an equity
analyst responsible for the energy sector. This brings the obvious
question, why was he so interested in the little fusion plant project?
His job is to make money not save the world.

And than there are the inconsistencies and plot holes: At the beginning
of the movie Jacob invests $1m from his bonus on 50% margin into his
firm Keller Zabel and keeps his position even as the stock is
plummeting putting him into sizeable amount of debt (film hinted $0.5
mil). Now, first firms usually prohibit employees on speculating on
their own stock due to the possibility of having insider information
and second if Jacob was such an excellent prop trader he wouldn't have
touched the stock if there were rumors of its impending collapse. This
alone is hardly believable and our intelligence is assaulted again when
the film somehow forgets his debt (before he even admits the debt when
proposing to his girlfriend), when he writes his mom a check for
$200,000 without a second thought.

Jacob spreads rumors about an African oil rig being nationalized in
which Bretton's company has a big stake, which ended up costing the
company millions. And Gekko ends up explaining to Jacob that it was
illegal because he pushed other people to make traders based on false
information, so Jacob realizes that the two are alike. How can a Wall
Street rainmaker such as Jacob not realize that he manipulated the
markets, which is illegal? 

Other problems: Gekko's London hedge fund growing from $100 mil to $1.1
bil during Winney's pregnancy? At one point, we saw workers dismantling
the fusion plant, would it have been too little too late to give the
$100m to an empty factory site?

To conclude, this is a revenge and redemption movie with Wall Street
and market crash as a backdrop. If they had cut down the crying-girl
scenes, to improve pacing, maybe it could have turned out better. This
way, it's just plain bad.
<|_=00=_|>
I have mentioned before that director Oliver Stone seriously thought
about retiring after Natural Born Killers. That movie took so much out
of him (and I think the previous JFK did also in the aftermath of that
film), that he said: "I don't think I have another one in me". At that
time I thought he was crazy. But looking back at what he has made since
NBK. Maybe not Stone's new film has 3 maybe 4 good scenes and all of
them were in the trailer. The scenes of the release of Gekko are well
done and set up for a nice premise. But it all just falls apart. Or it
really never gets going. Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps fits perfectly
in the new Oliver Stone trend. Before 1994, his films were raw, edgy
and a little rebellious. World Trade Center, W. and Wall Street 2 all
have the appearance of politically engaging or hard-hitting films. But
they are not. Tame would be an understatement. Pleasing would be
better. Oliver Stone has lost his will to fight. He's got bills
(probably a big house, swimming pool, alimony and stuff). He just wants
a job and please the studio and the audience. It almost looks like he
doesn't want much hassle with his films after they come out.

Wall Street 2 is such a disappointment I don't know where to start.
Maybe the biggest let down was in the smallest amount of celluloid: the
cameo of Charlie Sheen as Bud Fox. His character Fox was a character we
could relate to. Especially in his scene with his father Martin Sheen.
But his cameo was so wrong, so out of place, so not Bud Fox, it
diminishes the entire first movie. Bud Fox is now Charlie from Two and
a Half Man.

Let me go on with the characters: The successor of Bud Fox is now Jake
Moore, a kid who doesn't blink when he gets a 1.5 million dollar bonus.
Off course, in the banking industry this is normal. So, it is authentic
that Jake doesn't flinch. His girlfriend has an Iphone, does something
with a website but other then that they really don't have to work for a
living seeing the house they live in. Live really has no challenges
left for these two. So maybe that why Jake has such a hard on for his
'Green Project'. But I'm just guessing here. Bud Fox wanted to be
filthy rich, he wanted to be a player. Jake Moore doesn't want
anything. And we should watch for him for 2 somewhat hours Josh
Brolin, the actor with the single most dangerous look in Hollywood,
comes off as such a whiny boy. You do not believe he is the successor
of Gordon Gekko. One or two times Shia LaBoeuf's character Jake Moore
went head to head with Brolin and I couldn't help but think: "This is
so unbelievable. Brolin's character should clock this spoiled brat
right on the nose". If anyone can tell me what value or what message I
should take from the motorcycle-scene: you can e-mail me.

Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps misses edge, a believable script and
ditto characters. It is a missed opportunity at best, and a total
failure if I am really honest. It demises it's classic predecessor, has
a weak script where the cutthroat mentality in the banking industry is
played out in such a cliché manner. Josh Brolin is grossly underused.
Shia LaBoeuf is overplayed, because he's not that great an actor. Not
as a serious adult anyway. But that's Stone's fault. Charlie Sheen
isn't a great actor, but 20 years ago Stone could direct him in a way
that made him believable. That Oliver Stone is no more, as you can see
with the awful cameo of Sheen. The problem for this sequel is that it
totally diminishes the first film. It takes all the good things from
the first film and throws it out. What's left is chewed up, spit out
and rehashed. Money never sleeps, but the audience does.
<|_=00=_|>
"What actually happened to Gordon and Bud?" That was the question I
asked myself after seeing "Wall Street" for the first time. The film,
set in 1985, had an amazing loose end outside of a courthouse that
lasted 23 years.

"Wall Street" and its "Greed is Good" mantra set a standard for the
future stockbrokers of America. It was the epitome of dog-eat-dog.
Speaking of dogs, one of the best lines from the film was, "If you need
a friend, get a dog." It set the tone for the era; love will betray you
and money will always be loyal.

"Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps" set in 2008, right before the
financial bubble burst, is Oliver Stone's sequel to his original. The
title of the sequel takes its name from a line uttered by the legendary
corporate raider Gordon Gekko (played by Michael Douglas, who also won
an Academy Award for Best Actor in the first film).

The story begins with Gekko being released from prison into a world
that has forgotten about him in 2001. Fast forward to 2008, we are
introduced to a young couple Jake Moore (played by Shia LaBeouf) and
Winnie Gekko (played by Carey Mulligan). Jake is an ambitious Wall
Street investment banker. Winnie is an online activist and also Gekko's
estranged daughter. The investment firm Jake works for is about to go
under and his mentor, Louis Zabel (played by Frank Langella), is making
some bad decisions for their firm.

Gekko doesn't reappear for another 30 minutes when he gives a grand
opening speech at his alma mater to promote his new book. Greed is
legal and everyone is doing it, that's Gekko's message. He lets us know
it's not solely the banks' fault, nor is it entirely the government's
fault. It is the consumer who helped put us into this dismal recession.
Wait, so is greed bad? It's starting to sound that way.

The story turns back to Jake. After Louis passes on, Jake is distraught
and wants vengeance. He blames Bretton James (played by Josh Brolin)
for pushing his mentor out of business. He also wants to bring Gordon
and Winnie closer together. He devises a plan to take a good chunk of
money from Bretton while simultaneously trading information with Gekko
about both Bretton and Winnie. The plot does mirror Bud Fox's (played
by Charlie Sheen) ambition in the first film. Both characters have the
willingness to deceive those around them in order to succeed and also
to gain Gekko's respect.

Stone has changed the pace of the film from the original. In "Wall
Street," the scenes of trading and the under-handed behaviors were
intense and fast. There was the moment of Fox and Gekko bartering over
stock on the phone that just jumped off the screen with tension and
energy. It had the same feel and excitement of action shots from an
"Indiana Jones" film.

In "Money Never Sleeps," Stone takes his time and uses long brush
strokes to paint his modern pictures of high society. We are no longer
wearing power ties and eating steak tartar for lunch (by the way lunch
is for wimps). We are going green and eating less red meat. Stone
understood the dynamic shift in the culture on Wall Street and captured
that change on film.

I am not a financial guy; I know very little about Bulls and Bears. The
great thing about Stone and the reliable cast is that they model for
the audience the changes in the market. If you are still lost after the
visual aids, you can follow the actors' reactions to the events. We
comprehend the tension in the room in a scene where the leaders of the
top investment firms are sitting around an enormous oak table inside a
boardroom arguing about selling off a company. The ardent back and
forth at the table set the mood that things were not going improve for
the economy.

The story continues with several double cross events and even some
heartfelt moments that we didn't see much of in the first film. The
film does its job of being a sequel. It tells us what happens to the
main characters (including a fun cameo by Charlie Sheen) and shows us
more than one dimension of Gekko's "Winner Takes All" attitude.

Should you see this movie? If you need closure on Gekko's corporate
odyssey, then yes, go see it. If you want a snapshot of how we got into
this economic mess two years ago, then go ahead and see it.

However, I am disappointed in the title of the film. It's a powerful,
attractive title. I went in thinking it was going to be a film about
money, power and greed, but it is a film about human relationships and
redemption.

Beware of the ending; it's un-Gekko-like and even un-Stone-like. The
message was that love is more powerful than money. Maybe the hippies
were right. Maybe all we need is love.
<|_=00=_|>
When I heard that Stone was filming a sequel to Wall Street, and that
the subject matter would be based around the collapse of Lehmans and
Bear Stearns, I was very excited indeed. What an excellent opportunity
for a tense, clever financial melodrama, just like the original.
Unfortunately, Stone sold out. He instead decided to provide a back
story around the daughter that Gekko left behind, and that a human
interest tale would be sufficient. I was shocked when Gekko wept for
his past crimes. He came across as a wimp. This was not the way it
should have been. Gekko should instead have come out of jail all guns
blazing, behaving the same way that he did before he went in, and then
come a cropper as a result of the financial collapse. I am also
appalled at the casting of Shia LaBeouf as a top stockbroker. He
doesn't act convincingly at all. Josh Brolin has great screen presence
but he is cast in the role of a villain, with no decent lines or
material to get his teeth into. We don't get to see any shadowy
business dealings that would give flesh to the premise that he is one
of the bad guys. Instead a very weak plot line has Frank Langella play
a mentor of the LaBeouf character, who is betrayed by Brolin and
commits suicide. This becomes the basis for LaBeouf's revenge. The
revenge when it happens is not great. LaBeouf rats Brolin out to the
authorities for insider trading. Hardly The Sting. Also when Gekko
finally betrays his daughter, it doesn't convince either.The ending was
disappointing, with it's Waltons sucrose sentimentality. This shoddy
sequel makes it hard to watch the original Wall Street now without a
bad taste in the mouth. One of the most objectionable scenes was the
appearance of Charlie Sheen as Bud Fox, the playboy, with a model on
either arm, boasting about how much money he made when he sold Bluestar
airlines, and completely betraying the important life lessons he had
discovered by the end of the original film. Thanks for taking a
wrecking ball to my memories of your original Oscar winning film,
Oliver. Please don't do any more sequels, or further destroy your CV.
<|_=00=_|>
Sequels rarely come out of a comparison looking good - and this one's
no exception. The original Wall Street was a classic on several planes,
but "Never Sleeps" just isn't.

Douglas, as usual, gives a strong and perceptive performance: he is
backed up by the rest of the cast. The acting throughout is good.

So are the camera-work, the lighting, the sets and the locations.

The problem is in the direction: at 133 minutes this film doesn't have
the meat to fill the time out. Twenty minutes could be cut and there
would be little effect on the storytelling, there's so little of it.
Visual metaphors come in chunks and, yes - we *do* get them. It's just
that they don't advance the action: it's almost as if we've suddenly
turned up at a powerpoint presentation.

And what on earth possessed Stone to spend so much time on aerial shots
of the city? This isn't a travelogue, for God's sake. And exactly why
is a slightly competitive motorbike ride brought into it? Because a
couple of bikes happened to be available and the trees were turning?
This is year 12 film club stuff, Oliver.

I gave this movie four out of ten, but, thinking about it i have come
back to edit my review to a three. I'd better stay clear of IMDb or we
could end up with one.....

The general feeling of drift was, for me, not exactly helped by a
pretty ordinary soundtrack. Some of the dialogue is indistinguishable
from the background track and, at times, the score is also a hindrance
rather than a necessary part of the experience.

I have had to walk out of several films this last year: there are so
few movies being made that justify anything like the moolah being spent
on them. I stayed to the bitter end of "Never Sleeps" and will give it
a generous four - but it won't be on my DVD Christmas list.
<|_=00=_|>
Of course i did not watch this hoping for a retread of the original.
What would be the point of that? But all you are left with after
watching this is two hours and thirteen minutes of further evidence for
the terminal decline of Oliver Stones career. 

The current banking/financial crisis forms the backdrop for Money Never
Sleeps but is barely explored. The story is lumbered with relationship
issues centred around Gekko's daughter which only serve to slow the
film down and dissipate what little interest the movie generates. 

Josh Brolin is served up as the villain but when the only victims of
the villain shown on screen are fellow members of the financial
services industry this hardly generates much in the way of sympathy.
Stone also adds into the mix the 21st century tee shirts of political
correctness and environmental issues. Yawn. As all the leading actors
are horribly miscast contributing bland performances it's left to
Michael Douglas to save the day. Alas an older and wiser Gekko is not
what i particularly wanted to see and although he pulls off a sly trick
three quarters of the way through Stone bottles it with the redemptive
ending. 

So in comparison, the original Wall Street was an engrossing rags to
riches to rags morality play with characters you cared for including an
unintentional anti hero. Money never sleeps is a corporate, empty,
superficial snooze fest from a once great, but no longer, director.
