
NOTE: This review is the fair and unbiased opinion of someone with
extremely little knowledge of the Twilight series. I watched the movie
with a few die hard fans who I talked to after the movie, and I will
work some of their thoughts into the review.

Another much loved book series has been brought to life in the form of
Twilight, which despite having nothing in common with the Harry Potter
series, will undoubtedly draw comparisons because of the furor and
craze surrounding it. The main difference between the two, however, is
that the Harry Potter films are generally good and solid films.
Twilight, despite having done a couple things right, is not.

As a story, I will admit, Twilight is very catchy and interesting. Now
I see what all the hype is about. If I was a young girl, I would go
nuts over this stuff too. It's not just a vampire and a human falling
in love with each other, but because of the two leads, it's one of the
best on screen romances of the decade. This, however, is severely hurt
by the fact that Twilight boasts easily some of the worst writing and
editing I've ever seen. Let's not forget about the horrid VFX and pasty
makeup, either. It's one of the cheesiest films of the year, and can
definitely be put in the category of "so bad it's ALMOST good". Yes, I
just invented that category.

The 'allure' of the film appears to be the character played by Robert
Pattinson, who ironically was previously known for his role in the
Harry Potter series. Pattinson succeeded there and he more than
succeeds again, as he more than fit the bill for what he needed to do
with the character. Most actors would believe the only requirement of
the character is to be good looking, but Pattinson takes it a step
further and makes Edward Cullen very likable, trustworthy, and in the
end, a good hero for the audience. Kristen Stewart is sort of the queen
of not showing facial expressions, so she's perfect for the role of the
awkward teen Bella Swann. However, there were sometimes where her lack
of emotion bothered me.

Our supporting players...Well, none of them are noteworthy like
Pattinson is. The villain of the film is lame, cheesy, and played by an
actor I can't take seriously. Nikki Reed is probably the best as
Rosalie, Edward's 'sister', and the antagonistic vibe felt from her
adds a different side to the movie.

Okay, I don't really know what possessed the writer of this screenplay
to make it so horrible (was it the source material?), because the
dialog is just so bad that I laughed at serious moments. There's a lot
of intentional humor, mostly in the beginning when Bella and Edward
feel like awkward teens in love. I guess the movie moved along okay,
because I wasn't bored at all. I was either laughing at how stupid the
dialog was, laughing at some of the mildly funny jokes, or getting
pulled in by the electric chemistry between Stewart and Pattinson.

That, folks, is the reason most people will be able to sit through this
movie. The chemistry between the two leads, romantically and sexually,
is amazing. In this respect, Pattinson and Stewart are perfectly cast
and it makes me wonder if they could end up together in real life some
day. I was very surprised by how much I liked seeing their one on one
scenes, as cheesy and bad as the VFX and editing are.

As far as these visual effects go, I've seen a few vampire movies in my
day. I'm going to assume director Catherine Hardwicke has seen a few.
Well, she needs to watch a few more. Her fight scenes are horribly
choreographed, terribly shot, and lack the intensity required to
successfully rouse her audience. I could almost notice the wires the
actors flew across on. I noticed a ton of errors with the editing as
well, such as basic stuff like mouths moving and no words coming out,
and words coming out when no mouths were moving. The fight scene at the
end has wicked bad editing too, as the sound mixing also suffers as
well.

All in all, with Twilight, as bad a movie as it may be, I couldn't help
but stay interested in it because of the electric chemistry between the
leads. That alone kept me in the seat the whole time. It is technically
one of the worst films of the year, but the entertainment factor in the
above respect keeps it out of the company of movies like Disaster Movie
and College. I was actually lucky to see it with some of the fans of
the book, and all of them (5) described the movie as a 'disappointment'
and that the film went 'half way' with some subplots, either starting
and dropping them, or randomly starting them halfway through an
individual subplot. They were not happy at all with this movie, but
agreed on one thing: Robert Pattinson was the perfect Edward Cullen.
I'll agree with them on all those points and say that Twilight is
exactly what I thought it would be: so bad it's ALMOST good.
<|_=00=_|>
This review may contain spoilers. You've been warned. Twilight was a
terrible film adaption of a, let's face it, mediocre novel. I went into
the theater with an open mind, not expecting brilliance, but expecting
to be entertained. Well, I guess I was technically entertained since I
laughed throughout most of the movie. Sadly, I wasn't laughing at
purposely funny moments. I was laughing at the awkward "acting" of the
actors and the terrible dialogue.

Now this is where it gets tricky: Do we blame the screenwriter or the
author? The movie made me realize just how corny the book's dialogue
was. I found myself rolling my eyes, when I wasn't laughing, at every
word out of the actor's mouth. Especially the dialogue between Edward
and Bella. Now, the dialogue could have been over looked if the actors
were able to deliver them. Alas, whoever decided to do casting for this
film decided to cast every "actor" with the acting ability of a
toaster. Now, a toaster is a inanimate object and therefore cannot act.
Get the hint? What made me laugh the hardest was at the end of the
movie when Bella's mother decides to inform Phil VIA TEXT MESSAGE that
Bella is alright. I was so shocked that she was really texting him that
I turned to my friend and whispered "Bella's okay, L-O-L". Really,
though. Text messages? I would think that informing your potential
spouse of your child's well being would warrant a phone call at least.

Now, I have to point out the scene where Edward decides to flash Bella
the goods. He want's to educate her in the ways of the vampire. He
cannot go out into sunlight NOT because he'll burn or turn to dust, but
because he turns into a failed children's art project. Reading the
scene in the book I already knew whoever turned the book into a film
was going to have issues with the scene. However, I really thought
they'd aim for something above spraying Robert Pattinson with water
then dumping craft store glitter on him. I didn't even notice the
"sparkles" at first. My friend turned to me and commented "The sun hits
him and he gets gross and sweaty?" because, let's face it, that's what
he looked like. Damp and dirty. Oh baby, I can hardly contain myself! I
could go on and nit pick at everything, but I'm just going to wrap it
up and say this movie was awful and I'm disappointed in the
screenwriter as well as the director. I feel like Hardwicke was too
focused on making the mise-en-scene beautiful and aesthetically
pleasing, which is all well and good, but in doing so she over looked
her cast of actors who would probably get over looked at a high school
play audition with the way they displayed their acting abilities in
this movie. Though, maybe I take back the part of being disappointed in
the screenwriter since you can only do so much with the source material
you're handed.

BRING ON THE TWILIGHT FANS! I CAN TAKE THEM! *Shields at maximum
power!*
<|_=00=_|>
Movie begins. Some sh*t happens.

Vampire dude: I've killed humans. But, you know, I'm not a monster or
anything anymore, all I do now is hunt animals, drink their blood while
they are mostly still alive, and dismember the carcases after.

Stupid retarded pale girl: OH WOW, well that's OK! Because you are HOT
and totally BADASS and you have skin that shines like f*cking diamonds
in the sun for some f*cking unknown reason and I like shiny stuff
because I'm f*cking retarded!

Vampire dude: I think we should go out because I am an obsessive
compulsive stalker and you don't mind having men you've just met
sneaking into your bedroom at night and watching you sleep.

Stupid retarded pale girl: I can see no fallacies with your logic.

Some more sh*t happens.

The end.
<|_=00=_|>
Now do not be offended by any of this, this is just my opinion.

No I am not a rabid Twilight hater. I read the books, yes all of them.
I thought they were interesting. Not very original, well thought out,
or well written, but decent enough to read. I had several problems with
this movie. It's not just the cast. Though I think Cam Gigandet did an
excellent job as James. Okay my main problem with the cast was not
really who they picked. I guess it boils down to the fact that Bella
and Edward really are not that interesting. Is it so much to ask for a
heroine who isn't so whiney and can take care of herself. Or maybe a
vampire who isn't broody and boring and doesn't SPRAKLE! ((sorry that
just bugs the **** out of me)) I think if they had stuck more to the
actually book it would have been better. Granted, not by much, but it
would have at least gotten 5 stars from me.

I do like the cinematography. The movie is gorgeous visually, and as i
stated before the acting was not terrible. I would have picked
different people for most of the cast, but thats me. I do have one more
thing to say before i end this.

RABID TWIlIGHT FANS NEED TO CALM DOWN!!! ITS JUST A BOOK AND MOVIE
SERIES!! don't take the fact that people don't like it to heart. if you
like it, thats great.
<|_=00=_|>
I would give this movie no stars.. This movie is pathetic. I mean so
pathetic. The acting was awful! 

The movie starts well, but once they introduce the Cullens its pretty
much downhill. Ashley Greene looks good as Alice, Jackson Rathbone
looks constipated as Jasper, a wooden plank would have been a more
convincing Edward. Robert Pattinson deserves the Razzie, second
thought, his acting is so horrible that a razzie is like honoring him. 

Vampires are supposed to be scary, when Edward scales trees he acts
like a monkey, move over Kong! The baseball match looks like Super
Mario Sluggers on steroids! Horrible..

The scene where Edward glitters is pathetic. It looks someone dumped
some glitter on him.. 

On the other hand Charlie Swan and Jacob were spot on.

Over all the director tried too hard and lost it all. I strongly
believe someone with more experience should direct a high profile film
like this. This movie doesn't appeal as a Vampire movie or as a
Romantic movie. Its pathetic.. 

Jury
<|_=00=_|>
I have read the books, and the first thing I noticed was that the story
wasn't about a plot line at all. It's about the characters and what's
going on with them. Stephenie Meyer focuses on interaction, not on
dialog, plot, or setting, which is fine. But it makes for a bad movie.

Surprisingly, Twilight wasn't that bad of a film. I expected it to be
much worse. As I said, there's very little plot or dialog in the book,
so it's hard to make a convincing film. They had to over act looks to
try and communicate without many words. I could probably count on one
hand the lines in the movie.

Other than the over acting, it wasn't bad. There were some very good
moments and some very "eh" moments. But overall I would recommend it to
Twilight fans. I probably won't ever want to see it again, but it's
okay at midnight with some school friends who like it or something.
<|_=00=_|>
Let's face it, the movie was a total let down. I had low expectations.
Extremely low but the movie disappointed me even then. The amazing love
story we all read in the books was transformed into a whiny preteen
nightmare. There was chemistry between Robert and Kristen, there is no
denying that, but I didn't feel the need that is in the books. They are
supposed to be I-can't-live-without-you, take-me-forever,
I'm-devoted-to-you-always in love (Unless you want to count that one
incident in Eclipse, but let's face it, most of us don't) but all I saw
was a bored vampire and an indifferent girl.

The one thing that made me most angry was the complete disregard for
the meadow scene. It is a VERY important part in the book where they
pretty much declare themselves to each other. This meadow scene lasted
all of 10 seconds and consisted of them staring at each other. They
changed around the timing of the movie so much that it almost made no
sense. Lets face it, the book was a good story but the writing wasn't
up to par. It was pretty much written to be turned into a movie and the
screenwriter obviously didn't realize that.

Sure, Robert was smoking hot (don't lie, you saw the ray bands) but his
performance of Edward was terrible. The first time Bella walked into
the Biology class, I laughed at his expression as did most people in
the theater (some of them were too busy squealing). His badly-covered
up English accent was also laughable.

Jasper was perfect, the person that made me laugh during the movie
because if you looked, not at where the camera was focused, in most
scenes you could see him lurking in the background and I think it fit
his character well. Carlisle was cast to a T as were Esme, Jessica,
Rosalie, Emmett and Alice. They all fit their parts well even if I
imagined Alice a little bouncier, Emmett a little bigger and Rosalie a
bit more bitchy.

Oh, the camera work. I'm not denying it, I liked the flickers between
scenes at times but after a while, it can give you a headache. The
insane closeups did NOT do what they were supposed to (show the
intensity) instead they made me where they were half the time and
realize how much makeup the actors where wearing. Every time there was
a close up on Robert, it was totally obvious he was wearing contacts.
Seriously, look for the line.

The one thing that was actually done really well was the climax with
the ballet studio and James. The fight scene was pretty cool and I
totally believed that James wanted to kill Bella right there. But, with
every up there is a down. After James is killed and They are taking
care of Bella, why couldn't Edward have been more upset? It's written
right in the book that he all but cries when he sees her.

The movie was hyped up to an extreme so it was obvious it would be a
let down, I just didn't know how bad it actually was. I don't get why
they couldn't do little things that would have made it a bit better;
The biology class incident? Bella wearing blue? Why the hell did James
have to bite her arm instead of her hand? Would that have been SO hard
to change? All in all, go see it if you are a Twilight fan but be
weary. If you aren't, stay away because you will not understand a thing
that is going on. As I said in my title, somewhere, Edwards is rolling
over in his hypothetical coffin (yes I know they don't sleep in
coffins, or sleep period for that matter, but that's why it's
hypothetical)
<|_=00=_|>
That was my interpretation of this weekend that I had to endure working
at my movie theater, all these little hormone crazed brace wearing
under developed young girls who I think would've just about died with
the anticipation of seeing Twilight, I'm not kidding, I personally
witnessed a twelve year old say that she wanted to have Robert
Pattinson's baby. OK, so how I saw the movie, my sister, ironically my
older sister has been just raving about the Twilight series with her
friends and told me that I have to read these books, after weeks of
bugging me with it, I finally broke down and read them. Actually it's
kind of a fun series, it reminded me of the same love that I had for
the TV series Buffy the vampire Slayer when I was a young teen. But of
course she has to take me to the midnight premiere with 100,000 crazed
fans who were knocking each other down and crawling all over each other
just to see a movie.

Bella Swan has always been a little bit different, never caring about
fitting in with the trendy girls at her Phoenix high school. When her
mother remarries and sends Bella to live with her father in the rainy
little town of Forks, Washington, she doesn't expect much of anything
to change. Then she meets the mysterious and beautiful Edward Cullen.
Intelligent and witty, he sees straight into her soul. Soon, Bella and
Edward are swept up in a passionate and decidedly unorthodox romance.
Edward can run faster than a mountain lion, he can stop a moving car
with his bare hands - and he hasn't aged since 1918. Like all vampires,
he's immortal. But he doesn't have fangs, and he doesn't drink human
blood.

So, my opinion about Twilight the movie... honestly, it's average, it's
my junior high romance with a vampire. I hate, beyond hate to say this,
I'm a hypocrite for saying this, but because I read the book before I
saw the movie, I had this completely different interpretation of what
the characters look like and how they say certain lines. Twilight the
movie made me laugh more than anything simply because of the actors,
Robert and Kristen are not bad actors, but the way they talked, I just
couldn't take their "love" seriously. Peter Facinelli who played
Carlisle Cullen, Edward's father, was exactly how I pictured and pulled
in the best performance of the film. Is it worth the watch, absolutely
if you're a fan of the books, otherwise, I would say if you just wanna
see this movie, I recommend the matinée price because honestly, I think
I may have lost my hearing after this weekend of the none stop screams
from crazed teens.

5/10
<|_=00=_|>
To preface this review, I read all four Twilight books in one weekend
(last weekend, actually) when I picked the first one up at the airport,
and could not put it down. I zipped through the other three and went to
the midnight screening on opening day. To say the least, I was
captivated by Twilight (and I'm in my 20s...).

I was anxious to see the movie because, like so many other people, I
felt really invested in Bella and Edward's story. Not only that, but I
love the vampire premise - it just never gets old, especially when you
put a new spin on it, as Meyer did in her books. The events of each
book really ran together for me, so in a way, I felt like a
non-Twilighter coming into this film. I really didn't care if the movie
deviated from the book - in fact, I was kind of hoping it would, since
you can't expect a book to translate directly to the screen. I heard a
lot of serious Twilight teens complaining about "major things" missing
when I left the theater, but I honestly didn't notice any major
omissions.

Overall, the film was better than I expected (based on previews, I
expected it to be extremely cheesy, low-budget, and awkwardly filmed).
It definitely grew on me as it went on, especially Pattinson's
performance. His introduction was extremely awkward - not sure if that
was Hardwicke's fault or Pattinson's acting. In any case, as soon as he
settled into his character, he was absolutely captivating. Stewart
plays a great brooder, and she certainly did that here. I loved the
scenes with her father; in my opinion, these were some of the gems of
the movie.

The romance between Edward and Bella, which was obviously the crux of
the film, was fueled by their chemistry, but not much else. Where was
the development?! I really wish Hardwicke or the screenwriter or
somebody had taken more time to delve into the roots of their
relationship. It all just happened way too fast. I feel like this
happened because of the James story, which to me was almost completely
unnecessary (yeah, I know, it's a big part of the book and obviously
needs to be here). But even so, the film would have been a more moving
romance, and probably a more poignant, emotional film, if that cheesy,
goofy subplot hadn't existed.

Hardwicke dealt exceptionally well with teen angst, which was evident
in the high school shots. Unfortunately, she really struggled with the
vampire side of things. I have to put most of the blame on the director
because the characters were all spot-on, very well-acted and well-cast.
I also think a higher budget would have done wonders for this movie,
and I'm hoping that becomes a reality for the sequel. The special
effects were embarrassingly bad, and nearly ruined the movie.

Overall, I enjoyed "Twilight" for what it was - a romance that probed
the timeless dilemma of wanting what you can't have (and despite
Meyer's Mormon beliefs, this whole series is basically a metaphor for
sex). It makes for an interesting, compelling story, and I expect more
from the sequels, because the potential is certainly there.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this for free at the Recreational Center on my college campus,
and it became the first movie I ever walked out of. As a horror movie
fan and a film director, I have never felt so insulted in my life.
Since when can vampires survive in daylight. I loved the line "You
avoid daylight".... PRETTY MUCH THE WHOLE FILM TOOK PLACE IN BROAD
DAYLIGHT!!!! Apparently now they just glow and show their "true form"
Really? What's next, werewolves will start drinking liquid silver for
breakfast? Frankenstein becomes a fire twirler? Might as well, the
rules of movie monsters apparently do not apply anymore. When the main
vampire (I didn't care enough to catch his name) said "We consider
ourselves vegetarians", that was all I could take. Everyone involved
with this film should have stakes shoved through their hearts for
conspiring to create this garbage. Anybody who likes vampires should
agree with me. If you don't, you are a poser my friend. That is the
cold, hard truth.
