
Maybe because I wasn't expecting Oscar material... maybe because I
enjoy Dane Cook... maybe because Alec Baldwin can be funny in just
about anything... I just really had a good time at this movie. I
understand why it doesn't have huge box office appeal, but it certainly
has appeal for a specific type of audience. Crude humor? Cheezy plot
line? Bring it on! I'm sorry that more people can't enjoy 115 minutes
of silly escapism.

Sure, most of it was predictable. Sure, Dane Cook was basically being
Dane Cook. But if you let yourself catch all the RIDICULOUS lines
(especially the dialog between Alec Baldwin and Dane Cook), and if you
let yourself enjoy how cute Kate Hudson is ... you MIGHT just enjoy
this movie a little.
<|_=00=_|>
The big screen very rarely ever treats its audiences to a romance where
the 'asshole' of the story gets more than the simple role of causing
friction and delay between the inevitable cathartic moments of bliss
between the match-made-in-heaven. So what then does happen when the
genre's example of the anti-Christ falls in love? What happens when his
or her character actually rises above the clichés that so often
dominates their two dimensional motives? The result is inevitably the
anti-romcom. My Best Friend's girl is for all intents and purposes not
the kind of a-typical romantic comedy affair that we are so often
forced upon to see month after month of the year. Instead it presents
immediately disagreeable, but in turn, real people to occupy its tale
of romance. The result is one that will have audiences undeniably
split; there will be those who will simply not be able to get by the
ugly sides of this story's characters (particularly the lead male), and
those who actually revel in a solid love story that doesn't try to be
your charming friend all the way through. Essentially, the dominate
colours here are not pastel pinks and blues, but blacks and greys. In
real life, romance doesn't usually play out like it does in the movies,
but with My Best Friend's Girl there's cause for dispute over this
common belief.

When looking through traditional romcom eyeglass, lead character Tank
(Dane Cook) isn't the most likable or even compelling leading man. A
Rude, callous, chauvinistic and manipulative womaniser, Tank is
certainly more fit to be the story's antagonist male than its
protagonist. For a living Tank works at a call centre for a company
that sells air purifiers, and yet this isn't where the majority of his
income comes from (and that's just as well, because he's terrible at
that one). As a way to make some money on the side (lots of it) Tank
works as a 'nightmare-rebounder'; when a guy gets chucked to the curb
his partner, Tank chats her up, treats her to a lousy date and in turn
the woman realises how naïve she was presumably being. Of course, this
premise has problems; it's contrived and yet clever in a masochistic
sort of way. Most enjoyable of all however is that it at least provides
as a refreshing change of scenery in this current climate of lacklustre
romantic comedies. After wave upon wave of gag-inducing melodrama
without any hint of real depth purging themselves upon us this year, it
is strangely uplifting to be treated to a story that runs on low
standards, morals and characters. Love isn't perfect; in fact it can be
down right ugly at times, and while My Best Friend's Girl isn't out to
dramatise that theme, it does well at poking fun of it.

Of course all of this simply wouldn't work if Tank himself was a lazy
caricature of the worst-man-ever, but he isn't. Dane Cook does a great
job here (and I am usually a detractor of his work) of giving Tank an
under riding sense of good-heartedness that lies beneath all the
callous games that he so eloquently plays with his one night stands.
For all intents and purposes we shouldn't like Tank, and although many
will not be able to see past that façade, I was definitely won over by
Cook's charming and grounded portrayal. What works even more to the
movie's ability to win the audiences over however is its ability to
crack a chuckle or two. Sure, it goes without saying that much of the
humour here is crass and gauche to the point where it may turn people
even further away, but director Howard Deutch does a fine job of
balancing his two core elements in ways that so many romantic comedies
just don't ever get close to. That is not to say that the director gets
everything right, because he doesn't. There are numerous problems
arising throughout the feature, most notable of which exists between
the lacking chemistry between Cook and his co-star Kate Hudson, but
given the way in which Deutch presents Jordan Cahan's anti-romantic
story, it's not something worth crying about.

To close things off I will say that My Best Friend's Girl certainly
isn't hilarious, nor is it tear-jerkingly sentimental; instead it
exists as a light-hearted by nevertheless emotive tale of untraditional
love blossoming from untraditional circumstances. In this vein the
movie distances itself from the immediate residents within the somewhat
bloated genre, presenting a refreshing polar opposite view of romance
on the big screen in all its imperfections. The movie itself as a whole
certainly reflects this central point as it is nowhere near perfection
thanks to a superfluous and unnecessarily neat ending, but for the most
part Deutch succeeds in delivering something quite unique and
satisfying at the same time. What is most refreshing of all however is
that the movie very rarely succumbs to holding your hand and trying to
get you to like it. So often movies of this nature will pile desperate
devices upon tired clichés to get you to feel something and yet Deutch
doesn't seem to care. To put it simply then I guess, if you are a
sucker for the average romcom where characters are prestine, witty,
awkward and immediately lovable, then My Best Friend's Girl probably
isn't for you. Instead I recommend this to those who prefer edgier
romance and even edgier comedy; this isn't your average fare by any
means, no, it's better than that; like its lead character, it's
actually good, no-brainer, careless fun.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to this only because I couldn't get into the movie I came to the
theater for. I don't know Dane Cook's stand-up and hated him in the
overrated Dan In Real Life. But, we figured we could pass time for two
hours so we went in.

It started routinely enough. Okay, the guy gets paid to be the date
from heck so the girls goes crying back into her guy's arms. Okay
concept, if executed well. Then we get Jason Biggs trying to clean up
his act to impress Kate Hudson who likes him but is not wowed by him.
Since Jason is Dane's roommate, he hires Dane to do his specialty. By
this point, we're 20+ minutes into the movie and it made me laugh twice
and is otherwise pretty lame. I looked at my watch. Then, Kate's
roommate preps her for the date to sow some wild oats and the real fun
begins.

The humor in My Best Friend's Girl is rude, crude, inappropriate,
socially irredeemable -- and made me laugh out loud - a lot! Cook's
chemistry with Hudson was electric. The twist is she can give as good
as she gets and vice versa. She gets under his skin, but he stays in
denial, leading to his next assignment which to me was the high point
of the movie. The girl is religious and he takes her to a restaurant in
an old church called Jesus Crust - where pizza is a religious
experience. i don't want to spoil the inspired gags in this sequence,
but I was nearly rolling in the aisles. This victim actually winds up
setting the stage for a few plot twists I didn't expect. The movie is
raucous fun from then on until the end.

I thought Alec Baldwin was absurdly funny as the Women's Studies
professor who is Cook's father. His chemistry with Cook is also
terrific. Cook's former client who is about to marry Kate's sister is
also hilarious as is she and the woman playing Kate's mother. Then, the
movie goes a bit soft,conventional, and derivative -- but is still
witty at the end, and the last two scenes play out nicely.

This is not a piece of art, but if you ever went to frat parties and
can remember having fun at them and want to spend some time laughing
out loud, give My Best Friend's Girl a look. I work in Manhattan so I
have to be careful to whom I say I liked this movie -- that's why I
call it a guilty pleasure!
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not particularly into Dane Cook. Got nothing against him, either.

Sure, the movie is somewhat clichéd and brings nothing new to the
table, but while it might not be an instant classic, it does include
some rather hilarious scenes.

My favourite scene must be the scene in "Cheesus Crust". Call me
low-level, but that was funny as hell. I laughed like I hadn't laughed
in ages. It was great.

Perhaps one of the factors that made me like the movie is the fact,
that I can be somewhat of an asshole myself. Yeah, I recognized some of
the actions from myself. Not that I'm proud of it.

Yes, many of the jokes aren't gonna make you burst out laughing and the
whole romantic scheme is kinda yawn-inspiring, but it kept me
entertained and my mug glued to the screen. And that's why I gave it a
solid 7.
<|_=00=_|>
I can't say that this movie was amazing for story line or anything but
I laughed my ass off almost the whole movie. It's basically like a male
alternative to a "chick flick". Year it's rude and crude but.... IT"S
DANE COOK! if you went in thinking that it would be anything less then
your just dumb, The trailers showed you exactly what you are getting.

One thing that I loved about this movie is that it wasn't so fake. most
guys in chick flicks are so wonderful then they just make one mistake
and spend the rest of the movie trying to fix it till everyone lives
happily ever after. This movie isn't like that at all.

One last thing I liked is that I couldn't have predicted just how far
he would go to mess things up, so the shock value of almost everything
he says is awesome. Everyone in the Theater I was in was laugh through
the movie too. I can't believe it got such a bad rating here but I
guess I've also seen movies on here with high ratings that just sucked.
whatever.
<|_=00=_|>
I love Dane Cook and his brand of comedy doesn't bother me, so I knew
this movie wouldn't either. Although the ads might depict a cleaner
version, it's clearly rated R (obviously for several reasons), and the
plot line shown in the ads definitely points toward the true depiction
seen in this movie. I laughed from beginning to end, and while I was
caught off guard by the extreme boundary-pushing done throughout, it
left me in tears from laughing so hard. I went with my boyfriend, who
up till now has never found Cook's stand-up to be funny, and he laughed
so hard he could barely breathe at times.

Kate Hudson was great in this, a completely different role than her
previous movies. Jason Biggs plays the dorky guy well, as noted in
American Pie, but definitely gets laughs of his own. Alec Baldwin's
character came as a surprise to me, but was very funny also.

I can see this movie appealing to more guys than girls, but if you
don't mind the crude side of Dane Cook (who I thought definitely
delivered more than just his stand-up routine with other people mixed
in), then this movie is for you!
<|_=00=_|>
Let me state this clearly, if you cannot laugh at raunchy humor, do not
go see this movie. However, if you can appreciate the raunchy humor you
can truly enjoy this movie. Dane Cook plays an absolutely hilarious
jerk throughout the movie, but many may not appreciate the humor he
uses.

Yes, this movie is a romantic comedy, but more comedy than romantic. A
lot of people seem to dislike Dane Cook and prejudge his movies, but I
feel that they let themselves down. If you are offended by vulgarity,
just don't go see this movie. If you like Dane Cook or raunchy humor,
then you should enjoy watching this movie. I thought it was a pretty
good movie and worth seeing once. I don't know that I would own this
movie, but I did enjoy the time I spent watching it.
<|_=00=_|>
Definitely it's not the usual Hollywood's romantic comedy! Full of rude
but hilarious humor this movie uses impoliteness as a way to make you
laugh. Great part of the jokes is crude, rough and related to sex but
they made me laugh out loud, as I didn't for a long time! Another nice
feature of this film is that humor is present in almost the entire
movie which is not so common in romantic comedies.

As told it's not the usual romantic comedy, however it has some typical
features of this genre. The ending, by the way, is the expected one
(the main characters end up together! I don't think it's even a
spoiler!!) but it's done in a funny and different way. I liked it.
Something I don't use to in romantic comedies! 

The acting was nice. Dane Cook is hilarious and he does his job very
well. Kate Hudson also does a good job, and by the way she's beautiful,
as always. Jason Biggs does the role of a silly guy... as always! Alec
Baldwin does a funny but a kind of "macho man" character! 

I enjoyed it and score it 8/10 (especially because of some hilarious
jokes!)
<|_=00=_|>
This was one of the best comedies I have ever seen. I literally had
beverage spewing out of my mouth. Those who didn't like it? Well they
must be more the conservative prudish type. Was it a little raunchy?
yes. But thats partly what made it so funny. When you are thinking "o
no he didn't" you then see "o yes he did". Dane cook is absolutely
friggen hilarious! And anyone who knows dane cook knows his comedy
style. So you get what you are expecting. No, you get better! I didn't
see this at the movies- it was a rental. And glad I didn't because the
laughter would have drowned out the movie! But, it would ahev been
worth it. Maybe I just have a dirty/nasty sense of humor, but i have
recommended this movie to all my friends and family.
<|_=00=_|>
Was this the best comedy of 2008? Was this the best comedy Dane Cook
has starred in? Or even Jason Biggs, Kate Hudson possibly? No. No.
No... and no. The likes of "American Pie", "How To Lose A Guy In 10
Days" and "Waiting"... OK I guess I couldn't say "Waiting" being more
of a Reynold's flick, but even "Employee Of The Month" truly were far
more superior flicks then this movie. Was it awful? No. Predictable?
Yes. As most comedies are today, predictable that is... this movie in
my opinion falls short of funny.

Does it have funny moments? Sure, of course, why wouldn't it!? But a
few laughs isn't enough to be considered a "Great Comedy" just a good
one. I would say my favorite part of this movie was Cook's character
walking down the alter playing Johnny Cash as he flicks his cigarette
to the side. I also liked how they used the 10-count system for all his
"Rude" tactics. But I'm sorry, as much as I like Cook's stand-up
comedy, even acting, I don't think he or anyone for that matter could
have done this movie any justice. It was just another comedy, and
really, I'm sick of "Just another comedy." Thank god for "Knocked up,
Superbad, Zack And Miri, 40 Yr Old Virgin, and Pineapple Express!"
Those, standout, those are the new age of comedy. You want a laugh,
watch those, then re-watch those, then watch em again. You'll produce
more laughs from those movies in repeat viewings as you would this one.

Sadly, not even the Farrelly brothers can produce quality, not since
"There's Something About Mary" and it's really pathetic. I don't know
if it has to do with the fact that the companies are lowering the
ratings to PG-13 for sales ruining these directors/writers, or just the
directos/writers themselves? Bottom line, if you want a good comedy to
watch and get a few laughs with your girlfriend, go rent this flick,
but, I wouldn't recommend buying it.

-Z.CAPTON
