
The advertisements for this movie do it serious injustice. I was
standing in the lobby of a movie theater at a free showing, and almost
didn't walk in, because the trailers and ads had me convinced it was a
complete waste of time. The advertisements portray the film as being
merely a vehicle for shirtless boys to beat on each other and hot girls
to wear bikinis. While there is no shortage of either, the movie has a
strong underlying theme and a decent plot.

At the thematic level, the movie is about accepting responsibility for
your actions, controlling your emotions, and making good choices. It's
as much about motivations as macho.

Yes, it is a teen-targeted movie. You've got rich kids running around
in massive mansions driving expensive cars, but that's just the
setting. You've got people beating the crap out of each other, but
that's just a plot device. The heart of the movie is about personal
growth and making choices. It's not an empty action flick or a taped
brawl.

It's not the best film of the year, and it may well wind up as a late
night cable movie in a few months, but it's nowhere near as bad as
people expect. It's definitely worth the price of a rental, and worth
the $10 to see it in theaters, if you've got no other plans. I blame
the negativity largely on the advertising, which tries to sell it as
"just another fight movie".
<|_=00=_|>
I liked this film better when it was called the Karate Kid. Sure, there
is nothing new under the sun and every film borrows something from
other films that have come before it, but this is bordering on
copyright infringement.

If I had to write a Karate Kid summary in 3 sentences, this is what I
would write: Kid moves to a new town. Kid gets the living crap beaten
out of him by the town bad boy. Kid starts some heavy duty Karate
training so he can get revenge by kicking the bad boys ass while
simultaneously winning the heart of the hottest girl in town.

Now, if I had to write a summary for this film in 3 sentences it would
be as follows: Kid moves to a new town. Kid gets the living crap beaten
out of him by the town bad boy. Kid starts some heavy duty Mixed
Martial Arts training so he can get revenge by kicking the bad boys ass
while simultaneously winning the heart of the hottest girl in town.

The plot is literally exactly the same. The only difference is that
when it came to the soundtrack they replaced Peter Cetera with nu metal
in the vein of Linkin Park and the most pivotal characters in this film
were cell phones.

People have commented that the fight scenes were pretty good. I tend to
disagree. They were pretty weak. Instead of watching this film just
watch the Karate Kid and have a computer handy. When the fight scenes
are on in the Karate Kid, just turn away and watch some UFC fights on
youtube. You'll have practically the same film as Never Back Down, just
much much better.

I was surprised at the lack of tits in this film. Usually a film with a
script of this caliber has a heap of tits. This was obviously an
oversight from the producers and I'm sure that will be fixed if they
make a sequel.

I do respect the fact that they were able to jam every 80's film cliché
ever into the little over 90 minutes. When writing a film review on
this site you have the option of checking the "contains spoilers" box.
This feature could easily be disabled for Never Back Down. It is
impossible to spoil the content of this film as everybody has already
seen it, at least 1000 times, just with a different title.

Will the good kid defeat the bad kid in a no holes barred fight? Who
knows? Well actually everybody.
<|_=00=_|>
. . . Never Back Down was still a really great movie that I had a lot
of fun watching, and I was surprised with how much I actually ended up
liking it. Of course this film is really very predictable and was
basically just a rip-off version of Fight Club, The Karate Kid, and
movies like that in general that was basically aimed at 16, 17, and 18
year old boys, but it was really enjoyable if you just judge it based
on an actual movie and not what audience it's trying to pull in.

It did get pretty annoying and downright unbelievable at times, but I
have to give this movie it's props, because the acting was done very
professionally for a bunch of model-body teenage actors, and it also
managed to keep me so interested and entertained through the entire
film with semi adroit and crafty, motivating scenes and material
matter. It gets a bit mediocre, as I have said, and some stuff just
falls flat, but they handle everything they lack so well with other
interesting and appealing scenes and substance, excluding the
featherweight dialogue, haha. 

Overall, I was so happy with the outcome of this movie, because while
being cliché, and certainly not worthy of winning an Oscar or anything
like that, it was really enjoyable, and I had a great time watching it.
If you lower your expectations and free your mind, I bet you will too.
I suggest you see it if you can appreciate it for what it is. If
anything else, there is Cam Gigandet and Sean Faris shirtless.
<|_=00=_|>
Being a martial artist myself, i can understand why others may not feel
the same way towards what i am about to say as this film is clearly
aimed at a specific audience.

Never back down is a good teen-young adult film. Why is it rated so
low? It contains and deals with many issues that are in our every
lives. Issues of pride, of bullying, of prejudice, of commitment and
above all respect. Its promotional campaign does not do it justice. If
one looks below the surface, this movie has some depth to it.

Good things about it: fantastic soundtrack, good acting, great
locations, professional fighting and pretty good story, albeit being a
bit simple and predictable.

Bad things about it: a bit cheesy, mostly predictable, lack of
character development apart from Jake (the main character) and Jean
Roqua, the occasional bad technique (from my point of view) and a clear
plastic feel to it due to the beautiful people.

I'm not much of a writter, all I'll say is this film is worth watching
and is very empowering, particularly if you are a martial artist or
have had a bad day.

overall 9/10
<|_=00=_|>
If you weren't old enough to see movies and understand them back in
1984, this may seem like a pretty good movie. If, on the other hand,
you were old enough, then you will see this movie for what it is: an
updated version of "Karate Kid", a much better film. Before seeing
this, I looked up the movie and read the plot, and that was the first
thought that ran through my head; seeing it only proved it. By the time
the movie was over, I counted over 15 similarities between the two
films, and yet nowhere did I see any credit given to the original
writers. Shouldn't they be suing for plagiarism?

1 Poor kid is star

2 Moves out to a coastal city

3 Meets pretty girl

4 Pretty girl has jerk boyfriend

5 Jerk boyfriend is local fighting champ (2 years running no less)

6 Poor kid knows a little about fighting

7 Gets into fight with jerk boyfriend and gets beat

8 Meets up with a teacher in the same style as jerk boyfriend

9 Teacher is foreign born

10 Teacher has experienced great personal loss

11 Poor kid and girl have tiff

12 They get back together after he apologizes for being a jerk

13 While jerk boyfriend is good fighter, has bad focus

14 Poor kid and jerk boyfriend face off in tournament he is champion of

15 In the tournament, poor kid suffers a serious injury

16 Poor kid wins anyway and earns jerk boyfriend's respect

There are some other plot holes which stretch the credibility of this
movie even further. The main villain is in good shape, as he walks
around half the movie with no shirt on, revealing some well-defined
abs. I find it awfully hard to believe that a high school kid could
achieve something like that.

The other plot hole which also made me scratch my head was the death of
the lead character's father. He got drunk at a bar, got behind the
wheel and wrapped his car around the tree. The lead was with him and I
was wondering, "What is a high school kid doing at a bar? Do they check
IDs any more?"

And another thing: what are high school kids doing participating in
full-contact fighting tournaments? Isn't there some kind of law against
that?

The one good thing I did like about the movie was the villain. He had a
whole smug attitude which came off as highly believable. But still,
that isn't nearly enough to make up for this rip-off. I'm just glad
this was a sneak preview so I didn't have to pay to see this.
<|_=00=_|>
Yes, it's just a revamped Karate Kid.

But with MMA, not just Karate, although I did have the occasional urge
to shout "Cobra Kai!" when the bad guy came on screen.

Some cool action, basically just MMA (like in the UFC) that's been
"hollywoodized" to be showy, "underground", and performed by supposed
teenagers.

Djimon Hounsou is wasted on this film, but does fairly well at being
the token real actor, giving it some tenuous legitimacy. On the upside,
probably a more believable martial arts instructor than Pat Morita...
physically, at least.

It's a great movie to just turn off your brain to, and watch lots of
girls in bikinis and guys beating each other up. Pleasant, mindless
T&A/Action.
<|_=00=_|>
Don't tap-out yet!

From reading the title "Never Back Down," you get the impression that
what you're about to watch will be something pretty macho and also
pretty lame - a bad combination. The claims of this being a remake of
"The Karate Kid" plus "Fight Club" and mixed martial arts is not
undeserved or inappropriate. What it does aim to be, is a "Karate Kid"
for the MTV generation and a generation of kids who may think that MMA
is the future of the martial arts.

As a casual fan of mixed martial arts, the gladiator-style spectacle of
this sport goes all the way back to the Greeks, with their sport
Pankration (which pretty much resembles today's MMA). The idea of
cross-training and mixing techniques of different fighting styles
gained popularity in the 20th century with Bruce Lee and his theories
on Jeet Kune Do (which when translated from Cantonese, means "the way
of the intercepting fist"). However, mixed martial arts, as we know it
today in the Ultimate Fighting Championships (UFC), PRIDE and other MMA
organizations, gained widespread recognition when Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu
grappler Royce Gracie won UFC 1 in 1993. Since then, a revolution has
been sparked in the world of full-contact fighting. (On a side, UFC
president Dana White considers Bruce Lee the "father of modern mixed
martial arts.")

In "Never Back Down," which seeks to promote MMA for the mainstream,
Jake Tyler (Sean Faris, who looks remarkably like a young Tom Cruise)
is a promising football player who is relocated with his widowed mother
and younger brother from their home in Iowa to the posh surroundings of
upper-class Orlando, Florida; they opt for a cramped apartment in
suburbia away from the surf and bikini-clad babes. Right away, it's
established that Jake's a born brawler and has a chip on his shoulder,
so right away the filmmakers are attempting to remove themselves from
the "Karate Kid" legacy.

Right away, he locks eyes on the pretty blonde Baja Miller (Amber
Heard, uh-huh), and she invites new-kid Jake to a party later that
night. At this same party, he locks heads with rich-boy Ryan McCarthy
(Cam Gigandet), a champion MMA fighter who gets the upper hand on Jake
and beats him to a pulp in a no-holds-barred brawl.

All hope is not lost. On his first day of school, Jake had witnessed a
fight happening under the bleachers, where an outcast kid named Max
(Evan Peters) was getting his butt kicked by Ryan and his goons. It
just so happens that Max is being trained by the legendary MMA champ
Jean Roqua (Djimon Hounsou) and takes him under his wing. So cue the
MTV soundtrack and training montage.

In terms of being a simple martial arts movie, "Never Back Down" is
nothing new. Plenty of martial arts movies have been made about the
bullied good guy who gets his butt kicked, learns to fight from a
master, and tests out his newfound skills by getting revenge on his
tormentors in the ring. The by-the-numbers script by Chris Hauty pays
attention to a few of the details of modern mixed martial arts
training, but doesn't really go into any real depth about it, even if
some of the harsher stuff is only glossed over for the sake of trying
to mainstream it. But I also guess that this Jeff Wadlow-directed
vehicle has seen way too many better movies, and it's inherently
self-referential toward them.

"Never Back Down," I guess, is a fun way to spend $7.75 (what I spent);
at the very least, even if the plot is formulaic, it's still
entertaining. The acting, writing and plot are decent, but still, the
performances, acting and writing, like everything else, are
by-the-numbers. Although we don't really wade grimly through worthless
dialogue scenes, we do perk up for the fighting and training sequences.
The best thing about these scenes is that they're authentic: what the
actors are doing is so "real" you "believe" it. As brutal as they are
(even for a "PG-13"-rated movie), they're fairly exciting and there
isn't a whole bunch of flashy camera cutting that takes away from the
intensity of the full-contact punching and kicking. The camera stays
put for the most part and isn't moving all over the place. It looks
like the actors are really going at it, and it looks like it hurts. So
you "believe" it in a way you don't really do for a lot of martial arts
movies made in America these days.

And that's what no-holds-barred is all about, right?

6/10
<|_=00=_|>
This is one more film with quite good idea. Though, there are a lot
similar films that we could bracket in one group with this one. Yet, it
has something outstanding. It inspires me in a way. To strive for my
life-goals, never back down, no matter how hard it may be, what sort of
obstacles are ahead of you.. Maybe that's the real purpose of this
film? To inspire one, to be confident and persistent. At least, I was
affected in this way. I presume, that this movie is suitable for those,
who have a very deep and grim times, who need some sort of wake up call
to evoke positive feelings to what's life.. to make one be optimistic
again...
<|_=00=_|>
Perhaps my descriptive summary is unkind to this film. I enjoyed it so
much because it depicts a young man learning to deal with his emotions,
rather than being ruled by his fear of them. It is quite remarkable,
the strength of character he ultimately develops, and his interactions
with his instructor are gratifyingly free of the childish morality one
dreads in such a film, or the typical oriental platitudes that often
hallmark them because of the origins of martial arts. At the root of
this, I think, is the film's willingness to observe and comment on the
'problem' emotion of anger. Rather than leave it festering, or simply
transform it 'as if by magic', the audience can almost see the
transformation in the main character, through his physical exertion,
which eventually leaves him free of its destructive role in his life.
For most, if not all, these reasons, I enjoyed the film because it
resonated with me quite closely, but it may not be everyone's cup of
tea.

If nothing else, I for one will be researching the possibilities of
training in mixed martial arts!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is quite predictable. The story of a boy that gets into
trouble in school and starts fighting because of that isn't original,
but between all the predictable movies with this theme, certainly this
is the best.

Your attention is caught in every single scene. I think the best merit
of Never Back Down is that it mixes a lot of types of movie. At the
beginning, it's like one of that silly teenager's movie, showing the
school, party and girls. Then the atmosphere gets darker and the world
of fighting is showed, as well as family's problems, turning everything
into a drama. And then... I won't tell the whole story, but I assure
that you won't get bored.

The acting was very well done too, especially Cam Gigandet. He
definitely knew how to be the typical bad guy; not like those annoying
bad actors in teenagers movie, but a darker, more "serious" one.

Even with all these qualities that makes Never Back Down stands out, I
don't think that older people will enjoy watching it... although the
movie brings out a moral that fits in everyone.
