
I haven't seen a romance this touching since I was the same type of
single sad sack as depicted by the hero of (500) Days of Summer. 

Tom (Joseph Gordon-Levitt) has his radar up for "the girl of his
dreams" when he meets Summer (Zooey Deschanel). Too bad for Tom Summer
is stuck on friends-with-benefits mode. Let the tension begin.

Director Marc Webb captures the feeling of innocent, naïve love
expertly. Anyone who has taken the lyrics of the Smiths too closely to
heart, would be moved by the idea of the person they are crushing on
sing to them: "To die by your side/is such a heavenly way to die." No
wonder Tom soon falls head over heels for this girl.

As events unfold out of sequence, you know all along Tom has fallen for
a time bomb of a woman, and he can't even see the countdown. When that
bomb finally blows up in his face, it unfolds with powerful
simplicity-- no exposition or dialog, just two juxtaposed events that
capture the heartache of reality hitting a person who sees a person
through the filter of deep-seated emotions that were planted at too
young an age.

So many romantic films nowadays concern themselves with cute ideas;
take 'He's Just Not That Into You' or 'Serendipity' for example. Even
movies like 'Knocked Up' where a pot-smoking, video-gaming,
narcissistic slob tries to turn his life around to try to be a father
feels more contrived than real. These movies forget about human
feelings. 

Who cares about stock or cartoonish characters in love. The couple in
(500) Days of Summer have true chemistry. There are some beautiful,
subtle moments of tenderness as well as some heart- rending moments of
disconnectedness between the two that never comes across as
heavy-handed. The movie constantly reminds you that these are two
different people with different ideas of a relationship, yet they
stubbornly continue dating, and they remain lovable all the same.

An omniscient narrator sets the film up early on by noting "this is not
a love story." And, in a way, it isn't. It's a story about feelings. It
just so happens (500) Days of Summer captures the sensation of falling
in love better than most movies.

For more of my reviews, visit indieethos.com
<|_=00=_|>
Let's face it. We've all done our share of "dumping". Whether it's the,
"Lets just be friends," or the all too familiar, "It's not you, it's
me," tactic, as long as you're not on the receiving end it becomes a
question of, "How quickly can I get this over with, so I can move on
with my life?" Equally, all of us (yes even Brad Pitt) have experienced
what it feels like to "be" dumped and the complex emotions that
unexpectedly follow. If you're one of the fortunate souls that have
managed to escape the throws of relationship hell, you'll probably fare
better with renting the newest addition to the Rambo series. For the
rest of you who've at one time or another gotten your hearts ripped out
of your chests and stomped into a million pieces only to turn you into
unshaven, alcoholic hermits on the brink of starvationthis movie is
dedicated to you. 

Tom (Joseph-Gordon-Levitt) is a wanna-be architect turned professional
greeting card writer whose life is thrown for a loop when he suddenly
falls for the "new girl" Summer (Zooey Deschanel, Almost Famous). As
one who appeared most certainly unattainable at first glance, Tom
manages to charm her into what she coins as a, "casual relationship."
Eventually, Tom ends up questioning their status with one another,
which manages to put strain on the relationship, causing her to request
the dreaded "time apart." (500) Days of Summer chronicles the bitter
sweet beginnings, the untimely endings and all of that confusing stuff
that takes place during the in betweens of a relationship that just
isn't meant to be.

(500) Days of Summer is presented in an effective non-linear style that
sets it apart from its romantic comedy predecessors, rotating back and
forth between dates signified by a simple title card flashing in
between scenes (2), (50), (150) and so on to represent the various days
in the course of Toms roller coaster of a relationship. This seesaw
method of bouncing to and fro successfully manages to force the viewer
in a physically engaging shared experience of Tom's feelings, which is
something every director aspires to elicit from their intended
audience. 

The real kudos go to Scott Neustadter and Michael Weber, whose script
is practically flawless. You can't help but feel that their
authenticity and attention to detail while constructing each scene
through appropriately sarcastic and funny dialogue exchanges among all
of the main characters involved, particularly those between Deschanel
and Levitt which come across as heartbreakingly real and genuine. Their
creative way of crafting the simple concept of a break up through
unconventional story structuring is a refreshing concept that begs to
be seen more in a world where most conventional films tend to play it
safe. 

Leads Deschanel and Levitt manage to bring something quite special to
the screen in their portrayals of Tom and Summer (both "last
nameless"). Their chemistry is really what makes the film a joy to
watch. Mostly thanks to Neustadter and Weber's superb dialog, both
actors seem so comfortable in their roles that their interactions with
one another transcend the screen and naturally unfold before our eyes
as if we were voyeurs to their unraveling, wanting so much to change
the fate of their outcome, but helpless to do so. Deschanel is sexy,
carefree and bound to be adored by males everywhere as Summer. Levitt
captures the struggle of the neurotic "boy in love" exceptionally
through all of his various stages of emotional imbalance. 

(500) Days of Summer is a poem to every down and out guy who thinks
he's the only one whose ever been dragged through the mill by their own
Summer. What undoubtedly ends up making this picture so brilliant is
how relatable it is to its victims and victimizers a like. When all is
said and done, there is most definitely a lesson to be learned by Tom's
experiences. Everyone you meet along the way, whether just passing
through or sticking around for awhile, has a purpose. In the end
nothing lasts forever, relationships begin, relationships end. Try to
be thankful for all the people that broke your heart, they more than
likely helped you find yourself in the process especially you,
Summerbitch.
<|_=00=_|>
They said this movie wasn't going to be a love story, but that's simply
not true cause I feel all warm and fuzzy after watching this flick. I
think it's Love. How could you not love this movie, this a story about
a guy named Tom who wants to be an architect but ends up working a
meaningless job at a greeting card company creating romantical
propaganda on paper. Luckily for him the most perfect girl in the
world, Summer, just started working at his office and wouldn't you know
it, she loves The Smiths, too. It's a match made in Ikea Heaven, but
wait there is a twist here! This goddess of all things shabby chic
doesn't believe in love, furthermore she doesn't want to be held down
by a relationship. Oh No! Poor Tom. Those ocean blue eyes, that voice,
that smile, those eyes.... oh those eyes, how could Tom not fall deeply
in love with Summer. So begins the season of love, the 500 Days of
Summer. In 500 amazing days Tom will learn about relationships,
reconciliations (a good Ex never dies), Love, Lose and most importantly
about moving forward.

Now talk about great performances, this ones got two. You want Zooey,
you got Zooey. She's all over this one, easily one of her top
performances to date. She is simply truth in this movie, she'll make
you love her and then she'll slowly break your heart but you'll just
want to love her more until all you see are those glowing blue eyes in
your loneliest nightmares. Joseph Gordon Levitt is so prime here, the
chemistry between he and Zooey clicks perfectly and not only that but
since every woman,man and child is in love with the knee bending powers
of Ms. Deschanel it must be said that JGL gives such a strong
performance that he clearly owns this movie all the way till the very
end. You might come on down to the cinema looking for Zooey but you'll
be rushing home to hit up the IMDb to see what the 3rd' Rock kids been
up to over the last 8 ( hint... see 2005's Brick). While watching JGL's
performance it's pleasantly reminiscent of a pre-Brokeback Heath. He
has such a charm about him that glows and an easy smile that jumps off
the screen, plus much like Heath he has the chops to take it dark and
lonesome with sincerity if the flick requires. The rest of the cast
rounds out nicely with a few supporting folks like Clark Gregg who
plays Tom's square Boss and Geoffrey Arend who is good for a few good
sidekick chuckles. By the way special shout out to Ian Reed Kesler who
played the "Douche" (IMDBs words not mine) with perfection. That must
have been an interesting audition call.. looking for 30-something dude
to play the "Douche". Well Played Sir! 

Now the dynamic duo aside, Marc Webb the Director has got a little
something-something going on. Past sins aside (directing Jesse
McCartney videos, WTF?), it seems that his music video hipness lends a
freshness and style to the overall appearance of this flick. The movie
very rarely missed its mark and by golly its got real DEPTH!. Needless
to say this makes it quite a bit more interesting then the latest
McConaughey (dude what happened, you were so cool in Dazed) and Kate
Hudson needs a paycheck mindless studio romance. You'll have lots to
talk about and feelings to relive long after this ones stopped rolling
the credits. Additional strong points here are a visual aesthetic that
has a modern meets Capraesque remix, which felt very much built around
Zooey Deschanel's fabulous style. The colors and landscape are all
complimentary to the movie, downtown LA never looked so nice! The other
thing we got going on here is a killer soundtrack, built around some
Smiths, Doves, and a few others, not mention the fact that once again
we get a chance to hear Zooey Deschanel do a little karaoke in the
movie which is a tasty little treat.

Bottom line 500 Days is going to be on your mind in 2009 and chances
are that like a good EX it will always pop back in your life and you'll
dust if off and pop it in the player and go down memory lane
remembering all good stuff, then like a swift punch in the gut like
only a good EX can, it'll break your heart all over again.

See it, believe it.
<|_=00=_|>
Everyone loves summer. It's a time for friends, family, and fun.
Ballgames, barbecues, amusement parks, and movies, summer is just a
time to sit back, relax and enjoy. Enjoy time off, good weather and
whatever else it might bring. Am I missing something? Oh yes, love.
Summer is a time for love.

The film can be pretty much summed up in one of the first lines of the
film. "This is a story of boy meets girl. But you should know up front,
this is not a love story." But is it? 500 Days of Summer is not your
typical romantic film. There's something to it, something more than
your usual romantic comedy. Maybe it's the style it's done? Maybe it's
the realistic nature? Maybe it's the wonderful music? Maybe its the
beautiful cinematography? Maybe, its Tom and Summer...

Joseph Gordon-Levitt and Zooey Deschanel are the leads, Tom and Summer.
These are real everyday people. Tom, a believer in true love. Summer, a
doubter. Which reminds me of one particular scene where Summer
questions Tom about believing in love. Tom replies, "It's love, it's
not Santa Claus." It is a real thing, a crazy little thing called love.
Tom falls in love with Summer from the start. She doesn't. Tom is like
every other guy, and every guy knows of a girl like Summer. The girl
they want, but can't have. They try, to no avail. It's frustrating, and
Tom is frustrated. He's happy then sad. He doesn't know what to think.
Gordon-Levitt and Deschanel have great chemistry together and give
solid performances. You really believe their relationship and
hardships. It makes you notice the little things in relationships. The
film highlights two young stars on the rise. With some great
performances lately for Joseph Gordon-Levitt, his stock is rising...
dare I say an up and coming Heath Ledger? 

The story is not in direct order as it goes back and forth from
different days Tom remembers his life and relationship with Summer.
When remembering, we may not remember every detail in order. We choose
what we want to remember. May that be the good, or the bad. For Tom,
it's a little bit of both. Big props to the editing department. The
film shows the good and the bad of love, relationships, and life.
There's something about it that sets it apart from the usual romantic
comedy.

500 Days of Summer is really refreshing now a days. It's funny, unique,
and true to life. It's got something for everybody to like. Director
Marc Webb shines in his feature film debut. I'm interested to see where
he goes from here. 500 Days of Summer has quickly become a late summer
highlight for me and surprisingly so at that.
<|_=00=_|>
Who is Mark Webb? Anyone? Anyone? It is an astonishing piece of work
for a first time feature film director. He counts with a beautifully
crafted screenplay and two sensational leading performances and that's
where the success of this comedy resides. Jodseph Gordon Levitt and
Zooey Deschanel are two startling originals with a winning screen
presence and a brain, yes, a brain. I was involved in their peculiar
relationship because there isn't a hint of shallowness in their back
and fourth. I believe it, completely, and when you sit in the dark and
believe what you see on the screen, things are going to happen to you
the way that happened to me. It is again a confirmation that treating
your audience with respect will pay off somewhere along the line. I
love Zooey Deschanel, she reminds me of some my favorites of the past
without looking or sounding like anybody else. And Joseph Gordon
Levitt, well, this young man is something else. He projects a humanity
that doesn't need to be embellished. It's just there for us to dive
into. Marvelous actor, marvelous performance, marvelous film. I'm so
thrilled to be able to say that.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. The narrator warns us upfront ...
this is not a love story. Still, we are so preconditioned by Hollywood,
that directive merely floated around in my head until near the end of
the film when I realized it was perfectly accurate.

Joseph Gordon-Levit and Zooey Deschanel are the leads and each bring a
certain quirkiness and sensitivity to their roles. Watching them grow
as a couple just never quite clicks for the viewer the way it does for
JGL's character. He buys in hook, line and sinker and believes his
destiny for love is being fulfilled by Summer (Zooey).

Director Marc Webb throws a bit of everything at us - just to prove
this is not a traditional love story. We get the fun of memory blender
- flashbacks like Day 488, Day 2, Day 159 - well you get the point.
That is how most of us remember anyway: non-linear. We also get a funny
musical number in the park, a b & w Bergmanesque dramatization, and a
leading man whose poetic musings are limited to his writing quips for a
greeting card company. Oh, he also takes love advice from his 11 year
old soccer-playing sister (Chloe Moretz), but wisely declines most of
it from his best friend played by sexist, drunken (and funny)
co-worker, Geoffrey Arend.

What I really like about the film is that it is different, yet very
realistic. So often our "dream" girl is just not quite a fit in this
world, yet she and the next guy are just right. Doesn't seem fair, but
in reality, it is not only fair, but perfectly just. And remember,
there is always another season ... maybe Autumn?
<|_=00=_|>
"This is a story of boy meets girl. The boy, Tom Hansen of Margate, New
Jersey, grew up believing that he'd never truly be happy until the day
he met the one. This belief stemmed from early exposure to sad British
pop music and a total mis-reading of the movie 'The Graduate'. The
girl, Summer Finn of Shinnecock, Michigan, did not share this belief.
Since the disintegration of her parent's marriage she'd only love two
things. The first was her long dark hair. The second was how easily she
could cut it off and not feel a thing. Tom meets Summer on January 8th.
He knows almost immediately she is who he has been searching for. This
is a story of boy meets girl, but you should know upfront, this is not
a love story." 

500 Days of Summer is an intriguingly original take on falling in love.
Every emotion involved with a relationship seems to be relayed; from
the strange and quirky aspects of new love to the tragedy of
heartbreak. Marc Webb deftly incorporates his ingenuity and comedy into
the film. The writers quite skilfully enrich the film with one of the
most immensely beautiful and original screenplays to come along in a
while.

Tom, a greeting-card writer with artistic dreams beyond his mundane
job, meets Summer and quickly falls for her. Eventually, he manages to
charm her into a "casual relationship". So begins the 500 days that
chronicle the happiness, heartbreak, and every other aspect involved
with the often changing tides of romance.

500 Days of Summer portrays a relationship that is more realistic and
less clichéd than most others in it's woefully unoriginal and formulaic
genre. In doing so, the film never feels anything less than completely
innovative and incredibly fun. The film's story is told in a
refreshingly non-linear fashion that strives for and often reaches
perfection with each and every scene.

The acting is wonderful, especially from the two leads. Since starring
in Mysterious Skin (a disturbingly compelling film), Joseph
Gordon-Levitt has been one of my favorite actors and proves yet again
why he is one of the most talented actors of his generation. His
performance was truly fantastic. Zooey Deschanel is absolutely
wonderful in her portrayal of Summer and her quirky personalities.
Their chemistry is wondrously compelling to watch and their moments
together seem wholly convincing and genuine. The supporting cast is
terrific throughout and very fun to watch. 

The music was marvelous and really added to the film. Everyone involved
does an amazing job to connect the several elements of love into a
satisfying and moving conclusion. The film often shuffles between
whimsy and realistic, but, rather than getting lost because of it, the
story only seems to be enhanced due to the chaotically transitional
moods.

500 Days of Summer is a hilarious, deftly thoughtful film about love.
The performances are astonishing and the writing is sublime. It is a
thoroughly clever and impressive film that shouldn't be missed.
<|_=00=_|>
This is the story of boy meets girl, but it is not a love story that
will unfurl. Instead a story about loves reactions, caused by two
peoples juvenile actions

A little rhyme I wrote in honor of this years funniest and most
delightful film. In January 2009 I was able to attend the Sundance Film
Festival where I viewed a number of superb movies but none so genius as
this one. Unable to buy or book any tickets for the original showings I
sadly set my thoughts on other films, till the last day. I had changed
plans and went to the ticket office to exchange one movie ticket for
another. It was then that I discovered they planned to screen another
showing of 500 Days of Summer, due to its immense popularity.
Immediately buying a ticket, I found myself in the theater a few hours
later awaiting with batted breath. I looked around me and watched as
Joseph Gorden Levitt took a seat in the row behind, smiling and shaking
hands with a number of fans. Although I too was a great fan I couldn't
bring myself to go over there, instead I stayed in my seat and the
movie started.

An hour and a half later, I was standing up and applauding for all I
was worth. In fact the whole cinema was, with every single audience
member whistling, clapping and laughing at the brilliance of it all.
Then Joseph Gorden Levitt, (the only cast member of the film who showed
up) ran on stage and started answering questions. Bubbling with
enthusiasm he jumped around, laughing, yelling, and keeping the lot of
us entertained. He answered the straight questions with straight
answers and the silly questions with straight out of hell silly
answers. And at the end ran up and down the stage filming us all with a
camcorder, saying he'd remember the day forever, I sure do.

Then he went back to his seat and as everyone exited the cinema I
swallowed my pride, walked up and shook his hand saying, "Amazing
performance, you're an inspiration." Then it was over, I found myself
being shuffled with the crowd out of the theater and into the cold
outside. But even though I was in a t-shirt, I couldn't feel the chill,
being instead caught up in the entertainment and thoughts of a vibrant
funny film. 

A film that scores high in all the boxes and one I will certainly see
again.

100 out of 100.
<|_=00=_|>
This was an excellent romantic comedy, although many might not agree
that it is either romantic or a comedy. I found myself laughing out
loud at many of the scenes, but the laughs in the theater were few, and
I think most people would label this a drama with streaks of black
comedy.

The driving force behind what makes this movie work (beside the script)
is Joseph Gordon-Levitt as Tom Hansen, who carries the movie on the
basis of his physical comedy and acting ability. He is the unrequited
love interest in the film. JGL does have brief glimpses of true love
with Summer (Zooey Deschanel) but it's clear she's not interested in
anything permanent, just a good time. After his initial sexual
encounter with Summer, JGL engaged in a choreographed dance routine of
Hall & Oats "Your Making my Dreams Come True", which should win JGL
some type of award.

Deschanel plays the role she usually plays, soulful & pretty free
spirit. She played the character very well and the movie viewer could
well understand her reticence to engage in a long term affair with Tom.

These types of movies might leave some cold, but the ending turned out
well.

One additional bonus was Chloe Moritz, who played Tom's younger teenage
sister and Psycho-Analyst. She was great.

A very good movie worth checking out. A near perfect date movie I might
add.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't regularly comment on movies, but this has a personal accord
with me.

My girlfriend of one year broke up with me the day before I went to
watch this film, as promised.

That being said, Tom (Joseph Gordon Levit) embodies my apathy and
frustration in every mannerism. He allows the audience to feel his pain
and disappointment. Tom is a man with boyish ideals, coming to terms
with the grief of rejection. He teaches her how one loves, yet she
never learns to except and give as selflessly. Probably because, as I
and Tom have painfully learned, you can't teach or bequile someone as
you would a child into doing love 'properly.' And sometimes, true love
dies, and no sea of tears can change that.

Summer, played by Zooey Deschanel, is fun, beautiful and selfish.
Undoubtedly the villain, the film seeks a reversal of standards; the
male is now being preyed upon.

Is Tom naive? or is Summer a cruel and self interested girl? 

The only thing that really bothered me was the director's incessant
need to punctuate scenes of emotional substance with cliché romantic
comedy relief. He already broke custom, why conform?
