
My movie philosophy: don't blame a movie for not being what it's not
meant to be.

To enjoy a movie, you don't need the movie to be amazing, great, or
even good (sometimes). You just need to know what you should expect.

So what do you expect from gamer? If you want gore, violence, blood,
nudity...go ahead and see it. If you want Gerald Butler running around
shooting people, fighting people, baring his muscles and looking tough
like action heroes do, go ahead and see it. If you want Michael C. Hall
playing an evil guy trying to take over the world, and baring his
muscles, and even showing off his Broadway background a little bit, go
ahead and see it. (but you'd be a little disappointed since he shows up
less than you'd expect as this is quite a short movie, only 1.5 hours).
Even if you want to see some hot lesbian actions probably imagined by
very non-lesbian people, or a cute teenage boy who probably isn't
supposed to do anything other than being a cute teenage boy...go ahead
and see it.

But If you want go in and find some surprise- and twist-filled plot,
some complicated multi-layer character development, or some brilliant
insight into society or even humanity, then no, don't go see Gamer.

The problem is, if you are really expecting the later things I
mentioned, I think it's partially you fault that you are going to spend
one and a half hour of your precious time sitting in a theater
suffering from this movie and then hate it with a passion. Because
really, those aren't what Gamer is meant to be, even though some people
may actually believe that they are.

The reality is that while not what many would call a great (or even
good) movie, Gamer could be thoroughly enjoyed, as long as you know
what it should be. Because I think it's everything it set out to be.
You just need to (maybe grudgingly) accept what it's supposed to be and
either enjoy it for what it is, or realize that it's not a movie for
your high level of intelligence and ignore it completely.
<|_=00=_|>
Was looking forward to seeing what the directors of Crank would do next
and they didn't disappoint. Non-stop action from the very start with
awesome camera work and a unique story line. This movie takes video
gaming to the extreme and makes you wonder if there are any boundaries
to what man will do to amuse themselves! Michael. C. Hall is a hoot to
watch and the singing and dancing scene was hilarious and genius in a
movie like this. It had the feel of the Matrix/Running Man and didn't
take itself too seriously which is why I loved it. Also if you play
video games you will enjoy the scenes in "Society" and the characters
that are portrayed. This is without doubt a modern day action
blockbuster with hints of the 80' and 90's classics. If you like action
and something new go and see this you wont be disappointed!!
<|_=00=_|>
The previews of Gamer didn't terribly appeal to me. However, after
reading some initial reviews and seeing that the people over at Joblo
found it to be pretty decent, I thought I would check it out. Was it
what I thought it would be? Kind of. Was it entertaining? Sure.

Gamer is, first and foremost, mostly a brainless action film in the
vein of Crank and other hyperkinetic actioneers, which is presented in
fast, somewhat jittery cuts. There's plenty of ultraviolence here and a
world of uber-tech that revolves around mind control and the next phase
in adult entertainment. While the premise seems a bit silly, with some
people subjecting themselves to more demeaning elements, it is a bit
thought provoking, which is kind of nice in an action film. It does
edge close to Schwarzenegger's Running Man, although this film stands
on its own with a stern Gerard Butler and over-the-top Michael C Hall.

Still, you can't help but feel detached from everything. The film
rushes itself, finally slowing down to a decent pace at the end, with
an ending that is very fitting and entertaining. However, most of it is
a mix between speedy action and lackluster dramatic scenes. Why
Leguizamo is in this film, I have no clue. There is enough action and
techno-gunk here, however, to make for an entertaining 90 minutes.
There's also plenty of T&A, which is rare in films these days, although
I found most of it to be not veyr attractive. The interesting thing is
that the film does do a good job of creating a world that could
potentially exist. No matter how disturbing some elements in the film
may be, they seem to have an air of truth, and that elevates this film
just-above-average.

Although it is certainly a film with many short comings, it's
entertaining and presents an interesting world with some scary
realizations. Let us hope that, in our lifetime, we don't see this sort
of thing happen.
<|_=00=_|>
In "The Running Man", an innocent man was framed in order that he is
arrested and has to enter a deadly game show. Upon winning this game
show he would win his freedom, but the powers that be attempt to ensure
that this does not happen.

In "Death Race", an innocent man was framed in order that he is
arrested and has to enter a deadly car race. Upon winning this car race
he would win his freedom, but the powers that be attempt to ensure that
this does not happen.

In "Gamer", an innocent man yadda yadda yadda, you get the idea.the
idea itself has been done to death and I knew this before entering the
cinema. I hoped to see at least a form of entertainment for an hour and
a half, but sadly was met with a confusing mess.

I liked the idea of introducing a new spin on the "Man has to win his
freedom by..." genre, but it just seemed such a mess. they had all
these ideas and just threw them in with no thought process at all. it
was just disjointed all the way through.

It just wasn't done as well as the other two i mentioned - which aren't
the most amazing films in their own right anyway, but fairly enjoyable.

i suppose the action set pieces were fairly well done, and i like
gerard butler's claim to be Hollywood's new hard guy. he can act better
than jason statham. just. his accent is just as dodgy though.

a disappointment.
<|_=00=_|>
The premise of "Gamer" is resoundingly simple: What if gamers could
control actual people? Coming into the theater, due to the simple
premise and embarrassingly poor marketing of the film, I was expecting
a brainless, adolescently indulgent action flick. What I got was a
mind-blowing surprise.

"Gamer" is three films in one: (1) Subculture examination of the gamer
ethos; (2) Pulse-pounding action movie; (3) Thought-provoking science
fiction piece.

As others have mentioned, this film truly brings the gamer experience
to the big screen. The battle shots bring MMORPG first-person shooters
to real life, and the Sims/Second Life-like scenes played just as true,
right down to the robotic, singlemindedly determined motion of the
characters. The directors obviously spent many long hours gaming in
preparation for this film (or just for fun).

As an action film, "Gamer" holds its own, delivering plenty of fights,
battle scenes, and adrenaline-soaked moments. Hollywood knows how to do
action, and in "Gamer" you see some of what it has learned from films
like "The Matrix", "Saving Private Ryan", and others. I won't say too
much, but there's a particularly juicy scene involving some kind of
giant snowplow.

"Gamer" shines most brightly, and most unexpectedly, as a science
fiction piece. The film interweaves themes familiar to our 2009
reality, including economic desperation, prison overcrowding, the
fallout of materialism, and technology naively promoted as a panacea
for society's ills.

"Gamer" shows us a society addicted to technology at the expense of
facing reality. Masses of gamers, locked in adolescence or enraptured
by the promise of mindless self-indulgence without consequence, living
solely through their avatars. Desperate segments of society, the poor
and criminal, who have surrendered control of their bodies to the will
of gamers. A populace that embraces televised war games as a solution
to prison overcrowding, rather than addressing the true causes of mass
imprisonment. The megalomaniacal pushers of technology running largely
unchecked as the masses surrender control.

Michael C. Hall delivers a breakout silver screen performance as the
multifaceted Ken Castle -- after his great work in Six Feet Under, this
is another power move for his career. Kyra Sedgwick nails her cougar
reporter character, who begins the film as another no-conscience
profiteer but becomes more through the course of the film. And Gerard
Butler plays the hero archetype admirably, as every bit of the man who
his spoiled teenage gamer-puppeteer cannot become.

"Gamer" may end up as a cult classic, a slowly growing mainstream
success, or could stay underrated indefinitely, but it's definitely
worth a view.
<|_=00=_|>
You will see many many user comments here along the line of "hey look,
if you're looking for a film with story and reflection of the modern
society, you won't find it here, you have to take the film for what it
is, if you disliked it because you thought it was anymore than an
action film, it's your fault." etc, but that's exactly the problem, I
went into this film expecting nothing more than Gerard Butler kicking
ass, a film that's basically a video game where you won't have to be
controlling, I didn't expect good story or good acting, I was in purely
for a bit of special effects and a short amount of time to turn my
brain off. Instead I ended up watching what seemed to be a desperate
attempt to hook in with the teenager, with cringe worthy moments topped
up with languages such as "epic" and "owned", and a story that's pulled
out of someone's ass. the plot is so full of holes to a point where I
almost wanted to walk out half way through.. (ie vodka and urine simply
cannot start a car, if you can remotely control another person's mind,
then reading data from someone's head isn't exactly a far fetch,
therefore we really don't need lines such as "I thought this technology
won't be around for at least a decade"... I could go on, but go and buy
this if you think you will enjoy the following:

- 5.56x45mm blowing limbs and heads to pieces 

- inappropriate nudity at inappropriate times 

- gaming references such as "owned" "epic" "ping" 

- dexter (michael c hall) dancing 

- peter petrelli (milo ventimiglia) being a pervert 

- happy ending where main character drive off to the distance where
they'll certainly live happily after

Here is an idea, turn on COD4, go to option and run it as windows mode,
and next to the game window, you open VLC playing censored porn,
chances are you'll get more out of that than this poor excuse of a
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I must say I play videogames, I go to work, I have friends with who I
hang out outside of my house, I'm not perfect and was offended by this
movie.

I have no idea what the creators thought to achieve with this, but a
film with so many stereotypes and big explosions is testing the
audience tolerance limits. I guess Hollywood only plays Team Fortress
and Halo skirmishes, never hearing of a single player mode where you
try to avoid problems just to finish it. Though the film tries to
portray how bad the entertainment businesses are, it fails by being too
ridiculous. Oh, and did I mention it takes the word "slavery" to the
next level, with the entire world loving this travesty? Get ready for a
roller-coaster of redundant plot holes.

To cut the story short, the military invents unstable mind control, but
shuts it down. Chief scientist resurrects it on his own to sell and
makes a business empire as a front to take over the world. Prime unit
escapes, exposes the plan to takeover the world and kills the scientist
for revenge. Wow, how original. And the ending doesn't explain
anything; it's a classic "driving away with the family" that tells
noting about the damage done or what will follow. Ugh.

Let's hypothetically say you acquire a way to control people actions
like video game characters. What would you do with this tech? Waste it
on videogames or make people just give you money for no reason? Why not
go and take over the world one man at a time? Why would you complicate
things by selling it to retarded people? Any army in the world would
pay you more for this tech as well as give you subjects to install it
in. And while we are on the subject of soldiers, how many times do you
normally die in a first person shooter game if you are a pro player?
And how many times did you die to become a pro? Every beginner will go
through lives like a minigun through bullets.

You even get to see the game run at third person perspective When you
play as a real person? What the f***?.

The soundtrack is terrible even for a terrible movie. The parody of
SecondLife or something with the song "The Bad Touch" will be just one
of the good reasons to walk out of the theater.

The acting. Oh was it horrible and modern stereotypical. An evil
"genius" who looks like he couldn't invent Tetris, a bad ass hero who
has the hart of gold, a shrimpy sissy hacker kid and so on. And their
lines, ugh... Oh, the movie is full of this cr**. Acting school or not,
anyone can do this terrible.

Terrible games may sell, but they don't last. That's why we have lots
of people on YouTube reviewing them and getting lots of subscribers in
the process. If you played more than one game in your life, you know
adapting to new rules, challenges, puzzles and physics is key. Here
it's just one chaotic massive skirmish, explosions and a cra**y plot.
If you get attached to any of the characters, you probably need your
head examined.

Maybe as a book the story would be good, but it would not be a
bestseller made into a movie. If you feel empty, I recommend a better
1987 film "Running man" with the same plot ideas and Arnold
Schwarzenegger.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie was fairly good. Even though slayers should have been more
defined, it did explain the basics of it (make it to the save point
alive). The movie being "abstract" worked very well for everything
besides the slayers sequences, but those were surprisingly short.
Something that I thought they did very well though is showing how the
user interacts with their character. In MMO's today, you have a-holes
who will screw up other people's fun and during one of the society
scenes, there is an example of this with the roller blading. Its made
even more powerful by people laughing at other people 's injuries,
disgracing of dead bodies, etc. because its the icons (avatars) getting
abused, not the users.

From an academic standpoint, this movie is great since it shows off how
sick and uncaring people can be when its not their bodies being abused
or shot at.

Anyways, if you want to see this movie, I warn you that there it is
rated R for good reasons. It made me think that they should separate
the R-rating into R1 and R2 or R and RR. This is because many R movies
are lite-R's (some swearing, some nudity, some blood, but nothing
out-of-control so to speak) and many other R movies are heavy-R's (i.e.
saw, many cheesy horror flicks, and this movie)
<|_=00=_|>
I don't know where to begin.. It'd take me longer than the movies
runtime to describe how truly awful Gamer is. Gamer is basically an
amalgam of The Running Man (even to the point of having a character
named Ben Richard), Johnny Mnemonic (with Ludicrous (sic) in a
carbon-copy role of Ice-T) with a touch of Robocop (directive 4), but
at least it gets to mention 'tea-bagging' (yay?).

From the offset the movie looks and feels like it has been written by a
horny 13 year old, and it's all down hill from there. The story and
story-telling are poor, the characters one dimensional and the script
abysmal. Why anyone agreed to be involved in this picture is beyond me,
especially when the supporting cast consists of John Leguizamo, Kyra
Sedgewick and Keith David, all solid performers on their day.

If you want to see a film about games/virtual reality, you'd be far
better off watching The Lawnmower Man, TRON or eXistenZ, or waiting for
the upcoming TRON: Legacy. On the other hand, if you want to see a
rehash of some of my favourite tongue-in-cheek sci-fi movies (but
without the story) then be my guest....but don't say I didn't warn you.

3/10 (purely for the mention of tea-bagging)
<|_=00=_|>
I did read comments about it before seeing it, and heard that it was
bad. I went to the movies to see it a few nights ago with a friend. I
have to say I agree with the bad comments.

The story went OK at first but then just got completely random and made
no sense. Afterwords I had t ask my friend 'is this in the real world
or is it the game?'. We need more explaining about everything.

There was no connection with the characters and we didn't know anything
about them.

The filming and the editing was terrible thought out the action scenes,
I thought I was getting a headache. I thought I was watching Quantam of
Solace (which was also rubbish).

I have found out the most stupid scene of all the film I watched in my
lifetime. The main character downed a bottle of vodka before fighting.
He goes to a car during the action, I throws up in the fuel tank and
urinates in it and the car somehow works!, how stupid is that? Even the
after the ending was done, I asked myself 'what was that all about?' I
don't mind Gerard Butler but I thought his acting was dull in this. I
cant say much about the others because again we don't know anything of
the characters.

I preferred the trailers before the film started.

I wouldn't recommend this it all, I would rather rent it on DVD when
it's out.
