
As expected, the effects were spectacular. The fight scenes were
extravagant and fast-paced.

The story though, couldn't keep pace. They kept stopping for a romance
that was never developed (and no one really cared). The real thing that
brought this movie down though was the constant stooping to this
immature level. The had to have said @ss and balls 10 times (and that's
a low estimate). Not only this, but those two twin autobots were
introduced who were supposed to be "hip" maybe? They just turned out to
be extremely annoying and to bring down the level of the movie as a
whole.

As a fan of the original cartoon series, I have to say I was really
disappointed they stooped the level of immature @ss-balls humor and
creating new characters with low IQ's. They could have done better. The
action though, was amazing and I am still glad I paid to see it on the
big screen.
<|_=00=_|>
In Psychology, we would take this movie as a perfect example of what we 
call "reinforcement". If people like it, make more of it. If no one 
said anything about it, no need to make it again.

So, what did everyone (myself included) talked in the first film? Those 
fights were great. Loved the robots, I wanted more of them. Oh, Megan 
is hot. Let's get more of her too (if by "more of her" you hear "less 
of her clothes", even better). Oh, Megatron was great, sorry he had a 
short time in the screen. And do on.

No one talked about the story of the movie, or how the characters were 
different from each other. Of course no one paid any attention to the 
dialogues. No one said how great was the continuity of the movie. No 
one cared who the characters were. Thus... why bother with any of this?

There was a long time I did not see a movie so bad as this one. I am 
still in shock, after 4 days. Director, writer, editor... no one had 
any idea of what do to with any of those characters or how to get from 
a scene to the other. No one cared for the story, why people should be 
in one place or other. The plots are so scattered no one bothered to 
think why a character would do something.

So, if you like the characters created in the first movie; if you like 
stories; if you would like at least that you ears and/or you 
intelligence don't be hurt by the most stupid lines ever told by a 
human (or robot) in a movie, be careful with this movie.

But, if you want to see a lot of spare parts fighting each other, would 
like to see great battles, don't care for story, dialogues or 
continuity, you'll sure like this one, because it has great battle 
scenes, bigger and faster than the first one. Then, maybe you'll give 
and 8 instead of a 2 to Revenge of the Fallen. Myself, i like that 
action scenes be part of the movie, not the movie itself. 

So, be careful with the movie. Don't get any higher expectations except 
some time to eat popcorn.
<|_=00=_|>
i loved the first transformers, the acting/humour was superb and the
action was AMAZING. I was super anxious for transformers 2 and after
about an hr I was anxious to leave. I couldn't take it anymore,
everything was stepped up to a bad degree. Too loud, too much action,
too much horrendous jokes and way too many robots! Half the time i was
trying to figure out whos who and there were so many plot holes that
bugged me, this all being in the first hr alone. There were three
characters that I truly DETESTED, the twin robots and that greasy
haired buffoon of roommate, it doesn't get any more annoying than those
three. GAHHH and when all three of them were in the same scene I wanted
to kill myself.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is arguably the most highly anticipated release of the
summer, and you can see the pressure must have got to Michael Bay with
the amount of crap he put into this movie to lengthen it.

Firstly, i will say the action scenes and visual effects are great, and
the addition of new "hip" auto-bots is good for young viewers (not
anyone else though), but unfortunately you only really see any action
until the last half, and then its still separated by unnecessary and
tiresome romantic scenes, and even then, the action scenes become
tiresome with large amounts of 300 style slow-mo and an obvious
intention of Michael Bay to show everyone how great his visual effects
are, as well as Megan Fox's boobs for the 14 year olds in the audience.
Great Mr.Bay, we can see that, just give us a good film.

The first half is largely made of useless footage of Sam at college and
annoyingly frequent comedy scenes with his mum. The whole "college"
section could have been compressed to about 20 to 25 minutes rather
than an hour long.

The plot is very good, and the stuff about the fallen is pretty gnarly.
Its just a shame you don't find out about it till about the last third
of the film, and there are a lot of plot holes - like why the hell
didn't Sam give the splinter to Optimus Prime instead of his lame
girlfriend?! But i think if they had started with the plot earlier and
cut a lot of the "inbetween" they could have made the film a lot more
fun.

Overall, it is fun, but the faults become tiresome and therefore make
the film tiresome, especially with its long length (2 and a half hours
i believe). Worth Seeing yes, but definitely not the blockbuster
monstrosity we were all looking forward to.

6/10

Edit: On reading other peoples comments, i want to say to any self
respecting film lover, ignore the 1 or 2 star comments, but equally
ignore the 9 and 10 star comment. Especially the 9 and 10s which go on
about the special effects, i think they need to learn having good
special effects doesn't give you a good movie. They'd get along with
George Lucas pretty well though...
<|_=00=_|>
I'm amazed at some of the reviews on here. Seriously, what did people
expect outta this film? Shakespeare? The English Patient? You go to see
this for the ridiculous action, awesome special effects and just to
have a good time, which is what I had. Yeah, it did seem to overindulge
slightly and was slow in parts. Yeah, the humour's cheesy, sometimes
painfully so. No surprise there though, let's remember we're watching a
film based on kids' toys, not a Bronte novel. It ain't perfect, but if
you expected it to be, I'm glad you're feeling let down. For me, it
didn't try to be anything it shouldn't have and what it needed to do
right, it did.

Mindless, thoroughly enjoyable fun, just like the first one.
<|_=00=_|>
Too much comic relief undermines the dramatic impact of director
Michael Bay's visually impressive sequel "Transformers: Revenge of the
Fallen." If you skipped the original live-action "Transformers," you
may not understand the stakes in the sequel or the situation. The
original concluded with the treacherous Decepticon jet Transformer
streaking off into the sky, guaranteeing the survival of the villains.
Original "Transformer" scenarists Roberto Orci and Alex Kurtzman are
joined on this installment by "Reindeer Games" writer Ehren Kruger and
they bring back the evil Decepticons for a rematch with the virtuous
Autobots. 

Clocking in at an hour and 49 minutes, Bay's epic length sequel
features machine-like entities shape-shifting from various vehicles
into gigantic robots with deadly appendages that discharge explosive
broadsides whenever they unleash their titanic fury. The problem is Bay
neglects the narrative for these massive transformations. When the
Hasbro creations aren't changing from innocent machines into
destructive robots, Bay and his scribes are slinging visual and verbal
jokes as fast as you can blink. In other words, "Transformers: The
Revenge of the Fallen" lacks suspense until the last quarter hour when
the flesh & blood performers inject some emotional gravity into this
superficial smackdown between good and evil alien robots.

"Transformers: The Revenge of the Fallen" opens with a prologue in
17,000 B.C. when mankind initially runs afoul of the alien robots,
before Bay jumps ahead to the 21st century when mankind and the
Autobots have formed an alliance. U.S. Army Major Lennox (Josh Duhamel
of "Turistas") and Sgt. Epps (Tyrese Gibson of "2 Fast 2 Furious"),
command an elite squad codenamed NEST that consists of Autobots
collaborating with U.S. and British soldiers to smoke out rogue
Decepticons hiding anywhere in the world. The opening Shanghai sequence
where NEST routs a gargantuan unicycle that wrecks more havoc than
Godzilla ever visited on Tokyo gets things started off on the right
track. The unicycle warns our heroes that the worst is about to befall
them in the form of a monstrous entity named 'The Fallen.' 

The sequel focuses on a thousand year old object called 'the matrix of
knowledge' that provides loads of power to whoever acquires it. The
scene shifts from Shanghai to the Witwicky homestead in California
where Sam (Shia LaBeouf of "Disturbia") announces his plans to attend a
prestigious Ivy League university and try to live the life of a normal
twentysomething. Sam informs Bumblebee, the yellow Camaro that morphs
into a monstrous robot, that he cannot accompany him. Freshmen aren't
allowed to have cars on campus. Incredibly, Sam is leaving his super
hottie girlfriend, Mikaela Banes (Megan Fox), who looks sexier than
ever. After Sam's parents, Ron Witwicky (Kevin Dunn) and Judy (Julie
White), get our hero situated in his dorm, they head off to Europe for
a vacation. Sam and Mikaela are having their first relationship
struggle. She wants him to utter the L-word "love" but he is content
only to tell her that he "adores" her and they plan to maintain their
relationship coast-to-coast via the Internet.

As Sam is unpacking, a shard of the Allspark falls out of his clothing
from the first movie and weird things start to happen. Remember, the
AllSpark was a mystical cube that contained the key to the
Transformers' existence and was thought destroyed in the original
movie. Optimus Prime shows up soon afterward and explains trouble is
brewing and Sam has a role to play in its resolution, but our hero
refuses to participate.

Of course, what Sam wants and what Sam ends up doing are two entirely
different matters. In one of his classes, he scans an astronomy book
from cover to cover and accuses Einstein of being wrong. Furiously, Sam
starts scribbling enigmatic symbols. Later, the Decepticons return in
force, steal parts of the AllSpark, excavate Megatron from the bottom
of the ocean floor, sink half the U.S. Navy, and set out to destroy not
only the Autobots but also the Earth. The Decepticons' primary target
is Sam and they perform a full body scan to obtain vital information.

"Transformers" boasts some spectacular scenes. For example, a robot
versus robot mêlée around Egypt's Giza Necropolis, with the evil
Devastator, a remarkably mammoth mechanoid, absorbing several
construction vehicles so it can scramble atop the peak of a pyramid, is
truly a sight to behold. Again, Bay and his scribes cannot inhibit
their humor and they show two huge wrecking balls dangling like
genitalia between its massive thighs. The scene where the Decepticons
resurrect Megatron from the bottom of the ocean is exhilarating to
watch. The last thing that you should be thinking about is the
nincompoop who decided not to melt Megatron done into a pile of metal
so nothing like this could happen. Unfortunately, had they done so it
is likely that there would not have been a sequel.

Mind you, "Transformers: The Revenge of the Fallen" qualifies as a big,
dumb, noisy action-paced sci-fi saga that doesn't make any sense and
revels in its larger-than-life idiocy. Humans take a backseat to the
fracas between the mechanoids until the final moments when only Sam can
save the day. Unfortunately, the humor gets entirely out of hand. Sam's
college roommate follows him around the globe and spends more time
screaming in terror rather than fighting. Agent Simmons (John Turturro)
is back acting just as flaky as ever, too. The Ghetto twin Autobots are
as obnoxious as Jar Jar Binks was in the "Star Wars" prequel. The gags
and the pranks displace the drama. The language is often rude and
verges on the obscene. The surprises are few and far between. Without
enumerating them, we are asked to believe that essential characters can
die and never be revived. Anybody who believes for an instant that the
Decepticons will vanquish the Autobots is clearly delusional, though it
would have been a nice cliffhanger touch on Bay's part to stage an
ending similar to "Star Wars: The Empire Strikes Back."
<|_=00=_|>
Adapting Transformers into live-action movies is always going to be a
bit of a nasty challenge to get right, but I enjoyed most of this
action-packed extravaganza. It doesn't have that same magic of seeing
Transformers battle for the first time and it seeming like a spectacle,
but it makes up for it by having more action and more explosions.

So a quick few words on what I thought of the first movie.

Transformers 1 HATED: - Megan Fox's 'acting'. It's absolutely all form
and no charisma; - most of the Transformers talking; - the scene where
the Transformers are hiding in the backyard of Sam's house while he
searched for the spectacles in his room (just seemed to take all the
seriousness away from the Transformers and portray them as silly).

Transformers 1 LOVED: - watching the Transformers battle each other; -
Shia Labeouf doing his great mix of nutty comedy/nervous acting. 

Transformers 2 - HATED: - Film tends to sag in the middle when the
action slows down to progress some of the silly plot. Transformers is
not a film about plot, it's about the action - just keep it coming and
don't try to make a story from it because it's RIDICULOUS; - Megan Fox
still looks amazingly hot but cannot act to save her life. You may as
well just put a cardboard cut-out of her next to Shia Labeouf and it'll
do the same job for a fraction of the cost; - A scene towards the end
of the movie where there is a small "dream sequence" of sorts, and the
word "destiny" is mentioned. I almost vomited. The word 'ridiculous'
doesn't quite do it justice; - The girl that Sam meets at college and
who she is. I am simply AMAZED that they actually let that whole thing
get put into the movie - it just doesn't fit into the Transformers
world and leaves stupendous plot holes and questions; - There isn't
enough slow-motion in the action sequences for you to take it all in -
Transformers trying to be "funny" - yuck.

Transformers 2 - LOVED: -The action is mind-blowing. This is what you
go to see the film for, and apart from the slow-mo flaw, it's pretty
breathtaking and surprisingly violent too; - Sam and his parents are
genuinely hilarious.

And that's it.

I went to see Robots doing battle, and for 90% of the movie that's what
I got. This isn't a film for those looking for a smart plot or
realistic story lines and physical motion - this is something to
visually gawk at, and sonically admire. This is special effects without
having to think about it. There are plenty of other films that showcase
superb character development and plot, but this isn't it and nor does
it try to be. 

This is a live-action movie that you could easily imagine being a
cartoon. If that's what you want to see I think you'll enjoy this as
pure entertainment. If you didn't like the first movie I can't see how
you would like this one, but for those who liked watching metal smash
into other metal, you'll be buzzing from this flick.
<|_=00=_|>
For the most part, this film is the decent thrill ride that the movie
going audience is looking for. As an action moving, it has scenes to
astound and thrill any avid fan. As a science fiction movie it stands
reasonably well. It doesn't over-explain things and doesn't throw in
concepts as central plot points that are blatantly impossible (super
novas that threaten entire galaxies, I'm talking about you Star Trek).
The movie also does relatively well on a comedic note, and from a
standpoint of general plot. Though others have complained about the
central importance of Sam's role being unlikely and a retread of the
first film, it follows through logically from where the first film left
off.

Though the film is a lot of fun, it does have its flaws. Unfortunately
the humor descends to the low brow a little too often. Also the Autobot
twins that Michael Bay apparently loved so much were frightfully
annoying. They did also lean towards offensive cultural stereotypes a
little heavily. It is unfortunate because a couple of their funnier
lines could have been delivered just as well by completely different
characters. In fact they might have been funnier coming from a more
straight laced Autobot. The use of the twins in pure Jar Jar Binks
fashion (though not quite as irritating) was unfortunate given how many
underused robots there were. The comment about Sam's roommate's bravery
could have been unexpectedly hilarious coming out of Arcee.

Most of the other glitches in the film were relatively minor and not
worth mentioning, though the writers could use a geography lesson. If
you enjoy action films and don't need a deeper artistic message,
Revenge of the Fallen is well worth the watch.
<|_=00=_|>
We all have a feeling of dread when we heard of a sequel going into
production when referring to a movie that we enjoyed. Especially if
that movie is based on something left over from our childhood. While
the first Transformer movie was enjoyable, Transformers 2: Revenge of
the Fallen exceeded all of the expectations I could have possibly had
while all the while blowing the first movie out of the water.

~Possible Spoilers~ Shia LaBeouf turns in a finely tuned performance
that exemplifies his growth from child star to emerging actor. Josh
Duhamel returns as Lennox as a side character with his own plot that
quickly steals the scene. Megan Fox was the only low spot in the cast,
highlighted mostly in action scene involving little dialogue and a lot
of bounce. The special effects were amazing and the exotic locales were
excellent as the journey takes the viewer on a whirlwind tour of both
the world and human history. Michael Bay pulled no punches in the witty
banter involving the giant robots and their human counterparts. The
plot though stretched at times was credible in the overall action of
the story. Clearly audiences know better than to go to a Michael Bay
film if they want an Academy Award winning performance.

All in all, this movie was not to be missed. It will be one of the
hardest movies to beat this summer in the action department as young
adults and adults alike will enjoy the action, drama, romance and
scenery.
<|_=00=_|>
Lets just start with the critics. I have a lot of respect for critics
and their opinions but lets face it Transformers 1 and 2 are not made
for critics. They REALLY didn't like the sequel and I in all honesty
see why. But, and it's a big but, I am the kind of person who enjoys a
good Oscar movie and a good sob in a sad movie, but i am still a HUGE
fan of action movies. 

For me personally an action movie is crude language, many explosions, a
hero of some sorts, and a decent soundtrack and for me Transformers:
Revenge of the Fallen does indeed deliver on that point. The movie is
visually fascinating and "explosive", and I knew what to expect so I
was therefore not disappointed. 

After giving myself time to consider the movie more clearly, yes, there
are points I could have been without or enjoyed more of. Megan Fox's
and Shia LaBeouf's lovey dovey stuff could have been left out for all I
care. The sense of humor does indeed border on the idiocy lvl but
todays generation might not be as clever as others. I would have loved
to see Devastator more than others, but drives me to the same
conclusion as Spider-Man 3 where I would have loved to see Venom a lot
more than I did. The action scenes (and there are a lot of them) are a
bit crowded and you do have to be in a certain state of mind to be able
to focus well.

But all in all the movie is visually dynamic and has the most
outstanding special effects since the last Transformers. It was
genuinely entertaining. As for stars i give the explosions 2 stars, the
SFX 3 stars, Shia LaBeouf 1 star, Josh Duhamel 1 star and the robots 2
stars leaving the total at 9/10. 

Go watch it if not for the massive explosions or just because you want
to see the sequel see for the impressive ability Michael Bay has to
bring the wildest toys to life yet again.
