
James Bond and Oscar winning director Ed Zwick take on the Nazis.

Saw a preview screening of DEFIANCE last week in Woodland Hills. Daniel
Craig stars as Tuvia Bielski in the true WWII story of three Jewish
brothers who hid in the Belorussian forests and built a community of
partisan fighters, saving over 1200 Jews by war's end.

Liev Schreiber (Zus Bielski) and Jamie Bell (Asael Bielski) star
alongside Craig as his two younger brothers. Both Craig and Schreiber
give powerhouse performances as the older brothers competing for
leadership, and Jamie Bell, who most recently starred in the abysmal
Jumper, gives a surprisingly great performance as well. 

Zwick has created one of the most beautiful and thought provoking films
of his career and definitely one of the most Oscar worthy movies to hit
cinemas in years. War and destruction has never been so captivating and
moving. There have been dozens of war movies in recent years but none
have left me caring so much or feeling so attached to the characters.
My eyeballs wouldn't break from the screen for the full 120 mins, and
by the film's end, I wasn't ready to stop watching. I can't wait for
the release (which appears to be some time this winter) in order to see
it again.

It's a superb film with a nice balance of heavy hitting action and
intense drama, but if that's not enough to make you want to see it,
just the fact that these on screen heroes existed in real life
definitely make it worth the watch.

This is a WWII movie that doesn't hide or glamorize war but shows the
intense reality of what happens when people band together against
overwhelming evil and survive. 

A solid 8.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
I enjoyed "Defiance" immensely -- there was humor and heartache, with a
liberal dose of action. Not a brainless action movie, enough of a story
to make it memorable, and fast-paced enough to keep me from becoming
bored.

On the other hand, although the movie captures the spirit of the story,
it is far from a documentary, and I'd have preferred a more
historically accurate film. I'm biased, though -- I read the Peter
Duffy book "Bielski Brothers" soon after it was released ("Defiance" is
based on a different book), and I found the real story even more
compelling than the Hollywood version.

Nonetheless, I live in the real world where directors have to shoot on
a budget, and this was a good, diverting peek into a story that was
long overdue to be told.
<|_=00=_|>
"Defiance" is a very entertaining, exciting, suspenseful, and
inspirational film about a tough topic: the Holocaust. Its many action
sequences are well-paced and well-motivated. You know exactly why Tuvia
Bielski (Daniel Craig) breaks into a home and points a gun at a man in
front of his family. Daniel Craig and Live Schreiber are terrific as
Tuvia and Zus Bielski, who lead a band of Jewish forest partisans
during World War Two, thus saying over a thousand lives.

The movie is not perfect. Characters speak English with Slavic accents.
In other scenes, they speak Russian or Belarusian. Craig and Schreiber
manage very good Slavic accents, both when speaking English and when
speaking the Slavic languages, but Craig occasionally lapses into his
English accent when speaking English. Female characters are not
particularly well drawn, or given much to do. While this film is very
good, it doesn't have the production values to be a timeless classic
like "Schindler's List." The movie is controversial. Most of the
controversies are shallow relative to the most important facts at hand.
Many of those attacking this movie have axes to grind, including
current events in the Middle East or feuds between Poles and Jews. The
most important fact is this: the Nazis committed a genocide of six
million Jews. In the midst of this Satanic nightmare, the Bielskis
managed to save over a thousand Jews. That's the main, and absolutely
true, point here, and it should not be lost in bickering over details.

Compared to other treatments of the Holocaust, this film is fair. It
doesn't show Slavic peasants as uniformly Jew-hating collaborators.
Nazis, not Slavic peasants, were the authors and perpetrators of the
Holocaust. Some occupied peoples collaborated, often out of fear and
for financial gain or as payback for old grudges. Some occupied peoples
did everything they could to help Jews, as does a Belarusian peasant in
this film.

The Bielskis were not immaculate. They did summarily execute captured
Germans, as shown here. They did raid peasants for provisions, as shown
here. They did work with the Soviets, but so did Uncle Sam. Remember
that photo of FDR and Churchill smiling with Stalin at Yalta. The
Polish IPN institute is investigating charges that members of the
Bielski partisans, but not the Bielskis themselves, participated in the
1943 Soviet massacre of 128 people in Naliboki. Aron, the youngest
Bielski brother, was, in 2007, accused of defrauding an elderly Polish
woman. These failures of the Bielski brothers to be perfect in no way
lessen their achievement, any more than any failure to be perfect
lessen any hero's achievement. Again, in the face of genocide, the
Bielski brothers managed to save over a thousand people. Were they
perfect? No. Were they admirable, heroic, and worth learning about?
Absolutely yes.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie was good. Not Zwick's best effort though and as for the
acting it was Liev Schreiber that delivered the most. Every time I see
Craig I see James Bond and that other guy, Jamie Bell, was barely even
on screen. I'm guessing most of his scenes were cut out of the film to
pave the way for more Craig screen time. The action set pieces were
mostly impressive but the problem is, its over before you know it. But
I can honestly say, it was impressive nonetheless. Its not brainless by
any means, the movie has a profound and compelling story. One can only
wonder how these filmmakers come up with more WWII movie ideas every
year.

From a visual point of view, the movie looks absolutely beautiful. From
the authentic weaponry and uniforms to the rich and colorful Lithuanian
locations, Defiance may fall flat during some points throughout the
film; as with every other black and white war movies that's been
released, the Germans are depicted as war machines of death without
remorse, if you can overlook these flaws I think it is an enjoyable
film and in its entirety, Defiance is an overwhelming movie that
doesn't glamorize the war but shows the intense reality behind it all.
A must see for all war movie fans out there.
<|_=00=_|>
this film surely merits the two stars.

if you're brave enough to make a movie, you deserve one star. the
second is for the pictures. and that's it.

the movie sucked, in general and in detail. and we have noted down
quite some of them.

so, if you're not pulled off by the above and want to continue reading
go ahead.

first of all, the Bielski family were Polish, not Belorussian, Jews.
and Polish Jews spoke Polish, not Russian. Bielski himself spoke poor
Russian, he was quite fluent in Polish and Yiddish. so.. the question
is... why do they make the characters in the movie talk Russian and
write Polish? another thing is, if you make a movie and want to put
something in a foreign language in it, make sure it's correct. just a
little movie-makers hint. what was written in Polish on a label
attached to the hanged farmer said "amant żydów", which translates
roughly into, putting it nicely, "someone who enjoys Jews in a sexual
way". the English translation said "Jew lover". well.. I'm quite sure
they did not mean THAT kind of love here...

the Bielski group never fought Germans. they were never a guerrilla.
they lived in the forest alright, and fought mostly Russians. and
Polish guerrillas. basically, they would fight anyone.

so... Tewje Bielski is not a Robin Hood. nor would he ever give
speeches like that about "freedom", "being chased like animals but not
being animals" and all other sort of American rhetoric.

btw, didn't he look just like Braveheart, on his white horse, talking
to those tormented Jews? now... we are reaching a very complicated
issue with the name Naliboki.

in the movie Naliboki was the name of Bielski's camp. quite an
unfortunate name as in reality it was not quite so.

Naliboki was/is the name of a small Polish town that was allegedly
massacred and burnt by Bielski's "troops". the truth is though, that
the massacre was authored by a Soviet fighting group with the help of
some local guerrillas, none of them being even related to Bielski. the
blame was put on Bielski by the Soviets years later when investigation
was drawn to explain war crimes in that region (many people today still
believe the Bielski people are responsible for the massacre.) to
include this in the movie might have made a really interesting plot
line, instead we have a huge confusion.

the Bielski forming his group and the Naliboki massacre took place
during a war, quite uncomfortable for Poland, Soviets, Jews and
everyone else Polish-Soviet. this conflict broke out round 1943 in the
nowogródek area (a local little war inside the World War II, with no
clear division between the "good guys" and the "bad guys".. that's a
bit too complicated for Hollywood..).

OK, but referring to the movie, apart from the fact the shots were
good, it was historically inaccurate, interpreted in a wooden and
iconic way... can't say much.

waste of celluloid.

I'd rather some movie makers didn't wipe their mouth with a "true
story" label. if anything, it might have been "inspired by" with the
source of inspiration left remotely behind.

(pity you cannot paste links... I've got some really nice ones about
the true story.)
<|_=00=_|>
I was almost giving up seeing this film because of certain reviews
which were not that good. To my amazement , the film turned up to be
not good, but excellent. It shows people fighting for their lives,
starving, getting to the point where many people loose faith and come
close to being like animals. That is when you need a good leader which
the Bielski brothers certainly were. And what good actors, Live
Schreiber as Zus , what a performance, also Daniel Craig faultless as
Tuvia. When you see all that killing, done by men (and women) trying to
survive and also in some cases, revenge, you wonder how peaceful, good
persons can change and become violent, when circumstances demand. And
pray that those times will never happen to us. Spare us from being the
Chosen People, says the Rabbi, overcome by anguish in a touching scene.
But it is through suffering and faith that these people defy their
destiny. My mother and father left Bielorus before the war. But most of
their close ones did not.
<|_=00=_|>
In 1941, in Belorussia, the Jewish Bielski brothers succeed in escaping
from the massacre of the German in their village where their parents
were killed. They hide in the woods and sooner other runaway Jews join
them. Tuvia Bielski (Daniel Craig), the eldest brother, assumes the
leadership of the survivors and plans a camp with tasks for everyone in
the community; however, his brother Zus Bielski (Liev Schreiber) wants
to fight against the Germans and does not agree with Tuvia's
directions. Zus decides to join the Russian resistance that believes
that Jews do not fight. While Tuvia welcomes any survivor in his camp
with his two younger brothers and fight for food and ammunition, Zus
finds anti- Semitism among the Russian partisans. 

"Defiance" is an excellent movie based on a true story that proves that
nothing is impossible to survive. Of course, the plot is romanticized,
but the merit of these Bielski brothers is undeniable. The direction of
Edward Zwick (from "Blood Diamond") is outstanding, with the journey of
a group of survivors that uses human characters in drama, romance and
action in realistic scenes (the battle sequences are amazing). The
landscapes are extremely beautiful, especially in the winter with the
frozen forest. The cast is magnificent, and is difficult to highlight
an individual performance. The beauty of the unknown Alexa Davalos is
impressive. My vote is nine.

Title (Brazil): "Um Ato de Liberdade" ("An Act of Liberty")
<|_=00=_|>
Read more at http://FrameRate.blog.com

When most people learn about World War II during their American History
classes, they hear all about the major stories and the major players:
D-Day, Eisenhower, the Holocaust, Hitler, Axis vs. Allies, Battle of
the Bulge, but there are literally thousands of lesser-known stories
from that era that many have not yet heard. It was one such obscure
story that is the basis for the film Defiance, starring Daniel Craig.

The film begins with a familiar theme -- Nazi soldiers rounding up Jews
in Western Europe. The grainy, black-and-white style tells us that this
is a true story. However, as events unfold, we realize that this isn't
the Holocaust story that we're accustomed to seeing in films like
Schindler's List. In fact, it's a story about hundreds of Jews who
fight for survival as free men and women in the dense and expansive
forests of Nazi-occupied Poland.

Daniel Craig gives perhaps one of his best performances as Tuvia
Bielski, the eldest of four Jewish brothers and the eventual leader of
the Bielski partisans. Although the Bielski's and fellow Jews are
forced to watch as their people are rounded up and killed by the Nazis,
Tuvia wants to avoid becoming a group of vigilantes. The conflict
arises from younger brother Zus (Liev Schreiber) who desperately wants
to avenge the deaths of those he loved. Tuvia is conflicted by the
knowledge that in extreme circumstances one must often take extreme
measures in order to survive and protect others.

Throughout the film tension is woven by utilizing a number of different
methods, all of which make the movie much more compelling. First, as
mentioned, is the conflict between fighting and surviving. Second, is
the suspense created by the knowledge that the Nazis are closing in
around them. Third is the conflict between the Bielskis and the local
police who are loyal to the Nazis. Fourth is the inner struggles the
Bielskis face when some of their own decide to cause disagreements and
divisions. For those unfamiliar with the story, the fate of the
Bielskis is constantly in doubt.

The cinematography of the film is gray and muted, reflective of the
somber tone of the subject matter. The musical score is reminiscent of
John William's score in Schindler's List -- soft and sad with the cello
and violin taking the melody. In some ways it feels that Defiance takes
its visual cues from Schindler's List as well; there's something about
the look of the movie that seems familiar. The battle scenes are
similar in style to Saving Private Ryan, complete with the dazed,
ringing-in-the-ears experience following a grenade that goes off too
close to Tuvia. I would have appreciated a more unique perspective to
the aesthetics of the film to coincide with the uniqueness of the
story.

In all, Defiance is an important story that needs to be heard. Daniel
Craig leads a great cast of characters in an emotional journey of
community, camaraderie, and hope.
<|_=00=_|>
Most WWII drama would have the Jews on the victim side, DEFIANCE is one
that has The Jews level the playing field. It's a deep, emotional, and
riveting tale a true story that deserves to be told. Director Edward
Zwick (Glory, The Last Samurai, Blood Diamond) once again returns to
what he knows best by dealing with a group of underdogs, outnumbered
but putting up a fight. DEFIANCE also proves that the blond James Bond,
Daniel Craig, indeed has so much more to offer as an actor. This is the
story of The Fighting Jews.

The script is well-written, in my humble opinion. The way the story
begins, what motivates the characters and the conflicts along the way.
When brothers try to decide what happens next, there's bound to be
clash, disagreements and temporary separation. I don't mean this to be
bad but the story is about Jews who are walking into the wilderness,
trying to stay alive. It sounds a lot like Exodus, and just like that
book in the bible itself, DEFIANCE shows how tough it is to stick
together. There's a group trying to discourage a number of people, some
are complaining, some think it's best to go back to the ghetto, some
start questioning the leader, and some decide to take power into his
own hand and try to divide and conquer. Edward Zwick's direction makes
sure the audience can see that the struggle they face is not just about
running away from the Germans, but also the threats from within caused
by frustration, fear and lack of good judgment. And just like his
previous movies, it ain't a Zwick movie if you don't have a final
ultimate battle at the end scene, between two opposing sides, in the
middle of a vast field. Another amazing work on the original score by
James Newton Howard that gives us an intense, pulse-pounding feeling
during the battle and the sad, dramatic mood during their travel. The
cinematography by Eduardo Serra beautifully captures the surrounding
nature and displays how it takes its toll on the characters.

The story is disturbingly profound and compelling. There's one lead
theme that resounds throughout the entire movie "We may be hunted like
animals, but we will not become animals". As the leader, Daniel Craig's
character, Tuvia, keeps getting confronted by this. He tries to be an
idealist, and his brother, Liev's Schreiber's character, Zus, thinks
that kind of mindset would only invite threat and danger. But as the
story progresses, Tuvia gradually realizes that they're in the middle
of war and the lines between justice and humanity have become uncertain
in these desperate times. A German officer is caught by the group and
he just stands there as they beat the German to death. At one point
he's even forced to kill one of his own. What separates us from
animals? The ability to have remorse after we commit vengeance and do
our violent bidding? Zus believes that Jews, Russians, whichever, are
all the same when fighting a common enemy but he comes to terms with
the fact that he will never escape the fact that he is a Jew and it's
the only values he has left to hold on to, its what kept him from
becoming less than a human being.

Liev Schreiber and Jamie Bell both give excellent performances and are
just right for the role but we can agree that this move belongs to
Daniel Craig. He seems to like playing a Jew who kicks ass. As I watch
DEFIANCE, I'm reminded by his line from Munich, "Don't F*ck With The
Jews" Years from now, he won't be remembered just as another James
Bond, but also a talented actor who likes to take on challenging roles
and complete them with the utmost respect. Craig in DEFIANCE shows a
wide range of ability, you can see through his eyes the burdens of
leadership, the not knowing what exactly to do but he's got all these
people looking up to him. I wouldn't have thought Craig to be this
versatile when I watched him in the movie Lara Croft: The Tomb Raider,
years ago.
<|_=00=_|>
This is an interesting film about a bunch of Jews commanded by the
Bielski brothers taking the Belorussia forests to shelter themselves
from Nazi criminals . It is completely set in the woods which it does
some claustrophobic . Splendid acting by all-star-cast . Nicely
photographed by Eduardo Serra in colorful palette . Emotive and
sensitive musical score by the great composer James Newton Howard. This
is a true story , worth telling and stunningly directed in old-style by
Edward Zwick .

The picture is inspired on real events based on the novel titled
¨Defiance : The Balski partisans¨ , being well adapted by Clayton
Frohman and Edward Zwick . The actual events are the followings : The
Bielski group's partisan (three brothers finely performed by Daniel
Craig , Liev Schriever , Jamie Bell) activities were aimed to hold the
Jewish community together and fight against the Nazis and their
collaborators, such as Belarusian volunteer policemen or local
inhabitants who had betrayed or killed Jews. They also conducted
sabotage missions . The Nazi regime offered a reward for assistance in
the capture of Tuvia (Daniel Craig) Bielski, and in 1943, led major
clearing operations against all partisan groups in the area. Some of
these groups suffered major casualties, but the Bielski partisans fled
safely to a more remote part of the forest , and continued to offer
protection to the noncombatants among their band . The Bielski group
would raid nearby villages and forcibly seize food ; on occasion
peasants who refused to share their food with the partisans were the
subject of violence and even murder. This caused hostility towards the
partisans from peasants in the villages, though some would help the
Jewish partisans.The Bielski partisans eventually became affiliated
with Soviet organisations in the vicinity of the Naliboki Forest under
Russian General (in the movie Panchenko is played by Ravil Isyanov).
Several attempts by Soviet partisan commanders to absorb Bielski
fighters into their units were resisted, such that the Jewish partisan
group retained its integrity and remained under Tuvia Bielski's
command. This allowed him to continue in his dedication to protect
Jewish lives along with engaging in combat activity, but would also
prove a problem later on . The Bielski partisan leaders split the group
into two units, one named Ordzhonikidze, led by Zus (Liev Schreiber),
and the other Kalinin, commanded by Tuvia (Daniel Craig). According to
partisan documentation , Bielski fighters from both units killed a
total of 381 enemy fighters , sometimes during joint actions with
Soviet groups. 50 members of the group were killed. In the summer of
1944, when the Soviet counteroffensive began in Belarus and the area
was taken over by the Soviets, the Kalinin unit , numbering 1,230 men,
women and children, emerged from the forest and marched into
Nowogrodek.Despite their previous collaboration with the Soviets,
relations quickly worsened. The NKVD started interrogating the Bielski
brothers about the rumours of loot they had reportedly collected during
the war, and about their failure to "implement socialist ideals in the
camp". Asael Bielski (Jamie Bell) was conscripted into the Soviet Red
Army and fell in the Battle of Königsberg in 1945. The remaining
brothers escaped Soviet-controlled lands, emigrating West. After the
war, Tuvia Bielski returned to Poland, then emigrated to present-day
Israel in 1945. Tuvia and Zus eventually settled in the United States.
They operated a successful trucking business. When Tuvia died in 1987,
he was buried in Long Island, NY, but a year later, at the urging of
surviving partisans in Israel, he was exhumed and given a hero's
funeral at the hillside graveyard in Jerusalem. His wife, Lilka (Alexa
Davalos), was buried beside him in 2001 . None of the Bielskis ever
sought any recognition or reward for their actions.
