
Disappointing in most respects. Inconsistent plot, poor lyrics, poor
music adaptation, unconvincing acting for most of the movie. Like most
reviewers will probably acknowledge, the visual effects are OK, but
have no cause to serve. The film is a waste of nice animation, exactly
what I wouldn't have expected from Koncealovski. And now, for a few
upsetting details...

It is very difficult to become attached to any of the characters,
because they are so superficially introduced. I don't get the real
feeling of a backstory, which actually damages the whole universe of
the film. Mary is the only character which seems alive, for better or
worse. Otherwise, they are all pale and unconvincing.

The techno-fairy tale / political satire mix doesn't help either. I'm
thinking of loads of splices you'd be able to make, starting from an
original fairy tale, and I can't understand why you'd combine a Disney
style dramatization with an oppressed-toys(and
humans)-against-evil-nazi-rats uprising. It's not fun enough for
adults, it's not simple and clear enough for children. And it doesn't
have so much to do with the original...

And talking about the original, the use of Tchaikovsky's music is
uninspired, to say the least. The adaptation sounds simplistic, and
voices may not have been a good idea. First of all, because it used to
be a ballet and, call me a rigid type, but I'd have loved to see it
developed on this line. Second, because the lyrics are dull, and the
actors' voices sound really bad at times (ok, try to make it sound
natural but do follow the notes!). Third, because the modern
orchestration further reduces the charm of the original, turning it
into a sort of kindergarten party song. As far as the musical part
goes, I'm taking Sweeney Todd as a reference. And, compared to this,
Nutcracker is way below.

Bottom line? Don't see it, even if the other guy is paying. It's plain
loss of time and a poor reference about the classics, if you have any
children.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm sure there's been the occasional viewer that wonders why I do get
so angry about movies sometimes. Well, films are something that I'm
very passionate about, every movie that I've seen goes from that is
praised with comments or hate with every cell of my brain.

And speaking of the literal Devil, we have ourselves "The Nutcracker in
3D"!!!

...This is the worst movie I've ever seen!!!! First of all, Anderi
Konchalovsky directed this crap! He previously directed "Runaway Train"
and the TV-movie "The Odyssey". I can't accept this!!! How is that
possible that he went from a groundbreaking movie and a cult fantasy
film to This?!?

What's the point on making a movie with Nazi Rats (They are Mice in the
original story, you idiots!!!) that burn toys like how they did to the
Jews?!?

OK, if Konchalovsky wanted to make a despotic movie with Nazis
represented like greedy rats and other political animal-alike allusions
that's OK! It's interesting! ...But leave the classic story of the
Nutcracker alone!!!

It would be like... If I make a movie about the tale of Aladdin, where
Aladdin is Obama, Jafar is a Bin Laden, Agrabah a New York-alike city
destroyed by terrorist attacks and The Genie be an incarnation of Uncle
Sam! Oh, and all this weird despotic crap pretended to be a "kids
movie". No!No!No!!! That's not how it works!!! I'll describe the two
scenes that mostly offended me: the Rat King, after performing a
bad-choreographed musical number, kills a shark inside a tank by
electrocuting it with a light!!! The second one, the Rat King suddenly
rips off the head of a living Drummer Boy with bare hands and for a few
seconds he plays volleyball with his Nazi-soldiers using the head of
the poor guy and than replace it and act like nothing happened! You
know, for KIDS!

But of course, these are the images that comes to your mind when you
think of the Nutcracker! ...Nazi creatures that burn toys, kill sharks
and play volleyball with the head of their victims HELLO?!?

The movie is an awful waste of money and talent(...If there was
ANY!!!), and it sucks balls because for the unappealing Nazi
characters, the awful 3D effect and for turning Tchaikovsky's music
into horrendous songs that makes "Marry the Mole" look like Bohemian
Rhapsody!!!

And I'm not the only person who thinks this "movie" in an abomination:
0% on Rotten Tomatoes! And Roger Ebert said: "The Nutcracker in 3D is
one of those rare holiday movies that may send children screaming under
their seats." In fact, no kid went to see this movie! The Nutcraker in
3D was a giant NUT-BOMB at the box office!!!

This movie is one of those rare movies that can insult the intelligence
of Anybody. Do not watch it.
<|_=00=_|>
Make no bones about it, this movie sucks. It does have some meriting
factors--interesting set design and production. And that's pretty much
it! Writing, directing and acting: ham-fisted at best. The songs are
TERRIBLE, the film's themes are all over the place and forget about any
sense of continuity. Inexplicably, the main character's uncle is Albert
Einstein who deigns it necessary to sing a dreary diddy about
relativity and the rats are Nazis because... who knows?! The biggest
disappointment: the stupid looking Nutcracker (who goes by NC!) that
looks like an unimaginative Pinocchio. Glad to see this film bombed at
the box office, hard.
<|_=00=_|>
When I first heard of this film, I was both curious and overjoyed. The
Nutcracker by ETA Hoffmann is one of my all-time favourite stories you
see, and I am deeply in love with the ballet music by Tchaikovsky.
However, when I heard there was 3D I wasn't as enthused. So what were
my overall thoughts after seeing it? That of bitter disappointment,
that's what.

The Nutcracker in 3D isn't without its virtues though. The film is
visually spellbinding with wonderful sets and exquisite costumes
particularly at the beginning and with the snow fairy. Also Elle
Fanning is very good as Mary, instead of being obnoxious and annoying,
she is heartfelt and believable.

However, I wasn't so taken with the effects, which brings me to a point
I made earlier. I think the 3D was unnecessary to be honest. When I
think of The Nutcracker, 3D is the last thing you expect. Sadly, it
wasn't that good, it needed more clarity and sharpness and distracted
rather than enhanced.

I also had mixed feelings on the songs. The music itself is
outstanding, well it is Tchaikovsky what do you expect, with elegant
and poignant melodies. The problem lay in the lyrics, even for Tim Rice
they were really quite dull and insipid. The only songs that didn't
leave me completely cold were My Secret World-while too short the
melody based on the beautiful and nostalgic 2nd movement of the 5th
symphony was amazing- and The Rat King's song which was quite wacky.

My main problems though with the film were with the story, writing and
acting, also with the direction. Andrey Konchalovskiy said he had
wanted to do this project for years, somehow that fact didn't come
through loud and clear enough. The action is also very clumsy, and the
pacing is much too rushed. Consequently the story instead of magical
and charming like it promised with a touch of darkness and austerity to
emphasize the reality is convoluted and messy particularly when the
film's tone shifts, while the script especially with Uncle Albert and
the "Nazi rats" is terrible with no sense of wonder or care.

The acting on the whole is pretty dire, which is very disappointing
considering how good the cast looked on paper. Fanning of course gives
a great performance, which is more than I can say for her co-stars who
either give up half-way through or come across as wasted talent. Nathan
Lane in particular tries hard but his spirited performance is hampered
severely by the film's worst dialogue and the patchy accent. John
Tuturo, with a David Bowie-like wig, fares a little better but does
verge on overracting. It is not entirely his fault as the script lets
him down terribly making him come across as cartoony. Likewise with
Frances DeLa Tour. I liked the Snow Fairy though, she was beautiful and
suitably mysterious. Shirley Henderson is okay as Nutcracker, but I
didn't find Nutcracker heroic enough, and the message seemed to
originate from Uncle Albert rather than Nutcracker here. Worst is the
Prince, his wooden acting makes marionettes more animated. At the end
of the day, I only cared character-wise for Mary.

Also, I think the film is 15 minutes too long. The Nutcracker works
better in my view as a 75 minute film, because of the length there was
a lot of filler that perhaps didn't need to be there. I wish to say
before I am told I am being unfair that I am well aware this was an
untold story. Also I didn't mind whether it was the story or not, so
long as it stuck with its charm and magic. And that was my main problem
with The Nutcracker in 3D, it didn't do that. I didn't think much of
the title either, something like Nutcracker:The Untold Story would have
been much more fitting.

Overall, in my personal opinion The Nutcracker in 3D is this year's
biggest disappointment. It had all the ingredients for a worthwhile
Christmas cracker, but it came across as rather charmless family fare
with a convoluted story, poor acting on the whole and the unnecessary
inclusion of 3D. 3/10 for the production values, Tchaikovsky's music
and Elle Fanning, and I also think if Hoffmann or Tchaikovsky were
alive to see this they would ask for a letter of apology. Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>
Entertaining film for children. I will not allow political prejudices
to cloud my feelings about this film. The principal characters and
their dialogue is easy to follow for children, costumes are colorful
and location/scenery is pleasant. All pluses for children. If you are
looking for period ballet sequences, you should not view. Again, this
film is most agreeable to children - all my grandchildren enjoyed this
film, and have asked to view it more than once. My only regret is that
I should have waited until December to allow the young ones to view
this Christmas theme.

Don't allow the distraction of others with political agendas to
influence your decision to allow children to enjoy this excellent work.
<|_=00=_|>
¡Muy recomendable para niños, les encantará!!! Highly recommendable for
kids! Do not pay attention to negative posts and make your own judgment
(as in everything in life). Of course, everyone has the right to say
whatever they think, it's a free world, but it seems to me that in this
particular case, bad critics come more from personal idiosyncrasies and
prejudice, and maybe envy (which is the active ingredient of most
destructive criticism I've seen). I do not see objective evaluations in
the few "professional critics" I read for this Nutcracker Movie. What
else can I say? Production is superb, acting from the main characters
is excellent, settings are beautiful and special effects are very well
done. Whatever "ideology" or "political" ideas there may be are just a
mere interpretation of historic outcomes that do not interfere with the
main story, and the children will most likely filter them out. (I hope
there are now more than 10 lines, because this review is taking more
time than what I first thought it would). Enjoy the movie! My kids, 8
and 10, really did!
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this movie several times in spite of some very negative
reviews. I must say some, not all of the criticism is valid.

I think Charlie Rowe is superb. His facial expressions and body
language are right on and not over acted. They range from amazed joy to
quiet reminiscence as well as outright dejected disbelief. I felt every
one of his emotions with one look at his face. Now try and tell me that
isn't acting. On the other hand the Snow Fairy, all be she very
beautiful, was rather flippant and maybe even glib. Probably because
her lines could have been phrased better. All the other characters were
believable and enjoyable in their own ways. Except for my personal
dislike for Uncle Albert's fronts to the audience. Just my personal
preference, you are welcome to enjoy them.

Apparently the movie was not shot in 3D but enhanced in post
production. As far as I am concerned that was a waste of good money.
Even if some of it may have been spent in Vancouver Canada. (I know
some VFX was done here. Whether for the 3D or not I don't know.)
Perhaps movies originally shot in 3D would come across more natural.

It is obvious a lot of the movie is on the cutting room floor. If this
ever comes out in DVD I hope they publish the full director's version.
If they do I will definitely pay premium price to add this to my
collection.

Will I see it again? Yes, if it ever comes here again. Love the kids,
the Rat King's antics, his Mother's expressions and the ending.
<|_=00=_|>
Even the kids hated it. At end daughter asked if we could put it in the
rubbish. I wanted to stop watching by halfway. 

Holocaust themes, dark and violent for younger children, and lots of
rat teeth.

To be fair, make-up and costumes were alright plus Elle Fanning is
gorgeous and a talented actress but even as the main redeeming feature
she was unable to support this holocaust-themed bastardisation of a
ballet. Tim Rice may be good at lyrics but the breaks into song were
un-natural and whole thing forced, boring and dreary. Composers would
be turning in their graves. I truly hope I never watch this again!
<|_=00=_|>
To me, this movie is by far one of the greatest movies I have had the
privilege of watching. For years I would have memories of this movie
from when I was younger; NC, the tree, the rat king, the wagon scene at
the end, and especially the prince. Many times a year I would try my
hardest to find this movie that kept filling my mind and would always
fail. Well, today I have finally found it.

True, I had to pay $2.00 on YouTube to watch it because I couldn't find
it anywhere else, but it was completely worth it. 

I adored Uncle Albert's scenes when he breaks the 4th wall. I think it
brought a sense of enlightenment and amusement to the movie. The prince
was absolutely adorable and Elle Fanning and Charlie Rowe are
phenomenal actors. Their characters were so believable and raw.They
really made them come to life. The rat faces were done very well and
the Nutcracker looked completely believable to me. Even the songs were
cute.

It may just be personal preference, but I found this to be a great
family movie and hands down an amazing piece of work. The reason behind
all the bad reviews, I don't know. Maybe it's because of the "Nazi
Rats" or maybe people are just rude. Who knows? But give this movie a
chance, it might surprise you.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is a true masterpiece. I can't believe its bad ratings. The
acting is perfect, the music which is based on Tchaikovskis works is
brilliantly made, the visuals are of great art.

It's funny, sad, exciting, surprising, magical, and did I say sad?

It's impossible for me to not cry watching some of the scenes in this
film. And I've watched it several times now.

I have a great interest in movies, but this is truly one of the best
movies I've ever seen. If not the best. It is certainly on my top five
together with Mulholland Drive (Lynch), Synecdoche, New York (Kaufman),
etc.

Thank you Andrey Konchalovskiy for creating this masterpiece. And I'm
so sorry for the bad ratings. Something must be seriously wrong in this
world.
