
My 1st review! I was so disgusted with this film&annoyed critics
praised it I cracked and had a rant. 

Numerous Plot holes, contrivances, poor storytelling, character
logic&motivation;

1. The stolen agent list macguffin; Made famous in M:I then overused in
films&TV shows; CharliesAngels2 etc - halfway through the film they
just forgot about it

2. Hacking magic! Hacking can be done well;
goldeneye,swordfish,diehard4...Not just an easy contrived plot device.
Can we have a proper explanation &the rules&limitations of Silva's
hacking ability in this fiction? For all I know Silva can make
satellites fall on people.

3. The irony of the 'can Bond operate in an internet world' theme...he
failed twice and got M killed...so he can't? 

4. How out of place the above theme is; Bond is mature but always
current. His a walking encyclopedia (watch the start of any
Connery/Moore film). In the last 2 films he was using advanced mobile
phone tracking systems...adding hacking does not suddenly make Bond
take on the 'modern' age. Are economics or funding civilwars outdated?

There was hacking&computers in 1995's Goldeneye..all of a sudden, NOW,
there are no more shadows? Did MI6 stop evolving in the late eighties?

5.They have a meeting to discuss MI6? This was relevant in Batman, a
vigilante was trying to inspire people- It was intertwined in the
narrative&theme. Skyfall enquiry was just Sam Mendes ripping off Batman

6. Silva's planned capture; Another overused device that was
coincidently in Batman. So what did Silva achieve? A conversation with
M? When this is revealed shouldn't we look back and have everything
make sense? But, NO, I was left wondering why they tried to kill Bond
twice in China.

7. Why was a hacker in a cell controlled by a computer? Why is Q so
stupid he plugged in the laptop to the building? Why was the trap door
on the inside of the first glass door? why was there a trap door? How
did Silva evade an armed MI6 guard 20 meters from his cell?

8. Super calculating (hack crazy)Silva's plan at the end was a
firefight? With a backup plan of another firefight?

9. So they figured out Silva was dressed as a cop and no-one told
anyone? The irony of M defending herself (reading a poem) knowing her
own ex agent was about to shoot up the place was lost on
critics&writers alike.

10. Could Bond not take a Sim free phone or'radio' &call backup when
Silva arrived at the end? Instead they had their Home Alone moment-
even Macaulay Culkin eventually called the police

11. Silva is supposed to mirror Bond. But compare Bond's 'betrayal' to
Silva being handed over for torture... Some forced connection is made
considering they never met before. Silva tells a story of 2rats so we
know what we are supposed to think.

12. Bond's betrayal is M ordering Naomi to take a risky shot. Bond
later tell's M he heard the order... why didn't he get out the way
then? he just kept fighting like an idiot. &did Naomi only have 1
bullet?

13.You can't make Bond survive 2 gun shots and a fall like that. His
already an established character. The Punisher&Bourne are special
BECAUSE they survive. It can't happen to them again mid film/ mid
franchise.. 

14. Bond follows an assassin&lets him kill innocent people! How is this
in his character?! The previous 2 films already rebooted Bond to show
WHY he doesn't let innocents die.

15. Naomi is a forced character..appearing randomly to remind us she
still exists so we can think it's 'clever' when she becomes Moneypenny.
Money penny gets demoted from field agent to secretary?!! not even
analyst. If she is that hopeless why is she on the most important
mission ever? I think Sam Mendes hates women. 

16. Bond doesn't even blink when the girl he just bedded a few hours
ago gets shot in cold blood. He identifies Severine as being sex
trafficked&abused- He then just jumps in her shower. I had little
problem with Bond tricking a woman into bed in live and let die- but
the sky-fall scene should land him in the S-offenders list. 

17.They traced the shrapnel in Bond's chest to a 'special'bullet that
only 3 people use? His a 'ghost'...but we have his full flight
manifesto. This is how they advanced the plot? wait a minute....didn't
that bad guy shoot up half of turkey..? A contrivance& a plot hole in
one plot device, that takes some doing.

18. One minute he can't shoot...10 seconds later he shoots everyone in
a 360 arc? so what happened? oh we are just abandoning that theme mid-
se.. 

19. Quite a few instances of Bond just standing in front of a landscape
shot with his legs apart 'being deep'. I thought he was urinating at
first. 

20. Q is both a quartermaster&a programmer for the sake of the
illogical theme.. but these are completely different skill sets...?

21. Knowing all this...what is the list doing in Turkey? on a laptop
hardrive? why are only 2-3 agents on the case? They couldn't even do
the liberty of making something up for the audience. Imagine
Thunderball didn't show how SPECTRE got the nukes...

Why couldn't Silva just hack the list? Oh because it isn't connected to
the internet you say...but the MI6 heating system is?

The script makes no sense, the themes are inappropriate, Bond's
character&decision making has been altered &they have confused mature
with dinosaur. Die another Day was almost a Bond parody, but this one
is simply a mess,&a betrayal of Bond.

Shame on critics too impatient to appreciate QoS for not spoon feeding
them everything & praising sky-fall because of poorly scattered themes&
metaphors on a plot that makes no sense, just because it makes them
feel clever
<|_=00=_|>
I should preface this by saying that I absolutely loved QoS (more than
most)and Casino Royale. I'll start from the top.

The Opening Credits: 

Visually the opening sequence was absolutely brilliant. Perhaps the
best yet. However the Adele song choice was a poor one in my opinion.
It's pap. Neither sexy (Goldeneye, Goldfinger) nor adrenaline pumping
(Casino Royale, QoS). Sure the girl can sing... but so can Madonna.

Friendly Fire: 

He gets shot with an assault rifle, falls 100+ feet and ends up at the
bottom of a 50ft+ waterfall. Of course Bond doesn't need to be
realistic but let's at least have a far-fetched explanation for his
survival please. A small Turkish boy with a first aid kit who happened
to be fishing at the bottom of the waterfall. Anything!

Macau: 

Why no proper shots of Macau? Even just a decent panned intro. It's
such a perfect setting for bond scenes.

The Komodo Dragon Killing:

No need for an Attenborough lecture. As convincing as fanged unicorns. 

The Bond Girl:

A sex slave who very quickly gets shot. What a big letdown after Casino
Royale and QoS. 

The London Feel 

The film had very real shots of an overcast and murky looking London
and the whole film felt inherently British. Really nice.

'Silva': 

I'm all for a fruity bond villain but what an anti-climax. Great intro,
cool teeth but otherwise fairly bland. Certainly no Ernst Blofield or
'Leshiffre'. 

Weak Plot: 

The biggest failing of this film was the plot. It went from a mission
to recover a stolen hard-drive to a mission to protect an old dear (who
could've easily been killed several times). As for the motive, fairly
tenuous and uninteresting: 

Blondie signed up for the Mi6 many years back, M sent him on a mission,
things go wrong on the mission, Blondie gets captured (we don't get
shown any of this) and years later Blondie feels as though he wants to
kill an older, moodier and fairly unendearing M. 

The House Siege: 

This was cool. Easily on par with scenes from Shooter and The Bourne
Identity (tall order). 

The Chapel: 

Be honest. When Silva walks into the chapel were you thinking:

'Please don't shoot moody old M!'

Or were you thinking:

'NOOOOOOO! Please don't shoot the cool old guy with a sawn-off shotgun
who's been giving Bond some lip! He's the only new face that's been
given a proper character!' 

As for the axe to the back - not exactly bond-like. 

Conclusion: 

Ingredients for an epic film. But an extremely weak plot and an
undeveloped villain made it difficult to care about the final outcome.
<|_=00=_|>
There were so many problems with the film that I felt let down. I feel
that Casino Royale was the best film to date; Skyfall was just a
disappointment.

The first 10 minutes or so were great, Bond's on a mission and there
are some memorable scenes (digger coupling the trains), but there are
major plot-holes. When Bond is fighting on top of the train for the
hard- drive, Eve says that she has a shot. 

Bond can hear the whole conversation between Eve and M, so why doesn't
he get out of the way (or at least co-operate to provide an easy
shot)?! M mentions that the choice was either possible success (taking
the shot) or guaranteed failure (leaving Bond to fight). You'd have
more chance with a TOP MI6 AGENT than a risky shot.

I must be missing something, because QOS shows Bond finishing his FIRST
assignment, where Skyfall shows him to be old, out of shape, and at the
end of his career; there's a MASSIVE gap between the two films. It's
almost as if the last two films and the reboot have been ignored.

The Aston Martin from Goldfinger, Q's mentioning of the exploding pen
(Goldeneye), and the appearance of Q (In the previous two films, Bond
has not met Q) seem to make it clear that CR and QOS have been
forgotten, and so Skyfall was used purely for a "50 year special",
looking back at the previous bonds.

When Bond leaves a trail leading to his house, why on earth wouldn't he
call back up to meet him there? If you have the Head of MI6 under
protection, you would need some actual protection - the plot makes no
sense!

Why did Silva want to get captured? He just escapes! If he wanted to
kill M, he could have done that with the explosion in her office (with
a delay), so what purpose did his capture possess? None!

Overall, I was disappointment with Skyfall; possibly the worst Bond
film to date. I expect more from Bond, and I hope that the next film
forgets Skyfall!
<|_=00=_|>
One of the worst films I have ever seen. Every single scene was flawed
and had errors. From beginning to end the movie had mistake after
mistake. Now most movies have one or two mistakes and you just over
look it but when it happens in every scene of the movie, you can't just
wave it to one side.

For example, when Bond leaves the London underground and starts running
to save M. Here we have TWO errors. Firstly, M does not do MP's
committee meetings and secondly, why does Bond run half way across
London to get to her? Why not stop one of the police officer's to
either drive him or to give him the car? There are so many errors, like
I already said in EVERY single scene of the movie.

Few others that I still remember are such as the opening scene, why
does Eve who just mistakenly shot Bond with an automatic rifle not then
open fire on the bad guy? How did Bond even survive such a drop? How
did he end up in the arms of a beautiful woman on a beach? How did Eve
even miss shooting him jumping on the train earlier? Why did the bad
guy who had an automatic pistol and had Bond pinned down behind a
wooden market stall decide to jump on a motorbike rather than to kill
him? Why did the police bikers even drive straight towards a man firing
a weapon? How did Eve even turn up with a vehicle just as Bond left the
building? So many errors and so many gaps and that's just the first 8
minutes! I can go on and on and on. EVERY scene had massive errors,
Even the Aston Martin DB5 scene, how comes Bond has it? Why would he
even run away with M and get her killed? Are the SAS on strike? How did
Bond leave the casino in Macau after killing 3 bodyguards? Does a large
casino only have 3 security guards? Why even would they fight? Surely
they would have just shot him as soon as he enters the casino? Javier
Bardem's baddie character was ridiculous and comical. It was totally
unbelievable, even an 8 year old wouldn't believe the storyline. Poor
acting and the camp/gay innuendos were painful to watch. I couldn't
believe what I was watching.

This was an appalling movie. It relied on Judi Dench to hold it all
together. Sadly I am not able to give it a 0 so I will give it 1/10. No
action in the movie what so ever after the opening scene. Two men
hugging on top of a train has been done so many times. Pathetic movie
and the only people who will enjoy this are the brain dead. Shame on
critics who were saying this was the best Bond movie ever, you should
be ashamed of yourselves.

I used to like Daniel Craig as Bond but thanks to this movie I now
dislike him too. Well done to Sam Mendes and Co, it takes a certain
amount of talent or the lack of it to single handedly destroy Bond. The
hero in this movie was the final credits, the real baddie in this movie
was the man behind the camera.
<|_=00=_|>
this time it's getting even worse than Quantum Of Solace. The story is
lame and stupid, the nonsense plot is build around a melodramatic
inside view of Bond's psyche. O.K., when Bond is no bigger than life
daredevil anymore, it seems to be a logical consequence, to let the
audience learn more about the "true" psyche of Bond. But this is
completely crap in my eyes!

An other complacent try by Mrs. Broccoli to revitalize the dusty genre
of spy movies. But the audience was always smarter and realized, of
course, that Bond never was realistic. The audience does not need to be
educated in the direction of a more temporary 21st. century Bond by
some filmmakers who do not want become suspects of doing the same thing
all over again. Bond WAS always the same for 40 years till Albert
Broccoli died and his very very untalented daughter took over the
franchise automatically. This happens when you bequeath a
business,there is no warranty that your children are going to handle it
well.

The real Bond is a classical archetype male and a chauvinistic,
arrogant womanizer with a very dangerous job (secret agent), no woman
can withstand although she knows what a heart breaker he is. This
worked for 40 years and would have worked for another 40 years or so.
The Bond we knew until Craig appeared might not be the type of man
radical left-wing Eco-activist broads would like to welcome to their
sit-in. 

Fact is, the real Bond is dead!

This is a private version of Mrs. Broccoli's fantasy Bond 008, a guy
who deeply comprehends women instead of bumping them before they can
count to three (which might be a challenge for some real Bond
girls...). Of course it's intended not to be "your dirty old father's"
Bond. It's a Bond for the masses not for the classes, offering a bit of
everything the average movie goer under 20 (Twilight-fans) might want
to consume.

Craig's Bond has become a sissy, who has a complex oedipal relationship
to elder women, especially to those he calls "M". Now, in Skyfall, we
will learn that "M" is for "mother"... 

There really was no need to change the Bond franchise so completely,
except to squeeze out some dollars more out of the franchise. R.I.P.
007!
<|_=00=_|>
I thought Skyfall was awful. Worst of all it was just boring, something
I would never think I would say about any Bond film.

The movie starts off well enough, a good chase scene in an exotic
location and it sets itself up for what could have been a good story.
The trouble is after the first 15 mins the story seems to go nowhere.

MI6 is in trouble, a list of its agents goes missing and has to be
recovered. Bond who everyone thought was dead comes back to save the
day. All good so far. Now for some very thin reason Bond has to go to
Shanghai. I wonder if this scene was added to boost box office figures
in China because it was totally irrelevant to the story. Next scene
Bond meets the 'baddie'. Not some master criminal but an ex MI6 agent
out for some revenge. This plot had already been covered in Goldeneye
with much better results. The Baddie looked more likely to Blow Bond
than Blow up MI6 and there was even a joke along that line.

The story now moves to London. I applaud the decision to have a Bond
movie in the UK, especially in the Jubilee/Olympic/50 year Bond year
but frankly it just painted England like every foreigners stereotype.
Cold, Wet, and miserable. Now it is about a plot to kill M, this has
also been covered before in 'The World is not Enough' and the movie
never returns to locating the missing list of agents.

Why didn't the bad guy just kill M at the beginning of the movie and
spare me sitting through 2 hours of boredom? I gave this film 4/10
because it has an unexpected twist at the end that the production team
have managed not to leek prior to release. If it were not for that then
Id probably have given it only 3/10.

Craig is now showing his age and in my opinion there are many better
suited actors to the part. People moaned about QOS but frankly this
movie is the worst Bond film ever.
<|_=00=_|>
***BEWARE - MAJOR SPOILERS - BEWARE - MAJOR SPOILERS - BEWARE - MAJOR
SPOILERS***

Amongst the very worst of the Bond series. Surprisingly, after an
action-packed pre-credit sequence it became so slow, plodding and
tedious I wasn't sure it was actually supposed to be an action movie
after all. Then a few unimaginative 'action-sequences' were thrown in
and we were supposedly off, except that the dull, leaden script (except
for a couple of sparkling moments) and badly contrived storyline
(meandering between inanely pointless set pieces and sheer
unbelievability) never actually let the film take off at any point. And
there were so many plot-holes you could fire an Uzi a full 360 and not
hit a thing. All this and what appears to be a complete aversion to
many of the long-standing characteristics that always made Bond who he
is (and made a Bond movie a Bond movie) and you have a dull, third-rate
spy movie about some tough bloke employed by Whitehall.

If the central character's name was altered from Bond to, say, Jack
Steel or something, there would be little if anything left in the movie
to suggest you might be watching a Bond movie.

Yes, its tough and gritty, but gone is the suave, sophisticated,
knowledgeable, utterly committed agent we are used to, now we have a
stroppy, confused man moping about getting drunk instead of reporting
for duty; who about a quarter way through the film remembers where he
left his razor and even gets himself together enough to shave; and who
hatches a really stupid plan to use M as bait by taking her to a
completely isolated manor house with hardly any firepower available,
whilst inviting the baddies to come and get them, which they do with
more men and more firepower than Bond thought to bring along; not
surprisingly Bond's daft 'plan' to get the villain results in Bond
getting his boss killed.

If the makers of the film want to revisit classic Bond, perhaps the
theme song to this one should have been "Nobody Does It Worse."

Bond is dead.
<|_=00=_|>
There are so many things wrong with this movie. Most of the elements of
a good Bond movie aren't there.

The locations aren't well used. The Istanbul roof top & Bazaar chase
has already been shown in "Taken 2" and the TV show "Missing". Dejavu.
The way they showed 'Shanghai' and 'Macau' at night it could have been
filmed anywhere. The Scottish countryside shown was so grim.

Where are the cars and gadgets? Nothing but the old Aston Martin. Just
that pistol and tracker. The new Q is so ineffective. 

The villain played by Javier Bardem. He is more comical than sinister.
With the blond fright wig, the campy overtures and the most frightening
of all, the dentures this must the most absurd bad guy in Bond history.

The climax feels cheap and conventional. They must have run out of
money for the second half. Such a stupid idea to bring M to that run
down Scottish house. With the home made defences and geriatric
defenders, it felt like Home Alone meets the Golden Girls. Might as
well have asked Betty White or grandma to join in. 

The new Bond girl Berenice Marlohe is exotic and fascinating to look
at. But why only one? Writing her out of the show so early and not
having another was a mistake. The Bond girl is supposed to end up saved
by Bond with a hook up at the end. Unless you consider M a Bond girl.

The focus of the movie is M. Judi Dench was always too provincial
looking for MI6. The only good thing about this movie is that Ralph
Fiennes is replacing her. Finally. There was no need to dedicate a
whole movie to her farewell. 

Daniel Craig is just so haggard he looks worse than the villain. It's
time to replace him with someone younger and handsomer. Baffled by the
good reviews. Be warned we are being short changed.
<|_=00=_|>
For a film that happens to be the 23rd installment in a movie
franchise, the latest James Bond thriller, Skyfall, is surprisingly
original. Though it marks the series' 50th anniversary by paying homage
to many of the previous movies, Daniel Craig's third outing as 007 is
unlike any Bond movie we've seen before.

The surprises start early. At the end of an opening action sequence
that may be the most elaborate ever (it's actually three or four action
sequences rolled into one), we are hit with an unexpected twist that
puts Her Majesty's top secret agent out of action. While he's
sidelined, a terrorist begins targeting MI6 and its covert agents. Bond
must struggle to get back in the game so he can set out to uncover
who's behind the plot.

What follows is a movie that turns the Bond formula inside-out. While
there is an element of globetrotting, and exotic locales are definitely
featured, much of the movie actually takes place in the U.K. That's
just one of the ways this Bond movie zigs where most others have
zagged. And, without giving too much away, the movie's finale is set-up
as an almost mirror image of all those we've seen before.

This is also a film that takes place in the real world. Buildings still
blow up (it is a Bond movie after all). But when they do, we quickly
see Wolf Blitzer reporting the explosion on CNN as breaking news. In
this version of the Bond Universe, when things go wrong, M is called to
testify before a committee hearing.

The more plausible setting fits with Craig's take on the classic
character. In his first two Bond films, he presented the secret agent
as a real flesh and blood human being. You can believe this guy really
exists. This time out, he takes that characterization even further. Not
only do we get to see him made weakened and addled by the physical
rigors of his job, but we also dig deeper into his back-story than ever
before. If Casino Royale began a reboot of the series, then Skyfall
completes the Bond "origin story". In this movie, we learn more about
who Bond is and how he came to be the man he is today, than we did in
all the previous 50 years of 007 flicks.

Of course, most Bond movies are only as good as their villain, and
Javier Bardem's Silva may not be simply the best Bond villain ever, he
may rank pretty high on the all-time movie bad guy list, too. Bardem
simply outdoes himself as an evil mastermind bent not on world
domination, but rather, revenge. With Academy Award winning director
Sam Mendes as a guide, the scenes between Craig and Bardem are
engrossing to watch. It gives us something else we haven't really seen
before in a Bond movie: two great actors going head-to-head.

There are also Bond girls, naturally. Naomi Harris livens things up as
a spunky field agent. And the gorgeous Berenice Marlohe plays the
obligatory woman-with-a-tragic-past. But the real female lead this time
is Judi Dench's M. She is in many ways front and center in a story that
deals with loyalty, principles and the moral ambiguities of national
defense in the terrorist age. In a non-romantic way, she is also Bond's
true love interest this time around.

Skyfall looks back on the first 50 years of Bond, then shows him to us
again in a new light and sets him up nicely for his next 50 years. As
they always say in the closing credits, "James Bond Will Return".
<|_=00=_|>
My first review on IMDb, couldn't resist offering some balance to the
obvious early march of fanboy reviews! Always been abit of a Bond fan
and I was looking forward to being taken away to some exotic locations,
to escape for a few hours, and some edge of seat action but these
things were missing from Skyfall.

Production standards have slipped terribly on Skyfall with stuntmen
clearly visible (motorbike chase)and some of the worst sets I have ever
seen. The Skyfall Lodge (Bond's family home) is especially appalling
and some people even laughed in the cinema when they pulled up in the
old Aston.

The Q character doesn't work at all, not convincing in any way with the
fake glasses and daft hair...EON please rethink this for the next movie
and also forget the Moneypenny actress because she cannot act, least
not in this character anyway.

Some of the SFX were good but the opening chase scene was way to long
and instead of building suspense most people just got bored.

The french actress Berenice was superb as was Rory Kinnear, though for
me Craig struggled to capture my attention like he did in Casino
Royale.

Bardem was underused or poorly directed and never intimidating as a
true 'baddie' should be, and why oh why did they dye his hair? it was
so so unconvincing.

I have yet to meet anybody who thinks this is a great movie let alone
'the best Bond ever!' I am staggered that some people like this Bond
but I guess we are all different! I wonder how these figures are
calculated as most of the last few thousand votes have been poor but I
am new to IMDb (great site by the way)so maybe it takes awhile for the
early enthusiast votes to be corrected by more 'normal' viewings?! And
I suppose there will always be the fan element hell bent on 'talking a
movie up' whereas someone who has watched a film they dislike generally
will just want to forget about it!
