
This is an entertaining film version of The Runaways story. I say
version because there is another film on this band called "Edgeplay,"
which complements this movie perfectly. Essentially, "The Runaways" is
Joan Jett's and Cherie Currie's version of things. In "Edgeplay," which
is a documentary, the rest of the band has its say.

But let's discuss "The Runaways." 

Kristen Stewart's portrayal of Jett is phenomenal. She's got the
slouchy guitar playing, the gum chewing, the swagger and the foggy
voice nailed. Jett is all girl and quite pretty, but she's always had
the manner of a boy. Stewart gets it right. She is not just twitchy
Bella, for sure.

If you've ever seen the real Kim Fowley (you can on YouTube), you will
see that Michael's Shannon's portrayal of him is not at all over the
top. In fact, many who knew him would probably say this depiction is
too forgiving to the bizarre monster Fowley really was.

Dakota Fanning acquits herself well as Currie, the band's sexpot
singer. The movie gives Currie the only family backstory, probably
because the movie is based on her memoir "Neon Angel." It would have
been interesting to see Jett's back story depicted. The movie might
leave you thinking she's a native Californian, but she didn't move
there with her family until she was a teenager. She was born in
Philadelphia and spent her childhood in Maryland.

Some may question things that happen in this movie. Did they really
write "Cherry Bomb" on the spot for Currie's audition? Did Fowley
really teach the girls to dodge garbage thrown at them on stage? Did
the Japanese really go THAT apesh*t over the band? 

Yes to all. Watch "Edgeplay," where these and other facts about the
band are discussed by the girls (now women in their forties) themselves
in 2004. (The doc is available for instant viewing on Netflix.) This
movie was made by Vicki Blue, one of the band's bass players (the
actual band went through five bassists, which is why the bass player in
"The Runaways" is a fictional creation called "Robin").

I have my gripes with "Edgeplay," mostly about the jittery camera-work,
which I guess is supposed to be edgy, but is just pretentious and
annoying. But it is the truth behind the "truth." "The Runaways" makes
no mention of Currie's abortion while in the band or bass player Jackie
Fox's suicide attempt. In "Edgeplay," Fox, now a lawyer, even displays
the scar on her wrist. "The Runaways" makes clear that these teenage
girls fought. "Edgeplay" gets into why. In the doc, it is also stated
openly that some of them were having sex with each other (and it wasn't
just Jett and Currie). Hey, it was the Seventies.

Joan Jett declined to participate in "Edgeplay," despite the fact she
is portrayed in a mostly positive light as perhaps the most ambitious,
talented and level-headed member of the band. I was a bit shocked that
at the end of "The Runaways" when you get the obligatory "what happened
to them" text on the screen, only Jett, Currie and Fowley are
mentioned.

The most shameful omission here is the tragic Sandy West, the band's
doggedly devoted drummer and perhaps the best female drummer in the
history of rock (well, maybe until the Go Go's Gina Schock arrived).
She and Jett essentially started the band, as shown in "The Runaways."
Her history after the band broke up is sad. She was reduced to
construction work. Her post-band life was one of drug using, drug
dealing, guns and jail. She died of cancer in 2006, but in "Edgeplay"
you can see her two years before her death discussing the breakup of
the band, which clearly broke her heart. She never recovered.

It is also wrong to ignore Lita Ford's post-Runaways modest success as
a solo rock artist. She's also the most entertaining interviewee in
"Edgeplay." 

All in all, I have praise for both movies. Both are candid portrayals
of the first all-girl band in rock history, paving the way for the Go
Go's, L7, Bikini Kill and, perhaps the most talented of all,
Sleater-Kinney, a band that has also broken up, but in a much more
friendly way.

You go, girl rockers!
<|_=00=_|>
I became a huge fan of Joan Jett with her first #1 single, I LOVE ROCK
N ROLL, back in 1982. For years I remained a devoted follower of her
albums, saw her in concert up close at small venues, and even got to
meet her in person on a few occasions including getting to go backstage
after a gig in 1985. It was only once she'd become popular that I
discovered that she was originally in an all-girl rock band called The
Runaways. Thus I found myself going back and collecting Runaways
records too. So for me, this film was something to look forward to.

As Jett has confirmed in interviews, THE RUNAWAYS is mainly true, but
there are some artistic liberties taken. The now-51, black-haired rock
veteran stayed on the set so young Kristen Stewart (who portrays a
teenaged Joan) could observe her movements and ticks, and also to make
sure the story stayed somewhat in the right ballpark. The movie begins
in 1975 and chronicles Joan's early years as a die-hard rock and roll
chick with a rebellious nature who learns to play guitar and wants to
form a hardcore, all-girl rock band ("No guys!" she insists). She
stumbles upon the eccentric record producer Kim Fowley (a faithful
rendering by Michael Shannon) who likes Jett's cool spunk and
determination, but is more struck with the seedy possibilities of
exploiting an orgasmic teenage girl band with guitars
("Jail-F'ing-Bait!" he exclaims with glee, pumping his fist). Together,
Jett and Fowley seek out other band members. They comb the dark
nightclubs where loud vintage '70s music by artists like David Bowie
plays, for a blonde girl with just the right look to function as the
lead singer for their group. It's there that they discover 15-year-old
Cherie Currie (Dakota Fanning), who's not far removed from her first
period and who is desperate to become a singer. The Runaways are formed
with Cherie up front possessing no strong rock chops, but getting
pushed by Fowley and Jett to vocalize and gyrate like a slut having an
orgasm. The girls practice enough to eventually get signed by Mercury
Records and take off on a trip to Japan by 1977, which was the only
place they struck it big, almost becoming as huge as The Beatles there.
As many familiar rock and roll stories go, Currie becomes absorbed in
the drug world and ultimately tensions mount within the group.

THE RUNAWAYS was partly based on Currie's autobiography, and in a way
she is the focal point of the story. Dakota Fanning does a pretty
decent job handling this type of slimy material, considering she was
only 15 herself during filming. It's too bad though that her character
is just not that interesting and, for me, young Dakota never quite
captured the presence of the real Cherie onstage. I'm admittedly more
biased toward Joan Jett, but it's Jett's driving persona which is the
most compelling ingredient of the film. I was concerned Kristen Stewart
might think that sporting a dyed black haircut would be enough to
become Joan Jett, but she actually nailed the aggressive nuances of
Jett perfectly. Joan is portrayed as the one member in the film who
treats the band seriously, loves and breathes the experience, is
committed and tireless. It's a small wonder she had such a successful
and long-running solo career after the group disbanded. And Kristen's
singing just blew me away -- both Stewart and Fanning sang for the
movie -- and Stewart sounds exactly like Jett as she belts out part of
one of Joan's original early songs, "I Love Playin With Fire".
Unfortunately, the movie only gets to see one song rendered in its
entirety: "Cherry Bomb" (sung by Dakota), which was considered the
band's only "hit", and was co-written by Fowley and Jett, specifically
for Cherie to learn and sing. The rest of the soundtrack is pretty
good, with background songs by Bowie, Iggy Pop, the Sex Pistols, and
even the real Runaways themselves. As someone familiar with the
original Runaways recordings, it was fun for me to pick them out in
snippets here and there.

The problems I had which kept me from giving the film three stars were
that this isn't really anything we haven't seen before, and it's
something of a typical cookie cutter rock screenplay with no soul other
than the determined presence of Jett. Really unfortunate was that the
other three female band members were largely ignored. Not so much
drummer Sandy West (who died of lung cancer in 2006); she gets a few
lines and respectful moments. But lead guitarist Lita Ford (who had
some fleeting success of her own in the '80s) was strategically left
out of the action because in real life she and Joan Jett's camp have
undergone some personal problems (Ford says Jett's longtime manager
Kenny Laguna "disgustingly" offered to buy Ford's life story for a
thousand bucks). Reportedly, Lita has threatened to sue if not
portrayed accurately in the film. While she is largely disregarded,
there are moments in the movie in which Ford (played by Scout
Taylor-Compton of Rob Zombie's HALLOWEEN) completely comes off as a
whining bitch. Most outlandish is that real-life bass player Jackie Fox
was completely written out and is now replaced by a totally fictitious
character called "Robin" (Fox is a lawyer today, so one may assume the
filmmakers weren't taking any chances). In 2004, one-time Runaway Vicki
Blue made a documentary called EDGEPLAY which is worth seeking out for
the real dirt about The Runaways. Joan Jett refused to participate in
that project, but it's got recollections from Lita Ford, Jackie Fox,
and Sandy West. It makes a good companion piece to this film, and
doesn't pull punches. I had some fun with THE RUNAWAYS, but it's
something of a watered down version of what actually happened and could
have been a bit tougher and more dramatic. **1/2 out of ****
<|_=00=_|>
I've been a Runaways fan since 1976, so I had been anticipating this
film for a long time. Having read Cherie Currie's book, Neon Angel, on
which the film is very loosely based, I was pretty familiar with the
broad outlines of the story. As with any film adaptation of a book, I
knew they would leave some things out and streamline other things, and
I also suspected the film wouldn't be as dark as the book, which turned
out to be true.

What the film really nailed was the relationship between the Runaways
and their sleazy manager/producer Kim Fowley. Michael Shannon does a
fabulous job playing this over-the-top character. His expletive-filled
rants are simultaneously hilarious and cringe-worthy.

The stars, Kristen Stewart and Dakota Fanning, are both excellent as
Joan Jett and Cherie Currie, respectively. Stewart displays Jett's
consuming passion for rock and roll and her desire to work hard to be a
star. Fanning does a very good job balancing Currie's conflicting
desires (to be a rock star and be with her family). It's no secret that
the film doesn't spend much time with the other three members of the
band. I have no problem with that, since Jett and Currie are, for me,
the most interesting and most talented members.

The film does a great job showing the band performing. Stewart and
Fanning clearly worked hard to be believable as rockers, and it paid
off. You see the progression of both characters from neophytes to
seasoned performers, and it works. Another aspect is the struggle by
the Runaways to be taken seriously. There were very few hard-rocking
ladies in 1976, so they faced a lot of skepticism. The film shows this
very well.

The music is very good. The new versions of Runaways songs are good,
although Fanning sounds nothing like Currie. The period songs are a
nice selection, from David Bowie to Gary Glitter to the Stooges. The
filmmakers nailed the look of the period as well. The clothes, hair,
furniture, etc., are just right.

Overall, this is an excellent film. I highly recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>
"You hear that? That's the sound of hormones raging."

The Runaways is at the opposite end of the spectrum from most recent
music biopics. Where movies like Ray and Walk the Line aim for
emotional resonance and creating a connection between an iconic figure
and the audience, The Runaways is about style, dramatics, and looking
good. Which is pretty in line with what the band was about. The
sobriety of those movies I previously mentioned wouldn't have worked
for such a hyper- kinetic story as this one. Sure, the movie slows down
a bit when the crash and burn sets in, but the focus on style, sound
and imagery is never really replaced by anything else. And I mean that
as a compliment. 

Michael Shannon didn't really work for me as Kim Fowley, but the movie
wasn't really about him, anyway. The five girls playing the group
seemed to have an inappropriate amount of fun with their roles, and who
wouldn't? You can't help but be impressed by their performances, they
play and act like a real band. But no doubt about it, this is Kristin
Stewart's (Joan Jett) and and Dakota Fanning's (Cherie Currie) show.
They don't let you forget it. Not many actresses their age would have
the talent and the balls to take something like this on. They do it,
and do it right. I left the movie with a healthy amount of respect for
both of them.     

The entire movie plays out like a music video about all the things you
would be mortified of seeing your teenage daughter doing, but of
course, would make her cool to do. Which makes sense, as the director
(Floria Sigismondi) is best known for directing music videos. The
cinematography gleefully sells the same excess, ego, and intoxication
that the Runaways' image did. All the band's songs that are woven
throughout the movie keep it moving at a super-charged pace. 

You have to tailor the tone of a film to its subject matter, in order
for it to be successful. The Runaways is the true(ish), female version
of sex, drugs, and rock & roll, and I couldn't help but really enjoy
every bawdy and inappropriate minute of it. Get in a Runaways frame of
mind, or don't even bother with this one.
<|_=00=_|>
Just caught a special screening of The Runaways last night at the
Laemmle on Sunset, and it more than exceeded expectations. The leads
(Kristen Stewart, Michael Shannon and Dakota Fanning) do an admirable
job playing the sullen budding rock star, whacked-out manager and
reluctant front girl. At first, it looked as though Stewart was going
to fall back on her woe-is-me (woe-is-us who have to suffer through it)
Bella character in Twilight, but her performance as Joan Jett soon
showed a shyness and vulnerability that made the role three dimensional
and overall enjoyable. Shannon gives a wonderful turn as Kim Fowley,
The Runaways' too-brilliant-for-his-own-good manager and has some of
the best lines in the movie (my friend and I were giddy every time he
opened his mouth). But the real star here is Fanning as the innocent
Cherie Curie, who didn't ask to be a star but was thrust into the
spotlight nevertheless. Watching her downward spiral from innocent
young woman (the film opens with her getting her first period) to
trying to buy a jug of vodka for breakfast is where this movie soars
above others of its ilk. With her big baby blues (wow, those eyes),
Fanning portrays innocence lost more effectively than any other actress
I can remember. She should be considered for many awards for her
performance. Did I mention those eyes?

All in all, The Runaways is a fantastic movie. The direction, though
"arty" at times, fits in well with the rock 'n' roll themes. The script
is nearly pitch perfect without being preachy or excessive. The
performances great. The soundtrack genius (from Bowie to The Stooges to
The Sex Pistols - and even a few Runaways songs). But what really adds
to the authenticity of the 70's period piece are the costumes and set
design, which transport the audience back into a time when women
rockers were practically unheard of. Some of the fashion (where did
they find all those platform heels?) even takes on a life of its own.
Looking forward to watching this little gem again.
<|_=00=_|>
SPOILER ALERT! SPOILER ALERT! SPOILER ALERT! SPOILER ALERT! I saw this
movie in January at a Sundance event in Madison Wisconsin with Cherie
Currie actually in attendance. There's a lot of two things in The
Runaways, drugs and sexual references but really what can you expect
from a movie about a 70s rock band. For those of you who have read the
script in advance only small details change for instance Joan doesn't
actually steal the leather jacket in the beginning nothing bigger then
that really. The music is amazing of course even if you're not a
Runaways fan it's a pretty catchy and weaves itself easily into the
story line. You don't see even a glimpse of Bella in Kristen's
portrayal of Joan Jett, having seen Joan Jett live, Kristen really
captured her essence. Dakota Fanning was noticeably a better actress
then Kristen Stewart, Dakota was Cherie and stole the show hands down.
When the real Cherie Currie did a Q and A after the movie was over I
got to see just how perfectly Dakota mastered even her personality. The
movie it did drag at parts but the highlights definitely made up for
it. The scene where Joan walks out of her first guitar lesson and
Cherie at the talent show are two of my favourite movie moments. I
don't know the actual filming lingo for the artistic angels and
blurriness for the lack of a better word but it was all used very
effectively creating an artistic feel not just another high budget
Hollywood film. This movie may bring up a lot of questions about Cherie
and Joan's possible romantic relationship during their time in the
Runaways but when asked at the Q and A Cherie said it was nothing more
than friends experimenting. To address the debate over the whole
Kristen Stewart-Twilight audience this movie will attract all I can say
as a Twilight fan who was a Runaways fan before Twilight was invented,
I think some of the content in the movie will disturb the stereotypical
Twilight fan. There's a lot of drug and sexual references made that I
think a younger audience like that might not understand for instance
Cherie masturbating in the shower to images of Farrha Fawcett (behind a
shower curtain of course) or I believe it was Joan pissing on a guitar.
Overall it's a good movie not my favourite but still solid, some parts
dragged but with all the star power, great music, a pretty crazy story
and a lot of heart I think this movie has the potential to top the box
office in March.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. Getting dragged back to the mid-70's
can be quite fun, especially when the topic is rock 'n roll. Based on
lead singer Cherie Currie's autobiography, this film provides an
overview of the formation, sudden fame, and equally sudden dismantling
of the first all-girl's rock band, The Runaways.

Joan Jett was the heart of the band, but it took oddball music producer
Kim Fowley to put the band together and get the recording deal. Fowley
may be the most interesting character in this story. Here he is played
with force by the very talented Michael Shannon (Revolutionary Road).

Instead, the story focuses on Cherie Currie and Joan Jett, mostly
Currie, since it is her book! Dakota Fanning plays Cherie Currie as a
confused 15 year old with a messed up family life. The family includes
a mom, played by Tatum O'Neal, who announces she is getting married and
moving to Indonesia. Currie's dad is a very sick alcoholic, so she is
an easy recruit for Fowley and Jett. Jett is played balls-out by
Kristen Stewart. Yes, Kristen Stewart from Twilight. Here she shows
much more of the talent we saw prior to the Twilight series. She
captures the fire and spirit of Joan Jett and leaves little doubt she
will pursue her dreams despite all obstacles.

Overall, the script comes up short and provides us little more than
headlines and a quick glimpse. Would have expected much more on
talented guitarist Lita Ford, who continues to work today. For a quick
intro to the story of The Runaways, this one is fine. Just don't expect
much depth.
<|_=00=_|>
On occasion, the atmosphere of watching a movie at a theater in a
certain circumstance adds to the ambiance. Case in point, The Runaways:
I saw it at my local cineplex, where, unbeknownst to me since I last
ventured into a particular screen, the one where The Runaways played on
(good old theater 8), the sound had gotten a little worse. It was
crackly, though one could still hear voices and sound fx and music
reasonably well, and on the side of the frames of the 2:35:1 aspect
ratio, there was some black fizzle or something. For a more prestige
picture or big blockbuster, it might have been a hindrance. For the
case of The Runaways, it was just about perfect. This mid-1970's trip
through a kick-you-in-the-ball girl rock group complimented the flaws
in the stereo-sound and the picture, and it was like listening/watching
a worn vinyl LP. This coupled with the attitude of the performances,
and some of the songs featured, made it like a near Grindhouse event.

That the movie itself is less than great was to be expected. This is
one of those rise-fall rock and roll band stories, one you know well if
you've seen at least two or three by now (pick your delicious poison,
be it The Doors or even Dreamgirls - 'The Fabulous Stains' from the
early 80's wouldn't be far off either). And it also has a distinction
of being a rise-fall story for a band that was around for only a few
years, a less-than-revolutionary girl version of The Sex Pistols, who
all wanted to rock but came from different backgrounds and were beat
down before they could fully develop rock star egos by a grubby
manager/producer.

For the Runaways, we mostly get the stories of Cheri Currie (Dakota
Fanning) and Joan Jett (Kirsten Steward). Many will know the latter,
since she's made several big hit rock singles, but some in the audience
(unless you're already a big Runaway fan or fan of the movie Foxes)
won't know who Cheri Currie was. Perhaps that was the appeal for the
director, first-timer Flori Sigismondi, that we get a view into the
lead singer and how she's actually got a family and a place she's
coming from, as opposed to Joan Jett who (by the appearance from the
film) just came off the streets and immediately had to play guitar or
die or go to prison. Certainly that, too, has a bit of the cliché to it
(un-attentive mother, alcoholic father, same old same old), but the
filmmaker is able to straddle the line between Currie, Jett and
producer Kim Fowley (unmistakably hammy Michael Shannon, maybe too
hammy in some scenes).

Here's the thing that works for the film though: as a real gritty rock
movie, as a saga of characters rolling around LA (sometimes right under
the Hollywood sign), getting wasted, trashing hotel rooms, getting into
madness, being rockers who can stand up to those "men" that Fowley says
don't want to see girls on stage. Subsequently in the story in the
film, he exploits them for all he can, usually when they aren't
noticing until it really affects their appearance as rock and rollers
as opposed to beauty queens (or, of course, Currie as one). Again, some
of these story elements are familiar, but this is not what makes the
film so appealing - I didn't go to the Runaways to get a
super-insightful script, save for a few little nuggets (i.e. they
trained in a trailer!).

I went to the Runaways to see rock and roll and rock as it blasted away
without care back in the 1970's, albeit shown here as a brew of glam
(Bowie) and punk (Pistols) and eventually with Jett and the Blackhearts
as a straight up rock and roll band, and that's what I got. I was
heavily impressed by the performances of Fanning- who can be
legitimately sexy and make it both right for her character and
uncomfortable for an audience member to see it in the flesh (and boy it
is fleshy!)- and Stewart, who flexes her chops while on leave from the
Twilight camp. As mentioned, Shannon is a little too over the top, as
he was in Revolutionary Road, but that in and of itself is kind of a
marvel, as he isn't taking it seriously, but still has a good time. And
the music... ah, for the right fan at the right time, it's blissful to
hear and the be blown away by even a movie version of The Runaways, who
make one want to rush out and buy any song they recorded. Who knew a
revealing, raw-cum-conventional bio-pic would be their best
advertisement in years?
<|_=00=_|>
THE RUNAWAYS chronicles the run of one of the most successful all-girl
rock bands of all time. The film is based on "Neon Angel", the
autobiography of the band's original lead singer Cherie Currie, and it
gives us a glimpse into the world of rock and roll as seen from the
perspective of a group of teenage girls on their way to super-stardom.
I had heard some good things about the film when it was first making
the festival circuit, but I wasn't as impressed when I finally got a
chance to see it myself. The cast did an amazing job in their roles but
the film wasn't as great as it probably could have been.

The problem with music biopics, particularly for rock stars, is that
most rock stars seem to encounter the same problems: sex, drugs, booze,
addiction, conflicting personalities, etc. So we get a lot of
repetition with each rock star film and RUNAWAYS is no different.
Cherie's decline into addiction, the in-band conflicts, the initial
excitement of success and the eventual succumbing to the stress and
strain of maintaining the lifestyle. It's nothing we haven't seen
before in other films, it's just happening to younger characters. It's
fine though because the performances are strong enough that it's easy
to forget that the material's nothing new. My main problem with the
film was that it came across as unstructured. It felt as if the
filmmakers had just strung along random interesting events in the
Runaways history and it made it feel like the movie was just wandering
along. As a result, the movie loses it's momentum after their first
major gig and drags through the last half. It begins around the time
Cherie begins to lose control which is a shame; I should be concerned
for her character, not bored by the meandering storyline.

The film's saving grace is the cast. Kristen Stewart, Dakota Fanning,
and Michael Shannon did an amazing job. Kristen Stewart has earned some
major credibility with me thanks to this film. I was concerned that a
girl famous for her role in the TWILIGHT saga would ruin such an iconic
role (Joan Jett) but she did a fantastic job and seemed to embody her
perfectly. Dakota Fanning is Cherie and I've always thought of Fanning
as one of the most talented young stars in Hollywood. She provides an
innocence in Cherie's character at the start that makes the film
interesting to watch when her stardom warps and destroys it. Shannon is
the group's manager Kim Fowley. Fowley is apparently infamous for his
aggressive style, and his training sessions with the Runaways are the
best parts of the film.

You can't have a music film without the music that inspired it and the
soundtrack to the film is awesome. It's loaded with music from the
Runaways and Joan's later solo run. The filmmaker's transport you back
to the late 70s with their dedication to the style, from the clothes to
the music and the fads. The movie has all the ingredients to make a
great bio movie, but the execution prevents it from rising to what it
could've been.
<|_=00=_|>
Oh yes, 'The Runaways' is a good movie. Also for those who aren't aware
that it's about the first all-female group in history of rock.

The plot narrows itself down to Kim Fowley (manager), Cherie Currie
(lead singer) and Joan Jett (rythm-guitarist). Which is not wrong, but
makes that you miss out on a lot of other interesting historical facts
about this great Californian rock-band.

About lead-guitarist Lita Ford, for instance. She and Jett were the
only band-members able to continue their career in rock-music after the
Runaways split up.

About bass-player Jackie Fox, who left the band out of frustration for
getting badly paid. Fox became a lawyer in the American music business
instead.

The great thing about the Runaways is the magnificent cooperation
between their two renowned guitarists Joan Jett and Lita Ford. Between
Jett's earsplitting rhythms and Ford's virtuoso lead. This cooperation
really earned 'The Runaways' a place in rock history.

Further 'The Runaways' were the first all-female rock-group at a time
when people didn't even think about such a thing. And they also played
their rock in a period when pop-music's trend was very soft, greatly
influenced by 'The Eagles'.

By the way, this film hardly contains any 'Runaways'-music. For this
you'd better turn to internet or to a CD. To 'The Runaways live in
Japan', for instance, a CD recording their live-concert from 1977 in
Japan. At that time 'The Runaways' peaked in a country where they were
hugely popular.
