
SPOILERS ARE INCLUDED. THIS IS BOTH A REVIEW AND CRITICISM, SO PLOT
DETAILS ARE NECESSARY.

I find that most people who review this film are hung up on the
premise, special effects, gadgets and the many cinematic references.
It's my personal opinion that the film uses "artiforg" repossession as
a backdrop for the true conflicts, such as the cognitive dissonance we
face in certain occupations and/or the desensitization it takes to do
our jobs.

For example, we know that Remy was in the military, where
dehumanization of the enemy is common practice. If an institution can
convince its subjects that the enemy is deserving of cruelty, violent
acts are subsequently less difficult to perform on another human being.
So, it makes perfect sense that an individual like Remy has been
socialized into doing his line of work. It's not apparent to Remy how
atrocious his occupation is until he starts to recognize 1) his role in
the violence and how it affects other people in his life and 2) what it
feels like to be on the receiving end of a system that profits on
suffering and loss.

This, in itself, is a commentary on how corporations profit in our
society today. Pharmaceutical companies would be out of business if our
society had easily accessible cures for modern infectious diseases.
It's necessary for a population to treat symptoms rather than solve a
problem at its roots. "Artiforg" sale and repossession is the same
thing. Thus, as a gear in the machine, Remy has to decide for himself
whether or not his line of work is ethical.

That's where the cognitive dissonance comes into play. I think the film
did an excellent job of portraying. The metaphor here is are we correct
in criticizing corporations while supporting them and working for them
(I guess you could say it would be hypocritical then for this movie to
be made, mass produced and distributed by a corporation also)? Now, I
keep hearing a lot of criticism about the movie once Remy experiences
(spoiler) the Neural Net reality (or alternative virtual consciousness)
in which he and Beth repo one another, kill Frank, bomb the place and
run away to some tropical paradise. All this complaining about the many
cinematic references is kind of ridiculous, considering we know that
this is Remy dreaming, essentially. Are anyone's dreams completely
original all the time? I know a lot of my dreams borrow from movies
I've seen. I know a lot of books and movies borrow from other stories,
too, which has been the case for centuries. Why is this so criminal
now? 

But anyway, Remy is (in my opinion) experiencing a fantasy while
distracted from physical reality. That was the whole point of the
Neural Net product in the first place. It's a means of deterring
terminally ill people from experiencing painful deaths and/or soothing
retired folks in convalescent homes dealing with prolonged loneliness.
Remy's subconscious is borrowing from his vicarious experiences. It's
quite possible an individual like Remy has seen movies like Old Boy,
2001 Space Odyssey and The Matrix. Why not? 

Anyway, I think this was a great film with a lot to say and it
resonated with me quite well. I think what people look for in movies
these days spoils a lot of the major ideas. If you get caught up in
"the ending" or working your damnedest through copious Google searching
to find blurry images of yet unrevealed movie monsters, you're not
enjoying movies anymore. You're beating them to death with a spoiled
outlook on plot, cinema and characterization. Repo Men is going to be
misunderstood, in my eyes, for a long time because of this. Sorry so
many of you let that happen.
<|_=00=_|>
All in all, I found this movie quite a disappointment. I have a soft
spot for sci-fi, and as several others have commented, Jude Law is a
good reliable actor in sci-fi roles. But this movie seems awkwardly
assembled, not quite thought-out, and a bit too proud of itself to be
taken seriously. Throughout the film, at what seem to be important
developmental points or even plot twists, there are one-liners tossed
out with great sincerity, which in most cases either sound silly,
pretentious, intellectually impoverished, or simply misplaced in this
film. The first scene of the film, for instance, we are given a
summarization of the 'Schroedinger's Cat' experiment, complete with
some of the horrible logic underlying the film--- 'if something isn't
definably dead or alive, then it must be both'. The fact that this
statement shows a misunderstanding of both the scientific and
philosophic merit of the experiment isn't the problem, because even
incorrect junk science can be a good vehicle in a movie. The problem is
that there's no reason to bring this up in the first place. the movie
doesn't tackle whether things are dead or alive, whether being
comprised of 'rented organs' is an crisis of existential definitions or
what have you. The reference is just thrown in there to sound smart, to
seem thoughtful, when the film is anything but. And this sort of pseudo
intellectual posturing contaminates the movie.

The whole film's pace feels quite forced, as well. Jude Law seems
underutilized. One can't help but wonder if he got drunk for the
majority of the shooting for this film. When his wife leaves him,
there's almost no emotion in the scene. When twenty minutes later our
hero has decided to dedicate his eternal love to a street girl he finds
attractive, there's really no chemistry whatsoever--- but apparently
the movie insists that there be a love interest, and so it's just
thrown in there, pointlessly. Because even in this day and age, it's
apparently impossible to propose a hero character without a token
damsel in distress.

Then there's the kind of gratuitous and uncomfortable 'surgical sex'
scene. It's apparent that whoever choreographed it thought they were
being clever, but the whole thing just seems like an attempt to force
some sort of correlation between sex and surgical procedures that
really just felt misplaced, and kind of heavy-handed. Granted, it has a
purpose within the plot, but it's basically a slice of experimental
film amid a sci-fi action flick, and like a lot of experiments, it
fails.

There are some positive points to the film. While Jude Law's acting is
a disappointment, Forrest Whittaker delivers a solid role. The action
scenes are quite good, and while the overbearing presence of music
makes some of it feel like a weird music video, it's nonetheless
well-choreographed fighting and slashing. Some of the sets are good,
although a fair number of sets and sequences seem blatant rip-offs of
'Brazil' (to say nothing of the ending)...

A pretty mindless flick. It's better than watching dust settle on your
screen. A prettily-packaged emptiness.
<|_=00=_|>
Being summarily clobbered by movie-goers and critics alike, REPO MEN
will obviously not be for everyone. But it will be a great movie for
the right person, and I was obviously one of those "right" people.

So who is this movie directed at and why? Well, it's a combination of a
smart espionage thriller in a science fiction setting, with a little
comedy thrown in for good measure. This might sound like a recipe for
disaster, but it is anything but. But is it right for you? That's a
tough call. If you're in the medical field and are concerned about
healthcare insurance, it will definitely pique your interest. If you
enjoyed such films as KILL BILL and BRINGING OUT THE DEAD, this will be
right up your alley.

So why did I rate the film so high? Let's look at it for a minute...

It's topical without being "in your face." It never tells you to
believe that private insurance carriers are "bad" and simply shows us a
ridiculous possible future where organs are built in factories and
everyone who needs a pancreas, a liver, an ear, or whatever, can get
one ...for a price. The Union is run by an unscrupulous business man
named Frank (Liev Schreiber, DEFIANCE). He's basically a used car
salesman trying to get you to sign on the dotted line for organs you
desperately need. But make sure you don't miss any payments after
you've gotten your new kidney. Why? Because if you don't pay the
exorbitant prices and interest rates, your organ will be repossessed.
Oh yes, even if it's your heart. How will you survive without it? You
won't.

Remy (Jude Law, CLOSER) and Jake (Forest Whitaker, WHERE THE WILD
THINGS ARE) are two of these Repo Men and they're very good at their
jobs. With surgical precision, they can track and excise overdue organ
owners with gory efficiency. But when Remy is forced to get a new heart
and begins falling behind on payments, he begins to see the other side
of his previous life.

This sounds like a pretty straightforward premise. A sort of Darth
Vader understanding where his son was coming from plot. And that is
only partially true. Jude Law does an excellent job playing a badass
with absolutely no conscious about ending a person's life if their
delinquent on their bill. He is absolutely believable as a disconnected
man only interested in money and being a great contract employee for
The Union. This is seen early on when we witness him retrieving a liver
in a rapid manner, making a beautiful incision and ripping the organ
out. He heads to the previous owner's sink, rinses it off, packs it up,
and heads out while stepping over the now probably lifeless man.
Impressive. The gore is essential here to show the audience exactly HOW
disconnected Remy is from humanity.

Jake, his partner, is even further gone than Remy. He enjoys his job so
much that he's willing to do anything to anyone in order to ensure he
and Remy can keep working together.

In the midst of Remy's life is a relationship that's falling apart and
a son who is the only thing that keeps him remotely grounded. But when
Remy suddenly needs a heart replacement, things rapidly change. You can
see the wheels spinning in the back of his head after he returns to
work. Would a Repo Man come after him if he failed to pay? What does it
mean to have a piece of metal in his chest where his heart used to be?
Does this make him less human? Or, in some bizarre way, does it make
him more human? These are questions that are left up to the audience to
decide.

The ending was telegraphed just enough to give it a fun twist without
coming out of the blue. I kind of picked up on it after a significant
fight sequence, and you might to if you pay attention. It is enough of
an "a-ha!" moment that'll make some film watchers gasp.

With the current, raw, political climate I think this film was
excellently timed to hit the big screen. Think about where our
healthcare is going and who you want to control it, and this film will
cut into you, too.
<|_=00=_|>
When the economic crisis first hit, Clive Owen came out with The
International, a film about an evil bank. With the health care crisis
now in full swing, Jude Law has come out with Repo Men, a film about
evil health care people. Repo Men is good, but seems to have come out a
bit early because this seems like a perfect summer film.

I cannot remember a time when Jude Law was this much fun. Fresh off a
turn as Watson in Guy Ritchie's superb Sherlock Holmes, Law plays Remy,
who work for the The Union, a company that supplies artificial body
parts. If you can't pay for them, The Union sends Remy and his best
mate Jake (Forrest Whitaker) after you. They cut you open and take the
parts back. Its a bloody good time for all.

Law is such a badass in this film. You would think a role like this
would go to Jason Statham, but a renowned actor like Law, who really
isn't used to being the badass, plays the part very well. With the
amount of blood and violence and quick takes, you would think this
flick was made by the Neveldine/Taylor duo. First time director Miguel
Sapochnik does the film well, but you'd like to see what an experienced
director could do with it.

While Repo Men falls short with some of its blood for the sake of blood
scenes and some acting shortcomings (Forrest is good but has too little
to do), it makes up for it with Law and its twist ending. Go catch Repo
Men. You'll rip your heart out if you don't.
<|_=00=_|>
Movies like Repo Men are those that take interesting, even fascinating, 
premises and butcher them to the point of disfigurement; a bland 
cookie- cutter version of how the plot could have unravelled. In 
addition to the obvious plot arc that can easily be surmised from the 
trailers, any good will built up over the running time is similarly 
bastardized by a horrendous final twist that is not only nonsensical 
but cheap. This reveal is not only blatantly alluded to early on but 
even for those who did not pick up on it will not be surprised by the 
finale.

In yet another paint-by-numbers dystopian future where highly advanced 
artificial organs are now a reality, we follow two repo men by the 
names of Remy (Jude Law) and Jake (Forest Whitaker) whose task it is to 
reclaim said organs from customers who have fallen behind on payments. 
They gleefully extract hearts, livers, kidneys, etc leaving their 
former customers on the wrong side of alive. Yet, after an on the job 
accident leaves Remy himself with an 'artiforg', as they are called, 
and subsequently is unable to make payments he goes on the run. With 
the help of a woman who is nearly all 'fake' so to speak (it is 
eye-rolling developments like this that make up Repo Men) he tries to 
bring down his former employer with Jake hot on his trail.

Thank goodness at the center of it all we get three solid performances 
from Jude Law and Forest Whitaker as the titular repo men, and Liev 
Schreiber as their morally defunct boss. Without this trio to ground 
the movie in some realm of watchability this could have been an 
unmitigated disaster instead of just a near-disaster. The gore is ample 
in Repo Men but it appears in all the wrong places. Instead of using 
the violent repossessions as tentpole instances of shock, they pepper 
the story with such frequency, everything becomes white-washed (or 
should I say red- washed) and muted in effectiveness.

I will admit, there are some well choreographed, badass action 
sequences but they can do little to lift the remaining material. Even 
with these kinetic bursts, the characters at the center are all so 
unlikable, whether they live or die becomes moot. Are we truly supposed 
to root for a murderer just because he had a moral epiphany and who in 
addition cheats on his wife after she condemns his job and then 
proceeds to abandon her and his son? All this is loosely strung 
together by a bland and sporadic voice-over which serves no discernible 
purpose.

There are so many unanswered questions floating around Repo Men. What 
has happened to lead up to this future? What is government like to give 
this company absolute power to slaughter countless people? And where is 
the money in selling organs to those who cannot pay anyways? It is 
questions like these and more that leave Repo Men a vapid and 
unmemorable vision of the future with little to say about much of 
anything.


<|_=00=_|>
OK, being a fan of action and mediocre movies in general, i was pumped
when i saw the previews for this movie. The film was not quite what i
was expecting but was pretty much all i could have hoped for. I knew
nothing of the book it was based on going in so i really cant comment
on how it compares to the movie. the story was good with great action
scenes and at times just plain brutal. this is much more a guy movie
than anything else. Go see it, it was really good. The star rating does
this film a terrible injustice, this is one of the few times i
completely disagree with IMDb. This movie is action packed and
extremely entertaining, take it as nothing more than that....
<|_=00=_|>
Now, Repo Men is both extremely good and bad. Even I didn't enjoy the
movie on several occasion, mostly because of the extremely graphic
display of gore and violence. But why is it so good? The ending turned
the movie into a masterpiece. I was stunned that such a micro-twist
could radically change my opinion. But it isn't how complex the twist
was, it is how the viewer's perception of the second-half of the
storyline changed. And that was a big change.

The movie doesn't present itself as a psycho thriller, but as an
action-flick. You might end up going in with the wrong expectations.
Don't be mistaken - if your a fan of action you will definitely get
your share, but it might leave you confused. It takes a little more
work to understand the motivation behind Jude Law's character and how
he tries to redeem himself, more than the average Joe is willing to
provide. 

Now if your a fan of Inception (I can't really say I am), a movie that
is pseudo complex and artificially deep with stunning visuals (of
course?!), you won't get the benefit out of Repo Men. But if you are a
fan of philosophy and human nature you should be willing to give this
movie a try. 

All actors preform very well, I just think that a little British accent
shouldn't throw you off too far.

I'll recommend.
<|_=00=_|>
I just watched this movie with my wife, and quite frankly I bought this
movie because of the two actors. This movie could have been about
paints that dries and I still would have bought it, but since it was
science fiction I could not resit.

I liked this movie because it allowed me to think of the ending and the
details of the ending. When a movie ends with a typical ending I say,
"nice movie, next". 

So I read the reviews and have to say they completely missed the point,
and maybe they missed the point of SciFi, which is unfortunate. So let
me address some of the points made:

1) Too much gore to the point that it all becomes muted. Well guess
what that was the point of the movie. Imagine being a repo man, how
would you be with respect to leaving people to die? You have to have a
certain amount distance and muted feelings. Like Jude says when he
talks about the serial killer. The first is the hardest and takes the
longest. Thus the first gore is the hardest and the longest, but as the
gore picks up you become muted.

2) Believing the epiphany is not hard because the stage was set
correctly. Namely up to this point he was always with his friend who
had no problems with his job. But if you shake the basic premise then
everything else must be questioned and since his wife left him (not the
other way around) he had to question everything and he came to a new
conclusion. Namely he understood that people were not numbers that
could not pay.

3) The plot and arc is not obvious. I watch lots and lots of movies and
can guess most movies. But this one was harder. Yes I knew that the
neural net had to get their somewhere, but how was the question.

4) Naive ending and too easily brushed over the details. Well guess
what another brilliant move because while we don't know it, he is
dreaming. And when we dream we see the world like we want to see it. We
want to brush over the details. We want to avoid the truth.

In the end I REALLY did like the movie and it kept me wondering...
<|_=00=_|>
Repo Men could have been a really cool cyberpunk type movie, but it
wasn't. Think Bladerunner but not as gritty, intelligent, or good. Jude
Law and Forrest Whittaker play a pair of repo men that work for an evil
corporation that manufactures and distributes artificial human organs.
When people fall behind on their payments the repo men come to take the
organs back. I don't really understand the business model being used in
this movie. The organs cost in the neighborhood of $600,000 and the
interest rate on the loan of the organ is 19.95%. The salesman have a
variety of payment plans available for a variety of lifestyles should
you not be able to afford to buy the organ up front. Throughout the
movie organs are repossessed from alcoholics, drug addicts, criminals,
the homeless, and just about everyone else you wouldn't give a loan or
an organ to. Sure the corporation just hunts them down and takes back
their organs, but why did they give them out in the first place? It
turns out that they do that because if they didn't Jude Law and Forrest
Whittaker wouldn't have anything to do and the movie would resemble the
Maytag repairman commercials. Anyway, things are going poorly for Jude
Law because his wife has problems with her husband going out an
effectively murdering people. Law decides to give up the repo business
after one last job. Unfortunately for Law he suffers an accident that
damages his heart and he has to get an artificial one. After recovering
he no longer looks at things the same and can no longer carve people up
for a living. As a result Law falls behind on his payments and his
heart is ordered to be reclaimed.

The movie doesn't do a very good job establishing why the company can
just go out and hack people up, or why nobody seems interested in
stopping them when they are. I guess the audience is just supposed to
assume the corporation controls everything. With the high body count
that Law and Whittaker rack up, just in the first half hour, it's a
wonder that anyone is left alive at all, nobody seems to be paying for
their organs. The public at large seems to be oblivious to this fact
because all it takes is a few soothing words from the sales rep and
they all sign on the dotted line. The big problem with Repo Men is that
it simply isn't very believable and the movie makes very little effort
to make it so.
<|_=00=_|>
I was not looking for a moral message in this movie, instead I sat down
and enjoyed it whole. Yes, there were certain illogical bits, the plot
was simple and the whole turn at the end an old trick. But to be
honest, it worked perfectly for me. I did not expect the end and it
totally fixed the feeling of another "mandatory happyend" I was getting
during the last 10 minutes of the movie.

The action sequences were great. The bloody erotic scene behind the
pink door was original and I almost had to look away. Definitely not
recommended if you have weaker stomach.

Jude Law was excellent even though I think less violence suits him
better.
