
Anyone who would remotely consider themselves to be a fan of the spoof
genre would reject this trash. I'll be the first one to admit that
taste is subjective, but the guys that made this movie lack any sort of
talent for this type of movie

I implore anyone to check out the following spoof movies: 

Airplane! Top Secret The Naked Gun The Naked Gun 2 1/2 Hot Shots Hot
Shots: Part Deux Kentucky Fried Movie (yes, its "old" but a classic
none the less) Mafia! BASEketball Scary Movie 3 Sacry Movie 4 

Not all of these are great. Many are a product of their era. Some are
downright "average" spoof movies, at best. But compared to "Meet the
Spartans" (or Epic Movie or Date Movie) they are a BILLION times
better. And they have one thing in common... Zucker / Abrahams / Zucker
(also must give props to writer Pat Proft). These guys INVENTED this
genre. Watch these films and you will realize Jason Friedberg & Aaron
Seltzer are talentless hacks who think just making a reference to pop
culture is funny. 

If Jason Friedberg & Aaron Seltzer are reading this, I suggest you
might want to watch these movies as well. You might learn a thing or
two.
<|_=00=_|>
A dismal failure of a spoof with only the slightest bit of funny. This
dreck breaks all the rules of good spoofing.

1. Be timely. A joke about Ellen in Mr Wrong? Really? 

2. Be funny when offensive. Accident prone kid in Scary Movie 3, mildly
funny. Assault on a kid by Spartian, not funny.

3. Be subtle sometimes. Not everything has to go to the extreme.

4. Be broad. Go everywhere for your spoofs, not just the same wells
over and over.

AND MOST IMPORTANTLY....

5. DON'T EXPLAIN EVERY RIFF AND SOURCE MATERIAL. If you have to tell
your audience where it comes from, chances are it's not funny.

The fact that this film is only 60 odd minutes plus one of the longest
credit sequences loaded with even more unfunny deleted scenes
(seriously can't those wait for the DVD no one should buy either),
that's just adding insult to injury.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't know how my brain allowed me to see this picture. I thought it
would be like trying to suffocate yourself; your body would just shut
down before you could do it. Apparently I was wrong. I sat through this
movie and laughed once, and that was during the preview for another
movie. There was the odd part where I might have cracked a smile or
thought, "This might be funny if..." but there is a very good reason
for that. Instead of making good jokes and thoughtful humour, the
writers decided to just constantly send an endless stream of jokes at
you and hoped one of them made you chuckle. This movie was truly
atrocious. You would think after having their last two films be on the
bottom 100 of this site, the makers would say, "Lets try something
different," but no, it is the exact same as Date Movie and Epic Movie;
Bad.
<|_=00=_|>
This is perhaps one of the most awful films I've seen. Much as I enjoy
tacky spoof humor, this movie just falls flat. So many of the film's
jokes are so drawn out that whatever humor originally present just gets
diluted. It was funny kicking a celebrity into the pit of death once.
Five times later, it's just stale and dragging. If you've seen the
trailers to this, you've basically seen about 90% of the film. The
script could have been easily condensed to a 10 minute sketch for
Saturday Night Live. The humor is so repetitive; almost all of the
jokes play off either the Spartans questionable sexuality or
celebrities' promiscuity. A blurred-out vagina just isn't that funny,
why did the movie choose to use it 5 times? While there were numerous
pop-culture references, there simply wasn't much done with it. Someone
forgot to tell the middle-schooler who wrote this that having a poorly
impersonated celebrity appear isn't funny by itself.

Don't see this movie, even if you liked similar spoof movies (like
Scary Movie).
<|_=00=_|>
Me movie is good. Me am smart. Make funny ha ha joke! Ha Ha! Me show
you... ug.... people you am know from pop culture tabloids. Me make fun
of them! Me show you fat person and you laugh! You laugh at little
midgets and farting! PBBBLLLP! Fart noise! HA HA Funny! Me poop my
pants. In funny movie Meet Spartans I make fun of other movie. I take
scenes from movies you know and make them funny. I add farts or have
people kicked down into a hole. I make funny gay jokes about gay
people! Ha ha! Don't forget, you laugh at Kevin Federline because he is
big loser! Him think he can rap just like me think me can write joke!
Me write movie! You remember Epic Movie? Me write that too. Me write
with crayons or my own poop that I scoop out of toilet after I fart and
go pooh. Me make funny jokes about Paris Hilton. She so stupid! She am
loose sexually. Ha HA HA! Me write sequel soon. Me deserve bazillions
of dollars for buying things me stupid family deserve. Me ug fbloduad
boodle! HAHA!
<|_=00=_|>
I work at a movie theater, so the only reason I went to see this movie
was because it was free and I thought that it just might be the kind of
movie that's so bad me and my friends could entertain ourselves by
making fun of it. However, Meet the Spartans left us completely
dumbfounded and speechless. It's beyond bad! There was nothing you
could say that could make of this movie, it does it all by itself and
it doesn't even allow you to laugh while you watch it going down in
flames. I considered its predecessor, Epic Movie, to be among one of
the worst movies ever made. I didn't think it could possibly get worse,
but it did. It's like watching 300 all over again expect with
ridiculous pop culture references that aren't even funny. The guys who
made this movie obviously don't understand comedy in the slightest bit.
I hope that this is the last one of these ridiculous comedies that gets
to occupy a theater over another film that might actually be worth
something. This film is a waste of money for starters, but even if you
don't have to pay, it's just a waste of time.
<|_=00=_|>
I was recently forced to sit through Meet the Spartans. Ill start by
saying that i'm very sick of all this epic/date/scary movie junk. It's
been overdone and only appeals to people under the age of 9. The humor
in this movie was just as awful as i thought it would be and i could
predict the entire movie. I was told before-hand that it was only about
90 minutes, and was a little upset id be paying for that. After
watching the movie i was beyond glad that i only had to be tortured for
that long, rather than the usual 2 hours. I'll close by saying that if
you're forced to watch this movie, rip your eyes out of your skull and
pour salt into your head. It will be much more enjoyable.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this the other day with a group of friends and I'm not sure I
even saw all of it, but what I saw was enough for me to wish my $7.50
and the hour back. Seriously the version I saw was only and hour. I'm
not sure if the theater missed a reel or what but I find it odd that
even though I hated this film, I feel cheated by the fact that the
supposed 84 min film came in at about 60 when I watched. I'll admit I
chuckled every so ofter, but for the most part the fact that all the
things being spoofed were telegraphed (Who are you monster! Paris
Hilton! Like Toby Macquire in Spider-man 3). 

Oh well. Stay away!

Can anyone verify if I got gypped?
<|_=00=_|>
This was easily one of the worst films i've seen so far this year. I
was obviously made very cheaply and it really shows on the screen. The
jokes are extremely childish yet I wouldn't recommend it for children
as some bits are somewhat offencive..they have really missed the mark
on this one which I was really hoping would be good as I usually love
this style of film. Most of the gags in the film have been seen time
and time again and by the end the audience was really switching off and
the younger members of the audience just started throwing popcorn
around as it was so bad. In short if you have to go to the cinema this
weekend see something else.
<|_=00=_|>
This was literally the worst movie I have ever seen. I am a movie buff
and tend to love all sorts of movies, this movie was a waste of my time
and money. They tend to use the same joke time and time again, after
the first time, it's not funny anymore!! Also, Parents beware!! This is
NOT a movie for children to go to. It is PG-13 but I feel anyone under
16 should not see it, in one scene Carmen Electra is laying on a table
with only tomatoes covering her nipples and a slice of pizza covering
her crotch. There are lots of other provocative scenes that is
inappropriate for children. All in all the movie was crude, disgusting
and vulgar, not funny at all except for the opening scene. Don't see
it, you'll be extremely disappointed.
