
I am bi-polar. I have been that way since I was a young man. I am
approaching 60. I have been in treatment for many years. There have
been relapses and time spent in hospitals. There have been good times.
Before I received good treated, I left a trail of emotional,
professional, and relational disaster behind me. It broke apart the
lives of others as much as it did my own.

I did not know what to expect from this movie. It is a stunningly
accurate trip into the mind of a BP sufferer. It shows the disease from
the outside, too. It is amazing in its accuracy. The mood swings, the
detachment from reality, the failure to learn from past errors are
there. Here is a guy who has so messed up he is in the hospital. He is
released into the custody of his parents. He improves himself
physically yet cannot see what he has done, what he is now, and what
the future portends with any sort of reality.

There are other situations in the film which mirror the BP life. There
are job losses, broken relationships, unlimited optimism, anger, and a
feeling that no one understands you. But he doesn't even understand
himself. He thinks he is the only sane person around. He is in complete
denial yet goes along with treatment just to get along with others.

The obsession with his estranged wife drives him. Everything he does is
to make himself look desirable to her.

Then there is the hair trigger and the propensity toward violence which
ultimately put him into the hospital. He has the belief that he sees
with much more clarity than anyone else. There is also the hatred of
medications and the belief that he doesn't need them.

Yet, there is hope. There is no miraculous cure. There is a negotiated
peace between his illness and the way he must be to survive in the
world.

The only thing I felt was missing was the crushing depression. But I
understand that. Depression makes for lousy movies. The film is
strictly about a manic life that wants to be better but cannot accept
that he is badly off dead center normal.

If you are bi-polar and under control, see this film! If you live with
or deal with a BP, see this movie. If you are untreated, you won't get
it because BP clouds the mind.

My new wife and I went to see it. Up front I told her that I had this
mental illness. She still married me. She is a health care worker with
an understanding of illness and of treatment. After the film she asked
me what I thought.

I told her that I was a bit frightened to tell her that the portrayal
is spot on and that I had seen all of it before.

But like all bipolar sufferers, I wanted her to know that "I was never
that bad." The truth is, I was....but we BP people don't handle reality
all that well.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this at the Hamptons International Film Festival as the Spotlight
film and it was one of the best movies I have ever seen. It is so
relatable, even if you don't suffer from the same afflictions as the
main characters, and its implications are so far-reaching that
everyone, I believe, can learn a little something from Pat and Tiffany.
The story sends such wonderful messages about finding the "silver
lining" and is uplifting, even in the seemingly most dire
circumstances. Jennifer Lawrence and Bradley Cooper are phenomenal, and
I found myself really attached to their characters. This is a must see
for everyone! And I will be seeing it again when it hits theaters in
November.
<|_=00=_|>
At first glance, you would think this movie would be just another
generic Katherine Heiglesque rom-com that dominates the box office and
empties your soul. But classifying it as such is like saying Jaws was a
nice little fishing movie. It's so very much more and what makes it all
the more wonderful is that it comes as such a pleasant surprise.

I mean, seriously, who would have thought that Bradley Cooper could
convey such angst and heartache? Or that De Niro still had a great
performance in him after a decade of caricaturing his old self? And
Jennifer Lawrence - just wow. There's so much more to say but best to
just let you experience it for yourself.

Watch - this movie's rep will build through terrific word-of-mouth and
it'll end up as a modern day classic. This is why you go see movies in
the first place.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't even know where to begin when it comes to this film. First of
all, I think it's about time I profess my love for David O'Russell
because he keeps making movies that I simply can't get enough of. If
there's one thing I've learned this year when it comes to movies, it's
find a director you love and follow him or her blindly. There's styles
you'll love, and styles you'll hate, find the ones you click with and
never let go.

Silver Linings Playbook has generated a lot of hype since its worldwide
premiere at TIFF, and frankly, as far as I'm concerned, it deserves all
the praise its received. It is by far the best film I saw at the
festival, and is easily one of the most memorable films of 2012. Based
on the novel by Matthew Quick, Silver Linings follows the life of Pat
(Bradley Cooper) as he moves back into his parents' house after
spending months in a mental institution because of a violent outburst
that occurred after he found his wife with another man. The movie
follows Pat as he attempts to get back his life back, but he meets a
new challenge as Tiffany (Jennifer Lawrence, who is completely girl
crush worthy) finds his way into his life.

I honestly can't remember the last time I enjoyed a movie more from
beginning to end. O'Russell brilliantly tells a heartwarming, yet
complicated and hilarious tale, that leaves you on the edge of the
seat. The cast is wonderful, and all deserving of nominations in the
2012 award season. If people didn't know of Jennifer Lawrence before,
they will now. She's quirky, complicated, hilarious, and you really
just can't get enough of her. DeNiro also delivers a strong performance
as Cooper's Philadelphia Eagle's loving, somewhat OCD father.

If there is one movie worth seeing this year, it's Silver Linings
Playbook. The story may follow a family in a very serious situation,
but we can all identity with the truth and emotions that comes with
struggling through times. It's a story that's easy to connect with, and
it's a film that will make you smile from beginning to end. Catch this
movie when it comes out in November, and I promise you, you won't
regret it.

For more Reviews Check out.
<|_=00=_|>
So, the acting in this film is excellent and that's why the one star.
Other than that, this is a hot mess of a movie in terms of any sense of
reality, common sense, and human behavior.

It makes is appear that bipolar is pretty much curable if a person
meets the right hot girl and takes meds for a short time. And don't
worry if the other crazy guy from the mental institution comes to visit
as he's not really all that crazy, and the audience never figures out
why he's there or what happens to him in the end.

Apparently anyone can enter a professional dance competition,
regardless of ability or training, and book making is a viable job
option for the unemployed. When a person gets out of the institution,
he or she is apparently assigned their own personal police officer who
just happens to show up day or night, kind of like a personal on-call
bodyguard. Oh, and having a cra-cra dad who obviously passed his mental
issues on to his son but isn't called on it at all is just part of the
insanity that makes up this ridiculous movie. But, hey, if a person
dances long enough their mental issues go away and all is well.

I'll be shaking my head for a long time as I cannot believe how this
movie is getting the press and reviews I've seen. Excellent actors in a
beyond stupid screenplay. Complete waste of time and money.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. The film is exactly what you would
expect from a screwball romantic comedy steeped in drama based on
bipolar disorder, depression, OCD, Philadelphia Eagles fanatics, a
ballroom dancing contest, adultery, Hemingway, and a lead character who
jogs while wearing a trash bag. Maybe not exactly what you would
expect, but more likely much more.

If you were told instead that the story is based on two damaged souls
who help heal each other through dancing, you would have every reason
to skip this one. However, as written and directed by David O Russell
(The Fighter) and based on Matthew Quick's novel, this story is a
frenetic, emotional roller coaster ride that provides a glimmer of hope
for the two damaged lead characters, while reminding that each of us
may be a bit off-center in some way. Now add in the best young actress
working today (Jennifer Lawrence just turned 22), a rare performance
from Robert DeNiro where he seems fully engaged, a pulling back the
curtain on Bradley Cooper as much more than a pretty face, and one of
the best and most precise soundtracks in recent history ... now you
have one of the best films of the year.

What you notice very early on is that what could be considered a trite
story line, is instead pounding you with sharp, witty dialogue that
pulls no punches in directness. The many aspects of family and
emotional support are given time thanks to Pat (Bradley Cooper) being
released after 8 months in a mental institution. He was sent there when
he snapped after finding his wife in a compromising position with
another man. Perfectly understandable if you ask me, but clearly he is
the explosive one despite his claims to the contrary. An uncomfortable
dinner party introduces him to Tiffany (Ms. Lawrence) whose husband has
recently died and her coping skills have been shared with most of those
in her workplace. This odd couple spark immediately and the wild ride
begins.

Pat's wife Nikki (Brea Bee) has issued a restraining order and Pat's
strategy to win her back involves a positive attitude and maintaining
control of his emotions. His supporters include his mother (Jacki
Weaver, who was so great in Animal Kingdom), his OCD father (DeNiro)
who so wants to re-connect with his son, his friend (John Ortiz) whose
own marriage (to icy Julia Stiles) is a messy mess, his buddy from the
asylum (a funny and not over the top Chris Tucker), and of course,
Tiffany. The only real problem is that each of these supporters are
teetering in their own way just like Pat.

The brilliance of this movie is the balance struck between the near
violent emotional outbursts and the sharp, exacting words spouted by
each of the characters. Director Russell once again shows his flair for
working class northeasterners. He understands these tough as nails
people who wear their emotions on their sleeves. These people are as
likely to punch you as hug you ... and both are acts of love.

The soundtrack deserves special mention. It is very unique and varied,
with each song serving an exact purpose. Especially keen are Stevie
Wonder's "My Cherie Amour", Led Zeppelin's "What is and What Should
Be", and "The Girl from the North Country" a Bob Dylan and Johnny Cash
duet. When the music strikes a harmony with the scene, the movie is all
the stronger. Rarely do we get the perfect storm of script, direction,
acting, music and relevance.
<|_=00=_|>
While most romantic comedies usually contain bad acting, sappiness, and
a large amount of predictable moments; Silver Linings Playbook is the
exact opposite. There may be a little amount sappiness in this movie
but there is bound to be some in any romantic situations. In reality
though, all of the sap in Silver Linings Playbook can be overlooked due
to the fact that the film is completely original, extremely funny, and
contains outstanding acting from the two lead roles.

Written and directed by David O. Russell (The Fighter), Silver Linings
Playbook is about a man, played by Bradley Cooper (Limitless, The
Hangover), who was just released from an eight month stint in a
psychiatric hospital. He wants to get his life back on track but is
being held back by his parents and his unstable condition. After a
little while, he strikes up an interesting friendship with a female
played by Jennifer Lawrence (Winter's Bone, The Hunger Games). Both of
these characters are going through somewhat of the same type of
problems which makes their friendship even more quirky and
thought-provoking.

Because a large amount of romantic comedies are stale and overdone,
Silver Linings Playbook is a breath of fresh air. Usually movies in
this genre follow a very particular road map that entails: man is at
rock bottom but then finds the perfect girl. After a while, man loses
girl and must win girl back in a very cliché and unrealistic fashion.
What's original about Silver Linings Playbook is that it doesn't follow
that mediocre story line in the slightest making it unpredictable but
at the same time, more relateable. Chris Tucker is in this movie and
even he isn't predictable. Chris Tucker, the loud-mouthed actor who
hasn't been in a film without the words 'Rush Hour' in the title for
almost 15 years, was surprisingly mellow. Even though he was mellow, he
was still very comedic and played a great role in the film.

The most surprising aspect of Silver Linings Playbook, however, was the
performance of Bradley Cooper. Even though this is a comedy, Cooper
plays what is maybe one of the most serious roles he's ever performed.
After audience members witness his work in this film, there shouldn't
be any more doubt if the man can act or not. Silver Linings Playbook is
without a doubt Cooper's best work thus far in his career. Jennifer
Lawrence has a performance of equal caliber but that is expected from
the young Academy Award nominated actress. What was surprising about
Lawrence's role in the movie, was how adult it was. Fans of Lawrence's
work may have been worried that she would be stuck in teenage roles
after playing the character Katniss Everdeen in The Hunger Games, but
she should silence those doubts after this film with a very adult, yet
professional, performance.

Silver Linings Playbook is full of creativity and minimal on romance
clichés. It is hands down one of the best romantic comedies to be made
within the last couple of years. This film contains many laugh out loud
moments and a number of scenes that will warm your heart to the point
where you can't help but leave the theater smiling. Silver Linings
Playbook is the perfect date movie that both men and women can easily
enjoy. A-
<|_=00=_|>
Wow, talk about a movie written to a well-worn Hollywood recipe.

There are 0 surprises is this movie. As soon as the two main characters
meet at the dinner party the rest of the movie flows like a ad-lib.

Wow, she wrote the letter? What a surprise. Yawn.

Wow, they scored exactly what was needed to win the bet? Yawn.

Wow, he decides on the new girl instead of his old wife? Amazing, never
saw that twist coming.....

And I thought M. Night Shyamalan had gotten bad at twists. Even my
wife, who is a sucker for she flick comedies thought it was wayyyyy to
predictable.
<|_=00=_|>
I really wanted to LOVE this movie, as I rarely get out to watch movies
so I am very selective about the ones I will go watch. I love both
Bradley Cooper and Jennifer Lawrence and the reviews have been so
overwhelmingly positive I was sure I couldn't lose!

To me, this film is a typical clichéd rom com with some mental illness
and character twists thrown in. Boy meets girl, boy and girl pretend to
just be friends for a while, boy and girl get thrown into a situation
where they have intense prolonged contact, boy and girl fall in love
and end up together. YAWN. THIS is what is getting so much hype? 

I found Bradley Cooper to be magnetic and intense. Great work. I have
enjoyed him since his small role in Wedding Crashers and thought he was
just superb in Limitless. He is the best part of this movie. The guy is
super talented! 

I really was not that impressed with the other performances despite the
fact I thought I should be. To be fair, no one stunk it up or ruined
the movie. But I thought anyone could have played the other roles. I
like Jennifer Lawrence but I didn't think she was that great in this. I
thought the parents were played well but again, I didn't think De Niro
was that special in this. 

I'm not really sure I'd recommend this. I'd probably either wait for
DVD or even cable. It's OK.
<|_=00=_|>
Over the past week I believed I had seen the most overrated film
currently frontrunning the Oscars this year after viewing "Zero Dark
Thirty." And then I discovered this abomination.

There is little to nothing to comment on regarding this film's script
or story because when it is boiled down to its roots, it is a trite,
cliché bore that has been done many, many times before and far better.

So what makes this movie not a complete copy of many films before it?
This film contains a horrific depiction of mental illness that
objectifies human beings as caricatures. Cooper's character, who is
supposedly the film's primary protagonist, is portrayed in such a
disturbing way that an uninformed viewer could not be blamed for
thinking that those who are bipolar - a very real illness with very
real, good people who suffer from it - are all miserable, violent
people who obsess over others to the point of stalking them. His
'character' is then propped up and 'fleshed out' through a collection
of tired tropes typically seen in Hollywood's voyeuristic,
disrespectful portrayals of those with mental illness.

Avoid this sickening film at all costs, especially if you are someone
who suffers from mental illness or are related to someone who does. It
handles its subject matter in a way that will disturb you to the point
of tears before the movie is even over.
