
There must have been comedians in the projection booth the night that
some friends and I went to see a family friendly film. These particular
friends tend to watch only light-hearted material and get upset for
weeks whenever they see horror films or intense thrillers. They were
totally unprepared for a 'Quarantine' trailer and it shocked them all
so badly that we nearly had to leave and get our money back. Maybe it
was because of their strong reaction that my interest in the film has
stayed so high for the past several months.

This week I have seen both 'Quarantine' and 'Rec' the film that
'Quarantine' is a remake of. 'Rec' is not without flaws but it is a
very solid and chilling horror film. 'Quarantine' is able to expand on
several of the strengths in 'Rec' while falling into a few pitfalls of
it's own. Both films are about a TV news crew taping a show about what
a night in the life of a fireman is like. A seemingly routine call
turns out to be something much more and the news crew is trapped in a
quickly quarantined building.

Giving credit where it is due, 'Quarantine' kept me on the edge of my
seat for most of the movie. It lures you in with a very relaxed opening
ten minutes but once you reach the building and the cop in charge asks
why the camera crew is there, the whole tone of the movie changes. The
fun and games, the light-hearted banter is gone. We only realize how
serious it is though when they enter the apartment of an injured old
woman. For me the tension starts with the entrance to the apartment and
never lets up. Each new segment that the TV crew starts filming holds
potential terror. The set design and the lighting are terrific and
'Quarantine' walks a careful tightrope of character action. So often in
horror films the audience is yelling with frustration at what
characters on the screen are doing because it all goes against common
sense. There is a little bit of that early on but 'Quarantine' does a
better job of playing to the characters and their panic. Characters die
not through naivety or stupidity as much as they do from inevitability
and inescapability. The key performance comes from Jennifer Carpenter.

The film's greatest strength and weakness at the same time, Carpenter
is the focus of the camera because of her role as the reporter and it
isn't an easy part to play. She is solid for the majority of the film
but terror essentially overwhelms her with ten minutes to go and she is
reduced to a sobbing, shrieking, shivering bowl of jello. Would I or
anyone else be any better in the situation that 'Quarantine' creates?
Hard for me to say but probably not. The problem is that there were
three primary acting choices for her to make in the final ten minutes:
she could play it as a hysteric (which she does), she could play it as
numbing down her fear like the cameraman does in order to try and
escape, or she could have been so overwhelmed by her fear that she
becomes a functional catatonic working on autopilot. Carpenter's choice
is probably the 'truest' choice for how people would react. That
doesn't mean that it is going to make for good drama. Her
transformation from confident and outgoing to hysterical jabbering is
so jarring that it feels forced instead of real. The camera man keeps
telling her to calm down when they've reached a potentially safe room
but she is far beyond the calming down stage and well into the years of
therapy one instead. I found it to be just too much and actually pulled
me out of the horror and towards comedy instead.

'Rec' felt a bit more organic and gritty than 'Quarantine.' The
performances are decent in both but you feel less of a connection to
the characters in 'Quarantine.' Many are clearly there to serve as
fodder with no attempt to seriously develop them. 'Rec' does a much
better job, particularly when the reporter interviews each of the
buildings residents. The five minutes spent in filming those sequences
gave more of a stake to the audience into the well-being of those
characters. That never really takes off in 'Quarantine' and I regret
that they didn't follow the lead of 'Rec'. One thing that I thought
'Quarantine' did a much better job of was in plot clarity and how they
provided information. The clues to the source of what is going on are
much more explicit and come very early in the movie. 'Rec' dropped a
few hints for the viewer to put together but relies on the final five
minutes to give the major clues about patient zero. What patient zero
is spreading is clearer in the remake and I thought the clarity
benefited the plot. Of course by the time you find out about patient
zero, Carpenter's character is beyond being able to help provide the
audience with anymore real analytical power. Don't blink or you'll miss
everything you need to know.

I give the slight edge to 'Rec', but certainly recommend 'Quarantine'
to horror fans. It's problems aren't severe enough to detract from a
very decent effort.
<|_=00=_|>
I went into this movie with fairly vague expectations - however I am a
fan of scary movies, and not to mention a big fan of Jennifer
Carpenter, could be good times. so lets go.

woah.

This movie was horribly fantastic! It was a ride, a very scary, very
stressful ride, but an awesome one. True, this flick does not stray far
from the typical zombie flick concepts, but I thought the execution was
above par. The 1st person views, the sense of confinement/hopelessness,
and the great acting (especially ms carpenter, extremely believable job
of someone going hysterically frantic) One of the key things about this
horror is the scares never let up, there is rarely a "breather scene"
where you get to relax for any amount of time, it just keeps hitting
you and hitting you.

haha, phew. I truly enjoyed. check it out. cheers
<|_=00=_|>
I have to say, this whole hysteria of America ruining foreign films is
laughable. Yes, there are some really bad remakes, but that does not
effect the original film. You cannot ruin a film by remaking it as the
original film is still the same. If you are angry, you are angry
because you feel that people who really deserve the fame and
recognition are not getting it. This is a justified reason to be angry,
but don't go saying the film has been ruined because that defies all
logic of possibility.

I must say it's hard for me to review this film without thinking about
the original, mainly because it is nearly a shot for shot remake.
Obviously this takes away from the suspense and overall fear factor of
the film. If you have seen the original, don't expect to experience the
same level of terror that you had the first go round. You're going to
know what's coming for the most part. If you haven't seen REC, this
movie will probably scare you. If you actually have the option of
seeing REC first, I would do it because I feel that it is still the
superior movie. Of course, if you live in America your local video
store won't have it and you'll have to download it illegally, so I
guess you're stuck between a rock and a hard place.

I actually thought the acting was quite good for the most part.
Jennifer Carpenter does a great job playing hysterical women. She did a
good job being hysterical in the Emily Rose abomination and she did a
good job being hysterical in Dexter. She does a good job being
hysterical in this movie as well, so kudos to the producers/directors
for making a logical choice to cast her. Her dialogue outside of being
chased down by rabid tenants is laughable, but this actually makes
sense when you consider the fact she's a reporter for a show no one
would watch anyways.

The main difference between REC and this movie is the cause of the
deranged building tenants. Surprisingly, I thought they made the story
work and it played more on "American" fears such as government
distrust, terrorism, and viral warfare. The only thing I think they
failed on was the choice to use higher quality production. Part of what
made REC really scary was the grittiness which gave you the feeling
that what was happening was real. Although the camera work is
choreographed well, the Hollywood quality takes away the grit and
leaves you feeling like you've had a few too many before watching.

Overall, I think this is actually a decent remake. The producers and
director realized that the story was already awesome and they didn't
try to change it. I think if people would calm down and put aside their
national pride and cultural elitism, they would realize that these
kinds of remakes only help foreign films. How many people knew about
REC before this movie, outside of a small demographic of people (imdb
is not the 'norm')? How many people know about that great movie now?
Lots of people visit these websites looking for reviews, and seeing
"REC" pop up everywhere is only good exposure. Hell, if this movie does
well you might actually find copies of REC in your local video store,
and believe me, I'd be the first in line to buy a copy.
<|_=00=_|>
Even at a glance, it is clear that Quarantine has boarded the 'fad'
bandwagon it two respects. Firstly, this chiller joins up with the
abundance of remakes that choke the gullet of Hollywood, and at an
impressively rapid pace I may add, duplicating its Spanish predecessor
(Rec) within a year's time. Secondly, it is the successor in a line of
films, some from earlier this year in fact, that adopt the hand-held
camera technique (which may soon be classified more accurately as a
gimmick) to construct a first hand, real time account of events. Yet,
despite succumbing to these popular fixations, and the flag of death
that is the studios reluctance to screen the film, Quarantine is crisp
effective horror.

When comparing (Rec) and Quarantine, the similarities are glaring. In
fact, the films are almost identical, save a few altered snippets.
Which is good in the sense that nothing was lost in translation and
although nowhere near as disgraceful as remaking classics or art films,
it still begs to ask the question why? Alas, the average viewer does
not wish to read subtitles, especially when watching horror, so the
update went through. Directed by newcomer John Erick Dowdle he makes
the most of his debut. Procuring a larger budget then its inspiration,
Quarantine looks better as a whole (despite more frequent
incomprehensible shots involving darkness and jiggle cam) and is able
to incorporate some effects into the production, such as a continuous
and chilling shot of a person being tossed down a stairwell.
Comparisons to 2008's earlier films Cloverfield and Diary of the Dead
are unavoidable, and remains squarely in the middle; a far-cry from the
ingenuity and atmosphere of Cloverfield, but avoids the horrendous
acting and scripting of Diary.

Mirroring (Rec) Quarantine begins with a reporter, Angela Vidal
(Jennifer Carpenter) who hosts a late night television program. On this
particular night, Angela and her cameraman Scott (Steve Harris) are
doing a ride-along with the firemen of a local station in L.A.,
including Jake (Jay Hernandez) and Fletcher (Jonathan Schaech). After a
tenuous night of boredom and anxiety, they are finally called to the
scene of an apparent accident in an aging condo, involving an elderly
tenant. Things are not as they seem however as soon after, the CDC
seals off the building with the foursome, and the reaming residents
still inside. Their reasoning is good it seems, as all hell breaks
loose as a mysterious rabies virus rips through the building turning
those exposed into zombie-like fiends. The survivors must work together
to battle the infected, the authorities and each other.

Both films incorporate the inherent problem of the disease itself,
which seems to frequently shift in its required incubation period, but
is not really a huge impediment for the film as a whole. The opening
act which is situated entirely at the station is both surprisingly
involving and witty, and works to some extent as character development.
The finale is also pulse-pounding, if not entirely inspired, but lacks
the sheer terror I felt at the finale of (Rec). When breaking it down,
Quarantine's opening is better then the original, and (Rec)'s final act
is better then its imitator, so things balance out. Each film boast a
superb scene mid to late film, including the aforementioned stairwell
plummet in Quarantine and a scene in (Rec]) involving the same
stairwell in which the heroes peer down to see the lower floors of
infected peering back; eerie stuff. I would encourage horror fans to
see both before making their choice, and to be honest I haven't quite
chosen myself which is superior. Regardless, Quarantine takes advantage
of a ploy that has not yet become stale, and yielding authentic
portrayals from its relatively unknown cast and an ominous atmosphere,
this flick is infectious to be sure.

See all my reviews at: http://simonsaysmovies.blogspot.com
<|_=00=_|>
OK this is not a bad film. It really isn't, it's actually very average
compared to the other awful zombie fare coming from the US in recent
years. It really can't be that bad can it? It's a pretty much shot for
shot remake of a great film. And herein lies the problem...

Why would anyone watch, pay money for or endorse a film which is a shot
for shot remake of another, much better, film? How would anyone make
money out of this from a distribution standpoint? The answer sadly is
because we are lazy lazy people who can't relate to anything outside of
our incredibly small geography or sphere of influence. If an audience
is called to watch subtitles to see a great film like REC, you have
people lining up to remake it without. Because they know that a quick
and effortless buck can be made off the joe shmoe's who can't be
bothered or who don't have the mental capacity to both read a subtitle
and keep track of images at the same time. Never mind that what they
are seeing is a poor second place, at least its good ole American
actors damnit! This extends further, it can't even be set in Madrid!
Like the office couldn't be set in England, no this must be in LA, with
second rate actors, mediocre translations of the original script and
contrived camera work in place of the clever devices and aesthetics
which created REC; one of the most atmospheric and genuine horror films
of recent years.

This viewing malaise cannot relate to a film outside of its own time
even. Think Gus Van Sant, think the remake of Psycho, think why the
hell did he remake a film shot for shot with Vince Vaughn instead of
Anthony Perkins. Because its in colour, that's why and it's set in the
present and otherwise how could any of these poor saps be expected to
follow it.

This is at least better than the truly blasphemous remakes of The Ring
and The Grudge, perhaps due to the lack of gap here between US and
Japanese cinematography, but there is still this deeper issue in US
cinema. The fact that any film without a US passport and contemporary
time stamp has to be remade. Or not even has to be but CAN be... and
can make money to boot. This is a terrible state of affairs which
serves no purpose than to further remove any artistic intent from film
in the effort to dumb down content for a quick buck. 

Texas Chainsaw Massacre, Night of the Living Dead, Dawn of the Dead,
Day of the Dead, The Hills Have Eyes, The Hitcher, Haloweeen, REC, The
Grudge, The Ring, The Eye, Psycho

... RIP, good films all! 

I expect the Mona Lisa to be repainted as a god damn cheerleader any
day now...
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this movie a few months ago. Last night, I watched REC, the
movie this one was based on. All I can say is I have no idea why they
felt the need to remake it. the original is far better, whereas this
one is...OK, at best.

I almost feel insulted, as this movie was a stripped down version of
the original. The plot isn't as dynamic, and the tension is not nearly
as contagious - as if they felt a need to "dumb it down" for the
American Audience. So - if you want to see what a GOOD low budget
horror film is like, leave this one on the shelf and rent the original
- you won't regret it.
<|_=00=_|>
Overall, it was a pretty good movie. It entertained me, and it had
zombie-like people (well, it was actually a virus, like in 28
days/weeks later- but still, that concept of zombies is always
awesome). The camera was pretty shaky at times, which was a bit much,
and at the end, Jennifer Carpenter, as hot as she is, got pretty
annoying with the screams, crying, and hyperventilating. Kind of wish
she would have shut up near the end.

Pretty good jumps, some decent little gore parts- so overall, not a bad
movie. I would probably buy it on DVD. Obviously no movie is perfect,
and everyone will have their own views, likes, and dislikes. If you
look at all the other past horror movies, this one isn't too shabby.
Look, a movie entertains you, then it did it's job. That's why it's
called "entertainment." Just because some jackass on the street says it
sucks, and just because it didn't get many "stars," doesn't mean it's a
bad movie. Plenty of "bad movies" have entertained the hell out of me-
in turn, making them good movies- to me, at least.
<|_=00=_|>
If you didn't know. This film is another American-Remake. That's right.
Once again, American underlings of the film-persuasion lacked any real
originality or motivation to write anything of their own, so they chose
to massacre an existing one. That isn't to directly say this movie is
horrible. But the strange thing you may notice if you educate yourself
is that the ORIGINAL had a plot, where as this one, sadly, comes out
with little to NO plot.

Now if you like the common films that have no regard to your
intelligence or sense of accomplishment that one can get from watching
a good film. (Like 'One Missed Call' 'The Ring' 'The Eye' etc). Then
you will think I have no clue what I am talking about. However, if
you're not a dolt, you will agree and wonder why this movie delivered
the higher budget film, but removed the plot.

The film is 85% it's original. However it does take some originality in
developing the 'infection' earlier on in the plot, however you really
don't get any explanation on much anything. (It's like they teased you
with it. Although the tease being a very weak attempt at a conclusion).

Honestly, you cannot grasp the entirety of this film without watching
Rec. The same can't be said inversely, but both are enjoyable to watch.

In conclusion if you just want a drive-by horror. Go ahead. If you
actually want to have something to talk about with your friends, get
Rec and this one and watch them back to back with the gang and make it
your own discussion.
<|_=00=_|>
Oh were to start on this steamer? How about acting, it's bad. It's no
surprise either since the acting is always bad in these POV
"documentary horror" films. There is a small attempt at character
development at the beginning of the film, but once the bodies start
piling up it's basically nothing but screaming for an hour.

The story is so ridiculous, even more than most current horror films.
News reporter goes to apartment with fire fighters, crazy lady kills
cop, other cop doesn't kill crazy lady...huh? This movie has the
problem that most new horror movies have and that's they make everyone
extremely stupid. People pretty much forget about the diseased
murderers in the next room, get killed, and turn into diseased
murderers themselves. And what was up with the end, everything was calm
for the most part and then there's infected lunatics everywhere. *Yawn*
Could it get any worse? Yes. The directing.

Do you like to go to haunted houses for Halloween? If you do you'll
love this movie, because that's all it is. There is no story, no real
plot, just a bunch of things jumping out of shadows to make you jump.
Well done Mr. Director, well done. Unfortunately we are left without
the token "cat-jumps-out-from-area-that's-being-inspected" scene. There
are no lights in this apartment complex, it seems as though the light
bulbs also caught a disease that killed them.

If you enjoy overacting, horrible stories, bad directing, completely
predictable scenarios and rip off endings, then you must be a
redneck...oh wait, I meant, then you will love this movie. Seriously,
the ending completely ripped off Blair Witch Project, the only
difference is that the camera sees the monster that is going to kill
them. Save your money and go to a fun-house, or go on a roller coaster
ride, it'd be better than this crud...which, and I'm not surprised, is
a remake.
<|_=00=_|>
Seriously I'm sick of this genre of movies. Shaky videos found in the
aftermath of a horrible situation...enough already. This probably won't
be the best review you read for this movie, but for an avid horror
movie enthusiast watching with eyes wide open...this movie was
just...bad.

Simple plot summary. A reality show that features late night careers is
showcasing a fire station. They eventually get a call to a complex with
an undisclosed issue. When they enter they encounter a strange old
women standing there with blood and spit hanging from her mouth and
she's growling. Now for the plot...get together a group of people with
absolutely no survival or social skills who all happen to be mentally
handicapped. Next lock them all into a complex with each other. Mix in
a very unintimidating zombie wannabe virus and let them all run around
with their arms flailing about. That's this movie.

I'm sorry, but this movie was just...stupid and ridiculous. The story
is actually really good (I hear it is based of some other movie that
I've never watched, but whatever) and could have been executed soooo
much better. The acting wasn't really bad, just completely without
direction. The gore was there, but the camera was so damn shaky you
could never focus on any of the action. The way the people reacted and
the ending was just so pathetic it's unbelievable.

-SPOILER- Really, if I'm trapped in a complex with some weird virus
that turns people into violent monsters...I would not gather together
in a lobby. I would gather the uninfected and secure myself behind one
of the very thick well locked doors that the complex offers and wait it
out. I would definitely not: Try and gather the infected into my arms,
put my head near the infected persons face, lock myself in a room with
the infected, run after the infected when they go crazy, eat someone,
and take off. These people basically offer themselves up on a platter
in this movie and it's just pathetic to watch. The end of the movie is
so sudden that the audience actually groaned and stomped out of the
theater.

DO NOT PAY TO SEE THIS MOVIE, it is an OK rent or download but to pay
$10 to see it is ridiculous. This movie is more of a 2 but I'm voting a
1 to help offset the idiots who vote this a 8+.
