
I saw the trailer of this movie several times and I just hated it.
Bombastic overpowering music that overloaded my senses and gave the
impression of an average movie. The complete movie is totally different
and I loved every minute of it (all 130). The acting is subtle and
strong and New Zealand provides a beautiful background for some amazing
shots. The story has real power and all twists and turns feel very
natural. You get a real good feel about all the characters involved and
their motivations. They all evolve together to the end of the movie.
Special mention for me are two of the main characters, Frank and Ada.
The (erotic) tension between these actors is one of the most intense
I've ever seen in cinema. If you like well told drama with great acting
this is the movie for you. Forget the trailer, go to see the real
thing!
<|_=00=_|>
This is a fantastic film. The trailer for this film tells of a
passionate love affair between two people who can't be together. OK,
the film is about these two people, but it is about so much more! The
bond between these four people who met on a plane in 1953. The secrets
some of them kept for 55 years. The expectations of starting a new life
in a new country. And the scenery is amazing. I love New Zealand, and I
thoroughly enjoyed the background in the film. I recommend this film to
anyone. Although, fair to say, I guess it's more of a girl's film. It's
an epic drama; there are no car chases or high tech gadgets. This is
what a film is supposed to be. And the 130 minutes fly by! Also pay
attention to the beautiful song at the end.
<|_=00=_|>
On paper the story of Bride Flight might be told in 5 sentences but
it's all executed in a convincing fashion with a keen and convincing
eye for locale and historic atmosphere. The movie is about three women
that fly to find their future in New Zealand in the fifties. On the
plane is a man that will influence and tie their lives together in an
unforeseen manner. The strength of the movie lies in the characters and
the convincing way they are portrayed. Waldemar Torenstra is very
convincing as the charismatic and Deanesque Frank that makes the other
male characters (but not their performers) pale in comparison. Karina
Smulders is delicious with her big naive gazing eyes. In fact the whole
cast turns in solid performances and the young and old versions of the
characters are very much in line with each other. All in all it's not
an epic movie like "de Tweeling", director Ben Sombogaard previous
movie, but it increasingly takes you by the throat as the story unwinds
and relationships become clearer. A pity we did not see more of Rutger
Hauer though.
<|_=00=_|>
Normally I'm not a big fan of Dutch films, but when a friend of mine
convinced me to see it and I actually saw the film, I was just blown
away! Nothing like the usual Dutch films I was used too, it was way
better! to start with the cast, in one word fantastic!! It was so
refreshing to see other actors and actresses than we see in so many
Dutch films. Waldemar Torenstra, Anna Drijver, Karina Smulders (and of
course the other actors/actresses) were really at their best! 

When I read the plot outline I was expecting some sort of chick-flick,
but it turned out to be a story with much more depth than I was
expecting. the way the story unfolds itself is very clever and Ben
Sombogaart deserves a big compliment for this. Then the setting, New
Zealand, is perfect for this story. The laid-back people in contrast to
the strict catholic dutchies was very interesting to witness. and of
course, New Zealand is a beautiful country which leads to great shots! 

This all makes me very happy that I came over my prejudices and went to
see the film! I wouldn't have wanted to miss it and I can recommend it
to everyone!
<|_=00=_|>
My wife lured me to this movie, she had the evening off and we wanted
to do something together. In the theater I was the only male, the rest
of the viewers were all women. But I did enjoy the movie. Great acting,
the director took the time needed to build the atmosphere for each
scene. I must say that sometimes the camera was too close. Very
intimate. And also the twist at the end could have been somewhat more
dramatic (although I cannot exactly say in which way). But it was
enough to make me think about the story (stories!) the whole next day.
I even decided to write this review. I agree fully with an other
review, that the trailer does not reflect the movie: the latter is much
more intense! and Ada, what a great actress Karina Smulders is, the
stars came off the screen! The casting (two actresses for the young and
old main characters) was also very good. I can recommend this movie to
everyone!
<|_=00=_|>
Although it took me two nights to view this film, I must say I was very
satisfied with it at the end. The arc of the story, spanning over 50
years or so really was truly grand. The film touches on the many
personal issues and emotions of its central characters, yet maintains a
certain distance, careful not to have us rooting for or against certain
characters, while showing sweeping historical changes take place in the
background.

The cast is top-notch, especially Karina Smulders, who plays Ada Van
Holland, a young, unwordly bride-to-be traveling, for the first time,
from Holland to New Zealand. There is a natural, non self-consciousness
about her performance that is very appealing. The other members of the
cast are also very wonderful. Many flawed characters occupy the screen,
but no one beyond redemption and forgiveness. The cumulative affect of
the storytelling, between flashback and modern day, was, in the end,
deeply personal, and awe-inspiring.
<|_=00=_|>
After reading the previous comments from (mostly) Dutch viewers I feel
I have to add some more. This movie has to be seen with the historic
background in mind : early 50's in post-war Holland, the recent loss of
Indonesia as colony, (war) broken families, and a recent flood
disaster. There are a few references to these events. In this time a
lot of Dutchies migrated to New Zealand, Australia, Canada and the USA
(incl. my relatives). Young people wanting a new start, after the WW-II
war. Some of them were born and raised in Indonesia, suffered from the
Japanese camps, and when they were forced to relocate to post-war
Netherlands after Indonesia's independence the Netherlands was like an
unknown country for them. This movie's Frank is an example of such a
young man. Lost and looking out for a new life, with no attachments to
his "mothercountry".

All main characters have their personal baggage from these tragic
events they experienced during their young years. Marjorie is a little
of an exception to this. Which translates in the plot. The storyline
really tells subtly and in complexity how this generation walked away
from their past, leave it behind and looking out for a prosperous
future in their chosen promised land. 

I give this movie an 8 out of 10. Production is solid, as is the
acting. Scenery adds up to this feeling of "promised land".
<|_=00=_|>
Oh, what a tangled web we weave. But to how many webs do we belong? How
many decisions were made outside our comprehension that changed the
course of life forever? How many of those decisions became regrets? It
doesn't really matter because yesterday happened, but it is interesting
to consider the interconnected backstage of existence. And then tremble
at the great unknown that is your parent's past. There's just so much
we'll never know. And that's mostly OK. Bride Flight is a film that I
admired because its leading characters were not only exquisitely
defined, but their stories felt distinct and complete, almost separate
within a greater whole. These people kept things from one another, and
yet they were all so pivotal to each other. The dramatic irony fires on
all cylinders. And the ensemble has absolutely excellent chemistry to
pull it off. You never doubt the natural unfolding of events because
every glance they give or catch is so engaging. New Zealand serves as a
breathtakingly epic backdrop to this romance that jumps back and forth
on a timeline much more gracefully than so many other examples. When it
does jump back you start to become very happy certain rigid social
customs have been left behind, and that's a testament to how fully yet
subtly its realized. This was a pleasant surprise to watch.
<|_=00=_|>
Bride Flight is an absolutely beautiful movie that serves as a window
into the lives of 4 people, and the connections between them after they
met and bonded on a plane to a new start in New Zealand. Its a romantic
drama that takes it beyond just the romance shared between two of the
characters and makes it about the relationships these four people have
with each other throughout their lives. It goes beyond a love story and
makes it a story about life, the relationships we have with the people
around us, the choices we make, and the regrets and satisfactions that
come from those choices after we've lived out our lives and reached old
age. I'm not really into chick flick love stories, but the fact that it
is more about life in general and the outcomes from our choices made
the movie a lot more relevant to me. The four principle characters are
absolutely fantastic! Their acting is superb and each one of them makes
you fall in love with them in their own unique way. The ending is
emotionally touching as the three women look back at the man that
changed all their lives in a way they never thought possible, and ride
away together reminiscing on the lives they've lived, and their
relationships together. It's absolutely touching and beautiful!
<|_=00=_|>
The white subtitles, translating Dutch to English, on mostly white
background, especially at the beginning of the, film mixed with some
rapid flashbacks to different time periods, also early in the film,
were found to be quite bothersome by myself and the three others with
whom I attended this movie . This was especially true as the characters
and storyline was being established. Despite this distraction, as the
movie progressed we all found it to be quite engrossing. There was some
very rich character development, excellent plot lines and a magnificent
beautiful setting in New Zealand. The story begins in post World War II
Holland in the 1950s as three young women (Karina Smulders, Anna
Drijver and Elise Schaap) are boarding an airplane for New Zealand to
join their new husbands and start a new life. One of them is Jewish and
the trauma of the holocaust will have a very subtle cast on the film.
On board they also meet Frank (Wakdenar Torenstra ) a young man,
somewhat of a free spirit, also seeking a new life as a farmer and
ultimately a wine maker who will play prominently in their lives. The
story captures the frontier life in New Zealand at this time, the
conflicts of religion, passion, friendships and good old fashioned
romance. There is also a theme of an important family secret that
hovers in the story and should be one that you have seen and thought
about in other settings. In alternating time sequences, we get to know
these people as their lives progress to a point 40 or 50 years later.
There is a coming together at the conclusion of the film, which is
poignant and quite moving. This is the story about these people but the
background atmosphere is the post war settlement of this small
beautiful land. After seeing this film whenever you enjoy a glass of
New Zealand wine you may reflect on this movie and the people whose
lives you came to understand. FilmRap.net
