
The concept in itself sounds cool. Assassins from the east battle
against cowboys from the west. With The Warrior's Way, we get the best
of both worlds with likable characters, especially the little baby. The
setting of the movie is very stylized, and brings you a very
romanticized western. The same can be said about the eastern setting.
You can tell that the director loves Sergio Leone and Akira Kurosawa
movies. 

The story of The Warrior's Way is that of an assassin travels to the
west because his clan is after him for not completing his mission, to
kill a cute little baby girl (The baby's really cute). The unnamed
assassin stops his journey at Lode, a western town filled with circus
folks. But we all know life isn't that easy, as bandits and the ninja
clan finds a way to make the life of the unnamed assassin hard.

The action doesn't start until later in the film, since it's focused on
the life of the assassin as he tries to find peace. Once the action
starts, get ready for a good time, because our hero slices and dices
cowboys and ninja alike. Once action sequence had the same style as
300, while other actions scenes felt like a live-action anime.

With all the gun and swordplay, the true heart of the movie are the
characters. The movie's able to fill us in on the main characters' back
story and we see why they do what they do. You name it, they all have a
history, well maybe not random cowboy #43. Kate Bosworth is very sassy,
yet sweet and cute. Jang Dong Gun is able to show his humanity subtly
even though most of the time he's emotionless. Danny Huston's character
is a nasty one, but I'll let you guys watch it to see how nasty he can
be. 

You can tell that the cast and crew had a fun time making this movie as
much as I enjoyed watching it, since the movie doesn't take itself too
seriously and has a nice blend of humor and violence. The Warrior's Way
brings the magic of the west and east and mixes in influences from
spaghetti westerns and action anime and jumbles it together to serve us
something really cool.
<|_=00=_|>
I regret watching this movie at home and not at the movie theater.
these kind of movies are much more enjoyable specially on the big
screen. The movie has a magic to it and atmosphere that is very well
portrayed.

I loved the hero character being the " silent and deadly " type, it
saved the script and boosted up the acting.

If you are into samurai and warrior's from the east and such I
definitely recommend this movie, it successfully managed to combine
swordsman skills with cowboy gun fights, which I never seen before. the
movie is very stylish and they did a great job with the atmospheric
effects.
<|_=00=_|>
What do you get when you take 'Unforgiven' and 'Ninja Assassin' and the
world's greatest actor (Geoffrey Rush) and put them together? An
awesome movie!!!

This is the first (and only, I think) film to be a Martial Arts and
Western combination! 

A young warrior seeks to be the greatest swordsman ever, but refuses to
kill the baby he is ordered to kill. He takes the baby to the American
Wild West and hides among a group of struggling circus performers and a
drunk ex-bank robber. Cowboys want revenge on the woman in the town and
the clan wants the warrior dead and the battle begins as they all end
up in the town at the same time. There are a few graphic scenes, but
not as much as other Martial Arts movies like Kill Bill or Ninja
Assassin. Geoffrey Rush (Ronald, the drunk ex-robber) is an awesome
actor who gave a great performance with some doses of humor! He is NOT
capable of making a lousy movie. He did an awesome job. 

The storyline was great and the acting of all was excellent. There was
suspense, humor, sadness, and love. The R rating is well-earned, as
this is NOT for younger audiences. 

I must say I was also extremely impressed that they used a doll the
same size as the real baby for certain scenes. I have always loathed to
see others use dolls that are so much smaller than the real baby. I DO
understand why they use dolls. But is it so difficult to find a doll
the same size as the actual baby in the film? When I shop for my nieces
and nephews, I see dolls of all sizes at the toy store. Every movie
director needs to see that the doll they get is the same size as the
real baby.

I don't care if this film was a box-office bomb. It is one of the best
ever.

Now... go see this... right now. Run... don't walk to go get this movie
now.

What... you're still here...???
<|_=00=_|>
I am one that love stylish movies, especially action movies and I was
hoping for a little more out of this. To be honest, the story is a bit
lacking, but the action is very cool. There are some scenes which play
more than others. The main character hardly ever talks and its really
noticeable. I love Kate Bosworth in this movie, she is a saving grace
to this film. I can't put my finger on it, but it is missing something.
Its missing that "awe" moment that I was hoping it would deliver. You
know, that scene that would make your mouth drop and I was expecting it
from this movie. It was just too slow. And the writing is off. It is
just not quite there. The pace of the film is off also. Still,
entertaining as hell, but don't waste your money on seeing in that XD
format (which stands for eXtreme Digital). That just a waste of some
extra bucks. There is nothing more you are going to gain watching it in
even, supposedly, higher def than what theaters normally do. But the
movie is very stylish. Its the latest movie of mixing two genres,ninjas
and westerns. And I give it a 7 out of 10, it did its job of
entertaining. Btw, not a family movie and definitely not for small
kids. I think guys will like it more than women. It is worth going to
the theater to see. It is not worth a blind buy on blu-ray when it
comes out. It is worth buying on blu-ray if you are into it and have
seen the movie. But I would go out with your buddies, don't expect much
and you will get more.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a superb work of art from the moment it starts to the moment it
finishes. It is stylish, theatrical when the dramatic content demands
it, beautifully shot, wonderfully acted, terrific story telling, great
action pieces, and, most importantly, entertaining.

The plot is simple. The world's most wonderful swordsman - ever - is
lonely, bored, tired of his existence when he meets his last remaining
enemy a young baby. He has been disciplined strictly to always kill the
enemy because if you do not the enemy will kill you. The story moves
smoothly and surefootedly along from there in a way that only the best
stories move, and I'll not spoil the treat from there.

Some people may resist films about martial arts and swordplay but there
is much more to this story than the fights. Indeed the human element is
one of the films strongest suites. And, because the settings and
cinematography are so brilliant, you are treated to a cartoon like
outline to emphasise every little detail you are watching.

Films like this are few and far between on circuits in the west because
story telling is so formulaic instead of innovating, invigorating, and
involving. The humour, for example, is not silly punchlines it is
visual treatment of things we all experience done with a caress of a
brush and delicate hands.

I know not why but the East Asian cinema seems much better able to
express good and bad in a fluid way, so that although we may know who
is good and bad both sides have strengths and weaknesses just as in
real life. It makes for gripping tension as you try to work out what
will happen next, or, as I now tend to do, just sit back and enjoy the
sumptuous presentation you know you are going to get.

Brilliant work all round and my congratulations to all concerned. This
will now be one of my all time favourites. Thanks guys.
<|_=00=_|>
I absolutely loved this movie. It's one of those I wanted to go back
and see again the next day. Definitely buying it (and I don't like many
movies enough to buy them). 

I like that it has tonnes of effective symbolism (would make a GREAT
film for a film study) and I love the western/samurai cross. Finally a
movie with the right amount of gore! It's so hard to find a movie with
the right amount of gore. It's exciting without going overboard. I
really liked the ending as well. 

Although the sword action could've been better visually; it was
accurate. The story line a little predictable (but, really, what HASN'T
been done already but easy enough to follow. 

I would recommend this a movie to watch alone or with your someone. The
balance between passion and action is perfect.
<|_=00=_|>
I have seen a lot of movies. It is difficult for action movies to be
thoroughly gripping for me since I have seen so many over the years. I
am a filmmaker and I have a lot of respect for all films because it can
be so challenging to make a film. As De Niro said, it's just as
difficult to make a bad movie as it is to make a good one. This is the
film that I have been waiting for. The cinematography is beautiful and
all but perfect. The action is satisfying and jaw dropping without
being unnecessarily ridiculous and gory. It has high values too about
protecting those who are dearest to us who cannot protect themselves
from the negative forces in the world. With some similar elements,
where Ninja Assassin got things wrong this movie got right. Anybody who
isn't sure should give this movie a chance. It is not non-stop action,
but see this movie before it leaves the theatres.
<|_=00=_|>
Yang (Dong-gun), a Ninja Warrior, fails to complete his last mission
and is on the run from his tribe, who are out to kill him. He hides in
a run-down town in the Old West inhabited by circus people. 

Cowboys and Ninjas: it just doesn't get any better than this. But, the
real winners in here are the cinematography, photography, music, and
exceptional sword and knife choreography. The acting and dialogue are
also very good. And, humor comes in from time to time. 

There are elements of the Good, Bad and the Ugly, Hit-man, Crouching
Tiger Hidden Dragon, and perhaps Kill Bill as well. What's not to like? 

Yes, there is a lot of gore and you will see heads and limbs lopped
off, and blood squirting everywhere. But, here is what I saw. Sheer
poetry in motion at times. And, remember: it's only a movie. 

I am sure we will see more of Jang Dong-gun as he truly exemplifies the
true warrior ideal. The chemistry between him and Kate Bosworth was
pretty good too. 

Violence: Yes. Sex: No. Nudity: No. Gore: Yes. Language: Some soft
stuff, not much either.
<|_=00=_|>
Never ceases to amaze me how a movie can move an audience in polar
opposite ways. It's probably the expectations - so if you go in to have
some escapist fun, action and swordplay, you won't be disappointed.

So, why will I be happy to rewatch this grossly underrated movie that's
avoided me for the first four years of its life tsk tsk: a simple story
combining the Seven Samurai and Silas Marner (kinda), intoxicating mix
of humor, gorgeous grotesqueness and visual splendour . . . and a love
story that did not force itself on the surreal action thread.

One of the hallmarks of a good film has to be how much love a writer
director puts into the details and in this, it is clear Lee Sngmoo has
nurtured this baby for a while: superb production, lovely setups and
payoffs.

Oh, make my decade and give us a sequel already!

Amazing for a first time director. Bravo! Bravo!
<|_=00=_|>
Jang Dong Gun, the South Korean movie star who's known for far more
than martial arts, has made his American blockbuster debut in "The
Warrior's Way", a film about the greatest swordsman in the world who is
forced to flee his home. While not precisely a science fiction movie,
there are just enough fantastical elements in this Old Western-style
action flick to make it into the genre without crossing over into the
highly volatile "Sci-fi Western" category. And that definitely works
for this movie. Here are some other things that work, and that don't
work.

First, the plot. Yang, trained since childhood to be the greatest
warrior ever, is sent by his tribe to destroy their rivals; every last
one of them. However, when he meets the last one, a baby girl whom
eventually is named April, he makes the decision not to kill her. This
may seem like a cliché, but Yang's goal was never to become a murderer.
As a boy, he saw his own father murdered. He was adopted, essentially,
and trained by the leader of his tribe to become an assassin; but his
only ambition is to become the greatest swordsman in the world, and
that ambition is not served by killing an innocent child. Knowing that
his tribe will target him next for his failure, Yang takes the little
girl with him and sets course for America.

The circus town (very nearly a ghost town) which is his destination
works for this movie. He goes there because an old friend of his lives
there; well, lived there. Finding that his friend has passed away, he
is persuaded by the townsfolk to stay and take over the laundry shop
that has been idle ever since. He even takes over the flower garden
that no one had yet been able to properly cultivate. The colorful
characters, including the ringleader Eight-ball (Tony Cox), the drunken
Ron (Geoffrey Rush), and the knife-throwing Lynne (Kate Bosworth),
quickly befriend the wanderer from the Orient and his delightful little
charge. Soon, Yang sees the advantages of, in the words of the
narrator, "making things grow instead of cutting them down". Again,
it's a cliché that could easily have been mishandled, but that director
Sngmoo Lee deftly utilizes.

The fight scenes in this movie are spectacular. Yang's former
compatriots eventually find him, as you'd expect; and, as you'd expect,
an incredible battle ensues. Jang Dong Gun is neither over-the-top nor
completely wooden as he plays the ruthless assassin cutting down his
foes. The transition between the simple laundry man raising a little
girl and the cool, calculating warrior is more seamless than you'd
expect.

The ninjas aren't the only villains in this movie, either. Danny Huston
plays the Colonel, a man who drops in and out of the town periodically,
taking whatever he wants each time. Commanding a force of what seems
like no fewer than a hundred Hell Riders, the various clowns and
tricksters have little in the way of defense. However, Yang isn't the
only resident of this thriving circus town who hides a warrior side.
When the final battle ensues, expect to see plenty of blood shed on all
sides.

Lynne's storyline doesn't quite work, though not for the reasons you
might think. There must always be balance between the main plot and the
subplots; specifically, the main plot must outweigh the others. Yang's
story certainly outweighs that of the circus town itself. The
performers want to make a complete transition from "traveling" to
"stationary"; part of that effort is in the creation of the gigantic
Ferris Wheel. However, both Yang's battle with his tribe and Lynne's
with the Colonel eventually come first, and no alternative is left to
the other residents but to fight when the time comes.

Between Yang and Lynne, there is an undeniable attraction, and an
unmistakable chemistry as well. By the time the final fight has begun,
it's clear they've become equals, in their own way. That's fine, for a
romance movie; but for a romantic subplot to this particular movie,
it's not the best formula. Even Lynne's confrontation with her
adversary ends up seeming more central to the movie than Yang's own.

The "end" of the movie definitely works. I won't give too much away,
except to say this: when you train your entire life as a killer, how
can you expect to simply walk away, even if all your enemies are dead?
The movie is more bloody than I normally enjoy, and I don't think every
storyline worked as well as they could have. However, it was highly
thrilling, and literally kept me on the edge of my seat during some
scenes. Jang Dong Gun is my favorite part of the movie, quietly
charming and deadly, some times at the same time. Even if "The
Warrior's Way" itself doesn't take off, you can expect his future in
cinema to, on both sides of the Pacific. He certainly works for me.

(Originally appeared at http://fourthdayuniverse.com/reports/ )
