
There will be a backlash against "Adventureland", or at least a
disappointed reaction from some. The reason being that the film was
marketed as another raunchy-sweet comedy from the Apatow empire, when
in fact it has almost nothing to do with those films, and is very
different from most of writer/director Greg Mottola's previous film
"Superbad" (which is great in its own way, but it's nothing like this
film). It is a tender, intimate romance surrounded by goofball humor,
but the extent of the 'dirty jokes' in this movie is Jesse Eisenberg's
character James getting out of the pool at a house party with an
erection.

The movie is a sentimental (not sappy, mind), very personal, journey
through the summer of 1987 for recent college grad and deep thinker
James Brennan (played superbly by Jesse Eisenberg), whose plans for the
summer fall apart (due to Reaganomics affecting his father's income)
resulting in him having to get a crappy job at the titular amusement
park. There he meets Em, played by Kristen Stewart, and the romance,
which is the focus of the film, begins. This is very, very far removed
from the slob-meets-babe formula common in comedies in recent years.
James is a virgin, true, a 22 year old one at that, but that has far
more to do with the character's tentative nature than any 'quest' to
get laid (ala "The 40 Year Old Virgin", which works on its own terms of
course, but is again nothing like "Adventureland"), and he is far from
bad looking. Em isn't a dolled-up 'hot chick' with perfectly styled
hair and perfect style, she's moderately well-dressed and naturally
beautiful, but wears makeup in a grand total of two scenes, and is
actually NOT the 'babe' in the film (that's Margarita Levieva as Lisa
P, who, though the 'babe', is not the sought-after one).

I am finding it hard to describe exactly why I loved this film as much
as I did, but I think it mostly comes down to subtle, wonderful writing
by Mottola, who was obviously telling a personal story here and did a
great job of it. The screenplay is a funny, poignant take on
post-collegiate angst and love, with some elements of social satire,
and its focus is one of the most memorable and wonderful romances in
quite some time. This romance makes Stewart's breakthrough hit
"Twilight" seem even more offensively dumb, because of just how real it
is.

Mottola, who absolutely nailed "Superbad" as a director, does even more
with "Adventureland". His work with the actors is perhaps most notable.
Bill Hader does what he did in "Superbad" and Matt Bush plays a
slapstick role as Tommy Frigo, but everyone else is given more
emotional poignancy and range to work with. Ryan Reynolds has abandoned
his trademark smarmy shtick for a straight role in the film. As noted
by Nathan Rabin in his review of "Adventureland", in a lesser film
Reynolds (a failed attempt at a 'rock star' who is in an unhappy
marriage and is having an affair with Em, and who is a loser to
everyone but the deadbeats younger than him at the amusement park)
would be a villain, James Brennan's adversary in a typical love
triangle. In "Adventureland" he's a real person, and a rather tragic
character. Not a nice guy, not a bad guy either. Martin Starr is great
in the main supporting role as Joel. Mottola's direction is fantastic
visually as well, with every scene brimming with intensity when it
needs to be and the comedic timing again excellent. His use of music is
absolutely spot-on, and if you thought the funky greatness of the
"Superbad" soundtrack was good wait until you hear this low-key but
incredible soundtrack made up almost entirely by great 80's pop songs
(and not the mainstream garbage). Great musical score by Yo La Tengo as
well.

The film is ultimately such a massive success I think due to Kristen
Stewart. I knew she was a capable actress but did not know that she was
this terrific. She is transformed into Em for the entirety of the film,
and is overwhelmingly intense for the entirety of her performance,
whether the raw (but not even close to raunchy) sexuality of her scenes
with Eisenberg (and boy do they have a rare sort of chemistry) or the
understated sadness of her scenes with Reynolds. Eisenberg and Stewart
are so wonderfully understated with their performances that their
romance feels realer than anything I've seen since Zooey Deschanel and
Dan Schneider in David Gordon Green's "All the Real Girls". This might
be a familiar journey but the treatment of Reynolds' character is only
one thing Mottola does different from the John Hugheses of the world.
Everything about this film is just more real and more understated than
so much of what we've seen done with similar things.

The film has one or two scenes where plain lust is the focus, and
absolutely none where the movie becomes about sex jokes. That James is
a virgin is a side note, part of the character and nothing more. It
couldn't be less about James wanting to bed Em, it couldn't be more
about him being totally in love with her. Although critics are falling
over themselves to praise the film (89% on RottenTomatoes at the time
I'm writing this and a score in the high 70's on Metacritic) some have
called it 'ordinary'. Perhaps much of the public will agree with that
minority of the critics, but the film thrives on capturing 'ordinary
moments'. The simple beauty of James, Em, and Joel watching fireworks
on the 4th of July or a marijuana-fueled bumper car round scored to
"Just Like Heaven" by The Cure. That's what this film is about. It's
wonderful, it's beautiful, and if it's not a sleeper hit this year then
it will eventually become a cult classic. It's something special, that
much I know for sure.
<|_=00=_|>
Do you know that feeling you get when you've been lied to about a
movie. A while back when In Bruges came out, the trailers pitched the
movie as a wacky, Guy-Ritche-esquire, comedy with midgets and whores.
Imagine the surprise of most of the movie goers when they went to see
this film, and it turns out to be a very dark comedy, written about a
suicidal hit man who is know facing regret and depression in the worst
vacation spot ever. This feeling of surprise can sometimes make or
brake how a movie is received for some people. Most of the time the
audience will walk out of the film thinking that they've been lied to
just so they will have payed for a ticket and other times the audience
realizes that, if the movie wasn't pitched to them as this picture that
they've seen before, they wouldn't have seen the film in the first
place.

This is how I felt when I left Adventureland. Let me get this out of
the way, Adventureland is NOT A COMEDY. I know the trailers pitch it as
one, the director says it's one, and under the genre section of IMDb it
says 'Comedy. But, this film, honestly, has two jokes in it, most of
them supplied by Bill "By God You're In Everything Aren't You?" Hader.
I'm not saying that this film only has two jokes in it like there are a
lot of jokes in here but they're not funny. I'm saying that they're are
only two jokes. Yes, Adventureland was pitched to us a romantic teen
comedy about a horrible summer job but instead the film is a romantic
drama that focuses on 21+ year old, coping with the fact that life is
in fact full of sour lemons and you need to take a horrible job because
it's the only thing you can do. I too was surprised that Adventureland
wasn't a comedy but once you get past that, the film is actually very
enjoyable and turns out to be one of the most intimate romance films on
the same scale as 'Once.'

The film centers around the double named protagonist, Brennan James.
Who is a couple thousand short of the money he needs for his trip
around Europe as well as the first couple months rent for when he
starts going to school in NYC. His parents inform him that his dad has
been demoted and he's gonna have to pay for the money himself. The only
job that is still hiring is the seedy amusement park Adventureland
where all of the employees do nothing but talk about how much their job
sucks, smoke weed and get drunk during their shifts. Brennan-James
falls in love with the smart-dangerous girl, Em. But due to his drug
connections, the hot girl of the theme park starts to become attracted
to him. A love triangle turns into a square, then a hexagon and soon
just a big pile of mess.

The film itself could go for a very whimsical style here due to the
amusement park setting but because of the directors previous works
(Freaks and Geeks and Superbad) he decided to go for a super-realistic
approach. I also feel like he chose to direct this drama because he
wanted to expand himself as a director. The direction itself is pretty
subtle, which is for the best. I was really engrossed in the script
itself and I felt like any "special" work the director put in it might
have taken me out of this twenty-something romance story.

The story is a very good one. This too goes for the extremely realistic
approach. Watching this film I remembered all of the times I had
experienced something like this with a girl and that's when I realized
that the film had totally sucked me in. I couldn't wait to see what was
going to happen to Brennan and Em and once their relationship hit a
couple of big rocks I remembered all of the times I had nearly ruined
my relationships by doing something stupid. (i.e. listening to my penis
and not my brain)

I was worried about the acting at first, it has a newbie as the lead
and the twilight girl as his love interest. Not to mention Ryan Renolds
playing a mentor figure, one that is a couple of cockiness points away
from being the one in Waiting. However the director must have worked
his magic with these three because they display some of the best
performances I've seen in a while. They emote, they repress, they do
everything a real person does in a relationship to the degree where
their characters are so well developed your rubbing your eyes in
disbelief like some kind f college screwball comedy. Then again,
realism seems to be the thing Adventureland seems to do be going for.

This film is trying to grab the attention of the forty-somethings that
were twenty-somethings in 1980 by making the most realistic nostalgia
trip I've ever seen. The costumes seem like they're right out of value
village, the dialog seems like you could have said it today and the
acting makes the characters seem as if they're real people.

If feel that Adventureland wasn't pitched to the audience as a dramatic
look at young love during the backdrop of the late 1980's because in
the latter part of this decade, the only way young people are willing
to look at the 1980's is through the eyes of irony. Looking at hot new
styles as stupid idiotic fashion choices. Adventureland looks past all
of that and makes a film that seem to be a grown up Sixteen Candles and
because of this new approach to a beaten down idea, I not only applaud
this movie but recommend it to people who have been looking for
something new.
<|_=00=_|>
"Adventureland"- ***1/2 BY: Kevin Muller The marketing for this film is
terrible, just absolutely awful. The studio is pushing this film as the
next "Superbad", just because the director of that film directed this
gem. The truth is, this is far different than "Superbad", besides a few
gross out gags. Where that film prided itself on its crudeness and
vulgarity, this film prides itself on heart and pure emotion.

"Adventureland" has the feel of teen movies both from the 80's and 90's
(more the 80's though). You have a sensitive character who is still
trying to figure out who he is, and by a sequence of events, falls in
love and more importantly, finds his true self. What makes the movie
even more appealing is that it not only doesn't treat its characters as
generic stereotypes, but as humans, which makes them more appealing to
the audience.

Our main character here is James (played perfectly by Jessie Eisenberg)
who has just graduated college and is looking forward to his trip to
Europe with his fellow pal. The trip is not only supposed to be his
graduation present, but also a way to escape his recent heartbreak, due
to an emotional breakup. Things unfortunately go south with his
finances, which forces him to get a job at the local amusement park.
There he meets some interesting people: the two owners (Bill Hader and
Kristen Wiig), nerdy Joel (the likable Martin Starr) and the beautiful
"Em" (Kristen Stewert).

James and Em quickly fall for each other, but there is one small
problem, she is in a very dysfunctional relationship with Connell (Ryan
Reynolds), who plays the married park maintenance guy. Reynolds, who
usually adds the goofy humor to every film he is in, holds back to
really give the character a deepness that I was surprised he pulled
off. I thought his performance was going to be similar to his Monty
character from "Waiting". I applaud the restraint that he held
throughout the film, because the character could have gone down that
route very easily.

What makes this film work though is that director Greg Mottola doesn't
overdo any aspect of the movie. The comedy, drama, and situations are
all well balanced, which makes the film feel real. As I stated before,
Reynolds is grounded, as is the rest of the cast with their
performances. Eisenberg, who is accused of playing Michael Cera, gives
a very layered and human performance. I am sorry to you Cera fans, but
the awkward and caring guy thing was around way before Cera did it.
Stewert, is just perfect in this role, she gives Em vulnerability, but
makes her lovable at the same time. These two give perfect performances
because neither of them have all the answers and it is about the deep
connection they share, not just about the sex.

Go see this film, it deserves to be seen. This is a movie that
Hollywood doesn't make anymore; a sweet, smart, moving and humorous
experience that hopefully starts a chain of movies like it to follow.
<|_=00=_|>
I can honestly say that I haven't seen as good a movie as this in a
long time. Most of the characters you can relate to in some kind of way
or you may possibly know someone who is similar to them.

This movie was definitely advertised wrong; it seemed as though it was
going to be a crude but funny comedy like superbad only there was a
hell of a lot more seriousness and romance involved.

Kristen Stewart who plays Em Lewin does a fantastic job of showing
multiple emotions in a single expression. Anyone who claims she can't
act must not have seen this.

Jesse Eisenburg playing James also does very well in being one of those
smart, funny, intellectual types who at the same time doesn't talk down
to people in a condescending way.

And may I say bravo to Bill Hader and Kristen Wigg who had just the
right comedic timing. Martin Starr also did surprisingly well as
someone who knew where his place was in the world.

Adventureland has the right balance of drama and comedy so you're never
left feeling bored. This movie will continue to be one of my favorites
probably for years to come.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie at The Sundance Film Festival in Salt Lake City and
I've been wanting to see it for months but I have a habit of
anticipating movies and building them up, then once I see them I am
disappointed. This was not the case. It is a lot like Superbad set in
the 80's and minus the drawings. The quirky, awkward humor is there,
the teen party humor is there, the love humor is there. One thing this
movie has that Superbad didn't though, is a truly heart felt and
believable love story that gives Adventureland a bit of a more serious
tone. While it is hilarious it also has you really pulling for the
young lovers and gets you involved in their affairs. With out giving
too much away, all I can say is 'Go see this movie. If you liked
Superbad, you'll like Adventureland, if you hated Superbad, you'll like
Adventureland. It's a win-win situation.'
<|_=00=_|>
'Adventureland' is a melancholy voyage into the grey zone between
adolescence and adulthood, school and career, lust and relationships,
frivolity and responsibility. That is to say it is not 'Superbad' and
that's supergood. 

Upon graduating, comparative literature major James Brennan is informed
that due to his father's recent demotion (alcoholism is an implied
cause), the parents will not be funding his planned and hopefully
transformative European vacation. James returns to his parents'
Pittsburgh home with virginity and intellectual pretensions intact.

Still planning on attending Columbia Journalism School and needing
funds, James seeks summer employment and settles for a job as a game
both operator at Adventureland, a local amusement park that has seen
better days. He is after all a comp lit major and not even qualified
for manual labor. 

Of course Adventureland is more than meets the eye. We're introduced to
the interior lives of park employees. Extremely powerful performances
are provided by Jesse Eisenberg, Martin Starr, Margarita Levieva, Ryan
McFarland, and especially Kristen Stewart as James's sort of girlfriend
Em.

These are not stock characters (with the exception of the ballbusting
Frigo character, put here for childish laughs). The characters are
emotionally and behaviorally complex. They wrestle with what it means
to be young (or not so young) what it is to be in a relationship, the
meaning of sex, employment, violence, drug use, fidelity,
intellectualism, relationships with parents and their new spouses, the
value of education. In short, what it means to be a person.

To enhance its verisimilitude, the film is mostly set to mid eighties
tunes (Expose, The Mary Jane Girls, etc.). These songs are of the
mid-eighties, but the film is set in 1987. It's a slight jab at the
less than cutting edge nature of Pittsburghian society circa 1987. No
matter, the film does not ridicule the zeitgeist. Rather, it takes
seriously the emotional resonance of the sex, the music, the clothes,
the hair, the ganja, the drinking, and the want to all involved (it was
serious) and in so doing achieves poignancy.

The film touched me and not just because I was almost James's age
living not too far from Pittsburgh in 1987, but because it addresses
what it means to be on the shaky cusp of adulthood in such an honest
way. A must see.
<|_=00=_|>
Adventureland is one of the best teenage films I have ever seen. I
almost am upset by the advertising plan and budget the film had because
if it was given enough commercial advertisement it would've been as
successful as Superbad. Sadly this film went under the radar and wasn't
given the acclaim it deserved. As a teen exploitation film, this movie
accurately describes, interprets, and expresses the mind of a teenager
and incredibly gives any teenage viewer a sense of closure. Because
unlike Superbad, the characters in Adventureland are easy to relate to
and are more vulnerable in an emotional sense. Anyone who sees this
film to relax and enjoy a bit of comedy with a heartfelt story, or to
reminisce about their teenage years, their first jobs or their personal
time at Adventureland, or even to watch a teenage love story will get
what they were looking for.
<|_=00=_|>
While watching this movie, it wasn't clear if this was supposed to be a
comedy or a drama, so it's difficult to put this into a category. It
was funny and sad, so I'd classify it as a comedy/drama.

The movie takes place in the 1980's and the main character is forced to
take a job a Pittsburgh area amusement park called "Adventureland" so
he can save enough money to attend graduate school. While his parents
feel the job is beneath his college degree qualifications, it's the
only job he can find so he takes it, and ends up working the game show
booths. While working there, he meets Kristen Stewart, and they develop
a romantic relationship, which takes up a large chunk of the movie.
Kristen, incidentally, seems to be playing the same exact character she
played in "Twilight", wounded and needy.

Based on the trailers, I was expecting something along the lines of
"Superbad" but the movie was a lot closer to "Dazed & Confused", a well
written period piece of the 1970's. The comedy aspect of the movie was
in the interactions with his friends, parents, co-workers, and
supervisors. There weren't a lot of LOL moments, but the humor is more
in identifying with the characters and their lives.

I enjoyed the movie and anyone living or growing up during the 1980's
will appreciate the mood & music of the film.
<|_=00=_|>
And I loved this movie.

I grew up in the '80s, and have always had a fondness for the decade.
So much so that I've always thought that if I ever manage to write a
screenplay, it will probably be set in that era. Until today, I hadn't
seen a movie set in the '80s that I really loved, unless it was made
back then. I learned to love movies in the '80s, and this one felt like
it could easily have been made back then. It isn't like other '80s
retro films that hit you over the head with winks and nods to the
quirks of that era. You won't see anyone trying to solve a Rubik's Cube
while doing the moonwalk in a pair of parachute pants and saying
"totally rad." 

You also won't see a Superbad retread (people have complained that the
ads are misleading). There's lots of great laughs, but it comes mostly
from subtle situational moments, not in-your-face punchline dialog.
This is a character driven movie, and Jesse Eisenberg really shines in
a very likable performance as the geekish underdog out to win the heart
of the cool and beautiful but angst-ridden Kristen Stewart. 

Most of the performances are wonderful, but the writing is what truly
makes this movie great. Some of the most memorable moments involve the
dark side of amusement parks. The real Adventureland park, where
writer/director Motolla once worked, can't be too happy with this film.
I imagine they might want to sue, if only that wouldn't bring even more
news and attention to the shenanigans that occur there. I don't want to
give away any spoilers, but "shenanigans" is putting it kindly.

The '80s was the decade where coming-of-age dramedies blossomed with
great soundtracks, and Adventureland pays off in that regard as well.

Motolla himself has warned: "I hope people who grew up in the '80s
don't assume it's not for them." Those who are expecting another
raunchy teen romp like Superbad may be disappointed. These "kids" are
probably old enough to drink legally, though that doesn't appear to be
their drug of choice. This movie has more in common with Almost Famous
and Outside Providence than it does with Superbad, and not just because
it's semi-autobiographical. Though the humor isn't quite as prevalent
as it is in Superbad, I found the laughter that it did evoke to be far
more satisfying.
<|_=00=_|>
So I saw "Adventureland" at an advanced screening and I found it to be
quite entertaining and funny with a certain "real & genuine" vibe. It
takes place in the mid-80's and involves a college grad played by
fairly newcomer, Jesse Eisenberg who takes a job at a local amusement
park to save money in hope to go to New York. Though the job maybe
dreary; he finds himself having the best time of his life. I personally
loved how director, "Greg Mottola" incorporated a few clever sequences
one involving "weed cookies" which just made it diverse to other teen
comedies. The music was typical 80's which also made the movie that
much more fun! I particularly loved "Lou Reed." All in all the story
and characters were enjoyable to watch and you can truly find yourself
relating to them. It may not compare to movies such as "Superbad"
comedy wise because it is much more of a semi "dark humor" type
reminiscent to "Juno." Genuinely speaking, I personally really enjoyed
this movie and would actually see it again with friends at the theater
for a good time, which I can't say I would for the majority of other
teen comedies out there.
