
OK, I'll try to tell you a bit of what I thought about "Water for
Elephants", without spoiling anything. I have not read the novel (even
though I plan to do it now) so I'm only offering my views on the movie.

First of all: It's amazingly beautiful. The costumes and sets are
gorgeous, the cinematography is exquisite, the animals are cute
(especially Rosie the elephant) and the three leads are very easy on
the eyes as well. 

Robert Pattinson was actually quite good. This was a surprise to me,
since I didn't really think he was anything special in any of the
Twilight movies or "Remember Me". He looked very appropriate for the
time the movie was set in, and even though I love Emile Hirsch (who
auditioned for Jacob too) I'm confident that Robert was the best choice
there was for this role, it was perfect for him. Hal Holbrook was also
very fitting for the role of older Jacob. The two actors really made me
believe that they were the same person in different stages of his life.

Reese Witherspoon was okay. She looked beautiful, was charming and cute
but it felt like something was missing - however, I can't think of any
other actress I would have liked better in the role, so I came to the
conclusion that it was probably the character Marlena that was a little
bland, not Reese. 

But the true star of this movie was Christoph Waltz. I may be a bit
biased since I loved him in "Inglorious Basterds", but he was even more
perfect in this movie. His portrayal of August was amazing, he made him
likable and interesting and I was always compelled by his scenes. The
character reminded me a lot of Miles in "King Kong" (played by Jack
Black), a character that also wanted fame and success more than
anything and used questionable and even cruel methods to get it. He was
terrifying in some scenes too, but always believable. Also, in the
beginning of the movie i really felt the chemistry between August and
Marlena, which made the character even more interesting; however, I did
feel like Jacob and Marlena had chemistry too, and in my opinion this
way it was more realistic (both men loved her and she also cared about
both of them). 

I loved the movie, and I really recommend it to everyone. I would
sincerely give it 10/10 stars. Of course there was some parts of the
movie I didn't like (particularly towards the end of it), but overall
it was a magical, spectacular and epic period movie, and I can't wait
to see it again!
<|_=00=_|>
Water For Elephants takes us back in time, not just because it is set
in the 30's but also because the movie is filmed with such quality and
attention to detail, it is very much like movies used to be made. No
reliance on CGI or profanity to make up for lack of imagination either.
The dialog is crisp and the film adheres very much to the spirit of the
book, even if things were consolidated or omitted for the film.

The cinematography is lush and if the film doesn't win an award for it,
it will be a travesty.

And the performances are wonderful. Christoph Waltz is captivating as a
complex character and Reese Witherspoon walks a fine line (no pun
intended) between the role of a dutiful wife and that of a survivor.
But it is Robert Pattinson who delivers a range of emotion not seen
from him before. He is understated and again reminds me of actors of
old - Gary Cooper specifically. He plays a gentleman and a scholar but
also shows passion and intensity. Any doubt viewers might have had on
his abilities as an actor are wiped away, as he more than holds his own
in scenes with two Oscar winners.

This is a must-see movie for anyone wanting to see more quality films
and less action-packed/violence ridden/computer enhanced drivel at the
theaters. Bravo!
<|_=00=_|>
When I read Water for Elephants the book, I knew the film would be
difficult to make and I was ready to be disappointed. Surprisingly,
they managed to capture most of it in picture. Some things were lost on
the way, of course, the most unfortunate one being old Jacob's
struggles as an old man who refuses to retire from life before his time
actually comes. Other details that made the book a masterpiece seemed
more suitable for a book so they were not missed, mainly because the
core story was there to its finest details.

The reenactment of America in Great Depression was good, and the circus
was everything you would expect it to be. Such chaos and life and acts
and performers and runes and animals all mashed up in a beautiful
lively atmosphere. Scenes flowed one after the other smoothly and
nothing seemed out of place. This is a hard thing to accomplish when it
comes to adaptations. Most of them end up looking like a slide show of
pictures or events taken from the book (see Hardwicke's Twilight for a
perfect example). This film was a success.

The acting was another noteworthy aspect. People will have to
acknowledge Robert Pattinson as a first class actor after watching
this; and Waltz will be the go-to person for the upcoming psycho roles.
He just digs it, I think and he creates the most intimidating gentleman
on screen. Witherspoon looked average to me as Marlena, but I may be
biased so I won't go into it much. All in all, it would be bizarre if
at least one out of the three did not get an Oscar nod.
<|_=00=_|>
Water For Elephants got released here a full week ahead of the US and
first let me indulge in the joy of being able to review such a highly
anticipated film before my fellow American film-loving counterparts.

The film completely fulfilled my expectations. It is a well scripted,
meticulously shot and finely acted period drama, the likes of which are
increasingly less to come by at the movies these days. A big
congratulations to all those involved with the production for having
the confidence to delve into this venture. Actually I am very curious
about its box-office. Last year was a surprisingly profitable year for
adult dramas and if that is any indication, this fine film should
continue the same trend.

Water For Elephants really impresses with the production design,
atmosphere, costumes and stunts. Most of the time I felt like I was
watching a classic film made during the studio era; it looked that
authentic and faultless. The three main actors all seem satisfied for
having such meaty parts and deliver more than satisfactory
performances. Robert Pattinson shines and proves that he is capable as
a serious actor. Reese Witherspoon has always been a true professional
and here with her stunts demonstrates that again. She also fits
surprisingly well to the 1930s platinum blonde beauty type. Christopher
Waltz is a wonderful actor and here it becomes very clear that his
success in Inglorious Basterds was not a one-off. The story is very
emotional and while it touches the heart romantically, it also manages
to lay down a heretofore unseen dark aspect of old era circus
entertainment in particular and also crowd entertainment as a whole. I
almost wished for a three hour epic after it ended; it left me wanting
more. The whole thing was really interesting.

All in all a wonderful and deeply satisfying experience at the movies,
well worth every dime. Go see it so that adult dramas of this caliber
(in terms of star power, production budget and subsequent attention to
detail) could continue to be made.
<|_=00=_|>
How to summarize this movie? How does one write about the magic you
experienced? I do not know where to begin. The movie took me by storm,
it was so fantastically well-made, colors, scenes, it captured one and
brought one back to 1930 century magical, but oh so dark circus life.
Robert impressed in his role and enchanted me once again. By his side
was Reese as spectacular as she always is, beautiful, seductive and
fragile. Their forbidden love and passion was captivating. But the
movies big star in my opinion was Rosie, the stunning elephant. Could
not help but to wish for my own Rosie.

The movie was wonderful in every way, romance, passion, action,
tragedy, joy, yes, everything you can imagine. A different story
(although it starts as the Titanic and has a similar feel) that
enchanted me. I still can't stop thinking about the movie.

Must be seen!
<|_=00=_|>
Okay, firstly as I guy I did not think this movie was going to be all
that great and interesting for me. I was wrong. The cinematography,
costumes, score and acting all added up to an interesting and quite
lovely spectacle. I suggest everyone should give it a go. You might be
as surprised as I was. I'm going to try to avoid any major spoilers so
I'll keep it very vague on the story. 

The movie kind of keeps you guessing which was its going to go for the
characters. Be it happy ever after or big disaster. I could genuinely
feel the admiration and respect between Jacob (Pattinson) and Tai (the
elephant) which is essential and central to the story. Which brings me
to Pattinson. He was absolutely very good in this movie. He was
different to previous characters he has played. He was warm and caring
yet a strong character which is a difficult balance. I mentioned the
connection with Tai was believable and the same is true with Marlena
(Witherspoon). She also did a fine job. Her circus tricks should be
commended at the very least. Waltz was very good as the "bad guy". He
just delivers that kind of role brilliantly. When Pattinson and Waltz
are on screen together you do not feel that one is less impressive than
the other. That is why I was pleasantly surprised by Pattinson. He has
shown in this movie that he is a fine actor with a lot more potential
and I question anyone who says differently's motivations. (Yes, he is
Edward Cullen..but its time to let that go people and give the guy some
major credit for his acting) 

All in all. I thought it was a charming movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Water for Elephants was a WONDERFUL book. I was afraid that no movie
could compare to the delicious tale spun by Sara Gruen. I was
particularly worried about Robert Pattinson being able to bring life to
Jacob on screen (given that he's really only excelled at being a dead
vampire). Also, the critics weren't too nice to this film.

I have to say though, I was pleasantly surprised at how easily I fell
back into the story with the cast of characters. As everyone else has
said, the film itself was beautiful and will probably win an award for
cinematography. Of course having read the book, much of the descriptive
detail of the circus life and circus characters was left out of the
movie. Also, the book is extremely heart-wrenching in it's description
of old Jacob in the nursing home and some of that feeling was left out
along the way (though the opening scene brought me to tears!). Also,
some of the scenes with Rosie brought me to tears. They picked a GREAT
elephant for the part!! A screenwriter has a time limit to work with
when paring down a book and overall it was done very well! If you've
read the book, you won't be disappointed...the meat of the story and
the characters makes it to the screen. My husband had not read the book
and didn't know what he was missing and liked it as much as I did (and
even laughed and shuddered along the way with me).

I have to say that I thought the one weak link was Reese Witherspoon. I
thought her film portrayal of Marlena came across as weaker than the
book version, but she was physically perfect for the part-beautiful! I
loved it, it's definitely worth seeing!
<|_=00=_|>
I was pleasantly surprised by this movie. Without being trite and
redundant, it explores timeless and universal themes such as finding
one's destiny and freedom, life choices, love, and jealousy, put in an
interesting setting, that is the circus world -- the early 1900s when
the US prohibition and depression were taking place -- which is nicely
recreated on screen (by production designer Jack Fisk who's mostly
known for his work with Terence Malick and David Lynch). Based on Sara
Gruen's novel, this very original story is beautifully told, uses
classical film-making techniques -- its camera moves, staging,
lighting, pacing, usage of 'live' animals, stunts and special effects
-- and well acted -- Robert Pattison comes across as a decent lead
actor and not just a pretty face; Reese Witherspoon, very convincing as
the star circus girl, doing some of her own stunts; however Christoph
Waltz's performance stands out the most as he maintains the dynamic
among all the main characters and fuels the drama. It's nice and
refreshing to see a classically-made-and-looking film coming out of
Hollywood.
<|_=00=_|>
Readers, fear not. This is one adaption that lives up to the book.

Water for Elephants is pure beauty. Despite the fact that it takes
place during the Depression, it makes you almost wish you lived during
the '30s.

One reason is the costumes. They are wonderfully done, as well as the
makeup. Another is the eye candy. No, I'm not talking about Robert
Pattinson(though he looks as gorgeous as ever). I'm talking about the
breathtaking cinematography, courtesy of Rodrigo Prieto.

While the leads(Robert Pattinson, Reese Witherspoon, Christoph Waltz)
all turn in GREAT performances, the real star here is Tai the elephant.
She plays Rosie, the newest addition to The Benzini Bros. Most
Spectacular Show on Earth, who is brought in in hopes of taking The
Benzini Bros. circus to a new level(particularly to the level of
Ringling Bros.).

As per usual, there are quite a few changes that may or may not
irritate the readers. It all depends on the person. One that I felt was
an improvement upon the book, however, was the combining of August and
Uncle Al. I honestly didn't miss Al one bit.

Water for Elephants is a beautiful, enchanting, mesmerizing must-see.
<|_=00=_|>
Although the title of this review pretty much sums it up, in order to
post a review i must include 10 lines of text. So here goes. This movie
starts out with a similar feel to Titanic like many have said. It takes
you back 70+ years and takes you through and incredible journey of
passion, adventure, and just life in general. For every up there is a
down, for every laugh a cry. You find yourself full of emotion at so
many points in this movie it's hard to not get chills at times. The
ending is well written well acted out and well, like the rest of the
movie is just perfect. How this is only @ a 6.3 rating currently is
beyond me, hopefully more people will take the time to post this movie
was a solid 8.5 in my opinion and is a must see.
