
Wild Child may be predictable, but what it lacks in substance it makes
up in character evolution. It is your basic wild child gets sent away
and becomes reformed type of movie, but there lies a deeper meaning
hidden in this movie. The poster before me recommended this to
children, and I can't help but wonder if that poster was a teen
him/herself. Adults will enjoy this movie more than teenagers;
teenagers rarely understand coming-of-age movies as they have yet to
experience it.

Wild Child is most assuredly a predictable movie, but don't let that
stop you. It's also very heartwarming, charming, and may bring a tear
to your eye. See it.
<|_=00=_|>
While this film won't be winning any prizes for being particularly deep
and probably won't make you rethink your outlook on life, it's still
good fun. There's some promising new talent, good laughs and sweet
lines in this delightfully cheesy romantic comedy.

It's about a stereotypical Malibu Princess who annoys her father one
too many times, resulting in her being sent away to an English Boarding
school (much to her horror - the rain, the rain!). The film pretty much
centers around her trying to get expelled from the school, and
therefore sent back to LA with her father and sister. The film is about
her journey from spoilt brat to English Boarding school-girl. 

If you're into Rom Coms and you're between 12 & 19 years of age I would
definitely recommend this one for a good night in with the girls.

+ there's some magnificent Alex Pettyfer moments ;)

JUST WANT TO ADD - That there have been many complaints (mostly from
British girls - of which I am) about the way British girls are
portrayed in this film, but please rethink this and look at how
Americans are treated! Our main character starts as a lying, self
obsessed and vain brat and her best friend Ruby (American) proceeds to
steal her boyfriend and backstab her! So you British girls who saw fit
to complain - don't. This is only light-hearted fun, and Americans are
treated far worse!
<|_=00=_|>
OK, so this film isn't going to win any Oscars but it does deliver.

I saw this film this evening with friends (we're 18) and we had a good
laugh and a good time watching it. Some of it#s content makes it quite
a predictable teen movie but despite this the film is good fun and has
some surprise moments. 

For those expecting a tween film like What A Girl Wants this is not it!
There's a lot of swearing, sexual reference and drinking which is more
like the kind of things normal 16 year olds do. This film has more of
an edge than your usual teen flick and will definitely appeal to a
wider range of ages. So give it a chance, it might surprise you.
<|_=00=_|>
You know, this is a teen movie. What can you really expect? I think,
however, you will be pleasantly surprised by Wild Child. The cast doe
an excellent job, with the teens carrying the movie pretty much
themselves.

The story line, though mostly predictable, is nicely delivered and felt
honest.

This is a great movie for families, or girls' night out! I am 26 and
thoroughly enjoyed it with my friends!!! Of course, don't hold it to
high standards, it won't meet them, but for what it is, it exceeded
expectations.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm a 20 year old male and was roped in to seeing this with my
girlfriend, and I'm glad for it. The film has an incredibly predictable
storyline, the acting isn't great, most of it complete and utter
non-sense and most of events in the film hold little to no purpose.

I've gave it a high rating, however, because I don't think I've laughed
quite as much at a film as I have at this one for a long, long time. I
think the phrase 'so genius it's bordering on madness' applies here:
the film isn't good, but that's where it succeeds. It's one of those
films that aren't meant to be taken seriously, and as such you can just
relax, and have a laugh. I spent a good hour or so crying of laughter,
and I could't even catch my breath during the "I'm Spartacus" motif in
the 'Honour Court' -- unintended comedy genius.

While it's no Space Odyssey and has less character depth in the entire
film than is seen in one minute of A Clockwork Orange, it is
nevertheless worth the watch.
<|_=00=_|>
I guess Emma Roberts' more memorable role was taking on the iconic
Nancy Drew character, but now she exchanges those sleuthing skills and
good manners for spoilt brat antics. Swinging from one end of the
spectrum of an ideal kid to a spoilt and bratty one, her Poppy Moore
character in Wild Child is a rich kid who has issues with discipline
because she thinks she could get her way with her devil may care
attitude and wads of cash. With her relationship with her father going
to the doldrums, she gets shipped off to an English boarding school in
an effort to be schooled in the prim and proper, and thus sets up
plenty of room for your typical fish out of water story.

Naturally as the loner who stands out because of her rather uncouth
behaviour and fashion sense, this was somewhat a throw back to The
House Bunny, where the protagonist is clearly out of place, and remains
to be seen if it is herself who would be assimilated into the norm, or
if she could be the trend-setter and begin a serious case of
behavioural osmosis.

For starters, this is clearly chick flick territory, with all
characters being girls (it's set in an all girls boarding school) and
the only male supporting characters happened to be her dad (Aidan
Quinn), the school principal's son Freddie (Alex Pettyfer) for romantic
purposes, and Nick Frost who cameos as a small town hairstylist. So you
can imagine the amount of bitching that would go around in the film,
where Poppy offends the head student on her first day on multiple
fronts, thereby starting off some serious personal vendetta issues. Or
how Poppy is initially unwelcome by everyone in her dormitory because
her stubbornness got them all detention, before they decide to assist
her in a win-win situation - getting her expelled so that she could
return home.

Wild Child is surprisingly entertaining with a good story to tell, even
though it's the usual about having friends for life versus the
superficial ones that one tend to meet from time to time. I guess for
parents this could be one of those child-safe movies to bring their
kids to, and hopefully to have some of its positive messages rub off on
their kids. Written by Lucy Dahl, daughter of the renowned Roald Dahl,
that credit alone provided some interest in this movie, despite the
story and plot development being nothing unusual and being very
predictable.

But I guess predictability could still work if the ensemble cast
delivered their roles convincingly, which they do, and with any movie
that deals with friendship and one targetted at children, this is as
plain sailing a movie as it can get - nobody dies, everyone becomes
friends, tense situations get diffused amicably, and there's plenty of
BFF-love to go around.
<|_=00=_|>
Come on folks, lighten up here.

Yes... This isn't a deep and meaningful piece of classic cinema... It
is a fun "just sit back and have a good grin" film.

I'm afraid that people who get on their high horse about films like
this must have gone to the wrong cinema! I am male, in my 40's, have a
degree and run my own company... I watched this together with my two
daughters (14 and 16) and we all had great fun and a few really good
laughs. So no... you don't have to be a 12 year old girl to find
something fun in this film!

It is predictable, cheesy and the plot is VERY shallow and weak in most
places... But you can't expect more from a film like this.

So if you want to watch this, just turn off your high-brow film critic
existence, grab some popcorn and a fizzy drink and have a smile...
<|_=00=_|>
Poppy (Roberts) is a spoiled rich Malibu teen who has gone too far
after playing an over-the-top prank and making her dad (Quinn) snapped.
Thus, deciding to send her to an English boarding school for girls. She
is, of course, taken in as an outsider, becoming Harriet's (King), the
School Head Girl, greatest nemesis in mere seconds. But the
headmistress (Richardson) really would like to help her mend her ways.
She bonds with her roommates (Nixon, Temple, Wu and Cocker), after a
rough start and they agree to help her get expelled so that she could
go back home. Of course, cliché as it may sound, these friendship and a
crush on the headmistress' son, Freddie (Pettyfer), give her second
thoughts.

I can say that this move is like Mean Girls, except the girls aren't as
mean. We get an American girl who's ignorant about all-thing Brit (and
the other way around). Poppy came to the school overdressed, and
thought that somebody will carry her bags for her, and was completely
oblivious about the school hierarchy. You might think this is another
fish-out-of-the-water type of film, but it's more than that.

The movie is witty, fun, honest, and slightly intelligent enough to
make it watchable. It's nothing new, but it's pretty entertaining.

As the movie progresses, we see the character, mostly Poppy, develops.
We get to learn why she is this "wild child" in the opening scene, and
why she's so mean and ignorant about other people.

It all get slightly predictable towards the end...everything comes
crashing down, Poppy's friendship is heading for breaking point,
Freddie is angry with what Poppy has done, and she is on the brink of
being kicked out of the school. So she only gets on chance to make
everything alright again. School movies will do better without this
kind of scenes. Anyway, the ending is quite emotional and touching,
it'll make up for the rest of the clichéd trip you take since the start
of the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
You have to absolutely see this movie. It contains lot of things movies
these days don't have, like friendship, how you feel a friend let you
down kind of things. actually I have to admit that it's so well written
and Directed to make the viewer more emotional and to show the joy in
friendship. this is a must watch movie and I prefer it to all persons
who are aged above the MPAA rating of the film. And another thing about
this movie is It's more real life than other movies I've seen like how
characters behave kind of things and of course the movie casting
Director had done a awesome job because the Actors and actresses fits
well to the characters you'll definitely fell that when you are
watching "Wild Child" movie. And the music is well matched to the scene
and to the feeling of the scene. Everything is perfect the story line,
direction, music This is a must watch movie as I mentioned before.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is about a American teenage girl with severe conduct
problems. Her father sends her to a British boarding school in order to
have her cleaned up.

"Wild Child" is a light hearted teen comedy. The abundance of hair
dressing scenes, shopping scenes and dancing scenes is an indication
that "Wild Child" is a fluffy movie that goes very well with popcorn.
Though Poppy's behaviour is unacceptable at times, the film makes a
point in saying that a person who displays bad behaviour is not
equivalent to a bad person. It gives hope and support to troubled
people who are rejected and disliked due to their bad behaviour. 

The plot is realistic and yet dramatic enough to keep viewers
interested. The friendships that Poppy created are well portrayed and
told. The ending is heartwarming and satisfying. "Wild Child" is a
great brain off comedy, and I enjoyed watching it.
