
When I read the reviews by the "experts" online I didn't want to see
this movie. However, my three granddaughters 16, 13 and 10 insisted
they wanted to see it on the recommendation from some friends. I am
happy they did. It was much better than the professional reviews led me
to believe. I would recommend that any parent or grandparent, as in my
case, take take their kids to see this movie.

I will say this about the expert reviews, they helped give us excellent
seats. Sometimes I wonder if they have lost touch with what movie goers
want to see. They have gotten to wrapped up in the technique of the art
to be able to recognize a good movie. Maybe the courses on movie making
should modify their guidelines to include what the general public
considers a good movie.
<|_=00=_|>
This was an excellent family movie, had plenty of laughs and some
really heartwarming moments. Billy Crystal and Bette Midler made a
great pairing, I don't know why it hadn't been done before. Crystal
brings his great acerbic wit combined with Midler's warm demeanor and
the great comedic timing of both makes for gold medal hilarity. Marisa
Tomei is great as a new-age parent with high anxiety when it comes to
allowing her parents into her automated life. Bailee Madison is a
little fireball, and she is one to keep an eye on. With her innate
acting ability she will have you on the edge of tears one moment and
laughing till you pee the next. Madison is an absolute joy to watch and
it was great to see her paired up with classic comedic talent like
Crystal and Midler. The writing is fair, but luckily with such a
well-placed cast you hardly notice those short-comings. This is
definitely one I would take the whole family to, it's got enough for
all to enjoy. I highly recommend it for the holiday season, it will
have you walking out with a smile.
<|_=00=_|>
Parental Guidance is a pretty decent family comedy about bridging the
generation gap, and the process of re-building relationships that have
been neglected for a very long time.

It is obvious to me that neither Billy Crystal or Bette Midler get too
many good movie roles nowadays, and I think you can clearly see their
joy at being back in the limelight in starring roles. They deliver
strong performances and have great timing, and it is a pity that the
source material is so weak to begin with. The basic plot is okay with
me, but some of the comedy is far-fetched and grandchild Barker's
bizarre behavior is used as an excuse for comedy too many times.

I liked a couple of scenes, which deal with the pressure of constantly
keeping up with the technological advances of this day and age, with
Artie losing his job because he doesn't tweet or know what an app is.
This is a very relevant issue and unfortunately it is lightly dealt
with.

All in all, the plot is thoroughly predictable and the points the movie
wishes to make are obvious to all without any hint of subtlety, but the
strong acting performances saves it from being a train wreck.
<|_=00=_|>
Alice Simmons (Marisa Tomei) is somewhat estranged from her parents
(Billy Crystal, Bette Midler). When her husband Phil (Tom Everett
Scott)'s work takes them away, she's forced to ask her parents to look
after her kids (Bailee Madison, Joshua Rush, Kyle Harrison Breitkopf).

I like Billy Crystal and Bette Midler. I like their chemistry. I like
their 'old fashion' ways. But some really stupid scenes destroy any
chance this movie had. Grumpy Billy Crystal has some funny moments.
Bette Midler is likable as the peacemaker. But by the middle of the
movie, they just piled on one too many ridiculous premise to accept,
and the movie falls apart.
<|_=00=_|>
My expectations weren't that high and Parental Guidance failed to meet
them.

Bette Midler got the very few good lines, but other than that I was in
turns bored or irritated. Bored because Billy Crystal never shuts up
when he's on-screen. Irritated because I fail to see how bratty kids
are funny. It's just an old, tired cliché from every sitcom from the
last forty years.

Especially annoying was Marisa Tomei's helicopter-mother character. It
was a cartoon character with no redeeming qualities.

I found myself wishing I sneak into whatever was playing next door.
<|_=00=_|>
A smooth Bette Midler and a even more smoother Billy Crystal try to
take you attention of their faces for a few moments in Parental
Guidance where they play Grandparents who have to look after their
grandchildren when the parents go off for a few days business holiday.

Crystal is a broadcaster who has been fired for being old hat and comes
up with corny one liners. Marisa Tomei is the helicopter mother who
hovers over her kids to almost to the point of suffocation and at turns
spoiling them. She is rather apprehensive about leaving her children
with her parents and for a lot of the film refuses to join her husband
who has gone on the trip before her.

The kids of varying ages are spoilt brats who simply have not had much
fun in their lives and have issues. One having an imaginary kangaroo,
other having communication issues with the daughter about to enter
puberty and not enjoying her music with the constant practise and no
social life.

However the film comes across as a sit com style clichéd family
relationship film you have many times before. The kids get hyper by
eating sugary food, getting into scrapes much to the irritation of
their parents.

However hen watching this movie you do actually wonder if Midler and
Crystal are actually Tomei's parents as she is so uptight it seems
someone else must have raised her. In that case why were they invited
to look after her kids?

The film gives you a few brief laughs but mostly will leave you bored
because of the familiarity of the story. Maybe the screenplay needed a
face-lift more than its two stars.
<|_=00=_|>
"Parental Guidance" is meant to be a comedy on the generational gap in
parenting techniques but Billy Crystal completely steals the movie with
his smooth and silky talking. Billy Crystal, acknowledging that he is
the attraction of the senior crowd, embodies the fuddled grandpa trying
to understand the softness of the suburban life but at the same time
vying for his youth. As clichéd as "use your words" has become of
modern parenting, Billy Crystal is the one who uses his words expertly
and elevates the movie from being another generic family movie.

In regards to the modern methods of parenting techniques, there are two
opposites of parenting presented: first, the red haired Russian
shrieking "practice, practice, practice" method; and second, the soft
version of baseball where no-one given out method intended so that
there is no ugly competition and just good clean fun. The first type is
deemed to produce uptight children and the second type deemed to
produce stuttering, diffident children or children with imaginary
friends. So, it is up to the grandparents to come in to the picture and
sort this out. The solution of course, you might have guessed, fun in
its various forms; feel good but not a real answer or revelation.

Without Billy Crystal, this movie would probably end up like every
other movie in the same mold; the shrieking screaming kids running
around in a McMansion with busy stressed out parents with one hand
managing the kids and with the other hand managing their jobs; the
parents desperately in need a change to solve their problems.
Throughout the movie, Billy Crystal is relaxed and smooth talking and
first provides the calmness to the dizzying hyperactivity of the family
and then sparkle with his comedy to take us through the predictable
second half.

Overall, it's a generic family movie but elevated by Billy Crystal.
However, it's still a movie bogged down by its uninspired family
dynamics.
<|_=00=_|>
... the suits who fired Billy Crystal at the beginning would have
tasted some bad karma at the end.

But everything in between was pitch-perfect - a tremendously accurate
(if only slightly over-the-top) portrayal of multi-generational
families, their dynamics, and the outcomes that can occur when folks
empty their pockets of defense-mechanisms.

The plot is simple: grandparents Billy Crystal and Bette Midler (the
"other" grandparents) babysit while their daughter and son-in-law go on
a long-overdue mini-vacation, leaving their three intensely
over-supervised children in the care of Bette and Billy, who don't much
care for that type of hyper-parenting.

The delight of watching this movie is seeing how such a conventional
plot will unfold with this superb cast. With humor consisting of both
good writing and sight gags, with Bette and Billy and Marissa acting
their hearts out, this is B-movie material brought to the top-tier in
these very capable hands.

This is a wonderful confection of a movie. Go! And, for those of us
from Northern California, it was great to see the San Francisco Giants
play a fun supporting role. A pleasant surprise.
<|_=00=_|>
I can see how Bette Midler might need a job, but why would Billy
Crystal stoop to a role like this? 

"Parental Guidance" was grueling to sit through. Whoever came up with
the storyline should reconsider his career path.

Maybe it's all right if you're starting out in screen writing and this
is a rough first draft, but to dress it up for release over the
Christmas weekend? That's highway robbery if not consumer fraud.
Counting snacks hawked at our NYC multiplex, my 10-year-old and I got
clipped for $37.50! 

Odd-couple grandparents spend weekend babysitting obnoxious trio of rug
rats while kids' parents try to copulate during rare, out-of-town trip?
(Oh, I am just slapping my knee!) As a long-married couple, Crystal and
Midler share nothing in common but an obvious reliance on hair dye.
Crystal just phones in his lines and the long spotlight-deprived Midler
tries way too hard, missing no opportunity to mug for the lens.

And almost every minute spent with the children -- gratingly named
Harper, Tucker, and Barker -- is an ordeal. One of the kids stutters
and is bullied -- would YOU consider that funny? This film's "writers"
apparently did. But I found Kyle Harrison Breitkopf to be the most
squirm-worthy grandchild. Calling Grandpa Artie "Fartie" isn't humorous
the first time around but we must endure this alleged witticism
incessantly. And then there are the urination and defecation gags. Gag
me with a spoon!

As if all this weren't bad enough, the film takes time to ridicule the
foreign-born. Lovely American actress Rhoda Griffis impersonates a
Stalinesque Russian violin teacher, and US-born Gedde Watanabe provides
a (albeit slightly entertaining) caricature of a Chinese-restaurant
owner. 

My pre-adolescent son did actually enjoy this film. I couldn't wait to
go home. 

Shame on you, Crystal, for lending your heretofore-respectable name to
this utter piece of "doody"!
<|_=00=_|>
Billy Crystal's movie career has been hit or miss. Alright, mostly
miss. Too bad there's no three strike rule in Hollywood. (Although why
Crystal never had a TV show, where his lovable cozy charm might work, I
don't know.) Here his talents are wasted. It's painfully bad. Blame the
writing. This movie isn't the worst I've ever sat through. I mean, it's
no 'Jerry'. But it's bad. If you have a ten minute rule about watching
movies then you might want to consider having a five minute rule. But
frankly, this doesn't pass the smell test after one minute. They keep
selling it as a family movie. Maybe the family from 'Honey Boo Boo' but
for anyone else it's a stinker.
