
I read that this film has been labeled by parents as a "Disney Bomb"
because it's too scary for their young children. Parents who take kids
to see any movie need to be aware of something: if it's rated PG there
are likely going to be scenes that your six year old will not enjoy --
even if the name Disney is attached to it. The cutesy versions of A
Christmas Carol (The Muppet Christmas Carol and Disney's own Mickey's
Christmas Carol for example) have little in common with the classic,
and sometimes very scary Charles Dickens story. The plot should be
familiar to just about anyone who has been alive sometime during the
past 150 years, and the fact that there are spirits (ghosts) in the
story should also be a red flag to parents. Especially since two of
them are downright frightening in just about any version of the story.

The truth is that this is one of the most beautiful and faithful
remakes of the Dickens classic. The dialogue is taken nearly
word-for-word from the book, and the look and feel of the film
brilliantly capture what you would imagine wintertime in London in the
19th century to be like. A few of the special effects are a bit
over-the-top, but most work well and add enough pizazz for cynical
modern-day audiences. The scenes featuring the Ghost of Christmas
Present are worth the price of admission alone.

Once every few months I'm dragged kicking and screaming to see a new
film. I can't stand wasting my hard-earned dollar on the crap Hollywood
throws at us these days, but every once in a while I'm pleasantly
surprised and thoroughly enjoy a movie. This was definitely one of
those rare times.
<|_=00=_|>
Jim Carrey is full of surprises and the entire movie is a theatrical
outburst of his talent, under the brilliant direction of Robert
Zemeckis. Brilliant because it manages to make take the Dickens story
and walk us through all its dimensions, without fear of sadness and, in
the same time, he has the cold blood to use the magic wand for a happy
end. I wasn't a big 3D fan until this movie, maybe because I didn't see
any possibility to enrich the classical format, perfect as it became
with the years... 'A Christmas Carol' gains a lot from 3D being a
sensorial experience enhanced by IMAX technology.

All in all, it's not a story for kids, because it's rather disturbing
and contemplative. Gary Oldman's pointing finger will stay with you for
a while... It's an enchanting story and I encourage you to go and see
it.
<|_=00=_|>
After directing The Polar Express in 2004, Robert Zemeckis vowed to
only make 3D movies using motion-capture technology from then on, never
to return to traditional live action films again. What? How could he?
Moviegoers everywhere were bemused at how the bloke who gave us Forrest
Gump, the Back to the Future trilogy, Who Framed Roger Rabbit?, Contact
and Cast Away could settle for some silly 3D business. Perhaps Zemeckis
was smarter than us all though, his pledge to developing a decent 3D
output coming half a decade earlier than most. It seems he was on to
something.

It is credit to Zemeckis though that his use of 3D isn't the drawcard
for this wonderfully told fable, it purely enhances it. The opening
title sequence is one of the most breathtaking of the year, as we soar
over - and through - the old Victorian town in which Scrooge inhabits
in only one shot. It doesn't end there however, with no less than two
more flying scenes and a splendid chase sequence on foot, which capably
show what mo-cap and 3D are capable of. One small gripe, as was present
with Up, the glasses still make everything darker and subsequently
duller; especially as this picture is intentionally not well-lit to
begin with.

We all know the famous Charles Dickens novel for which this is based on
and Zemeckis stays faithfully close to it, unworried about making a
family movie that has very few laughs. Let's face it, the story of
Scrooge isn't meant to be a light-hearted laughfest. With demonic
horses (complete with glaring red eyes), ghosts with broken jaws and
men withering away to a skeleton, this is anything but a hoot. But is
that a bad thing? Not at all. In fact it is a relief to see a movie for
young (but not too young) and old that doesn't shy away from evoking
feelings of fear and regret rather than always sugar-coating them with
funny moments. If dealt with rightly, emotions like these can be
healthy and will have a longer lasting effect on you and your kids than
something that only makes you laugh.

Providing the voice of Scrooge from childhood to old-age, along with
the three Ghosts of Christmas, Carrey does a fine job, even with his
normal over-the-top voicing toned down a few hundred decibels. He is
barely recognisable in all his parts - a result that I'm sure Zemeckis
would have been aiming for - which allows the characters to stand on
their own two feet rather than be a typical Carrey product. The
experienced supporting cast of Oldman, Hoskins, Firth, Elwes and Wright
Penn add a nice level of class to the proceedings.

The dark and morose atmosphere might at first shock, but ultimately
both children and adults will gain more from this experience than most
family films. See it on the big screen.

4 out of 5 (1 - Rubbish, 2 - Ordinary, 3 - Good, 4 - Excellent, 5 -
Classic)
<|_=00=_|>
I took my grandson to see this, but I was dreading it. I'm not a Jim
Carrey fan but it's a Christmas movie, after all , so I bit the bullet
and we saw it at the IMAX in 3-D.

The visual effects are great, even though a lot of it was :"Look, we
have 3-D!" They stayed very close to the original story, though they
added a miniaturization segment that was unnecessary. Carrey was muted
and did a great job with some occasional clowning around. It was
actually scary in some parts, as it should be, but not overwhelmingly,
and there were some laughs as well.

I have always enjoyed this story, because it's one of redemption, and
there is no better time than Christmas to tell it. It shows people
being compassionate, even in the face of someone as seemingly heartless
as Ebeneezer Scrooge. I was first exposed to this story as a little boy
watching the animated version with Mr. Magoo that came out in 1962 and
is shown every year on TV. There are many such movies that define the
season and I truly expect this to be one of them, along with Christmas
Story, Home Alone, Miracle on 34th Street, and It's a Wonderful Life.

Like the Macy's Parade, we all have our list of must-see holiday
movies, no matter how many times we have seen them. I really expect
this to make this list, with one caveat- I'm not sure how well the non
3-D version will translate to the TV screen. But the story is timeless
and this movie does a good job of telling it.
<|_=00=_|>
From an artistic viewpoint, the new Robert Zemeckis film from the man
who gave us THE POLAR EXPRESS, is another of his animated features
using the motion picture capture technique that allows the actors to
play several roles. The cinematography is exceptionally well done.

JIM CARREY, as miserly Ebenizer Scrooge, looks nothing like his real
self. He's a perfect Scrooge, using his voice and mannerisms to great
effect, never overplaying the role as you might expect he would.

The visit from three spirits is more frightening than usual, since
Zemeckis decided to throw everything he could into startling special
effects--sometimes with very gruesome results. The sight of Marley's
Ghost with a flapping jaw that has to be realigned by Marley is just
one of the "extra" touches. Some of the "spirit" scenes are too intense
for small children, more likely to frighten them than anything else.

There are times when the story remains very faithful to the Dickens
book, sometimes even word for word. But when Zemeckis decides to show
off that the camera can do with flying aerial scenes zooming over
Victorian London, it begins to stray a bit. Biggest stray is a chase
scene that has a miniature Scrooge going through drain pipes to escape
an oncoming coach and horses trying to run him down.

The lovely score by Alan Silvestri blends perfectly with the on screen
action and includes a number of traditional Christmas favorites. GARY
OLDMAN and COLIN FIRTH do well in key supporting roles but it's really
Carrey's show all the way. He plays several main characters with great
skill.

Not quite as festive as you might expect, it's a darker version of
Scrooge, handsomely executed so that many of the scenes look like
Victorian illustrations from the novel. 

Warning: This is not a child's version of the tale. Parents should be
advised that some of the content is too gruesome for young kids.
<|_=00=_|>
I wonder if Robert Zemeckis weren't a filmmaker if he would have become
a pilot. Look at his films and you may find a recurring shot in them,
if not all then at least a good lot of them: a shot up in the sky,
flying around and bringing the audience along (i.e. the feather in
Forrest Gump, the pull-back through the valley and mountains in
Beowulf, Back to the Future with the flying Dolorean), and here too are
shots like that, more than one in fact. It's exhilarating to see
Zemeckis at a mastery of this particular shot, and in the full scope
and awe in 3D it's even stronger to watch and wonder 'how did they do
it(?)' With motion-capture, anything is possible... except, sadly,
making one feel a true emotional connection to the material.

Oh, don't get me wrong. It's an improvement over The Polar Express,
whose creepiness was more unto itself and jarring as opposed to serving
the story, and one can already see advancements in the technology from
Beowulf, which was also lots of fun and had an edge to it allowed only
with the digital animation. But for some reason- maybe my heart is a
lump of coal or I wasn't in the right Christmas spirit or something-
the material in the film didn't connect with me, except those moments
that were funny (intentionally or not, sometimes due to Jim Carrey's
performance), and it became something peculiar. It's a story that is
practically timeless, and the director is at the top of his game,
almost at the same control of the medium for a particular story like
Forrest Gump or Back to the Future - maybe more-so.

It's also still a WOOSH experience, not carrying the same time and
effort for characters to really feel fully human before our eyes like,
for example, Up did back in the summer. I mention all of this first
since the story we all know pretty much (as an aside, I kept thinking
back to the first incarnation of the story I saw as a child, the Muppet
Christmas Carol, and marveled at how both that and this film kept much
of the book's dialog and storytelling devices exactly), and it's almost
pointless to recant it here. What is paramount to mention though is
that Zemeckis, in keeping with the tone of the original Dickens text
(and having the clout that he has), makes it a true Victorian horror
movie.

It should be said also that children will be hit or miss with this
version; while they'll delight and be awed by the animation and moments
of craziness (my favorite being the scene with the ghost Marley and his
entire presentation before Scrooge, unhooked jaw uneasily included),
they may be put off by the "old" language, some of it in that olde 19th
century English Dickens wrote in. Perhaps this is why, against his own
better judgment, Zemeckis decided to add in a few scenes to change the
very faithful adaptation, the key one being the chase through the
streets of London in the Christmas-Future sequence. This is smack dab
in the middle of what is the best segment of the film - seeing death as
a silhouette with a bony finger and Scrooge's stark pleas is truly
chilling - and it suddenly makes it also the worst. It kills the
tension and makes a strange sensation: does one laugh at a tiny-voiced
Scrooge running around like a mini Daffy Duck cartoon while he's
supposed to be facing down his own demise? It's entertaining to watch,
but awkward to behold at this point of the story.

That the motion-capture, for all of its beauty and detail in the faces
and people and locations and dazzling set-pieces, doesn't engage on a
purely spiritual level (not even to the extent that 'Muppet Christmas'
did, that at least had the ghost of Henson on the production to keep
things truly haunting), is somewhat forgivable for what Zemeckis does
accomplish here. He puts a modern spin on a classic tale, makes it
approximately dark and mostly uncompromising for all ages- adults will
jump possibly more than the kids at the WHOA effects- and Jim Carrey is
nothing short of astonishing.

Carrey plays Scrooge in such a bravura way that only calls attention to
itself as a dramatic part (only toward the end, when he becomes "happy"
Scrooge are there a few unintentional laughs), and it may even be the
best Scrooge seen in many years in any medium. Added to this are his
*other* parts in the film, as the ghosts of Christmas past and present,
the former creepy just on the pronunciation of 's'. Others like Gary
Oldman and Colin Firth come off more or less fine if not remarkable
(Oldman as Marley is fantastic - as Cratchit, a Oldman-faced Hobbit, is
another thing).
<|_=00=_|>
A Christmas Carol was very entertaining and the animation was superb.
You must see it in 3D! However, kids who go and see this movie probably
won't understand the majority of the dialogue and will probably get
lost. It has a lot of adult situations and the accents are pretty thick
as well. Also, don't let the PG rating fool you. It's actually quite
mature and in my opinion it's more suited for adults than kids as far
as the dialogue and story goes. I think both kids and adults will love
the animation and have a lot of fun - especially in 3D! Unfortunately,
that might be the only thing the kids will like...Nonetheless, it's a
great film and it's definitely Oscar worthy for the animation. I'll
definitely be seeing it again in theaters and in 3D!
<|_=00=_|>
What would Christmas be without a visit to Charles Dickens' 'A
Christmas Carol', a story that dates back to 1843 and has been loved
and read every year at this time? There have been other films, stage
productions, musicals, and family readings galore and it still holds
the magic of what the spirit of Christmas is all about. Doubtless there
will be flocks of naysayers who don't buy into this adaptation by
Robert Zemekis, but given the ghost story magic Dickens' created, this
film takes it one step further and makes the ghostly three spirits very
much alive and beautiful fanciful. 

Combining the actors with animation (animating the actors might be a
better way of describing the magic) makes each of the many very well
known actors who portray the characters that much more credible. Jim
Carrey is at his peak as an actor in his ability to become the
illusions his mind creates: he portrays all three ghosts as well a
Scrooge at every level of his history. Other actors who are transformed
by Zemekis and staff include Gary Oldman as the trio of Cratchit,
Marley's Ghost, and Tiny Tim, Colin Firth as the jovial nephew, Cary
Elwes, Robin Wright Penn, Bob Hoskins, Fionnula Flanagan and a host of
others. The costumes and scenery are brilliantly executed. 

One problem with the film that may require parental judgment is the
fact that the ghosts are truly scary and children might not be able to
get past the fear they instill. But they will grow into the film as it
is likely a work that will be resurrected every Christmas season as a
tradition. It is 'excellent, my good fellows'. 

Grady Harp
<|_=00=_|>
In the Victorian era of the United Kingdom, the stingy and cranky
Ebenezer Scrooge (Jim Carrey) that hates Christmas and people loses his
partner Jacob Marley in a Christmas Eve. For seven years, he runs his
business exploiting his employee Bob Cratchit (Gary Oldman) and spends
a bitter treatment to his nephew and acquaintances. However, in the
Christmas Eve, he is visited by the doomed ghost of the chained Marley
that tells him that three spirits would visit him that night. The first
one, the spirit of past Christmas, recalls his miserable youth; the
spirit of the present Christmas shows him the poor situation of Bob's
family; and the spirit of future Christmas shows his fate. Scrooge
finds that life is good and God bless us everyone, changing his
behavior toward Christmas, Bob, his nephew and people in general. 

This dark adaptation of "A Christmas Carol" by Charles Dickens to the
screen is one of those optimistic films that follows the style of Frank
Capra's "It's a Wonderful Life" and it is impossible not loving it. The
redemption of the mean Ebenezer Scrooge in a Christmas Eve is one of
the most known worldwide novels and this animation produced by Disney
Company follows the style of Tim Burton and may not be the best
adaptation to the cinema, but it is indeed effective and a good family
entertainment. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Os Fantasmas de Scrooge" ("The Ghosts of Scrooge")
<|_=00=_|>
It took me a long time to finally see this film. Visually it is quite
impressive, but as is often the case, the movie falls far short of the
better presentations of this story. Scrooge is portrayed in the usual
way, but the treatment of his character is almost sadistic. So much
license is taken with his plight that it falls into the realm of every
juvenile movie made today. I'm really surprised that Ebenezer didn't
have a skateboard. The way he is tossed and attacked in this film,
totally distracts us from the central issue. That is a redemption of
the soul. Scrooge's character is never one we care about. He is
tortured and prodded. The spirits are dull and contrived. There is
hardly a former love and a true sense of avarice. Bob Cratchitt and
Tiny Tim are incredibly boring. The kid isn't of much interest.
Finally, there is no emotion in Scrooge. This is animation which should
allow incredible creativity. But the film sells its soul and dwindles
away to nothing.
