
I have read some reviews here and see it being unfairly compared to
some Pixar's... I would rather rate it on its own merit. When I am
sitting in a theater I would rather watch the current movie than try
and compare it with others I have seen before. I guess that is just me!
So here goes. 

It is worth a watch (or two if your kids want you to). The story is
built up on a traditional superhero concept inspired heavily from the
first "Superman" movie to the "Return of Superman". However, the jokes
are often original and some can get an LOL out of you. All in all,
there is enough good humor sprinkled throughout the movie to keep
everyone smiling.

If you can, do watch the 3D version. It has some good action scenes
which look great in 3D but if not, you aren't missing a lot. This is
not one created specifically for 3D pleasure - unlike Dreamwork's "How
to train your dragon". Do watch out for some great dialogs by Megamind,
and even some cutesy ones that seem right out of a Dilbert strip
(office humor, if it wasn't clear enough). My favorite is "He is still
not used to positive feedback" :) (probably funnier in context.

All in all an entertaining package.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this movie tonight with my wife and kids, we really enjoyed
this a lot, i found myself actually attached to the characters and
intrigued by the plot. i also found myself entertained with the action
scenes. my kids also enjoyed it, more so than they enjoyed the lame
Alpha and Omega. I guess most of you know what the plot is, so i won't
go into it. it is just fun and involves super powers and super heros
battles. most of you are probably reading this to decide whether to go
and see it or not, let me say, go ahead, it is worth it and enjoyable
!! And i also like to add, we watched it in 2D, so im not sure how it
is in 3D, but im assuming just as good if not better.
<|_=00=_|>
Dreamworks is notorious for creating a combination of hits and misses -
their misses can be anywhere between disappointing (Shrek 3) to just
plain forgettable (Monsters vs Aliens), but you'd better believe that
their hits hit HARD. Their most recent release, Megamind, coming hot of
the heels of the DVD release for How to Train Your Dragon (arguably one
of Dreamworks' best), is, despite its poor press, a major HIT in my
book.

Two aliens are placed in escape pods as infants in order to flee their
respective planets, each being devoured by a black hole. One, a
well-groomed humanoid with extraordinary powers, crash-lands into the
lap of luxury on Earth - the other, a blue, big-headed baby, falls not
far away, right into a prison yard. Each a product of their upbringing,
the two boys form an intense rivalry in their school (or "shool") days,
as one becomes the egotistical, he-man hero of the classroom, and the
other quickly devolves into an outcast. This latter child, fed up with
trying to gain acceptance, decides to turn villain on his rival - when
the boys become men, they name themselves Metro Man (Brad Pitt) and
Megamind (Will Ferrell), and engage in constant battles set in Metro
City. One day, when Megamind actually succeeds in killing the famed
superhero, he takes control of the city, turning it into a den of
chaos. However, without a hero to fight, Megamind feels that he has
lost his purpose, and seeks to create a new hero and rival to liven up
his life again.

This movie works for 3 main reasons - first, the characters. Will
Ferrell as Megamind is simply brilliant; flawed but lovable, we pity
the guy for all the crap he took that drove him to villainy, we
appreciate his intelligence while still laughing at his screw-ups and
flamboyant nature. Surprisingly enough, what could've easily just been
a purely comic protagonist became a 3-dimensional character, and you
actually get to care deeply for him. Brad Pitt's small but memorable
role as Metro Man provides great comedy and a snide parody of a certain
Man of Steel. And let's not forget Roxanne Ritchi, voiced by Tina Fey -
your typical Lois Lane damsel-in-distress. While Roxanne *does* seem to
get kidnapped a lot, she never loses her cool... mainly because
Megamind simply doesn't threaten her. She's brave, but she still gets
scared. She's smart, but she can make stupid mistakes. She's kind and a
bit naive without losing that snarky grin. She isn't the *most* rounded
heroine out there, but she has her moments, and overall, she's a pretty
likable character. Jonah Hill and David Cross are also great, of
course, with Hill's character of Hal being oddly 3-dimensional himself,
and Cross' being little more than a voice-of-reason for Megamind to
play off of.

The second thing that keeps Megamind from crashing is the script - it's
genuinely funny and heartfelt without seeming pretentious. The comedic
moments work because they really are funny. The serious moments work
because they have genuine heart - they balance solemn with sweet with
sad, all without losing that honest streak that ties them together.
When Megamind hurts, you truly feel his pain, and even if it doesn't
exactly tug your heart-strings, it definitely serves to further your
emotional investment in the movie.

And finally, the animation is just awesome. 'Nuff said. I saw it in 2D,
but based on what I saw, the 3D showing would be well worth it.

Truly one of Dreamworks' hits, Megamind captures just the right
combination of crazy humour and lovable characters to create a, dare I
say it, MEGA-AWESOME film that kids and adults can both enjoy. 9/10
<|_=00=_|>
I tend to watch all the new animated movies that come out nowadays.
It's simply amazing to watch each new advancement with each new movie.
Megamind truly was enjoyable to watch, all the details and small
touches made it a wonderful show. Just the right amount of humor and
seriousness, with a strong love interest. It's everything I was looking
for in a movie. The character, Megamind himself, voiced with Will
Ferrel makes him seriously lovable, how can we not love a silly
underdog trying his best? Music for the movie I felt was perfect picks
for each type of scene, they seem to give the movie much more power! I
want to see much more of these characters, I've already seen it a few
times in the theaters, 3D and normal, each time unforgettable!

Please Dreamworks, keep going with this one, its a true winner in my
book, I would just love to see more!!
<|_=00=_|>
I found this movie very entertaining and provoking in both thought and
emotion. It was also a very human movie. The Buddhist motifs were
exaggerated but well woven into the story, and it captured the most
common face of evil very very vividly.

Megamind is also biting satire and it spares no one, but has that core
of truth. It can be painful to watch, especially when you see yourself.

If you identify with the main character in the movie, you will almost
certainly love this movie. The movie also vividly captured many awkward
and tragic human situations in a way only animation can.

The voice acting and animation were perfectly suited to the movie and
the 3d complemented the movie without being distracting.

I wouldn't classify this movie as one for children. The only fault I
can find in this movie is that Megamind finds purpose and fulfilment
though and for the heroine. It would be so wonderful if this were
indeed a reflection of reality, but it is more a necessity of
Hollywood. Few women and superheros can withstand that pedestal for
long. The best you can hope for is to find these things along with a
women, and even that is rare enough.
<|_=00=_|>
There's nothing to complain about this movie. And the story was
original, actually just great if you keep in mind that it is a feel
good movie. Really love to see how people can still come up with good
and original stories that still have a happy ending, much like the
latest Shrek movie. And the music was just great (again much like the
latest Shrek movie), classics such as Back in Black, Highway to Hell,
Crazy Train and Cobrastyle really made me love this movie like maddd.
The people at DreamWorks are obviously pure genius. I might just be a
dutch 15 year old, but you are crazy if you don't like this movie.

recap: - Original - Unexpected twists - Good music

10 stars!
<|_=00=_|>
if your looking for a good old time and lots of laughs. I suggest you
watch Megamind. This movie had all around laughs and took a different
spin at superhero movies and gave us a great surprise that i know you
would all enjoy. This flick is for all ages. Me and wife enjoyed it
even thou we have no kids. I give Megamind five thumbs up . Hope you
get to enjoy this wonderful movie. Make sure to bring someone you will
enjoy being a kid with again . love it love it love it!!! hope to see
more flicks come like this in the future. it seems that animated flicks
have come a long way and continue to grow and become great movies of
all time.thank you all.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me begin this review by saying that I was very pleasantly surprised
with 'Megamind.' I was not expecting much beyond what we've all seen in
the trailers: cheeky laughs, slapstick humor, and the like. While it is
certainly all there and accounted for, I was very surprised by the
level of humanity and realism underneath the misleading facade of
colorful, CG images which might have implied this would be a kid's
movie and nothing more. Some of the great parts of the movie are
present in the first few minutes of the film, where we see how Megamind
came to be a villain. We see a baby Megamind being carried by his
parents, who tell him that he was destined to become something, though
he doesn't remember what. He is sent to Earth at the same time as Metro
Man, his opposite and future rival. As fate has it, the baby Metro Man
crash lands in a rich family's house while baby Megamind crash lands in
a prison. They are raised in their new homes, causing them to become
what their environments expect them to become. This bit in which the
babies are seemingly thrown into a place where they seemingly 'belong'
sets the stage for a great exploration of the theme of identity and
destiny, and begs the question of whether we have roles to play or
whether we directly choose our own paths. 

Not much later, we see an older Megamind dealing with another problem
that we should all be able relate to--the desire to be accepted by
society. It is especially difficult for Megamind, being a the only blue
alien among his many peers at school, while his rival, Metro Man, seems
to always be the object of favor. As we get to understand Megamind's
reasons for being a villain, there's an excellent example of role
reversal--we perceive the 'bad guy,' Megamind, as the good guy, because
we can relate to his problems and understand the motivation behind his
actions. We also see the 'good guy', Metro Man, as the bad guy, because
he is, ironically, less human than Megamind--Metro Man is without flaw,
and is without any understanding or sympathy for Megamind. A good
example is one of the earlier scenes, where Megamind accidentally
starts a fire when he attempts to use a ray gun to pop corn for his
classmates. Metro Man saves the class by extinguishing the fire, and he
is praised while everyone shuns Megamind. Metro man and the class look
past Megamind's intentions to be good, and only at the fact that a fire
has been started from his attempt. They see Megamind in an
unfortunately prejudiced way, and they don't consider the motivation
for his actions, but only results of the actions themselves. 

At that moment, Megamind feels that he and Metro man are destined to
have specific roles as the bad guy and the good guy. The whole
beginning sequence on the earlier years of Megamind works for well,
packing a lot of humanity into first the few minutes. This is great for
several reasons--we are immediately to connect to and root for our main
character, Megamind, and none of it feels rushed. We immediately
understand his jealousy and his desire to be accepted and have his own
role--he decides that if he can't be perfect like Metro man, he will
try to be what he is 'good' at--being bad. It also enables the rest of
the film to explore the development of Megamind's established character
and whether he is really stuck with the 'role' he's been given--and it
all plays out very well as he discovers the path to one's destiny and
identity with his rival Metro Man and his love interest, Roxanne. The
film is also legitimately funny on multiple occasions! In short, I
believe Megamind is a mega-masterpiece, and that it is also very
thoughtful, putting the 'mind' in MEGAMIND.
<|_=00=_|>
First off, I must say that I am guilty of "judging a movie" by its
trailers. I have to say it was a pretty good movie because the theatre
was literally roaring with laughter.. I even caught myself crying
laughing at one point. That's how funny it was. What's funny about it
is that it is played out in great animation with an excellently cast
(Tina Fey, Will Ferell, Brad Pitt, and Jonah Hill) brewed together to
make an excellent superhero movie or spoof rather.

I thought it was going to be lame, but boy was I definitely wrong, I
can't say enough! I loved every moment of it and the whole good vs.
evil concept was intricately woven in a different way. It was very
Creative the way they rolled out the story to viewers.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't remember the last time I enjoyed an animated movie this much!
One reason being the gorgeous 3D animation-I mean...look at Minion's
dome! I was gee-king inside and out on how detailed this movie is from
the characters to the scenery. Every time I watch the movie, I always
spot something new! Megamind shouldn't have been advertised as a full
blown comedy, because this movie held plenty of deep lessons to be
learned and so laughter was a little on the offside at times, but those
tender moments were probably the best part of the movie! Will Ferrell,
Tina Fey, and especially David Cross impressed me with their voice
acting talent! I felt as though they ARE the characters...it just felt
real to me.

Megamind has a lot of great lines and is a great family film! A must
see!
