
I saw the film yesterday in Oslo and I must say I thought it was
exhilarating, fresh and different. It's also one of those films that
you either love or hate, I do not think it is one that you can be
indifferent to. 

The German language adds a nice touch, and the way it is used helps a
lot with creating a believable atmosphere to some scenes. The actors
are doing a good job of portraying the stereotypes that they need in
order for the humor to work. The humor is pleasantly free from
political correctness. And there are many nice references throughout
the film, so if you have been living in a cave (or on the moon) for the
last seventy years, I doubt you will find it as funny as I personally
did. 

The CGI is stunning when at it's best. It is not perfect everywhere,
but all in all it is quite convincing. The style can best be described
as toned down and with natural colors that work very well for this
film. 

The story is funny if you let it stand on it's own and accept it for
what it is. Let yourself be entertained. I am sure that if you have a
very critical mindset when going to see this film you will probably
find something to pick on. Things could probably be a bit better and
more consistent in a + $100M film, but I do not think we would see this
expressive freedom in a + $100M film...

The soundtrack was also well thought of and added the needed atmosphere
trough the whole film. Not one tune seemed misplaced and I thought it
was very impressive.

I liked Iron Sky a lot, and I would recommend it in a heartbeat. I
believe this film has the potential to be the cult film of the year.
And I think it will do well for itself on cinemas around the world.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw this movie the 62nd Berlinale (Berlin Film Festival). Recommend its
worth your time given a few caveats.

Lots of things to like about Timo's sophomore effort here. The movie is
intentionally campy and plays to a number of eccentric stereotypes.
Albeit, it feels very much a European view of some of the US
eccentricities. The script was, by and large, well developed, the humor
a little cheesy at times but generally spot on and large kudos should
be paid to the FX, CGI teams for some outstanding segments in a sub
$10M budgeted movie. The best parts include some great inside jokes
specific to Americans and Germans, wonderful stereotyping of
international ethnicities/prejudices, great attention to detail in
costumes, sets, current culture trends and some above average acting by
Julia Dietze, Goetze Otto and, of course, the wonderful Udo Kier. Oh,
and the Laibach score for the movie was simply superb.

My caveats are that the cut I saw could have used slightly more
surgical editing. Also, while I think Christopher Kirby has played well
in other movies, I felt disappointed by this casting choice, as his
role was central to the story line and the least "even" in terms of
performance. Finally, it is intentional camp so expectations should be
adjusted prior to entering the theater. I'm not sure the Mystery
Science Theater guys could have come up with better lines than some
that were already in the script of this movie.

In the end this felt much more thought out and a real "labor of love"
than the traditional camp of Scary Movie, et al. This movie certainly
has all the right elements of an instant cult classic. Putting it more
simply, its about Nazis, living in a swastika shaped Moon base, trying
to re-invade Earth! 

My sincere thanks to the Iron Sky community for pulling the resources
together to get this film made. For $7.5M I'd say, job very well done!
This is probably, or usually, a ~7 IMDb score for this kind of a movie.
I'm giving it 8 to balance out the previous reviewer.
<|_=00=_|>
Out of all the films being released in 2012, Iron Sky is, without a
doubt, one of the most fun films to be a part of the list. When Nazis
build a giant space station on the Moon after the final days of World
War II, they await for the day when the Fourth Reich can return to
Earth and try to conquer it again.

Yes, it does seem a bit pro-Nazi, but when you watch the film it really
isn't; if anything, it does the greatest job at making fun of Nazis.
I've never had a more hysterical and enjoyable ride with a movie since
Super 8. The script is absolutely cheesy, the visual effects are
astonishing, and the action is non-stop. There isn't much to say about
the film besides the fact that it's a strange yet entertaining time at
the movies and you're sure to not forget it because, even though some
people will hate it and others will like it, the story is just so
random you can't not remember it. Definitely one to check out for
yourself, but just a heads-up for everyone; there's NOTHING realistic
about the film. That's another reason why it's really fun. 

8.5/10 Stars***
<|_=00=_|>
OVERALL: The trailers say it all: Let's kick some Nazi butt! And this
the film delivers with Hollywood quality effects. This alone put me
into position that I was willing to buy a support ticket to the
premiere. And it was worth it. Only reason it doesn't get 10/10 is the
length. 1 hours 26 minutes just got me going and wanting for more.

VISUALS: Vuorensola himself says it's an effect movie, so lets start
there. If the idea of Nazis on the moon won't blow you away, the
visuals will. Green screen acting, level of details in the CGI,
rendering, background vs. foreground lightning, CGI vs. actors
interacting are all there. Nothing seems out of place so the illusion
of being there on the flight deck fighting against the Nazi remains
trough out the film. Endless debate will go on about the physics of
some scenes but it's detail and doesn't kill the scene. Besides there
are Nazis on the moon who fly helium3 powered fusion reactors. Frak
physics and enjoy the space battle ride that Torssonen and his crew
puts up.

POLITICS: This one was not in the trailer but can't be avoided: The
criticism against Nazi ideology. The film manages to be more than just
bad Nazi - good American. So much more. The film raises the long
forgotten question of science fiction : "Who are the bad guys? What's
happening now or in the future?" I have seen too many (mostly
Hollywood) Sci Fi films that can't raise a single question about our
society or the heading we are taking it. Films that only show you group
A fighting with group B. I had my doubts about Mr. Vuorensola and his
team, but they delivered. This is one of the reason I was sad to see
the credits roll: There were so many questions and answers to be found.
Of course you can't put them all in the same movie, so I'm eager to see
the team's next film.

Iron Sky is a shiny mirror that challenges the western civilization to
look at their own problems of today. It's not pointing towards Germany
alone but takes aim at the rise of radical right throughout the world
and reminds us that in 2018 there might be "nazis" among us. Weather
they come from the dark side of the moon or too much power is given to
radical groups is up to us to decide. And that time is now. Just like
Dr. Strangelove, among others, reminded us about the horrors of nuclear
war that almost took place from Cuba. Iron Sky manages to be a Sci Fi
beacon and ask the mother of all questions : "What If".

Most of all the main political theme of Iron Sky is weather the power
should be given to those who seek and want it or to those who don't.

SATIRE: Is it funny? Oh yeah, if you can laugh at your own society.
Iron Sky toys with the political issues and curiosities of human nature
and does it well. Visual gags work too. At least they worked for me.
There are puns for many nations, genders and ages. You don't even have
to be orientated in Sci Fi to enjoy this film.

WOMEN: Iron Sky continues the traditions of Alien saga, Startrek
Voyager and many more to put strong women in strong roles. This gives
new opportunities to view the themes of the film.

CONCLUSION: Iron Sky stands tall and without shame against any
Hollywood monster that costs 20-40 times more and manages to deliver
20-40 times more film than some of the Hollywood monsters. The essence
of film makers idea to have fun is still there to be seen and it
captures the audience that helped to create and fund the film. Iron Sky
sets a milestone in the creation process of this film and for that
alone it will be quoted many times in the future. I highly recommend
for you to see the film.

Sami, a wrecker.
<|_=00=_|>
"Anyone familiar with Star Wreck?" director Timo Vuorensola asked today
on an 'Iron Sky on Tour' screening. What seemed like everyone in the
sold-out screening raised their hands.

"Anyone familiar with Moon Nazis?" he then asked. Somewhere in the
back, someone raised their hand.

"You know, we did a survey and there *actually* are people in the real
world who do believe there are Nazis on the dark side of the Moon. Oh,
and the genre of this movie is Diesel-punk." (This from my memory - and
translated into English.) 

With this in mind, you know this movie is comparable to the immortal
Airplane! and the best of the Python movies. Except that with barely
7.5M euros, the filmmakers have created a movie that contains, as the
director explained, about as much CGI shots as Transformers: Dark of
the Moon (now *that* reference must be very intentional as this is
definitely the better movie) and looks about as good as a 2D version of
that movie.

So, the camp humor may not be to some people's liking, but if you like
camp, this is a nearly-perfect sci-fi specimen of the genre. In all
categories of movie-making from script to screen, this is a triumph.
Only nitpicks would complain. It's so hilarious, the audience roared in
laughter throughout and even applauded in the middle of the movie. No
one did that in a screening of Transformers: Dark of the Moon.

Not only "may" this be the cult hit of the year, it would be *very*
surprising if the rest of the year brought along a bigger cult hit.
This is a 9/10. Miss this at your peril. Or if you just lack a sense of
humour and/or hate non-serious sci-fi.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw the Iron Sky recently in a preview screening. And, I quite liked
it.

For those that do not know, Iron Sky is a Sci-fi action comedy from a
team of Finnish "independent" film makers lead by Timo Vuorensola as
the director. Iron Sky tells a story about 'freaking space Nazis from
the dark side of the moon coming back to earth'.

For what it is, the movie works fine. It's not a masterpiece of
dramatic cinematic flavor on line with Citizen Kane or Pianist with
some deep philosophical dialog. No, its more in the line of campy
Nazisploitation and over-the top action, as one would come to expect.
And as one would expect, the movie is absolutely ridiculous. It has its
many fun moments and true laugh out loud scenes, specially made for
those viewers who are into internet/computer/pop culture related stuff,
which presence makes sense considering the guys who made this film are
"self taught" young film makers who basically 'grew up' making movies
of their own, and are the children of the Internets.

Iron Sky has a really good cast who deliver consistently strong
performance throughout the film. With Udo Kier being my absolute
favorite who sadly goes somewhat underused with his too old to care and
strictly for business Nazi führer of the moon guy... (Oh well, I still
have him as the Yuri in Red Alert 2.) Weirdly, Götz Otto being the
go-to baddie of the movie, delivers somewhat dry and unnoteworthy
performance. And I think it felt this way was because there was a
subtlety in his acting which sadly vanishes under rest of the silliness
in the film.

Now as expected from the guys who previously did the Star Wrek comedy
films, they made absolutely brilliant CGI effects for Iron Sky. I
rarely could tell which stuff were done with practical effects and
which were done with CGI, which is a very good thing. There are many
moments which I knew were definitely done with computers, but still
were a blast to watch. Nothing there is jarring or unnecessary feeling,
like in majority of the other CGI motion pictures of today.

Now there are some few shortcomings in the film of course, few minor
stuff here and there, but also one bigger aspect that was quite
difficult to overlook. And that is that the Iron Sky skips around, a
lot. It felt like there were tons of shots missing from between the key
scenes. You'll watch the characters do something and have it
immediately cut to a later moment in time, or to a completely different
scene all together. The movie leaves a lot for the viewers to fill in.
That was not too difficult for me one I adjusted. It's a bit
distracting, yes. But if you manage to push it past, you'll find
interesting plot unfolding. Now while I had no difficulties following
the movie, I can also see someone used to the regular Hollywood "tell
it to the audience" type movies being lost with this film. While the
important scenes needed for the plot are still very much present, the
sudden jumps might leave the viewer lagging behind, you might get some
whiplashes watching this film.

However, there is a very understandable excuse for that, which the
director himself told us in the theater on the Q&A session after the
film. And it's that way because they had to cut stuff from the script
as they simply had no money to realistically do most of them. Iron Sky
had a budget of only of 7 million Euros, which compared to other proper
big movies, is nothing. They said that every scene they did had to be
done in the way of "we'll shoot this if we get the money to do it". And
considering that, it's amazing they managed as much as they did.

Iron Sky is a fun little movie that definitely differs from your
average schlock. I'd recommend to watch it, if only for the sake of
curiosity. (And ridiculous Nazis.)

And what about the the ending? Who wins? Oh, you'll have to watch the
movie to find out. You might get a surprise. It might make you stop and
think... I know it made me.
<|_=00=_|>
Special FX, camp humor, Nazis, Star Wreck goofiness, fan funding and
the genre background all have been major selling points for Iron Sky,
and I have to say I was filled with doubt and skepticism walking into
the theater. Because, you know, those selling points usually produce a
passable
having-a-laf-wid-geezers-over-a-beer-or-dozen-watching-a-turkey
experience, but not a good movie. 

But this film was something altogether different! This is a real movie!
It has a story! That is filled with cutting satire! It tells us
something about our world more than from the imagined world of the
story. So I'll join others in placing this film in the near vicinity of
Dr. Strangelove, where it belongs. This film too is saying: "This is
us. Fear us. And by the way, you are us too."

I think that the part about Nazis is not where this film will get most
of its flak. (Remember, they sold this to Israel too, that should tell
you something about the way the Nazis are treated.) Rather it is the
target of the satire that will yelp the loudest. Once this is more
widely shown to the masses, I'll except to see some amusingly furious
hate for Iron Sky.
<|_=00=_|>
I have followed Iron Sky since the very beginning. I loved director
Timo Vuorensola's first movie Star Wreck. It was camp, funny and the
space battles were epic and the story was enjoyable. So I was expecting
something similar but slightly better with a bigger budget from Iron
Sky.

First I have to say that the comedy and story don't disappoint. They
far exceeded my expectations. The comedy is some of the best I've seen
in ages and there are references to old movies (Chaplin's Dictator and
Dr. Strange Love to say a few) and modern pop culture/internet culture.
Where critics and internet age teens and young adults should notice
different parts where to laugh. If you know both the movie becomes
obviously even better.

The story of the movie has been criticized but I personally think the
flow of the story and plot is perfect. I was highly entertained by the
story and expected the movie to continue at least 30 minutes more when
the storyline was getting close to it's end. That said because of Star
Wreck I was expecting to see even more space battles. I would have
loved that but I know most movie critics and some of the viewers
wouldn't have liked that. The story also criticizes cleverly the
American government and their politics. This very relevant point is
completely missed by most critics who just ignore the movie as cheap
slapstick comedy. The slapstick comedy (which is very minimal) is the
worst part of the film..

This movie seems to get some fairly good reviews but doesn't seem to
get the praise it truly deserves. It was made with only 7,5 million and
mostly looks like a top class Hollywood production. Finland has been
known from small budget dramas aimed at Finnish people which have been
going through the same tired pattern for many years. There have been
few more or less successful horror movies like Sauna to break the norm
but nothing as incredible as Iron Sky. Hopefully Iron Sky will
encourage more visionary directors and film makers to create something
new. With movies like this directors and other talent pave their way to
Hollywood.
<|_=00=_|>
As I live in Finland, I have been interested in Iron Sky movie since
they announced that the makers of the film 'Star Wreck' are making a
new sci-fi movie. Star Wreck was funny, and it was made with a very low
budget (15, 000 euro), but the CGI looked pretty good. I have followed
pretty much the progress of the Iron Sky film on internet, and the
first trailers looked very much awesome. Visually the trailers said to
me, that this movie was going to be astounding!

Today I saw the screening of Iron Sky at the 'Iron Sky On Tour' event
in Finland, where there where also the director Timo Vuorensola and the
producer Tero Kaukomaa talking about the film after the screening -
which was all very interesting, but I will only give a short review of
the film for you now! 

The story of the film was great, especially if you like conspiracy
theories and such. I trust you all know the movie follows space-Nazis
from the moon, so I will not tell you more about the plot (but I can
say it was pretty ordinary after all). The humor of the film was
probably best ever. I understand that Nazis are a tough thing to
swallow for many (probably more to Europeans than others), but the
script was so well-written and the jokes were so good, that I don't
think if I have ever laughed so much in a movie theater. The characters
were all interesting on their own way, and I think I liked most Julia
Dietze - I wish her nothing more than a blossoming career as an
actress! 

Visually the film is probably the best looking ever that has come out
of Europe - not to mention Finland where we are used to only drama
films! And the budget of this film was only 7,5 million Euros! The
director Vuorensola said that this movie has something like 890 CGI
shots, nearly as much as the latest Transformers film. I can't describe
by words how awesome some scenes looked, but I dare say that sometimes
it looked even better than the space battles of Star Wars Episode III.
It is funny how you can do a film that looks like a 100 million film
with under 10 million! 

All in all this film was a pleasant surprise. My expectations were
really high, but it was so nice to see that the film was nothing more
than an superb and entertaining 1,5 hour film with great humor and
awesome visuals! I could easily say that this is the best sci-fi movie
happening in space ever. I highly recommend this film to all friends of
science fiction and good comedy - well worth a cost of a movie ticket!
<|_=00=_|>
Just saw it, and am still astounded at the incompetence of the writers
of this film. How could you take such a great idea like moon Nazis and
then create a film so excruciatingly dull? There were about 3-4
genuinely funny moments (and admittedly they were very good), but
overall it sucked like a brand new vacuum cleaner. I have never before
wanted a film to end as much as I did while watching Iron Sky. It
didn't help that there was a pack of fat unwashed nerds behind us
wetting themselves at everything, even if it wasn't a joke, but the
content on-screen was so lame.

The core idea (which I assume is what got the film financed because the
investors clearly didn't read the script) is excellent. Moon Nazis. How
much better could it get than that? There were so many possibilities.
How did it all go so horribly wrong? **spoilers** Firstly, the story
contained too much unnecessary plot: the 2nd-in-charge moon Nazi wants
to overthrow the head moon Nazi or some such. Completely unnecessary,
chewed up valuable time, and had no jokes. Next, the Prez of the USA
wants to get re-elected, and decides to co-opt some of the moon Nazis
for her campaign. Apart from being (again) unnecessary, it missed SO
many golden opportunities. Why would the US adopt Nazi Germany-style
clothing and posters? It didn't make sense, and I was almost crying at
the buckets of wasted potential.

Secondly, the dialogue was terrible. Again, so many wasted
opportunities. Very few jokes.

The CGI is excellent. Lots of green screen use, but done really well.
Unfortunately, they spent all their money on the SFX and couldn't get
decent actors, and it showed. None of the acting is bad enough to be
good; it's just really, really dull.

The film is clearly aimed at the "so-bad-it's-good" crowd, but films in
that genre/category actually have jokes in them. Sure, the jokes make
you wince and are painfully lame, but that's the point. However Iron
Sky was devoid of jokes (or even one-liners) for the most part, and
that's it's fatal flaw. There was no bad acting, just dull acting.
There were no lame jokes. The writer's clearly hoped that the quality
of the moon Nazi idea would carry the poor script, but it just sinks
like lead under it's own weight.

IMDb's score of 7.3 (at time of writing) is a complete lie. I can only
assume that the cast and crew are trying to hype it up, because it's
not worth more than 4. And I'm only giving it 4 because of the 4 funny
moments.

In a word, "Meh".
