
This film is not at all what I expected from Herzog - I haven't laughed
so much in a long time during a movie. What we've got here is an
over-the-top, crazy ride with the best Nic Cage in years. Funny little
anecdote on the side (as told by the director, Werner Herzog): when
Cage asked for advice on how to best approach his role, Herzog told him
to go with "evil is bliss". Cage obviously obliged - and the result is
hilarious. 

This film got a lot of negativity because apparently, people expected a
serious, dark drama (knowing the original, I did, too). Well, Herzog
had other plans: this is a wickedly funny black comedy that borders on
satire. Fantastic acting by all involved, inventive camera and just one
hell of a ride. Herzog's most entertaining film to date and Cage's best
performance in ages. 9 stars out of 10.

Favorite Films: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054200841/

Lesser-known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/

Favorite Low-Budget and B-movies: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054808375/

Favorite TV-Shows reviewed: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls075552387/
<|_=00=_|>
One thing you can always count on when you go into a Werner Herzog
movie is that you can always expect to find a story surrounding a very
bizarre individual. With Bad Lieutenant, I saw both Herzog and Nicholas
Cage in a new light, or rather a new darkness. Labeled as a black
comedy, there should be more emphasis on 'black' than on 'comedy'. The
film bears a strong resemblance to the thematically surreal and
contrived nature of a Coen Brothers film, but the difference is that
this one is more character driven than plot driven. More specifically,
this is a film that lives on one performance. Nicholas Cage for the
first time in a while has done something worthy of recognition,
possibly even award worthy.

He plays New Orleans cop Terence McDonagh, recently promoted to
Lieutenant. The film follows his latest homicide investigation. Due to
a back problem and a drug addiction he is grumpy and unstable. He is
sort of an anti- American hero, and the film concludes on a very
bizarre note but clever anti- conventional/Hollywood manner.

Though not Herzog's best, it is certainly one worth watching. With each
film I see from him, past or present he continues to intrigue me, but I
think in this case, it might be Nicholas Cage who deserves the most
credit.
<|_=00=_|>
I just watched this at London Film Festival & went in expecting to hate
it as I loved the original. But I have to say, the film is excellent,
certainly Cage's best film & best performance since Leaving Las Vegas.
Herzog has done a brilliant job & the film stands on it's own, apart
from the Ferrara film. I won't spoil bits by mentioning them, but the
film has several stand-out memorable scenes worth the price of
admission alone. Herzog has always said that training for making films
is 'life' not a stuffy film studies class etc. If you're familiar with
his work or sensibilities, you'll get even more insight into how cool
this guy is after watching this film. I look fwd to watching it again
when it releases and getting the DVD!!
<|_=00=_|>
Nic Cage is a living, breathing cartoon character of a personality and
actor as well, and the best filmmakers seem to grasp intuitively that
the best way to have Nic in a movie--the only way, really--is to first
be sure they've got for him an appropriately comical, ironic,
melodramatic or surreal story. This one happens to be all four, to a
serious degree. It also features compelling and offbeat relationships
and unexpected, wild action, all of it slyly hypnotic and even
gripping. It'd be fair to describe this film as a tense crime drama
that's regularly relieved by comical gags if it weren't for the fact
that the perfectly timed humorous beats are so damn hysterical--and so
weird. The outrageously absurd, profoundly wacky moments so thoroughly
overwhelm the more somber, dark and disturbing moments--not in quantity
but in sublime intensity--that they thoroughly dislodge us from any
dependable emotional or psychological perch and it's hard to know with
any confidence from instant to instant what we're expected to feel or
think, which, apparently, is very much intentional. We're being toyed
with, and not coyly but blatantly, maybe even wickedly.

The director, Werner Herzog, is a connoisseur of contradiction and
paradox as he's eloquently and masterfully demonstrated in many of his
films, such as the bleakly absurd "Aguirre, the Wrath of God," or the
incredibly preposterous "Fitzcarraldo," or the often delightfully campy
"Nosferatu the Vampyre" where subtle humor is so effectively collided
against genuinely poignant drama. But this one's on a whole different
level, and it's entirely the fault of Nic Cage and his nearly demented,
turbocharged performance as an increasingly crazed, spiraling out of
control, drug addicted crooked cop.

As his character's condition deteriorates and his affliction and
corruption possess him to the core not only does Nic begin to distort
his appearance and posture to match his deepening pathology but his
voice as well becomes increasingly warped as it grows more high pitched
and nasal, as though the mounting stress is compressing him like a
squeeze toy. It's beyond silly but it somehow works, at least on the
level of his character's distorted, perverted perspective. 

Often the soundtrack is emphatically offbeat, quirky and disruptive,
working in counterpoint to the pace and tone of the unfolding action,
but the musical score might then quickly shift to more traditional
rhythms more in sync with the apparent mood of the scene which only
renders those moments all the more unsettling. It's a very subversive
technique inciting a creeping, crawling uncertainty deep within the
subconscious, at a primal level; a sincerely surreal experience
punctuated so ridiculously, so blatantly by the hallucinogenic
appearances of those damn freaky iguanas. So freaky... 

It's disorienting--in the best way--to be so constantly jerked, jolted
and yanked around by a movie, especially when it's all being done so
well, so confidently. Werner Herzog has crafted a sincerely bizarre,
wild ride; a rare and special cinematic experience that will appeal
to--and thrill--aficionados of superior, if idiosyncratic storytelling.
Very much recommended above all else for its uniquely unorthodox,
unhinged vibe.
<|_=00=_|>
Herzog's popularity, and some might say his entire career, came from
his long partnership with the incomparable firestorm of an actor Klaus
Kinski. In Herzog's own words, their "joint derangement must have
converged to create great art". Whether Herzog was referring to
Kinski's explosive fury on screen or something more insidious such as
the real life allegations that Kinski sexually molested his daughter
from age 5 to 19, we don't know. My point is that Herzog had the
ability to draw on Kinski's madness & evil to create some very
memorable films about precisely that: madness & evil ("Aguirre",
"Fitzcarraldo", "Nosferatu"). After Kinski died, Herzog's films were
considerably less explosive although he still pushed those dark themes.

Here in "Bad Lieutenant: Port of Call - New Orleans", once again we get
the familiar themes of madness and depravity, and although it doesn't
quite strike that horrifying Kinski vein, it has moments of brilliance
thanks to an excellent acting job by Nicolas Cage.

We also get, at the core, a well-written story by William Finkelstein
who wrote extensively for gritty TV crime dramas like "NYPD Blue", "Law
& Order" and "L.A. Law".

It's the story of a rogue New Orleans cop who is investigating a series
of murders while he himself flirts with depravity as he battles with
drug-related issues and moral degradation. What's important to note is
the familiar Herzoggian theme of madness and the thrill of of evil on
the human soul. Cage plays a detective who, on the surface, is a
cool-tempered & intelligent hero, a likable guy really. But he begins
to descend into depravity, and there are 1 or 2 moments of outright
sickening behavior (such as falsely arresting, then having sex with a
woman in exchange for letting her go). This is not a film for the
morally faint of heart. It is intended to morally shock us, and that it
does.

But what's interesting is the way Cage's portrayal remains heroic (the
good guy), unlike Kinski's villainous portrayals (the monster). In the
past, Herzog-Kinski films presented us with a vision of evil which
thrilled us in a guilty way, as if we're passing a gory car wreck. Here
we have the much more comfortable yet equally challenging perspective
of watching a good guy who can't resist the thrill of depravity. So
from a safer distance from evil, we can watch the story unfold.

I don't know if it's that subtle thematic difference, or simply the
idea that Nicolas Cage is not an alleged incestuous child abuser, that
made me enjoy this film in a lighter way. I should note that this film
also carries much more humor and playful dark comedy than any of
Herzog's other films I've seen. In the 2nd half of the film, Cage's
frenetic portrayal of a coked-up, cracked-up drug fiend was done a
comedic air... along with some hilarious surreal visuals & music (the
break dancing scene had me laughing out loud).

Ultimately, we get a "morality tale" which is very gritty, very comic,
very morally disturbing, and yet it doesn't leave us with a sick
feeling like certain other films which explore the evil nature of human
beings. In fact, with the exception of the disturbing sexual bribe
scene, "Bad Lieutenant" could almost be watched as a dark comedy from
start to finish. It's a different approach for Herzog, one which would
be great to see him explore in the future.

Final note worth mentioning, since Herzog's early films were notorious
for having real animal abuse/killing that may disturb some viewers:
Yes, there is a scene of a dead alligator with her guts spilled out,
and yes it is real. But according to the DVD extras, the alligator
carcass was purchased from (presumably) New Orleans animal control
because it was a "nuisance alligator eating people's pets and stuff." I
think there was an American Humane "no animals harmed" disclaimer at
the end of the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
This wildly entertaining police drama, which takes place in New Orleans
in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, begins with a police officer
being decorated and promoted to the rank of Lieutenant after bravely
saving the life of a prisoner who'd been trapped in a flooded cell. The
officer's injuries leave him with chronic back pain and his dependency
on the painkiller Vicodin soon develops into a powerful addiction. His
situation then worsens when he starts using cocaine and heroin in ever
increasing quantities as he degenerates into behaviour which becomes
reckless, immoral and criminal. This man's experience is harrowing and
extremely disturbing so it's something of a surprise to find that his
story is told in a style which is not only dramatic but also, at times,
extremely funny.

Newly promoted Police Lieutenant Terence McDonagh (Nicolas Cage) is put
in charge of an investigation into the execution type killing of a
Senegalese family of illegal immigrants and information he receives
from a known drug user soon confirms that the family were involved in
dealing on a local drug lord's territory. This puts McDonagh on the
trail of gang leader Big Fate (Alvin "Xzibit" Joiner).

In the course of his investigation, McDonagh loses a teenage witness
and in an effort to get the boy's grandmother to disclose his
whereabouts, goes to the nursing home where she works, holds a gun to
her head and threatens to kill one of the residents (an old lady with a
serious respiratory condition) but he draws a blank as it transpires
that the witness has emigrated to England.

McDonagh's girlfriend Frankie (Eva Mendes) is a drug addicted
prostitute with whom he shares his drugs. When he goes to see her in a
Biloxi hotel room and finds that a client has physically assaulted her,
he threatens the man and takes $10,000 from him. This leads to a bigger
problem as the man is connected to some gangsters and one of them
demands $50,000 from McDonagh and gives him only two days to pay up.

McDonagh is also beset by other problems as his bookie is demanding
early settlement of his gambling debts and his alcoholic father is busy
drinking himself to death. To make matters worse, McDonagh is then
relieved of his duties and sent to work in the evidence room as
punishment for the way he'd treated the old lady in the nursing home.
McDonagh responds to this indignity by joining forces with Big Fate in
a move, which not only solves his problems with the gangster but also
provides him with an opportunity to bring his original investigation to
a satisfactory conclusion albeit by an extremely unorthodox method.

This movie features an amazing amount of unrestrained craziness and
eccentricity and some real laugh out loud moments. McDonagh's use of
narcotics often causes him to hallucinate and on some occasions he sees
things such as iguanas or a man's spirit break-dancing after he'd been
shot dead! Nicolas Cage is ideal for the part of the corrupt cop who
uses a lucky crack pipe, as his talent for acting unhinged and
hysterically funny at the same time is absolutely extraordinary. The
intensity that he achieves in the role which enables him to convey so
powerfully, the depths of his character's suffering and determination,
is also very impressive.

The worst feature of the movie is its title which is too long and
misleading as it suggests that it's a remake or a sequel to Abel
Ferrara's "Bad Lieutenant" (1992). More importantly though, its visual
style and the inclusion of Johnny Adams' wonderful rendition of
"Release Me" add even more enjoyment to what already is an extremely
entertaining account of McDonagh's insane journey through drugs,
depravity and unconventional crime fighting.
<|_=00=_|>
-No spoilers here...

A darkly-twisted, hilariously-unhinged,, satirically-farcical story of
one man doing what's right... for himself.

A lot of debate is centered around whether this film is connected to
Abel Ferrara's Film from the 1980's. Save some time and trust me on
this, the answer is NO, IT IS NOT CONNECTED TO IT AT ALL..

Many people are divided about this reinvention of the cops and robbers,
good guy bad guy genre... Some love it, some don't.. et all.

It is one of those films that, while obviously you have to see it for
yourself, I believe many will use as a benchmark to judge another
persons sense of humour... Maybe even intellect.

It's just that good!!!

For me, it's a seriously clever and uniquely funny crossover between
the independent and mainstream style of cinema. 

I have not seen NicCage act better or as well for a long, long time.
You do not need to be a follower of the cult of Herzog to enjoy this
film either. 

It's instantly accessible to anyone with a twisted laugh and an evil
grin... Mua..Hahaha... All jokes aside, if I was ever PC it would be
high on my list of guilty pleasures(Luckily that's never been a
problem, though). It's one of the few films out of thousands I've seen
that I make an effort to recommend to people I don't even know...

-Take time out and enjoy the great Werner Herzog directing hilariously
good fun out of the darkest corners in our reality...

If you don't like it, at least you'll know you're one of them... :)
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not very sure if I could consider this as an actual remake of Abel
Ferrara's 1992 film, "Bad Lieutenant" (Since both movies have almost no
similarities in what concerns to plot, character and development)so I
won't make any comparison between those two films: Instead of that, I
prefer to say that I really liked this film. For me, it was an
excellent combination of black comedy and suspense, being one of the
most original and most bizarre crime thrillers ever made.

I must say that I haven't seen many Werner Herzog's films (Just "Rescue
Dawn", "My Son, My Son, What Have Ye Done?" and this one) but this film
was my favorite of those three movies. The direction of this film was
pretty solid, and even the strangest situations that happen in this
film are delivered in a pretty interesting way.

In this movie Nicolas Cage does one of his best performances, playing a
complete opposite character of his usual roles, and I have to admit
that he did an extraordinary work here.

"Bad Lieutenant: Port of Call New Orleans" not an ordinary cop drama.
It is something much better than that, being fresh, unique and
original. My advice to those who are planning to see this movie is to
don't expect a serious, gritty movie, but instead something quite
surreal, that could be pretty dark, but very funny and strange at the
same time. For me this combination of seriousness, dark comedy and
weirdness was something pretty effective.
<|_=00=_|>
After Katrina, police sergeant Terence McDonagh rescues a prisoner,
hurts his back in the process and earns a promotion to lieutenant plus
an addiction to cocaine and painkillers.

Six months later, a family is murdered over drugs; Terence runs the
investigation. His drug-using prostitute girlfriend, his alcoholic
father's dog, run-ins with two old women and a well-connected john,
gambling losses, a nervous young witness, and thefts of police property
put Terence's job and then his life in danger.

He starts seeing things. He wants a big score to get out from under
mounting debts, so he joins forces with drug dealers.

After a few years in the wilderness of decidedly dodgy movies, Cage is
back in his full blown, over the top best (he probably hasn't been this
maniacal since face/off)under the supervision of genius Herzog.

any similarities to the Ferrera movie is in title alone, as this really
has nothing to do with that film. It appears that the titular character
is on the road to redemption in this film, doing something good in the
beginning, and being punished for it throughout the film.

We meet some bizarre characters throughout the movie, and ironically
the only 'normal' characters in the film are the perpetrators of the
film. Cages accent changes almost halfway through the film for some
bizarre reason, and his limp and gait becomes more prominent toward the
third act.

Connotations toward hallucinations and drug taking are rife throughout,
and sometimes we are viewing the world through Neils eyes, rather than
that of the viewer.

Herzog makes brilliant use of camera work and the sets, and the
cinematography is sometimes very psychedelic.

For a film that is so downbeat at times, the ending is surprisingly
uplifting and happy, Neils path to redemption appears complete, despite
the strange ending.

With nods to Lynch and DePalma, this is one of those movies, that will
become depressingly more popular as time goes on, rather than when
initially released.

Unmissable.
<|_=00=_|>
Stories about corrupt cops are older than cinema itself. So it takes
some real talent and an interesting setting to inject some energy into
the genre. Thank goodness for an innovative director and an actor Like
Nicolas Cage. Here he resurrects some of the Cage we saw in Leaving Las
Vegas. His Lt. Terry McDonagh is such a corrupt and self-destructive
man, yet there is a very real and likable humanity boiling just
underneath the surface. We witness this man stumble into one personal
disaster after another while he still attempts to solve a multiple
drug-related murder. Just when you think he can't sink any lower, he
not only survives but he also keeps getting promoted.

When we first meet Cage's character in the opening scene, it already
looks like he's far from an honest cop. He and a fellow detective (Val
Kilmer) are the last cops left at the police station as flood waters
from Hurricane Katrina are rising and seem sure to drown a pleading
prisoner in his cell. It seems the two are just going to place a
thousand dollar bet on what the coroner will one day list the man's
time of death as being. Then suddenly, Cage seems to get a dose of
mercy and dives into the brown snake-filled sludge to rescue the man.
The act gets him a promotion and a commendation for valor. But it also
injures his back and basically baptizes him in the slime of the city of
New Orleans.

Within six months after being prescribed pain killers for his back,
Cage is a hardcore drug user. He preys on small time criminals to steal
their drugs. He smokes crack and weed with dangerous suspects. He uses
all manner of intimidation to get the information he needs to solve
crimes. He blackmails a college football player to throw a game since
he has a huge gambling debt. The list goes on. All the while we still
sense there is good in him. At one point he cannot pin the multiple
murder on the hoodlum who obviously did it. So what does he do? He goes
into business selling drugs with the man! Pressed by the hood if Cage
was ever even interested in solving the murder, Cage claims he never
was. But we know this isn't true. And Cage makes sure justice is
eventually done.

There is so much to like about this film, and first and foremost the
main strength is that it isn't a strict corrupt cop formula. There are
so many detours and surprises where we continue to be amazed at the
sordid company Cage keeps. You'll howl with laughter as Cage excitedly
smokes crack with some of the foulest hoodlums imaginable. You'll stare
with wonder at some scenes. Is Cage just paranoid, or is there really a
pair of iguanas on the table next to him during a stakeout? And how
about the POV shot from an alligator after its mate has been splattered
on a highway. The film will not be for all tastes, but has few flaws.
Maybe Eva Mendes is just too beautiful to play Cage's
hooker/girlfriend. Maybe the film meanders and wraps up too many loose
ends in a truncated fashion. But I liked it anyway, and fans of Cage
will love it. Its good to see him doing something edgy again after some
overly commercial recent roles. 8 of 10 stars.

The Hound.
