
I saw this film at Sundance at the Salt Lake screening. I have to say I
was really surprised by how much I liked it. This is NOT your typical
high school movie. It's the antidote to say movies like High School
Musical. I'd call it Rushmore meets the Usual Suspects or John Hughes
on acid or something. The characters were great, Bruce Willis was
excellent and most of all it was absolutely, laugh out loud hilarious.
I can't believe this film hasn't come out yet. I'm really looking
forward to seeing it again. I get the feeling it could go on to become
one of those Lebowski type comedies. There was so much stuff packed in
there that it should get better every time you see it.
<|_=00=_|>
"The name's Bobby Funke...I write for the paper" as soon as this
dialogue came up in the opening few minutes, I thought hmm...maybe this
film would be interesting. As it turned out, after about 90 minutes
from that time, I think it was an interesting film but not entirely. As
ambiguous as this sounds, the film almost entirely was carried off by
the good performance from its lead Reece Thompson. He was just about
perfect for the role of Funke.

The pace of the film is very nice and the story{mystery} unveils
nicely. Though predictable at times, the screenplay never gave up all
its cards before the climax. The music was well suited and the side
characters did their job well except for a few.

Now the biggest culprit is Mischa Barton. For some reason she was never
convincing enough and always appeared very phony. Least to say she
didn't immerse herself into the character. Though we all know she is
not famous for her acting skills, she didn't put her 100% behind the
role. For all her fans there is some good news...she shows off her
boobs in this film.

Now, this film is no Oscar winner or a GEM or one of the best ever and
I'm positive the film-maker never intended it to be BUT its quite
enjoyable if you can look beyond Mischa Barton and to a small extent
the predictability of the plot. I must add, it has quite a few funny
moments. The dialogue is good at some instants and horrible at others.
<|_=00=_|>
While some may compare this to Brick, the 2005 similarly-set High
School film noir, Assassination is much more comparable to Chinatown,
which is clearly it's biggest influence. In fact, you'll see lines
lifted right out of the film. But is it good? Yes, actually, it's quite
good. Clearly, the filmmakers here were not taking this quite as
seriously as either Brick or Chinatown, and it pays off with a fun,
funny, sometime campy, film noir with a good mystery and some well
acted roles.

The writing presents a stylish script with dialogue that is often funny
and over the top. Bruce Willis is especially mentionable as a
veteran-turned-principle who pines over his time spent in the military
taking out bad guys and his hate for chewing gum. He's perfectly over
the top. Reece Thompson also does a great job as the lead character,
playing up the gumshoe role with relish. It's fun to see him be him and
follow him on his journey.

One line in the film goes something like "high school is simple...yet
it's not." The film does a particularly good job of showing this
throughout in scenes that inspire laughs. We have a suspension hall
that acts like a prison, and is presented in such a way as to inspire
this comparison. We have an assassination attempt that...well, I won't
spoil it. But suffice to say, this scene in particular demonstrates
exactly what I am talking about. It's a good revelation of how high
school can be: in the end it seems simple, but while in, high school
can be anything but.

The film is very entertaining and should be fun for anyone looking for
a good noir. It's not serious like it's inspirations, but it does
contain a good mystery, some good acting stints, and some fun dialogue.
I recommend it for anyone looking for something slightly different to
watch on a Saturday night.
<|_=00=_|>
It's the coming-of-age of a gum-chewing gumshoe, from geek to sleek, in
the 'meanhalls' of the school that never sleeps. And as such, it's one
hilarious genre-spoof that actually works on all levels, the kind that
when you're not laughing out right you're grinning from ear to ear. I'd
even say it drives a stake thru Twi'blight, especially in regards to
the hyper-true-love-of-the-super-mature-movie-teens.

I loved the 'school as prison' backdrop- Shawshank meets Hamlet 2 sort
of thing, but neither over-the-top nor under-fed. The bad guys are
neither psychotic nor one-dimensional while the good guys (and gal),
well, they're not angels and this, again, is pitch-perfect and so
refreshing compared to the usual Hollywood polarization.. and kudos on
the editing, the dialogue, the pace - everything really. 

One questionable casting choice however is Mischa Barton. I can't seem
to come up with a better alternative and she is OK but nothing more -as
opposed to the rest of the cast. She seems to have some kind of
acting-facial-paralysis, very noticeable in her last scene, and for her
sake, I hope she learns to transcend this botox-haze she shares with
Kirsten Dunst among others. But this is truly a minor (possible)
blemish in an otherwise awesome little movie where the whodunnit is
somewhat gratuitous but then, you wouldn't want it any other way.
<|_=00=_|>
ASSASSINATION OF A HIGH SCHOOL PRESIDENT is a big step above most of
the teen movies that focus on potty mouth dialogue and absurd
situations just to get laughs. Writers Tim Calpin and Kevin Jakubowski
have come up with a script that is sometimes smart but ultimately full
of holes in deciding where it wants to take the original premise of
this high school movie. Director Brett Simon seems to sort of let the
movie flow as it develops, preventing a tight telling of a story with
potential. 

Bobby Funke (Reece Thompson, a promising new talent) is a nerdy
newspaper reporter who is never able to finish a story. Student Body
President/basketball star/ladies' man Paul Moore (Patrick Taylor) seems
to have everything Bobby wants, including the attention of the school's
most beautiful girl Francesca (Mischa Barton). As fortune would have it
a crime happens - the SATs are stolen from the office of Principal
Kirkpatrick (Bruce Willis playing Bruce Willis) and Booby is on the
investigation and story, a story that points to Paul as the
perpetrator. Bobby's nerdiness is transformed by his attention and by
the affections of Francesca, and soon the school collapses under the
cloud of the crime. It is how the 'crime' is inspected and resolved
that ends the film. For Bobby Funke it is a matter of 'What price
glory'. 

The cast is fresh and it is a pleasure to see some new faces with
promise. Whether it is the director's or the sound mixer's fault, much
of the dialogue is swallowed by the soundtrack, a problem thankfully
solved by turning on the subtitles. This is a movie with promise from
all involved and it will be interesting to see if it has an impact on
teen flick quality. 

Grady Harp
<|_=00=_|>
I had never heard of this movie and found it laying around in one of my
friends large DVD collections. After reading the back I thought I would
hate it. I don't know why I torture myself watching movies that I think
are going to make me cry to the gods to stop people from making these
horrible artsy films, but I do. It seemed like a low budget stylized
sort of art film that managed to pull in some mid level stars and in
aging one in Bruce Willis. Not my kind of film. I was wrong!(apparently
ignoring my gut turns out to be a good idea, but usually it's still
torture)

This was really a fun quirky, little movie that I actually enjoyed. The
story is fairly sophomoric. A high school cheating scandal that the
student newspaper, and the grizzled old war veteran Principal (Bruce
Willis) are trying to get to the bottom of.

The acting in this one is admittedly over the top, but that is the
strength of this movie. It is suppose to be over the top which provides
the humor throughout. Mischa Barton plays the pretty girl, so that was
no stretch, Bruce Willis's tough guy image works wonderfully for his
character as well.

I won't get into the whole plot/ storyline as anyone can read it above,
but it was a pleasantly surprising, humorous story that I would
definitely recommend. I am usually not even into this kind of movie but
I really enjoyed it. It was much better than sitting through another
stupid Harry Potter movie that's for sure.

So if you find yourself bored with nothing to watch, pop this fun
little gem in the DVD player. Its a fun one that I think is definitely
underrated and worth a view.

Like my reviews? Hate em? Questions? Comments? Have a DVD that you want
reviewed? SHoot me an e-mail at: subliminal.lithium@gmail.com
<|_=00=_|>
"Assassination of a High School President" is a pleasant surprise: a
high school noir comedy where the joke is how seriously it takes
itself. It never leaves the classroom - nothing that happens in it is
too ridiculous - but it maintains a consistent sense of epic importance
that successfully subverts, and is subverted by, its own fairly mundane
story. On that level it's sort of brilliant; we understand how
important the events of the story are to the characters while never
losing track of how comically meager they are to us, the seasoned
moviegoers. Now, just reading that, I can't imagine a more effective
way of representing secondary school.

The story is this: (wannabe) star reporter of the school newspaper
Bobby Funke (Reece Thompson) gets a puff piece on student body
president Paul More (Patrick Taylor) at the same time a stack of SATs
are stolen right out of Principal Kirpatrick's (Bruce Willis) office.
Kirpatrick appoints Bobby as his head investigator and it turns out the
two stories are deeply connected. More than that I will not say,
although keep in mind this film is closer to Wes Anderson than James M.
Cain.

And another thing it isn't is Rian Johnson's "Brick." Its 2005 genre
predecessor and "Miller's Crossing" rip-off, that was the film where
Joseph Gordon-Levitt was a down-and-out student playing two high school
gangs against each other. It's the movie this one has been most
compared to, unfavourably, although the two are nothing alike. "Brick"
was a film of dead weight, a leaden "drama" with aged and dreary
characters and a story meant to confuse and depress you. It was a
gangly, nearly incomprehensible movie that's gained cult status mainly,
I think, because most of its fans don't understand it. It was a movie
with a story and setting that never came together, and with a
sensibility and technique more heavy-handed than the worst Hollywood
message movie.

"Assassination" just wants to make you laugh, and, in the process,
laugh off the petty issues that plague high school life (I can see it
being almost therapeutic for kids facing those problems today). It
sparkles with an understated wit and has a real atmosphere to it; with
stylish, brooding cinematography and dialogue that's one third
noirspeak and two thirds teenage dirty-mindedness. It never plays above
or below its own maturity level, at once broadly funny and fiendishly
clever.

It's also a showcase for a host of young actors who are likely to
become the Steve Buscemis and Robert Downey Jr.'s of their generation.
Reece Thompson is note-perfect as Bobby, a classically straightlaced
gumshoe-in-training who can't seem to catch a break. He holds the movie
on his back and shows some real star power. Taylor is hilarious as the
air-headed president, and Bobby's three stoner friends - Tanya Fischer,
Luke Grimes and Vincent Piazza - inject their scenes with a put-upon
camaraderie. Mischa Barton, Adam Pally and Melonie Diaz also shine.

The old pro's have a lot of fun with the material: Willis, Kathryn
Morris and Michael Rapaport. Willis is particularly strong as the
scene-stealing principal. He's a deadly serious, tough-as-nails man who
can't stop talking about his tour of duty in the Gulf War - perhaps not
the most appropriate coaching technique for a group of adolescents. His
dialogue is spotless, timing perfect and intensity - palpable. Every
scene he appears in elevates the material to a heightened level of
pulp/pop culture craziness; you almost can't believe that's actually
Bruce Willis standing there, having so much fun, almost impersonating
himself. I'd go so far as to say Willis deserves a Supporting Actor
nomination for his work here.

It's an effective comedy and an interesting mystery. It has a lot of
fun with its premise instead of sticking to it with an almost dutiful
monogamy like "Brick" did. It's well-made enough to make its director,
Brent Simon, someone to watch out for. It's not perfect, the conclusion
lacks some umph, but that only makes sense considering the film's last
line: "Forget it Bobby, it's High School." 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
I was encouraged to watch this as it is classified as comedy here on
IMDb. And I'm in love with Comedy movies. So I got the movie and
watched it and for my disappointment I closed it from the half of the
movie. I didn't find any comedy in the movie nor any action. 

I really regretted watching this movie as it was very boring, I could
hardly complete it again after closing it twice in the middle. The
story is not that cool, it is not hilarious as some members reviewed it
and it is not so interesting. 

I recommend not wasting your time watching this movie and I don't know
how it got more than 6 rating stars.
<|_=00=_|>
Either it's heaven or hell, the four years of high school define us,
like it or not, preparing us for adulthood. Some of us are already
"old" by that time and the lead hero, Bobby Funke, of the breezy, smart
aleck school satire/mystery/coming-of-age opus, "Assassination Of a
High School President", is definitely one of them.

If he's not correcting the way people pronouncing his last name (the
"e" is silent); noting his grade status, despite his baby face
(sophomore); trying (and failing) to get his driver's license or
downplaying the event of him being tied to a giant penis made out of
snow (!), Funke (Reece Daniel Thompson of "Rocket Science") is trying
to be a wunderkind newshound at the Catholic high school he attends,
St. Donovan. Problem is he hasn't finished a piece. 

So, the paper's editor (spunky Melonie Diaz of "Raising Victor Vargas")
assigns Funke to do a piece on class prez/basketball player Paul Moore
(Patrick Taylor). Moore's basically a himbo, but also becomes a patsy
when the SAT tests scores are stolen from the principal's office.
Seeing himself akin to Washington Post reporters Bob Woodward and Carl
Bernstein, Funke rolls with the story and becomes a hero. He even gets
the amorous respect of Moore's ex-girl, the popular Francesa Fachini
(Mischa Barton of "The O.C."). 

However, things are more sinister, especially involving Moore's
successor/Francesa's step-sib, handsome but sleazy Marlon Piazza (Luke
Grimes of the TV drama, "Brothers and Sisters") and that puts Funke is
a tight squeeze between high school popularity and journalistic
integrity.

An entry at the 2008 Sundance Film Festival, "Assassination" is a dark,
witty romp that plays on the inanities of high school by putting them
in a mystery/pulp noir bag. Sure, "Brick" did it before, but
"Assassination" has more humor, subtle and loud, thanks to first-time
feature film helmer Brett Simon (did some music videos) and tyro
scribes Tim Calpin and Kevin Jakubowski (both were crew members on
"South Park").

A younger version of Tom Cruise but with likable geekiness, Thompson
shines with an old man complex (he's probably the only student who
knows who the aforementioned reporters are!). He wants to belong, but
the environment's twisted and immature, despite it being a Catholic
high school. Barton's pretty durable in the junior femme fatale role,
not deserving the attacks from people who probably never went to an
acting class.

The surprise here's Bruce Willis (how the **** did he get in this and
you know what he's been in, mother******) as the school's hard ass
principal, war vet Jared T. Kirkpatrick, who has a zero-tolerance
policy against gum chewing and reminisces about his Gulf War days. Like
Adam Baldwin's John Casey of "Chuck", Kirkpatrick's a mentally jittery
trigger who resents being in a mundane workplace, infested with social
scofflaws.

Some of said individuals help with Funke's investigation, including
perverts Dutch Middleton (Joe Perrino) and Ricky Delacruz (Vincent
Piazza, also of "Science" and "Boardwalk Empire") and jailbait stripper
Sam Landis (Cameron Diaz-like Tanya Fischer of the new TV version of
"The Defenders"). 

The faculty's nuts too. Josh Pais ("Teeth") is a Spanish-language
teacher who has an inappropriate lust over the students. Nurse Platt
(Kath Morris of "Cold Case") is no different but more hippie-like.
Michael Rappaport ("Hitch", "Big Fan") is an overgrown teenager of a
basketball coach who's actually a English teacher. The inmates have
taken over, people.

With cleverness and echoes from "Chinatown", "Rushmore", "The Usual
Suspects" and "Assassin of Youth", "Assassination" is a nice nutty take
on how high school can be both cruel and hysterical. It's a nice movie
to watch on a Saturday night, if nothing's good on the TV.
<|_=00=_|>
High School. Four of the most important years of your life. But it
isn't always dances and keg parties and sucking face in your parents'
mini-van. Sometimes it's ugly and hard and complicated. As complicated
as a conspiracy to overthrow the president. There's something rotten at
St. Donovan's High and sophomore newspaper reporter Bobby Funke is on
it like pink rubber bands on your little sister's braces. When senior
hottie Francesca Facchini solicits Funke's help tracking down a set of
stolen SATs, Funke uncovers a story dirtier than the lunch lady's
mustache. After he fingers the school president (figuratively) for the
crime, Funke becomes one of the most popular kids at St. Donovan's
High. No longer known simply as the freshman who was once tied to a
giant snowman penis, Funke wins the respect of everyone from the
Desert-Storm-hero-turned-educator Principal Kirkpatrick to the kid that
farts on him in Spanish class. When Francesca takes Funke to
homecoming, even the in-school suspension delinquents turn nice and
offer guidance on how to keep his boner in check during slow dances.
But high school's not always what it seems. As Funke's popularity grows
so do his suspicions. Did the president really steal the SATs? Or is
Funke just a pawn in a conspiracy as complicated as adolescence itself?
Determined to find the truth, Funke digs deeper and unearths the sordid
underbelly of St. Donovan's. Student council members, college bookies,
public school brats, everyone seems to play a part. Armed only with a
learner's permit and the spirit of Woodward and Bernstein, Funke must
crack the case before it cracks him...Assassination of a High School
President is a high school noir comedy with a good performance by its
lead actor, Reece Thompson but besides this performance there's not
much here worth seeing. Although the film does create a mysterious and
tense atmosphere, the effort to do so is constantly undermined by
ridiculous jokes and ridiculous characters that basically turn the film
into a parody.The story unveils nicely but at the same time, it's not
that interesting and it's definitely not original.Bruce Willis who
plays the Principal, overacts during his entire screen time and fails
miserably at being the comic relief and Misha Barton seems to have lost
all her acting-skills since leaving The O.C.. Definitely not worth
seeing, but if you really want to watch a film-noir with a high school
setting, watch Brick(2005),a much more interesting, and better written
film.

5.5/10
