
My wife and I attended an early press screening for the third Ice Age
installment two weeks ago and had a wonderful time. The film easily
tops the second outing of the series, and is right on par with the
first - with just the right mixture of new characters and settings vs.
the older ones we've all grown to love (especially Scrat. I can watch a
whole movie with this guy).

This time around, Manny and Ellie are expecting a baby mammoth,
something that leads to unexpected responds from Diego and Sid. When
Sid decides to become a parent himself in return, he steals three giant
eggs he accidentally bumps into, only to later realize they're dinosaur
eggs that belong to a pretty angry mother. When mother-dinosaur kidnaps
Sid, it's up to Manny and friends to return him home safely. Adventures
ensue as they find out that underneath their icy world lives a land
filled with enormous and sometimes menacing dinosaurs, one which our
friends would need to cross in order to rescue Sid.

Ice Age 3: Dawn of the Dinosaurs is cute but not insulting, the visuals
are stunning and if you forgive the obvious historical loophole (there
were no dinosaurs during the Ice Age) you can actually have quite a
good time. The dinosaurs add a lot to the plot, and there's actually a
very cool, nice sense of adventure throughout the film, one that was
somewhat missing (in my opinion) from the previous installment. All
this adds to a fun and thrilling experience - alongside the visuals,
jokes and general good atmosphere.

To sum things up - Ice Age 3 is an above average animated film, that'll
appeal to grown-ups and kids alike. I gave it 9 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
Ice age 3 was really funny and it stays true to the series. Same old
characters, a whole new adventure that everyone at any age can enjoy.

I saw the critics and I thought to my self that it would be good, but I
didn't expect much, but I really did enjoy it more than I thought. It
may not be the best compared to the other Ice Age films, but it still a
great thrill ride that the audience can enjoy.

And if you find a theater near you that has it in digital 3D, go and
watch it in 3D, because the action and adventure will excite you even
more than it actually does.

Normally people think since it's a third part, then the movie won't be
that great, but hear me when I say that keep that thought out of your
mind and parents, take your kids with you, they are sure to leave with
a smile and a long lasting excitement for more.

100% enjoyable, its a 10!
<|_=00=_|>
I haven't had so many laff-out-loud moments in a movie for a long time.
There's about an even mix of verbal and visual gags in this 3rd
installment of the Ice Age family saga, they're all fresh instead of
hackneyed, and they all work. You wouldn't think a film set in the age
of mammoths would be able to run a parody of the old "red wire vs. blue
wire" time-bomb scenario, but they find an ingenious way to do it.

Now those among you who haven't fallen prey to creationism are well
aware that mammoths are very large mammals (and hence quite recent in
geological time), while the last of the dinosaurs went extinct
65,000,000 years ago. So how does the plot explain their coexistence?
Well, it seems that there's this entire hidden tropical world
underneath the eponymous ice, and our heroes literally fall into it.
(Don't overthink it.)

Suddenly Manny the mammoth and his pregnant mate Ellie discover that
they're not only not the largest creatures on Earth, as they'd thot,
but actually pretty petite compared to the Mama T. Rex, who in turn has
to look up to Dad. It's a classic tale of nature red in tooth and claw,
except for nobody actually getting eaten. (Well, several critters are
swallowed whole but subsequently disgorged, slimy with saliva but
basically unhurt; family film, y'know.)

The animation is terrific. Judging from the end credits, apparently the
Astor beaver trade, long thot to be extinct, has experienced a
renaissance in the animated-fur factories of California. Dino babies
and mammal kids are ridiculously endearing. The 3-D is likewise
terrific, well used where appropriate (especially in conveying a sense
of scale for the underworld) but not overdone. The one carp I have is
that 3-D simply does not lend itself to dissolves between scenes; I'm
guessing the filmmakers figured this out themselves, as most of the
time they used cuts.

The characters, familiar now from the 2 previous films, are well acted
with distinctive personalities, and the comic-relief possums have an
expanded role. New to the cast is Scratte, a long-lashed female
squirrel who, in a running subplot (including mini-cartoons to both
start and end the flik), vies with the iconic acorn for the undying
devotion of Scrat. As a devotee of the tango, I particularly
appreciated their version of it. Also new is Buck, a bold, intrepid,
1-eyed buccaneer of a weasel, voiced by Simon Pegg with British accent
in full flower.

Really, it's amazing to realize how much stuff they managed to cram
into barely an hour and a half. Never a dull moment, never a missed
step. Why, then, does it not get my top rating? Not at all because, as
a comedy, it doesn't deserve to be taken seriously. After all, Dogma
was a comedy, and it maxed out on my rating scale. But Ice Age 3 wasn't
quite an entire story, more a collection of loosely related parts.
Every one of those parts was well done, tho; indeed, I'd gladly take
any of them over the entire 2.5 hours of the noxious Transformers;
sadly, this much better film probably won't do nearly as well at the
box office. Too bad.
<|_=00=_|>
OK big plus here - this film is better than the 2nd which i didn't
particularly like and if you can go and see it in 3D (For the people
who criticise this "gimmick" go and try it 1st rather than base your
opinion on other "critics" opinions) do so as it is excellent and
really beats the years earlier examples of 3D films (although i didn't
see Coraline at the cinema so cant comment on a comparison).

The person who didn't laugh - go on ebay and find a sense of humor -
the whole cinema was laughing through out the film and i really enjoyed
the jokes - yes you saw most of them coming but hey its a kids cartoon.

The story is easy to follow and again those people moaning its not real
jeez ITS A KIDS CARTOON - when do they need to make sense or be
realistic..............???

Every kid i have spoken to loves it.

It does have one problem that it is pretty much instantly forgettable
along with most the other sequels out at the moment but for the
1hr30mins it was all good fun and a nice way to spend a sat/Friday
evening with the Mrs and kids. 

Not gonna win any Oscars for originality but could take the gong for
best CGI very very good job if you also consider the back drop and how
well it works in 3D.

Ah and how can i forget Scrat - in typical Mr Bean style he returns and
does not disappoint, come on guys give the mouse/rat thing his own
movie!
<|_=00=_|>
Not a bad flick. I don't remember liking the first one, skipped the
second one and the only reason I went to see this one was because it
was a "sneak preview" that started right after the movie I had gone to
see and it was in 3D. I recommend seeing this one in 3D as it was worth
the extra couple dollars. I was very surprised at how much I enjoyed
it. The story was really stupid and didn't make any sense (dinosaurs
living under the ice???), but it kept me interested the entire movie,
partly because of the hilarious side story with the acorn loving animal
and an excellent job by Simon Pegg as Buck the weasel(I just got done
watching his TV show "Spaced" so maybe I am a little partial), who I
had no idea was going to be in the movie. This movie also did a
wonderful job of keeping everyone in the audience interested. The
theater was packed and the only things you heard besides the movie was
popcorn chomping and laughter, lots of laughter. Definitely worth
seeing at the theater.
<|_=00=_|>
Its all about family in essence. Starting one, keeping one, becoming
one, protecting one. A family film about family is always going to ring
the right bells (unless Eddie Murphys in it), and this is no exception!
It's funny, its sharp, it's clever, and when it wants too will tug on
your heart strings. It's everything a great family film should be. It
has just as much humour to keep the grown ups happy as it does the
kids.

It's not perfect; it starts fairly slowly with scenes we've already
scene twenty times in the trailer, but the further you go into this
adventure the more fun you will have.

A fantastic new addition to the franchise is "Buck" (Simon Pegg) a
looney tune hermit possum who joins the herd around half way through.
When he enters the scene, the whole movie shifts up a gear! Some of the
stuff he comes out with will have you rolling in the isle! If you have
the chance, you must see it in 3D! It's amazing how this new version of
such an old and dated technology can suck you even deeper into a film!
The chases are more exciting, the locations more real, it works so
well! And it doesn't give you a migraine!

Overall - Like a franchise should, Ice Age gets better and better and
better! If you liked the first, you'll love the second! If you loved
the second, you'll go crazy for the third! 2D - 8/10 3D - 9/10
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film earlier today, since it was a sneak preview, and I must
say, it was fabulous! When I first heard about the sneak preview, I
actually had some doubts about whether to go or not. I recently went to
a sneak preview of the proposal, which wasn't half bad, but the theater
wasn't even half full!!! when i got into this one, all but the fist two
rows were completely full! Still i got a great seat. As for the movie,
it was great. All the characters had their fair share of laughs, and
they all were equally great! The story revolves around change: Manny
and Ellie are together, she is pregnant, Diego wants to move on, and
Sid wants to belong and have a family. In order to attain his goal, he
goes to look for some friends, but falls through a sheet of ice in the
process. He then sees three eggs which turn out to be dinosaur eggs,
and believes that they were abandoned. He takes them, and chaos ensues.
I would reveal more of the plot, but that could take hours! It may seem
like a thin plot if you haven't seen the movie or read the script, but
once you do, you will realize just how dense the storyline really is.
The cinematography is spectacular, the pop culture references(past and
present) are very creative, and the addition of real d 3D just adds
more to the film: it is perhaps the best 3D I've seen! Also, all the
characters, as said earlier, are also great, but new additions, such as
the dinosaurs, and of course Simon Pegg as Buck, are also very funny.
There is also times where some of the jokes from Manny seem like the
material that made Ray Romano a household name! However, the tie that
binds the movie together is the emphasis on the main theme-family and
friendship. There are some very dramatic scenarios that display them
throughout the movie, and even allow you to feel like you can relate.
Since most triquels like Shrek the Third and Spiderman 3 are considered
to be clunkers, this will surely be a breath of fresh air to the
sub-genre, and is definitely worthy of being an addition to the Ice Age
trilogy. A must see in 3D!!! 9/10
<|_=00=_|>
Frankly, I was shocked this movie was so good. I mean, sequels aren't
supposed to this entertaining, are they? This Ice Age series - three
films, so far - just keeps getting better and better, funnier and
funnier.

I think the key to their success is discovering what the movie's fans
liked and putting those two characters in larger roles. I am speaking
of "Sid The Sloth," who is always hilarious and voiced magnificently by
John Leguizamo. "Sid" has more lines in this movie than the other two,
I would venture to say.....and that's fine with me and most other
folks.

The other "character" is "Skrat," the squirrel, who is joined by a
female squirrel. "Skrat" has the hots for her, but she's still no
competition when it comes to the elusive acorn. Nothing is more
important than holding onto one of those and both squirrels are very
funny in their battles for possession of that acorn.

As for the story, just picture Sid pretending to be a mom to a
threesome of baby dinosaurs. That's all you need to know - it's pretty
wild. In all, this is an extremely funny film which also looks, as the
other two did, fabulous on Blu-Ray.
<|_=00=_|>
--Some minor spoilers, skip the part that describes the plot if you
don't want to know anything about it--

Personally, I didn't like the second "Ice Age" movie that much. I
thought it just wasn't original enough, and couldn't make an impact
compared to the great original. So, since movies franchises often have
the tendency to get worse with each sequel, I wasn't expecting very
much of the third Ice Age movie "Dawn of the Dinosaurs". But, I have to
admit, it was quite entertaining and funny, with many jokes and funny
situations. The change of location from the white ice world, the main
characters inhabited in the first two films, to the lush and green
jungle, also did the movie some good, because the optic is just
different and more exciting. While the first Ice Age movie still
remains unreached by either of the sequels, the third one considerably
improves on the second one, with more humor, better action and
interesting ideas.        

Manfred and Ellie, the two mammoths, are expecting a baby, and Manfred,
who is really happy to become a father tries everything to make his
wife more comfortable and happy. Meanwhile, the saber-toothed tiger
Diego, has to deal with the fact, that he is not the youngest anymore,
and that his instincts and reflexes are getting worse. He decides to
leave his herd, because he feels his life is coming to an end. Sid, the
sloth, wants to have children of his own, and when he discovers three
abandoned eggs in a cave, he decides to take them with him. One
morning, he realizes that three dinosaurs have hatched from the eggs,
and to make matters worse their mother is already looking for them. She
attacks Sid and her three babies and abducts them to her world, a
large, lush and green jungle, that is located directly under the thick
layer of ice. Manfred, Ellie, the two opossums Crash and Eddie, decide
to save Sid and eventually meet up with Diego on the way again. They
are then joined by the mad wannabe pirate Buck, a weasel, who lost his
eye to a gigantic monster, named Rudy, that lives somewhere deep in the
jungle. Sid, meanwhile, tries to convince the dinosaurs' mother, that
he can provide more for the children than her, but eventually has to
accept that children belong to their real mother. The squirrel Scrat,
once again reunited with his precious nut, has to deal with an entirely
new problem. A femme fatal squirrel, who uses her charm to take Scrat's
nut away from him. Being a lot smarter and trickier than him, she gets
to keep the nut for most of the time, but eventually falls in love with
Scrat, after he saves her from deadly lava. But what is more important
to Scrat, his nut or his new girlfriend?

With so many animated movies flooding the market these days, it becomes
quite hard to come up with new ideas. Talking animals certainly isn't
one, but if the characters have enough history and emotion, it really
doesn't matter. "Ice Age: Dawn of the Dinosaurs" really profits from a
slightly new approach to the material, which includes some very obvious
parodies. The new character of Buck was most definitely inspired by
Jack Sparrow from "Pirates of the Caribbean" and the final battle could
have directly come from one of the "Star Wars" movies. Then we have the
dinosaurs, who are, of course, extremely evil and always hunt down the
main characters. All in all, the movies appears slightly stretched and
has some relatively slow bits, for which the beginning and ending
compensate, though. Especially the first 20-25 minutes, are some of the
funniest in any Ice Age movie. And the scenes involving Scrat and his
new girlfriend are just as funny as they have always been.

Then we have once again, the actors who give the characters their
voices. Ray Romano, who has such a unique voice, speaks Manfred, Denis
Leary is Diego, John Leguizamo is Sid and Queen Latifah is Ellie. Buck,
the pirate, is voiced by British actor Simon Pegg. Animated movies can
never be judged according to acting, because the true leading actors
here are the animators. But just as we are used to, the previously
mentioned actors put their best effort into providing their character's
voice.

So, Ice Age: Dawn of the Dinosaurs is entertaining and enjoyable, but
certainly not the best animated movie of the year. Still it is a good
90 minute time filler, and those who enjoyed the previous Ice Age
films, will definitely also like this one. (3.5/5)

The third installment in the Ice Age movie franchise is funny and
entertaining, with some very original ideas, but certain lengths
throughout the entire film.
<|_=00=_|>
6 hours ago,I went to the movies to catch the 4:40 showing of 'Ice Age:
Dawn of the Dinosaurs' with my older sister and her boyfriend.I liked
the first movie but I haven't seen the second,but that didn't stop me
from wanting to see the 3rd installment in the popular series.Boy,am I
glad that I spent money and 94 minutes of my life by seeing this.The
movie was packed with humor,action,adventure,interesting characters,and
even some heart.There are many relationships between characters in this
movie that help it from melting.Manny and Ellie are 2 happy woolly
mammoths who are expecting a baby.Scrat,the squirrel who continues on
his hunt for acorns,meets a female squirrel named
Scratee(Scrah-tay),and falls for her.Sid becomes a parent when he
discovers 3 eggs underground.In short,I loved this movie.

Bring on Ice Age 4
