
If the following things disturb you, then you should probably avoid
this film: strobe lights, drug use, shaky hand-held cameras, graphic
sexuality, sperm, spinning cameras, psychedelic imagery, blood, gay
sex, abortion, breastfeeding or a graphic auto wreck.

But if you're still intrigued then sit down and get ready for nearly
three hours of mind-blowing imagery that you'll never forget! Although
IMDb lists the Toronto Film Festival version as "only" 135 minutes,
according to my watch we got the 163 minute version that was shown at
Cannes. The presenter also warned us 3 times before the screening that
anyone with epilepsy should leave the theatre due to the flashing
lights in the film. She was quite serious about that.

I was a bit apprehensive prior to the start of this movie. I didn't
"get" 2001 at all the first time I watched it and I positively hated
David Lynch's ERASERHEAD. Would I enjoy ENTER THE VOID? Understand it?
Walk out before the end? Yes, yes and no.

The film opens with Oscar and Linda, siblings from the United States
living in Japan, looking out at Tokyo from an apartment balcony. It
quickly becomes obvious that Oscar is both a drug dealer & addict while
his sister works as a stripper. Their tragic family history is revealed
in segments throughout the first hour. The entire film is seen from
Oscar's perspective, either as: (1) First-person, shaky camera, blurry
shots as Oscar walks around Tokyo, very high on drugs (2) An
out-of-body experience where Oscar floats around the city observing
Linda's life and the people that interact with her (3) Flashbacks to
Oscar and Linda's youth, similar to (1) except that here we always see
the back of Oscar's head in the shot rather than "through his eyes" (4)
A surprise at the climax of the film.

Number (1) above may sound nausea-inducing to some, but there's usually
interesting dialogue to distract you from the disorienting visuals and
these scenes only comprise a small percentage of the total screen time.
Technique number (2) could have been Oscar-worthy if it was filmed for
a less controversial movie. Floating and spinning above the city of
Tokyo and watching various dramas unfold from up above is absolutely
incredible. You'll spend so much time watching from this perspective
that it's easy to get lost in the images and forget what an incredible
technical achievement you're observing.

Virtually all of the key plot elements occur within the first 90
minutes of the film. After that the film transforms into more of a
psychedelic, visual experience while the story fades away. This phase
of the film really tested my patience and I started to check my watch
frequently but there were enough eye-popping scenes that I'm sure I'll
view this a second time someday. The momentum returns during the final
10 or 15 minutes, and although this final phase is simply a logical
conclusion of what had been blatantly foreshadowed earlier, it's
nonetheless amusing and incredible to watch the taboo-breaking finale.

This film is very unique, disorienting and absolutely incredible &
unforgettable. I can definitely understand why it's been compared to
2001: A SPACE ODYSSEY, but I found ENTER THE VOID to be more accessible
and more comprehensible during my first viewing. It's too controversial
and too bizarre to appeal to most people, but it will undoubtedly find
its niche as one of the greatest cult classics of all-time.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw this at the Melbourne International Film Festival. Whilst I didn't
enjoy Noe's first film I Stand Alone, I loved Irreversible.

There is lots to like about ETV and much to dislike as well. An hour
into the film and I would have given it perhaps an eight or nine but by
the end of the film I was frustrated. Why? Noe just can't help himself
and you get the feeling he either didn't know how to end the film or
simply just wanted to be shocking for the sake of it.

Visually, I couldn't help but be impressed. Some amazing shots,
lighting (strobe) and editing techniques. Noe also mixes up the story
well as he did in Irreversible. You are not spoon fed the story and I
love the way he told the back story of the two leads.

Plenty of people walked out at the screening after the hour and forty
minute mark and I couldn't blame them. Probably not because they were
shocked but just bored and frustrated. Noe pads this out and it is such
a shame as overall it ruined the film as a whole.

The acting is quite wooden and doesn't ring true but that is only a
minor quibble when compared to the film's bloated running time.

Hard to fault Noe for his creativity, energy and style and refusal to
follow norms in terms of narrative structure etc. Still, I wish a
friend or colleague had tapped him on the shoulder or given him some
constructive criticism about the last half of the film.

I can only imagine how much footage Noe might add into a Directors Cut
- Lord help us. Perhaps he could learn some lessons from this and
streamline his storytelling and not feel the need to bludgeon the
audience just for the sake of it.
<|_=00=_|>
Gaspar Noé's big beast of a Cannes entrant showed for the first time in
the UK this week in October. Gaspar Noé was there to introduce the
film, which was a great kick for me, even though he didn't do a Q&A.
His intro was quite funny, because he's not a grand intellectual, he's
more of a sensualist. It's clear that he had a pretty dissipated youth
and he talked about his experimentation with hallucinogenics and he
always wondered as a kid why nobody was making movies with the images
like he was seeing whilst high in them. So this is a movie I think he's
wanted to make for a very long time, perhaps a couple of decades, but
only now has he been able to get the freedom and funding to do it.

He said he had seen the film Lady in the Lake after taking a magic
mushroom; this is a 1947 Raymond Chandler adaptation which is shot in
POV (that is, the camera is like the eyes of the lead). Gaspar had also
been reading about life after death experiences, or near death
experiences. So he wanted to combine the hallucinations, POV shooting,
and out-of-body experience material. The result is 2 hour and 43
minutes of masterpiece. It will leave the ciné-gourmand gorged and
bewildered. For me it's a clear step-up, even an evolution, from his
last feature film in 2002, Irréversible. The idea of having out-of-body
experiences really frees up the concept of POV, Noé's not limited by
the body (which can't just glide forty feet into the air, or halfway
across the city). He's really freed up to shoot the fluorescent sexual
labyrinth of Tokyo, which is shot only at night-time and in POV.

The story in the movie concerns a brother and sister (Oscar and Linda)
who have a childhood trauma and end up moving to Tokyo in their late
teens where they become involved in a heaving underworld. I think
though that Tokyo is more of a metaphor in this film, I don't think
he's trying to tell you anything about Tokyo the city per se, I think
it's just the perfect pre-fabricated set for Noé. In the film it's a
nerve centre, it's that place in life where we meet lovers, copulate,
produce new life, and die. It's the mayfly (order Ephemeroptera, from
the Greek for short-lived) part of the human lifecycle, which we
experience in a heightened fashion through the eyes of Oscar.

There's a lot of stuff in here for you to take offence to if you want,
If you have ever taken offence to a film on content grounds as opposed
to intellectual grounds, you're likely to take offence here.
Pornographic linkages between adult sexuality and the Oedipus complex,
for me are brilliant, but will upset many filmgoers.

Those people who have decided that Noé is homophobic or misogynistic
after seeing Irréversible are not going to have their minds changed by
this movie at all. There seems to be a very strong link in his mind
between sex and procreation. You don't have to consume the movie in a
homophobic way in my opinion, but there may be a lot of upset gays
after seeing this movie. Particularly as the gay character in this
movie is portrayed as being on the same level as the rapist in
Irréversible. There's no direct comment, but if you read between the
lines, you may not like what you read.

I think the androphiles are going to love Nathaniel Brown who plays the
lead teen, Oscar, in this movie, which is his first credited role on
IMDb, straight as I am, even I can tell he's a heartthrob. Paz de la
Huerta as Linda, his sister, is very eye candyish too. If you like to
see beautiful things writhing (we're talking eye popping next level FX
hallucinations here, as well as copious sex), then this is the movie
for you.

I walked out of the cinema still tripping, the POV is so spectacularly
well delivered that you feel almost like you're still in the movie when
you come out, because the mode of perception hasn't changed. 

The lasting images I am left with are from the Love hotel, a very
strange pastel and fluorescent building that has holo-reflectors design
on the outside and which Noé dedicates a lot of the later part of the
movie to, the FX emanations are spectacular.
<|_=00=_|>
Enter the Void is exactly the kind of polarizing film that cinema needs
right now. Too many films these days play it safe, being concerned with
keeping the audience comfortable, safe and happy. Enter Gaspar Noe, who
clearly has no regard either for the well-being of either the audience
or his actors. We have antagonistically long (but brilliant) takes,
beginning in an apartment and ending in a bar, several blocks over. We
are given characters and are exposed to their darkest moments, but are
never given a real reason to care for them, or to perceive them as
anything but wretched. We are also shown some sexually discomforting
things that we never really wanted to see on the silver screen (if
you've seen it you probably know what I'm talking about). Also, the
film is almost completely in first-person viewpoint, so you're
constantly feeling confined to what Oscar is looking at, which are
mostly psychedelic images. In effect, the feel and tone of the story
are immediately off-putting for the viewer, but since you've already
bought a ticket, what can you do but follow it through? 

This is definitely the kind of film that can be approached in the wrong
way, both with the medium that you view it through, and with your state
of mind. Enter the Void is meant to be a transportive film (i.e. you
living directly in the viewpoint of another, and feeling how that
person feels, and perhaps even thinking how that person thinks). To
technically maximize the experience, the film should really be
experienced on the big screen. I'd imagine an IMAX screen to be ideal.

I also think a film like Enter the Void really needs to be approached
with a separate set of goals than that of a normal film. First of all,
chuck any notions of entertainment, or even enjoyment, out the window.
While you're at it, remove any notions of positivity that you can think
of. The only reactions that Enter the Void will draw from you are
negative ones. Personally, the only emotion I consistently felt was a
slight nausea, tinted with the occasional horror, or perhaps a shameful
arousal, as there is excessive sexual content that is all wretched in
one way or another.

The film is shot with a certain frame of mind, and sticks to it with
remarkable faith. It's in the point of view of a small group of friends
who are confined to the drug and clubbing scenes in Tokyo. He then
films them in the most abrasive ways possible, showering the viewer in
infinite neon lights, and fish-eyed close-ups, and then Noe lets his
frames linger on these unsightly images for uncomfortably long. Even
with his tracking shots moving from one location to another, when the
viewer is normally given a moments rest, he rapidly cuts across
hallways, stairs, and streets, and never gives the viewer a free moment
to settle down.

Despite the film's antagonistic feel, and despite the physical and
psychological discomforts that the film drew from me, I still found
Enter the Void to be a worthwhile and even inspirational experience.
More to the point, Enter the Void may not be a friendly experience, but
this exact kind of experimentation and determined expression are just
what cinema needs in order to be taken seriously as an artistic medium,
when so many other directors air on the side of caution and safety. It
might be a difficult ride, but just watch it once and you'll carry it
with you forever.
<|_=00=_|>
Where to start? I saw this film nearly a month ago at Melbourne
International Film Festival. I haven't quite been able to shake it from
my brain since! Firstly, let's get the negatives out of the was. The
film is at least an hour to long and, especially in the latter half, at
times ridiculously self-indulgent.

However, as a whole, the film has this dreamy, hallucinogenic quality
that absolutely entranced me. I admire and respect "Irreversible" a
great deal; however, the at times raw emotional quality of "Enter The
Void" struck a greater chord with me as a viewer. I love the scene
where Linda finds out Oscar has died. One of the best uses of selective
focus I've seen in film in a very long time.

This is a film that demands to be seen in a cinema. Noe's command of
sound and vision is truly astounding to behold. On both a physical and
psychological level, he really gets you into the heads of the
characters. Apparently, Noe spent two years planning the camera-work on
the film. This sense of attention to detail definitely shows in the
finished product. A month after seeing the film, moments and images of
it are burnt into my brain.

I will be the first to say that "Enter The Void" is absolutely an
acquired taste and definitely not for everyone. However, if you have
the mind and sensibilities for it, I can't recommend it enough. While
not as deeply disturbing as "Irreversible", it is,in many ways,
infinitely more challenging.

I have always loved films that can push me, provoke me and take me
somewhere I have never been before. "Enter The Void" does all three. I
can honestly say that, in all my years of watching films, I have never
seen anything quite like it.

Can't wait to see what Noe does next. This film proves he is truly an
artist in all senses of the word.
<|_=00=_|>
In a nutshell, Gaspar Noe's often exasperating but always visionary
Enter the Void follows a man on his journey from his last hours on
earth, through his death and his journey into the afterlife. The first
twenty minutes or so follows Oscar as he takes a hit of DMT (a very
potent hallucinogen) and goes on a visually arresting, if slightly
over-long trip. He then leaves his house to give his friend a stash of
drugs he owes him only to be chased and shot by police when he gets
there. From there, his death and afterlife mirrors the philosophies
behind the Tibetan Book of the Dead which theorises (I'm sure I'm
putting this very crudely) that one's soul floats around, watching the
world without them until they figure out how to leave their old life
behind and move on. To recommend this film to audiences is perhaps a
wrong turn, as it is bound to strike most as indulgent, immoral,
needlessly vulgar and uncomfortable (particularly in Oscar's tendency
to watch his sister having sex whenever possible). However, with
suitably forewarning, this is a film that any self-respecting cinephile
should make a point of seeing, and especially on the big screen.

Noe proved with Irreversible that he was a technical genius and that
his eye for original visuals knows no bounds. He also proved that he
wasn't afraid to shock his audience and has quite the nasty streak
running through his stories. In both visual content and shock factor,
Irreversible was merely a precursor to his magnum opus Enter the Void.
With an endless stream of nasty images and depressingly dead-eyed
unpleasantness, it is difficult to feel anything for any of the
characters, but none of this dampens the impact of Noe's probing,
soaring, spectral camera as it floats in and out of lives and deaths. I
don't know if it has ever been done before but the camera-as-spirit
conceit is highly effective and one which puts a very interesting moral
spin on the voyeurism of this film. Noe takes voyeurism to extreme, as
Oscar's spirit jumps in and out of bodies in often very unusual and
even shocking circumstances.

The trouble with Enter the Void is that it is difficult sometimes to
know whether to laugh or be shocked. Some of the content is pretty
outrageous and even quite silly. However, for every roll of the eyes,
there is a gasp of astonishment in terms of the intensity of the
cinematic experience. Having now seen this film twice (it premiered at
JDIFF 2010 in February), I must say I was pleased to see some
superfluous scenes towards the end cut out, giving the film a somewhat
more streamlined effect.

Your tolerance for Noe's self-indulgence will most likely decide your
level of enjoyment of this, a film I imagine will very much divide
audiences, but it is at the very least a visual milestone that should
be seen on as big a screen as possible (though somehow I can't see this
one gracing Screen 1 in the Savoy anytime soon). A flawed piece, but
one flooded with moments of genius.
<|_=00=_|>
So what could I add to what has been stated in the other reviews? Yes,
'Enter the Void' is definitely a trippy mindbuster, and as such anyone
who requires story or frames to enjoy a film should give it a miss.
Yes, the visuals are eye-popping and the ubiquitous stroboscope effects
may cause severe nausea - I watched it on BR and couldn't help but
thinking what an advantage home entertainment can be over cinema
exposure. This is a film which may be best enjoyed alone, somewhat
stoned or drunk, and very late at night. And the pause button is
definitely a life-saver.

I can sympathize with those who felt tormented by the epic runtime and
disparity between the first and second half of the film: the former is
sort of a 'last film' of the protagonist Victor retelling his life, and
therefore makes sense plot-wise, the latter is a meandering flow
representing his attachment to his sister. It is a bit unfair to
discard the film for this reason, though, because the dialogue between
Victor and his best friend Alex in the beginning hints at what the
nature and culmination of this attachment will be. The interspersed
aerial shots of an increasingly CG-rendered Tokyo may actually put this
transition into question - this could all very well be part of Victor's
'death trip'.

What I really liked about 'Enter the Void' is the setting, for I have
lived in Tokyo myself for three years. The area where the story takes
place (judging from where the CG puts the Tokyo Tower) should be
Roppongi, which is an expat and night club haven; while the CG makes
the place appear a bit gaudy, it is indeed populated by a
disproportionate number of drop-outs and sleazy bees, and I've always
wondered why there's no film about Roppongi yet - contemporary Tokyo is
mostly condensed to the Yakuza backdrop of Kabukichô or the juvenile
epicenter of Shibuya. So on that note, I appreciate a film about the
expat world, as weird and dysfunctional as it may be.

'Enter the Void' pushes the gates of what film can visually do visually
wide open, and therefore shouldn't be dismissed by any cinephile. But
your viewing conditions will be crucial to whether you will love this
film or hate it.
<|_=00=_|>
I attended the International Premiere of "Enter the Void" at the 2009
Toronto International Film Festival. Fans of director Gaspar Noé, whose
film "Irreversible" created a significant following, will not be
disappointed. At two and a half hours long, this film is definitely not
for everyone. But I knew that going in and got exactly what I'd hoped
for and more. It's trippy, dreamy, and mesmerizing and left me shaking
my head in wonder many times. Startling and risky performances
punctuate the dazzling visuals. The biggest surprise for me: "Enter the
Void" has much more of a narrative than I was expecting. I was prepared
for a cinematic acid trip, which I got, but there is an actual
storyline which threads through the experimental camera-work and
effects which are at the heart of the film. I highly recommend this
movie but with qualifications, though. There is a great deal of drug
use and some explicit sex but the film is compelling.
<|_=00=_|>
This was my first film at the Stockholm Film Festival, I don't mean to
brag but Gaspar Noé got to use my umbrella when the reporters took
photos of him in the rain, never going to touch that umbrella again...

First I have to say "Enter The Void" technical masterpiece. The use of
the camera is creative and splendid and makes the whole movie as a
roller coaster ride. The special effects are really, really special. I
got hooked on these technical superiority's in "Enter The Void" that I
got all thrilled down my spine. Watching it at the cinema really gave
it an incredible touch. The sound was ear piercing and in some scenes
it made me jump in the seat. It could go almost half and hour without
any dialog, just remarkable scenes and CGI. You could think by this
description it's a joyful and happy movie, but it's really not. It's
dark, sea bottom dark. This movie have everything all parents wants to
keep away from their children. I just get the feelings this movie would
get so censored in America it would be a whole other film when showed
over the ocean. But censoring this movie is fatal and would kill it. I
certainly hope everyone is going to get sucked into the void just as I
did.

It was a great experience, I can't deny it, but what made me put an
8/10 was the length. Sometimes Gaspar really could have made some shots
shorter, there were unnatural long phases that were totally
unnecessary. So that's why I give it an eight. Other then that I see no
faults in this masterpiece. Go watch as soon as it shows up in a cinema
close to you.
<|_=00=_|>
I've had gestation periods shorter and more interesting than this
movie. These were dull people and exposure to them (and by them!)made
them not a whit more engaging. This was like the 60's underground movie
(maybe Andy Warhol)which is nothing more than a shot of a guy from the
waist up getting an hour long blow job. The first ten minutes were
scintillating, but it lost its charm thereafter. The photography
reminded me of several seasons of unedited Twin Peaks shows run
together; Mulholland Drive and Lost Highway photography was much
crisper. I'm still scratching my head as to the purpose of the abortion
scene, and the little sperm hitting that egg; a new low in trite. I
just got past the birth scene, and not a minute too soon. From now on,
I'M picking the Netflix films.
