
Who was John Dillinger? We all know he was a flamboyant criminal who
robbed banks, but who WAS he? The question of who Dillinger WAS is far
more interesting than the question of what Dillinger DID, but this
film, sadly, chose only to concentrate seriously on the latter and gave
up almost immediately on the former.

This film goes out of its way--with a poor grasp of history's
time-line, by the way--to show us what Dillinger did and who he hung
around with, but it does next to nothing to explore who Dillinger was
as a person or even as a criminal. It hints that Dillinger might be a
passionate lover and loyal friend, but shows us little evidence aside
from a few thrown-together seduction scenes (which make his
girlfriend/heroine look like a dim-witted pushover) and an awkward love
scene.

Even Dillinger's foil, Melvin Purvis, is a mystery in Mann's hands. Did
he care about justice at all, or was he just a fascist on a personal
crusade? Was he competent in the least or was he just a bumbling idiot?
Squinty-eyed stares can only convey so much, after all.

Michael Mann seems to be in a terrible hurry to tell this story, as he
is stuck between the rock of having to relate a relatively complete
"crime-ography" of a notorious American gangster and the hard place of
keeping the movie shorter than 2 1/2 hours.

As a result, a beautifully shot and edited movie that had a lot of
promise ends up little more than a dumb, shoot-'em-up action movie
wearing the fedora of "historical romance." Good for a date, but not a
serious film.

Grade: C+. Things to look for: Mann's ham-handed and laughably obvious
political commentary on the use of torture about 2/3 of the way through
the movie; psychotically trigger-happy Baby Face Nelson well-played by
Stephen Graham; cool old products (Zenth radio); great fashion sense.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie tells the later stages of the crime career of John
Dillinger, famous bank robber. What's good: Johnny Depp and Christian
bale are good, the pacing is good, the sets and period detail are
perfect. The score is quite good too.

What's bad: a shootout sequence is obviously shot on a video camera
looks cheap and has a major discontinuity in it. Other scenes the
camera is shaky.

Also for a movie that prides itself on historical detail, it plays fast
and loose with the facts about the Dillinger gang. For instance the
death of "Baby Face" Nelson is complete fiction. You are duped into
thinking the director cares about historical details with all the
period sets, cars, news stories on the radio etc, but actually major
parts of the plot are just made up. Of course the reason that
historical movies rarely follow history exactly is that real events
don't naturally follow standard narrative.

So it is not a documentary, which is fine, so it must be a character
movie right? This brings me to its biggest flaw. An important goal of a
movie like this is to build an emotional connection with the central
character. This ought to be easy with a character like Dillinger,
because he actually built a huge public fan base as a latter day "Robin
Hood", despite being a murderous bank robbing crook. It tries hard and
it does get close, particularly with the scenes involving Billie, one
of Dillinger's many girlfriends. In the end, though, I just did not
care all that much about him..

It is competent, but ultimately it fails to match up in comparison with
other movies of this genre. Right now the IMDb rating for this movie is
higher than "The Untouchables", "Once Upon a Time in America" or
"Goodfellas", which is a testament to the cinematic ignorance of the
majority of IMDb voters. No doubt the same people will rate this
comment down, probably without even reading it, simply because I did
not give the movie a 9 or 10.
<|_=00=_|>
The year is 1933, it's the Great Depression. A time for the desperate
to do the unthinkable. Crime was on the rise and people were suffering.
For John Dillinger (Johnny Depp) it was a time of infinite
possibilities and opportunities. To combat the sharp incline in rampant
criminal activity, J. Edgar Hoover (Billy Crudup) forms the FBI, led by
Melvin Purvis (Christian Bale). Together they target Dillinger as
public enemy number one. Relying on new methods of intelligence
gathering (such as tracking the purchase location of a coat or
recording phone conversations), the firepower of trained gunmen, and
his own relentless nature, Purvis gets closer and closer to Dillinger
and company.

"I like baseball, movies, good clothes, fast cars... and you. What else
do you need to know?" - John Dillinger. Johnny Depp IS John Dillinger.
He's perfect for the role. The cool, confident and almost cocky nature
of the character is really portrayed on screen (such as bragging to
reporters about his bank jobs and teasing Purvis and agents who are
after him). It's a look of how a man lived and succeeded in a hard
time. Dillinger was a man that lived in the moment as only a man in the
depression could. From the worlds on John Dillinger, "I'm to busy
having fun today to even think about tomorrow." Who knows what tomorrow
might bring? Bale also succeeds in his role and is a solid counterpart
against Depp. It works well having two top, well known actors opposing
each other on screen. 

The film is directed by Michael Mann who brought us such films as Heat,
The Insider, and Collateral and he adds another good film to his resume
with this one. The action sequences, bank heists, and shootouts in this
film are probably the biggest highlights. After all, this is from the
same guy who gave us one of the most famous and arguably the best
shootout of all time in Heat. The sequences are cool, slick, and
gritty. Excellence at it's best. (I have to throw in a note of praise
for the superb shootout at the Little Bohemia lodge, which was an
extremely impressive scene)

The cat and mouse aspect makes it intriguing, but I think more could
have been added to it. It just feels as if something was missing. Much
of the film focuses on the love story between Dillinger and Billie
Frechette (Marion Cottillard) It's also interesting to see the other
gangsters of this time and how they relate to Dillinger and the
criminal world.

Much has been made of Public Enemies being filmed on HD video, mostly
complaints. I must say that at times, the picture looked amazing. The
night sequences, especially looked beautifully slick and realistic. I
loved the cinematography here. The cars, headlights, street lights, and
everything looked fantastic. Other times, it doesn't look as good. It
just felt as if something didn't look right. I'm not sure what to think
about this. 

One problem I had with this film would have to be the lack of character
depth in many of the characters. At times, it seems as if we are
expected to know and understand the characters before going to see the
film because it is a real life story. But as a film, it could have
developed the characters more to help us (and those who know nothing
about Dillinger, his life, or Purvis and the FBI) understand them
better. Another problem was some of the historical inaccuracies. Many
things portrayed in the film, do not happen as they did in real life.
Many sequences are just out of order. I know the filmmakers had to know
about this and just tried to work it in as best as they could. It's not
a documentary, it's a movie.

I really enjoyed Public Enemies. It's a solid crime drama and a good
summer film. I understand expectations were through the roof, but
that's a little hard to ask for. It's a really good film, but not quite
a great one... The action is fun, the story is interesting. Maybe
instead of being a very good film, it could have became a really great
film if more was put into the characters? I'm not sure. It just felt as
if something were missing. But who can knock a film for still being
good?
<|_=00=_|>
Very disappointing retelling of the 13-month John Dillinger crime spree
across the Midwest in 1933-34. Here's why without any BS: 1.) No
personality. Gang members remain ciphers throughout. (When Red Hamilton
(Jason Clark) dies after being in EVERY OTHER SCENE you think: Who the
hell is he. None of the subsidiary people pop, unlike the vast number
of vivid unique individuals in HEAT. 2.) Depp miscast badly. Read about
Dillinger: he was ebullient, charming, commanding. With NO experience
he commandeered the best pro bank robbers in the Midwest to follow his
lead and led them on a 13-month blaze of glory and infamy. Depp instead
is pensive, moody, brooding, internalized: he never displays the
charisma and guile that the historic Dillinger did. He was chosen for
his romantic chops, not his gangster chops, because of . . . 3.)
Misemphasis on romantic. Mann pays too much attention to Dillinger's
least interesting thing, that is, his affair with Billy Freschette.
This was clearly NOT a love-unto-death deal like Bonnie and Clyde.
Before Billy, Dillinger had girlfriends, after Billy Dillinger had
girlfriends and during Billy, Dillinger had girlfriends. The guy had
been in stir 9 years; he had a lot of catching up to do. Mann
emphasizes this affair, ignores Dillinger's unique connection to his
family in Indiana (very interesting), his leadership skills, his
courage. Very odd and unfortunate (and disappointing) choice. 4.)
Accuracy, as in, lack thereof. Mann really doesn't progress beyond
Milius's 1973 truncated take; he starts out with lies (Dillinger at
escape from state pen by his cohorts, Purvis singlehandedly bringing
down Pretty Boy Floyd) in the first two scenes and it never gets
better. In fact most of the men we watch die in the film died AFTER,
not before, Dillinger, including Floyd and Babyface Nelson and Homer
Van Meter and Harry Pierpont. Why did Mann buy rights to Burroughs'
"Public Enemies" if he was going to make stuff up? Also (SPOILER): a
major meme in the film is that the syndicate, under Frank Nitti, "got"
Dillinger because his kind of spectacular showboat caper was screwing
things up for the big money boys; in the literature, I can find NO
evidence of this being the case. 5.) Introduced, then abandoned,
themes: Mann intros at least four major ideas about Dillinger and his
fate which could serve as a kind of structure for the movie; then he
abandons all of them, leaving them as pointless curiosities. The first
I've mentioned: that the mob got Dillinger. No. 2 (from Burroughs):
Hoover used the Road Warrior bandits crime spree as a methodology to
grow his Bureau and cement his own control of it and his place in
popular culture. No. 3: the coming of western gunman. Indeed, at a
certain point, the Bureau did bring in experienced gunfighters as Mann
shows, but he never really dramatizes or builds on their contribution
to the take-down of the bad guys. He seems to set up, then walk away
from the idea of cowboys vs. bank robbers. Very disappointing. 4. The
inexperience of Hoover. He includes a scene (it actually took place in
1936, not '33) where a Senator derides Hoover and makes a big deal over
the fact that Hoover's never made an arrest. Then of course Mann
doesn't bring that issue to conclusion, showing Hoover arresting Alvin
Karpis, who is a kind of mystery guest (he's played by Giovonni Ribisi)
who appears and disappears from the film without explanation. Which
leads to: 6.) Editing woes. Ribisi is just one such mystery guest;
other big name, well-known people appear in meaningless, undeveloped
characters, suggesting that whole subplots of the film were left out
and what we're seeing in a hasty, shortened edit (like the version of
"Once Upon a Time in America" that was initially released). You can
fairly ask: what the hell are Ribisi, Leelee Sobieski, Matt Craven and
Steven Lang even doing here when they have so little to do; Craven
doesn't even have any lines! I am looking forward to a director's cut
sometime in the future. On the plus side, yes: great clothes, great
cars, great location shots, superb editing and beast of all great
gunfights. But the guns demonstrate some astonishing marginal attention
to detail while much large issues of history are deliberately
misstated. Why does Mann get the fact the Babyface had a Colt .38 Super
converted to a machine pistol with a Thompson vertical fore-grip
mounted on the dustcover (look fast or you'll miss it) at the Little
Bohemia shootout but insist, after John Milius, (SPOILER) that the
Babyface was slain there. Nelson didn't die until October and he went
down hard, taking two FBIers with him. Ultimate judgment: such a
squandered opportunity! There's probably never going to be another big
Dillinger movie and it sickens me that Mann willfully made so many
dubious decisions. These people lived and died and fought and bled for
and against us, gave us their lives; they deserved SO MUCH BETTER.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is mediocre at best. I saw it last night, and was hoping that
I'd get the rant over with before this morning, but sadly I find that I
cannot find many things that were right with this film!! 

1. Death Sequences: These were all mixed up and, as a bit of a history
buff, I didn't like that! Dillinger was not the last of his gang to
die, I believe it was Baby Face Nelson (who was not killed with Homer
Van Meter either). And, Pretty Boy Floyd (although no real link with
Dillinger) was killed after Dillinger and his boys.

2. Character Development: This was very, very poor for what was
rumoured to be a big hit of Summer 09! Too much time was definitely
spent on the whole Dillinger/Billie relationship, and on Purvis. Sure,
they were the big name stars, but it should've been about characters
not star pulling power!! "Handsome" Harry Pierpont, Baby Face Nelson,
Pretty Boy Floyd, etc. deserved more screen time! The scene with Pretty
Boy Floyd; I had no idea who he was meant to be at first! I thought it
was some random chase through an orchard! Pierpont disappears about
halfway through, never to be heard from again. Then, Dillinger's going
round with some more guys, who shortly end up dead. Half the time, I
was lost as to who was who except the big-name stars and the characters
I'd learnt a bit about.

3. Action sequences: Way too long in my opinion, and could've been cut
down to make way for more character development. The sound effects
weren't even that effective, as to me they sounded more like fireworks
at some points or were too loud.

The good points are few in number. The acting was good, camera work was
sub-standard, lighting was good, angles were okay if not a little dodgy
in places, etc. There is, however, nothing that I can really stick to
as a fantastic feature of this film.
<|_=00=_|>
Public Enemies is an alright docu-crime-thriller that, thought
well-made, ends up coming out dry. Many of the scenes are well paced,
but in its running time the film feels like a very rushed overview of
the final years of John Dillinger. What I mean to say is that this is a
good movie, but you probably won't leave the theater feeling like
you've learned anything about John Dillinger, other than trivial facts.
The movie never really gives Johnny Depp a chance to shape the
character into a believable icon because as I previously stated this
film feels more like a dramatized overview of Dillinger's career
instead of focusing on the man himself.

Now, Johnny Depp is a fine actor, and he reminds us in this movie that
he isn't only a go-to man for quirky, weird, whimsical, and bizarre
characters. In Public Enemies Depp reminds us that he is talented as a
traditional actor and that he is still one of the best in Hollywood
today. The problem is the script he is given for Public Enemies never
lets him expand on anything regarding John Dellinger as a person. In
Ridley Scott's 'American Gangster' Denzel Washington was given a chance
to really emphasize the qualities he felt reflected his view of Frank
Lucas. Public enemies, Johnny Depp never truly gets to define what he
feels are the most important aspects of his portrayal of Dellinger
because often the film gets too caught up in the action and events
instead of its characters.

Christian Bale bounces back after a sub-par performance in 'Terminator:
Salvation' and it's good to see him working his voice manipulation
ability again, because I for one was beginning to think he'd gotten
stuck on his Batman-style growl. Playing the FBI agent pursuing
Dillinger he is an interesting character due to his dedication and
could have been a really interesting character, but like Depp, Bale
never really gets a chance to try and expand on his character.

The music isn't anything you haven't heard before in previous crime
films of this sort, but for the most part it works. I wouldn't buy the
soundtrack to this film, but it certainly didn't take away from the
experience. Also, songs from the 30s are played throughout, and most of
the time they manage to fit into the story's many montage scenes very
well.

Director Michael Mann seems a tad bit off when compared to some of his
previous films. He often goes for a look that makes the audience feel
that they're in the middle of everything, and that's good in small
stretches, but I felt he used this technique too often and I found
myself growing a tad bit dizzy at times, and had a desire to see what
was going on in the shootouts. I found it strange, that with his recent
films such as 'Collateral', where the characters had been the
center-focus of the entire film, he could then make a movie about one
of the most infamous criminal minds and have it be more about the
history than the characters who lived it.

The thing that is most fascinating about this film is the costumes and
sets. The men and women behind these really outdid themselves and
created a very authentic view of 1930s Chicago. This aspect of the film
alone makes it worth seeing! Every costume and set seems to have been
made with the utmost attention to detail, and the final result is very
pleasing to the eye.

The final product in an okay docu-drama on the life of one of America's
most infamous criminals, but in the end you really don't discover
anything about John Dillinger that you couldn't have found out by
looking him up on Wikipedia. So this is a pretty film to look at, and
with Depp and Bale it's a good way to introduce those unfamiliar with
Dillinger to the criminal, but if you were looking for a character
study on the bank robber you may find yourself a tad-bit disappointed.

I wouldn't come close to calling Public Enemies one of the best movies
of the summer, or of the year, but when compared to several other films
that are currently being screened I would still highly recommend it.
With movies like 'Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen' out there your
money is best spent on Michael Mann's Public Enemies.
<|_=00=_|>
Public Enemies, this film has been built up for quite a while, why not?
It stars Johnny Depp as one of history's most famous bank robbers. Also
the city of Chicago has been excited to see this, in some strange way
we considered Dillinger to be a Robin Hood as he never took money from
the common man, just from the banks. He also was clever enough to
escape jail by making a fake gun out of a soap bar, I lived in Indiana
for a year and people are incredibly proud that Crown Point was where
Dillinger had fooled everyone, lol. So naturally I was really looking
forward to seeing this movie, especially with Johnny Depp as John
Dillinger, it's a can't miss. Unfortunately for me, the film fell short
of our expectations as the way it was made and how there is lack of
material for Depp and Bale to work with to give these characters any
depth. Mann makes a film that is using a digital camera for a film set
in the 1930's and doesn't really bring his A game to the film as it's
more like "Here's Dillinger's story enjoy".

Set in 1933 John Dillinger is brought to a penitentiary, but is there
to break out the rest of his gang. After loosing a few of his friends,
he's headed to Chicago to make his mark on the banks. Melvin Purvis is
upgraded by J. Edgar Hoover, who is protecting the FBI from scrutiny by
politicians, to lead the hunt for John. John later meets Billie
Frechette, whom he takes to dinner. He states plainly what he will do
for her and how he will treat her if they are to have a relationship.
After a shoot out gone horribly wrong and making the police look more
incompetent, Purvis demands that Hoover bring in professional lawmen
who know how to catch criminals dead or alive. Though Hoover had hoped
for more pristine agents, he agrees. While John and Billie are enjoying
the luxuries across the States, the police finally find Dillinger and
arrest him and his gang in Miami. However, Dillinger and a few inmates
escape from prison using a fake gun. He is goaded into a bank robbery
job by an acquaintance, Dillinger agrees. The robbery goes fine until
Nelson impulsively kills a nearby police officer, alerting more of the
robbery, making Dillinger Public Enemy Number 1.

Now Public Enemies is by no means a bad film, some of the actors were
terrific and the sets were perfect as well as the whole feel of the
film. But it just won't stop with the "Run! Chase! Run! Chase! Shoot!
Shoot!" scenes that seem to dull down after a while. The love story
between Dillinger and his gal, Billie didn't seem too necessary, it
added to the story but for me felt a little out of place at times. I
have to tell you that I'm feeling so incredibly bad for Christian Bale
this year as it seems like he's been given characters who are not well
written, but I'm starting to wonder if the Batman voice is his new
trademark because he was starting to use that voice again in a few
sentences. Depp does the best he can, but once again with the lack of
material; he's made out completely as the hero of the film, instead of
maybe having more of a documentary feel to it and being biased on how
cool Dillinger was. Maybe he's Mann's personal hero, who knows. But
over all the film is decent enough for the watch, I'd just say if you
want to see it, go for a matinée or a rental, it wasn't worth the full
price.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
I'll spare you any suspense, here. Simply put, Public Enemies is a
major disappointment. There is one aspect that the film has going for
it, though, and that is the performances. Johnny Depp is great but, as
I've read in other reviews, not exactly irreplaceable. Marion Cotillard
is fantastic, but underused. Christian Bale is solid, but pretty
forgettable. Unfortunately, everything else about the film proved
disappointing.

This is the story of John Dillinger, who robbed banks, broke out of
prisons, shot a lot of guns, loved a woman he met and didn't spend much
time with, and...not much else. At least, that's what Public Enemies
would have you believe. So little actually happens in this film it's a
marvel they managed to stretch the running time past an hour and a bit.

A short run through: John Dillinger (Johnny Depp) escapes from a
prison. Then he robs a bank. Then he meets Billie (Marion Cotillard),
and they fall in love. He robs another bank. Melvin Purvis (Christian
Bale) wants to catch him. Shootout. Bank robbery. Repeat. He gets shot.
How long did that take me, 30 seconds? I'm not saying the film was
unnecessary, it was just unnecessarily long. So many scenes could have
been cut down or just taken away altogether. The shootout near the
middle of the film took so long to get through, that about halfway
through it I had completely forgotten what it was they were doing. From
that point on, it was nothing but bullets, blood, yelling and a lot of
flashes from the guns that nearly blinded me.

The film wasn't exactly a treat for the eyes, either. The look of the
film was horribly uneven, split evenly three ways between beautiful,
crystal clear shots, amateur student film hand-held, and security
camera footage. Either one wouldn't have been awful on its own, but it
was just so wildly inconsistent that a good chunk of the time I was too
distracted, wondering what had happened to the camera (sometimes
between shots in the same scene), to worry about the story.

And like I said above, there's not much story to tell here. I'm sure
the man had a very interesting life, but there was no real point to the
film. It didn't seem like there was any specific story to tell. Quite
simply put, it was merely about John Dillinger. "Well, just what about
John Dillinger?", you ask. And I don't have an answer for you. Sorry.
Either way, the film didn't highlight Dillinger as a hero or as a
villain, and while I don't mind the impartial nature of the film in
itself, I had a hard time really caring about what happened to him.

The love story was easily the most entertaining part of the film. Too
bad it didn't show up much. My favorite parts of the film involved
Marion Cotillard, and they didn't last long. What a shame. If they had
cut down the major shootout or cut out one or two of the bank robbery
scenes that were mostly all the same, they could have focused more on
that story and I wouldn't have minded the runtime as much.

So, aside from the good performances from just about everyone involved,
there's not much to get excited about here. It was overlong, pretty low
on plot, and filled to the brim with unnecessary scenes that had left
my mind before I had even left the theater. Such a disappointment. It
could have been something great, and it just...wasn't.

6/10
<|_=00=_|>
Why is it that anyone who is critical of Michael Mann's "Public
Enemies" is promptly branded as a "hater" on this Web site? I don't
hate this film or the filmmaker, I just believe it's not a very good
film.

I've enjoyed some of Mann's films in the past. I am a fan of "Thief"
(1981), "Manhunter" (1986) and "Heat" (1995) and thought "The Insider"
(1999) and "Ali" (2001) were interesting. But, as far as I am
concerned, "The Last of the Mohicans" (1992) was over-blown - it is
not, as one poster claimed, one of the five best films ever made; it's
not even one of the 5,000 best films ever made - "Collateral" (2004)
started off intriguingly before turning into an utterly conventional
thriller, and "Miami Vice" (2006) was rubbish.

But I went into "Public Enemies" with much optimism, given that it
stars Johnny Depp and Marion Cotillard. And the subject seemed
thoroughly suited for Mann.

What a tremendous disappointment "Public Enemies" turned out to be.

There is absolutely nothing special about this film. The best it can be
called is middling. It is hum-drum, run-of-the-mill and certainly not
something I expected from someone of Mann's caliber.

For starters, this film is not about public enemies; it's about a
public enemy. Blink and you will miss Pretty Boy Floyd. And you have no
idea who Baby Face Nelson is until someone in the film points him out.

The film began promisingly with the exciting breakout from an Indiana
penitentiary. The cinematography looked terrific in that opening shot
and there was something delightfully visceral about that sequence.

But then came the rest of the film.

The story moved from one tedious set piece to another. Roger Ebert,
whose criticism I respect, lauded Mann for his "meticulous" research
for this film. I wonder if Mann's meticulousness included killing off
Pretty Boy Floyd, Baby Face Nelson and Homer Van Meter *before*
Dillinger when, in real life, they all outlived Dillinger. And Van
Meter was *not* gunned down along with Baby Face Nelson.

I realize Mann's fans claim this is a movie and Mann was taking
artistic license to enhance his story, as is his wont. But I wonder
whether these fans would have echoed similar sentiments if Mann, say,
had Muhammad Ali fight Joe Frazier in the Rumble in the Jungle in "Ali"
or had Ali lose the fight to Foreman in that film.

Historical inaccuracies aside, "Public Enemies" is just dull. Mann
wants us to believe that Dillinger and Billie Frechette were soul
mates. But the only word to described their relationship - as Mann
shows it - is bland. Which is a shame considering he had two fine
actors in Depp and Cotillard and completely wastes them. They are given
very little to work with and their dialogue is, at times, downright
embarrassing.

Depp has oodles of charm and charisma, but he plays Dillinger solely as
cool. There's nothing more to his persona, and when Depp has to be mean
on a few occasions, it just doesn't work. Christian Bale, on the other
hand, is entirely forgettable as Purvis. It's a nothing character and
Bale plays him exactly as he has all his other recent roles. This is a
somnambulist Batman and John Connor playing Purvis, mumbling his lines
and showing next to no emotion. You learn nothing about Purvis
throughout the entire film.

I felt sorry for the wonderful Cotillard because her relatively minor
role is made even more minute because her character has no depth and
she gets little help from a wanting script. In fact, none of the
characters has much depth, if any, and so Mann wastes a talented cast
of supporting players that includes Stephen Dorff, Stephen Lang, David
Wenham, Matt Craven, Giovanni Ribisi, Jason Clarke, Leelee Sobieski and
James Russo.

Then there's the cinematography and I really don't know if one can
blame Dante Spinotti for this. I realize Mann is in love with digital
technology and while that might have worked on "Collateral" and "Miami
Vice," it does not here. With the exception of a few lovely shots, the
rest of the film looks like it was shot on someone's cheap holiday
camera. I have seen home movies that looked crisper, brighter. The
night-time scenes look thoroughly washed out and sans any contrast and
the infamous shoot-out in Little Bohemia - which is terribly
choreographed - looks like a lousy video game.

I am not averse to shooting in digital. There are countless films that
look terrific shot on high-definition digital. Take a peek at "The
Lookout" (2007), for instance. It looks spectacular shot on high-def. I
personally believe that period pieces should be shot on film, but even
granting Mann's decision to shoot digital, why on earth didn't he use,
say, Panavision's Genesis or the Red One cameras? He certainly wasn't
constrained by the budget.

I realize Mann could take a crap at Hollywood and Vine and his fans
would consider it a masterpiece. But it's still crap and just because
it came from Mann doesn't turn it into gold.

"Public Enemies" is simply a disappointing movie. It lacks any depth,
the characters are boring at best, insipid at worst. The film ambles
along without any sense of how to tell a story or put that story into
the context of American history and, after a while, all I could think
of was how much better Arthur Penn fared with "Bonnie and Clyde"
(1967), how much more I wanted to see that film instead and could we
please get to The Biograph already.

But Mann even managed to screw up the grand finale by adding an
unnecessarily hokey and sentimental coda.
<|_=00=_|>
Digital is the world of Michael Man with all its drawbacks. It works up
to a point, if you don't mind being distracted by the make up on the
actors faces, pimples and blemishes. The final adventures on John
Dillinger's life look and feel like a work of fiction and I suspect
that in "Public Enemies" they are, 50/50, fact and fiction. Johnny Depp
is marvelous no matter what and his is a star performance. There is
only a vague approach to a real characterization, but I didn't care
because I go wherever Johnny Depp wants to take me. It was like that
with Gary Cooper too, wasn't it? Part of the sneaky narrative is to
have Dillinger the criminal played by the angelic Depp and Purvis the
noble FBI guy played by Christian Bale that emanates evil without even
trying. If you're interested in performances, like I am, Billy Crudup
is the thing in a sensational turn as J Edgar Hoover in spite of the
digital thing, that makes him look as if Hoover suffered from some rare
skin condition, damn shame if you ask me. Marion Cottillard is
absolutely lovely but we knew that already and the rest of the
characters remain an enigma, they enter and leave the scene without us
ever having a clue who they are. Giovanni Ribisi, Stephen Dorff, Jason
Clark, who were they and Lelee Sobieski? It was startling to see her
appear on the third act. Who was she suppose to be? In any case, the
film has a Michael Mann feel and it's technically great. The shootings
are extraordinary and Johnny Depp totally beautiful. I suppose that
should be enough to applaud and recommend "Public Enemies". I did and I
will even if, I must confess, I expected more or maybe less.
