
I have to state this before continuing with this review, prior to
seeing this I was very reluctant and hesitant as to what I was due to
view. After growing up hearing the stories and watching the animated
tales of Paddington Bear, I was unsure as to whether a CGI-heavy live-
action tale could really establish a story that portrays the bear in
all his charm, well my predictions were woefully inaccurate.
'Paddington' is a very well-executed adaptation of the titular bear for
a 21st century audience. From the producers of Harry Potter,
'Paddington' delivers a family-friendly and charming atmosphere whilst
conveying an endearing and gloriously comedic tale about a bear and his
adventures in London. One of the late and great films of the year, Paul
King's irresistibly warm story creates a sense of nostalgia whilst
boasting a quintessentially British feel and pitch-perfect humour that
can be enjoyed by people of all ages.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved it. It didn't matter to me that myself and my husband were
watching it without the cover of escorting children, family movies are
probably one of the most satisfying things out there to watch when done
as well as this one was.

Cute is an understatement to describe Paddington Bear: he is simply
warm and cuddly and I fell for him wholeheartedly. I may even add PB to
my Christmas list of wants, even at my great old age. 

Adult comedies can engender one or two laughs, if you're lucky, but
this family fun trip had me and the audience laughing throughout (apart
from the odd serious moments where it wouldn't have been right to do
so). 

Everything was right: the colours, the cast (except I'm not a fan of
Nicole Kidman: her pert nose, pert bum or whispered speech), and
again...I was entranced by the great warmth of the entire piece.

Folks, go see this one, whatever your age, with kids or without. You'll
all love it, I'm sure. 

My hubby hadn't wanted to see it, but he thoroughly enjoyed it. Highly
recommended. I'm sure it will grace many TV screens at many Christmases
for many years to come.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, I must admit when I looked at the film poster, I had asked myself:
How could a feature length film about a British family adopting a CGI
talking bear be good? That's why I went into the theater with zero
expectation, and Paddington proves to be a huge surprise.

As soon as I walked into the theater, I could see I'm the oldest one
(excluding those parents), and I did feel a tiny bit embarrassed -
sitting alone surrounded by hyperactive children. But then, as the film
goes, I found out watching Paddington is one of the best decisions I've
made recently, and that is not exaggerating, because as I watched that
little talking bear roam around London, I found the inner child inside
of me who's been lost for quite some time. I have never laughed and
screamed so freely along with those children and I feel totally not out
of place.

Needless to say, Paddington is fabulously British, and as a Potterhead
(proudly saying so), I recognized a LOT of familiar faces (and voices).
Jim Broadbent, Julie Walters, Imelda Staunton, even Michael Gambon, and
so many more other spectacular actors and actresses are housed in this
95-minutes film. They are one of the major reasons the film is so
appealing.

The screenplay of the film is impeccably crafted with totally
hilarious, literally LOL jokes (some written particularly for children,
and some more naughtier ones I'm sure only the parents would get), and
also with moments of warmth so sincerely written that my heart has
never been so molten before. 

Paddington truly is a surprising movie, and it surely is the best
non-animated family film made in 2014. It is ridiculous yet believable.
Unlike the increasing amount of farces that call themselves "comedies",
Paddington is truly hilarious and heartwarming with a story that is so
rich and compelling. And I would recommend Paddington to anyone, and if
you have not watched it yet, go watch it and you will find it's the
best decision you've ever made.
<|_=00=_|>
This is, without doubt, one of the funniest and most heartwarming films
that I expect to see in my life. A true "Family" film, it should appeal
to children of all ages as well as to adults who are still children at
heart.

The cast is perfection, and the director has been truly inspired. The
extra touches in both sight and sound that he brings to the film are
brilliant - but I shan't specify what they are, for fear of spoiling
the surprises.

The film walks a fine line being cute at times, but it never becomes
cloying or overly sweet. Paddington lives. I quickly forgot that he was
a CGI and simply accepted him as another part of the cast.

Even if you have no children to take with you, you should see this
film.
<|_=00=_|>
This is an instant classic. The raw materials, a heart-warming, but
lightweight children's story are not the obvious stuff of a great
film,the hybrid real life and cgi high risk. But it works,
spectacularly. Translated into over thirty languages, and comprising
over twenty books, the simple adventures of an anthropomorphised bear
from darkest Peru have enchanted parents and children alike. Hamish
McColl has done a fabulous job with the screenplay creating a story
inspired by events in the books, but not telling a particular previous
story.

The ingredients are carefully crafted. Casting is almost perfect. Hugh
Bonneville is an arch paternal figure, a role popularised with his
stint at Downton Abbey, a series which has enjoyed great success in the
United States, broadening the film's transatlantic appeal. Nicole
Kidman is wonderful in her baddie, Cruella de Ville incarnation as
Millicent. All dads will love the lingering shots of her from the soles
of her vertiginous heels upwards. She flounces and pounces and
generally has the most fun, particularly when enhanced by her no-hoper
admirer Mr Curry (Peter Capaldi). The kids, play cameo roles well,
housekeeper Julie Walters is a dotty delight with prodigious drinking
game skills. The only character I didn't quite buy was Sally Hawkins as
the wife. Very Boho and Notting Hill, she didn't quite convince
opposite Hugh Bonneville as his wife.

At the eleventh hour crisis struck the production when Colin Firth left
the production as the voice of Paddington. But sweet are the uses of
adversity, and Ben Wishaw stepped in to capture the spirit and essence
of the bear perfectly.

Director Paul King creates a wonderfully British landscape without
wallowing in nostalgia too much. Tower Bridge, Buckingham Palace, the
Natural History Museum, Red telephone boxes, double decker buses and
English Bobbies are of course on show, but multi -cultural bustling
London is also there, saving it from a sickly sweet end.

Not only is the story well told, but the dialogue is crisp, funny and
fresh too. The linguist daughter learns how to say "I have been accused
of insider trading and require legal representation" in Chinese, and
when Paddington is tied up in a chase wearing a policeman's helmet the
local bobbies come to his aid with an "officer in distress" call.

King has some fun with nods to other movies too. The scene where the
cabbies code becomes "guidelines" under Inquisitor Nicole Kidman echoes
Johnny Depp in Pirates of the Caribbean, Paddington has to rescue his
hat from a descending shutter blind as Indiana Jones did, and Kidman
descends from a skylight in an attempt to capture Paddington as Tom
Cruise did in Mission Impossible, with a further scene reprised as
Paddington makes his escape up a metal vent shaft.

Ninety minutes is about right for a family film and at 95 minutes, not
a second is wasted, nor dramatic lull endured. Hugh Bonneville's scene
in drag is more Les Dawson than Mrs Doubtfire and works in a surreal
way, Matt Lucas gets his comeuppance as an awkward cab driver in a way
that British MP David Mellor would surely approve of. Some homespun
philosophy about outsiders, family, and love, stay just the right side
of schmaltz neatly reinforcing the story's wholesome credentials. The
special effects are fabulous, particularly a flood, and the essentials,
a hat, duffle coat and marmalade are all present and correct.

A certainty to be around for many Christmases, and years, to come.
<|_=00=_|>
There's plenty to be cynical about where Paddington is concerned. The
first feature film about the iconic bear - red hat, blue coat, suitcase
in hand - was first announced in 2007, and went through a gestation
period that's extraordinarily long even for a heavily animated film.
The trailer's (literal) toilet humour seemed to confirm that it was
pitched firmly at kids. And last, but certainly not least, the cast
experienced a shake-up of fairly seismic proportions when Colin Firth
announced in July that - with the unanimous consent of all concerned -
he would no longer be voicing Paddington. All signs pointed towards a
disaster of a movie, one stitched together to cash in on rather than
celebrate the phenomenon of Paddington, a little bear who has lived in
books, TV series and cuddly merchandise around the world.

It's a flat-out joy to discover, then, that Paddington is very far from
a disaster. Indeed, it's an unmitigated delight of a family film. Of
course, "family films" don't really cater to everyone in the family a
lot of the time - the phrase is a euphemism applied to movies that
adults must put up with or suffer through for the sake of entertaining
their children. But Paul King's Paddington, based on the beloved books
by Michael Bond, really does have something for everyone and is,
incidentally, an utterly lovely movie about families to boot. The young
will be bowled over by the adorable bear who tumbles through London and
into the hearts of his adopted family. The young at heart -and even a
few older, crankier people - will find much to enjoy in the film's
cheerfully subversive script.

Our journey begins in Darkest Peru, where a young bear (voiced with
pitch-perfect charm by Whishaw) lives happily with his Aunt Lucy
(Staunton) and Uncle Pastuzo (Gambon). He inherits from them a healthy
love for marmalade and London, as well as a floppy, red felt hat left
behind decades ago by English explorer Montgomery Clyde (Downie). When
an earthquake destroys their idyllic home, Aunt Lucy urges her nephew
to strike out to London. Many jars of marmalade later, he finds himself
in the iconic train station that gives him his name. He meets the Brown
family: risk- averse Henry (Bonneville), dreamy Mary (Hawkins) and
their children, Judy (Harris) and Jonathan (Joslin). With Henry
insisting that Paddington can only stay while he looks for a more
permanent home, the bear begins investigations in London - unaware that
Millicent, an obsessive, possibly crazy taxidermist (Kidman), has very
specific reasons for wanting him to visit her museum.

Strictly speaking, there isn't anything all that new or original about
Paddington. We've seen the trope many times before - in trying to find
a new home, a misfit changes the hearts and minds of the people who
will eventually become his family. The narrative of the film is also
little more than a patchwork of wacky incidents and hijinks: Paddington
floods the bathroom while trying to come to terms with the
"facilities"; Paddington apprehends a criminal through sheer good luck
and his incredibly honest nature; Paddington and Henry infiltrate the
top-secret Geographers' Guild to hunt down Mr. Clyde.

And yet, King has crafted something quite charming and magical around
the bare bones of his story. The film practically radiates love for the
sweet-tempered, unfailingly polite bear at its heart. A life-long fan
of the ursine hero, King peppers his script with smart references to
Bond's books, from Paddington's trademark 'hard stare', used to
embarrass people into behaving better, through to the meddling
interference of nosy, thrifty neighbour Mr. Curry (Capaldi). He's also
updated and deepened the story to give the elder Browns their own
emotional arc: Mary's determination to open her heart and home to a
stranger is what eventually leads Henry to getting back in touch with
his wilder, more fun-loving side. The film also looks quite
spectacular, whether Paddington is surfing down a flight of stairs in a
bathtub or we're allowed a dollhouse glimpse at the Brown family as
they go about their lives.

Most importantly, King infuses the entire film with a practically
joyous strain of comedy and wit. Pratfalls and sight gags are
accompanied by deliciously silly allusions to William Shakespeare and
Mission Impossible. Even the film's supporting characters get their own
hefty share of comedy, whether it's housekeeper Mrs Bird (Walters)
distracting a security guard by means of a booze throwdown or Mr. Curry
falling instantly for Millicent to a smooth burst of Lionel Richie.
Millicent herself is an inspired creation. Prowling through the film,
togged out in figure-hugging snakeskin and wielding scalpels, she
brings to mind and subverts the icy-cool blonde archetype most beloved
of Alfred Hitchcock.

The sharp script and stunning visuals would mean little without a cast
wholly committed to their roles, and King has struck gold with his
offbeat casting choices. Bonneville, a veteran of Downton Abbey, has no
problem playing Henry's constant anxiety over his children, but also
gleefully flings propriety to the winds as he slips into tunic and
apron for a spot of howlingly funny undercover business. Hawkins lends
Mary - the loving, tender heart of the household and Paddington's
biggest champion - a soulful gravitas. Great as they are, however, the
MVP here is Kidman. Her fantastically manic performance as Millicent
reminds us why it's a damn shame that she hasn't been in a comedy for
years - she's so cheerfully unhinged in the film that she steals pretty
much every scene she's in.

It doesn't matter whether you're a fan of Bond's books, someone who
only knows Paddington as a cuddly soft toy, or a neophyte who has never
heard of this walking, talking, marmalade-loving bear. Paddington is a
big, warm bear hug of a film, one that will enchant children and tickle
adults, even as it grabs just about everyone by the heart with its
charm and humour.
<|_=00=_|>
A wonderful adaptation drawn from the characters immortalised in the
books, this film is a major success. Heart-warming and humorous without
being mawkish or over-sentimental, the antics and escapades of lovable
Paddington Bear will surely delight fans of all ages. 

How the animators achieved such a wonderful and memorable 'Paddington'
is a minor miracle. His expressions and mannerisms are spot on, whilst
the cast are obviously all enjoying themselves enormously in being
permitted to perform in Paddington's World. It is obvious that a great
deal of love and affection has been injected into the making of this
film; the acting, graphics, editing, sets and storyline are all
virtually flawless, and you must surely be a soul with no heart not to
find some modicum of pleasure from this 90 minute magical movie
experience.

I have deducted one star, which may seem a tad mean after such a
glowing review, but that is simply because my family and I wanted the
film to go on longer. And that is a sure sign of a good movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Well this was a wonderful surprise. Full of charm and wit, Paddington
is an irresistibly heart-warming film that everyone in the family will
enjoy.

Everything from the quirky humour, to the British scenery to the
wonderfully-animated bear himself is a true delight to watch. The cast
are also brilliant. The Brown family feel genuinely real and easy to
relate to. I particularly enjoyed Huge Bonneville's amusing performance
as Mr Brown, as he overcomes his initial distaste for Paddington and
grows to love him as the rest of his family do. Other stand outs
include Peter Capaldi, as crafty neighbour Mr Curry, and Nicole Kidman
as the Cruella De-Ville-esque villain.

However, the true highlight of the film is of course Paddington
himself. Whether he's flying down a staircase amidst a pool of water or
clinging on to a bus for dear life to give a man his wallet back, he
lights up the screen with his presence. Yet it is his honest and
virtuous nature that makes him so lovable as a character. Innovative
and fresh , yet a fine complement to the books, you would do well to
find a more pleasant and charming family film than Paddington.
<|_=00=_|>
9 December 2014 Film of Choice at The Plaza Dorchester Tonight -
Paddingon. I've been looking forward to this film for months and it
didn't disappoint. Just in case there is the remotest chance that
nobody knows......Paddington is the tale of a bear from deepest darkest
Peru who comes to London and takes up residence with the Brown Family.
There are all the recognisable elements from the children's programme,
from the blue duffel coat down to the marmalade sandwich kept in
Paddington's hat for emergencies. The baddie was played exquisitely by
Nicole Kidman, a job she seems to relish. Mr Brown was excellently
played by Hugh Bonneville, who seemed to carry a tiny but welcome piece
of Lord Grantham into the character. The addition of Julie Walters as
Mrs Bird was inspiring as she manages to bring her usual brilliance to
the old housekeeper who had been with the family for years. The
animation was extraordinary and had the whole audience laughing out
loud. There was an audible gasp at one point when Paddington was in
peril, and viewers young and old all sat up in their seats hoping
against hope that our hero would survive. I went with a group of people
of which I was definitely the youngest, the oldest being 78. This is
definitely a film for the whole family.
<|_=00=_|>
"Paddington" by Paul King is just right for the festive season. The
fluffy main character you just have to love. The animations are
lovingly detailed and of irresistible cuteness. The humor is wonderful
quirky and endearing. It was a welcome change to laugh many times about
a film that is essentially free of blood and death.

Nicole Kidman is wonderfully funny and nasty as Museum Director whose
vocation is the stuffing of animals. The Brown family with the great
Sally Hawkins as mother and a sympathetic stuffy Hugh Bonneville as a
father is full of hilarious absurdity.

The Movie is one you can really watch and enjoy with the whole family
and there will be no doubt that everybody will love it.
