
This is a very good movie, but not the classic it wants to be. It's
funny and tragic, although not too informative if you've read a
newspaper with any regularity over the last eight years. In short,
there are no surprises.

Josh Brolin gives an excellent performance as W., and the supporting
cast is generally superb, although Jeffrey Wright, Richard Dreyfuss,
and James Cromwell particularly stand out. Thandie Newton is
hysterically funny as Condie Rice, but it's an SNL-type parody, not an
emotionally honest performance.

The film is obviously meticulously researched and carefully considered,
which is why the sequences that are clearly either utter conjecture or
merely political finger-pointing stand out by a mile.

Bush -- whom I personally despise for his offensive combination of
idiocy and self-righteousness -- is treated with fairness and
sensitivity. The effort here is obviously to fashion him as a tragic
hero; a man who genuinely wants to do good but simply doesn't grasp how
hard that is, especially when surrounded by the likes of Karl Rove and
Dick Cheney (who is, very specifically, the villain of the piece, as he
is in life). And it generally works. I found myself feeling bad for the
poor guy.

However, while trying to make W. a sympathetic character, Stone pushes
his theme -- "It Was All To Prove Himself To Daddy" way too far. He
overplays his hand, including a mood-breaking dream sequence near the
end. There simply has to be more to George W. Bush than that.....
doesn't there? The film ultimately plays much, much better when Stone
relies on actual transcripts and information gathered by experienced
reporters, and those sequences, whether they are cabinet meetings,
press conferences, or more personal moments, snap and zing.
<|_=00=_|>
With his "in the moment" biopic "W." the normally volatile Oliver Stone
wisely saves his judgments for history when hindsight will be 20/20.
Achingly subdued and slightly satirical, Stone plays it straight and to
the bone. Here he presents us with the early years of our current lame
duck president, showing Dubya rushing a frat-house at Yale, meeting
Laura at a barbecue, living in the shadow of his father and brother,
his troubles holding down a job, his failed bid to become baseball
commissioner, and his defining moment when he gives up drinking and
becomes born-again. All of which leads us to his first term and the
Iraq War quagmire, where Dubya honest-to-goodness truly believes "God"
wanted him to become president and that Iraq did have those rascally
WMD.

In the lead role, Josh Brolin is an endearingly bumble-headed Dubya,
and Stone presents him as a simple-minded man with good intentions who
has been crippled by his "daddy issues" and has surrounded himself with
the most cynical, self-serving, and corrupt administration in modern
American history. The supporting cast is a hoot, with highlights
including Thandie Newton eliciting big laughs just with her facial
expressions as a wicked and moronically faithful Condi Rice, Elizabeth
Banks giving a winning portrayal of Laura Bush, and Richard Dreyfuss
playing Cheney as the most insipid megalomaniac American politics has
ever seen.

Stone accomplishes three major coups here that should surprise those
who expected a one-sided liberal smear job. First, he humanizes George
W. Bush. The director does this with savvy editing showing the
back-story of why Dubya does the things he does (i.e. why he uses
nicknames for everyone or why running three miles every day is so
important to him), and then juxtaposing that with the inane decisions
he has made as president. By utilizing actual transcripts from press
conferences, news coverage, and meetings, Stone and scribe Stanley
Weiser allow Bush and his administration to speak for themselves, and
it's both comically cathartic and occasionally frightening to see it
dramatized so well. Second, he redeems the presidency of George "Poppy"
Bush (a somewhat miscast but still effective James Cromwell) by showing
what a restrained and thoughtful Commander in Chief he was compared to
his naive and too-eager-to-please son. Thirdly, he redeems the legacy
of Colin Powell (a surprisingly good Jeffrey Wright), who is shown here
as the only person in the administration with any hindsight or
foresight, and the only sane voice who questioned the motives for
entering Iraq, though he eventually caved in and played along. His
"f-you" to Cheney towards the film's final act is priceless.

As the actual presidency still has a few months to go at the time of
the film's release, Stone's biopic was never written a true ending,
leaving us with a symbolic image of Dubya looking up to the sky in
center field waiting to catch a ball that will never drop. It may be
another twenty years before we can pass any accurate judgment on
Dubya's legacy, and likewise, Stone's film will have to wait. It's
going to be a long time before anyone catches all those balls George W.
Bush's administration threw up in the air.
<|_=00=_|>
One word sums up how I felt while watching W: uncomfortable.

I went into this film expecting more of an absurdist comedy than a
tragedy. The level of realism was far beyond what I expected. For the
most part, the cast, makeup, and casting crew did such a good job with
the characters that it was very easy to imagine that these were not
actors on the screen but the actual people. Josh Brolin's
characterization of W was certainly Oscar-worthy.

Even better than Brolin's part was Phedon Papamichael's photographic
direction. The job of the Director of Photography is to bring the story
to life through the creation of images to draw the attention of the
viewer where the Director wants. Few films are as good of an example of
this as W. Papamichael used the camera to force moral and emotional
perspective in a way that I have rarely seen outside of the films of
Stanley Kubrick. I've only seen the film once, viewing it as a complete
work. I intend to watch it again to study the photography.

Overall, I thought the film was fair in its treatment of the actual
people involved. The most ardent Bush supporters will not like it, but
to still be that supportive of him in the final months of his second
term, you either have to not be paying attention or be uncritical in
all of your thought. While artistic license was taken throughout the
film, the portrayal of all events and people, with the possible
exception of Dick Cheney, were far more grounded in reality and
recorded history than I expected.

The film made me uncomfortable on multiple levels, which is why it
succeeds and deserves such a high rating. The portrayal of Bush's
relationship with his parents, especially his father, forces the viewer
to feel sorry for him. The overt religiosity that pervades the public
service portion of his life must anger anyone who believes strongly in
the separation of church and state. There are many moments when, with
any other characters, the film should have generated much laughter.
Only one moment in the film actually caused more than one person in the
theater to laugh. I guess 4000+ dead soldiers drains the humor out of
even the most hilarious gaffes.

I would recommend this film to anyone who wants to see a realistic
portrayal of historical events. I wish Stone had waited until Bush was
out of office to make it, though. While it captures the major events
that were involved in building the Bush legacy, it ends far too early.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw W in a preview last night and overall found it engaging,
provocative and, frankly, a bit eerie. Of course, because Mr. Bush is
still in office, watching re-enactments of critical moments in his
administration, still fresh in our memory, has a quality of watching an
SNL spoof; one is always aware one is watching actors, and very good
ones at that, play the parts of principal figures on the Bush team,
leaving a viewer continually comparing the actors' portrayals, make-up,
etc, with the real life figures we know from the news. In other words,
the film never completely transcends the spectacle of its simulation to
feel seamlessly naturalistic. This is hardly a fault of the film
necessarily, only the curious timing of its making and release here in
the waning months of the Bush administration. (Had the film been made
several years from now, no doubt audiences would bring a different.
more relaxed, attentiveness to it.) I won't spell out my conclusions on
Stone's version of Bush - that for you to discover - however, I will
say it is fully appropriate we allow our private and public
preconceptions of Bush the man to be challenged and examined. There is
more to be said about the man than merely we like or dislike him. After
all, we put him in office for eight years, and that says a great deal
about us as a nation.
<|_=00=_|>
I had a chance to see this film on Wednesday and I loved it !!! I'm not
a Bush fan or supporter, however what I loved most about it is that it
isn't a Bush-hate fest. Rather, it was a successful attempt to show
Bush as simply a man with several human foibles, many of which just
happen to be hilarious.

What makes the movie so amusing is that Stone miraculously finds a way
for you to not laugh at Bush the man. Rather, one laughs at the
improbability of the entire Bush saga.

Against that backdrop is the importance of the fine performances given
by the actors.

Some actors, like Banks as Laura Bush, give performances that are good
but that are altogether too predictable and uninspired.

On the other hand, Brolin nails his performance as he turns Bush from a
doofus to a poor schmuck that finds out too late that he's in over his
head.

Newton is the OTHER BRIALLIANT performance in the film. Although, some
critics apparently wanted the average TV-Movie-muck type of performance
where the actress finds the "lighter side" of the real life person,
Newton and Stone smartly resist that trite nonsense.

Newton transcends her own glamorous persona and gives a hard-as-nails
imitation of Rice as a person that is smart enough to understand and
follow those that actually have the power in the Bush White House as
she helps them manipulate Bush to acquiesce to their desires.

Newton's performance successfully evokes images of the Rice that
recently went to Russia and had the nerve to coolly and robotically
lecture Putin on why it's OK for the U.S. to travel half the globe to
punish those who kill Americans, but it's not OK for Russia to go over
its border to punish those that kill Russian citizens.

It's one of the gutsier performances all year by anyone, male or
female, and it really helps make the movie great.

As I stated at the beginning W. is great, and we finally get a movie
that appeals to those of us that don't want to waste $10 bucks on a
film about a Hollywood Chihuahua.
<|_=00=_|>
I used to be an Oliver Stone fan. But after Natural Born Killers I read
in an interview that he had doubts about continuing his directing
career. "I don't think I have another good movie in me".

Well, I still think that he does, but W. isn't it. The reason I like
and watch Oliver Stone films is that he has a strong opinion about a
subject. One that isn't mainstream, but expresses it in such a way,
that he wins his audience and therefore can change popular opinion. The
best examples for this are Platoon and JFK.

Oliver Stone makes a decision with this film which I do not like. The
life and times of George W. Bush offer enough subject matter to make a
powerful, semi-documentary film with hard hitting political and
religious views that would sturr up popular belief. But instead of
going for the jugular, Stone takes W. on his knee, pats him gently on
the head and says: "I know, son. I get it." The film has all the
elements that make W. the infamous guy that he is: the invention of
axes-of-evil, God is on the side of good (The US of A), W.'s history of
failed business, tale-chasing and alcohol abuse. Add the wheeling and
dealing by the Bush-dynasty and you would think it's dynamite stuff.

But it's not. The script is superficial. Tame at best. Stone is not
good at satire and this film shows us why. Anyone who reads the
Sundaypaper and watches the nine-o-clock news could have written this
movie. It has the character motivation of a soap-opera. The father-son
relationship for me was totally unbelievable. I expected a true
depiction, with close source material. But it has become an imagined
portrait by the screenwriter. Another thing that disappointed me was
the lack of insight into the kitchen of the (right-wing)
Bush-Administration, more over: the infiltration of the Hawks in the
White House. 

This film doesn't add anything new or reveal any new insights. The
movie is based on research done by outsiders. I knew every detail of
this movie because I am up to current events. I don't want a summation
and lovable depiction of a man who is responsible for eight very
defining years of US foreign policy. I wanted new insights, make me
doubt my own beliefs and discuss this with friends and on message
boards. The end result has me shrugging my shoulders and saying:
Eehh..., so what?
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie at my friend's insistence, and watching it while
drinking a beer seemed more fun than sitting at home. In retrospect,
only the beer was worth my time. Not that it's an irredeemably bad
film... some of the sections depicting George Bush's early life are
interesting, and the whole thing is technically well done. But when the
film gets into his presidency, we're treated to impersonations rather
than performances.

W (Josh Brolin) is the prodigal son of the wealthy and influential Bush
family, and the film depicts a series of unfocused episodes or
vignettes that led up to his assuming the presidency of the United
States. Bush is depicted, probably correctly, as a man virtually
without intellectual curiosity. His family life is left very much
untouched outside of his relationship to wife Laura, perhaps out of
respect for the Bush children who after all did not ask for such
scrutiny. I did enjoy the aspects of the story that touched on his
relationship with his father, President George Bush (James Cromwell).
Nothing else in the film had much interest or gave us much information
outside of what's readily available.

I think it was a mistake for Oliver Stone to make this film during
Bush's presidency, when there is no fresh perspective and when
audiences are already so used to seeing the man on TV that attending
the theater to see him represented seems pointless. And it not only
seems pointless, but in Oliver Stone's rambling and unfocused film it
actually is pointless in my opinion. What's the idea behind this film
anyway? "George W. Bush is a human being." Wow, give the man a cookie.
It might be interesting to people decades from now but at this point
everything in the film is common knowledge and a lot of the things you
see in the film you might as well just watch the original footage on
youtube. There are also a lot of jarring performances -- Thandie
Newton's take on Condoleeza Rice comes off as cartoonish and silly, and
yet Jeffrey Wright's take on Colin Powell seems nothing like the man
we've known in public service for decades. It's as if half the
performers thought they were doing a re-enactment while the other half
were being directed to play it broad from the hip.

Oliver Stone deserves the blame for this stinker. I simply cannot
fathom why he's considered by so many to be a good director. He had
some talent as a screenwriter, but his whole task as director seems to
be to produce glossy post-cards of history that probably never
happened. He's like a Cecil B DeMille for our times. Not that I doubt
the overall points that the film makes about our 43rd president, but
more I wonder why anyone feels the need to make them at this point. The
film does not address any of the worst aspects of Bush's career in the
presidency and lets him off the hook by portraying him as a mere
incompetent who was persuaded by Rove and Cheney (Richard Dreyfuss) to
be a devil's accomplice. Real history must be more complicated than
whatever happens in Oliver Stone's head. This film is afraid to step on
anyone's toes so it ends up being dull. It should have gone one way or
the other -- courted controversy by depicting Bush as a kind of hero or
villain. Instead we get a very tepid representation of him as a
well-meaning loser. Whether it's close to reality or not should be for
historians and true political observers to say, but I don't see much
point in basing a film on such a middle of the road interpretation.
<|_=00=_|>
Disappointing! While no person is perfect this portrays all in this
fill as if they were all the three stooges and a power hungry leader
that wanted to make the final decision. I cannot believe this is an
accurate portrayal of individuals in privet conversations and in
classified meetings. I have seen other Stone movies and enjoyed them
and got the point. I think it may be time to retire and accomplish
other life goals. To indicate that W. went to Iraq to get even for
"poppy" and for oil was unrealistic and shows just how thin this story
line really was developed. The acting was well done, with the
individual mannerisms but the character of the individuals were
corrupted from the people that we know them know them to be. I would
have to rate this on as a must miss even on TV.
<|_=00=_|>
Oliver Stone and Josh Brolin manage the impossible by giving a present
reality a sort of farcical look. Frightening to see how easily the
farce and the reality merge and marry in the most natural way. George
W, eats his way into history. The most mediocre of men drowning in a
pool of his own making and in a way, drowning all of us with him. But,
somehow, neither Stone nor Brolin describe a monster. On the contrary,
here the monstrosity is in our hands. The man was voted (sort of)
twice. Richard Dreyfuss IS Dick Cheney. A terrifying truthful
performance. Thandie Newton is the one really out there. She plays her
"yes woman" like Talia Shire in the Godfather III. Very bizarre, but
fun. So, the biggest surprise is that Stone didn't come with a hatchet
but with a magnifying glass. Seeing what we already knew but a bit
larger made for a riveting evening at the movies.
<|_=00=_|>
'W.', Oliver Stone's latest true story film, is a simple biopic of
America's 43rd President George W. Bush, touching on certain aspects of
his life, including his college life, his alcoholism and his
relationship with his father, the 41st president George Bush, while
revolving mainly around his first term in the white house, specifically
his controversial 'war on terror' and search for WMDs in Iraq. Like any
biopic, there are two ways for it to be viewed. The first is how the
feature stands as a film on its own, regardless of its comparison to
the source material. Obviously the other way of perceiving it is to
compare it to the source material, considering it's about something
real and about real people who are alive or have lived. Unfortunately
'W.' is a movie that isn't particularly strong with either of these
angles in mind.

The film's light and sweet perspective, which portrays George W. Bush
as a smart and well meaning guy, with flaws like the rest of us,
doesn't balance with the fact that many of the scenes drone on. This is
significant especially for audience members with no particular
political expertise, which arguably this film should appeal to. Its
father and son story has no real interesting conflict either, except
for early on which isn't a good place to have focus, since we're meant
to be kept sitting around for the duration of the 2 hours, of which
this film runs. The structure of the film is confusing and the ending
itself falls flat, leaving a hole that the audience may not be able to
fill themselves, seemingly trying to make tough point about whatever
issues the film is attempting to cover.

In terms of comparing the film to the real subjects of which it is
based on, 'W.' has even less to show for itself as the film focuses on
the less interesting, or more widely known, pieces of just Bush's first
term, and almost completely avoids the interesting material. Examples
of said material would be the controversial speculation around the
legitimacy of his position as president, the even more questionable
aspects of Bush's behaviour around the time of the 9/11 terrorist
attacks and the film even makes absolutely no mention of Hurricane
Katrina.

The performances in this film are the only real things it has to brag
about as Josh Brolin carries the film quite nicely with his charming
and quirky take on Bush, along with Richard Dreyfuss' Dick Cheney,
Thandie Newton's Condoleezza Rice, and others. However these still feel
like impressions, granted they are rather good impressions. Another
problem with the film's performances is James Cromwell's portrayal of
George Bush Sr., as he is shown as a sweet, hard working old man, with
no similarities shown in the real George Bush Sr.'s speech or
mannerisms, which, I guess, was necessary to make the character
likable.

Overall, 'W.' is reasonably entertaining with its imitations of the
American president and the people surrounding him in his career,
however the viewers shouldn't delude themselves into thinking it as a
reliable source of historical or political information as it covers any
subject it has chosen to include, very lightly giving very little for
it to say, despite the fact that there would be many things for this
film to include, considering its protagonist's history. The only real
conceivable, politically taut, reason for why this film was even
released before the end of Bush's time as president is that, to avoid
anyone else making a biopic of Bush, in case they might have had the
kind of daft, one sided sense to portray George W. Bush as a hero, and
his enemies as scum, Oliver Stone jumped at making the film in an act
that sort of resembles suppressing an explosion.

Verdict: Stone's telling of George W. Bush's life is long but thin,
however it doesn't have any huge bias leaving it as an empty and boring
chronicle with little harm.
