
Let me start off by defending my rating of this title. Really it's hard
for me to rate a movie like this, it is directed right at me and my
type of people. I can't help it that I like a movie like this, it's
just the way it is.

Really this movie is a grind house movie in an era where grind house
movies don't exist. It has everything that is unacceptable as
entertainment in other movies...and yet you can't stop watching. It's
for the most part, balls to the walls, insanity. It doesn't make sense.
The reason I don't' mind...is that it's not trying to. It knows it's
stupid and crazy. And it loves it. It's not trying to impress you. This
is a movie that really took control of itself. Typically you'll have a
movie with an a-b formula...this is a a-z formula with complete
insanity and randomness filling in the interval. You know where the
movie is going as soon as you start watching it, it's the ride that
excites and keeps you watching.

In short, this movie has violence, action, nudity, homosexuality,
disabilities, public indecency and racism. And I have to admit, I liked
it.

The one problem I had with this movie is it started so crazy and
hilarious that it kind of peaked in the middle. It was just so much
that the rest didn't surprise you anymore. I still found it very
enjoyable though, and would definitely add it to my collection.

Also I know this review sucks, but this movie is hard to give a serious
review to. If you like movies that play out like a GTA video game mixed
with a violent Japanese film...then watch it. Just have fun with it.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is not for the faint of heart.

If you've watched the first Crank and enjoyed it, you will absolutely
love this one. It pushes the boundaries the first one set to the
absolute maximum. There are no lines this film does not cross, from
outrageous public sex scenes to gore that almost rivals the Saw
franchise. It will keep your heart pounding for the entire film's
duration. It's one of the most hilarious, stylish and down-right insane
films I have ever watched.

If you haven't watched the first Crank, I recommend watching it before
you even think of watching this film. It'll give you some good
background story and also prepare you for what you are about to see.

If you saw the first Crank and didn't like it... do not watch this
movie. Multiply Crank by 1000 volts and you get this incredible sequel.

The Crank franchise is an acquired taste, and this stretches it even
for fans.
<|_=00=_|>
If you watch the first one then you know what expect but if you haven't
then my advice to you is ignore all logic and enjoy the ride because
this movie is not be taken seriously.

Crank High Voltage, is one of the best works from our beloved British
actor, Jason Statham, with insane action, jokes, absurd scenes (nudity
and other nonsense), and over the top craziness.

I was really impressed how well paced this movie was and how insanely
funny it was as well. There is never a dull moment and it has one of
the best cinematography for a low budget film of its caliber. Take tips
Hollywood, this is how movies should be made without the need of
overdone CGI; charm and character always triumphs. This is a great
movie to kick off Spring the break..GO SEE IT!!! TELL YOUR BUDDIES AND
GRAB SOME BEER AND ENJOY THE INSANE ENTERTAINMENT...
<|_=00=_|>
This is without a doubt one of the most insane films I have ever seen.
I loved the first film and have been looking forward to the sequel.
This one blows the mad-o-meter off the chart. I read on here somewhere
Jason Statham was quoted saying something like. "You ain't ever gonna
get an Academy Award for doing Crank" Well I beg to differ; I think an
award category should be created for making a film like this. It has
similarities to the first film of course but that's what makes this
film so enjoyable. Jason is superb as Chev Chelios again and had me
laughing my ass off with his cockney slang and his superb stunts. One
thing I will say, I took my wife with me to see this and all the way
through the film she had that "Could this get anymore ridiculous" look
on her face. Meanwhile I couldn't stop laughing at the fact that the
more outrageous this film got, the more I found myself loving it. You
know when they say "A roller-coaster ride of a movie". Well on this
roller-coaster ride you ain't strapped into your seat, it has dozens of
loops and it's faster than anything you have ridden in your life. You
need to see this film. In fact scrub that, I will say thisCrank 2
falls into the "Things to do before you die" category. Go and see this
now.
<|_=00=_|>
Crank 2: High Voltage practically begs to be passionately loathed by
absolutely everyone, with the notable exception of antisocial teenage
boys. Its rank, nihilistic tone is relentless and exhausting. The
misogyny is benchmark horrendous. The acts of violence are brutal,
frequent and often blatantly homoerotic. Its flippant. Its homophobic.
Its vulgar. And it feels as much seething contempt for its own
narrative coherence as it does for its few prominent female characters.

But there is something bracingly brilliant about it. Films this
fearlessly unhinged simply do not get made any more, and thirty years
ago this would've played, late at night, to packed houses for years on
end, perhaps aptly bundled with the likes of John Water's Pink
Flamingoes.

One fact that was suggested by the first Crank is set heroically in
stone barely five minutes into its sequel - that directors Mark
Neveldine and Brian Taylor appear to be completely obsessed with
pornography. There is a truly jaw-dropping amount of flesh on constant
display, and the film's only female speaking parts belong to a
prostitute and a stripper. This lends the film an air of uncomfortable,
almost lavatorial sleaziness, until a bunch of actual porn stars turn
up in the middle of a scene, starring as a bunch of disgruntled porn
stars striking for better pay. Although it hardly passes as satire, it
does seem like a sly dig in the direction of the producers that
populate the Hollywood mainstream, who'd surely relish the opportunity
to make films like this if only the bastard machine would let them.
Balls-out exploitation it may be, but if any film lives up to cinema's
ancient adage of providing its audience with relentless sex and
violence, its this one. 

The second half of the film is where it really flies, and chooses to
disregard not only its own plot, but any care for the patience or
expectations of its audience. It goes, essentially, mad. And for
something that was clearly deranged in the first place, it'd be foolish
for me not to offer up the only advice that will enable you to see
exactly what I mean. 

Go and see it.
<|_=00=_|>
Chev Chelios was dead, but he got better.

Jason Statham returns as the lead in "Crank: High Voltage", and in
every way this sequel breaks the rules and pushes the bar to insane new
levels, sometimes even a bit too far.

Three months after his "helicopter incident", Chelios awakens to see
that Chinese black-market surgeons are slicing his famed "Chelios
Heart" out (made famous by the fact that it kept beating after the
events of the first film), and replacing it with a surrogate artificial
heart, so they can keep him alive while they farm more of his organs.

Chelios escapes and discovers he has a whole new set of problems- his
heart is connected to an external battery pack. When this battery pack
runs out of juice, he only has one hour before his artificial heart
stops and he dies. And of course one of the first things that happens
is that his battery pack is smashed! Now Chelios has to keep his
artificial heart beating with regular volts of electricity to recharge
it, using anything he can- car power outlets, jumper cables, power
stations, stun-guns- whatever he can get his hands on.

His goal- track down psychotic criminal Johnny Vang, who is seemingly
parading around Chelios's heart in a miniature cooler, and get it back,
so old friend and medical expert Doc Miles (Dwight Yoakam in a
returning role as the man who lets the audience know exactly what's
going on) can put it back in.

Chelios is also being tracked by sadistic criminals sent by "El Huron",
a crime lord who has some devious connections to Chelios and his past
actions.

This film has a very convoluted plot, but like the first one, it works
out rather well. One particular thing I enjoyed is that we spend a
little more time with subsequent and secondary characters, like Chev's
girlfriend Eve (the sexy Amy Smart), Venus (Efron Ramirez portraying
the brother to his slain character Laylo from the first film), and
other characters that come up. It just adds to the plot, and gives it
more reality, in contrast to the literal circus of Mayhem that Mr. Chev
Chelios is stirring up.

Speaking of returning characters, this film certainly has a lot of
cameos from characters from movie number one, which was a delight for
me as a fan. Fans of the first "Crank", you'll definitely get a kick
out of some of the cameos in this entry.

Now, onto the psychotic weirdness of the film. If you've seen the first
film, you'll know it used strange tactics, like subtitles, graphics,
and nightmarish imagery to put you inside of the heads of the
characters. This film expands on that, by using and abusing subtitles,
insane graphics, medical films, and more on a fairly regular basis. We
even get a hilarious pseudo-flashback of sorts, and it is one of the
most abrupt and brilliant segues I've ever seen to bridge two scenes.

And on that note, I should mention that this film does play for laughs
a lot more than the first film. In fact, there are scenes specifically
written to play for laughs more than for actions. As a fan, that may
sound disheartening (sorry, had to make a heart pun), but trust me, it
works. The film definitely teeters on self-satire at times (including a
uproariously funny line of dialog where Eve swipes at fans who would
call Chev surviving the first film "impossible"), but it keeps it's
balance and lets us know that its not taking itself too seriously, so
the comedy fits right in.

Writers/Directors Neveldine / Taylor also step the visuals up a notch.
While not as haggard visually as the first film, this follow-up does
have some pretty visuals, and is better-directed in terms of camera
placement and editing in my opinion, and it fits right in with the
first one. Their script is also to be commended for being so bold, with
bizarre characters (I didn't even mention David Carradine going all
"Charlie Chan"!), insane story lines, and one of the most over-the-top
and unexpected finales I've seen in a long time. This isn't just an
action movie, it's Looney Toons for grown-ups! It's the action
equivalent of what "Evil Dead II" was to horror! It's brilliant in it's
execution and definitely a step in the right direction for a sequel to
"Crank"- not too serious.

This film literally left me in awe with its lunacy and action. If you
loved the first film, then there's almost no way you won't love this
entry.

I give "Crank: High Voltage" an 8 out of 10, because like the first
film, it's the ultimate rush, and now it's even the ultimate source for
laughs! Give this one a shot, you'll love it!
<|_=00=_|>
It was funny, but essential a big pile of steaming pap compared to
Crank. There's spoilers in this but really, this movie can't be
spoiled.

The first one managed to take an insane concept and turn it into an
enjoyable, over-the-top action movie which would have had Quentin
Tarrintino enjoying his QT pants! I love the first one, quirky, does
not take itself seriously at all yet you got this sense of danger from
Jason's character which kept the pace going nicely and had you on the
edge of your seat. Yes it had fast in-your-face editing but it worked
for the most part and wasn't done too much.

Now comes the sequel. You can tell at the beginning when they have Q
from Star Trek reading the news like a public broadcaster who really
doesn't give a hoot anymore this has gone from any semblance of fun to
total and utter spoof with no respect for the original material or the
audience.

I suppose they had no other way to go after dropping the main character
from a helicopter and replacing his heart (which was supposed to be
full of a virus and only kept alive because of the vast quantities of
adrenaline he pumped into it BTW) with a bionic one.

This my friends is not a Jason Strathern action movie it's a Jason
Voorhees one. He's indestructible now. Nothing so much as hurts him. He
can drop out of the sky, crash a car and go through the windshield,
have multiple cops beating him up, be tortured, sustain numerous
massive electric shocks, catch fire. Apart from saying ouch and 'oh
dear' he never gets more than cuts or bruises. Gone is the sense of
danger, you never feel he's going to have trouble in any scene.

Instead we have numerous chasing and fight scenes and lots of boobies,
which I must admit I liked, but unlike the first movie I really don't
feel compelled to ever watch this one again because that is essentially
the plot. Jason get's a bionic heart, then goes after his old one even
though the entire first movie was about him having about an hour to
live as his heart was full of a virus...one which was never cured BTW
and he got a second dose towards the end. I know I'm a stickler for
this point but personally I hate Hollywood shoving a "You are too
stupid for me to even be bothered" sign in my face, The editing is done
by a Mexican on acid who's ticked off MTC doesn't do music videos any
more as he tries his best to do every music video ever made in the
movie. It's like he can't do a single straight shot! Ever single angle
and frame has to be Com{let LY!!! BonKers!! loll look at me I'm
creative and special eleventy1'11! There's even a point where they turn
into Godzilla monsters! And once you get over that they have a head in
water which is still alive!! Yeah of course spoilers...sorry. Please
black out the words which will spoil the enjoyment of this movie.

If this had been part of a trash spoof franchise like the endless Scary
Movie/Epic movies etc then at least people could have hired this out at
home and injected their heads with glue beforehand to prepare. I could
even understand if the first one was as insane as this, if it was like
Evil Dead 2 or something but unfortunately the original set a standard
and as silly as the standard was the sequel washes all over it and
drops a big plop on the audience expecting them to chew it all up and
say, "Thank you sir, may I have another?" Total and utter rubbish. I
give it two thumbs inverted in some cat's private bits.
<|_=00=_|>
After surviving a fall from a helicopter, Chev Chelios is kidnapped
directly from the spot he landed in and is taken to a place where they
remove his heart. He is given an artificial one that requires an
electrical charge to keep running, every hour or so. Now Chelios is on
the run trying to find his old heart and to keep charged. 

I had an appreciation for the first Crank, it was a live action Grand
Theft Auto. Creating as much chaos as possible within the running time.
It ended perfectly, with his death. Crank 2 comes around and ruins
that. At least, for my own sanity, right from the beginning they have a
telecaster look directly to the viewer and tell them how implausible
all of this is. Could this be the writers and directors telling the
audience that this was a studio decision? 

Crank 2 doesn't hold any punches, it goes all out and doesn't stop. It
somehow finds a way to be even more chaotic than the original, but it
sacrifices any kind of logical straight forward story. The first, even
though it was far fetched, seemed like it might possibly happen. Crank
2 doesn't seem to be based in any kind of reality. I do still like the
city and world these characters live in. It's just like a video
game/comic book come to life. 

Statham once again shows us why he is the new face of the action genre.
The Rock has moved on to Disney family films and Statham continues to
be in films that he knows his fans will love. Crank 2 is violent and
obscene. Just like it wants to be, Chelios is a despicable character,
just like he wants to be. Statham plays the role with a bit of charm
that makes him likable. Amy smart is here again, but she seems even
more useless now than before. Was her purpose in this one just to
re-enact the famous sex in public scene from original? 

The Crank films are without a doubt a guys film. Crank 2 even more so.
Sex, violence, harsh language and insane sequences like a shotgun
shoved up a guy's ass or two characters transforming into Godzilla like
creatures, it's something that requires a viewer to leave their brain
not only at the door, but at the door of another house. The comedy is
unique and in your face, it doesn't hold back with any subject matter.
It's degrading to women and homosexuals and maybe even intellectuals.
If you liked the first Crank, you'll like this one. 

For what it is worth, I dug the craziness of the film. The style it was
shot in was fast and dirty, that reflects the story and the characters
in it. I can see a third film coming out, just wondering what they plan
on doing with it makes my head hurt though.
<|_=00=_|>
I almost walked out. (I watched others walk out.)

Now, you gotta understand that I am not one to walk out of a movie.
Ever. Although, I was extremely compelled to get out of my seat many
times throughout the Crank: High Voltage and felt somewhat gross for
staying, I persevered. I figure I really can't complain about a movie
unless I give it a full chance and watch it from beginning to end.

I was really looking forward to a fun-filled action ride, going to this
movie. I love the Tarantino films, the Guy Ritchie movies, the
gratuitous special effects shows and extreme camera angles and
stylings. Agreed, there are some pretty impressive visuals and high
speed action. That's where the fun ends. It's what's going on within
all these visuals and action that's quite disturbing.

The rant: I don't know if the theatre I was in had their volume turned
up and extra notch or if this movie has it's levels higher than it
should, but I was glad I had my headphones with me, so I could stick
them in my ears while I watched. Otherwise, my ears would be ringing
and in pain today. It makes sense that Crank would have it's levels
higher because this is in keeping with the commercials on television (a
little louder than everything else and definitely louder than
necessary), especially since the movie seemed like one big commercial
for sexism, violence, poor taste, and sensationalism.

From cutting own's own nipples off to cutting another's elbows off and
calling it "sushi", from shoving rifles covered in tar up asses to
obliterating someone's face with a 6-pack cooler, I've seen some
hard-core films with insane violence in it, but Crank doesn't care. It
jumps from one sensational image to the next, a big fricken festival
and no one seems to give a second glance or asks "why". The violence
really doesn't matter, it just keeps happening, almost without reason
or result. You want a little overstimulation with your violence? How
bout extreme close-ups, fast-paced rhythm editing, and gratuitous
"which indie film camera trick have we not used, cuz I wanna make sure
and use them all?"

Okay, okay, the number of close-up crotch, tits, and ass shots is quite
impressive as well. I've never seen so many shots of impressively
focused angles on butt flesh in all it's forms. You can see every
dimple and peach fuzz hair on the hundreds of girls' featured butts
(and man ass too). And it's not enough to just focus in, they somehow
managed to get all of their actresses to spread their legs or bend over
to get that nice "up in between the legs" shot. Not once, not twice,
over and over, the whole film seemed a montage of sluts parading behind
gunfire and commercialism. Even the sex scene on the horse track; it
was like "I get it, I get it, funny, ha ha" and then it just kept going
and going, going from bad to just stupid.

Which brings me to the real trouble with this flick, it is everything
wrong with the media today, yelling and screaming at you with disregard
to taste or creativity or narrative (speaking of which, it is quite
clear they really don't care whether or not you know what's going on or
if there is a story to all the madness) in a big shiny box with
sparkles, ribbons, bows, glitter, and and... They took EVERYTHING cool
in action movies and indie films and whatnot and smashed it together
and got a clown in a car salesman suit to hit you over the head with it
while screaming death metal songs in your ear. (I LOVE Jason Statham, I
don't think of him as the clown in the least. Loved watching him, just
disappointed with the packaging.) Removed the class, cut the taste.
They stole the appearance of creativity and "cool" the way an ad agency
steals a great photo on Flickr and sells millions of dollars worth of
shampoo with it after a nice Photoshop job. It did have the pacing of a
commercial or MTV video and I kinda felt like I was watching one long,
loud, bad, commercial for sexism and violence and "don't give a f*ck".

Just ugly.

It makes me really disappointed with the direction of the media today.
I was disappointed when I came to IMDb and saw what high ratings it
got. I know people love this film and I can see why. I guess that's the
sad part.
<|_=00=_|>
Quite possibly the silliest movie ever made. I'm pretty sure these guys
set out to make the ultimate mindless action flick and they succeeded
brilliantly IMO. I've never seen anything like it before. IMDb claims
the budget was $20M, although that seems like quite a stretch. But
there is about $1B worth of craziness in it. The makers didn't hold
anything back - no restraint whatsoever and it's amazing. Anyone
looking to be offended will be. Guaranteed. I've heard of people
walking out of movies but this is the first time I ever saw it happen.
I wonder if they asked for their $$$ back. I'm pretty sure the theaters
are covered from giving refunds; there's fine print on the tix or
something.

Anyway, the opening credits are in video game form, which I now realize
was a signal. Viewers need to forget reality, not just suspend
disbelief in that routine movie kind of way. These guys throw
everything they can think of up on the screen and I kept wondering what
drugs they were using during filming. Maybe all of them. Also, there's
something to irritate everybody. I really mean that; I don't think any
insult or stereotype or slur was left out. Nothing offensive was held
back that I could notice, although I've led a sheltered life.

Now here's the switch: it's hilarious and I mean laugh-out-loud funny
from start to finish. I saw scenes I never saw before or ever expected
to see. It starts out so unbelievably crazy that it's actually shocking
(sorry) and then just keeps it up and keeps it going for the entire
flick. Dark Chocolate's elaborate eye-roll sequence is one for the ages
and is worth the price of admission all by itself.

Here's how funny it is: SpikeTV showed it and of course had to make
countless cuts: not just the copious female nudity but the language and
graphic violence and so on. Anyway, with all that gone it was still
incredibly funny and astounding and just totally insane. The ending was
a set-up for a sequel, same way the first "Crank" was, but I honestly
don't see how they can top this one. Maybe I'm wrong; I sure hope so
but it seems to me that they deliberately made it as wild as possible
and didn't hold anything back.

One last word: it's not for everyone. I promise you'll either
absolutely love it or thoroughly despise it. There will be no
in-between for this one.
