
Now let me begin by saying this film is not an amazing film. It is
definitely not an awful film, like most critics are saying. I think
critics might have raised their expectations due to Thor and X-Men:
First Class. They should not compare the Green Lantern with those
films. It is ranked now 24% on Rotten Tomatoes, which is way too low.
It would probably be in the high 60s, if it was released before Thor
and X-Men: First Class.

The acting in the film is good and not terrible at all. Ryan Reynolds
is great as Hal Jordan and extremely likable. He definitely fits the
role as Hal Jordan really well. Blake Lively is great and extremely
sexy, she's not just a pretty face as most are suggesting. Peter
Sarsgaard is a great actor and he plays the villainous Hector Hemmond
really well and interesting. Overall everyone tries their best and at
the end of the day do a really great job, certainly no Oscar worthy
performances, though.

The special effects are pretty superb and extremely worthwhile to say
the least. Although it sometimes feel a little CGIish, but it doesn't
get too big of a distraction. I have to say I was a little disappointed
how Parallax looked like, it felt a little fake at times, but it is not
horrible in any sense of the way. Also the film did not take itself
seriously which is kind of refreshing. Which could be the reason why
critics disliked it so much. They want another sad, personal and
serious story. Unlike Thor and X-Men, The Green Lantern is more kids
friendly.

The main problem of the film was that they were trying to cram stuff in
from the comics and the personal lives of the other characters. It
seems that there could be so many sequels for the other characters. It
did kind of focus on too many characters. Also the editing gets to be a
little distracting at times, they certainly needed to have done a
better job, but the editing is mediocre at best.

Overall the Green Lantern was a fun summer flick. Although it is
nowhere near the realm of The Dark Knight, it didn't need to be. The 3D
was actually really good and the special effects were memorable. No
doubt, the critics were extremely tough on the Green Lantern and it is
unfair. At the end of the day, don't listen to the critics. Make up
your mind and see this film. At the end of the day, it should be only
your opinion that matters to you. You might agree with the critics or
you might not. However don't skip this movie because of the low Rotten
Tomatoes score.
<|_=00=_|>
I just have to do it, I just have to correct all the haters out
there...

No summary, no spoilers, just points on what makes a movie.

Storyline: 8/10 Was it award winning? No, but what super hero movie is?
The becoming a Green Lantern of Hal Jordan follows the original comics
perfectly. If you know the comics, you know the beginning. If you never
read them, then you learn a lot real fast. The story introduces only
characters necessary to the plot and nothing more. Hal, Carol,
Senestro, Parallax, the Guardians, Abin Sur, Tomar-Re, and Kilowog.
They easily could have introduced way too many guardians, way too fast,
but they didn't. Parallax's origins are changed a little but it works
out for the better, remember not everything that works in a book works
on screen. All in all, storyline was good, it kept a good pace. Always
remember it is an origins story so the 2 hours isn't completely filled
with action but neither Casee nor I got bored.

Acting: 8/10 No Ryan R. did not screw up Hal Jordan. Alright, I'll
admit Hal may not be as witty as Ryan played him but Hal was sure as
hell a smart ace in the comics. I thought it fit. I went in thinking,
"This is going to be great, or really going to suck." Luckily, casting
was very well done. Carol: Blake did a fine job. I do agree with
another review that said they wished someone a little more
intellectual/mature would play Carol, but in the long scheme of things,
Blake didn't get a terrible amount of screen time to prove herself.
Maybe as Star Sapphire she may pull out. Lantern Corp: Sinestro 10/10
Tomar-Re: 10/10 Kilowog: 10/10 Abin Sur: 10/10 I can't say much else
besides that these characters lived up to the comics perfectly. I loved
them all.

Graphics/CGI: 8/10 Why 8? Eh, there were a few, just a few I tell you,
parts where the graphics pulled the cartoon look of Spiderman 3.
PLEASE! don't be afraid by this, all in all the graphics were awesome.
Oa was beautiful, just a couple notches below Asgard in Thor. Green
Lantern Ring effects were great, all around solid.

Costumes/sets: 9/10 First, short and sweet. Live action sets: average.
Skylines just like any other city, Ferris Airforce Base: good enough.
Nothing spectacular but it wasn't the center of the movie. Costumes:
STOP HATING ON THE CGI COSTUMES!!!!!!! Even the the comics the suits
were made from energy and that is what the movie did. A powerful ring
of willpower isn't going to POOF put anyone in spandex or rubber armor.
The mask appears when the identity of a Lantern needs to be protected
and eye color changes as well. PERFECT to me.

Length: 7/10 Although, as I said before there were a few slow parts, I
would have liked to see the movie for a few minutes longer. Towards the
end, yes, a little rushed but it didn't ruin the whole movie. 10-15
minutes longer to put it just at the 2 hour mark would have been
perfect for an origins story to me. Took off a couple points here.

Overall: 8/10 By all means it is not as bad as Catwoman or Daredevil as
some are writing. Those who make that comment are probably the ones who
think Transformers is somehow an epic movie. Anyways, it is a good
solid super hero movie. Maybe, not one of the greats like Batman
Begins, Dark Knight, and Thor, but still a great movie that wouldn't be
bad to take the mature enough younger kids. Parallax is a little scary
and there are a few curse words, but by all means, this is not a racy
film.

Remember: Stay after the credits...
<|_=00=_|>
A decent comic book adaptation of the DC comic book character Green
Lantern. 

It's certainly not as bad as some critics have made it out to be. 

It's fun, the action sequences are flashy and exciting. The acting is
all top notch and the humor is done really well. 

Green Lantern is unpretentious, probably even one of the most
unpretentious superhero movies ever made. It embraces its inherent
goofiness and excludes much of the angst and over-seriousness that we
seen in other comic book movies like Batman and Spiderman. 

The after-credits scene is awesome. A real fan pleaser and hopefully
they will make a sequel.
<|_=00=_|>
As someone who's followed Green Lantern a little bit of a decent amount
(not big but fairly decent, for DC character), I liked some things
about the movie; but I definitely say that it could have been made
better, both for casual fans, non-GL fans or hard core ones.

Good points... 1. It stuck fairly consistently with the mythos of the
origin and Planet OA; 2. Ryan Reynolds did decently as Hal Jordan
(though he fits more with the Kyle Rayner/Guy Gardner type than Jordan)
-- but I wish he was more serious; though non-GL fans couldn't care
less about this; 3. Blake Lively was eye candy; super hot, but not much
else; 4. Green Lanterns Tomar Re, Kilowog and Abin Sur were damn good
but didn't have enough screen time to be significant; 5. Mark Strong's
Sinestro was excellent! 6. Hector Hammond was well portrayed by Peter
Saarsgard (though it lacked a proper finish) 7. Good supporting cast
from Tim Robbins (Sen. Hammond) to Angela Bassett (Amanda Waller); 8.
Green Lantern's costume was wicked; 9. Visual/CGI effects were pretty
good

Bad Points... > It tried to fit too much into one movie, moving back
and forth from Earth and outer space/OA, thus there was no proper
flow... (like when there was a build up of momentum, things go slow or
boring; or from serious to funny without proper pacing); too many
stories were crammed into one movie > Humor was misplaced at times
(good peg is Thor which had it in the flow rather than
contrived/forced) > Parallax looked comical; scary at times but only a
couple of times > Like Iron Man 2, I wish the fight scenes were so much
more; they spent too much on the set-up that the fights were short and
could have been so much more and elaborate. > Some scenes and even some
characters were not necessary (Hal's best friend, even some scenes with
Blake's Carol Ferris were not needed); they should have added more
action instead

Summary, visual effects, actors, GL base story good. But the way the
writers and director put things together were a mixture of various
plots and subplots crazy glued into one movie for pure entertainment.
Kids will enjoy it, but adults likely will not. This is a summer of
superheroes, with 3 down and one more to go (well, technically 5 with
Transformers if you're thinking comic book stories), so it's quite
impossible not to compare them to each other.

The director is known to direct good flicks like Goldeneye and Casino
Royale (two good movies), but I wish he did more; studied more, had
split up more stories to be more single- minded and not work on a
cluttered material.
<|_=00=_|>
For a comic book movie, Green Lantern had the potential to be great. If
the writers of the movie even watched the animated movie First Flight,
they would've been able to come up with a better script than what they
did. I think the cast did the best that they could with the corny lines
and terrible writing.

Ryan Reynolds was believable as Hal Jordan, Blake Lively was
exceptional in her role (which primarily involved looking pretty which
she is good at) and Mark Strong as Sinestro was flawless. Though I
thoroughly disliked what the writers did to this movie, I do hope the
GL series isn't written off. There is still enough in the story of
Green Lantern for a sequel, but for the love of Oa the old script
writers need to go and a brand new team needs to bring something to the
table. Mark Strong is an acting powerhouse and as we have seen in the
Dark Knight, it is the villain and not the hero that makes an
exceptional comic book movie! Sinestro has to do for GL what the Joker
did for Batman! Thats my 2 cents
<|_=00=_|>
We are getting decent and compelling superhero movies these days, which
is a great thing that happened to the genre. Now "Green Lantern" is one
of those films that also needs to be powerful, but it ends up being a
generic cheesy cinema. "Green Lantern" is not perfectly horrible or the
worst superhero movie ever but it's just too much exposition and a
whole lot of green cheese.

"Green Lantern" has a great concept. Just like the other superhero
films, the storytelling also needs to be compelling. Unfortunately, the
film gets lazy to tell the story so they just threw a lot of narration
and even the ones that are not quite necessary to narrate. The action
is not very amazing. it's just showing us how eye-candy the effects
are.

At least the movie is loyal to its corniness. Hal Jordan's wacky
imagination and the aliens' zany looking faces. The CGI is pretty. The
performances were entertaining enough. Ryan Reynolds is doing his same
old thing. Mark Strong didn't appear so much (which is disappointing)
but still he's awesome.

It's disappointing because they're making the interesting villains into
uninteresting. Example, Parallax should be terrifying and menacing.
Instead he's a scrambled egg who eats fear. Not really terrifying nor
menacing. Peter Sarsgaard's mad scientist performance was pretty good
but the only thing he did in this film is crying in agony and use his
telekinesis powers in a lame way.

"Green Lantern" just wanted to show its beautiful visuals. It's not a
very bad thing but the filmmakers doesn't take its storytelling so
seriously. It can be entertaining for some reason but it can also be
forgettable. It's good to see it in the big screen for the visuals but
you don't want to see it again after that. This might be the weakest
superhero movie of the year. Even "The Green Hornet" is better than
this. "Thor" might be the best superhero film of 2011 so far in my
opinion because even though the action isn't great, at least there is a
compelling storytelling. The sad thing is, both the action and the
storytelling are not compelling in "Green Lantern".

3D? Very dark!
<|_=00=_|>
I went to see Green Lantern because a friend of mine was boycotting DC
for such a long time because there has been no release of a Green
Lantern movie. Sure, there were plenty reincarnations of Batman and
Superman, but where's Green Lantern? Someone out there listened to his
plea, and the result is this.....

A mess.

I will go on record to say that it's at least enjoyable. Even though
the movie seems to be everywhere in its storytelling, with characters
being underdeveloped and random things just happening. I would say that
during this movie, I had a hard time finding a bathroom break. I was at
least interested to see where the movie is going.

Let me try to explain this movie: There is this elite group of Green
Lanterns led by Sinestro (well played by Mark Strong) who are having a
hard time beating this giant alien in the Milky Way called The
Parallax. So when their alien friend who's name I cannot remember falls
to earth and dies, his ring is sent out to choose a new victim, and
somehow it chooses Ryan Reynolds. Mr. Reynolds discovers that he has a
new ability, and that he is the earth's only hope, but he can't handle
that until the end of the movie. Not only that, but some doctor guy
turns into an evil alien which, I guess, is controlled by Parallax, and
Ryan has to stop him too.

I must say that I was intrigued by the doctor subplot where he is not
accepted by his father (Tim Robbins) and slowly goes insane until he
turns into John Travolta from Battlefield: Earth. I also liked seeing
Ryan Reynolds in the movie because he brings energy to what could
otherwise be a boring movie, and I was enjoying both stories that were
coming along. The problem is that the whole movie felt disjointed, and
not only did scenes felt random, but events turn random too.

Like the scene where Reynolds is chosen by the ring. It just happens
out of nowhere. One minute he's talking to this kid (which never served
much purpose to the film) and then all of a sudden he's walking and
gets carried away in green light to that dying alien dude. This
happened in more than one occasion. Also the CGI was all over the
place, even on Reynold's outfit, and it's rather distracting. It's very
vibrant and colorful (which is good), but it looked very cartoonish and
took me out of the film. I also mentioned that the characters are
underdeveloped, which goes a lot to Sinestro and that Parallax thing
they are trying to fight. Heck, even the love interest felt
underdeveloped. By the end of the film, I felt like I barely knew the
characters, with just a likable performance by Ryan Reynolds.

However, Green Lantern isn't boring, just purely average. I think the
reason why I sort of liked this film was that I went into it not
expecting much. I already had groups of people telling me that this
film is awful before its release, so I ended up getting a little more
than I expected. Just a little. It was still entertaining, to say the
least.
<|_=00=_|>
Back in 1977 when George Lucas told a story in the frame of Joseph
Campbells Heroes Journey, it was unique. When Sam Raimi told a super
hero story with the same structure in 2002, there was still plenty it
added a new filter. And, when Jon Favreau did it again in 2008, he
added enough unique touches to the tale to reinvigorate what was
becoming a tired formula.

The writers of Green Lantern felt it was enough to skim cliffnotes of
Campbell and write the film based on their notes of the reading and
half remembered recollections of reading comic books when they were 12.
There is nothing new in this film. A man is given a magic ring which
takes him out of the world of the ordinary and makes him a hero. We
don't grow to care about him because he doesn't grow or change... he
simply goes through the motions because the script tells him to.

Ryan Reynolds tries his best with a weak and contrived script, but he
still comes off too snarky to be the overconfident jet pilot he's
supposed to be. It's not all his fault, as the script is much more
content to tell us what the cast is feeling or thinking instead of
letting the actors convey it through their actions, inflections or
looks. It is as if the writers had no faith in their cast or direction,
let alone their audience, and dumbed the entire affair down below even
the cartoon portrayals of the character.

The visuals are nice, but never have weight, leading to the effect that
Ryan Reynolds head if occasionally floating through a video game. It's
sad to think it's been six years since Gollum, and this is the best
Warner Brothers can offer us in a tent pole film. It's also a shame to
think this is the best they could do with only 37 million dollars less
than Avatar. Again, it just shows that the production staff was lazy,
never pushing it to look better, and instead setting for the "they'll
think it looks cool" effect.

We should demand better from comic book films. After having Dark Knight
and Iron Man in a single year, we should not be subjected to subpar
outings like this. Fun is one thing, mind numbingly dumb and lazy is
another.

Skip this in the theater. Wait for it to come to NetFlix and then
forget to put it in your cue. You'll thank me.
<|_=00=_|>
After using IMDb for about 10 years this is my first time writing a
review so here goes.

I am a big fan of DC Comics and Green Lantern is definitely one of my
favorites as I even own quite a volume of comics of him. I wasn't
really looking forward to this movie since every time I do I always got
let down. My first thought after hearing Parallax being in the movie I
was wondering if they would do it like in the comics. But that didn't
make sense because this is only the first movie and the studio would
make it as an origin movie not something else. The whole thing seemed a
little tad slow and I think they tried to do character developments and
get the story going but even for a fan I kind of found it hard to
follow. It wasn't engaging enough I suppose. There were some action
scenes but that also didn't really live up to expectations. I thought
they had the right director and actors for this movie but something was
missing from the comics. 

If they ever make a sequel to this movie I do hope they hire someone
from DC to write a script and have the sort of impact Iron Man did back
in 2008. I do have a feeling this is going to be another Superman
Returns though.
<|_=00=_|>
They say that if you've seen one superhero movie, you've seen them all.
That's not entirely true, but if every superhero movie were like Green
Lantern, then it would be true. Green Lantern is your typical superhero
movie, so if you've seen quite a few superhero movies (like I have),
you'll know what's ahead. This is the problem with Green Lantern, it's
too predictable and does nothing new to make it stand out from the
crowd. That's not necessarily a bad thing though, but it's not a good
thing either. There are 3 good things in this movie. One, Peter
Sarsgaard as Hector Hammond is delightfully hammy and fun to watch.
Two, the SFX are cool and what they do with the Green Lantern ring is
also cool, and Parallax's design suits its evilness. Third, the fight
between Hal and Parallax is the best scene in the movie. Other than
those things, it's average. If you've never seen a superhero movie
and/or are a Green Lantern fan, this movie is worth seeing. Everyone
else should see X-Men: First Class.
