
Read through all the reviews of this movie. Big fan of the first two
myself and just got back from watching this. Pretty surprised that
nobody has articulated the real reasons why this movie doesn't work.

Firstly, if you didn't enjoy the first or second movie all of this
probably won't be very relevant. I would have thought that most people
watching the third would have likely seen and enjoyed the other films
in the series.

So, why is this the weakest film in the series? Anybody's review who
criticises it based on a unrealistic plot or implausible action is
missing the point. This might be obvious but there are numerous reviews
citing these as the reasons for the film being average/bad. It's also
an important part of the formula that worked well in the first and
second films.

The reason this third effort doesn't work as well and is not as
enjoyable is due to a variety of factors - TONE and PACING probably
being the key reasons and also areas where it departs from the previous
instalments.

By tone i mean a few things. Is there ridiculous over the top action in
this film? Yes, most definitely, but the problem is in how it is being
presented. The other movies made you laugh in their almost comic book
presentation and stunts. This film is genuinely trying to sell itself
as a serious action movie. They completely took the humour out of all
the potentially very humorous moments through the more 'arty' editing,
over the top score dramatic score (soundtrack definitely plays a big
part of the different tone in the 3rd movie) and generally lousy
script.

This leads on to the pacing, which is far too slow at times. Way too
much dialogue between Statham and the girl. Yes we know the character
fairly well but the movies were always about the action and less the
dialogue. Jason Statham is capable but the script can't really be saved
here.

So, a dramatically more realistic Transporter movie but sucked dry of
all the humorous and fun tone that made the previous instalments so
much fun. As I said there are plenty of silly and deliberately humorous
moments but the way it was constructed and presented meant I wasn't
laughing anywhere near as much as I was in the other films. This in
conclusion is the main failure of Transporter 3 - 5/10 just for being a
new movie in an otherwise cool franchise.
<|_=00=_|>
I read many of the reviews on rottentomatoes and almost did not go to
see this movie. What a mistake that would have been. If you want to go
to a movie,sit down and be entertained for 1 hour and 40 minutes with
non stop action then this is the movie for you. I am not a serious
movie critic I am just an average guy who wants to go to a movie that
will be enjoyable. This movie is fun to watch from the beginning to the
end. I asked others that were sitting near me what they thought of the
movie and they all liked it. I thought that Jason Statham was perfect
as Frank Martin. I wish that I had a body like that, I would do a
striptease for a living. I enjoyed that the French Inspector was more
involved in this movie over the last 2. He brought a lot of humor. The
girl at first was annoying but she kind of grew on me and by the end of
the movie I liked her.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved both Transporter and Transporter 2, and I couldn't wait until
opening day of Transporter 3. I recruited a few of my friends and we
made a girls' night outing to see it. My big disappointment was with
the director's comic fast-frames in the fight sequences. Jason Statham
moves so fluidly in fight sequences, that it's both beautiful and a
turn-on to watch. However, with jerky camera movements and the
ridiculous fast-forwarding, the elements of grace and power were lost.
The director tried to substitute plenty of still moments with a
shirtless Statham in an attempt to give us some eye candy, but none of
this did Jason justice, nor was it a fitting substitute. Natalya
Rudakova was much too young for him as a romantic interest (kind of
creepy), and I was unconvinced by her cheesy accent and her character's
incongruent language mastery. Her character went from describing
gourmet delicacies in perfect English to saying "what means ____"
(insert basic word).

I loved François Berléand again, and of course Jason put in another
outstanding performance. Natalya could have been a fun character,
without the bad accent and romantic twist to the plot.

Please give us a Transporter 4 more in line with the previous two
films!!
<|_=00=_|>
This hasn't been verified (yet), but I think Transporter 3 is an
attempt to make the stupidest film of all time on every single level,
from the characters to the editing to Jason Statham chasing an Audi S8
on a BMX. Even the tag-line makes no sense. "This time, the rules are
the same. Except one." What do you mean, the rules are the same, except
for one of them? They're not the same at all then are they? They're
different. "This time the rules are the same except they're different."
More honest.

The plot for Transporter 3 is utterly illogical. Dome-headed Frank
Martin (Statham) is forced against his will by evil contractor Johnson
(Robert Knepper) to transport Valentina, a kidnapped girl from
Marseilles to Odessa in order to make the girl's father, a Ukranian
official, sign a document allowing a faceless US corporation to dump
hazardous waste in his country. Why does it make any difference whether
the girl is in Marseilles or Odessa? It doesn't. So why is she being
moved? Because otherwise the story wouldn't exist. There, the film has
no meaning. Considering the threats to the Ukranian official are made
by phone anyway, the girl could be kept in a room next door or across
the other side of the world and it would not affect her father's
decision. Now, hypothesise that there was actually some reason for her
to be in Odessa. Would it not make sense for the corporation to merely
hire a private plane to fly her there instead of strong-arming a
professional killer (Frank's transporting skills are constantly
secondary to his punch-a-guy-through-a-wall abilities, despite what the
titles of the trilogy would have you believe) into taking her there by
car with a promise of certain death for Frank when he reaches his
destination, thereby giving him the ultimate impetus to change these
plans in a way that would ensure his survival and the deaths of those
who made his involvement in this nonsensical exercise in Discordianism
compulsory? The answer is yes.

Jason Statham does well in his role as "any character from any film
he's ever been in." Except one (I can do it too, tag-line). He actually
achieves his career nadir here, when he does a striptease for
Valentina, the most annoying character ever committed to film. Played
by Natalya Rudakova (her first and, if God/Buddha/contract killers
exist, her last), the character embodies everything wrong with the
movie. She is incredibly shallow, talks perpetually, finds Frank
stabbing a metal pole into somebody's throat a turn on, and tries
desperately to look sexy by pouting or arching her eyebrow in every
scene. The attempt to provide her with any sort of dimension beyond
'cardboard cut-out' by interspersing every Frank/Valentina conversation
with an elaborate description of what she would like to eat at that
given moment is not cute, it makes me wish Frank had left her seat-belt
undone and driven into a bollard at 80mph. In fact, the only instance
where her screen presence is appreciated is when she gets punched in
the stomach by the villain and falls to the floor crying. It was almost
worth enduring the prolix runtime for.

Miscellaneous instances of brilliance include Frank smashing head first
through the window of his Audi to oust the guy driving it and then a
second later we realise Frank has one of those new 'self-repairing'
cars where windows fix themselves and nobody mentions it again. The
magic car also manages, in true X-Wing style, to lift itself out of a
lake using only the force (or a handy bag of air), before summoning an
old man on a tractor to somehow lasso it and pull it to shore whereupon
the flooded engine starts first time. Other than the car, the highlight
of the film is Frank's inexplicable decision to attach an explosive
device to the antagonist, trigger its timer, and then stand next to him
looking confused before jumping behind a chair a second prior to the
explosion. For an anguished moment I thought Transporter 4 was a no-go,
but then Frank emerged totally unscathed and I punched the air in
unbridled delight.

To conclude, Transporter 3 is the worst action film of 2008, an
ineffable feat considering this is the same year that spawned Wanted.
Natalya Rudakova takes it upon herself to make the film unwatchable,
and not even the ridiculous stunts that would never happen, even in a
monkey-Shakespeare infinity, can provide anyone with an excuse to see
it.
<|_=00=_|>
I just went to the Premiere at Planet Hollywood last night, and if you
enjoyed the ridiculous action seen in the first two, you will
definitely enjoy Transporter 3. Jason Statham returns and kicks
everyone's ass regardless of the situation, and the vehicular action in
this one is better than ever. His new "girl along for the ride", played
by Natalya Rudakova, serves as a humorously contrasting (and hot)
addition to Frank's troubles, and she managed to deliver a half decent
performance. Transporter 3 is over-the-top and cheesy at times, but if
you don't mind those things in an action movie, then there is much
entertainment to be found here.
<|_=00=_|>
I do not fully understand why this film has been so severely slated. As
far as action films go it ticked all the boxes, plenty of guns, car
stunts, good fights, romance and even some corny humour, and has a
happy ending .........what do people expect ..........Sir Laurence
Olivier doing bloody Hamlet? 

If you have had a crap day at work, and want to watch a good action
movie which is not demanding then this is very good "action" film, if
you require something demanding then watch a good foreign film. 

I had as much fun watching this as I do watching a James Bond or Jackie
Chan film. 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
Ready to watch an average entertaining movie, I didn't expect to see
the best of the Transporter sequels.

For once the script has been designed carefully, action and fight
scenes happen logically, there is true suspense and we believe in the
story. This is not the regular high-budget low-brained film we have
been taught to expect.

Valentina (Natalya Rudakova) has a nice touch of "Nikita", and plays
wonderfully the captive girl half romantic, half moving. A very
promising actress. Jason is excellent as usual, and, for once, gets his
performance highlighted thanks to a riveting story. Fight scenes have
something from the legendary Jason (Bourne) movies. Camera effects give
fights some necessary depth, compared to other movies.

The best of Luc Besson back at work.

Do not pay too much attention to the low rating: It looks like the
Transporter aficionados - used to pure raw action/no story "Chuck
Norris" like - were disappointed. Well, this is probably the best thing
that could happen to this movie: Transporter 3 definitely got its level
upgraded and targets a different audience.

My advice to the producer: keep on the good work, and create a new
movie based on the same pattern, but just don't name it "Transporter
4", so that you don't disappoint the "Missing in action" fans.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm beginning to see a pattern here, and I'm thinking that The
Transporter, if it has the legs for more movies, could be the franchise
equivalent of being a poor man's cousin to James Bond. Created and
written by Luc Besson and Robert Mark Kamen for three installments so
far, the character of Frank Martin is a roguish looking strongman with
a penchant for suiting up when going about being the best of the best
in personalized delivery, with no questions asked, no names, and a
whole host of other rules which he will of course break during the
course of the movie.

Like Bond, he drives a cool, sponsored signature car. While Bond has
his Aston Martins and BMWs, Frank Martin traded his BM in the first
movie, for the armoured Audi A8 W12 which he has brought over from the
second film, and here, that sweet supercar got to be put through even
more punishment. It also shows itself to be a cut about the rest in
being waterproof too, and an occasional dunk in the river won't put out
the powerful engine, with tyres that self-inflate too (ok, so just in
case you don't realize, I'm pointing out mistakes).

And it follows the Bond formula in having the Chick of the Flick
highlight too. Shu Qi came on board in the first film as the vixen who
traded her body to convince Frank to take the job. Then we had the good
girl-bad girl combination for Part 2 with Amber Valletta and Kate Nauta
respectively. Here, model Natalya Rudakova, with her very obvious
freckles getting in the way, continues from where Shu Qi left off,
being the flower vase who can't speak English fluently no thanks to her
strong accent, and that's fine since their characters hail from a
non-English speaking country. 

Director at the helm has been round robin too (now by Olivier Megaton),
with Hong Konger Corey Yuen crafting the first movie, before taking the
back seat in every film by taking charge of how Frank Martin does hand
to hand combat. So we do get to see some consistency in the technique
that Jason Statham adopts in performing martial arts and various stunt
work on his own, and Statham definitely has what it takes to fill up
the void of having the lack of Western action heroes on the big screen.
I suppose with more hits under his belt (pardon the pun) he could
cement this status, and I sincerely hope that he avoids the plague of
being relegated in his later years to the direct to video market.

As far as the story goes, it just provides a basic premise and an
excuse to see how our hero gets to sit behind the wheel again. The
Frank Martin now is more laid back, and spends most of his leisure time
with the French detective Tarconi (Francois Berleand) whom he has
befriended now. Until of course his reputation catches up with him, and
in a Crank inspired moment, has to do what he does best for the bad
guys, much against his wishes. The villains almost always seem to be
part of what's topical at the moment, and this time Frank Martin has to
contend with some eco-terrorists who are blackmailing a minister,
involving some permit for industrial waste.

But who cares about any semblance of the plot anyway? We're looking for
some adrenaline pumping, high octane action aren't we all? And here's
where it takes a slide for the worse actually. Unlike Bond, there isn't
anything new or refreshing to keep the audience engaged and away from
the deja-vu feeling. For some reason, Besson and Kamen's story seemed
to be stuck in a lot of drama and talk-talk-talk, giving our hero not
much time to flex his muscles. And when he gets the chance to, it's the
same old one-man-surrounded-by-thugs routine where he effortlessly
dispatches them all with aplomb.

Such fight scenes are becoming common in The Transporter franchise, and
Corey Yeun definitely needs to rejuvenate his action sequences designed
for the franchise pronto. There are only two major fisticuffs scenes,
and they all follow the same routine, which spells boring. And apart
from that, we get the usual complementary car chases which seem to be
rather standard with the usual camera shots and angles capturing the
action too.

Fans of the series and of Statham will no doubt make a bee line at the
box office for this, but I suspect that should there be any more
thoughts on extending the franchise beyond the three films, then while
the formulaic plot format can be kept, the action better be innovative
because nobody likes seeing the same thing twice. Since different
directors got a chance to have a go at the franchise, perhaps a change
in action choreographers might give Frank Martin the lift that he
needs.
<|_=00=_|>
Honestly, I thought I was going to have an epileptic fit from the fight
scenes. No joke - in a one minute fight scene there are almost 50 cuts.
Can you imagine Bruce Lee, Jackie Chan or Tony Jaa doing that? No way.
The point of an action film is to highlight cool action scenes. You
can't do that when this Michael Bay-influenced rapid fire editing.

I liked the first two entries in this series, but this one is really,
really bad. I think the blame lies with director Olivier Megaton who
seems to not know how to shoot or edit a fight scene to save his life.
Seriously, why hire Corey Yuen to do your fight scenes if you are going
to cut ever half second? Just a complete mess. The sad part is that
nearly 60% of the movie is edited like this. Honestly, do we need three
flash cuts when you are just showing a picture on a passport?
<|_=00=_|>
REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERS. I like the Transporter series as much as the
next person.They are fun, mindless, entertaining romps with very little
plausibility, adroitly led by Statham who has the goods to make this
series worth-while viewing. BUT, this 3rd installment falls WAY short
in several ways. There is no pacing, only two short fight scenes in the
first hour and the climax is very anticlimactic. I knew I was in for a
snooze-fest when a W-12 Audi (his favorite car) crashes into his home
and he doesn't even blink an eye. How the girl goes unnoticed in the
back seat while a gang of EMT workers pry the injured driver out is a
mystery to me. But this would be just the beginning of the ridiculous
nature of this film.

The film really never takes off, leaves you hanging and wanting more
without ever delivering, just a lot of driving around Europe and not
much more. The girls, is just that- a jaded selfish homely GIRL, who's
less than half of Martins age, yet he gets seduced by her even though
she's a major pain in his arse' and thinks little more past pleasing
herself with drugs and partying, NOT the kind of girl we have been led
to believe Frank Martin would ever respect or be attracted to. No over
the-top villains or undie-clad gangsta' chix- nothing.

The 2 most outrageously stupid scenes ( and there are many to pick
from) has to be the bike chase scene where apparently Martin is a word
class BMX stunt-racer that can outrun a Audi W-12 muscle car. The
second was him inflating large flotation devices (conveniently stored
his trunk), while he's deep underwater, with only the air from his
tires which caused the 2 ton car to rise to the surface and still
enough for him to breath on and drive the car when magically towed to
shore by a good Samaritan.(this all takes place in less than 10 minutes
story-time)

Even though I don't expect sharp dialog, this film takes it to a new
low with completely vapid and one-dimensional plastic delivery and even
less character development. Stay away from this one- its not worth your
time, even on DVD.
