
My Bloody Valentine 3D is one of those really rare kinds of horror
flicks. It delivers buckets of gore, brisk pacing, and a lot of in your
face 3D goodness. Sit close to the front of your theater for the
maximum effect (if you dare!). There is brutality in king size
portions, sure to satisfy the most hardcore of horror fans. They really
pull out all the stops with that pickaxe's of his. 

Perhaps most importantly though, the production and marketing teams
were aware of what it what it was. At its core, its a cheesy mindless
slasher film, and rather than try to overcome this, My Bloody Valentine
acknowledges this trait and works with it. It owns it. Internet ads
bore slogans such as 'Its actually 4D if you're wasted.' Never does it
get bogged down trying to patch together an airtight story. It just
keeps its unrelenting pace up from start to finish, and delivers what
the audience came out to see, gratuitous violence.

A film like this is quite refreshing for the genre, not because it is
artful by any means, but because it embraces its inherent trashiness.
By deliberately failing to take itself seriously, My Bloody Valentine
becomes something more than the majority of its peers can ever be. It
becomes fun in the same way that a Poison concert or monster truck
rally is fun. Take my advice and see this thing as it was meant to be
seen, through beer goggles and a pair of cheap 3D glasses. Enjoy it for
what it is and don't worry about the second thoughts you might have
tomorrow morning.
<|_=00=_|>
A movie titled My Bloody Valentine is clearly non trying to pander to
art house crowds, nor does it even seem to be reaching for a higher ilk
in the horror genre, but while appearing as a fully tacky horror movie
entry (a 3-D remake) My Bloody Valentine succeeds in avoiding and
ultimately reviving the never ending pitfalls of such films; a strong,
unique opening and a surprising and completely plausible,
non-ridiculous finale. 

Unfortunately the movie is not as strong as its bookend acts, but it is
certainly gory, fun, terrifying, tense and nothing but entertaining.
(And yes, there is also nudity). The use of the trademark, in your
face, 3-D tactics is mostly restrained, although it seems that director
Patrick Lussier (who has mostly been in horror movie limbo since he
directed Dracula 2000) could not avoid the intermittent pickaxe to the
screen. The performances are actually quite strong, and while this is
becoming more the norm in horror films, MBV even forgoes the
smart-alecky, prankster character which removes the propensity for us
to be taken out of the film.

The unique opening is actually a three-tier start. Flashing newsreels
reveal that the collapse of the Hanniger Mine in a small town which
claimed the lives of 6 miners (Or was it something else that killed the
men?). Awakening from a comma years later, the sole survivor of the
cave-in, Harry Warden, picks up where he left off, slaying dozens
before being killed himself concluding what the town dubbed the
Valentines Day Massacre. But all is not what it seems, as 10 years
later Tom Hanniger (Jensen Ackles), a near-victim of Warden, returns to
the small town to sell the mine but the killings suspiciously begin
once again and it is up to Tom to clear his name.

My Bloody Valentine is a full-fledged throwback to the golden age of
slasher films, like Friday the 13th (and is ironically better then the
Friday remake this year) and never for a single second tries to be
anything it's not and in doing so, it ultimately becomes something it
shouldn't be; fun.

6.5 / 10.0

Read all my reviews at: simonsaysmovies.blogspot.com
<|_=00=_|>
I missed out on the 80's 3D craze- films in the Jaws, Amityville and
Friday the 13th franchises all getting 3d instalments on the big
screen. Well it seems 2009 will make up for that, with My Bloody
Valentine, Final Destination 4 and Pirahna all adding an extra
dimension to their proceedings.

My Bloody Valentine is a great start. It's fun, gory, doesn't spend too
much time on the dialogue, because it understands we're wearing these
ridiculous glasses for a reason! I really enjoyed it actually- and for
someone who has watched so many slashers, the 3d did add some wonderful
novel touches, so it felt like more than just a retread. I know it's
cool to bash remakes these days (and admittedly so many are very weak)
but I much prefer this to the original- which seemed to plod along at
quite a pedestrian pace, and besides the mining town setting, really
didn't offer anything especially new. This film is far tighter and
doesn't take itself so seriously- it has its tongue-firmly-in-cheek.

The only downsides are perhaps the stalk and kill sequence involving a
naked lady. I guess some horror fans like their nudity, but in a genre
so often viewed as misogynistic, it didn't do itself any favours.
Admittedly the character is actually quite strong and fun- you don't
feel her nudity weakens or humiliates her, but... I dunno, perhaps
pandering a little too much for the teenage boys? Go catch this at the
cinema, take a few friends, and enjoy an hour and a half of silly fun.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a remake of a Canadian horror film that I grew up with and is
still very dear to me. Even though I don't think they make great horror
films these days, the 3D gimmick was too much to pass up. And it's nice
to see that the original motivated someone to try and remake it. That
said, this film is nothing extraordinary, but worth it if you have some
time to kill. And be prepared to pay extra since this is a 3D film.
They charged me an extra two bucks for the glasses. It isn't often you
pay $9.50 for a movie at 3 in the afternoon, but what the hell.

The film is faithful to the original in a few ways. Using many of the
same names and the mining community for the setting. The story centers
around the aftermath of a violent rampage by a coal miner ten years
earlier. And a spate of grisly new killings that coincide with the
arrival of a young man who left town at the time the original murders
took place. Is it just a coincidence, or is the young man picking up
where the murderous miner left off? This time around, the script has a
lot more going on than in the original. Sometimes a bit too much, but
the action is spread out to more locations than just the creepy old
mine. There is a very strong amount of gore that the original sorely
lacked (thank you Paramount). You will see people mangled in just about
every way you can kill someone with a pick ax. This film even recycles
the dead body in the dryer shot from the original, too. It seems like
they made a point to be much more graphic for the fans who had always
complained about too much gore cut out from the 1981 version. And the
3D was a nice treat. It looked very good, even from the rear of the
theater where I was seated. And a man in full mining gear is still a
very scary sight.

I expected problems with the script, and I was correct to do so. Much
of the dialog is very weak, and it seems like they used a test audience
to pick the actual killer since it really could have been either of two
people. Some of the acting was more than passable, and it was good to
see Tom Atkins working again. The locations above ground were more lush
and not as economically depressed as they looked in the original. And
this kind of hurts when it comes to creating a spooky atmosphere. There
are a couple moments during fight scenes where the actions of
characters produced groans from the audience due to stupidity, and I
really doubt the county sheriff of such a supposedly impoverished area
could afford such a nice home and a housekeeper. I guess the film was
still as good as I thought it could be, and I'm not a worse person for
having seen it. 6 of 10 stars.

The Hound.
<|_=00=_|>
Years ago, in the town of Harmony, a horrible mining accident occurred,
due in part to the negligence of young Tom Hannigar. Five men were
found dead and one, Harry Warden, in a coma. It soon came to light that
Harry Warden killed those men to conserve his own air supply. On
valentine's day, Harry mysteriously awakens from his coma and goes on a
killing spree and ultimately met his end at the hands of the town
sheriff, But not before confronting the main characters Axel(Kerr
Smith), Sarah(Jamie King) and her boyfriend Tom Hannigar(Jensen Ackles)
who still harbors the guilt of causing the accident in the first place.
Years pass, teenagers become adults and have families. Suddenly,
mysterious killings start to happen again with a very familiar M.O;
killed by a man in a mining outfit, similar to Harry Warden's. Axel and
Sarah are now married but there is trouble brewing in paradise. To
complicate matters, Tom Hannigar returned to Harmony and where he goes,
the mysterious killings follow.

Is some deranged copycat killer out to make a name for himself by
repeating the tragedy from 10 years ago? Or has Harry Warden come back
from the grave to exact his revenge on Tom Hannigar and everyone close
to him? 

For the first time, i surprise even myself by saying that i liked the
story. Or at least i was mildly hooked by it. Usually stories in such
slasher horror remakes are bland and shoved aside in order to focus
more on silly teenage shenanigans and gruesome killings. The story of
My Bloody Valentine plays with the "mystery" element very well,
throwing many red herrings and misleading little clues as to the
identity of the killer. Literally everyone is a suspect and this film
keeps you guessing up until the final reveal. There is even a
small(though weak, but passable) attempt at a tragic love triangle
between the 3 main characters which ties in rather well with the whole
"valentine" theme of the movie. 

The characters are at least more bearable than the usual slasher movie
fare and easier to get into, emotionally. The acting may be a little
stiff at times but i did not expect much good acting from horror genre
movies. 

A mystery story would only work one time around(once you know the
ending, the mystery element kinda ends there), so is it worth watching
this movie again on DVD or blu ray??? I give it a resounding yes thanks
to.......you guessed it, the 3D gimmick.

It has been said many times over that the 3D gimmick coupled with some
fresh new ways to kill off characters is the highlight of this movie. I
never knew one could get so creative with a pickaxe and shovel. The
gore itself is not gratuitous but the kills are shockingly gruesome and
some of them rather unique.(my favorite is when the killer shoved a
shovel into a girl's mouth and cleaved her face in half). Really must
hand it to director Patrick Lussier(also directed Dracula 2000) for his
clear straightforward directing style which keeps the usual frantic
cuts to a minimum and allows the violence to be played out in its full
gory.....i mean glory. 

Of course, what would a slasher film be without some mandatory nudity?
Thankfully, the nudity is played more for laughs than to titillate here
as a dumb blond runs around a motel and car park, completely buck naked
in the middle of the night, trying to confront her boyfriend and then
trying to escape the killer.

In retrospect, My Bloody Valentine actually plays out like an extremely
violent episode of Scooby Doo complete with surprise ending and
unmasking. There were some issues with the overall "feel" of the non-3D
portions of the film which felt cheap and at times looked no better
than a made-for-TV miniseries. Slasher genre fans are sure to love this
and casual movie viewer can easily immerse themselves in the well
plotted mystery and suspense. 

My Bloody Valentine is a surprisingly fresh take on the slasher genre.
It takes familiar elements and adds a new twist to it. This movie among
other recent slasher remakes is like a breath of fresh air after
spending hours in a gas mask. Definitely one of the better ones in the
market. Maybe there is hope for the slasher genre yet.
<|_=00=_|>
The use of three dimensional effects have not been a part of cinema for
over twenty years, with IMAX the exception, but now it is back and
better than ever in 2009. During "My Bloody Valentine 3-D," the
audience will experience large pickaxes, flying bullets and tree limbs
coming out of the screen and into your lap. At times the effect seems
gimmicky as the story forces the occurrence of projectiles moving
through the air and other times the three dimensional effects hit it
just right. When you see the film you will know when the effect works;
the mesmerizing visuals are sometimes jaw-dropping, literally.

Writers Tom Farver and Zane Smith keep the pace up throughout "My
Bloody Valentine 3-D," right until the end when it appears that a
miner, with grievances will take on a whole town. Right from the
beginning the story starts off with a woman on the run from a
mysterious figure, behind a breathing mask who seems to delight in
wrecking other people's good time. The start to the movie is explosive
and the film does not back down from creating a suspenseful horror
flick that is simply out to horrify and be fun. At times the dialogue
or introduction of characters into scenes comes off as slightly campy,
but the delivery of lines in each scene is generating intensity for the
final climactic act.

The plot of this horror film is somewhat conventional with Tom Hanniger
returning to his hometown in order to heal some past misgivings at the
hands of a bloody serial killer. "My Bloody Valentine 3-D," mostly
centres on the character of Tom Hanniger, with Sarah and Axel Palmer
supporting. Adding enough smaller characters to keep the story complex
and creating enough diverging plot lines to keep things tight "My
Bloody Valentine 3-D," does a good job of keeping the killer's identity
mysterious while piquing viewer's curiosity. Instead of going for a
closed box Hollywood ending the film slightly steps it up by leaving
the ending open for a sequel. Some of the most successful film
franchises come from the horror genre and "My Bloody Valentine 3-D,"
might be trying to capitalize on future returns by delivering a plot
twist that slightly disappoints.

Lighting, environments, and music are all spot on, only the overacting
of certain characters distracts from an otherwise excellent horror
film. Many of the scenes within "My Bloody Valentine 3-D," take place
in darkly lit mine shafts or the interiors of houses, at night and the
overall tone feels like a thriller while showing enough gore to
entertain horror fans. The music in the film is subtle enough while
picking up the pace slightly during action sequences. On the other
hand, the musical score of "My Bloody Valentine 3-D," could have been
much more eerie in order to build up further tension. The acting of
Jaimie King comes off as pretentious and somewhat naive while Kerr
Smith, appearing to take his role of a small time sheriff a little too
seriously displays some awkwardness. The rest of the actors including
veterans; Tom Atkins and Kevin Tighe play their smaller parts well;
Jensen Ackles, could have taken a darker approach to his character, in
order to truly deliver a role of someone who is struggling with the
trauma of past brutal events but the portrayal is still good.

Overall "My Bloody Valentine 3-D," delivers an entertaining ride
through dark alleys, mine shafts and the evil minds of writers Todd
Farmer and Zane Smith. Slightly on the lighter side of the horror genre
this film develops enough jump scares, with the help of three
dimensional effects to deliver a fun and fast 101 minutes. See this one
with a friend and laugh out loud when a 20' branch comes screaming at
your head (and try not to duck)! 6 Mesmerizing Skulls out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
Remake of the 1981 slasher film about a maniac in a coal miner's outfit
slaughtering everyone, and a worthy retread of the original. These days
there has been a return of sorts to the unrestrained gory days of early
'80s slasher films, and this one delivers in all those typical
categories you'd expect -- the over-the-top mutilations and gore
sequences, the gratuitous sex (including full frontal female nudity)
and people getting theirs in a variety of inventive ways. At least it's
a step up in that the main cast and victims are not just silly
teenagers, but rather silly 20-somethings and older this time out. And
it is a very nice bonus getting a return from old timer Tom Atkins as a
retired policeman in the mix, too.

This film is also released in standard flat 2-D, but I would only have
awarded it **1/2, if not for the added gimmick of third dimension,
which is really what the fun is all about here. The 3-D effects are
well done, seeing things fly off the screen and into your face. One
wonders whether they might have taken this even farther with more
deliberate situations designed to fully utilize the effect, but what's
there is still cool. The "mystery" of the film kept me going back and
forth in my guesstimates, up to the final second, so that was an added
bonus to the usual trappings that worked for me. *** out of ****
<|_=00=_|>
My Bloody Valentine 3-D pulled out all the stops and is every bit worth
the ticket price. 

I admit that my expectations were pretty low at first, but as a horror
fan and a 3-D fan, I went to the theater anyway not trying to get my
hopes up too much. 

From the very beginning, the story, action, and the visuals hooked me
into it with lots of twists, turns, and shocks. Digital 3-D movies over
the past few years have only offered family films or animation in 3-D. 

Finally, Live-Action Digital 3-D that WORKS!! A MUST see movie if you
like blood, gore, and full nudity; all in 3-D! A few story problems in
the third act but everything else makes up for it. The movie is meant
to be fun anyway, and it was!

Bravo to the filmmakers for making this movie entertaining and visually
stunning. We are off to a great start in 3-D movies!
<|_=00=_|>
I was 17 when the original came out at the birth of the so called
slasher era: "Halloween" (classic!), "Friday the 13th" (the first one,
not all that trash that followed. I still cant watch it by myself at
the age of 44.), "Silent Night Deadly Night", "New Years Evil", "Prom
Night", the list goes on and on, and the original "My Bloody Valentine"
wasn't all that bad of a movie. It had actually had some scary moments
in it. Yes it was predictable as this genre of movie goes: crazed
masked killer on the loose stalking teenagers!. And it was fine just
like it was (as in most original movies) and did not need a remake.

I do try to give these remakes (lord I am sick to death with them) a
chance to see if they can hold a candle to the original...they never
do. Just gore, gore, gore for shock value or it just isn't scary at
all. This movie is one of those cases. Too much gore (after awhile one
gets immune to it and too much blood just makes it all the more
unbelievable), the acting was terrible, suspense was non-existent, the
full frontal nudity of one victim...why?, all in all it was just
another stupid remake of something that was fine to begin with. Granted
though I didn't watch it in 3-D, as the trailer states "A New Dimension
of Terror" (I believe the exact words were used in the "Friday the 13th
Part 3, 3-D"). I am sure watching it in 3-D would not have helped. It
was a terrible movie. I found myself actually yawning.

Whatever happened to the horror movie that actually scared you? Things
that go bump in the night, shadows in windows, someone watching you and
you have no idea they are there, and the best part...you never actually
see the killer till the end of the movie. "Friday the 13th" was the
best as far as that scenario goes. But the masked killer? "Halloween"
was the best in that department.

Remake, remake, remake. I do believe Hollywood has just gone dumb and
can't come up with anything new without rehashing something that has
already been done. Have yet to see a remake of anything that can even
come close to the original with the exception of "King Kong". The rest
is garbage. And this movie, "My Bloody Valentine" was just bloody
awful.

Let me try to list some remakes:

"Halloween". Rob Zombie ruined this movie. And I like his movies. "When
a Stranger Calls". Actually fell asleep watching it. "Texas Chainsaw
Massacre". No raw terror there. Just stupid. "Prom Night". Check
please! "Carrie". Although faithful to the book, no one can out do
Sissy and Pipers' performances. "The Fly". Next! "The Shining". Was no
Kubrick film that's for sure. "Friday the 13th". Have no desire to see
it. "Amityville Horror". Waste of time.

I could go on and on. Hollywood? Do the public a favor and leave
classics as they are...classic, and try something new.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, I didn't expect much, but I didn't expect it to be as bad as it
actually is! This movie have nothing to offer except some graphic
killings, and it seems this is the whole point of making the movie.
Maybe it's fun to make gory scenes and maybe the producer thought - hey
lets have fun and see if someone will pay to see what we made. The
acting is bad to the point of laughable, it's poorly directed and
basically you just end up laughing at all the stupidity. Then, maybe
this is the point, maybe it's made bad to make fun of the genre or the
audience. I don't know, it sure isn't worth watching! You would think
they could be a little bit more inventive and creative, it's not that
hard! The fact that some people give this movie 10 stars is disturbing!
