
After reading the reviews posted here, I had little hope of seeing a
good movie, although the fact that the movie was playing at a "budget"
theater was incentive enough for me to see it. I'm glad I went. Over
the last couple of years, I've found that reviews on movies have become
extremely undependable. It seems as though a lot of folks, who fancy
themselves as reliable movie critics, have become quite snobbish in
their reviews. It's so easy to be critical. Some critics like to feel
that they are a step above the rest of us, and therefore more likely to
understand how the movie should have been written, versus the flawed
production that was actually released upon the public. I'd have missed
many a good movie had I listened to the "professionals". This is an
entertaining movie. It's not "The Godfather" or "Shawshank Redemption",
but it's a good old fashioned action movie that keeps your attention.
Get some popcorn and soda, sit back, and enjoy the show.
<|_=00=_|>
The plot for this film does not need to be explained. It's basically a
pastiche of The Italian Job, True Romance and melodramatic clichés. 

The third element in the blender, mentioned above, along with a script
short on genuine character development (You'll sometimes forget that
Hayden Christensen and Zoe Saldana are in it) are distracting for a
film which develops a serious tone, but there are positives, depending
on your genre preferences. 

The film moves along briskly, even as we deal with a cringe-worthy
first half, and when the actual robbery gets going, the fun starts.
Though the cinematography is modeled too much off of the Bourne-style
shaky cam, the set pieces are still very well pulled off. 

The extended car chases and shootouts contain a level of energy and
suspense that really makes them standout, comparable to similar scenes
in the above mentioned films, along with an on-foot chase clearly
modeling itself off of the Madagascar chase in Casino Royale. Every car
whizzing by, bone crunch or gunshot affects the audience due to mostly-
proper use of slow motion, and great editing, both sound and film wise.

The melodrama may make some engaged viewers start laughing due to how
it's put on screen, but as the stakes get higher, gels with the
storyline. 

The main cast, considering the material they are given, do the best
they can, and their charisma is enough for us to care about them when
the stakes get REALLY high, particularly in the case of Matt Dillon and
Idris Elba.

It's highly unoriginal and contains several other elements worthy of
nitpicking, but after evaluating how I had spent the past 107 minutes
of my life, I think it got the job done.

B-
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is fast-paced and the cinematography (specifically the shaky
camera thing) is clever and interesting when it's not irritating. Also,
there is some eye candy for the ladies and some of the cast is full of
interesting and appealing characters, some who actually do decent
acting jobs ("some" is the operative word.) Those are the good points.

Now the other side. I like T.I. as a rapper and even thought he did an
okay acting job in ATL a few years ago, but his acting here was just
downright criminal. There was one scene in which he dominated the
dialog that I actually said out loud, "his acting is so bad, it's
offensive." You're actually offended that that is being pushed off as
something you should buy as a viewer. You're wondering how no one in
the director's booth was offended by it. In fairness, the fast action
of the bulk of the movie shields the poor acting a bit, so the blow is
blunted a bit. But between his poor acting and Chris Brown's sometimey
acting, it was just a lot being asked of the viewer. Speaking of
characters, the lack of character development is also a low point of
the film. I agree with another commenter that you're asked to feel
something for a character who dies, but you feel nothing because you
really haven't been given anything to know or care about. And finally
as others have stated, the plot is clichéd to the point that you're
wondering if it's supposed to be a satire of some sort. But no, no
satire. They're seriously trying to wrap Heat and Set it Off and Dead
Presidents up in a big bow and pass it off as a new present. Just not a
good thing to do.

I rate it a 5 on a 10-point scale because while it's not a great movie,
it does hold your attention and as bad as some parts are, it's not the
worst movie I've ever seen. So I say giving it about half credit is
pretty accurate. In that vain, I won't say you should pay to see this
or you shouldn't pay to see it. I say do the 50/50 thing--flip a coin.
Either way, the earth won't shatter. This movie is just not that
significant either way. It will probably be forgotten pretty soon.
<|_=00=_|>
You don't go into a movie like this expecting it to be "Apocalypse
Now". You walk in expecting to sit back and be entertained. Now I did
the latter of the two and honestly I wasn't disappointed, it was far
fetched, it had a good amount of dumb action, and mediocre acting. Now
this all might sound bad but really it's not I enjoyed this movie for
all it's faults.

Any description of the plot would be meaningless since it's pretty much
given away in the preview, which happens a lot nowadays, but despite
the formula plot line there was actually some descent characters to
watch and almost care about.

I'm really happy I took a chance on this movie, I love great movies and
even though this is definitely not one of them it entertained me and
for a while I was just enjoying the movie. Which isn't really why we go
to the movies anyway?
<|_=00=_|>
After reading some of the positive reviews of this movie, I must put my
two cents in. This film is absolute crap, and if you are one of the few
people who like it, you must not have seen many heist movies in your
life.

Spoiler warning for something that happens at the beginning of the
film. The film opens with a bank heist that desperately wants to be
like the bank heist in Michael Mann's Heat, except that instead of a
hard-ass bastards like DeNiro, Val Kilmer, and Tom Sizemore, we have a
bunch of soft-ass pop singers and pretty boys like Paul Walker and
Hayden Christensen.

You're supposed to believe that these guys are highly disciplined and
bad-ass outlaws?! Gimme a break! After they grab the cash, they escape
by running to the roof of the building, and tricking a news chopper
into landing so that they can use it to escape! Right there I was like,
what if the news chopper decided not to be stupid? Now you're stuck on
top of a damn skyscraper with nowhere to run! Can you imagine if
DeNiro's crew in Heat decided that their only escape plan was to
chopper jack an escape vehicle?! It's beyond stupid, and utterly
ludicrous! The filmmakers rip off a plethora of classic and
not-so-classic heist films including Heat, the Italian Job, and True
Romance. If you have never seen any of these movies, you may find this
somewhat entertaining.
<|_=00=_|>
"I need a new suit." That's what I kept thinking during the movie
"Inception" and again during "Takers." I like that Hollywood is
dressing up their leading actors more often these days.

"Takers" is a story about a group of efficient, professional thieves
who meticulously plan their robberies a year in an advance. They take
their jobs seriously and leave little room for error. There is no one
shining star in this crew. The team has great balance between the
members played by younger Hollywood such as Hayden Christensen, Paul
Walker and Michael Ealy.

The audience is tossed into two different action sequences from the
start with no explanation of why we are watching these scenes. It's
like waking up in the middle of cage fight then getting punched in the
back of the head and the face simultaneously. After the disorientation,
your head starts to clear up and things start coming into focus. The
moment of clarity arrives and you are in the movie.

After the opening bank robbery we are introduced to the team of Takers.
These guys are suave and know how to present themselves. It was like
watching a group of "Esquire" magazine models relax after a hard day at
the office (if that office specialized in bank robberies). They all
wear expensive suits, drink high-end scotch and smoke fine cigars. They
each retreat to their own slice of heaven to relax. The director (John
Luessenhop, I don't know who he is either) spends a lot of time
building their image through a slow motion reunion before they go into
their own private club. For having only recently done a bank job
together they seem to revel in their male bonding and handshaking quite
extensively.

This life of the Takers seems too good to be true with very little
conflict. That is why we are introduced to Ghost (played by Tip T.I.
Harris) an ex-member of the Takers crew who is being released from
prison. Seems that back in 2004 these guys did a job where Ghost was
shot and sent to prison. He's not mad about it though, in fact he has
one last big score for his old crew.

Meanwhile, the two detectives (Matt Dillon and Jay Hernandez) assigned
to the Takers' bank robbery start gathering the information they need
to track this crew down. We turn to the classic "cops and robbers"
formula and we have seen it before.

The Takers start getting ready for the heist while more is being
revealed about their personal lives. These side stories set the movie
apart from the rest of the movies in the genre. In this case it is a
close family member that gives Gordon (played by Idris Elba) a reason
to accept this heist but it also gives him a lot of problems.

Family is also giving the detectives problems. Jack Welles (Dillon),
the detective, is a single dad who is having problems going through his
separation. This immediately brings us back into the typical cop drama.
Why is it that almost every movie cop in LA is divorced? Seriously, I
think Danny Glover's character in "Lethal Weapon" was the last
detective who as able to bust bad guys, take hundreds of bullets to the
chest and still keep his marriage together.

The story progresses at a good pace until the big action fueled bank
heist. There was a little too much of the shaky camera syndrome. Note
to Hollywood - we know what you are doing, stop it. The shaky camera
action sequences don't work every time. Slow it down and try something
else; it's giving us a headache.

Warning, you have seen the heist scene before in a previous film, I
won't say which one but this time they didn't use Mini Coopers for the
action sequence. Instead there was an elongated foot chase that seemed
to last for hours. Another note to Hollywood - most Olympic athletes
can't fall from a tall building, be hit by a bus and then sprint for a
1/4 mile while dodging bullets so don't try making us believe that
Chris Brown can pull it off and still look good doing it.

Should you see this movie? Yes, it will keep your attention and most of
the action is believable. There is genuine balance and chemistry
amongst the characters. The director did try something different by
putting a twist in the middle of the movie instead of at the end. He
gets points for that. He also gets points for the elaborate shoot out
scene; I applaud his choice of string instrument background music and
lack of loud gun noises to give it a huge impact. Now if you will
excuse me, I am off to shop for a new suit.
<|_=00=_|>
I have wanted to see this movie since the first trailer I saw last
year. I am a big fan of heist/action movies. Seeing Idris Elba and
Michael Ealy and Paul Walker in the trailer, I knew I would at least
get my quotient of eye candy. After seeing some of the reviews for this
movie, I had very low expectations.

Takers turned out to be a decent heist movie. They didn't do anything
that was all that original. It was pretty predictable. It was just
mindless entertainment that I enjoyed watching. I thought there was
some good action sequences...I wish there were more of them. There was
more melodrama than I was expecting, but I think it helped give the
movie an ounce of depth. Don't expect Oscar worthy material or big
unexpected plot turns and I think you will end up enjoying it.
<|_=00=_|>
I received a bit of hype before seeing Takers. I'm not going to say it
is an awful movie. Takers has a bit of style in the reels that's for
sure. Just no substance to carry that style.The film is hip in its
looks, almost like its wanting to follow a trend. This pop culture
stuff is a cliché that films use for success when released over and
over.

With some substance in the plot though, it really makes the difference
between bad and alright. This ones a bad one and that's unfortunate
considering that its really a young stylish fast cash grab for the box
office. Only tomorrow to be gone and forgotten.

Not that great of a movie. About below average. 4/10 score.
<|_=00=_|>
I must say this film was entertaining at best. The best performances
coming from Matt Dillon and Tip "T.I." Harris. The actions sequences,
while very intense, were ruined at times by the shaky camera movements,
especially during the chase sequences. The storyline, while it had
original elements, was flawed and certain scenes you could see coming
from a mile away. The only thing I admire from this film is that it
tries to give all of its stars equal screen time and importance, just
like the far superior film it tries to emulate "Heat". Takers, attempts
to be an heist film with a heart to which the younger generation can
connect, but fails to deliver the goods. I commend T.I. for his
performance and executive producing this project, but I think it still
needed work as far as the storyline and the filming are concerned. My
suggestion is to skip it and wait for it on DVD.
<|_=00=_|>
Takers is a film with a simple crime premise. It follows a group of
criminals who are good at what they do. They can complete any high
stakes job and enjoy living it up with no worries and tons of cash. A
former member of their crew is released the same day they hit a bank in
the city. He comes back to them claiming he's got the biggest job they
will ever do. Their rule for jobs is to wait at least a year to lay
low. Reluctant to take this high paying job, the crew agrees to it and
the plan goes into motion.

All the movie ends up doing is trying to be Heat but with a more "hip"
and "modern" crew of criminals. Heat opens with a armored car heist
scene, has a midtown bank heist that goes wrong, and ends with a shoot
out on an airport runway. Takers has all of these scenes as well just
mixed around a bit, and they literally do the armored car heist scene
from The Italian Job. This time the midtown bank is the opener and the
armored car hit is the big one which goes all wrong. It feels like the
writer and director John Luessenhop thought that the targeted audience
for this film wouldn't see that he literally stole the same scenes from
Heat and just traded their position. I think it would be fine if they
took one scene and made it their own. But when they try and add a bit
of his own he ends up ripping off the scene from another film! It is
just poor film making and blatant copying. 

As for the characters, they are nothing but one sided, lacking any
substance at all. A few of the key members of the crew have some
interesting flaw or addition that tries to make their character more
empathetic, but it doesn't add any depth to their character at all.
Both the Edris Ilba and Michael Ealy have these additions that really
do nothing for their character. As for the rest of the crew, they just
exist. Hayden Christensen's character is the typical faux bad-ass who
has tattoos all over his body. At no time in the movie did I feel like
he was tough at all. He has only a handful of lines and his murmuring
acting style just reminds how terrible he is as an actor. The Chris
Brown and Paul Walker characters just exist because the crew needs more
people. The cop character, played by Matt Dillon, who is trying to get
them has no bearing on the plot at all. He barely has any chance of
ever getting them and when he does finally meet up he gets shot and
simply told "You shoulda stayed out of this". They try to get some
emotional feedback from the viewer by killing characters you feel bad
for but it just comes off as utter blandness. You could really care
less what happens to these characters.

Yet another action movie with action scenes ruined by the "shaky cam"
effect. If done right the shaky cam can really add to the action.
Movies like the Bourne series and Cloverfield use this well and get you
into the frantic nature of the action. Takers film makers did it just
for the heck of it to make the action seem more intense than it really
was. Through the whole Chris Brown chase scene it is pretty much
incomprehensible what is going on. The camera tries to shake with the
action to add motion to it, but I couldn't tell what either side was
doing most of the time. I didn't even know if the cops were relatively
close to catching him until they finally settled the camera. I can kind
of imagine the director telling the camera men "Keep the characters in
the shot, but just shake it as much as you can!! Make it more
action-y!!!!!

It tries too hard to be a cool heist flick, but fails miserably by
severely lacking on all fronts where it must succeed to be an enjoyable
movie. The director should be ashamed of this poor piece of work. He
obviously has no talent and finds it okay to copy both a film already
done and the style the original director pretty much made him well
known for. Michael Mann should seriously consider legal action. I
guarantee if Heat had not been made , Takers would not exist in the
form we see it today. But who knows...maybe there is an unwritten rule
in Hollywood where if you wait long enough it is okay to copy the plot
of an older movie with the hopes the current generation and target
audience hasn't seen the original film. Same thing happened with DJ
Caruso's "Disturbia" didn't it? I guess the studio feels the same
seeing as they didn't release it until two years after it was finished
filming and then decided to dump in in the end of summer garbage weeks.
Just got rent Heat, its cheaper and better.
