
I saw this movie in a packed cinema and the audience loved it to the
extent that many applauded at the end. So I came home, looked it up in
IMDb and read some of the review by professional film critics. What I
found helps to explain why nobody reads papers anymore and why
professional movie reviews are increasingly irrelevant. The critics
drooled all over themselves for No Country for Old Man -- a ridiculous
blood bath where the bad guy can see through walls, magically find
people on the run, and kill repeatedly without raising much more that a
mild interest from the local and state police. Yet many of these same
critics think the characters in this new Woody Allen film aren't
realistic. God save the film critics.

Back to the film. I can't remember the last time I laughed this hard at
the movies, and I wasn't alone. It takes special talent to direct a
movie that is so dependent on perfect comic timing to work, and the
actors in this film hit their marks consistently. If there is character
in this movie that shouldn't be the subject of study in an abnormal
psychology class, I missed them. 

If you care about intelligent movies for grown-ups, then you need to
support movies like this one.
<|_=00=_|>
Woody Allen's alter ego, Boris (a bitterly good and sardonic Larry
David) makes this statement to the audience rather early on in
"Whatever Works". The truth is, no matter how misanthropic, sarcastic
and neurotic Woody Allen is, he ultimately is a pretty likable
personality...if you like that type. Allen's return to Manhattan after
three stays in London and a wonderful stop-over in Barcelona is yet
another niche film. Fans of Allen, as well as fans of Larry David's
"Seinfeld" and "Curb Your Enthusiasm" (which not so ironically should
be the same folks) will find plenty to laugh at here, while others will
inevitability whine, "I don't care for Woody Allen...and oh, that Larry
David! Can't stand him!" 

The plot of "Whatever Works" is irrelevant. Boris is some sort of
genius-level physicist trying to speed his way to death, though those
metaphors are never explored as poignantly as they should be. It all
just serves as a soap-box for Allen (through David) to funnel his usual
dialogues about relationships, love, luck and the meaning of life. It's
all very broad and obvious this time around, but it's sometimes nice to
still be laughing at the same old feel-good shtick. It should come as
no surprise that Boris also tells the audience this isn't a movie
designed to make you feel good, unless you're Allen fans, and then
you'll feel pretty swell afterward. Leave it to Allen to infer
moviegoers are inherently morons, but we're sophisticates for watching
his films.

Apparently this is a re-worked screenplay from the 1970's and the
"Annie Hall" style monologues to the audience are evidence of that. In
the jokes department you'll find old standards mocking the French and
suggesting kids should attend "concentration camps" for the summer
mixed with modern humor about the Taliban and Viagra. There's also one
hilarious throw-away/blink-and-you'll-miss-it reference to James
Cameron's "The Abyss" that makes you wonder if perhaps the screenplay
was first reworked in the 1980's before its final incarnation here. 

In the casting department we find Patricia Clarkson, yet again, is a
delight in her curiously under-written over-written role (which is far
too simply complex to explain in a traditional review) and continues to
build a case for herself to be declared this generation's "Best
Supporting Actress" twenty years from now. Evan Rachel Wood is cute-as
a-button (oh, as her character might declare, what a cliché) as a
Southern cutie-pie who runs away to New York City and meets up with the
suicidal Boris. Allen, as always, is luminous with his photography of
the "young lady." And unlike the similarly dumb motor-mouthed
funny-voiced Mira Sorvino character from "Mighty Aphrodite", Wood's
character is actually given an arc here and proves not to be as shallow
and moronic as Boris originally assessed, which indicates maybe Allen
is growing just a teeny bit in his view on women...or maybe not.

Ultimately this is yet another testament to Allen's world-view, which
is summed up here as do whatever works for you to trick yourself into
believing you're happy in this miserable world. Sure, there are times
when Boris' diatribes run a few lines too long, or when the film stops
dead when he is not on screen, but for the most part, this is Allen
doing what works best for him. No other director can call himself out
on all his personal pratfalls and annoying quirks yet still find a way
to endear himself to the faithful who are ever patient with him and his
films. No other director can be so charmingly mean-spirited and
self-deprecating yet still find a way to declare his alter ego a genius
at picture's end. And that's why we've always liked you, Woody, for
better and for worse. For what it's worth, when it comes to Allen's
better and worse, "Whatever Works" falls happily in between and works
just fine, thank you very much.
<|_=00=_|>
The critics have missed on this one. Don't believe the negative
reviews. It's the funniest one from Woody since maybe Deconstructing
Harry. Everything works. From the very original script, combining
Allen's bleak view of life with effervescent farcical plot line, to
uniformly fine performances from Larry David, Evan Rachel Wood,
Patricia Clarkson, and the rest of the cast. Comedic sparks fly
non-stop. Not just light chuckles here and there at Woody's witticisms,
but loud all-out laughter. The scenes with Ed Begley's and Patricia
Clarkson's transformations of 'classic text-book right-wing material'
are especially hilarious. And in the end I came out from the theater,
thinking that in a paradoxical way it was one of the most
life-affirming pictures from the master.
<|_=00=_|>
If ever a movie could be described as an allegorical rendition of a
director's life, Whatever Works just might top the list.

Marking Woody Allen's return to his native New York City after a four
picture hiatus in Europe, the movie tells the story of Boris
Yellnikoff, played by Larry David (Curb Your Enthusiasm), the only
actor working in Hollywood today who most closely approximates Allen
himself in look, mannerisms, and philosophical outlook. Afflicted by
numerous neuroses, Boris has become the ultimate pessimist, seeing life
as one long water slide ride into an eventual cesspool. So bleak is his
outlook that he becomes convinced that suicide is the only option, but
even that cheap out fails him.

Fed up with the world, Boris turns his back on much that society has to
offer, instead spending his days teaching chess to kids while publicly
humiliating them at every opportunity. Yes, Boris isn't a happy camper,
and takes pride in it. The fact that he's managed to maintain a core of
four friends is a miracle in and of itself.

Then one day fate causes him to cross paths with Melodie St. Ann
Celestine (played by the delightful Evan Rachel Wood), a country
bumpkin runaway from the backwoods of Louisiana. She is Jethro Bodine
to Yellnikoff's Einstein. A complete intellectual and generational
opposite. Love at first sight it isn't, but given the axiom that
opposites attract, Boris soon finds himself falling for the much
younger siren (cue the Allen parallels).

While some critics have complained that much of the dialog comes across
as stilted and unnatural (which it does), Whatever Works unravels more
like a stage play than real life, which, I think, is how Allen meant
it. As writer and director, he has lots to say here and refuses to
allow such trivialities as natural delivery stand in the way. This
isn't to say that the performances are wooden, but rather that nobody
talks like Yelnikoff in real life, and I'm good with that. What's
important here are the ideas, constructs and situations that Allen
infuses in his characters.

Interestingly, while much of the movie's theme focuses on the
serendipity of life, and thumbs its nose at the divine, the film can
easily be viewed from both the atheistic and spiritual viewpoint,
particularly given how events unfold in a seemingly manipulated manner.

While not Allen's finest work, Whatever Works will appeal to those who
enjoy a light romantic comedy, particularly one that provokes a few
sparks from our grey matter, while delivering its laughs.
<|_=00=_|>
When Woody Allen's films are released in the UK I usually blink and
miss them. I happened to be in France this week so I was able to catch
Whatever Works which is having its first general release in that most
Woody-friendly of countries.

In Whatever Works, Larry David plays Boris Yellnikoff, Woody Allen's
most unsympathetic character yet. He is even bleaker than Harry Block
in Deconstructing Harry, this is despite the fact that the screenplay
was apparently written in 1977 during what some people refer to as
Woody's funny period. Woody usually gets away with his portrayals of
nihilistic characters because of his diffident manner. Larry David, on
the other hand, plays what is recognizably an Allen character but in a
very aggressive manner, direct to camera. I do sympathise with Allen's
world view that life is meaningless, arbitrary, painful and followed by
oblivion, but, even for a sceptic like me, David's delivery is a little
too blunt. To make matters worse, he is an arrogant misanthrope who
regards himself as a genius and everyone else as inch-worms and
cretins. He even verbally and physically abuses the small children who
he is supposed to be coaching in chess.

By chance, Boris shacks up with a naïve Mississipean runaway, Melodie,
charmingly played by Evan Rachel Wood. In one of many implausible plot
devices she just turns up on Boris's doorstep and he takes her in.
Things start to look unpleasantly like an old man's fantasy with the
60-something Boris and the 20-something Melodie although, fortunately,
Allen spares us the bedroom details. We are in familiar Allen territory
here with an older man having a Svengali-like influence on a younger
woman. Then, suddenly, in the film's best scene, Melodie shows that she
has completely adapted Boris's attitudes and beliefs, expressing
contempt for her young friends' optimism and cheerfulness.

Things improve greatly in the second half of the film as the action
becomes more farcical. First Melodie's mother arrives on their
doorstep, closely followed by her father. Both are rapidly seduced by
New York life and renounce their Southern fundamentalism for exciting
new lifestyles and sexual orientations. Melodie's mother, Marietta,
mischievously played by Patricia Clarkson, becomes a famous
photographer on the strength of some snaps she has taken with a cheap
camera. The plotting is quite perfunctory here but it is so funny that
the viewer is carried along with the fantasy. And, of course, it is a
fantasy that the vast majority of Americans who believe in Heaven and
Hell can just have Allen's doctrine of despair explained to them and
reject their value systems instantly.

The film ends on a note of euphoria and one can see that the whole
thing is a parable. All the characters seize their one bit of
happiness, whatever works for them in a naughty world. I liked the way
the mood of the film flips: it starts in despair but you leave the
cinema with a broad smile and a warm glow.
<|_=00=_|>
"Sometimes a cliché is finally the best way to make one's point." Boris
(Larry David) 

Woody Allen's witty movies may seem clichéd (love does indeed conquer
all in most of his romcoms), but they do make a humanistic point
couched in Allen's pessimism and nerdiness. With Larry David playing
another Allen alter ego, Boris, a self-proclaimed genius, this
misanthrope in Whatever Works is the best characterization of Allen in
his recent movies. The movie works for me as the smartest, most
enjoyable of this summer with a message countering Allen and his alter
ego's world-weariness.

It doesn't take long to look at David's work co-creating Seinfeld and
starring in his own Curb Your Enthusiasm to see that this world-weary
worry wart is a good choice to play an Allen-like New York Jewish
intellectual. Unfortunately his lack of real acting talent is a
hindrance, especially when he slips into shouting many of his lines.
Yet when David plays himself more than the stuttering Allen, he becomes
relaxed and believable. When David speaks to the audience several
times, the sincerity is powerful.

Allen wanted Zero Mostel to play this part; his death in 1977 put the
script in mothballs for decades. As an accomplished Broadway and film
actor, Mostel underscores David's limited acting range.

The conceit of Whatever Works is that older Boris in his 60's hooks up
with twenty-year-old Southern Melodie (Evan Rachel Wood) despite his
genius mind rejecting the whole affair as trite but his heart going
with "whatever works." Throughout, Allen juxtaposes the Southern
innocence with Northern experience creating a situation where NYC
actually transforms the Southerners into urban sybarites, no better
exemplified than the transformation of Melodie's mom (Patricia
Clarkson) from bible thumper to artist humper with avant garde photos
and multiple lovers. Even her ex-husband, John (Ed Begley, Jr.), has a
NYC epiphany of the sexual kind.

Although Allen has his characters looking for love with results that
will remind you of his Everyone Says I Love You, the sweetness is
replaced with a philosophy that encourages searching out whatever works
because of the transitory nature of love and life.

The mixture of love and cynicism allows deep appreciation of irony and
the transformative nature of experience.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. Such an odd experience ... watching
an old Woody Allen for the first time. Well that's the best way I can
describe this. The script was from the 70's and certainly, Mr. Allen
made a few changes to make it fit the 21st century, but still we can't
help but think it's 1977 all over again ... especially since Woody has
been away from NYC for awhile.

Larry David is cast in the "Woody Allen" role and does his best to
bring his Curb Your Enthusiasm delivery. The only problem, his
character here, Boris Yellnikoff, is just a very bitter, abusive,
negative force ... so even some of the best comedic moments are a bit
tainted by the mean spiritedness.

Evan Rachel Wood has been a star in the making since "Thirteen" and
really brings a new dimension not just to her career, but also the
film. Her runaway southern belle is a flat out hoot. When her parents
(Patricia Clarkson and Ed Begley, Jr.) arrive, we gain some insight
into Allen's thought process ... he thinks NYC is the be all and end
all ... and can even enlighten those southern "crackers".

Mr. Allen has always been obsessed with three topics ... dying, sex and
intellect, and all three are on prominent display here. He really has
an innate ability to exaggerate life subtleties and slap us upside the
head in his films. I believe his message is that the big picture of
life is overwhelming and disheartening, but as individuals, we can each
find happiness.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, my first review for the IMDb. I picked one that I thought I was
not going to like, but I like Woody Allen, so I gave it a shot.

I thought I would not like Whatever Works, because I read and heard
some of the critics' negative reviews. 

So, the first ten to fifteen minutes or so into the movie, I'm thinking
that Larry David is better at improvising, as on his own show, than
doing someone else's lines, albeit Woody Allen's.

But then, as usually is the case with Mr. Allen;s movies, I got hooked
half way through. I got hooked because it was very well done. The
story, the direction, the acting - yes, Larry David was perfect for
this. It was a risky casting move on Mr. Allen's part, but it worked
beautifully. 

I like it also because Mr. Allen interjects philosophy in all of his
movies. He courageously exposes himself, allows us to hear his thoughts
and does these things by seducing us with entertainment. 

Excellent work.

The only thing I wasn't crazy about was the sort of "tying up"
philosophy about how we should go with whatever works. Such a happy
ending. Why?

That said, id didn't interfere with my overall appreciation of the
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
A hotdog consists of rejected parts of a pig all thrown together and
picked up off the butcher's floor. This is Woody Allen's hotdog. Many
of the elements are borrowed from past films, like his
fourth-wall-breaking first-person-narrating philosophy of life being
meaningless and love being luck and everyone is dying and... all that
stuff that was once entertaining when Woody Allen was younger, and
funny. 

His patented neurotic-Intellectual character is given to Larry David as
a chess-instructing codger who marries a gorgeous twenty-one year old,
Evan Rachel Wood. This entire concept is funnier than any line in the
movie; not ha-ha but "Am I actually supposed to buy this" funny. 

There are plenty of one-liners but nothing seems to matter: the
characters all frolic stupidly before David so he can put them down.
His monotone delivery of Allen's penned tirades are limp and lifeless
(David even admits he's not an actor, so I guess he's not to blame). 

Christians are seen as robots and everyone not from Manhattan are
merely seeking their true selves as anti-Christian "heathens". Woody
seems to be finished bagging on what and who he knows (New York and New
York intellectuals); his sights are now set on those he never knew but
thoroughly despises (anyone who hunts, fishes, or prays). 

There are a few good moments of acting, like when Evan Rachel Wood's
mother, played by Patricia Clarkson, is discussing photography - for an
instant the dialog seems not written but actually spoken by a real
human being; you know, like Woody's older films - the ones about
people, not stereotypes. 

Allen is becoming just like those he's against: close-minded and
completely bias. And he's pushing the same envelope that's already been
mailed. 

We got it already, Woody. You can move on now.
<|_=00=_|>
A perfect blend of Woody Allen's views on love and relationships and
Larry David's pessimism of life and the imbecilic, Whatever Works won't
appeal to those who can't find humor in the morbid recesses and
sarcastic ranting of these two comedians' minds, but everyone else will
revel in the darkly misanthropic philosophies. Though this perverse
fable may wrap up a little too neatly for those less inclined to
believe in optimism for such an ensemble of decadent misfits, viewers
with the right amount of indifference towards decency won't object, as
long as they aren't one of the mindless zombie masses so scathingly
scolded in the cynical social commentary.

Attempting to impress his ideologies on religion, relationships, and
the randomness (and worthlessness) of existence, lifelong New York
resident Boris Yellnikoff (Larry David) rants to anyone who will
listen, including the audience. But when he begrudgingly allows naive
Mississippi runaway Melodie St. Ann Celestine (Evan Rachel Wood) to
live in his apartment, his reclusive rages give way to an unlikely
friendship and Boris begins to mold the impressionable young girl's
worldly views to match his own. When it comes to love, "whatever works"
is his motto, but his already perplexed life complicates itself further
when Melodie's parents eventually track her down.

It may be written by Woody Allen, but it certainly feels like Larry
David's material. Regardless of who's channeling who, the biting humor
in the film is simply hilarious; it's surprising how much fun can be
had from watching a character who positively abhors life, people and
interaction. Boris may not be relatable, but he's wickedly sarcastic
and intelligently despicable. The conclusion may be a bit too tidy to
be interpreted as much more than a cynical comedy, but the supporting
actors and clever dialogue creates a set of disillusioned protagonists
that are easy to watch.

Perhaps the most intriguing aspect is the odd-couple pairing of elderly
Yellnikoff and the hopelessly naïve twenty-something Melodie. Extreme
differences in age and social standings have been explored in Allen's
previous films, but both characters are so delightfully polar opposites
that seeing them together is refreshing. They're two runaways on a
mission to fulfill the illusion of meaning, one a self-proclaimed
genius, the other a foolish, feeble-minded cretin with a heart of gold.
Add to that the nonstop sophomoric tirades on religion, sexuality,
mortality, marriage, the presidency, racism, human existence, and
chess, and you've got an overload of pessimistic insights posing as
genius. It may not be a feel good movie, but it's convincingly
ridiculous and it absolutely works.

- The Massie Twins
