
I'm a cliché artsy girl form NYC and often i look forward to films like
these.. you know the little indie gems that not many people have heard
of.. Dirty Girl was like a treat for me and i can watch it again and
again.It's not a perfect film and definitely not mainstream, but
absolutely entertaining. Juno Temple couldn't have played this part any
better as a young promiscuous teenage girl who seems confident and
unafraid to conquer the world but is actually quite vulnerable and
easily broken.. Clark was so lovable as the fat gay best friend and
hopeless romantic, even with all their flaws , the chemistry between
them was outstanding, and me and mom couldn't help but to laugh at the
different emotions from the bag of flour and to adore the cool
soundtrack (she's an 80's chick so it was inevitable)..

The journey was so fun to watch that i didn't want it to end, part of
me had wished that Danielle and Clark could have ran away and started a
new life together.. that would have been epic, but by the end of the
film it was easy to admire the writers for thinking outside the box and
reminding me why i love films like these so much ~
<|_=00=_|>
Abe Sylvia wrote and directed a wonderful movie about growing up that
makes the entire audience cheer, laugh and cry. He does this trough
magical chemistry between both lead characters, great plot development
and really smart humor. This is one of the funniest movies I have seen
in a long time. I highly recommend it to anyone that has a witty sense
of humor! All I can say is that this movie is for those with a high IQ!

As for those posting about the hair/makeup/costumes, clearly you have
no sense of humor and have never opened a 1987 Norman High School
Yearbook. The movie is set in 1987 Norman Oklahoma not Los Angeles.
Everyone looked like that, even if you don't want to remember yourself
that way!
<|_=00=_|>
I saw Dirty Girl at the Toronto International Film Festival in 2010 and
it was amazing!!! 

I thought it had a good blend of drama and comedy therefore when things
got heavy or sad I didn't get depressed or too down because a few
scenes later I would be laughing.

I thought it was the best portrayal of the beauty of a relationship
between a gay man and a straight woman since Will & Grace. It also had
a great soundtrack. I can't wait to have a movie night at my house with
this movie. It was just a fun movie with depth. No academy award worthy
performances in my opinion but the acting is definitely good but no
mind blowing performances.

My fav film of TIFF 2010
<|_=00=_|>
I liked "Dirty Girl" because it was unabashedly fun. It was pro-gay
rights, pro-female independence, and anti-religious persecution without
it being about any of that. On the surface it was an '80s throwback
with the teen kids embracing the "anything goes" attitude while their
parents clung to their conservative values. Pack a suitcase, pop in a
mixed tape and run away.

Juno Temple stars as the titular dirty girl, Danielle. She assumed the
role of the rebellious daughter and the inappropriate student who
relished any opportunity to be the sex symbol. The whole-heartedness
with which Temple became Danielle not only made this type of person
acceptable but empathetic too.

This isn't to say that the film was perfect. One of the big drawbacks
was that although the lead character did evolve, she did so with
incongruent leaps. My other issue was that whenever Danielle and her
companion Clarke had to stop and sing, the film stopped too. That could
be on purpose though since they do seem to be trying to sell the
soundtrack just as much as the movie itself.

It's the movie itself, though, that I liked. It was the passion that
all of the characters had for life that just danced off the screen. The
societal lessons that important movies try to teach and which we all
probably already know, are just silly, feel-good bonuses here since
they came up with new, more realistic, and more relatable endings. Wait
for Clarke's reaction to his final circumstances if at any point you
fear the monotonous drone of melodrama.

"Dirty Girl" does bring to mind similar better movies which walked
parallel paths, most notably "Jolene". And although after watching
this, I immediately came home and bought the latter, it should still be
able to find its place among accepting fans. It moves along at a quick
pace, keeping the lead characters delightful even when they're
depressed, and keeping the tone light even when the supporting
characters commit some pretty heinous acts. I've never had a problem
enjoying those types of conflicting scenes, but it does account for the
movie's poor reception. 

Keep in mind that this is writer and director Abe Sylvia's first film
and that the archetypal characters can actually belong to any decade
then you should have no problem enjoying, and secretly wanting to be,
the dirty girl.
<|_=00=_|>
"Nobody likes a dirty girl," Principal Mulray (Grubbs) tells Danielle
(Temple) early on. She is a promiscuous adolescent, full of life,
spunk, attitude, and guts. But she comes from a background that isn't
so full of life and gutsy. Her mother (Jovovich) was a tramp in high
school and because of that Danielle has never heard of or met her real
father. After discovering her father's real identity, she packs up and
hits the road going across Oklahoma to find him. She also does it to
avoid her mother's new Mormon fiancée (Macy) and his outlandish
punishment of virtually abandoning one of their own to show how
important family is. My guess anyone would abandon him at first chance.

Danielle takes the car of her chubby, homosexual friend from Sex Ed.
class Clarke (played fantastically by Jeremy Dozier). Clarke's father
(Yoakam) has been verbally and physically abusive to his son for many
years and is only further outraged to find out of his sexual
orientation. Thankfully, the film, mostly, doesn't play Clarke's
sexuality for laughs. We have a strong sense that he can't help his
feelings, and is dealing with them in the only way he knows how to.
Guys and girls alike proclaim their love for the opposite sex, why
can't Clarke? Danielle and Clarke also take a sack of flour (their
"baby" from Sex Ed. class) along on the ride and boy does the kid get
the journey of her life.

Dirty Girl is an exciting, sort of refreshing gem that mimics not only
the eighties style of rebellion, but bathes in a surprisingly dramatic
bath of coming of age storytelling. Going into this expecting a solid
comedy with laughs and humor galore, I was stunned to see how heavy the
dramatic elements are. In many ways, this is a very sad view on one's
adolescence and sometimes the laughs we get are because of insecurity
and stem from the fact that their true feelings are hidden.

There's also a nice blend of wit and soul in the writing. In some ways
this could be an account of writer/director Abe Sylvia's life. He grew
up homosexual in Oklahoma and had been working on this story since
around 2004. The film's bawdy nature is fast paced and entertaining,
but Dirty Girl seems to stem from a world a lot more sentimental in
emotions than we could've thought.

For an independent film, it certainly packs in some credible names.
Milla Jovovich is a nice addition to the cast, Temple is very
convincing, Dozier is the star of the entire film, Macy is about ten
miles away from his character of Frank Gallagher in Shameless, and Tim
McGraw and Dwight Yoakam are delightfully unexpected.

In many ways Dirty Girl is funny, charming, delightful, and satisfying.
In many ways it's dark, sad, depressing, and begging to be loved. We
have two insecure characters that go about their insecurity in totally
different ways. One, giving herself up to anyone and everyone, and the
other just sitting by idly in high school taking the hatred from his
peers and probably his classmates. It's a sad world after all.

Starring: Juno Temple, Jeremy Dozier, Milla Jovovich, William H. Macy,
and Dwight Yoakam. Directed by: Abe Sylvia.
<|_=00=_|>
Everything about this movie is great. The story, the soundtrack, the
characters, the way it was filmed, literally everything. When I choose
to watch this movie I didn't know what to expect since I didn't read
summaries or watch a trailer. The reason I choose to watch this movie
is because of the actress Juno Temple, who by the way did a good job. I
loved her connection with Clarke, their strong friendship made the
movie very interesting and their adventure and road trip made the movie
enjoyable. The movie isn't all happy though, there are some sad
moments. It is definitely a tear jerker especially if you can relate to
the story. However, the ending is quite satisfying and I wouldn't have
it another way. I would recommend this movie to anyone who has a good
sense of humor and anyone who enjoys a good story line with a great
lesson.
<|_=00=_|>
Dirty Girl (2010)

The movie starts with such stupidity and what seems like terrible
acting and movie-making you're going to want to quit. Unless you're a
high school kid looking for cheap thrills (and there ain't anything
wrong with that--it's just a style thing). But hang in there. This
movie gets better and better and better. By the end all the hilarity
crashes down to a weepy finale--more convincing than it has any right
to be after all the zany stuff prior.

It's mostly about two high school kids who don't fit in. They seem like
opposites and we all know how fun opposite are in movie comedies. One
is slutty girl Danielle who has a dysfunctional home life and who is
wild partly because she's bored by school and is (it turns out) smarter
than the cliché would have it. The other is an overweight kid Clarke
who knows he's gay and who is afraid of coming out but everyone knows
already anyway. He also has a dysfunctional family, and the movie
eventually also clashes the two sets of parents (and accessory kin).

The plot moves fast and turns into a crisis and then a road trip. All
good stuff. And it's filmed with an openminded low-budget freedom that
makes it fun and doesn't always worry about verisimilitude. (The two
leads are in a family planning class, for example, and are given a bag
of flour they have to treat as their new baby. The bag has a face drawn
on it in magic marker, and the face changes depending on what's going
on around it. Her--it's a girl.)

But mostly it's the acting of Danielle (Juno Temple), and Clarke
(Jeremy Dozier), that makes it all stick. Temple in particular is just
oozing and exploding with energy and dramatic screen presence, whether
being saucy or sassy, fun or sad. She takes over every scene and you
want her to. Danielle drives a red 1965 Mustang convertible (of
course--what else?). She knows what matters and who's a jerk and
doesn't put up with crap. She's troubled, but all along you know she's
basically right, and you end up totally on her side. And on Clarke's
side, too, as he tries to make sense of his world now that someone
accepts him without even blinking.

Eventually there is a deliberate Hollywood ending, complete with tears
and spotlights on the stars. It's a farce, I suppose, or a silly over
the top romp, and there are going to be people who never let it click.
Humor is fickle. But once I was a good half hour in (and it took that
long, unfortunately), but once I was, there was no going back. It's
worth sticking it out. Very worth it.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was rated 37% on Metacritic and 27% on Rotten tomatoes and
honestly I think this is wrong, wrong, wrong. I expect this is because
the title is misleading...the movie is not about a "dirty girl" at all,
it's about a journey of discovery and maturation and the transformative
power of friendship. The writing is not particularly sophisticated so
in lesser hands the movie could easily have sucked. However the two
lead actors were so engaging (and the supporting cast were also
excellent) that what could have felt like a flat, unconvincing story
was, in my opinion, extremely touching. I confess toward the end I was
crying in sympathy for the loss experienced by the main characters.
Thankfully, the final scenes in the movie turned this into a positive
(and even mildly cathartic) experience. I had become invested in the
characters (so you see, I cannot possibly trash this movie the way so
many others have).
<|_=00=_|>
Freshman writer & director Abe Sylvia has created the memorable as well
as entertaining road picture "Dirty Girl," about a teenage high school
student who hit's the highway in search of the father that she never
knew. Danielle (Juno Temple) gets herself in trouble when she opens her
foul mouth in class and lands feet first in the principal's office. The
time is 1987 and Danielle is the kind of girl who doesn't get picked
up, but who picks up. She has her three D system: discriminate
(choose), designate (make herself look sexy) and dump (get rid of them
after the dirty deed). Naturally, she is considered the school slut and
her amorous activities get her send to do time with the misfits at the
school. Sylvia deals with dozens of relevant themes: parenthood,
masculinity, love, courage, and abortion. Mrs. Hatcher, who teaches the
outcasts' class comes up with a typical school exercise about
parenting. She assigns couples and furnishes each with a five pound bag
of flour that they are suppose to treat like their offspring. Mrs.
Hatcher pairs a reclusive young man, Clarke (Jeremy Dozier) to share
the parental duties with Danielle. Of course, Danielle displays nothing
but disgust for her gay partner. Nevertheless, as time progresses, she
comes to see him as a person rather than a sexual deviation. Meanwhile,
Clarke's evil father Joseph (Dwight Yoakam of "Sling Blade") suspects
that his portly son may be gay and sends him to chiropractor for
analysis. Actually, Joseph is right; Clarke is a flamer with cause.
Initially, Danielle and Clarke are at odds until she decides to stand
up for him. Unfortunately, Clarke's mother Peggy (Mary Steenburgen of
"Time After Time") discovers the truth when she is making up Clarke's
bed and finds gay pornographic pin-up pictures.

By this time, Danielle has grown disgusted with her own mom, Sue-Ann
(Milla Jovovich of "The Fourth Kind"), particularly when she plans to
marry Ray (William H. Macy of "Fargo") and live with him and his
daughter and son. Danielle refuses to have anything to do with Ray and
company and Ray takes away the car keys to her Mustang and they leave
her to starve for the weekend. Clarke shows up with plastic and the two
dine on Chinese food. Danielle shows Clarke a picture of the man that
she suspects is her long lost father and they hit the road in Clarke's
father car to drive for Fresno. Juno Temple is a knock-out! This is
neither a bad scene nor a bad performance in this celebration of life,
love, and diversity. Sylvia never wears out his welcome and "Dirty
Girl" ripples with energy and charisma. The story about two misfits who
find strength in each other and dare to take on the world is
inspirational. Some of the subject matter may not be the stuff of
traditional romances. No, Danielle doesn't make a straight guy out of
Clarke. Sylvia blends comedy with tragedy adeptly. One of the funniest
scenes finds out protagonists afoot in the middle of nowhere after
Joseph has recovered his car. Danielle hears about a strippers dance
contest and decides that it is the only way for Clarke and her to get
money so they can resume their trip. The site of the contest is a
Southern Comfort style bar with a rebel flag and rednecks galore.
Danielle starts her act while Clarke hangs out back by the bar and
watches her. About half way into her act, Danielle realizes that her
seductive charms aren't having their usual impact. Earlier, the
bartender had warned her that Jade has never lost a strip contest.
Clarke discovers that Jade is really a bare-chested guy and he warns
Danielle that they are in a gay bar. Clarke climbs on stage, performs a
strip tease and wins the $50 that Danielle and he need to continue
their journey. "Dirty Girl" isn't really a dirty movie despite its
questionable subject matter. The soundtrack thrives with several
chartbusters from the 198os. A must see for the indie crowd.
<|_=00=_|>
"If it's a man's world God wouldn't have made me." Danielle (Temple)
lives life on her own terms. When her mouth gets her in trouble at
school she is sent to the "special" classroom. After an assignment
pairs her up with a school loser her life is forever changed. The
saying goes don't judge a book by it's cover, that could not be more
true for this movie. The first ten minutes is what you would expect but
from then on it becomes an emotional movie that deals with some pretty
heavy subjects. The acting is great in this and there is an all-star
cast along with some surprising cameos. If I keep talking I am afraid I
will give something away and that would do the movie an injustice. Much
like the movie "Good Old Fashioned Orgy" I think that the movie would
get a better audience if the title was different. Do yourself a favor
and watch this movie. Overall, a very surprising movie that was much
much better then I expected. I give it an A-.
