
I have been wanting to see this movie since I saw the trailer for the
very first time. Today I finally got the opportunity. The plot sounded
interesting and I was hoping to see a comedy that wasn't as predictable
and forced romantic as a lot of comedies are. I wasn't disappointed.
Sure, this isn't the most profound story ever told, but I wanted to
have fun, and this movie definitely gave it to me. Another bonus is the
great soundtrack, which carries the whole movie. After leaving the
cinema you will want to listen to the songs featured in this film, just
so you can enjoy the feeling of it a little longer. This film is funny
from the beginning to the end, and there were moments when I couldn't
stop laughing. If you want to see a feel-good movie with a plot that
was, at least as far as I know, not used before, than this is the right
film for you.
<|_=00=_|>
Although the film received its fair share of criticism for its
historical inaccuracies and feeble plot, in my view, the film does
exactly what its authors set out to achieve and - not only in terms of
the soundtrack - rock it really does.

If you're looking for an evening of pure escapist fun, feeling
generally nostalgic and cool about the legacy of the 60s fashion and
music, and would like to forget history for a while and go with the
party mood, go see this film - you won't be let down and you'll get
what you're looking for: an amazing soundtrack (although, as many
didn't hesitate to point out, not entirely historically accurate), with
the likes of The Rolling Stones, The Kinks, Dusty Springfield, The
Hollies, Jimmy Hendrix, Buddy Holly, and many many more, with the
charismatic Bill Nighy and a bunch of other not-quite-so-ordinary
eccentric characters, more or less familiar to you, depending on how
you enjoy British (and American) comedy (e.g. IT Crowd). Even if you
don't know the actors, even if you're not into the music of the 60s,
you've got pure feel-good fun thrown in to top it off for a great
evening of the 60s Rock'n'Roll partying. And it's partying in the true
60s sense of the word.

On the other hand, if you're looking for profound plot development,
historical accuracy and consistency, or a true story of a real pirate
radio station Caroline that inspired the story, or, in fact, would like
to see a true depiction of the life in the UK in 1966, do NOT go see
this film, because you might leave disappointed.

It's as simple as that.

So, a definite recommendation for cinema viewing because of the
necessary volume that the speakers allow you there to enjoy the music
to the fullest (and, let me say one more time what music it is!), but
stay out if you're not in a party mood.

I give it 8/10 for the feel-good, cool entertainment it brings and....
well, for the Rock'n'Roll.

Have fun!
<|_=00=_|>
What a cute flick! As a (former) film reviewer I have absolutely no
desire to dissect or critique this movie. I'm just taking it at face
value. It's fun, uplifting and witty. It's obvious the cast had a hell
of a good time making it (even the 'bad' guys). Hoffman and Nighey are
in top form. The gags are good, even when they tank. And the ending
gave a surprising increase in the tension/suspense.

Really can't find anything terribly wrong with this aside from the mild
sexism but it's so subtle, I hardly noticed.

I've been going through a really rough time personally and watching
this cheered me. What more could you hope for?
<|_=00=_|>
I saw it twice on my overseas trip to Egypt and twice on my way back
and loved every minute of it. I mimed the songs (passengers on the
plane would not have appreciated me belting out Rolling Stones and
Donovan:)) and danced on my seat all the way. Philip Seymor Hoffman was
a delight and quite a fantastic actor and he really had tough
competition since the whole cast was exceptional. Rhys Ifans is a far
cry from the skinny weirdo on Notting Hill. Bill Nighy was a bit
similar to his Love Actually role, still a favorite of mine. Emma
Thompson was on for a few minutes, but you cannot imagine anyone else
in that role. And, you can hardly recognize Kenneth Branagh! A must see
movie for young and old, especially old because it will make them feel
young again. I am 57 today!!
<|_=00=_|>
Richard Curtis' first 'non romantic comedy film' is really another
romantic comedy film- it's just that the romantic bit gets swamped
within 20 other sub-plots so you try and not notice.

The Boat That Rocked sees Carl ( Tom Surridge ) go aboard Radio Rock- a
pirate radio station owned by Quentin ( Bill Nighy ) whose DJ's
(Phillip Semour Hoffman, Rhys Ifans, Nick Frost, Chris O' Dowd, Rhys
Darby, etc. ) broadcast 24-hour rock and roll music to the UK. They are
adored by the populace but hated by the government, including the
Minister of Communications ( Kenneth Branagh ) and his chief
subordinate ( Jack Davenport ) who aim to shut them down.

If that was the extent of the plot then it would probably be a 100 mins
film. However the Boat That Rocked has so many little sub-plots- many
seeming like excuses to put in another montage or cameo cast appearance
that the time has ballooned out to 154mins and it does tell at times.
Furthermore, while Richard Curtis is entitled to look back on these
days with an air of nostalgia, he sometimes seems to get a little too
weepy eyed with the story.

But these faults are more than made up for in the performances; all of
which are good- and some are outstanding. Phillip Seymour Hoffman's
Count is a lovable character who approaches everything with great
gusto, while Chris O' Dowd's Simple Simon has a wonderful part in the
middle section of the movie which brings a little bit of emotion to
what is a pretty emotionally vacant movie. Nick Frost is cheeky as Dr
Dave and finally Rhys Darby- fresh from Flight of the Conchords- simply
shines in his role as the unpopular and daggy Angus who nonetheless
gets arguably the best line in the whole movie.

Overall the Boat That Rocked is silly and entertaining fun. It does get
overweight by a looong script, but the soundtrack and the cast are good
enough to carry it through.
<|_=00=_|>
If you think of "Four weddings and a Funeral" or "Notting Hill", you
will be a little disappointed, being here the overall tone not so
brilliant, dialogues not so sparkling, however, the both humorous and
moving atmosphere of Richard Curtis's comedies is still recognizable.

I think the real protagonist in "The boat that rocked" is music, that
sound pop-rock that in the 60's began to move the world, and to be
opposed by the establishment as a dangerous weapon in the hands of the
multitudes, as a threat to a well consolidated but no longer valid
system. Among unreal situations, a totally-lacking plot, among odd and
eccentric characters, what only matters is that power of music to
revive one's spirits, to give voice to the most uncontrolled, animal,
ancestral instincts of man. And thus becomes, in my opinion, the most
vivid scene that of those hundreds of records floating on the water,
the symbol of a generation, of an era that was then ready to explode,
and that no strict establishment could have wiped away, even once
illegal radio stations were shut down.

No revolutionary message is conveyed: it's a good-humoured and at
intervals melancholic tribute to a generation who, maybe ingenuously,
but deeply, and truly believed in out of time-values, friendship,
respect, love, and believed that music was a strong, and powerfully
effective means to convey them. Even if you don't belong to that
generation, each of us has experienced, one or more times in one's
life, the communion of a piece of music with the most sensitive chords
of our soul: it's about something emotional, but also physical and
that's what the director just wants to celebrate. 

If you are fond of music, or simply you have once in your life been
moved by a song, you will like this movie, or at least enjoy it for
what it is, without the necessity of too much criticism.
<|_=00=_|>
Dude, I went into this only caring that it was starring Philip Seymour
(?) Hoffman, and pretty much had little expectations as long as the
movie was entertaining- well it was. The very well-scripted (all-star
casted) characters created as organic a cast performance as I can
remember seeing since Milk. The story of pirate radio leaves its
foamtrail through the leaders of p2p filesharing and their unwavering
declaration that art should be enjoyed by all, not only the few who are
able to pay more than a meal's worth to be able to purchase a copy of
the product, pre-packaged by an Industry that is certainly not
furthering music as an artform. Getting back to the movie. This roll of
film has put it together in a way that's only really reserved for
(good) Academy Award winning pictures, but it doesn't get all Curious
Case of Benjamin Button on you. The superb cast of actors all deliver
quite genuine performances, even though it takes some growing into
(like the movie) but there's enough sarcastic profanity that doesn't
push it over the comfort zone. The tale of Radio Rock and its crew is
one that transcends personality and nationality. Lots of sex and
friendship and love, this movie is the antithesis of the consumeristic
slavery of our civilization and is a (loose) guide to what we should
all strive for in life. The Hitler-like English committeeman in charge
with taking care of the Radio Pirates is an unabashedly serious
caricature of government-led regulators holding the link between
revenue generating industries and the voices of progress, each always
trying to tip the balance in their favor. The plot gracefully glides
into its climax and with no extended cuddling it exits leaving us a
nice retrospective of the experience. For the patient and passionate
viewer, this film is highly recommended.

-cypheristikal
<|_=00=_|>
This is the Film of the year! No specials effects and CG and just a
nice vibe to it. I found this film to be profoundly good. MUCH, MUCH
better than I ever expected. Hoffman always delivers and with great UK
talent. I was truly dumbfounded. Writing is good, plot is solid, Acting
is fantastic, story line is great and the best movie score/soundtrack I
have heard in recent history. It is fairly long but goes well with a
cold one on a weekend. I hope it gets huge distribution in the US! It's
a fun,uplifting, feel-good, strange and yet inspiring film. To be based
on a true story and deliver this is impressive. I will tell everybody
about this one. Watch it.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is about a pirate rock radio station in British North Sea in
the 1960's.

I have watched several movies about British music history, and I have
enjoyed none of them. So it was a pleasant surprise when I watched "The
Boat That Rocked", as I find it very enjoyable.

The plot emphasises on the the character's interpersonal dynamics,
their passion for music and their strive to rebel. It is a well written
and well told story. Character development is excellent, each of them
have different charisma and charm. They engage me throughout to the
point that I feel what the characters feel. The film is very good, you
have to see it to believe it.
<|_=00=_|>
I wanted to enjoy this.I used to listen to Radio Caroline, I love the
music of the era and am a huge fan of Richard Curtis's work - a sure
fire combination.But it was not, and I was left reflecting on this
"Deeply Disappointing Disjointed Drivel".The music is wonderful.

Curtis is a fine writer, but an undisciplined one, and a strong
Director would have tightened up this ship no end.For a film with a
plot that comprises: DJ's on a Pirate radio ship, government tries half
heartedly to close them down, greenhorn discovers his long lost father
is on ship, ship sinks, the 2hour 10 minute running time is
inexcusable.

I did not laugh once.The comic situations offer pallid echoes of
Curtis's best work.Tom Sturridge plays a young ill at ease fop in a sub
Hugh Grant role,a bumbling Government underling is named Twatt, a poor
imitation of the "Darling" device in Blackadder as is Thick Kevin a
poor imitation of Baldrick from the same series.

A strong ensemble cast offer little warmth and drift in and out like
the Pirate Radio signal itself used to.The last 20 minutes is bizarrely
cranked up to offer an ending synthesising the likes of "Titanic", "The
Poseidon Adventure" and "Das Boot" making the whole enterprise even
more risible.

The Boat rocked - the plot and script sank.
