
I haven't seen a film like this in ages, I can't even compare it to
another. Fun for the kids and adults too. A kid starts middle school,
making the transition from grade school and this film nicely deals with
that chapter in a kid's life. The "cool" older brother who lives to
antagonize you, the "yukky" baby brother who embarrasses you, the nerdy
friend who makes you look bad, they're all there. Who can NOT relate?
The direction is perfect, the film is paced properly and exactly. 

Some really fantastic performances from these child actors and a
storyline everyone can relate to. No foul language or sexual
situations... wow! We went with two 8 year olds and a ten year old and
they all loved it. For once, a film for everyone!
<|_=00=_|>
We went to see the Diary of a Wimpy Kid Movie this past week with a
number of adults and kids and I have to say that everyone absolutely
loved this movie. There is something for everyone to relate to in this
movie, young or old. It stays true to the book which was a concern all
of us had before seeing the movie. However, you don't have to read the
book to enjoy this movie. In addition, the adaptation from the book to
"silver screen" was one of the better ones I have seen and the
transformation captured the essence of the story intact. There were a
few additional scenes added to the movie that weren't in the book, but
they kept in step with the story and didn't detract at all from the
enjoyment of the film.

The cast was all well picked. The main character of the movie, Greg
Heffley (played wonderfully by Zachary Gordon) stayed true to the book
and he was totally believable. Everyone felt that this kid actor, Zach
Gordon, did a great job of bringing life to this complex character and
transforming Greg Heffley from a cartoon stick figure in the books to a
real live person, while maintaining all his idiosyncrasies. It was also
fun to watch him as, at times, he has these great facial expressions.
The beauty of the movie was the added sensitivity and emotionality that
presented itself in the film that wasn't available to us in the novel.

In the movie, Greg led us on an emotional roller-coaster ride
throughout the film: first we liked him, then we hated him, then we
felt sorry for him, then we loved him. His relationship with his best
friend Rowley along with its ups and downs (hey, just like real life)
was great for kids to see. For adults, it would remind us of the "real"
friendships we had (from simpler times) in those early Jr. High School
years. Before computers we had real "live" friendships and we really
did go over to our friends' houses to "play".

I did not find the movie "trite" "predictable", or "slow". The comedy
was evenly paced and kept the attention of the audience throughout,
including my kids. This is a very entertaining movie that can be
enjoyed by adults as well as kids. If you want a fun, witty, wholesome,
and relatable story that will both touch and entertain you at the same
time, go see this movie, it won't disappoint.
<|_=00=_|>
I haven't read the book by Jeff Kinney which this film is based upon,
but one thought struck my mind, and that is Ferris Bueller just got
younger! For all his wisecracks, smart alecky ideas and attitude, Greg
Heffley (Zachary Gordon) just reminds me of the time when Matthew
Broderick took on the Bueller role, though this time round it's got
less to do with cars and girls, but everything to do about surviving
middle school, just about the time before puberty kicks in for him.

No thanks to the 101 tactical lessons on middle school survival by his
brother Rodrick (Devon Bostick), Greg decides that his goal and calling
during his time will be to be Mr Popular, though he increasingly finds
that task being close to impossible given the number of his schemes
backfiring most of the time, and when his best friend Rowley (Robert
Capron) continues to be the source of embarrassment to his perceived
supercool demeanour. He tries to rewrite the school's playground rules,
only to find that he isn't quite the trend setter or the visionary he
thinks he is, while his plus sized friend somehow manages to climb up
the popularity rankings.

It's about that time in our lives where we think we're able to change
the world from a very young age, where we think we're infallible, and
that whatever we do, we can reset the established norm. It's about how
negative emotions such as jealousy and envy get the better of us
sometimes, and we react in the nastiest of ways due to pride. Then
there's the message of being true to oneself rather than the actor
being someone else. Relatively heavy themes for what's essentially a
kids' film, but that's how director Thor Freudenthal managed to include
in the tale of the wimpy kid's first year in middle school without you
feeling overwhelmed but them.

What works here wonderfully is the casting, which is probably just
about the highlight of the film itself. Zachary Gordon owns the role as
Greg and has this schmuck look on him that doesn't irritate, but will
buy you into his exploits, and most times laugh along or at him
depending on whether his antics will rub you the right way or not. And
nearly stealing the limelight away from Greg, is his best friend
Rowley, played to wingman perfection by Robert Capron, who like his
character is always on the verge of upstaging Zachary Gordon and
stealing his thunder. The two are believable as best friends forever in
Harry Potter-Ron Weasley proportions, and it is their play against each
other, one using the other to further his cause, the other just happy
to have someone whom he can try to emulate, being the strong points in
the narrative. Their acting's natural, and have incredible chemistry so
much so that you wonder if everything will go downhill when they split.

The humour in the film is manifold, from pure wit right down to the
occasional toilet humour with farts, pee and all, from the home to
outside of home, and the usual challenges faced when in battlezones
such as the canteen, the gym, and festivals like Halloween and even
Mother-Child Night?! The basic animation featured in the film also
boosted its narrative through its simple, iconic drawings, and provides
very much on how Greg sees himself, and that of his friends and family,
which no doubt had tinges of familiarity and being stereotypes, such as
the nasty big sized girl whose influential family means she can act
like a bitch, or that nerd outcast that everyone tries to avoid. Plot
elements such as the rotting piece of cheese stuck on the school
grounds also provide for plenty of inane moments, and Cheese Touch is
something that I'll never forget.

Diary of a Wimpy Kid is loads of fun, being reminiscent of the time
when growing up was quite the pain and more often than not a time of
being misunderstood. Highly recommended!
<|_=00=_|>
I went into this movie with an open mind going with my girlfriend and
her 8 year old brother who really wanted to see this. I knew it would
be a portrayal of how movie makers makes middle school seems but since
it is a movie it was pretty funny. The leading stars were very likable
as I was smiling basically the entire time. It was a rather short movie
but enjoyable that goes through one full school year showing how tough
it is for this one individual and how hard he tries to become popular.
The main character Greg Kind of comes off as a rude and full of himself
pre teen student as he tries to change his bestfriend who is a little
chubby and a funny red hair goofball. He becomes more popular after a
certain incident which causes an argument between the two childhood
bestfriends. Overall, It was enjoyable for the whole family including
adults, teenagers and of course the children. There was no cursing or
sexual content which was pleasant in this movie. The parents are
likable as well as they are actually suportive unlike other movies but
the older brother is of course an annoying, punk rock wannabe who picks
on the younger brother which gets old quickly. In the end, I was happy
i went to go see it but not to sure if I recommend it but definitely if
you or your children has read the books. Its not bad but not the best
book to movie series or children's movie either.
<|_=00=_|>
My son has been waiting for this movie for months, so as to not
disappoint, off we went expecting a lukewarm kiddie movie. NOT THE
CASE!!! My husband and I laughed often and loudly. As a elementary
physical education teacher, I really enjoyed the take on the middle
school coach. It was a charming, off beat and entertaining. It was also
especially timely, since my son heads off to middle school next year. I
left the theatre and called my other teacher-moms with children that
loved this series and told them to run, don't walk to see this. Great
story,surprisingly clean and enjoyable. Not your typical kids movie. My
son told me as we left the movie that the story didn't exactly follow
the books, but as we all know, they never do. The transition from a
cartoon book to on-screen real life people was wonderful! This will
join our home library when it comes out. And "yes" I do plan on buying
my son a shirt with our faces screened on that says "I love my Mommy"
for his first day of middle school. Well, only if he gets out of line
between now and then ; )
<|_=00=_|>
I really enjoyed the movie. The movie depicts the life of a teen Greg
(Zachary Gordon) who has his issues of longing to be famous in the
middle school.He ranks himself 19 on the popularity list.He has a dream
to fulfill.He considers his previous friends 'who were not able to grow
up' according to him ... morons and tries to maintain his standard by
keeping his distance from the infamous.His best friend Rowley however
though weird in his ways,as Greg considers him 'still not Middle school
ready',keeps on posing a threat to his popularity position. Chloe
Moretz has a wonderful role herself in the movie however her appearance
is short.But the story is however about the wimpy kid and hence that
becomes justified.There are a lot of funny moments in the movie and you
would smile every now and then on their innocence.There is one another
character Fregley- Greg places him at the last position in the
popularity list. There is this funny moment wherein whoever touches the
piece of stale cheese is considered to have THE CHEESE TOUCH. Whoever
touches that person takes with himself the cheese touch.Even a
cockroach was concerned about its dignity. No matter how hard he tries
he always gets branded every now and then as the douche.Eventually
however Greg learns that it really doesn't matter if one is on the top
of the popularity list in the school but what matters the most is being
on the top of the list of your best friends. A little act of genius and
sacrifice vindicates him eventually. I found the movie totally
enjoyable as guys we were kids once remember after all ! We used to
consider some little and petty things as important, didn't we ? The
sequel to the movie - Diary of a Wimpy Kid 2: Rodrick Rules is set to
hit the theaters in March 2011 and I'm looking forward to it as well.
The movie was really cute and I wish everyone watches it although I'll
give it a 6 as it wasn't excellent though but the movie is highly
recommended if you want to relive a part of your past.
<|_=00=_|>
The film was similar to "A Christmas Story" in relating the troubled
life of a 'tween in school, but came nowhere close to being on the same
level. I was disappointed.

Steve Zahn was just bizarre as the father. Not really funny--just
strange. Some of the situations were very promising, but the comic
potential was not fully realized. Through about the first hour, I
smiled occasionally. But then I thought the film was really going to
take off, with the scene about auditions for The Wizard of Oz. But that
potential just fizzled out.

I am wondering if the film was directed solely toward pre-adolescents.
Maybe they would think this film is hilarious. I found it to be
pleasant, but not something I would recommend to anyone, and it's not
really a film I'd care to see again.
<|_=00=_|>
Background:I am a 13 year old, which means Im in the target audience in
this film. I also have seen some of the worst films ever, like "Star
Worms 2", "Monster A GoGo", and "Night of the Lepus". When I heard hey
were making a DOAWK movie, I thought it would be fun! Boy, was I wrong!
This is one of the un-funniest films ever! Not sure if this is worse
than Vampires Suck, but it makes Disaster Movie look like Airplane.
While this film follows the books, it feels entirely different. While
the books gave a funny story that 13 and 14 year old's can relate to,
this film only serves to exploit middle school like 70's blaxploitation
movies did to blacks.Why does every character look like a 7 year old?
Ansewer: So they could get younger kids into the theater while still
using the title to pander to young teens. I was offended by the way
they portray middle school! "The Cheese Touch"? Kids at my school play
similar games, note that those kids are in 2nd Grade! And even they
don't break friendships over that stupid game! The whole film is about
the main character who"Will do anything to be famous!" I assume that
that is the only reason he took this role. This kid is so clearly
without talent that I cringe at all the lines he has here! If real kids
acted like that, the suicide rate int his country alone would go up by
at least 60%! And there is no suspense, or drama throughout the whole
movie. I don't want to give away spoilers, but lets just say nothing is
resolved, clearly hoping for a sequel or 7! In conclusion, do not fall
for this films tricky marketing. You will only be disappointed! One
star.
<|_=00=_|>
Unlike most movies dealing with adolescence (especially in school),
this one doesn't preach or condescend. And it doesn't try too hard to
be a good movie, or take itself seriously (at least not too seriously).
What's more: the movie is (mostly) unpredictable. Especially fun is the
moldy cheese sequence! It would have been nice to get to know the
parents a little more. One quibble though: What exactly is the purpose
of Chloe Moretz's character? She seems to only be around to give these
two boys advice (or something like that). It's never explained what
kind of person she is. Anyway, if you found your middle school years to
be anything but satisfying, you will not only enjoy the picture, but
relate to it as well.

*** out of ****
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was actually a lot better than I expected, and had some
hilarious moments. I can relate to some of the things that happened to
Greg. I have not read the book, so I couldn't compare it. 12 year old
Greg Heffley is nervous about starting middle school. Him and his dorky
best friend, Rowley Jefferson try to fit in and become popular, but
that's easier said than done. Throughout the school year, Greg and
Rowley come up with weird ways to become popular like being a Safety
Patrol officer, wrestling, and performing in epic school plays. In
order to truly appreciate this film, you either need to be a parent, or
think from the perspective of a kid. I highly recommend DIARY OF A
WIMPY KID!!!
