
The pregnant college student Lenore Harker (Bijou Phillips) leaves the
college before the end of the semester to move to the isolated house in
Larkspur of her boyfriend, the architect Frank Davis (James Murray).
When Lenore is ready to deliver the baby, they drive to the hospital.
In the surgery room, the two doctors and the two nurses are found
slaughtered and Lenore and the baby are found covered of blood. When
Lenore is released, the family returns to Frank's house. Sooner Lenore
discovers that her son is a mutant monster hunger for flesh and blood
and she protects him hiding his murders. 

"It's Alive" is a stupid remake of the 1974 movie. The story is too
imbecile and predictable without any surprise. There is no fun, no
scare, only gore and this film does not deserve spending time writing a
review. My vote is three.

Title (Brazil): "Anjo Maldito" ("Damned Angel")
<|_=00=_|>
I do not hate many remakes because they stain the memory of "classic"
(or semi-classic) movies.In fact, I am absolutely open to receive them
with all the possible objectivity, and I think I could recognize their
hits in the minority of cases something good came from them (like for
example, The Thing and Dawn of the Dead).But what definitely upsets me
from many remakes is the arrogance to think they can improve an old
film with the mere thing of "modernize" it, when generally the value
from the original film resides on the historical context it was made,
portraying the sensibility and style from a time.A clear example is the
cult film It's Alive, written and directed by the underrated Larry
Cohen in 1974, which had a naughty style which found suspense and human
drama in premises which border on the ridiculous.That also applies to
other Cohen's films, such as The Stuff, Q and God Told Me To, which
ended up being much more entertaining and interesting than I
expected.What I mostly liked from It's Alive is that it endorsed its
bizarre story with interesting ideas about paternity, scientific
responsibility and the then emergent field of the induced
fertility.Now, the atrocious remake of that film tries to "update"
those ideas, but without a pinch of the ingenuity and talent Cohen
showed in the original film.

It's Alive does not fulfill at all with its purpose of creating horror,
suspense or even interest.90% of this movie is set on a remote house,
something which severely limits the wingspan from the story, and
instead of the suburban horror from the original film, we have a simple
"slasher" formula, with the disposable characters escaping from the
murderer by the dark corridors and basements from the house.And even
though the murderer is a baby, that circumstance is never used to try
something more innovating or at least shocking.

Another big problem is the pathetic performances.Nobody shows even the
slightest energy or conviction.And as for direction, Josef Rusnak
belongs to the school of filmmakers who simply film the scenes from the
screenplay, and they then chronologically edit them...but who do not
have a single idea on how to tell a story, or how to work with the
actors.

I do not have much more to say.It's Alive (2008) is an execrable
"horror" movie, and one of those films which truly damage the
genre.Instead of watching this atrocity, I recommend you to see the
very entertaining original film.
<|_=00=_|>
In this tedious and lifeless remake of Larry Cohen's 1974 campy horror
classic pregnant Lenore delivers the baby.During the birth all the
doctors and nurses in the operating room are viciously killed by the
baby.It seems that her child is thirsty for human and animal blood.This
"It's Alive" remake is downright silly and absurd.The film fails to
generate even the smallest amount of tension.The killings are mediocre
and the CGI effects are cheesy and unconvincing.However I enjoyed the
performance of Bijou Philips,because her character has just enough
depth to convey at least some of the conflicting emotions between a
protective mother and someone frightened for their life.4 out of
10.Watch "Grace" or "Baby Blues" instead.
<|_=00=_|>
This is what bothered me throughout the film...it's location. We as the
audience are supposed to believe this story takes place in New Mexico.
Unfortunately, we're tipped off at the beginning of the film that it
was shot in Bulgaria (where?)with a Bulgarian crew etc. This is when a
film should save it's credits for the end of the movie. A few minutes
into the flick, we are told via a caption, that the story takes place
in New Mexico. Even if my eyes were shut tight during opening
credits--I'd know in a heartbeat that the location isn't New Mexico.
Instead, what we see is an Alamo style house on the edge of a Bulgarian
forest with tall looming trees behind it. Are they kidding? I can
understand saving money by shooting in Bulgaria(where?)but how could
they expect us (in the USA) to believe that it was New Mexico? Why not
say Oregon or some other geographically similar location? Instead, all
we see are gray skies and obviously freezing cold outdoor shots with
shivering actors. There are so many gaffes in this straight to DVD
movie that it is incredibly distracting. We see shots of a pool at
night with a pool cover on it, then, in the next shot, it's off. Steam
rising out of this pool (cold in Bulgaria...where?) There were very few
shots of the baby in it's monster guise and we as the audience, can't
understand why no one can see what's up with this kid. The baby's
father is never around and when he is, never seems to have a clue that
this kid is a little monster.

The entire New Mexico police force consisted of 2 cops, both of which
made Inspector Clouseau look like Sherlock Holmes. They never ask for
back up (they didn't have shoulder radios) even when being attacked by
this 10 lb wunderkind. As a matter of fact these police were wearing
generic uniforms with no insignia etc.

The acting was OK up until the mommy (played by Bijou Philips)started
to think she was actually in a film that may get some notice and began
to ham it up to the point of it being embarrassing.

I think that everyone associated with the remake of this camp classic
should've watched the movie "Grace" if they wanted to see a terrifying
movie about a demon child. That was a well done film--great dialog and
acting, both subtle and scary to the point of making me squirm in my
seat and giving me nightmares. Well, It's Alive gave me nightmares too.
I dreamt that I wasted a $1.07 at Red Box.
<|_=00=_|>
I understand IMDb's ten line minimum for posted reviews, but there are
times when ten lines are hard to fill. There are even those times when
ten words are pretty tough. This terrible remake of Larry Cohen's
minor-classic of 1974 is one such occasion. It is pure tripe and little
more really needs to be said beyond a sincere admonition to avoid at
all costs. But in the service of a minimum line count, I will add that
it is typical Millennium fare - shot in Bulgaria with a multinational
hodgepodge of cast and crew, working from an amateurish script for a
director with no discernible talent. It never ceases to amaze me how so
many people can have so little pride in what they do.
<|_=00=_|>
Ultrasound won't detect any acting talent in this abysmal re-telling of
a film that wasn't very good to begin with. Larry Cohen's original 1974
schlock-fest had gallons of artificial blood, a campy story and one
very bad looking baby puppet. This modernized version offers Bulgaria
as an unconvincing stand-in for New Mexico, gallons of artificial blood
and cheesy looking CGI effects. And does it have to take itself so
serious? Strictly for those who consider enduring eighty-three minutes
of labor pains any fun. Larry Cohen's movie spawned two sequels (1978,
1987). Whatever is in the works for this afterbirth - let's hope for
abortion.
<|_=00=_|>
"It's Alive" is a remake of the 70's classic by Larry Cohen (which was
executive producer on this one). It even spawned 2 more sequels, "It
Lives Again" and "Island Of The Alive". I saw those movies once and
curious what the remake would be like. Well it is bad, really bad. It
starts of great with a massacre during the birth (although it is not
actually shown) but the story goes rapidly downhill from than on. It
also makes no sense at all, especially the actions of the mother after
she discovers that there is something seriously evil about her baby.
(the baby kills a pigeon and she acts like the whole thing didn't
happen and is supposed to be normal ??) The killings are rather stupid,
there is even a laughably CGI effect of the baby's little arm crushing
to a victim's head. Very cheaply done. The baby is not really shown
(very little budget on special effects). Maybe they tried it but it was
so bad that they actually cut it out before theatrical release. I saw
the so-called UNRATED version, no idea what had to be cut out for the
theatrical version. Could not have been much...
<|_=00=_|>
It takes a lot for a movie to make me actually angry. And I don't just
mean in a "holy crap, that was awful" kind of way. I mean for it to
make me sit there with a face full of scowl for the whole thing. Yet
It's Alive has accomplished that. To be fair, I should have known what
I was getting into. There are very few homicidal baby movies that have
ever been executed to even an acceptable degree.

There's really not much going on here. A girl takes a break from
college to have a baby and weird stuff starts happening. Now this might
be forgivable if...say...mommy and daddy had no clue what was going on.
But mom knows damn well and seems totally cool with it. I understand
most parents will forgive their children just about anything, but
there's got to be a limit. So Bijou Phillips, who needs to pick a new,
less ridiculous name, spend the whole movie ignoring the fact that her
baby is evil incarnate and even enabling it from time to time. This
(sort of) gets explained about 3/4 of the way through, but it's such an
awful explanation and the movie so horrible that by that time you won't
care.

There is nothing redeemable here. The acting is capable but still
somehow annoying. The kill scenes are fun in an over the too kind of
way, but there's not nearly enough of them to justify the rest of this
trash. Ummm...they didn't kill any puppies? Is that something you can
applaud a movie for? Seriously, I have trouble thinking of a single
good thing to say about this film. I'm not going to whine about it
being the worst movie ever, but I absolutely hated it it.
<|_=00=_|>
This rather dumb, I even daresay downright imbecilic, flick is a
prototypic example of why people righteously hate horror movie remakes.
And yet, I started watching it with a very open mindset and actually
hoped for a pleasant surprise. Why? Because, for once, it's not just
another redundant remake of a bona fide genre classic that totally
doesn't need an update version. Like "Nightmare on Elm Street" or
"Friday the 13th", for example. Why should they be remade? The original
"It's Alive", on the other hand, was an extremely low-budgeted and
often clumsily put together obscure cult gem from the early 1970's!
That's an ideal film to bring to the attention of wider horror
audiences through a remake. Unfortunately, it turned out a total
failure of a film, with an insubstantial script, a total lack of
tension and atmosphere and embarrassing gore/splatter effects. Bijou
Philips gives birth to a baby 'only a mother could love'. The offspring
immediately slaughters all the hospital staff in the delivery room and,
since it's so exceptionally large and overdeveloped, it also regularly
needs extra snacks like psychiatrists, bimbo blond friends and stoner
boyfriends. Mommy carefully cleans up the mess junior makes (and
doesn't even seem to worry that much) and daddy doesn't seem to have
clue of what's going on. The monster baby is mainly kept off-screen,
maybe for the best, and all the CGI butchering effects are pathetic.
"It's Alive" couldn't even scare an infant. The cute Bijou Philips
tries hard to make her character plausible, but the script is simply
too idiotic. Larry Cohen, writer/director of the original as well as
numerous other cult classics, co-wrote the script of this inferior
remake, strangely enough. Perhaps he deliberately sabotaged the whole
thing, hoping people would take the effort to check out the original
again instead. Good job, Larry, it worked!
<|_=00=_|>
Bijou Phillips is pregnant about six months but the infant inside is
growing at an abnormal rate and must be taken out due to the pain
inflicted on the mother. Shortly after its birth via C-section, the
entire hospital staff is slaughtered by the baby, but Phillips cannot
recollect (or has simply blocked the whole incident out) what happened
much to the disappointment of the police who need answers. James Murray
is the father, Raphaël Coleman his crippled brother(a car accident
which killed their parents, he barely survived), Ty Glaser Phillips'
school friend, Owen Teale the police officer(Sgt Perkins who suspects
Phillips knows more than she is letting on), and Jack Ellis the
psychiatrist( attempting to jar Phillips' memory as to what happened
that day in surgery)round out the cast. To be honest, I'm not a Bijou
Phillips fan and she once again did little to change my opinion of her.
Except at the beginning, before entering the hospital for her son's
birth, Phillips remains vacuous and aloof. I do understand that her
character is tired and mentally deteriorating due to her baby's
ferocious appetite for blood and human flesh(killing people and the
difficulties of breastfeeding, not to mention, the constant crying for
more cannibalistic nourishment don't help matters), but I had a damn
hard time sympathetically aligning myself to her. I do think the point
of the first film, the desperate attempts by a mother to protect her
beloved child no matter what damage it causes or people it harms, is
present in the remake, but a lot of the original's personality is
missing from the newer modern take. I enjoyed Larry Cohen's "panic
stricken public" and how the killer infant was considered a terror to
the city, while this remake localizes the monster baby's antics to
Phillips and Murray's New Mexico home. Those who come to talk sense
into Phillips usually wind up lunch for the baby who even eats rats and
cats. While acknowledging her baby's activities in horror when she
comes across the grisly remains of what it has done to people it feeds
from, she nevertheless continues to protect it, consequences be damned.
We know that eventually protecting the baby will become impossible and
she will have to take drastic measures to keep it from killing her
husband or his brother. I didn't find IT'S ALIVE particularly
satisfying, especially the underwhelming CGI of the baby(it is hardly
ever on screen and when it is, the effects are quite noticeable)and the
gory attacks are often hard to decipher due to the director's
insistence on not showing the murders in elaborate detail. I'd just say
stick with the original unless you are just a monster baby movie
completist. How the baby can lock its father in the basement, hop
around like a squirrel, and create such bloody crime scenes defies
common sense. The film's explanation for the abnormalities of the baby
derived from pills off the internet which are supposed to cause a
miscarriage!
