
Yes this is a bit like 500 days of Summer but without the gimmicks.
What I didn't like about 500 days of Summer was that the characters
were too compatible at times and suddenly became incompatible for no
reason.

In Peter and Vandy, however, the problems between the two are always
there in the background. The characters may not understand what's
happening but the audience can certainly see the seeds of discord.

The dialogue is touching and real, when they are getting along, when
they are fighting, when they are learning about each other and when
they truly know each other. The fight over the pb and j was brilliant.

Ritter and Weixler give subtle and believable performances. Rather than
overwrought Oscar dialogue, simple looks and glances expressed their
hope, hurt, happiness and disappointment. A very refreshing change.

Highly recommended for anyone who loves a good romantic story that tugs
on the heartstrings and brings tears to your eyes, without insulting
your intelligence.
<|_=00=_|>
Just saw Peter and Vandy at Sundance, and I'm hoping it gets picked up
for distribution. This was one of the most realistic movie
relationships I've ever seen, and the actors are spot on. As the
director said in Q&A this morning, the stars could convey so much with
a single look that he was able to cut various small chunks of dialog
from the original script. I won't ruin this film by telling you whether
the ending is a happy or sad one, but it's definitely a real one.

Don't be put off by the knowledge that the film bounces back and forth
in time. At first you think that this is just a cute stylistic choice,
but before long you come to believe that the story requires it. Just
when you think you know what's going on and what's going to happen,
there's another time shift and you discover that all your assumptions
were wrong. It adds a number of very welcome surprises, the kind that
you don't expect in a romantic comedy.

Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
I had a chance to see "Peter and Vandy" at the Gen Art Film Festival a
few months back and heard it's coming out in theaters in a few weeks.
I'm happy it found distribution cause I really enjoyed this film. It's
a quirky love story told out of sequence. If you think this sounds a
bit like "500 Days of Summer," you're kind of right. The thing is, I
actually liked "Peter and Vandy" better. At times I found "500 Days of
Summer" a bit too clever for its own good, although I dug the film.
"Peter and Vandy" doesn't resort to the type of sight gags that bogged
down "Summer." This is a simpler and more heartfelt story, and I
appreciated that. It's an enjoyable film that's worth seeing.
<|_=00=_|>
Some viewers are comparing this to '500 Days of Summer' and liking it
better. I was disappointed in it, BUT compared to this bore. '500 Days
of Summer' was great,it at least was interesting. 

'Peter & Vandy' has a total running time of 79 minutes (including 10
minutes of credits (opening & closing.

I feel sorry for those who spent money to view this. even renting the
DVD is not worth it, (there are no extras)/

Jay DiPietro is the writer & director. His idea of having a time shift
for some scenes is not bad BUT, the time period & settings are about
the same. Confusing top say the least.

Jason Ritter is Peter and Jess Weixler is Vandy, Jason tries hard, but
Miss Weixler does not come across.

No one in cast comes over as even likable, they are not persons I would
care to see again.

As per IMDb it had a very short run in only one theatre,it was a
Sundance Festival selection.. IMHO Sundance is not as good as it was
when they started out. What s big let down

Ratings: * (out of 4): 33 points (out of 100) IMDb 3 (out of 10)
<|_=00=_|>
Peter and Vandy is a real life comedy/drama about the challenges of a
couple who while trying to get to know one another, learn a lot about
themselves too. They are able to do this by being vulnerable and honest
with each other during the uncomfortable early stages of a new
relationship. This refreshingly honest portrayal of the difficulties of
being the real "you" is captured in this film. Peter is a anxious young
man who takes everything personally. He finds his self worth in the
opinions of others and struggles to grow in autonomy and self
acceptance. Vandy is brutally honest with her thoughts and this
challenges Peter to question his perception of who he is. He is only
able to focus on his flaws. Vandy helps him to see his strengths too.
Vandy is a young woman who loves to be needed. All she wants to do is
help Peter be the best that he can be. She soon realizes that she can
not fix him. She needs to allow him to fix himself while she focuses on
her own self image. She struggles with the need to be loved with her
own flaws. Together they are able to challenge themselves and each
other to embrace imperfection and focus on their strengths. The movie
helps us to see the courage involved in making the decision to stay
together or separate. You find yourself rooting for them to make it!
<|_=00=_|>
I first saw the last part of this movie by accident on TV. I then
watched it from the beginning on Netflix. Then another time with my
husband, who actually stayed awake and liked it as well! I thought the
acting was perfect by both Jason and Jess. I would love to read the
play from which this was taken. My only question and confusion came in
the wedding scene. Whose wedding was it, because both his friends and
her family were there. Also, it seemed that she came across as more of
a jerk in this scene than in any other part of the movie. Not sure why?
It was after the big breakup and I guess she harbored more anger than
before towards him?
<|_=00=_|>
On a scale of 1 to 10 for movies, with 10 being great, this is a 0.

As a movie about emotional abuse, however, this movie is an 8. Peter is
emotionally abusive, and a perfect example of emotional abuse. Here are
the warning signs, in order (chronologically, not the movie order,
because the movie order jumps around).

The tell-tale signs of emotional abuse are usually an inability to
articulate exactly what's wrong, but you know you're feeling bad about
yourself. The emotional abuser will often make snide comments, and then
follow them up with something "nice" to balance it, and then go back to
snide right after. It's a confusing cycle of emotions. In the movie
Peter and Vandy, this started initially, when he insinuated she needed
to avoid fatty foods, without her asking.

Then, when they met again, he pretended he wasn't trying to date her,
and then made her feel guilty about how he felt about her, and that
she'd throw away the crossword he gave her. So she says she'll date
him. She might even want to date him. But that's not without
manipulation and guilt on his part, which are also key characteristics
of emotional abusers.

There are little red flags to watch out for, because they're usually
"minor" things that are hard to call big, but all together are huge--
they're significant because they are constant character assassinations
by the abuser, and chip away the abused person's self esteem.

One such red flag is later in the story, when Peter said he was "angry"
that she would ask him what he was thinking about. If he is angry about
a very normal question, a harmless question, how in the world do you
think he'll react to actual issues? I assure you, it's a huge red flag.
It's a warning sign for the other behavioral problems they have, and
which the person they're around will sadly have to deal with if they
stay with them.

In a later scene, Peter is a full-blown, without a doubt, emotional
abuser to Vandy. He very cruelly berates her over a quirk she has while
making a sandwich. And on top of that, it was a sandwich she made for
him. He repeatedly calls her stupid and crazy. Anyone who has witnessed
or gone through emotionally abusive situations will recognize this
immediately. You're trying to take care of them, and you really do
nothing wrong-- they just take out their emotions on you, and
intentionally inflict that harm on you. They do know what they're
doing. They're manipulative. And they'll come back and apologize.

Another thing to remember is the emotional abuser will sometimes say
exactly how bad they are: they say they're evil, or they're a bad
person--- trust them on this and leave. They will use this as an excuse
for how they'll treat you later. Trust me, this is the truth. Leave
now. Save yourself. You might try to fix them, but being with them
doesn't fix them. It only breaks you. Please believe me.

Near the end of the movie, Peter decides he's not happy with Vandy---
note: Peter, and most other emotional abusers, are cynical, angry, and
unhappy people, and bring that negativity to everything and everyone
they deal with. So don't ever believe it's you--- it's entirely them.
He's unhappy--- no surprise, because he's always unhappy. He then says
he wants to leave her. This is a classic threat with emotional abusers:
they threaten to leave you, so you'll beg them to stay. Treat it like a
blessing and let them go. Sadly, in the movie, Vandy pleads that he
never leave her. Then, discovering he is interested in someone else,
Vandy thankfully leaves him. He wants her back later, and she even
acknowledges he's not good with her, but sadly also takes blame that
isn't hers to borrow- she thinks she's not good to him. But the truth
is, entirely, that he's emotionally abusive, and stringing her along,
and upset that he doesn't have anyone to berate anymore. Period.

Unfortunately she goes back to him, and unfortunately it will take time
to realize how horrible he really is, for herself, and to leave on her
own accord again. But, thankfully, some women leave early. But sadly, a
lot of women have to reach rock bottom before they get out, and have to
rebuild their self esteem. Emotional abusers rarely stop at verbal
abuse; it can lead to physical abuse.

Another movie that captures emotional abuse (and physical abuse) very
very well is "Reviving Ophelia" with Jane Kaczmarek. It is shockingly
realistic in terms of the mindset of both the abused and the abuser.

This movie, Peter and Vandy, represents emotional abuse very well, and
I want everyone who sees it to recognize the signs for both themselves
and anyone else they see suffering through it. Please help them see the
way out, because when they're being abused they don't realize they
deserve better. They deserve better. You deserve better.

That's why I'm making a strong point of this to remind people that
there's no need to stand for this emotional abuse.

Here are very good links about emotional abuse that I hope will benefit
people reading this:

Please call 1-800-792-7233 , especially if you feel uncomfortable using
your computer (I recommend going to the library if you need a safer
computer); or if you can't talk, they have an online chat option.)

http://www.compassionpower.com/walking-on-eggshells/

http://www.thehotline.org/

http://www.thehotline.org/is-this-abuse/

http://www.thehotline.org/is-this-abuse/abuse-defined/

Good luck and please know that you and your loved ones are worth so
much more than this emotional abuse. You will survive and you will
thrive. Believe me, it will all be okay.
<|_=00=_|>
i found this movie and decided to watch it because i recognized Jason
Ritter from a previous movie (A Bag of Hammers). and i am delighted
with this choice as the story is told with no fancy put-on or make
believes.

the plot is simple, but the director Jay DiPietro, keeps the viewer
from anticipating the next scene or level of their relationship with a
wonderful use of flashbacks and flash forwards. but as this
relationship progresses you can see that the old saying 'familiarity
breeds contempt' finds its way between Peter and Vandy.

i do not want to spoil the next viewers watching of this charming flick
but let me give you a hint - keep your eyes on the bundle of snapdragon
flowers! enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>
This is a really nice little indie romance from writer/director Jay
DiPietro, with two of the most attractive young talents in films - both
Weixler and Ritter are irresistibly likable and the film is well
written and is photographed (by Frank DeMarco) with wit and polish in a
quality production. Ritter's excellent work in "Good Dick," is carried
on here and why Weixler is not a bigger Hollywood personality is beyond
me (and I've been reviewing movies professionally since 1981). She is
smart, has depth, and has a fascinating look. He is an actor with a
gift for naturalism. They are very much in sync in this cleverly woven
Manhattan tale.
<|_=00=_|>
This was bloody fantastic. Beautiful. Not overdone, just perfect, with
its simplicities, complexities, nuances, tremors and silences. Why 6? I
really don't understand it. I cannot imagine anyone voting for lesser
than 7 for this one at least. Strong leads, poignant, perfect emotions,
and a fulfilling ending. Overwhelms, in a happy, warm way that nudges
you, but doesn't push you over. Control and release, repeat.

This is a rant that is from the obvious movie rush that I am suffering
from. I probably won't stop.

Nevermind. I will make my point here, once again-please do watch it. It
hurts in a sweet, sweet way. Yes.
